Demons. The embodiments of anger and hatred, the harbingers of war and strife, the heralds of death and destruction, these nightmarish monstrosities were known by many names and feared by most, but in Zian’s eyes, they were merely stepping stones on his Path to the Martial Peak.

Or at least, that’s what he reminded himself as he stood firm before the wave of Demons barrelling down upon him.

There were humanoid Demons and bestial Demons, enormous Demons and diminutive Demons, revolting Demons and beguiling Demons, Demons of every shape and colour imaginable it seemed. He’d heard tales of the massive Demonic horde which took part in Bai Qi’s siege of the Central Citadel, and while the group gathered here likely fell far short in comparison, they still made for an imposing sight. The pressure they exerted on his Aura was unlike anything he’d ever felt before, a crushing weight upon his mind and soul that took him firmly in hand to squeeze him from all sides. There were no tactics to rely on, no experience to draw from, no plan of action to secure victory here today. All Zian could do was stand fast and believe that his strength and the strength of his allies would be enough to see them through this battle, because the alternative was death and defeat, an outcome he refused to accept.

Palms sweating and heart racing, he moved his twin sabres about in a slow, defensive pattern in preparation to receive his foes, though he had no real need to warm up. Since emerging from the tunnels under Pan Si Xing, he’d hardly had a moment to breathe much less rest as he waded through a veritable swarm of crazed Defiled assailants. Easy as chopping firewood, or so the idiom would have you believe, though Zian was beginning to believe the person who came up with it had never chopped a single log in their life. The work was simple enough and anyone could figure it out after a few tries, but chop enough wood and even the greatest Warrior in the Empire would eventually topple over in exhaustion, and the Defiled of Pan Si Xing constituted a veritable mountain of wood which needed to be chopped. Leaden arms and burning lungs were the least of his problems though, as the hot Western sun sapped away what little strength and moisture he had left. Despite having emptied two full water-skins into his gullet since the battle began, Zian’s mouth still felt drier than the desert sand plaguing every crack and crevice in his body.

And yet, still he felt the need to twirl his weapons about, because if he didn’t work off some of this nervous energy, he feared he would become unmanned and start trembling before his foes.

This wasn’t due to lack of courage mind you. It was perfectly natural to feel apprehensive in a situation such as this, and trembling was a perfect natural reaction to apprehension. Rain might have an answer for why that was, but Zian didn’t care one whit about the why and only wanted to know how to stop it. Even though there was nothing abnormal about his reaction when coming face to face with so many Demons, as leader of his Warriors, how could he be the first to show fear? He was Situ Jia Zian, young Patriarch of the Situ Clan, a name and title that rang hollow in a way he never noticed until recently. What happened to the man who decided to honour his father’s name? What happened to the man who resolved to strike out from Clan and Society in order to make his father’s name known? Lu Jia Zian, son of Lu An Jing and Situ Jia Ying, Disciple of Jukai and Situ Jia Yang, that was the man he wanted to be, but then...

Then Mother came along and decided everything for herself.

He couldn’t take his father’s name, because his father had agreed to marry into the Situ Clan, laid out in a contract he signed and sealed himself. If Zian started calling himself a Lu, then wouldn’t others think him unfilial for not honouring his father’s word? And how could he strike out on his own? Without support from the Society, his career and Martial Path would be a hundred times more difficult. Where would he find trained elites for his retinue? How would he pay for their salaries and equipment? Even though Mother was Magistrate of Shen Yun, she had a fiduciary duty to ensure the city’s security and stability, so she couldn’t simply empty the treasury and pillage the guard roster just because he was her beloved son. No, Zian would need both Clan and Society, not only for the resources and manpower it provided, but the connections as well, so there would be no more talk of striking out on his own, much less any Lu family nonsense.

Everything Mother said always made perfect, logical sense, but at twenty-seven years old, Zian was tired of being the obedient and dutiful son and wanted to take his life into his own hands. Not that she would let him, of course, since she was now Magistrate and Matriarch both and therefore needed him following in her footsteps even closer than ever before. Still, there was no harm in yearning for a better tomorrow, one in which he escaped out from under Mother’s thumb to discover the man he wanted to be, even if it remained a faint and distant dream.

Granted, he wasn’t some ungrateful child who didn’t appreciate everything she did, because without her, he would not be half the man he was today. The more he learned about the circumstances of his birth and upbringing, the more he was amazed by her brilliant foresight and political acumen. Growing up, he’d been left unaware of all the struggles she suffered and hardships she endured just to keep him safe and alive, for she made it all look so easy and effortless he didn’t even know there was a threat to his life. For as long as he could remember, she was the Magistrate of Shen Yun, but now that he was older, Zian could not imagine how difficult it must have been to secure the Office for herself. Without assistance from Clan and Society mind you, because she intended to use Shen Yun as a bargaining chip and could only negotiate from a position of strength if the city belonged solely to her and her alone. How she accomplished such a feat, Zian did not know, for the records only indicated that the previous Magistrate bowed out of the competition and no one else cared to challenge Mother for the right to succession.

Which he only learned of recently, when his wife told him all about the legendary Situ Jia Ying.

See, to him, she’d always been his mother, confident, intelligent, and loving to the extreme, but to the world, she was one of the most fearsome women of the North alongside OuYang Yuhuan. While Aunty Yuhuan owed her notoriety to her Runic Crafting skills and Ancestral Beast backer, Mother’s claim to fame lay in her ability to govern. When she took over the Office of Magistrate, Shen Yun had been little more than a glorified rest stop on the way to greener pastures, a hub where the most prestigious work was being a local middleman for foreign powers hailing from other, more prosperous cities. If you wanted the best hardwood, you went to Shen Mu. The best soft woods? Ping Yao. The finest foodstuffs? Sanshu. Cheap salt? Shen Bin. Best weapons and armour? Shen Huo. The list went on and on, leaving Shen Yun with no means to compete until Mother took it upon herself to fill a niche that had thus far gone unnoticed.

A long story short, Mother turned Shen Yun into a city of artisans, the one-stop shopping destination for any and all things fashionable. No matter if it was clothes, decor, jewellery, or furniture, if you wanted something custom made, then chances were, the best craftsman of the North could be found in Shen Yun. According to Jing Fei, Mother did this simply by offering those experts something no other city cared to offer, namely their dignity. Despite being masters of their craft, in the eyes of the noble elites, a master sculptor, tailor, silversmith, or carpenter was still nothing more than a mere labourer, but Mother elevated them to something more. In Shen Yun, they were respected for their craft and more than that, protected from the strong-armed tactics of nobles looking to secure their services for less than they were worth. It wasn’t even all that difficult or time consuming on Mother’s part either, for all she had to do was hire them on as City employees with an appropriate salary, which meant assaulting them was the same as assaulting a civic officer, the penalties for which were not to be taken lightly. No one would be losing their heads over killing a city employee, but it was not something so easily swept aside, especially if Mother was unwilling to allow it, so once it became known that she was will to fight on their behalf, the craftsmen of the north flocked to Shen Yun in droves for the promise of safe and steady employment.

It seemed a sad state of affairs that such a simple promise could move so many people, but in many parts of the North, strength was the only measure that mattered. More so because life in the North demanded it rather than the people preferred things this way, and many were happy to trade their harsh lives in the north for greener pastures in Rain’s Central Districts, which were largely considered safer than many villages back home even with the threat of Defiled hordes bearing down upon them.

Of course, Mother did far more than win over a crowd of master craftsmen, but she would never have risen to such heights without the prestige and wealth they brought with them. Wealthy Nobles were always looking for a means to show off their ostentatious wealth, a burning desire Mother exploited without mercy. With the means of production already in hand, Mother did not get greedy and set her craftsmen to working around the clock, but instead provided them with the best materials and asked that they only present her with their best work, because only the best could do their reputations justice. False scarcity, some might say, but that wasn’t enough to stop the Nobles of the North from dancing to Mother’s tune. Buying overpriced luxuries was merely another way to gain face, and there was nothing the nobles loved more than face, which was why she also opened an official auction house in Shen Yun which sold only the finest goods the city had to offer twice a year.

As a child, he remembered sitting through those auctions being the most boring hours of his life, but only now did he understand how much face was gained and lost on those seemingly unremarkable days. Who knows how many nobles ended up sealing their own fate by outbidding and offending someone they shouldn’t have? Then there were the profits, not just the auction house’s fifteen percent cut from each sale, but also the costly price of private bidding rooms so that everyone could see who was bidding for what. That wasn’t all either, as Mother made even more profits by becoming the greatest middleman the North had ever seen. If you wanted a calligraphy scroll written by Master Lanting, a painting drawn by KaiGu, a sculpture carved by Wu Tsung, or a necklace crafted by YinXian, then you first had to speak with Situ Jia Ying for no one else could offer you access to their work, much less get you a face to face meeting with those famed craftsmen. The time and efforts of such masters was utterly priceless to the right buyer, which meant Mother could make friends and allies as easily as turning a hand without any need to expend her own effort at all. With all her wealth and connections, she was able to stand apart from Clan and Society long before he was old enough to even understand such matters, an independent power who wasn’t beholden to them in any way. If anything, it was the other way around. Upset Situ Jia Ying, and you might not have to deal with duels or assassins, but your wives, mothers, sisters, and daughters would most certainly have your head once they learned that they could no longer make use of some trendsetting master craftsmen or the other to keep up with the latest fashions.

And now, Mother was not just Magistrate of Shen Yun, but Matriarch of the Situ Clan, a stunning upset which no one, not even the fearsome Rang Min saw coming.

In truth, both of Zian’s parents were standout geniuses of their generation, but unfortunately, he only inherited the Martial talents of both his parents and received none of his mother’s political and mercantile brilliance. As such, excelling on the battlefield was the only thing he could do, but in the face of so very, very, very many Demons, his usual cocksure confidence was nowhere to be found. The reply came back from Brigadier Hongji informing him there would be no aid coming his way, a statement his idiot aid, Situ Shirong, announced out loud for all to hear. “What do we do?” Shirong continued, as if he hadn’t done enough damage just yet. “How can he expect us to hold out without reinforcements?” His question struck a nerve in every soldier within earshot, and Zian knew this seed of doubt would spread like wildfire if nothing was done.

