His first thought was to smack his ‘cousin’ until he came to his senses, but he feared Shirong would die long before that happened. This wasn’t his first battle, but it was clear that this was the first time he’d faced a significant threat to his life. His pallid skin was white as a sheet and his eyes so unfocused it was a wonder he could even see, too afraid to stand and fight yet too cowardly to run first, for there were far worse fates than death. The boy... no, not a boy any longer, for Shirong was of similar age to Rain, and yet there was such a stark difference between them. Though Rain had always looked younger than his years, he possessed an air of maturity about him that was almost ingrained in his every movement, action, and decision. He would have never allowed himself to appear so flustered and unnerved no matter the odds stacked against him, because he knew what it meant to lead. In contrast, Shirong didn’t know the first thing about leadership despite having been groomed for it since birth, and Zian didn’t understand how the difference could be so stark.

“Hmph.” Offering Shirong his best dismissive sneer, Zian turned back to the Demons and felt his lips curl into a smile. “Reinforcements? What need do we have of reinforcements? We Warriors of the North have finally found our chance to stand beneath the limelight, and I for one do not intend to share it.” Despite his bold declaration, Zian found himself looking to Situ Chi Gan for reassurance, an involuntary and cowardly reflex he’d picked up these last few weeks. The old Guardian might well be the strongest living Situ Clansman, and he was here to ensure Zian’s safety on the battlefield, but he was only to act in the event of catastrophe. If Zian came to expect the old man to rescue him from every scrape and bruise, then how was he supposed to grow as a Martial Warrior? No, better to pretend as if Chi Gan wasn’t even there and fight with his life on the line lest he become a flower in a greenhouse, one too weak to navigate through trials and tribulations unassisted.

And yet, he felt a heavy weight lift off his shoulders when Chi Gan nodded ever so slightly, confirming that he was confident that Zian’s retinue could stand firm before the tide of Demons.

Or maybe he was nodding to say he could safeguard Zian’s life no matter the odds. Not as ideal, since Chi Gan would likely only save one other person, his grandson Chiang, a far more capable Warrior and Officer than Shirong but lacking the latter’s unfounded confidence. Then again, all the work of Zian’s second was being done by Kei Lan, a branch family clansman responsible for Shirong’s safety, so it’s not as if it even mattered who served as second. The title was merely a badge of prestige the family wanted pinned to Shirong’s chest, even though there were soldiers far more deserving of the post. Politics even in warfare, which was madness in Zian’s eyes, but politicians had always seemed a little mad to him, so there was no real helping it.

Resisting the urge to lick his lips, Zian strode out to meet his monstrous foes, reminding himself one last time that he was a Domain-Capable Expert who’d killed Demons before. “Demon Slayers, with me. Everyone else, keep the chaff off of our backs.” There was really nothing left to be said, as Demons were an unpredictable lot whose physical appearance had little to do with their strength or skill, meaning the only way to learn what they were capable of was to challenge them in combat. Luck of the draw as it were, and Zian could easily draw poorly and match up against a fearsome foe right from the start, one that might well kill him in the first exchange. Not an ideal outcome, so he took every caution as he approached his chosen target with his ring of whirling defence already in place. The Demon in question as a brownish-black creature that loomed over its allies, a tall, slender, bipedal monster with knees that bent backwards and a pointed, bat-like head. It’s long, sinewy arms were covered in coarse, wire-like fur and its hands ended in vicious talons that gleamed in the sunlight like metal rather than bone. The Demon offered him an even closer look at its talons as it lunged at his face, its deceptively long arms giving it more reach than expected. Fierce and sudden as the attack might have seemed, it was little more than a jab as Zian discovered firsthand when he leapt back to avoid what he thought was certain death. For once, the sun had nothing to do with his burning cheeks as he struggled to get his emotions under control and find Balance in the moment, but his mind and heart were both aflutter with too many distracting concerns. If things continued in this manner, then he would once again be the cause of his own defeat.

The world froze as Zian was brought back in time to a moment that felt like ages past, but couldn’t have been more than two or three years ago. Back then, he didn’t know Jukai was his father’s old friend. He just thought he was some aged Officer who accepted a job to safeguard some young Magistrate’s life. As such, Zian didn’t place too much value on Jukai himself, since anyone worth their salt wouldn’t have to accept such a thankless job just to make ends meet. Little did he know that the old man actually stormed into Mother’s City and demanded to join Zian’s retinue, because even after all these years, Jukai still felt like he let his old friend down by not dying at his side. Oh what a fool Zian had been to ignore the treasure trove of knowledge and experience just standing at his side, to say nothing of Jukai’s love, loyalty, and dedication. If he could do it all again, he would have cherished every last second he had with his Mentor and done everything he could to save him from his ignoble end at the Bloody Confessor’s hands.

But the Zian from his memory didn’t know any of this. All he knew was that the old man his Mother insisted he take as his second acted like he knew everything yet refused to say anything. “Explain,” the younger Zian had demanded, for he wanted to know how Falling Rain defeated him, and Jukai had the answer.

“He didn’t defeat you,” Jukai had answered, looking like a man resigned to his fate without actually backing down. “You defeated yourself.”

There was more to it, so much more, but this first lesson stood out to Zian above all others. Zian didn’t lose to Falling Rain, he lost to himself. Though it sounded like an excuse, it was nothing if not the truth, because back then, talented as Rain might have been, he was no true match for Situ Jia Zian. The Rain he fought on the duelling stage was a young, brash, arrogant youth who gave himself over to anger in order to assuage his fears. Had they fought a hundred times, Zian would have won ninety-nine matches without breaking a sweat, even if Rain was fresh and fully rested instead of coming off of three life-and-death duels. That match had been Zian’s to lose, and lose he did, because he let himself get too caught up in his own thoughts and the expectations of his uncle and the Society in general. All he had to do was take his time and do what he did best, fight defensively and force his opponent to make a mistake. If he’d been wise enough to get out of his own head, perhaps Falling Rain’s saga would have ended then and there, which would have been a true shame indeed. The Mother was looking out for the both of them, because if not for this darkest of defeats, then Zian would never have become the man he was today.

Situ Jia Zian. Husband to Ong Jing Fei. Father of Situ An Yang and Situ Fei Ying. These were his priorities now, the lives of his wife and children, two beautiful baby twins born six weeks ago who changed his life forever. Now, husband and father had become far loftier titles than anything the Clan, Society, or Empire could ever bestow upon him. His son, An Yang, had the brightest eyes he’d ever seen and was named for his father and his uncle, while his daughter little Fei Ying possessed a devilishly enchanting smile that told him she would be no less formidable than the mother and grandmother she was named after.

Not the most original names he could have come up with, but once the idea struck him, no others seemed to fit, for this was his past and future coming together to show him the proper way forward. There was a time when Zian fought because he enjoyed it, but more than that, he enjoyed standing above his peers and looking down on them from above. Today, he fought so that his wife would not be widowed and forced to experience the same trials and tribulations his mother suffered through. He fought so that his son and daughter would never know the pain of growing up without a father. He fought in the hopes that husbands, wives, fathers, mothers, sons, and daughters the Empire around would never again know the pain of losing a loved one to the Defiled, a lofty, unrealistic goal perhaps, but one he strove for regardless, because the Heavens had seen fit to bless him with a family and all the happiness that came with it, so it only seemed fair that he did something in return.

Which was why it was imperative Zian get out of his own head before this bat-faced Demon ripped it off for him.

The world came back into focus as reality resumed from whence it left off, except now Zian fought with renewed purpose. The fear was still there, but tempered by unwavering determination, for nothing would keep him from returning to his family’s side. Though his style was defensive in nature, that did not mean he could only defend or retreat, so he charged forward into the fray to engage his foe on the field. Twin sabres whistling as they cut through the air, they set a punishing rhythm as he danced with the Demon and dealt cut after cut on its forearms. The wounds were far from crippling, barely even more than a scratch, but they enraged the beast to no end, and its subsequent flurry of strikes grew wild and sloppy as it sacrificed speed and precision for raw power. That only made it easier for Zian to parry, block, and dodge its attacks as he danced it around in circles while probing for weaknesses. It didn’t take long for him to realize it had difficulty pivoting on a single leg, so he capitalized on this by darting in close and forcing it to put all its weight on one leg before delivering that same limb a devastating three-slash combination attack.

From there, it was a simple matter to finish the Demon off as it flailed helplessly about in the sand, and then Zian moved onto his next target, a prickly, quadrupedal creature that was reminiscent of a frog faced hedgehog the size of bull. Sharp though they might be, the Demon’s spikes were flexible and almost prehensile in the way they seemed to bend and avoid his weapon wherever it passed, which was both fascinating and disturbing to behold. The skin under the spikes was as hard as any other Demons, meaning Zian could notch and graze his foe in passing, but he would have to plant his feet and really give it his all to deliver a killing blow, unless he incapacitated it first. Unfortunately, the Demon fought in an atypical manner that almost rendered Zian’s whirling blades useless, favouring short bursts of quick motion in a single direction in an attempt to slam into its opponents. From there, the prehensile spikes did the rest, as the Demon’s first unfortunate victim discovered firsthand, but its killing power was rather low considering the man was still alive. Granted, with almost a third of his skin and a good portion of flesh ripped clean from his torso, he wouldn’t be alive for long if Taiyi ZhuShen himself hadn’t shown up to treat him. Something Mother arranged no doubt, to have the golden-eyed Healer lurking nearby in case her son should come to harm, and Zian quietly smiled at the reminder of his mother’s love.

As the spiky frog Demon gathered up for yet another charge, Zian noticed something amiss but couldn’t quite place his finger on it, so he immediately Lightened and kicked off to the left. Sliding across the sand as if gliding on ice, he sailed out of the path of the Demon’s attack as its spikes launched themselves off of its torso and embedded themselves into the Defiled tribesman trying to attack Zian from behind. The result was sheer agony, if tribesman’s scream was anything to go by, but it was mercifully short at the very least. Cold chills ran down Zian’s spine as he took in that near death, and he muttered a small thanks to the man who taught him to always be vigilant. That was one of Uncle Yang’s favourite lessons, which started off as a game, where he would always try to surprise Zian and would hand over a prize if he was caught before launching his ‘attack’.

A precursor to the lessons Mother made him take about avoiding assassination attempts, but Uncle Yang’s lessons were always more fun. He was here in the city somewhere after having found his second wind in life, and Zian couldn’t be any prouder, for he knew more than most that his Uncle stood at his current lofty heights not because of his talents, but in spite of them. That was the greatest lesson a man like Zian needed to learn, that genius and talent was no substitute for hard work. Uncle Yang was not born a dragon amongst men, but forged himself to become one by conquering his shortcomings and leaping through the dragon gate. The world called Zian the Twinned Dragon Scion because he was the successor of the Twinned Dragons of Shen Bin, but in his heart, his Uncle Yang was the second Dragon after Jukai. It was only fair since Zian’s father had little to do with who he was today, as Uncle Yang had taken on the lion’s share of that work, and while his uncle wasn’t perfect or even all that fatherly most of the time, Zian loved him all the same.

