“Lady Tabitha, I have a question. If all the feathers look alike, how do people tell them apart? Wouldn’t everyone confuse them with each other?" Lloyd poses a good question.

“Maybe to people like you, they all look the same, but high-level individuals can recognize the difference,” Tabitha holds up the griffin feather and her third, entirely black feather. "Which of these are from the strongest beast?” She asks the table.

Frank and Lloyd are confused, but Aaliyah is interested in the challenge. Even in the state that she’s in, Aaliyah carefully examines the two feathers Tabitha is holding up and compares them to the one in her hands. I don’t have her talent with mana, but I have a good idea of how the feathers compare.

“That one,” Aaliyah points to the black feather in Tabitha’s right hand. Wrong choice.

“Close,” Tabitha says what I already know. “It’s the griffin feather," she says, lowering the black one.

“Not-uh,” Aaliyah disagrees. “The black one has more mana than this one.”

“That may be true, but this black feather is from a night raven. It wields more mana than most magic beasts at its level, but it was only around level 75. It was the first feather I earned. The speckled griffin we fought was almost 120.

“It sounds like it was of the earth element,” I explain to a confused Frank and Lloyd. “They've supposedly have less mana than other magic beast affinities but are much stronger physically. And if it came from a level 120 creature, that feather has to be worth at least half a gold coin by itself.”

“That much?!” Frank and Lloyd exclaim.

I ignore their shouts of surprise and focus on a pouting Aaliyah. “You tricked me.”

“I did,” Tabitha chuckles. “Mana isn’t everything. Generally, the stronger a magic beast is, the more mana it has, but that isn't always the case. You can't let your guard down because someone doesn’t have much mana.” Tabitha uses this moment to teach Aaliyah a lesson.

“I don’t use mana to gauge someone’s level,” Aaliyah scoffs. “I look at a person’s, Hey! “

I reach over and cover Aaliyah's mouth before she says something she'll regret in the morning.

“I think you’ve had enough,” I slide Aaliyah’s cup out of her reach.

Aaliyah puffs up her cheeks like a child as I slowly remove my hand from her mouth. "I wasn't going to say anything," she complains.

“Obviously,” I mock sarcastically. Tabitha watches our exchange, but she doesn’t comment on what I kept Aaliyah from revealing.

“So, someone can’t just put a feather in their hair and call themselves a warrior?" Lloyd asks, unconcerned by me covering Aaliyah's mouth.

“Some have tried,” Tabitha explains. “Every so often, a fool tries to claim to be stronger than they are with a random feather. Some even purchase a feather from a high-level beast and try to pass it off as their own.”

“Then what happens?” Frank asks.

Tabitha coldly smiles at the two making them cringe. "Then they die."

Frank and Lloyd grow pale.

“That, or they’re imprisoned,” Tabitha continues after a long pause. “It is illegal to wear a feather if you aren’t strong g enough.”

“People are jailed for that?! That’s insane!”

Tabitha thoughtfully nods to Lloyd. “Wearing a feather is a status symbol in Scholl, but it doesn’t just mean you’re strong. Wearing a feather means you demand respect, but you have duties to uphold. If there is ever an incident, say a bandit attack or wild beast, and a feathered warrior is nearby, they’re obligated to help. You can see how impersonating such a person could be dangerous.”

“That’s why not everyone chooses to wear a feather. A high-level farmer or merchant could technically meet the level requirement for one, but unless they can fight, they won’t.”

“Well damn, now I sort of want a feather,” Aaliyah grumbles.

Tabitha turns towards my disciple with the same look she gets when they’re about to spar. “It makes me happy to hear that. I heard the villagers talking about how you volunteered to protect them. You’re the kind of person who should have a feather.”

Aaliyah’s already red face turns a dark crimson under Tabitha’s praise.

“And how many of them does it take to fight a dragon?” Frank asks, and the table goes silent again. A few people walking by heard Frank's question and stopped to listen in.

“Where did you hear about the dragon?” Tabitha’s eyes narrow.

Frank waves his hands, trying to defuse the situation, but the more he talks, the deeper the hole he finds himself in. “People gossip about it, that’s all. Someone asked Kervin about what’s happening in Drey, which led to him telling us there was a dragon wreaking havoc in Scholl. That’s why you guys invaded Olebert, isn’t it? I was just curious why you feathered individuals chose war over slaying the beast? It sounds right up your alley.”

If I'd ever seen a man trying to commit suicide, it was at this moment.

Tabitha’s hands were balled into fists, and she looked ready to explode.

“Do you think we wanted this?” Tabitha tries to hold back her anger, but it leaks out. “Did you think we chose to invade on a whim?” Tabitha demands an answer from Frank, but the man realizes that he could be killed if he says the wrong thing, so he doesn't say anything. The people-watching nearby take a step back in fear but don't leave.

“Answer me!” Tabitha slams her fist down onto the table, almost splintering the wood. Unlike Aaliyah, she wasn’t holding back. I’d never seen her lose her cool like this.

“Kind of,” Frank finally squeaks, nearly folding in onto himself, expecting to be struck by Tabitha.

I prepared to throw myself forward to stop her from killing Frank if need be, but surprisingly, Tabitha didn't murder the man as I thought.

She bit her lower lip until a trickle of blood dripped out of the corner of her mouth, but she didn’t attack him.

I watched as Tabitha tried to get a hold of her emotions, and for once, I didn't see her as a battle-loving golem.

“We tried to kill it,” Tabitha whispers; we all only heard her because everyone around us was silent.

“We tried,” she repeats, with obvious hurt in her voice. “We didn’t start this war lightly.”

“It came from the ocean,” Tabitha says after a long pause, looking up at the stars. “Twenty-three months ago, the dragon used the flooded tunnels under Scholl to swim into Scholls Heart, the largest freshwater source in our country. Scholl’s Heart produces a significant part of our food; of course, we tried to kill the beast.”

Twenty-three months, the dragon had been in Scholl for over a year and a half. I had no idea it was that long.

"It took a month to gather the forces thought necessary to kill the creature,” Tabitha explains in a somber voice, which betrayed her story's outcome. "50,000 soldiers were mustered in a month, an accomplishment even for Scholl. But in that month, the dragon had already claimed its territory. It leveled each farming village around the lake, killing tens of thousands and destroying most of the crops. In one month, it wiped out over a century of infostructure.”

“That’s insane!” Lloyd gives voice to what we’re all thinking.

Tabitha just nods. "With a flick of its tail, it could wipe out a village of this size."

Everyone goes pale, picturing such a thing, while Tabitha takes a large gulp of her ale. “We didn’t realize just how big the dragon was until our army marched on it. Our generals were concerned how we would fight it, considering it was a water dragon and stayed in the lake most of the time.”

“You lured it on land,” Aaliyah drunkenly guesses.

"It came on the land itself. It slithered out of the water like the colossal snake that it is and met our army head-on. From head to tail, the beast was over 1,500 feet long.”

Everyone gasped, hearing the size of the dragon. A creature that big, I could hardly believe it. I know from stories that creatures that size exist, but hearing a firsthand account of one gives me goosebumps.

Even after being the focus of an angry Tabitha, Frank can’t help but ask a question. “Did it breathe fire?”

"It's a dragon; of course, it breathed fire,” Lloyd elbowed his friend, proving just how little the average villager knew about dragons.

“It didn’t,” Tabitha corrects them. “Not all dragons breath fire. In fact, the majority don't. Instead, water dragons shoot pressurized water from their mouths.”

“That doesn’t sound so bad,” Lloyd comments, and I can see the pain in Tabitha’s eyes intensify.

"It doesn't, does it?" Tabitha shakes her head, self-deprecatingly. “The water a water dragon spits out can cut through stone and steel in seconds. It rips through flesh and disintegrates bones on contact. It was so strong that it tore through the army’s barrier mages before we could react. So many died, thinking the same thing you did. That was the first time we failed to kill it.”

“Our second attack was four months later, and our king didn’t hold anything back after the first failure to subjugate the monster. So the second attack was the one I participated in; there were 4,000 of us."

“That’s it?” Someone behind me gasps.

Tabitha has a far-off look, and I think she hasn't even noticed the crowd she's drawn in.

“Everyone who participated in the second attack was at least level 70, and we were led by two of the strongest people in Scholl; Master Pacore the Deathless, who is my master, and Rezenta the Unseen, who is a Master War-Mage. Both led the attack on the dragon. And we still failed."

A heavy silence permeated the air. "This time, we were able to hurt the beast, but it wasn't enough. Though everyone was at least level 70, only us who were closer to 100 could do any significant damage. Lady Rezenta did the most damage while my master was at the forefront of the battle. He tried to keep the dragon focused on him, but even he couldn’t hold out for long.”

“After taking seven direct attacks from the dragon, Master Pacore passed out from the strain. We were able to rescue him before the dragon finished him off but at the cost of many lives. I lost two of my fellow disciples that day." Tabitha's voice dipped, recounting the battle.

“Without Master agro-ing the dragon, it started tearing through our lines, much like it did the first time. More survived on account of their higher levels, but Lady Rezenta was forced to sound the retreat. The plan was to retreat and recuperate before trying again, but a few days later, we found the dragon completely healed from its injuries when we were ready to attack a second time.”

“The vitality of a dragon was truly frightening. It was a mental blow to everyone, and though they were reluctant to, Master and Lady Rezenta pulled us back. There was no point in rechallenging it with fewer troops than the first time. We had failed.”

Tabitha lets out a long sight; she then grabs her mug and chugs the rest of her ale. "People argued about the possibility of removing the dragon without killing it, but anything less than poisoning the entire lake was pointless. And if we did do that, it would cripple our country for centuries to come. Plus, there was no guarantee the dragon wouldn’t just move its nest to one of the other lakes.”

“With the Heart of Scholl lost to us, it was only a matter of time until people started to starve. We needed food, so, no, we didn't invade Olebert on a whim."

“I apologize,” Frank lowers his head in shame.

“As you should,” Tabitha huffs. “My brothers and sisters died trying to save our country; I will not have their sacrifice be made light of. The dragon will pay,” Tabitha growls. “Scholl is not a land of the weak! We will find a way to slay the dragon; we just need time.”

Tabitha holds her head and stares into her empty cup. “This village reminds me of Scholl. You all try so hard to improve yourselves. On my way here, the other villages I came across were stagnant; there was no fire in their eyes. No drive.”

“Continue to grow. Become stronger. Expand your fields; help save my people.” A single tear falls to the table.

“You needn’t ask that," Camden pushes his way through the crowd around us. At some point, the party paused, and everyone was listening in on Tabitha's story.

"We here at Spotted Creek Village know what it's like to be besieged by a monster," Camden raises his glass, and everyone else does the same in solidarity. "We will do our part to save 'Our People.' We're a part of Scholl now, aren't we?" Camden grins down at a red-eyed Tabitha.

Tabitha is shocked by Camden’s declaration but smiles when she sees the villagers around her nodding in agreement.

“Death to the dragon!” Camden cheers.

“Death to the dragon!” everyone shouts.

The crowd slowly dissipates, but Camden remains. “Lady Tabitha, would you like to join us up at the front? We have skewers prepared.”

“I would like that,” Tabitha surprisingly agrees, and we watch as she leaves, bringing the number at our table down to four.

“I think we’ll grab some food too,” Frank and Lloyd git up from their seats and make their way towards the grills.

“Bring me back some,” Aaliyah shouts after the departing two, earning her a wave from them, signaling they heard her.

Once Aaliyah and I are all alone, she turns to me. Her face is still flushed red, but she has her usual determined look on. "Master, I want to help them.”

“Of course, you do,” I chuckle, pulling her in for a light hug. “That’s fine, but promise me you’ll remember your limits. I won’t be there to help you.”

“I know,” Aaliyah responds in a quiet voice.

