Del-Razen’s Point of view:

It took everything I had to hold back my laughter as I poured Aaliyah another cup of my homebrew. She underestimated the alcohol I drink regularly and was now drunk without even realizing it.

I know I should’ve warned her before she tried it, but the blasted girl had been bothering me all day. I was already planning on attending the festival, yet she felt the need to interrupt my nap, to make me promise to something I already planned on doing; she deserves to be taken down a peg for a change. Besides, this will be a good lesson for her. You must always be wary of what someone else is drinking, no matter your build.

The only thing that could've improved this moment was if I got Tabitha along with Aaliyah; however, she was smarter than my disciple. However, I am curious about what Pacore drinks. I craft my homebrew to combat my stone-kin vitality; I wonder what a person as ridiculous as Pacore needs to drink for it to affect him? Literal poison, perhaps?

“She’s really gone, isn’t she?” Llyod whispers to me from across the bench, motioning to Aaliyah, wobbling in her seat next to me. She has a smile on her face and is even more vocal than usual, which is saying something.

“She is, but it’s fine. With her stats, she’ll be good to go by tomorrow morning." But, of course, I don't mention that even if her body can purge everything from her system, she’ll probably still have a killer headache when she wakes up. “Want to try some?” I grin across the table at the two men sitting across from me.

Frank and Llyod take one look at my waterskin, then at the rosy-faced Aaliyah, before subconsciously inching back in their seats.

“I’m not sure about that,” Frank turns me down with a forced grin. “Both of us are Strength/Vitality builds, but if it’s too much for Aaliyah…." He trails off, leaving the rest unsaid.

The two of them aren’t getting away from me that easy. I hadn't forgotten how they cheered for Tabitha when she forced me to spar with her last week. “Just a little mixed into your ale then, like Tabitha,” I hold out my waterskin, not taking no for an answer.

Frank gingerly takes my waterskin and holds it away from him like it contains acid instead of alcohol. The two men debate over how much they should add to their drinks, bringing a mischievous smile to my face.

Now is my best chance to get back at all the human brats who have been taking me for granted, how quickly they forget I’m the highest leveled individual in the village.

Well, second strongest at the moment, I sneak a peek out of the corner of my eye at Tabitha. Lady Tabitha, as it turns out. I haven't interacted with human nobility since I left my home, but even I know she doesn’t act like a noble.

If I had to guess, it’s just a title given to her, not that she’s in charge of any land or anything like that. Of course, it's also possible she was born into a noble family, but if that were the case, I would think her mannerisms would be more regal than they are.

“Something wrong?” Tabitha catches me eying her. Her cheeks are a little red, but other than that, my homebrew doesn’t seem to have that much effect on her. Then again, she's still working on her first cup, while Aaliyah is almost done with her second.

“Just curious if you like it?” I motion to the cup in her hands with my eyes.

“It’s ok,” she remarks without much fanfare. “It still tastes like cheap ale; it just has a bit of a kick to it now. It reminds me of the stuff they would distribute after winning a battle. Master would always offer to share his with me, but I vowed never to touch the stuff again."

I’m shocked; the more Tabitha talks, the less tense she becomes and the more she opens up. Perhaps she’s not as immune to my homebrew as I thought.

“Gods!” Frank and Lloyd shout together. Both are clutching at their throats and wheezing.

“You didn’t add that much; stop exaggerating,” I admonish the two, moving to grab my waterskin before they accidentally drop it.

Once I have it, I take a drink before turning back to a looser-lipped Tabitha. “So, tell me, what’s in store for my disciple once she leaves for Scholl?"

“I’m right here, you know?” Aaliyah whines and obnoxiously throws herself against me.

For the first time, I see Tabitha smile while not in a battle or talking about Pacore. “She will be introduced as Master’s newest student.”

“And what does that mean,” I press for a clearer answer.

Tabitha sips her ale before answering. "She'll be brought before the king and other pillars of Scholl. They will have a chance to reject her position, but with her level and talent at such a young age, the other pillars are more likely to try and steal her from Master rather than anything else.”

“And she’ll be treated well?”

Tabitha pauses mid-sip, and her smile slips. “Are you questioning my Master’s intentions?” She challenges me with a glare.

“Did I say anything about Pacore?” I meet her gaze. “I just want to make sure Aaliyah isn’t going to be tossed aside once she’s in Scholl. It isn’t out of the realm of possibilities that Pacore only wants Aaliyah to keep her out of Olebert’s reach.” I’ve had these thoughts for a while now, and if the alcohol is opening Tabitha up, this is my best chance to ask.

The table goes silent as Tabitha leaks just the smallest amount of killing intent. “Master Pacore would never do that,” she says in a cold voice that sends shivers up my spine. “Master took her under his wing. Once she's in Scholl, I'm sure he'll oversee her training personally, just as he did with all of us."

I assume she’s talking about her and Pacore’s other disciples. “I hope so.”

“He will,” Tabitha states with certainty.

I don’t see any deception in her eyes, Tabitha may be a higher level than me, but I’ve lived longer. Looking around the table, I see Frank and Lloyd have sunk in their seats while Aaliyah is confusingly looking between us.

“I can take care of myself,” she drunkenly protests, to which I smile.

“I know you can.” I pat my apprentice on the shoulder before apologizing to Tabitha. “Sorry if I offended you; I just worry about what will happen to her.”

Tabitha’s scowl softens. “I’ll forgive you this time.” She turns her head to the side, breaking eye contact with me.

"That's good; we're all friends here,” Frank tries to cut through some of the awkward tension. The festival around us was almost in full swing, with only those of us at this table not looking like they were having a good time. There was a bubble around our table that the other villagers avoided, almost like they could sense they shouldn’t get closer.

“That’s right,” Lloyd agrees with his friend. “Tonight is a night of celebration. We should all be as drunk as Aaliyah is.”

“I’m not drunk; I’m fine," Aaliyah tries to protest, but it comes out in a garbled mess that I could barely understand.

Aaliyah's drunken ramblings cut through the tension better than Frank and Lloyd ever could, but we still had an awkward silence.

Everyone but Aaliyah sipped their drinks in silence. Eventually, the silence became too much for Frank and Lloyd; the two started elbowing one another, trying to get the other to break the heavy silence. Lloyd looks around for a conversation topic, and I see his eyes land on the feathers adorning Tabitha’s hair. “Your feathers are beautiful, Lady Tabitha.”

Tabitha mumbles a polite 'thank you to Lloyd, but that’s all she says.

Lloyd, bless his heart, doesn’t give up and tries to force a conversation. “Frank and I have been wondering, is there a reason you always wear them? When that platoon of soldiers showed up at the village, a handful of them also had feathers. Do they mean anything? The old guy had the most of them.”

I snicker hearing Lloyd refer to Pacore as the 'old guy,' only a handful of people in the village know who he was, and everyone who did know agreed that it was best not to spread that knowledge around.

Tabitha’s eyes narrow, but Lloyd doesn't know he offended her. I thought she would snap at him, but Tabitha defies my expectations and ignores Lloyd’s remark, instead choosing to take another sip of her ale.

Frank and Lloyd are confused by her reaction, and I decide to take pity on them. “It’s a Scholl thing," I tell them. "The feathers signify a person's rank and how strong they are.”

“Really?” Frank’s eyes widen. “But that old guy had like a dozen of them in his beard. Did that mean he was stronger than Lady Tabitha!?”

Now it was Tabitha’s turn to chuckle. “He is,” she says, setting her tankard down and turning to the surprised duo. “But that isn’t what our feathers mean.”

She reaches up and pulls out the three feathers attached to her hair. Each one of them has clips on them to hold them in place. And though they aren’t activated, I could see the lines inscribed on their surfaces, meaning that they were enchanted.

“It’s a common misconception that our feathers represent our rank.” Everyone at the table leans forward to get a better view of Tabitha’s feathers.

“Beautiful,” Aaliyah reaches over and picks up the grey one, bringing it close to her face. “So much magic,” she mumbles.

Tabitha smiles with pride. “The feathers are a tradition from back when Scholl was first founded. Warriors would go out and hunt the dangerous beasts of the plains and claim trophies of their kills.”

“Then why do you only have feathers?” Frank curiously asks.

“That is because the strongest magical beasts all fly in Scholl. Our nation is mostly a rocky wasteland, where only the strongest survive. That goes double for beasts that inhabit it. Breeds of huge griffins, rocs large enough to lift a grown man into the air, and countless other beasts with wings are just a few magic beasts that hunt our skies. It is said that Scholl’s founder killed a grand roc and built his castle over its nest. Its feathers were so strong and so big that he crafted his armor out of them. We show our strength in the same way by adorning ourselves with the feathers of the beasts we hunt.”

“Whoa!” Frank, Lloyd, and Aaliyah were all mesmerized by Tabitha’s story. I’ve heard of grand rocs myself but have never seen one. They’re said to be bigger than a house, with talons that could pierce enchanted steel. Depending on their age, their feathers are tier 4 or 5 materials.

“Does that mean you hunted one too?” Lloyd asks Tabitha.

Tabitha laughs at his ridiculous question, and I have to agree; it is funny. Grand rocs might not be at the level of dragons, but they weren't just beasts regularly hunted.

"The last grand roc was hunted 63 years ago before I was born,” Tabitha explains with a smile. “My feathers are from weaker beasts. When a warier is strong enough, they’re expected to go out into the wilds and slay an appropriate beast, preferably one too close to a village or other settlement.”

“Alone!?” Lloyd asks in disbelief.

“Most of the time,” Tabitha clarifies with a smirk. “Some beasts can’t be hunted alone, like this one,” Tabitha holds up one of her three feathers, a large brown one with white highlights on its tips. “This one is from a speckled griffin; they camouflage themselves next to rocks. They’re considered too dangerous to hunt by yourself, so I and two others of Pacore’s disciples worked together to slay it. We each took one of the feathers from its crest as a sign that we succeeded.”

“So, they’re like medals of honor,” I note.

“The stone kin equivalent, yes. Other nations think the colors of our feathers are the most important part, but that isn’t true. Those in command may have similar feathers, but that’s just because people hunt the same beasts at certain levels.”

“What level do you have to be?” Frank asks.

“Around 70 is the norm,” Tabitha responds, and Frank and Lloyd’s eyes go round. “But it’s possible to earn one at lower levels if a person is talented enough to slay an appropriate beast.”

“Like me?” Aaliyah goofily grins.

“You are already at the level where you could earn your own feathers. If I know Master well enough, which I do. Then he'll probably have you hunt a suitable beast on your way to the capital.”

“Hmmm,” Alayah hums in thought, and I’m suddenly put on edge. “Does it have to be a monster from Scholl? I want to explore the deeper parts of the forest; what if I encounter something with feathers there?”

“The forest!?” Frank and Lloyd shout.

I doubt Aaliyah is referring to the regular part of the forest around the village.

“I don’t understand?” Tabitha asks for clarification which Frank and Lloyd are all too happy to give.

“She’s talking about the high magic area deep in the forest,” Lloyd tells her.

“It’s where the chameleon spiders came from,” Frank adds.

“High magic area, interesting,” Tabitha smiles in a way that I don’t like. “You plan on going into such an area?” Tabitha asks, an inebriated Aliyah.

"Sure am," Aaliyah responds instantly but pauses when she looks like she remembered something. "But don't tell anyone, I’m not ready just yet.”

And that’s all Aaliyah had to say to get everyone at the table laughing, even Tabitha.

“It's isn’t funny!” She yells, slamming her hands down onto the table. Luckily, she didn't use her full strength, or she might've splintered the wood. Even drunk, she still has decent control over her Strength.

When we all stop laughing, the mood surrounding the table is much better.

“Promise you won’t say anything,” Aaliyah demands Frank and Lloyd.

"We won't," Frank promises, wiping a fake tear from his eye.

