F’lora didn’t know how long they spoke. She kept trying to prolong it, bringing up new subjects whenever the conversation petered out, trying to squeeze all the decades of time she knew they should have shared into this one precious moment. It was an impossible task, but she was determined to try anyway.

Wall was all too happy to play along. He answered every question she had, regaled her with the tales she loved, and told her all the things he had wanted to wait to tell her.

Yet she could tell when he began to tire. It was just like when Mandy had started to slow.

F’lora began talking more, trying to keep him with her. She told him all the plans she had for the village when she was finally grown up, all the places she wanted to explore. She told him about the strangers that had helped them and how strange they were—she’d never seen anyone like them, and she wanted to find where they’d come from. Maybe she could travel with her mother, one day?

Her father smiled at her, but the exhaustion was set so deep into him now that F’lora knew they didn’t have long. "Travelers, hm?" he murmured. “I would have liked to meet them, but alas... Perhaps in the next life.”

“Please don’t go,” F’lora said, because she knew that was a signal he would go soon. “Please, dad.”

“Dad’s tired,” Wall told her, but he pulled her close anyway, pressing a kiss to her forehead. “But I’ll stay as long as you need me.”

F’lora swallowed.

She didn’t know how long it took her, really. But she understood what he meant—that he would resist his death for as long as she wasn’t ready. And though he said nothing about it, she saw how much it took out of him for each second he stayed.

Eventually, she made herself let go.

His final gift to her was a simple one. He gave her a hug, then dissolved into motes of light that resembled Mandy, from what felt like so long ago. They danced around her before drifting through the fungal trees, sinking into various parts of the forest.

His way of telling her he would always be with her, she knew. He had returned to the cycle, and was now part of the forest.

But she was still crying when her mother returned and gathered her into her arms.

“Are you alright, my sweet?” T’vela asked, stroking a hand down her shell.

F’lora shook her head, sniffling. “Not yet,” she said.

But she would be. The strange pressure she had felt within her was gone, now. When had that happened? Her father must have taken it with him, but she hadn’t even noticed. She sniffed again, then tried to force herself to calm, looking around the clearing. Her aunts and uncles were all here, watching with concern, but...

“Where’d... um, where’d the travelers go?” she asked timidly.

“They left,” T’vela said, still comforting her with gentle strokes down the back of her shell. “They were not from this realm, and they could not stay.”

“Oh.” F’lora tried to focus on that. “I didn’t know we could go to other realms.”

“I had not known it either,” T’vela said. Her voice was soft, thoughtful. “Perhaps we should try, so that we can bring back something to plant in this forest. As a gift for your father.”

F’lora nodded, curling up against her mother. “I’d like that,” she said quietly.
