Quaking, Pawn clutched at his bleeding stump and shut up. Ksmvr prodded him forwards, blade tips sinking into the Worker’s exoskeleton, but now Erin was right in front of him.
“That’s enough. Pawn is my guest. I won’t let you take him.”
Ksmvr stared at Erin expressionlessly.
“Interfering with my duties is a crime.”
“You cut him for speaking. I’m not letting you anywhere near him unless you explain things. No—better yet, I want to go with him.”
“That is unacceptable. Move aside.”
“No.”
“I will not request twice. Be warned—”
“I said no. Didn’t you hear me?”
“I did. Very well.”
Erin didn’t see the Antinium’s hand move. But she felt something solid strike her so hard she saw stars and tasted blood. Erin stumbled away and heard a furious clatter.
Toren rushed at Ksmvr, barehanded except for a spoon it had picked up from a table. Ksmvr turned his head calmly, and two of his arms moved.
The hilt of his sword and dagger smashed into the skeleton so hard that the undead construct paused. Ksmvr’s arm blurred again, and suddenly, Toren was headless.
With one leg, the Antinium kicked the skeleton across the room, scattering Toren’s bones. He turned calmly back to Pawn.
“Move. Walk slowly without deviation.”
“W-wait.”
Erin could only see stars. And her jaw was already swelling, but she still staggered towards Ksmvr. She stopped as two daggers pointed her way.
“Your interference has been noted. Your complaints will be heard by my Queen once she has completed her business. Regrettably, she is indisposed at the moment, but you may request an audience at a later date.”
“I won’t—let you take Pawn. You don’t have to do this.”
Ksmvr paused and then shook his head. He spoke without inflection.
“My position is temporary. But any possibility of a Worker becoming Aberration must be dealt with swiftly. Interfere and I will be forced to consider you an enemy.”
He opened the door. Pawn meekly walked through it. Ksmvr paused, one hand on the door. He nodded at Erin as the girl stared at him, horrified.
“Good day to you. My apologies for the interruption.”
The door closed behind him softly.
——
Erin stared at the door for a full minute, thoughts whirling, before she moved. She paused only long enough to make sure Toren was reassembling himself. Rags was squatting next to the skeleton, offering it bones and watching with interest as the skeleton pieced itself together one part at a time.
She had no time to wait for the skeleton. Erin ran into the kitchen and reemerged with a frying pan, the biggest one she had. She flung the door open and made it two steps outside before the Workers grabbed her.
“Let—go of me!”
“Innkeeper Solstice must not interfere. Innkeeper Solstice must not.”
“Get off! I’m going to save Pawn! Let go!”
Erin struggled, but three Workers had her in grips like steel, and the others were surrounding them. They spoke—a group speaking as one.
“The Prognugator must not be disturbed. The Prognugator will slay all who interfere. Innkeeper Solstice must not die. Innkeeper Solstice must not die.”
Erin struggled. The Workers didn’t want to hurt her. At last, she managed to wriggle out of their grips. She broke free of the mob and ran down the hill towards Liscor.
She made it several miles before the Workers caught up. They weren’t fast, but they didn’t tire. They held her.
“Innkeeper Solstice must not.”
“Why?”
She shouted it at the Worker who’d caught her. He flinched, but she was beyond caring.
“What is that Ksmvr guy doing? Why does he look exactly like Klbkch!”
The Worker hesitated and then shook his head.
“It is forbidden to speak of Hive matters to outsiders. This one may not speak.”
Erin snapped. She took a deep breath and shouted in the Worker’s face.
“I am your chess teacher! I am Innkeeper Solstice, and I order you to tell me!”
He hesitated. Erin grabbed him by his cool, smooth exoskeleton.
“Tell me!”
The Worker hesitated. He looked at the other Workers surrounding him, and she saw them agree almost as one. It looked hesitantly back at Erin.
“This one—these ones believe the individual known as Pawn will be interrogated.”
“Interrogated? Why?”
“To determine if the individual known as Pawn is Aberration.”
“And if he is?”
“He will be executed.”
Erin’s blood went cold. She struggled, but the Worker held her.
“That’s crazy! Why? What did he do wrong?”
“Those who are Aberration kill. They are Individual and reject the Hive. They destroy.”
“But Pawn isn’t violent!”
Erin stopped and stared at the Worker.
“He isn’t. You know it. I know it. He hasn’t done anything. So he’s not an Aberration, right?”
The Worker hesitated again and stared at his comrades.
“It may be so.”
“It is so!”
“No Worker who has become individual has ever not been Aberration.”
“None?”
Erin stared at the Worker. He and the others shook their heads.
“Pawn is different, though. He is. So—that Ksmvr guy will let him go, right?”
They hesitated.
“Right?”
“If the individual known as Pawn is not Aberration, he may be allowed freedom within the Hive.”
Erin was no good at reading Workers’ expressions. But even she could tell that the Workers didn’t think this was very likely. She stared at them.
“I’m going to stop it.”
“It is too late. The Hive will be sealed while the individual known as Pawn is questioned. Innkeeper Solstice will not be able to enter.”
“I must.”
“It is impossible. Innkeeper Solstice must go back to her inn.”
“I’ve got to go. I must.”
“It is impossible.”
“I must go.”
“It is impossible.”
“I—”
——
In the end, the Workers left. And they left Erin behind. She stood, holding the heavy frying pan in the middle of the plains, and watched the Workers slowly trudge across the dark plains towards Liscor.
She wanted to run after them. But they’d convinced her—finally convinced her—that even if she followed them there would be nothing she could do. They would enter the Hive, but apparently it would be sealed by the fearsome Antinium Soldiers, who would kill her on sight if she intruded. And Ksmvr would be deep within the Hive, interrogating Pawn for signs of Aberration, whatever that meant.
Erin would never reach him. So she stayed and felt like she was betraying Pawn. But she would never reach him. All Erin could do was pray.
Slowly, Erin walked back towards her inn. Her mind was full of confusion, fear, panic, a whirlwind of emotions. But those thoughts vanished from her head when she heard the shouting.
It came from her inn. Erin stared up the hill and saw a group of dark shapes standing outside the inn. They were yelling something.
“Goblin!”
“More of them over there! Kill them!”
“Watch it! One of them knows magic!”
“Get it off! There’s a skeleton too! Toss me my sword!”
Erin ran. She charged up the hill as fast as she could. Her inn was lit from the inside, the lamps Toren had lit the only light besides the stars. In the glow from the windows, she could see seven—maybe more people—striking out at Rags and her group of Goblins.
They’d been caught unawares, but the adventurers were already pulling out weapons. One of them—a massive Minotaur—pulled a humongous battle axe from his back and swung it with a roar of fury. Rags dodged the massive blade as it bit into the soil with a shrill cry of alarm. She swung her short sword, but a mage in robes pointed, and the Goblin had to dive or be consumed by the flames that shot from the mage’s staff.
“Hey!”
Erin didn’t even bother with words. As the adventurers charged, she raised the frying pan and hurled it as hard as she could at the Minotaur. The pan flew straight at the massive bull-man’s head, courtesy of Erin’s [Unerring Throw] Skill.
The Minotaur blinked as the pan flew at him. His hand shot up, grabbed the cast-iron skillet by the handle, and halted it in midair.
Erin froze. The Goblins took one look at the Minotaur holding the frying pan and ran. One of the adventurers raised a bow, but Erin ran forwards and kicked him in the stomach. He doubled over.
Suddenly, Erin was alone and surrounded by adventurers. They stared at her, confused. One of them—a girl with pointy ears—held up her hand and stopped the other adventurers from attacking. The Minotaur stared at Erin, curious.
He’d stopped the flying frying pan of justice with one hand. Erin gulped and thought fast. Her attack had failed, although Rags and her friends were clear. So that left words.
“Hey! What do you think you’re doing?”
The adventurers stared incredulously at her.
“What do you think you’re doing?”
“I own this place! What are you doing attacking my guests?”
“Guests?”
A guy with a long mustache gaped at Erin. He stared at the fleeing Goblins.
“They’re Goblins! And there’s a skeleton in there!”
He pointed at Toren, who was lying disassembled inside of Erin’s inn.
“They’re my guests. And that’s my skeleton you just beat up! This is my inn, and no one kills Goblins around here! Didn’t you read the sign? Does anyone read the damn sign?”
The adventurers, or rather, the Silver-rank adventuring group known as the Horns of Hammerad, stared at each other in confusion. The night sky made everything nearly impossible to see. Gerial stared at Erin and then looked around.
“There’s a sign?”
——
Erin sat in her inn, staring at the group of men, women, and one Elf and Minotaur as they sat awkwardly across from her. All of them stared alternatively at her and at Toren as the skeleton walked around the inn, cleaning up the Workers’ dishes and the chess sets.
They weren’t about to say anything else, so Erin spoke.
“Let me get this straight. You guys are an adventuring group, and you just happened to drop by.”
“That’s right. We knew there was an inn in the area, and we wondered if it was still open.”
That came from the Elf-girl, sitting closest to Erin. She was distractingly beautiful, with features that were literally nothing like anything Erin had seen in her world. She smiled politely at Erin, and the girl had to prevent herself from gaping.
Erin looked at the Minotaur instead. He was also something she’d never seen, but she wasn’t as distracted by him. Rather, his bullish head and rippling muscles made her feel like she was talking to a cow that had decided to start working out and was walking around on two legs.
Which, when you got down to it, was pretty much a Minotaur.
“So you lot came here, saw the inn was full of Goblins, and decided to kill them all, right?”
The adventurers shifted in their seats. One of them shrugged.
“Well—yes.”
“Why?”
The armed men and women exchanged glances. One literally trapped a finger against her helmet and grimaced in confusion. Another—a guy in armor with a flowing mustache—shook his head.
“They’re Goblins. They’re monsters. We’re adventurers. I’m sorry Miss, but we were just doing our jobs.”
Erin knew that, but she didn’t have to like it. But they hadn’t killed any Goblins, and she’d made them explain three times already. And they were staring at her, so she decided to change topics.
“Okay. So you’re adventurers from up north. You said you had a name…?”
“The Horns of Hammerad.”
That came from the Minotaur. He was still staring at Erin curiously, but without threatening to rip her head off, which is what she sort of assumed was Minotaur behavior.
“And how did you know the inn was here?”
The man with the mustache cleared his throat awkwardly.
“We were, ah, here before.”
“I don’t remember that.”
“I believe you were out at the time.”
Ceria smiled at Erin. She nodded to the skeleton.
“But I can prove we weren’t doing anything wrong. We were here to meet a certain [Necromancer] at the time. It’s just a guess, but I’m betting you know him.”
Erin looked at Toren, and the skeleton looked inquiringly back at her. He was still wearing his sword belted to his bony waist, and the skeleton was eying the Horns of Hammerad as if it considered them to be a threat. Then she focused on the [Necromancer] part and groaned through her teeth.
Even when he was gone—Pisces! She spoke slowly, but with a growing sense of resignation.
“I might know him. This, uh, necromancer. Can you describe him?”
“He’s quite annoying.”
Erin’s head ducked.
“Right, that’s Pisces. Okay, so you know him. And you’re here. And I guess you didn’t see the sign about not killing Goblins. Mistakes were made.”
Erin sighed and tried to relax. She looked at the group of adventurers again.
“So, what do the Horns of Hammerbad want with me?”
The Minotaur’s eye twitched, but the Elf spoke again. She might be their leader, or maybe it was mustache-guy.
“We’re looking for a place to stay.”
Erin looked blank. She pointed out the window.
“The city’s that way.”
“Yes, but every tavern, inn, and home is full to the rafters with adventurers. There’s nowhere to sleep—not even in a shed. So we came here.”
Erin still looked blank.
“Why?”
“This…is an inn, correct? Don’t you have rooms to rent?”
“What? Oh. Oh. Yeah, I’ve got them. Tons of them. All empty.”
Silence. The Horns of Hammerad exchanged a glance. Ceria coughed politely and smiled at Erin.
“Could we perhaps stay here? I promise you we won’t cause any trouble, and we have plenty of coin.”
That had a hollow ring to it after the earlier incident. Erin thought it over, chewing at her lip.
“I don’t like people who attack Goblins. They’re my guests, and you chased them off.”
This comment seemed to seriously annoy the Minotaur. He leaned forwards, snorting, but mustache-guy pushed him back in his chair. From his seat, the Minotaur snapped at Erin.
“Those creatures are scum. They should be exterminated.”
Erin’s brows snapped together. The other Horns of Hammerad groaned, and the Elf kicked backwards, hitting the Minotaur’s shin. All that happened was that she winced.
Mustache-guy smoothed his mustaches and looked concerned. He spoke to Erin, attempting a charming smile.
“I assure you, Mistress, um, Erin. This was all a mistake. If we’d seen the sign, we wouldn’t have attacked.”
“Hm.”
Erin eyed the adventurers. She still wasn’t happy, not least because they were in her way while she was still thinking about Pawn. She made up her mind rapidly.
“Look, you didn’t kill the Goblins. So I guess I’ll forget that. But if you stay here, you will either obey my rules or you can sleep outside. Got it?”
All of the Horns of Hammerad nodded at once. Only the Minotaur did not. Erin stared at him.
“How about you, bull-guy?”
His eyebrow twitched, and everyone else in the inn winced. The Minotaur stared at Erin hard, but she didn’t look away.
