“For them,” said Lute, gesturing around the terraces at his fellow musicians. “It’s to increase their ability to harmonize. They’re going to be hopeless without it. That guy on the guitar…don’t get me started.”

Lute plucked a few strings, and in response, an oboist at the back took up the melody. When Lute stopped, the oboist continued solo for a moment before a flutist joined in. Then the oboist quit, and the flutist had her own short solo before she was joined by the guitarist.

Alden didn’t know anything about music, but the song was a soothing one. It felt appropriate for the event.

Lute was watching the other students critically. “It’s fine,” he said at last. “Best we can hope for probably.”

“Your chains can buff other people? Groups of other people?”

There were healing chains specifically designed to be said on behalf of others, but Alden hadn’t realized other wordchains could work that way. He’d been shocked at the thought of the Gloss being cast on the whole Verla clan at once, but that seemed to be a Velra-specific thing. Aimi had said they could use their chains collectively. Being able to affect so many unrelated musicians had to be overpowered. And really expensive. How many hits to his own “ability to harmonize” had Lute taken in order for this to balance it back out?

“Mass Bestowal is one of my S-rank skills,” said Lute.

Somebody’s special.

That put things in a different light.

Tiny, moody harpist disenchanted with his family was one thing. S-rank casually using a buff ability Alden would kill for to make teenage musicians suck less was another animal entirely.

And he’d said he had more than one skill.

If that was how it was, it seemed safest to ignore Lute’s presence. Alden had to live on Anesidora for the rest of his life. He couldn’t go around annoying crazy powerful people just because they had horrible grandmas. He let the conversation die.

The music continued to play while the amphitheater filled. Hannah really did have a lot of friends. Soon, Alden found himself offering to hold the ikebana arrangement to make room for more people on his terrace.

He ended up crammed in beside the harp, with white flowers and dew-flecked twigs partially obstructing his view.

The service started with an eloquent, but largely impersonal, speech from the dean of the hero college. He was followed by several people close to Hannah. They spoke about her passion for helping others, her dedication to her dreams, her kindness.

There were pictures projected by an Adjuster who controlled light.

It was a little overwhelming. And very inspiring.

The hero Hannah had been supporting for the past few years—a middle-aged man based in Indonesia—talked at length about their work together. Her stabilization spells and her bubble had allowed him to use his own talents in new ways. He could rapidly heat and cool small areas, and Hannah had often protected civilians from the effects of the temperature shifts so that the power was useful in a wider variety of settings.

He read aloud a few letters from people they had saved together. A couple of them were from kids, and many of those present were wiping at their eyes by the end of it.

Alden spotted Cly Zhao, sitting front and center and weeping freely.

He looked away from her and cast a glance toward the back of the amphitheater. Arjun Thomas was back there, almost hidden behind the ranks of uniformed students who had stood in perfect silence for the entire service.

He looked stoic.

Alden had never quite gotten a handle on what Arjun’s relationship with Hannah had become in the wake of the Body Drainer accident. Hannah spoke of him as a respected and trusted friend, but it was obvious they didn’t spend time together or talk much.

Maybe hard feelings over something like that are just inevitable.

Alden didn’t think it should be the case, but what did he know? He’d never torn somebody in half with his bare hands before…nor would he have to. Something like that had to mess with your head.

At the end of the service, all of the Celena North hero program students and alumni recited the school’s pledge.

Then The Gloom, dabbing at her eyes behind her glasses, took to the stage and thanked everyone for being a part of Hannah’s life.

“Friendships meant so much to her,” she said. “And even the smallest kindnesses you gave her mean so very much to me.”

Alden thought her eyes lingered on him, but maybe it was just his imagination. They’d never met before, and from the front, he must have looked like just a pair of legs sticking out from underneath a bunch of flowers.

There was a moment of silence.

When it was over, Lute spoke quietly over the sound of the crowd climbing to their feet and collecting their belongings. “Hazel’s just arrived. She’ll message you in a second. Last chance to escape. If you leave with everyone else, you can probably screw her over.”

Alden looked at him over the top of a chrysanthemum.

“You hate your cousin or something?”

Lute’s grim expression soured further. He drummed his fingers on his harp case. Finally, he said, “She’s a very talented and hard-working person. She’ll probably go far in life.”

“You have an unusual way of insulting people.”

He shrugged. “Maybe I just like my fingers too much.”

Alden’s interface flared. A text message scrolled by:

[Hi, Alden! I’m here on a bench outside the amphitheater. We’ve only got about twenty minutes. Should I come to you, or do you want to come out here?]

Alden stood and set the flowers down.

“Sorry about your friend. Seems like she was cool,” said Lute. “See you around.”

Alden dearly hoped he didn’t see much of any of the Velras after today.

He blended into the crowd, careful to avoid Cly’s eyes, and passed under one of the floral arches.

[To your left. Behind the rose trellis.]

Alden went behind the trellis and found the mysterious Hazel sitting on a concrete bench.

She looked normal. He didn’t know why that surprised him.

She had shoulder-length brown hair and brown eyes, and she was pretty in a well-kept kind of way. Her black dress fit her like it had been made for her. Her teeth were probably on a poster in some orthodontist’s office.

“Hi!” she said, smiling brightly. “I’m glad to meet you. Seriously glad. I’ve been so stressed out for the past few months. Can we just trade fast, or do you need to read over the contract? I’m sending it to you now. It’s a few pages, so you’ll have to speed read.”

Alden was definitely going to read the whole thing.

He sat down beside her and scrolled through page after page. He did go fast, out of consideration for the fact that he and Hazel would both be sitting on classes they didn’t want in a few minutes if he didn’t. But, fortunately, the language was plain enough that he didn’t think he was missing anything critical.

Hazel fidgeted beside him the whole time, her heels crunching against the gravel beneath the bench.

“You’re giving me one and a half million Argold,” Alden said, trying to sound not freaked out by the number.

“Is that enough?” she asked quickly. “It’s the usual amount for a rare S-rank trade. It’s what they gave the person Lute traded with. He’ll tell you. Keiko said we had to give you more than usual for B because Aimi was unprofessional. I can ask grandmother for more.”

It was nearly five million dollars. Boe was going to lose his mind. “It’s fine.”

“So we can trade now?”

He frowned at her. “Let me finish.”

The last two pages weren’t actually contract at all. It was a list of wordchains. Four sets with both the sacrificer’s and the recipient’s portion written out phonetically. Video examples were included. Alden hadn't heard of these chains before, and he wondered if  they were ones you couldn’t usually learn unless you were in good with the Artonans.

So I’m getting them whether I want them or not…

It wasn’t like he could throw them away. Did the System even have a permanent delete feature?

“Was Lute awful to you?” Hazel said suddenly. Alden noted she’d nearly picked all the polish off one of her fingernails.

“It wasn’t okay for your grandmother to install a spy at a funeral. Even if he is a student at one of the schools.”

“He’s been an arrogant brat to everyone ever since he got S.”

Way to ignore what I said.

“Let me finish reading.”

He was already finished. He just wanted a second to think. The contract seemed fine. Good in fact. Better than what he’d asked for. There was even an NDA signed by around two dozen Velras that said they wouldn’t discuss any of today’s events.

Alden didn’t have any way of telling if that included all of the people who knew about him, but it was something.

This is pretty great for me. Except for the whole scary-lady-thinking-the-universe-wants-us-to-be-besties thing. Alden scratched at the side of his nose. And I don’t really like Hazel.

It was hard to put his finger on why. It wasn’t like she’d said or done anything horrible in the past few minutes. Actually, compared to every other member of the family he’d met today, she came across as kind of bland.

And as far as he could tell, she wasn’t uneven. Which might make sense if the Velra Gloss could only be applied to the Avowed family members…

So Hazel getting Chainer is just straight-up lucky for the entire family?

“Everyone says you’re a prodigy,” Alden noted.

She lit up. “I have highly attuned senses for certain kinds of magic! It means I can monitor a wordchain’s strength and repercussions better than other people. So when I get Chainer, the boost from that on top of my natural talent will put me a step ahead of the others.”

“That’s interesting.”

He felt like it was a neutral thing to say, but Hazel’s smile broadened. Apparently she was eager to share more on the subject.

“To tell you the truth, right now I can barely stand to be around my own family. The Gloss is such a strong chain that it gives me this buzzing in my head every time I’m near one of them. It’s strange to me that other people can’t hear it. Even other Chainers! Some of the older family members can detect chains if they try, but they’re not so aware of it that it bothers them.”

She laughed lightly and tucked her hair behind her ear. “I bet you think I’m crazy, don’t you? To want to be even better at something that annoys me. But everyone thinks I’ll be able to achieve great things with it.”

Alden filed that information away, trying not to react. Was the same thing going on with him? It sounded similar but not identical. Either way, it was nice to have confirmation that it might be useful.

“So…um…are you done reading?” Hazel asked.

“Hm? Oh, yeah. Let’s trade.”

He drew his signature in the air with his fingertip, and the contract was finalized.

She sighed with relief. “Great. I’ll initiate.”

Half a second later, Alden received the notification.

[Hazel Dinah Velra has requested a class trade. Hazel Dinah Velra is an authorized witness. You have been vouched for by an authorized witness. Negotiations are approved.]

[TRADE CHAINER CLASS FOR RABBIT CLASS?]

YES/NO

Yeah. Hazel being able to witness her own trades is a loophole the size of the planet.

Alden was  sure a lot of legit witnesses would find the Velras’ use of the gloss to be a step too far. It wasn’t like they were forcing him, but having your life realigned so that you landed exactly where they needed you to…so sketchy.

He did want to buy what they were selling, though.

He clicked yes.

[Both selectees have confirmed the trade. Both selectees have been vouched for by an authorized witness. Please wait. Your class is being reassigned.]

Alden stood up, feeling lighter than he had in days. He had worries about Rabbit, but it was freeing not to be stuck in limbo, waiting to find out what class he’d finally end up with.

“You’re leaving?” Hazel sounded surprised.

“I have to get back. Why? We don’t need to stay together for the class to be reassigned right?”

It had taken a couple of minutes last time. He didn’t want to hang out with her if he didn’t have to.

“No…but I’m going to affix it as soon as I get it. Because of the timer.”

“Makes sense. Good luck. I hope it works out great for you.”

He turned and left.

He was already back inside the amphitheater, heading down toward the group of Hannah’s friends who were mingling by the granite memorial stones, when he realized Hazel had actually expected him to stick around for her affixation.

I guess it is an important moment?

Andrzej had said he was going to do it at a party his family was planning.

But it’s not like we even know each other. And some of her relatives have to be lurking around campus somewhere…

Alden wouldn’t be surprised if there were thirty Velras hiding in the bushes, waiting to jump him if he reneged on the deal.

He put it out of his mind.

Now that all of the students and many of the other attendees had left, it was time for the private part of the event. Alden hovered at the edge of the group, not really sure he belonged here, while everyone spoke quietly and watched as Hannah’s name was carved into the memorial as if by invisible fingers.

Alden didn’t know if the magic was a feature of the stones themselves or if there was a hidden spellcaster.

When the class re-assignment notice popped up, he swiped it away and kept watching in silence.

It took several minutes and there was something both terrible and cathartic about seeing the letters inscribe themselves one by one. The Gloom was shaking with silent tears.

