Ren took out a chef knife and sliced a sliver off, then held it out to her. “It's already cooked, so you can try it.”

Duyu was a little surprised that he would offer to feed her like that, then she shrugged mentally as she leaned forward and carefully took the piece of meat into her mouth. Her lips kissed his fingers as her teeth bit into the meat and tore a piece off. Ren raised his eyebrows at her, because he had expected her to just take it with her fingers instead.

Duyu stood up straight and started to chew on it, and the flavor filled her mouth. “Oh... mhm... that... that's so good!” She exclaimed and saw that he still held out the rest of the sliver of meat. She quickly leaned back over to get the rest of it, not realizing that Ren had been too surprised by her first bite to try and take his hand back. She put her mouth over his fingertips and her tongue slid between his thumb and forefinger to hook the rest of the piece of meat. Ren opened his fingers slightly so she could take it.

“Mmm!” Duyu moaned as she chewed on it. “Where did you get such tasty meat?”

“Um...” Ren glanced at his wet fingertips and then at her. “Shargon Caverns.”

“You... you were in Shargon Caverns?!?” Duyu exclaimed. “I knew you were boasting your fighting prowess with that sash... but... Shargon Caverns!” She stopped talking and turned to Dilseffa. “If you do decide to not be a delegate anymore, I will approve of it.”

“M-mom.” Dilseffa walked over to her mother and gave her a hug. “Thank you.”

Ren remembered that he should be cutting up the meat, equipped a bodysuit for an instant to clean his hands, then equipped the sash and shorts combo again. He quickly cut up several steaks into slivers and several of them into diced chunks while Dilseffa and her mother hugged.

Ren used a spoon to taste the soup broth and agreed with Duyu that it was bland. He added some spices to it and stirred it, then tossed in the meat he had cut up. He used his Fire Manipulation skill to quickly heat up the meat to the same temperature as the broth and the smell in the kitchen changed to reflect it.

“It's just Dohm.” Doth said as he entered the kitchen with someone who looked just as big and muscled as him, then they both stopped when they smelled the updated soup. “What is that delicious smell?”

“Your mother's soup.” Ren said and kept stirring.

“It hasn't smelled like that before!” Doth exclaimed. “I can't wait to taste it!”

“You better go and get your brothers, then.” Duyu said. “It's almost ready.”

“What about Da?”

“He can have some when he gets home.”

“But...”

“King Ren has provided us with suitable meat.” Duyu said. “Make sure you set the extra places at the table.”

“Aw, Ma!”

“Don't 'ma' me. You're the eldest brother. Get going!” Duyu said and pointed. “Don't forget to put out the buns!”

Doth sighed. “All right.” He said and turned around and walked out of the kitchen. “Come on, Dohm. You're helping.”

“Ah, dammit.” Dohm said and left with him.
