“This is what I wanted to talk to you about. But first, don’t apologize for trying to take the correct course. <<Bad outcomes>> often make good efforts and good intentions look like <<foolishness>>. It doesn’t mean that making a good effort with a good intention was a mistake. How else should one act?” He pulled up his feet and sat cross-legged in the chair. “And I hope you know you aren’t obligated to follow an instruction just because an Artonan delivers it.”

“I know that. Of course.”

“Then <<accept with grace>> my need to <<reiterate the point.>>”

Alden felt his eyebrows lifting, and with effort, he pulled them back down so that he wouldn’t be making funny faces at the important person.

“I have eavesdropped on too many wizards with <<unbecoming>> opinions today. And I did notice Zeridee-und’h’s attempt to <<compel you>> toward a behavior she desired by <<invoking>> the art’h family.”

“But that didn’t bother me,” Alden said quickly. “I think she just had the wrong idea about how much they liked me. I’d already ignored the same argument when she tried to use it earlier.”

“I’m glad you didn’t feel her <<urging>> as pressure. And I don’t know what the rest of your conversation with her might have been like. But the escape flyer was an offer. Not an official order. You were allowed to refuse it.”

Esh-erdi took the last bite of his sandwich and set the yogurt cup aside on an intricately tiled side table. Then he said, “I wanted to hold a <<short lighthearted party>> to meet you and the other Avowed of Earth who have impressive commendations.”

He did? Alarm bells were ringing in Alden’s head. What kind of guest list would that be?

“Lind-otta said I ought to wait until we were finished with any demons. And now look what’s happened. Instead of my <<short lighthearted party>> I must question you about the deaths of three Avowed.”

“They might not all be—”

“They’re all dead. I asked the Contract moments after you told me how Zeridee-und’h was hurt. And Bash-nor received word about the one in the flyer. The rumors are already <<spreading like wevvi blight>>.”

“There are already rumors?” Alden said, so aghast that he spoke in English.

“Among my people,” Esh-erdi said. “I doubt humans have heard anything unless someone has completely forgotten their <<proper discretion>>. Would you mind telling me exactly what happened?”

So this really is going to be something I have to deal with?

Of course it is, he answered himself. There are three dead people. What were you expecting?

He hadn’t been unaware that three bodies was an investigation-worthy situation. He’d even included it in his frantic guesswork about what Esh-erdi might want from him. But everything else felt bigger. The deaths of those three had happened so quickly, and all of Alden’s other fears seemed more pressing or personal.

His roommates. The Longs. The Nilama neighborhood where Lexi and Kon’s little sister lived, covered in her probably-temporary turtle tattoos.

Alden had a driver’s license that belonged to a dead man from Iowa. Did he have to get word to that man’s family? Had someone else already done it?

And the people who’d caused all of this—had they been found?

Was the System really, really all right? Would it keep being all right? For years? Until he was old?

Would Earth?

What’s left of the life I had on Friday? Some of it? None of it?

But Esh-erdi wanted to know about Zeridee and the dead men.

Alden wished he could take a couple of minutes to step out of the room and cast Peace of Mind, even though he was already dreading the payback for the last two. He settled for taking a deep breath and forcing the litany of questions as far to the back of his thoughts as he could.

“A lot of people in the neighborhood were familiar with the ambassador’s house,” he began. “From his parties and times when he’d shown off the protections on it. They kept coming by to ask if they could stay there. Some of them thought it would be safer from the water and from chaos than the building the System had told them to evacuate to. Because it was Artonan. Zeridee wanted to make sure her neighbors all left safely. We should have been able to do that and then leave in the flyer together…”

Telling it took a surprisingly long time. Far longer than the deaths themselves had.

Esh-erdi wore a mildly curious and unconcerned expression that was so steady Alden eventually arrived at the conclusion that it was deliberate.

He couldn’t have imagined anyone choosing that tactic for questioning another person about the grisly details of a killing until just now. Worried sympathy seemed like a more obvious emotion to fake if you were going to put on a show.

Alden liked this better.

Esh-erdi’s face said he was listening to something worthwhile but innocuous. It was the face of someone hearing about your summer job or the perfectly straight line of pigeons you’d spotted on your way home from school.

“I bent down to pick her up, and he tried to stab me with the stake.”

“Where did he hit you?”

“My back. Between my shoulders. My skill stopped it.”

“I’m glad about that. What happened next?” He was unwrapping another sandwich.

That face of his was also dangerous because it made telling him terrible things so easy. Alden was starting to feel almost like he could reveal anything to the man without it being a big deal. It was only ingrained personal rules that kept him from accidentally saying, ‘By the way, I didn’t just run at those two. I blasted one of them with my auriad first. You give the elementary schoolers pretty punchy spells, don’t you?”

“Do you know why they thought they could successfully steal such a valuable flyer?” Esh-erdi asked.

“Oh. I didn’t mention that part…I overheard them say they had something called a swallow box, and they were going to rob a healer. But they’d changed their minds. And something about usually stealing whatever Artonans left in their offices overnight?”

Esh-erdi was plucking a blue cheese crumble off of the new sandwich and tasting it cautiously. “I ask you this because you are a human and will have <<natural insight>> into other humans. If you had taken items of small worth from wizards’ desks <<without consequence>> many times before, would you think that a much larger theft would also be ignored?”

“I wouldn’t have taken the small things in the first place.”

“No?”

Alden started to shake his head, then he realized… “I have a ring that Worli Ro-den loaned me. I like to pretend I’m not going to give it back to him when I eventually meet him again, but I’m sure I will. Humans generally agree that stealing is wrong.”

“If Ro-den is <<shameless>> enough to ask you for it, you should tell him you left it with Alis-art’h. For <<safekeeping>>. I’m sorry for interrupting. Please continue.”

Alden did. Esh-erdi only stopped him a few more times to ask questions before he reached the end.

“Zeridee was hurt so badly.” Alden looked down at his hands. They weren’t exactly clean. There were scratches. The bandage. But he was remembering what they’d looked like, what it had felt like, when they were covered in her blood. “They’d hit her on the head. She was confused. I was trying to convince her to let me carry her, but she kept…she kept telling me they were only asleep. So that I wouldn’t be afraid. She kept giving me loving lies.”

For a while, there was only the sound of Esh-erdi chewing. Through the window, the sky was getting brighter. The dark blue waves looked like they went on forever.

“Have you finished telling me about the incident?” Esh-erdi asked.

Alden nodded.

“Truthfully and without leaving anything out?”

Their eyes met.

“I told you the truth.”

“But you’ve left something out?”

Alden’s heart beat faster. He wondered if Esh-erdi could hear it.

“I haven’t left anything out about what those men said and did. Or how Zeridee killed them. I only left out something personal.”

The Artonan’s casual facade hadn’t cracked. He still had his feet up in his chair. “If you told me about it, would it change my understanding of the event?”

“I don’t think so. No.”

“All right,” Esh-erdi said. “I believe you. Thank you very much for your <<testimony>>.”

Alden was relieved. And also a little surprised by the word testimony. That seemed more formal than he’d realized.

“Was this a legal conversation of some kind?”

“Not quite. I wanted to hear your words so that I could <<head off>> any rumors Bash-nor might start himself. Zeridee-und’h offends him. He would not mind her being removed from her assignment here, at least until his own assignment ends. He could <<create havoc>> for her.”

“Even though she didn’t do anything wrong?”

“The issue is her class status. She has chosen to stride along a narrow branch. Legally, she did nothing wrong. But people will make moral <<accusations>> against her if the situation is handled badly.”

“What is her class status?” Alden asked.

Esh-erdi sighed. “She has been trying, since just before she reached adulthood, to become a member of the ordinary class.”

“People do that?”

“It’s not unheard of for those raised toward the wizard class to make the attempt in their youth. But almost none of them succeed. Zeridee-und’h desperately wants to. Her reasons are…not ones I agree with at all. But she should still be allowed to live as she has chosen. Without Bash-nor <<impeding>> her like a <<spiteful>> child.”

“So if she’d cast spells…she would have failed at being a member of the ordinary class?”

“It would have been <<a setback>> for her. There would also have been questions about which spells she’d used and if her use of them was correct.” He dropped what was left of his sandwich on the table and brushed his hands off. “Thanks to your words, I will feel confident telling everyone loudly and frequently that her behavior was appropriate and courageous. It will discourage others from <<maligning her character>>, and I’m sure her family will be glad not to worry over her.

“May I ask you another question?”

Alden nodded.

“Why did you try so hard to save her?”

“I didn’t save her,” said Alden. “I just ran around with her for a while. You and Lind-otta saved both of us.”

“There is a level of humility that insults the intelligence of the one who compliments you.”

“…I’m sorry.”

Esh-erdi waited.

He really wants an answer, I guess.

Alden didn’t know how to give a quick and clean one to that question.

“At first, I thought she might be an assistant who had been left behind by uncaring wizards. I’ve…seen some people die like that. And she was so kind. So genuinely worried for people. She knew the names of all her neighbors.” She killed for me. “I bet when she’s healed, she’ll be sorry she had to kill those Avowed. She seems like a person who’ll suffer because of it.”

“That seems likely,” Esh-erdi agreed. “Based on what I know of her.”

Alden looked out at the water. “I don’t think it will ever bother me that those men are dead. It’s never bothered me that the person who killed my parents is gone. But Zeridee kept telling me not to be afraid. She kept giving me the loving lie. To protect me.”

If Esh-erdi wanted truths, then they were buried somewhere in here.

“And she reminds me of other people who cared. Good people. Who got hurt. Or got taken away. I wasn’t afraid of seeing those bodies she was trying to protect me from, but I was afraid of seeing hers.”

“I understand,” said Esh-erdi. “I would like—”

“Is most of Anesidora still there?” Alden asked, not looking away from the window. “Some of it must be. Right?”

“Yes, but—”

“That’s good. I knew a lot of it was probably fine. That was what made sense. But I still felt as if…. how many died? Some of the people I know were in shelters. Were those all safe? And what about the Contract? Is it… hurt? Or permanently weakened? On Thegund there were signs before it failed. Does the same kind of thing happen here on Earth, or is it different? Do—”

A hand landed lightly on his shoulder, and he froze, the stream of questions ending in an instant.

“I’m sorry,” he said. Esh-erdi stood by the arm of his chair, looking down at him. “I didn’t mean to babble.”

“You should have babbled sooner.” The knight didn’t remove his hand from Alden’s shoulder. “You are frightened. Of more than seeing the body of Zeridee-und’h.”

“I’m all right.”

“I have been <<cruelly thoughtless>>. Alden, most of Anesidora doesn’t look anything like the place we rescued you from. And Earth’s Contract is nothing like Moon Thegund’s was. A planet such as this one doesn’t fail so easily.”

“It wouldn’t even send a text message,” said Alden.

“That shouldn’t be taken as a show of its weakness, only of its management style and <<plotting>> upon encountering a new challenge. It will be some time before your Contract’s decision-making is completely <<analyzed>>. But it remains strong.”

Esh-erdi gave him a pained smile. “I’m an expert on weak points. Cracks. A lifelong student of the way things <<fracture>>. And I am sorry for you. You have had the bad luck of standing at the center of too many cracks for a person so young.”

Alden stared at him.

“Most of Anesidora survives <<unscathed>>,” the knight said calmly. “Very few people have died, considering the unpredictable nature of the magic driving the disaster. Because your Contract is healthy.”

“You said…there were fragilities that worried you greatly,” Alden said. “When you pulled me from the water.”

