“But the battle itself is still ongoing. In a rare showing, many kingdoms in the Republic are joining the fight. Most suspect this is because of the reward from the Kill and Exterminate Quest. The Halls of the Dead are attacking multiple locations now, all throughout the Odaali Kingdom. It seems they’ve seeded Daydroppers far and wide. Attacks like this usually take years of planning, though. They were ill prepared for your discovery of the problem so quickly.”

Erick sunk down into the chair across the table from Poi. “I guess it takes recognition of a dangerous plant before the quest comes down from on high?”

“Yes.”

Erick asked, “Is this my fault?”

“No.” Poi said, “We don’t blame the gods for giving us [Force Beam]—”

“The Wasteland Kingdoms do. Without the Script, you wouldn’t have [Force Beam], you wouldn’t have [Grow]. You wouldn’t have Shades.”

“We also wouldn’t have [Cleanse], or [Mend], or even Veird itself. The Sundering would have ended this world. These are the compromises we make in life.”

Erick sat in silence, thinking.

He said, “Don’t blame the bomb, blame the bomber.”

“Exactly, sir.”

“… Am I the bomber?”

Poi stared at Erick. “No, sir. You are not.”

Erick gave a sad smile. “Time to go back to the farms.”

- - - -

People on the streets seemed normal enough, but as Erick got closer to the farms, something was vastly different; no one was preparing for a harvest. Fields that should have held people, were empty. Carts were abandoned by roads. Fields had yet to be tilled. Valok was nowhere to be seen, either; he was usually present for the start of a rain, but Erick didn't see him anywhere.

- - - -

Kiri was in the temple, waiting for Erick.

She said, “Are you looking for a secretary? I want to make Spur my home, and I want to work for you, and you’re losing way too much money and you’re not defended enough —no offense meant to the Army— and, quite frankly, you’re not god damned angry enough, Erick. It sickens me.”

Erick frowned. “That’s a heck of a sales pitch, Kiri.”

“I’ll also kick your ass in the arena any time you want.”

“I’d want to laugh at that, Kiri, but I just can’t.”

“Odaali falling is a massive tragedy, and being sad about it is fine, but… Quel should have made you angry. That utter asshole— FUCK.” Kiri tried to calm. “He just… That shtick with the wrought might have been real, but the woman crying with him? That was completely fake. In a perfectly 'Quel-move', he used tragedy for his own gain.”

Erick suddenly paled.

Kiri ranted, “Quel didn’t lie about Odaali. He exaggerated, sure. Exaggerates enough that it’s a lie. All of that whole talk was theater and drama to get you to do exactly what he wanted. And you did. Thank the gods and demons he wanted something good for the rest of us, this time.” Kiri said, “The point is, is that… Is that I have [Sense Intent], and yes! It’s mind magic and it’s unregistered, but it tells me that you’re a good person, who Quel will attempt to contact again with slightly better offers and you’re going to fall for one and I would like to be there to stop that from happening. I hate the fucking guy. And you should, too!”

Erick had a lot of suddenly dark thoughts about Quel, too, but those could wait for another day.

“What do you want, Kiri?”

“I want to be a Particle Mage; it’s okay if I have to wait a year for the class to join the Script or if I have to pick up all the rads you leave lying in the desert. Watching you is like watching the Tower mages four years ago, before I knew them for who they are. You’re the kind of mage I thought I was learning from; the kind of mage I want to be. There’s a lot more danger in this world than just Shades. If there were more of you running around, there would never be another wyrm season. You would have also been a stopping block that the Halls of the Dead would have had to attack first, before they could enact their plan, because daily [Withering]s in any city would have stopped that plot before it could reach critical mass.” She looked to Spur, and said, “And you need to start daily [Withering]s here in Spur, now. Today would be good.”

There was a lot correct about what she was saying.

Erick asked, “Threat assessment, Poi?”

“Low. Merit cleared her of actual threat a week ago. [Sense Intent] is minimal mind magic. And I agree with her assessment of daily [Withering]s, though her value as a secretary or anything else is yet to be determined. I suggest you ask her to apply to the Army, though. That way she is in the command structure and the Army will pay her wages and investigate her background for you.”

“If that’s what this takes, I will do that!” Kiri said. “I can get that done today.”

Erick said, “You realize, Kiri, that people do try to kill me. Rather more than I thought they would try, too.”

“I am capable of defending myself, and you, from many forms of attack, but I can organize many other things besides defense. [Sense Intent] is very good for determining if someone intends harm.” Kiri added, “And you still need more people on your side.”

Erick took a moment to think. He liked Kiri; she was driven, she was powerful, she knew a lot more about the world than he. But…

If it didn’t work out, for some reason, it wouldn’t be because Erick had denied a young woman an opportunity she so desperately desired.

“As soon as you get approved for Spur’s Army, then you’re hired. I guess?—“

Kiri grinned tight, vibrating a tiny bit, nodding with contained joy.

“—Not sure how that works, but we can make it work.” Erick asked, “And tell me about this worm season. The new farmers have complained about them, too. Eating farmhands, and such.”

Kiri smiled, saying, “Wyrms are monsterized dragons.”

Erick frowned. “I thought you were talking about monster worms; the squiggly things like snakes who burrow and live in healthy soil. They’re all over the place, here in the farms. What do you call those?”

Poi said, “Okapahs”

Kiri frowned. “You learned Ecks with [Language Acquisition], right?”

“Sometimes words get confused, and so do I.” Erick said, “Go apply to Spur’s Army.”

Kiri smiled wide and almost ran off, but Krakina and Apogough were walking up the path to the temple. Neither of them looked happy, but none of their anger seemed like it was pointed at Erick. At least not directly. Krakina frowned as she looked off to the side, into the air.

Apogough walked up the temple steps, saying, “No rain today. There’s been an attack in the Greensoil Republic and many of our dragonkin people are from there. Thankfully no humans on the farm, though; this would have already turned bloody.”

Krakina added, “The incani farmers from Outpost and near the Wastelands are cheering. Guards are trying to stop the riots before they start. Ain’t no day for peaceful rain!”

A pit of dread opened up in Erick’s stomach.
