Look around the kitchen. Look at the other chefs around you. You are only as good as the worst chef here. Kick that through your head. The worst chef here decides everything: when we get our meal done, how fast we get it done, how many fuck-ups we do along the way, and how well it tastes by the end. The worst chef here is our god. No one else. But why don't we just get rid of the worst chef here? Because on any given day, that could be anyone.

Anyone can be the worst chef here. And depending on what dish we're making, that could change as well. At any moment, at any instant, because of any number of things, you could be the worst chef, I could be the worst chef, anyone can be the worst chef. But we are working together. There is a chef, but what matters is THE KITCHEN. How good we are is something that we have to do together. We pay for the worst of our mistakes TOGETHER. We celebrate our successes TOGETHER. People might be coming down to this kitchen TO LET ME COOK FOR THEM. They might be hunting for me BY NAME! They might want to taste MY FOOD BECAUSE I MADE IT! BUT I DON'T MAKE IT ALONE! YOU ARE ALL GEORGES.

There is no me without you. Just like I don't do well when you perform poorly. So I'm going to tell you this one time, and you take this lesson to heart. Yeah?

Stop fucking it up! STOP COOKING THE FUCKING CHICKEN LIKE SHIT! TASTE THIS! DOES THIS TASTE RIGHT! NO! IT’S FUCKING RAWWW! WE’RE ALL SHIT TODAY! ALL OF US!

GODS FUCKING DAMMIT!

-Georges Archambault to Shiv

295 (I)

Path of the Chefless [II]

Most indulged in the pleasures and rejuvenation sleep brought; few gained it as a skill. That was because most people slept without purpose. They slept blissfully, carelessly, and without intent. Being harsh, they slept like animals, simply lying their heads down, closing their eyes, and letting unconsciousness take them. They didn't sleep with a part of their mind always active, waiting for an attack to come. They didn't sleep specifically to heal faster, to absorb all that they learned across the entire day.

In this, the Giantsbane remained a solitary figure among the many Legends across Integrated Earth. Most Pathbearers possessed of High-Tier Physicality and Toughness barely required any sleep at all, and thus often chose to skip out on it entirely, especially if their mental processing had been enhanced in some way.

Jessica, on the other hand, slept just as much as she did as a Pathless brat—eight hours exactly, no more, no less. In those eight hours, the wounds she sustained would dissolve like mist pulled apart by a passing gale, and she would dream in lucid detail if she so wished, going over everything she'd experienced, examining her flaws and figuring out how to better apply her abilities in the future.

More importantly, sleep offered her a moment's respite from the world, from all the strain and stress. Sleep kept one sane. It helped one clear oneself of toxicity. Spiritual, physical, and mental.

But Jessica's Sleeping Skill had evolved beyond providing merely that. There was always a portion of herself awake, and that portion kept watch, listened carefully for things happening around her. As such, when an explosion went off, she immediately snapped into full wakefulness. A rush of clarity passed through her being as she regained her consciousness in an instant. It was like putting on a coat, simply sliding one's arms through the sleeves.

In one moment, the world was dark. She was drifting between places, dreaming of the life she used to have, of the most vexing boy she'd started to train. In the next, she returned to the world and found herself deep in her personal sanctum. Though she allowed herself to sleep in the captain's quarters of the Court Leviathan, she took additional measures to guarantee her own safety, just like every other time she was out on an expedition in uncertain territory. The orcs knew better than to test her now, especially after she'd made a few of them her victims. That didn't mean she was stupid or inexperienced enough to assume they were above subterfuge. If they got a chance, they would hurt her, their Insul’s retribution be damned. They simply couldn't help themselves.

And so she retreated to the very depths of her blade, beyond that veil of static black mana, into a private little world that captured a pristine moment from her distant past. Around Jessica was a wonderful meadow. The ground tumbled away from her. Patches of rich, glistening brown mixed with puffs of rolling green. The grass was soft and supple, with dew hanging off its sides. The droplets scintillated like diamonds when christened by the light that slipped through the foliage. And all around Jessica, the world glittered.

Behind her came the steady splashing of a waterfall. The sounds were meditative, meant to lull her into a quick sleep. The pond, which the plummeting stream of water fed, also served as Jessica's bathing place. Her Inertium armor lay scattered atop a wide blanket; the tessellated components shivered weakly, resisting even the faintest ambience of mana projected by Rusty.

Once more, a blast came, and Jessica realized she knew exactly what kind of explosion it was. The reverberating blasts conjured another memory from her distant past. She recalled the dragon erupting from the ground, its body the color of steel, its scales wreathed by a membrane of vibrating energy—Inertial Overdrive. Shiv was fighting someone. He was discharging his speed—unleashing it in explosive bursts.

"Rusty, we under attack?" Jessica yawned. Her instincts told her no, but it was best to be sure.

"We are not," the blade replied, "but the orcs are finding sport in facing the Deathless."

"Seriously? He's fighting again? I told him that he needs to take some time off. Damn idiot kid needs to spend a few hours reflecting on things instead of just throwing himself into another bloodbath."

"He has spent approximately seven hours servicing the rest of the Gate. He returned earlier and remodeled the Court Leviathan."

"What do you mean by remodeled?" Jessica asked.

"It is becoming a kitchen," Rusty said flatly. “He seeks to use a colossal combat organism used by the First Blood as a traveling restaurant.”

"A kitchen?" Jessica replied, trying to tell if Rusty was joking. The sword did that every now and again, though its humor was as dry as dead metal left in a desert.

"That is what the Deathless told me when he came by to check how you were doing. He also intends to make a meal out of his orcs."

Jessica nearly responded by gagging to that news, but she remembered that orcs made for pretty good jerky, if you left them over the fire long enough. And she had one of Shiv's own orcs to thank for that discovery. She was the one that ended up putting Whisper down for good initially, after he decided to pull his little stunt on that farmstead. She didn't really intend to roast and eat him, but the fight got desperate, and she did what she had to. After holding his head against an open campfire, she took a bite out of his throat to finish him off for good. The flavor was better than she expected, and the tastes were rough of texture, but more sour-sweet than she anticipated.

Orcs tasted like something between pork and beef.

Overall, not bad.

"Alright, well, I think I can go for that at some point again," Jessica said, mostly to herself.

Rusty let out a long groan. "Sometimes I forget your peculiarities too, Wielder."

"We can't all be special and diet-free like you, Rusty. Even the littlest bitches gotta eat." Rubbing her eyes, Jessica stumbled over toward her blanket and started putting her armor back on. Nearby, an inanimate shape loomed. It was a statue that stood in front of the waterfall, just like they had all those years ago, letting Maia paint them as a family.

Next to Jackie's statue stood two others, though they had been eroded by time. And then there was the shattered statue, splashed across the ground, lying in pieces, unmoving even after all this time. Jessica could have put it back together. Rusty could have removed the debris. Neither of them did anything. It didn't feel right. It would never feel right, not as long as her daughter remained dead. And so the statue would stay broken, and the pieces would remain where they were. And would likely be that way until the rest of time.

It wasn't a healthy thing to do, Jessica knew that. Rusty tried to confront her one time, and that just made her say a few unkind things to her oldest friend. She regretted them, but she would never admit that. Rusty's greatest flaw was that he cared to serve her too much. He wanted to be the perfect sword, and if one was the perfect sword, they couldn't be the perfect friend at the same time. Being the former betrayed the potential of the latter.

As Jessica examined the insides of her helmet, she licked her lips and faced the stone figure of her long-lost love. She clenched her jaw and tried not to focus on his facial details; they made him look too realistic. And she wanted to save those moments for when Veronica lulled her into those flights of fantasy. Here was just a taunt, a deprivation. She couldn't let it go, and so her soul and body staggered into a future she wanted no part of.

"So… there's this new kid I'm dealing with. It's a real mess between him and me. He seems like a nice kid. System has it out for him." Jessica licked her lips and shrugged, pretending he was still here. In a way, he was. The silence that replied to her wasn't silence in her own mind. She'd been with him so long that her very thoughts could summon his ghost. "Started out trying to beat him into submission for the Inquisition, but, you know me; I picked the best time to start having second thoughts and start being a moral person. Like I was ever about that much."

If Jackie were alive, he would be giving her that knowing smirk. He wouldn't say anything. He would simply wait for her to crack on her own.

Jessica's lip trembled as she stared up at the statue. "Oh, screw you. I don't care about him. I really don't. He just doesn't get tired. He doesn't want to stop fighting. He's like a boulder-sized pit bull that wants to tear every little critter around him apart. But the way he does shit still makes me think of him as a puppy. And yeah, I guess I do feel bad for him. I guess he is kind of cutesy in that lost feral child kind of way, you know, like… Yeah, I know. Maybe I'm seeing too much of myself in him. But really, despite everything, he seems like a nice kid. Doesn't really hold grudges. I even did the Upcreek thing to him. Everyone else who's survived it has either been traumatized for life or currently has a death grudge against me. Not him, though, he just wants to learn. I think he wants to impress me."

And by then, Jackie's amused gaze would turn piercing, and he would ask her that question, a question she didn't want to face. As always.

"Look, I'm not really taking him on as a disciple. I'm just showing him a few things so that I can stop cringing at how he fights. He's raw, Jackie. Like, really, really raw. But he's got the spirit. He's not afraid of anything. And he just keeps slugging it out. Willing to learn, too, so he's got that going for him. I don't know if he has it in him to become a proper swordsman, but if you put a knife in his hands and if he spends a little bit more time grappling and keeps exploring that weird whip thing he has, I don't know. He's already kind of a monster. Not sure how much more of a monster I want to help make him. Might end up fighting down the line anyway."

But wasn't that the case with practically everyone? Most of Jessica's friends, or the people she would even consider acquaintances, were people who managed to emerge more alive than dead after facing her in a battle. What was so different about the kid? That was what Jackie might ask. Why are you pretending that you haven't already decided to show him a few more things? He sounds like a bigger version of you. Except not nearly as attractive. Not as good at using a sword. Probably can cook something more than an omelet, though. And a can of beans.

"Ah, godsdamn it." Jessica hissed at herself. "Forgot to cook him those beans. Still got to do that." Ashamed, she looked at Jackie and announced her departure the classic way. The way she did every time. "I always tell you this, and you're never there to hear it, but it should have been me. You were the real person. You would have done so much stuff for the Republic. You would have, I don't know, built that building you were talking about and redid all those cities. You would have gotten to be an architect and all that stuff… you know… I, uh…”

She trailed off, her mouth drying up. "I'm just a fighter, you know? I wasn't right for being a mother or helping the world. I just wanted to fight stuff and kill stuff and tell the nobles that I'm better than they were. And I did that, and then there was nothing after. You were gone. Then I ran off north instead of spending any time with the kids, and when I came back, things weren't the same anymore. I just…” She swallowed and clenched her teeth. “Rusty, I want out. Now."

He didn't even need to reply to her. She felt a slight pressure clench at her body from behind, where, between two towering trees, was a spot of darkness. Slowly, it expanded, opening into a full rift that turned into a crevice of static black mana. Jessica marched toward the rift, ignoring the sap bleeding from the trees, ignoring the sweetness of the taste, ignoring how her insides ached, bidding her to stay in this wonderful, perfect, crystallized instant.

