Like so many times before, she thought she would stop. She thought she would stay for good. Like so many times before, she disappointed herself. She walked through the rift and emerged from the flat of Rusty's blade. The world around her changed. There was no sweet flavor in the air, no musk of nature. Here was a thing of unnatural cleanliness, the air filled with chemicals and odors that were meant to suppress the internal offal and festering biomass of a Court Leviathan. The walls were smooth bone, and the bed provided to her was little more than a slab of white. There was no other furniture either. Shiv had apparently destroyed much of the captain's quarters when he secured the Court Leviathan. And then he did the Shiv thing of getting into one fight after another, and never really had the time to replace any of the furniture or add any style to the space.

But the room felt a little bit more cramped than it used to be. Jessica squinted at the wall to her right. "He shrunk the captain's quarters for his remodeling, huh?"

"That appears to be the case," Rusty declared, his voice rumbling behind her. Just then, another explosion sounded, and the entire Leviathan rattled violently under the turbulence. But Jessica heard something else rise: another roar, but not an explosion, but a synchronized union of voices calling out in praise of a bloody spectacle.

"Well, seems like he's entertaining the orcs pretty good." Jessica reached out for Rusty, and her blade shrank itself down until it was more of an ordinary longsword than a massive slab of black, sparkling metal. She held Rusty before her eyes and stared through the flat of her blade. She couldn't quite scry like a Diviner, but Rusty had Legendary Dimensionality, which let him peer between spaces. It allowed her to ambush and scout to a limited degree. It also allowed her to be lazy. Instead of cutting open the fabric of space and moving, she could observe whatever Shiv was doing from within the captain's quarters.

The static mana lining Rusty's core parted, and it was like she was observing the world through a horizontal slit–like a murder hole an archer might fire from within a castle. A scene took shape before her, as seen from above the Court Leviathan. Rusty liked giving her a bird's-eye view to start out. It allowed them to zoom in on specific places she specified, but also gave a proper overview, just in case they wanted to clear some fog of war.

Immediately, she noticed a few things had been remodeled beyond the Court Leviathan as well. A colossal coliseum had been shaped by the orcish Geomancers, with enormous stands made from risen stone and sculpted earth holding thousands of hollering orcs. At the very center, upon golden sands, a brutal battle was taking place. But before her attention zeroed in on the battle itself, she realized the stands were mobile. When the fighting got too close to one side, the massive slabs holding the orcs up would move, gliding across the ground at an alarming pace to avoid any unnecessary collateral damage.

The orcs might be psychopaths, but they were very proactive about ensuring their own safety. The way the coliseum was built also reminded her of something Jackie had done, how he ended up surfing several toppled buildings down a landslide to catch her before she drowned during one of their earlier campaigns. Hadn't been the same situation, really, but it was a memory she liked recalling either way.

Another inertial discharge pulled her focus back to the sands. Dust and debris sprayed high into the air, obscuring everything. "Get us a little closer, Rusty," Jessica said. The spatial magic radiating from the sword grew denser, and they zoomed in slowly, descending as if carried by hawk's wings. Jessica strained her Awareness, and found herself surprised when she gained two levels in quick succession.

Instinct of the Swordhearted 189 > 191

It had been some time since she broke through that bottleneck. Her Awareness had never been good. Had always been her greatest deficiency, even back when she was an Adept, and even now it lagged far behind most of her other skills. She probably had the boy to thank for that. Some of his fire was catching on her.

And speaking of the boy, he wasn't hard to find—especially with a few hundred orc magi trying to bombard him to death with Siege-tier spells from all sides. With how many spells were slicing through the air, Jessica guessed he was fighting half a thousand orcs at once—with a lot of them probably being Heroic-Tier, as it would indeed take an army of Heroes to shape two dozen entirely separate and interlinking siege spells every half second. They bombarded the kid with every kind of mana they had. A full spectrum of colors drowned the world around him. Shiv's Shapeless Tides would allow him to endure for a few seconds, but if he didn't change the conditions of this fight, he'd probably find himself dead much sooner than he did against the vampires, even with his experience from that fight.

Jessica wasn't a dedicated mage herself, but she'd faced enough magic to guess what a spell could do at a glance. With every pattern she read, with every shape she took in, the scowl on her face grew. "Alright, come on, kid, get your ass out of there. They're going to boil you."

The orcs didn't cast spells as the Republic's Polymagi did. They didn't work in concerts or formations. Each of them shaped spells individually, and then they perfectly blended them together anyway. This was something only experienced war mages could do. The slightest mistake would cause a mana collapse, and that would just result in a wasteful explosion and a lot of strain.

But these orcs weren't making those mistakes. Instead, they were adding esoteric effects to every spell. They were blending in Dynamancy with Pyromancy, creating weighted fire that made the kid heavier, unleashing rain infused with golden waters, every droplet slamming against him, shredding his temporal shell. Then came the falling arrows, shaped from stone but charged with ferromagnetic material. And in an instant, the stones exploded, summoning an electrified hurricane that lashed and whipped bolts of lightning upon the kid’s back.

And if that wasn't bad enough, the orc spells avoided their comrades, the Vanguards in the thick of things. But on top of that, those were also protected by shrouds of darkness. They only emerged when the kid was busy trying to parry a spell, and they drove their weapons into him, slamming wicked axes and heavy hammers against his body. But through it all, his Pillar of Orichalcum only grew brighter and rose higher.

The orcs were probably going to cut him down at some point, but he was going to make them fight for it.

"Should we intervene?" Rusty asked.

Jessica shook her head. "Nah, they're just having fun. This is an exhibition fight for the orcs and for him. I'd say it's okay training, but—"

Her words were cut off as a streak of gold ripped through where Shiv once stood. In an instant, he was gone. She'd lost track of him. An orc vanguard swung a wicked cleaver and struck nothing.

Rusty adjusted. He reeled their point of perspective back up into the sky, giving Jessica a wider view of the entire arena once more, and she realized the kid wasn't actually fighting alone. When he reappeared on the other side of the arena, he did so flanked by that goblin, the one that had some kind of Chronomancy and Reflexes Skill Fusion. Gone. That was her name.

"Kid's got company." Jessica almost caught herself smiling. Having allies was a good thing. Practicing with them was even better. The Giantsbane had half-expected to see Roland's kid there with him, but instead it was Shiv and the goblin. Then, not far away, a column of fire drilled up into the sky like a twister, and deafening laughter rang out thereafter. Laughter that sounded on the border of madness. Laughter that alternated between sobs of desperation and near-euphoric bliss.

Rusty zoomed in on the center of that fire, and she saw the odd Pyromancer that accompanied Shiv's motley band. Jessica had kept her distance from that one. Not because he was a crazy person. She considered herself among their number, after all. But that one wasn't her brand of crazy. He felt more like someone she'd probably end up killing at some point. Probably after he'd burned down an orphanage or a warehouse filled with helpless kittens.

Yet, as the conflagration erupting out of him climbed higher and grew denser, the coloration of his Pyromancy went from orange to white-hot. Everything around him began to disintegrate, the air started to combust, and the man at the inferno’s center seemed to regenerate. Bits of tissue and skin fused over charred flesh and bone, and briefly Jessica found herself staring at the vagueness of a person, but it seemed to only last for a second. The Pyromancer's focus snapped, and his body disintegrated once more, unable to maintain its restored state. The laughter came again thereafter, and he swept his hands out wildly and blindly. He had even less technique than Shiv. By far. Everything he did was raw and unfiltered. Every bit of power unleashed in billowing waves—no spells, just pure expression of destructive mana.

But there was no way someone like that could have possibly reached Legendary-Tier. You needed some amount of control, some amount of skill, no matter how minimal. Even Shiv had learned to use his Biomancy in interesting ways rather quickly. The Pyromancer, then, was likely one of the Ascendants’ experiments, intentionally or unintentionally crippled from what he had been before. Jessica stopped herself before she could think too deeply about what her gods were doing to people in their prisons.

"Hey Rusty, how wide's this arena?" Jessica asked.

"Approximately four kilometers. However, that is variable depending on the orc Geomancers. They can move the stands at will, and at times it extends to five. Sometimes it shrinks down to three. Presently, we're at four and a half. The orcs that are closest to the fight are Masters and uninvolved Heroes. The Adepts are further behind."

"Right, makes sense. Hey, what's that thing they have strapped up to that pole sticking out from the northern stands?"

Rusty zoomed in, and Jessica realized she was looking at a badly beaten wolf in the shape of a human. His snout was pointing in the wrong direction, his legs were broken, with wires sticking out, and he was chained to the end of a fifty-meter-long rod, but despite that, he seemed more annoyed than miserable. "Hey, Rusty, isn't that the Aviary bastard?"

"The Canis, yes. His name, or at least his official designation, is Five. It appears that the orcs captured him when he tried to escape the coliseum earlier. I can hear chatter and comments from the orcs beneath him. They are claiming he is a coward and a spoilsport, among other things."

"Yeah, well, now he's joined the spectators as a mascot. Poor bastard."

"Shall we intervene?" Rusty asked again.

"Nah. not yet. Want to see how the kid does. Doesn't look like the orcs are trying to kill the wolf guy yet, either. And frankly, I'm not starting a fight in the Tutorial for some Aviary fuck."

Jessica turned her gaze away from Shiv and his team to the orcs again. She was right; there were at least 500 orcs fighting the group. Some of them were breaking away from Shiv, unleashing waves of cascading ice to combat the spreading flames that spilled out from Candles.

There were also static waves spreading through the other spells, allowing the crushing tides of ice to teleport through the fire to get closer and slam into the Pyromancer, who simply laughed even as the spells impacted him directly. Despite being flung off his feet like a ragdoll, he burned holes through the avalanches striking him, and landed mostly unharmed.

He never stopped projecting fire through it all, like an ever-exploding mana bomb.

But it was clear the orcs had more than one plan in play. A massive pit opened up beneath the Pyromancer, and he plunged down as every subsequent Cryomancy spell fell alongside him. They froze the top shut and, in an instant, cast a series of Chronomancy spells over the ice. A chain of patterns swirled about, and as the ice began to melt, a wave of fire slammed into the underside, sending a spotlight high into the war-scarred clouds that drifted through the sickly-red sky of the Tutorial. Time proved the Pyromancer's greatest impediment. For a few seconds, the ice would not move. It would not melt or break.

And this left only the kid and the goblin fighting side-by-side. Jessica guessed this was their first time truly wargaming together, discounting their escape from the Rubix Well. So far, the situation wasn't ideal. Half the team was down, but at least the kid had someone to rely on. That was more than a great many Pathbearers had in their final moments.

"Yeah, I don't know if he's going to be able to come out of this one, Rusty." Jessica grimaced. "The vampires were already pretty bad. They had distance, but at least there was a backline to break through. He could shatter their structure and collapse their army. Didn't take me much effort to do that. The orcs, though… You gotta skirmish with them. He can't move nearly fast enough to reach every orc in the arena, and judging from how all of them are sparkling a little bit, my guess is they all have some kind of dimensional spell on them."

"They do," Rusty confirmed, "and those spells are tied to a few specific orc Dimensionalists. It allows the mages to reposition and the vanguards to be moved and redeployed as well."

She nodded slowly. "If you want to beat an orc, you kind of have to be good at fighting monsters. Got to lure them out of their cave, get them out of their comfort zone, make them come to you…"

"Jessica, Jessica, you're doing it again."

