The girl turned out to be surprisingly proficient at cooking.

When Lily dragged back her kill, my sister and I simply ate our portions raw. The girl grew a little uncomfortable—more than slightly, really—as we gorged ourselves. But once we finished, she asked to use Grick’s dagger and carved several clean slabs from the untouched flank. She flayed away the skin and fur, skewered the meat onto the stick she’d found earlier, and held it carefully over the fire.

She’d done it so skillfully, it was obvious she’d done this plenty of times before. And, to be fair, the fact she wasn’t more horrified watching two Hell Hounds tear into raw flesh made me further doubt any noble connections she might have.

Fat dripped into the fire with a sharp sizzle, and a rich, savory scent curled through the air.

I didn’t mind cooked meat, but I preferred it raw. Lily, however, was clearly intrigued. Her tail wagged as she watched the girl work.

“Would your hounds like a cooked portion as well, Ser Grick?” she asked.

“Puppies eat meat raw. Grick doesn’t like raw. Makes Grick’s tummy hurt,” he replied.

Lily yipped, “Meat!”

Grick translated, “Lily wants to try anyway. Other puppy doesn’t.”

“Very well. Then I’ll prepare enough for the three of us.”

I supposed it didn’t bother me much that the girl believed Grick was our master. If I could speak, I’d correct her, of course—but it hardly mattered. She wouldn’t be with us for long anyway. At least, that was the plan. Escorting her all the way back to the Empire’s walls would be a bit inconvenient, but leaving her alone didn’t quite sit right with me either.

When the food was done cooking, the girl ate with all the grace of a goblin, clutching the meat in her bare hands and tearing off bite after bite. She must have been starved. Though, if she had some nice chompers like mine, she’d probably not look quite so fiendish, ironically, but her flat human teeth forced her to rip and pull a bit barbarically. Not that there was a more elegant alternative at the moment—but still. The more I watched, the clearer it became: she wasn’t a noble. I doubted she’d ever even served in a high-class household. Hell, even a farmer’s daughter might have shown a bit more restraint.

I decided to have Grick translate a few questions.

Grick listened, then asked, “Human wants to go to Empire?”

She nodded. “Yes, that was my intention, Ser Grick.” Her knees shifted slightly. “I was hoping you could assist me.”

Grick scratched his head, then attempted the next question. “Empire knows Mei is Mei?”

She blinked before answering. “If there are any doubts about my identity, someone with an appropriate level in Analyze can verify it.”

Hm. That’s true, I thought, realizing I hadn’t considered that. I still wasn’t entirely used to the nuances of this world.

Maybe she really is Mei, then. Because if she were trying to pass herself off as someone more important to secure a better position in the Empire… well, that wouldn’t hold up. Someone would verify her eventually, and the ruse would fall apart—even if she managed to get away with it for a little while.

Whatever the case, I can't really blame her for lying if she thought that’s what she had to do to stay safe. But it’s not like it made a difference to us helping her or not in the first place. Why should my care for a particular human’s life be determined by social status? It didn’t at all, of course.

***

That night I slept huddled together with my pack as normal, Lily curled up to my side and Grick using Lily as a pillow. Mei at first lay by the fire, but eventually she drifted closer, though still kept a good foot of distance between us as she laid down with her back to me. She probably figured proximity to the larger Hell Hound would keep her safe from any predators.

The next morning we set out back towards the empire.

It was hard to judge how far we’d traveled the previous day with all the tracking, fighting, and hunting, but within a few hours the trees began to thin. Soon, the distant wall of the empire came into view through the canopy, and then, the boundary wall reveal itself as the forest opened further.

“Thank you again, Ser Grick,” Mei bowed to the goblin.

“Grick happy to help nice human!” he replied, nodding enthusiastically.

I couldn’t help but let out an amused huff. Surely Lily and I deserved a bit more credit than that—but it wasn’t as if Grick hadn’t played his part.

Still, it felt… good. Getting in a good deed like that during a hunt.

And then, somewhat to my surprise, the System chimed with an achievement.

Achievement! Emerging Myth

Your actions have begun to spread beyond your immediate reach. A name, however small, is taking root.

Moderate bonus to all stats!

My ears perked up.

Huh... now that's interesting. I wonder if this world has some hidden reputation system? Hmmm, probably not, but I get what it was trying to say. We had already helped that merchant family, and now this random girl. If things like this kept happening, then surely stories would start spreading. Myths about two Hell Hounds and a goblin…

I just hope it doesn't become the legend of the goblin wolf tamer!

I told Lily to carry Grick now that we didn't have the human slowing us down anyway. I wanted to get deep into the forest once again and hopefully find some more bandits.

As soon as Grick was secure on her back, we bolted through the trees once again, Lily keeping pace with me easily since I didn't currently have the bonus from Give Chase speeding me up.

We tore through the forest like two dark blurs until, after a while, I felt myself getting winded, and more importantly, I noticed a break in the trees. I had also angled our path slightly during our sprint to bring us to a new area, and it seemed we had come to a road.

Lily came to my side, her tongue lolling happily from her mouth, clearly having enjoyed our little run.

I studied the road. It was more of a rough path, but wide enough that two wagons coming in opposite directions could probably pass each other.

I stuck my nose to the ground and started sniffing, Lily following my lead. I easily picked up the scent of horses and other unnatural smells I'd attribute to humans.

Would this be a good place to hunt bandits? If they were looking for someone to rob, then surely this poorly maintained and unguarded road would be a good place.

"Into the trees," I sent through Pack Bond. "We’re looking for human trails off the road."

Sure enough, not long later, Lily picked something up and turned her neck enough to give Grick a "yip" that told him to climb down.

Grick did so instantly, and drew his dagger while Lily began trotting ahead at a faster pace, nose dutifully to the ground as she followed a scent trail.

Since she seemed so confident, I didn't bother trying to track it as well and instead used a {Pulse Sense}.

…Nothing yet. Nothing obvious, anyway.

But as Lily followed the trail, she only became more and more confident and eventually angled away from the road.

When I used another {Pulse Sense}, I noticed a likely target nearly at the edge of its range.

"I'll lead," I told Lily, and trotted ahead, keeping my body low as I weaved through the undergrowth and came closer and closer to the pulse that had grabbed my attention.

Sure enough, as I crested a hill, I saw two humans below. I put my belly down and watched, letting Camouflage take effect as I remained perfectly still.

They were both men, and once again dressed in mismatched armor. Not soldiers. And as I focused on their facial features, they didn't have that eastern appearance of Verdant Empire citizens.

I used {Analyze} twice.

Human - Level 14

Human level – Level 13

Hm, easy prey. Not a great fight, I suppose, but at least it would be a quick notch off the quest.

"More," Lily said, slinking up behind me.

"More?" I looked over my shoulder.

"Human trail. Not them. More." She pointed her nose in the opposite direction of where the two were walking from.

I checked Pulse Sense. She was right—there were some more further ahead, but not close enough to interrupt this fight.

"We'll hunt others next."

With that, I moved forward, my movements fluid as I wove my way down the hill and towards the two humans.

I started off with {Death Mark}, planning on a quick stealth kill to try to take advantage of Apex Ambush's bonus effect on Death Mark, which makes it automatically transfer to another target.

My chosen prey rubbed his hands together and glanced around nervously, the fear already starting to tickle his anxieties. But I wouldn't leave him to worry as such for too long.

As soon as I got close, I pounced from behind, my paws knocking against his back and bringing him down so my teeth would have a clear path to the back of his neck.

His partner turned in a panic, drawing his sword as I was already shaking the life out of my target, and it wasn't long before I heard a SNAP!

Foe Eliminated! Level 13 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

The other screamed and began to charge me, but Lily was already on him, and so was my Death Mark. It seemed Apex Ambush did its job.

She seized his sword arm and yanked it back. I surged forward and popped up, clamping my jaws around the front of his throat as he fell to the ground with me. He tried to hit my side, but with a burst of blood through my muzzle, the fight left him almost as quickly as his friend.

Foe Eliminated! Level 14 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

The Death Mark then automatically shifted again, over to a different human, one far on the edge of my Pulse Sense. I watched him in my mind's eye as I started heading for him.

He was bringing his hand to his mouth, pinching something between his fingers. What was—

A loud, piercing whistle cut through the air, just before he turned and started to run.

Crap, he must have heard the screams and was now calling for help. But how many more allies did they have nearby?

"Stop," I told Lily. "Hide. Learn more before finishing the hunt."
