"I know the floors we haven't done yet." Solenne had read the same class evolution data — she had read it during the Transition Hall's rest period, sitting with the coordinates paper in her pocket and the second writing system running in her mind and the Conductor's quiet hum, and she had looked up what *rare* meant for an Arcanist and found: Level 50, INT 65, WIS 55, RES 30, Ley Conduit at 8, Harmonic Resonance at 5. Used Six of Six with all six members. *Narrative condition.* "It's not whether. It's when."

"You looked yours up too," Miriam said.

"I did."

A silence. The Field Forge hummed.

"The Harmonist requirement," Miriam said. "Six of Six." She looked at Solenne directly. "That's specific."

"Yes," Solenne said.

"Your RES is one below the activation threshold."

"Yes."

"So." Miriam did not phrase it as a question. "The path to *Rare* for you runs through a Harmony activation we haven't done yet. Which requires a RES we haven't reached. Which requires —" She stopped.

"Continuing," Solenne said.

They looked at each other. The calcite formation above them caught the ambient light and held it, cool and white and precise.

"All right," Miriam said, and opened her notebook and wrote something.

---

Vesper was watching.

She had been listening — not overtly, her hands continuing through the Workframe's rhythm, her eyes on the crafting interface — but listening the way she listened when something was being said that she was filing for later. She had been doing this since Floor 4. The party had mostly stopped noticing, which was the point.

She was thinking about INT 60, WIS 55. She was thinking about *Crafted the item that saved the party's life.* She was thinking about the two unfinished projects in the material cache, one of which was for Nadia, which she had started four floors ago and kept setting aside because the right material hadn't been available and also because she had not been ready, which was not a sentence she usually let herself complete.

She set the last Freeze compound in the supply stack and looked at it for a moment.

*Crafted the item that saved the party's life.* 

Not the most useful item. The item. Singular. Specific enough to be a test. She thought about what that meant — not anxiously, the way she sometimes thought about such things, but with the focused attention of a craftsperson assessing the difficulty of the next project. There was a difference between making things for people and making the one thing that would matter. She understood the difference. She had understood it for a long time without having the System's language for it.

She closed the crafting interface and began preparing for the next push.

---

Nadia came back at nine minutes.

She came around the calcite curve with the green scarf settled and her hands relaxed at her sides and the expression she wore when she had resolved something — not solved, resolved, which was a different operation. The calcium-dust white of the passage had settled on the shoulders of her jacket in a fine layer.

"Nothing notable ahead," she said. "Passage opens into a wider chamber about two hundred meters out. I heard something moving in it but didn't push closer."

"RES variant?" Solenne asked.

"Couldn't tell. Too far." Nadia sat down against the formation wall, in the same spot she had vacated, and looked at the ceiling. "For the record," she said, to the calcite overhead, "when the System says you're paying very close attention, it's because you've been paying very close attention for a long time and nobody asked." She said it the way she said things that were true and not jokes, in the specific voice she used when she had decided to let something sit in the air rather than wrap it. "I'm putting that in the record. Ongoing."

Nobody responded. Which was the right response.

Dayo, who had been running the armor cloth over the eighth dent's interior surface during the rest — satisfied now, the metal settled, the new damage fully documented — put the cloth away.

"Ready?" she said.

"Ready," Nadia said, and stood.

---

The wider chamber resolved into Solenne's Terrain Read 180 meters in: forty meters across, ceiling rising to four meters here, the calcite formations growing more elaborate as the space opened. Four calcite columns of significant size, white and prismatic, floor-to-ceiling, arranged without the regularity of architecture but with a density that created cover and blind spots both. The crystal-light was brighter here — ambient, not from any one Node, the concentrated calcite reflecting whatever light the floor carried until the whole chamber glowed from its own surfaces.

Beautiful and tactically complicated, in equal measure.

Tomás did Eagle Eye at the chamber entrance.

He stood in the threshold for twenty seconds with the focused stillness the skill required, his eyes tracking something the rest of the party could not see. The map in their Status Windows updated in real time as Eagle Eye reached the column network, tagging movement signatures.

"One Resonance Mimic," he said. "Southeast. Currently stationary, presenting as a Resonance Node."

Solenne ran Arcane Analysis immediately.

```stat-screen
[ARCANE ANALYSIS — Mimicking Entity]
Resonance Mimic
  Level: 14 | HP: ~700
  Physical Defense: 18 | Magic Defense: 32
  Movement: Stalking (camouflaged as Resonance Node)

  Behavior: Target Acquisition — Harmony Conductor anchor
  — Identified: SOLENNE (Harmony Conductor active)
  — Attacks only when isolation achieved or threshold crossed
  — Skill Mirror: copies last three Skill activations
    at 60% effectiveness

  Drop: Dissonance Crystal (Rare) — confirmed
  Grade: Elite
  Note: Standard Arcane Analysis circumvents camouflage.
```

*Target: Solenne.*

She registered this without alarm — alarm was a resource cost she was learning to manage. The Mimic had identified the Harmony Conductor and was waiting for isolation. Which meant it had been watching them enter. Which meant it had some form of environmental awareness that the Lattice Guardians had not demonstrated.

And it would copy her skills.

She thought about that for a moment. Arcane Analysis at 60% effectiveness meant partial enemy identification — the Mimic would see something, not everything. Ley Conduit at 60% was the more dangerous prospect: a sustained damage channel pointed back at her, with the Conductor's range and the Mimic's positional advantage.

"It will copy me," she said through the Conductor. She pushed the analysis — not annotated this time, just the data, clean, the facts of what it could do. "Ley Conduit at sixty percent. If it gets the activation sequence, it directs it at me. I need to either not activate Ley Conduit or activate it in a way that draws the copy into a bad position."

"Or I get between you," Dayo said.

"Or that."

"I'll get between you."

The fight was not the longest they had run. But it had a shape none of them had encountered before — the mirrored shape, the sense of something learning from them in real time, adapting its repertoire to what they were doing. It copied Tomás's Precision Shot once: a crystalline needle that tracked toward Solenne and landed on the First Boss Coat's shoulder instead, because Dayo was there. It copied Nadia's Stumble into a spatial disruption that sent Miriam two meters sideways, which Miriam absorbed without going down, which was not a given. It tried to copy Ley Conduit — Solenne felt the activation signature, the system-pattern the Mimic was reading and reproducing — and she cut the channel before the copy resolved, deliberately interrupting the skill mid-activation, which cost her the MP spend without the damage output but denied the Mimic the template.

Vesper's Enhancement Inscription on Tomás's bow, applied in the thirty seconds of the fight's opening positioning phase, added a RES-targeting component that made Tomás's Precision Shots progressively more effective against the Mimic's magic defense. By the fourth shot, the defense was eroding. By the seventh, the HP was critical.

The Mimic, dropping below 30% HP, did something unexpected.

It copied Arcane Analysis.

The blue overlay of Solenne's own skill reflected back at her, the same cold analysis quality, targeting: *[Arcanist: Solenne Achebe-Park. RES 19. Harmony Conductor active: 5 linked members. Six of Six: conditions not met: RES threshold 1 below activation.]* The information was not dangerous. The Mimic was reading her the same way she had been reading enemies for twelve floors, returning the data stream like a mirror held at the wrong angle.

For two seconds she saw herself through the analysis.

*Conditions not met: RES threshold 1 below activation.*

Then Nadia's Stumble sent the Mimic into a column, and Dayo's gauntlet finished it.

```stat-screen
[ENCOUNTER COMPLETE]
Resonance Mimic Defeated: 1
XP Awarded: 250 (distributed)
Loot: Dissonance Crystal x1 (Rare)

Party Status:
  Dayo: 527/527 HP | 165/185 MP
  Miriam: 280/280 HP | 395/420 MP
  Solenne: 231/231 HP | 468/510 MP
  Tomás: 348/348 HP | 312/350 MP
  Nadia: 232/232 HP | 385/408 MP
  Vesper: 200/200 HP | 490/520 MP
```

Vesper picked up the Dissonance Crystal with both hands. She turned it over. It was the size of her thumb, deeply colored — not white like the surrounding calcite but a red-violet that was almost black at its core, catching the chamber's ambient light and holding it rather than reflecting it. She said nothing for a moment. Then: "RES-protection accessory potential." She placed it in the material cache alongside the Calcite Fragments. "I'll need to study the resonance signature."

Solenne was looking at the spot where the Mimic had stood, in the corner of the chamber where the calcite columns created natural cover, where it had been presenting as a Node and waiting for isolation. The blue overlay of Arcane Analysis had shown her something she had not expected — not the Mimic's stats but her own, reflected back, laid out in the System's precise shorthand.

*RES 19. Conditions not met. 1 below activation.*

She had known this. She had known this since the Resonance Surge, since the Floor 10 chamber, since the two seconds of *almost* that had given her the shape of the full chord and taken it away. She had been carrying it since before Vasic's questions had given her language for it. But there was a difference between knowing something and seeing it from outside, the analysis turned backward, the machine reading the operator.

One.

She opened her notebook. Not to write — she was not sure what she would write yet. Just to hold it.

The Calcite Labyrinth's ambient light held the chamber in white, and the columns cast their shadows, and somewhere ahead was the third Resonance Node, and then the fourth, and the path the party had not yet walked.

She closed the notebook.

"Forward," she said.
