Amara peered around, whiplashed by the sudden shift in time. She hissed, "What happened?"

I snapped my fingers, "We're trying to arrange a deal with Plazia."

She snarled, "Why should we help him?"

Plazia gazed at her, "I know of your intentions. More worthy of note, I know of your motivations. Each of you desires some kind of outcome, and my offer may grant you all you wish and more. It is centered on an exchange."

He turned a palm to Amara, "If Daniel acts as a shepherd between our dimensions and ferries untainted people from the new domain into our own, I will give you my undying services." Plazia leaned back into his throne while oozing confidence, "Of which, I may offer many."

I rested my chin on my right fist, "He's saying that I'll need to go towards the collapsing dimension while creating a bridge and take unchanged people back. If I do that, I'll get Plazia as an underling."

Plazia rested his hands on the armrests of his throne, "Yes...Though perhaps you may call me something else besides an underling?"

I tapped my teeth together, "Eh...Maybe."

A war waged in my head. Different minds threw out all kinds of thoughts on the issue, weighing pros and cons. Before I voiced my questions, Amara gawked at Plazia. She raised her palms to the hivemind,

"You...You say that we're tainted? All of us?"

Plazia peered off, unable to meet her gaze, "Yes. We are. We are like shadows, the dark manifestations of what we once were. Our passage from one realm to the next has molded us too deeply, and we may never return to our former selves. However, we may help those that have yet to turn."

Amara stared down at her palms, or in her case, up at her face. She snarled out, "What proof do you have that the eldritch are changed people? Nothing about them says that. We're made of energy."

Plazia pointed a clawed finger at his temple, "My memories of my past life verify it."

Amara swooshed her hands, shouting out, "Like what kind of memories?"

Plazia remained cool and collected, "They are vague impressions of a scholarly lordship. I remember my hunger for knowledge matching my current ravenous disposition. I did not desire flesh and biomass as I do now, however. This desire for an absolute centralization of all organic resources, it is our most crippling of curses. It weighs us down to a place where we exist as nothing more than mindless monsters."

Plazia threw his hand to the side, "I may be a deformity...An abomination...A ruined mind. I know this, and I know I cannot be changed any longer. I'll live with my hunger as you do. Unlike most of us, I won't succumb to it." Plazia pointed to Amara, "Just as you've resisted, I shall too, little one."

Amara snarled, "And look around us. You've conquered a world. Is there any reason as to why we should believe you weren't aiming for endless consumption from the beginning?"

Plazia scoffed, "You speak quickly in anger but are slow to thought. Dwell on what I've done. Tell me if anything of my deeds are remotely malignant. You'll find nothing of the sort."

I raised my palms, "Ok guys, that's enough. I'm willing to test this out. We'll work together for a bit and see if this has any validity to it. If it doesn't, we'll fight it out."

Plazia reached out, "You're sure?"

I gave him a decisive nod, and the hivemind spread his hands wide, soaking in that moment. He resonated out, "We have happened upon a time of burgeoning change. You've decided on the cataclysm you'll usher forth, Harbinger. I cannot wait to see it come to its fruition."

I raised a finger, "Now wait one minute. We'll be needing a few resources from you first. It'll be a goodwill present."

Plazia's hands lowered, "Hm...Then what is it you desire?"

I gave him a greedy smile, "Oh, it isn't that much...Just a few things, really. Maybe a few elemental furnaces, perhaps?"
