A loud chirp vibrated through the room, and he realized he was rigged within a new eldritch beast, but not one of the Stranger's monsters. Instead, this was of the Dreamtaker, he knew, for it swam through the air accompanied by a school of other feathered, eel-like creatures. Their bodies were washed in shifting colors and flicking tongues, and they circled the airspace over Blackedge like a storm, with Starhawk’s Perch in its eye. They weren't alone, however. Other Eldritch beings littered the space as well. Beings that Shiv was familiar with. They resembled jagged fractals, aberrant geometries, and he knew they had been spawned from Uva. With every passing second, more of them slipped free from the silken strands of her Psychomancy as if it were a cleft leading into another world.

Shiv wondered how she was getting so much madness to spawn such creatures. But then he looked down and saw the strands spreading out at the base of Starhawk's Perch as well. It slithered and coiled across all of Blackedge. It flowed through the still-standing structures and refugee encampments, and he saw the people down there, how their minds were connected to her Psychomancy, how she was draining something from them.

The survivors of Blackedge were radiant with unnatural energies; their eyes glowed in shifting colors, but their skulls were aflame with incandescent mana. It seemed that they had found a way to protect the people from losing themselves to the madness. Or, perhaps, someone had devised some sort of strategy to prevent them from being swallowed by the unnatural nature of the Outside. Regardless, Shiv guessed that she was siphoning the madness away from the people and using it as a resource to construct a legion of her own.

A tense breath tumbled out from Shiv’s nostrils as he beheld how some of the eldritch beings were rebuilding portions of the town. Despite everything arrayed against her, despite being hunted and lost in the Outside, Uva Mettabon appeared to be thriving.

Shiv was damn proud of his girl.
