Rags blinked, stirred herself, and gave Mrsha an unconvincing smile.
“Good idea…yes. Let’s do that.”
She and Mrsha got to work, though this time, Rags made Mrsha just write down notes as the Goblin personally checked the doors. Then she went over the data. Stared at it. Mrsha learned that the world of statistical analysis was deeper than she thought or wanted. Sometimes, it was as simple as writing down data and drawing inferences.
Sometimes, you delved into it, assigning parameters and conditions and filtering by data to make the right numbers come up, like a fisherman dipping a hook into a river of sludge to pull out a single glowing fish of hope.
 
——
 
It was nearly thirty percent. In the mountain.
One third of the times the Dragonlord of Flame went into the home of Trolls to fight the Old One, he didn’t come back, or he did come back as a corpse, or took wounds so egregious that Rags discounted the future as ‘good’.
Aboveground, the data was far more promising; even if the Old One reassembled, it was only a one…in four…
The bad futures were too high. There were too many variables.
Assume you wanted the best scenario possible. Teriarch wins. No major wounds, no problems. They were hard to come by.
If he were forewarned, if he agreed to take the fight seriously, if he had allies like Taletevirion or Xrn or Goblins, and so on, he could win in the open air fairly often.
The complications kept coming up. It was an army of undead Trolls. Or the Old One attacking Magnolia or Liscor, or the two younger Dragons trying to fight it and being killed or forcing Teriarch to cover for them with his body.
Sometimes, 2nd Army appeared as hindrance or help. Sometimes, the fighting attracted other monsters. Rags wanted the data to show her a clean scenario where it was a one in a hundred or five in a hundred chance at most of the Dragonlord dying.
But the truth of it was that either he was worse than he claimed…or that that Old One was more dangerous than Rags wanted to admit.
He was supposed to be the Dragonlord of Flames. In fairness, in the realities that Rags saw, he tended to win by flaming breath, by spell or relics from his hoard. But too many times his victory was snatched away by a brown Dragon lying wounded and Teriarch leaping in front of a blow, or a miasma of confusion where insects covered the skies and he failed to notice the blow from behind as he tried to evacuate mortals.
—And that wasn’t even 2nd Army or the Kraken Eaters. It didn’t even account for the many, many realities where he heard about the threat and hesitated before fighting it or prevaricated or just collapsed the tunnels rather than risk it getting out. An old coward who knew full well what the Trolls were fighting and feared it from the ages of Walled Cities creating real weapons of war.
Ah, now Rags understood. She buried her head in her hands, scrubbing at her hair as she sat there and realized the weight of Sheta’s warning.
Fate mocks us all.
“There will never be certainty. Now I know what could happen…it’s paralysis. Paralysis of knowledge. My own actions will change our future—and I cannot find the best course of action!”
The final irony of the [Palace of Fates] was this:
There was no way to see a better future. At least, not theirs.
 
——
 
Mrsha had tried for Rags, she really had. She’d summoned bathrooms, found out that food wasn’t something she could summon, but even gotten greenery that Rags said might be real and thus edible to cows and stuff.
Mrsha had called for thousands of doors, argued, pleaded—
But the other idea Rags had had, to see a future in which she and Mrsha made the correct choice, never appeared.
A long, empty hallway stretched in front of Mrsha, and her fur rose. It was the same as the other hallways, but it had no doors. That was it. It had everything else, mirrors, wall torches, windows looking out into the rest of the [Palace of Fates]…not a single door.
Show me a future with me and Rags in the [Palace of Fates].
There was none. Mrsha didn’t understand it. When she asked for futures with her in the [Palace of Fates], there were tons! Mrshas running around, getting lost, panicking, living for ages here…
Not a single one where Mrsha escapes?
Mrsha asked for that and got two doors. The first was one where Mrsha sweet-talked the [Pavilion of Secrets] into letting her out that way, and she ran into Erin’s gazebo and fell into her arms in Baleros—and nearly squished her because Erin was tiny.
That one hurt.
The other was an improbable set of events where Lyonette had begged Silvenia, the Death of Magic, to team up with Valeterisa, Pelt, Eldavin, and Teriarch, and they’d busted into the [Palace of Fates] to rescue Mrsha nearly eighty days after she’d vanished.
It was when Mrsha had seen those two that she had realized why it was impossible to see her own future, even if that had been allowed:
In the other realities, the other Mrshas had no way out. The ‘roots’ were just ropes, and there was no hole in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. So the Mrshas just ran around the [Palace of Fates], starving or surviving, and every reality where she had fallen into the palace had no exit.
That, in turn, meant the reality where Rags and Mrsha were exploring the [Palace of Fates] right now, via the door, couldn’t exist. At least, not in any ordinary world.
The irony was not lost on Mrsha. If she could have, she would have opened doors to realms with smarter Mrshas and Rags’, who came up with the brilliant plans to solve everything and just would steal their ideas, like someone copying homework.
However, Mrsha had the distinct feeling that if there was a catch here, it would be absolutely that. There was the nigh-unlimited power of the [Palace of Fates], and there was…
Cheating.
This place really did belong to Erin. It was harsh. It had wonder and magic and power, but it was also bittersweet, the most bitter of things, like the statues in Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was The Wandering Inn experience. A piece of cake and a punch to the guts. Then, if you were lucky, another piece of cake.
Mrsha walked down the corridor, more to avoid breaking the bad news to Rags than anything. The Goblin Chieftain was not doing well. She’d forbidden Mrsha to see the timelines where things went bad. They were hard to watch. Mrsha had seen bad things before, but these were real and…
It was coming for Rags. It had to be the worst, the most absolute sucky feeling in the world. Mrsha knew she was trivializing the true death and horror Rags had to face…but what could she do?
Damn you, stupid palace. I wanted hope from you.
Mirror after mirror showed Mrsha moments of her past. She saw herself playing with Relc in a window, passed the little girl howling in the ravine…the hardest and best moments of her life. Fitting, she supposed, for an [Empress] looking back on her life and wondering what might have been.
For a Level 70 Skill, she chose something that was arguably sort of useless. But maybe she wanted this…depressing palace.
Mrsha walked past another window. The Empress of Harpies, Sheta, thirty feet tall, clawed talons resting on the marble floor, face solemn as she raised her wings like a veil of mourning, spoke in a voice that reverberated in the girl’s soul.
“You did not earn this place. How did you come here?”
Mrsha didn’t freeze comically in place, one paw raised. She didn’t spin around in surprised astonishment. She just ran, howling an alarm.
Dead gods, it’s her! Mrsha flashed past windows all showing the same looming Harpy. She spun—came face-to-face with a mirror where Sheta’s human faced peered through, eyes like vast planets of sorrow, and the Empress spoke.
“I am merely a memory, girl. You are no heir of mine. How strange.”
Mrsha backed up, fumbling for notecards that spilled onto the floor. She tried to write something, paws shaking, and the Harpy Queen spoke.
“Curious. Where art thou, Grand Design? You, who built this place for me. Is this an intruder? An accident? What strangeness is this? I thought I would next wake and lay eyes upon the being who followed my footsteps. No child could achieve that.”
She spread her wings, flapped once—and then she was gone. Mrsha stood there, shaking out of her wits, then ran screaming to find Rags.
 
——
 
“She was watching you?”
Rags was shaken when Mrsha showed her the ordinary mirror where Sheta had been. The Goblin rubbed at her face and groaned.
“Great. The [Palace of Fates] has the soul or memory of the last owner. And she knows we’re not supposed to be here.”
What do we do?
“Do? Nothing. Either this gets corrected and maybe we lose our memories…or we assume the flowers granted us access. Either way, we make the best of it. We have time. We have…time. Yes. I just need to come up with the most organized plan of how to bring all three together.”
Rags was breathing heavily. She sat there, as if hoping Sheta would return, and spoke.
“It’s getting late. You go to sleep, Mrsha. I’ll keep investigating the palace. No…I’ll tell my Goblins what I can. Maybe hold a briefing. Sleep? Maybe I should sleep. But I’ll be here all of tomorrow. Two days. And then I’ll need to enact…”
She was running her clawed hands through her hair, so visibly stressed that when she turned to Mrsha and gave her another fake smile, the Gnoll girl had a flash of Erin waiting for the Solstice or Ryoka…being Ryoka.
She nodded slowly and held up a card.
Can I help?
“Just let me know if you find any good realities, Mrsha. Weak spots. I’ll search for that thing’s weak spots. 2nd Army’s too. Naumel…maybe scenarios in which I turn him around. I can do this.”
Rags stood up, all business and effort, and she and Mrsha headed back to the entrance. Mrsha almost expected Sheta to appear again, but the Harpy Empress seemed to only exist in the mirrors, and if she was watching, neither saw her.
 
——
 
Of course, Mrsha couldn’t stay away. She brushed her teeth, pretended to go to bed, and slipped out of her sheets the moment she thought everyone was asleep.
Naturally, Dame Ushar and Ser Dalimont checked to make sure Mrsha and Nanette were in their rooms, and they were beyond your average ‘pillow and a wig’ trick, but the children’s escape technology had advanced accordingly.
The reason you buddy-buddied with the staff was so Asgra would put on a cap made out of your spare fur and crawl into bed for you. Come to that, she really was fulfilling a rather peculiar role in the inn, even if it wasn’t one Lyonette was aware of.
Mrsha stomped into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and a sleepy bee buzzed down to her.
Hey, Apista, did Rags come back?
Apista shook her little head, and Mrsha guessed Rags was in Goblinhome, explaining what the heck was going on to her people. The Gnoll girl was thus alone as she slipped into the [Palace of Fates].
She landed in the hallway of corridors, and no one was there to greet her, not Empress Sheta nor the [Pavilion of Secrets]…no alternate hers nor Rags or anything else.
The hallway reflected the time; dim torches flickered on the walls, though they had no heat, and Mrsha walked down a stone corridor that was dark as her mood.
So this was the [Palace of Fates], huh?
Your Skill sucks, Sheta. It’s depressing and sad, just like you.
Mrsha stuck the note on a mirror and watched it flutter down. No response. But it really was.
Ishkr had told Mrsha about his encounter with Erin in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. It had…hurt to know Erin didn’t trust Mrsha enough to bring her in. It had sounded wondrous, scary, and you know what?
…It had still been less amazing than the [Garden of Sanctuary], in a way. The [Pavilion of Secrets] was the next step, yes, the evolution, a way to uncover mysteries and defend and talk.
But it was an adult’s Skill for an older Empress Sheta. The [Gardens of Sanctuary] had mattered so much to Mrsha because they had been the kind of thing anyone would love. A Skill made for a young Harpy burdened by rulership, and then—by loss, by regrets.
This [Palace of Fates] was the most powerful and the most cynical place. The least magical, for all it contained the multitudes of realities. Mrsha hated it. She was glad she’d found it.
She wished it were more beautiful.
What’s the point? I don’t want to see myself or other people die or succeed or just know the future. Why did she want this place?
That seemed to be the real question for Mrsha. She looked around, walking past doors she’d labeled at the start, before Rags, when one caught her eye. A note said:
 
If Brunkr lived.
 
Mrsha gazed at it, and a little gear clicked in her head.
Oh.
Of course.
Her paw rested on the doorway. It was made of pain inside. Pain…and a familiar, grinning Gnoll in a reality where he and Lyonette had started dating of all things. Which was gross and horrible, and the little Mrsha hated Brunkr and groused at him all the time…
And the Mrsha of now just wept.
An idea turned over in Mrsha’s mind, like a weary dreamer waking. Wait…think of Empress Sheta.
Every Skill of hers had multiple uses. Gardens as a place to have fun. As weapons. As sanctuaries and memorials.
The [Pavilion of Secrets] was like that, and the [Palace of Fates] had a utility that Rags had glimpsed at once. But…consider what Empress Sheta would have wanted.
So many regrets.
Mrsha’s paw trembled on the door. Was it this? Hurt yourself on the sights of all the people you loved? Or was it to look into a reality where…
Something better had happened? Mrsha glanced down the hallway of doors, and she realized she had never seen anything good here. True, she had seen mostly her own reality, and it had been pretty dire without the roots and Faerie Flowers. Yet now, Mrsha wondered.
Show me.
The door vanished as Mrsha turned, weary, with the eyes of a child who had seen death. She carried an age that full-grown adults sometimes lacked. The girl spread her paws to the ceiling and beseeched the [Palace of Fates]. Silently, for she had no voice.
An oddity that meant even the shade of Empress Sheta, peering at Mrsha through one of the star-filled windows, couldn’t really understand the girl’s thoughts. Mrsha didn’t own this place. She hadn’t earned it. But did she deserve it? Did she understand it?
A bit of her did. So the girl asked for the true nature of the [Palace of Fates]. She wrote on a card and held it up, then let it flutter down.
Show me…a future where we were happier. A better day.
Her mind flashed to the Solstice. To the pain there, to the inn. To the Redfangs…and when Mrsha opened her shut eyes, a door was waiting.
It seemed exactly like the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Down to the last detail. Perhaps the woodwork was brighter, the old iron a bit more polished? Mrsha peered at it and walked forwards.
