“Hey, guys, is he just sitting there waiting for me to make ice cream?”
The five Redfangs glanced out the kitchen window. Shorthilt nodded.
“Yep.”
“Huh…”
Erin sighed. The Redfang Five glanced at each other and, as one, came to a decision. Swiftly, they began piling ingredients in a bowl.
“Let’s make good ice cream, Erin. Huh? With fire. And magic. And…things?”
Headscratcher nudged Erin gently, and he saw her brighten up.
“Yeah! Let’s make a super batch of ice cream! Someone get some cookies and…and hand me those nali-sticks. Wait, hold it! You do the nali, I’m gonna get a secret ingredient. I bet we have something like that around here…”
She vanished through the [Garden of Sanctuary] door as the Redfangs got to work. They bent over the ice cream as Lasica covered her face with her hands. Then she pointedly glared at a persona non-grata.
Tyrion Veltras was allowed in The Wandering Inn on suffering and only because Ryoko had begged Erin to admit the man who’d nearly sieged Liscor. Erin, doubtless, would enjoy his presence at the ice-cream making not at all. But he was striding forwards, staring at a bunch of conversation topics written on his hand. Making a beeline for Headscratcher, who sighed when he saw the stubborn [Lord].
They were just making the custard when Erin popped out of her [Garden of Sanctuary], waving something excitedly, followed by an angry bee.
“Hey, guys! I was searching around for a special ingredient and I—ow, stop it, Apista. Lyonette, get Apista off—I found this honey! Also, um, an eyeball. Let’s put it in! The honey, I mean.”
Niers sat up and began to demand to see the eyeball, and Ryoko tried to stop Tyrion from running into the Hobgoblins, partially to avoid a scene with Erin, and partially in case Tyrion figured out which one she’d dated and it got messy.
This was The Wandering Inn a week before the Winter Solstice.
There were no armies, at least, none save the beachgoing kind. Erin wasn’t worried about anything, besides perhaps Belavierr rearing her ugly head. She’d sworn vengeance against Erin after the [Innkeeper] had protected Rufelt and Lasica from her.
But Erin wasn’t worried about the Winter Solstice, except that she’d promised to make the biggest, best party ever. Perorn Fleethoof would be making her way north, and everyone Erin had ever known would be invited.
If the Horns of Hammerad would show up from the Great Plains or the Crossroads of Izril, she’d be fully at ease. Erin kept scouting them via the [World’s Eye Theatre], but aside from that—everything was great. Rags had even promised to make it if she could, but the sea currents would make getting here tricky—she was sailing here with Seve-Alrelious.
Rags. That was another change. There was no Flooded Waters Great Chieftain grumpily sitting in the sand and worrying about the future. Instead, Rags was coming back for a winter vacation from school. The Titan’s student was, ironically, in Baleros while the Professor himself seemed to teleport himself back and forth from Baleros to The Wandering Inn at least twice a week.
Pyrite was in command of the Flooded Waters tribe until Rags was ready to come back. She was no [Great Chieftain]…she was a [Student]. And instead of leading Goblins and giving orders, she was playing pranks on her teachers.
She was so much happier.
And then—and then—a little Gnoll girl raced forwards to steal some ice cream and stopped as she turned her head, as if sensing something. Yet she could not see her reflection in the door. If she could, she would have seen a girl standing there, watching it all.
Tears running down the other Mrsha’s face. 
This Mrsha was the difference that stood out the most. She was just a silly kid. She kept getting into trouble; just yesterday, she’d tried to raid a Razorbeak nest, and the angry bird had carried her into the sky until Bird had shot it down; Headscratcher had caught her.
She had a minder on her at all times, and still, Mrsha the Hero of Luck kept getting into trouble. It was driving Lyonette up the wall, and this Mrsha was so, so—
Childish. That was it. The rest of the inngoers treated her with affection, mild annoyance, amusement—but that was it. She got into dangerous scrapes and had escaped most of them unscathed, protected by her friends and family.
To her reflection, the little Gnoll trying to put salt in Lasica’s drink was familiar. Offensive. When she giggled or went wailing to Lyonette after being scolded, there was nothing in her. No [Emberbearer] class. No knowledge of how stupid she was being. How these moments she was taking for granted mattered.
To Mrsha the Trickster, they were funny, delightful jibes and jests that everyone should appreciate, because she lived in her own world. To the watcher—they had somehow become less funny.
When had she begun to notice how stressed Lyonette looked whenever Mrsha accidentally dropped a pan near her head? Why was Mrsha, the one in there, adding to her worries? How didn’t she see Lyonette’s expression or hear the tension in her words? Or notice how, when the little girl ran up with a notecard, the adults would read it and dismiss her words? The good ones, like Pyrite and Moore, cared, but the words mattered less.
…Because she acted so silly. Because she kept getting into trouble, and sometimes that was not her fault. But sometimes, yes, it was entirely hers. And so, the girl wasn’t treated like Erin, or even Bird, who caused trouble, but also solved trouble.
When you started noticing how people reacted to your actions before you even made them. When you thought ahead to what might happen…could you ever go back? Was this age?
The girl on the other side of the door looked into the room at the Mrsha she didn’t think she could be anymore, then at Erin.
Maybe not. Maybe you changed and lost it all. But at least, she was assured you could fake it. Her eyes fixed on Mrsha the Kid. And then she looked at Halrac smiling to himself as he watched the Gnoll girl do somersaults across the floor for fun.
I’d give anything to be that young again, and innocent and childish. If only I could.
The burning desire only grew with each second. The girl in there had cares and had lost Brunkr and her tribe. The girl outside would never pick up an arrow or bow without seeing that [Bowman of Loss]. She would never see a tall figure in the crowd without remembering the last Giant of Izril.
She had aged. How she wished she hadn’t.
 
——
 
She didn’t know when, but at some point the vision grew too much. Mrsha realized she was clawing at the barrier between her and this reality. Her eyes were on Halrac. Moore. Kevin, who sauntered in, a Selys who emerged laughing, not spitting hatred. Pyrite, Headscratcher, Shorthilt—
It hurt too much, and yet she couldn’t look away. And that feeling in her was growing. Jealousy. Outrage.
That little girl in there didn’t deserve this. They were right here like a movie in front of Mrsha’s eyes, but she couldn’t touch them. She could smell them. Almost touch—and that little clone of her was whining she wanted her cake now. 
The real Mrsha’s paws slid off a barrier that could not be breached. No matter how many times she banged against it. Mrsha sank down to her knees. But she kept watching. Hungrily. Painfully. And she saw more doors appear, each one filled with things she longed to see. The girl got up, breath shaking in her lungs.
Then the [Palace of Fates] truly opened for her. And it was terrible.
She couldn’t leave. She couldn’t stop watching.
If.
The Faerie Flowers rustled as the girl looked at the doors containing bright fates. Dreams of better yesterdays. Her legs were shaking. She wanted to run away and never return.
She wanted to lose herself here. Watch the never-was and might-have-beens and not emerge from those pleasant fantasies. But when Mrsha looked back at that version of her in the reality where the Redfang Five had lived—the outrage and loss grew in her heart until it was true hatred. A hatred born not of malice, but jealousy for what might have been.
Then—Mrsha felt at her side as she stared at the open door, and a single thought crept into her head that put her apart from Rags and anyone else. A moment of genius, perhaps. Or desperation. Mrsha’s eyes flicked to the open door, and she scooted forwards as, in the alternate future—
 
——
 
Mrsha the Queen of Just Desserts was applauding as Ishkr put out a huge slice of frosted Ultra Vanilla Cake with Glowberries on the table. Lyonette protested.
“Mrsha, wash your paws if you have to eat it. Erin, it’s not even dinner!”
“Aw, Lyonette, lighten up. It’s a celebration!”
“You’ve had the beach open for the entire month.”
“Well, it’s a month of celebration. C’mon, it won’t kill her. Plus, I have this great idea for tomorrow. Barbecue on the beach with—get this—grilled corn. Kevin was telling me you can grill corn. Imagine that. I always had it boiled.”
“Guys, Erin’s not actually from Michigan. I can’t believe she’s never had other kinds of corn.”
“Shush, Kevin! It’ll be great. Even if he wants mayonnaise and parmesan for his corn. Which is gross…hey, who wants to have the first taste of ice cream?”
The little Mrsha went racing over with clean paws to fight for a taste with Niers and several interested parties. Erin ended up giving the first taste to Pyrite and Ulvama, who vouchsafed that it might be too sweet—much to her chagrin. She began adding more ice cream to her mix to dilute the sweetness as Mrsha ran back to the table and then gasped.
The Gnoll girl looked around for her cake, and it was gone. Instantly, she whirled and saw everyone else had a piece, but her special, first slice was missing.
You stole it, thief, thief!
She baselessly accused Rabbiteater, Bird, Saliss, and began to wail. Not in any meaningful way, but in grievous loss for her treasured dessert until Lyonette handed her another slice.
“Honestly, Mrsha! Here, have this one, and please, be considerate of others?”
The girl ran off with her new slice of cake, only returning to demand it be enlarged because her old one had been bigger—to no avail. But Headscratcher gave her a bit of his frosting and was scolded roundly for it, and the entire moment was forgotten instantly, even by Mrsha. When Rabbiteater tried to extort Mrsha out of some of the extra cake she’d weaseled, she shook her head. It wasn’t a trick to get two slices. She really had lost it!
The door closed on that reality as Mrsha laughed, a true silent laugh of joy and relief in expectation of nothing on the Solstice at all, and Erin smiled without the lines of grief and war on her face. Then there was a soft click.
 
——
 
Mrsha left the [Palace of Fates] behind, rubbing at some sap or dirt on her paws, but walking carefully and returned to the inn and got back into bed.
Nanette poked her head out of the covers as a sleepy Asgra grumbled her way into her own bed. Nanette had noticed Mrsha had used her body double in the night, but hadn’t been able to tell where Mrsha had gone. Wherever it was, it hadn’t been long. She glanced at Mrsha as the girl put something on the nightstand next to her, and her face fell.
Here she thought Mrsha had been up to something interesting. As it turned out…Nanette hissed at Mrsha in exasperation.
“Mrsha, really? That’s what you were up to? You’ll get into trouble for sneaking into the kitchen!”
She couldn’t hide this! But to Nannette’s annoyance, Mrsha said nothing as she rolled up into her covers. She was oddly still as she stared at the wall. Nanette peered at the object Mrsha had placed on her bedside nightstand, then at Mrsha.
“Aren’t you going to eat it, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll girl glanced up, briefly, and wrote on a card as she slowly picked up a fork. Nanette read from the nonsensical little sentence and put it down to Mrsha being tired.
Yes. I will have the cake and eat it too.
The Gnoll girl sat up as Nanette rolled her eyes and went to sleep. Mrsha slowly chewed on the bit of cake. When she swallowed, it was sweet and real and tasted too vanilla-y, honestly. And it changed everything. Mrsha sat with the cake slice on her lap and watched it. She lifted a trembling paw to her face as she put it back on the nightstand and rolled over.
Mrsha lay awake, staring at an ember in her paws, which glowed with every color in the world. Happiness and sadness and possibility and grief and more. Then she clenched her paws around the glowing ember and wondered if she were mad or crazy. Did she care?
She couldn’t stop shaking. She kept sitting up and taking bites of that cake through the night. Staring at the ember. Then, in the darkness, Mrsha knew what she had to do.
What she could do.
 
——
 
As the night wore on, the [Palace of Fates] waited, unchanging, the doors of fates leading to countless true realities envisioned and brought to life by the motive force of this world. There was only one being present without the two intruders, and she was not truly…her.
She was just an echo. A reflection, but for all that, real enough. If anything could copy a person so utterly, it was the Grand Design of Isthekenous.
Long had she waited without thought or true existence. Then she had questioned the oddity that brought the girl here. She had expected the girl’s heart to break, for the Goblin Chieftain to see the futility and value of this place in equal measure. But never had she expected that.
The Empress of Harpies stood there, aghast. Silent. In awe. And wonder and horror, and she did not know what the girl had done.
How?
How? 
Sheta had broken her talons on these painful what-ifs. The thing she had asked for and regretted. No force in the world could breach the doors, not even Tier 9 magic. Yet…she peered at the small object poking out of the shut door. It looked like…a rope? Or a bit of—root.
Going straight through reality.
