Mrsha nodded, hoping that killing was not on the immediate to-do list. She was just about to sneak back to the [Garden of Sanctuary] when the last dangerous person in the inn caught her.
Of the people who’d notice Mrsha, she had Lyonette, Dame Ushar, Ishkr, and maybe Bird or Numbtongue on the list. But the latter two were gone, Ushar was with Lyonette, and Ishkr was waiting tables. Unfortunately, Mrsha had forgotten the last person who should have been on the list. But she was almost always on Mrsha’s side:
Nanette.
“Mrsha, where are you going? You’ve been odd all afternoon. Don’t you care about the wand?”
The young [Witch] had a baseball cap on and seemed mad. She and Lyonette had been clashing all day, and Mrsha realized she was acting suspicious to Nanette.
I’m trying to make friends with Rags, Nanette. She hates my guts, but I think I can win her over.
“Chieftain Rags? Where is she?”
Nanette searched around, and Mrsha lied.
Pooing. Listen, I’ll be right with you on the wand thing tomorrow! Promise! But she’s almost never here…what if you took a break until Lyonette stops watching your every move? You can’t beat Ushar and Dalimont. Let alone Colfa.
That was true, at least. The three guardians of the inn were all amazing anti-child specialists. Colfa had happily demonstrated that she could get on the children’s level; she was sort of cool, and the Thronebearers were, as usual, masters of anything that didn’t involve fighting.
Nanette blew out her cheeks.
“I can tell you’re up to something. Fine. Just clue me in on whatever it is sooner rather than later? I’m going to try to help Archmage Valeterisa set up the magic academy. She thinks she’s found a good spot.”
Okay, cool. Tell her to stop being gross with Relc. He’s too good for her.
Nanette opened her mouth and then saw Mrsha hurry away. The Gnoll girl tried to keep calm and carry on like nothing was strange. In truth, nothing was crazy. She’d just told Rags about the [Palace of Fates]. If she’d changed destiny, it wasn’t in any big ways yet, but it did prove the Skill’s use.
…Mrsha just felt like she was missing something. But having established a cover story for most of the night, she finally had time to explore that damn palace without feeling the need to escape, and with Rags at her side. Mrsha only paused to bribe Asgra to cover for her in case Lyonette noticed she was absent. She’d have to check back now and then to make sure she wasn’t being missed.
 
——
 
Rags had come to one major discovery and had germinated a hypothesis on features of the [Palace of Fates] by the time Mrsha returned.
Frankly, after all the damn despair and dread for the future, this was a delight. It still rankled her that Mrsha was the beneficiary of this strange miracle, though. Nevermind the flowers, it was always her.
Damn luck Gnolls. No wonder people didn’t like them.
Mrsha came tumbling back down into the [Palace of Fates] with reassurances everything was ‘cool’. Rags tried not to glare or snap at her; she’d just seen three realities where she died, and she was a bit rattled, but someone had to be the adult here.
“There’s a time-dilation effect on the doors. I went through three days of alternate-me looking for you, and it took barely ten minutes. Same for the other realities; we can view these doors faster. Time’s the same as long as we’re not looking through a door.”
Whoa, really? It explains why I felt like I was searching through the doors forever and I still got back in time for dinner! That’s huge! Notice anything else?
Rags nodded. She glanced over her shoulder.
“I recognized the Old One that slaughtered its way into Goblinhome. It’s the same as the pieces in the Trolls’ homes.”
Which means it killed them all. And me. And it will build a throne out of everyone’s corpses if I don’t stop it.
More pressure, great. At least she knew now it was a threat beyond reason. Just as she knew 2nd Army was coming at Goblinhome. And the Kraken Eaters.
Rags wanted to throw up, but she didn’t have time for that. Her mind was trying to conceive a way to turn the three groups into adversaries for each other. That was how to survive. She had to do it. She had to…
“First! We need to know how close Goblinhome’s demise is.”
Rags made Mrsha jump with her half-shout. Rags spun on her heel.
“You said you could find different doors, Mrsha. I tried, but it must be the same rules as the garden; you might be able to give me control. Try something now. I want you to find every reality where Goblinhome or my tribe is destroyed in the next three days.”
Mrsha blinked. Her eyes opened wide, and she smacked a fist into her paw. She closed her eyes, concentrated, and Rags saw the entire hallway blur as doors rearranged themselves. When she could see clearly again, she was in a small amphitheater with six doors, a clear-blue sky above. It had vaguely Grecian architecture, though only Mrsha had a reference for that from movies and images of Earth.
“Is that it? Among all the futures?”
Rags walked down the stone stairs, past white marble pillars, as Mrsha craned her head up.
I think it’s the six most likely. There’s probably infinite other futures where something bad happens.
“What makes you think that?”
Mrsha slowly pointed up, and Rags’ head rose. Above the amphitheater was a walkway and a second amphitheater, suspended on an island of dirt. It had more doors. And above that amphitheater was another and another and…
“Ah.”
There was nothing for it but to investigate these doors. One check of the first one confirmed Rags’ hypothesis.
 
——
 
Lundas. 
A gigantic arm tore out of a cave as Goblins opened fire. It crawled upwards as Rags shouted for Redscar to hold, hold—she was cursing as she told the Trolls equipped with speaking stones to keep the other parts from reaching the surface.
How the hell had they come upwards so fast? It had been a fluke that allowed them to dodge the Trolls’ traps and always find the right tunnel upwards. But once they’d sensed the open daylight, the body parts had all begun heading out of the Trolls’ lair…
“Chieftain! The head is coming! It—”
She heard a scream from below and winced. Rags shouted into the stone.
“Which tunnel is it? How far? Hello? H—”
She was holding the stone up to her ear when a voice spoke through it, shouting a single word into Rags’ ear.
“Death.”
The Chieftain dropped without a sound, blood running from her ears as Goblins collapsed around her. Redscar whirled as his own speaking stone pulsed.
“Chieftain? Wh—”
 
——
 
Rags yanked herself back and nearly ripped the speaking stone out of its wire holder on her ear before she caught herself.
Note to self: you can be killed like that. Word-ear-death, as Goblins would say it. The first time she’d actually seen a death like that. She took a few shuddering breaths. However, it was clear that it had been a real fluke that allowed the Old One to reach the surface.
Mrsha closed another door as Rags turned. She rubbed at her face, and Rags spoke.
“What’s that one…?”
Crazy. Some Drake [General] goes nuts and orders Pallass to bombard Goblinhome because he’s stupid. Good news? 2nd Army refuses to keep marching. Bad news? You lose Goblinhome, but a lot of Goblins get out.
“Huh.”
These were unlikely scenarios. The other four doors contained, in order:
 
-An earthquake of unprecedented magnitude.
-The Wyvern Lord and Teriarch getting into a massive fight that hit Goblinhome.
-Goblins and Antinium getting into petty arguments that somehow turned into a full-blown war where Xrn attacked Goblinhome.
-Another earthquake, this time higher up, that buried Goblinhome.
 
The doors of the higher amphitheaters were even crazier. Mrsha did her ‘invert gravity’ trick to fly upwards; Rags just asked her to make a staircase and walked up to the second level of the amphitheater.
In one of those realities, Archmage Valeterisa and Relc broke up, and the distraught Archmage began bombing the High Passes with Tier 6 spells indiscriminately.
When Rags and Mrsha tried a door on an amphitheater six ‘stories’ up, they found—
 
——
 
“Ho, ho, ho!”
It was snowing in the High Passes, and Teriarch in the guise of Demsleth was striding through Goblinhome, handing out Relic-class objects. He’d gotten it in his head to divest himself of his hoard and was handing out ‘toys’ to ‘good little girls and boys’, which he was determining via a complex set of morality and truth spells.
One of the Goblin children peered at a giant spell scroll and began picking at the wax seal as Rags tried to argue the relative merits of being a Chieftain with the Dragonl—
 
——
 
Rags and Mrsha closed the door as the explosion turned everything white. It didn’t affect the two of them, but the blinding light made Rags feel as though it should have ruffled her hair.
“Hm. Realities further away seem to be crazier and crazier. Less probable. What I think we’ve learned is that you can sort realities by time scale as well as everything else. Which means we have at least three days before any of Goblinhome’s fates are likely to come through. It won’t be hard to establish a minimum time for each event. Which means we can estimate how close 2nd Army is as well as the Old One and the Kraken Eaters.”
Rags smiled to herself, pleased as always when a hypothesis bore fruit. She gave Mrsha an arch look. This was the first thing the girl should have done rather than run to her to send a message! She expected Mrsha to goggle at her or say something inane, but the Gnoll just scribbled on a card.
It was a great idea, Rags. I should have thought of that. What else should we check for, do you think?
Rags hesitated. Then she coughed into one fist.
“—Let’s get every reality where 2nd Army attacks and find the date on each one. Okay? Then we can see how many realities have Goblinhome winning against each threat.”
And at what cost.
 
——
 
The next hour or so had Mrsha and Rags walking from door to door in different settings, opening them, scribbling down in a spreadsheet, and then coming back to compare data. Their results were straightforwards, proved the power of this place, and dismaying.
 
2nd Army — Average 6 days, minimum 3, maximum 14.
Old One — Average 5 days, minimum 1, maximum 49.
Kraken Eaters — Average 8 days, minimum 4, maximum 20.
 
They were rough estimates and didn’t include futures where the threats didn’t actually get to Goblinhome, and the scenarios where they reached Goblinhome before that were unlikely.
Even so…it was too quick. Rags swallowed as Mrsha gave her a grave look.
“Five days is enough time. Let’s…let’s look for futures where we win.”
That was, after all, the point, right? Rags walked to the first door and opened it; it had bright, brass framework, and she felt like she knew the moment she opened it what she’d find…
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flames waited until the screaming had stopped and swept the dead titan’s head with purple flames twice more before he was satisfied. Then he whirled away the ashes as he spoke.
“Putrid. Dulat, make sure your people stay away from any remains. Now that the principal body is gone, they will not keep regenerating…but plague and lesser monsters may well stem from the remains. I will scour as much as I can before I return above.”
Dragonlord of Flames. The Trolls stood back warily, staring at one of the old Tyrants, whom they remembered as foes, but he shapeshifted into a red-scaled Drake and half-bowed to the Troll Queen.
For a moment, he seemed like the warrior he claimed to have been, and the shining-eyed Lightning Dragon, Rafaema, and Cire gazed at Teriarch as he—
 
——
 
Rags grew sick and closed the door. Of course he was the solution. Rags had thought of it the moment she’d heard the Trolls had a problem before she had even known what it was.
It made her tired. Once again, she had to rely on someone else for help. True, Teriarch was better than Greydath, because he had promised to help, but even so…
Looks good. Looks good.
Mrsha was rubbing her hands together, very relieved by the door. Rags knew she was on the Flooded Waters tribe’s side, but the girl’s plain relief made Rags think of something else and snap.
“Well then, show me an outcome where the Dragonlord doesn’t win. If there are any of those.”
She meant it sarcastically, but then she heard a fluttering sound, and the hallway changed.
Black marble. Lightless windows. Rags spun, and the doors here stood silent and twisted. Mrsha backed behind Rags as the very same door that Rags had opened now waited for the Goblin Chieftain.
The same brass exterior, the same burnished wood—only now it was stained with blood. Rags hesitated. Then opened the door and saw—
 
——
 
“Ressa? My dear?”
Magnolia Reinhart was weeping. She lowered the spyglass, and her [Maid] bowed.
“Yes?”
They sat in Magnolia’s mansion in the High Passes as servants packed bare essentials in a flurry, abandoning almost everything. Reynold had the carriage moving, and he was calling up at them.
But for a second, Magnolia Reinhart just stood there and saw the two Dragons, the brown one circling overhead, and the blue one shrieking from the side of the mountains. She’d called for them to come back, but they were screaming—shrieking plaintively as the High Passes shook.
An Old One was walking down the mountain, roaring at the Drake city below, announcing he had returned home. That was one thing. Magnolia Reinhart would have been there, trying to bind it with her Skill, joining the defense; she saw arrows falling and knew they had to be Lord Xitegen’s doing.
Instead, she just turned.
“Ressa, my dear. Go north to my home. Fast as you can. Tell Regis Reinhart to bring out the Crown of Flowers. Run.”
The [Head Maid] was Magnolia’s personal bodyguard. She had never abandoned her mistress in times of danger. However—she glanced back once and saw the dead Dragon crawling ahead of the Old One.
Broken brass scales covered by insects. Two empty eye sockets and a mouth that still leaked smoke. The zombie Dragon roared silently, marked by his final battle, and Ressa nodded.
“Stay away from it. Give me three days—I’m teleporting. Magnolia…”
The [Lady] was rising, twisting the ring on her finger as she aimed it at the Brass Dragon’s head. She said—
 
——
 
Rags closed the door. Then pulled open another. Silently. Mrsha tried to see, but the Chieftain blocked her view.
“You don’t need to look.”
The confidence Mrsha had felt drained out of her instantly. She scribbled a question, handing it to Rags when the door closed.
Should we calculate how likely it is he loses? He probably doesn’t lose often. Cause he’s a Dragon, right?
