They fell for what felt like an age, compressed into a second. And as they fell, Mrsha heard a question in her head. It was in Rags’ eyes as the Goblin Chieftain leapt down, not fearless, but brave.
Why her?
Why a Goblin?
It wasn’t just because Rags was the person Mrsha had seen in the doors. The girl had realized, when she’d escaped the [Palace of Fates], that she could have told anyone.
Lyonette. Ishkr. Nanette. Saliss. Valeterisa, Krshia—heck, she’d even considered Teriarch and Magnolia, if she could have gotten ahold of them.
Mrsha was sure that any of them would have had a use for this place. So why Rags? The answer was simple:
Other people could find a use for this place. They would have splendidly intelligent or cunning ideas of how to use the power to see fates. Doubtless, they’d tell Mrsha she was very smart for coming to them, take the [Palace of Fates], and do something important with it.
…None of them needed this place. Goblins did. In Lyonette’s good, earnest concern for the inn and everyone in it, she’d warn Rags about the future and do her best, Mrsha was sure. But it was Goblins who kept dying.
Mrsha had a strange relationship with Goblins. It was like Durene’s, in a way. Mrsha had once heard Durene say that she hadn’t forgiven Goblins for attacking Riverfarm and killing her friends. She just didn’t try to murder them.
Erin had once said the same thing to Mrsha after Mrsha had tried to kill Badarrow. You don’t have to forgive them. But ‘them’ was not the five Redfangs. It had taken Mrsha a long time to get that, and when she had…it had been too late. She wished she had understood what Erin meant and had more time with Headscratcher and Shorthilt.
So, why Rags? Mrsha landed on the floor on all fours, and Rags stumbled and looked back up. The girl got onto her feet and spread her arms out.
She didn’t know Rags that well. But Mrsha didn’t want to add her to the gravestones that she tended to every day.
Make sure no one we love dies.
If the Goblin hadn’t come out of the darkness, Mrsha would have run to Magnolia Reinhart and traded her access to the [Palace of Fates] for her help saving Rags’ tribe. Or Archmage Valeterisa.
“…Huh.”
The Goblin slowly turned on her heel, and the hallway stretched forever in each direction. A door made of rushing waters stood across from one that someone had painted a suspicious smiley-face on. Mrsha saw a mirror of a brown Gnoll girl rolling around in the grass.
As Rags stepped forwards, Mrsha saw a little Goblin, dirty and unkempt, picking up a blue fruit and staring at it hungrily before an older Goblin with a huge tuft of black hair sticking straight up slapped it out of her hands.
Rags noticed what Mrsha was peering at and turned her head. She didn’t take another step, just hovered there, stock-still, eyes wide, face blank, as she saw the older Goblin lecturing the little Rags.
The image changed; Rags skulked by a familiar little stream bank as she studied two blue fruits, cut open, trying to figure out why one was good to eat and the other was bad. Mrsha assumed it was years ago—until her jaw dropped.
From the door’s viewpoint, she saw a brown-haired girl poking her head out of the tall grass and watching Rags, hiding from the Goblins collecting blue fruits. The brown-haired girl seemed far more nervous and uncertain, and she had a silly striped t-shirt and healing burns on one arm—but it was definitely Erin.
Rags stared at the image of her past life, reflected in the mirror, and exhaled.
“She was watching me? I never knew that.”
The little Rags finally figured out how to tell good blue fruits from bad and leapt to her feet in delight, running after the older Goblins, who grumbled at her. Erin lifted her head, squinting at the blue fruits with a huge frown on her face. Chieftain Rags watched the group of older Goblins, especially two of them, without emotion on her face.
When she addressed Mrsha, her voice was flat, like someone scraping a blade clean of imperfections.
“So that’s what this place is. It fits Erin.”
She should never come here. It’s a terrible place. Made of sadness.
Mrsha held up a card, and Rags started walking. Her voice was amused as she raised her head and gazed at a chandelier of crystals studded with candles glowing without flames.
“Sadness. The greatest things that Erin has ever done are made of sadness and loss. She takes grief and turns it into a weapon, into fire. Let her come here. She would use this place to break real palaces into pieces. So this is a Level 70 Skill.”
Mrsha hurried after Rags, nodding and adding details. She’d explained all she knew, but that was a far cry from the reality of this place. Rags halted.
“Gravity feels real. You said you had water from here. Is it good?”
A good question. Mrsha pulled out her water flask and handed it to Rags. She hadn’t felt thirsty; the Goblin poured the water out, feeling it on her hands. Then she produced a spark of flames and doused it. The puddle of water mixed with the dirt fallen from the broken ceiling, and Mrsha felt like this wasn’t a good thing.
This was an important place. However, Rags just ran her boot through the mud and nodded.
“Feels real. The hallways change, which implies there might not be fixed spaces. But you can find your way back to places you’ve been?”
Mrsha nodded and concentrated. The hallways shifted around the two of them, blurring at great speed, and Rags saw one of the doors that Mrsha had put a note on.
“Huge amounts of space. Perhaps there’s a limit on who can enter. If you can’t generate food, there’s a limit. Why didn’t the original owner—Sheta—use this as a home? Unlimited water is enough, unless there’s a finite limit per day.”
Mrsha goggled at Rags. The Goblin was not approaching this place like Mrsha thought she would.
The main thing is the doors. That show you other fates. Other timelines.
She pulled one open by the handle, but Rags shook her head.
“That’s one of the obvious features. Erin proved the [Gardens of Sanctuary] can be used as weapons as well as transformed. If this place is safe and secure, I’d move my entire tribe into it.”
She glanced around, and Mrsha was struck by the thought. A secret palace within the [Garden of Sanctuary]? That would be one of the most secure places in the world. Heck…why were they building a new inn if they had this?
True, the shifting and unreal architecture wasn’t exactly what Mrsha thought conducive to having a beer, but it was an option! However, before Rags trod down that path, Mrsha raised a card.
It’s not totally safe. One of me got killed here. I’m not sure if that was only that timeline or what. And another one thought someone was watching her. Maybe even Empress Sheta.
Rags’ hand fell to her sword hilt, then she let go with a wry expression. She was still dirty and smelled—well, Mrsha didn’t want to be rude, but she’d smelled nicer things from Liscor’s sewers. Whatever Rags had run into in the realm of the Trolls made Mrsha so sick she kept blocking her nose whenever Rags wasn’t looking at her.
“Great. If there is something here, neither you nor I can kill it. This is a Level 70 Skill, if your hypothesis is right. It almost feels…weak for a Level 70 Skill?”
Unlimited free real estate and water is weak? Seeing other realities is weak?
Mrsha held up a card on behalf of the [Palace of Fates], and Rags murmured.
“Have you ever seen a Level 70 Skill, Mrsha? Don’t answer that. The King of Destruction’s famous [Army of the King] is a Level 50 Skill. Erin’s box of unlimited gold? Level 50. Saliss can turn off damage for allies—Level 50. The only beings on this level or higher would be the Death of Magic or Zeladona.”
The [Archmage] who’d overrun 5th Wall in Rhir and the [Blademistress] who’d cut the sky by looking at it. Mrsha shivered.
Seeing other fates sounds pretty powerful to me. That’s how I knew you were in trouble.
“Maybe. Fine. Let’s look at this.”
Rags stumped over to the door, then put her claw on it and exhaled.
“…Thank you for warning me. I just don’t believe it. And I can’t understand, even with the Faerie Flowers…”
She glanced at Mrsha’s face and then away, and Mrsha heard the unsaid part.
Why you? The Gnoll got it. She didn’t feel like she belonged here either. However, she just wrote on a card and held it up.
I won’t tell anyone else, Chieftain Rags, I promise. I’d like to tell my family, but I think this place might hurt them. It’s dangerous if anyone finds out. I called for you because your tribe’s in great danger. If you can figure out what this place does, that’d be the first step.
Rags’ crimson eyes appraised Mrsha, and she blinked a few times. Then nodded her head.
“True. Thank you—again. Okay. This door says…‘if Rags was searching for me, but can’t get into the palace?’ Hm. Anything I need to know before looking at it?”
It’s pretty weird. You get, like, an understanding of what’s going on in your head. It doesn’t hurt when you see someone getting hurt, but you live in their heads a bit. Um—the Faerie Flowers are just marigolds, and Ryoka’s ‘Ryoko’, and there are no fae or dead gods—
“You said. Why?”
Mrsha just shrugged. Rags scratched at her chin.
“Some things must be beyond even this Skill. Okay, I’ll check this door out. You do two things for me. Start a timer. Do you have an hourglass? Nevermind, I’ll cast a timekeeping spell. Next, I want you to go back to the inn. Make up an excuse for us so we aren’t missed. You said your mother can sense where we are? We need convenient excuses to not be here. Go to the Goblins and…hm. Let me write up a note giving them orders. I’ll have them go elsewhere. I can even get a body double.”
She gave orders rapidly, and Mrsha nodded a few times. Rags was being bossy, but she had good ideas. The Gnoll girl tilted her head.
You have body doubles?
“It used to be easier. Any small Goblin would do. Here. Get this to one of them. They’ll know it’s from me.”
Mrsha saluted.
Yes, Chieftain! And I’ll keep away from the Drake with yellow-green scales! He’s the one to watch.
Rags’ glower was suspicious, as if she thought Mrsha wasn’t taking this seriously. Mrsha was; she just felt like someone had to be a bit silly or she’d panic.
“You said that Drake was dangerous and might find the box or this place. Why? Who is he?”
Dunno. I think he reports to 2nd Army. Some kind of spy. Most realities have the Thronebearers or Ishkr beating him if he tries anything.
“Huh. Which doors show Shirka…killing me?”
Mrsha hesitated, then pointed two out. Rags nodded. She put a clawed hand on the door and thrust it open. A spectral hourglass tinkled down grains of sand as Mrsha stood there, seeing the reality replaying the same scene she remembered.
Strange. Does it reset for new people? Or could I pick up where I left off?
The door flickered, and suddenly, Mrsha saw another Rags—
 
——
 
“—if she is where I think she is, she should have not brought weapons. She can’t even harm them—but if she did—does she have that kind of weapon?”
Taletevirion was speaking to Demsleth, who was leaning on a staff.
“She had Elia Arcsinger with her and a high-level [Assassin]. Are we able to negotiate, Taletevirion? Should I prepare gifts? It’s been a long time since I negotiated with the trees.”
“Negotiate? Gifts? They’re dead, Teriarch! They’re dead, and that Skill should have been long-buried. If that Veltras boy rediscovered it…something woke them up. The wand. Damn, damn, damn—she’s probably dead—”
 
——
 
Rags jerked back from the door as the timeline continued. She whirled, and Mrsha raised her paws.
Sorry! That comes later! I’ll reset it!
The door flickered back, and Rags took a breath.
“—You have control of this place. We’ll come back to that. Go. I’ll…”
She turned back to the door, and Mrsha jogged back to the hole in the ceiling. So she did have authority over this place! It was just that she didn’t feel in control.
She felt like someone was watching her. Mrsha looked right and left, but she didn’t see any telltale shadows. It wasn’t an ominous feeling, just creepy. The two might feel the same to other people, but Mrsha had experienced enough life-or-death moments that she only woke up screaming about real horrors, thank you. Dreams of Crelers eating her alive or Belavierr peeking through the doorway.
It was the work of a few seconds to climb the actual rope that Mrsha had secured to the [Garden of Sanctuary] and exit via the door. She reflected a ladder would be even better, but smuggling one in here would be hard. As Rags said, secrecy mattered.
 
——
 
“Mrsha, where’s Chieftain Rags?”
I think she had something to do with Goblinhome, Mother. I’m going to try and show her the [World’s Eye Theatre] when I find her. Is that okay?
Lyonette was thankfully distracted this evening. She turned from a table where she was sitting with Krshia, Lism, Elirr, Raekea, and Alonna of all people.
“That’s very fine. Just don’t bother her. Now, where were we, Councilmembers?”
Lism coughed, seeming very unsettled, which was good in Mrsha’s opinion.
“You, uh, wished to invest in Liscor in amounts that I would frankly deem insane? Which Wall Lord did you strongarm for this? Is it Khelt? We’re trying to limit foreign investments—”
“All from The Wandering Inn, Councilmember Lism.”
“No, you can’t just say that. How much gold? Listen, it’s not a matter of outbidding the competition. With those eggheaded fools calling for a snap election and regular citizens getting outpriced, the last thing we need is for The Wandering Inn to outbid regular people.”
“Why, Councilmember? Would that inconvenience the city? We’ve moved the inn far enough away not to ‘endanger’ anyone, and Rheirgest has also left Liscor’s zone of control.”
The Councilmembers shifted as Lyonette gave them a smile laced with arsenic, and Mrsha wouldn’t have traded places with them for all the gold in the world. Lism coughed as Elirr opened his mouth.
“We deserve that. But let me just say the Council is hugely sympathetic to how things went down, Miss Lyonette. Er…alright. The thing is, you can’t just buy all the available lots.”
“…Why?”
“I don’t know, but I feel like this is a problem! Krshia, say something!”
The Gnoll croaked as she eyed the sheet in front of her.
“How much gold is it again?”
 
——
 
Good, Mother was well and truly distracted. Mrsha handed one of the Goblins the piece of parchment and saw them sit up, glance at the Drake spy, and then nod at Mrsha.
“We good. You go. Tell Chieftain that Redscar here by midnight. Ready to kill things.”
