Her paws were trembling, but she grasped the door handle. Then she threw the door open.
—The little Gnoll thrust the door wider, and the [Palace of Fates] sighed as an invisible breeze ran through it, as if in relief. She gazed through the worn doorframe, a world flickering into being.
For a moment, between the milliseconds, the beating of billions of hearts and the falling of a grain of sand in an hourglass, reality flickered. The firmament of everything and everyone took a moment to create an if. A ‘what might have been’.
The little Gnoll’s eyes shone as she gasped and beheld what lay through the door. At first, it was impossible. Then so real it would have sent her fleeing and weeping. But after she had flinched like someone being stabbed through the heart, she just clung to the door. Watching with that hunger that would never be filled. Consuming the visions and sounds and smells beyond. Little daggers that cut at her heart, too precious to ever let go of.
This was what she saw:
 
——
 
If. 
If the Goblin Lord’s final battle had not led to a slaughter of Goblins.
If Tyrion Veltras had seen the white flag waving and stopped.
If there was no Solstice, no terrible battle against dead gods.
 
The difference was in her laughter. When she threw back her head and laughed triumphantly or giggled like now, it was innocent.
Not innocent of death, nor of trials. It was the same Erin Solstice, but she had not learned to cackle. She had never mastered the full-throated guffaw that came out of a throat when shame no longer mattered, when you had taken what might be your last breath and no longer remembered a reason why to hold back.
The Erin who laughed had looked death in the eye and hit it with a frying pan. This Erin had never walked in its steps and felt it in her hands and voice. When she turned, she spun on her heel, light and carefree, and her hair was brown and whole; her eyes danced with delight and determination.
She spoke to her audience, five Goblins, a silent, watching child, and the inn at large, as she surveyed the ingredients on the table and the melting bowl of ice cubes.
“Ice cream is simple. If Imani can do it, we can do it. I’ve made ice cream before. We have chocolate. We have ice. We have…cream. What’s the difference between milk and cream?”
It stumped the Goblins standing around the open kitchen. They nudged each other, trying to collectively germinate a good answer. Headscratcher stopped sneaking bits of chocolate out of a bowl, perplexed by the thought.
Headscratcher.
The [Berserker] and [Knight of Solstice] still wore the honorary furs the Gnolls had gifted him, which went well with his scars. The blue fire of sadness shone in his eyes, but only dimly today. He turned to Numbtongue, who was a [Bard] and supposed to know these things.
The [Bard] had a guitar slung over his back and shrugged, glancing at the ghost of Reiss, who rolled his eyes and did not deign to answer.
“Cream is…better milk. Right, Shorthilt?”
Numbtongue nudged Shorthilt; the [Blademaster] shrugged. He was meekly cutting the remaining chocolate into thin strips with his one hand and one of Erin’s knives. Shorthilt was more interested in shaving the chocolate into the finest slivers possible than any discussion of culinary practices. Headscratcher reached for another chocolate piece, and Erin slapped his hand.
“No stealing my chocolate! It’s rarer than gold! And I saw that, Shorthilt!”
The Hobgoblin had flicked a square of chocolate with the tip of his knife at his lady. Shorthilt turned guiltily, and Pekona stuffed the candy into her mouth. He smiled slyly. The others here had seen him smile.
The girl couldn’t remember that expression on his face. Nor how his eyes drifted to the one-armed [Blade Dancer] as if she were the most valuable thing in the world. Covetously, and puzzled that she liked him.
He had one arm. One…arm. The scar was still fresh from a few months back. But here, he was healing. He could heal here forever—if he stopped stealing chocolate. But Erin knew he’d be on another adventure soon.
So she rolled her eyes, exasperated, and even here, she was acting. Things were not perfect. But oh.
They were better.
“Guys, I need some chocolate ice cream to beat Imani. Mint chocolate chip, and I’m running out of chocolate already. Where’s the mint—thank you, Rabbiteater.”
The second [Knight] handed Erin a bunch of mint leaves in a bowl and instantly got nudges from the others.
“Suck up.”
Badarrow was feeding nali-sticks to Snapjaw. He was the same, but there was no air of exhausted determination around him. Just a second couple showing off. When Erin saw the two giggling, she glared. Headscratcher glanced at her and chased away the significant others.
“We’re making ice cream. Behave.”
The other four Redfangs straightened up; it was rare to get them all in one room together. Chastened, Badarrow pulled a block of ice over and got a hammer to break it up.
“That’s right. Perfect. Thank you, Headscratcher. Okay! Mint ice cream time! You taking notes, Calescent?”
The [Chef] had been watching Erin’s take-over of his kitchen with mild restraint. Mostly because he’d been working on his own mixture. You made ice cream by tumbling a custard base and then churning it at frozen temperatures. Everything else was just technique and ingredients.
Calescent was, therefore, putting spices into his already-red custard base, and Headscratcher licked his lips. But he dutifully watched Erin explain how they were going to make this batch.
“Psst.”
Someone whispered, and Headscratcher turned. He walked over and saw a Hobgoblin beckoning at him. The open kitchen had a window that led to the common room, and another Hobgoblin was leaning in.
Pyrite was chewing on some of the cacao pods, which looked gross to Headscratcher, and he had Ulvama following him around, as ever. Headscratcher hadn’t seen him since the war in the Great Plains; he’d been with the Gnolls there, and Pyrite had been leading the Flooded Waters tribe into battle.
 
——
 
Pyrite. He was right there, unremarked upon by most people in the inn. After all, he often showed up to visit and hang out with Erin. And given it was ‘beach time’ at the inn and all of Erin’s old friends had turned up, why shouldn’t he be here?
His presence was only significant if you thought he should be dead. Like the others.
A hungry, desperate pair of eyes drank in the Goblin that had never actually met the owner. It searched for someone else. Where was the Gnoll? Brunkr? Zel…
In this world, Zel Shivertail was still gone. He had died fighting the Goblin Lord. Reiss was still dead. Maviola El passed away in battle. Brunkr had been murdered by Regrika Blackpaw.
Some things were the same. It would have been too different, otherwise. Too many things changed. This—this was one change. One change.
A single Hobgoblin, who patted his scarred stomach as he masticated. This Pyrite well knew the little girl who had learned not to steal what he was eating, mostly because he ate rocks. He was fondly watching the little Gnoll girl with white fur, Mrsha, who was peeking into the kitchen, clearly wondering when she could steal some ice cream or some of tonight’s cake.
Her reflection stared at a Mrsha that grinned and laughed and still ran about on all fours, despite the clothing Lyonette made her wear.
It was strange. The dissonance. Any observer to this…place knew backstory and history that they shouldn’t have.
So the girl saw a dead Goblin who shouldn’t have been there. And she also, simultaneously, knew that Pyrite had a zigzag of scars down his belly from fighting Plain’s Eye Gnolls at the Meeting of Tribes.
Just like the others. Some of them weren’t changed: Badarrow was still in a relationship with Snapjaw. Rabbiteater was the eponymous ‘Ser Solstice’, and Numbtongue was a [Bard] with a guitar in a relationship with Octavia and Garia and Salkis.
—Yet they seemed happier. Especially Numbtongue. He was shoving the other Redfangs, who liked to bully him about his girlfriends, which he got flustered about. In fact, the only one of the five who hadn’t been in a committed relationship was…Headscratcher.
He was biggest of the lot, half-wreathed in furs that exposed his bare chest, eyes blue with the fire he had accepted. Knight of Solstice. Flame for fallen Goblins and the weight of his people on his shoulders. Goblin Lord of Sorrow; not that anyone was supposed to know that outside of Goblins and Erin. She hadn’t even told the rest of her staff.
Rabbiteater…didn’t carry Headscratcher’s axe. Instead, he had the Dragonblood crystal sword Pelt had forged and a nasty scar across one cheek that ran onto his mouth. But he smiled wider, and he was here instead of far at sea.
Something had changed; the war with Ailendamus had gone on, but instead of a lone Goblin sailing with the Order of Seasons for war and the Wind Runner, Ser Solstice had instead been followed by one of his brothers.
Ser Solstice and the Scarlet Blade of Izril; the mysterious figure with the red sword.
Shorthilt. He carried Garen Redfang’s blade, given to him by Redscar, and the [Blademaster] had danced on Terandria’s shores with [Knights], wearing nothing but a wooden box as a helmet and a crimson scarf over wanderer’s clothing. He had fought at the Village of the Dead and been recognized by Zeladona.
His victories had come at great cost. The grinning [Blademaster] had one flesh-and-blood arm. The other was a prosthetic from the House of El. He and Pekona had both lost an arm against the Drake [Sword Legend]. However, the little carved wooden bells the two had attached to their prosthetic arms signaled their relationship. Also, Shorthilt’s attitude towards [Duelists] in general.
They looked happy in this moment, standing together. They hadn’t always been so happy. Headscratcher’s back had a scar down it from when his encounter with the Kraken Eaters had left him nearly dead. He and Badarrow stood opposite each other, smiling and interacting politely. Badarrow was one of Rags’ lieutenants now; Headscratcher had his own tribe.
—But Erin seemed to be at peace as she scolded and cajoled them all into getting along. Even if sometimes they caused trouble, like the Mountain City Goblins led by Chieftain Ulvama being snooty. But Ulvama liked Pyrite, and if the two bickered—
Yes, if there was one thing that had changed, it was Erin. She stood there, avoiding Niers’ attention, glancing at Pyrite as he left. And the tiny [Strategist] watched Pyrite like a hawk. As did Ulvama. Everyone, including this alternate Mrsha, thought that if anyone had a chance with Erin…
 
——
 
The real Mrsha watched, the memories and this alternate reality flashing past her eyes. Strange, painful…captivating.
Memorizing everything she saw. She knew it wasn’t real. But she kept watching, because it was, in some way. She was breathing hard—panting as if she were running, out of breath. Before she saw the others. When the half-Giant ducked his head to enter the inn, she rested her paws against the barrier in the air.
 
——
 
Moore had brought a drink for his friend from the beach door. He had sandy legs and a tan, and he still looked deliriously happy about Ulinde. He was right there, trying to cajole another adventurer forwards.
Halrac Everam did not have a tan. He stumped into the common room, stolidly refusing to admit he’d had any fun on a surfboard, and Pyrite chuckled.
The former Goldstone Chieftain leaned on the kitchen window, making slight hand-gestures of ‘come hither’ that Headscratcher had picked up on. Erin might have noticed; they were teaching her Goblin, but she was too busy organizing her ingredients.
Beachgoers flooded in and out of the inn as Pyrite took a sip from the cocktail Moore had given him. Kevin had made a ‘Hawaiian shirt’ which he’d gifted to the Hobgoblin. Pyrite had his unbuttoned, exposing his belly and green tan. Everyone was tracking sand into the inn, and a happy Silveran had too much work.
“What? It’s just us making ice cream, Pyrite. You want some later?”
Headscratcher didn’t want to be exclusionary and felt guilty, but it really was just the Redfangs and Erin. Pyrite waved a hand and grunted.
“Is fine. But cream is the fat on top of milk. Milk has water in it too.”
“Oh. Makes sense.”
No wonder it tasted better when you got it directly from cows. Headscratcher nodded, his life thus enriched by this pointless comment he decided he would repeat any time someone drank milk in his presence. However, Pyrite had something more to say. He glanced at Erin and the bowl of mint leaves and coughed.
“You make mint extract for flavor. Not leaves.”
“Ah.”
Headscratcher trotted over to Erin and relayed that information. She turned with such a betrayed expression on her face—but Pyrite had already ducked away as Erin threw up her hands.
“Anyone else got an opinion on my cooking abilities? Come on, take your shot!”
“You can’t make better ice cream than me, Erin.”
Imani called out from a table where she was cooling off from the beach. She and Palt gave Erin rosy smiles in response to her betrayed expression.
“And you’re not a good [Cook]. You’re an [Innkeeper] with cooking Skills. Give it up.”
That came from Lasica. The Drake was in great humor as she watched Erin doing her best. However, a loyal voice called up from the back.
“Need a few Skills to equalize the battle, Erin? Say the word.”
Erin froze and didn’t quite hunch her shoulders, but she used Numbtongue as cover as the [Bard] rolled his eyes. Headscratcher frowned, but tried to keep from looking too disapproving as Erin shouted back.
“Uh—that’s fine, Niers! Just you wait, you guys. I’ll make ice cream cones or…come on, guys. Maybe we’ll do something awesome. What about flaming ice cream, Headscratcher?”
“Oh my. Ice cream in a batter cone? How will anyone top that? Flaming food? I’ve never flambéed anything in my life.”
Lasica’s voice caused Erin to fully hunch in self-defense, but the [Innkeeper] fussed over her ingredients rather than go outside and socialize with her guest…whom she hadn’t been able to get rid of since the Solstice.
To be fair, he’d saved her life multiple times, from the Hectval [Assassins] and at the Meeting of Tribes. The five Redfangs had followed Niers south when Erin and Mrsha had gotten ‘kidnapped’ by Wer. But Niers had been appearing here almost every day this month, teleporting himself from Baleros to ‘hang out’ or play games of chess with Erin.
Headscratcher had volunteered to throw him out of the inn if he was really bothering Erin. Niers was tiny. The [Berserker] was fairly certain he could do it, Niers’ Skills or not. But Erin had said there was no need to…yet.
