Stealing from the Council, then buying more supplies using coin from stolen goods and driving prices up, all while smacking them with penalties for late deliveries, without a delay in shipments to the Bridge. So fucking beautiful and neat, Ravil almost shed a tear watching it in action. A born criminal mastermind, the Boss far beyond those other Warrant Officers, a bunch of arrogant, stuck-up children in comparison. Strength of will, strength of mind, strength of body, the Boss had it all.

He never did things by half, that was for sure, Sending orders to have Ravil train these bandit scumbags into proper soldiers gave him new purpose in life. Now they could continue harassing the Council AND reduce the bandit population in one fell swoop, how he thought so many steps ahead made Ravil's head spin. Now, the Boss was out in the wilderness pretending to be lost while carrying out his devious schemes, he could hardly wait to hear how it turned out. Perhaps he'd infiltrated the Butcher Bay Bandits, scouting them out to prepare for a massive strike, there was nothing the Boss couldn't do.

A thunderous laugh echoed out from behind him, and Ravil hid his grimace before turning to greet Lei Gong. Hair poking out in every direction and tangled beard draped over his grease-stained shirt, the nosy old man stood there with gourd in hand, drinking messily as he surveyed the area. “Ravil is it? I say, this old warrior has seen a lot, but he ain't ever seen bandits work this hard before. Hell, if they're capable of this much, then the army'd be a nip and a nap in comparison. Ha Ha Ha.”

Crafty old bastard, poking in where he don't belong. Ravil didn't believe in coincidences, nor did he believe in altruism. Everyone had an angle, it was only a matter of discovering what this old bastard's was. Politely nodding, Ravil gave him the well-practised response. “We aren't mere bandits Great One. We're the Mother's Militia, here to right wrongs in her name. The Mother abhors the careless and favours the diligent, so we act accordingly.” All drivel and empty talk, but religious fanaticism had its uses. Many of the bandits even bought into it, praising the Mother almost every other sentence, and Jorani played his part brilliantly.

“Still though, this training is well thought out, this obstacle course of yours. You push them to their physical limits and force them to adapt to using Chi. Do or die, then do it again, a punishing regimen. Jorani is lucky to have ye, yer the best damn bully sergeant I ever laid eyes on. Ever serve?”

More prodding, it never stopped. “I served in Shen Mu, moved south after the city fell. Not much work for me until I fell in with the Hangman.”

“Shen Mu huh? A damn shame what happened there, the Divine Tree was truly a sight to see. Sanshu Grove lacks a certain majesty.”

“I'd rather not speak of it, the loss was... difficult.” He'd passed along word regarding the existence of Lei Gong, but received little interest or support from Rustram, or more likely in charge, Sumila. Neither one as crafty as the Boss, they both preferred head on solutions through superior positioning or brute force, respectively. Therefore, it fell on Ravil to take on this crafty senior, his slovenly appearance a mask for the devious former Lieutenant Colonel.

He didn't understand why the old man was so inquisitive, but Ravil treated him like fungus, fed shit and kept in the dark. It made little sense why he was here, why bother going to all this trouble for a cause he'd abandoned? If the man wanted to help the army, go fight the Defiled, don't hang around playing at mysterious bandit. The Ascendants might be eyeing their loot, be a Council cat's paw, or worst of all, Lei Gong might be a busybody with nothing better to do. A nuisance is what he was, and Ravil's hands were tied in the matter, the Lord of Thunder not someone they could fight. Deception and deceit were their only weapons, and Ravil was sorely lacking in both areas when compared to the Boss.

Mother help me, how long can I keep this up?

As if in answer to his silent prayer, a thick plume of black smoke rose to the south, the training bandits all stopping to gape. Too shocked by the sight, Ravil's mind spun with the possibilities. Was this a simple forest fire, or was it more? No, there were no coincidences, and with the Boss' penchant for burning things, this had his name written all over it. Smiling to himself, Ravil turned away to make preparations, eager to find out what the Boss cooked up this time.

Perhaps by this time tomorrow, the Butcher Bay Bandits will be a footnote in the annals of history, a mere stepping stone on Falling Rain's path to glory.

Chapter Meme
