Shrugging, the Monk answered, “The Truth is what it is, proven through causality time and time again. This one is too foolish to explain it and you too blinded by hatred to see it. How much more needless suffering must you inflict before you see the Truth?”

“To live is to suffer,” Goujian quoted, using the Monk’s own catechisms against him.

“And to suffer is to live. Our existence is one of trials and tribulations, but the Mother always leaves a path to safety. Who are you to act as Her judge and executioner, condemning innocents to wholesale torture and slaughter in Her name? Such hubris, such sin.”

“My path is one of blood and adversity, my burden to do what others cannot. Some die before their time, but such is the cost of redemption. Cut off the arm to save the body, and sacrifice the body to save the soul, is this not so?”

Shaking his head, the Monk asked, “And how much must you sacrifice before you realize the soul needs no saving?”

“Ha.” Goujian knew it would come to this, as it had every time they’d spoken. “How many times must we have this same argument?”

This time, the Monk paused, thinking his answer through before replying, eyes still shut but brow creased in thought. “Until such a time when one of us convinces the other.” Pulling at his elongated earlobes, the Monk sheepishly smiled and added, “or one of us dies. This one fears it will be the latter, but such are my trials, the penance for my sins. Rejoice, for even the thickest stones must give way to dripping water, and the tallest mountains worn down by the winds. Return to the Light brother. Down your path lies darkness unending.”

“I have gazed into the darkness,” Goujian said, puffing out his chest, “and I have found it wanting.”

“You are strong in your faith, unwavering,” the Monk replied, “but the others in your company far less so.”

Always a hazard in his line of work, but Goujian had confidence in his Disciples. “A temporary lapse in his judgment, brought about by your abrupt arrival and blunt remarks.” Waving a hand to dismiss the Monk’s worries, he added, “My sec- ... My youngest Disciple has never met you before and knows nothing of your ways.”

“My condolences for your loss, brother.” Bowing to say a prayer, the Monk concluded with, “Your ways and our ways are but two sides of the same coin, twisted though your interpretations might be.”

Agreeing to disagree, they both fell silent as Goujian watched the sun set over the Azure Sea. When the last ray of sunlight disappeared, Goujian asked, “Why are you still here? You usually leave once our discussion comes to its inevitable end.” While he’d never admit it out loud, the Monk’s presence made Goujian nervous. Even though he counted himself as a peak expert of the Empire and had never seen the Monk fight, his strength was still unfathomable, his presence heavy as a mountain and deep as an ocean.

Finally opening his eyes, the Monk fixed Goujian with a cold, threatening stare. “I’ve come to warn you: Falling Rain is one of our own. Move against him and your life is forfeit. Such are the precepts of the Penitent Brotherhood. You will not be warned again.”

Stringent as their initiation process was, it was impossible for a Defiled to join the Penitent Brotherhood without revealing his true colours. Was he wrong or was the Monk wrong? His mind in chaos, Goujian stepped towards the Monk who lifted his staff in defence and offered a mudra of warning. Stopping in place, Goujian clenched his fists and asked, “...How did you know it was me?”

“I didn’t,” the Monk replied with a shameless grin, “but a guilty mind reveals itself, does it not Confessor?” Wagging his eyebrows, the Monk continued, “The Abbot ordained it himself and this one carved the Dharma name into the wall with his own hands. We have welcomed Falling Rain as a brother, so a brother he shall be and a brother he is. Act against your brother again and this one can not save you.”

Can not. Not will not, but can not. Who was the Abbot? Goujian always thought the Monk held the highest authority in the Brotherhood, but apparently he was mistaken. Heart aching at this disastrous result, he threw caution to the wind and blurted, “Falling Rain is Defiled.”

“Impossible.” The answer came instantaneously as the Monk dismissed his claim. “Though he has yet to forsake the Three Desires and take up the Four Noble Truths, he cannot be Defiled. Were you privy to the facts as we are, you would understand.”

“I have felt his Aura first-hand and it is the Aura of the Enemy.” Desperate to change the Monk’s mind, Goujian cut his palm with a fingernail and invoked the Energy of the Heavens. “I, Goujian, swear upon the Heavens that -”

Interrupting him with a sweep of his spade, the Monk knocked Goujian to the ground. With a slow shake of his head, the Monk said, “Death is not to be feared by one who has lived wisely, but you, brother, should fear dying a foolish death. Allow me to show you, but I fear you will not understand.” Taking a deep breath, the Monk unleashed an Aura which crushed Goujian’s own without resistance, an Aura so unholy and Demonic if felt as if the Father himself stood above him. Throat tight with fear, he watched in bewilderment as the Demonic Aura of hatred and terror gradually shifted to one of love, a pure, untainted acceptance offered without restraint. “You saw the Truth from behind veiled eyes and believed you’d seen all it had to offer.” Stepping back, the Monk bent down and offered a helping hand. “The Truth is immutable but perception ever changing. I ask you once more, return to the Light brother. Fear not the punishment for your anger, for you have already been punished by your anger.”

Slapping the Monk’s hand away, Goujian fled back to his tent, unable to comprehend what just happened. Quivering from head to toe, he hid within the canvas shelter and re-evaluated what he knew in life. The Monk was a deceiver and a fraud. The Penitent Brotherhood was the Enemy. The Empire was corrupt and beyond saving. The Truth, the Way, the Light, it was all a lie, a lie Goujian had based his life around.

The tent flap opened and Goujian looked up at his youngest disciple, crouching there with hand outstretched. “Worry not Master,” Yuanyin said, grinning as he offered a hand. “The Truth is what we make it.”

...

Yes.

The Truth is what we make it.

Clasping his youngest Disciple’s hand, Goujian blinked away the tears and smiled.

Finally, the world made sense once more.

Chapter Meme
