We, of the Abyss, are children of the Great One, bound together by faith.

This faith is a wealth of wonders and blessings, not only for individuals lost and desperate, but for civilizations, serving as an adhesive to form bonds between communities and the guiding star that glows even in the darkness of the Abyss.

We are preserved by our faith, made whole by our faith, made strong by our faith, and given hope by our faith.

So it is truly a shame that the same faith that serves as our bridges is also the reason why our five civilizations cannot come together. For the matter of faith comes with a final caveat: whose faith is the truest one? Whose desired lore is paramount, and whose scripture finds itself rendered apocrypha?

The First Blood seeks to bind all to their blessed Progenitors. Those who were fortunate—or vile enough—to drink from the Great One's lifeblood and saw themselves evolved beyond the limitations of flesh and soul. They claim to be the most literal inheritors of the Great One's will, for whose ichor flows within their veins, for whose power has made them what they are?

Naturally, the other Four Faiths disagree, first and foremost the Composer. And who can blame her, for who would heed the claims of the defilers of your parent’s grave, thieves of your lineage?

But what weight does the right of true inheritance hold if you cannot enforce it? What power does a Demigoddess of Song and Mercy hold over a realm of warriors who still worship her parent as a liege they can resurrect?

Take the Descenders Union, who see the Great One as something they must venerate but also contain. They seek to descend deeper into the embrace of the Great One, for only they can bear the burden of such a great responsibility.

Or so they say.

While they sink deeper into the flesh of the Great One, the Compact of Babel possesses a portion of the Great One’s heart, a crossroads of countless dimensions connected to it. Commerce and logistics make empires, and only a nation unconstrained by geography and unfettered by morality can claim such a prize.

Of course, all the trade and connections in integration cannot protect you if you are deficient in magic and technology. The Necrotech Legions have always sought to understand the nature of the Great One. Of every civilization, among all the faiths, they are the most empirical, and they dared ask the question: if the Great One was so mighty, what managed to cut them down from the sky?

Faith does not mean hegemony, and until there is a single dominating scripture, one canon above all, then this faith that has bound us will also see us divided, and more, eternally opposed.

—Valor Thann

371A Coalition Against the End [III]

Kune Kade’s heart was a bomb that wouldn’t stop going off. It had been that way ever since the Deathless saved her from the basilisk's den, and absurd as it might sound, her near-death experience was among the least of the factors fueling her anxiety.

For one, she spent the past few days in the Tutorial among a group of Legendary Pathbearers, who'd recently broken out of a Surfacer prison, of all places. Then there was the matter of the colossal monster she resided in and the orcs that piloted it. Oh, right, the orcs. Gray-skinned monsters that fed off of misery and pain, consummate psychopaths who'd had countless lifetimes to hone their brutality. And she'd been placed in the Tutorial; there was likely no place in all integration where one could find more orcs.

But while the surfacer Legends kept her safe, they were eccentric and erratic in their own ways. The most pleasant among them was Gone, a taciturn goblin who somehow moved faster than time itself. She kept a close eye on Kade and made sure none of the orcs bothered her overmuch, but that didn't stop some of the grayskins from trying.

Kune Kade had seen the great Semper Paragon from a far distance, had once witnessed Sir Marikos, the Flying Fortress himself, unleash his devastating Pyromancy from afar, boiling away mountains and incinerating entire armies. She knew Legends were powerful, could feel it in her very bones, in the way they moved, the way the world broke before them like it was made of glass. Yet, there was always a degree of separation, a bit of distance, a sort of barrier to stop her from fully realizing just how awesome they were.

When a few greedy orc Biomancers tried to pull her through the walls of the court leviathan, Gone struck back—and was the only one to strike at the end of the bloodshed. One moment, Kade was walking down the hall. Then, something pulled at her, nearly ripped her into the parting tissues of the wall. What followed was a golden lightning bolt that slammed into her. It didn't tear her apart. Instead, she found herself ejected from the flesh of the Court Leviathan, coated in blood and viscera but otherwise unharmed. The same couldn't be said for the orc Biomancers. They were left in a thousand pieces each, their bodies savaged to unrecognizable pulps and set afire by the sheer friction that simmered red along Gone’s claws.

“Won't do that again,” Gone declared as she walked past Kade, indifferent to the slaughter, flicking the gore from her digits. The goblin always talked to her like she was forcing herself to speak slowly, and maybe she was.

It took Kade an hour before she finally stopped shaking. After that event, she clung to the non-orcs as if she had been welded to their bodies.

But even that brought its own traumas. The one called Candles wouldn't stop talking about the things and people he burned, and described them in such vivid detail that Kade emptied her stomach more than once. Then there was a wolf-man who was apparently an agent of Aviary. He was pleasant beyond compare, but Kade couldn't shake the feeling that he was planning to rope her into some sort of scheme.

Because… Well, he was of the Stolen Throne, wasn’t he?

But the one who had her heart racing the fastest, who left her speechless every time he appeared, was He Who Stills Eternity. The original Undying. The greatest of all Legends to emerge from the Abyss. Valor Thann.

The ancient Necrotech had been nothing short of courteous each time he addressed her, though their interactions were few. He exuded a warmth she hadn't expected, but even that warmth couldn't hide his sheer capacity for violence, his lethality, and the Necromancy that blazed within his being. Kade could feel it billowing off of him, so much corrosive mana that he could have decayed the entire Court Leviathan with a mere gesture. Yet his control was so absolute and fine that even when he walked through the rooms, when he laid hands on others, he kept his Necromancy from withering them.

Even so, Kade couldn't stop her knees from shaking in his presence, for she knew if his magic slipped ever so slightly, there would be nothing left of her. Not even bones for her family to bury.

Then came the day the Deathless and his two companions returned to the Court Leviathan from wherever their expedition took them. The red-headed archer was down, incapacitated. The Umbral of the group was trying to rouse him, and then there came a booming voice so loud and devastating that its mere manifestation nearly killed Kade in an instant. Her ears popped and filled with blood, as did most of her brain vessels. Her body was practically unmade as her bones turned to powder and her organs to paste. Darkness took her before the pain could fully register. When she came to, she found herself being worked on by a soldier of the First Blood of all people, using his Biomancy to rebuild her flesh.

“Do not worry, Squire-Adept. I may not be truly practiced in the art, but I know enough that I can have your flesh commingle. At least with me, your cancers will never be fatal.”

“Cancers?” Kade choked.

“Ah, yes. An unfortunate side effect of my magic; I have healed you the only way I can, and the tumors are an unavoidable aspect of my spellcraft. But worry not. Lay down your burdens, and cast aside your woes. I will ensure that none of these cancers consume you until you can be treated by a more devoted Biomancer for your kind.”

Instead of calming her, his words brought her nervousness to new heights. “Oh, I… Oh.” Because what else could she say to a Legendary vampire who held her life in his hands?

Despite her constant terror, he proved himself to be an honest bloodspawn, as she continued to live. Somehow, she felt even healthier than before. Stronger, like her Adept-Tier Toughness had been amplified.

And that was the last of her many shocks, up until Valor Thann came to find her earlier today with… a request for her aid. “Adept Kade. We have a favor to ask of you: one that coincides with your return to the Descenders. We intend to gather representatives from the Five Faiths for an upcoming meeting within Gate Piety, and we would like you to deliver a message to Sir Marikos Valdemar, informing him that the Deathless is inviting him personally, along with any other ranking members of the Union of his choosing.”

“Me?” Kade squeaked. She barely understood why she reacted that way. She wanted to return home, wanted to see her family again. Another chance to redeem herself in the eyes of her faith, her fellow Squires, her Knight; to die before she cleaned the shame her brother brought to her family was an unthinkable thing, yet she had been faced with that very prospect when she plunged into the basilisk den.

But the System, or perhaps the Great One themselves, had seen proper to intervene on her behalf and sent a monster in human flesh to save her.

Now she, a mere Adept, was to be escorted by a Legend back to her people. This was a second chance of second chances, but there was also a building tension in her gut, for she had been struck down and cast out of formation. She had shamed herself during that exercise. And now, if she was to return, escorted by a surfacer of all people, she could only wonder what the other Squires might whisper, how much lower the Knights would think of her.

But then her mind bent. The Valor Thann himself wanted her to carry a message from the Deathless to Sir Marikos Valdemar. There was an opportunity here beyond any potential scandal or shame. It would cover her in glory to bear a message of such importance to one of the Union’s finest Knights, and the weight of that possibility was grander than any humiliation she had to endure.

Her answer was always going to be yes. The only difference now was that her heart beat at an excited pace rather than a terrified one.

They left through the Abyssal gateway that very day. Kade prepared for an arduous journey, a long trek through First Blood and Compact territory, avoiding sentinels and scouts to finally arrive back where the Union reigned.

Gone, the one that was to escort her, disagreed with her assessment. “Put the supplies down. You're not going to need them. As long as you know the way, it won't take more than a few minutes. Even if it's on the other side of the world.”

Her words left Kade speechless. Before she could ask the Legend if she meant that in jest, Gone turned into a bolt of golden lightning and slammed into her. Despite being a quarter of Kade’s height, she carried them both to and through the Abyssal gateway before making their first pit stop on the other side. Kade didn't even have the time to finish blinking once. The world simply turned into a Chronomantic blur. By the time Kade regained her bearings, they were no longer in the Court Leviathan but out in the Umbral Wilderness, in front of a dimensional gateway.

The entrance to Gate Piety was surrounded by great towers and layered trenches, further reinforced by dimensional summons from active rifts and biological horrors that made Kade’s skin shiver—and she fully jumped when she noticed the two orcs staring at her from the corner of her eye. Gone moved—stepped in front of Kade to protect her from any attack.

But none came. Both orcs looked on, unimpressed and indifferent. The larger one, wearing only a loincloth, continued chewing on the head of some kind of mutated ant or something—its acidic lifeblood dripping down his chin.

“Yes?” The other orc, bespectacled and wearing a pale healer’s coat, sneered at the two new arrivals. “Is something the matter?”

Gone studied both orcs, her posture tense. “Should be back in the Tutorial.”

The smaller orc rolled his eyes. “Oh, yes, the silly matter between the Challenger and the Insul. I've decided to ignore that, as I have a greater task: the continued extermination of the vampire vermin.”

“I'm standing out here because I want to hit things,” the massive orc declared. “The Challenger might have called for us to go back, but we're Maestros for a reason. He made us to be individualists, and right now, I'm exercising my individualism by ignoring him too. Besides, I prefer helping out and making myself useful for the Insul. Something tells me that being helpful will go a long way to having him keep us around.”

Kade blinked. “You would defy your own god just to stay with the Deathless?”

“We're not defying anything.” The other orc pushed his spectacles up along the bridge of his nose. “The Challenger requested an audience, but he did not demand it. And so it is as Bonk says: we are merely exercising our free will, as the Challenger tasked us to long ago, and I have decided to do something more useful with my time.”

As he said that, Kade also noticed the blood dripping from both the orcs’ right arms. There was so much gore spilling out from their limbs that Kade wondered if they were about to come off, yet there was no obvious injury either. What's more, there was a growing incandescence that flickered out around the blood, like something was about to blossom into shape.

