Gone held to her paranoid posture for a few seconds longer, and when the orcs did nothing, she shook her head and motioned for Kade to give her directions. “Go. Before they actually get interested.”

Kade’s gaze lingered a while longer on the orcs, but they had already lost interest in her. Instead, the orc Biomancer was beginning to do something with a mess of flesh—the way the meat twitched and changed left Kade nauseated.

“We need to follow the forested path to our left—” And before Kade could finish delivering her directions, Gone turned into a bolt of Chronomantic lightning and sent them spearing through the dense woods.

They made it to Descender's Union territory in less than five minutes. If not for Gone’s lack of clear direction and Kade's struggle to keep the contents of her stomach contained, it would have been much faster. They almost ended up getting intercepted by a lance of Scout-Squires. Kade had to use almost because they were moving so fast, and Gone's time-accelerated Reflexes were so extreme, that she simply pierced through any wards layered in her way like a dagger digging through paper.

Two minutes, sixteen stops, and over 12,000 kilometers covered later, Gone set the twosome down in front of a Descender stronghold, and a chain of gleaming spells lit up along the concentric walls. Magical spheres ignited over the turret towers that bedecked the battlements. A wave of pressure washed over them, immediately flinging Kade off her feet. Gone, meanwhile, remained unshaken, her body sparking with temporally infused lightning.

“Unidentified Pathbearers, declare yourselves. You stand before Checkpoint Charlie-under-Zulu. Failure to reply will see you terminated with utmost prejudice.”

The telepathic broadcast battered Kade's already frazzled mind, but years of training as a Squire had conditioned her on how one should respond to authority: promptly and with absolute clarity.

“I am Squire-Adept Kune Kade! Squire to Ser, uh, Dunbridge! I was separated from the rest of my Lance during a scouting run—and rescued from a dishonorable end by the Deathless of Gate Piety! With me right now is Legend Gone of Gate Piety. She’s carried me back to convey a message of great importance, dispatched by the great Valor Thann and the Deathless. They call for an audience with Sir Marikos Valdemar and all O-Rank Knights! I submit to any and all examinations and declare on my honor and that of my family that these words are true!”

Her words were shouted, but her mind rang louder. But then, after a beat, the pressure grinding against her vanished, though the wall of magical spheres continued blazing bright.

Kade was no fool. She knew how much firepower just one of those spell towers could output; together, they could turn someone with Master-Tier Toughness and Magical Resistance into a pile of ash at the bottom of a glass crater.

The sudden, booming reply from the fort nearly made her jump out of her own skin. “Acknowledged! Remain in place and prepare to submit for further interrogation. Further instruction will be delivered upon confirmation.”

And with that, no further word came forth.

“Is this normal?” Gone asked. The goblin had the slightest of frowns on her flat face. The tension in her body language hinted at how much she wanted to run, but from the way she reacted and the levity in her tone, it was clear that she had no fear for the spells arrayed against her.

“The Knight must always be vigilant against treason and sabotage, both within and without.” Kade’s words were near-verbatim to the Manual of Basics. “And blind trust is a near impossible thing when First Blood shapeshifters and Compact-purchased traitors fester in each of the Five Faiths.”

Gone considered her words. “They can scan you. They can question you. I will stay outside.”

Kade winced. “I don’t think that’s possible.”

“It is,” Gone insisted, her tone low and dangerous. “No one is reaching into my mind. No one is putting shackles around my hands. No one tells me where I can or cannot go. Tell them. Convince them. They can’t hold me here anyway. Knights are too slow to stop me. Tell them. If they say no, I’ll leave anyway. And if they follow, they won’t come back.”

And suddenly Kade's anxiety returned in full force. There were times these days when she wondered if falling prey to the basilisks would have been a better end. “O-okay. I’ll try.”

To mock her looming dread, the front gates to the fort snapped open in a rumbling crash as the shape of an emerald-scaled Knight and his Lance sallied forth.

***

There were other messages dispatched from Gate Piety. All of them came in the form of star-forged arrows. They departed from both the surface and the Abyssal gateway. They soared across rivers and forests, across mountains crowned by falling snow, and over lands that were pockmarked by spellfire and foreign wars.

Rather than bearing the power to claim lives, each arrow was infused with spatial magic, and within each of them dwelt a letter addressed to a specific person. The letters were written by two separate Pathbearers, with the surface-bound addressed by Roland Arrow and the Abyssals by Valor Thann. Though the syntax and prose were vastly different, the contents were all the same: Gate Piety called for a conference, and the receiver of the message was most welcome to attend.

It wasn't just old allies who were being summoned, but old adversaries as well. A few arrows were skybound, the first of which to where the Storm King’s Court thundered in the realms above the Lost Atlantic. Several more were dispatched to the High Undying and their Ossuary Cadres of the Necrotech Legions. More sailed across the Pacific, some plunging down beneath the waves to appeal to the awakened titans of the depths that Roland had faced before, while others went further yet, seeking the Stolen Throne on the other side of the vast sea.

Representatives from the First Blood, Compact, and Weave were not hard to contact. Though Shiv loathed to invite the former two, it was best that they were in attendance as well. Before he addressed his grievances with them in blood, now he would do so in the political arena as well. And possessed of the Harbinger, perhaps a war of words and a literal war held little distinction.

Shiv even offered his own invitation to Evanescia, as he thought this would be a great way for him to embroil and involve her further. She still intended to play her games, but in a place consumed by such chaos, with him being the only one she held in high regard, he could find a use for her. He could make her a weapon unlike any other—if he could just find the right psychological leverage.

Shiv granted the Farwalker, who was still in the Fairwoods, a similar opportunity, but the Myth simply shook his head. “I know what you're doing, kid: there's a reason why I stayed with the Farwalkers instead of taking a position back at Chorus. Telling me to get involved in politics is like telling me to suck the pus out of someone's ass-boil. No. Not happening. Suffered enough of that. And I’m going to suffer more of that anyway when I get you to Chorus.” Then he paused as a slight chuckle escaped from him. “That being said, I appreciate the chaos you're trying to brew. Getting all your friends, enemies, and uncertains in the same place? Yeah, that is a powder keg, but it's also a pretty good layer of defense. If the First Blood and Compact could have come for your Gate before, things are different now. With the Descenders there, it's already an ugly fight. Descenders, High Daughters of the Composer, Necrotechs, and all the surfacers? Yeah: a bit of collateral damage later, and it'll be the vampires and the greedy fucks who are burning.”

Then some of Shiv's companions came to him, asking if they could send their own invites. Most surprising of all was Tulveg, who said that he wanted to invite Ekkihurst the Sculptor. The presence of Tulveg’s old master would apparently unnerve most of the First-Generation Elders of the First Blood, and he might be able to help with the enduring plague afflicting many of Blackedge’s survivors. He could even take a look at Adam, though Tulveg made no promises that Ekkihurst could definitely remove the Crown or otherwise end his suffering.

“You sure about this? He's not just going to turn them into some kind of screaming ball of flesh?” Shiv cringed.

“He does that only to the stock—those he deems to have no potential or value.” Tulveg winced. “But the Vicar's plague is a challenge, and even if my former master knows little of Animancy or the other arts needed to create such a potent infection, there are few Pathbearers on Integrated Earth more capable of alleviating burdens levied upon the flesh. And if nothing else, he might be willing to take you on as well. Though you are less than trained, he would likely find you a most fascinating student to sculpt.”

An uncertain wheeze escaped Shiv. “Helix is going to hate this.” He paused. He grinned. He was no longer uncertain. “Never mind. Invite him. This thing's going to be a mess already. In fact, I hope it's a mess. Maybe I’ll be able to make use of him too.”

Comedy 22 > 25

Scheming Bastard 19 > 24

Politics 1 > 6

As the day went on, more supplies were brought over from High Harbor, and the other three Dragon-Brokers arrived as well. As it turned out, it wasn't just Yellowbelly who had that poverty-stricken scale condition. All of them brought in massive hoards, and soon the space beside Shiv's cooking zone was layered in a mountain of mithril, gold, and other treasures. And atop those summits of unparalleled grandeur, four dragons loomed, with a building-sized tea set placed for each of them. A new flavor took hold inside Gate Piety. Columns of lofting smoke drifted high up into the air, choking the atmosphere with scents of black, white, pu’er, and jasmine.

The thousands of attendants the Brokers brought in also began setting up their own tent cities nearby. Those were some luxurious tents, with their insides enchanted to expand the inner dimensions, apply temperature adjustments, and self-clean their surroundings. Already, the Gate was being filled up with people; a new density was building, and Shiv had a feeling that Piety would find itself packed before everything was done.

As the day came to an end, Shiv found himself inspired to write his own letter. Though his wordcraft was lacking, it was good to practice, and he found himself drafting a letter of thanks to the Composer for all she'd done and asking what he could potentially do for her in the future in exchange for any relief she could bestow upon Adam in his current condition.

He had Rose read his draft to see if she could make any improvements. In retrospect, however, that might have been a mistake.

Writing 16 > 18

“Holy fuck, kid. What the hells is this? Our family dog when I was growing up had better handwriting. I'm not joking. That thing had Master-Tier Penmanship. Chew-Chew was also really good at math, come to think about it… Pissed my dad the fuck off that he managed to train his family dog to be a better student than any of his daughters.” She threw her head back and barked an ugly laugh. “Also, we need to end your love affair with simple sentences before Uva gets jealous. At least your spelling isn’t so bad.”

Shiv breathed in to prevent himself from gnashing his teeth and prompting Rose to compare him to Chew-Chew again. “Great. Nice. Any useful criticisms about the content?”

“Aside from it being boring and kind of basic? Not really. You’re not going to be writing any stories or any major treatise soon, but your letter is pretty much acceptable, considering you're on good terms with this spider lady already.”

Shiv nodded. “Georges made sure I wasn’t illiterate. Adam and Uva were helping with the rest of my missing education in the few spare moments we had.”

The Lady of Blackedge cringed. “Sorry, Shiv. I didn’t mean anything by the dog thing.”

“Yeah, it’s fine. It’s funny.”

She struggled, but a grin cracked across her face. “It really is, isn’t it?”

They both shared a snort.

“Hurts…” Adam wheezed across the room at the same moment. “Kill…”

Rose’s gaze went dark. She was a lively spirit at her heart—the way her empathetic core burned toward joy despite all she suffered made Shiv think of her as a bit more Ikki-like than anyone else he knew. But even so, the Arrow family was fucking cursed. “You really think she might be able to help?” she muttered.

“I don’t know if she has the power, but she’ll be willing. Even if it means spiting the Challenger.” Shiv tried to ignore the cruel amusement radiating from the fist behind him. As time went on, he realized the arm drank in more than violence, but also despair, doubt, rage, frustration, jealousy, and anything that could fuel the fire of conflict. “I—”

A sudden clench of pressure had him out of his seat with the Last Morsel drawn. Shiv was so battle-hardened he didn’t even think. He knew when someone was teleporting in, and Jessica’s spatial jumps didn’t squeeze like that. Hostile.

He prepared to jump Backstage to ambush and rip apart anyone stupid enough to try and—

The Educator stepped through a spatial rift and stormed across the room, muttering snarled hisses under her breath as she made for Adam. “Stupid, ungrateful, uncaring scum.”

Shiv hesitated. “Educator?”

She barely glanced at him. Instead, she planted a stand and stacked a blank canvas upon it. With a casual shrug, she let her tome drop from its chains—causing it to crack the ground as she pulled a brush free and began vigorously painting Adam’s current state. “What is the point of you if you will not help when needed? What is worth any of your promises?”

