Flipping around in the torrent, I part Pong Pong’s wave with a thought and find my bearings before belatedly realizing I can manipulate the water around me. It’s like... it’s a part of my body, an extension of my arms and legs, ones I can’t control quite as well as my flesh and blood limbs, because these new limbs still more or less behave like water. I can make them flow one way, then another, bubble in one area and swirl in another, but I can’t form a dagger or hammer of water or anything like that.

But despite all those limits, and even more I discover with each passing second, it’s still... magical.

Throughout this all, Pong Pong patiently waits with his mouth open in happiness, and I grin back as I propel myself towards him with my newfangled control. “It’s on, Pong Pong!” I call, and he paddles off with a delighted squeak as we resume our games inside his Natal Palace. “You can run Pong Pong, but you can’t hide!” I call, picking up speed through the water as I learn the ins and outs of the currents around me. Bursting at the seams with giddy delight, the not-so-tiny turtle twirls effortlessly around me and dodges my grasping hands by the barest of margins, even though he could easily leave me gasping in his wake. He’s taunting me, a fact which becomes even more evident as he darts down to the coral-studded foundation of his Natal Palace, zipping in and around the colourful seabed and obscuring plants without ever wholly leaving my sight, and I dart down after him with a smile stretched across my face.

I’m pretty certain these powers are all thanks to Pong Pong, and they won’t stay with me after I leave. This is his Natal Palace, where he makes the rules, and he decided I should have more control over water to make it a fair game, just like he decides our respective sizes. I don’t know how I got here with my Core being shattered and whatnot, but while I’m curious to know more, I have more important matters to tend to right now, so the questions can wait until later.

I mean, c’mon. How many people can say they’ve played water tag with a Divine Turtle?

- End of Volume 30 -

DENNIS System

Follow up to the DENNIS system
