With Dad off doing army work and Charok in the habit of sleeping early, there’s not much for me to do in the mostly empty manor besides task MuYang to keeping an ear to the ground and an eye out for mundane assassins trying to poison or otherwise hurt me. Yan won’t be coming over tonight either, which means I’ll be sleeping all by my lonesome for the first time in days, but it’s not the worst thing in the world. I’ve still got Mama Bun and Aurie to cuddle at night, and in the interest of health and general sanitation, I bring them both into the baths to wash off all the poopy dirt they picked up. Washing my floofs is not as fun as I’d thought it’d be, mostly because they hate baths and take forever to dry, so instead of dousing them in warm water, I limit myself to rinsing their paws off and running a damp towel over their fur, followed by a lengthy brushing session and more damp towels. It’s an arduous process, but I ain’t letting no poopy floofs in my bed, because yuck.

It’s okay. Song will wash Sarankho, and Lin-Lin doesn’t let the bunnies in her room. Only Blackjack gets to sleep in her bed, and the darling cloud chaser hare spent the entire day perched atop the bamboo stalks instead of romping through shit-soil. Hmm... Did he find Insight there too? Maybe that’s why he loves high places, because he’s slowly learning to Cloud Step.

While I laboriously groom Mama Bun and Aurie, Pong Pong busies himself with doing laps in my bathtub and hopefully nothing else. According to Taduk, every time he tried to bring the little turtle back to the citadel, Pong Pong would run away, but he didn’t seem to mind it when I brought him back. I’m not entirely sure why he was okay with tagging along this time, but I’m glad he’s here. Not because he’s a Divine Beast on par with or more powerful than most Ancestral Beasts. Today proved he’s not protective like Ping Ping and all too happy to sit idly by while I fight for my life, which is perfectly fine. In fact, it’s better than fine, because if his existence becomes known, I’m pretty sure the Supreme Families will stop at nothing to get him, though for what purposes, I have no idea.

I mean, most of the time he behaves like a regular, boring turtle, one prone to freezing up and glaring in random directions like he’s doing right now. Following his line of sight, I smile and say, “There’s nothing there, Pong Pong. It’s a shuttered window, it won’t hurt you, silly.”

Almost as if he can understand my words, the little turtle goes back to paddling around the bathtub, though he stops twice more and doesn’t start again until I make a show of inspecting whatever object has caught his attention, in this case my clean robes hanging on the door and the closet where we keep the cleaning supplies. By the time I’m finished grooming Aurie and Mama Bun, my shoulders are stiff and my back sore from hunching over for so long, but there’s still the whole process of cleaning myself before entering the tub. That’s how we do it here, soap up and rinse off before getting in the water, which honestly makes more sense than steeping in a pool of your own filth.

Groaning as I slip into the warm, comforting water, I smile and watch Pong Pong splish splash around. I almost forgot how adorable the little guy is, doubly so because I know how smart and powerful he really is, but who doesn’t enjoy a good swim? Struck by an impulse, I act without thinking it through and send a wave of water crashing towards the adorable turtle, which promptly lifts him out of the bathtub and sends him crashing to the ground below.

...Shit, shit, shit...

My heart freezing in my chest, it doesn’t resume beating until Pong Pong leaps back into the tub, no worse for wear from his sudden trip. Looking none too amused, he treads in place and stares me in the eyes with a wounded gaze, as if to say, “How could you?”

Only to suddenly spit a weak stream of water at my chest before paddling away in what appears to be mock fright.

Upon seeing him turn back to check my reaction, I finally catch on to his intentions. He wants to play, and I’m more than happy to oblige, mock roaring as I splash the bathwater this way and that. Deftly navigating through the waves with skill and finesse, Pong Pong skims around the tub to avoid the worst while spitting weak bursts of water at me whenever he can. It’s adorable how gentle he’s being, treating me with kid’s gloves while also avoiding hitting me in the face. Still, the little guy seems to be having a grand old time, and personally I’m enjoying our playtime too. It’s simple, carefree fun with no winners or losers, only wholehearted laughs all around.

By the time we’re done playing, the tub is half-empty and the ground thoroughly soaked, but after I had Husolt make wire hair traps for the bathhouse, the plumbing has never drained better, though I’ll admit I usually leave it to the servants to clear them. Unimpressed with our hijinks, Mama Bun huffs once as I lift her into my arms, and a second time when Pong Pong burrows into hers, which is just all sorts of hilarious to me. Big bun, big attitude, and I absolutely love it.

All in all, today was not the carefree and relaxing day I’d envisioned it would be. In fact, I would even call it a shitty day, not the worst I’ve ever experienced, but not one I’d care to repeat. My fun trip to the farm was not even remotely fun, I almost died to hidden assassins, learned that I now have to be on the guard against four Supreme Families trying to kill me, not to mention the Legate ‘pretending’ his Seneschal wants me dead by sending real actual killers to come kill me. Then, I put my family in danger when they came out to save me, and also abandoned my betrotheds to meditate alone in the miraculous, Divine grove, which by the way does nothing to help me in my current situation. It’s complete bullshit, just like the Legate ducking my meeting and running off without leaving a message, because he wants to sell the illusion that we’re not working together even though we supposedly are, despite him not saying a god damned thing about what I’m supposed to do. Survive to show up at the party I guess, the same party where I get to be reminded of all the people who died in Sinuji trying to keep my not-crippled ass safe, not to mention the friends who are still out there fighting for their lives against beings so powerful I can’t even comprehend how they fight.

And the worst part? I found and subsequently lost an adorable, Earth-Blessed dirt rat. I know I said I wouldn’t get too attached to the groundhog, but I was gonna name him something cute and glamorous, like Dirk Diggerton, Dugsy Diesal, Dougie Dugster, or something along those lines, and I was thinking he could hang out on my shoulder and be best friends with Mama Bun. They’d dig burrows together and munch on Spiritual Plants, without any friction because they’re all herbivores trying to make it in the dog eat dog world we live in.

That said, bath time with Pong Pong was pretty fun. Maybe this is what he does with Sir Inky, plays tag and hide and seek, though I’m gonna be honest here; there is no way in hell I will ever let that perverted octopus into my bathtub.

Tired from all my inner ranting, I abandon my plans of poring over Zhen Shi’s notes for the umpteenth time and head off to bed for an early night. I’ll probably wake up early, but that’s not so bad. It’ll give me a chance to make breakfast and let Charok sleep in. Husolt and Song will need food too, since neither one of them can cook, so I should send a message to Song in the morning so she doesn’t think we all forgot about her. Besides, I get the feeling I’ll have plenty of time to read these next few days while Dad hammers out the details of my travel arrangements. Even though the Legate is gone, I can always attach myself to Nian Zu’s entourage, which I guess is safe enough, but I’ll probably be confined to the manor until it’s time to leave.

Lying in the darkness of my room, I listen to Mama Bun’s soft snores and Aurie’s deep breathing, while taking comfort in the warm weight of their furry bodies pressed against mine. Mama Bun is nestled atop my chest, with little Pong Pong between us, and Aurie is sprawled out over my legs in the most awkward position imaginable, but he’s comfortable and not cutting off my circulation, so that’s all that matters. Aside from the floofs, my world consists only of mattress, pillow, and blankets, as well as one last thing which I can’t put out of my mind no matter what.

Well, three things actually, but they feel like one item. My shattered Spiritual Weapons sit on the wall across from me, and even though there’s several meters between us, it somehow feels like I could reach out and touch them if I only tried. I can’t, of course, since they’re far away and broken as I am, but it still feels that way. It’s because I picked up the assassin’s weapon today, even gave it an errant swing or two to test the heft and balance. God it felt good to have a Spiritual Weapon in hand, even one that went inert after Ping Ping murderized its previous owner. There’s something about carrying an implement of death which makes me feel so... good and comfortable, as if I’m not whole without one. Maybe it’s a sign, telling me I can Demonstrate the Forms still, but I can’t risk it now, not until after the banquet. If I can show the Empire a healthy, able-bodied Falling Rain, then I might be able to salvage my ruined reputation.

Though I’ll still be broken in the end, just like my Spiritual Weapons collecting dust on the wall, because even the slightest impact will cause them to crumble away to nothing. I should just destroy them, once and for all, and maybe then I won’t have their presence constantly lurking in the back of my mind and reminding me of everything I’ve lost...

Shutting out all thoughts of weapons and shattering, I take a deep breath, then a second, and then one more for good measure. No more thinking. Sleep now. Focus on nothing, just darkness behind your eyelids. Your voice grows soft and quiet, slowly fading away until it is nothing but a mere whisper, one which dissipates into nothingness.

...

......

.........

Something is wrong. I’m not in bed. There’s no pleasant support of my pillow beneath my neck, no cozy warmth of my blanket wrapped close around me, no comfortable weight of bunny or wildcat resting on my chest or legs. In their place is a weightless nothingness, a familiar, empty sensation which I have not felt in long months which might as well be an eternity, and I almost don’t want to open my eyes for fear of disappointment. What if it’s not real? What if it’s just a dream? What if I’m not suspended in the void, surrounded by the eternal darkness of my Core?

But... what if I am? What if I’ve found Balance again?

I open my eyes.

And close them again, as the crushing disappointment overwhelms me. This is not the void, I know that much, because there’s too much colour around me. One colour, really, in varying shades, all blue everywhere as far as the eye can see, which is enough to know all my hopes were for naught. Resisting the urge to curl up and cry, I take a long minute to deal with my emotions before finally opening my eyes again. Still blue, as far as the eye can see. Water in every direction with no sign of familiar sights, such as Taduk’s hut, Mila’s forge, the cliff overlooking the village, or my bedroom where I lied to myself about all the things I didn’t want. None of it is here, which means unless I accidentally remodelled my Natal Palace, there’s no way this is my Core.

Which means...

“Pong Pong!” I call, looking around for a giant moon-sized eyeball. “Where are you? I accidentally slipped into your Natal Palace again.”

The world shifts around me, and suddenly I find myself face to face with the tiny turtle, who’s not so tiny anymore. He’s not ginormous either, merely large, and not even as large as Ping Ping. Instead, he’s about the size of a minivan and still adorable as always, with his head cocked in curious question while wondering how I got back in here again. “No idea buddy,” I reply, answering his unasked question with a helpless shrug. “Why are you so small this time though?” Slowly reaching over to pat him, he cautiously shrinks back and hits me with a literal wave of warning.

Not a literal wave, but literal warning.

That’s Aura.

Pong Pong used Aura.

It’s... effective. On me. Even though it doesn’t work in the real world.

What’s going on?

Working on more instinct than thought, I tap into my confusion and unleash my own Aura in response, and I feel it work even before Pong Pong widens his eyes in surprise. Unused to controlling Aura again, my charmed adoration leaks through and Pong Pong’s mouth opens in response, squeaking ever so happily as he headbutts my hand. I immediately set to scritching him, and am rewarded with pulsing waves of contentment in response. “Glad you enjoy it,” I say, trying to hold back my smug satisfaction while allowing my amusement to seep through. “Seriously though, why are you so small this time around?” Unable to put the question into emotion, we go back and forth with our Auras without really communicating anything of substance, until he hits me with a surge of amusement followed by a (literal) wave of water which washes me away.

Oh, so he wants to play? It’s on.

