I’m not much of a planner.

Most people might think otherwise considering the sheer amount of time I spend lost in my head, but I never really got the hang of plotting and scheming. It’s too complicated for me. Take chess for example, which is a decent measure of one’s strategic ability. A novice thinks about what move they’ll make next, while a good player will think two or three moves in advance. A grand-master, however, is on a whole other level, able to not only plan multiple moves ahead, but also lay out several contingencies during each step for what their opponent might do. At that point, both players could probably play the game out in their heads, but it’s not just about the movement of the pieces. Theoretically, if both players played using only the most optimal moves, then every game would probably end in a stalemate every single time. The thing is, humans aren’t perfect, so sometimes, the perfect move is in fact a sub-optimal move, which may or may not throw your opponent off their game.

Which is pretty much how I play chess. My opponents can’t anticipate my moves if even I don’t know what I’m gonna do. Big brain play right there.

My point is, even in a structured game like chess, there are near infinite variations of how it can play out, because humans are predictably unpredictable. You need to keep that in mind when planning ahead, and life is far less structured than chess, which as one might guess, I’m not great at. In life, I make one plan, one back up plan, and then that’s it, because beyond that, things get way too complicated to keep track of. If both plans fall through, then it’s time for a new plan. That’s how I do things, and it’s worked for me so far, so if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.

Still, since I had plenty of time to sit around and think, I did my best to come up with a good plan of action to deal with this assassin crisis, as well as a backup plan if things don’t work out. I decided to keep things simple. Once Mom, Akanai, and everyone else are done meditating, we’ll head back to the citadel together with Taduk, Guard Leader, and my floofs. Once there, I’ll ask Dad to gather his allies and bring them with me to request – no, demand an audience with the Legate, not as a show of force, but of unity and solidarity. Okay, it wouldn’t hurt to show a little force, but in a subtle sort of way, not with swords drawn and bows bent, but just a friendly group meeting with my most powerful allies at my side so I can ask the Legate what he intends to do about his enemies who are actively trying to kill me.

And you know, maybe subtly, non-verbally hint that I’m ready to wash my hands of this entire war and head back home with my people. I don’t want to do it, not just because it would be an act of desertion in wartime, but also because I want to do my part to help keep the Empire safe. The thing is, fighting the Defiled is stressful enough. I can’t handle Imperial backstabbing on top of it, so something has to change.

Assuming Luo-Luo is right and the Legate intends to do nothing, I came up with a whole system to try and change his mind. The first step would be to Demonstrate my value, by bringing up all the things I’ve done and could still do to help him, as well as utilizing the sunk cost fallacy and reminding him of how much he’s already invested in keeping me alive and healthy, which would all be for nothing if I kick the bucket now. Next, I’d try to Engage him physically to appeal to his empathy and remind him I am a living, human being. Nothing sexual of course, since his tastes probably don’t run that way and I’m definitely not pretty enough to tempt him, but a simple gesture like shaking his hand or touching his arm or something, maybe even a hug if he’s up for it. After that, I would Nurture dependence and point out all the enemies he still has, because the other four Supreme Families just tried to spit in his face, and I could quite easily draw attention away from his other endeavours.

Here’s where the plan gets devious. Having done all of the above, I would then Neglect the Legate, and be all like ‘I don’t even wanna be your bitch boy anymore’, making him think I’m really ready to walk away, or worse, contemplating an alliance with another Supreme Family. Not sure what they’d want me for, but I must have value or else the Legate wouldn’t work so hard to recruit me in the first place. I could even hint at using Luo-Luo as a peace offering, which I would never do, but the Legate probably believes otherwise. Now that he’s panicking, it’s the perfect time to Inspire hope and say I would much rather work with him than the alternatives, but I’m only considering those alternatives because I’m afraid. This puts the ball in his court, and with a little luck, he’ll be convinced to take care of me until I’m ready to Separate entirely.

It’s called the D.E.N.N.I.S system, and I think it’s pretty brilliant. I’m also pretty sure I stole the idea from some genius mind from my previous life, possibly even a guy named Dennis, but good planners create, and great planners steal. I wasn’t looking for much, just an invitation to tag along with the Legate’s convoy while he makes his way to the Central Citadel, just to keep me safe. As for my back up plan, it was ask Luo-Luo for help, but then both plans went right to shit from the very first step.

After a few hours of sitting around, Taduk declared he was too hungry to keep waiting and we were heading back to the citadel without everyone who was still meditating, which was everyone besides Song. Although I was worried about their safety and wanted to wait until everyone was done, Guard Leader assured me that her veiled underlings were perfectly capable of keeping everyone safe, and that Akanai and Sarnai (whom she referred to as ‘the girl’ and ‘little rose’) would be the first to send me back to the Citadel for my own safety.

Which is true, but hurts a little, because I didn’t think about how they’d probably be safer without me hanging around. And the worst part? I couldn’t even use Song’s restrictions as an excuse, because she was the only person to come out from meditation. Something about her Insights requiring real world practice, though to me, it just looked like she was Demonstrating Tiger Swipes the Rushes over and over and over again. She also didn’t pick up on my intent when I implied she might want to stay in the garden to meditate some more, instead flat out refusing and saying something about ‘knowing her limits’ and wanting to talk to her Papa.

So already, things weren’t going great. I would’ve loved to hear what Luo-Luo thought of my plan before confronting the Legate, and more importantly if she had any less confrontational alternatives to offer. Let’s be honest, I wasn’t really planning on going through with my plan, because I wholly expected Luo-Luo to come up with a better one, so the ride home was stressful for reasons beyond possible assassins lurking in the shadows. There weren’t any, which was a little anti-climatic, but also reasonable considering Dad went out of his way to murder them all so I would have a safe trip back.

Upon returning to the citadel safe and sound, I discovered the Legate set out for the Central Citadel only hours after I left for my disastrous trip to the farm, thereby neatly ruining the rest of my so-called ingenious plan. With nothing else to do, I sit down for a small and subdued family dinner with only Taduk, Guard Leader, Lin-Lin, Song, Charok, and the twins, because everyone else is still at the grove or had already eaten and had jobs to do. As the shit topping to the shit sandwich that’s been this shitty day, Du Min Gyu even stormed in mid-meal and ripped into me for leaving Yan ‘vulnerable and defenceless’. I barely got a word in edgewise, mostly because I had nothing to say because I’d taken Guard Leader at her word when she said everyone would be safe, but she didn’t utter a single word throughout the whole haranguing, and didn’t even acknowledge a single one of my pleading looks.

So after the angry ‘Grandpa’ Du stormed out of the dining room to head back to the farm, I give Guard Leader a dirty look and ask, “Would it have killed you to say something?”

“No,” She replies, and then goes back to stroking the poorly-named Pepper lazing in her arms. The spotted she-bun is one of Taduk’s favourites, or at least I thought she was until today. Now I’m thinking Pepper is Guard Leader’s favourite, and that’s why Taduk always picks her when he’s in need of a Spiritual Herb sniffer. I really wish I understood their relationship, or at the very least, knew if it was familial, friendly, or romantic in nature.

Is she his Ancestral Beast mother? Former lover? Both? I’m picking up all sorts of mixed signals and it’s super confusing.

“No need to fret, little Rain,” Charok says. “You did the right thing coming back. The Supreme Families have no reason to target your family, so staying out there would have only put them in more danger. Du Min Gyu will understand, and if not, then your mother and grandmother will set him straight the first time he opens his mouth to complain.”

Now that would be a sight to see. Mom and Akanai have elevated scolding into an art form, and it’d be nice to appreciate it from a different perspective besides the receiving end for once. Stamping out the minor surge of guilt which arose from not actually being worried about everyone at the grove, I smile at Charok and say, “You’re right.” Turning to the twins with a twinkle in my eye, I continue, “You should always listen to your Papa, because he is a wise and powerful man. Did he tell you? On his way back, he was the first Sentinel to draw blood from our enemies, a grand honour amongst such exceptional company.”

Though pleased by the compliment, Charok rolls his eyes and waves me off. “None of your teasing now, I got enough of that from the others.” I’d heard about it from Dad, when he stopped in to check on us, all puffed up like a bantam because the other Sentinels were talking about how lucky he was to have such a talented son and son-in-law. There’s no Chi trick to piercing through Concealment, or at least no basic, widespread method of doing it, so unless you’re lucky enough to have a Talent or Awakening which is suitable for overcoming Concealment, it generally comes down to perception and awareness, which Charok has in spades.

Apparently some Sentinels are even whispering about how Charok might even follow in Khagati’s footsteps and become the greatest archer and scout of his generation.

As for me, it probably goes without saying, but I have no idea how I see through Concealment so often. It could be a Talent, or maybe I just played a lot of ‘spot the differences’ games in my past life. Probably the latter. Or maybe there’s something about the People’s amber eyes that we don’t know about, but I doubt it. Khagati had brown eyes, like most citizens of the Empire, and Gerel, Naaran, and the handful of other amber-eyed Sentinels have never mentioned anything about improved perception, but the Mother works in mysterious ways.

Which is essentially code for ‘I don’t know shit’, without really sounding too too ignorant. Gotta say, sometimes faith isn’t all bad...

Making sure to thank Charok for his cooking, I bid Taduk, Lin-Lin, Song, and Guard Leader goodnight before standing well out of view of the front door while they head off to their respective homes. A preventative safety measure, to ensure I don’t give my watching enemies an opportunity to strike, but like... we live in an open courtyard manor. Chi Scrying aside, any assassin worth their salt could Cloud Step for line of sight and take me out while I sleep with a toss of their arrow-like swords, but far be it for me to argue with the Experts doing their best to keep me safe. I am a little miffed they wouldn’t let me put Sir Inky in the lake or spend any time sitting with Ping Ping, but alas, such is life.

Note to self: ensure future home has a large body of moving water inside the walls, so Ping Ping, Pong Pong, and Sir Inky can live with the rest of the family.

After helping Charok with the dishes, I watch him usher the twins off to bed with Banjo and Baloo following close behind. I’m not gonna lie, I’m a little sad the bears didn’t even try to stay with me, because they’ve grown accustomed to getting kicked out for Yan’s nightly visits. I have no one to blame but myself, so either I bite the bullet and get over my issues with animals in the bedroom, or I accept that my sweet floofs will find someone else to cuddle with at night. At least I still have Mama Bun and Aurie. Lin-Lin stole Jimjam, Blackjack, and most of the bunbuns, while Song took Sarankho away, but my best bun and sweetest kitty still love me most.

Pong Pong is here too, but only because he likes sleeping nestled in Mama Bun’s floof, while I am merely an afterthought.

