“Nu’s a good guy... he’s keeping her busy,” Dozer said and Dragon grinned.“Hard to ignore that she’s spooked by her weird scar, but I think she looks neat,” the gargoyle turned to the tallest of them.“What do you think Van?” he asked and the stoic humanoid merely nodded.“She will never stop being beautiful to me,” he agreed and turned away to skulk into the shadows.“Van... you’re just walking into the corner... we all have night vision, we can see you,” Dozer called, getting no reply in return.“Edgelord,” Dragon muttered.“He has a crush, leave him be,” Doctor announced and went off to the Lava Shroom tunnel to perform... science!After a moment as they began to move off, Dozer casually spoke a sentence that made both Van and Doctor pause in their tracks as Dragon turned to listen,“I heard there’s a boss spot open,” he commented quietly and the air changed instantly, the casual banter gone and a competitive stare off taking its place.“Interesting,” Doctor said back evenly.Near the kitchen door, Jeb the Troll blinked as he stirred his soup, listening to the goodgoyles talk.“A boss...” he mumbled, wondering if Gnashly knew what that meant? He could ask if nothing else.---“If we trick Delta, we can have her calling the fiend to us and use the Dungeon against him,” Mharia said, floating before Wyin who was looking down, thoughtful.“The parasite sucks mana up to feed itself, if it burrows near Delta, she’ll be starved,” Wyin pointed out casually. “There’s no Dungeons near the tree now,” she spoke as if she knew that for a fact.“And? Delta will suffer a little or break, but stopping the tree is our ultimate goal,” Mharia said coyly as she floated up, turning away from Wyin as she put a finger to her chin.“He is a threat to everything,” she summed up.“So, it's between Delta’s well-being and the parasite’s death is it?” Wyin said, chuckling as she fanned herself with her branches.Mharia smirked, turning, but gagged as Wyin hooked a branch into her mouth, the thing burrowing deep into her throat as Wyin dragged her closer until Mharia was forced to stare into Wyin’s golden amber eyes.“I choose Delta, you conniving little worm,” she hissed.“I can’t harm people, but you aren’t people. We aren’t people. We are Dungeon and you are... less than us. You wish me to offer Delta up to this parasite as you and your people offered me up in the end? I’d rather crack and burn, you little wretch. Now... give in. Delta took you in and trust me... none of us, not Lord Mushy, not Sir Fran, and certainly not I, approve of your continued existence. You are here by her kindness only and while I am a jaded shell of who I was?” Wyin whispered and the fairy could feel her insides being stretched.“Delta would have been welcomed as my head priestess or a friend if I were still your goddess. Now? I am her shadow and if she dies? I will weep as I use her corpse to burn this world down and raze my enemies to ash... understand?” she asked, voice suddenly sweet and Mharia nodded frantically.Wyin removed the roots and looked bored.“Excellent, now be a dear and get me a Honey Tea with a mix of red honey and blue, but no green, it makes me gassy,” Wyin said, shooing the fairy away.Mharia looked shell-shocked at what occurred so Wyin leaned down.“Oh, and the Queen is sometimes a tea companion of mine. I hear, through the grapevine, that she doesn’t like you,” the tree whispered with glee before straightening up.“Good luck!” Wyin waved and Mharia knew she was in hell.It just wasn’t operated by some Reaper, but by Delta.An orange, fungus-infected hell.
