The two-way communication rings are magic items that have been in the Pitz family for generations. Noble families don’t advertise that they have things like these, and I only use it when I need to have private conversations with Nathanael without going through a mage.

“My lady, is something the matter?” Nathanael’s worried voice whispers in my ear.

“Nothing like that, Nathanael,” I assure him. “Is the merchant still there?”

“Of course, my lady. He’s waiting on your response.”

“Good, tell him I want as many arrows as his blacksmith can craft as soon as possible. You can negotiate the price, but they're worth every coin.”

“If you’re contacting me through our rings, then I’m to assume the arrow was above your expectations?” Nathanael asks me.

I can't help but laugh, "Someone at level 110 can use the arrow."

A silence falls between us, and I can just imagine the shocked look on Nathanael’s seasoned face.

“Give him the information he wanted,” I communicate through my magic ring.

“By your will, my lady. Is there anything else you require?”

“Yes. Send word back home; I want one of our best representatives to travel to Blaiton and meet with the head of Silver Herd. I want an introduction to the blacksmith after our reinforcements arrive,” I command Nathanael.

“I’ll see to it immediately, my lady.”

“I’m sure you will. If I need to contact you further, I’ll go through a mage.”

“Happy hunting, Lady Emily.”

"You too, Nathanael." I stop supplying mana to my ring, and the connection goes out.

I walk behind my desk and sit in the rickety chair that's been in this fort for decades. It will take weeks to send someone from our family estates to Blaiton, but by then, I should be able to turn over the fort to whoever they sent as my replacement.

I’ll have to be sneaky. I don't have the luxury to walk through a city without being noticed. People pay attention, no matter where I go.

It will be worth it, though, if I can get my hands on someone who can craft proper arrows for me. She already believes she can make even better arrows.

The chair groans as I lean back, and I can't help but grin at the idea of meeting someone so talented.

I'm just about to chuckle out loud, but my enhanced senses pick up Cristopher running back towards my office. I quickly sit up and face the door. He isn't wasting time by hiding himself, so it has to be important.

He only knocks twice before flinging the door open, almost ripping the worn out thing off its hinges. "General! Bad news, we lost contact with our scouts.”

The happy expression on my face slips away. “Which one?” I ask for clarification.

“That’s the thing, all twelve have suddenly gone dark. And not one of them reported anything abnormal during their last check-ins.” Cristopher explains with a worried expression.

I smoothly get up from behind my desk and grab my bow and quiver. “Send word to all personnel that the fort is on emergency notice as of now and recall all our forward units," I command.

“All of them?” Cristopher questions.

“All of them!” I firmly tell him. “I’ll investigate by myself. You’re in charge until I return.”

"Yes, general," Cristopher salutes me, and we split up. While he prepares for the possibility of an attack, I rush to the fort’s walls and vault over.

What is Scholl up to now?
