A few nearby soldiers stumble upon hearing the price, but Captain Nathanael nods in understanding. "I'll discuss it with my master. Would you mind waiting here for a little while?”

Like I have a choice. “Are you having the arrow brought to the general now?” I ask.

“I am,” Captain Nathanael confirms my suspicions and glances at one of his subordinates. “Get Keill over here. Tell him I have an important delivery for the general.” The soldier salutes and scurry’s off.

Nathanael focuses back on me. “Keill is our best runner. It will only take him 20 minutes to deliver the arrow to the fort. We should find out if my master likes the arrow quite soon.”

The captain's smile sends a shiver down my back, but my job isn't finished yet. "If I may, can I ask you some personal questions regarding the general?”

Captain Nathanael’s good-natured smile hardens. “Personal information regarding my master does not leave house Pitz. Why are you asking this all of a sudden?”

Everyone around us tenses. I quickly blurt out the questions Aaliyah asked me to find the answers to before he thinks spies approached us for the information. "Our craftsman wanted to know if she was right or left-handed and what her draw length was. It's the length the general has to…”

"Draw her arrow back," Captain Nathanael interrupts me. "My master is a renowned archer. I know what a person’s draw length is.”

I cringe as Captain Nathanael leans over and closes the box, and takes it from my arms.

“Keill, reporting for duty, captain. What’s the delivery?” I jump from the sudden voice next to us. I don’t know how much more my heart can take. A soldier dressed from head to toe in a camouflaged suit that resembles the rocky terrain around Teeburn scared me half to death with his sudden appearance out of nowhere.

“Delivery for the general, her hands only.” Captain Nathanael tells the runner while handing him the box.

"Understood!" The soldier hugs the box close to his chest, and the box seems to take on the same color scheme as his suit, making it difficult to spot. He turns and dashes off at an incredible speed.

"Almost as fast as her." I hear Reel mumble behind me. Who is he talking about? I send him a quick glance, but he pretends like he didn’t say anything.

"Wait here while I talk to my master. It will be up to her if I answer your questions." Captain Nathanael doesn't so much as spare me a second look before he walks off.

With my head lowered, I walk back over to my cart and climb back onto my seat. Lurte and Ryiba get comfortable on top of a stack of old bricks nearby.

I bury my head into my hands, missing the days I haggled with old ladies in villages over yarn and other simple items.

“Tired already?” I hear Reel mock me off to the side now that we’re alone again.

I don't even take my face out of my hands. "Shut up, Reel."

General Emily Pitz’s Point of View:

“He asked which hand you prefer to shoot with and your draw length. Apparently, the blacksmith thinks they can improve the arrow further.” Nathanael’s voice echoes out of a ball of magic in the communication mage’s hands.

“Did she now? You’re getting my hopes up Nathanael, did the arrow appear top-notch to you?" I ask, without hiding the excitement in my voice.

"It did, my lady. I can't judge the magic capabilities, but the materials are definitely tiered 3 and 4. The shaft itself looks like it's pure kaglese." I rub my hands together, listening to Nathanael.

“And you sent it by runner already?” I ask for the third time.

“It should be at your gates any minute now, my lady,” Nathanael reassures me, unperturbed by me asking the same question again.

"I'll contact you as soon as I inspect the arrow," I inform him.

"I'll be waiting, my lady." The connection cuts out between us, and the mage in front of me wipes the sweat from their face.

"Good job holding the connection," I tell the mage. Messages sent by magic are usually short to save mana, but I talked to Nathanael for nearly twenty minutes.

“Thank you for the praise, General Pitz. May I…?” the mage looks at a nearby bench.

I nod my head, acknowledging his rest request. I leave the exhausted mage behind and start walking towards the front gate, followed by Cristopher in the shadows.

“Cristopher, send word to Norah to meet me in my office.” I send my steward to have our enchanter ready to inspect the arrow as soon as it arrives. I’ve been checking in with the enchanter regularly these days, enough so that I finally learned her name.

My smile widens when I feel Cristopher’s presence disappear.

Everyone I pass trembles as I walk by and gives me a large berth. I should probably rein in my enthusiasm, but I've been waiting for this order for a while now. And the arrow has to be good, or that sniveling merchant wouldn't dare throw out a 40-gold price tag for the next one.

“Ready to open the gate! Personal delivery arriving!” I call out, causing the people in charge of the massive doors to jump in surprise.

The gate guards steal glances at me as they prepare to crack open the doors to allow the runner through. I rarely come here myself, considering I'm able to leave by hopping over the walls. At least I’ve slowly become used to my men staring at me.

“Runner arriving! Confirmation 712-35v!” We all hear the authentication code coming from beyond the gate. Without being told, the gatekeepers crack the doors for the runner to come in.

The camouflaged runner slips past the gates and buckles over panting.

“Runner through, closing!” The gatekeepers echo to one another as they quickly shut and lock the gates. Scholl hasn't made a push to take the fort in over a week, but we can never be too careful.

I walk over to the winded runner. “You have your delivery?”

"For the general's arms only," he wheezes, facing the ground, not realizing who he's talking to.

“That’s why I’m here, soldier.” It’s hard not to laugh when the runner jumps upon hearing me.

The runner's camouflage isn't strong enough to keep me from seeing his shocked reaction underneath. “Please forgive me, general. I didn’t notice you were waiting for me.” He hesitates between saluting me and dropping to his knees to beg for forgiveness.

I may enjoy giving the men a little scare now and again, but I don't know where their image of me comes from? It's not like I would kill one of our best runners just because he didn't notice I was standing here.

I shake my head in dissatisfaction, which causes the runner to pale. "Just hand me the delivery," I choose to move on rather than taking the time to explain why I'm not mad at the poor man.

He hands me the wooden box with trembling hands.

I put part of my strength into my legs and rocket away from the staring soldiers who were expecting me to punish the frightened runner.

You kill one spy impersonating one of your men, and everyone thinks you're a homicidal general, I complain to myself.

I ignore everyone's shouts of surprise as I rush to my office.

My displeasure quickly fades when I open the door to my office and see Cristopher and Norah waiting for me.

“Is that it?” Cristopher points at the box I’m carrying in my arms.

“It is,” I answer him as I step into my room and shut the door behind me.

“Did you look at it yet?” I’m a little surprised by Cristopher’s excitement. I can understand why Norah looks like she’s about to explode with excitement, but I didn't think Cristopher would be this enthusiastic overseeing my delivery as well.

"I haven't had time yet; move out of the way." I brush him aside and set the box on top of my desk. Norah moves closer to me but keeps a respectful distance between us.

I flick the simple latch holding the box shut and open the case. The box must have been used to hold a sword, and it's obvious it was randomly grabbed to hold the arrow.

I frown, seeing the rags and other miscellaneous fabrics packed into the small box so the contents wouldn’t shift in transit. Why the waste of material? Any arrow meant for me wouldn't be damaged even if you set a crate on top of it?

Reaching into the fabric, my fingers brush up against a smooth metallic surface. Like pulling a magic gem out of a mud pit, the beautiful arrow slips out of discarded textiles.

“It looks nice, but is it that good?”

“General?”

“Are you ok?!”

I hear Cristopher's voice, but it’s nothing more than a ringing in my ears. I blankly stare at the arrow in my hands.

The shaft is pure kaglese mixed with mithril, and for the fletching, they used fechin feathers, both good materials but not rare by any standards. However, I've never seen the material used for the arrowhead.

My eyes travel every inch of the arrow, taking in its immaculate form. An appraiser would swear it was cast forged, but I can instinctually tell it wasn't forged in such a cheap way.

As I pour my magic into the arrow, it freely flows through the whole thing and gathers in the arrowhead. I've held pure kaglese swords before, but none of them have channeled my magic this smoothly.

A hand waves in front of my face breaking my concentration. "General! Is it cursed, maybe poisoned?!" Cristopher shouts in my ear.

“What are you yelling for, fool?” I snap at my steward.

"Thank the gods," he shouts. "As soon as the two of you looked at the arrow, you froze. I thought it might have been a trap of some sort from Scholl."

"What?" I glare at the overdramatic man. I look over at my side and see Norah staring wide-eyed at the arrow in my hands.

Is that what I looked like? Maybe Cristopher was right to be worried?

“Norah,” I try calling out to her.

“She’s under the same spell you were,” Cristopher informs me.

"Norah!" I activate Commanding Voice, and the girl finally notices I was calling out to her.

"Y-e-s g-e-n-e-r-a-l!" She stumbles for a response. It takes a minute for her brain to catch up, but when it does, her cheeks turn crimson. "I'm sorry," she hangs her head in shame or embarrassment, I'm not sure which.

"It's fine; I was surprised too." I offer her the arrow.

"May I?" She asks, flustered.

“Would I be offering it to you otherwise?” I raise an eyebrow at the enchanter.

She carefully takes the arrow from my hands and holds it to her eye, focusing on the detailed maker’s mark.

“Is there something wrong with the arrow?” Cristopher asks.

I can’t help but scoff at the idea. “Far from it, the arrow is better than I ever dreamed,” I inform my steward.

“Really?” He asks in disbelief.

I nod my head. “The arrows we bought from Kervin were good for an archer around level 75. That arrow,” I point at the arrow Norah is currently drooling over, “Was made for someone over level 100.”

Cristopher finally realizes why Norah and I were spellbound. I’ve bought plenty of arrows over the years, and I have experience with arrows meant for someone above level 100. Creating something meant to be freely used by someone with high stats is hard to do, even for experienced artisans. I'd dare say the materials she used to forge this arrow have been pushed to their very limits. Even if a Stone kin master smith used the same materials, I doubt they could forge a better arrow.

“Is it as good as the arrows you order from the Stone Kin?” Cristopher hastily asks.

“No, it isn't to that level yet," I inform him. "I don't know what Stone Kin use to forge my arrows, but even when I level, they can still handle my increased stats. Other than using my tier 5 skills, the arrows I buy from the Stone Kin don't break, ever. My specialty arrows are meant for level 125+; this arrow is good for someone between level 100 and level 110."

“So only a difference of fifteen levels, that isn’t so bad,” Cristopher remarks.

He makes it sound so easy. Not even 1% of blacksmiths in our kingdom ever make something like this, and the person who forged it is a young village girl living out in the middle of nowhere.

After level 100, it becomes harder and harder to find materials that can stand up to your stats. Every five levels or so, a person above level 100 need to replace their equipment. Not only did she make something useful for someone above level 100, but it would last them their next ten levels. There are only maybe ten individuals in our kingdom that would have proper use of an arrow like this.

I’ve found a future hegemon of Olebert. Someone who quite possibly will be able to compete with Stone Kin craftsmen.

“Norah.”

“Yes, general?” She looks up from the arrow.

"I want you to enchant it, so it's as durable as possible. Can you do it?"

"I'll do my best, but it will take me some time to accomplish. I've never worked on something like this before. If I mess up on the engraving, I can do more harm than good," she honestly tells me.

“I understand. Take your time and inform me when it’s ready.”

"I'll get started on it right away." I nod my head, and Norah practically bursts through my office’s door, heading for her workshop.

“Cristopher, take over command outside for a while. I need some time alone.”

My appointed steward gives me a questioning glance but agrees to my request. He shuts my door behind him as he leaves, and I patiently wait for him to stop hiding outside.

Once I’m sure I can no longer sense Cristopher lurking outside, I reach into a small pocket that's hidden in my belt. I pull out a gold ring that's encrusted with ten different mana gems and slip it on my finger.

I pour mana into the magic item and wait for Nathanael to pick up. As long as one person is supplying mana to one of the rings, the connection will form even if Nathanael can't use magic himself.

