"Dragon rain getting worse," Phlogis said. He seemed more comfortable with speaking again now that the topic wasn't specifically about the disappearance of dragonkind, though there was a clear despondence in the way he spoke and stood. "Likely cause is dragons. Always present, but now inhabiting symbol-realm."

"Dragons have always been symbolically dense, but they have now shifted their entire existence into the metaphorical symbolic realm," Tajia translated. "Some mages suspect that dragon rain has been worsening because of leakage from their seal."

"You don't agree with them?" Cale asked. There was something tense about the way she'd said that.

"No," Tajia said, scowling. "They gave up everything to help us. That sort of framing makes it sound like it is their fault."

"What do you think is the cause, then?"

"They are hurting," Tajia said simply. "We do not know the extent of the effects of the spell that transformed them into a symbolic seal, but I cannot imagine that maintaining your identity and sense of self in such a state is easy, even for a dragon. I do not believe the seal is leaking so much as it is disintegrating from a symbolic assault, perhaps from the same contamination that we caused in the first place."

"Agree," Phlogis said. "Not dragon fault. Must help. Many mages trying, but hard. Cannot find problem. Cannot identify contamination to neutralize."

He seemed frustrated. Which made sense, if his summoner was, in fact, one of the dragons. Cale frowned; he wasn't certain he could help just yet, but he did know that their best bet was likely going to be in direct analysis of the dragon rain when it came tomorrow.

At least with this, he had a better idea of what they needed to prepare for. The only thing that remained was—

"Instructor Phlogis," Professor Graystalk said. He bowed slightly to Phlogis, who seemed startled and uncomfortable about the gesture. "Would you mind if I made use of the equipment within this room? I believe it is my turn to present, and while I am unfamiliar with the alchemy you use, my knowledge may still be essential for the trials to come."

Cale stared up at him in surprise. He had been wondering about that, but was Graystalk planning to teach his secrets to the humans of the University, as well? This was no longer a simple dungeon demonstration—if they were secrets, then he would be giving away those secrets freely.

Graystalk smiled at him, as if he knew what he was thinking. "Do not worry," he said. "I believe this is what my family would wish of me, and with what I have learned here, I am certain I can refine the art to greater heights besides."

Ah, casual arrogance! Cale snickered; it was a surprisingly good look on the professor. "Well," he said. "Show us what you got, then."

Graystalk made his way up to the stage and began without missing a beat; all three of the instructors leaned forward as he began, drawn to the power that became clear to them the moment he pulled his wand out from his pocket. "One might consider focus-crafting to be a form of alchemy—at least, the variant of it refined by House Graystalk, upon our discovery of the importance of history when it comes to magical foci..."
