Oh Mother Above, please keep Rain from causing another incident. Everyone else could handle themselves, but Rain was running dangerously short on goodwill from… well… everyone… everywhere.

Thankfully, after working together to keep Nan Ping from devolving into blood and ashes for the past week, Yuzhen boasted a civil working relationship with her counterparts, and even though she was last to arrive, she found them both waiting at the docks so they could greet the Legate together. While not as enthusiastic as his cousin Shi-Woo, Central’s Marshal Yo Jeong-Hun was a pragmatic man who saw how the Legate favoured the Bekhai, and like Yuzhen, had no idea why. He also didn’t know Yuzhen shared in his ignorance, and thus was only too happy to work alongside the North and keep Central’s nobles in line. He’d even convinced the younger generation to stop challenging the number one talent in the North, though Rain probably wouldn’t thank him for it. Twenty thousand gold was hardly enough to sate the degenerate gambler and thrill seeker, and only his subsequent exile from the city kept him from robbing the youths of Central blind.

Rain liked to play the part of innocent victim, but Yuzhen was beginning to see through his facade.

The Southern Marshal Quyen Huong was an entirely different sort of beast. The dark-skinned southerners were known for their priggish ways, believing women had no place in politics or the battlefield and should remain safe at home to bear children and wash clothes. As both a female politician and sterile half-beast, Yuzhen doubly offended Marshal Huong’s sensibilities and he wasn’t shy about making it known. As luck would have it though, most Southerners were unused to seeing so much water in one place and were more than happy to frolic on the beaches instead of making trouble inside Nan Ping, so there was little need to meet with Marshal Huong in person. A good thing too, because the last time they met, Gerel almost drew his sword and hacked the insufferable twit to pieces for calling Yuzhen a barren seductress who’d stolen her position from a feeble and ailing old man.

Hell, if he said it again, Yuzhen would hack Huong apart herself.

As host of the events, Marshal Yo Jeong-Hun was given the honour of presenting his gifts first, the most eye catching of which was a gargantuan pearl the size of a melon. Marshal Huong went next, presenting a silken pouch of saffron worth a hundred times its weight in gold alongside a box of rare and precious Spiritual Herbs Yuzhen had never heard of. When her turn came, she gave a short speech which was repeated to the rest of Nan Ping by the Crier, attesting to the practical and pragmatic mindset of the North before presenting her gift: dozens of ships laden with seasoned lumber, processed ore, dyed cloth, and tanned leather, all resources sorely needed for the war efforts to come. While they were all basic resources without too much individual value, the sheer quantity involved meant her gift was easily the most costly of her peers, one advantage of controlling the most lucrative city in the North.

Of course, she wasn’t foolish enough to cheat the Legate of a personal gift. Presenting him a rolled up scroll, she smiled in victory when the Legate unfurled it and gasped, revealing ‘One Hundred Horses’ to the people of Nan Ping, the crowning masterpiece of famed painter Lang Shining. Believed to have been lost a hundred and fifty years ago, she had Rain to thank for this, insisting she accept something from Yo Ling’s treasure stash since her foolish betrothed declined his fair share. All Gerel wanted was another Spiritual Weapon, likely because Rain would soon have his third and her sweet, competitive betrothed didn’t want to fall behind.

Silly man, he should know better than that. Quality over quantity, and skill over size were what mattered most, in combat and in... other pursuits.

Having earned much face for the North, Yuzhen felt like skipping back to her horse until the Crier summoned the next group to the stage. Falling Rain, the five members of the Hwarang, and three famed young warriors from the South. Nine hotheaded, glory-seeking youths, each one standing at the forefront of their peers, called to take the stage together, and Rain without an ally beside him.

If Yuzhen didn’t know any better, she’d think the Legate wanted to start a brawl.

Racing back to her room, she arrived in time to see Rain riding along the shore while the Guardian Turtle swam through the bay, with one of his soldiers flying his banner, a white flag bearing the side-profile of a bunny in a bow-tie. According to Gerel, were one to Watch carefully, they would also see Rain’s pet cloud chaser hare perched on the banner’s crossbeam, head held high in regal pride as if displaying its adorable silken bow-tie. Rain’s other pets were mercifully absent, especially the discordant Laughing Birds he so fawned upon, and Yuzhen thanked the Mother for small favours.

Three of the Hwarang had already reached the stage before Rain and were waiting for the rest of their peers before setting foot on the stage, a show of solidarity they copied from the three preceding Marshals. As the highest ranked youth among them, Rain’s retinue was five time larger than the others, even if only at half strength. Unfortunately, Rain’s retinue also looked highly disjointed at first glance, lacking a neat, uniformed appearance like the professional soldiers of the Hwarang. Being mounted on a mix of quins and horses wasn’t even the worst of it, Rain’s retinue was made up of thieves, cutthroats, slaves, and woodsmen, and they all looked the part. Ripped sleeves and exposed midriffs, piercings and tattoos aplenty, yet the former bandits still looked better than the shabby, half-dressed ‘woodsmen’ of the Protectorate. Much to her chagrin, she noted that the best dressed members of Rain’s retinue were the slaves, Dastan and his former cronies from the Coalition.

Rain himself wasn’t much better. Wearing standard leather Sentinel armour, he looked no different from any other properly dressed soldier under his command. In fact, were it not for his three Spiritual Weapons and the banner flying behind him, Yuzhen doubted anyone would pick out such an unremarkable and ordinary looking youth as the ‘Undying Savage’.

Well, at least he wasn’t slouching. Small victories.

Ignoring his peers waiting for everyone to arrive, Rain trotted onto the floating stage alone, soon followed by the Guardian Turtle and his retinue. Rude and perhaps an unintended slight, but that was what Rain did. Spying the wagons containing his gifts, Yuzhen closed her eyes and regretted not working harder to change his mind. Why couldn’t he just pick out a nice vase or a jade sculpture to give away, a simple, safe, and all but free gift? Even if it’s origins were traced back to stolen goods, he could claim it was a gift from her, something she’d ‘found’ among the Golden Highland Coalition’s goods like the painting she’d gifted. Besides, who would dare demand the Legate return a gift?

Too late worrying about it now. Rain’s fate lay in the hands of the Mother, and Yuzhen could only pray he emerged unscathed.

Chapter Meme
