“Well, the seeds’ll probably be planted before he gets back,” Pyre said, voice still languid and casual. Daphne didn’t know how the demon stayed so calm. Even if she didn’t care about the invasion itself, her life and soul were literally on the line here.

“That’s true,” she said slowly. Speaking of the seeds, she glanced up at the clock. Callan should be heading back soon. Daphne rose from her seat and made her way towards the door, Pyre following a step behind.

The walk down the hall and towards the manor exit was quiet. Daphne forced herself to step evenly with her head high, even pausing to chat with Harris just to keep up the pretense. Finally, after a nod at the guards standing on either side of the door, she stepped back outdoors and made her way towards the trees.

It was a bit of a trek to reach the western wall. The Bellhein property was ridiculously large, after all, but in this case the distance made it easier to move without anyone noticing them.

As Daphne walked, she kept glancing over at Pyre, the demon’s presence a silent constant. She looked exactly the same as she had the first day she’d arrived at the manor, bandages wrapped tightly around her flesh, broad shoulders and hulking height making her impossible to miss. She remembered the demon mentioning her true form in the library. A giant mound of flesh, she’d said. It was hard to imagine, considering how human Pyre looked right now, but then Daphne thought back to the mass of flesh her arm had turned into in the sanctum.

The demon glanced over and raised an eyebrow, noticing the mage’s staring. “What?” She sounded amused, but it was a mild thing. All of her emotions were like that—mild at most, always a little detached. Daphne wondered if it was her personality or a result of her missing soul. Or maybe it was a demon thing.

“Nothing,” she muttered.

The mage faced forward again, not slowing her pace until she could make out the stone wall beyond the trees. She didn’t see any guards swarming the area, which was already a good sign. Daphne moved more quickly, half-running over to the wall and pressing her ear against it.

“Coast’s clear,” a low voice said behind her.

Daphne glanced over and saw an… arm? Limb? It looked like an extra blob of flesh had been extended up from the center of Pyre’s palm, sticking up through the canopy like some kind of fucked up watchtower. At its tip, she could see what looked like a round eye.

A laugh rose, unbidden, in Daphne’s chest. She shook her head. She probably shouldn’t be surprised, after the library office key debacle.

Turning back to the wall, the mage carefully pressed her hand against it. She waited, shoulders tense, for the stone to unfurl and open. It was only when Callan’s familiar form floated forward that she relaxed a little.

“They’re planted,” the ghost rushed to say. He was vibrating a little in the air, either from nerves or excitement. “No one saw me, I don’t think, and I can feel the ichor connection, so there’s probably nothing wrong with the spell. At least, not yet.”

“Nice job, kid,” Pyre said. Callan smiled, pleased. Daphne couldn’t help but return the look. The two’s interactions really did seem so… normal, despite them both being monsters.

Former human monsters, she corrected in her head. The distinction was important—or at least, it was to her.

Turning to the wall again, the noble pressed her hand against the stone to close the gap back up. After a minute, the wall was back in place, perfectly solid, the guards and her uncle none the wiser.

She glanced up. Through the leaves, she could see that the sun was still high in the sky.

“Let’s head back,” she said. She nodded at Callan. “You can start channeling more ichor into the seeds, then tomorrow…” Her gaze moved to Pyre then, brown meeting steady grey. “Tomorrow, you plant the one in the garrison.”

After that, all three circles would be ready. Callan would just need to channel more ichor into the seeds, then they’d be ready to destroy the barrier and stop the invasion once and for all. Daphne took a deep breath.

One more circle.
