-the light of my life, and for the longest time her sickness has caused us nothing but grief,” Alstatyn finished. Of course, the man was grabbed by the collar to face his lover. Still, he did not quail and instead looked towards her, fury in his eyes. “I will not recant my words.”

“This is not the time or place to be squabbling. Everything you ever wanted, I gave you, and now you decide to let your tongue flow freely when I specifically asked that you do not?” the woman angrily hissed. “We do not bare all our cards during negotiations, did we not learn that the hard way when we were but young fools embarking on a journey to learn the wonders of Lonvoron.”

“And where has that gotten us? For ten-thousand years have you given me half-truths, falsehoods and beat around the truth while feeding me nothing of substance. For so long has our world faced the shadow of the Prophet. And now you wish to begin this alliance with more of the same? I say enough!” Alstatyn declared. “For the last seventeen years, your paranoia and reclusiveness have increased in their intensity. And now the chance to get answers, to solve all our problems presents itself and you wish to remain suspicious? Since when did we stop trusting one another? Do… do you not love me?”

“No Alstatyn, wait… I…”

Orodan turned away. Comical as it might have seemed, to witness a powerful woman’s soft spot exposed, it was dishonorable in his eyes to ruin the sanctity of it by watching. Everyone had their weaknesses, and the ability to care for someone wasn’t a bad thing. In fact, he already found his low opinion of this previous time looper softening a little as a result.

“I believe, that is our cue to give them some space,” Orodan said. “Come Fenton, matters of the heart should be given the solace they deserve.”

“No, no. Stop, that will not be necessary, I…” she sighed and took a deep breath. “Perhaps all the spells I have had running all this time have not been good for my mind. Might we start off anew?”

He extended a hand which she met.

“Orodan Wainwright.”

“Almyra.”

It was a great show of trust for this otherwise paranoid woman. To entrust her true name to him, a time looper. It wasn’t just an introduction, but an implicit revealing of something he could use to track her down in any of his following loops if he wanted.

“Almyra?” Orodan asked. “No last name? Or perhaps you’re a Von Flemethy like the King? Though that could depend on the relative prestige of the house…”

On Alastaia at least, either men or women could marry into a family or take their spouse’s name, with custom typically dictating the more prestigious family’s name be taken. His old mentor Adeltaj Simarji for instance, had supposedly married into the prestigious house Simarji of the Eastern Kingdoms long ago.

“Just Almyra. No last names in my backwater village. I’m not a noble, not by birth. I originate from the bog islands; grew up the daughter of a poor fisherman,” she answered and Orodan saw no lie in this. He could respect that upbringing. “I suppose Alstatyn intends to… change that, eventually.”

“Eventually? We must wed right away! For too long have I suffered the indignation of not having my heart bear my last name, it shall not be so any longer!” the King declared, seeming jubilant as ever.

“We have much to do, with less than a week before our position is known, we must set about making preparations for the Prophet’s descent. I want to marry you Alstatyn, I do, but we must ensure our own survival first,” she softly explained.

The King sighed.

“I hate when you make sense…”

“Which just so happens to be all the time,” she fired back with a smirk.

“The things I put up with… ah, but where are my manners? Mister Orodan Wainwright, is it? I am Alstatyn Von Flemethy, as you doubtlessly heard during my shameless display of groveling,” the King said.

“And I am the legendary Talricto the Wanderer. Yes, yes… you may remain suitably in awe,” the spider said.

The King’s face turned a little sour as the haughty spider introduced himself, but the man held his tongue.

“A dimensional phase spider, a most… troublesome species. Every time I attempted to surveil Orodan Wainwright your presence put a stop to those plans,” Almyra admitted. “Having you on our side does put me at ease I shall admit.”

“Best dimensionalist I’ve ever met. He’s a little prickly but has a good heart,” Orodan added and then clapped the shoulder of the boy next to him. “And this here…”

“Is Fenton Penny. A name I’ve come to know all too unfortunately late,” the previous looper admitted. “Your talent in Enchanting is… most impossible.”

“No different to my talent in Cleaning,” Orodan said. “Now, let us speak of business. You said we have less than a week before the Prophet descends?”

“Yes… I have studied the tapestry of fate and the fabric of the cosmos. You affected both of these things quite severely. You gained a skill level did you not? Did… you achieve Embodiment? Only true monsters can cause such a reaction upon doing so,” she said.

“Ah, about that… I merely reached level 150 in my Celestial skill,” Orodan admitted. “I have yet to become an Embodier, but it’s close I feel.”

The room went silent, and Alstatyn’s eyes widened.

“You… are not even an Embodier yet?” the King asked. “How can that be?”

Almyra however gave him an assessing look as though something had clicked together in her head.

“I see… no wonder I was cast aside,” she said. “What a monster you are… this truly was meant to be, wasn’t it? Perhaps you really are the System’s last desperate gambit borne of necessity.”

“Explain.”

“Embodiment isn’t just any other standard level like going from Elite to Master. Even Gods and Transcendents, minus the trial of ascension, operate much the same as anyone else. Prior to level 150, everyone is mostly the same when using a skill,” she explained. “But past that… the moment a Transcendent ascends to reach the Embodiment-level, the tapestry of fate ripples with what impact they could have, and beyond even that… reality itself seems to know. At that level, it’s no longer just a game of skill, but one which is a zero-sum game. Embodiers not only compete to gain understandings and steal concepts from other rival Embodiers of the same or related skill, but they also lose out on power if their rivals understand things that they don’t or have a deeper comprehension of something that they also study. During our battle, the tapestry and cosmos shook more violently than any recorded past Embodiment I’ve researched. But if you say that you haven’t even reached Embodiment yet, then…”

Orodan was in a lot of trouble and would be attracting the attention of everyone.

“Just another day for the stubborn skill-grinder in a time loop. Aren’t you glad you’ll get to make so many friends soon?” Zaessythra cheerfully asked in a saccharine tone.

“I’ll be drawing a lot of people to your galaxy when I do,” Orodan said.

“You’ve already done so, or will in less than a week. The tapestry is still in pandemonium, but when things settle just enough, anyone capable of reading fate or rival Embodiers who hone the same concept as you will come flocking, thinking a new Embodier’s been born,” Almyra explained. “They’ll either demand you join their factions, or try to eliminate you to claim your insights and comprehensions for themselves and free up the metaphorical space at the top. Death, for us… or I should say, for you, isn’t the end. But what should concern you, is that after achieving Embodiment, every single loop of yours will start with the tapestry going haywire. You’ll have a week, maybe less, to solidify your position every time you start over. It already felt as though the System itself was announcing the arrival of the strongest new Embodier ever seen… but you haven’t even achieved that level yet…”

“No wonder I’ve never seen an Embodiment-level being until I left the bounds of my galaxy,” Orodan said. “They must all be hiding from one another in paranoia.”

“Not only from one another, but mainly from the Administrators, each of whom are the strongest Embodiers of their respective skills. Embodiment is a lonely path, and the only other Embodier besides myself who dares to live in the open is the first dwarf, the leader of their race, who dwells at the center of a sealed and re-purposed black hole at the center of a galaxy he controls entirely,” she explained. “The rest… are all hiding in secluded meditation, hoping to jockey over insights and comprehensions.”

“Fair enough. But if I already did this without achieving Embodiment, then what does it mean?” Orodan asked.

“I do not know. In all my years and loops, I’ve never seen such pandemonium occur all throughout the tapestry, as though the System itself feared what was coming,” Almyra explained.

Her words seemed flowery, but Orodan knew the truth of what was coming. Perhaps the System was right to fear his ascension, after all…

…one of his chief goals was to destroy it.

“I shan’t tarry on what I cannot answer,” Orodan said. “But for now, there’s much we can answer. Not only are the Gods of Lonvoron working against you, but I’ve also come seeking you for your knowledge on a particular subject. The creation of a new soul.”

“I concur, but before we deal with any of that, our common foe comes first,” the previous looper said. “We must first determine our respective strengths and weaknesses, to that end, narrating the story of our time loops to one another might help. The Prophet seems a daunting foe… but with two time loopers working together, it need not be an insurmountable challenge.”

“Aye, I might have a plan or two that may help alongside a few loose ends to tie up,” Orodan said. “Let me tell you about this fate reader I met on Port Bellgrave…”

#

“I don’t usually get the feeling of frustration from you, Orodan.”

“And I usually am not, yet I cannot help but feel a slight bit of impatience when I’m so close to the secrets necessary to bring you back and that woman would dangle them above my head with the condition of victory,” Orodan replied. “I’m not dishonorable enough to force help from anyone… but I simply hope she keeps her end of the bargain.”

If it were just himself he was concerned about, Orodan would care not. But when the repair of Zaessythra’s soul and her potential resurrection was on the line, it was a different matter.

He felt the warm embrace of her feelings enveloping his mind and soul, as though gently assuaging him, but it did little to quell the flames of determination within his heart.

One way or another, Orodan would bring her back. And in order to do that, the Prophet, an Administrator, needed to die.

It was an impossible task to ask of anyone. Even the mightiest of Embodiers would balk at the task of having to kill an Administrator, and Orodan was expected to do so?

He smiled. Were horrible odds not his specialty? Back against the wall, a superior foe approaching… this was exactly the environment he excelled in.

Still, the rest of the conversation had been enlightening.

Almyra, soon to be Von Flemethy he supposed, was the time looper before him.

A lethally effective mage, schemer and faction leader of the Embodiment-level. A woman who’d started off as the daughter of a fisherman in the bog islands, dying when pirates raided her village and killed everyone at the age of sixteen.

Stricken with a horrid curse right from birth, her loops hadn’t been easy. Orodan realized that he had a serious advantage he’d overlooked. Seventeen years of hard labor, combat and rigorous training had essentially shaped his body into a weapon. Even before the time loops, on the day of them, Orodan Wainwright was about as well-honed and in-shape as a young man his size could get.

But what if he’d begun every loop sick, cursed and near death as his vitality refused to flow from his soul to his body? Physical training? Fighting foes? How much harder would everything have been?

Of course, a deranged part of his mind felt that might be good training, but even he had to admit the difficulty would have been astronomical. After all, Orodan was as much a product of his circumstances as he was a result of his nature. Who knew whether Orodan could have succeeded under such circumstances?

It was what made him respect Almyra all the more, having clawed her way to magical proficiency through watching natural creatures and eventually getting herself into one of the universities where she met a young Alstatyn. She hadn’t spoken too much of her personal affairs, but from what he gleaned, the King was very important to her heart. One of the few people who’d stood by her in all her early loops whenever she met him.

Unlike Orodan, who’d traversed the path of the warrior, she’d instead walked the path of magic. Unlike he who’d sought to beat his foes through brute force repetition and the ferocity of his martial prowess, she instead planned, schemed and gathered allies aplenty, striking ruthlessly via tactics and efficient ploys.

Who had the patience to orchestrate over a hundred separate political feints and maneuvers in order to carefully position the current King on the throne? Certainly not Orodan.

Furthermore, she’d done what he’d never thought to, which was the weaponization of her world and all the surrounding ones into one massive faction. How powerful could Alastaia and its surrounding worlds be if Orodan decided to create a faction rivaling the Hegemony? His focus on personal strength robbed him of the answer.

