Orodan’s arm nearly vaporized, reduced to flecks of charred ash and carbonized bone, and yet… it was his attack that won the clash.

Orodan sallied forwards with his punch, overpowering the beam and connecting with a world-ending impact upon the previous looper’s face. His fist carried them with as he continued forth.

The boundaries of the mirror dimension were shattered around them, and they were sailing through the void of the material plane as Orodan’s fist remained connected to his opponent’s face. They flew downwards… straight for Lonvoron and the royal citadel of Storven.

He felt two hands tightly wrap around his wrist, desperately draining life force from him.

This, he allowed, opting not to put an end to it through his own vitality manipulation abilities. He had enough life force to go around, and his opponent didn’t seem to be doing too well.

The clouds parted as they entered the atmosphere, and with pinpoint accuracy, Orodan hurled the previous looper down upon the citadel’s roof, sending them skipping like a stone across the hard granite surface. When they came to a stop, they were limp for a moment, knocked out cold.

A deep gasp of air broke the silence, and his fallen foe rose to their feet shakily, inhaling great gulps of air and looking very dazed. The protective and illusory spells surrounding them were failing but still present, and through the flickering illusions he could see pale and horrifyingly sickly skin, the remnants of a tattered and opulent dress, and a physical form which was frail… far too frail.

“I have many more contingencies in place, spells which will trigger upon my death, allies that will know once I am slain,” they said, but the spells surrounding their voice began failing and Orodan considered that it might well be a her. “You will not leave Lonvoron alive.”

“I wasn’t planning on it. You were a time looper, you know as well as I that these loops don’t conclude with us alive at the end of them,” Orodan said, and then he smiled. “But… I did at least get to give you a good punch in the face as I said I would.”

“And though this may well end me… the Mantle can be charged fully at great cost of one’s sanity. It only requires… embracing the Eldritch,” she said as the power began to flow through her once more. “This… is not over.”

Orodan however, consider it finished then and there. Especially as the Administrator’s Mantle began wildly charging with energy. System energy was derived from the very thing which empowered the System. At root, it came from the Boundless One at the heart of it all, it was Eldritch.

As the power of the plague began corrupting her… he needed only one thing.

The broom which was produced from his dimensional ring.

Broom met System energy, yet it wouldn’t be enough! The amount of energy in that desperate beam was simply too strong. He would end the fight, but would likely die himself.

Or he would have… if Orodan hadn’t been training Vision of Purity all this time through one very important method.

Seeing everything as dirty.

If everything was dirty, than anything could be cleaned. System energy, spellcraft, his enemies… they could all be eradicated through the power of Domain of Perfect Cleaning.

And as his broom pushed forward, empowered by the light of his soul, it targeted two things. The System energy beam which threatened to kill him and possibly destroy multiple star systems. And the thousands of spells woven over the woman who was so hell bent on killing him.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 149 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 150]

[Reality Alteration 57 → Reality Alteration 60]

The beam of System energy was utterly eradicated, as was the plague and the thousands of spells covering the previous looper.

And with it…

…Orodan reached the peak of Transcendence.

“Even I can sense the change in the air… the very fabric of existence is shifting…” Zaessythra muttered.

She wasn’t wrong. He could sense the tapestry of fate going haywire in a way the shield around his fate simply couldn’t prevent. It was as though existence naturally warped and went crazy with that singular skill level gain. All around, in the city of Storven, he felt the Systems within every single individual, animal and monster tremble.

As though reality itself was heralding something. How far out this phenomenon went he didn’t know.

Frankly, he wasn’t sure if any other peak-Transcendent could cause such a stir by gaining a single level. But then again, Orodan was the most talented cleaner in System space. Perhaps reality itself could sense he was more than capable of achieving Embodiment?

In any case… this would draw attention. This was the second time it had occurred this loop too.

“You… you’ve reached Embodiment, haven’t you?” his defeated foe asked, utterly spent. “You’re inviting a reckoning unto yourself, everything will come after you as it did me. Transcendents, rival Embodiers and above all, those terrifying beings themselves… the Administrators.”

“Embodiment? This isn’t that,” Orodan calmly replied as he stepped towards her. “As for the Administrators? “I know… I’ve been fighting them for a while now,”

“You lie… how can anyone face the power of the System itself gathered unto a being? Maybe the Reject? But no… at your level that would be impossible…”

“Accepting what is and isn’t impossible is a good way to limit yourself. But we’ve spoken long enough, come, let us end this,” Orodan said. “Who knows how long this loop will last now that I’ve sent out that same signal for the second time…”

“You’re right… let’s. I shall not surrender, Orodan Wainwright. This meeting has gone… regrettably, but I sense reconciliation is no longer possible at this point,” she said. “Just tell… tell Alstatyn that I-”

But before he could step any closer, he felt space warp and two figures step between them.

“Mister Orodan!”

“Almyra!”

“Talricto!”

The spider, whose intrusion Orodan hadn’t even detected this time, announced himself, breaking the tension of the situation. Fenton was in front of Orodan, stopping him from advancing, and King Alstatyn was in front of the previous looper, preventing her from fighting.

The King of the Blackworth Collective however did a double take upon seeing the dimensional spider.

“You! Return my crown!”

“Your crown? With such poor vigilance over it can it truly be considered yours?” Talricto asked.

“I should have the void fleets called to seize you immediately!” Alstatyn shouted.

“Now hold on just a moment… I was merely helping test the quality of your personal guards! If anything, you should be firing them and thanking me! Besides, can’t you just make another one?”

“Make another one?! It’s symbolic, it’s-”

Orodan however ignored their bickering and gently pushed past Fenton to continue walking towards his target.

“No! Mister Orodan! You two can’t fight! With everythin’ that’s going on we can’t afford to have the two time loopers do battle!” Fenton pleaded. “The plague might be comin’ back and we need you both!”

“At ease Fenton… who said I was going to fight her?”

“…eh?”

Even Almyra, the castaway time looper, stilled at his words. She remained tense, but saw no hostility in his approach and therefore didn’t immediately attack. The King stood before her, ferocious protectiveness in his eyes, clearly the relationship between the two of them wasn’t a simple one.

Yet, as Orodan approached, she struggled but got to her feet, and stepped in front of Alstatyn, still dead set on defending the King despite her wounded and depleted state.

Orodan sheathed his weapons and put away his broom…

…and his open hand was offered to the woman.

“I attacked you… tried assaulting your mind and then killing you when things didn’t go my way,” she weakly said. “What… what is the meaning of this?”

“If I killed everyone who attacked me, I would be quite short of friends,” Orodan said. “Besides, how else can two people understand one another without a good brawl?”

“You… you punched me in the face!”

“And you sent a legion of minions after me and assaulted my mind,” Orodan shot back. “Good attack.”

“…are you expecting me to say that was a good punch?” she asked, bewildered. “Is this how you knucklehead warriors go about establishing friendships?”

“Why not? You attacked me, I attacked you… we’ve both gotten the measure of one another and we have a common foe who looms above the both of us,” Orodan said.

“The Prophet… it hounds your steps too?”

“Aye. I can’t beat an Administrator alone… not yet, but, I suspect you can’t either.”

“And how are you certain of that fact?”

“Because in an older loop, the last time you clashed with the Prophet in earnest, you were forced to flee,” Orodan said.

For a moment, her sickly and pale face took on a whole range of emotions. Disbelief at her loss, the denial of his words… and then finally, acceptance as she shook her head subtly.

“And why then have you come to Lonvoron specifically? What has you so certain that I won’t seek to betray you and regain my status as a time looper?”

“Because I need something, the secret to creating a soul from nothing,” Orodan said, causing her eyes to flash with recognition. “And you already betrayed me during one of my loops, a long time ago. But you can’t do that, not anymore… since I now empower them myself.”

“But how?” she asked, refusing to believe his words.

“Work with me, and you shall have your answers and more.”

Her hand met Orodan’s outstretched one. And as they shook… he realized that she too had the same curse laid upon her that Fenton’s mother did.

And instead of bandying words, decided to just purge it.

#

Orodan leaned against the wall, arms crossed as he focused on gently channeling Candleflame throughout his body like a pulse and then withdrawing the fires at intervals.

“Your eyes are lightin’ up like candles whenever you do that ser!”

“Given that the spell is called Candleflame, I would think so Fenton,” Orodan said. “Be careful if you attempt the same thing. You’ll need to develop Fire Resistance first.”

Fenton’s face blanched at that suggestion. Orodan had told the boy often enough how resistance skills were acquired without Bloodlines or rituals.

“And I wonder who taught you Dimensionalism to the point where you could manage that?” a certain arrogant spider asked, sitting on a luxurious chair with a crown atop his head.

“Without the many whippings I suffered during our spars, I wouldn’t have gotten my body and magic in enough sync with my dimensional nature to be capable of doing this,” Orodan admitted. “Thank you, truly.”

Talricto vibrated haughtily.

“Hmmph! Just remember this favor when you go around smashing galaxies down the line.”

He certainly would. Orodan always repaid his debts.

“Er… how long are we supposed to be waitin’ here ser?” Fenton asked.

“As long as it takes the two of them to square things away,” Orodan said. “Having a life-altering illness suddenly cured isn’t a small matter. Your mother suffered from the same ailment, you should know how that felt.”

If anything, Fenton had managed to weasel out of being paraded in front of all Storven. Clyburn would be the only one receiving any public awards while Fenton was whisked away for a ‘private meeting’ with the King. Something which would ironically cause more stir and speculation than any public ceremony.

“Aye, I do. You can’t help but go around bein’ a hero eh?”

“I’d hardly call that heroic… I saw a problem, and I solved it with my own hands,” Orodan replied. “Did you not see the problem of the plague and solve it alongside Clyburn?”

“Right but that’s-”

The door to the King’s solar opened, and two people walked in.

One, King Alstatyn Von Flemethy, ruler of the Blackworth Collective and Lonvoron. The other… a woman whose curly hair and skin were a far cry from the sickly-looking thing he’d fought less than an hour ago.

She was dark the way many of those from the Eastern Kingdoms of Alastaia were, with curly hair too. She walked with a curious sense of discovery to her, the King hovering right there ready to catch her. And while the man was fretful, she had a look of barely concealed excitement upon her face as though she was learning to walk again after a long time. It made Orodan wonder… just how many of the spells he saw upon her before were dedicated to keeping her alive and helping her walk?

She looked at him; he looked at her.

Alstatyn and Fenton looked between the both of them, worry apparent that another fight would start up.

“Well… at least you don’t look as though you’ve seen a ghost anymore,” Orodan said.

She frowned, but to her side, the King coughed… attempting to stifle a laugh.

“Laugh it up all you want, your reckoning will come soon Alstatyn,” she said. “Now then, Orodan Wainwright. It seems we have much to-”

The King however had crossed the distance and come before Orodan. The man suddenly clasped Orodan’s hand with both of his own and lowered his head.

“Otherworlder, I shall not forget this debt. I Alstatyn Von Flemethy, King of the Blackworth Collective, son, brother… husband, will forever remain indebted to you. If there is anything-”

Orodan stopped the King’s sincere profession by clasping his shoulders.

“All I did was heal her of the curse that had taken a hold of her soul,” Orodan said. “It’s not like I brought her back to life.”

“You might as well have, she is-”

“Alstatyn!”

