Ethereal mana blades bounced off his skin, repelled by his Mana Resistance. Wisps exploded upon him, having a similarly ineffective impact, and the creatures which mimicked him found their swords and shields simply glancing off, too weak to harm his tough flesh.

And the surface-level marks left by the strongest of these attacks? They healed instantly.

The seconds ticked on, and he gained two more levels in Psionic Resistance as the wills of thirty-six separate worlds crashed into his mind.

It was a frightening level of power and coordination, and he could now see just how strong this previous looper was. It was a network of all the world cores under the Blackworth Collective’s purview, and here, within the seat of their strength, his foe could access the power of them all.

No mortal should have been capable of withstanding such an assault. Even Transcendents of mental combat could at best evade and avoid the assault, not dare to take it on directly.

Of course… the previous looper’s foe this time was no ordinary man.

Seconds turned to minutes, and world cores began to tremble from the exertion; their willpower up against something unfathomable. Planetary consciousnesses which were unused to ever being challenged in their supremacy felt the notion of limits for the first time in their long lives.

“I-impossible… what are you?”

It was the first time since the battle began that he’d heard doubt in their voice… and fear.

A cleaving slash rid his personal space of the chaff attempting to gnaw at him as he met his foe’s eyes through all the illusory veils.

“I thought you observed my spars and battles? Should you not know all of my capabilities then?” Orodan tauntingly asked. “Ah, I see. You must have been under the impression that the fight against those Gods and my training of Fenton were the extent of my strength. Come, let me help fill the gaps in your knowledge.”

Knowledge was power, information was strength. His bumbling attempts at remaining stealthy, while ineffective at remaining undetected entirely, did serve the purpose of hiding the true extent of his strength. Orodan had to grudgingly admit… if he just shut his mouth and hid his might on all his loops, he would likely have a serious advantage against a lot of his opponents through virtue of them being unprepared to face someone with unbreakable will and endless power generation.

“I see… regrettable that capture will not be possible then.”

Those words were the only indicator Orodan had before the Administrator’s Mantle his foe wore began glowing brightly. The amount of System energy coursing through it was titanic and if given enough time to charge up, would certainly kill him if it struck. Something he could not allow as this long loop had goals remaining.

[Dimensional Step 36 → Dimensional Step 37]

He could see why the previous looper had brought him to this alternate dimension. The very boundary of it was layered with traps and defences meant to prevent dimensional travel. Of course, these were deftly avoided by his current skill and finesse in the art.

He stepped out, right next to the main body. Of course, it was ready, and a prepared array activated shunting his target backwards.

A volley of lethal magic shot towards him, a diverse and colorful barrage composed of almost every element he could think of.

“Ignore all of them except the light and darkness spells, your resistances can handle the rest,” Zaessythra advised.

The entirety of Lonvoron in the mirror world shattered, the planet destroyed by the power of his foe’s elemental barrage. Following Zaessythra’s advice, Orodan simply ignored the elements he had resistances for and instead shot out his own volley of Draconic Fireballs towards the previous looper.

These intercepted the light and darkness spells, causing a shockwave which blew the ruined debris field of the planet away, leaving just the void of this alternate dimension for them to fight in.

“Elemental resistances?! Was it Bloodline splicing? Soul devouring? Ritual sacrifice?” they demanded flying backwards while desperately trying to avoid him in melee.

“No… just death after death in the pursuit of strength,” Orodan said shattering another layer of prepared dimensional defences as he traveled directly to them once more.

Further spellfire was exchanged as Orodan began closing the distance. Yet, as he did, it was as though his opponent unerringly knew what he would do and what actions he would take.

A glimpse at the brief tinge of gold lighting up the previous looper’s eyes confirmed what was occurring.

“Reading my fate are you?” Orodan asked.

“Like an open book, any moves you make, I’ve prepared for ahead of time.”

“Prepare for this then.”

His mind split and fractured, each cell thinking different thoughts in a mad cacophony of mental insanity. Yet amidst this chaos, Orodan thrived, even as his opponent began struggling as they were unable to read his actions. One moment his cells wanted to launch fireballs, the next they instead cast high-powered Galewinds. Half of them wanted to throw a knee, the other half wanted him to deliver a thrust of the blade.

Furthermore, his opponent was a mage of great power who had plenty of spells in reserve, floating in the void, ready to fire at their command. Orodan simply roared…

[Commandment of War 49 → Commandment of War 50]

…and summoned the spells’ innate desire to target him, early. These spells which were meant to strike at opportune moments instead fired prematurely, throwing the previous looper’s combat rhythm off.

Good at preparation and tactics, bad at adapting on the fly and raw combat. Orodan’s unpredictable nature caused his foe to struggle. And this struggle and the panic and mental pressure of fighting a superior opponent caused them to make minor mistakes.

Minor errors which added up to openings. A series of spells were cast at the wrong angle, and Orodan took advantage of this to teleport directly next to his foe’s main body, ignoring the clones outright.

This time there were no countermeasures, only the desperate gathering of numerous clones with defensive shields. Yet these availed his opponent not as Orodan’s Smite of Abrupt Deliverance focused unto his fist tore right through eight of the clones and impacted solidly against their sternum.

The barriers were strong, very strong. In defensive magic at least, he might even pronounce them at the Embodiment-level. Yet the damage had been felt all the same as a grunt of pain and surprise echoed out and the previous looper was sent flying back.

“Tch! Your savagery and brutish fists will not be enough! Fleets of the Blackworth Collective! Aid me!”

Dimensional rifts leading to the material plane opened up, and in flew thousands of voidcraft with lethal weaponry. The soldiers within these ships looked as though they’d been plucked from the midst of a battle elsewhere and dragged in. In fact, it looked as though they were chasing someone.

But who?

Orodan had that question answered as a familiar critter sailed through the void of this alternate dimension, skipping about with dimensional steps while nimbly evading pursuers. His palm could only meet his face as he shook his head in disbelief.

“How have you managed to have the entirety of the Collective’s fleets after you?” Orodan asked as Talricto blazed past him. Orodan’s eyes narrowed. “Is… is that a crown on your head?”

“Do not blame me for the inadequacies of the King’s personal guard. He was practically asking me to take it,” Talricto imperiously said. “I see you’re in the midst of a hectic battle yourself. How about we mutually aid one another? Deal with the fleet, and I shall help with your foe.”

Orodan felt the aid unnecessary, but decided to bail his least favorite dimensional spider out of trouble. He teleported to the nearest massive carrier ship which looked the most threatening.

“Enemy on-board! I repeat! Enemy on-board! Send interceptors! Do it-”

The response was too late as Orodan’s hand gripped the sturdiest part of the ship… and hurled it through an open dimensional rift like a javelin. The ships and their crew were designed for such fast travel, so he had no doubt that they’d be fine if a bit disoriented

Swiftly, he jumped from ship to ship, throwing the largest and most threatening ones back through open rifts conjured by Talricto.

All throughout this, the clones of the previous looper continued harrying him with spells, seeking to prevent him throwing their reinforcements out of the battlefield. Yet, Talricto didn’t sit idle either. The dimensional spider performed some strange maneuvers and began throwing the clones out of the battlefield entirely.

Whatever the spider did was quite detrimental and inconvenient, as his foe couldn’t resummon the clones as a result. More than a third of the previous looper’s clones were tossed out the battlefield before they turned their full fury towards Talricto.

“A little help Orodan!” the spider demanded, as it began desperately avoiding an elemental barrage and fleeing a summoned legion of mana constructs.

With most of the threatening voidships gone, Orodan’s fists began shattering the mana constructs and his Draconic Fireballs intercepted the elemental barrage. Furthermore, the previous looper now began pulling out all the stops.

Chronomancy was used to skip their spells backwards and compress their spells travel forwards, leading to erratic projectile timings he had to pay more attention to. Spatiomancy was brought to the fore in order to summon beasts and creatures of the void as further reinforcements, and while all this was done, his opponent looked as though they had made up their mind at last…

“You are an anomaly best not faced head-on. Expect frequent visits when you least expect it… farewell, Orodan Wainwright.”

…and began fleeing!

“Craven! Return this instant and face me!” Orodan yelled, giving chase.

He was livid, but could understand the decision. Charging the Mantle up to an extent where it would kill him would take time. Time he didn’t intend on giving them.

Just as it seemed his foe would cross the dimensional boundary to escape, he felt the familiar sensation of dimensional force that had trounced him a few times too many over the last four months.

It was a lot of power for the little spider, and Orodan felt a rather powerful drain through the thread of connection between his soul and the Blessing he’d granted. With finesse and skill he was still far from matching, Talricto conjured a deluge of dimensional web… and threw it all across the battlefield.

The placement looked quite random, yet it was anything but.

“Insect! You’ve sealed us in! I shall exterminate your kind once I am done this battle!” the previous looper angrily declared. “And you… far too many abilities have you revealed today, but I shall not simply roll over and submit just because the wretched System has cast me aside.”

In hindsight Orodan had to admit it, his attempts at remaining clandestine were certainly full of error. Little wonder nobody had come to bother him after the battle and during the month he’d spent in Storven. The previous looper had their eye on him all along.

And yet, despite his botched attempt at remaining under their notice… Orodan was starting to realize how powerful information was. The fact that he hadn’t gone around blurting out the fact that he was a time looper until now meant that he had his foe at a disadvantage. Furthermore, many of his abilities, the previous looper simply didn’t expect and consequently was having to adapt to on the fly.

Orodan decided, it was best to waste no more time. His opponent was still charging the Administrator’s Mantle they wore, in a few more minutes, it would get to a level where it would kill him.

He closed the distance, and his enemy’s clones got in his way. They tried conjuring elemental weaponry and striking him, or even casting spells at point blank range in suicidal assaults, yet it was to no avail. Orodan’s skill in combat was superior, and his melee prowess undeniable.

Blades of light and darkness were deftly parried, evaded and countered with ripostes while point-blank spells were redirected via wrist deflections and grabs into other clones, causing them to die from their own friendly fire.

“That part of their barrier… it’s the weakest. I had success hitting them there last time,” Zaessythra said, mentally directing Orodan’s attention towards a particular segment. She was right, it was where the energy flows intersected weakly… he might not have noticed in time.

He could see his foe’s eyes widen in terror as his fist glowed with raw power. This time, knowing that they could take it… there would be no holding back. Still, they weren’t defenseless either.

The System energy, gathered over all this time in the Administrator’s Mantle they wore, was unleashed in the form of a singularly destructive beam of power.

A Candleflame was conjured in his fist, the power quickly spiraling upwards until his body could barely take the heat even with Fire Resistance. And then, having now learned how to dimensionally control the force better, he unleashed it not with a finger snap…

…but a punch.

[Dimensionalism 88 → Dimensionalism 89]

[Fire Resistance 66 → Fire Resistance 68]

[Mana Manipulation 65 → Mana Manipulation 66]

[Candleflame 41 → Candleflame 42]

[Mana Resistance 67 → Mana Resistance 68]

[Fire Magic Mastery 60 → Fire Magic Mastery 61]

Doom and the ending of the mirror dimension occurred as the two attacks collided. Any lingering mana constructs, mimicking creatures and creatures of the void were instantly eradicated by the shockwave.

