“Would you rather I call you a dog instead? Perhaps a spider? Though Talricto might be offended,” Orodan shot back. “Yes, a man. You’ve cared for your mother. You’ve fought, you’ve killed… and your mettle has been tested in battle enough times in defense of your world. Not many your age can claim to have done all that you have.”

“Er… thank you ser? What’s brought this on?” the young man asked.

“Is a teacher not allowed to feel a sense of pride towards his student? Just accept the praise and question it not,” Orodan said with a smile.

Fenton however turned around and frowned.

“You sound a lot like me mum did… when the illness was gettin’ worse and there wasn’t any end in sight. Cut that nonsense out.”

Orodan had forgotten just how perceptive the youth could be. He himself had been perceptive from a young age, able to tell who was rotten and capable of reading between the lines. All the street smart orphans of Ogdenborough had to be. It wasn’t a surprise then that Fenton was the same, having grown up the way the lad did.

“You’re too perceptive for your own good,” Orodan said with a sigh. “Worry not about me and my battles.”

“Well there’s nothin’ to worry about because I’ll make sure you live to see the end of it all ser,” Fenton said, turning away and continuing to work.

Orodan was somewhat conflicted. Agathor had essentially groomed him into becoming his divine vessel as the God and his two wicked tyrant compatriots attempted to use the guise of beating the Eldritch Avatar to enter the time loops.

Back then, Orodan was the young and impressionable warrior with talent while Agathor was the older, more powerful influence. But here and now Fenton fit the role of the determined and talented youngling, while Orodan was the older mentor figure.

And with the way things were going, would he not just be leading Fenton to his death? He wasn’t stupid and didn’t lack self-awareness. At every point he’d offered the lad a way out, unlike Agathor who’d forced Orodan into something horrible. But even then… the situation made him uneasy and left a foul taste in the mouth.

“You’re young, you have a long life ahead of you and the battle to come doesn’t involve Lonvoron to that extent. If you and your mother hid on one of the islands, you’d come out in the aftermath and be just fine,” Orodan tried to persuade.

“What aftermath? The loops will just reset you back to that shoddy hovel you keep talkin’ about… and I’ll be back to strugglin’ in scrap town, breakin’ me back to make ends meet and delay me mum’s death,” Fenton coldly said. “What? Didn’t think I knew she was going to die before you came by?”

The message was clear. Better to die than return to the life he had before, even if upon returning he would know not what he had.

“Look Fenton… there was a time where I was also the young man being guided towards entering battle, groomed for something larger than myself. And although my trust was betrayed in a most brutal and treacherous fashion, I have no intention of doing the same,” Orodan said. “You follow me… and there’s a high chance you’ll be dead at the end of this.”

“And if I don’t follow you, you’re certain to end up dead ser.”

“I respect the determination, but you’re overestimating yourself lad,” Orodan retorted. “At the level which we’ll be fighting at, your contribution would be meaningless, and your death, doubly tragic.”

“You think so Mister Orodan? Still, every little thing adds up, and who’s to say I won’t help you somehow?”

“Look, just don’t die. I’ve had enough people die on my behalf and I’m not interested in adding one more to that list. Even if the loops reset everything, the scars upon my mind and soul still remain,” Orodan sternly reminded. “I’m offering you the free choice, here and now, if you want to back out at any point, just say the word.”

“Too bad I don’t want to then,” Fenton defiantly said. “Besides… not like I’m about to charge a Transcendent for fisticuffs. I’m not stupid Mister Orodan. You can trust me to keep a good head on my shoulders.”

For some reason, that only left Orodan with a greater sense of unease than he’d had before.

“Suit yourself. I won’t stand in your way,” Orodan said with a frown on his face. And then, a considering look replaced it. “If you want to help, come here so I can verify something.”

Fenton looked a bit suspicious.

“I’m not about to knock you out or throw you into some desolate island in the middle of nowhere so you can survive till the end of the battle,” Orodan assured. “I’m not the type to use tricks like that, you know this.”

“Alright ser… but what’s this about?”

“Something I couldn’t check until now. With the descent of the Administrators, it matters not if any safeguards related to you are triggered… and if they are…”

Orodan had ways of delaying their detection for just long enough that it would work out in their favor.

He wasn’t normally the type to use tricks and strategy, but when a battle against an Administrator and its minions was imminent, and the secrets to bringing Zaessythra back were on the line… Orodan could occasionally tolerate working alongside others.

His eyes began glowing white as soul energy flowed through him. A brief glimpse into the timeline, that was all he needed to start.

[Time Mastery 92 → Time Mastery 93]

[Fate Reading 63 → Fate Reading 64]

Immediately, Orodan encountered resistance and numerous subtle signs that someone had ‘feelers’ out within Fenton’s timeline and tapestry of fate. Right away, even without proving anything else, this alone gave weight to the suspicions Zaessythra and Luetta had about the lad.

Why would anyone have feelers out upon the time stream for a random boy who was but thirteen summers of age?

Still, Orodan was no amateur at chronomancy. He’d tussled against Transcendents and reversed time for entire worlds. Admittedly, if he needed to remain secret while perusing Fenton’s time stream, it would’ve been a far more difficult task as whoever placed these feelers was his superior at chronomancy. But… Orodan was their superior in power.

The fortified room under Storven’s vaults trembled as Orodan threw soul energy enough into the time stream that the feelers and protection were utterly overwhelmed, and soon enough he had unfettered access to Fenton’s time stream.

“T-that feels sort o’ odd Mister Orodan!” Fenton said. “Like me life’s flashin’ before me eyes! I’m not about to die am I?”

“It feels as though it’s flashing because I’m looking through your past,” Orodan calmly explained. “While you may die as a result of your own idiotic decisions, it won’t be because of this.”

Of course, smashing past the protections on Fenton’s time stream had naturally caused something to detect that he’d done so. The System, he was sure of it. But that was fine… because Orodan had done this once when resurrecting his own parents, and now, with that knowledge in mind he knew how to mitigate the matter.

Ripples of detection echoed out through the timeline, headed for whoever had placed the protections…

…only for Orodan’s chronomantic control to smash even further into the river of time, sending it into a frenzy.

“That didn’t feel good at all…” Fenton said, appearing dizzy. “I’m recallin’ things that never happened…”

“A temporary side effect of me essentially giving the timeline a good kick. The shaking is causing you to experience events in your past from a different perspective,” Orodan informed. “It’s entirely harmless and will pass.”

Somebody else who’d dimensionally stepped into the vault didn’t think so.

“We’re under a chronomantic assault, the enemy might be moving earl-” she said and then narrowed her eyes. “This is you, isn’t it?”

“Aye. My suspicions were correct, Fenton has the eye of the System upon him,” Orodan explained.

“You’ll draw them here early and all will be lost!” Almyra protested, her hands glowing with energy ready to try and smooth things out.

“Not necessarily. Look at the time stream closely… do you think anyone will be pinpointing it to us anytime soon?” Orodan pointed out. “In fact, I made sure to give it enough of a chaotic jumble that it will take-”

“One week. Hmm… this can be worked with,” the previous looper agreed. “What have you found in his time stream? Anything significant?”

That was just the thing… there was nothing significant in Fenton’s time stream at all. No System interference at birth marking him as a time looper, nothing out of the ordinary besides a sick mother… and a dead father. But, maybe Orodan wasn’t looking in the right place.

After all, his parents too had been wrenched from him.

Thus, from Fenton’s time stream, Orodan hopped to Fanny’s, and almost immediately the resistance was nearly a hundred times greater.

He had to truly devote his power towards crushing the System’s protections upon Fanny Penny’s time stream. Countless alarms and detection traps were doubtlessly sprung, but with the pandemonium Orodan had caused within the river of time, it wouldn’t be pinpointed for a while, just as planned.

Yet, not even upon her birth did Fanny Penny have anything odd related to her. In fact, he had to stretch back almost a decade prior to where she was but an average soul, deceased and drawn into the cycle of rebirth to have memories of her past life purged within Lonvoron’s soul nexus. Reincarnators were exceptional individuals who could retain memories of their past lives. For most people, like Fanny Penny, resisting the erasure of those memories was unfeasible.

And there, in that metaphysical plane where Fanny Penny’s soul was cycling the vortex with trillions of others, he saw it.

The familiar torrent of System energy signifying the interference of a higher being. And the caster… an Arch-Devil wielding orb and hammer.

Orodan watched as the Custodian bestowed a horrific soul curse upon Fanny Penny. Just one more life the Arch-Devil had ruined, but to what end? Was it to prepare Fenton for being a time looper? Yet… the boy clearly wasn’t one.

Of course the System was involved here as well. How couldn’t it be? It made perfect sense. Fenton’s talent in Enchanting was simply far too high for him to be normal. If Orodan had noticed, then the System, through whatever mechanism it used to detect Orodan’s own talents upon his birth in Alastaia, likely did the same for Fenton Penny on Lonvoron. And from there… the Custodian came in and decided that the boy’s mother needed to be afflicted with a horrible curse.

Because of course, no time looper could have a happy, fulfilling life for some reason.

“I-is that… my father?” Fenton’s shaky voice interrupted as the lad was in a stupor. The boy must have been experiencing a past event from the perspective of another due to Orodan’s jumbling of the river of time.

Well, in for a copper, in for a silver. With the detection of the System and its Administrators no longer being a concern, Orodan cared not if he smashed through one more set of timeline protections.

He switched to one more time stream, closely related to Fenton… and locked away in an almost forgotten corner of Lonvoron’s soul nexus.

He watched as the heroic military captain, Fenton’s father, fought the Eldritch bravely on the front lines. Indeed, the man was an excellent shot with the revolver, something Fenton himself had somewhat inherited. Furthermore, their platoon seemed to be winning the battle too!

Of course… until Orodan felt the familiar stirring of System energy within the memory. The battle, once thought won, now became chaotic as a rift directly leading to the core of a plague world opened up directly in front of them. Hells, even the Eldritch on the other side seemed stupefied, their world core hadn’t opened the rift nor had the Prophet.

Yet, it wasn’t the plague which got Alfred Penny… but the heavy metal ball fired from a nearby cannon. System energy roiled around the projectile, diverting its path so that nothing remained of the brave man who just moments prior was heroically winning his battle.

Ruthless, ensuring that the man could not be infected and potentially saved later through a purge of the plague.

Just as cold and calculated as the death of Orodan’s parents had been, designed to create the perfect environment of poverty and suffering.

But no more. Orodan had seen one family too many destroyed by the System. It ended here.

[Time Reversal 86 → Time Reversal 87]

His eyes glowed as he smashed past the System’s modest but ineffective blocks to stopping him. They might have been a hard barrier for any other chronomancer but for him they folded like paper in a storm as he threw multiple star systems’ worth of soul energy into the spell.

Compared to when he’d resurrected his parents, he’d grown even stronger. Not only had Incipience of Infinity gained levels since then, but his training in harnessing the elements and infusing his body with them had the transferable benefit of making his control over soul energy just a bit better.

After all, energy was energy. And learning how to house titanic amounts of fire had at least some crossover improvement in how much soul energy he could handle. It further validated Orodan’s thought that studying and truly mastering each and every type of energy he encountered could only be of benefit to him.

Finally, as the man was yanked backwards in time, restored to his prime and then dragged into the chamber they stood within, the light from Orodan’s body finally faded.

