And so he did. He narrated everything of what occurred after acquiring his first Celestial skill. The battles against visitors from other worlds who came to abduct him, his adventures across the cosmos where he openly told everyone he was a time looper, and even his first encounter with Almyra upon Lonvoron. Finally, he finished it with the events of the Battle of Alastaia, where he’d taken full control of the time loops, his descent into the madness that was Infinity, and his encounters with two Boundless Ones.

“And then… I woke up, back in my dingy hovel in Ogdenborough, with nary a Quest notification in sight and no Status or System to my name,” Orodan finished.

“This is ludicrous. It simply sounds absolutely unreal and the work of fiction. And yet… my lie detection skill finds none in your words,” she carefully said. “Is that why you seek true soul genesis? To revive that tattered spirit which hovers around your soul? I noticed it when I started shadowing you, but to think there was such a story behind it all…”

“Would you not do the same for your King? My heart belongs to her just as yours belongs to him,” Orodan stated, receiving a warm flutter of feeling in response from within from Zaessythra. “But that is the sum of it. There are all the answers you sought. The true universe is large and terrifying, and my claiming of the time loops has made some of them quite dissatisfied.”

“I see… it explains now why the Warrior and the Mage have been more active near the borders of our universe of late,” she said. “Hostile invaders attempting to make their way in, all in response to you.”

“I imagine knowing that you’re being reverted in time can’t be a pleasant feeling. Some of these entities must be quite powerful, capable of detecting that they’re within a time loop. Of course, they’re unable to break free without coming to deal with me personally,” Orodan explained. “Though, how is it that you’re aware of the Administrators’ movements?”

“The Mantle is one method, and the whispers of other Embodiers in the void is another. There are several of my fellow Embodiers who I keep correspondence with, helps to track the movements of the Administrators,” Almyra explained. “But, I still cannot believe this tale you’ve spun. Despite all the evidence pointing to your words being truth. Did you truly take control of the time loops?”

“I don’t know if I took control of them, it’s not as though I can change the starting point, stop them, bring others into them freely or anything of the sort. Hells, Zaessythra can only come along because she’s tied to this space within my soul through which I can transport things across the loops, barely enough to fit a box of apples,” Orodan clarified. “But I did empower them, perhaps beyond what they were meant to originally do. It makes me even more certain that the time loop mechanism wasn’t created by the Boundless One. If it did, then empowering it fully shouldn’t have been an issue for it.”

“And yet it goes around playing with things it does not fully understand, just as it plays with our lives as though we are insects in a glass box fit to act for its amusement and to fulfill its whimsical notions of ‘love’,” she spat. “Though, of all the decisions it’s made… I suppose moving onto you was not one of them.”

The resentment and betrayal in her voice were apparent.

“My talent for cleaning aside, I do not know why I was chosen. Even the Custodian who guided the Boundless One into anointing me did so as a final, desperate gambit,” Orodan said. “I’m no more special than you or Fenton.”

“Neither Fenton or I are limitless like you are… you, Orodan Wainwright, are an anomaly. Something impossible and very… unsettling,” she said.

“Just because I punched you once-”

“This has nothing to do with your brutish methods of fighting,” she sharply interjected, cutting him off. “Nothing else I’ve seen is truly limitless. Even the Boundless Ones, they are the personification of a concept yes, but they aren’t actually limitless or we would have seen a singular one dominating all of the universe by now. You however… not only do you break the barrier between mortal and Boundless, but you are in some ways beyond even them. Tch… I was never meant to succeed when a monster like you emerged, was I? I, the cautious but fearful girl from the bog islands, how was I ever meant to compare to an impossibility like you?”

“You’re asking the wrong person that question. And for what it’s worth, the Custodian and the Boundless One weren’t expecting me to do what I did either. Even I do not truly understand how I do what I do,” Orodan admitted. “Perhaps it really is just sheer bull-headed stubbornness and stupidity taken to their natural conclusion. Or maybe there’s something more to it and I was never human to start with. I do not know. But none of that intrinsically makes me a superior looper to you. My nation of birth is an undeveloped backwater, and my home world is an unknown rock amidst the void. Unlike you, I have no particular proclivity for building nations and coordinating my people to face the various threats of the universe.”

She seemed more mollified at hearing that yet turned away all the same.

“You’ll perhaps want to get a head start on that. Once you reach Embodiment, you’ll know no peace,” she explained. “And while you might be strong… there’s only so much one man can do. Your world will be just as much of a target as you are. Each loop whenever I start… or I should say started, attempting to evade the notice of other Embodiers caused the majority of my deaths.”

Orodan begged to differ and intended to challenge that line of thought. But the thought of developing Alastaia wasn’t a bad one.

“How many loops did it take before you could finally safely settle yourself? Thousands? Tens of thousands?” Orodan asked.

“No? It took me eleven attempts before I managed to fend off my pursuers and secure myself.”

Eleven? Only eleven loops?

“You…!” Orodan exclaimed. “You clearly aren’t giving yourself enough credit! That would have taken me tens of thousands of loops to achieve!”

“And I would never have fought enemies multiple levels above me like you regularly do. How many years have you been looping for?”

“Perhaps a thousand? More? Of course, that’s including the time I spent empowering the loops during-”

“Ten-thousand two-hundred and seventy-two years. That’s how long I’ve been looping for,” the previous looper answered, a bitter look on her face. “And then you come in, just over a thousand years, and exceed all my progress in less than a tenth of the time. Come, let us not speak of this any longer. It shall only sully my mood and remind me of my inadequacies and fears.”

Orodan didn’t have the heart to tell her that he’d actually been looping for less than a hundred years if the time spent empowering the time loop mechanism was discounted.

“Fear isn’t a bad thing, even I can feel it depending on the situation,” Orodan remarked, recalling the descent into madness he’d experienced when diving too deep into the concept of Infinity. “But, you’re right. Let’s speak on other things. The Gods of Lonvoron are opposing you. Which is quite strange because most of them should be purified by now, I did purge the divine realm of all Eldritch within it.”

“Fools who side with the Eldritch in a desperate bid to spite their oppressor,” she replied. “Concern yourself not with them.”

“Their oppressor? Does the System not grant them followers and the ability to channel faith as energy?” Orodan asked.

Almyra shook her head.

“Not all of them wanted that. Do you not think each God was someone who wanted to become a Transcendent and not be forced to leave friends and family in the real world behind? Existence within the divine dimension is lonely. After all… Gods cannot achieve Embodiment.”

The revelation struck him, and suddenly, his battle against the hostile Gods of Lonvoron and their final words made all too much sense. Orodan hadn’t even known that Gods couldn’t break the level 150 barrier to reach the Embodiment-level. Stuck, stagnating at 150 for centuries, decades… millennia. How many of them would go mad?

How many would harbor thoughts of railing against the System?

“But why would they follow that wretched zealot? The Prophet loves the Boundless One and the Eldritch, siding with him would be akin to siding with their enemy,” Orodan countered. “What could he have promised them? Was their hatred truly so deep that they would forsake what they had upon Lonvoron for its whispers.”

An almost imperceptible frown emerged upon her face for the briefest of moments, but Orodan caught it.

“No sense in wondering why they’ve chosen to rebel. Whether it’s the hatred towards their lot in life or some false promise the Administrator’s made them,” the previous looper said. “They are our enemy now and we must prepare to meet them soon.”

For now, he chose to ignore the obvious deflection.

“Very well. You’ve asked me a lot of questions, but now it’s my turn to ask some of you,” Orodan said. “The curse afflicting your soul. How did you acquire it.”

“I do not directly know… but many of the beings I’ve consulted tell me that its signature bears quite some similarity to that of an Administrator,” Almyra said. “All I’m aware of is that ten-thousand years ago, when I was born, the soul nexus of Lonvoron faced an assault from outside. Some malicious foreign entity cursed a whole lot of souls within the nexus. Naturally, this led to me bearing this horrid curse. I am half-tempted to think it may have been the Prophet.”

Orodan though, wasn’t too sure of that. He had seen how the System and its enforcers could and would ruin people’s lives for the purpose of creating time loopers with a high chance of success. The Custodian was responsible for him being an orphan… perhaps it was the same case here.

“Perhaps…” he muttered. “Next question. Your ability to clone yourself. Teach me.”

She laughed.

“That’s not a question.”

“Then don’t reply with an answer if you don’t want to,” Orodan retorted. “How does it work?”

“An effective skill is it not? My Mana Manipulation needed to reach the Transcendent-level before I could reliably form independent mana cores within a mana construct and have them cast spells on my behalf,” she said and then smirked at his disappointment. “Did you think they were based off my soul? A technique of that sort would have helped you more, right? Worry not, such secrets are possible to acquire… provided we survive this ordeal.”

“I don’t intend on letting Fenton die,” Orodan said. “But the loop inevitably ends for me. Even if we best the Prophet, I cannot guarantee my survival for too long beyond that. Frankly, I’m surprised you’re holding that as a condition over my head. I’m all too glad to face down an Administrator, but what do you get out of me winning when the loop ends anyways?”

“It’s the principle of the matter. We agreed to this deal, and seeing if you’re capable of keeping your word is as much a test of character as it is me ensuring my newfound ally is reliable and strong. Surely, asking to prevail and come out the fire together isn’t asking too much? As a matter of fact, this helps quite a lot. Whatever data we collect about the upcoming battle, I expect you to ferry back to me so that we, or even I myself, can reliably beat it moving forward in my- I mean, your, next loops,” Almyra said, ignoring her slip. “You want the answers for true soul genesis and making soul-based clones? They’re quite closely related. Help me come out this confrontation with the Prophet alive and I shall tell you everything.”

That was fair.

In a week, when the enemy descended upon Lonvoron, the question of whether he could beat an Administrator would be answered.

#

“I think I understand this thing a bit better now Mister Orodan… even just brushing my hand against it, it’s like I can see and feel an entire sort of energy that was always around but invisible before.”

Fenton lightly brushed his hand against the Reject’s Administrator’s Mantle as he spoke.

“System energy. What you’re feeling is System energy,” Orodan clarified. “It’s best not played with casually. Tap into it too extensively.. and you’ll catch the plague itself.”

“The plague? Why would it infect me with Eldritch power?” the lad asked.

“There’s a secret behind it you’re better off knowing. If you know about it, the chance of you getting infected by the plague becomes greater,” Orodan explained honestly. “If you really want, I can tell you, but it’ll only increase your risk of getting infected.”

Fenton looked interested for a moment, and then promptly turned away.

“Sounds like a whole lot o’ hassle ser. I’d rather not get infected by that foul stuff, seen what it does to good folk,” the boy said while continuing his examination.

For a while, Orodan made further attempts to form a soul weave based enchantment within his flesh, Fenton studied the Mantle and during it all he just observed his young student closely.

The end of the loop was fast approaching. The approach of an Administrator almost always signified the end of it all, especially with the approach of his own rise to the Embodiment-level.

Orodan’s eyes softened as he looked at Fenton diligently studying, taking notes and working towards something which didn’t even involve him.

“You’re a good man.”

“Eh? A man?” Fenton queried, confused.

