She’d worked her way to where she was from the bottom, despite her terrible circumstances, and he could truly respect that.

And the sad part was, despite his respect for how far she’d come, he couldn’t deny that her careful planning and paranoid method of approaching the loops were what had led to her time looper status being revoked.

Yet, it was this mind of hers which made her deadly.

If anything, he’d caught her unprepared, and the result of a bout between the two of them if she managed to get the drop on him and had accurate information on his abilities was by no means clear. Orodan wasn’t sure if he could eke out a win yet if the Administrator’s Mantle was fully charged and she decided to drop by for a surprise assault.

Her deadly mind in combination with his brawn? Perhaps victory need not be so slim a possibility.

And the plans they’d come up with would require a lot of legwork and sweat, both of which he would provide of course, but the man waiting for him was essential for the construction of what was necessary.

“Be sure to deploy the pillars at staggered intervals no less than thirty metres apart! The efficiency increases by at least twenty-seven and point-two percent!” Clyburn ordered and then happened to turn his head enough that he caught a glimpse of Orodan. His eyes widened with recognition and relief. “Mister Wainwright! I saw neither you nor Fenton at the award ceremony! Where’ve you two been? They said it was for some personal meeting with the King himself, but given recent events and the alarm which went off for activity on the citadel roof…”

“I can understand your worries Clyburn, apologies for causing you concern,” Orodan said, laying a hand upon the man’s shoulder. “I see you’re right at the work, not a moment of rest for you.”

“How can I rest when you’ve infected me with your productivity over the past few months? Now even sitting down feels wrong and I must occupy each breath with something useful,” Clyburn replied. “The work order sent by the castle seems quite… expansive.”

“It will certainly be a tall order. Fenton is enchanting away as we speak, preparing parts that are to be transported here,” Orodan informed. “Have you received word of what I came for?”

“I was told that this project had certain alterations which only you and our young friend knew of, but wasn’t informed of what those amendments were exactly. You say Fenton’s enchanting? Is this not just a sewer project that he’ll perform a few cursory enchantments for?” the Guild Master asked. “Not often that the King himself orders a construction project for mere sewer work.”

“Right, about that…” Orodan trailed off, handing Clyburn a piece of paper. “Read that and tell me what you think. That’s the real project we’ll be working on.”

Clyburn’s eyes took on a serious look as he looked upon the paper.

“This is… in one word, ambitious,” Clyburn muttered. “A week? For all of this?”

“I’ll be assisting of course, and the recruiting and building up of the guild’s workforce that we’ve done over the past month will certainly help us now,” Orodan said, “Florence is already diverting all our personnel towards this and nothing else. We’re even hiring contractors, engineers and laborers from other guilds to help with the non-essential work, far away from the actual construction of course.”

“How can we keep this under wraps? It seems so expansive… all along the city walls? Can this even work?” Clyburn queried.

“I’ll be keeping vigilant for any would-be spies and curious eyes,” Orodan assured. “As for it working, fear not… I’ve only seen this design in action once during my time on my world.”

“And just off of that you…!” Clyburn exclaimed but stopped himself. “Well, I suppose it’s a good thing you brought these blueprints to me. First of all, the concept can work as you say, but there are engineering flaws in several key junctures. It could do with a re-routing of section eleven to this spot lest an overflow occur, and a storage bank needs be built here…”

Orodan intently listened as the best engineer he knew continued correcting the plans he and Almyra had drafted up. Only time would tell whether this plan would work, but Orodan had seen the design function well enough until things had gone catastrophically wrong for other reasons.

If the concept of the pillars of purification could be combined with what Orodan knew worked from his world… they would have a powerful trump card in their pockets.

#

“Little strange to have twenty pillars surroundin’ this one building ain’t it?”

“Isn’t it.”

“What?” Fenton asked.

“A little strange to have twenty pillars surrounding this one building, isn’t it?”

“Well yeah… that’s why I asked, you don’t know either miss? You’re the one that ordered it…”

“No, I mean your…” Almyra continued and then stopped herself with a sigh. “Never mind. Continue studying the Mantle child, you may learn something yet.”

Orodan chuckled even as he was in the midst of connecting soul weave within himself in an attempt to form enchantments.

“I think you forget that he was raised on Port Bellgrave among the indentured servants, no sense trying to change his manner of speaking now,” Orodan remarked.

“I too spoke like that… long, long ago. Facing ridicule for it enough times has a way of quickly correcting one’s dialect,” she said. “Though, with talents and a reputation like his, who’s going to correct him now?”

“I don’t want to talk like some stuffy blue-blood! Next thing you know they’ll put me in a frilly coat, start callin’ me ser, and I’ll be smokin’ a fancy pipe and barking orders like the foremen of the mines,” Fenton protested.

“He has a point,” Orodan said. “Putting on pretentious airs is oft a precursor to arrogance and ignorance. Neither of which will serve him well.”

“And your archaic manner of speech isn’t pretentious enough?” the previous looper asked, quirking an eyebrow at him.

“I come from another world, go to my home town and everyone there will speak as I do,” Orodan said. “I don’t think you’d like Ogdenborough very much though. No real opportunities to learn magic, and far too much crime and poverty.”

“I admit, when you told me of this miserable location to begin the loops in, I was rather morbidly fascinated with it. I suppose that it produced the sort of looper who would go around punching things only seems natural,” Almyra said. “Come, let us give the boy some space and speak, Orodan Wainwright. I sense your efforts are going well, but your methods are a bit…”

“Am I doing something wrong?”

“Indulge my curiosity, and I shall tell you.”

Finding nothing better to do, and realizing that he could simply practice while walking, Orodan followed.

He had gotten quick enough at forming enchantments over the past month that Fenton now had him swiftly forming enchantments within his body with soul weave. It was the natural final step to what he sought, an enchantment that could be re-created on the fly even after bodily destruction and in the following loops. Of course, Orodan was far too janky at forming the inscriptions within his own flesh fluidly and was also slow. Though it was fast improving.

“And what more of your curiosity could I indulge?” Orodan asked. “My training with Talricto? My exercises in Weaving?”

“Interesting avenues of advancement, particularly the Weaving. I’d heard of such unique combinations throughout the course of my research, but those are usually at the low levels, perhaps Adepts, maybe Elites at most. Seeing a non-combat skill integrated at the Transcendent-level is certainly of interest,” she said. “But that’s not what I’m interested in. You know what I want to know about. Something I did not want to mention in front of Alstatyn or Fenton.”

“The Boundless One and the mechanism for the time loops, explain everything. Particularly how you’ve now come to empower them yourself,” she demanded as they stepped out into the hallway. “I already know why the System is trying to anoint us time loopers, and why it particularly chose you.”

It was a temporary building that had been erected, right in the vaults at the bottom of the royal citadel, fortified incredibly heavily and with the Administrator’s Mantle at its center for study.

“Then you know that the Boundless One at the center of it all is what empowers everything.”

“I do, my studies and investigations have shown me as much… but why? Why does it empower everything?” she asked, suddenly desperate for answers. “Why does it choose who it does? What is it’s aim?”

“I do not know the answer to many of those questions,” Orodan admitted. “But when I fought the Reject, I remember him telling me that despite it being anathema to intelligent life, the Boundless One started empowering the System because it supposedly loved life and wished to coexist with it.”

“It… loved life? That’s the most nonsensical thing I’ve heard of,” she spat. “How can an alien being of unfathomable power suddenly decide it loves us mortal insects and start empowering a System which encapsulates our universe? It should not even know what our fleeting thoughts and feeling are like.”

“I can only tell you what I’ve heard. From the brief bits I understood from the Custodian, the mad ramblings of the Reject and the blind devotion of the Prophet, the Boundless One doesn’t seem actively malicious,” Orodan said. “Has its empowerment of the System caused a problem that will eventually corrupt all life? Possibly. But has it attempted to slaughter us all? No.”

“And yet, it could not have created the System by itself, nor the time loop mechanism,” Almyra said. “Not if what you told me about what you saw inside is true.”

“I do not think it did either… not if the Custodian has to help tinker with the System and prior to my… usurpation, the time loops themselves,” Orodan added. “Plus, the Reject, he came from a time and place before the System’s arrival. I do not think the Boundless One made it, rather, it simply drew life into this cosmic space known as the System and empowered it.”

“Which means life existed well before its arrival, and life will continue to exist far after everything’s been corrupted,” she said, her eyes blazing with anger. “It’s clear then. We must destroy the Boundless One and the System.”

Orodan scrutinized her gaze. She was angry, the matter quite personal for her.

“You sound like the Reject,” Orodan said, breaking the momentary silence after her proclamation.

“I am nothing like that deranged madman!” she hissed. “He is a terror who tortures souls for all eternity. He hunts time loopers down like prey. How am I like him?”

“For someone who claims not to be like him, you certainly do hold the same grudge. And while I hold no grudge about it now… you did work alongside him to try and get rid of me the last time we met,” Orodan revealed, causing her to stiffen.

“You lie. I do not think…” she muttered and then looked away. “No, I suppose I would. That does sound like something I would do, especially if he promised a method of getting the time loops back.”

“Which is exactly what he did. He promised you the role of time looper as long as you didn’t help the Boundless One,” Orodan informed. “He was the first of our kind. The first time looper. The Boundless One cast him aside just as it did you. In those circumstances, I suppose I can neither fault your hatred nor his desire for revenge. I said you sound like the Reject, that is true, but as do I. There are grievances I too wish to see settled.”

The Custodian had orchestrated the murder of his parents. He could both have respect for the upbringing that made him who he was and also bear a grudge for what he had lost. It was a matter he still wrestled with in the deepest pits of his mind; whether the original wrong he’d suffered warranted revenge… or forgiveness.

“Then we’re of a mind on this matter. Destroy the Boundless One and the System itself,” she finalized.

“And what then? Live within a broken universe where countless living beings suffer without the crutch they’ve come to rely upon?” Orodan asked. “I will not deny that my time without the System has been beneficial, but to snatch it out from under everyone else would be cruel.”

Now it was she who gave him an assessing look, and soon came to a realization.

“You do not look indecisive about this dilemma. What is it you intend to do?”

“I… will replace the System with my own. One offered freely and not without consent, those who wish to remain with its familiar embrace can opt to use mine, and those who wish to go another way can simply refuse though the door shall ever remain open,” Orodan said. “I told you of how I re-created my own System did I not? I intend to spread that all throughout System space upon the conclusion of my grand ambition.”

“Madness… how can a mortal match the infinite and do what they do? Your aspirations are impossible, Orodan Wainwright,” she declared, disbelief on her face.

“Nothing is impossible. Some would have said re-creating your own System should have been, yet I did it. Others might say resisting the Reject is, but I did that too,” Orodan said, determination in his eyes. “Let me tell you about the long loop whose re-telling I avoided in front of Alstatyn and Fenton…”

