“Trust an Arch-Devil to say something likely to evoke sympathy in you many loops later. You sure it wasn’t planned?” she suggested. “But… even if it was, I suppose the admission revealed something about immortality to you, didn’t it?”

“It’s a lonely path upwards, and that box will continue to grow smaller and smaller as I grow larger and larger,” Orodan admitted.

“For most maybe. But for you… I can’t even fathom what you’ll become. Boundless Ones? When you step into the embrace of that Celestial skill of yours fully… I don’t know how much of your humanity you retain,” Zaessythra said.

That wasn’t wrong. Incipience of Infinity was a scary skill. Orodan, who knew no fear otherwise, was genuinely wary of his own Celestial skill, of his own anomalous will which drove it beyond what anyone else should have been capable of. If he descended unto it again, entered it fully… would he lost himself entirely?

He was determined to ensure the answer was no.

Zaessythra was counting on him, as was everyone else.

Which included his favorite eight-legged bully who winked into existence beside him.

“And where’ve you been?” Orodan asked.

“Acquiring things to bolster my collection. I see you’re slacking off… tsk, tsk!” Talricto lectured.

“Hardly, even now I’m working to perfect the body enchantment method Fenton and I have been developing,” Orodan said. “And if you want someone to blame for the lull, find Clyburn. I worked so fast and at such intensity that we’ve caught up to the blueprints and need him to review and finalize the designs for various sections. I have plenty of parts sitting in reserve too.”

The two levels gained in Blacksmithing and Laboring were proof of that.

“Hmm… I can tolerate that excuse. I shall go have words with Clyburn,” Talricto said. “But how did your meeting with that uptight preacher go? Find what you were looking for?”

“There’s certainly a connection… but neither of us know what, in Fenton’s case at least,” Orodan admitted.

Alagameth had read both his and Almyra’s fates and then closely scrutinized them for any cross-connection between Fenton. The results were positive of course, in fact the spatial spider admitted that he likely threw Orodan towards Port Bellgrave the very first time because of that thin connection.

Yet, even the Silent Oracle had his limits. Alagameth was forced to end the task with the final warning that the common factor between the three of them led to a singular being well above his power. Orodan no longer had said connection, but Fenton and Almyra did.

An Administrator, or perhaps even worse… the Boundless One.

It all but outright confirmed that Fenton was in some way related to the time loops, or should have been if Orodan hadn’t taken them over.

“Hmm, a shame. While you were off achieving nothing, I made several critical acquisitions which might aid our forces,” Talricto said.

Critical acquisitions indeed. Orodan could only sigh with resignation as he glanced at the brace of five rings hung upon a necklace off of Talricto’s head. Who knew when that would come back to bite them?

“I’m just surprised you’re aiding us at all, this isn’t your fight Talricto,” Orodan reminded. “You’re more than free to leave.”

“And miss out on the entertainment? I think not,” the spider replied. “And if I go, who’ll supervise your training? You still have so many holes in your skillset. Why, even a juvenile of my species could teach you a thing or two.”

“If you’re trying to goad me into a spar, I accept,” Orodan said, getting to his feet.

Although as he did, he could only guiltily think about what the Talricto of an older loop had told him.

“A what?” the spider asked, and then vigorously shook its head and legs. “You know what? No. I refuse to hear it. And I refuse to give you my name. Soon you’ll tell me your whole life story, and then I somehow get roped into following you around, and before I know it, I’ll be getting into all sorts of dangerous situations. The elders would often tell stories about you two-legs, especially humans. Your kind are always up to no good and you tend to drag the rest of us civilized folk in with you. And I’m taking a stand here and now and want no part of it.”

“You’d better not die.”

“What was that?” Talricto asked, sending a wave of dimensional force towards him.

“Nothing… forget about it.”

In a week, or perhaps less, the answer would come to him whether he wanted it or not.

Long loops.

Orodan couldn’t help but hate them.

He’d learned enough times by now to dread the coming storm on the calm eve before a loop-ending battle.

Perhaps though… he’d had just about enough with these Administrators coming by to ruin his loops.

They’d certainly beaten on him and killed him enough times after all.

His hand clenched into a fist as determination blazed in his eyes.

Perhaps it was time Orodan took a stand and decided to hit back.

For too long had he lost.

Maybe it was time to actually win.
