To Orodan’s Vision of Purity, everything was dirty, thus he could see it all.

Consequently, the subtle but furious twitch of his foe’s eyes was quite apparent even through all the illusory spellcraft they’d laid upon themselves.

It was the only indicator about the impending violence to come that they gave off.

The very first thing he felt…

…was a mental attack.

[Psionic Resistance 79 → Psionic Resistance 81]

It was strong, fueled by System energy too, telling in how he gained two levels in Psionic Resistance as a result.

Orodan lowered himself to a knee as it came, a hand outstretched and touching the ground to help steady himself.

The following barrage of hundreds of restraining spells came forth, each composed of energy so pure that Vision of Purity simply couldn’t have caught it before his recent training of the skill.

Orodan tugged at them, causing a few to snap but the rest remained in place.

More restraining spells came forth, layering over him one after another, securely holding him in place. Until finally, his opponent spoke.

“You speak dangerous words, otherworlder. You will tell me what you mean by them, or I shall tear it from your mind.”

Their voice, sounding both male and female, monstrous and human, echoed outwards. Yet Orodan knew these were illusionary spells meant to mask their identity.

“I’ve already told you what I know,” Orodan replied. “I’m the current time looper, while you’re the previous one, aren’t you?”

The subtle tells of anger were evident enough, even though the being before him was just a clone. He would have to learn that skill… it seemed quite useful.

“A cursory bit of knowledge anyone with enough time here could have picked out. But your claims are the more outrageous one. Before… you piqued my curiosity, but now? You have my undivided attention.”

“Since when? What gave me away?” Orodan said, shattering a few more restraining spells, yet even more began layering on top, one over the other.

“The corrupt nature of the inquisition… the Prophet’s infiltration of this world with its agents? Did you truly think I knew not of it? That anyone drawing from the divine dimension of light faces corruption?” they asked, mockery in their tone. “The inquisition was only corrupt… because I allowed it to be.”

Which meant that his initial entry to Lonvoron at least had been successful. He took some solace in knowing that this wily and paranoid foe wasn’t entirely omniscient.

“You’re aiding the Eldritch? That doesn’t sound right,” Orodan muttered.

“Not aiding, delaying, lulling them into a false sense of superiority. If Lonvoron and the Collective are too successful in beating back the Eldritch, then the circling predator commanding them will descend before my preparations are complete. With what I possess… defeating even an Administrator is not impossible,” they stated. “But you… you are an anomaly. As is that boy you train, to think I’d overlooked such raw talent… was it he who caused the Prophet to recoil before I arrived? No matter, I have asked too many questions when a simple delve into your mind will suffice.”

“Tearing into peoples’ minds without thought or care isn’t the nicest thing to do,” Orodan replied. “Is that why all the Transcendents I’ve seen have spells surrounding them? Bit of a controlling tyrant, aren’t you?”

That must have struck a nerve.

If one mental assault was bad, then ten at the same time was even worse. Nine more clones of his opponent came into being, not layered with the same amount of spells as the main one was, but capable of launching an offensive with nearly similar power.

[Psionic Resistance 81 → Psionic Resistance 83]

Orodan’s mind came under assault from an utter deluge of psionic might. A tide capable of making entire worlds bow before the caster. A wave unending, a force unrelenting.

Or… it should have been.

The previous time looper realized something was wrong when Orodan had no signs of exertion upon his face whatsoever.

Unlike before, when they felt confident in their superiority, there were no more words said. And on his end, none were needed either as he’d finally seen it. The threads of connection between this main clone and the caster.

And he was done holding back and pretending to be restrained.

[Deception 5 → Deception 10]

“You mentioned lulling the Eldritch into a false sense of superiority… a bit ironic given the circumstances, don’t you think?”

Both his arms flexed with a level of raw might capable of shattering moons, and the restraining spellcraft attempting to keep him subdued immediately faltered with an explosion.

His foe was smart, immediately opting to gain distance, but it was too late. Orodan’s next move was to throw the full force of his soul towards a singular spell.

The clones weren’t his target.

The main body was.

[Dimensional Step 34 → Dimensional Step 36]

[Dimensionalism 87 → Dimensionalism 88]

Of course a paranoid time looper would have defenses against dimensional intrusions. Thousands of them in fact. They were good, very good. But… only almost as good as Talricto. And Orodan had been learning from the very best for a while now.

There were layers upon layers of dimensional defences, yet they were slipped past, fooled and feinted into triggering early as Orodan pulled out the numerous tricks and moves he’d picked up from all the spars against his dimensional spider friend. And the remaining defenses past that?

Brute force and the sheer amount of soul energy he poured into the Dimensional Step sufficed.

He stepped out into a blank white void… a pocket dimension? Yes, that was it.

Vision of Purity told him it was anchored to someplace quite swampy and full of bogs too.

Most importantly though, at the center of this blank white void was a singular humanoid being, covered in all manner of obscuring and defensive spellcraft, and wearing a robe which utterly overflowed with System energy. And as Orodan looked at them, he pointed his blade forward and said only two words.

“Found you.”

For a brief moment the pocket dimension trembled, and then calamity occurred as it outright shattered. The shockwave of the explosion spread outwards for miles, threatening to reach even a nearby village with simple tribes folk within until a hasty Spatial Fold all around the circumference of it redirected the damage upwards.

The clouds parted from the sheer force of the dimensional eruption he’d redirected up.

“That would have killed a lot of people,” Orodan stated.

“You pushed me to this. Long have I protected the simple and innocent folk of the bog islands before your arrival, and long will I continue to do the same.”

“I pushed you to do nothing. Your jump towards attacking me at the utterance of mere words is a choice made of your own accord,” Orodan reminded. “But if it’s violence you want… it is violence you shall receive.”

The damage and unraveling of the pocket dimension had of course come from the summoning of an entire legion of thousands of mana constructs, spatial and dimensional rifts, and the recall of all his foe’s clones.

“Orodan, they’re quite strong and have plenty of tricks up their sleeve. I only barely ended up matching them last time by awakening the full power of my Bloodline skill and overdrawing upon my soul,” Zaessythra said. “And back then they weren’t nearly as paranoid or prepared as they are now. But… I can advise you of some of their abilities…”

Right, he’d almost forgotten that Zaessythra had fought the previous looper in the long loop where he’d empowered the loops for himself and descended unto the full depths of his Celestial skill.

A voice echoed from all around and the clones began frequently teleporting and swapping spots with the main body, making it difficult to pinpoint which one his target was. Yet for Orodan who could see perfectly with Vision of Purity, keeping his eye on the main body wasn’t an issue.

Upon realizing this, the previous looper stopped trying.

“How can you keep track of me? That should not be possible.”

“Beat me and I’ll tell you,” Orodan replied. “We’ve bandied words enough.”

For too long had Orodan hidden in the shadows like some skulking rodent. To sneak and hide was a particular way of doing things, useful too, not just for remaining hidden but for giving him insights into certain things. But, it wasn’t his way.

He was a warrior.

And for almost the entirety of this loop, he hadn’t had a proper battle. Until now.

A manic grin of madness emerged upon his face. The signs were subtle… but he could swear his quarry was briefly taken aback at the sight of it.

Three loud clangs echoed through the air, crisp and challenging in their bark. Orodan’s sword rapped against the boss of his shield in a defiant gesture, inviting his foe to come for him.

Time looper against time looper. This would be a fight for the ages.

His foe had a connection between themselves and the world core of Lonvoron. Orodan could sense the titanic amounts of energy suddenly being supplied as a strange film of material descended upon the entire battlefield. It was a dimensional boundary, but a weird one.

And suddenly…

…the entire battlefield changed. Or rather, the swampy bog islands they were upon became utterly devoid of life. Not that anything had been killed, but rather, Orodan and his opponent had moved someplace.

What was this place?

“Do you like it, Orodan Wainwright? An interesting dimension which closely mirrors the material plane. The dead often pass through here very briefly just before entering the soul nexus,” the previous looper explained. “No risk of anyone else being caught up in this battle now.”

“Good, I need not worry about letting loose then,” Orodan replied.

He charged the legion of constructs, and they in turn charged him as a devastating melee began.

The largest of the constructs were hulking blue knights reminiscent of the standard steam knights of the Collective. Transcendent-level though, and looking far sturdier than their metallic and steam-powered counterparts. Furthermore, they had small glowing orbs flitting about them.

“The wisps of mana coming off them explode, be careful.”

Orodan carved the first three apart, and as Zaessythra warned, the wisps immediately glowed to try exploding upon death, but Orodan’s sword arm was too fast! He simply cut each individual wisp down before it could prime to explode.

“A swordsman? It will avail you not. I have observed your spars and battles. That spider companion of yours is quite alert, but when apart from it, you’re not so difficult to spy upon. I have catalogued the skills, weaknesses and battle abilities of millions upon millions of beings. Your brutish strength and straightforward mentality are nothing that cannot be overcome,” their distorted voice echoed. “I’ve dealt with warriors aplenty. Do you truly think yourself capable of beating me within my seat of power?”

“And yet, despite all that studying you still fear the Administrator who chases you. Knowledge is worthless without the strength to make use of it,” Orodan fired back. “You say you’ve studied millions of warriors and their weaknesses? Good… I want the weaknesses in my own form tested.”

More ethereal constructs of mana came his way. Alongside the mana knights which produced exploding wisps, there were also blue lions which swiftly tried lunging in, flying eagles which assailed him from the air and even moles which clawed through the ground in their attempts to get at him.

Furthermore, the mana constructs weren’t the only thing he had to worry about in this place. It was a weird mirror of the real world here, and it shouldn’t have surprised him that creatures which mirrored those in the real world also existed here. But the surprising part was just what the creature tried mirroring… or who.

Uncanny, that was how Orodan would describe the creature. It certainly looked like him in many aspects. Tunic of the county militia, sword and shield, a physique and figure that were similar enough too. But the face, the eyes, the nose… none of what made Orodan himself existed within this twisted imitator who gave him a happy smile and rushed towards him.

Orodan greeted his copycat with a crushing punch which folded its nose inwards and shattered its skull, sending black ichor spewing about.

“The denizens of the mirror realm are pitiable creatures… able to only forlornly watch through the cracks and crevices as those in the real world live their lives. When a fresh soul like you comes along, an intruder… they get hungry. They want your life, your skin… your very soul.”

“They say imitation is the greatest form of flattery… but these things are neither good at imitation, nor am I overly flattered. My soul might be a meal too heavy for these creatures” Orodan said, carving more of his replicas apart. Because of course there was more than one of them. “I’m going to give you a good punch in the face at the end of this.”

“A bold claim, but a premature one. Lest you forget… you fight more than just my summoned legions.”

The real threat was of course, the previous looper themselves. And he soon came to realize what for as twenty clones of his foe were conjured, and together they activated an array at whose center was Orodan, bogged down in melee by the army charging him.

“Your mind is strong… but how long can it last against the will of multiple worlds? No mortal can.”

And Orodan felt an oppressive wave of mental assault smash into his mind. It was of intensity enough that he had to pause his fight for the briefest of moments, allowing some attacks to get through and hit him.

[Psionic Resistance 83 → Psionic Resistance 86]

