Almyra was looking at him almost fearfully. If she hadn’t believed his claims about being capable of generating endless power before, she certainly looked as though she did now.

But Fenton… Fenton’s eyes couldn’t leave the figure of the man who’d been summoned unto the chamber.

“…da?”

“What the hell even happened? What’s goin’ on here?” the man asked, dazed and coming to. “Someone get me a status report on them bloody cannons. I swear, one more misfire and I’ll lose it.”

“Da! Da it’s… it’s actually you!” Fenton exclaimed.

Orodan smiled. Perhaps things could be set right after all.

Almyra the previous looper however, was anything but smiling. The two of them immediately departed the chamber, both giving Fenton and his resurrected father some privacy, and so that the woman could let off what was on her mind.

“What in the Collective was that?!” she demanded. “I- I felt how much power you generated! What are you?”

“You’ve received my whole story already. Need I repeat it once more?” Orodan asked.

This visibly calmed her down.

“No, I’ve merely lost my calm at the sight of such a ridiculous feat. Hearing what you recounted is one thing, seeing it is another. You really are Boundless aren’t you?” she asked, her gaze towards him now different. Almost fearful. “Using your Celestial skill to overpower the Mantle is one thing. But to generate power rivalling entire star systems…”

“Surely you didn’t drag me aside just to talk about that? You already know the answers, and I cannot help you accept them any faster in your own head,” Orodan reminded.

“You speak truth. Your power is impressive… it opens up further options for us during the upcoming battle we face,” the previous looper said. “But before that, the matter of the boy bears further investigation. I too was riding the trail of your entry into the river of time, and what I saw… displeased me.”

“If Fenton’s life suffered from interference…” Orodan muttered.

“Then so did mine…!” she finished angrily. “The System will pay for what it has done to me, to us.”

“Setting things right will come in due time. But Fenton’s relation to the time loops is still something I don’t quite understand,” Orodan said. “I’ve been meaning to see someone about that for a while now… how about we pay them a visit? Want to tag along?”

#

“Blessings of the light be upon you visitors, what might the Conclave aid you with- K-King Alstatyn?! Apologies your grace, I wasn’t aware someone of your stature would be paying us a visit today! You’re not even with your personal guard!”

“It was a…” Alstatyn muttered, looking at Almyra. “…spur of the moment trip. We can only apologize for our sudden entry without warning. Might we meet with the on-duty commander?”

“Yes your grace, Captain-General Ryzlan is currently paying us a visit to resolve some inter-galactic matters and supersedes the authority of anyone else at our branch. We can take you to see him,” the knight of the Conclave guarding the front gates said.

Orodan had been here once, but quite briefly, merely for the purposes of using the grand teleportation array here to move between galaxies and flee an enraged Prophet. This time he had no plans of fleeing to this glowing gold fortress in the void with his tail between his legs.

Alstatyn had been all too happy to come along. Almyra simply wasn’t well-known, the natural consequence of hiding herself in an alternate dimension and guiding the war effort and her own experiments remotely. In this case, a King’s clout certainly helped secure a faster audience than two random individuals did.

The glowing gilded halls of pure gold sparkled and irritated Orodan’s visual sensibilities, and he thought the holy warriors of the Conclave could use a little less polish upon their excessively decorated armor, but these men and women at least looked as though they could stand reliably in a fight and dish out as good as they got in any melee confrontation.

Their faction-wide vulnerability to the elemental plane of light and the Prophet’s corruption of it was an unfortunate downside, but one Orodan had accounted for. There would be no surprise entrance of Eldritch corrupted Conclave knights and paladins on the enemy side this time.

The knight of the conclave led their party into a grand hall, where a glowing golden armored man who Orodan recalled from one of his long loops was speaking.

“What do you mean things have been going missing? This is a complaint equivalent to rats stealing from a larder,” the Captain-General said, though not with any heat. “I’ve come here to re-distribute our forces and that’s what you tell me?”

“Apologies Captain-General… I saw fit to inform you given that one of the things stolen were the famous five rings of Saint Vulferon. We do not know how the thief even got in sir…”

“One mess after another… for now move all treasures back to our main base of operations in the Athranos Galaxy. The Hegemony has been increasing their border activity ever since a few Gods were killed in their section of the divine dimension,” the Captain-General said.

“Gods… killed? Such an escalation of force. The weapons needed to do that…”

“Would be severe. Or the individual capable of it, exceedingly deadly. In any case, while we are not the ones who have done this, it is best to remain on guard lest Agrimon and his dogs act recklessly in their attempts to track down whoever did,” the Captain-General said. Orodan of course, knew that the cause of the deaths of Agathor, Eximus and Ilyatana had been him and him alone. In any case, the peak-God’s gaze fell to them. “Visitors? And brought directly without notice? Oh! Alstatyn!”

The God dismounted his golden horse and walked forward to clasp the King’s hand. As a God, maintaining direct physical presence within the material plane was costly, often exceedingly so. Yet Captain-General Ryzlan, leader of the Conclave, was one of the few known to do so at all times. A combination of the expensive artifacts Orodan sensed on him, and the large amounts of worship from his faithful.

“It is good to see you Ryzlan. Trouble at home?” the King asked.

“Unfortunate business which has led to a lot of finger-pointing. Nothing to concern yourself with. How might we aid you?”

“In fact, it’s my companions here who need your help,” Alstatyn said gesturing towards Orodan.

“Alagameth the Silent Oracle, he is one of your Embodiment-level beings is he not?” Orodan asked.

“Why yes… elder Alagameth is a famed member of the Conclave, one of the founder’s personal disciples. Why do you ask?”

“I need to speak to him,” Orodan said, and upon seeing the Captain-General’s face blanch, continued. “I’m aware he’s a bit… reclusive, but that’s fine. If you have any way of getting a message out to him, simply let him know that Orodan Wainwright wishes to see him… and will owe him a favor.”

“You have met him? I sense you are a peak-Transcendent yourself… mighty too,” the Captain-General said, sizing Orodan up but in a respectful manner. “This certainly breaks all convention and protocol, to send a message to the elder. He has not graced any location of our holy organization in many millennia.”

“Consider it a favor to me,” Alstatyn chimed in. “The Blackworth Collective would be in your debt and happily assist with whatever inroads you’re trying to make in our galaxy.”

“I must profess, news of your Collective beating back the plague across all your worlds has our advisors and generals intrigued. Perhaps we can discuss technological advancements and the sharing of resources after this,” the Captain-General said. “Very well warrior. King Alstatyn considers you a friend and so shall I. The message shall be sent right away, though I make no promises about the response… if any.”

That part, Orodan wasn’t concerned about.

Good as his word, the Conclave’s highest ranking member used a strange artifact to send a message out unto the void between galaxies. It wasn’t overly complicated, and he felt Fenton could do a better job with the enchantments, but the simple function of sending a receivable message out across tremendous distances where a receiver attuned to it could receive wasn’t complicated.

“Now then, let us catch up and talk Ryzlan. How is Sujana? Is that woman still going around angrily dispensing justice upon any ‘evildoers’ she sees?” Alstatyn asked.

“Why sometimes I wonder if I should step down and let that woman take over… let me tell you…”

They bickered and bantered, and it was apparent that Alstatyn was King of the Blackworth Collective for a reason. The man wasn’t arrogant in the slightest and somehow managed to make even the seemingly uptight and prude members of the Conclave open up without issue.

Minutes of conversation turned to an hour.

“And then, those obstinate cultivators continue to insist on remaining sequestered within their cluster and refuse to allow us to send aid. Trade has been miserable-”

Orodan sensed it before anyone else did. The spatial force wrapping around him was gentle, not aggressive, but it was certainly swift. Still, with his level of power, forcefully teleporting him elsewhere was beyond even an Embodiment of space. And Orodan had honed his abilities in spatiomancy against Alagameth himself.

But Orodan allowed it, extending the wrap to Almyra too.

One moment they were within the golden halls of the Conclave’s fortress, and the next… within a warped bubble of space sequestered from the void between galaxies outside.

Almyra’s entire body roiled with mana, protective and illusory spells activating and the Mantle around her not charged, but ready to be used at any point.

“You,” she hissed, a distorted voice which gave nothing of her identity away.

“You bring an upstart who does not recognize her betters into what should have been a meeting between us alone, time looper?” Alagameth asked.

“You told him about the loops? How naive can you be? He’s a personal disciple of our enemy…”

“Both of you, calm yourselves,” Orodan said, his voice laced with the intimidation effect of Incipience of Infinity taking effect. Nothing too harsh, but enough that they would cease hostilities. “Alagameth is no lackey of the Prophet. I sensed no usage of the elemental plane of light within him during our numerous battles. And Alagameth, this one might be a prickly and most paranoid schemer… but means you no harm.”

“Considering that we fought in battle all for them to drive me away from the borders of the Vystaxium Galaxy a few millennia ago, I would dispute that,” Alagameth said. “What’s your reason for bringing us together?”

“I did say I would owe you a favor, and I always repay my debts,” Orodan said. “But really, we’re here because we need a fate reader. And the Transcendent Treadways within the Collective aren’t on your level.”

“And what, pray tell, might you require a fate reader for? If it’s to understand what’s occurring with the tapestry of fate and reality itself, I do not know. An Embodier has ascended, with power enough that the cosmos and reality itself shook. I do not know what they will be the herald of… but it can only be the promise of cataclysm,” Alagameth stated, and then his beady spider eyes homed in on Orodan, and he stilled as Orodan calmly looked at him. “It was you, wasn’t it?”

“It was, but I didn’t reach the Embodiment-level,” Orodan answered.

“But then… all that chaos came from just…”

“Yes, it’s as you’re thinking. Now, let me explain what’s been going on with us, and in turn I could use your help with reading my fate and seeing if there’s any connection between me and a certain boy upon Lonvoron, and her as well for that matter…”

#

Orodan stared up into the night sky. The stars seeming so distant and yet so close. After a full day’s work on the project with Clyburn, it was over halfway complete. Who knew when the Prophet would pinpoint their location? Almyra said they had less than a week, but Orodan refused to take that for granted and hoped to finish by the next day.

“Once upon a time, I used to look upon those glowing bright orbs and wonder how vast existence must be, and it certainly still is…”

“But it’s a little muted when you can just reach out and walk upon their surfaces or shatter them like pebbles,” Zaessythra finished. “I suppose I understand. When I reached Transcendence long ago, my people venerated me; I was proud of myself and the accomplishment. For so long had I craved it, strived for it. But when I had it… t’was just another stepping stone on the path upwards.”

“I wonder if that ascent will continue forever. You know… I’m not that old in comparison to you…” Orodan trailed off.

“Calling me a cradle robber are you?” she asked, amused.

“Hah! Not at all, if anything, I’ve always had a certain interest in older women. I naturally find myself drawn to you after all,” Orodan said, entertained by the feeling of embarrassment he felt off her. “But what I mean is… this pursuit of power, I wonder if it ever has an endpoint.”

“For most, I believe it does. As we grow in might, the horizons around us grow just a little closer, and that box around us closes in just a slight bit more,” Zaessythra said. “Then again, I have only ever been a Transcendent. Not an Embodier, nor an Administrator and certainly not a Boundless One. Who am I to say how these beings feel about your question.”

“The Custodian admitted he wanted me to kill him. Cold and callous Arch-Devil that he is, I still felt pity for him when he said those words,” Orodan admitted.

