Ali smiled at her and then sat in the center of the black stone floor, smooth enough to be polished, and began to inscribe her runic circle, first creating each rune in gleaming silvery-yellow inlaid electrum, and then imbuing the entire structure with the mana of her Runic Script. It was quick work as she had most of the runic structures planned out already, and as the magic circle completed, she bound it to the domain mana leaking through the floor and it snapped into completion, glowing powerfully as the magic flowed through the runes.

Static Teleport – Linked Magic – level 51 (Arcane)Teleport to a preset teleportation locus.Locus: Dal’mohran Grand Library Arcana.Detect: Gold Guild Ring or Silver Guild Ring.Voluntary Trigger.Runic CircleAccept teleportation to the Dal’mohran Grand Library Arcana?

It worked! She smiled happily at the notification, especially delighted at the ‘Dal’mohran Grand Library Arcana’ designation for the locus. What an honor! Her circle had detected her gold ring and offered to teleport her back to the library. And the fact that the mana pulsed with power, ready to send her, meant that the locus she had inscribed back in the library was ready to receive her.

That should make Vivian happy, she thought, declining the teleportation for now. She stood up and surveyed her work – she had linked the triggers so that the person wearing the gold or silver guild ring would be the one receiving the voluntary trigger for the teleport, but everyone within the circle would be sent. Vivian’s idea would help allay her security concerns – at least initially, the only people who could activate it would be the Guildmaster, Mieriel, and her own group. But she was certain the bronze-ranked adventurers would reach silver quickly, and then they could be responsible for ferrying the recruits in and out of the library as needed – and she appreciated Vivian’s idea for setting up additional guild perks at each milestone.

“This is beautiful work, lassie.” The two dwarven stone crafters were staring at her stone floor, touching it and examining it with their mana, and studying the runes made from mana-infused electrum.

“Thank you,” she said, at least a little embarrassed at their overt appreciation for what she had made. Although she did have to agree, the shiny glowing runic circle embedded in the obsidian made a very striking image. She would still have to test it all extensively, but she could do that later after she had finished up in town. As she watched, the two dwarves quickly erected walls, turning her teleportation circle into a room with a doorway.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
