Hopelessly outclassed, Stint roared and swung wildly at the man, trying to surprise him with his enhanced strength and speed. There was a blur of motion, then he felt a horrible pain as the bandit dodged his wild strike and cut him across the stomach. Stint gasped, the sword falling from his fingers. He clutched at the wound, staggering back as his health globe dropped by more than half.

He fell to the ground, landing hard on his back. The bandit grinned as he stalked toward him. “Tough bastard, ain’t ya? That should’ve gutted ya, but don’t worry, this next one’ll do the trick.”

Stint pushed himself away, frantically trying to escape. The bandit laughed as he watched Stint struggle. “Should have minded your own—”

The man’s speech broke off in a gurgle as the blade of a sword burst through the front of his neck, covering Stint in a spray of blood. The dead bandit toppled, revealing the orange-robed merchant standing back near the bend in the road. His arm was still extended forward from how he’d thrown the sword.

Stint went limp with relief, his head hitting the ground with a soft thud. He pawed at his stomach, feeling blood on his hands. It was hot and sticky as it soaked through his tunic, but the cut didn’t seem to be that deep. Suddenly, something wet and warm touched his neck, causing him to twitch violently, then scream from the resulting pain.

He rolled away before he identified what it was that had touched him. He swore again when he realized what it had been. “Fucking horse!”

The horse snorted and nuzzled at him. He reached out to push it away. “Cut that out! I’m bleeding, here!”

A deep laugh met his ears as the orange-robed man walked toward him. “It seems like your horse is worried about you. You going to make it?”

Stint attempted to sit up, then fell back, hissing in pain. The merchant knelt down next to him, peering at his wound. Stint stared at him, his thoughts foggy through the haze of pain. What a magnificent mustache. The man clicked his tongue. “Humm, could be worse. Still, we’ll want to do something about that.” He turned to look over his shoulder, calling out in a loud voice. “Ava! Bring me a healing scroll, would you? They’re in the brown leather bag. The small one, not the one that’s full of turnips.”

He turned back to Stint. “I suppose I owe you some thanks. What is your name, stranger?”

Stint coughed, wincing at the sudden flash of pain. He cleared his throat. “Stint.”

“It is good to meet you, Stint.” The man got to his feet and gave an elaborate bow. “Wanderer and trader extraordinaire, Mlemlek Ko-Latti, at your service. You can call me Mlem if you’d prefer.” He held up a finger. “Not Lem, mind, I have standards.” Stint heard the sound of footsteps approaching and the man looked over his shoulder once more. “Ah, there you are. Thank you, Ava.”

The man accepted the bag from the girl and dug around in it. Ava looked away from the corpse of the bandit leader, hiding behind Mlemlek’s…Mlem’s robe.

“There we are,” Mlem said, “Heal!” A light flared from the scroll as it burst into ashes. Stint felt the pain in his abdomen vanish as his health shot to full. He sat up, patting at his mended flesh, finding himself whole again.

“Thanks,” he said, struggling to his feet.

“Come, let us get away from this grisly scene,” Mlem said, motioning to his daughter.

“Daddy, you should use one too,” the girl said, pointing at his shoulder.

Mlem looked down at the red patch staining his orange robe. “What, for this?” he laughed. “Ava, what is the sixth rule?”

“Don’t waste the merchandise on yourself,” Ava said reluctantly. “But Daddy, doesn’t it hurt?”

“Bah,” Mlem said. “A little scratch like this is nothing to worry about. I’m more upset that I missed my parry. This is going to stain.” He touched the patch of blood unhappily, looking at his fingers as they came away red.

“Who are you?” Stint asked as he followed the man and his daughter back toward the cart, the damn horse trailing after him. “You clearly aren’t just a merchant…that throw was…”

Mlem laughed as they rounded the bend in the road. The bandit that the man had tripped was lying dead, as was the crossbow-wielder, though Stint couldn’t see how he’d been killed. The orange-robed man didn’t even look at the corpses. “I told you. Mlemlek, wandering merchant.” He snapped his fingers and the cart started rolling on its own, trundling away from the dead bandit.

Stint’s jaw dropped. “You have a journey cart?”

The merchant grinned. “It gets us from A to B. You want any food? Water? A new bow, perhaps? A saddle for that magnificent horse of yours? I won’t say I owe you my life; as a merchant, I’m very careful about debts. I do, however, owe you for saving me quite a bit of…hassle.”

“Daddy, come on. Let’s just go. You promised we’d make it to Essed today.” said Ava.

“Now, now, Ava, we’ve got plenty of time and we need to thank Stint for helping us. Besides, remember the twenty-first rule.”

“Daaaad,” the girl protested.

Mlem grinned at her. “Come on, out with it. I know you know it.”

The girl sighed. “Never forget to loot the bodies,” she said, rolling her eyes.
