The mantra for the Qi Condensation level sent chills down my spine, each verse filling me with a chill colder than the last. I could swear the air around me began to freeze, and the oxygen in my lungs turned icy as I used the associated breathing technique.

When I heard of people cultivating this technique, I had heard of them dying just from trying it. I couldn’t fathom why, as I never tried it, but now I understood.

Without proper warmth, anyone who practices this technique would die before finishing all the verses. Luckily, I had the flames of a Phoenix and my own Nirvanic Flames, not to mention the constitution of a Phoenix at my disposal. That meant that whatever chill or cold attempted to kill me would be taken care of quickly.

Whoever invented this technique must have been a truly evil person. I hope King Yama forbids you from entering the Yellow River.

***

I stood in silence and cultivated, each frigid breath bringing the tiniest bit of Qi inside my body. One thing I hadn’t realised before was that Spirit Beasts didn’t have meridians; therefore, they had no way for Qi to circulate within the body.

That didn’t mean all hope— was lost, though, as creating meridians— at least the weakest sort— was easier than one would imagine. Cultivators below the Ascendant realm didn’t know about it, of course, and even those above would have a hard time coming across it.

There were different ways of creating meridians, some better than others, as well as other means of artificial talent. Those had always been below me, of course.

Yet for some reason, despite all my lost memories, this technique stuck with me. Almost as if the strange text played a crude joke on me, leaving me with the lowest and most evil technique imaginable, and the most horrid way of creating meridians.

Usually, one is born with both meridians and some form of talent-giving gift. Those changed depending on which Greater Realm one was born into, but the most common types were Spirit Roots, Constitution, Soul Strength, Elemental Affinity with Qi, and Bloodlines. They would either have one or multiple.

I was still unsure of whether or not what I lived through right now was real, but I decided to go with the assumption that it was.

In terms of Bloodlines, I possessed one of the most powerful ones in all the Greater Realms— The Phoenix. When thinking that, some sort of ingrained disgust churned in my stomach, perhaps a forgotten memory, but it wasn’t a feeling I liked.

My elemental affinity would obviously be fire, and the constitution of a Phoenix was equal to that of a Dragon. Spiritual Roots were missed altogether, and Soul Strength didn’t depend on one’s body, and it was something extremely difficult to judge without the proper tools.

Ah, I got off track…

I took a deep breath and used the poor technique of creating the meridians while using the Ghost Qi Technique. First, carve out space within my flesh using the frigid Qi, then freeze into a tubular shape and reinforce it with Qi. Finally, the last step— turning them ethereal.

After that was done, the flesh I carved out healed at a rapid pace, and just like that, my meridians had been formed.

That looked easy, but it would take the average Ascendant hours to do that, even with a higher cultivation base than my current body.

Now, with everything ready to go, I was finally able to start cultivating.
