Holstred had shown his experience leading armies and instantly adapted to the job and the soldiers he’d been given. The first army consisted of five hundred B-grades, with four hundred and fifty being weaker types of foot soldiers capable of working together in formations, forty elite soldiers, and finally ten support-type elite NPCs capable of healing and buffing the group. Holstred had naturally been consulted on what they needed for the army, and while Miranda had been a bit reluctant to recruit so many “useless” footsoldiers, she’d nevertheless done so.

One really should listen to experts, as they tend to know what they’re talking about, and Holstred had quickly shown why he wanted the soldiers. Individually, the footsoldiers were weak, barely even worthy of being considered B-grades, but as a cohesive unit, with the elites and supports, things were very different.

Unlike regular soldiers, these NPCs were, in Holstred’s words, “perfect” in the domain of following orders. They didn’t question and didn’t have independent thought, which could lead to instability in larger combat formations, allowing Holstred to deploy many of the strategies he’d only theorized when he’d led his soldiers into war before losing and falling into slavery.

His army of five hundred quickly proved itself a serious threat to the surrounding Territories as he went on a tear, forcing factions to call back their elites from the Central Domain, to no avail every time.

Soldiers were lost, but by now, a fairly functional teleportation network had started to form, quickly allowing reinforcements.

So far, this test had been a great success, but it wasn’t as simple as the Knight Commander being a good leader. He was, but there was one more important factor leading to everything going so well.

Holstred had reported back that many Territories seemed weaker than one would expect, given their size and neighboring territories. They lacked elites capable of defending the Territory Beacons, and the reason for this was quite obvious.

While the Central Domain was a wonderful opportunity to gain more Prima Credits, it was also an incredible risk. If a Territory’s elites died in the Central Domain, all that the Territory could do was hope that no one would notice and try to dodge being unlucky enough to have someone like Holstred come knocking.

They still tried to defend themselves, but their struggles were in vain. Even if they did have an advantage being on defense, the Milky Way Territory simply had too many resources courtesy of their large size and minor income from their Behemoth Territory Vassal, not to mention the many Prima Credits Jake and the others had brought back from the Central Domain.

Of course, being this dominant and having their Territory expand fast also put a bigger target on the Milky Way Galaxy’s Territory and risked meeting new powerful neighbors, but Miranda wasn’t afraid. They had good defenses, and if need be, she could call back Jake... assuming he didn’t go and get himself killed in the Central Domain, that is.
