Jumping back, she intercepted its leap with the haft of her spear, sending the blobby monster flying off to the side. She didn’t chase after it. Instead, she lunged, stabbing yet another slime before it even got a chance to leave the ground.

Just as in the arena, time stretched into a blur. Deflect, dodge, stab, advance, dodge again. Her long hours of practice were paying off. A spear wasn’t much different from a staff, not when it came down to it.

“Stumper!” Rain’s voice called over the shouts of combat. “Unawakened, get away from it!” Lyn felt her blood run cold in a way that had nothing to do with the icy snot she found herself spattered in.

“Mine!” someone shouted. There was a thunderous clang of metal on metal, but Lyn didn’t have time to look for the source of the noise or identify the speaker. Wherever the Stumper was, it wasn’t nearby, and there was a more immediate problem she needed to deal with.

“Geroff me!” Faas shouted, scrabbling behind himself, trying to reach the slime that was clinging to his cloak.

“Turn around and stay still!” Lyn shouted at him.

Amazingly, Faas had the presence of mind to comply, spinning and freezing in place. Wasting no time, Lyn slashed with the blade of the spear. Her precise strike sheared through the slime’s membrane, killing it instantly and dumping its foul-smelling insides all down Faas’s back.

“Depths, that’s cold!” Faas shouted.

Lyn whirled, looking for more threats, but there were none. The last slimes were dying, being rapidly dealt with by the other fighters. The Stumper, she now saw, had come out of the trees near the tail of the caravan. It was already dead. The bearded turtle was stomping on its corpse with an armored boot while Lord Darr and the orange-robed mage looked on. Jamus, she thought his name was.

“If you’ve got wounded, raise your hand!” Rain’s voice rose over the chaos. Lyn spun to see him hurtling toward her. The nimbus of Purify surrounded him, and as he passed, the icy filth soaking Faas vanished as if it had never been. Lyn looked down, seeing that she had also been cleaned of the splattered evidence of the battle. She looked up, watching wordlessly as Rain tore down the line, luminescent mist trailing in his wake. Where was he this whole time?

Realization struck as Ameliah had exited the trees, looking utterly unconcerned by the scene. Oh. I see.

Lyn watched Rain for a moment more, becoming increasingly aware of the cold that filled the air as the excitement of the battle faded. The gambeson had protected her well, but she’d barely gotten any slime on her. Looking around at the others, she sighed, seeing more than a few pairs of chattering teeth belonging to those who hadn’t been as quick to dodge. I suppose we DO need the practice.

Rain worked to slow his breathing as he made his way back along the column, passing the laughing and celebrating members of the company. Thirteen Tel sat in a pouch in his pocket, the spoils from their conquest. While there hadn’t been any Cold-Crysts, it was proof that monsters were starting to drop things again. When they stopped for the day, he’d break it up into copper and pay out everyone’s shares.

People gave Rain appreciative looks as he passed, as he was running Immolate at a low level to take the edge off the chill. No one had been seriously hurt. There’d been a few minor cases of frostbite where slime had come into contact with exposed skin, but nothing that couldn’t be treated with a tiny dab of healing potion. Ice Slimes weren’t even corrosive, so even their wardrobes were unscathed. Nevertheless, Rain was going to have to talk to Ameliah about what constituted a small group of monsters. When he’d sensed the multitude of slimes coming, he’d thought there’d been some mistake. Ameliah’s arrival soon after told him it wasn’t. No, this had been precisely what she’d intended. The Stumper, too. That had been a test for the awakened, or perhaps for him.

Rain frowned as he watched Ameliah disappear back into the trees, off to resume her scouting, no doubt. He shook his head with a sigh. Everything worked out fine, I guess. Maybe she’s got a better estimate of how much we can handle than I do. They’re going to need to learn to protect themselves; it’s just… Holding back when someone might get hurt is hard.

Rain made his way toward the forgewagon, planning to take a shift on pedal-duty now that Staavo had wandered off toward the back of the caravan. The old scholar had said he wanted to talk to Jamus and walk a while, so the seat was free. As he approached, he dropped Immolate, knowing that the magic would have just been sucked up by the vehicle’s metallic frame.

Metal had a sort-of gravity well when it came to magic; the higher the mana conversion rate, the stronger the pull. If you launched a Firebolt at a warrior, they’d be able to block it with a sword if they managed to get the blade within, say, five centimeters of the bolt. The required distance depended on the strength of the spell, its type, as well as the specific metal that the sword was made from.

For example, the Dark Revenant’s Armor that he was wearing was made of Dark Steel with a ninety-nine point nine percent mana conversion. That meant that for every thousand points of magical damage, only one point would impact the durability, with the rest being converted to mana and absorbed. For non-damaging spells, it was much the same, except the numbers were harder to quantify. A debuff like Malaise would get cut down to point one percent of its effectiveness. The rest of the energy would be converted to mana and absorbed, but that was where things started getting squirrelly. It wasn’t the original mana cost of the spell. It was some sort of a damage-equivalent based on spell-efficiency or something.

Of course, all of this became even more complicated when souls got involved—order of effect, perception of the target, intent of the caster, and so forth. In the case of the forgewagon, though, it was simple. Trying to use magic near that much metal was like trying to roll a ball-bearing past a powerful magnet. At low power, even something omnidirectional like an aura couldn’t avoid getting sucked in. Boosting the spell high enough for some of the magic to break free simply wasn’t worth the effort, let alone pushing hard enough to actually saturate the metal.

As with his armor, the effect wasn’t able to override Rain’s own domain. It still messed with the mana, but couldn’t absorb it. When seated on the forgewagon, Winter worked just fine as a singularity, and at the kind of power-levels he always ran it at, it was capable of reaching the person sitting in the other seat.

Detection also worked. That particular spell didn’t seem to care about the presence of the metal whatsoever. It wasn’t even the ‘not occluded by mundane materials’ effect listed on the skill card. According to Ameliah, metal should have overridden that. She’d said instead that it was because Detection was a Divination-aspect spell.

Whatever the reason, it tracked with Rain’s own experience. He’d been able to use Detection to find ores back in the mine and to see straight through the metal box Rankin had been using to hide his stash. Shielding something against Divination took a bit more effort than just lining the walls of your secret base with lead, apparently.

Likewise, some skills were explicitly meant to work with metal. Case in point, Tallheart, who was standing at his anvil, tapping lightly with his hammer. Rain couldn’t see what he was working on from this angle.

“Hey Tallheart, what did I miss?” Rain asked, gesturing.

“Nothing,” Tallheart said. “Please do something about this.” He pointed to his feet, where Dozer was clinging to his leg.

Rain smiled. Dozer, down, he commanded. The slime obediently released Tallheart’s leg and dropped to the snow. The moment it hit the ground, it quivered in shock. Feelings of distress and betrayal came across the link, but that might have just been Rain projecting. Dozer didn’t like snow, or the cold in general. Rain hurriedly walked around the forgewagon to stow his shield and spear in the small gap behind the seats, then bent down and grabbed the slime, cradling it in his arms like a giant water balloon. Dozer jiggled contentedly against his chest, snuggling as only an amorphous blob could.

“Don’t get used to it, Dozer. You’re too big for this. You’re going to have to learn to deal with the snow.”

This was met with nothing but happy confusion.

Rain sighed, stroking the slime idly as he peered up at what Tallheart was working on. “What are you making?”

Tallheart held up a cylindrical piece of metal. He turned it, showing Rain that it was hollow. “A cylinder for your damping idea. I am growing tired of the bouncing. Mmm. And the noise.”

“Oh, cool,” Rain said. “I’m not sure what we can do about the noise, though. The links for the treads need to be loose enough to accommodate the suspension, hence all the clanking.”

“I will make a muffler, now that we are away from the city.”

“A what?” Rain asked.

“A muffler,” Tallheart said. “I will need…hmm…two Arcane Crysts.”

“Oh, a Muffler. Like Muffle the spell?” It’s worth it, I guess. We’ve only got seven Arcane Crysts, though…

Tallheart rumbled in confirmation. “Yes.” He jumped down from the bed, then tucked the unfinished cylinder into a crate lashed below the anvil that held a few other metal bits and bobs. “I will finish tonight. We should keep moving.”

Rain nodded. “I’ll pedal with you for a bit. I’ve got something I wanted to talk to you about, anyway.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “We are still stopping early for the night?”

“Yeah,” Rain said. “Hang on, let me check the odometer.”

The odometer was a work in progress, and Rain’s answer to crappy cartography. At the moment, it wasn’t mounted anywhere convenient where it could be read while in motion. They’d bolted it beneath the bed near the back-left axle. It wasn’t anything complicated, just a bulky frame holding a series of wooden wheels and belts. Properly, it should have been done with gears, but making all those tiny teeth would have been too time-consuming given their schedule.

The forgewagon’s wheels had a radius of exactly 35cm. The treads added another three centimeters to that, bringing the total radius up to 38cm. Perimeter being 2πr, that turned into 238.761cm traveled for each wheel rotation. As one of the axles directly drove the odometer, the first wooden wheel in the box would turn at the same rate. The 10:1 reduction to the next wheel meant a revolution there corresponded to 23.8m, then 238m for the one after that, and so on. Tweaking the ratio of the first reduction to get things into increments of ten would have been nice, but it added complexity. He hadn’t even built the thing, only scribbled some quick requirements down and outsourced the design to a carpenter back in Fel Sadanis.

Simple as it was, it functioned amazingly well. Rain had even calibrated it by using Purify’s range as a measuring stick. Multiplying the reading by 1.033 compensated for the measurement errors, at least up to the fourth wheel.

Rain deposited Dozer in the forgewagon’s bed, then bent to inspect the odometer. He lifted his visor to get a better look at the notches carved into the wheels, then quickly tallied up the distance and applied the correction factor. He didn’t even bother to summon his calculator for something so trivial. “Five point nine kilometers,” he said, straightening.

Tallheart frowned. “What is that in leagues?”

“Not my problem,” Rain said. “We’re using metric, end of story.”

Tallheart’s frown deepened, making Rain heave a long-suffering sigh. “It’s an objectively superior system, just like the numbers I use. I’m going to teach both systems to everyone, and you all will thank me for it when I’m done.”

Tallheart rumbled, unconvinced.

Rain shook his head. He’ll come around. Also, Dozer, how are you already asleep?

The slime had oozed into the box of parts, slurping up the unfinished pieces and relaxing bonelessly into the shape of the container. In point of fact, the crate had actually been Dozer’s bed first. Tallheart had started using it for storage later. Fortunately, neither of them seemed to mind sharing.

Rain snorted as a wave of sleepy contentment buffeted him. He pushed it aside, motioning to Tallheart. “Come on, let’s go. Just four kilometers left. It shouldn’t take us long.” He turned, facing the rest of the company. “Form up!” he roared. “We’re moving!”

After clambering up into the passenger’s seat, Rain settled his feet on the pedals and fastened his seatbelt. Next, he accessed the Ring’s interface and buffed Strength up to his limit of forty-seven, taking the points from Clarity. With the point of sync that he’d gotten late last night, that put him at sixteen effective, a dangerous number as far as his coordination was concerned. Boosted like this, he needed to be exceedingly careful with rapid movements. He wouldn’t want to, say, deck himself in the teeth with a metal gauntlet during an attempt to scratch his nose. Nope. Nothing like that has ever happened. Not to me, no sir.

Rain began to push against the pedals, but they didn’t even budge. Tallheart had adjusted the gear ratio yesterday, not wanting to have to pedal so quickly to maintain a walking pace. Rain clenched his teeth and pushed harder. Slowly, the pedals began to turn. He smiled, pushing harder still, using the seat for leverage.

Suddenly, something clicked, and there was a sharp pain in his left knee that made him stop in surprise. Did…did I just break my leg?

“Um, Tallheart,” Rain said, slowly raising his knee. There was another pop as something clicked back into place, accompanied by a second spike of pain. Rain’s eye twitched slightly as the sharp sensation faded into a dull, throbbing ache. He looked over at Tallheart. “At what point do I need to start worrying about having too much Strength?”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, fiddling with his seatbelt. “It starts to become dangerous at ten to one with Endurance. Recovery only matters after the damage is done.” He looked up, alarm flickering across his face when he saw Rain cradling his knee. “Was that noise you? What happened?”

“I think I dislocated my knee a little bit, or maybe my kneecap. I didn’t even think that was possible. It popped back in, but yeah, not pleasant.”

“Are you sure?” Tallheart asked, peering at Rain’s leg, then back at his face. “You do not seem to be in distress.”

