An icy wind ruffled Rain’s cloak as he passed through the barrier east of Fel Sadanis. He smiled and closed his eyes, breathing in the clean air as his boots crunched against the trampled snow. “Finally.”

He turned back to look at the city one last time. The scene was hazy from the smoke, and the crumbling walls hid the growing foundations of the Watch’s citadel from view. The land around the city was a mushroom swamp in full now, with the tallest specimens reaching over three meters in height. The heat had accelerated their growth. There were none to be seen outside the barrier.

It was tenth bell, and true to Rain’s word, the company had moved out an hour ago. They were presently arrayed behind him, settling into formation for the journey. Rain had just needed to take care of a few last things in the city, but now all of that was done with. It would be a long time before he ever saw this place again, if ever. I’ll see you around, Bartum.

He turned, walking across Ameliah’s dirt bridge and past the gathered members of the company until he reached a sled that held some of the spare equipment. He selected a sword, which he belted at his waist, then a wooden shield and a spear, which he would carry with him as they marched.

The best way to learn was by doing, and the best way to lead was by example. He was in the same boat as the unawakened when it came to using these weapons. Samson’s crash course on the sword and last night’s formation drills were the sum total of his experience, not counting what he’d seen in movies. The rest would come down to practice. Anyway, carrying the weapons was less about the need for them and more about showing solidarity. He had a heavy pack on his back over his cloak for much the same reason. That was in addition to his own messenger bag, slung at his side. Both were stuffed to bursting with supplies.

“Okay, everyone, just like we practiced,” Rain said, walking to the head of the group. He looked up at Tallheart, who was sitting atop the Forgewagon with Staavo riding shotgun. Dozer was in the bed, Rain could feel, happily asleep in his wooden crate.

Tallheart nodded and pushed the forgewagon’s levers forward. The vehicle jerked into motion. The smith pedaled slowly to keep the flywheel going, with Staavo providing token assistance. Tallheart was only letting the old man ride along in consideration for his missing foot and on the condition that he kept his mouth shut. Others would get turns as needed. Rain himself was planning on putting some pedal time in later. He felt a bit stiff, having skipped his morning workout in anticipation of all the walking they were going to be doing.

As a group, the company started moving, following the forgewagon as it crunched a path down the road. The snow wasn’t that deep, perhaps twenty centimeters at most, but it was significantly easier to just let the forgewagon’s treads do all the hard work. As part of the lead group, Rain didn’t have that luxury. He trudged through the snow beside the forgewagon, flanked by Tahir, the hunter. Finn and Ruce filled out the remainder of the lead party, paired up on the other side of the forgewagon.

The rest of the company stretched out behind them like a centipede, segmented in groups of three. Each group consisted of one person towing a medium-sized sled in the middle, plus a pair of armed guards, one on either side. The awakened and others with combat experience were spread across the groups such that the convoy’s defenses were relatively even down the line. The end of their little caravan was formed by Mlem and his self-powered journey cart, which did much better on the snow after it had been packed down by the sleds.

Everyone had packs to deal with, too, of course, even the guards. They were by no means traveling light. Progress was going to be slow, with frequent breaks until everyone got used to the physical demands of the loaded march. That was fine. Today’s goal was only ten kilometers, after all. They could have done it in two hours, if not for the snow.

Depending on which map you looked at—because of course all the maps he’d been able to find blew—it was somewhere between thirty-five and fifty leagues to Vestvall by road. After unfucking the units, that came out to somewhere between one hundred seventy and two hundred fifty kilometers. It would take them a month at ten kilometers a day, which was way too damn long. Rain had no intention of moving that slowly.

The long-term goal that Rain had in mind for the company was a standard march of thirty kilometers a day. That pace would be grueling in these conditions, but Rain knew it was possible, especially if you threw magic into the mix. According to a fragment of memory from his high school world history class, thirty kilometers a day was the standard for the Roman military. Also, for what it was worth, Mlem agreed that such a pace was reasonable, even in these conditions. He said he’d traveled to and from Vestvall just before the barrier went up, taking less than a week in each direction.

Rule 23: You’ll never get rich by being slow. Rain smiled. Mlem is awakened, though, and he’s got a magic cart. His perspective might be a bit off.

If they really needed to move, stamina potions were on the table. With those, hitting or even exceeding Roman speed would be easy. Rain had acquired a small stockpile of them, and Myth and Reason even had a fresh batch fermenting in a glass jug somewhere. However, until monsters started dropping Crysts reliably, all types of potions were reserved for emergencies. Velocity, too, was an option, but that would require some practice for everyone to get used to. It would come later. For today, practice was more important than progress.

As much as getting to Vestvall quickly was important, it wasn’t an emergency. Realistically, even doubling their pace wouldn’t make that much difference to Jamus’s family and the rest of the city’s residents. Rescue was already way too late. The depth gauge was still waffling between ranks ten and eleven, and unless it dropped significantly by the time they got there, the odds of finding survivors wouldn’t be high. Rain had gotten Officer Sells, the Watch’s Diviner, to take a peek down the road for him, but Sells wasn’t strong enough to see all the way to Vestvall. They’d be going in blind.

Rain shifted his grip on his shield, resisting the urge to add points to Strength to offset the weight of the equipment and his packs. No matter what he’d said in his little speech about not being able to turn back, he wanted to spend the first night relatively close to Fel Sadanis. It remained to be seen how problematic monster-spawns would be, and he wasn’t planning to lead everyone to their deaths. If enough people wanted to go back after the first night, he wouldn’t force them to continue.

Soon enough, the road exited the cleared land around Fel Sadanis, passing into the northern edge of Tallheart’s forest. The trees would continue for some twenty kilometers, thinning somewhat, then transitioning to cleared plots of farmland as they approached the village of Essed. That was tomorrow’s goal.

Rain was paying close attention to Detection as they walked. It was daytime, which meant that monsters would be generally more passive and wary of large groups, but it didn’t mean the company wouldn’t be attacked at all. If not for Ameliah, they probably would have already run into trouble.

Before ninth bell had even struck, Ameliah had gone out alone to scout and to sweep their path clear of any serious threats. She’d sent him a Message earlier, and from it, Rain knew that she was planning on staying out there, ghosting around the group until they stopped for the day. Now and then, he would catch a glimpse of her through the trees. Those appearances were deliberate, designed to reassure the group. Her protection would only last for two hours, however. At that point, she was going to deliberately let a small group of monsters through.

Of course, Rain had elected to keep that little detail to himself.

In the fourth group from the head of the line, Lyn Aleuas Draves was finding that marching in heavy gear was significantly more taxing than she’d been expecting. As a noble, she’d never needed to work a day in her life, but that hardly meant she was a stranger to physical exertion. As her parents’ youngest, and as their only daughter, she’d always felt like she had something to prove. That had led her to the arena. It was embarrassing for her, therefore, to be having trouble with something as simple as a march through the snow.

It had been almost two hours since they’d set out, and there was no indication that they were going to get another break anytime soon. They’d stopped once for a ten-minute breather, and then again for slightly longer when something had gone wrong with the ridiculous mechanical contraption they were following. When the next break would be, Lyn had no idea, and she wasn’t about to make herself look weak by asking.

She glanced at the man toiling beside her, pulling the sled. Lyn had yet to speak with him at all, not being particularly happy with the group in which she’d been placed. She’d have preferred to be paired up with Lord Darr, or any of the other awakened. She didn’t want to have to worry about two commoners when the excitement started.

She shook her head. No, not commoners. Amateurs.

Lyn had met many commoners in the arena, even losing matches to them occasionally. She was sure that these two were perfectly fine people. The real issue was that they weren’t fighters.

They’d gotten past Mazel, at least. Now there was someone that Lyn was glad she’d never had to face on the beam.

Sighing, Lyn waved her spear to catch the attention of the man pulling the sled. I might as well make an effort.

He looked over, and she took a deep breath, then spoke, trying to hide how badly she was out of breath. “So since it looks like we’re going to be stuck together for a while, I figured I should at least introduce myself. My name is Lyn Draves. What’s yours?”

“Nails,” the man said.

“What did you do, Nails, before joining Ascension?” She gestured at the convoy.

“Worked,” Nails said.

Lyn hid her frown. Not a big talker, this one. “Doing what?”

Nails shrugged his shoulders, adjusting his grip on the sled’s tow harness. “This sort of thing.”

“So, you were a porter?”

“Sometimes.”

There was a long pause. Just when Lyn was about to make another effort, the man spoke up of his own will. “You’re a noble?”

Lyn tightened her grip on the spear. “I was. My family died in the Shift. Not the whole house, just my part of it.” She looked away. “I’m the last one left.”

“Sorry,” Nails said.

“Yeah,” Lyn said. When she spoke again, it was to change the subject. “So, what made you decide to join?”

“I was already working for Rain.” Nails paused as if considering. “He’s a good person.”

Huh. “How long have you known him?” Lyn asked.

“Two weeks, maybe. What day is today?”

“Second of Winternight.”

“Already?” Nails said. “I thought we were still in Frostfall.”

“It’s cold enough, either way,” Lyn said. “I’m not looking forward to Fallow if we’re still out here by then. This cloak isn’t going to be enough, and the gambeson I got issued has a hole, though I shouldn’t complain.” Fucking Shift.

“Rain has a Heat aura,” Nails said. “Delfina saw him use it.”

“Mmm, I’d heard that,” Lyn said, nodding. “Who’s Delfina?”

Nails gestured to the third member of their party, a woman walking on the other side of the sled carrying a shield and spear just like her own.

“Oh,” said Lyn, then she raised her voice. “Hello.”

Delfina looked over, then quickly away the moment their eyes met. Lyn raised an eyebrow.

“She’s quiet,” Nails said by way of explanation.

“Wait, Nails, did I just hear you call someone quiet?” someone called from the group behind them. “What’s that make her, mute?”

“Shut up, Faas,” Nails said. “She talks. Just not to idiots like you.”

“Oi!” Faas shouted. Lyn smiled.

“Look alive, everyone! On the right!” came a booming voice from the front of the caravan. Lyn jerked her head forward, seeing Rain perched unsteadily atop the forgewagon, pointing. “We’ve got incoming! Full halt! Leave the sleds and get ready! Shields and spears in the front, archers in the back! Awakened, no magic!”

No magic? Lyn turned, shrugging out of her pack as she moved forward to join the others in mustering for battle. After a moment, Nails and Delfina appeared on either side of her. Nails had retrieved a shield and a spear from the sled. This wasn’t the first monster attack that they’d had, but it was the first time an actual halt had been called. The previous incidents had both been rogue plague-rats, each one being quickly felled by arrows from a distance.

Lyn searched the trees, looking for the threat. Whatever it was, it was going to be big. “Does anyone see—there!” She pointed, seeing a flash of icy blue. She relaxed slightly, recognizing the monster. Why call a halt for these?

“Ice Slimes!” someone called from further down the line. Lyn could now see a few more of them coming through the trees.

“Use your shield,” Lyn said, glancing at Delfina and Nails. “They’ll jump when they get close. Shake them off, then when they fall, stab them before they jump again.”

“Got it,” said Nails.

Lyn gripped her spear tightly. Okay, that is a lot of slimes, actually…

More and more of them just kept filtering out of the trees, leaving tracks of hardened ice atop the snow. Arrows were already flying, claiming the first kills. Lyn cursed, staring at the oncoming monsters. She slipped her arm out of her shield’s straps and dropped it to the ground, taking a two-handed grip on her weapon instead. The shield would have just slowed her down, even if it was a good idea for the others.

The first slimes reached them, launching themselves and kicking up puffs of snow. Lyn struck downward, using the spear more like a staff to swat the icy blob headed for her out of the air. Unsure if she’d killed it, she pulled back and stabbed. Her strike pierced the slime with no resistance, releasing a small wave of foul-smelling jelly as the point of the spear bit into the frozen ground beneath the snow. Cold rolled off the ooze, sharp against the exposed skin of her face.

Lyn looked up as she freed her spear from the earth. Beside her, Nails was fighting with a slime that had stuck itself to his shield, and Delfina was rushing to help him. Lyn would have gone to help as well, but there was another slime headed right for her.

