“Yeah, pretty sure,” Rain said, flexing the joint slowly. Everything seemed to be working, but his body was screaming at him to stop. Instead, he straightened his leg and consulted his menus. “I’m only at a five-to-one ratio with Endurance, so why—?” He blinked. “Oh. That would do it.”

Dropping his Strength to fifteen, Rain healed his knee in a puff of overhealth, then brought his Strength back up to thirty and dumped the remaining balance in Endurance. He looked over at Tallheart, who was watching him with concern. “I wasn’t at max health. I guess my ligaments couldn’t take it?” He pitched his voice up, making it a question.

Tallheart frowned. “Perhaps.”

Rain nodded. That’s it, resting buff of ten for Endurance from now on. That was NOT pleasant. “Okay, let’s go.” He started pushing again, pulling the rest of his points out of Clarity and spreading them between Endurance and Strength, not exceeding a two-to-one ratio.

“Are you well, Rain?” Tallheart asked, watching him.

“Fine,” Rain said. “Already healed.” Damn, this flywheel is heavy. Turn, damn you!

“That is not what I mean,” Tallheart said. The pedals started turning effortlessly as the smith added his strength to Rain’s. “You have not been sleeping enough. You are pushing yourself too hard.”

“I’m—” Rain cut himself off. He was going to say fine again, but that really wasn’t true, and he knew it. He kept pedaling, matching Tallheart’s speed. He glanced to the side at Tahir and Finn, who were chatting nearby. He cleared his throat and called out to them. “Tahir, Finn, go find out where Ruce wandered off to, then all of you fall back to the first sled. Tallheart and I are going to take the forgewagon ahead for a little bit so we can have a private conversation. Keep an eye on us, but don’t let anyone eavesdrop, okay?”

“Sure thing, boss,” Finn said, slapping Tahir on the shoulder. The two of them retreated, and Tallheart pushed the controls forward. Rain twisted himself around to look over his shoulder as the forgewagon lurched into motion, then waved to Vanna to get everyone to follow.

Vanna nodded, then turned and shouted at the company, “Move out!”

Rain gave her a thumbs-up before turning back to face the road. He and Tallheart pedaled silently for a few minutes as Rain waited for them to build up a little distance.

“It’s the memories,” he finally said. “Being a Dynamo just makes it worse. They’re there every time I close my eyes.” He looked down. “Keeping myself busy…helps.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “I understand.”

Rain nodded. “Yeah.”

He closed his eyes. He didn’t really feel like saying any more. Instead, he focused on the pumping of his legs. There wasn’t even a specter of the pain from his knee, and his body felt strong.

Amazingly strong. Unnaturally strong.

“I’ll be okay,” Rain said after a minute. “It’s…going to take me some time. Just let me know if it looks like I’m getting worse. Don’t let me pull away. I did that after my parents died, and—” He shook his head. “You don’t want to hear this. Thank you, Tallheart.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “It is good that you are aware of your own state. Ameliah was concerned that you did not even realize how you were behaving.”

Rain looked up. “Really? What did she tell you?”

Tallheart snorted but didn’t answer.

“What’s that supposed to mean?” Rain asked. “Come on, what did she say?”

Tallheart stopped pedaling, startling Rain with the sudden increase in resistance. “Stop,” Tallheart said. “We are moving too quickly.”

Rain glanced over his shoulder, then blinked when he saw how far back the next group was. Vanna was glaring at him, an annoyed expression on her face as she struggled to keep up while towing the sled behind her.

Oops. Rain eased off, the pedals coming to a complete stop as the momentum of the flywheel carried them forward.

“This vehicle is impressive for something unenchanted,” Tallheart said. “The cars of your world move faster still, correct?”

“Much faster,” Rain said, shaking his head and grudgingly accepting the change of subject. I’ll talk to Ameliah later. Make sure she knows I’m okay. “Ten times faster or more, and you don’t need to pedal them. And planes go like ten times faster than that. Some planes even break the sound barrier. Don’t even get me started on rockets.”

Tallheart rumbled in what Rain interpreted as acceptance.

“We’ll get there,” Rain said, slapping the side of his chair for lack of a door. “And beyond. My world had technology; this world has magic. Together, that’s magitek, and it is going to be awesome. I’m talking Airships, Tallheart. Airships!”

“Mmm.”

Rain continued on, heedless of what was probably skepticism. “Those Majistraal teleporters are holding up progress, I tell you. They make getting around too easy. Nobody’s even tried to make anything better than journey carts. They haven’t needed to.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, thoughtfully this time. He had started pedaling again, slowly.

“We need to be careful about it, though,” Rain said, matching his pace. “There’s some stuff that I know that’s better left unmentioned. Hell, even if someone finds out that it’s possible, we could be in trouble. Who knows how many steps they could skip with magic.”

Rain tilted his head. Could Tallheart build a filter for U235? An image of a mushroom cloud flashed through his mind, and he shuddered. Hurriedly pushing the thought away, he asked a follow-up question. “Say, Tallheart, how many Ment-Crysts would you need to make something to block a mind reader?”

Tallheart scratched at one of his antlers, taking a moment to consider the question. “Anyone strong enough to read thoughts is too strong for an enchantment born of Crysts to be more than an inconvenience,” he finally said. “It would take a GranCryst, at minimum.”

Rain frowned. “And what about someone like Warden Vatreece?”

Tallheart snorted. “Impossible.”

“Care to elaborate?” Rain asked, raising an eyebrow.

“Platinums are…” Tallheart said, trailing off. He closed his eyes, and when he spoke again, there was a note of pain in his voice. “There is no resistance. I was a fool for ever believing differently.”

Rain winced. Shit. He cleared his throat, interested in moving the conversation along before Tallheart spiraled down a dark path. “Anyway, Tallheart, there’s another reason I wanted to talk to you alone. I’ve got a question for you.” He hesitated. “It’s kind of related. Sorry.”

Tallheart shook his head, then snorted. “Ask.”

Rain nodded. “Right, well…”

“Just ask,” Tallheart said.

“I wanted to talk to you about equipment,” Rain said with a sigh. “Weapons and armor. I know you’re not comfortable making that kind of stuff for humans, but… I wanted to know if you’d consider it. Just for the company, of course.”

Tallheart frowned.

Rain held up his hands hurriedly. “I’m not going to push you on it; I just wanted to see where you stood. I’m not even sure it is a good idea, given all the shit crafters have to deal with. I don’t exactly want word to spread about what you can do. Still, imagine what this company would be like if we all had full plate armor. Even without enchantments, I know you can make way better gear than the crap I bought.” Rain gestured to the sword on his hip, indicating the specks of rust on the pommel.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled noncommittally. After a few seconds of silence, he spoke again. “You, Ameliah, and Jamus are the only humans I trust.”

“To be clear, that’s a no, right?”

Tallheart just looked at him. Rain sighed, rubbing at his eyes. Damn it, I fucked this all up. Stupid, Rain, stupid. “Fair enough,” he said after a moment. “I won’t ask again. I said I wouldn’t push, and I won’t.”

Tallheart nodded.

The two of them pedaled in silence for a few minutes. Tallheart stared into the distance, his thoughts remaining inscrutable as Rain pored over the conversation, trying to determine how he could have approached things differently. Suddenly, a thought struck him, and he tilted his head. “What about Staavo?”

Tallheart looked at him, raising an eyebrow.

“You didn’t include him in your list of trusted humans,” Rain elaborated. “You made some wire and stuff for him, though, and you let him ride up here.”

Tallheart snorted. “I trust Staavo to be Staavo.” He looked at Rain, face expressionless. “Noisy, but harmless.”

“Oof,” Rain said.

“Do not tell him I said that,” Tallheart said, the corners of his eyes crinkling. “He is…not bad. For a human. Loud, pushy, and rude, but not bad.” Tallheart paused, tilting his head. “Do not tell him that I said that either.”

Rain laughed, a small fraction of his tension draining away. “Sure thing, Tallheart.”
