“Oh. Okay. I’ll miss you.”
The Selphid shot Erin an awkward, pleased grin.
“Well, don’t go saying goodbye just yet. We thought we’d do it the Erin way.”
Erin looked blank. Then her eyes widened.
“You mean…”
“We’ll take a door, head north, pop back for lunch, our beds, and maybe some work in the area. It’ll be slow, but we’re guaranteed a nice place, right? And if we had a door in Invrisil, well, we could use it now and then to pop back and say hi to our third favorite [Innkeeper], right?”
“Peslas will like that, I’m sure.”
Jelaqua laughed. Erin smiled wanly. But it was a smile. The Selphid quieted down as Moore and Seborn came down the stairs.
“We’ll go further north still. But we’ll be closer by if there’s that door. And…you’d have a way to the City of Adventurers. True, it wouldn’t work that often, but there’s so much in the north. I’d love to show you around.”
Erin tried to imagine it. She couldn’t, but that just made the thought more enticing.
“I’d like that.”
Pisces cleared his throat.
“We may be doing the same thing.”
Ceria and Jelaqua looked at him. The half-Elf swallowed.
“I never said anything about it.”
Pisces sniffed.
“No, but I would imagine the conversation need not actually occur in order for rational minds to come to the same conclusion. There is a finite amount of work to be had around Liscor. Thus—”
Erin jabbed him in the side. Pisces yelped. He glared at Erin and sighed.
“My point is that we will eventually need more work. So a door to Invrisil would benefit us as well.”
Ceria played with her napkin, which she’d yet to use in lieu of her arm.
“I—yes, you’re right, Pisces.”
“As always.”
“Kick him for me, Jelaqua? Thanks. We should keep going. We have to. But—maybe not yet? I want to stay around Liscor. We can probably earn enough putting down the undead or go through to Celum for some jobs. But I want to stay.”
“Until the trial? With your friend?”
Jelaqua fixed a sympathetic eye on Ceria. The half-Elf nodded.
“That’s fair. We’ll be taking the door north for weeks to get to Invrisil, so there’s no rush. You can come out along the way. Hell, we’ll make it a party on the road. And Erin can come with us! It beats staring at Moore’s back all day and losing a fortune in dice to Seborn.”
Erin smiled. The idea was tempting. But north? She thought of the Human army, and her enthusiasm faded a tiny bit. Still, she nodded.
“My door’s open to you all. Both doors.”
“Now, if only there was a way to make that damn thing change from spot to spot without having to fumble with mana stones.”
Jelaqua grumbled into her plate. Ceria sighed, and Pisces began explaining for the umpteenth time why that was impossible. Lyonette, who’d heard the conversation, paused and went over to the door after serving Moore a heaping platter. She checked the bowl.
There were three mana stones in it. A green one, a blue one, for Liscor and Celum respectively, and a red stone. The yellow stone for Pallass was gone.
“What’s the red one?”
“Oh. That was the Goblin’s cave. I—the door doesn’t work anymore for some reason. It might have fallen over or been broken.”
Erin looked up. Lyonette studied the mana stone, but she didn’t get rid of it. Instead, she narrowed her eyes and looked at the door.
“What if…?”
She got out some spare wood, the nails and hammer that Erin had yet to put away, and opened the door to Celum to get some quick-drying glue from Octavia. She began working with Mrsha watching her as Erin greeted the others.
“Think the Silver Swords will go north too?”
“To another adventure, definitely. My brother’s done what he came here to do. Which was protect me.”
Yvlon nodded, in better spirits than before. She looked…calmer as she rubbed at one of her arms.
“Talk about overprotective.”
Seborn muttered. Yvlon nodded.
“A bit. But he did do all of this for us. And he didn’t even get any treasure.”
“Which he won’t. Unless you want to give up your share?”
Pisces looked at Yvlon. She eyed him. Ksmvr happily kicked Pisces under the table without being asked.
“He’s rich enough. But I think I will stop by my home if we ever go north. Of course, you’ll all have to come with me. We’ve got decent vineyards. But that’s the only thing I want.”
“And I would like to be an asset to the team.”
Ksmvr chimed in. Pisces rubbed at his leg.
“Commendable. I suppose I’m with you all, as painful as the experience may be.”
“Well, for as long as I have you, I’ll enjoy it. You can all stay here. So long as you keep paying me.”
Erin looked at Moore, and the half-Giant smiled. He tipped a mug up and drank from it.
“You’re too kind, Miss Solstice. But we had one more thing to say, didn’t we, Jelaqua?”
He reached out and nudged Jelaqua with a finger, despite sitting at a different table. The Selphid grimaced. She hesitated and looked at Seborn.
“You do it.”
“Aw, damn it, Seborn…okay.”
Jelaqua sighed and looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin was eating at a table by himself, but not too far away from the others. He kept staring through the window at the sun and mouthing silently to himself, lost in thought.
“Numbtongue.”
He looked up. Jelaqua smiled at him awkwardly. At some point, Erin realized she’d swapped her Raskghar body for a Human one, one of the casualties of Liscor’s battle. Probably so Mrsha would stop being scared.
“I don’t know how to say this. So I guess this is how. Uh—if you’re not planning on doing anything, we’d like to invite you to our team.”
Ceria slipped with her fork and stabbed the table. Pisces and Yvlon looked up. Ksmvr kept eating because he could listen and eat at the same time. Erin turned her head sharply.
“Me?”
Seborn and Moore were quiet. They sat behind Jelaqua. She nodded.
“We’re down—well, we used to have a lot more in our group. One of our members was Garen. You know why he left. But we talked—for a long time, really. And you Redfangs were adventurers. You just didn’t get paid or recognized. I’m not saying it would be easier with us. In fact, we tend to attract trouble. But if you wanted to continue being an adventurer…we have a spot open for a [Bard].”
Ceria held her breath. A Gold-rank team was asking a Goblin to join them? But Numbtongue had been part of Garen’s tribe. And she had seen him fight. The Hobgoblin looked at Jelaqua. He hesitated.
And then he shook his head.
“No.”
Moore let out a soft sigh. Jelaqua nodded hurriedly.
“No problem. I just thought I’d offer. It’s totally fine if—”
“I am an adventurer.”
“Right, right. That’s what I said. I just—damn it, I wasn’t implying—”
Jelaqua flushed orange. Numbtongue shook his head again.
“I wasn’t mad. You’re right. Your offer is generous. I would have said yes. But I belong here.”
He looked at Erin. And the [Innkeeper] smiled. Every head turned to her. And Ceria was relieved to see both her and Numbtongue smile. Jelaqua grinned as well, in relief.
“That’s good. Whew, I thought I’d stepped in it this time. Shame, though. We could use a proper [Mage].”
Moore flicked her on the back of the head as she went to take a drink. Pisces gave the half-Giant an appreciative nod. Everyone laughed. Jelaqua accepted a cloth napkin from Mrsha. And Lyonette looked up.
“I’m done! I knew it was possible.”
Erin turned. The [Princess] straightened and showed everyone a crude wheel, just a thin circle of wood, really, able to rotate on a central axis. Half of it rose above the doorframe. The part touching the door had something embedded in it.
The mana stone. Lyonette carefully turned the wheel so the glowing blue stone was touching the magic door. She opened the door, and Octavia’s shop appeared. The [Alchemist] looked up.
“Hey! If it isn’t my favorite—”
Lyonette closed the door. She turned the wheel so the green stone appeared, and the streets of Liscor took shape. A passing Drake glanced over. Lyonette shut the door, turned the wheel until no mana stone was connected with the door, and opened it. A solid wooden wall lay beyond. She turned and gave Pisces a long look. The [Necromancer]’s mouth was open.
“You did it!”
Jelaqua exclaimed. She stood up to take a look. So did Erin.
“I was tired of messing with that bowl. It keeps getting knocked over, and I have to fumble with the mana stones—this is simpler. If you spin the wheel, you can open the door. Once Jelaqua’s team has their mana stone, I can add it. We might need multiple wheels or something, but I can work out a better system.”
“It’s still not automatic, but it’s a lot more convenient. Now all I need is to put this thing on legs.”
Erin smiled as she inspected the crude wheel. Jelaqua chortled.
“And Typhenous, Falene, and Pisces said it couldn’t be done! What do you think of this, smart guy?”
She laughed at Pisces. The [Necromancer] sniffed.
“It appears to be a non-magical solution to a highly magical equation. Which doesn’t fix the issue of automatically switching connections or the door’s mana constraints. Am I supposed to be impressed by a bit of wood?”
Moore reached over and prodded Pisces.
“Be polite. It’s quite ingenious.”
“I’ll tell Drassi and Ishkr to check both connections while they’re working. They’ve been complaining about the hassle, but if they do it once every thirty minutes…”
Lyonette was talking to Erin. She glanced at the door.
“I’ll go and tell them to come in tonight. Unless the inn’s still closed?”
She looked at Erin. So did everyone else. They held their breaths. Erin looked around. She paused, then nodded slowly.
“No, I think that’s a good idea. Tell them. The Wandering Inn is open again.”
A low sigh ran around the room. Lyonette smiled, set the door for Liscor, and opened it. Erin saw daylight flood into the inn. She heard Ceria laugh at Pisces and his loud sniff. Jelaqua began talking with Seborn about how to transport the door north, by wagon or on foot, and Moore argued for getting another team to do it so he wouldn’t have to walk.
The day was bright and sunny. And Erin stared into it and knew that she couldn’t do it. Her inn was just too small.
 
——
 
“Leave?”
Krshia looked up, surprised. Erin nodded. She leaned on Krshia’s stall. Her smile of the morning was gone, but she wasn’t crying. That didn’t stop the Drakes around her from giving her the fish-eye and a wide berth. There was still some damage on Market Street. Apparently, the city had been in turmoil for hours after they’d gone. Erin wasn’t sorry.
“I can’t stay in the inn. Not now. I just can’t. I don’t know what I’ll do, Krshia.”
“Hrm. Why worry?”
The [Shopkeeper]’s prosaic remark made Erin look up at her. Krshia smiled and pushed Erin with one paw.
“Off. I need my display to go here. How much is a good price for Miss Octavia’s potions?”
“Fourteen silver for a healing potion?”
“Hah!”
Krshia laughed. Then she realized Erin was serious. She shook her head and wrote on the chalk board. Erin studied it. Eleven silver and four copper for a healing potion, one of Octavia’s cheapest.
“I was close.”
The Gnoll just snorted.
“Healing potions are expensive. Even these. You think anyone can afford them? A family buys one for a year. And I intend to have their business. Adventurers, now…ah, Miss Tassai. I have that custom-ordered ointment from the [Alchemist]. As you requested.”
She shooed Erin out of the way. The young woman came back after the Drake had done her shopping.
“Why wouldn’t I worry? I have to run my inn.”
“Mm. Why?”
Erin paused.
“Because it’s my inn?”
“Is that not what you pay Drassi and Ishkr for? And Lyonette? Do you think Peslas spends his time working all day? Do you think you need to, especially with your ability to preserve food?”
“Uh—”
Erin opened and closed her mouth. Krshia looked at her.
“Do not stay if it hurts. Go. Run about in the fields. Play baseball—and invite me when you do! Go, drink. Find an attractive young person to have sex with. Or old person. Or buy one of my—”
“No.”
A flash of teeth.
“Very well. But do not stay if it taxes, Erin. Go. Leave the inn to one you trust. Lyonette managed in your absence. Go, and return when you are able. But do not force yourself, yes?”
It was simple wisdom. But it had Erin blinking nonetheless. Go?
“Where? North?”
She didn’t want to go north. She didn’t want to talk to other humans. Not right now. Erin thought of Ryoka—Krshia was shaking her head.
“North. I understand the adventurers would want to go north, but it is hardly the only direction, yes? Why not go south? I will be heading that way in time. It would be a boon to have your magic door take me closer to my destination. There will be a connection to Pallass soon, yes?”
“Uh—I guess?”
“Better to know than to guess. I would like to know. Because the grand Meeting of Tribes is soon upon us, Erin Solstice. And I must be there. And when I go…I may ask Mrsha to come with me.”
Erin looked up sharply.
“Mrsha?”
“Mm. She may be important. And the fate of the Stone Spears tribe must be discussed, if nothing else.”
Krshia deftly organized her rack of magical potions, looking as calm as could be. Erin suspected she was avoiding explaining herself. Because she knew Mrsha had magic powers? She narrowed her eyes, but said nothing.
“Lyonette would never let Mrsha out of her sight. I wouldn’t want that either.”
“Then do not. Come south. Run across the Gnoll plains. I would be happy to be your guide.”
Krshia looked up. Erin blinked.
“Me?”
“It is not as if Humans are barred from Gnoll lands, yes? Your kind seldom makes the trip. As for the grand meeting—you could be on the outside. So yes, I say come. Come, Erin Solstice. Explore my home.”
Krshia swept an arm out. She pointed south. Erin turned her head. And she had a thought.
 
——
 
“Excuse me, Wall Lord.”
“Let her in.”
Ilvriss didn’t look up. He’d heard Erin arguing with his door guards. He sighed, closed the reports, and looked up as Erin walked into his office. She was holding a guitar. He eyed it.
“Your new help is a jerk.”
Erin announced to him. She wasn’t smiling. But she had that look in her eye that Ilvriss was almost relieved to see. A challenging look. One he was sure would mean a headache for him.
“Captain—er, Major Scaleshield is diligent in guarding me. As she should be. What do you want, Miss Solstice?”
“Are you going to send someone to Pallass? Because I want to reopen my door there.”
Surprising. Ilvriss coughed and made a little note to schedule Hawk’s services today.
“I had every intention. However, your inn was closed until today.”
“Yes. It was.”
