A [Bard] was more than just a [Singer]. They were different from a [Troubadour], who sang of entertainments and ballads of love. Bards fought if they needed to, but they weren’t [Soldiers] like [Drummers] were, or [Horncallers]. A Goblin who took up an instrument was unlikely to be a [Bard]. Because in the end, a [Bard] told stories as they sang. They told stories and legends. Of heroes.
Numbtongue knew of no Goblin heroes of old. Goblins didn’t believe in heroes the same way as other races did. But he believed each of his companions had died a legend. And he had lived a tale no Goblin could ever dream of. A myth of an [Innkeeper] who would shelter a group of Hobgoblins. A tale of a monster girl worth dying for.
And now he heard another story just as strange. Just as great and terrible and fantastic, a tale of heroes and another world. Only, this one was real. And he would never tell it.
Erin Solstice sat at the table and talked. Her audience of three listened, sometimes asking questions or telling their own stories. But if theirs were mortal tales—a girl who ran away from home, even if that home was a castle, a Goblin who was given a gift, a Gnoll who had lost her tribe—hers was a tale magical even by the standard of this world.
“It’s so different. Some days I can’t even count how many things are just—different. There are no monsters. No other races but Humans. The ground’s paved. Not with cobblestones. There’s…our cities are huge, but we don’t have many walls. Our buildings are taller than castles. Hundreds of feet high. Skyscrapers.”
Things like that. Erin even had words that Numbtongue didn’t know. But words that spoke for themselves. Skyscraper. Airplanes. Cars. Motorbikes. Internet. Computer. That, more than anything, convinced him she was telling the truth. After all, you could make up a world easily enough. But the language? Erin spoke it as naturally as she talked. She had been there. All these things had been common to her.
But to Numbtongue? He tried to imagine an internet, a magical web through the world—only, it wasn’t magical. Someone had built it out of electricity and software and…steel? Magic was a dream in Erin’s world.
“We have gas. Which is really bad and smells! Plus, it explodes. But it powers things. You have it in this world. It’s, uh, a type of oil. We burn it and make things move. With motors. Like this. See? Vroom.”
Erin was also bad at describing things. She tried to show them what a car was, sketching it on paper. But the thing made no sense. It had wheels and a body, but Numbtongue and Lyonette saw nothing that would make it move besides magic. And Erin couldn’t tell them what an engine was, only that it was a thing that ate gasoline and moved.
So a magic that wasn’t magic. The magic of…electricity. Of steel and invention. That called to Numbtongue. With it, the Humans of Earth, of Erin’s world had done wondrous things.
“We can fly through the air without magic. In planes—big metal, uh, ships made of steel. We’ve gone to the moon. I mean, not me—but we’ve gone around our world. It’s smaller than this one. And it’s just us on it. There aren’t Gnolls. No Drakes or monsters. No half-Elves or Dwarves…they’re just stories.”
“Goblins?”
“No.”
Erin shook her head. She grew silent for a second as Numbtongue wondered if Goblins had once existed and been killed. Then she told him where they existed. In people’s heads. In stories.
“We have books filled with Goblins and other creatures. Movies—they’re like plays, but—um…books, movies, songs, all with different species and places. But we call that fantasy. They never existed in our world. We made them up.”
And even in books, Goblins were terrible, evil things. Numbtongue accepted that as soon as he heard it. After all, Humans had written the books. But there had never been Dragons in Erin’s world. Never even monsters to begin with. Just nightmares and dreams of humanity, turned into legends.
“It sounds so lonely.”
Lyonette whispered as she held Mrsha. She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] smiled a touch sadly.
“How can it be lonely if you never know what you missed? We’re just Humans, and we’re different enough to bother each other. We have wars. Terrible ones.”
“Worse than here?”
Numbtongue couldn’t believe that. But he did when Erin looked up and nodded. Because she had fought with him.
“Worse. I’m sorry, but worse. If a hundred thousand—no. We made weapons that could kill a million people in a moment. And when I hear the news every morning—there are more of us. So we got better at killing each other.”
That was when she told them about firearms. Of tanks and machine guns and rockets. Lyonette wanted Mrsha not to hear, then. But the Gnoll refused to go. She listened, her mind imagining the terrible devices spitting fire and metal more easily than Numbtongue or Lyonette. But they all understood it.
“A weapon that can kill from a thousand paces away. Without magic. That goes through armor, that doesn’t miss.”
“And fires a hundred rounds a minute.”
That kind of devastation was nearly impossible for anyone to imagine. Numbtongue grew still trying to picture it on the battlefield. How would you fight an army of Humans armed with that? Magic armor from head to toe? [Mages] would die before they could cast a spell. With it, you could rule the world. And Humans ruled Erin’s world.
But if that was darkness, there was hope. Lyonette sat up when she heard Erin talking about the differences in her world. Lights that required no fuel! That ran on electricity rather than magic. Cooling boxes—refrigerators—and ovens that needed no spark. Even mundane things for Erin were otherworldly here.
“How does it work again, Erin?”
“It’s a faucet. I just turn the handle and…water comes out.”
“From where? The ground?”
“No, you see, there are pipes in my house. And the water’s always there. It’s being pumped—”
“By hand?”
“No, it connects to this big…water plant? And it’s not just my house. Every house in a…city is connected. There’s pipes in each house that run into the street, underground. Together.”
“Every house? Filled with pipes?”
Connecting to a plant that could produce and pump that much water? Lyonette couldn’t imagine it. The amount of steel you’d need! The craft! What [Blacksmith] could manage it?
None at all. Erin had to explain the factories of steel next. And the idea made the [Princess] of Terandria sit up. She envisioned the lines where things were assembled and compared it to her world. And she believed because her world was suddenly lacking.
Erin had come from a time where technology had surpassed Lyonette’s home by far. Where Humans had no classes or Skills—another impossible idea—and been forced to rely on technique and device to bridge the gap. And thanks to that, they had surpassed even the [Archmages] of old. Surpassed, and yet healing potions didn’t exist. They couldn’t call down lightning. But they could reattach an arm. Cure plagues. Fly around the world in a day. Walk on the moon.
Backwards and forwards. That was Erin’s world. Mrsha listened, and she imagined riding in a car, going faster than a horse and feeling the wind on her fur. She imagined the food Erin talked about—and then realized that was what Erin had made. Pizza, popcorn, but more—dishes from her world, brûlées, quiches, tacos, and casseroles. And she believed because she had tasted something new and delightful each time.
There was more to say. And Erin had not even touched the beginning when the adventurers came through the door, tired and then guilty when they saw Numbtongue. But the Goblin barely looked at them. They went upstairs to Erin’s room and kept talking after the adventurers had been pacified with drinks and food.
“I wish I could show you. There’s so much. In fact, the only way I survived was to take the things I remember about home. Like the plays. Hamburgers. It’s all from there. I took it. Stole it, really.”
“Can you make any of the things you talked about? Engines? Cars? Computers? …Guns?”
“No. And I wouldn’t make some of them if I could.”
Erin shook her head, troubled. She glanced down at her lap, where Mrsha was sitting, nodding off a bit, and looked up.
“But I’m not the only one. Ryoka is from Earth, too.”
That surprised neither Lyonette, who had spoken with Ryoka and seen her iPhone, nor Numbtongue, who didn’t know Ryoka to begin with. He was beyond surprising, anyways. But he understood what Erin was saying.
“You don’t know how you came here?”
“No. I was going to the bathroom. Then I turned the corner and—bam. Dragon! He breathed fire at me!”
Erin waved her hands indignantly. Numbtongue and Lyonette looked at each other. Erin knew Ryoka was from her world. And there were others. She had heard about Ryoka’s phone call, and there were the ones Magnolia had found. They were in danger if people knew who they were. In danger for the secrets they carried.
“I don’t know what the right thing to do is. Ryoka thinks we should hide who we are. This BlackMage guy wants us to gather in Wistram. And someone’s hunting us.”
“What do you want to do?”
Erin gave them a tired smile.
“Me? I hardly think of it most days. Weird, huh? I barely remember home unless I see something. Or I try and think about it. Really, I just want to go home. My parents are…I’m sure they’re worried.”
Her eyes filled with tears, and she hugged Mrsha. The Gnoll hugged her back.
“I wish I could make something from home, though. A car. Or—or something. Something that would help. I don’t know if I agree with Ryoka anymore. It might change the world, but this world needs to be changed. So does mine. But I can’t remember anything. I was—just a chess player. I played chess. That’s all.”
Helplessly, Erin looked at them. She was just an ordinary girl. And they looked at her and saw the lie in every interaction they had ever had with her.
“What does all this mean?”
Lyonette wondered as she took Mrsha from Erin. The Gnoll was flopping over, trying to stay awake, but fighting the helpless battle. Jerking, waking up, and then fading off every few minutes. Erin smiled.
“Nothing? It doesn’t change what happened. It doesn’t change anything I can do. If I could have, I would. But now you know. And if there’s something I can give you—or if Ryoka can—we will.”
She looked at Numbtongue and then at Mrsha.
“I want to teach you some of the things I know. It’s not much. But maybe it can help you. Even our math is ahead of yours. Things like—oh, the stars.”
Numbtongue looked out a window. The stars? They were just stars. But Erin pointed at them and gave them meaning. She told him what they were. And how they functioned. She pointed at the earth and told him why gravity was, why rain fell. And Numbtongue listened. It was a tale of everything.
“Stay here in the inn. You can stay here forever. You and Mrsha. And Lyonette—”
Erin looked at the young woman. The [Princess] dressed as a [Barmaid]. Lyonette looked up. Mrsha had fallen asleep. She cradled Mrsha and spoke softly.
“I am Lyonette du Marquin, a [Princess]. Sixth in service to the Eternal Throne of Calanfer, which isn’t actually eternal. We date about six thousand years back.”
“That’s a long time. Longer than, uh…Christianity.”
Lyonette just shrugged.
“It’s my home. But I left it because I didn’t matter there. I did nothing. I came here and found a purpose.”
She looked down at Mrsha. Then she sighed.
“I’m royalty. That’s all.”
The two girls looked at Numbtongue. He shrugged. He had a dead Goblin’s memories in his head. Next.
“Well, you’re family.”
The word made a shock race up Numbtongue’s back. In her sleep, Mrsha smiled. Erin looked at Lyonette. Then she started to giggle.
“Sorry. It’s cheesy, I know. I feel like a mobster. You’re family. Capiche? Wait, do they say that? Am I being racist?”
“It’s not…bad.”
Lyonette smiled. Erin looked from her to Numbtongue.
“I mean it. Don’t go. We need you. I need you.”
No one had ever said that to him. Numbtongue wiped his eyes and wished they could have all heard that. He looked at Erin, and what could he say? She scooted over and hugged him. And he hugged her back.
“What happens next?”
Lyonette looked at Erin, thinking of all the things Erin had said and had yet to say. Numbtongue held still, wondering what he could do for his home. And Erin looked at them and was still sad. Her inn was still small. But it was filled, and that stemmed the bleeding in her heart.
“What you always do after stuff like this, I guess. Everything.”
 
——
 
Everything. The next day, Erin woke up early. She went downstairs, made breakfast, and greeted Lyonette and Mrsha as they came down the stairs. She didn’t bother trying to smile. But she did smile a bit when she saw Mrsha scarfing down her eggs and Lyonette teasing her that she never ate Lyonette’s cooking as greedily.
“So, about my bedroom.”
Lyonette looked up sharply. She pointed towards the kitchen with a spoon, and Apista landed on it.
“You’re not sleeping in there anymore, Erin. I was sick of tripping over your bed every time I walked in there. You can have our old room. Mrsha and I moved in across from you, anyways.”
“No, that’s fine. Numbtongue can have the room next to mine as well. I just thought I’d make it official.”
“How?”
With a piece of wood, some paint and a brush, and nails. Also a hammer, although Yvlon caught them doing it and offered to use the pommel of her sword. Erin declined. She found a hammer and tapped the sign into place over her door first.
Erin Solstice.
The little plaque hung over her door. Erin went to Mrsha and Lyonette’s new room next. Mrsha insisted her name be above Lyonette’s, and the [Princess] tickled her until Mrsha agreed to have it on the same level.
Numbtongue emerged to the sound of his nameplate being put on his door. He stared at it for a long time and touched it until he got paint on his fingers. Then he insisted on retouching the paint himself.
Pisces came out of his room to howl about the hammering. Jelaqua stomped on the floorboards from the second floor and screamed at him for screaming. Erin offered them both eggs, and they got up.
“We’re going to leave soon. Halrac’s team is going as well.”
Jelaqua spoke conversationally over breakfast. She elbowed Pisces, and the [Mage] swallowed his mouthful of eggs hard. He glared at the Selphid but didn’t try elbowing back. Erin looked at them.
“You’re going north?”
“You know how it is. Another adventure. All our treasure to spend. We have to get it changed into gold first and get those damned cursed necklaces offloaded—but yeah. I think we’re bound for Invrisil.”
