[Miner]. And in his head, a door opened. And he had a thought which was not his own.
Magic gemstones give magical abilities. Could a warrior use that in combat to gain an edge? Is there an easier way to use them than eat them? Could you be a [Mage] without spells?
Numbtongue felt at the broken teeth in his mouth. He remembered the gemstones and reached for the sack at his side. And then he remembered killing the Ghoul with the sword. He had done all that. But it had not been Numbtongue who had provided the ability to do either. They had been memories from a dead Goblin.
Pyrite. And at that thought, Numbtongue had another memory, that of holding a flaming battleaxe and staring up at the sky while Humans died around him.
Smiling and walking with Eater of Spears, eying his belt and thinking of Reiss, calculating a throw.
Digging up grubs in the dirt, grunting with satisfaction at the wriggling things, and sharing them out to the Goblin children who came begging, more pleased to share than to eat his snack.
Mining in the mountain, in the depths of silence, hunting for gemstones for his tribe, seeing a glitter—and then a hiss—
Screams in Tremborag’s mountain. A little Goblin peeking around a corner and seeing—
Numbtongue sat up. He clutched at his head. But the images didn’t stop. Memories hit him again and again, little electric shocks running through his head, making everything flash white.
It didn’t hurt. Not like physical pain. But each memory took Numbtongue out of his head, made him think and feel exactly like Pyrite had. It wasn’t his entire life. It was—snippets. Fragments, really. Accidental more than anything. The core of what Pyrite had given him were two things.
Knowledge of the gemstones, the class he had obtained a day before his death, and over a decade of mining techniques and insight. And—
Sword techniques. How to swing with the weight of the axe perfectly balanced. Reading an opponent’s body. Lessons from Greydath. Fist fighting against other Hobs. Taking down adventurers with ambushes and traps. Battling Crelers in the heart of the mountains, blood running down his thigh. Breaking a [Mage]’s neck as she screamed at him, a wand raised to burn—
“Stop!”
Numbtongue cried out. There was so much of Pyrite’s thoughts and emotions in him. Too much. How had Pyrite done it?
Numbtongue knew that too. They had both been dying. Both clinging to life and sharing that dream, that moment as the other Goblins had passed on. After all, Goblins could remember other Goblins’ lives. Where was the line at which the living became memory, trapped in the consciousness of all Goblins?
They had been at that threshold. And Pyrite had known he would die. So he had given Numbtongue the only gift he could.
Memory.
It was something Pyrite had guessed could happen. After all, if you could remember a scene from the past, why not a sword technique? Why not a spell? That was the kind of thing the Goldstone Chieftain had thought on during dark nights or while mining for gems and minerals. Why not? And a counterpoint—if you could, why hadn’t other Goblins done it? Maybe they had. Maybe it was something they’d forgotten or that no one had ever tried.
He’d never gotten a chance to test that theory until his last moments. As Pyrite would have said—‘not dead, so couldn’t try’. And given that only Chieftains were able to access far-back memories, it hadn’t been exactly easy to hang around one willing to bite the dust for an experiment. So Pyrite had done it to Numbtongue without knowing if it would work.
And it had. He’d sent more than just Skills. Knowledge he deemed important. Secrets, like the two keys, one of which Garen had. Memory of Tremborag’s form. Conversations with Greydath. Names and places. Important events.
A place where Pyrite had buried some adventurer’s gear he thought was cursed.
Two caves, both of which had been collapsed to contain the Crelers from getting out.
An untapped vein in a hill on top of a surprisingly deep, rocky cave network, possibly the remnant of a mountain.
A terrible suspicion of Greydath’s past.
The secret location of a dungeon, lost to all but Goblins, remembered by Pyrite, too dangerous to enter.
Thoughts. Ideas. Plans. Suppositions. Pyrite had thought deeply. And now some of those thoughts, some of his conclusions, some of what was Pyrite was in Numbtongue. And it was terrifying.
A gift.
Here, he had said. Take it with you. Because Pyrite had known one thing. Numbtongue froze as he felt Pyrite’s last thoughts, still neat and orderly, fall into his head. A Goblin should know how to fight. But there was another thing Humans valued. It was of no use to Pyrite—it had been a skill, a talent honed to make the Goblin children in his tribe laugh at shiny baubles. But Humans loved gems.
Numbtongue opened the sack. He saw gold and gems. Only a few, since Pyrite had given them away to whomever he pleased. But he knew where to get more. More, if it mattered.
Maybe it would. Numbtongue had already given away the Raskghar’s fortune to the adventurers. He didn’t need the money. How would he ever spend it? But maybe Erin did.
Numbtongue got up slowly. The Hobgoblin looked at the graves, then at the inn. He hefted the little bag. He would give Erin the last gift he could. Pyrite’s will. And then he would leave. Find a place to go. And he would never, ever bring trouble to her doorstep again.
It was the only thing he could do.
 
——
 
The four of them gathered in Erin’s common room. Two had been called. Lyonette and Mrsha were helping Erin set up for the adventurers’ dinner later tonight. Numbtongue had come back of his own volition, and Erin had been waiting for him.
“Numbtongue.”
She went over to him and hugged him. The Hobgoblin let it happen unlike before where he had frozen and even tried to pull away. He looked so tired. He raised something—a dingy looking bag made of hemp to offer Erin, but she didn’t let him offer it.
“Wait. Just take a seat. Do you want anything to drink? To eat?”
He hesitated and shook his head. Erin got him something anyways. Numbtongue stared down at the meatloaf and pasta. He didn’t feel hungry, but his stomach grumbled. So he began eating a bit.
“Mrsha? Lyonette? Don’t worry about setting up. Take a seat here. You want anything?”
“We already ate.”
Lyonette sat at the same table as Numbtongue. Mrsha crawled up into a seat between her and Numbtongue and looked up at the Hobgoblin. He looked down at her. The two were quiet as Erin took a chair. They sat, looking at each other. Mrsha and Erin, Lyonette and Numbtongue. Then all towards Erin.
“I…I wanted to say thank you. First off. Thank you, Numbtongue. For—and to you, Lyonette. And Mrsha. You kept the inn running while I was…”
Erin began haltingly, uncertainly. She didn’t know how to begin. Lyonette just nodded. Mrsha put her chin on the table as Apista flew over, drowsy, and landed on her head. Erin almost thought of smiling at that. Then she looked at Numbtongue.
“I—don’t know what you’re planning, Numbtongue. And I’d understand if you never wanted to see me or anyone from Liscor again. But please, listen.”
The Hobgoblin raised his head, a strange look in his eyes. Erin went on, looking from face to face. Big brown eyes from Mrsha, Lyonette’s bright blue ones, the crimson eyes of Numbtongue’s people.
“There’s…something I haven’t told you. Told anyone, really. Aside from Krshia and Ryoka. But Ryoka doesn’t count because it’s a secret we share. It’s how I came here, really. To this inn. To Liscor. It’s—how can I say this?”
“Should you say it?”
Lyonette broke in. She glanced sideways at Numbtongue and Mrsha. Her eyes were serious as she looked at Erin. Surprised, but only just, Erin blinked at her.
“What do you mean, Lyonette?”
“Erin, if you have a secret, it’s best never said. Not out loud, ever. Someone might be listening. And even if they aren’t, minds can be read. Tongues can be loosened. If you have a secret—it might be best not to say.”
The [Barmaid] looked grave. Erin hesitated. Lyonette knew. That much was clear. Numbtongue looked confused and concerned. He opened his mouth and spoke, to her surprise.
“If it is a bad secret—don’t tell me. Don’t tell us. We—I do not need to know. I will not put you or here in danger anymore.”
He stood up. Lyonette looked at him and then pushed her chair back, startling Mrsha. Erin blinked at them.
“No. Sit down. Please.”
The two paused. Erin looked at them and then at Lyonette.
“You need to hear this. I’m tired of keeping it a secret. And even if it is a big secret, even if it’s the biggest secret in the world, you three need to hear it. And only you three.”
Numbtongue blinked. He hesitated and sat. Lyonette looked at Erin.
“Just us? What about Pawn? Or Selys?”
“Not Pawn or Selys. Maybe I’ll tell them, maybe not. But you three—and Bird when he’s better—have to know right away.”
“Why us?”
Lyonette looked confused. Erin took a deep breath. Couldn’t they see it? No, she barely had.
“Because—you’re part of this inn. You three. And Bird. More than the adventurers, more than Selys or Krshia—you three belong here. Mrsha, Lyonette, Numbtongue—you’ve all lived here. All three of you. I couldn’t imagine the inn without you.”
Slowly, Erin stood up. She looked at them. A furry white child, balancing an Ashfire Bee on her head. A girl far from home, her hands cracked, her bright red hair tied back. A Goblin, bearing faded war paint on his body and a hundred scars seen and unseen.
“We’ve been through so much. You’ve all lost so much. But you were here. You were here, and this inn is as much yours as mine.”
Face to face. Erin felt her eyes welling up. But she didn’t hold the tears back. Her voice rose, filling the inn from corner to corner.
“You’re more than guests. More than friends. You’re family.”
Family. The word echoed through the inn. And the world echoed with it. The [Princess] sat, stunned, in her chair. The Goblin’s eyes went wide. And the little Gnoll looked up and closed her eyes, suddenly at peace.
“Us?”
Lyonette didn’t know if she whispered it or Numbtongue. Erin looked at them.
“To me, yes. There’s nothing else you could be. You belong here. Maybe you have homes—”
She looked at Lyonette, then to Numbtongue.
“—or people waiting for you. Maybe you’ll go away someday.”
Mrsha looked up at her. Apista fanned her wings, oblivious. Erin looked at them.
“But you’ll always be welcome here. Forever. No matter what happens. Wherever I go, whomever I become—I’ll always welcome you. That’s what family means. More than friends. This is your home. If you want it to be.”
Erin looked from face to face. She was afraid. And the fear made her shake. She saw Lyonette sit back, face pale. Numbtongue hadn’t moved. And Mrsha? She gazed up at Erin. And then she reached up and opened her arms. Erin bent down and felt two arms hug her with all the strength in that little body. Then she felt Lyonette reach out and embrace the two.
Numbtongue was the last to stand. He looked at Erin, and he was shaking a bit.
“But I—”
He broke off. She could hear what came next. I’m a Goblin. I’m a monster. I don’t belong. I’ll—
She reached out and pulled him into the embrace. Numbtongue felt her arm on his, her soft skin, warm. And he reached out, shaking, and wished. As his arm gently encircled her and Lyonette and Mrsha, his wish came true.
It was forever and a bit that they stood there together. Four souls in an empty room. But they filled it. And though the night was dark, the past dark, and the pain and grief still caught at them, they stood. Holding each other up, perhaps.
Family. It was a strange word. Some might have said it couldn’t ever apply to them. That they were too different. Too alien, too strange. That there were too many secrets and differences to ever bring them together. But that wasn’t what made a family. It was just being willing to try.
When they let go, the four saw something different. They looked at each other, and there was nothing magic in what they saw. They were still strangers, still apart. But something else connected them nonetheless, as fragile as a dream, as strong as a wish.
They tried.
Erin slowly sat, and the others did likewise. Mrsha in Lyonette’s lap, Numbtongue looking around and gently pinching himself. And she smiled.
“I’m Erin Solstice. I come from another world. We call it Earth. I have a home there. Parents. I had another life there until I came here. By accident. Maybe by a spell. My world is nothing like this one. It’s beautiful and stupid and different. It’s home. And I want to go back one day.”
The others looked at her. Numbtongue’s eyes widened. He struggled to comprehend what Erin said. Mrsha looked up, blinking in confusion. And Lyonette sighed. She squeezed Mrsha gently.
“There’s something I haven’t told you either. I’m a [Princess].”
She looked at Erin and Numbtongue. Erin just nodded, though her heart jumped. Mrsha froze and stared up at Lyonette. The girl looked down at her and smiled. Numbtongue’s face didn’t change much. Slowly, he reached for his side and put something on the table. The little sack.
“I…had a dream. A Goblin gave me his memories. I know things from his life. How to fight. And how to mine. These.”
He opened the sack and spilled the gemstones and small nuggets of gold onto the table. Erin’s breath caught. Lyonette stared at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin looked at them.
“His name was Pyrite. And I miss my brothers.”
His eyes filled up. That was all he said. Mrsha looked up at Lyonette like a stranger. But only for a second. Then she squirmed and reached with a paw for something hidden in her fur. Lyonette blinked as Mrsha pulled out the concealed wand.
“Mrsha? What are—”
The Gnoll waved the wand over the table. Apista, who’d been napping, took wing in alarm as grass suddenly bloomed under her. She buzzed up into the air as green strands bloomed from the wood, rising like little shoots breaking the wooden surface apart like it were dirt. Erin and Lyonette stared at the sudden bloom. Mrsha waved her wand at them.
“Oh.”
That was all Lyonette said. Then she looked down at Mrsha. The Gnoll stared anxiously up at her. Lyonette bent down and nuzzled Mrsha.
“You beautiful little [Mage].”
And that was close enough. Erin laughed. Mrsha smiled. And Numbtongue sat back. He closed his eyes, and his lips twitched. Then he cracked one eye open.
“What’s a [Princess]?”
 
——
 
