The two stared at each other. Ilvriss tapped his claws on the table.
“I will pay for the delivery of course. And I intend to use your door as soon as I can get those egg-brained idiots in Pallass to let me through. Was there something else you wanted, Miss Solstice?”
“Yes. I want a favor.”
The Wall Lord concealed a moment of surprise. His mind raced ahead of the conversation and found…nothing. He had no way of predicting what she was going to ask for.
“A favor? And I assume you intend to pay back said favor? How would you recompense a Lord of the Wall?”
“I’d say it’s a favor I’m already owed. Or rather, the Goblins are. You owe them. Liscor does too.”
Erin stared hard at Ilvriss. He shifted in his seat.
“I…will acknowledge there is some debt. But if you wish to force the Hobgoblin’s entry into the city, that is a matter for Watch Captain Zevara. Even I cannot force her—”
“I’m going to her after you. But you owe the Goblins. And this is part of what you owe. Here. Sign this.”
Erin unfurled a piece of parchment. She slapped it onto the desk in front of Ilvriss. He blinked at it and read the scrawled handwriting quickly. He looked up after a minute.
“You’ve misspelled ‘therefore’.”
“What? No I didn’t.”
Erin scowled down at the scroll. She jabbed a finger.
“It’s spelled right!”
“Then your handwriting is extraordinarily messy. And this parchment is disgusting. I’d rather write on a living goat. Excuse me.”
Ilvriss brushed the scroll off his table. Erin grabbed for it and glared. But Ilvriss had already selected a piece of extraordinarily white paper. He eyed it and then sighed.
“There’s no helping it. If one is to do this properly…”
He put the blank paper back and opened a drawer of his desk. This time, he pulled out a different piece of paper, embossed with Salazsar’s personal watermark. Erin blinked at the delicate border on the paper.
“Spelled to avoid tearing or stains. Don’t try and rip it, however. The enchantment isn’t that strong.”
Ilvriss admonished Erin as he wrote on the paper with a steady hand. She blinked as she saw what he was writing. Ilvriss scrawled his name at the bottom of the parchment.
“Hey! I signed that first.”
“And I am a Lord of the Wall. My signature takes priority. Here. I assume Watch Captain Zevara will be forced to sign this next?”
He handed the paper to Erin. She blinked at it.
“You signed it.”
“A debt is a debt. And a true Drake pays their debts.”
Ilvriss wondered how much chaos that little piece of paper would bring. He looked at Erin as she blinked at the paper and then, without asking, borrowed his quill to sign it.
“You intend to bring him with you?”
“To Pallass? Yeah. And—and maybe elsewhere. Why? Is it a problem? I’ll have this.”
“That’s hardly enough. But there are ways. To tweak Pallass’ tail, I will intercede myself.”
Ilvriss gave Erin a ghost of a smile. He looked at her.
“But you intend to travel.”
“Yes. I can’t stay at my inn. I’m gonna leave. For a little bit. Go north or south. I haven’t…haven’t decided yet.”
She looked haunted for a moment. Ilvriss understood that feeling entirely. He cleared his throat.
“In that case, let me make you a proposal, Erin Solstice. I understand your magic door has limited reach. It could transport you to Pallass, but no further.”
“Yes.”
“But it is hardly as if other means of transport don’t exist. The roads of our continent are well-patrolled. The main ones, at least. So if you leave Liscor, don’t stop at Pallass.”
She blinked at him.
“You mean…?”
Ilvriss nodded.
“Come to Salazsar. Come to the Walled Cities. Go to Pallass first so your expectations are suitably low, but visit them all. The north will wait. Visit my home, Miss Solstice. You will be welcome to visit my estates. That is an invitation I offer to very few.”
She looked at him. Blinking a few times in surprise. It was a refreshing change. Ilvriss nodded to her. Now, while she was off-balance. He handed her the signed bit of paper.
“Here.”
She looked at it. Then she took it. For a moment, her hands touched his claws. She inspected Ilvriss with a curious look. Then she smiled. Just for a moment.
“Thanks, Ilvriss.”
She turned and walked out of his temporary office. The Drake watched her go, arguing with Asrira on the way out. He tapped a claw and muttered.
“That’s Wall Lord to you, you impudent [Innkeeper].”
Then he sat back and smiled.
 
——
 
“This is…”
Lyonette held the piece of paper in front of her. She stared at it for a long time. It was a simple message. But it was written on costly paper that bore Salazsar’s seal. The writing was, in fact, written as precisely as any [Scribe] could do it. But a Wall Lord had done the writing.
And yet, the message was nonsensical. Insane. But—Lyonette read it again. Erin wiped sweat from her forehead. She glanced across the inn at a Goblin sitting on the stage, tuning a guitar. Lyonette looked up at Numbtongue. She looked around at the busy inn, full of familiar faces. Waiting to talk to Erin. Perhaps to apologize. Or just to be here again. And then she looked down at the piece of paper.
 
The bearer of this document is a Goblin by the name of Numbtongue. He is a recognized adventurer and is therefore entitled to all the rights of a person regardless of where he goes. And if you have a problem, the following list of people vouch for him and will collectively kick your butt.
 
Signed,
Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar
Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper]
Watch Captain Zevara of Liscor
[Strategist] Olesm Swifttail of Liscor
Guildmistress Tekshia Shivertail of Liscor
Bevussa Slenderscale, Captain of the Wings of Pallass
Halrac Everam, Captain of Griffon Hunt
Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers
Ceria Springwalker, Captain of the Horns of Hammerad
Krshia Silverfang of Tribe Silverfang
Pisces
 
The actual message was short. But the list of signatures was long. And there was plenty of space to add to it. Erin looked at Lyonette.
“Well?”
“No city would accept this, Erin.”
“Well, they’ll accept it when they hear about a Goblin in Pallass. And I’ll send [Messages] ahead. He doesn’t have to come. But if an adventurer meets him, if he wants to go to Liscor—he’ll have this.”
A document proving Numbtongue wasn’t a monster. Part of Lyonette objected to it. So had Erin, but she’d still made it.
“He needs it. It’s not right, but he should have it. And he deserves it.”
“You got them all to sign like that?”
“Yes.”
Somehow, Lyonette even imagined it hadn’t been that hard for Erin. The [Innkeeper] had an intensity about her at times that would cow even her father. At times. Other times, she was silly and relaxed. Was everyone from her world like that?
No, just her. Lyonette bit her lip.
“So you’re going to leave the inn? Go travelling?”
“Yeah. I mean, not all the time. But sometimes. I’ll…go to Pallass first. Get Numbtongue through. See what it’s like. But I can’t stay here. I’m sorry.”
“Good.”
Erin blinked. Lyonette smiled.
“It’s a good idea. Leave the inn to me. I’ll manage it while you’re gone.”
“Are you sure?”
“Yes.”
Lyonette sat up. She looked Erin in the eye.
“Give me the authority to use the money in the inn and make decisions. I’ll rebuild it. Change some things. If you’re okay with that. All you have to do is cook while you’re here. I’ll run the inn. And earn you money. You go travelling—bring a magic door with you or something. And I’ll take over the inn.”
“But…”
All of Erin’s objections faded away as she looked at Lyonette. And she remembered Lyonette had run Erin’s inn before. She’d enjoyed it, in fact. She was a [Princess] when all was said and done.
“I suppose you need a promotion.”
“I’ll give myself a raise.”
The two grinned at each other. Lyonette looked around.
“Mrsha can go with you. If it’s safe. And this inn will be here. You’ll come back to it. And—”
And she’d make it bigger. Better. This inn had so much potential. Erin had been content to leave it as it had been, to expand when only necessary. But Lyonette envisioned a different place. A third floor, and Bird’s tower was only the start. All she needed was coin and a chance to try something new. The things from Erin’s world…
For the first time in a while, Lyonette was excited about her job. And she saw that Erin looked happier. As if a weight had been lifted from her shoulders.
“It’s not happening yet. So don’t start knocking down walls right away! But as soon as Hawk gets to Pallass—there’s all kinds of places I want to go. And I’m going to send the Horns to look for Ryoka.”
“You think they’ll find her.”
“Them. Or Griffon Hunt. Or the Halfseekers. I want to go north, too. North and south and—”
Erin was speaking when a sound came from the stage. Heads turned. Numbtongue’s quiet tuning of the guitar had turned into faint strumming. The Hobgoblin looked up and stared across his audience. He found Erin and Lyonette in the crowd. They turned to face him as Numbtongue played on his new guitar.
Sparks crackled from the strings. For a moment. But only that. Numbtongue had already used his guitar once.
Lightning from the skies, striking a tall Hobgoblin, a mountain lurching across the ground. For a second, Eater of Spears was a ball of light. And then he fell, and Numbtongue played his dirge, played and played and heard the music again.
It was back in him. The Hobgoblin played a riff, and the crowd took notice. Then he began to strum a slower beat.
It was no song that Erin had taught him that came from the guitar. It had no notes. It was spontaneous. Meant to go with words. A quiet melody. Numbtongue played it for a minute. Then he looked up and sang. His voice was quiet at first, but it grew louder, echoing.
Adventurers focused on him. [Guards] and [Mages]. Drakes and Humans, Gnolls, Garuda and Selphid, half-Giant and Drowned Man. A pair of half-Elves glanced up as Numbtongue’s voice rolled through the inn.
 
This is a Goblin song,
You don’t know it, so don’t bother singing along
From Baleros to Chandrar to Izril, north and south
You’d never believe it if it didn’t come from Goblin mouth.
But it’s true; we sing and laugh and smile and weep
And we’re proud and wise and foolish and meek
So if it’s a Goblin’s ears you seek—
Remember, you call us monsters, but we sing and speak.
We broke the moths of Liscor’s dungeon and held the breach
And we fought the Raskghar in the deeps
We took arms against brother fighting the Goblin Lord
For an [Innkeeper]’s tears and no reward
And died to Drake spear and Human sword.
We fought for you, we monsters green
We can rhyme (we’re more than we seem!),
So if you seek us in our hidden homes and quiet dens
Come as people, come as friends
Or come as you always have, to be our end.
But remember this day; you’ll never forget
You heard a Goblin song
We’re not all dead yet.
 
That was all. It wasn’t a great song. Or even a good one. Numbtongue had come up with it over a day, mainly by rhyming. But it was his song. His first song. And while it was poor compared to the lyrics that burned in his heart from Erin’s world, it was enough. It brought tears to eyes, it made people doubt reality.
It was enough. Numbtongue rested his claws over the guitar strings, ready to play another song. And sing it too. He didn’t expect the reaction.
Erin Solstice clapped her hands, standing up. She wasn’t the only one. Numbtongue’s head came up. He heard foot stomps, someone banging a mug—and applause. He saw faces gazing at him. And they weren’t angry. Some had tears. Others looked ashamed. And some just looked at him, a Goblin on the stage, without hatred.
He hadn’t expected that. Goblins never did. But Numbtongue accepted it. He enjoyed it. For a second or two, the applause fell like warm rain. Then it was over. But Numbtongue chased it. He began to play. And the music was there. Changed. Forever changed, but it was there. It echoed through the inn. And this time, a Goblin’s voice came with it.
A Goblin’s song. As the people listened, it made them sit up. It brought strength to weary limbs. Hope for the future. And the Goblin sang and sang. He was crying, laughing, smiling. For he was experiencing something few Goblins had ever felt. A wish he didn’t even know fulfilled. A sense of peace. Hope.
At long last, he was home.
 
[Bard Level 27!]
[Skill – Song of Rejuvenation obtained!]
