“Hello, Ren.” Tee-one said when he came out of the forge room. “I have a few Ballistas ready to be assembled if you want to take them with you.”

“Sure.” Ren said, and went into the forge room to enchant the parts and assemble them together. Tee-one had used up all of the springy trees Ren had given him, to make the ammo for the Ballistas. Ren was now back up to 7 Ballistas in inventory, and pat Tee-one on the shoulder.

“I don't know what I would do without you, my friend.”

“None of this, obviously.” Tee-one said, and they both chuckled. “Good luck, and I hope they don't have too much for you to carry.”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “We should make an extra large cart, just in case.”

“That might be a good idea.” Tee-one said. “And we should add extra wheels to take the weight, too.”

They went outside and built a cart to the dimensions Ren hoped weren't too conservative. He wouldn't know if it would work until he got there.

“Good luck.” Tee-one said.

“Thanks.” Ren said and stored the large cart, then ran down to the stable to get Princess. “I'm ready to go.” He said, and she stood up.

As am I. Princess thought to him.

Ren led her out of the stable and to the road, then climbed onto her back. He took out the Wand of Trample, and explained to her what it did. He could feel her excitement at the prospect, and he warned her.

“It only lasts for 5 minutes.” Ren said. “Then I can use it again.”

Princess huffed, and Ren used it on her.

“Let's go-oooooo-ha ha ha!” Ren said as Princess took off at a much faster speed than she normally would, and Teepo chittered in delight as the wind buffeted his platinum body.

The 5 minutes went by fast; but, so did the city of Dornrach, a good portion of the countryside, and most of the Garrison. Ren didn't use the wand again until they had traversed the field of giant leg-holding traps, and then Princess poured on the speed.

After 15 stops for food replenishment, and some Minor Healing for Princess because of the bushes and a few small creatures she had trampled along the way; they made it to the border of the Giant Kingdom in just over 5 hours. What he saw when he got there took his breath away.

“Surprise!” Lara said, from between the feet of a tall female giant.

Waiting for him was nearly a hundred giants, and they all carried backpacks full of supplies.

“I can't carry all of that.” Ren said as he climbed down from Princess' saddle.

“You're not even going to try?” Lara asked, and Ren shook his head.

“I promised everyone I wouldn't be that stupid ever again.”

Lara walked over to him and stopped a few feet away. “You don't have to carry any of it.” She said. “These people want to go and visit their relatives, so we asked them to help with the supplies.”

“There's no way the Chancellor authorized this.” Ren said. “If he knew this many people wanted to leave the giant lands...”

“They aren't leaving the lands.” The female giant Lara had been standing under said. “They are... going on a tour of the wilderness.”

Ren shook his head. “That's the problem. It is wilderness between here and there.” He looked at the giants. “It doesn't look like any of them are prepared for how hard the journey is.”

“We're fully prepared.” One of the male giants said, and pulled out a tent from his inventory. “There's 6 of us that can do your little size trick.”

Ren looked at Lara, and she shrugged.

“You didn't say it was a secret.”

“It's not, but it's also not something we want to spread around.” Ren said.

“Don't worry, no one here is going to ever mention going to meet their exiled family members.” The female giant said, then knelt. “I'm Fernosia the Librarian; Ambassador to the refugees.”

“I'm dumbfounded.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“I thought your name was Ren?” She asked him and held out a hand towards him. Ren's Etiquette skill activated, and he let it control his actions. He reached out, nudged her hand to the side slightly, and gave the back of it a kiss.

“It is a pleasure to meet you, Fernosia the Librarian; Ambassador to the refugees.”

Everyone stared at him; especially the Librarian, who had received the Respect Ren had given her.

How did he know to do that? Fernosia asked herself. She was so surprised by his gallant act, that she forgot to do her part of the greeting. When the silence dragged on for several moments, she realized her mistake and turned her hand over to face the palm up. Ren placed his hand at the base of her palm, and ran his hand across it to the base of her fingers.

“I greet you with both Respect and Fellowship.” Ren said, and stepped back.

“I accept your pleasantly unexpected offer of Fellowship.” Fernosia the Librarian said. “I thank you, my parents thank you, and my children thank you.”

Ren put a hand on the tip of her index finger, and she very carefully touched it with her thumb as if she was going to pinch it. Ren and Fernosia pulled their hands back at the same time, and smiled at each other.

“Ren, you sly dog!” Lara said. “I didn't know you knew how to do that!”

Ren looked at her with one raised eyebrow.

“Stop flirting.” Lara said and chuckled. He raised both eyebrows at her, and she laughed.
