His pieces all in place and waiting for his command, Goujian was ready to unmask the Defiled pretender, but for the first time in decades, he felt the cold, uncertain grip of doubt clenched around his heart, throwing his mind into chaos and disorder. Initially, he intended to injure the ‘Divine’ turtle and have Falling Rain lashed for his crimes, exposing his foul nature, but fate conspired to carry out Goujian’s plan without the need to lift a finger. Allowing his temper get the best of him, the boy commanded his turtle to destroy a bristleboar merchant house inside Nan Ping and earned himself fifty lashes from the Legate, a significant punishment considering there had been no loss of life. Though his spies could not enter the inner palace or even report on the aftermath, Goujian had two separate confirmations of a Bekhai Healer rushing towards the inner palace to tend to Falling Rain’s injuries, not to mention the official report of the punishment hanging outside the Magistrate’s Palace, signed and stamped with the Imperial Seal. Surely not even the Legate would dare falsify the Emperor’s judgment, would he? No, there was no doubt about it, the boy was lashed and sought healing after meeting the Legate. Though he looked none the worse for wear when Goujian spied on him in camp, it wasn’t too implausible considering Falling Rain’s reputation was built on his ability to endure grievous wounds and continue fighting. Most telling of all was that after half a day and a full night, there was still no Decree condemning the boy as Defiled.

How could this be? While a mere pittance compared to the Mother’s Mercy, he had trouble believing a nineteen-year-old Defiled could hide his true nature after fifty lashes, no matter how sturdy and resilient he might be. What’s more, for years Goujian yearned to investigate the bristleboar ‘clan’ over rumours of their ruthless and inhumane treatment of slaves, but since they were protected by the Ancestral Beast Zhu Chanzui, he’d been denied at every turn. He had people documenting their crimes and keeping careful watch on their properties in and around Central, but thus far, he’d found no conclusive proof of Defiled among the bristleboar. The lack of proof did nothing to mitigate his suspicions, but now Falling Rain was at direct odds with them, which raised a whole slew of other questions.

Could Goujian be wrong? Was this a sign from the Mother instructing him to stay his hand and turn his attentions elsewhere? Could Falling Rain sense the Defiled like he claimed to, and brought the Canston Trading Group to the Empire’s attention? Was he truly the Mother’s Chosen Son? If so, then why was his Aura so heinous and unholy?

Perhaps this was all a ruse, a ploy by the Enemy to cloud his judgment. There was nothing surprising about Defiled infighting, their tribal squabbles kept them apart for tens of thousands of years. Now that they’d united, the Empire was in dire straits, but dealing with the Enemy army was a concern for military men and Goujian had precious little to offer. His path delved into matters of the soul, of cleansing and redemption, a path which left little room for other pursuits. Even if the Empire fell, the Mother’s children would survive and one day rise again, of this, he had no doubt.

No, Goujian’s doubts could all be summed up in a single question: Is Falling Rain Defiled? If so, then the corruption ran even deeper than he thought and no person above suspicion, not even the Legate.

Especially the Legate.

Mind in turmoil, he focused his Chi to Watch as Falling Rain floated in the bay, just like he did every morning since Goujian arrived. A large portion of the boy’s retinue had been sent away presumably to hunt, but that wasn’t enough to convict him. If Falling Rain was worried about being exposed, he certainly wasn’t showing it, relaxed and carefree as he submerged himself beneath the waters of the Azure Sea. He was getting better at water-breathing, staying under for a quarter-hour or longer before resurfacing for air, a marked improvement considering he’d only been at this for three or four days.

“Give the order Master. The world will see the truth soon enough.” Goujian’s second-youngest disciple... no, youngest now that BoLao is gone... spoke up, eager to begin the bloodshed. At thirty years old, patience was a lesson Yuanyin still had yet to learn, too keen on dispensing justice before proper cause could be found. No, he would make a poor successor, just like the rest of Goujian’s Disciples, each one lacking in some vital manner.

Except sweet, lovely BoLao, so talented and studious. He’d placed all his hopes on that girl and now she was dead and gone while Falling Rain, the scum responsible for her death, was enjoying a leisurely morning swim.

Why was the boy’s innocence even an issue?

His mind made up, Goujian gave the order. “Commence the operation, with one small change. No need to hold back. Use everything we have. Best if the boy and his Tainted turtle dies before they cause irreparable damage to the Empire.”

Better to kill a hundred innocents than let one Defiled walk free. Such was the conviction required to guard against the Father’s corruption.

Chapter Meme
