I’ve never been shy about admitting I have paranoid tendencies, but after taking our history into account, I feel as if my cynical reluctance to accept Shen ZhenWu’s offer would be more accurately labelled as ‘heightened situational awareness’.

When something sounds too good to be true, it usually is, which means something is rotten in the Azure Empire. I didn’t even have time to teabag Zhen Shi’s corpse before discovering ZhenWu has me by the figurative balls out here, yet he’s willing to make too many concessions just to win me over to his side. Granted, a ‘generous’ offer to allow me to swear an Oath of honesty instead of a generic Oath of service seems benevolent and magnanimous at first glance, but it means absolutely nothing if he already knows I can free myself of Oaths. The question is, was this offer made in good faith, or did he already know no Oath could constrain me, so he might as well ‘loosen’ the restrictions he’ll demand of me?

Another thing to note is how eager he appears to make me his son-in-law, even against the wishes of his daughter who he seemingly dotes upon. How else to explain her willful behaviour? Not only did she try to kill me, but she refuses to give her father face in front of the Emperor himself, which I’ve been told is kinda a big deal. Despite her obvious reluctance, ZhenWu is still pushing ahead with this marriage and even offering to settle me and my loved ones back to the Eastern Province. Probably because he knows I’ll balk at living in the East if I can’t bring my family with me, but this is an unprecedented offer. Overly generous considering the circumstances, which I could write off as an olive branch meant to take away the sting of entering into his service, though I noticed he made no effort to show me what Taddy was up to and mentioned nothing about offering protection to the only Ancestral Cloud Chaser Hares in existence. It doesn’t matter though, because ZhenWu knows I have no choice, so why not appear magnanimous and win me over with more favourable terms?

If that was the case though, he’d start praising me right now and saying I’m well worth the cost, but he merely stands there with a smug smile etched across his all-too handsome face. “Is it answers you desire?” he asks, speaking with a deliberate lack of haste, “Or do you wish to save your loved ones instead. Make no mistake, I have pledged to save them, but I cannot be held responsible if they should die before you’ve made your decision.”

The fact that he refuses to engage speaks volumes to his intentions. He believes I have no choice in the matter, that I will concede and accept defeat, but he’s also trying to rush things along before I find reason to refuse. Again, I have to ask why? “You didn’t want me to go forward with this crusade at first,” I begin, thinking out loud and praying my family can hold on for a few minutes longer while I sort this shit out. “That’s why you tried to set me up during that meeting between Shuai Jiao and Jeong Hyo-Lynn. One where they were supposedly discussing Seoyoon’s marriage to Yong-Jin, but if that was the case, why were you in attendance? You needed a reasonable excuse to strip me of my titles and offices so that the north wouldn’t rebel, but I didn’t give you one.”

The giveaway is subtle, a minor tightening around the eyes, so insignificant I even wonder if I’d imagined it, but luckily for me, Beardy Yang chimes in with a chuckle to confirm my suspicions. Head still bowed before the Emperor, the Yang representative’s tone is as arrogant as before, even when speaking to my Patron. “Played like a fool by a tribal child, and what does the unrivalled Shen ZhenWu do? Offer up his most precious daughter in marriage. Liang Wu Di, you have really lost face for the Liang Family.”

Huh. So ZhenWu’s real name is Wu Di. Invincible. How pretentious. I’ll stick with ZhenWu, because even though ‘True Warrior’ is equally grandiose, at least it’s a title he earned. That being said, his reaction to the Yang representative is far more telling, a piercing glare that speaks volumes to the enmity between them. Rather than speak out however, it’s ZhenWu’s uncle who responds, who I now know is Liang Bao Zheng, Grand Marshal of the Empire and the man who consigned Kuang Biao to a life of slavery. “Yang Pang Ji,” the stately Grand Marshal begins, somehow appearing bold and confident with his head bowed towards the Emperor, “This marks the second time you have spoken without invitation. Best keep quiet before you are reprimanded again, or worse, make even more of a fool of yourself. Just because your son was unable to see value in Falling Rain does not mean there is none to be had.”

Son. The only Yang I’ve interacted with is Jixing, who literally lost his head in the Central Citadel. Judging by Pang Ji’s ugly expression, my gut is right on the money, which makes him the Prime Minister of the Empire, assuming Jixing wasn’t lying about being the Prime Minister’s son. Well fuck-a-doodle-doo. I’m deep in it now. Or I supposed I’ve always been deep in it, and I’m only just realizing it. No matter though, because this political infighting is above my paygrade, so I should stick to the relevant bits. Now that I have confirmation that ZhenWu was present at Shuai Jiao’s meeting with Jeong Hyo-Lynn, I also know he was working against me at the time, except I neatly sidestepped his little trap and didn’t give him a good reason to strip me of my title as Legate or Minister of Finance. That wouldn’t have been enough to stop him from acting against me, but I must’ve said or done something during the meeting to change his mind, because once all was said and done, ZhenWu had Shuai Jiao stop obstructing my forces from gathering in Sui Hua and even lend a hand in the preparations. That’s not all either, since Miss Rou tried to murder me soon after, which tells me that this marriage between us wasn’t something her father recently came up with on a whim, but rather a decision he made before I set out to re-take the West. That doesn’t make any sense though. Why would he want me as a son-in-law before seeing my current level of strength?

…Because during the meeting, Jorani convinced me to trust Shuai Jiao and tell him about my ability to Devour and Cleanse Spectres, and ZhenWu was sitting right there and heard it all. Knowing what I know now, that was a huge mistake, because I thought I’d learned how to Cleanse on my own and thus could keep Blobby’s existence a secret, except Blobby was linked with me all along and simply Cleansing from afar. Thus, ZhenWu probably put two and two together and figured out I have an Elemental Spirit, information I doubt he shared with anyone present, save maybe his uncle the Grand Marshal. That’s why this offer seems too good to be true, because he values my ability to Devour and Cleanse and is worried that a slave Oath, even an unenforceable one, might well drive me to the brink of despair and result in my soul being Devoured by Blobby.

Being the open book that I am, everyone present notices that I’ve arrived at an answer, and ZhenWu ever so subtly nods to confirm my suspicions and keep me from saying anything more. He wants my ability to Devour and Cleanse kept secret, but would I benefit more from making it known? Again, ZhenWu is able to read my intentions, but he responds in a manner I was not expecting, an all-too-obvious widening of his eyes in what I can only describe as panic. After cautioning me to keep silent with the harshest of glares, he unknowingly glances towards the source of his concern, the Emperor himself.

Interesting. Did the peanut gallery not see Buddy Devour a whole host of Spectres? I always just assumed Imperial Scions would be able to see them, on account of how they followed a different Path, but maybe I was wrong. Maybe they can’t sense Spectres and no one understands why Zhen Shi started chasing Buddy around. This begs the question though, why would ZhenWu want my ability to Devour kept secret from the Emperor? Because ZhenWu wants Blobby for himself and the Emperor would claim him? Makes sense I guess, though I’m sure there’s more to it, as I’m reminded of an exchange between ZhenWu and his uncle just before I was appointed as Minister of Finance. “You always were a clever boy,” the Grand Marshal began with a heavy sigh, one which made his praise sound more like a condemnation. “Too clever for your own good. Better if you never learned...”

“But I did, Uncle,” Zhen Wu replied, his soft, brown eyes burning with intensity as he crushes a coin within his clenched fist. “And I will not go quietly without a fight. This will work. Giving Falling Rain a title seals him to our side, and leaves his allies poised to take over their respective factions or in commanding position over their rivals. Through him, we unite North and Central and bind them to our cause, which in turn puts an end to the political infighting and reassures the Southern Marshal enough to stop threatening to withdraw. With three provinces united behind us, he will have no choice but to agree, or...”

That’s about as far as ZhenWu got before he remembered I was still listening, but it is only now that I have enough context to piece it all together. I almost feel stupid for not seeing it soon, because how many individuals are powerful enough to compel ZhenWu to unite the outer provinces behind him? I never gave it much thought because again, I considered these matters way above my paygrade, but now that I think about it, the list of suspects is woefully short; one which starts and ends with the Emperor himself.

So here’s what I’ve got so far. ZhenWu and the Liang Family have been planning to overthrow the Emperor. ZhenWu secures the job of Legate in order to seek an alliance with the outer provinces, and eventually sets me up as Minister of Finance. This is not just to win me and my allies over, but also to enable the Liang Family to sell the highly lucrative War Bonds, except the other Supreme Families must have seen the power of War Bonds and intervened. That’s why ZhenWu suggested a system of checks and balances to prevent fraud, but in reality was merely the Yang Family making a move to ensure the Liang’s weren’t in sole control of this lucrative economic tool. That being said, ZhenWu made these concessions knowing that War Bonds were merely a stepping stone, an investment tool and more palatable form of notarized debt to pave the way for the true prize, paper currency, or Treasure Notes. The problem was, how would the Liang Family make the transition from War Bonds to Treasure Notes without those same checks and balances coming into play?

Quite the dilemma, but ZhenWu is nothing if not determined. He reaches out to Zhen Shi, or maybe was working with him all along. Maybe it goes even deeper, and the Emperor was in on it as well, which could explain why he wanted Zhen Shi captured alive. Whether it was to save an ally, get the names of his co-conspirators, or some other reason I’ve overlooked, I fucked everything up by killing Zhen Shi, which in hindsight, was probably not the best move. Either way, ZhenWu and Zhen Shi joined hands at one point in history to put on a show, faking a botched assassination attempt so the former can withdraw from the outer provinces, one I was ‘fortunate’ enough to witness and escape from unscathed, a streak of luck which really should’ve set off all sorts of alarms in my head. At the same time, ZhenWu sets up his Imperial Dharma Protector, the bald Yang Divinity who was called away to defend the border where he was subsequently ambushed and killed. With no ZhenWu around, I became next in line to take up the office of Legate, which Jixing contests by taking on the role himself. Why, I have no idea, but this move is akin to slipping the noose around his own neck, because in the chaos that follows, the Liang Divinity protecting him looks the other way while a Wraith separates his head from his shoulders, leaving the outer provinces in the hands of a crippled boy who is firmly in ZhenWu’s hands.

Textbook Imperial machinations, using your cat’s-paws to take out your rivals to keep your own hands clean of blood.

From here, my patron cut off all contact with the outer provinces, leaving me free to act as I please without any oversight whatsoever save for the incompetent Administrator Liang Yin Hang, the person sent to oversee my actions as Minister of Finance who was drunk more often than not and spent more time in the brothels than the office. Thus, I predictably introduced Treasure Notes to pay for all the shit that I could no longer afford, since the Eastern Province stopped sending shipments of coin every week, Treasure Notes which bore no seal from the Minister of Coin, Grand Marshal, and Chief Justicar of Fraud to legitimize their value. No, I made it so that my Turtle Seal was the only stamp required, setting the precedent of the Minister of Finance being the sole authority in matters of printing Treasure Notes, an office which sat well within the purview of the Grand Marshal, and the Grand Marshal alone.

Thereby giving the Liang Family the ability to print money to use in their conflict against the Emperor.

My role fulfilled, I suspect ZhenWu was eager to be rid of me and make his way back into the limelight, which is why Zhen Shi went hard on Castle JiangHu when he did. Had I died as planned, ZhenWu could then reappear at the opportune moment and claim credit for all my work without damaging his relationship with the North. Here’s where shit went wrong though, because I didn’t die, which was bad for ZhenWu because he knew I was unwilling to bend the knee and he couldn’t directly act against me without alienating my allies, supporters, and admirers amongst the people of the Empire. Instead of a martyr, he had a still-breathing cripple to contend with, which was why he had Shuai Jiao step up and declare himself Commander General of the Empire while simultaneously convincing Zhen Shi to send some sixty-odd Wraiths to assassinate me after I came back from the monastery. Without Commander General Shuai Jiao to hold things together, the outer provinces might well have fallen apart in the wake of my death, but I ruined ZhenWu’s plans once more by surviving and making a full recovery soon after.

Man, talking about failing upwards. I guess there must be someone looking out for me up there after all, though they’re kinda shit at their job, if I’m being honest. Probably stupid to tempt fate like that, but what are the Heavens gonna do? Kill me? Psh. As if they haven’t already been trying.

Anyway, where was I? So I survive the assassination attempt, which leaves ZhenWu no choice but to break things off publicly by setting me up with Shuai Jiao and Jeong Hyo-Lynn. Except then I ruin those plans and change his mind by sharing my ability to Devour, which he keeps to himself as he settles in to watch the show. Though I find more success in the West than he anticipated, the end result is still the same. Soon enough, my strongest supporters will fall in Shi Bei alongside what remains of almost a million-strong army of Imperial Warriors. Once word of my failure returns home, I will then become infamous as the interim Legate who cost the outer provinces dearly, setting the stage for ZhenWu to swoop in and save the day. Easy enough now that Zhen Shi is dead, as there’s no longer any threat of the United Defiled to save the outer provinces from, but I don’t think ZhenWu planned for that, meaning I made his job much easier than he expected. No good deed goes unpunished however, and now I have no choice but to accept his gracious offer and become his son-in-law in order to save what few people I can, binding me firmly to his side, and more importantly, the Liang Family as well.

A part of me wants to blow this whole scheme up and tell everyone present that the Liang Family intends to rebel, but I have no reason to do so except spite. There’s no guarantee that my testimony is enough to turn the Emperor against one of his Supreme Families, especially in light of how scheming seems to be the favoured past-time of the Eastern Province, and I doubt anyone present would care to shelter me from the Liang Family’s wrath once all is said and done. Or offer to save my loved ones in Shi Bei, to say nothing of how Mom is still being held captive by Shuai Jiao and the Royal Guardians.

Which means no matter how you slice it, my options are limited to one; to accept these offered chains of silk which might as well be steel.

Raising my head to stare up at the skies, I hold Buddy close and heave a long sigh. Sensitive to my misery as always, my doggo nuzzles me close while Mama Bun stretches over from her raft to shower my cheek with kisses, but even this much is not enough to raise my spirits. My failure weighs heavily upon me, but what hurts more is that I will survive where so many others will die. Others would think me fortunate, to fail so horrendously and receive a wife and powerful backer in return, but I place no value on face, honour, reputation, or titles. I have always valued my freedom and independence highly, not just because of my time in the mines, but because for as long as I can remember, I have always been restricted by circumstances and fate. A long-forgotten memory returns to me, of a time when I stared up at this same sky, but from a vastly different vantage point. There I lay, upon the cold, frozen ground of the desolate northern wastes, but back then, I only knew it as home. The dark skies were so vast and far-reaching, yet seemed so close all the same. If I climbed the tallest mountains, would I be able to reach out and touch one of those shimmering jewels dotted through the night sky? Could I pluck them all out and plunge the world into true darkness? If only, because then I could better hide my shame and disgrace, hide the tears streaming down my face and pain etched across my face as I ran from my latest defeat.

A shadow appears to block out the stars, but I’d sensed his presence long ago. I simply didn’t care to react, because if he meant to kill me, then there was nothing I could do to stop him even if I tried. His amber eyes settle upon me, so bright yet also dull at the same time, so utterly lacking in emotion that I wonder if he has ever known hateful doubt or bitter regret before. Unlikely, for he is the Warrior, Blessed by the Heavens, whereas I am the Lifeless, unwanted by all.

“Eat,” Baledagh whispers, his voice breaking from lack of use as he throws what feels and smells like a bundle of meat wrapped in skin upon my chest. The smell sets my mouth to watering and stomach to growling, but I make no move and simply watch him instead. Not because I don’t want to eat, but because I don’t see a point in doing so. It won’t make any difference, because I am too weak and stupid to fend for myself, and this pittance of a meal won’t change a thing. It’ll only weaken him, and he is not so blessed and strong that he can afford to waste his prize, not with the Slayer, the Glutton, the Dagger, and so many others nipping at his heels. From the looks of things, his victory did not come easily, so it’d be better for him if he finishes the rest of his prize and waits until he can make a meal of me too. The rules forbid him from killing me, but the punishment would be well worth the prize, or he could just wait since I will die soon enough, and then I will be lifeless in name and in truth.

And free from this life to move on to the next. Such a sweet, wonderful word, freedom, one I would rather taste instead of the tantalizing morsel resting upon my chest. It wouldn’t be long, because I could feel death calling to me, the empty night and endless darkness promising an end to all my suffering.

Unlike his eyes, mine betray my every thought, but Baledagh will not let me go in peace. Seeing I will not eat on my own, he settles down beside me and brings the bundle of meat to my lips, which open on their own without prompting. There isn’t much, but I am weak and unable to eat quickly, yet Baledagh says nothing as he slowly feeds me bite after bite after bite. When the meal is finally finished, he pats me on the chest and stands before offering a hand to help me up. Rather than take it, I look at him and ask, “Why?”

In response, Baledagh merely shrugs and says, “Because you are Amigui.” Not lifeless, even though that is what my name means, but because I am me, meaning my brother will not stand idly by to watch me die. A foolish act, since we are all in competition, and even though I am no threat, I am also of no value to him. Reaching out to take his hand, I force myself to my feet, and follow him back to camp without any other thought. Freedom will have to wait, but it will come in time, so I might as well be patient and wait.

That was how I lived my life in those early years, not just ready to accept death at a moment’s notice, but yearning for it, except when it truly came time to die, I balked and killed Baledagh instead. I don’t know why I didn’t just give up and let him kill me, but I still remember the look in his eyes as he died, so relieved that I finally found it in me to fight even though my choice had cost him his life. I shouldn’t have won, survived only due to dumb luck, would’ve died years ago without Baledagh’s mercy, and yet, I lived. From that moment on, even though I desired death, I knew I could no longer willingly accept it, because I had to cherish the gift of life my brother bestowed upon me. I was unwanted by the Heavens, unwanted by my parents, but my little brother wanted me to live, so live I must.

And yet, throughout it all, I still yearn for the freedom I once dreamt of, the freedom of death and oblivion, a freedom which has forever sat outside of my reach, and will remain out of reach a while longer.

That is why I pursue strength, so that I might remain free. Free from conflict, free from strife, free from worry, just... free. That’s what I told ZhenWu when he wanted to know why I cared nothing for Imperial secrets, because what he had to offer was not worth the asking price. It still isn’t, but now, I have no choice but to accept and sell myself into service so that my loved ones may live. Even knowing this, I cannot bring myself to accept it as I reflect upon all the trials and tribulations I endured to get here, and for what? To be an unwitting and unwilling pawn in Imperial games of intrigue and deception, games in which blood is spilled like water and the only constant is suffering without end. Is this my inescapable fate, one decided for me by the Heavens Above?

Well, if so, then fuck fate, fuck the Heavens, and fuck Liang Wu Di too.

“No.”

The refusal slips out before I can think better of it, and I continue to stare up at the Heavens above, but why, I cannot say. Perhaps I am hoping for a miracle, or maybe I’m looking for a sign to point me in the right direction, but as things stand, I can only go with my gut and play it all by ear. Wu Di is obviously not expecting this, as it takes him a good three seconds to formulate his response, an incredulous utterance of, “What?”

It's nice to see I can still surprise him, but that’s cold comfort in light of what comes next. “I said no, Liang Wu Di. I refuse. I will not marry your daughter and become your son-in-law. I will not swear any Oaths and become your puppet. I will not meekly accept that all is lost and the soldiers of Shi Bei are doomed, for where there is life, there is hope, and from what you showed me, I see that they all still have hope yet.” As per usual, the Heavens have no miracles for me, but I was expecting as much, so I am only mildly disappointed as I lower my gaze to meet Wu Di’s eyes. “That is my answer, one which will not change, no matter how many times you ask, for I have seen the value of your favour and know that it shifts more often than the sands around us.” Materializing my Natal Sea once more, I set Buddy aside to float in its currents and take up Unity once more, but not to point it at my former patron or at anyone else. I simply stand there with glaive in hand like the warrior I have become, the warrior I always envisioned my brother would be, and say, “I have no more time to waste with your political double dealings. I care not for the games of the Imperial Clan, only for the struggles of my fellow man, so I am leaving to join the battle in Shi Bei, and I ask that you do not bar my way.”

That’s all that I say, but even then, I know it won’t change a thing, as Xing Ao Tian makes his move and charges forward with spear in hand. This time, I’m ready and waiting however, and the currents of my Natal Sea sweep him off of his feet as he approaches. Only for the briefest of moments before his boots sink down into the sand once more, giving him the purchase needed to continue charging headlong towards me. Rather than resist his efforts to close in, I instead help him along, using my Natal Sea to dig a channel beneath his boots and smile as he disappears into the sands below.

There’s no time to appreciate my handiwork however as Wu Di makes a move himself, and immediately I understand why he was given the title of Divine True Warrior. His opening Movement is simple and unhurried, an almost lazy overhand slash of the sword, yet as I work my way through all the possible responses, I realize he’s sealed off all my paths of retreat. If I make a move to get away, then I will leave myself open to grievous injury or death. My only choice then is to advance into a range wherein my glaive will be useless, but the Emperor still has my sword and my shield is too far away, except I remember that I am the Sword and Shield both. Unity drops from my grasp, and Peace and Tranquility appear in hand as I charge in to execute Pierce the Horizon from point-blank range.

A superlative attack that would have injured even Gerel, one delivered from inside the range of my foe’s longsword, yet Wu Di avoids with effortless ease by sliding back a half-step out of range.

Kill or not to kill, that is the question, one which I do not ponder for long. My Domain Materializes and bursts forth from Peace, extending its reach far enough to hammer home against his Runic Plate, but having made the conscious choice to not empower the blow with Sword Force, Wu Di’s armour holds firm. The shriek of metal sounds out as he retreats once more, the engraved dragons and phoenixes of his breastplate scarred by the touch of my Honed Domain, even if his body remains wholly unharmed. The anger in his expression is palpable to behold, for he has long since seen me as someone far beneath him, a lowly bug he could crush at any time he so pleased, but now I have divested him of that notion.

It matters not if he is the Divine True Warrior, because I would fight on even if he were a god given flesh, and as far as I can tell, he’s not even a Divinity. It appears his title is more about his potential than his actual strength, but I have strength and potential enough to bleed him. “I don’t want to fight,” I say, which I immediately realize is a mistake, because you never back down before a bully. “No one here is my enemy. My enemies are in Shi Bei, so once again, I ask that you step aside.”

Before my former boss has a chance to respond, Xing Ao Tian makes his return in spectacular fashion as he explodes out of the sands, but I sensed him coming almost a tenth of a second in advance, which is more than enough time to prepare for his arrival. The moment he emerges, a powerful rip-tide of Water Chi surges forth in combination with his momentum to send him flying away, while simultaneously scattering his efforts to Manifest his Domain and Cloud-Step away. A trick I picked up from Taddy, who used it to keep Vyakhya’s Demonic Divinity on the back foot, one comprised of Honed Deflections and some other skills that just fall into place. Though I am no match for Ao Tian in a direct fight, so long as I utilize my advantage of a Blessing of Water, then I can at least keep him at arm’s length, or at least I hope so considering the alternative is learning what his spear tastes like. That sounded dirtier than I intended, but it’s clear that Wu Di is not yet striking to kill, yet Xing Ao Tian has no such qualms about keeping me alive.

“Buddy?” I Send, even as I retreat from Wu Di’s dizzying array of thrusts aimed at keeping me contained, and I suddenly find myself bleeding from thirteen fresh wounds, though only two are life threatening. “I could really use some help now, so if you could… I dunno? Do something? Like pass along all the Heavenly Energy you Cleansed after gobbling up Zhen Shi’s Spectres? That would be great. Or better yet, use it to do something and get us out of this mess. Anything at all Buddy.” Despite continued pleas, one look at my doggo’s sweet, stupid face is enough to tell me I’m barking up the wrong tree, because much like me he has no idea what he’s doing, but he’s also happy in his ignorance.

God damnit Buddy, you are so fucking cute, but would it kill you to at least paddle a little harder so you actually look like you’re swimming? Floating through the gentle waters of my Natal Sea, Buddy’s helpless expression is almost enough to give me diabetes, but the momentary distraction is all it takes for Wu Di to disarm me, and I mean that quite literally. Both arms fall to the sands almost simultaneously as his sword slaps me across the face multiple times before stopping to rest against my throat, highlighting just how easily he could’ve killed me. Still not ready to give up, I Will Peace and Tranquility out of my hands, but Xing Ao Tian returns and stomps them both flat before looming over me in barely restrained threat. Thankfully, he spares my arms the same fate and leaves them both intact, which is nice since I’m fresh out of usable Heavenly Energy to regrow them. Heaving a sigh of regret, I wisely discard the first three responses that come to mind and simply shake my head instead. “Congratulations,” I deadpan, picking my arms up with my Natal Sea so I can reattach them once more, but Wu Di slaps them away with the flat of his blade so quickly it’s as if his sword never left my skin. “You win,” I continue, rolling my eyes and giving up on my arms for now. “Whoop de do. Come collect your prize. Hardly seems worth the price of admission, but what do I know?”

For a moment, the rage behind Wu Di’s eyes reaches murderous heights, but then a voice rife with boredom sounds out. “Is it done, then?” The Emperor asks, and everyone turns to bow and greet him, even Wu Di and Xing Ao Tian who have to turn their backs to me to do so. I suppose it’s a respect thing, to always face the Emperor when he speaks, but seems kind of silly to be honest. Humiliating too, given how little they see me as an actual threat, but in light of what I just went through, it’s difficult to fault them for it. With everyone distracted, I utilize my Natal Sea to sweep up my arms once more, only to have them plucked out of my grasp by the young Tian representative standing half a step behind me with waist bent and head bowed.

…

Now when in the flying fuck did he get there? As if I needed more proof of how outmatched I truly am.

“This Sovereign told you, did he not?” Slowly making his way over towards us with hands clasped behind his back, the Emperor leaves Zhen Shi’s corpse behind while regarding us all with a bored expression. “This one would sooner break than bend.” Meaning me, though I’m not sure how I feel about having the Emperor’s understanding. That implies I once had his attention, and I don’t like that much, because I would much rather fly under his radar for as long as we both should live. That ship has long since sailed however, meaning I need to make peace with my current situation, but despite knowing there is nothing I can do to get away from this mess, I’m still hoping there’s a way to make my way back to Shi Bei and lend a hand to the war effort. Not that I expect there’s much I can do, but if I can save my loved ones and even one person more, then it will be a net gain in the end, right?

Ah fuck me. I’ve made a huge mistake, haven’t I?

As the Emperor comes to a halt before me, I can’t help but resent the staggering difference in our heights. It’s not that he’s particularly tall either, as Xing Ao Tian is taller, but the Emperor has this gravitas about him that makes him seem larger than life. He doesn’t look too much older than Wu Di, like a healthy man in his late thirties, or maybe early forties at most, but there is a staggering difference in presence between them. It’s subtle, yet evident all the same, not overbearing like the Demonic Divinity or Zhen Shi, but weighty and substantial in a more palpable sense. It’s difficult to describe, but if I had to put it in terms of weight, Zhen Shi was a mountain with all the weight that went with it, while the Emperor is merely a man with the weight of a thousand mountains hidden within.

That being said, Wu Di and the Emperor look very much alike, but if I’m being honest, Xing Ao Tian and the representatives from the Tian and Di families also kinda look similar to the Emperor as well. Like they’re all brothers or something, but I suppose with a harem large enough to fill a city, the Emperor would have plenty of sons to go around. Unlike the amicable good humour of Wu Di, the barely restrained violence of Xing Ao Tian, the neutral indifference of the Di representative, or the empty nothingness of the Tian representative, the Emperor emanates a sense of perfection, and not merely in form or function. His movements seem in tune with the world around him, as if the sands were shifting beneath our feet to bring us closer to him, rather than he drawing closer to us. The air comes alive around him and the heat gives way before his presence, and there’s an impression of completion all around him, a oneness that I cannot wholly perceive much less describe, yet can sense under the surface all the same.

Without so much as a word, the Emperor retrieves my arms from the Tian representative behind me, but not with his hands. No, the Emperor’s Domain is all that he needs to line my severed limbs up next to my shoulders with a deft and delicate touch that is every bit as precise and adept as a master surgeon’s fingers. The Healing is instant, carried out with such gentle skill that it takes me several moments to realize it’s already finished, all without ever laying a finger on my flesh. This is a mastery which might even exceed Taddy’s, which I would’ve thought was impossible, but from this one act alone, I can see that the Emperor is on a whole other level from anyone I’ve ever seen before.

Which is just not even remotely fair. Like, come on!

“So stubborn and intractable,” the Emperor declares, his full attention weighing heavily upon me and making me feel underdressed in my newly sleeveless shirt, “But such is your Dao. Were you any less determined, domineering, steadfast, and obstinate, then you would never have reached the heights you arrived at today.” Turning ever so slightly to address Wu Di behind him, he asks, “Do you remember the story our Imperial Father told us, as he laid upon his death bed?”

Wait what? I thought the Emperor was Wu Di’s father? Or is ‘Imperial Prince’ just a title, one only the heir apparent is allowed to use? It would appear Wu Di and this Emperor are both sons of the former Emperor, but why would the current Emperor appoint Wu Di as his successor instead of one of his own sons? Shit’s confusing, but surprised as I am by this glimpse into the Royal family’s complexities, I am even more surprised by Wu Di’s answer. “The tale of Akanai’s rise to prominence and the bloodshed she wrought in Central.”

“Indeed. What do you think was the lesson he intended us to learn?”

“That the Empire is rotten to the core, and we, his sons, must fix it.”

“Incorrect.” Shaking his head with a sigh, the Emperor continues, “If you are to succeed this Sovereign’s throne, then you must learn to see beyond the surface. Our Imperial Father should have known better than to grant an audience to a half-beast woman, for in doing so, he set into motion a conflict between this powerful heroine and the conservative elements of Central. Any fool could have seen that they would feel threatened by so accomplished a woman and half-beast, so the Empire would have been better served if our Imperial Father rewarded her in private and avoided all the unnecessary bloodshed, bloodshed which ultimately benefitted neither side and made the Empire weaker for it.” Meeting my eyes and peering deep into my soul, the Emperor explains, “Even an Emperor cannot change the hearts of man, that is the lesson our Imperial Father hoped to teach, one you have failed to discern.”

“This Prince understands.”

“Do you? This Sovereign thinks not, for even he has yet to wholly understand the complexities of the human heart.” Moving aside so Wu Di can see me, the Emperor sets his subjects to scrambling so none are standing directly behind him, which would be amusing if I wasn’t the centre of attention again. “This boy here is a promising young seedling the likes of which this Empire has not seen since before it was founded, a Warrior whose future holds no limits. He is a dragon, yet you sought to break him like one would break a wild horse, truly a foolish endeavour.” Even though everything the Emperor says is pleasing to my ears, there’s no sense of approval or support, because dragon though I might be, I wholeheartedly believe that the Emperor intends to break me all the same.

“You could have won him over to your side with sincerity and nothing else, yet you were unable to do even this. Such is your scheming nature, Liang Wu Di, but your schemes have borne some fruit today. A lesson to keep in mind however, to temper your ambition, lest you overreach and suffer for it.” Moving his gaze to take in every representative one at a time, none of them meet his eyes, and the Emperor shakes his head at this sorry sight before settling on my former patron. “Liang Wu Di, you have united our brothers against this Sovereign, won over the Prime Minister and Grand Marshal both, a feat most worthy of consideration. Should this Sovereign choose to fight, then victory is all but assured, yet there is no benefit to be gained from our conflict, for our clash would destroy the very prize we seek to contest.”

…Excuse me? What in the flying fuck is going on? Is this a rebellion?

A question asked and answered by the Emperor’s next statement, as he turns his full attention back to me once more. “Very well then,” he continues, without any reluctance or remorse to be seen, as if declaring how he would like his eggs while tossing over a rectangular jade seal which I assume is probably important. “Long has this Sovereign safeguarded the Empire, yet now your actions would see me destroy it, so better to abandon it in full. For the sake of stability, this Sovereign will officially cede the throne to Liang Wu Di once this term is complete, but from this moment forth, you are Emperor in all but name. No longer will this Sovereign meddle in the affairs of the Supreme Families, so long as they pay no mind to him and his. Agreed?”

“Agreed.”

Every Imperial Scion present voices their compliance, and I can feel the Energy of the Heavens settle around them, like some sort of group Oath made without blood or effort. Weird, but I don’t really care so long as I can leave to save Shi Bei, except life has never been so kind to me before, and sees no reason why it should start now. A manifested Domain wraps around me and all but drives my Natal Sea away, though it leaves enough for Mama Bun and Buddy to continue floating alongside me. “Make any effort to escape, and this Sovereign will teach you the true meaning of regret,” the Emperor declares, leaving no uncertain terms regarding the sincerity of his threat, and in spite of his distant, almost indifferent tone, I whole-heartedly believe him. Rather than Cloud-Step away however, we stand and wait while the others depart, with Wu Di being the last to leave. Not with a smug smile or pompous sneer, nor is there any regret or enmity in his eyes, only a knowing look as my former patron holds my gaze for a long second with an ineffable expression before deliberately glancing at Buddy as he turns to leave.

And once we are well alone, the Emperor wraps us both in a staggering sphere of Domain larger than any I’ve ever seen before, at least a kilometre in diameter if not more. “Do not struggle,” he demands, which of course sets me to struggling with all my might, but it does nothing to stop him from dragging my consciousness into the Void with an uncompromising, unyielding, unrelenting effort of Will, a tidal wave to my raindrop if I were to make a comparison.

And there in the grim darkness of the Void, I discover that we are not alone.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
