She grabs her glowing green staff and borrows the item storage skill from the Rising Emperor to amplify its range and ability.

A massive ring-shaped storage portal appears beneath the entire battlefield and allows all of the radiation-emitting statues of a frozen war in the past to fall into a true state of suspended animation within her system.

She allows the World Wide Connectivity system to store these artifacts as individual items and sends the data to Alveron, Monk, and Bri; but insists that she holds onto the true artifacts for safekeeping.

Following this event, Abby returns to her cultivation moon base too.

Though, not much cultivation is really done...

She just sits in the center of the yellow room with her eyes closed, letting the black staff slowly spin around her, with a look on her face as though she's in deep thought.

–

Meanwhile, Maria's cultivation chamber has been restocked with divine fragments three more times in the last seven days.

None of the footage sending messages back to the moon base has been able to properly send any usable information back.

The size of the corrupted portions of the files grows, as all the energy readings around her divine core and soul energy core send back nonsensical data that doesn't add up.

Temperatures in her chamber have dropped down to levels that should only be possible in deep space, and a royal blue aura has begun to glow around the outside of her body.

She is pulling a full 4% of stats and emitting a terrifyingly strong mana control radiation signature.

It has consistently been fracturing 4-5 walls out that have had to be constantly rehealed. However, with Arie's aura reaching 26 walls out, and the soul weapons bonding fracturing over 30 walls for both Arie and Raven, these single-digit numbers don't seem like much.

Her divine core has not shown any signs of collapsing.

Everyone has trust in her that she knows what she's doing, but one would expect the process to move along much faster than this...

Maria hasn't even activated her 3rd Ranked Up Buff to aid in the process like she said she would.

If it's taking three months to gather these threads and it hasn't even compressed her True Core yet, then it is an even greater mystery how she'll saturate it in time...

–

While it seems another day will go by with no more clues or progress in Maria's cultivation, a series of notifications ring in everyone's ears within the various moon bases.

It's the new addition of 188,403 worlds to the World Wide Connectivity System, and over a hundred trillion new links of loyalty boosting the amount of borrowed stats available to the Rising Emperor, and of course, in turn, the generals.

With the flood of new and confused system users being added to the forums and markets, everyone borrowing stats gets an instant rise in power by over three times.

The surveillance panels of the cultivation base holding Maria start to light up with many colorful warnings, as the flow of divine threads becomes extremely chaotic, suddenly being pulled inward toward the blue ice mage faster than they're being circulated through the chamber.

Simultaneously, the mana control aura in the room from her natural existence triples in strength, which in turn is multiplied by the divine threads tethering her to reality.

More and more walls begin to shake and fracture as her aura expands, and the gravity she exerts on the base around her continues to increase.

Her burst makes it out to the 21st wall, and the center chamber she sits in now begins to freeze solid making it harder to inject fresh divine threads into the middle room. Alveron frantically triggers system commands to restock the base with another load of divine fragments even though the last restock was less than 12 hours ago.
