“And this is just the passive dissemination of Records,” Jake continued. “I’m sure you’ve already noticed how a teacher can pass down Records to others. How the power of one’s parents affects one’s Records. Now imagine something akin to that, but with the Records of a god. Actually, rather than imagine, allow me to demonstrate a small Legacy skill that I got from the Malefic Viper.”

To really push his momentum, Jake had concluded that being a mere projection in front of the A-grades wouldn’t do. What’s more, because this had dragged on for so long, Pride was back on the menu again. Of course, if he even wanted the option of using it, Jake would have to get to the sky.

“Be there in a moment,” Jake said as he took a step back, his projection disappearing from the sky as he went out of the bubble created by the Archweaver. Two wings appeared on his back as he gave the Archweaver a look.

“I’m gonna head outside, thanks for the tour,” Jake said with a smile as a sphere of poison started appearing around him.

“I do not have the ability to disable the barriers surrounding the Nest,” the Archweaver said, making Jake smile a little. His words indicated he would have turned them off if he could, which was yet more proof that their entire view of Jake had shifted.

Fortunately, Jake didn’t need the barriers turned off.

“It’s fine,” Jake said as he activated the escape function of Wings of the Malefic Viper and shot towards the sky above. During their conversation, Jake had also done a bit of work to analyze the barriers surrounding the Nest, and while they were quite powerful, they had one fatal flaw:

They allowed toxic energy to enter and exit freely.

This was certainly done because why wouldn’t monsters want more environmental energy within? Usually, this wouldn’t be a problem either, but through a combination of Unseen Hunter and effectively making himself a living mass of toxins, Jake had found a path through. His increased sensitivity towards space also helped, in an unforeseen way, as Jake felt his control over his movements, speed, and where he would appear had all increased massively.

Enough so that as Jake came to a stop, and his wings started scattering into toxic dust, he found himself standing right in the middle of all the A-grades, who definitely hadn’t expected a mere B-grade to be capable of escaping from within the Nest.

“Now that’s better,” Jake said with a smile, also stopping holding back other things as he fully released his Bloodline and gladly unfurled his aura as the Chosen of the Malefic Viper, blanketing the sky.

“Now let’s properly discuss the future of this world.”
