I woke up the following morning with a growling tummy.

I peeked an eye open to look at the sky and found the sun actually hadn’t quite risen yet, but the chirping of early morning birds filled the air. I let out a yawn and shook myself off as I crawled out from the little bushy hollow I had crawled into the night before.

I sighed as I looked back. It truly felt so strange to wake up without anyone near me. Come to think of it, I’d only ever had to experience this a few days of my short puppy life. I hadn’t been lost in the forest of the vale for long, though it did feel like a very long time, but then I was soon at least back together with Lily again.

I just need to complete my quest and get back! I thought, lifting my head high and trying to motivate myself. That’s right! The sooner I finish with this, the sooner I get to see Lily and Grick again, not to mention being one step closer to seeing the rest of my family. Ben or Jerry may even be back with the empire by then!

I hoped so, anyway.

I trotted to the forest edge to look over the blighted Umarii lands and size up my travels to the Broken Fang. The distinct mountain formation looked so far, it was hard to judge. Could I get there in a single day? I felt like yeah, on puppy legs I certainly could, but I could be wrong about that. I certainly didn’t want to end up in a situation where I had to sleep without shelter…

I looked around and spotted a slight incline in the terrain, and ran over  it to get a better look from a higher vantage point. This time as I scanned the lands before me I saw a good milestone to head for.

There was a pile of stones that clearly was once some kind of building that had crumpled over time. It was very far away, though far, far short of the Broken Fang, but as I stared at it, trying to make out its shape, I thought maybe some walls were still standing, and therefore that spot could make a good shelter, should I decide I needed it tonight. Either way, it gave me something to shoot for that was in reason, rather than the impossibly far peaks in the distance.

First things first, I thought, looking back to the forest over my shoulder. I need to hunt breakfast. I already skipped dinner last night, and even if I don’t feel much like eating, I’ll start to feel fatigued if I don’t get something in my belly.

So I got to work sniffing out prey. I really disliked having to hunt without Pulse Sense, it made it so much harder, and I didn’t even have Lily’s somewhat better sniffer to rely on. Not to mention all the dirt I’d accidentally suck up my poor doggy nose! I don’t know how that never seemed to bother Lily or any of my other siblings.

All the same, I soon got onto a trail, and as I poked my head through some underbrush, I saw a tasty rabbit nibbling on some leaves.

I licked my chops.

I haven’t had rabbit in a while, I thought, then lowered down as I prowled closer and closer to my breakfast.

When I was very near to striking distance, my paw must have brushed something that alerted it, as it instantly started making a run for it.

Oh no, you don’t!

When I had little puppy legs, this would have been a much tougher chase. But now that I was bigger, even without Give Chase to aid me, it only took bounding after it a few times before I was pouncing on its back and scooping it up by the neck with a harsh shake.

Snap!

Prey Eliminated - level 2 Rabbit

No Experience gained.

I expected there wouldn’t be any experience rewards, but I lay down with my kill between my paws and ripped past the bunny fluff and to the tasty meat inside.

I remembered a time when a single rabbit could feel like quite a feast, but this little thing was hardly a snack now, if I were being honest.

Still, it brought back nice memories of those early days of hunting with my brothers and sisters under Mom and Dad’s watchful eyes. Back when I believed nothing ever could go wrong in my happy puppy life.

After stripping the bunny’s legs and innards for every morsel I could manage, I was still quite hungry. Truthfully, all that little snack really had done was whet my appetite and left me feeling even hungrier.

So, I got back on the hunt.

I soon sniffed out a second rabbit, prowled slowly until I was just a few bounds away, and then struck, snapping its neck just as easily as the last.

Prey Eliminated - level 2 Rabbit

No experience gained

I stripped that one of as much meat as I could, then got on the hunt again.

This time, I found a Moss Grazer, which would be a much more satiating meal.

It was busy sniffing around, its hoof turned over a rock, and then it looked up unsatisfied. It seemed it was looking for some breakfast of its own.

I hunkered down, analyzing my path, and planning the attack. But I also realized this thing was way too big to eat on my own. It wasn’t one of the larger Moss Grazers, which Lily and I, even together, wouldn’t normally eat all of in one sitting. But I realized I would be killing it while taking quite little of its meat.

Should I feel bad about that?

I was still working on my moral code as far as hunting goes, and I honestly hated that I’d let so much go to waste. It felt to me that if I were going to kill something, it should at least not be pointless.

No, it’s fine, I told myself. There are plenty of other scavengers around that will hit the jackpot once they discover my leftovers.

When the Mossgrazer found what it was looking for along the north side of a tree and then leaned down to start to pick the fuzzy green moss with its front teeth, I took its distraction as my moment to strike.

I prowled out of hiding, sneaking up behind it, and then, when I was sure escape would be futile for the creature, I suddenly surged forward.

It looked up just in time to see me leaping at it, and as it tried to kick back at me, surely knowing fleeing wasn’t an option, I ducked to the side and dove for its other leg.

It screamed as I ripped up, pulling its leg out from under it and causing it to flop on its side. There was then a brief scramble as I forced my way up to its throat, but this Mossgrazer not being the whip vine variety, it had little means to defend itself and soon my teeth were sinking in and ripping its throat out.

It let out one last dying cry before falling limp.

Prey Eliminated - Level 10 Mossgrazer

No experience gained

Well, that’s that, I thought with a huff, looking down at my kill. I looked over each shoulder, but my only company was the random forest sounds and anything that may have been near had surely been scared off by my attack and the Mossgrazer’s resulting screams.

I went ahead and got to chomping away, filling my belly as nicely as I could. Even when I felt full, I forced myself to eat just a little more, because as far as I could tell, the Umarii lands wouldn’t be as abundant in potential meal tickets as the forests around the empire were.

When I was done, it was time to get on with my adventure.

I licked my chops, gave the partially devoured Mossgrazer one last look, then turned away, trotting back towards the forest’s edge with my tail sticking up and my head held high, convincing myself I was some brave hero marching off towards glory.

That lasted about twelve steps, until I was looking out across the blighted Umarii lands again and my tail slowly lowered.

The ground immediately ahead wasn’t exactly dead, but it certainly didn’t feel alive either. Pale grasses grew in uneven patches, swaying gently in the morning breeze. There was little in the way of green, healthy grass, and that surely went from scarce to nonexistent after just a few minutes of walking towards my destination.

Soon, there was no grass at all. I looked at the cracked ground beneath my paws. It wasn’t even brown like normal dirt. It was grey, and rocky, and cracked. It was so dry looking, I couldn’t imagine it’d seen a drop of rain in years.

I looked back for just a moment, the trees still standing tall behind me. Forward, the impossibly far mountain peaks loomed, but I pressed ahead.

When I caught myself looking back, focusing too much on that lonely feeling, and had a brief recurring thought to just abandon all of this and go back to Lily and Grick, I forced myself to trot faster.

I was on a mission now. I couldn’t let my mind be so distracted. This was unfamiliar land with unfamiliar threats. I knew I had to stay alert, and I wouldn’t even be able to switch to one of my stronger Paths until tomorrow, so this was no time to not have my head in the game!

I kept moving, heading for the crumpled ruins I had spotted before, and surprisingly, I reached them much faster than I expected. I guess I was trotting pretty fast, much faster than I normally would, and I felt slightly out of breath as I approached, estimating I was only about an hour into the Umarii lands at this point.

Which meant either I had severely underestimated how fast I could move when I was trying not to think about sad puppy things, or this ruined building had not been nearly as far as I had first thought.

But, glancing towards the Broken Fang, I couldn’t imagine I had actually gotten notably closer. Looking back, though… yeah, the trees were already disappearing behind me. I could still see them as a somewhat thick green line cutting across the horizon, but I knew the further I went the thinner that line would become until it disappeared.

I huffed and turned towards the ruins, trying to figure out what kind of structure this was. It couldn’t have been some random house where somebody used to live out here in the middle of nowhere, right?

I walked around it slowly, nose low and ears perked. The structure was largely collapsed, like the walls on one side of it just gave up at a certain point, but surprisingly, as I looked through to the inside of it I saw it had a second floor that was somehow still standing.

I looked among the crumpled debris, then on one of the still standing walls, I saw an old doorway and I couldn’t help poking my nose inside.

There was a shattered table right in the center of the room, along with the remains of an old chair and broken bits of pottery. Curious, I prowled through the doorway and sniffed at the broken pots, one of which was still intact. As for the broken bits, I saw a grey film on the insides of the shards.

I turned my attention to the intact one and sniffed its top, then recoiled backward and wrinkled my nose. Something in there smelled rotted and dead, which is a smell that would have bothered me much more in my human life but… even as a doggy, this dead thing was different than other dead things I’ve smelled. This just smelled… wrong...

My ears folded down as I approached it more cautiously, consciously not allowing myself to sniff as I peeked inside the top.

I saw some black substance filled the pot. It seemed thick like tar.

I watched as a tiny bubble rose to the surface.

Pop!

I flinched back as a little puff of gray vapor drifted out of the opening.

Nope!

Absolutely nope!

I had no idea what it was, but every single instinct told me sticking my nose any closer would be a bad idea!

I looked around the room once again, trying to figure out what this place was. Actually, it seemed odd that there was just an old table here, and since the second floor was mostly collapsed, I couldn’t say much about what might have been up there either.

But the staircase looked quite strong as it was made of solid stone and stacked a bit thicker than the walls. I looked out of one of the crumpled walls and decided to just take a quick peek at what lay ahead of me from a higher vantage point.

I went up the stairs, took a few steps, sticking close to the wall, and looked out upon the Umarii lands that lay between me and the Broken Fang.

In the distance, I saw more ruins, but instead of a single building, it looked like a whole abandoned village made of that same black stone.

I made my way back down the steps and out of the creepy building as quickly as I could, practically feeling like I was running away as my fur stood on end. I looked back, half expecting something to be chasing after me.

Once I had some distance with the creepy watchtower behind me, a shudder ran through my fur as I thought of the black stuff.

What was it? Was it actually just simple food storage that had gotten left for far too long and rotted to the point of just becoming horrifyingly nasty sludge? I mean, that’s probably all it was, right? I don’t know what else I would possibly be thinking that it was.

But as I continued trotting across the barren lands, the thin green line of life becoming thinner and thinner behind me, some deep part of me had a feeling I’d be seeing that black stuff again before my adventure was over.
