Ranthia glanced about at her damaged armor and found the charred section that had Pallos’ tiniest tongue of flames still working at the leather. Annoyed, Ranthia beat at the small fire, while the ash-covered legionary stepped over and splashed his half-drained cup of juice across another section near the center of her back.

Once she was extinguished, Ranthia spared a moment to wonder how in Xaoc’s eternal glory she had managed to catch herself on fire again. Any flames left from the various attacks the shimagu failed to kill her with should have been extinguished when she shifted. Which meant she had to have managed to reignite her armor while she was dancing through Remera—it was worse out there than she had even known.

Ranthia shook the question off.

“You’re okay, <Gemheart>?” Ranthia asked.

“Of course I am! You are the one being reckless and not even noticing that you were aflame!” Avyna scolded her in return, a scowl on her face.

Ranthia bowed her head, but she also smiled with relief.

“Ran—Sentinel Grace, ma’am!” A haggard and wide-eyed Glorine charged into the shop, shouting at the top of her lungs.

Avyna rolled her eyes and muttered something about noise fines in High Elvish.

“What now?” Ranthia asked, with a half-hearted salute.

The messenger ignored it and rushed over, grabbing desperately at Ranthia’s armor.

“Where is Gailla?! Please, help me find my fiancée!” Glorine pleaded.

Gods and goddesses, she was trembling.

Ranthia accelerated her perception and realized the problem immediately. Gailla was one of Remera’s [Analysts], and several of their tents had been targeted.

Ranthia nodded and set her hands on her friend’s shoulders, trying to project an air of confidence.

“I’m sure she’s okay. But come on, follow me! We’ll find her together, I promise. <Gemheart>, stay here!” Ranthia did her best to reassure Glorine without wasting undue amounts of time.

Sparing only the briefest moment to glance back at Avyna—to reassure herself that she wouldn’t regret leaving—Ranthia released Glorine and took off at a run, trying to match Glorine’s lesser top speed. The desperate [Messenger] was hot on her heels.

Glorine seemed to have expected Ranthia to start searching Remera, but she had a better idea. The command tent that was actually in use that day was glaringly obvious in the current crisis. People buzzed about like insects as a nonstop press of [Messengers] and officers flew in and out.

Inside was even worse, a calamitous blend of shouts, orders, and queries threatened to drown out every last bit of comprehension. Even with her authority as Sentinel Grace, Ranthia struggled to get the distracted pseudo-attention of one of the assignment personnel long enough to confirm that Gailla hadn’t been assigned to any of the tents that had been hit.

Glorine’s desperation crashed so hard that the woman nearly collapsed out of sheer relief when Ranthia shouted the news into her friend’s ear. Which left Ranthia carrying the woman out of the tent to get them out of the way, but once the [Messenger] found her feet again, they set out—at a more reasonable pace—to the specified tent.

Ranthia left the two crying women to their embrace once they were reunited, each relieved beyond words to know the other was safe.

Given the anguish in the air, far too many men and women weren’t so lucky.

The fires had been cleared and the shimagu finally retreated, ending the long conflict. The base commander was demanding a meeting, but Ranthia was at home, sitting in a wooden chair while she stubbornly attempted to clean and repair her heavily damaged armor.

She knew she was being ridiculous, but she didn’t want to swap to a spare suit, she had just gotten that one perfectly broken in and adjusted.

Avyna was putting the finishing touches on dinner while they awaited Glorine and Gailla’s arrival. Their friends’ tent had been dismantled due to being near one of the fires, so the duo needed a place to sleep until they could set up again. They were lucky, nothing was truly lost—it was just packed away for the moment.

The younger couple entered without fanfare, and Ranthia shifted to a fresh image—though she had [Submind] continue to scrub the armor in the image she abandoned. She could spare a bit of attention to direct it while they ate.

Avyna carried the pot of fresh soup to the table and set it down. It was a creamy, cheesy broth with ingredients that had been chopped fine enough it could be sipped. Avyna still used a spoon, but everyone else alternated between taking careful sips of the hot soup and dunking chunks of bread in it.

Yet no one spoke. There was a pall hanging over their gathering. They were lucky, but Remera had suffered. The death toll wasn’t yet finalized, but at least thirty people died inside Remera during the fires, on top of the losses amongst the wall defenders and those that took the field.

The infected dinosaurs that were responsible had been culled, but that didn’t bring back those that were lost. Gailla in particular had friends and colleagues in the tents that were struck, and she didn’t even know who she might never be able to see again.

Their mutual silence lingered even after the food was finished. Avyna brought some fresh fruit out, but only Ranthia opted to take any. Dark mood or not, she wasn’t about to pass on a pear—the gentle, refreshing flavor was almost as welcome as Avyna’s hand was.

“Avyna, we wanted to ask you something.” Gailla finally broke the silence right when Ranthia bit into her fruit.

“Oh?” Avyna prompted.

“We know you’ve done a lot of prep work for us…” Glorine explained before she nervously trailed off.

“But we want to move our marriage ceremony up. While we love the winter solstice…” Gailla picked up where Glorine left off.

“I was so scared that I lost her today, without ever being able to call her my wife.” Glorine concluded, before she seized her fiancée’s hand.

They rested their foreheads together, reminding one another that they were both still there.

“I see… How about the autumnal equinox then? It will be here before we know it and I think we should be able to pull it off. I will need to check with the base commander tomorrow… or perhaps the day after, considering.” Avyna offered.

The women smiled and nodded their consent.

Ranthia hid her wince with another big bite of pear. With the schedule moved up, her life promised to become busier and even more restless for the next few months. Worse, it was going to cut into her precious time with her Gemheart!

…But she was being selfish. It was a sacrifice that she needed to be more willing to make—to help her friends enjoy their own love. Hadn’t she promised herself to be a better person?

Besides, a proper wedding promised to be a beautiful distraction from the darker thoughts that had built up in the back of her mind.
