"Wait, that's cheating!" the Gunsmith cried, sloshing through ankle deep soup. The book that landed on its neck next was simply titled 'Here Be Dragons'.

 

"Door's open!" the Archer shouted as the wooden door collapsed due to the sheer hacking it endured and the soup soaking into it.

 

"TACTICAL RETREAT!" the Warrior ordered. The golem began to grow, massive wings of paper forming on its back as a glowing fire in its chest consumed paper for fuel. The emerging fireblast chased them down the hall, bringing forth steamed soup and the smell of fresh books.

 

The library had defeated them.

 

---

 

"Thank you!" Deo said as the Library Golem handed him a book off the top shelf then brought Deo lemonade to drink at a seating area.

 

"I'll be careful with it," Deo promised and the golem patted his head.

 

As he sat down, Deo could taste ash and smoke. His dad had explained that Delta had 'mirrors' now. Places that were the Dungeon, but not Delta really. Like reflections of two mirrors close together. Deo didn't quite understand, but sometimes he felt, tasted, and once, even saw other people like ghosts.

 

They never reacted to Deo, but he wrote down a message in chalk once and Delta kindly transported it to one of the mirrors for him.

 

It was like leaving a kind message for them. He told Grim and he said Deo should write down there was a secret tunnel when there wasn't and watch them hit their heads on it.

 

Deo didn't quite see the fun of the idea yet, but Grim thought it was funny so Deo would wait and see.

 

He stared down at the book called 'How to Study better to get employment'.

 

He was a little sad because Grim didn't hire him to watch the door. So Deo had the idea that if he finished school super fast, he could work with Grim and they could run the Grim Tale Guild together!

 

He opened the front page and technical jargon jumped out at him with long dry boring sentences that talked about time management and calculated timefall events with expanding routines.

 

Deo felt like his brain caught fire for a moment.

 

"I need help!" he mumbled, slamming his head into the book.

 

"Whatchu doing?" came a voice and Deo blinked, spotting Jack the Kobold nearby, watching him as he read something called "The Anarchist Dessert List'.

 

"I'm trying to be smart but I can't figure out how to make smart simple so I can understand it," Deo summed up and to his surprise, Jack nodded gravely.

 

"I hear you. I was the worst when it came to my family in terms of magic or combat," Jack said seriously.

 

"How big was your family?" Deo asked, thinking Jack had a brother or maybe a sister.

 

"I had thirty-six siblings, but they were all talented. I think I had thirty-six. I might have invented some to cheer myself up when I was a prisoner," Jack mumbled to himself.

 

"Is thirty-six a lot?" Deo asked slowly. Jack grinned.

 

"Depends. Thirty-six puppies? Not a bad thing. Thirty-six dead bodies in your basement? Maybe," he said sagely.

 

"Don't you worry, I'll teach you how to be smart where it counts and you have one of the most unhinged library collections at your fingertips, complete with a self-aware search function!" Jack promised, giving Deo hope.

 

"Can you teach me to be smart?" he asked and Jack gave him a strangely gentle look.

 

"No, I'm going to teach you that you're already smart, but haven't had the chance to show it," he replied.

 

"Thank you! You don't have to," Deo said, a little shy now as he couldn't stop smiling. Jack stared at him then down at his own claws.

 

"I know, but you remind me of someone," he said and Deo blinked in confusion.

 

"Who?" he asked slowly. Jack just grinned.

 

"Someone I made up to feel better about myself," he winked and pulled out a new book for Deo to read.

 

'How to make comrades and sway people'

 

"We'll start with warfare of the mind!" Jack cried and the library lights flickered dramatically.

 

"Oh, very nice," Jack praised the golem nearby who waved lazily.

 

Deo was going to sway the heck out of people.
