Unknown skill unlocked! Dimensional Weight | Level 10 - In this reality, the laws of the universe dictate what is, what has been, and what will be. These constants rule over all with an unseen fist, one we can't even see nor fathom. Within your domain, you wield that unseen fist, and you press your own causality onto everything around you.

+10% to Dimensional Weight

+10% to Dimensional Weight's Efficiency

500 skill points awarded!

I rubbed my temples at the status. My psyches discussed this before we came to several conclusions. For one, this portal wasn't working the way I thought it would. I imagined dragging it around, keeping it as a solution to my size issues. Instead, this dimensional anchor was simply that - a literal dimension I lugged around.

I pulled the entire fabric of another reality with me, and it was so, so very heavy. Heavy enough that I pressured one of my minds to a state of comatose by moving it. Shifting the space required far more mental exertion than I envisioned, but the reward exceeded anything I imagined up to this point.

Based on the skills description, I could even influence causality. Whatever the hell that meant. I sent a Daniel to research it in my status. Lugging myself along, I reached the Sear Tower while night loomed over the city. Refugees rested in encampments built near here, a few talking around the fires. Since I only stood fifteen feet tall, only a few of these insomniacs gawked. It gave me a sense of ease I had lacked for a long time.

At the primary outpost, the gialgathen kept an eye on the entire expanse. Its eyes met mine as I landed. A minuscule frown crossed over its face like a glitch. I followed my intuition.

"What's got you up in arms?"

Kaiayga leaned back.

"You cleared the dungeon."

"Not quite."

The gialgathen gazed at the moon reflecting onto Lake Michigan.

"Those two sent to the portal...They won't be silenced?"

"Like...Killed? Hell no."

The gialgathen turned to me, inspecting my face. I met its eye before it gave me a nod.

"Good. I could never be certain."

I spread my hands.

"I've done nothing for this kind of scrutiny."

The gialgathen tilted his head.

"You believe so? Odd. I've heard different tales of you."

My curiosity spiked.

"Like what, exactly?"

"They speak of sieges to other worlds. They whisper of battles with beings that can erase matter and create nuclear fire. Of wars waged against living machines and the terrors they infest."

I lowered my hands.

"Yeah...We have done that."

It shook its head.

"Is it so odd that I question what you're willing to do then?"

I sighed.

"Look, that's true, but the only reason you're even here is because of those decisions. You'd be infested by one of those machines without our intervention. The Eltari, my guild, we all fought battles that we decided on."

It raised a horned brow.

"Or was it you that did so?"

I narrowed my eyes.

"These people have chosen to follow me. They chose to fight. I never drafted or forced anyone."

The gialgathen leaned towards me.

"And what was their alternative? Death? Starvation?"

Neel paced out of a warp from within the Sears Tower.

"Excuse me, Kaiayga. I couldn't help but see you eyeing down our illustrious leader over here. I may not hear what's going on, but I think I've seen enough."

Kaiayga turned to the war veteran.

"Stay out of this."

Neel waved his hands.

"Now, I'm not one to question another man's anger. We have a right to it. But-"

His eyes sharpened.

"Not with him. Understood?"

A moment of tension passed over them. Kaiayga jerked his head aside and snarled.

"Ah. Fine. I'm scouting the outskirts of the city. Goodbye."

The elegant creature jumped off the edge of the building, gliding down to the tops of the trees. As it got outside of earshot, Neel put his hands on his hips.

"Sorry about all that. He doesn't do well with authority."

I raised a brow.

"Authority outside of yours, apparently."

"Well, me and him have a few things in common. I helped him with stopping acetylsalicylic acid. If you don't know what that means, you're like pretty much everybody. It's aspirin."

I leaned back.

"Aspirin? Like...The medicine?"

Neel gawked at me.

"You don't know about aspirin? Your daddy never taught you nothing."

"First off, mind your own damn business, and secondly, yes, I know what aspirin is. It's sap from a weeping willow, right?"

Neel, on edge, shrugged.

"Close enough. The willow bark had salicin in it. They used that to make aspirin. The point is, giving aspirin to a gialgathen is like giving a bear honey."

"So it's sweet?"

"Er, uh, ok, so imagine the honey again, but this time-" Neel spread his hands. "Laced with pounds and pounds of meth. Meth and cocaine."

My jaw slackened.

"It's a hard drug?"

Neel took a breath.

"Yup. As hard as they get. Good old Kaiayga ended up dependent on it after he arrived on Earth. He lost his family and then some in Lehesion's raid on Rivaria. The aspirin took that pain away, and I got him off of it."

My imagination ran wild.

"How in the world did you do that?"

"The same way I quit heroin. Buddhism."

Everything Neel said surprised me. I scoffed.

"Buddhism?"

"Suffering is attachment, as the good old Buddha says. Anyway, I got him to meditating, and he was able to kick the habit. We've been good friends ever since."

I gazed at Lake Michigan.

"Damn. He still seems kind of hostile."

"The best friends you have always are. They have this habit of holding you to account."

I remembered my conversation with Helios.

"Huh. Maybe so."

Neel smiled.

"And before you say so, I'm assuming you cleared the dungeon?"

"Essentially. You also have to let Jake and Gordan off the hook. This warp wasn't controlled by Schema."

Neel blinked.

"How in the hell did that happen?"

"I aim to find out back on Mt. Verner, but before I head out, is there anything you need?"

He walked up, offering a handshake. I returned the gesture. Neel smiled.

"I wanted to thank you for all you've done for Springfield. Michigan. Hell, the world."

I peered off.

"Ah. Thanks."

He pointed at me.

"I mean it. You've done something special. Something I can hardly believe."

I let my hand go.

"I got lucky."

He gave me a knowing look.

"No, I don't think you did."

My eyes narrowed.

"And what makes you so sure?"

Neel scoffed.

"Kiddo, I knew you before the system."

I leaned back. Neel stood tall.

"Daniel Hillside. Certified punk. A tough boxer. And someone who took beatings from his daddy before dishing one back. Good one, by the way. That prick deserved it."

Feeling vulnerable, I took a deep breath.

"You. Who are you?"

Neel peered off.

"I know it's hard to believe but-"

He met my eye.

"I'm your grandfather."
