Your second of four aspects. They will bend or be undone. Upon anchoring yourself, you rise above the battlefield. You are geostationary and may not move in any way. You may not use defensive skills beyond a basic personal shield. Once the aspect deactivates, you will be defenseless for a duration depending on your stats and the intensity of your use (maximum three hours now). The aspect deactivates when you run out of available mana. While the aspect is active, your range is multiplied by four (scaling), you may sequence up to three spells simultaneously, and their power is increased by around half (scaling).

Viv returned her cowled Nemeti commander’s attention just to let him know he’d monumentally fucked up his estimation of Param’s spellcasters in general. Then, she went to town.

The battlefield was now a place of great clarity, with currents and trends and the strands of mana coursing through it. To the side, one of the Baranese was being hacked to death as he turned into an aberrant by some strangely panicked Nemeti. Far in the distance, the priests were still chanting now with the awareness that they were like nails and Viv was a giant hammer.

“Sequence: hyperbeam, hyperbeam, hyperbeam.”

For the next fifteen seconds, mana flowed in and through Viv as if she were a virtuoso playing her favorite piece. Rays of death, clouds, artillery spells, all of them flew across the battlefield in a torrent of power that ravaged everything in its path, giving even the numberless Nemeti pause. She searched for the cowled one, only to find him gone. Those priests who felt their end come scattered away from their weapons while others threw themselves into building mighty shields, in vain. The first black elemental archmange used her full might and the battle paused to catch its breath.

When the storm abated, the witch was left hovering above a field of carnage scarred by patches of polished stone where mana had gnawed through the soil. She fell, light-headed.

//I got you.

Viv was barely able to articulate. Dark veins stood in stark contrast to her skin and she felt physically brittle. In the distance, a surviving siege weapon managed to throw one projectile.

The shield reactivated.

“I got you too,” Rakan said with pride. “Hey, the reserves are full! That means I can play a bit as well.”

Viv nodded, too weary to reply as the Harrakans ran to the relative safety of the walls.
