The Harrakans had enough quarrels to fight for half a day. It wasn’t by lack of preparations. They had barrels upon barrels of the stuff brought in with their supply train. It was simply that they’d been fighting violently for an entire day and, even with recovering everything they could, there were still some irrecoverable loss. This wasn’t even getting into the loss of one-time-use quarrels, a staple of the witch pact path which allowed them to infuse projectiles with devastating effects. Viv had to change the doctrine from ‘kill everything you can’ to ‘focus exclusively on high value targets like bola throwers, officers, and raptors. Then came Ban with the issue of runic equipment. Despite Lana and Rakan’s effort, the runic sets were losing power fast because of overuse, and the individual soldiers could only do so much to recharge them. They, too, would run out of juice sometimes during the day and then casualties would rapidly turn into fatalities. The Harrakan army wasn’t exactly a persistent force. They were always meant to be used in decisive engagements and this simply wasn’t it.

Viv wasn’t despairing just yet though. That only started later that day, after the Paramese alliance troops left the pass and arrayed themselves on top of the hill overlooking the desert. As planned, Harrak took the center with a stern Edretti taking the more vulnerable position on the far left next to the forest, Eikart’s leaderless Baranese between the two. Falstag’s men occupied the right, a relatively safer position with the flank blocked by a mountain. Then, the wait began.

Today, the Nemeti took their sweet damn time and Viv suspected they were simply waiting for the desert’s heat to reach a comfortable level for them. When they finally showed up under the consternated gaze of the Paramese, a new explanation occurred to Viv.

There were simply too many of them to easily maneuver. The only comforting sight was the near absence of ‘cavalry’. Only debris of squadrons remained from yesterday’s terrifying force. Lak-Tak had not done a ‘good’ job. He’d been absolutely thorough. Small mercy. She also noticed regiments of red-skinned, large specimens. The ruling caste. Her inspection didn’t work at that range but their weapon and armor were a cut above the rest. Slowly, the enemy army approached with the slow ponderousness of one who believes the day already won. And perhaps they were right. The front line of the Nemeti was composed of all its weakest combatants and when they charged, it seemed as if a tide rose to lap at the rock that was the Paramese formation as the drums pressed them on.

It turned into a slog almost immediately.

Viv only cast weaker spells as she saved all her energy for an emergency. After casting a few devastating first strikes, the others did the same. It was pointless to void entire battalions when a fresh one would replace it in under twenty seconds. Waves after waves of Nemeti threw themselves at her heavies. There were no cycle charges, no clever tactics, only an unceasing assault that would grind them down piece by piece. Even the Shrill and the crossbows used their ammunition with great care. The result was exhaustion. Wounds and tiredness accumulated. Some of the youngest heavies faltered, their spear arms crying for relief.

Viv used every trick at her disposal. Ranks rotated to allow some warriors to rest. She stretched the line so an entire company could rest at once while she cast more heavily. It didn’t stop the problem, which was that the Nemeti were merely wearing them down for a knockout punch.

“Rakan, go support the Hightree company.”

“Yes!”

With varying success, the Paramese managed to hold the line until Viv realized they’d been pushed back at least twenty paces since the battle began. She looked right where Edretti’s pikemen were at risk of being cut off.

“Make way!” an order came from behind.

Duke Falstag led a charge to relieve the left and Viv felt jealousy when she realized she wouldn’t benefit from the breathing room. That was until she was given the same order. The heavies rotated as a roar approached.

Viv watched Cloud Skull lead his men into the fray. Fierce southerners crashed into the Nemeti ranks with fury, their most powerful warriors breaking entire formations by themselves. They were not warborn but Viv was still impressed by their dedication.

“Right. Food! Drinks! Hurry!”

The lull in the battle let her soldiers catch her breath, eat, and drink what they could. Laborers dragged in more ammo while Rakan raised more towers for the crossbow wielders to fire from at the back, for when they retreated. Meanwhile, Viv felt a growing pressure pushing her forward. It felt as if her luck warned her of a coming ordeal.

She knew what she had to use, she just wasn’t sure if she was ready. Her attempts to trigger the ability failed repeatedly. It was a sign she was missing something, but what? Not her grasp of the Aspect of the Guardian. That skill worked perfectly well. Something else?

The cavalry returned at the same time as the southerners and before they could get swarmed. Viv noticed many wounds on the poorly equipped soldiers but most seemed to shrug them off as they made their way to the healers. Meanwhile, the Nemeti assault continued unabated. Viv was forced to cast more and more just to give her troops seconds of breathing room.

One by one, the runic equipments ran out of juice until they were normal slabs of metal, still effective, just not as deadly. More heavies were carried to the back with wounds or without breath. The pressure was simply relentless. At this point, Viv realized the Nemeti were methodically dragging their dead to the back just so the living could fight unimpeded. They were not new at this.

The early afternoon came and went in a ceaseless exchange of violence. Exhaustion now affected every group of the Paramese alliance.

Eikart’s troops were the first to break. They didn’t collapse completely but it was enough for ruling cast regiments to make their ways to them.

As before, Jaratalassi ordered a charge and the southerners came to Viv’s help with bandaged wounds and a renewed appetite for violence. It was at that moment Viv realized that the large, cowled figure was no longer overseeing the conflict.

“Shit. Solfis? Where’s the big one?”

The golem pointed at the distant shape of Cloud Skull cleaving through a squad with a massive two-hander. The barbarian was caught in the flow and he failed to notice the approach of the massive cowled Nemeti. The red-clad foe unsheathed a spear of massive proportions. Red light bled through the metal. Viv cursed the fact she had not brought a communicator for the allied troops. She would remember. It would be too late for the tall warrior.

The cowled one charged Cloud Skull who turned in time, or at least it felt that way, and yet somehow the spear found his heart with unerring precision. Even dodging, the barbarian somehow ended in the path of the weapon. The tip impacted his naked chest, forcing him back.

Viv honestly expected the spear to emerge on the other side and yet, the barbarian was still standing.

“You think your magic will work on me?” he roared.

Viv wanted to help but she wasn’t sure the barbarian would resist the spell she would need to send. The two of them were too close to each other as they engaged in a ferocious duel. She watched Cloud Skull fight with ferocious power, each attack a cleaving blow that would have torn through a knight and his mount. The cowled one deflected them all. Even the most unpredictable attacks were deflected at the last moment. At the same time, his strikes hit Cloud skull who grunted in pain but the attack failed to penetrate.

Until the light faded.

One moment, the cowled one was a crimson avatar, the next, just a large enemy ignored by fate. The transition surprised Cloud Skull enough that his swing cut too high. The cowled one dodged under it easily and struck with his whole body.

The spear went through his heart cleanly. It emerged on the other side in a streak of gore. The cowled one swiped and the lifeless body was sent tumbling into the ravenous ranks of the Nemeti. The southerners faltered. Viv expected the cowled one to rally his troops for a decisive charge, but he was already gone.

//He is heading towards Duke Faltstag, Your Majesty.

It clicked in Viv’s mind.

“He’s trying to create a pattern of killing enemy leaders. Solfis, you have to stop him or fate may declare I must die like the others.”

//I will go.

Perhaps warned by Jaratalassi, the cavalry charge stopped and turned before they finished their attack. The expected break didn’t happen for the alliance. Meanwhile, the southerners ran away in disorder with the Nemeti on their heels. Larger squads of elite Nemeti moved in across the front in groups too small to be efficiently stopped by artillery. The Paramese line buckled.

“Alright,” Viv said, “Move back. Nuée!”

Sidjin and Lana shared her idea. Spells and bolts rained down to keep the Nemeti at bay but it wouldn’t be enough. She looked towards Falstag and saw Solfis by his side but no signs of the cowled one. Perhaps he had reconsidered? Soon, there was not enough time to consider as the entire Paramese contingent retreated towards the pass in various degrees of cohesion.

“Form a circle. Move back slowly!” Ban ordered.

The lines curved, condemning the exposed Baranese infantry still trying to hold on as the heavies closed around the witch pact. Many of the more experienced marksmen unleashed all they had before drawing their weapons and joining the battle line. The shrill unloaded their entire reserves, drowning the approaching enemy in clouds of wasps and other horrors. It looked like the Harrakans would successfully disengage for a moment, until something at the edge of the horizon attracted Viv’s attention like the cold edge of a blade resting against her throat.

There was a cold terror to seeing a disaster approach with more than enough time to react yet lack any tool to actually achieve anything. All of the siege equipment Viv had failed to eliminate the day before crested the incline, then more followed. They carefully formed a line at their maximum range then groups of the leader caste gathered around the implements to pray. Viv felt the weight of destiny settle on their shoulder, constricting her soul under a snare of inevitability. This much artillery would flatten her shield in a single volley and then her people would die. The One Hundred and the Sisters would go first in a fiery conflagration. The other shields would follow after that. It would take just one shot, and the retreating Paramese army was in no shape to maneuver out of the way. All the spellcasters were occupied.

Viv was caught between several hard places.

The distant cowled figure turned its attention to Viv. A concept floated to her mind, carried over the winds of the embattled souls around her.

Checkmate.

That wasn’t true, though. Viv had exactly one ace left to play. It was now or never, and the pressure actually helped Viv. That, and the terror she felt for the first time since she’d been reborn as part elemental, a creature of Nyil, this world. Fear was such an unfamiliar feeling now that it shocked her into remembering she was not some champion talking in her sleep with the gods of this world. She was merely a woman trying her best, another piece on a crowded chessboard, and her people would die here and now, and she might die here and now, unless she moved her fucking ass. Unbidden, words escaped her.

“I… I didn’t mean to be a leader.”

Her voice carried strangely over the battlefield. Speaking settled her. Many of her soldiers looked back in surprise or confusion, yet they soon returned to the fight because they simply trusted her to get them out of this as she’d done before. Their renewed vigor let them fight on for just a little longer. For the length of a drawn breath, the Harrakans held.

“I didn’t mean to be a leader because I could not trust myself to lead. I lacked experience. Finesse. I knew what it entailed and I knew the costs. I feared I might lose myself. I took the mantle of power because I firmly believed I was the best to carry it, because I was the only hope of the city, back when we were just refugees hiding in a cave. I brought you here and I fought alongside you because I believed, and I still believe, that we could make the world better. But I didn’t mean to be a leader.

“I did mean to be a caster though.”

Vi gathered every drop of power she could without undoing her body. The air warped around her. She focused on her own abject fear and nervousness, the same she’d felt when facing the Gutspiller whose skull now adorned Solfis’ frame, the same she’d faced an eternity ago, in the shower of her gym, while her wet hand grasped for the weapon she’d prepared to punish her friend’s bully. She seized that do-or-die oppressive emotion and forged it into a vector for all that mind-crushing stress.

The ground grew distant under her dangling feet. It wasn’t a conscious decision. She wasn’t casting. Not yet.

“I meant to wield the powers of magic. I meant to be the best at what I did. And I meant it because here, on Nyil, reality can be rewritten if one fights hard enough.

“I will remind you what an elemental can do. I will model this world according to my vision, and if it doesn’t let me, then let the world TURN TO ASH.”

You may activate your second aspect: Aspect of the Destroyer.

Aspect of the Destroyer:

