What awaited them was a tapestry of lights dotting the plains like a mirror of the heavens. It was both beautiful and daunting. There was order there too, one he didn’t quite understand. That was fine. The only thing that mattered was finding the ‘stables’. The human prince helped by twisting the air to his designs and suddenly, things appeared much closer than they were. As expected, the tall ‘raptor’ things were gathered in a loose area, in pens two or three apiece. Lak-Tak made a few measurements, then it was time to strike.

With great care, he opened a coffer and removed a wrapped ball that let out a powerful stench. He loaded the catapult and made a few, last checks. The camp was silent, its denizens asleep. It would not last.

Lak-Tak gripped the lever.

He sighed with contentment.

CLANK.

Lak-tak could not see the projectile hurl towards the camp as yries vision was quite bad but he imagined it would be beautiful. His minions rushed to reset the siege weapon. Down below, the scent of magically distilled raptor scent gland spread among the pens. The first roars cried through the night, answering the unknown challenge. The perfume was so potent that it stirred them to insanity.

By the time the catapult fired again, half of the camp was awake and rushing towards the rampaging mounts as they slaughtered each other and the unfortunate souls in their way. Lak-Tak clicked at the satisfaction of a task well done. By the time the catapult fired a third time, the camp was a pandemonium of screams, roars, and bloodshed. Fire raged through tents and supplies in a wonderful, ever-flowing tapestry, like light reflected on the surface of smooth wet stone. The cries of the scaled ones sung an hymn to him, Lak-Tak. He may not be the strongest or the fastest or the stealthiest among the witch’s servants, and he may not be able to cast curses but if there was one thing Lak-Tak could do well and that was inventive destruction. Another dollop of honey perfected this moment.

“Should we head back?” the fallen prince politely proposed.

Lak-Tak loved it now that the humans of Harrak respected him and his people. All was as it should be. With one last look on his work to sear the memory in his mind, he signaled the retreat. A portal opened and they went through back to the quiet, cold camp of the sleepy human.

Lak-Tak looked up to the barricade to see a dead Hadal leaning against the wood. His heart froze in his chest.

Two black-scaled Nemeti appeared from nowhere with their blades up, then there was a flash bone and the first was cleaved in half, then the golem stabbed the other from behind like a bird harpoons a fish. The body was flung aside and the golem was gone, leaving the yries and the prince sprayed with fresh blood.

Beautiful.

**

The abyssal throne room now felt almost familiar to Viv. The sitting god waiting for her rested his chin on a gauntleted fist, his eyes unreadable.

Viv approached the throne and resisted the urge to bow. It felt like the natural thing to do. That meant it was a trap.

“So we meet again, Efestar? So soon?”

“Many of your people will die tomorrow. Surely, you can feel it?”

“It’s nice of you to care.”

Pressure. The mental equivalent of a slap. Viv recoiled but she kept her composure. That meant she also had to draw some boundaries.

“Your insolence tires me,” the god said.

“If we are negotiating, at least be cordial. That’s the least you can do.”

“OR. WHAT?”

“I’ll call you Fefe again.”

Suddenly, the god’s presence towered over her like a mountain.

“Pretty please?”

“THOU ASK A BOON OF ME?”

“I ask for basic manners. If you can’t provide at least that then I’m out. And you can return to your dark broodings.”

“Your victories have made you quite arrogant.”

“Again, I’m not looking down on you, I am merely asking for basic standards of courtesy in conversation. Surely, that’s not too much?”

A hiss, and they were again a man, a woman, and a throne.

“Thanks. Now, is this the moment when you offer me a deal?”

“Not a deal. A gift. I can grant you my powers. Your attacks will pierce through the shields of their war machines as my blade did through the defenses of our foes, a long time ago, when we walked the world.”

“And in return, you ask for nothing?” Viv replied with clear disbelief.

“Nothing at all.”

The dark god smiled and it was not a pleasant sight.

“They destroyed my cults throughout Halluria. Our temples were defiled and our priesthood murdered. The Nemeti god does not suffer competition.”

“So this is for revenge. Better, I suppose.”

“I knew we would agree.”

“Alas, I must refuse.”

Pressure increased on Viv’s soul, though it was nowhere close enough to throw her back into her body.

“You are still a dark god, Efestar. You are doing this out of spite and to get one over your brother in arms, under the guise of concern.”

“So what? You told me yourself. What matters is the result, no? If I can make the world better then I should. You have an opportunity to save your soldiers by letting go of your prejudice, so why won’t you do it?”

He smirked.

“You know I can tell you about short term benefits that prove far too costly in the long run? It’s kind of a recurring theme for dark gods. A good offer that many regret long after the ecstasy of power fades away. That’s what you’re offering.”

“I ask nothing in return. Do you know how many mortals have had the privilege of this kind of offers over the eons?”

“It’s not because you ask nothing that there is no cost. Please. There is no need to play coy.”

“So you refuse my help, freely given.”

“You can freely give it but I cannot freely receive it.”

Efestar leaned forward.

“If you refuse my help, perhaps some of your men won’t.”

Viv shrugged.

“I cannot control everyone all the time but I believe this is not the point here.”

She sat on the inscrutable darkness Efestar used as a floor.

“I feel like you wanted to catch me being a hypocrite.”

“Your words ought to match your actions.”

“I agree. Your offer is generous but you know as well as I do that your power now is one that taints and destroys. I will not sacrifice the future of my people for immediate benefits.”

“Especially when the benefits do not affect you directly…” Efestar added with some vitriol.

Viv considered this to be progress. They were talking.

“I can’t say I’m the most honest person and I can’t say I’ve never been a hypocrite. Or will never be a hypocrite, I guess. It doesn’t matter in the grand scheme of things. You shouldn’t consider turning back because I said so. If you dig enough, you’ll find that I have plenty of flaws. I’m not some enlightened being that has all the answers. Instead, you should consider turning back on the proposal’s own merit, for your own sake. It’s not a good idea because I voiced it. it’s a good idea because… it’s just a good idea. It’s not an easy idea, I know that, but it could really change, well, everything.”

Efestar stared in silence, Viv feeling the pressure of his attention on her. A part of Viv wondered what rules the gods lived by. She was pretty sure any of them had the power to shred her soul to strands, making her insane, and yet even those who would have an interest in doing so had so far declined to go that far. The worst thing she’d been submitted to was nausea upon returning to her body. She wondered if the rules were part of who they were, or if it was an agreement between old gods. She was familiar with agreements. Sometimes, those were broken.

Apparently, not today though. Efestar remained still as a statue and so Viv waited. After an indeterminate amount of time that was definitely longer than an instant, the dark one entwined his fingers above the dark plates of his armor.

“You are certainly one of the outlanders with the most… interesting approach to divine beings. I think your struggle is pointless but I shall entertain myself by inviting you back to see how reality progressively hammers you into the shape you were meant to fill. A part of scorn is seeing your enemies lose themselves, after all.”

Viv had a strong opinion on that and it was that, as her online friend Gevaudan would put it, Efestar was a massive tsundere. She declined to share her opinion that Efestar really enjoyed having someone to talk to who wasn’t a raving power hungry lunatic, and instead decided to agree on principle.

“Sure, although I would bet that you would find it more interesting if I shaped the world instead.”

“Many believe they can do that, yet few ever succeed.”

“I mean, I already resurrected Harrak so…”

“You are a frustrating person to talk to, Viviane the Oulander.”

“Thanks.”

“I did not mean that as a — Nevermind, outlander. You have the sharp tongue of a woman!”

“Well in case you haven’t noticed, I am, in fact, a—”

Viv’s soul slung back into her body.

“Aw come on!” She screamed into the ether.

***

Dawn had returned to Param.

Viv unsealed her door to the stench of blood and smoke. In front of her bunker, in a small opening within the camp, stood a small pyramid of severed heads. The battered, blood-splattered form of Solfis stood on his charging station next to it. Dark scales, gaping maws revealing rows of teeth caught in the middle of a snarl provided a contrast of light and darkness. There had to be at least thirty dead dark-scaled Nemeti piled there but apparently, they’d taken their pound of flesh. The damage on Solfis would repair over the day but the fact he’d been damaged at all spoke of a deadly craft.

“Neriad’s bollocks.”

//I have good news, bad news, worse news, and worst news Your Majesty.

“Can we not wait until breakfast?” Viv asked as the sleepy rest of the mages joined her.

Superhuman physique could only carry you so far when advanced casting was so exhausting.

//I’m afraid not.

“Then I’ll take them in that order.”

//Very well.

//The good news is that Lak-Tak’s raid succeeded.

//The enemy should have limited cavalry support today, at the very least.

“That’s indeed good news. And the bad?”

Solfis pointed to the side where five figures rested, clad in dark cloaks. They were Hadal warriors, and they were very dead.

“Ah shit, this is bad.”

//We were severely outnumbered and the enemy didn’t care about losses, Your Grace.

//Zero Five argued he could not hold and I agreed.

//He has left the camp via gate to ask for reinforcement.

//Using the opportunity provided by incoming Baranese militias.

“I see.”

//The worse news is that the Paramese armies are just on their way.

//We cannot count on reinforcements until very late today, at the earliest, according to a runner I… consulted on the question.

“Ah this is really bad, especially if—”

//Lak-Tak’s report indicates the Nemeti have consolidated their forces.

//They will attack in powerful waves today.

“Shit.”

//Are you ready for the worst news?

“No?”

//Duke Eikart was assassinated.

Viv slapped her face in desperation.

//As the senior nobleman, Duke Falstag is now in command of the Baranese contingent.

“Are his troops staying?”

//We would not be having this conversation if they were not.

//However, Duke Eikart’s authority made his cavalry charges that much more devastating.

//With a junior commander in charge, their efficacy will diminish.

“Could —”

//No, Rollo may not lead them.

//The Baranese would never accept it.

“I see.”

Dawn was barely turning the edge of the sky pink. Heavy squads went from barracks to barracks, giving everyone the all clear and telling them to prepare for the day. Viv found the kitchen already working full time to prepare meals for the day. The men and women didn’t speak of it but she could see the sore muscles, the barely closed wounds hampering them. Some were still working on fixing their armor. The mood was not grim yet but it was serious.

At least Jaratalassi wasn’t dead.

“What about the prisoners?” she asked Solfis when he returned from a round.

//They were not attacked during the night.

//It seems the assassins focused their effort on you.

//Even Eikart was only a target of opportunity.

//The group that killed him joined the others in assaulting our positions.

//As for the infection, it seems under control for now.

//Only thirty people died so far.

//None of them ours.

//Prisoners who were too far gone to survive.

//Then rest are stabilizing.

“Ok that’s… at least not so bad.”

“Oi! I mean, hail, Your Majesty,” Poacher said as she rushed to the square, barely pausing at the sight of the skulls. She’d been hanging around Solfis, after all.

“Yes?”

“Can we have a talk concerning the quarrels situation?”

Viv spotted Ban striding in at the head of a squad of One Hundred and decided that it was going to be a long march out of the pass.

***

