An octopus was a bit much though.

The bedroom door creaked open and Sarnai pursed her lips to hide her grin, fully expecting to have a human grandchild to spoil soon enough. With a radiant smile stretched across her face, Rain’s new concubine strode over and gave a slow twirl in front of Sarnai, showing off her new elegant wedding dress and jewelled hairpiece. “Thank you mother,” she said, settling down next to Jimjam as the servants filed out of the room. “Luo-Luo is ever so grateful for your kindness, this dress and these jewels are beautiful beyond compare.”

The skittish wildcat bristled at the stranger, but Sarnai soothed his nerves with a smack on the head. “No need for gratitude girl, you are joining my family. This is merely what is expected.”

Unaware of how close she came to being mauled, Luo-Luo’s relaxed disposition had no impact on her perfect posture, her back straight and legs folded to one side as she gave a wistful little smile. “Luo-Luo thanks mother regardless, for though she fears her Lord Husband is displeased, at least she has mother’s affection.”

“Bah, that’s just how he is. A shy boy, he takes time to warm up to strangers.” Except for that horrid Fung, who corrupted her sweet, innocent boy in a single night. Were he not Akanai’s Disciple, Sarnai would have boxed his ears in, young magistrate or not. Looking Luo-Luo up and down, Sarnai snorted and added, “You’ve nothing to worry about. He’ll be warm enough once he sees you in this dress.” Or out of it, not that it covered much. The girl was gorgeous beyond compare, a classical beauty with large breasts and wide birthing hips. That said, while she seemed clever and eager to please, Luo-Luo failed to display anything resembling ‘worldly knowledge’, having been coddled and spoon fed her entire life like a songbird in a gilded cage. Still, Sarnai was quite fond of her. Although at first glance Luo-Luo appeared docile and meek, there was a calculated cunning to her actions, nothing malicious but readily apparent to anyone watching. For example, she often ‘slipped’ and displayed a cute and girlish disposition, playing to the protective instincts of those around her. Her choice of outfits displayed scandalous amounts of leg, thigh, and bosom, meant not only to show off her beauty as a status symbol for her husband, but to also distract and entice the men and women around her. Even something as simple as seating herself on the floor instead of taking a chair seemed suspect, placing herself below Sarnai and on level with Jimjam to make herself seem less threatening. Her manipulations were harmless, but it proved there was more going on in Luo-Luo’s head besides pretty dresses and fancy parties.

Which suited Sarnai perfectly. Rain needed someone devious at his side, someone different from naive Mei Lin or stubborn Mila to keep him safe from dark machinations and unseen dangers. Better yet, Luo-Luo’s training included a comprehensive education in etiquette and diplomacy, filling a sorely-felt gap in their lives. Sarnai hardly knew the first thing about interacting with puffed up nobles and the same went for most of the People, but her husband and son were rising dragons of the Empire and leaving those blockheads to stumble blindly through their social interactions was a recipe for disaster.

Of course, none of this meant she trusted the girl without question. Even before Rain brought the matter up in Sending, Sarnai wondered if Luo-Luo was a spy sent by the Legate to uncover the secret of the People’s strength. Thank the Mother Rain had a good head on his shoulders and wasn’t blinded by a pretty smile. When Sarnai first heard about the Legate’s gift, she half expected to find her son lost in the throes of lust or worse.

Patting Luo-Luo’s cheek, Sarnai idly imagined what her grandchildren would look like while nodding towards the antechamber. Handsome no doubt, with beautiful smiles. “Now that you’re dressed, come pick out a zither. This old crone knows nothing about instruments, so I had several brought over for you to choose from.”

“Thank you,” Luo-Luo said, clasping Sarnai’s hand tight, “but Mother jests, for she is still a vibrant, vigorous woman and hardly an old crone.”

“Pei. No need for empty flattery, come now. Time is wasting.” Unlocking her chair, Sarnai spun about and wheeled away, but not before signalling for Jimjam to stay behind. The last thing she needed was for him to lose his head and destroy a room full of expensive instruments.

Luo-Luo scurried to keep up, taking speedy, short steps in her too tight dress. “It is no empty flattery Mother. Allow Luo-Luo the opportunity to style your hair and apply your makeup. A minor emphasis on your high cheekbones and-”

“Enough girl.” Putting an end to this nonsense, Sarnai gestured for Luo-Luo to get the door. “Come, no more dallying about. Go pick out your instrument and worry not about the price.”

“Luo-Luo will obey.” As the girl stepped away to inspect the closest zither, Sarnai’s heart ached with regret over how much they’d already spent on this wedding banquet, especially when she thought of how many people she could have fed and clothed back home instead. There was no helping it though, such was the price of fame and reputation. As the newly crowned number one talent in the Empire, if Falling Rain were to host a pauper’s banquet, all face would be lost and his title turned into a joke before the day was done. It’s not as if they couldn’t afford it; as a Major General, her husband earned an exorbitant salary and they hardly had any expenses, but this didn’t mean Sarnai enjoyed spending coin like water.

This, alongside how she’d walked in on Luo-Luo trying to convince Rain to pawn his valuables, was why she set a trap for the girl to step into. Sarnai had lied when she said she knew nothing of instruments. Her mother played the zither beautifully and had passed some of that knowledge down to Sarnai, though she hadn’t touched an instrument since her parents passed away. With Rustram’s help, she had a variety of zithers brought to the room, including a handful of gaudy, garish monstrosities made from expensive jade, gold, and platinum, meant for looking at rather than playing. Those were here to catch Luo-Luo’s eye and distract her from the plainer instruments, one of which was a zither made from baitong wood, an expensive, resonant material which coincidentally looked exactly like wutong wood, a cheaper, more common alternative. Thus, once Luo-Luo picked an ostentatious and impractical instrument, Sarnai would use the opportunity to chide the girl about her avaricious ways and-

“Mother, this one is perfect.”

Ruining Sarnai’s best laid plans, Luo-Luo sat in front of a common zither made from wutong wood, beaming as she ran her fingers across the silken strings and smooth surface. Frowning in consternation, Sarnai tried a different tack. “Are you sure? It looks a little plain and lacking in decoration.”

“Luo-Luo is certain. No need to worry Mother, one does not appreciate an instrument with one’s eyes, but one’s ears.”

Though Luo-Luo didn’t say it out loud, the disdain in her eyes when she glanced at the jade and pearl instruments made it clear what she thought of them. Even so, this common instrument was easily the cheapest of them all, and while Sarnai was hoping to teach Luo-Luo a lesson in restraint, it wasn’t to the point of purchasing a sub-par instrument. The baitong zither was the best instrument here and hardly cheap, but Sarnai was ready to buy it regardless. Trying one more time, she pointed at the baitong zither and asked, “What about this one? The merchant mentioned something about it being made from some special wood?”

Nodding in appreciation, Luo-Luo answered, “Yes, it’s beautifully crafted and were we staying in Central, Luo-Luo would choose it without question, but baitong wood has been known to crack and shatter in colder climates. Wutong wood is more durable and should better withstand the lower temperatures of the north. What’s more, the difference in quality will hardly be noticeable in the Magistrate’s courtyard, as it wasn’t built with acoustics in mind.” Patting her chosen instrument fondly, she added, “This will suit Luo-Luo just fine.” Smirking as she stood, Luo-Luo circled around and took the handles of Sarnai’s wheeled chair. “Since we have time to spare, perhaps Mother would be open to Luo-Luo’s earlier suggestion? Please, Mother has done all this for Luo-Luo and it would mean so much if this one could do something in return...”

Scrunching her nose, Sarnai looked into Luo-Luo’s eager eyes. The girl’s makeup skills were rather impressive, boasting a natural, understated style meant to amplify her beauty rather than hide her flaws. Of course, it helped that the girl had no discernible physical flaws to speak of, but since Sarnai had little else to do in the interim, she sighed and nodded ever so slightly. Putting Luo-Luo’s squeal of delight out of mind, Sarnai warned, “I’ll not stand for looking like those Central harlots mind you, with powder caked on so thick they could pass for ghosts.”

“Certainly not, Mother,” Luo-Luo replied, pushing Sarnai’s chair back towards the bedroom. “Mother is so beautiful, she hardly needs any makeup at all, merely a small touch of rouge on the lips and...”

As the girl nattered on, Sarnai tempered her expectations. She knew how she looked, old and wrinkled while her husband was still young and virile, no amount of makeup could change this. Whatever the outcome, she greatly approved of Luo-Luo and hoped that with a woman like her at his side, perhaps Rain’s wandering eye would finally come to a rest, his harem of three finally enough to satisfy his prodigious appetite.

And if not, then Sarnai would step in and correct him of his wicked ways. Though she loved her son and wanted him to be happy, as the number one talent in the Empire, there were high expectations for his future. She couldn’t stand idly by and watch him succumb to the pleasures of the flesh, as so many young talents had done in the past, but she wouldn’t go overboard. So long as he treated his wives and concubines well and earned enough to support them, then what reason would she have to interfere? It was known that great men had great appetites, and her son, Falling Rain, was undoubtedly a great man. Perhaps given time, he might truly become Unrivalled under Heaven, but with the Defiled rampaging through the West, time was what they lacked the most. Thus, it was her job to regain her former strength and hold up the skies for her talented son, giving him the time he so desperately needed, no matter the cost

For that's what parents were supposed to do.

Chapter Meme
