“... has arrived at the kitchen and received ser Charok’s approval. Regarding the other matter you entrusted this one with, everything is prepared in the antechamber as per your request.”

“Good.” Sitting in her wheelchair, Sarnai nodded and studied ‘Mister’ Rustram with a critical eye, this former soldier turned Sentinel and Rain’s second-in-command. A handsome man of twenty-three, Rustram’s clean-shaven chin and dignified moustache were a testament to his impeccable grooming and flawless manners. An able administrator and diligent worker, Rustram was so efficient and effective there was little left for Sarnai to do. A shame considering this was her excuse to hide away and avoid attending the party with her husband until absolutely necessary. She loathed events like these, having to smile and make nice with strangers while they stared at the youthful hero and his aged, decrepit wife with a mixture of pity, disgust, and curiosity.

Adamant to avoid socializing for as long as possible, Sarnai turned her attention back to Rustram. As efficient and capable as he was, Rustram was a valuable addition to the Sentinels and Rain’s most promising independent adjutant, but sorely lacking in Martial talent. Ai, what was Rain doing losing his temper and taking it out on poor Rustram in public? Sarnai should have stepped in long ago to educate her foolish son instead of leaving things for her dog-brained husband to handle. No matter, the best time to correct one’s mistake was yesterday, and the second best time today. How to smooth things over between Rain and Rustram? As the second son, Rustram’s chances of inheriting his father’s business were low so he would have to find his own fortune once his term of service ended. Perhaps she could play matchmaker and tie him to the People through marriage, ensuring their fertile waters would not flow into others’ fields...

Cognizant of her scrutiny, Rustram hid his discomfort well and asked, “Is there anything else you require, Lady Sarnai?”

Although it wasn’t her place to apologize for Rain’s mistakes, she couldn’t sit idly by and allow tensions to mount between them. “You’ve done well fighting at my son’s side and holding his retinue together. Speak, what reward do you desire?”

Taken aback by the abrupt offer, Rustram looked quite the fool standing there with mouth opened wide, but Sarnai resisted the urge to needle him about it. Hmph, and her husband said she didn’t know how to be diplomatic. After long seconds of silence, Rustram bowed his head and said, “Lady Sarnai, no reward is necessary, though this one begs a favour. This one hopes to find a Mentor to guide him on his Martial Path, but lacks knowledge regarding the Experts of the People. It would mean much to this one if Lady Sarnai could introduce him to one such Expert.”

Oh? How surprising. “Why do you seek strength?”

“To repay a debt and defend a life. Day by day, this one falls further behind and he fears he will no longer be fit to serve at Falling Rain’s side.”

“And that’s all you seek to accomplish? To serve, defend, and repay a debt? What will you do when all this is done?”

Raising his head, Rustram lowered his hands, looked her deep in the eyes, and dispensed with his formal tone. “I owe Rain more than I could repay in two lifetimes and he’s never asked for anything in return. Not only that, but he would never think to ask for reparations because he believes he was only doing what was right. That is the man your son is, and that is why I am proud to serve at his side. However, in recent times, I have become more burden than benefit, and since I am neither talented nor perceptive, I hope to find a Mentor who will point out my failings.”

Hmm... How interesting... Broad of shoulder and slim of waist, a slender build, but lean and dense. Strong legs and stronger lungs, though a little short at a hundred and eighty centimetres tall. Rain’s training had served Rustram well, but all in all, he could hardly be considered coveted goods. On a whim, Sarnai rolled herself to the open centre of the suite and commanded, “Draw your sword and attack.”

“I’m sorry?”

Locking her wheeled chair in place, she snapped, “That piece of metal you wear so prettily isn’t a decoration is it? Come, show me the skills of my son’s right-hand man. I can’t well recommend you to a Mentor without knowing your mettle.” The poor man glanced about the room hoping to find help, but Sarnai had long since sent her guards and servants to join the festivities in the courtyard. Her husband would brood and pout if he knew, but Sarnai neither needed nor wanted their aid or protection. Even if Rain’s suspicions were right and they had enemies lurking in the shadows, Sarnai prayed they would make a move against her so she could deal with them herself.

This meant there was no one in the room to help Rustram aside from Jimjam, who was too busy moping in the corner. Wearing a fetching red-silk vest and matching cap, the sweet kitten sputtered and sighed in the shadows, having refused to leave with his siblings and accompany his tormentor, Mei Lin, as she changed into a new dress. Though she sympathized with Jimjam’s plight, the poor thing looked darling and dressing him up wasn’t as embarrassing as she’d once thought. Many a soldier and nobleman dressed their horses in clan or house colours, so this was merely taking things one step further.

“Lady Sarnai,” Rustram said, taking his place across from her with his sword still sheathed, “This isn’t proper."

Rolling her eyes, Sarnai gave a well-practised snort of derision. “Pei. I’ll decide what is and isn’t proper. Why? Are you afraid of being beaten by a feeble old woman? Good, it means you’re smarter than you look, but I knew this already. Now, I wish to test your strength, so draw your sword and attack.”

It took a little more prodding, but eventually Rustram obliged and attacked, opening with a clumsy, half-hearted thrust. Pinching the blade between two fingers, Sarnai disarmed him with a sharp twist of her wrist and rapped him across the mouth with the hilt of his own weapon. “Pathetic. Again.”

Visibly annoyed now, Rustram retrieved his weapon and held the pommel to his bleeding lips, mumbling incoherently under his breath. His words were lost on Sarnai as she watched him Heal the cut before her eyes, once a sign of true skill but now a common sight among Rain’s retinue thanks to his Panacea Healing method. Oh, she was so proud of her boy, and now she finally had something she could brag about.

Finished with his inner monologue, Rustram attacked with a downward chop aimed at the crown of her head, but she saw it coming before his blade moved a single centimetre. With a flick of her finger, she sent his weapon off course, slicing through the air beside her and threatening to throw him off balance. Recovering a heartbeat too slowly, Rustram pulled back and reset their positions, a mistake in her eyes, and she wasted no time in telling him. “Why retreat? Afraid of getting hurt? You’re competent enough at Healing, so use this to your advantage. What is it my boy so loves to yell? Give flesh and break bone, yes?”

After allowing Rustram a single breath of time to reflect on her words, she waved him forward and they began anew. A few passes later, she discerned his greatest failing, a cautious, risk-adverse temperament which led to overthinking each move. “Think not of the weapon as an extension of your hand,” she advised while Deflecting yet another ill-conceived thrust, “but of your entire body. When walking along a cluttered path, do you think of where to place your foot before taking a step? Or how quickly to raise your hand when lifting a cup of tea to your lips? Of course not. You simply see, know, and act accordingly, making adjustments as they are required. In this same vein, during battle you must know how your sword will strike and where your body will move next, for there will be precious little time to think.”

For long minutes, Sarnai chastised and chided while Rustram’s sword failed to touch a hair on her head, but such was to be expected. If a young man like Rustram could pose a challenge, then her seventy-odd years of training would have been a complete waste. Her blood growing hot, Sarnai revelled in excitement as she exerted herself for the first time in months, itching to stand and fight after this morning’s excitement. Seeing so many talented youths testing their skills reminded her of an era long past, the days of her youth when Sarnai fought alongside Baatar in defence of the Empire, but her feeble legs kept her from reliving the glorious days of her youth.

No matter. With each passing day, she felt herself growing stronger, though there was still a ways to go before she’d be fully recovered. Besides, the past was the past, and a new generation of heroes had arrived, with her son standing at the forefront of his peers.

Falling Rain, the number one talent in the Empire. Even thinking it made her smile.

Knowing her limits, Sarnai soon brought the impromptu lesson to an end by snatching Rustram’s sword away a second time. “You are neither powerful nor skilled, crafty nor creative,” she declared while placing the sword across her lap, “but raw talent and pure strength are not the only avenues to power. Your chief advantage is speed, speed of hand, speed of foot, and speed of weapon, but your speed of mind is sorely lacking. By the time you’ve decided on an avenue of attack, your body has betrayed you and announced your intentions to your opponent. You’ve practised enough and your body knows how to fight, so trust your instincts and let them guide you in the dance of steel and death. It saves you a mere fraction of a fraction of a second, but it is within these fractions which life and death are decided.”

“This one thanks Madam for her guidance.”

Ah, in all the excitement, Sarnai had gotten ahead of herself. “There’s tea in the kettle, go pour me a cup.” Panting as he did so, Rustram returned to loom over her head as he presented the cup with both hands. Mother above, was she fated to always be surrounded by mule-headed idiots? First her husband, then her son, and now her Disciple, fools one and all. “Is this how you greet your Mentor?”

Rustram’s eyes widened with realization, then joy as he fell to his knees, splashing tea across her lap in the process. “Disciple greets Mentor! Mentor will not regret this. Your Disciple will work hard to...”

Magnanimously overlooking his clumsiness, she accepted the cup and nodded along with his lengthy speech and promises, wondering if she’d made a mistake taking in so verbose a Disciple. When he finally finished speaking, he kowtowed thrice and was barely back on his feet when Sarnai launched into her first lecture as a Mentor. “I’ve never taken a Disciple before,” she started, happy to see a complete and utter lack of regret in his eyes, “nor am I a woman who will mince words.” Smacking him on the leg with his sword, she continued, “You are correct when you say you are neither talented nor perceptive, but such is life. No need to measure yourself against others, so long as you reach your full potential, then you will have not wasted my efforts.” Using his sword, she demonstrated a handful of wrist exercises for him to practice and rattled off a list of tasks to complete each day in addition to his regular training.

Despite her words, Sarnai was a prideful woman and would not stand having a mediocre Disciple. Since Rustram lacked talent and perception, then he could only make up for it with hard work and determination. When she finally sent her Disciple away, his enthusiasm had long since given way to dread and consternation, but she was only getting started. Seeing Rain matched against the greatest talents in the Empire had lit a fire in her belly and awakened a yearning inside her, a desire to pit her skills as a Mentor against the greatest Martial Warriors in the Empire. While Dastan would undoubtedly be a better candidate, there was something to be said about taking an untalented lump of clay and moulding him into a top-tier expert.

Then again, her goal might be laughable considering Rustram’s competition. Rain aside, the others would present a considerable challenge to her fledgling Disciple, especially Wu Gam and Adujan. No, she was “Du Min Yan” now, an enormous loss for the People, but Sarnai was delighted to see the little orphan doing well. Better than well in fact, already capable of external Chi usage at the tender age of twenty and to the extent that watching her in action even helped Sarnai better understand how to form and control her shards of Honed Chi. Truly a gem hidden in their midst and scooped up by Du Min Gyi, Sarnai only hoped Yan held no grudges against the People, whether it be because no family adopted her or because Sarnai’s mule-headed husband and son both mistook Yan for a boy on two separate occasions. She shuddered to think what that might do to a young girl’s confidence, but from the looks of things, the lovely girl had more than enough to spare.

Making a face at the still-sulking Jimjam, Sarnai snapped her fingers and gestured for him to come to her side. Responding as any typical cat would, the wildcat took his sweet time, yawning and stretching before padding over as if coming here was his choice to begin with. Plopping his too-large head in her lap, the sweet kitten mewled ever so quietly while pawing at his shirt, protesting the outfit once again. Running her fingers over his scalp, she marvelled at how expressive his furry face could be, those feline eyes blinking sleepily as she massaged his cheeks. It started as a joke but Rain’s pets had now earned a place in her heart as her furred-and-feathered grandchildren.

