“Will you let me go down into the Underworld without you this time?” Ren asked, and she sighed.

“You had better change me back when we are down there, or I will never forgive you.” Princess said.

“I promise.” Ren said and touched her, then used the Permanent Enlarge and Reduce Anything spell to make her half her size. Instead of being 5 feet tall, 5 feet long, and 3 feet wide, she was now only 2.5 feet high, 2.5 feet long, and 1.5 feet wide.

“Aw, you're so cut-”

“DON'T SAY IT!” Small Princess yelled. Her voice wasn't the nice husky female voice it normally was, but a squeaky high pitched one. Teepo chittered in delight, and Ren snorted a laugh while Artemis held a hand over her mouth to stop from laughing. Small Princess felt their amusement and huffed her derision, then jumped into the well.

“Hey, wait for us!” Ren said and jumped in behind her, and Artemis went in after them.

********

Stella had watched Ren in the High Elven Kingdom and saw the conflict, and picked up the cell phone and told Elise about it. They talked back and forth about it, and since Elise had already told Stella about Ren's new title, they agreed that it was the cause. There was nothing they could do about it until he logged out for supper and filled him in on what Elise had learned from Max.

Stella then watched Ren go into a female elfling's apartment and the Blue Screen Protocol went into effect after they sat down on the couch.

Ren, what are you doing? Stella asked herself, and then 2 minutes later it was off and she saw him leave. Okay, I think Barbara is right. She looked at him in real life and saw his excited condition. You are having trouble keeping your pants on, aren't you?

Stella had removed his pants and protection during the last extended Blue Screen Protocol, and now had a bedpan put in it's place. She was glad that she did, because he would have made a huge mess if she hadn't.

“You and I need to have a talk.” Stella said out loud and touched his hand, covered him up with a towel, then left the room to go downstairs and make supper for everyone.
