Uh oh... “Um... I’ll be honest. I forgot about the whole ‘Dastan is a traitor’ thing. Truth be told, he was duped alongside many others, a young warrior who dreams of bettering the lives of his fellow man.” I’d call him a patriot, but I’m afraid the Legate wouldn’t agree. “He was misinformed and misguided, and he’s paid a heavy price for his mistakes. As for Wu Gam,” I continue, glancing over to find him standing, hale and healthy as can be aside from the bloody robes, “With a Honed blade, the internal damage should be minimal, and I neither Amplified nor added Reverberations to the attack itself.” Technically, I failed at the first and don’t know how to do the second, but the Legate doesn’t know that. I would’ve held back even more, but Wu Gam is straight up terrifying. I can heal broken bones but not fast enough for it to matter against him, so I had to take him out before he took me out. “I aimed for a clean gut wound, which takes hours to bleed out, so I was confident he would survive.” And that if he didn’t, well... the Legate wouldn’t want two young talents dead on the opening day of the first ever Imperial Grand Conference. It’d be like a bad omen or something, right?

“No reward without risk, as they say. A bold young hero indeed, and your performance certainly did not disappoint.” I’m super glad the Legate likes me, or at least is pretending to like me. I’m still not sold on his friendly demeanour, mostly because Ping Ping doesn’t like him much, but he’s beginning to win me over. Chuckling beneath his breath, he goes back to Speaking. “Your request will be taken into consideration. As to your reward, it shall be sent to your camp post-haste.” Winking, he Sends, “I daresay you’ll enjoy it.”

“Imperial Servant thanks Imperial Legate.” I wonder what he’s giving me. I hope it’s a kitty, I was lying when I called those lions inferior, they’re majestic as fuck. Retreating to my place, I stand and smile as the Legate congratulates us all and names us future heroes of the Empire. Weathering the displeased glares from my defeated rivals, it’s all I can do to keep from smirking as their envy and jealousy makes me feel all warm and tingly inside.

Too bad for Yan though, she’s taking her loss really hard, with no more flirty smiles or fluttering lashes as she stands there hugging her arms and looking forlorn. Truth be told, if things had turned out differently and I had been matched against Wu Gam earlier, then she might be number one instead of me. I doubt Dienne could have made her show all her cards, and if I’d beaten Wu Gam, I’d probably be all confident and cocky going into our match. She could easily have caught me off guard with her crazy windstorm strike and secured the victory.

I know I said she can handle herself, but should I like, send a gift basket or something? What’s the etiquette here? I’ll ask Mila and Lin when I get back.

His speech finished, the Legate dismisses us all and calls a break in the ceremony, with tables of food popping up on the streets and wagons going out to the camps all on the Legate’s dime. Yan slips away before I have a chance to speak with her, so I lead my retinue back to camp, riding along the shoreline while Ping Ping swims in the bay beside us. As I dismount from Mafu, Lin greets me with a dainty flying tackle. “Hooray! Congratulations hubby. I always knew you were the best, and now everyone else knows it too, ya?”

“Thanks wifey, but you’re the best.”

Arms crossed and lips pouty, Mila treats me to one of her adorable snorts. “Hmph. Well fought, but once I condense my Aura, you can be sure I’ll challenge you for the title.” Her red-panda ears cease fluttering as she switches gears, but her tail keeps lashing about. “Foolish man, what were you thinking? No good comes from claiming I would have emerged victorious, words are nothing but empty air. Now everyone think you’re a henpecked fool, currying favour from your nagging betrothed.”

“Sorry beloved. I wanted people to know about how strong you are.” Punctuating my apology with a kiss on her cheek, I Send, “That’s why I asked you to come on stage with me. I figured the Legate would want to put on a show and who better to represent the North than my multi-talented and not-at-all-naggy betrothed? Instead, I had to settle for Dastan.” Who kicked ass. I need to work harder so I don’t fall behind.

“Ridiculous,” she retorts, pinching my sides. “More like you wanted to borrow my retinue to make yours look bigger.”

“True, but who says I can’t have more than one reason for doing things?” When it comes to retinues, I believe size does matter. Some might say I’m overcompensating, but that’s the jealous mutterings of tiny-retinued individuals. If you’ve got it, flaunt it, that’s what I say.

Our alone time ends as everyone else floods in to congratulate me on my victory. Taduk has no words, merely wrapping his arms around me in a warm, heartfelt hug, while Tate and Tali skip about, laughing and yelling in sheer delight. Alsantset and Charok both tell me how proud they are, and I can’t help but tear up as I thank them for everything they’ve done. Song stands off the side and puffs her cheeks, giving me a grudging nod of approval as I stop by to say hi to my furbabies. Fung and his father are all smiles and back slaps while Han BoHai and BoShui are equally enthused, the normally dour Major General more boisterous than I’ve ever seen him and already a little drunk. My fellow warrant officers from the Society Sang Ryong and Jin ZhiLan say a few polite words while their elders thank me for inviting them to watch from my camp, but I can tell they’re seething inside which makes me smile.

By the time the food arrives, my cheeks are strained from too much smiling, enjoying my moment in the spotlight. For some odd reason though, the procession is guarded by a few hundred soldiers, not Royal Guardians but the infantry types, with their intense stares and boring, black armour. A little overkill for guarding food, but I soon realize there are no wagons of food, only a single palanquin, a simple, wooden affair which seats four instead of the polished monstrosities the Legate used in his parade. At the head of their procession is a Royal Messenger, who bows and hands me a scroll and a jade plaque with both hands. Confused and hungry, I accept the plaque and unfurl the scroll, eyes widening and heartbeat rising with each passing word.

Bad news. Bad, bad news. This is not good. Shit. Oh god. Breathe. In and out. In. And out. Okay. Calm down. There’s nothing to worry about. This is a simple miscommunication, is all. Look troubled. Yea that’s it, frown. Sigh a little too, but not too much. Remember, you didn’t ask for this, so whatever you do, Do. Not. Smile.

Your life depends on it.

Sensing my inner turmoil, Mila asks, “What’s wrong?”

Okay. Make her believe it, because it’s the truth. “It’s seems there’s been a misunderstanding; as reward for becoming the number one talent in the Empire, the Legate sent me a concubine.” Mila’s darkening expression sends a chill down my spine, and I do my best to appear nonchalant. “What a wacky mix-up, right? Haha.”

God dammit, you had one job: Don’t smile. Way to fuck it up.

Welp, we had a good run buddy. Better luck next life.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 18 -
