"Hold on," Zach said quickly. "I'm pretty sure that's some higher-level grade A. You saw what a grade A red did to me, though I was sort of stacking fire on fire on fire, and then lit that fire on fire with more fire. But you get my point. Don't take it all at once."

Thomas nodded. "How do I do this without jellifying the whole thing?"

"You just... open yourself up to it. Allow yourself to be open to the possibilities of what it can provide to you, but only a little." He squeezed his fingers almost together in emphasis.

He didn't know why he asked. Thomas put his hand back in, and instead of concentrating on it and forcing it to absorb, he tried to loosen up a little — but not too much. The crystal responded in kind.

It was like pure lightning going through his veins, except it felt good... except that all of his muscles went tense and rigid. He stiffened up and could not pull away as energy poured into him. He couldn't even breathe.

Zach slapped the box out of his hand. It went clattering across the room.

Freed, Thomas collapsed right on his ass. "Oh wow," he croaked.

"You okay?"

"Yeah." He shook out his arms and stood. "Thanks."

They both glanced at where the box had landed, just in case it was rigged to explode or something. It must have been more durable than it looked because nothing seemed broken.

Thomas looked inward. His body was now flooded with white-gold light, so much that he was surprised his skin wasn't glowing. He knew that he had only taken in a little — like half a sip of mana. It was strong. Some of the motes were already joining with his core and lighting that up too.

Yeah. The Wellspring mana was potent. He wanted more, but definitely not now.

"So the mana is sort of swimming around in my veins. How does it join the core?"

Zach shrugged. "The free-floating stuff will eventually join with your core if it's not used. It usually takes about a day for most people to process it. You can hasten it by meditating, kind of guiding it to stick to the core. Then leveling up is sort of solidifying your gains."

"I had to wring out my core for some energy back there," Thomas said. "You think I damaged myself?"

"No, that's normal. It's kind of the tyranny of leveling up. You gotta use mana to get mana, you know? Unless you're buying it from somebody else. And there are some people who say doing that makes for a weaker core." He shrugged. "But you’re fine."

Well, now that he'd had a sip, he was definitely not leaving it behind.

It sat in the box exactly like a battery, with a little spring for tension holding it in. He dug his fingers underneath and popped it out.

The moment he did, the darkness fled. A late afternoon light broke through all the windows that he hadn't realized had been there before, and Thomas could see everything.

"I guess that’s the darkness trap," Zach said, unnecessarily. "Huh. This place looks way different than I thought."

They were in the middle of what looked like a flat theater room or maybe a secondary ballroom. There was even a stage in the opposite corner that neither of them had noticed or gone to. The walls were blackened with charcoal, and there were many soot marks on the floor, as well as more mimic puddles. Ugh. In the yellowish mid-afternoon light, the puddles looked like urine—but in a lot of them, Thomas saw glittering crystals.

There was also something gray and sickly-looking stuck in the boss goo.

Thomas went over and fished it out. It was a silvery, shimmery cloak that for some reason didn't have goo all over it.

His System tagged it as: Cloak of Visual Stealth.

"Did it drop an invisibility cloak?" Thomas asked. "Am I going to get trademark lawyers on my ass?"

"Put it on," Zach urged.

Thomas set the box down and shrugged on the cloak. It was so oversized that the bottom actually dragged on the ground, and when he flipped the hood over his head, the overly-long edge messed with his vision a little.

"I can still see you," Zach commented. He walked around. "But it's weird. Go stand by that wall."

When Thomas did, Zach nodded. "I know where you're at, and I can still kind of see you if I really concentrate, but it's like my eyes want to slide away."

"All right, a Notice-Me-Not Cloak," Thomas said. "Also useful." He took off the cloak and said, "Now that we can both see, what do you say we clean out this room, then go back and clear any other rooms we missed along the way?"

Zach broke into a smile. He looked haggard, but he was clearly willing to keep going. "I like that. The boss is gone, but the rest of the mimics should still be there. Now that we can see them, it'll be what a normal level one dungeon should be. Maybe we can find my bag too." He paused. "No idea where I left it, though. Everything was kind of a red haze."

Thomas nodded, then glanced back at the thing they had both been avoiding talking about. The dark crystal still stood in the box. Everything in him told him to stay the hell away from that thing.

"Well, what do we do with that? I don't want it in my pack."

"Nah," Zach agreed. "I feel like that might actually corrupt your other crystals. I'm not touching it either. Just leave it," he said at once. "Without this darkness trap working, the dungeon will reabsorb it. It'll do that with anything left behind." He added casually, "That's the way to take care of Earth's pollution problem, by the way."

Thomas was about to say something, then did a double take. "Wait—What?!"

"Yeah, just toss anything you don't need into a dungeon instance and then walk away. Once the last living soul is gone, the instance closes and the dungeon reabsorbs whatever’s left into itself with no waste left over." Zach shrugged as if this was completely normal. "Why do you think so many uber-rich and a lot of governments weren’t worried about jacking up the Earth? Most of them were connected to Old Families in some way, or are Old Families, and knew there was a solution coming."

Thomas paused. "Huh."

Then they turned and got to looting.
