Ranthia wished she could have snickered at the man’s inability to avoid using the increasingly formalized ‘casual’ designation. But the atmosphere was too serious. Also, no one else batted an eye.

From there, they moved to logistics and concerns. The biggest problem that stuck out was that they lacked the healing power required to practically screen an entire Legion as they came in and get them in before the shimagu arrived. The dwarven shrubbery [Healer] was their only area healer—but one of the dwarves hurriedly confirmed even he couldn’t quite cover the entire entrance without being placed in the way. Sure, there was the obvious option of dangling the man over the gates, but Ranthia could only assume that no one suggested it purely out of fear of being attacked: dwarves took politeness to [Healers] seriously. Admittedly, there was also the issue that his mana pool would never hold up if a battered, weary Legion moved through his range.

In the end, the consensus was that they had to eat the risk. The [Healers] would remain in the medical tents to receive the wounded, and they needed to step up internal patrols and security postings to try to mitigate the potential for saboteurs to be mixed in with their allies. Best case, they were paranoid for no reason. But, unfortunately, an army in retreat was an easy target for ‘extras’ to slip into the ranks unnoticed. The shimagu had done it before and they would undoubtedly do it again.

The [Messenger] took off as soon as the meeting ended. Ranthia couldn’t exactly watch him go, but the brief bit she saw from the dwarf impressed her—the guy was fast. Not that the runner’s speed mattered much; no matter how swiftly he reached Coalition City, the Legions and generals would be glacial to respond. Last time Remera had been threatened they got a fraction of a Legion that arrived long after the crisis was done.

Ranthia quietly hoped for another Sentinel or two to swiftly arrive at the very least. She did not like her odds against two (and possibly more) twins at once. There were only a handful of people in Remera that might be able to fight a twin if their classes matched up favorably, and the incoming Legion should have other high-level soldiers… assuming they still lived. But she really didn’t want to gamble with her life, not like that.

The dwarven [Battlemaster] was the combatant closest to Ranthia’s level in Remera, but the woman was… ill-suited to fighting one-on-one. Her Sound class was built on the assumption of fighting underground—in the open winds, the sound ‘hammers’ that minced her opponents dispersed too much. She was damned effective against the shimagu masses that were below her level (especially since they seldom had much in the way of reinforcement Skills), but it would take more than a bit of luck for her to be able to take a twin. A dwarven Earth [Mage] and a human Radiance [Ranger] had the next highest levels—mid five hundred or so—but they likely would require a very favorable matchup.

She didn’t even bother asking the runner for information about the Legion’s so-called elite. She couldn’t recall the name (Prime something, maybe?) and she had no interest in hearing puffery about how amazing some deadbeat allegedly was.

The situation was urgent, but once the meeting was done… there really wasn’t anything for Ranthia to actually do. She just needed to be on standby and wait for the Legion—or shimagu scouts—to arrive. Going back to bed was an obvious option, but… Well, she wasn’t exactly in the mood to sleep.

Two confirmed twins, and they couldn’t be confident there weren’t more.

The Legion’s runner hadn’t had any pertinent details about them—gods forbid the idiots that sent him to them armed him with useful intelligence. But she had fought four twins by that point, and she was not liking her odds.

The two that she had fought previously on the front lines—back before she was a Sentinel—had outmatched her in both level and capability. And even if she had the level advantage against the new twins, it was impossible to discount just how dangerous six classes working harmoniously in one body was. The breadth of Skills and elements made them challenging to counter, and the parasite and host in conjunction were able to focus on and process twice what she could. The sneaky (never officially designated) twin in Remus had been a strong shimagu with a weak host—and they still stole a friend from her before she could take them out. She slew the ogress with the element of surprise—and a healthy dose of recklessness that should have gotten her killed. She slew the troll with a combination of foreknowledge, class matchup advantage, and sheer godsdamned luck. But more recently, the winged ogre had proven himself to be a bad matchup for her, though Sentinel Deflection had easily driven him off.

Since that single match, the winged ogre had chosen to avoid fighting her. She wasn’t sure if he was wary of her because she wounded him on their first meeting, if he assumed she was the barrier [Mage] that shut him down effortlessly, or if he was just playing some game. But either way, he was still out there—quite possibly in pursuit of the inbound Legion.

Ranthia wasn’t some [Bard]’s fearless and all-powerful hero. She got nervous. She was—immortality aside—all too human. She had faced her death entirely too many times, but she never looked forward to doing so. And she couldn’t even properly prepare herself because some idiotic Legion commanders hadn’t bothered to send ahead the most pertinent fucking information!

In short, her mind was far too agitated to allow her to sleep.

Back in their home, Ranthia carefully carried her personal altar into the cooking area—Avyna was still asleep—and started to dance before it. She needed to move, even if she was praying. The familiar embrace of her dance made it easier to focus on her prayers. She prayed to Xaoc on behalf of those that had been lost from the incoming Legion. She made another prayer for Sentinel Mirage’s safety. This was followed by preemptive prayers for those that would soon be lost. And, of course, she had to include a (not at all selfish, completely justified) prayer for Avyna to stay protected—to be safe.

Then, there was another. It wasn’t planned—she always tried to avoid selfish prayers. Her respect for Xaoc was without limit, but she served Him—not vice versa. It was never the other way around. She did everything in her power to avoid giving in to her pitiable urges to pray for His intercession. Divine intervention was—by its very nature—the purview of the divine. She had no right, even if she had given in out of desperation during her days at the Unbreakable Image. But for Avyna—for the love of her life—she found herself making an exception. A tiny one.

She prayed she would live to see Avyna again, once the fighting was done.

Avyna woke up and was still in a languid mood when she found Ranthia in the cooking area—actually cooking, her prayers were long done. The elf offered Ranthia a sleepy, playful smile as she drifted closer… but it fell. Either she noticed that Ranthia was in full kit, or she finally sensed her love’s mood.

“What’s going on?” Avyna asked quietly, as her legs consumed the final distance between them.

Her warm hands on Ranthia’s arm felt like a balm—a place of calm in the storm that threatened to consume her.

“A Legion ran into trouble. They’ll be here sometime tonight—by morning at latest—followed closely by what we understand to be a major shimagu army. …And there are at least two twins in the shimagu force.” Ranthia refused to lie to the woman that owned her heart.

Avyna stiffened and fell silent. Her mind was sharp—sharper than almost anyone else Ranthia had ever known—she had no doubt that her elf already fully understood the true weight of the situation. She looked forward to seeing Avyna’s usual problem-solving face, not that she expected her beloved to have a solution, unless she could actually get some elite elven [Warrior] to join—

Instead, Ranthia squeaked in surprise—nearly dropping the ladle in her hand—as Avyna suddenly, and roughly, pulled her into a tight hug. As usual, Avyna showed zero concern about Ranthia’s equipment or armor. A heartbeat later, Ranthia set the ladle aside blindly and returned the embrace.

They just held one another in silence as time ticked by.

“…Can this base withstand such a thing?” Avyna finally whispered, her voice so low that Ranthia barely heard the words.

“I don’t know.” Ranthia honestly answered.

Another silence, this one was longer. The food probably needed attention, but it was hard to remember to care—the moment they were sharing felt too important.

“…We could leave. The two of us could easily escape.” Avyna’s voice carried only the tiniest hint of her pleading tone.

…

Ranthia was tempted. Gods damn everything, she was so tempted. The window of opportunity was closing, but it truly was an option. The two of them could just leave. They would be safe. They would be together. Avyna wouldn’t have to be in danger. Ranthia wouldn’t have to risk leaving Avyna forever, just to try to stop enemies that she might not be able to drive back.

It was unconscionable—but oh Xaoc, she was irredeemably tempted. The possibility was almost intoxicating.

All it would cost her was everything else. It was unspeakably arrogant, but her heart knew that without her… the odds for anyone else to survive would be diminished. There was a real chance that her departure would consign everyone in Remera to death. Avyna’s cherished shop would be pillaged and burned. They might not even be able to get Glorine and her girlfriend out—neither of them had the levels to keep up with Ranthia and Avyna, the shimagu might overtake them if they tried. And that might be the limits of the names Ranthia had absorbed, but it wasn’t like everyone else in Remera was a complete stranger. The commander’s niece was young and arrogant—she still had her life ahead of her. The dwarves that Ranthia admired would face a grand threat without her. The [Analyst] with the perpetually rosy cheeks and the easy smile, the [Mage] that reminded her in some indistinguishable way of Deflection, the legionary [Warrior] that subtly winced every time he clanged his fist against his armor with entirely too much force when he saluted her or the base commander, the washerwoman that gave Remera its name and gained nothing from it—they would all die.

Ranthia wouldn’t just be a deserter if she took the opportunity to escape, she would—rightfully—be branded a traitor. She would never be able to return to Remus and, worse, her friends in Remus would have cause to curse her name and memory.

Also, Night would undoubtedly send a Sentinel or three after her—no, more likely he, himself, would come after her. He was the one knife she could never hope to outlast.

And yet… Gods and goddesses…

“Please, don’t ask that of me… I can’t…” Ranthia never even noticed that she was trembling.

“I know, my love. I apologize, I should never have said that.” Avyna whispered soothingly.

“I’m sorry…” Ranthia whimpered. The words repeated themselves several times and she lost track of who she was even apologizing to.

It was one thing to have an escape plan if the base fell—after she had truly tried to save people. But to be so fucking tempted to abandon the battle before it began… She could never hold enough guilt to make up for it.

More than a few tears later, Avyna and Ranthia wrestled their fears and emotions back into some semblance of control. They ate a meal together that neither tasted—which was for the best, the sauce had definitely scorched. They read books with their hands joined, their eyes tracing words that vanished from their minds as soon as they read them. Rare and brief were the moments that they went without some form of physical contact as the day proceeded.

Each of them pretended—quite poorly—that she was just fine. They tried to be strong for one another, as best they knew how.

Ranthia kissed Avyna farewell when the sky darkened. It was a tentative, uncertain kiss that neither wanted to be the one to break. Duty finally forced Ranthia to take her lips from Avyna’s. She smiled and cupped her beloved’s cheek with her hand and allowed the lie that she would be back soon to spill from her lips. Avyna set her hand over Ranthia’s and vowed that she would be there, waiting for Ranthia’s return. No matter what.

While Ranthia tried to figure out how to properly secure the helmet that she never wore—it finally felt prudent—Avyna started to string and prepare a wooden, enchanted bow that Ranthia had never even known was in their home. That terrified her enough that she sought a distraction.

“Wish me luck.” The words weren’t directed to Avyna; she had found herself in front of mage-rock and saluted it out of habit. The tile it sat on was inert—the inscriptions that once made mage-rock special were long dead—but mage-rock’s nature never changed in her eyes. She hadn’t ever been able to see the lie, so it remained the truth in her heart.

Mage-rock, of course, did no such thing. Still, as ridiculous as it sounded on its face: she felt like she drew some form of strength from mage-rock’s stoic, certain silence. It felt like there was a profound lesson to be found there and—okay, Avyna was absolutely staring at her. And not in a good way.

“I love you.” Ranthia turned back to Avyna one last time, unable to stop herself from stalling just a bit longer.

“<And I love you. Go, show them—>” Avyna answered in her own tongue. And, amazingly, Ranthia understood… almost everything. The final word was beyond her, but that was okay.

