It was somewhat similar to aether, and in fact might have been a variety of it, but not one she could easily trace. She couldn’t even really detect it. She could only feel it trickling into her soul whenever they killed a monster, and she could feel her soul grow stronger at the same time. She frankly wasn’t even sure if it did come from the monster she killed. After all, if it did, why would it be affected by the difficulty of a battle? There was something more going on that she didn’t fully understand.

Unfortunately, that was about as far as she got in her experimentation as they moved. There wasn’t much else she could test. Not with the others keeping an eye on her, at least. But that could not last forever.

That night, they used their usual watch rotation, with Hannah on watch first, and Sophie on watch at the end. Elise was second, and Telvir and Frank took the third and fourth, since they claimed to need the least sleep. Or at least, they could fall asleep more or less at will, while Sophie and Hannah tended to struggle.

Elise had a brief telepathic conversation with Sophie to explain her plan, and after getting confirmation, went through the night as usual. She dozed off while waiting for her shift, stayed up to watch the camp, went to bed, and was woken up two hours before breakfast time by Sophie gently shaking her shoulder. Elise sat up, checked quickly to make sure the others were asleep, then activated {Don’t Look At Me, Peasants!} and snuck off.

The first thing she did when she got far enough away was test whether her new trait worked on physical restraints. She used {Nature Mana Manipulation} to grow some roots at her feet, trapping her in place, then tried to walk way. To her surprise, it worked. She did not expend any mana, but she did feel a bit of her aether drain as the roots seem to move of their own accord, loosening and getting out of her way as she stepped out from their restraints.

I am immune to handcuffs! she thought excitedly.

She didn’t fully understand how it worked, but she was glad it did. She also didn’t know when she would ever use such a power, but that was fine. She didn’t plan on getting captured, but no one did, usually. It would be a great ability to have in a pinch.

What she was much more interested in is how it would interact with the System. She wasn’t bound by the System anymore, but she could still make use of it. Could she modify Skills, then? Maybe not now, but in the future, probably. And what would happen with evolutions? Quel’Khulan had mentioned something about how monsters evolved when their souls progressed in tier, but she had no idea how that worked. She would love to consult Quel’Tyral, but it sounded like that would be somewhat difficult, given how they had to stay away from everyone.

Hold on… she thought. Does Unshackled mean that the System can’t put a bounty on me either?

She got briefly excited, but soon deflated. It was entirely possible, and even likely that that was the case, but how would she test it? What if it didn’t work? She would be royally screwed if that were the case. It was still best that she reached a level where almost nothing could truly endanger her anymore before she decided to mess with that. As strong as her new power seemed, she didn’t fully trust it against the full might of the System, or the ones behind it.

As she theorized, she continued walking deeper into the tunnels until she located an aether signature on her periphery. It felt like a wyrm, and it seemed to be asleep. That was perfect for her, as one of the things she wanted to do right then was get a feel for how leveling actually worked. If she could figure out how to empower her soul without fighting and killing, that would be a huge leap forward. Perhaps if she got good enough, she could eventually teach Jag!

Before she could even get close to the wyrm, though, another aether signature appeared from behind her. She tensed and turned around, preparing to defend herself, but after a second or two, she realized she recognized the aether signature. It was Telvir.

“Eleanor,” he said when he caught up. “If that’s even your real name. We need to talk.”
