Something had shifted in Reality. Erick tried to access the Script, to bring up a blue box, any box at all. His Status came up, and all the numbers were correct. But the boxes came up slow, like there was a lag in the system. Erick tucked away the boxes, then looked around.

“What is this?” Erick said, “I was just talking to Kiri and Poi.”

“And now you are talking to me.”

Erick turned.

A mostly white wrought in the shape of a human woman sat neatly in a student’s chair, to the side of the stairs, beside Erick in the amphitheater. Her eyes were lined in gold, while her eyes were solid white. Erick’s first thought was that she was a Shade, but that was obviously not true.

Rozeta said, “Hey, Erick. Long time no talk. Impressive spells you made so far, but everything is starting to get way out of hand, and I’m gonna need you to reel it in, or help me limit this light stuff you’re talking about.” She added, “I’m getting in front of this one, this time.”

Erick took a short moment to put together what was happening.

He was speaking to Rozeta in a divine visitation. Sure. Why not?

When he got back, though, he was certainly going to get himself checked out for Dream Worms; if Poi and Kiri weren’t already panicking over his prone, thrashing body.

Rozeta said, “You are not in a dream worm dream. This is me, coming to you, for a talk.”

Erick rolled with it. Her answers would determine the rest of this conversation—

And that he was able to have that thought, at all, gave a little credence to the validity of this being a divine visitation. And if not that, then at least this was a really, really good facsimile.

“… Okay. How much do I need to explain to make sure we’re on the same page?”

“Nothing.” Rozeta said, “I’ve been watching you and your mind for some time now. So I know all about the wave-particle duality of light and how that is inadequate for explaining what light really is. I know all those dark thoughts you’ve had about gravity and how horrific the whole thing could get, and the half-thoughts about the ‘strong’ force and the ‘weak’ force.” She gestured to the seating on the other side of the stairs, saying, “Sit with me for a minute or twenty.”

That was a good answer. Erick willingly took a seat.

Rozeta said, “My main concern is with opening another can of beans when we haven’t nearly finished the last one.”

“… Cap the points people can get from new magic?”

Rozeta nodded, saying, “That is one possibility, but I want a scalpel, not a hammer.” She said, “That part you said to your guardsman about people not experimenting with the world really stuck with me. I’m not going to change higher tier magic… probably not ever. But lower tier magic is meant to be experimental. Tier 2 and 3 are there for that exact reason. Basic, tier 1, even more so. And people do experiment with it, all the time. The problem here, is that magic is partially based in culture. A communal influence on the world brings about the strongest magic, hence ‘all that math’ in the arcanaeums of the world. When you get a chance, you should look up ‘Ritual Casting’.

“But I digress.” Rozeta said, “I’m here to ask you how you think I should limit this light magic.”

Erick answered honestly, “I’ve just been using [Special Ward] to get the job done. Do you really need something else?”

A long moment passed, as Rozeta thought in silence.

Rozeta sighed. She said, “It’s probably the most elegant solution, but that blue box is way too big.” She said, “This method means zero new points, zero new basic spells. This is good.” She frowned. She steeled herself. She said, “I have to do it this way, don’t I?”

Erick said, “If it’s any consolation, I don’t think the Weak force or the Strong force would work through the Infinitesimal Ban.”

Rozeta smiled as she laughed.

Erick smiled with her.

She gazed out into the distant sky, saying, “The Ban is holding rather strong against individual-atom spells.” She smiled for a moment longer. Then she turned to Erick, saying, “So tell me where you’re going with this electrolysis spell.”

“Cast it on a Flare Couatl, and the water that comes out turns to hydrogen and oxygen that is kept separated until there is a critical mass, and then it explodes.”

“I thought that’s where you were going.” She turned to gaze out at the dark sky again. She asked, “If you were designing for particle magic, how would you do it?”

Erick had thought about that question a lot before he tried to make his explosion spell. He answered, “Put the individual gathering spells, like [Condense Oxygen], at basic tier. And then you have the manipulation spells above that. Spells like Kiri’s [Hermetic Seal] would be some higher tier than basic. My [Call Lightning] would be tier 4, to make it fit with [Nature’s Fury]. Or maybe something higher because it is better in some ways. Whatever the case, you’d get there by starting from [Condense Hydrogen] and [Condense Oxygen]. You could also use this method to create an explosion spell, but for [Call Lightning], you would use this combination to get [Create Water]. Then you take [Create Water] with the 500 mana shaping option to make a cloud. And then you’d take that and [Battery] to make [Call Lightning].” He added, “Obviously, all of that doesn’t seem to fit with the current [Call Lightning]. There are some kinks to work out. In particular there’s the fact that [Call Lightning] creates a LOT of clouds out of nothing, and that doesn’t really fit with Particle magic at all. Maybe there’s a collapsing wave function or possibilty in there, somewhere, or maybe energy is just transformed into matter. Does the water come from somewhere, or is it generated by the magic?”

Rozeta just smiled, not answering, like she usually did not answer.

Erick said, “Whatever the case, this method would make [Call Lightning] much more than 500 mana.” He added, “And [Battery] is really strong. I did not expect it to be that strong.”

Rozeta laughed again. She said, “You invoked ‘A primal force, a titan touched, an ancient life carved from stardust’! What did you think would happen with that iron rod?”

Erick defended himself, “I thought I was being poetic. Stars produce iron in their cores through fusion, but that’s the last step before they die, and iron is a great conductor.” He said, “[Comet Swarm] is apparently a spell, too, and that one is definitely not what I think of when I think of ‘comets’.”

Rozeta smiled. She said, “Back before the Sundering, there was this phenomenon where rogue bits of broken stone floated through the mana ocean. They were maybe the size of a house, at the absolute largest. The ones larger than that would stabilize in the ocean and became homes for life, starting with slimes. If that life succeeded, then that Stone would grow, as the life there demanded more space to live. If life failed, then they broke apart, into smaller and smaller pieces, until eventually they rejoined the currents. ‘Comets’ were those broken hunks of dead rock, aiming themselves at the living, trying, in the worst, most violent way, to rejoin the living.” She said, “The physics of the Old Cosmology and this one are very different, Erick, but the names we have for certain phenomena are the same, even if they point at radically different things.”

“That is… rather different, alright.” Erick was lost in thought for a moment. Eventually, he asked, “How did light work in your Old Cosmology?”

Rozeta said, “It went slower, for one. You could watch the day-lights rise over the hills of any plane, and that light would fill the land with a gel, like a thin water.” She added, “It’s very similar to how the manasphere seems, right now. Imagine light moving like that; like a thin, thick, there and yet not, water.” She said, “Oh! Think of it like waves. Yes. Kirginatharp will love that double-slit experiment you’re planning. Now if you can figure out the rest of that experiment to prove light is also a particle, that superposition exists, and then prove it all to him, that would be something to see. For now, you can just try to convince him, but he is rather stubborn. He’s always been like that.”

Erick smiled to himself. He said, “I never expected to use all this knowledge. I just learned it all to help my daughter pass her classes, and substitute for a physics teacher friend. I’m glad my memory is doing okay. I expected to die of cancer well before now, you know.” He added, “I have literally no idea how my DNA describes how my future will turn out.”

“That’s a good segue.” Rozeta asked, “So what’s going on with this [Scan] spell they’re all talking about?”

“… I don’t think I should even try.”

“I think you should.” She added, “As soon as you make it, I’m going to lock it behind ‘Registrar Only’.”

“Really?!”

“Nope.” Rozeta smiled. “You’re not gonna get out from under your repercussions that easily.” She looked at Erick, saying, “It’s gonna be out there. ‘Particle Mage Only’, as you have already guessed, but it’s still gonna be out there.”

Erick looked at Rozeta. “So you’re saying DNA doesn’t change when you [Polymorph]?”

Rozeta smirked as she said, “I’m not telling you how magic works.”

Erick went with his train of thought, anyway, saying, “Then what the heck does [Polymorph] even do? Like… What does it actually do. Does it change the body to one already known? Does it… Is this another collapse of a wave function, or something? I’m starting to think a lot of magic is like that, but I also think that I’m very wrong.” He asked, “How come you can eat and eat and then [Polymorph] out and then back and then not have a full stomach, but still feel full?”

“All good questions.” Rozeta nodded, saying, “You should get a [Polymorph] form and do some experimenting instead of just reading books all the time.”

- - - -

Poi said, “I told you not to invoke the gods so—” Poi paused.

Erick stood in Jane’s hospital room, exactly where he was before. Kiri stood in front of him, while Jane slept to the side, and Poi looked at him. Poi’s blue eyes seemed to bore into Erick’s mind.

Poi asked, “What the fuck just happened to you? Erick? Are you okay?”

Kiri looked to Poi, then to Erick, then backward to Teressa. She turned back to Erick, asking. “Did I miss something?”

“Erick was visited by someone,” Poi said. “A divine someone.” He stared into Erick’s eyes, then said, “Not a dream worm parasite. There’s a touch of divinity to it.” He breathed out. “Thankfully.” He quickly added, “Maybe.”

Kiri paled, again.

Erick took a moment to find his bearings. Ophiel twittered on his shoulder. Erick asked, “How long was I out?” He added, “And it wasn’t a dream worm?”

Poi took it all in stride, saying, “Maybe a second.” He shook his head. “Maybe not even that. And it wasn’t a dream worm. I would have noticed that.”

Erick declared. “Then I’m reasonably sure it wasn’t a Dream Worm. But I’m still going to get a doctor to look me over before I talk to the Headmaster.” He added, “I have a lecture to prepare and help to secure. So. Uh. Kiri?” Erick looked to his greenscale apprentice, asking, “You can help?”

“Yes!” Kiri said, “Sure!”

Erick took one more look toward Jane, and said, “I’ll be right back, Jane.” He looked over to Teressa.

Teressa nodded, saying, “I’ll stay here. But I’m pretty sure she’s safe as could be.”

Erick smiled. “Thank you, Teressa.” He looked to Kiri and Poi, and said, “Back to the Manor for a bit? Ah. Wait. Doctor, first.”

- - - -

According to two different doctors that specialized in anti-parasite warfare, Erick had no parasites that they could find.

That was good enough for Erick.

- - - -

Windy Manor was the same as they had left it, with his garden out front and the house rather lived in, with blankets on couches and the smell of last night’s spicy pasta still in the air. But the dense air around the house was gone. This was not a large problem, though.

Erick had used Ophiel to cast a [Prismatic Ward] across the Mage Trio’s house, so casting the [Ward] himself shouldn’t take down the one still up in Spur. Whatever the case, Erick had left his extra Ophiel existent; they were flying across the ocean, enjoying themselves, just in case it was a problem. He wanted to be able to recast the [Prismatic Ward] over the Mage Trio’s house rather fast, if this didn’t work out like he thought it would.

Erick dumped 5000 of his own mana into a [Prismatic Ward], layered across the large windows and dense wooden walls of Windy Manor. Dense air took hold across the building.

And with a quick check through Ophiel to Spur…

The dense air around the Mage Trio’s house was still active.

Good.

Kiri looked up at Windy Manor, asking, “Aren’t you worried about unlocking another branch of magic?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “It’s all going under [Ward]. Rozeta said.”

“O—” Kiri’s voice cracked. “Okay.”

Events proceeded quickly from there.

Erick recalled his Ophiel to Windy Manor. Most of them just lounged around in the house, recovering mana in the presence of [Prismatic Ward]’s enforced Rest, but one of them went out into the forest, to prepare a place for Erick to level his skills, while he organized his thoughts on electromagnetism inside the Manor. As soon as a fresh pool of water and another iron rod were set into a mostly-contained [Hermetic Seal], Erick cast [Distill], [Battery], and [Catalyst] through Ophiel, to level the spells to 10. He couldn’t combine them outside of their level 10 versions, after all.

