“We are going to kick ass tonight!”

Ren looked at Lisa and squeezed her hand. “It's going to be difficult, even with the extra enchantments.”

“All the better.” Gloria said and picked up her box and bag. “It wouldn't be any fun without a little danger thrown in.”

“Let me take that up to Ren's room.” Stella said and pointed to Gloria's box. “I've got to put your diploma in my room and I can take that up, too.”

“Thanks.” Gloria said and handed her the box.

“If your VR stuff is in the box, what's in the bag?” Ren asked.

“A change of clothes and a bathing suit.” Gloria said. “Just in case.”

“A dip in the pool would be nice.” Ren said and looked at Lisa. “Did you bring your respectable swimsuit?”

“Respectable?”

“I mean, not the naughty one.” Ren said and smiled. “I hope you brought both of them; but, that one would be difficult to actually swim with.”

“I can swim in it.” Lisa said.

“I meant me.” Ren grinned. “There's no way I can swim properly if you're wearing it.”

Lisa laughed and grabbed her backpack from the coat rack by the door with her free hand. “Yes, I have an actual swimsuit in my backpack, you pervert.”

Ren laughed, too. “Then swimming it is.” He said and looked at Stella. “When you're done upstairs, can you bring me a pair of swim trunks? Please?”

“Sure, Ren.” Stella said.

“Thank you.” Ren said. “I won't go near the water without you there.” He said. “I'll wait out by the change rooms for you.”

Stella nodded and walked over to the elevator and got in.

“Now... which of you strong beautiful women wants to push my chair?”

“You don't have to butter us up.” Gloria said. “Lisa?”

Lisa shook her head. “It's a little too awkward for me to handle.” She said. “I don't think I can handle it enough to get it out the door without hitting something, anyways.”

Gloria nodded and stepped behind the wheelchair and pushed Ren, while Lisa walked beside the chair and held Ren's hand.

She hasn't let it go since he offered it to her. Gloria thought. Is he doing it on purpose? She asked herself. Is he trying to make me jealous? She looked at him and at Lisa, then remembered what had happened when she had jumped to conclusions in the game. No, I'm sure he's not.

Lisa had to let Ren's hand go to open the patio door, and Gloria pushed him out through it and over to the change rooms.

“Gloria? Set the wheel locks, please.” Ren said, and she did. “Thanks.”

“I'll get changed first.” Lisa said and went into the closest change room.

“You don't have to wait, Gloria.” Ren said. “I'm fine by myself for a couple of minutes.”

“What if I wanted to talk to you?” Gloria asked. “In private.”

“Unless you've got a sound-proof room in your pocket, it'll have to wait until we have some privacy.” Ren chuckled. “Because that's not going to happen right now.”

“Thanks for waiting.” Stella said after she came out of the house. “Ren, here's your trunks.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and stood up. “I'm taking the center stall.”

“Go ahead and change, Gloria.” Stella said. “Lisa should be...”

“...already changed.” Lisa said and came out wearing the bathing suit she hadn't shown Ren. It was the red one with the push up top. Stella nodded to her and stepped into the change room, and Gloria went into the first one to change.

“Oh, wow.” Ren said when he came out of the middle change room and saw Lisa. “You always look nice; but, you look really nice.”

“I'm glad you like it.” Lisa said and turned around to show him all of it.

“If I'd asked you to do that, you would have smacked me.” Ren chuckled and sat down.

“Yes, I would.” Lisa said and smiled. “Are we actually swimming, or are we soaking for a while?”

“A little bit of both, I think.” Ren said. “I'm just waiting on... helllllooooo, nurse!”

Stella stepped out wearing a bathing suit he'd never seen before. As far as Ren could tell, it was a piece of fabric in the shape of a capital 'T'. That was it. There were no straps over the shoulders and no straps around the hips. Just fabric that surrounded her breasts to completely cover them, and a strip of fabric that went from that, down her belly, between her legs, and up the other side.

Stella did the same thing as Lisa, and performed a little twirl to show Ren all the way around. He did a good imitation of a wolf whistle for her, and she laughed.

“I think he likes it.” Stella said.

“Maybe I should have worn the naughty suit.” Lisa said. “How is that even staying up?”

“Wishful thinking.” Stella said, and they laughed.
