“Oh, please tell me I don’t have something on my face. I once met with a dragon that proclaimed herself queen with a blob of spinach stuck between my teeth. I’d prefer to be done with that type of mortification.” The nigh-divine man’s expression turned stricken as his hands blurred across his face and teeth, moving so fast that his arms seemed to wholly vanish from his person.

Wait, what?

“I… Sorry, no, you’re fine! Er, not like that—you’re okay for a guy, I guess? But there’s nothing on your face or in your teeth, at least not that I noticed!” Why was she getting panicked again?!

“Ah, well then.” His arms reappeared and he offered her a smile. “So, where was I? Ah, right. Well said! …The answer to my question, I mean. The one I asked before I appeared. Ugh, why did the System have to make time manipulation impossible? I could use a redo here.”

Should she apologize? It kind of felt like she needed to apologize.

“Well, no matter! Ahem, I am Ranger. You might have heard of me.” The elf bowed, losing some of the sticks in his hair in the process.

“The art in Avyna’s shop!” The words slipped out of Ranthia’s lips while she remained staggered by the revelation.

He wasn’t just seven levels away from ascension—he was one of the first elves! She was standing in front of a being that Xaoc Himself (and the other gods) crafted!

…She chose to believe Xaoc’s influence explained his behavior and messy appearance.

“You’d think people would get bored of me after almost five thousand years, but no. Everyone sees paintings of me, reads propaganda pieces about me, and hears songs about me. Because, like you, I was there. Well, you weren’t there; I was just trying to hearken back to your response because I liked it.” Ranger frowned a little as he lost the trail of his intended wordplay.

Seriously, was he trying to ingratiate himself with her, or was pseudo-divine speed somehow insufficient time for him to consider his words before he said them?!

“Ranthia. By Xaoc, I hope you haven’t heard of me.” Stiffly, she returned his bow.

“An adherent to one of the Creators? Neat! Not even a little uncommon, mind you, but I still like to see it. And nah, Elleth—” he paused to noisily clear his throat, “the rather private woman that finally called in that dusty old favor didn’t tell me anything. Well, except that you needed help getting used to interacting with people far beyond your level. I’d assumed it would be one of the local whelps though. Nice to see a human finally seized immortality and made your way to civilization.”

“I… suppose you have some experience with that.” Ranthia carefully quashed the questioning lilt from her words.

“Of course.” And with those words, he was abruptly directly in front of her. “Look, you’ve probably noticed that, compared to when you were small, the consequences of your physical actions have increased, right? That never stops as you level. Sounds really trite, doesn’t it? But seriously, it escalates until the actions and consequences feel entirely mismatched. Mind a demonstration?”

“Sure.” Ranthia agreed, despite being convinced that she would regret it.

At utterly mundane speeds, Ranger raised a hand. Quietly, she watched him gently press one of his poorly maintained fingernails against one of the steel plates of her armor, just below her collarbone.

“Okay, as soon as I finish talking, I’m going to flex a single muscle within my finger, just a little. It’ll be like I was trying to stretch the finger just a little further outward, without really trying. This is pretty much the smallest movement I can make, but you see—”

His finger never moved. Every sense she had agreed—his finger never moved.

And yet. Ranthia’s feet left the ground and pain registered across her chest. A deformed plate even separated from her armor as she passed through the air.

All told, she wasn’t thrown far—only a dozen paces or so. But she had started with solid footing, and his finger hadn’t even moved!

“The least that I can do at my level still has severe impacts on the world around me. There are clear rules that govern actions and effects in our world, but they break down as your level advances. Were you an elf, you might have seen this already, even at your level. The effect grows. I can do nonsense like—oh, wait, crap. Your armor broke! Sorry, I assumed you had a better Skill than that!” From lecture mode to panic in an instant.

“It’s fine, it’s designed to do that.” Ranthia winced as she spoke. Her chest was probably already discoloring under her armor, but she was more than a little reticent to tip her hand to the elf. It wasn’t like she had any reason to distrust him—nor would her ability to shift save her had he intended to kill her. But it was really hard not to feel cowed before such a powerful being!

That or it was the ill effects of her [Companion Bond] leaving her skittish.

Meh, at least the plate wasn’t too bent. She was reasonably confident that she could repair it.

“Here, to make up for it.” Ranger tossed something unexpectedly large her way.

After his last demonstration, she hurriedly danced clear of the incoming object, but contrary to her expectations, it flopped gently into the bed of leaves without scattering them—a feat of dexterity. The truly unexpected bit was that it was a large ruby. The man was casually tossing about the most valuable piece of currency his society used as if it was nothing!

…Avyna. Misery smothered her borrowed outrage once her mind helpfully reminded her of its source. She had once-fond memories of watching her… the elf carefully polish and care for gems.

“Wait, no, why…?! Who gets sad over money?! Did I not give enough? I thought the economy was in better shape than that! What have Orthandis and the others been doing?!” Ranger was back to freaking out.

Right, she needed to hold herself together.

“Sorry, no, it’s… a personal thing.” She knelt to retrieve the gem and pulled the traveller’s cloak a bit tighter around herself afterwards. “I can’t accept this; I can repair the plate.”

She held the gem out to the ancient elf.

“Just keep it. Seriously, I have an absurd amount of wealth, especially since I usually just live in the forests as I wander Pallos. Have you ever met a tree that wants gemstones? Wait, bad example, I almost forgot treants and dryads exist. Still, keep it. I insist!” Ranger clasped his hands behind his back.

“…Fine. Thank you.” Ranthia chose not to argue. Instead, she wondered if he had always been like that or if it was a side-effect of living in the woods for over four thousand years.

“You’re welcome! So, back to what I was saying before. The rules of the world just don’t have any meaning at my level. I can scoop granite like clay. Like clay! I can still hold back, mind you. But it takes diligence. Get a high-level immortal angry? Control can slip. And even with the slightest slip, well… Bad things can happen.

“That’s what you need to learn. Your intuition is based on whether someone means to throw a playful jab or a punch. But from a being like… our mutual friend—seriously, what do you even call her?—there’s a bigger spectrum. Which makes sense! One percent of my strength might surpass you going all out. So, I’m going to teach you how to tell when our restraint cracks. And hey, it might even help you avoid horrible accidents as you get stronger.” He concluded his brief speech with a polite smile.

“Okay… How are we going to do that?” Ranthia asked, wary of future bruises.

“By playing games!” Ranger’s smile turned far more honest—with outright ominous excitement—as he produced a small leather ball.

What in Xaoc’s glory had she gotten herself into?
