One man, who was eighty, was already looking at his wife, who was likely also 80, but who had blue all upon her hands and on a stripe down her face. And a little bit in her hair. The wife stared at her husband as he stared at her, his eyes going wide, her eyes narrowing.

This was not the only pairing to be subject to such an event.

Not many people were marked in blue like this. Maybe only thirty or forty people in the whole clan. But they were clearly blue, and in an odd, splashing sort of way. Some markings were old, and a dimmer sort of blue. Some were very recent, and bright, bright blue.

Erick discarded the idea that there were orgies happening among Green Grass rather quickly, though.

There was no blue upon the lips that wasn’t already on the whole face. There were no beds covered in blue except for Linxel’s own (along with most of his yurt, but that was to be expected). Mostly, though, there was nothing that indicated that these blue markings were anything but blood splatter, and on a level that Erick did not expect to find.

Yes; people in these sorts of places sparred with swords and other weapons all the time. Some blood was to be expected. But not this much. Not this recent, or in such quantity, though.

Erick was rapidly arriving at an odd conclusion...

“You know...” Erick had arrived at the center of the camp, at the people he had contained behind [Force Walls]. “I doubt all these people here were extremely sexually active with Linxel in the past few hours. Just look at them. They’re covered in Linxel’s markers. So the only explanation is that they got a lot of Linxel’s blood on them. And why would that happen? Do training exercises around here often result in one’s leader getting most of his blood put on the outside? Doubtful. I saw no Blood Magic books in Linxel’s yurt, so I doubt he’s a Blood Mage.”

All ten people who tried to run, who Erick contained inside [Force Wall]s, were practically glowing blue. Some of them almost fully.

Many people in the clan had come out when Erick’s calm voice gave no hint of true violence. Many people were actually outraged that Linxel didn’t want to do a proper face stealer search, though Erick had cut off many of those conversations when he extended his silencing into the clan.

Erick relaxed his silence, now.

The mooing of cows returned, first, though he kept those kinda quiet. He had kept an eye on the cows, too, and some of them were blue, but that was to be expected since everyone worked with the cows. None of them had blood splatter on them, though. (Wouldn’t that be odd if the face stealers hid as cows before they Hunted their targets? That’s a pretty sinister way to Hunt, but it would probably work rather well.)

Erick waited for people to start talking.

Still, no one spoke.

Erick asked the people in the pen, for the benefit of those outside, “Did you attack Linxel as a group? Did you meet him somewhere, and then kill him in an ambush?”

No one spoke.

He didn’t really need them to speak, though, at least not for his own proof. When he started speaking he saw the truth of what had happened in their intakes of breath, and in their thrumming hearts, and in the micro expressions of their faces. He did need them to speak for the benefit of everyone else, though.

The person wearing Linxel’s body had followed Erick into the center of the clan, and now he spoke for everyone else, “You poor delusional man. Fighting the Shades really fucked you up, didn’t it.”

Erick ignored the liar and began lightly plucking samples from every single person inside the Walled space. No one in the immediate area noticed the small bits of light that touched the back of a leg, or the side of a thigh; not when light and shadow was twisting down from above, and the Health and Mana of everyone in the entire clan was being stripped away. Most people were long since empty of Resources, by now, so it was much less scary than it had been, but it was still easy to hide his sample-taking among the twisting light.

He took some time to look around, too, to see what effect his words were having on Clan Green Grass. A few people had completely moved on from the drama happening around Erick and ‘Linxel’. They were consumed with the problem staring them in the face: the blue markers they saw upon the faces and hands of their loved ones.

An old man asked his old wife, “Where were you an hour ago?”

To which the old wife replied, “I’m a Healer, you dolt! People were injured in training! That’s probably all the archmage’s blood magic is pointing at.”

The old man frowned. “But that’s Linxel’s marker upon you. And no one has been able to touch him in combat in a long time. The only time he’s ever suffered a loss was that one time when he took on twenty people at… once...”

The old woman said nothing.

The old man stepped away from his wife, his eyes going wide as the full situation registered. Erick could practically read the guy’s mind. ‘Why isn’t she defending herself more’. ‘There has to be an explanation’. ‘Why isn’t she telling me the truth?’.

The old man whispered, “But we talk telepathically every night… Except when we didn’t for a whole month. You had headaches, you said… that was almost three years ago.”

The old woman said nothing. She didn’t have to.

One of three people asked the fourth person in their group, “I saw you go with Toizag to the river but I didn’t think anything of it. You still hate him, don’t you?”

To which the fourth person replied, “I made up with him.”

And then another person in the group said, “But that doesn’t explain why Linxel’s blue is on your face. And on your knife. It looks like smeared blood. It looks like [Cleanse]d blood splatter.”

The fourth person said nothing.

The rest of their group backed away from the fourth.

All around the clan, variations of a scene played out.

And then a woman, middle-aged, probably a mother, walked away from her yurt and headed toward the Walled space in the center of camp. She headed straight for one of the people inside, who was younger; her son, based on looks.

Outwardly, Linxel was the picture of calm professionalism. Inwardly, he was panicking.

The woman stood on one side of the transparent Wall and asked her blue-marked son, “You went with Kuli somewhere an hour ago, didn’t you?” When the son said nothing, the mother turned to the left, asking a young man also inside the Walled space, “Kuli… Where did you take my son?”

The son blurted out, “You don’t believe the mad archmage, do you, mom! It’s me! We spoke through [Telepathy] just last week!”

Kuli, the other boy, completely straight-faced, said, “We broke into Linxel’s yurt while he was away to steal his spare armor and we wore it. It’s fucken’ embarrassing! But we ain’t no face stealers.”

“Yeah!” The son said, “That’s what we did!”

The mother gave a serious nod; she believed her kid. She turned toward Erick’s avatar, and said, “You heard the boys. Please let them go.”

Erick said, “While I was doing this, here, I checked for markers for every one of the people in this pen.” He conjured a thousand kilometer map of the greater area onto the ground outside of the pen, large enough for everyone to see. Then he conjured an image of the place he had found. It was a trio of rocks, the size of the Twin Rocks, near a different river to the west. Erick suspected it was called Three Rocks, though he did not know. “Can anyone tell me the significance of this place?”

Instantly, almost every single person who had Linxel’s markers on them went tense. A few who were clean went tense, too. Some people with markers gave no reaction. Though there were sure to be some false positives and negatives, but if what he was seeing was correct, Erick was pretty sure that he counted twenty three face stealers among the hundred people here. Since a hundred people were still out in the field, there was likely a similar number of face stealers among those people, too. Or something to that effect.

The mother of the boy in the box stared at the image. A long, terrible moment passed, as she recognized that Erick was not going to let her boy go, and also that she knew what that meant. Her voice cracked as she named the location in his image, “That— It’s Three Rocks.”

Some people nodded at this.

Erick asked, “Has your clan been there recently?”

“Not for a year!” said some likely-innocent and very angry man standing off to the side; he had no markers on him at all.

A chorus of confirmations came from other onlookers, while the people in the pen looked more condemned with each passing moment.

Erick said, “This place is about three hundred kilometers to the west. Linxel’s markers are all over the place, alongside the markers of every single person in this pen, and several other people outside of this pen. I have [Witness]ed Three Rocks, and I saw a few of the people here in the surroundings of that space. They were there an hour ago. I likely would have seen the attack, too, but the recent history of the area was erased from the manasphere, so I have no way of knowing what, exactly, happened there, either to Linxel, or to everyone else who attacked him. There are some dark magics happening here. Dark purposes. Evil intent. Face stealers or soul mutilation and probably a combination of both, but I know not what. Not yet. But I will know, and soon.” He turned his avatar toward Linxel, and demanded, “Who are you?”

Linxel smiled a nervous smile, and then he laughed a nervous laugh. And then he sighed, and said, “You just killed my father and sister, Erick. The dragon had them and now they’re dead.”

The clan gasped. A few shouted, “Dragon?!”

“Lies.” Erick said, “Tell me the truth.”

“Tha…” Linxel’s brow furrowed. “That is the truth…” He deflated. “You pompous ass.”

A man in the clan whispered to a nearby person, “But his father and sister have been dead for years? A decade? Right?”

Erick was not the only one to hear the man whisper that. He made a point of turning his avatar the man’s way.

On the other side of the clearing, a woman said, “Yeah! Linxel’s father and sister were killed by a Sky Tether horde twelve years ago!” The woman was about Linxel’s age with dark blue skin and some of his size, but no horns, said, “Linxel’s my cousin and his soul used to be bright blue; I ain’t never seen it, but that’s what the old Speaker said. And then his half of our family was killed by sky tethers and his soul darkened.” She asked Linxel. “Do you not remember that? Linxel?”

Linxel just stared at his cousin, saying nothing, his face set like an uncomprehending stone.

Other people spoke up, confirming Linxel’s family’s fate.

Linxel finally broke. “No! I just saw them. They’re alive!” He roared, “They’re alive! They’re ali—” He twitched. His soul broke inside as his head turned left and his body turned right. He collapsed to the ground—

He was not dead, and Erick made sure that he stayed that way with a quick [Greater Treat Wounds].

Erick declared, “Maybe he was just soul-fucked.” He turned to the people in the force cage. “But these people helped Linxel to get soul-fucked, and I don’t know what that means, yet.”

The people inside the Force cage were already worried, but whereas before they thought they could lie themselves out of their problem, now they knew they could not. Some of them went crazy, screaming obscenities. The face stealer in the form of the woman’s son started bawling. The boy’s ‘friend’ went over and smashed his fist into the son’s face, roaring hate about how much of a terrible Hunter he was.

Erick spoke to the entire clan, “I see you, face stealers. Hunters. Come forth. Now.”

At that, many of the obvious face stealers stopped trying to hide.

Some came forward willingly, like the old woman who claimed to have healed Linxel from a fight, and that’s why she had his blood on her face. Her husband of what he thought was many decades, turned out to only have been her husband for the last three years. The old man looked on as his old wife’s killer and impostor declared the truth of herself. His heart was suddenly heavy with pain, and his eyes heavy with tears. The woman’s name had been that of the Speaker of Green Grass, but when she revealed herself, she said her real name was Roia, and that she was sorry. The old man did not want to hear it.

Erick held back the sudden mob from murdering the woman, because Roia was cooperative and he needed answers. A simple blip extricated Roia from the problem of mob violence, placing her inside the Force box, for now.

The fourth person of the group of three tried to run. Erick blipped the killer into the box in the center.

The less obvious face stealers kept hiding.

Everything got very confusing, very fast.

And then people started to come in from the outside, trying to blip into their clan, but hitting the [Spatial Denial] instead, and ending up disoriented upon the grassy plains.

Erick helped those people with a blip of his own directly to the side of the center of camp. Every time one more person arrived it was a new problem. Sometimes people tried to [Scry] ahead, but [Undertow Star] burst those spells before they could fully manifest.

After an hour, 179 people were under Erick’s [Undertow Star], and there were at least that many private inquisitions happening, everywhere, all at once. None of the face stealers were dead, yet, though some of them would have died if Erick hadn’t healed them from sudden, terrible violence. No one had any Health right now, so everyone was vulnerable to every punch or stone throw, and many of the attackers (and defenders!) had Strength scores in the 50s.

It was all confusing. It was all terrible. The truthstones came out of storage but none of them worked because Erick’s [Undertow Star] was still high in the sky, still Draining everyone and canceling all spells except for his own. There was still a bit of annoyance when [Luminosity] touched some of Erick’s Force spells, but Erick fixed those issues before they became problems. Erick wasn’t about to turn off the Star, though, and when some people asked him to turn it off, others rapidly shouted them down, talking about how the face stealers could get away.

Some people were beyond furious at the face stealers.

Other people had different reactions. Some were quiet. Some broke down. Some people were stuck in disbelief.

