The Speaker’s husband came forward, demanding to know who Roia was. Roia could only say that she began to love the old man who was her unexpected husband. The plan had been to replace him, too, but she couldn’t. Erick had to prevent sudden, overwhelming mob violence against her, since it was her fault, as the Speaker, that the anti face stealer protocols had been corrupted so very, very much; that so many people had been turned.

And all the while, Erick watched over the unconscious Linxel.

He watched as something slowly broke inside the man’s soul, and as black soulstuff invaded the rest, like a dark blessing unleashed. Nothing was constrained, nothing was diminished. Nothing was heightened, either. Everything was just… changed.

Erick didn’t know what that meant, exactly, but he was glad that he didn’t go with his first instinct to kill the (possible) impostor.

‘Linxel’ had been an impostor, for sure, but he had just been a different version of himself, perhaps. Perhaps he was a version that was brighter and more easily handled with threats of an entirely mundane nature; with threats against a family that no longer existed. But in the act of soul fucking, the dragon (Maybe it was a dragon, maybe not?) that did the soul mutilation had to have known that they changed Linxel’s soul color. And in that knowing, they knew that this plan (whatever it was supposed to be) had a very high failure rate.

Maybe the dragon deemed the risk as acceptable. A missing Linxel would have set off way too many alarms while an imperfect actor would have been seen through, right away. A perfect actor might have been possible, but to acquire a perfect actor, with the correct soul color, with only a few hours prep? Erick wasn’t sure, but that seemed impossible. Perhaps, whoever set this up was making do with what they had on hand, and what they had was just not good enough to fool him.

But if this man was truly Linxel, then why didn’t [Telepathy] work?

Perhaps, [Telepathy] tried to connect to the soul, but with the soul changed so drastically Linxel truly wasn’t the same person?

Back when Jane guided Champion Yetta through Ar’Kendrithyst, to kill Shade Planter, her soul had changed from Script blue to dark blue. And yet, Erick never lost [Telepathy] contact with her.

Maybe the loss of contact here was because it was an artificial soul shift?

- - - -

Erick briefly came fully back to himself. About an hour had passed so far, with him giving small updates to everyone when he could. Jane, Nirzir, and Poi were still on high alert, but less so, since nothing had happened right away, and whoever had done this likely knew exactly where Erick was already. The only one visibly doing something was Teressa, who was sitting in her chair, her eyes glossed over as she shifted her Sight toward the future, hoping to see something before it happened. Poi was the first to notice that Erick was almost fully back, though.

Erick asked, “Does a mangled soul change how [Telepathy] works? Would that interaction look like a [Telepathy] going to a dead person? I’m not sure how [Telepathy] works, exactly.”

Teressa blinked, her sight coming back to the moment, as she came back to the present. Jane said nothing, for she had no answers. Nirzir had an answer, but held her tongue.

Poi said, “I only know the broadest of answers to that. Hold on.” He glanced away, the tendrils around his head extending outward.

Nirzir spoke, “I think the answer is yes, but I’m not completely sure on that.”

Poi came back almost right away, blurting out, “Sometimes, when a necromancer or soul mage operates on a soul more than a small change, they will accidentally shift the color of the soul, for they have introduced a cascading trauma into that soul, and the shifting of a soul’s color always indicates a large trauma.” He said, “Naturally occurring soul trauma that comes from within does not interfere with normal spellworks and interactions, such as one’s ability to enchant, or to communicate through [Telepathy]. Soul trauma caused by outside sources, such as a Soul Mage or necromancer, almost always interferes with everything the traumatized person does, from spell creation to connecting with [Telepathy] to enchanting. Sometimes, if the shift is not done properly, then such a shift can revert and cause even more damage in the reverting.” Poi looked to Erick, saying, “You need to get Linxel to a proper soul healer. Having him active and whole would go a long way toward fixing the problems of Green Grass.”

All good things to know. From Nirzir’s expression, she didn’t know much of what Poi had explained, either.

Erick agreed with Poi’s assessment, saying, “Please inform the Palace of the Eternal Court that I am bringing them a patient and that I expect prompt service.”

Poi gave a tiny, involuntary gasp, covering the action by saying, “At once.” After a moment, he came back. “Bring the warlord to the eastern courtyard; it’s visible from the air. They’ll have a Soul Healer waiting for him.”

“Thank you.”

While Teressa shivered, Jane winced, and Nirzir frowned a little, Erick cast his gaze back to Green Grass.

- - - -

Ophiel dropped the insensate Linxel upon the soft grasses of the eastern courtyard of the Palace of the Eternal Court, while Erick’s avatar stepped out of the light, to stand beside the soul-fucked or face stolen man; Erick wasn’t quite sure yet.

To the sides of the courtyard, under sloping eaves, were nice yet utilitarian classrooms, where many chairs all faced podiums which stood next to chalkboards. Only a few classes were in session today. Older teenagers poked their heads above window frames, to see Erick and the warlord. A few teachers had stopped what they were doing to allow their charges to view whatever was going to happen outside.

The initiates were marked by loose, thin gold chains around their necks. The teachers were marked with thicker gold chains, almost like solid bands. Their guards wore no gold at all, as they stood at attention atop the corners of the roof, and down in the corners of the courtyard, their eyes open for anyone trying to enter, or escape. The guards noticed Erick and Ophiel and Linxel, but they did nothing, for they knew what was going on. All of that was just window dressing.

Erick saw the person he was to meet for soul healing, and a tension relaxed from his chest. He could trust this person.

Elder Arilitilo looked exactly the same as before, though it had only been two weeks last he saw her. She looked well. She had students now, too. Five older teens stood behind Ari, each of them wearing small gold chains and nice grey uniform robes; same as all the other students nearby.

Erick rapidly said, “Elder Ari. It is good to see you. Please tell me that you can fix whatever soul fuckery is going on here, or find out what is wrong with him. I need him alive and well because we’re in the middle of an active face stealer situation up north, and he’s the warlord of a clan. I think we’ve got a good hundred face stealers, at least, and other trouble worse than that.”

Ari listened, then she immediately moved to the warlord, saying, “Good afternoon to you too, Archmage Flatt. I was quickly briefed, but it is good to have the whole story.” She knelt down upon the grass and put her hands upon Linxel’s chest. A faint red glow lined her purple skin as her eyes turned from violet to maroon. With an unfocused gaze, she asked, “What do you think happened to him? Exactly?”

Her students looked on, rapt in attention, their eyes shifting from Ari, to Linxel, to Erick, to Ophiel, then settling back to Linxel, to see whatever it was Ari was doing to the man.

Erick explained, “His soul was dark blue when I first met him and he was willing to think about counter-Hunting face stealers. Three hours later, I met him again and his soul was sky blue, and he did not want to deal with the face stealers in his clan, or in any of his allied clans. I escalated. He broke down when he knew he was not going to get his way, saying stuff about how his father and sister were now lost to him. From other people in the clan, I learned that his father and sister were eaten by sky tethers 12 years ago, before he became warlord. When his family had been killed, that was when his soul shifted to a darker color.”

“Okay,” Ari shifted her glowing red hands atop the man’s chest, tapping upon the soul inside and eliciting echoes in return. As she tapped, the fractured dark blue and bright blue parts of Linxel began to even out, like she was untangling knots made of clumpy water. “I understand now. This was a soul shift done improperly and under dire circumstances in an attempt to influence the man in a specific way. Whoever operated on him was highly skilled, but also rushed. Healing unnatural damage is easier than causing damage. It will take an hour to get the warlord walking. Three hours for a full healing. What is his name?”

“Linxel Green Grass.” Erick asked, “Can you tell if he is a face stealer, or not? How would you tell?”

Ari frowned a little, as the light around her hand magnified. “I do not believe he is a face stealer, though I will know more later, once I have had a chance to fully examine him.”

“Okay. Do you need me to remain here?”

“Your assistance is not required for this part, Archmage.” Ari said, “Check back in an hour, please.”

“Thanks for this, Ari.”

Ari spoke to her students, “Attend me, children; Watch as I coax Linxel’s soul back together by having him notice the fractures and—”

Ophiel departed.

- - - -

Erick’s avatar had never vanished from Clan Green Grass, but people had noticed that his attention had wavered. Now that he was fully here, all he heard was screaming and threats of violence and a hundred and fifty people, desperately wanting to know what the fuck was happening to their clan. Erick had separated the face stealers from everyone else with a lot of [Quick Wall]s, but he also had to separate some of the face stealers from others of their kind, with even more Walls; There was discord in those ranks.

Secrets were coming out and it was not pretty.

Erick silenced everyone and waited a moment for them to understand that he was going to speak, now. He didn’t have to wait long. As eyes turned to him, Erick raised his voice to calmly say, “I have taken Linxel to a soul healer. He was soul fucked by someone in an attempt to prevent a counter-Hunt. He was not face stolen. Soon, we will have better answers. Soon, there will be an even greater counter-Hunt among your people, for I doubt that Linxel would not proceed with a true counter-Hunt now that he is on his way to being of sound mind, and soul. But that will take two hours.

“As of right now, I have already found every single person of Green Grass who I believe to be a face stealer, and I will reveal the reason that I am counter-Hunting in your lands.” As clansmen went wide eyed, Erick stepped toward the Force cage in the center of the camp. His avatar stared at those behind the Walls of Force. “A dragon attempted to assassinate me, and so I am trying to find out why, in case there is some misunderstanding that we can clear up to prevent further aggression. You are all collateral damage. I see you do not believe me— Ah. I see at least one of you does believe me, and isn’t that interesting…” His voice trailed off as he took in everything he was seeing.

Erick looked to Roia, who stood alone in a separate cage of Force, looking utterly resigned to her fate as she stared right back at Erick’s avatar. When Erick had mentioned dragons, and while everyone else had varying reactions from surprise to disbelief to fear, Roia was merely resigned, as though someone had taken apart her life and showed her the problems that she had made for herself.

According to what everyone was screaming, the fake Speaker of Green Grass was high up in her organization. Other face stealers had tried to kill her already, which was why she was alone. An oddity (or perhaps not that odd at all) was that the husband of the body Roia had stolen had taken to standing just outside of Roia’s prison, staring hate and sorrow at the woman, while his soul shifted colors from sunny yellow to something dimmer, getting darker with each passing moment. Roia couldn’t even look at him.

Erick spoke to everyone, “I am after dragons. These dragons are behind many of the plots against Integration, and also for Integration, no doubt. They orchestrate your clans at cross purposes, or for their own gain, or for whatever reason they have; I know not what. All I know is that one of them tried to kill me a few weeks ago, and I am here to find out why. But to get to them, I apparently have to go through every single hidden society there is, of which the face stealers and Hunters are one.

“If anyone here wishes to be a part of that counter-Hunt and to tear these plagues from your homeland, then let me know now. You will become a volunteer force and I will help you find every single face stealer that hides among you.”

He let them speak. It took a few seconds for the gathered people to realize that they could talk, and then the flood came all at once. A good 40% of people wanted to join Erick’s counter-Hunt. The rest wanted to know more. And so, Erick explained how he would counter-Hunt the face stealers among them, and among other grass traveler clans. It took an hour, but it was time well spent.

Soon, one major person stood out from the crowd.

Forage Leader Ooloori publicly declared her intentions to aid Erick in whatever he needed. She hadn’t been in camp when all of this started, but she had come in from the outside and was rapidly brought up to speed. As she was the effective co-leader of this encampment of Clan Green Grass, her declaration began to solidify an organized base of support among everyone else.

By the time that happened, Linxel was awake.

- - - -

Erick’s avatar descended into the courtyard.

Ari stood to the side with her students behind her, while a pair of guards empowered a dome of Force in the center of the courtyard. Their spell was a shield of [Draining Void], or something similar, and it completely cut Linxel off from the rest of the world, while simultaneously Draining him. The warlord was awake and very active inside that spellwork, but most of his actions were just punching at the transparent walls and getting nowhere. He was furious, but he was also fully himself again. And then he saw Erick’s avatar. He roared out inaudible expletives; his cage had sound dampening functions.

Erick asked Ari, “Is he good?”

Ari stood straight, saying, “I have healed the man. He is once again himself. Please take him away.”

“Thank you, Ari.” Erick said, “I owe you another one.”

