The ambient white noise of rushing magma also rung out in all directions. It was like I surrounded myself in a waterfall, the pour so loud it silenced everything else. I enjoyed the peace of the place. I might even spend more time under the mantle on Earth after this, but now wasn't the time for thinking up leisure activities. Pulling myself back into the moment, I retracted Event Horizon. From this lava, living blots crashed into me from all angles.

I formed pictures with my gravitational sense, making out the shape of these insects. They composed entirely of the surrounding lava, with no actual shells or blood making them up. From another perspective, I reached out with my sense for mana, finding they weren't truly alive, though they held a physical form.

It was the same technique that Obolis used for his living magic, but simply far more developed. Plazia had embedded mana under Svia's crust, bringing these magma insects to life here, and these magical constructs prevented others from diving this deep. Considering the amount of mana required for this planetary enchantment, I smiled.

Plazia was strong. Very strong.

They darted in from all angles, their tiny minds fueled by their creator's commands. I tried grasping one, but it squeezed between my fingers before returning to its previous form. Several even fused together, rushing me like a world worm, battering at me like a raging bull. This enchantment would be challenging to handle for many people.

But not me. I silenced the massive worm with Event Horizon, its life ending in an instant. For the other insects, I telepathically linked with many of them, discovering more about the magic. These weren't purely magical constructs; Plazia implanted the minds of his insects into the magma. That's how they retained permanence so well.

This also meant Plazia still controlled them, and I found an enormous consciousness interacting with them from a distance. That subtle tethering reminded me of Lehesion's vast link. That wasn't because of this tether's strength but due to its toughness. Even if I jerked on these seemingly subtle connection points, they didn't snap.

Considering how minuscule these bug's minds were and how large mine was, that was absolutely incredible. Testing a theory, I let loose on those anchoring points. No matter how I pulled, they stayed taut. They were unbreakable. Getting Plazia-Ruhl's attention, I jerked on those connections like a child yanking on pigtails.

Seconds passed as the magma insects bit at me from all angles. They shattered claws, snapped teeth, and broke wings on my skin, unable to even scratch me. I found it fascinating how large the magic enchantment was, and it sparked my curiosity. I wasn't the only one curious, however.

The enormous psyche from afar closed the gap, sending over a small fragment of itself here. This piece of Plazia's mind acted as an initial scout. Considering it ruled this underground domain, it must have found my presence baffling.

Once it landed, I seized the mind's fragment around my own conscious, smothering it. It reached out with an insidious curiosity,

"You who crawls beneath the mantle...Who are you, and how have you not perished amidst my inner sanctum?"

I grinned, "Me? I'm Daniel Hillside." I spread my arms,

"And I'm alive because I'm hard to kill."
