

No longer afraid, she studied the creature. Its gleaming black scales and reptilian face looked almost beautiful in the dim flickering light of the remnants of the fireball explosions.

I must be insane. Or biased because it’s mine.

“Wow,” Mato breathed. “That’s going to help a lot if we can get it some gear.”

“I think I can do that, too,” Ali said, thinking quickly. Of all her imprints, the one she was least excited about was the Giant Spider. Focusing her attention, she directed the dagger imprint to that chapter. Immediately, the Grimoire erased the spider imprint and replaced it with the crude dagger.

Well, that was easy. Too easy? Have a little care, Aliandra …

Charily, she considered her remaining imprints. The plants she wanted to keep. Stone was turning out to be useful for barricading doors. Her Starving Wolf imprint seemed superior to the Sewer Rat imprint, and Mato had told her they were smarter fighters, so it came down to a choice between the wood imprint and the rat imprint. Ali hadn’t found much use for making wood yet, but she felt that the Sewer Rat was definitely obsolete – too low level. Decision made. Sighing between her clenched teeth, she replaced the Imprint: Sewer Rat with the new Imprint: Crude Leather Armor.

Ali spent the next few minutes making a full set of leather armor and a pair of daggers for her rogue. When she handed him the items, he simply nodded respectfully and immediately equipped the armor and tested out the daggers with a few air-swipes and mock-stabs.

I could make another one. She had more than enough mana at this point, especially now that all her wolves had been killed. She deconstructed the Fire Mage and the Kobold Warrior corpses to refill her mana and then summoned another Kobold and more gear. It was nothing like summoning a Sewer Rat. She stumbled a little and sat down, drained from the effort and concentration required to summon so much.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 9.

Now it levels up. Ali frowned at the notification. After all the tradeoffs she had considered to acquire her new imprints, she now had a new blank ninth chapter. I guess I can always go learn the rat again if I need to. No. I have enough monsters. Keep it in reserve for now. A shame I can’t imprint five hundred more health.

Your reserved mana has increased by +51.Rogue – Kobold – level 7

The new Kobold bowed to her immediately, just like the first one had, and then the two of them spoke softly together for a while. Ali’s mana slowly ticked down as her Sage skill tried its hardest to help.

Is that actually a language? I guess it must be, although I’m getting nothing.

While she had been working with her Grimoire, Mato had piled up all the corpses and gear in the house for her to deconstruct.

“Hey, does this work for you?” Mato asked, holding the Fire Mage’s robe out to her. It stank of sulfur and looked like it might have once found use as a rag for swabbing the cursed remnants of a warlock’s failed summoning ritual over a volcanic vent in some deep forgotten hellhole. “It might actually be close to your size.”

Ali glanced at her clothes. She had been about to dismiss the idea on general principles, but her shirt was burnt through by the Fireball. It might actually be better. I probably smell just as bad too. She took the offered robe and dubiously identified it. As soon as she did, her eyes widened, and she immediately tried it on.

Whoa, nice! Maybe I should Identify things more often!

Tattered Robes – level 7Resistance: 67Requirements: Intelligence 25Body – Cloth

Ali adjusted the torn robes to her slightly smaller frame, tying off a few pieces so the cloth wouldn’t hamper her movement – or expose her butt due to the hole the Kobold had made for her tail. Her status immediately updated to show the effect.

Resistance: 67Magic Damage Reduction: 23.02%

Ali nodded slowly. Even though the robe was torn and smelly, the resistance would grant her an impressive amount of magical damage reduction against any monster at her own level.

Sweet. I would have loved that a few minutes ago, she thought, recalling her brief Fireball-fueled flight across the room and into the wall. “Thanks, Mato.”

“Sure. Next time, we’ll find you a prettier one.”

She began to fold her arms in annoyance, before deciding this needed a joke. “A prettier girl Kobold to join my team? You’re so thoughtful.”

He began to belly-laugh, but muffled the sound with his hands. Pointing at her two rogues, Mato said, “You want to go try those guys out? We should be able to handle some of the higher-level patrols, now.”

For the first time in days, excitement rose within her. He’s right, we should be able to take some of the patrols we’ve been hiding from. As long as we pick carefully.

***

Ali stared at the patrol Mato had found. Among the higher-level patrols, there were several new variants of Kobold that they had not fought before. This patrol was no different.

Warrior – Kobold – level 10-11 x2Slinger – Kobold – level 11-12 x2

The Slingers were a soft, rusty-brown color wearing crude leather armor like the ones she had made for her rogues, but these were armed with slings and pouches of rocks.

With his typical roar and charge routine, Mato engaged the patrol.

“Go, attack the Slingers at the back,” she instructed, mentally sending her intent to her two new Kobolds the same way she had directed the wolves and rats.

Immediately, she had to defend herself, throwing up a barrier against a barrage of small rocks that ricocheted off it with loud cracks. Aiming around her barrier, she fired off a stream of Arcane Bolts to keep the Kobold Slingers honest, while keeping a sharp eye out for cracks in her defensive magic. Or rogues.

Hey, where did my rogues go? In her moment of distraction, they had simply vanished, and now she couldn’t find them anywhere.

A moment later, there was a sudden spray of crimson blood and a howl of pain from one of the Kobold Slingers as her two rogues appeared out of the shadows behind it, their rusty daggers stabbing viciously.

My rogues have stealth! In almost no time, the hapless Kobold Slinger perished beneath the onslaught, and her rogues immediately moved to the next target with a quick exchange of chirps and yips. A sizeable chunk of mana drained into her Sage of Learning in response. Not now! Ali fired half a dozen Arcane Bolts at the last Slinger and was relieved to see it drop almost as quickly as the first one.

The sudden unexpected mana deficit from her Sage skill worried her, though. What if that happens in a close battle? Like the last one…

She instructed her rogues to go help Mato, still roaring and slashing at the two warriors, and immediately lost a chunk more mana as their chirping calls were analyzed by Sage of Learning. Ali had not expected she would regret having a learning skill she couldn’t disable. Quickly, she ran over to the corpses and deconstructed them just in case she needed mana in an emergency. Thankfully, the warriors succumbed to their attack without any surprises.

Ali was so pleased with the performance of her rogues, that she summoned another Kobold as soon as she had recovered her mana.

Your reserved mana has increased by +51.Warrior – Kobold – level 7

Ooh nice, I can make the warriors, too!

She gave her new green-scaled warrior Kobold the iron chain shirt and rusty sword from one of the warriors they had just killed and deconstructed the rest of the gear.

With the soft chirps of her new minions following them, Ali found that their progress had accelerated tenfold. They were able to take on many of the patrols that they had previously been forced to hide from, saving an enormous amount of time skulking about in dark houses hoping to go unnoticed. In the few hours they had left of the day, they made more progress than in the entire three days prior.

As they settled into a new hiding spot for the night, Ali scrolled through all the notifications.

Your group has defeated Slinger – Kobold – level 12.Your group has defeated Slinger – Kobold – level 11.…Your group has defeated Warrior – Kobold – level 10.Grove Warden has reached level 9.+10 attribute points.Arcane Bolt has reached level 9.Barrier has reached level 9.

Without much thought, Ali immediately put all her attribute points into vitality. Her seventy percent withdrawal turned what should have been fifty points of health into a paltry increase of fifteen.

But Ali was happy to have any increase at all.

That run-in with the stealthed Kobold rogue and the feel of the dagger slipping between her ribs hadn’t left her mind even for an instant. If Mato hadn’t been close enough…

***

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: AncientClass: Grove Warden – level 9- Grasping Roots – level 5- Arcane Bolt – level 9- Barrier – level 9- Grimoire of Summoning – level 9- Runic Script – level 7- Sage of Learning – level 7- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Reading – level 7- Identify – level 7- Sculpting – level 2Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal’mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common- Mana (Affinities): Arcane, Nature- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Mana Sense (Racial): You are sensitive to nearby mana- Domain (Class): Your mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain SenseAttributes- Vitality: 50- Strength: 4- Endurance: 15- Dexterity: 10- Perception: 11- Intelligence: 38- Wisdom: 32Equipment- Body: Tattered Robes – level 7Resistance: 67Magic Damage Reduction: 21%Health: 75/75 (-70% Domain Withdrawal)Stamina: 150/150Mana: 363/520 (157 Reserved)Grimoire: Imprints1- Moss2- Wood3- Crude Leather Armor4- Crude Dagger5- Starving Wolf6- Mushroom7- Stone8- Kobold9-

Calen loped along the game trail, his feet making absolutely no sound as he passed over rock and soil alike. His body was almost invisible, appearing as a vaguely shifting shadow in the dappled light of the forest. He and Malika had ventured quite far south already using the same approach – he would hunt patrols and lure them back to where Malika lay in wait, and they would take care of them together. Once the path was clear, they would move up together and repeat the process.

His Explorer skill told him that he was getting closer to the warren – there were many more tracks than he had seen before. He kept his eyes open and scanned the trees and bush for any signs of Goblins as he continued, following trails, dodging through trees, always tracking. Coming to a rise, he slowed and found a denser patch of shade in which to approach. He stepped forward carefully and peered out into a small clearing.

What he saw was nothing like what he expected. Down in the clearing were four figures, standing around a small fire, horses tied to a tree at the edge of the clearing. One of the figures was hooded and masked, wearing black leather. Two of them were huge bulky brutes, and the last was a slender catkin woman wearing leather and playing with a dagger.

He recognized all of them.

What are they doing here?

It was Kieran Mori and his underlings, Tala, Adrik, and Edrik. The very same criminals that had pushed Ali and Mato down the hole and sold him and Malika to the Kel’darran slave traders. His jaw clenched but he stood absolutely still, willing himself to give nothing away. He wasn’t familiar with their perception skills, but he had no desire to face them again. Even with his Explorer skill masking his sound, and Eclipse masking his image, all save Tala were well beyond his ability to Identify and the quality of stealth skills depended heavily on relative level difference.

He waited patiently while they simply sat, the two thugs telling each other off-color jokes to pass the time while trying to get Tala to participate. Mori stood apart from the others, not joining in.

Calen was beginning to get a bit annoyed at the unfunny jokes as his stamina slowly leaked away to power his stealth skills, when three more people appeared, entering the clearing and offering an obviously pre-arranged greeting. By their garb, they were all mercenary rogues or Assassins, and Calen counted at least twelve daggers and four swords among the three of them.

“Did you find it?” Kieran Mori asked.

“It was as you expected,” the presumed leader of the new group answered. She was the one carrying four swords, two on her back and two at her left hip. “We had to descend a long way before we found the boss.”

“Did you kill it as I asked?”

“Yes, it was a difficult fight – some kind of mutant Goblin Warlord – but we were successful. Everything went crazy. You should see the break soon.”

Break? Boss? Calen had been having a difficult time figuring out what they were talking about, but the moment the mercenary captain had mentioned the ‘break’ he had a most terrifying realization.

The Goblins are not coming from a warren. It’s a dungeon! And then he understood what they had done. They triggered a dungeon-break… on purpose? How? Why? Given the people in the clearing below, it could only be something awful.

“When will we get paid?” one of the dagger assassins asked.

“Edrik, Adrik, please take care of them,” Kieran said, his tone bored.

The mercenaries’ quick smiles turned to shock and surprise as Adrik and Edrik approached, pulling out their swords and activating their skills. The first mercenary had no chance, his head landing with a splat in a pile of leaves, the shocked expression still glued to his dead face.

“You bastard!” the captain shouted at Kieran Mori as she drew the two swords from her back.

Kieran’s form flickered with shadow and a deafening thunderclap filled the clearing. Calen saw only an afterimage of the black hooded rogue before he appeared in front of the mercenary captain, his spear impaled clean through her chest. She twitched a couple of times, her legs dangling a foot above the ground before she slumped dead and he dropped her off his weapon, making it vanish.

Only a supreme act of will kept him from fleeing. They would have been on him in a flash. Calen found himself holding his breath and tried to let it out soundlessly, knowing his life depended on the next few seconds.

Adrik and Edrik held the last mercenary down while Tala stabbed him in the back.

Kieran watched expressionlessly until the rogue was dead and then he addressed Tala. “That’s how you take care of business. Clean. Nobody to talk. Now, go make sure the Goblins are headed in the right direction, I need them at Myrin’s Keep’s gates in a couple of days. See that it happens.”

