“Do you have any idea how many you’ve killed over the last couple of decades?” the other True Dragon asked with narrowed eyes.

“No one?” Yrel asked, genuinely confused until she realized what the other dragon was getting at. “No one that counts, anyway.”

“That demeanor is exactly why you need to return with me.”

“You seriously think I deserve to be punished because of… what? What exactly is my crime here? See, this is why I can’t stand people like you, acting as if you’re better just because you take pity on inferior creatures,” Yrelstromoz scoffed.

The other True Dragon looked conflicted before sighing. “This is your last chance. If they hear of one more instance of you acting out, I fear the elders won’t tolerate it. You risk being expelled from the Lumenflight, and if that happens, we… I… can no longer protect you. Even if I promised your parents to do so.”

“Protect me?” Yrel said, recoiling in disgust at the arrogance of the other dragon. “Do I need protection? No. I’m not stupid and will just stay away from places I shouldn’t go. Or are you going to insist that I return with you to be punished and potentially suffer the same fate as my parents?”

“What happened to them had nothing to do with-“

“Spare me the excuses and just leave me alone already, for fuck's sake,” Yrel slammed the table hard enough for it to crack while also breaking the floor tiles below. “I’m done with you, done with the Lumenflight, and done doing what I’m told. I’m not a fucking whelp anymore but a True Dragon, and if you can’t treat me like one, then I don’t need the Lumenflight.”

“If that’s truly how you feel… then I’m done here,” the other woman sighed as she stood up while leaving a token floating in the air between them. “But I would be remiss if I didn’t try one more time. I plead with you. If you trust me, please use this token and reach out at any point. You can still walk a worthy Path and have a future worth having. I sincerely hope you reach out, but no matter what choices you make, they will be your choices, so I guess all I can say is… good luck to you.”

“I don’t need luck,” she scoffed, waving off the annoying dragon. The woman looked at her with a look of disappointment, which only pissed off Yrel even more, especially when she realized the damn woman wouldn’t leave before she took the token.

Even after the other True Dragon was gone, Yrel’s mood didn’t improve, and the more she thought about it, the angrier she grew. Clenching her fists, she kept replaying the conversation in her mind, cursing the woman whom she once called an aunt and the pathetic Dragonflight that felt like nothing but a collar around her neck, restraining her freedom.

Calling her incensed would be an understatement.

You know what? They say I’m acting out? I’ll show them what acting out really looks like.
