The instant Ali felt her recharge expire, she teleported again, switching places with the mage beside her, using her as a target simply to bring another five monsters from the far reaches of her domain. She had free ice mages in her domain, but they would be a poor choice against the ice affinity Death Knights, so she grabbed a Sacred Ooze, another holy mage, a Fungaloth Ravager, a Hellfire Imp, and an Eye of Agnor.

The impromptu pitched battle was furious and vicious. Every few seconds, aura blasts of ice magic exploded out from the Death Knights, freezing and chilling everything in melee range. The priests, mages, and her witch doctor instantly rushed to dispel the powerful control magic, freeing the trapped adventurers one at a time until Joraa was able to drop a Free Action totem.

Adventurers continued to pour in through the entry arches, coming as fast as they could run, teleport, or fly from the nearby guild, and as soon as there were enough, Calen’s command rang out through the room.

“Bloodlust, all buffs, go!”

A cascade of notifications sounded in her mind, but Ali simply ignored them, focused intently on the fight. A formation of offensive ice magic appeared, and she disrupted it – easily learned given its similarity to Frost Nova, and how frequently the Death Knights were using it, and most importantly, her extensive experience against Haverron and all his minions.

“Two minutes left,” Calen announced calmly. And then the first Death Knight collapsed, a strangely echoing wail fading out as its soul left the prison of its undead body.

Two minutes. At this rate, they were not going to make it. She teleported again, drawing in even the lower-level minions she had left grinding experience at the spawning pools. Every little bit mattered.

Magic howled and exploded through the cathedral, swords whistled, and axes crashed as the entire guild unleashed its power. She could even see Seth’s zombies and skeletons charging into the fray, lit on fire by the holy consecration, and collapsing in waves, only able to do a paltry few seconds of damage, and yet still they came.

“Thirty seconds,” Calen called right as the second Death Knight fell to the ground, crashing in a heap.

Ali urged her minions on, burning more and more of her own mana to increase their damage with Empowered Summoner, but they were already giving everything.

“Ten.”

“Five.”

“Three… Two… One…”

“Please don’t let him die,” Azryet said.

The blinding sun of holy magic empowering Havok faded as his blessing expired. His body shrank back to its normal size, and the glow of his sword and shield dimmed, reverting to its former glory.

But Havok did not flinch; he simply raised his shield to block yet again.

A powerful shout reverberated through the chamber, shimmering through the air with empowered soul magic, and simultaneously, the roar of a bear hammered into the Death Knights, Mato’s bass accompaniment to Sabri’s shout. Hours of practice working together knitted into a seamless transition of tanking. One Death Knight turned, delivering a vast overhead strike that collided with Sabri’s shield. Another Death Knight staggered backward as its glowing rune-axe found Mato’s Critical Block, leaving just a single Death Knight to hammer at Havok’s Holy Shield.

Calen called the strategy change calmly for all to hear, “Tanks switched. Kill Havok’s first.”

Ali released her held breath in relief as the red ribbons of her blood shaman’s Blood Siphon began threading through all three of the tanks, matching the similar green ribbons of Teagan’s nature magic. She shifted her minions to the chosen Death Knight, still burning mana to empower them, while Disrupting every major curse she could, but she could see the outcome. Even though Azryet’s enormous boon had faded, it had tided them through the most dangerous part of the battle, allowing Havok to tank five Death Knights solo while the guild raid assembled. Now that they had separated the monsters, everyone settled into the familiar rhythm of a raid fight, and the Death Knights burned rapidly under the onslaught and the holy flames of the cathedral’s consecration.

“Good work, everyone,” Vivian said, as the last Death Knight collapsed. Cheers rose from the throats of most of the guild. “I want patrols checking for more incursions, and don’t forget to turn in your quest credits – it’s good money and you can improve your gear.”

Ali sank to the floor, ignoring the details as Lyeneru coordinated scouts to check on the perimeter of the town, the adventurers discussing the fight or the rewards in the heady rush of the aftermath. But a few moments later, she glanced up to find Malika standing beside her, concern flickering again in her softly glowing blue eyes.

“Mind if I join you?” Malika asked.

Ali nodded, and Malika sat beside her, folding her legs into her favorite meditation position. They sat together in silence for a while, Ali wrestling with her thoughts and emotions. Havok had stepped up to protect her from the Death Knights without hesitation, and somehow, he had survived. It was thanks mainly to the insane buff Azryet had managed to grant him. Over in the center of the chamber, she could see the little Goblin helping to drag the Death Knight corpses into a pile, along with the remains of the skeletons and zombies Seth had lost to the consecrated flames.

“They came for me,” Ali said finally. There could be no other interpretation: the Death Knight’s words, and the fact that they had known exactly where she was and cut through the town on a direct line to reach her, ignoring everything in their paths. Her cursed title and the many eyes of the eldritch monster upon her meant she was endangering her friends simply by being here.

“You can’t just keep thwarting the plans of a Lich,” Malika said. “Sooner or later, he’s going to notice.”

Ali’s eyes snapped upward at the offhand and surprisingly flippant response.

“It’s not like it changes much,” Malika said, shrugging. “He was always going to be a problem. We must still get stronger to face him or his forces. But, Ali, we just defeated five Death Knights easily, and that’s ignoring the ones we took out in the dungeon – do you remember the first one we faced?”

She did. She remembered it vividly – the chilling terror of being frozen in place by ice and fear as the monstrous undead casually tore through her entire minion army after they had just defeated Alexander Gray. She understood what Malika was getting at – worry would not make it better. They were stronger now. Those fears might still reach out to claw at her present, but she resolved to no longer give them any purchase. I will be stronger. My friends are relying on me.

Still, the knowledge that Nevyn Eld was looking for her, specifically, clawed like icy talons at her heart. “I just wanted time to find the wells, and destroy the phylactery…”

“We have the vial from the Well of Eternity,” Malika said, her voice still calm and relaxed. “We know where the Well of Souls is, and I’m sure we’ll find the phylactery once we figure out that ice dragon.”

“But the Well of Divinity is destroyed,” Ali said, not quite able to shake the dark mood that had her in its grasp.

“We won’t know until we go look,” Malika said. “Maybe something survived – it is an ancient artifact after all.”

“I…” Ali said, but then she paused. Malika’s opinion sounded unreasonably optimistic, and she was certain her friend was simply trying to cheer her up, but it was Malika. She never exaggerated stuff like this for trivial purposes like cheering people up. Being level-headed and cautious was a fundamental part of her very nature. If she said it, she truly believed it. “Thanks, Malika,” she said, deciding she would simply have to trust her friend. It was not like her worries were making her any safer. “Is Mato rubbing off on you?”

Malika shot her a sharp glance but then chuckled, “I guess so. I think we should all level up a lot more, though. We have that in common.”

“Speaking of leveling,” Ali said, and turned her mind inward to the more immediate practicalities.

Your group has defeated Devastation Knight – Undead Dragonkin – level 208-221 (Ice) (x5)Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 185.+10 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 110 (+2).Barrier has reached level 99.Martial Insight has reached level 114.Empowered Summoner has reached level 94 (+2).Minion Teleport has reached level 62 (+3).

“I got a level for killing death knights?” Ali said.

“Nice,” Malika smiled.

It seemed to be a good one, too. Minion Teleport had passed sixty, which meant she could now transport six additional minions instead of five – something that would make future pitched battles like this one a lot easier.

Ali spent three points each on wisdom and perception and added the remaining four to her intelligence attribute. Then, she rose to her feet and walked over to the pile of Death Knights with Malika accompanying her in companionable silence.

“There’s a straight line of destruction right through the town, from the battlements all the way to this temple,” Lyeneru growled. “The Auction House was destroyed, along with several other important buildings.”

“I was afraid of that,” Aiden said, his frown deepening. “I don’t know how I’m going to keep the anti-dungeon faction quiet now. They’ve been itching for an upset like this, continually petitioning the town council over trivial details. An incursion of Death Knights is going to spark their fury.”

Anti-dungeon faction? Ali had not been aware of anything like that, but she should have guessed. Not everyone would be that enamored with a dungeon filling their town with its mana. Still, it bothered her more than she expected. After all I’ve done to put this town back on its feet?

“The crafters estimate another week to repair the damage,” Lyeneru said.

“That will push back the construction of everything on the high-priority list. People are getting unhappy about living in tents,” Aiden said.

“The buildings will respawn,” Ali said as she reached the pile of Death Knights and began deconstructing them.

“Respawn?”

“Dungeon shenanigans,” Ali said. There were too many people who appreciated her for this anti-dungeon faction to get her down. There couldn’t be that many of them, or she would have heard of it before. “I attached all the completed buildings to my domain; they should all respawn within a couple of hours. It makes renovations and adjustments a little more complicated, but I thought it would be better this way. The battlements, too.”

“Oh,” Aiden said, a surprising amount of relief crossing his face. “Well! That will make my job a lot easier. I can’t wait to see those grumpy faces when the buildings magically reappear.”

“No problem,” Ali said. She didn’t particularly care for the grumpy faces, but Aiden’s happiness made her feel a whole lot better.

She quickly deconstructed all the remaining corpses of the Devastation Knights, but she ignored the armor and equipment, having already added everything to her Grimoire while in the Crypt of Kings. It would be far more useful for the guild to divvy up the equipment among themselves.

She caught a frown on Lyeneru’s face when she deconstructed the last Devastation Knight, and her Grimoire failed to react, presumably the elf deducing that she already had the imprint.

Yes, she could make Death Knights now; something Lyeneru had once been staunchly opposed to. But if Lyeneru did not see that she was trustworthy by now, then that was not her problem anymore – and although she got a look, the powerful Night Elf did not comment.

Ali smiled sweetly in her direction, and to her surprise, got a tired but genuine smile back. Perhaps I don’t give her enough credit. She pursed her lips and then quietly said, “Hey, Lyeneru, you should ask Calen about Mi’ir Valdanis.”

The sudden widening of the normally stoic Pathfinder’s eyes and the speed with which she scrambled to find her apprentice were worth more than gold.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
