Ali felt the weight of their unholy mana the moment they set foot in her domain. The sudden glacial chill of ice, and the decrepit malevolence of undeath; the stench of unwholesomeness, a foul odor and the sharp, visceral tang of fear that permeated even the mana that rolled off them like a miasma. Her domain groaned under the strain of keeping her plants from just withering and dying from their presence. Five of them, and by the time she found them with her senses, they were already halfway across town like deadly arrows of destruction heading for her heart, leaving a wake of exploding buildings and frozen rubble.

“Havok! Death Knights!” Ali yelled. They were already tearing across the main street, almost at the cathedral.

With out-of-place serenity gracing his leathery green face, Havok knelt in the center of the wide-open alabaster floor and bowed his head.

“Havok, we need to run!” she urged. There was no time for praying. The Death Knights would be upon them in mere seconds, and already she could feel the prickle of unnatural fear growing from their auras of despair.

“Oh, Azryet, please accept church!” Havok declared loudly, offering his Prayer. “Miss Aliandra made it good.”

What is he doing? But it was too late. Palpable waves of dread washed over her, no longer powerful enough to incapacitate her, but her knees still trembled with sudden weakness. Ice crystals crackled as they spread across the newly built cathedral’s white stone pillars and floor like an ominous and desolate welcoming carpet that preceded their presence. Plate armor boots crunched loudly as they approached the arched entryways.

They’re here.

Imposing figures darkened the archway, wearing age-stained mithril plate, their eyes blazing through their visors. Dark, hooded cloaks billowed upon an unnatural draught of wind.

The first Devastation Knight, a head taller than the others, turned and fixed her with a piercing gaze that sent shivers down her spine. “Aliandra Amariel,” it said, sepulchral echoes following the deep voice. “Surrender your body for the Master’s glory.”

“Yeah, not happening,” Ali said in a thankfully steady voice, but deep in her heart, she despaired. She had tried everything to avoid the dark reach of Nevyn Eld or the eyes of his underlings, but, in the end, he had come for her anyway and sent an overwhelming force. Even with her enormous resistance and wisdom, she was still struggling, five auras of dread and fear bearing down upon her relentlessly. She readied her teleportation, but hesitated, her eyes flickering to the carefree Goblin, kneeling with his back to the monsters.

A spark of light danced across the crown of his green head, and Ali felt the sudden sharp stabbing daggers of dungeon rage. Before she could even blink, an immense voice filled her mind, grating and ancient.

“My First Paladin is requesting consecration for this temple,” Azryet said. “May I have your permission?”

A thousand thoughts collided in Ali’s mind, but one stood out above all. Consecration of the temple could wait, whatever that meant. The danger was clear and present; they were here to reap their lives. She could teleport away, but Havok possessed no such skill. “The Death Knights are here. I need to save him first!”

Havok lifted his bowed head and turned eyes blazing with radiant holy magic, fixing them upon the Death Knight intruders. He rose to his feet, drawing his sword and shield, and stepped in front of Ali. “Azryet says you leave!” he declared loudly.

“We fear not your puny god, whoever he may be,” the Death Knight said, the voice echoing with icy contempt.

“Havok, what are you doing? We need to run!” Ali began, but the voice of Azryet spoke into her mind again.

“Allow me to help,” he ordered.

“What? How?” Ali said, her eyes still seeking exits.

“A portion of my domain will infuse any ground consecrated to me,” he said. “I just need your permission. And if you would, please adjust your domain.”

“Do it!” Ali gasped. The questions of how or why fled from the urgent need that gripped her heart. Havok looked so small standing between her and the Lich’s undead monsters.

An immense pillar of blazing light appeared, shining down upon Havok, and holy fire burst forth from the little Goblin, swelling to fill the entire cathedral. Sudden pain lanced into Ali’s mind, but she forced it down.

You are on consecrated ground.

The Death Knights hissed as the holy flames licked against their greaves, all five drawing their runed swords and axes in unison.

“You will die for this.”

Ali couldn’t help the thought that popped into her mind: Not much of a threat if you were always coming for my corpse. But although she feared for their lives, her heart clung to the hope that Azryet had planted there. A gong echoed loudly through the Cathedral.

[Zone] First Paladin of Azryet has gained Divine Favor.

You have gained Fear Ward.

Immediately, the Death Knights reacted, raising their swords and lunging forward.

No! Havok! Be careful!

“Heal him!” Ali shouted, as she felt sudden calmness and her return to easy rationality as the Fear Ward settled like a mithril breastplate around her mind. All five Priests of Azryet she had made for the Cathedral flared with holy light as they began casting their spells.

Dense radiant mana erupted from Havok like a dam bursting. He raised a voice that echoed with incongruous lightness and joy throughout the cathedral, ringing with uncanny resonance as if backed by a choir of nearly identical voices.

“Thanks for the damage!” he roared as he sprang forward. He blurred, his armor, shield, and sword suddenly blazing with the intensity of a sun, and in an instant, he reached the Death Knights with his sword slashing and shield smashing.

“Don’t die! I’ll get help!” Ali yelled, and then she vanished, finding a Glitter Dragonet in the guild hall.

“Havok! Death Knights!” When he had heard Miss Aliandra’s shout, Havok’s mind had filled with a sudden, surprising calm. He knew what he must do. The gift she had made for him, and for Azryet, was not yet completed. And so, he bowed his head and asked Azryet to consecrate the new church.

“Consecration requires permission, freely given,” Azryet said, his voice echoing in Havok’s mind.

“What means?” Havok asked.

“Who owns this ground?” Azryet asked.

“Miss Aliandra!” Havok said, happy that he knew the answer.

“That is not what I meant…” Azryet began, but then his voice trailed off. Havok waited patiently, and after a pause, Azryet continued with a note of surprise in his voice, “Now, this is intriguing. I believe you to be correct; this may be sufficient for our purpose. More than sufficient. After all, what is a domain, other than a claim to own ground? I will petition her, then.”

Havok glanced between the rapidly approaching undead and Aliandra. If Azryet needed to talk to her, he would need some time. “Havok tank, protect Aliandra. Death Knights come. Can have extra damage?” Havok asked. He would need lots of damage to protect Aliandra.

Azryet’s voice remained silent, but Havok was undeterred. He rose to his feet and raised his shield, stepping forward to take the hits like he always did. “Azryet says you leave!” he declared.

“We fear not your puny god, whoever he may be,” the Death Knight declared. Havok couldn’t even tell which one had spoken, but it did not matter. Whenever Azryet was ready, he would show them his wrath.

“Havok, what are you doing? We need to run!” Ali shouted, but Havok merely took his stance and glared at the monsters.

Suddenly, his notifications spoke in his mind.

You have consecrated a new church in Azryet’s name.Your actions have greatly increased the reputation of your Patron.

“I am sorry that this meager portion of damage is all I can manage through this conduit,” Azryet said. “I hope it is enough.”

“Azryet, not worry. Azryet has Havok!” Havok answered, waving his sword.

“Indeed,” Azryet rumbled contentedly. “Then, show this chaff the meaning of my wrath!”

A loud gong resonated through Havok’s helm, but it did not hurt his ears.

Your prayer has been answered.[Zone] First Paladin of Azryet has gained Divine Favor.You have gained Azryet’s Divine FavorRequirements: Paladin. Azryet’s divine patronage. Stand upon holy ground.x10 to Health, Stamina, and Mana.x2.5 damage multiplier.Holy Power (Holy damage and spell power are increased by +350%).Stalwart Defender (+250% to block speed and blocked damage).Blessing Aura (Fear Ward) (You project a holy aura that grants your blessing to all allies).Blessing – Duration: 5 minutes.

“Thanks for the damage!” he shouted. Havok did not bother listening to the words that echoed in his mind; he knew Azryet. He charged the Death Knights, activating Holy Shield and Smite simultaneously, trusting in the blessing Azryet had bestowed upon him. Behind him, Aliandra vanished, but she was just going to get help. He grinned at the surge of power that rushed through him as the Holy Avenger sword bit deep into the first Death Knight’s side, leaving a searing gash that flickered with holy fire and sizzled with void. Magic pulsed into his body as the kobolds healed him, and he knew all was right with the world.

After all, what could be more righteous than defending Azryet’s cathedral against the undead?

“Yo, Havok! Leave some of them for us,” Devan called as she charged through the doorway with the speed of a Wind Falcon.

“Havok smite!” he yelled, awash with joy.

He was golden. Everything was just golden!

A second later, Miss Aliandra reappeared, bringing a group of roaring trolls, kobolds, and a dragon.

Havok blocked a heavy greatsword with ease and parried an axe, all the while grinning as all his friends began to arrive.

Ali teleported.

“Death Knights! In the church of Azryet,” she yelled, her words bursting through the crowded guild hall like an empowered fireball. All across the hall, adventurers scrambled into action, like an aftershock of frenzied activity.

A discordant choir of magical skills and spells echoed through the room as people reacted. Ali ignored them as soon as she was certain her message had been understood. The throbbing, ripping pain in the back of her mind surged through her, twisting out of her grasp and all attempts at suppressing it.

She stumbled. What the heck was that?

“Ali? Are you ok?” Malika was beside her, concern written across her face, her healing magic already pulsing to ease her mind.

“I’m fine,” she managed through clenched teeth. “We must help Havok, he is fighting five Death Knights by himself!”

“Ok,” Malika said, and she vanished.

Mere seconds had passed, but her recharge still had a few more to go before she could return, and in the sudden window of forced inaction, her mind finally caught up.

Dungeon rage? Why is there dungeon rage? The pain and the sensations of invading mana were so powerful, it overrode even the twisted unholy presence of the Death Knights themselves, and in those few seconds, Azryet’s words caught up to her.

Consecration…

The dungeon rage screamed incessantly in Ali’s mind, and she reached out and twisted her domain, warping it in the same way she had the first time she had encountered Azryet’s dungeon in the Abyssal Realm. But this time, it was her mana filling the cathedral she warped, and the rage faded immediately. Somehow, Havok’s actions to consecrate the church had opened a window for Azryet’s mana to invade, even across realms. She would need to consider the ramifications of that, but later. Her recharge had just expired.

She chose the same Glitter Dragonet, now hiding behind the dais within the brand-new cathedral, and teleported. As her spell formation appeared, she also reached out and grabbed her five strongest free monsters, grateful that within her domain, her teleportation skill had no range limits. With a lurch, she appeared back within the cathedral, bringing five monsters with her, right as the first of the adventurers burst through the archways and into the fight.

“Kill the undead!” she commanded.

“As you wish, Ancient Mistress,” her holy mage said, already preparing a powerful fireball. From her berserker and scion, she got nothing more than roars of glee and fury as they sprang into action, while ribbon-like beams of blue and red arced out from Kir’vella and Joraa.

“Kir’vella, your highest priority is the damage reflection curse,” Ali said. It wouldn’t do to have her friends killing themselves.

“Yes, yes,” the witch doctor said, performing a surprisingly graceful pirouette as she lashed another Death Knight with her Soul Drain.

“He’s a raid boss?” Calen gasped as he appeared in a flash, flying above the clashing melee.

Only when she heard his incredulity did Ali truly look.

Havok shone with the blinding inner light of holy mana that surged out from the surroundings, filling his body till Ali was certain he would burst. He was larger than normal – substantially larger – and his spells were delivered with a potency she could barely fathom. Dreadful rune-inscribed swords, glowing with undeath and ice, crashed against his holy shield, but he rebuffed them again and again. Even when the giant axe cleaved through his guard, drawing blood from the Goblin’s chest in a dramatic spray of red, she was shocked at how little his health moved.

Ali was astonished to find that Havok was on more than three-quarters health after the ten seconds of her Minion Teleport recharge, but he was alive. Four of her five kobold priests were still alive, healing furiously, and through their Healer’s Sight she beheld something unbelievable.

“How much health does he have?” she asked in shock.

“Havok, are you ok tanking all of them?” Calen asked.

“Azryet help!” Havok shouted back. And then Ali received a notification shared from the Goblin.

Azryet’s Divine FavorRequirements: Paladin. Azryet’s divine patronage. Stand upon holy ground.x10 to Health, Stamina, and Mana.x2.5 damage multiplier.Holy Power (Holy damage and spell power are increased by +350%).Stalwart Defender (+250% to block speed and blocked damage).Blessing Aura (Fear Ward) (You project a holy aura that grants your blessing to all allies).Blessing – Duration: 4 minutes, 45 seconds.

“We have less than five minutes, people!” Calen shouted. “All out, my target. Hold group buffs till I call for it.”

Ali read the buff in astonishment, only now understanding what Calen had said. The torrent of mana coursing through Havok, the size increase, the dramatic power enhancement, and the enormous health pool were all connected. He is a raid boss, she thought, completely amazed. For five minutes, her mind instantly cautioned.

He looks… amazing! Thanks for the damage!

