She began her descent, swimming downward slowly, with her minions flanking her as she kept her eyes, and all her senses alert for surprises. As they descended, the water began to grow uncomfortably warm and the glow near the bottom brightened to an angry red that reminded Ali uncomfortably of fireballs.

A shimmering ripple and flicker of water-affinity mana bolts fired by her Brine Oozes alerted her to the attack before she even saw the swarm of Stinging Jellies. Reacting quickly, she summoned her barrier, and directed her minions, using the same strategy – a creaking wall of bone and the shaman carrying the lightning nova totem like a torch.

She was not particularly worried, the swarm wasn’t as big as the first one she had encountered, and she had enough experience with these monsters now that she could avoid most of the damage. Even her shaman had only died on the first one.

As her gaze drifted around the battlefield, it was drawn to a tiny flicker of gray mana in the depths of the cavern, contrasting against the dull reddish glow of the background.

There it is again. And again. Rising from the depths she saw what looked like a series of tiny bubbles, followed by soft popping noises. The bubbles rose, growing rapidly larger as they approached, and she had a sudden premonition of danger. Quickly, she moved her barrier to block them, studying the grayish swirling vapor as they drifted past.

The bubbles rose, trickling around her slimes and they instantly began to recoil in pain. The bubbles didn’t explode exactly, but they did burst into many tiny bubbles on contact, and they seemed to be dealing enormous amounts of damage.

What? She urgently tried to maneuver her monsters away from the rising bubbles and her unknown attackers. A couple of her Luminous Slimes that were too slow to react collapsed like deflated water balloons, spilling luminous goo to drift away into the surrounding waters as their lights went out.

Below their position, briefly illuminated by the staccato pulsed intensity of the lightning nova, Ali suddenly made out several grayish shapes swimming up toward them.

Scalding Slime – Ooze – level 19-23 (Steam) x4

Steam! My slimes are being boiled!

“I need another wall! Now!” Large spines and ridges of bone suddenly sprouted from the nearby cavern wall below where Ali floated, her Bone Mage imposing a substantial and comfortingly solid barrier between them and the rising steam bubbles.

Hopefully, that diverts the steam.

Most of the Stinging Jelly swarm seemed to be dead now, and Ali recalled her shaman to the protection of the wall. It would have to do for now, her Luminous Slimes could take care of the rest, her priority was the incoming flight of Scalding Slimes.

“Attack!” she focused her will directing her shaman, mage, and the Brine Oozes to all open fire on the rapidly closing enemy monsters, adding her Arcane Bolts to the mix, hoping to take at least one of them down before they closed the distance. Several more of the gray shapes swam into view, coming up from what seemed to be a glowing red vent below.

A bone spear flew through the water, leaving a trail of cavitation bubbles, and impaled the slime Ali was shooting. It popped releasing a cloud of steam bubbles into the surrounding water, rising quickly to the bone wall which deflected them away from her creatures with an eerie hissing sound. Ali’s bolts slammed into the next Scalding Slime and her barrier shard sliced the creature. The bright flash of her shaman’s Lightning Bolt ripped through the monster and into the next, leaving a tingling feeling across Ali’s skin as the discharge propagated through the water. It took only a few more bolts and it expired. The stream of steam bubbles rising was forming a sizzling curtain around them as more slimes joined the fray. A little worried, Ali had her Bone Mage create a second, backup wall just in case. Several of her Luminous Slimes fighting above were caught in the bubble stream and boiled, but the bubbles were also wiping out the remaining jellies at the same time. Ali recalled her Luminous Slimes, shocked to find she had only four remaining.

Risking a little vulnerability, she switched to a smaller frontal barrier for protection and freed up enough capacity to control two more barrier shards. She found if she flew them in formation, they were easier to control while maintaining her focus on her Arcane Bolts and tracking what her minions were doing.

As the Scalding Slimes approached the bone wall, they began to fire rippling bolts that shimmered through the flash-boiled water, shredding the bone wall and leaving trails of steam bubbles and loud cracking noises in their wake. Her Brine Oozes returned fire with a similar hail of bolts and ripples through the water, but though they had more range, the Scalding Slimes demonstrated an extraordinary amount of destructive power with their steam jets.

“Another wall!” Ali instructed, urgency making her wish haste on her mage. Their seemingly solid protective bone wall was rapidly melting against the onslaught of steam. Large sections of the wall began to crack and break off, falling away into the depths below.

Ali waved her shards of barrier magic inexpertly across the attacking slimes, not certain if she was having much effect, but at least her Arcane Bolts were landing. With a deafening underwater concussion, her shaman’s Lightning Bolt tore through the attackers, frying two of them and unleashing an explosion of steam as they popped. Another large section of the bone wall cracked and fell away, releasing a massive curtain of trapped steam bubbles that rose rapidly toward Ali. She willed herself to the side by moving her barrier, pulling herself closer to the dubious safety of the rocky cavern wall as her bone cover rapidly shrunk and the steam bubbles began to slowly encroach their defensive position. Caught in the open, a couple of her slimes were engulfed by the rising cloud of deadly bubbles and were quickly scalded to death.

Below her, Ali’s Bone Mage had been fighting a valiant effort to patch up the bone wall, but he was caught in a blast of steam that sliced through his creation like butter, putting him out of commission for a while. The now-familiar pillar of holy magic flared around her Acolyte, a sure sign of her Kobold’s desperate efforts to save someone. The three remaining Scalding Slimes were rapidly squeezing their way through the small cracks and holes in the bone wall, intent on destroying whatever they found inside with mindlessly relentless persistence.

Ali shot her barrier shards at the hole, and bone and steam exploded as she killed the first slime halfway through. But the explosion blew the hole wide open, and as she struggled to target the remaining slimes with her Arcane Bolts, chaos erupted as bubbles filled the entire area, no longer constrained by the walls. The rapid cracking reports of steam jets deafened her ears as the slimes tore into her minions.

This is either crazy or brilliant, she thought as an idea sprang into her mind. In the chaos, she didn’t have the time to figure out which. But it wasn’t like she had much choice.

Definitely crazy. Inspired by her vision of the Bone Wight and his bone prisons, Ali summoned her spherical barrier, but instead of using its protection on herself, she enclosed one of the two remaining Scalding Slimes, trapping it in a prison of her magic and preventing its steam and jets from hitting anything. This unfortunately left her entirely unprotected and vulnerable to the torrents of bubbles. She could already feel steam scalding her skin and the reactive pulses of holy magic as her Acolyte noticed she was taking damage.

“Attack! That one!” Ali directed her minions specifically to the free Scalding Slime, not trusting that her slimes would be smart enough to figure it out on their own. Then she focused all her remaining energy on Arcane Bolts, firing continuously.

She flinched as the bubbles caressed her skin, searing her and peeling her flesh, only for it to be healed and steamed off once again. The Scalding Slime retaliated with a vicious volley of steam jets and a cascade of bubbles killing another of Ali’s slimes before a direct hit with her shaman’s Lightning Bolt and the boost of the lightning vulnerability curse caused it to explode.

Ali screamed as a cloud of bubbles tore into her legs and arm, but her Acolyte was ready with her healing magic, repairing the damage as quickly as she could.

Taking a few moments to recover, Ali noticed that her Acolyte’s powerful pillar of light had expired and it was now bent in a pose of prayer, clearly trying to recover mana. The corpses of her minions floated around in the water nearby, boiled or scalded to death. Of her entire force, all that remained was one Brine Ooze, two Luminous Slimes, her shaman, and Acolyte.

And that Scalding Slime. Ali frowned at the bubble of her barrier filled with a swirling grayish vapor that entirely obscured the monster lurking within. She moved her minions out of the path of the inevitable steam explosion and held on to her barrier for a few moments longer – giving her healer a little extra time to recover mana, and herself time to deconstruct a corpse.

Close enough. She released her barrier magic, snapping it back as a disk in front of herself. There was a concussive crack and steam exploded from where the remaining Scalding Slime was, sending a flurry of bubbles rising beyond her sight. The slime attacked, aggressively shooting steam in all directions.

“Kill it!” Ali unleashed her Arcane Bolts and barrier shards and winced at the loud crack of lightning detonating underwater. One of her Luminous Slimes wrapped its pseudopods around the Scalding Slime and there was a sudden grappling fight of twisting, stretching, bending, and warping as the two amorphous monsters struggled unsuccessfully to pin each other down.

Ali simply reinforced her command and continued firing her magic unabated, not caring if she hit her own slime or not. It was getting cooked anyway. But it was somewhat successful at keeping the monster in one spot, making it easier for her to land hits with the shards of her barriers. Ali could see her Acolyte’s magic trying to keep the Luminous Slimes from being scalded to death, but the sudden bolt of lightning that tore through the furious melee made it all moot. There was a massive burst of steam bubbles and glowing yellow slime as both monsters exploded.

The explosion was large enough to envelop her in the outer fringes of steam bubbles and she gritted her teeth against the searing pain, quickly adjusting her barrier to avoid further exposure while she waited for her Acolyte to heal her.

Next time I’m definitely bringing more healers. Ali had tried to keep the number of her minions to the absolute minimum in order to save the enormous cost of the Underwater Breathing Potions. But floating in the searing heat of a cloud of superheated steam from a deadly slime, Ali was seriously questioning her priorities.

This dungeon is far more deadly than I expected.

Gritting her teeth, she began to deconstruct everything, loath to leave anything that might cause the dungeon to grow.
