They resumed their forward travel, the complete lack of enemies becoming more disturbing. Nathan glanced over towards Sarah every time she panned around, especially when she focused down her rifle towards their destination. “Anything changed?”

She shook her head. “Still the same city. It seems unmoving.” She quirked a lip. “Dead.”

He nodded, reflecting on the description she’d already given before frowning. “Wait. Did you say that it was surrounded by forest?”

Sarah furrowed her brow. “I did?”

Nathan gestured around them. “I haven’t seen a living plant for days. This land is dead and barren. Any plant that did grow could only be sustained by dark magic. What kind of trees are in that forest?”

Sarah cursed. “Harpy’s tits.” She signalled them to stop so she could look down the barrel, intently focusing. “Those aren’t trees. They’re flesh.”

Talent Airwalking:

This Talent will allow you to use Stamina to push off of air with any part of your body. The greater the force exerted, the greater the Stamina required.

Talent Skystride:

You may spend Stamina to push off the air with any part of your body, gaining more speed than pure physical force would entail. You will also maintain velocity longer than inertia would imply.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 1

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7630/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 5

Inspiration 9

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 8

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 9

Veracity 4

Whiplash 2

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Control 9
