There are far more system users present in the cyan and blue zones, with levels ranging anywhere from 5,000 to some surpassing 100,000. In the Purple Zone, almost everyone has risen to the six-figure level mark.

Yet, the Purple Zone is far more relaxed. The only progression taking place happens within the Ritual Domains where legacies are stored, or in private cultivation chambers filled with remnants of ancient glyphs or others' primordial aura to increase their comprehension.

It is the pinnacle of the Upper Realm. Through the overindulgence of magical items and the infusion of the Immortal Healer's Artifacts, many facilities allow those with lesser talent to merge and survive ascending to the purple core.

There are limits to the potential of most beings. It is where many dwell to retire or set up strongholds for their kin to visit from the lower zones from time to time.

In this transitional zone, where various means of commerce take place, the variance of new budding system users is more evident.

There are plenty of system users that are less than five centuries old, some extremely fortunate talents even below a hundred years. They are products of the newest era's system laws, and their essence is far different from earlier generations.

From a single glance, I can feel the resonating difference in the generations of living beings from their fluctuations alone. They appear brighter and more vibrant, as if they have melded with the rich essence of an Origin Plane with fewer poisonous restrictions.

The presence of each soul tie Maria and I severed is visible in their physical makeups. The younger the Lords I see, the less tainted by the old era they are. The deeper I look into the crowds, the more I feel my mind slipping away, recalling the exact memories that coincide with these changing laws.

Before I know it, the entire construct begins to blur, and I start peering through the membrane again. Yet, when I blink, I release a large amount of my fragmented essence back into the void to return to my real body. Holding this much power in my avatar is not necessary, and will only hinder my enjoyment of the moment.

My gaze returns to one of only inspecting the divine threads, mana, and ether in the air; yet I can still pick up on the interesting shifts in the status progression of the new generation.

There are very different buff rewards being granted during the rank-up stages. Many prodigies born in the Upper Realm receive divine bodies upon reaching level 500. Some are even born with celestial forms when born here in the environment of the Cyan and Blue Zones.

Yet, with these fortuitous system events unfolding, I see that the old Rising Emperor's functions for borrowing skills and buffs at an unlimited rate have ceased.

During the Galactic War, in order to eradicate the Ancient Imperial Demons left behind, every single system user was able to borrow any skills they desired. There was even a free flow of infinite Advanced Primordial Aura and energy control granted to the citizens of the Origin Plane.

Yet, it appears over the years these power allocations have been locked behind walls of authority.

Only the Admins, Knights, Commanders, and Generals retain full access to this power.

However, within this Cyan and Blue Zone, I can feel that it is not just the presence of Seraphel that keeps the peace.

There are millions of Lords granted specific allocations of this extra power who maintain the balance. In the Purple Zone, I did not recognize any beings like this, because Abby's fragmented consciousness alone is strong enough to separate into an army of body doubles to handle every Purple-Cored Lord in the galaxy.

Within this zone, hovering around every tower, the presence of real system users is evident.

Many of them belong to the lizard and snake races.

A few hold Purple Cores and act as enforcement squad leaders, but the majority within these zones hold True Dark Blue Cores.

They consist of lizardmen, black and white serpents, emerald geckos, and various races that have found it convenient and fulfilling to serve under the Reign of the Last Blue Wyvern.

I pull my curious probing back and smile as I retract my hand from the respectful greeting with the blue-haired human form of Seraphel.

"You have amassed quite the guard squad here. I remember a few of those captains from below Ellipsia. They've grown a lot."

While this infrastructure is impressive, my senses keep seeping downward, and I feel that the changes within the Green Zone are the most profound.
