[Sacred Prodigy] – A genius that has stepped beyond the curve, not even allowing that which is considered sacred to elude him. Your Path has truly begun to be defined, and by your own definition, you are a being that stands at the apex. Creating a sacred skill while below B-grade is a near-unprecedented accomplishment and the sign of a true sacred prodigy. May your Path continue to prove supreme as you are one step closer to divinity. +500 all stats +30% all stats

Jake had felt himself grow more powerful after getting the Meditate upgrade, but seeing as he’d just been in quite a weird state, he hadn’t been entirely sure if what he felt was correct. The stats from the levels also factored in to make Jake think it was just that, but now, it had become clear exactly where all the extra stats came from.

The title had been upgraded to give not only 400 more to all stats compared to before, but also an extra 10% to all stats, stacking additively with all his other amplifiers. Given that Jake now had more than 100% more to all stats from all his many titles, that increase of 400 was in reality closer to a thousand in all stats.

To put it in perspective, Jake got around 200 stats per level in his race. In other words, this title was roughly equivalent to 18 race levels, seeing as there were nine stats in total. Of course, Jake only got race levels when he also gained profession and class levels, but this title was still roughly five levels worth of pure stats. Adding on the ten percent extra, Jake couldn’t help but have a big grin from ear to ear.

In a short amount of time, Jake had managed to not only fix Palate of the Malefic Viper but also upgrade his Meditate skill to an all-new rarity that had netted him a massive title, making him noticeably stronger. His profession was also nearly maxed out by now, leaving only his class straggling.

Not to worry, because Jake planned on getting that caught up sooner rather than later. He still had a dragon to hunt after all. But before that, Jake had two important things to do.

The first thing he had to do came as the result of perhaps the only downside of all Jake’s recent upgrades. Seeing as he’d just gotten a lot of extra stats and whatnot, he definitely needed to craft a lot of new batches of both poisons and potions for his upcoming hunt. If not, he feared his old ones would feel inadequate. A truly relatable struggle that he was sure all other C-grades could totally empathize with.

Secondly, perhaps an even more important immediate task. Maybe, just maybe, Jake should actually open his eyes and speak to the two gods impatiently waiting for him to get his shit together and stop feeling proud of himself while reading his system descriptions.
