Fortunately for the Sword Saint, none of this applied to him, because unlike everyone else, he already knew the destination of his Path. He could already glimpse it. The core of his Transcendence remained the peak of his spring and his most ideal form, and while he couldn’t enter it at will, he could always feel it. If something wasn’t compatible with his ideal state of swordsmanship, he discarded it immediately without even thinking about it.

Of course, even his ideal self grew as he grew, but it was always there, far ahead of the current him, serving as a milestone of where to go.

With the combination of a Transcendent Skill and a Divine skill, the Sword Saint’s rate of improvement was not only unmatched but also with direction. Did it have the price of eating away at his lifespan, and did it have a significant mental toll? Yes, but Miyamoto could handle it.

To him, lifespan was a currency he would gladly spend, as he aimed for godhood anyway, and all he had to do was ascend before he died of natural causes. As for the mental toll, he found himself more than capable of handling that. Would most people consider it torture to experience the same few seconds over and over again hundreds, if not thousands, of times, with each five-second interval lasting an entire day? Sure, but the Sword Saint didn’t think of it as such.

“Trying to convince you otherwise seems like a lost cause,” the woman shook her head before looking to the side. “I also fear our fight has caught the attention of others, so time is limited, and the friendly spar will have to end. Even so, I hope you can show us the full extent of your power.”

The Sword Saint smiled, having recovered quite a bit. “I would love to.”

“Then if you would,” she said, motioning for the wood elf and beastkin to step forward as both erupted with power, using their boosting skills. Both took offensive stances as the woman stood back, seemingly not intent on engaging on her own, with the look she gave Miyamoto practically taunting him into getting involved.

Something he certainly intended to do, as he also used his own boosting skill, and at the same time, all three male swordsmen disappeared before clashing a moment later, the difference in power between the two and the Sword Saint quickly becoming evident for all to see.
