“A single unexpected detail is not good writing. It's just a trait. But this ogre's trade and mannerisms hint at a disappointing banality that befits an actual person. Fundamentally, he incorporates all aspects of that boring mundanity and lifelike nature possessed by actual people. And frankly, kidnapping and incorporating actual people in a storyline instead of trying to write and script them is far more efficient anyway. It allows for dynamics to develop—and allows meaningless trivia in one loop to become foreshadowed moments of great importance in another. To put it simply, we are being forced down a specific path, but the path we're being forced down is still quite broad. So long as you play the part of a rebel leader, I think our real warden will be content to watch. Now. Stop wallowing in your existential misery and act.”

Uva didn't appreciate being ordered by a figment of her own imagination, especially not the shadow of an enemy, but that didn't make the latter wrong. Apprehensions about personal agency aside, she knew what would happen if she waited too long. The ogres would give these prisoners and her over to the Gnomish Council, and most of them would be condemned to the mithril mines. A few of the weaker captives would then be fed to the ogres, and though no loop had lasted long enough for Uva to find out about what would happen to the children, she had no interest in doing so. Pair all that with the mind-crushing slave collars, and she had to act, even if there was a level of newfound discomfort that came with her choices.

“Yes, yes, empathy is both a poison and a potion. Imbibe too much, and you will find yourself aligned with the enemy and betraying your own potential.” Harkness’ cadence sounded as if she were talking to a small child trying to put a square piece of wood into a round hole. “Do get on with this crisis. Or give in and allow yourself to collapse in self-disgust. I care little.”

“Yet I care a lot,” Uva shot back. But then, her eyes widened. Harkness' callousness brought with it an epiphany. Psychomancy was more than control. Psychomancy was communication. Uva could do far more than simply reach in and break another's will. No, she could show them truths—connect the prisoners to their guards. With a new strategy in mind, she reached into the minds of one of the children and harnessed their fear. At the same time, one of her other Psychomancy strands, wriggling its way through the solid matter of the cavern, burst out from the walls and speared into Squinty.

Her choice of ogre was simple. Squinty was the softest of the trio. Fingers was more outright cruel. A bad egg through and through. The one that carried the cage was so stupid that trying to dive into his thoughts felt like swimming through cement as a Pathless. Considering all that, along with Squinty's singing voice and his childlike fascination with the world, there was a resonance between him and the young, whimpering prisoners that were fated to be gnomish slaves. The ogre's circlet flared with counter-Psychomantic mana upon her intrusion. It formed a barrier against her strand, but two others speared down from the ceiling and plunged through its protective threshold. Once inside, they tethered themselves tightly to the ogre's ego and actively served as extensions of Uva.

Everything that entered her mind spilled over into the ogres thereafter.

The effects were subtle at first. Squinty's singing voice turned low and mournful, and his jubilant nature died down. He sniffled between verses, even forgot lines. Simple as the brutes were, they weren't entirely blind. Fingers squinted at Squinty, an uglier frown creeping across his ugly face. “Wot’s with you today? Got another case of da tommies?”

Squinty shook his head. “Just feel bad is all. Bad about the lil uns.” He stared at the two children clinging to each other in the cage and the other prisoners, who, though cowed and traumatized in their own ways, huddled tight around the young, trying to protect them from the monsters' attention. The only one that seemed indifferent was Uva, who still had her eyes closed, pretending to be unconscious. “Don't got nobody to takes care of them. Now they mights be stew.”

“Yuh, but theys tasty still, right?” Fingers countered sagely.

“Oh,” Squinty said, all melancholy leaving his voice as his emotions inverted in an incomprehensible instant. “I guess you right. Do the elf smell bad?”

“Yuh!” the cage-carrier grunted.

“Whatcha gonna do?”

“Chuck ‘em face-first in the stew!”

Uva sighed. Such was the problem with trying to manipulate something so stupid. The slightest push would send them careening over an edge. Which edge? Who could tell?

The Seeker evolved her methods. She began pulling at the children's memories, dredging up bitter emotions of misery.

“I want my dad, I want my dad!” the little boy sobbed, clawing at himself. He was so stressed that his nails were picking apart his skin, and his bare arms bled freely.

The girl beside him was quivering. She was an orphan, but she still remembered the other children, the matrons that took care of her. She wasn't from this place. She remembered a village bathed in sunlight, near the Summer Court, beneath the traveling dawn. There they were meant to harvest the fields and to deliver that bounty to their lord's lieges in exchange for eternal prosperity.

The lives of both children changed when night fell and the raid happened. The ogres came to their homes, smashed through walls, and took whatever they desired. And with that came an incomparable feeling of loss.

A feeling Uva was trying her hardest to get Squinty to feel.

“But I don't ‘ave a da,” Squinty mumbled. “Don't even think I got a ma.” Suddenly, the ogre stopped, and rather than feeling the sorrow of losing a parent or seeing oneself snatched from a beloved home, confusion spilled out from the ogre. It wasn't exactly the sensation Uva had wanted to evoke, but she found herself trapped by a similar sense of befuddlement.

“Squinty, why’s you bloody stopping again?” Fingers groaned. “Whas wit you today?”

“Been ‘avin strange thoughts, is all,” Squinty said, rubbing at his chin. “Don't know why, but I keep wonderin’ where my father is. I don't have a father. I crawl out the moss and all like yous. The Spore Mother gave mes to the world.”

Fingers let out an incomprehensible gurgling noise. “Well, you're rememberin’ right. I swears, Squinty, must be something you ate, because I don't got these thoughts at all.”

“Maybe yous just smarter than me, Fingers. Smart enough that yous don't got to think at all.”

Fingers laughed boisterously. “Now you sees. Is why Long Belly Gru put mes in charge. And my smarts says that Long Belly Gru’s probably smarter than alls of us, and wes should just keep going and bring these slaves over so we can stop thinkin’ about them!”

And that provoked a grin on Squinty's face. “I think you’s right. It's genius, Fingers. Absolutes bloody genius.”

Uva was speechless once more. Her newly gained empathy almost died in its crib on the spot. She certainly no longer felt bad for them; part of her mind drifted toward the delectable possibility of shredding them apart using her Aberrant Fractals or simply freezing them in place with a Cryo-Chrono spell for as long as she could.

I spent my entire life training to anticipate enemies smarter than I, to overcome adversaries with greater power than what I can wield. I was utterly unprepared to be dealing with a horde of creatures with meatloaf for brains. Perhaps not preparing oneself to face fools makes oneself a fool as well…

Philosophical musings aside, Uva adapted her strategy. She sent a slithering tendril of Psychomancy to crash against Fingers. His headwear flared bright, and the translucent mana formed a hardened dome in the direction of the attack. Fingers swept wildly, snarling with hate and reactive frustration. “Gets away from mes, fly! Damn moss bugs! Think one just tried to sting me brains.”

While he was distracted, she went after Squinty once more. At the same time, she directed another stack of her consciousness to do something she should have started with. She sought one of the gnomes, namely the aforementioned Long Belly Gru, the gnomish slave master of the southwestern scale of the Deepdiver. A dozen mana strings shot down deeper past the spiral path they were taking. Another sliver of her power was devoted to plucking at Squinty's memories, trying to discover moments of hatred or strife between him and Fingers.

That didn't take long. Fingers had always been the larger ogre, someone who took food from Squinty's bowl when he thought the latter wasn't looking. The few times he was caught, he jabbed his thumb into Squinty's eyes, deliberately trying to blind him, as if that would make the smaller ogre forget. It did work, however. Squinty was that kind of idiot. The moment he got his eyes poked, he quickly found himself lost in the pain, and when his vision cleared once more, Fingers would accuse him of having done something he hadn't to deserve the poking. In that chaos, Squinty would forget why he was angry in the first place. A lingering bit of those memories was still there, and Uva began unearthing it. It felt like tugging a large stone statue out from a sea of mud, but her Psychomancy was powerful enough that she could do so.

Trying to guide the mind of an idiot was hard, but trying to provoke them, making them think and recall things, enhancing their intelligence, she could do that. She could connect that to the animosity the prisoners felt toward the ogres. And finally, the thought wave synchronized. A deluge of ire spilled over into Squinty. Justifiable ire. He was too simple to understand what self-loathing was, and so every bit of antipathy the prisoners held toward him was carried over to Fingers and the other ogre as well.

Squinty's hold on his mace tightened. He glared at his comrades. “Fingers, yous remember a week back, right?”

Fingers just grunted, barely able to pay attention to the conversation as he swung about blindly, still trying to crush the supposed moss fly.

“Remember when I hads two bowls of Goblin Stew, and one of them went missin’? Well, I think I remembers what happened to that one. You put it in your mouth! You drank my stew. Why'd you do that, Fingers? I thought we was chums!”

Fingers stared over at his comrade in confusion “What are you even ons about anymore, Squinty? You’s still stuck on that? Come over here and help me find the damn moss fly. We dun need it suckin’ and killin’ any of them slaves.”

Squinty’s beady eyes flew open. “Aha! So you’s admitted it! You pretended that it didn't happens before, but now you's admitting it! You think I'm stupid.” That last part was mainly Uva's doing. The prisoners all thought the ogres were a little lacking in the mental department, and she carried that over into Squinty's mind. “Yous must think I'm the dumbest ogre there is!”

“Squinty, stop babblin’ about the dumb soup and just help me—”

“I'll show ya who's dumb!”

And suddenly, Squinty roared and leaped toward his fellow. Uva once more found herself taken by complete surprise. It was a sense of surprise Squinty shared as well; however, the ogre acted before his thought fully formed. Guided by raw emotions further amplified by the prisoners' latent psionic residue, he brought his mace down upon Fingers' head with a resounding crack. Squinty was the smaller ogre, but he wasn't smaller by much, and the headwear that the other ogre wore wasn't proper protective gear against a mace. Furthermore, none of these ogres were exactly High Master-Tier in Toughness either, and so, with a single blow, Squinty smashed the other ogre's head wide open. Brain matter spilled out in oozing clumps from within as Fingers let out a yelp. He reached up and covered his head, growling in agony.

“Squinty! Squinty, what's are you doing?” the cage-carrying ogre roared.

Not wanting him to join in the fight, Uva tried the same trick as well; however, his mind was borderline impenetrable. His thoughts moved so slowly and were so poorly put together that she couldn't mantle them at all. They were like solid matter and rotted wood at the same time. But that didn't stop her from broadcasting things and images into his brain.

The Seeker made a gamble. She cast memories over from Squinty's mind into the cage carrier’s. Memories that detailed stolen soups and other grave sins between ogres.

It was a stupid, desperate strategy. An Umbral Sister would have never forgiven a maddened comrade for assaulting another member of their group, no matter what food was stolen. Things worked differently between ogres. And by 'differently', she meant 'stupidly.’

“Oh, yeah, he ate my soups too!” The cage carrier suddenly stopped trying to intervene as he scratched his head. “Or was dat your soup, Squinty? Can't quite remember. Anyway, get him! Get him! He ate our soup! Smash da bastard's head in!”

Uva couldn't believe this was working, and how it was working. Harkness shared her sentiment. “They truly are the System's dumbest creatures, aren't they?”

“That's what makes them ideal slaves,” Uva replied.

