In that moment, the strings she'd sent forward finally reached the bottom of the depths. There, a checkpoint awaited, shaped by Geomancy. It was a dense, flagon-shaped bastion of metal with a single bell tower sticking out from above a circular series of turreted parapets, and it would be their initial stop before entering the gnomish kingdom. And the bell tower was toward where her Psychomancy surged, for there a single individual waited, staring out into the distance with his gem-covered spectacles. Long Belly Gru was known as such due to his, well, long belly. He had a specialized Eating Skill that allowed him to digest a great many materials, not just organic. It also allowed him to store things in his stomach for a long period of time and boil them fast—fusing different kinds of matter together through an internal alchemical organ.

Instead of wearing plate armor or even scale, he was dressed in golden coins strung together, forming a glittering brigandine that had a glistening gem that served as its cornerstone at the center of his chest. Furthermore, a flowing cape made from the most expensive silks danced out behind him, fluttering in the wind and brushing against the brass bell he was meant to ring. Long Belly Gru held the esteemed position of Bell Captain: a summoner of the Deepdiver for when the ogre raid parties amassed a sufficient quantity of treasures and slaves to be offered to the Council.

This meant he possessed a particular loyal quality to him that placed him apart from the rest of the gnomes. It also meant he was likely more moral, and such was a weakness to be exploited. As Uva's Psychomancy descended upon him, his protective enchantment flared, trying to offer a defense against her magics, but she managed to slip one of her eldritch-tainted strings behind his guard and settle within his mind.

In a prior loop, she broke his will and used him to butcher his own forces, turning his minions against each other with conflicting commands. This time, she did something different: She let the collective torment festering inside her fellow prisoners wash over.

And where the ogres proved too dim to be affected, Long Belly Gru choked as he looked down at his hands, sobering, perhaps for the first time in his life, to what he had been doing.

The gnomes of the Fairwoods didn't view the other races as full people, but there was still enough, just barely enough, humanity there that they could feel empathy and sympathy, if only the right nudges were made. And through that link, she tore into him.

“Oh, of course!” Long Belly Gru smacked his forehead like he'd forgotten something while buying groceries. “What have I been doing to these animals? Even animals deserve better treatment. Why are we just feeding them to the ogres?” He looked at his gnomish honor guards. “Why are we like this? Why are we acting like animals?”

The two gnomish battle magi, sharing a smoke with him at the top of the bell tower, exchanged a tense look. They seemed unsure if he was trying to test them.

“Why are we pieces of shit?” Long Belly Gru demanded.

Yes, it worked! Uva thought to herself excitedly. She didn't need to pierce a mind and bend it to her will to fully use her Psychomancy. She could just nudge people. She could have them come to their own decisions, and that, if calculated correctly, would still allow things to unfold in accordance with her will. All she needed—

“I don't want to be this kind of person anymore!” Long Belly Gru declared with gusto, and without further preamble, he casually took a running leap off the edge of the battle tower before splattering head-first on the ground—the same way Fingers did as Squinty hit him for the tenth consecutive time.

“EAT MY SOUP NOW, FUCK-MOUTH!” Squinty bellowed.

“Yeah! Eat our soups now, FUCK-MOUTH!” the cage-carrier chimed in, still trying to puzzle out whose soup had been eaten.

“It worked, indeed,” Harkness replied dryly, suppressing a laugh. “You've successfully created a morality virus. You've tortured all these cruel, cold-hearted bastards, and now you see the lesson. Exposing a terrible soul to too much light forces them to face who they are. And most of us really don’t like taking off the mask. Our real faces are oh-so-haunting.”

Matriarch of the Enshadowed Web 278 > 280

Deception 49 > 50 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Uva’s right eye twitched. She hadn't realized her Deception was so close to the edge. Or that this counted as an act of deception at all. I don’t appreciate you feeding me this soup, System.
