There will come a time when you face a reckoning born of your own actions. I faced this many times in my life, and so many were seeds that I sowed in anger, in grief, in hatred. But if there is a lesson to learn sooner rather than later, it's that what you feel and what you do should not be so tightly bound. Feelings are fickle, and after you're wounded once, it's easy to treat the entire world as an enemy and to adopt a mindset that pits you against all other people. After all, they could be enemies. They might hurt you. They might break you further, wound you deeper. You cannot trust them. The only safety lies within power. If you can control someone else, if you can shackle them to your will, only then will you be safe.

So the delusion goes. I was beyond proud when I burned my mother's castle down. I reveled in hearing those inside cook as the flames climbed higher. The blaze represented my elation. It was the first spark of life I'd felt in so long since she took my world from me. Yet there was a sliver of myself, something very deep down, that knew my adoptive family would have abhorred my actions. My mother's servants didn't deserve such a wretched fate. They were no more deciders of their own destiny than I was as a child, and I cast them into the fire all the same.

But it was a regret easily quenched by the overwhelming pleasure that came with revenge. For the longest time, I forgot about them. They returned to me in dreams and errant moments of idleness during my tenure as a prisoner in another dimension, but they were small, distant parts in my memory. And as years passed, as my list of virtues and misdeeds grew, the howling of the servants was forgotten altogether.

But the System always seeks strife, and with everything we do, we cast not only ripples but tethers, ones that bind us to the world and those we affect. Not even the unions of the first degree, but the second and third. As I sat at a tea house one day sampling new wares, a fool of a boy stumbled in, carrying a sword far too heavy for him. With his hate too naked, too evident, I could feel his glare on me before I even heard his heartbeat—his footsteps betrayed him before he delivered the first strike. There is something very telling about someone hurriedly rushing in on floorboards, the pitter-patter that suddenly stops as they take a moment to study the object of their hatred.

I suspect my footsteps would have sounded much the same in the moments before I set fire to my mother's hold.

I considered dodging, but I knew he held only iron, and I cared little for such a feeble material, unenchanted as it was. He blunted the edge of his blade on me as he hacked and heaved, screaming for me to fall. I studied him then, the tears running down his face, how young he was. Barely a boy, and so hateful, so consumed by rage, younger than even I when I embarked down my miserable path.

And when his elbows snapped from the strain of his blows, the sword slipping from his hands, he still reached down to pick it up once again. His broken, mangled little blade. But I caught it first, and despair overwhelmed all other sensations in his mind. I saw it leaking out from the corners. He closed his eyes in terror, and while he wept, he told me who he was. He told me what I'd done to him—of his mother, a nameless maid who had been given to my careless, hateful conflagration.

And without warning, the howls of the undeserved dead were not so distant anymore. Suddenly, I felt the full enormity of my deed strike me, this time bereft of the initial pleasure, my mother's face no longer even taking shape in my mind. I have killed many who deserved it. I have slain monsters beyond depravity, but I have also butchered good people, kind folk, those who deserved no ill to befall them.

It was the realization that I'd become the spitting image of my mother, even if I did not share her face.

The boy asked me to cut him down. I could not. I did not. I did something else instead.

The world is not a circle. The world is not a story. The world is an ever-cascading reverberation, and everything you do will echo. Perhaps not on you, but it will echo, and things will break and scatter. Someday, you will have to face what you have done, and you will have to accept whether it was worth it or not.

This is not a lesson in karma. This is a simple question: Can you accept who you've become?

—Valor Thann

332

Haunted [III]

Uva despised being possessed. She despised the Usurper-Narrator's soul coating hers like a layer of slime. It wasn't even her mind that succumbed; instead, it was like another will had assumed the shape of her body and had wrapped around her soul. She was effectively trapped by a glove that inversely wielded her to its whim. She could still use her mental skills, but once that glove latched on, the totality of her was taken by a force far greater than she could resist or even knew how to fight against in the first place.

At several points while she was directed like a weapon to strike at the flesh and mind of her companion, a sickness threatened to spill out from her, but the Usurper-Narrator refused to let her release that taint. It was held in until the loop was reset. Uva could still feel the twin sensations of disgust and despair, but the actual urge to vomit was gone.

Adam was gone, as was Evanescia, for that matter. Uva was alone again, trapped with her own thoughts, facing what had just happened. Facing what she had done to others so many times.

“You are burdened by this now? Of all the moments?” The psionic effigy of Harkness that existed within her mental space snorted as she glared down at her mistress with disgust. “Where was this pity when you tore into me? Where was this pity when you directed those Dragon-Knights into butchering each other, or reached into the minds of those in Gate Theborn to? Or the Inquisition’s?”

A bleakness settled into Uva’s mood. She cared little for Harkness, didn't regret what she'd done to the woman. But when considering all the ones she'd taken as sleeves since her Psychomancy evolved…

Part of her had known she was doing something dark, but it was always justifiable. She was fighting for Weave. She couldn't hold anything back. She had to use every advantage she had, and as a Psychomancer, turning an enemy against their comrades felt like a feat of triumph. Uva drank in their pain with ease and wielded their emotions and bodies like puppets upon dancing strings—for that was what they were.

She'd thought she understood the weight of her actions. She thought that by tasting their emotions, their suffering secondhand, she felt the weight of her deeds and judged them to be a worthy exchange for the benefits their pain brought.

But their emotions were filtered through hers, and her philosophy diluted all their pain into something far more palatable.

That palatability vanished when the Usurper-Narrator forced the very same fate on Uva. It was the same fate the gods of the Outside tried to force on her. It was the same fate she had practiced for so many. It was a fate that the System had tried to carve into her so many times before. Perhaps the System had a taste for irony? Uva couldn't say. What she could definitively claim was the agony of the undiluted firsthand made things far clearer than those imbibed through the second. When she boiled and writhed under another being's control, one beyond her ability to reject or resist, she understood what it meant truly to be an absolute slave.

And she despised it.

Such was why she kept her Psychomancy to herself, using her threads to scout ahead only, not truly piercing into any minds. Matriarch of the Enshadowed Web allowed her magic to climb free of her body, to wriggle through the stone and strike without even being connected to her. It was a potent Skill Alteration, one that came with her metamorphosis. But that metamorphosis was spiritual, mental, and physical. It was not philosophical. How she saw the world and how she mostly understood herself hadn't changed.

Things were different now. She kept her Psychomancy away from the ogres, away from the other prisoners. She kept her mind to herself. And that was most uncharacteristic of her these days. She began to feel an itch, a borderline urge, for her to take hold of something. To at least shed one of her Aberrant Fractals and wear it. She was so used to stretching her consciousness out and wielding a collection of different people toward her end that it felt stifling to be trapped in a single body alone.

So, as the towering beasts stomped their way toward the subterranean depths of the Fairwoods once again, crossing through the massive jaws of the ab-skeletal beast trapped in the tunnel, descending another set of spiraling staircases that went deeper and deeper into the black, she remained entombed in her own mind, facing her own actions.

I earned a shield as my reward from the Quest to retrieve Valor's arm from the Descender traitors, Uva thought to herself. It took an echo from one of the knights' minds. It was nested in the shield. It remains terrified of me. Every time I call upon it, I feel its fear, and it is so easy to wield and tug through that vulnerability.

“And you felt so proud during the battle. You felt so triumphant, piercing through their Magical Resistances using your newly evolved Psychomancy, a power to rival your fellows. A power born from your time spent within a Jealousy.” Harkness scoffed again. “A power you would have never attained if your oh so beloved brute hadn't practically gifted the monster to you. Let us both imagine for just a moment how pitiful you would be if he hadn't randomly intruded on your life and changed it from something meager and barely respectable to a catalyst for such grand developments—forced you to burn just by being at his side.”

Uva thought about commanding Harkness to be silent, but there was little point. This wasn't actually Harkness. It was a replica of her, and it was good to gain perspective on oneself, especially from a loathsome foe. The words weren't always accurate, but you could always rely on them to highlight your personal flaws. Increasingly, Uva realized she had been thoughtless. It was a strange flaw for a Psychomancer to have. Some minds needed to be controlled; some things she had to do. This was her main skill, her true talent. Without it, they wouldn't have gotten nearly as far, wouldn't have been able to spare so many lives from harm. She had intruded into other people's minds with merely a casual justification and never took the time to process what it would be like to languish as a mind slave.

And now, quite literally trapped behind a series of crude metal bars, surrounded by other slaves, Uva decided to continue considering how she wanted to act, what she was to do.

The marching ogres sang, mumbling jolly tunes, while the prisoners within the cage huddled together, whimpering and begging for unseen gods Uva had never heard of to deliver them from this place. The girl Evanescia had inserted herself in previously was missing, as was the winged elf that always tried to rouse a rebellion. Additionally, the three ogres were clad in glistening layers of mithril. The chain-linked armor wrapped around them swayed in ringing lengths. It was a blatantly artificial and unsuitable addition, considering the rest of their attire consisted of little more than messy rags. Much like the circlets, the chainmail was likely meant to counter a specific skill. While the headwear and the raw stupidity of the lumbering brutes were impediments for Uva, she suspected their new armor was meant to serve as an obstacle for Adam, judging by its faint aura of incandescence.

“Do the elf smell bad?”

“Yuh!”

“Whatcha gonna do?”

“Chuck ‘em face-first in the stew!”

The ogres snorted and chuckled to each other like a group of hogs between lines, reveling in song as they continued their descent.

Despite their lacking intelligence, Uva couldn't deny that one of the ogres had a pretty good baritone. If life had permitted it, he might have found himself walking the path of the Singer instead of serving as a minion to a ridiculous enterprise of slavery. Or so it seemed. Uva still knew too little about the Fairwoods to properly tell if the ogre was an actual person or merely a sophisticated but ultimately unreal construct created by Evanescia to play a part in this story.

“He's likely his own person,” Harkness answered. “More than I am, anyhow.”

“How can you tell that?”

“By the fact that he is multifaceted, if only barely. You really must expand your literary diet to include more fiction. Even drivel will give you insight into how people who consume it think. If this entire dimension were purely based off of literary work of fiction, then his singing would be something that serves as an illusion or a hint of what's to come, foreshadowing, in other words. Considering how many times we've killed this ogre already, that foreshadowing seems wasted. And most competent authors hate wasted effort, while the rabble among the readers yearn to taste the meat of the story quickly.”

“So the ogre is likely an actual person because he has depth? Isn’t that just good writing?” Taking a stance to defend Evanescia’s literary skills felt odd, but she did think it was a valid point.

