Ring Of Recall (Rare)

This ring is actually two rings that are interlocked together. When separated and given to two different people (or secured to objects) and the command phrase 'Return To Me, (person's name/object name inserted here)' is spoken, the other ring will be immediately transported to the location of the ring that the command phase was spoken from.

Range: 2 miles

Weight Limit / Size Restriction: One person, or an object that weighs under 200 pounds.

Ren used Enchanted Eyes, Read Rune, and Decipher. Unfortunately, he couldn't read the runes like he did with Deresdra's bracelet.

Maybe I can read it when the level is higher. Ren thought and twisted the ring. The two rings popped apart, and Ren put one down on the table, and lifted the cloth that covered his creation.

“What the hell is that?!?” Teepo exclaimed.

“It's something that I've been thinking about for a while, just like I told you.” Ren said, and put one of the rings into the space he'd left for it above the gears. “I have an extra Construct slot now, and I figured now was the best time to use it.” He picked up the top of the thing, and snapped it together with the bottom.

“No way!” Teepo said. “It's a beetle!”

“Oh, it's much more than that.” Ren said and picked it up. He inserted the key into the slot on the bottom, and wound it up for nearly a full minute. “It's completely mechanical. The legs are wired with tiny steel cables, the gears work the legs, and there's another special feature that I'm going to let you discover for yourself.”

“Me?”

“Yes, Teepo.” Ren said. “Can you dissolve into the ring for a moment? I need to make one last adjustment to the construct.”

“Sure.” Teepo said, and dissolved. Ren smiled, and took off the Beetle Crown ring. He slipped it inside the other Ring of Recall, and put it back on. He activated the Craft Construct ability, added the value of the mechanical beetle to the small portal that appeared, and then placed his hand on the beetle to make the connection. When the construct started to take his Mana, he grinned and thought of Teepo.

Summon Teepo! Ren thought, and Teepo didn't appear at his feet this time. The Craft Construct ability finished, and Ren waited for a minute.

“Teepo?”

“Yes, Ren?” Teepo said, and the mechanical beetle turned to look at him.

“How do you feel?”

“A little stiff.” Teepo said. “What happened? I don't remember ever feeling like this before.”

“That's because you haven't had a real physical body like this before.” Ren said.

“Wh-what?!?” Teepo said, and looked down at himself. “Blessed Fire Dancer!” He exclaimed, and lifted a platinum leg to look at it. “I'm real?!?”

Ren chuckled. “You've always been real, my friend.” He said and leaned down. “Your bonus for the battle, and for keeping an eye on everything, was a Ring of Recall.”

“So that's what you put in the back!” Teepo chittered in laughter. “You put the other one on your finger!”

“It's around the Beetle Crown ring, actually.” Ren said and showed him. “When I made the construct animate, I summoned you at the same time.”

“So... does that mean that I'm stuck in here?” Teepo asked.

“Of course not.” Ren said and went to take off the ring. “I wouldn't do it if it was only a one time thing.”

“DON'T!” Teepo yelled. “It hurts when you do that while I'm still here.”

“It's all right.” Ren said. “You're still connected by the Rings of Recall.”

Teepo closed his eyes to wait for the excruciating pain of being ripped from the mortal realm, and then nothing happened. “Wh-what?”

Ren chuckled. “You're in a physical body.” He said, and took the Ring of Recall off of the Beetle Crown Ring and slipped it back onto his finger. “Summon Teepo!”

The mechanical beetle stopped moving and Teepo appeared at Ren's feet.

“Okay, even I have to admit that was cool.” Teepo said and flew up to look at his new body. “Why did you do this for me?”

“That's easy.” Ren said. “I took on a task to get you something spectacular a long time ago.” He smiled. “After everything we've seen and done so far, the only thing I knew you hadn't seen, or would ever expect, would be a body of your own.”

“Made of platinum!” Teepo chittered in delight. “Thank you, Ren.” He said. “It's the best present I could have ever gotten.”

Quest Complete!

Your friend, who is impossible to buy for because he is with you all the time, has received a gift worthy of his status in your life.

Rewards: 3,000 XP

SPECIAL x2: +3,000 XP

“You're quite welcome.” Ren said.

System Notice!

You have finished distributing the prizes awarded to the participants of the Quest: Save Them!

Normal gains acquired during the quest will now be awarded.

Normal gains? Ren thought, then froze still as he received a series of popups.
