Matt wasn’t sure what his internal struggle was, but he had some pretty good guesses having been trained by Luna.

Eventually, he must have decided that eating with them was worth whatever punishment would come, because he straightened his shoulders and bowed slightly. “This one would be honored to receive your favor, Master Titan.”

Matt couldn’t help but smirk at the Sect address for an Ascender, but didn’t comment on the man's formality.

Allie thankfully saved the day with a pointed question. “What are you going to cook, Matt?”

The point was the dagger she tried to stab him with.

Since when did he turn into the person to be stabbed, damn it?

Deflecting the blade, he shook his head and said through spiritual perception, “Nothing for you. Yun Me, you are welcome to join us as well.”

She responded with a considering hum, but otherwise kept to her mountaintop kata.

Thankfully, the kitchen was fully stocked with the best of ingredients, which let Matt go wild. As he stepped inside, a pair of Tier 30s dressed in servant’s garb appeared from nowhere in particular and offered him help. Matt declined the help, and they returned to the scenery.

Everything was similar enough to what he was used to that he had no problem settling in, even if he had to pull a few items out of their house to fill the gaps of what he needed.

A side of roast that had been cooking for close to ten hours was delivered via the Allie Express, paid for in the form of a small batch of fresh scones sitting in his oven back at the guild hall. Matt cooked everything else right there, making a bit of a show of it.

Sien was thankfully a receptive audience, and let herself enjoy the show. She stood in stark contrast to Gan Le, who reminded Matt of a child who knew the moment the guests left, he would be grounded, and was hoping the visit lasted as long as possible.

Matt only took a little pleasure in Aster pointing that out and teasing the Sect cultivator.

While it was initially to be nothing but a short dinner, it quickly morphed into a two day tasting feast, given the reception, with Yun Me appearing for short bursts to accept a plate of food before vanishing once again.

Matt enjoyed every minute as everyone chatted and swapped stories, each more exaggerated than the last.

The pyramid rift the three of them had cleared as part of their reward on the training planet turned from a fairly simple delve, with only a few issues in the final battle against the boss quetzalcoatl, into a incredible battle against a dozen pseudo-dragons that somehow managed to bite Matt’s arm off a dozen times. How he gained and lost limbs faster than he did now as a Tier 4, Matt didn’t know, but the retelling fit in with the other stories.

Aster even told one story that Matt couldn’t place, until he realized she was just exaggerating a shopping trip into a dangerous fight that had never really occurred like that.

However, the flow of conversation and food eventually slowed, and when Gan Le was blasted by an unseen force into the horizon, they took it as a cue that they may as well move on to their actual delving.

Sien swept her gaze in the direction Gan Le had flown, coolly assessing the man. “He may yet become truly great with sufficient pounding upon the Anvil.”

Allie turned an aghast expression to Sien. “They are sleeping together?”

Sien turned her red eyes upon Allie. “No? When did I say that?”

Allie used hand gestures to explain. “Pounding.”

Sien just shook her head as she pretended to not understand, and prompted Allie to explain better as they flew along to a nearby world that was quite unlike Yun Me’s lower Tier world, a proper Tier 30 world filled to the brim with cultivators.

Or, that was where Matt thought they were going. Once they were a good ways away from the planet, Allie teleported all of them except Sien a dozen times to reach the outer system, where they found a small gas giant with a beautiful ring reflecting the local star's brilliance.

Sien, having arrived under her own power, waved her hand and cleared a bit of the gas giant's swirling fumes to expose a floating domed city inside the planet. “And that's where our rift is located. Come now, we only have a moment before it closes back up.”

Having locked onto the floating city, Matt cast [Portal], connecting the two locations. Allie’s [Teleport] might struggle to move higher Tiers, but despite [Portal]’s restrictions, once the connection was established, it didn’t cost him anything to move even a Tier 50. So long as they didn’t try to escape the spell.

Allie appeared next to them under her own power, but everyone ignored her as they inspected the floating city.

It was only a few hundred miles wide, but that felt massive when they were effectively floating in a bubble in a gas giant, solely relying on the bubble’s buoyancy to float.

Matt was sure there were secondary floating arrays in case of a breach, but the idea seemed all too risky for his tastes.

Still, it was beautiful and offered people a safe way to delve rifts inside the gas giants, which was novel.

The city would move, but it did so at such a slow pace that rifts like the one they wanted to delve had a few months inside the safe zone before one would need to wait a decade to exit the rift without besmirching their honor by being so slow the city left them.

Or at least, that was how Sien explained it. Matt didn’t see why honor was so important when a decades of real time was on the line, and anyone who could delve these rifts could easily just fly out of the gas giant. But he just chalked it up to Sect culture and shrugged it off.

It only took a few minutes to reach their destination, and with a few exchanged high-fives, they passed through the dimensional veil into the rift beyond.
