“No! Kinda? Well, not really. It's your guy's fault for being all spread out. Andddd I still might have to pick up Zack, so at least you're not last.”

“Go get Zack, Allie.”

The teleporter vanished for an instant, just to appear a moment later with an annoyed looking Zack. Interestingly, he looked a decade older, a few gray strands creeping into his normal brown hair and complimenting a somewhat longer beard.

“Good to see you two. I hope the last decade has treated you well.” Zack’s polite words were spoken over Allie’s head despite her attempts at regaining their attention.

“You too Zack. How have your projects been going?”

Liz hooked an arm through Matt’s and interrupted him, even as Allie tried to cover Zack's mouth. “Okay boys, no shop talk for at least the first day, or we’ll never even arrive to meet the others.”

Matt grinned, he and Zack had been in contact through the Ascender chat, but it was different when talking in person.

Zack even had a small smile as he walked forward past Allie. “I can agree to that, so long as someone else doesn’t start such talk first.”

“Oh come on Zack, you know Sien is going to start it, so that's a flimsy way to shift the blame.”

Before Zack could respond, Allie grabbed all three of their hands and pulled them forward. “And this is why I didn’t want to grab you all at once. Gab gab gab.”

The forest walk was just as stunning as the entry garden, though clearly made for higher Tiers. Once they left the initial garden, the stepping-stones faded away, instead transitioning into a pathway clearly marked out via a small-scale mana flow with no clear origin. But the intent was obvious enough, and they followed it as it led them up a clear brook with minuscule points of rocks barely above the waterline. Then they proceeded along the branches of a tree, stepping across several semisolid clouds, and up a winding path on a sheer cliff.

It was at the end of that last leg of the journey, they reached their apparent destination, a magnificent villa built out of the side of the mountain and with an absolutely incomparable view of the valley they’d appeared in, hemmed in on all sides by distant mountains.

Jai Sien waved from a balcony with a glass in hand. “It is quite the joyous occasion to greet you once more.”

Floating up to her, the four of them joined her with Matt probing his spiritual connection with Aster to see where she was. He could feel that she was close, but he was surprised to find she hadn’t come out and greeted him yet.

“Beautiful place you have here, Sien.” Liz said what Matt should have, and he quickly added his agreement to the sentiment.

Except, the Sect ascender waved them off even as Allie laughed. “Oh, this isn’t my abode. Your host for this particular stay is The Elder Yun Me. This is her continent, and this particular estate is one of her guest houses, the one she most commonly makes available for visiting Masters.”

Matt raised a shocked eyebrow at that particular revelation, but Sien continued. “The stories the Anvil tells for its founding is that she grew tired of our predecessors constantly seeking to sneak in simply to prove they could, or to challenge her, or to poach usage of one of her rifts. She concluded that the most surefire means of curtailing undesired activity would be to provide official channels for our colleagues. After all, the glory and challenge is much lessened when all that is required is simply to ask for entry. In addition, the first rift you shall be delving is within this system, and this therefore serves as an excellent base for your expedition.”

Allie chuckled. “Also, Sect leadership likes to keep foreign Ascenders close to Yun Me in case anything happens. We’ll blow this joint in short order, worry not my pretties.”

The sly smile that crept across Sien’s face instead of any comment to stop Allie just seemed to egg the teleporter on.

Looking up, Matt felt Aster drawing closer, and he waited for her to arrive on the deck.

When she arrived in view, he rolled his eyes.

Aster came bearing an ice cream platter.

“Freshly made! Hey guys! Took you long enough.” Aster's smirk earned her a ruffled head of hair which earned Matt a glare that was covered by their hug.

“No thanks to Allie. Nice to see you again though.”

“Yeah, yeah whatever. Try this.”

Aster shoved a spoonful of ice cream into his mouth and Matt let the cool dessert start to melt over his tongue. The flavor started subtle, vanilla mixed with coconut, but the flavors quickly mutated into something that tasted like curdled milk, which made Matt want to gag.

“That's foul.”

“I know! Allie gave me the idea.”

Liz, who was patting her gagging phoenix body on the back, rolled her eyes. “Color me not surprised at all, but let me ask why.”

“Prank ice cream. The idea is to package a bunch up in something like small bite sized candies, and everyone can take some and see if they get lucky or unlucky on the flavor. It can be a fun little gag gift for the ice cream lover.”

“Aster, no one wants to eat curdled milk ice cream. It's revolting.”

Aster rolled her eyes. “Little you know. The test audiences loved them. It's not the first time this idea has been done, after all, and the fad is due for a new round of awareness. Besides, people like the change from hard candies to ice cream.”

Matt had no way to respond to that, and so bowed to her greater market research.

Sien rubbed her hands together. “So, art thou excited?”

Liz leaned into Matt, who in turn leaned on the balcony railing. “Oh yeah. The first rift seems super interesting. It—”

Matt covered his wife's mouth and spoke over her. “No spoilers!”

Sien smiled. “Ah, the eternal war between surprise and anticipation. This one is, however, uncertain that she would be able to resist at least a bit of investigation.”

Matt laughed as both Liz’s pretended to glare at him. “Oh, I’d love to know, but Liz thought she was clever by hiding the information when it was still only in the girls’ chat. So I turned it around on her and refused to look when it was fully announced. So now she suffers while I enjoy the ignorance.”

Sien laughed, but her mirth was interrupted by a shattering of the air on the planet as something entered the atmosphere.

Cranking his perception to its max and prepared for a fight, Matt scanned the incoming projectile to find a familiar face.

Gan Le, battered and bruised, was burning up in reentry to the atmosphere, though the fireball enveloping him left him, his clothes, and even his hair entirely untouched.

Matt expected the man to catch himself, but he crashed into the ground and caused a massive crater that would have felt like an earthquake to the inhabitants of the planet had Matt not reached out and commanded the ground to remain still with a quick flex of [Earth Manipulation].

Gan Le coughed as he crawled to his feet just in time to catch a knee to the face that sent him flying, and cut a deep canyon though the once perfect landscape to arrive right next to their mansion.

In his wake, another woman descended from the heavens. Yun Me looked exactly like her pictures, a perfectly-poised, tall, and thin woman with fair skin and steel-colored hair tied in a tight bun. Unlike the pictures he’d seen, though, she wasn’t wearing a full suit of sect robe-armor, but instead a conservative and surprisingly sane outfit clearly designed for moderate exercise.

Matt gave a polite bow, hopefully conveying that he was appreciative of her, as an equal, receiving them into her home. Around him, everyone except Allie mirrored the action.

Once he had straightened, Yun Me gave a similar bow. “Greetings to the new Masters. I trust you will find your accommodations sufficient, and should you require anything, merely inform my servants and they shall accommodate you. I would invite you to walk about my gardens and appreciate the beauty therein, should you find the time when you are not… gallivanting about like brutes.”

“We accept your hospitality, Lady Yun,” Sien graciously replied.

Matt looked out over the flowing valleys. He could understand why Yun Me seemed to be proud of her ‘garden,’ it was immaculately tended to. In the Empire, while some nobles did claim private continents for their own use, he didn’t know of any that had sculpted the entire thing into one giant, cohesive whole. In fact, the mana flows alone…

Matt narrowed his eyes, then widened them in surprise. “Is the entire continent one giant formation?”

“You possess a keen eye, Master Titan,” Yun Me regarded him. “Indeed.”

“It’s masterful work,” he mused, probing some of the nearby key points with his spiritual perception. There was, so far as he could tell, nothing unnatural going on. No hidden runes, veins of metal, or titanic bones being used to more strongly direct the flow of mana. Instead, they were taking entirely natural phenomenon and using it to sculpt amounts of mana that even he found staggering over a colossal scale.

He couldn’t tell what the formation did, per se, but even if it were purely decorative, that would be impressive enough. It surely required an absolutely staggering amount of maintenance, but he couldn’t see a single indicator that it was even man made.

Actually, there were some signs of human activity, though not of the sort he’d expected. Specifically, the side of a mountain a hundred miles or so away was covered in growing crops, with a group of buildings at its center.

“Is that a village?” he asked, somewhat surprised.

“Indeed,” Yun Me nodded. “A proper garden is not merely a display of plants, but a thriving world in miniature. Plants and animals alike living in perfect feng shui. Human residents are but one part of that, and they and the wolves typically keep one another’s populations in check.”

Matt was taken aback by the absolute apathy Yun Me showed for the people living in her territory, but before he could properly formulate a proper response, Gan Le wandered up, his clothes inundated with dirt.

The man, still at Tier 25, froze utterly upon seeing the seven of them, but his facade of immobility was broken by Aster scrunching up her nose, casting a [Bathe] on him, then practically pouncing next to him.

Matt would have loved to call it generosity, but he knew what was coming next, and didn’t envy the Sect man.

“Want some ice cream?”

The question was oh so innocent, but bird Liz gagged at the mere mention of what it had tasted while human Liz had to press her face into Matt’s chest to stifle a laugh.

Matt watched in horror as once more Gan Le was plied with horrifying concoctions and ate them without a sour expression.

Aster managed to persuade Yun Me to try exactly one bite of an ice cream ball, and while she ate it with an admirable amount of self-control, she excused herself shortly thereafter and leapt to a mountain peak some miles away, starting to slowly work through spear-forms and leaving her newest apprentice to his fate.

Though Matt was expecting the warrior woman to clear out the crater Gan Le had left in the nearby stone, she did no such thing, and the hole remained.

“Should we… fix that?” he asked the air as Aster persuaded Gan Le to try another bite of ice cream.

“Lady Yun shall either personally mend it in due time, or have one of her gardeners do so in her stead. I do not presume to understand the intricacies of her garden, but while she tends to it, she is not fastidious about it.”

“Sooooo… How mad do you think she would be if I fixed it for her?” Allie's question earned a smile from Zack.

“She would not,” Sien replied. “Were you to lay waste to vast swathes of it or remake it into a statue of yourself, it would be no different to her. She has raised mountains and flattened others for a hundred generations before us, and she is likely to do so for a hundred generations more. It is what it is, for her, no matter the form.”

“Psh.” Allie scoffed and turned away, which was probably exactly the reaction she was going for with such an attitude, Matt realized.

“Now,” Sien nodded sagely before looking to Matt. “I was assured I would have the opportunity to sample Empire cuisine, and I expect to have that assurance fulfilled prior to escorting you to the rift.”

Aster nodded eagerly. “You are going to love Matt’s cooking. He's the best chef. Gan Le, you need to try Matt’s steak and potatoes. When you were our prisoner, you said how much you missed a proper hearty meal. Now you get to try the best steak and potatoes ever, cause Matt made them!”

Rubbing his neck, Gan Le must have realized he was the odd man out of the Ascenders and started looking around. His eyes wandered over to where Yun Me stood on her mountaintop, and Matt could practically hear the gears turning in the man’s head, deciding between being fed and going back to training with the other lady.

Matt never minded cooking for more people, and after a decade, he had mostly forgiven the other man for being on the other side of the war.

They had both killed many people in the war, and he was trying to put his anger at the events of the war behind him.

The grudge should remain like Maven. Dead.

Matt carefully didn’t think of the Republic sniper who had killed Eric. If he ever got within range of her, it wouldn’t be to have dinner.

Gan Le, though, he could respect. The man was a protector, just like him, and cared about keeping his people alive. Plus, he could take a serious hit. The fact he was alive was testament to that, and he was fine with rewarding excellence.

As the one being volunteered to cook more, Matt offered an olive branch. “You are welcome to join us, Gan Le.”

Gan Le looked from them, to Yun Me, and back a few times before sighing.

