Navine’s awkwardness was plain. Probably over Xesci. Indeed, Brilm, Tasilt—Zail had had a number of words when he’d found out. But no one ‘knew’ anything.
They suspected, of course. And let them. Ilvriss didn’t care about his reputation…much. The point was that the worst qualities of Drakes would help Xesci’s cover.
They might even know she was a [Courtesan of Change]. Ilvriss doubted it; Brilm and Tasilt probably didn’t think much of her class aside from its utility in the bedroom. It was that. That was a weakness of his people. Their disdain for things that were not proper or good, or Drakeish.
Well, Ilvriss had learned one lesson there. And if he had learned that, he could at least do his due diligence when it came to Mershi.
The Wall Lord shook his head as he perused Gemscale’s vast family library. Ancient books, tomes—he coughed, despite the regular dusting that took place here.
Mining records. Some of it was useless. However—he murmured to himself.
“One weapon, even a weapon worthy of a Named-rank Adventurer, is not worth the effort that has been spent on it already by Fissival or Dragial. Still…”
Dragial had written to him, explaining why he was so obsessed. The Drake was mad, but it was still a dream he was chasing.
The Blade of Mershi is not capable of changing our species’ place in the world. But imagine an armory of Relic-class weapons, Ilvriss. Just imagine it!
Ilvriss snorted. He spoke to Dragial as he hunted for a book he thought he knew was here. He shook his head.
“Wall Lord Dragial. You’re chasing stories. If I thought there was even a…a 10% chance, I would invest into this idea. But short of miracles—plural—I don’t see…”
His voice trailed off. He pulled out a book entitled The Lost Cities of Izril, and opened it. For a moment, he was silent.
Dragial was doing this the wrong way. He thought the Blade of Mershi would unlock the key to finding the Walled City. Ilvriss wondered if he knew something—but it occurred to him it wasn’t an entirely lost cause.
A month ago, he’d have arranged to have the owner of the Blade of Mershi tossed into The Wandering Inn and a [Spy] with transcription Skills write down everything that happened. If—
The Potion had failed. But he had done what he could. All that lost gold…Ilvriss shook his head.
If there was a 1% chance it would have worked, he would have done it again.
 
—-
 
He took the book to a sitting room to read. He had read this once, as a child. A full account of all the Walled Cities remembered. There had been other books of Walled Cities, with their legacies, full records—
But even the oldest enchantments faded. Libraries were burned by accident. Ten thousand years destroyed first-hand documentation. Twenty thousand? Forty?
This book was old. And even so, it was compiled of stories and partial records. The [Historian] had done their best.
Mershi had a section of course, but many Walled Cities did. Ilvriss remembered some.
“Grunvel—the City of Pacts! The only Walled City built out of friendship with the Dwarves! A great, lost city in the north…”
A young Ilvriss had dreamed of finding a trace of it. Hadn’t they all? But the truth was that most Walled Cities’ locations were known. They were just no longer there.
Every stone, every relic, had been taken, sold, dispersed to the winds. All that each city had been was gone. Perhaps even now, someone held a Relic-class weapon that was their family heirloom and did not know where first it had come from.
Dragial was the young Ilvriss who’d never grown up. Who’d clung to that dream until it twisted. What about Mershi made him convinced there was anything left to find? Ilvriss muttered to himself.
“What was the City of Stars?”
Aha! He found the section at last and began to read.
Mershi was a city of [Astronomers]. If Salazsar was the tallest Walled City to currently exist save perhaps for Oteslia’s giant tree, well, Mershi had been taller.
Floating buildings, a central spire that reached so high heavenwards it could be seen like the High Passes wherever you went…the [Historian] had a way with words. Mershi had been grand and powerful, even among the Walled Cities. Yet the entry was sparser than Grunvel’s or many of the other’s.
Because—Ilvriss blinked. It was said that Mershi had even had Ancestors—Dragons—who helped govern and fight for it.
Fairy tales. And like fairy tales, Mershi’s end was the stuff of legend.
It had fallen before Humans had colonized the north. That was why only myth was accessible to the [Historian]. Mershi had been one of the first Walled Cities to fall. The spire fell. The city turned to ruin.
“In hubris, all the tales I have been able to verify recollect some great incident of Mershi’s downfall. Hubris, arrogance—the classic faults of our kind. What this event was I do not know; the legends hint that it is too terrible to recount, which suggests ignorance on the [Storytellers] and [Historians] before me. What I can tell you is that Mershi disappeared overnight. Every person within was said to be lost, and the city vanished, because the skies themselves turned dark and the entire region was lost for a century’s time, as if some great spell had swallowed everything. When it finally was lifted—no one could find a trace of the City of Stars.”
Ilvriss set down the book. Now there was a story that explained it all. [Treasure Hunters] had probably read this, like Dragial, and concluded that Mershi might be there. Even so—the city had to be dead.
But the Blade of Mershi had been found in this age after so long. Ah, Ilvriss felt the young Drake inside him begin to get excited. Dragial thought it was a key to finding the City of Stars!
…He caught himself, shaking his head. No, he had no time to waste on this. If Az’kerash had not been…Ilvriss might have indulged himself in this if Periss was alive, Erin was well, and the world not threatened.
But he was too busy. He put the book back in its place and let legends lie. He had work to do.
 
—-
 
Alrric the [Administrator] of the Gemscale company was having his lunch break. He was walking back home, rather than eat in the tower.
Alrric Kerrfa, brown-furred, a classic example of a working Gnoll who’d risen to the top from being a humble [Miner], was one of the highest-placed Gnolls in Salazsar. He had a wife and child, Ximenes and Sidinel.
He was a model citizen, in short. Unique in his competent boringness; even Ilvriss thought of Alrric as a Gnoll who lived for his family and took his job seriously.
That was how Alrric liked it. The Gnoll had packed up a gift for Sidinel. A little bit of adamantium, still embedded in the rock. Not too much value, but he knew she’d be fascinated. It wasn’t theft; he’d made a note in the log about bringing it back after a week. It wasn’t as if it could be processed in Salazsar’s forges.
Business was good. Ilvriss was strange, but Alrric had every intention of letting the Wall Lord do as he pleased. No news was good news…Wanderer hadn’t reported in, but the road was long. Alrric was humming to himself as he wondered what Ximenes had made for lunch. He really hoped it wasn’t any of the fish she’d bought ‘specialty’ from the Zeres shipment.
He didn’t like fish that much. And he had to take a breath-neutralizer. He sighed. If it was fish—
His head moved sideways for a moment. The foot-traffic got heavier the further you went down the walkways between towers. But he was still rather spread out.
“Hm. Fish, fish…”
The Gnoll muttered to himself. His fur began to stand up. He looked ahead towards one of the large staircases and saw two figures standing right along the edges of the doorway. And…three Drakes, casually coming up on his rear.
Which was no problem. Except that if they were coming out of the administration block, they wouldn’t be heading down this far. It was usually Gnolls who took this route to one of their districts. Of course, you wouldn’t know that if—
Alrric began adjusting his suit. He tried humming. But his heart was suddenly pounding.
Was it today? Oh no, no—there was a single Gnoll standing in the doorway. Was this it? His stomach lurched. He looked up to check the sun—
And swung around and belted the first Drake in the face as the attacker lunged. The Drake wasn’t expecting that. None of the five ambushers were.
Nor—for how Alrric reacted. The Gnoll didn’t stop at a punch. He rammed forwards—and threw the Drake off the bridge, over the guardrail.
The Drake went screaming down. The others froze. They saw the [Administrator] reach down to his belt and flick a knife into the second Drake’s chest. The Gnoll and Drake who’d rushed out of their spot saw the second Drake die, clawing at his chest.
“Poison?”
The third, female Drake backed up. The [Administrator] had pulled out a wand. She raised her claws—
The retort of the spell from the specialty-crafted wand that Spellcaster had made for him vaporized the Drake’s chest.
“Stop! St—”
The two other attackers froze. Alrric turned. The wand fired twice, catching the last, the Gnoll, running. Alrric lowered his wand and looked around, panting.
“It’s happening. I have to—”
He ran. The encounter had been so fast, if anyone had seen the fight it had been over in a moment. He charged down the stairwell, ripping a speaking stone from his pocket.
“Coinpurse! Coinpurse—I’ve been attacked! This might be it!”
An alarm. He pushed through the crowd, stowing the speaking stone. None of the others would respond.
Shadows, Spellcaster—Wanderer was gone. They’d take care of their ends. Alrric had to get to Ximenes and Sidinel.
He had feared this day was coming for decades. The last time—well, it wouldn’t go like that again. But how had they found out?
The Tribes had sent assassins after him. Alrric checked his fur as he pushed through the crowds, racing back home. Not a trace of white.
But how…? In his panic, he burst into the family home as Ximenes was arranging dishes.
“Dear, what’s wrong? You look like—”
“They’re here. I was just attacked! Where’s Sidinel? It’s time to go!”
His wife dropped the dishes. She whirled—
“Sidinel!”
The Gnoll appeared, her eyes wide with fright. All of them knew what to do.
“Grab all the gold, the bag—we’re meeting Shadows and Spellcaster and their group and going.”
“Are they hurt? Are they alive?”
“I signaled them. They’ll signal back if—”
Tic, tic. Both Gnolls heard the sound from a speaking stone embedded in the wall. Then two subtle rings.
Safe and alive. Alrric was panting. Ximenes turned.
“How did they find…?”
“I don’t know how they figured it out. Maybe—I had a bit of white fur during that mine inspection. Maybe that was it? Some Plains Gnoll—we have to go.”
All three Gnolls were grabbing the readied items. They would be out the door in a minute—when the speaking stone at Alrric’s hip blared to life.
“Coinpurse. Coinpurse! Stop! This is Shadows.”
He yanked the stone off his belt.
“Keep quiet and meet us at the gathering spot! You know what to do!”
“Coinpurse, stop! I think this is a mistake. You said you were attacked? I just got word that someone organized a hit on you! Not us. It’s the companies. Stop!”
Alrric stopped. His paranoia had blinded him to other possibilities—instinctual fear of what he thought had to be happening had taken over. He began to breathe.
“…What? What? I don’t have enemies, Shadow! There hasn’t been…”
The Emera Corporation. The hostile negotiations! Alrric lowered the stone. Sidinel, Ximenes—his family looked at him and hesitated. Alrric growled into the stone.
“Shadows, Spellcaster—hold on. This might be a false alarm.”
 
—-
 
Ilvriss got word of six attacks on [Miners] off-duty, higher-ups in the Gemscale corporation, and someone fired a [Fireball] spell into one of the mine’s supports!
He strode into his office, having run down from his family mansion to find Alrric, panting, leaning over the desk.
“Alrric! Are you alright?”
He’d gone to Alrric first; half of his corporate staff had been attacked!
Not killed. Rather, they’d been beaten, kicked about, and left for [Healers] to find. Broken bones were the worst of it; this was a message.
“I’m fine. I was attacked. My attackers are…dead.”
Ilvriss stopped.
“Dead?”
All of his employees had been jumped. A few had gotten out, running for help, or winning the fights, but Alrric had killed all five of his attackers. One had been tossed off the bridge.
“I thought I was dead. I—have an emergency wand. From the mining days. And my rings.”
Of course. Ilvriss blinked. Alrric was panting like he’d run around Salazsar several times.
“I’m fine. No, I’m damn well not! This is the Emera Company, after the hostile negotiations, Ilvriss!”
He slammed his paws on the desk. The Gnoll looked up, furious, at Ilvriss.
“I thought they were after me and my family! I had to make sure they were safe before I came up here! They’ve hired thugs and their own people to attack us! It’s a war and you dragged us into it for that damned potion!”
All true. This was a corporate war. And in Salazsar? They got ugly.
Deaths weren’t as common—but sabotage, attacks like this? Ilvriss had seen it before. But the Gemscale family hadn’t dealt in this kind of thing since his father…he felt an unpleasant feeling in his stomach. He’d feared it was Az’kerash at first.
“Alrric, I cannot apologize enough. If I had any idea—I am not going to stand for this. Hire as many [Mercenaries] as it takes. Contact the Watch! I want all of our people safe.”
“For how long?”
Alrric was angry. He was snapping back at Ilvriss. He tried to calm himself.
Stop, stop! You need this job and he’s your employer, even if you have cause to be mad! He’d worked too hard to let himself throw it away—especially because they hadn’t come to kill the white Gnolls in Salazsar today.
The Gnoll was worried Ilvriss would ask about the deaths. It was an extreme reaction, even if Alrric was now claiming justifiable self-defense. He waited, sweating, and hoping the dye wouldn’t run. But the Wall Lord didn’t take offense to his comments. His eyes narrowed and he walked to the window.
“Not for long, Alrric. I promise you—this will not be a protracted war. Is the office secure?”
“I checked. I’ll get some more of the guard in—”
“Captain Shieldscale, come in.”
Ilvriss spoke into his own personal speaking stone. There was a muffled response. Alrric saw Ilvriss turn.
“I need two of the Rubirel Guard to come to my position in the administrative tower to guard Administrator Alrric now. Send two more to his home at…”
He turned to Alrric. The Gnoll repeated the address, blinking. Ilvriss nodded.
