Everyone blinked at her. Rose sighed.
“Erin started it. And Olesm and Drassi. They’ve been showing up in Runner’s Guilds on sale. I buy all of them. Here—I’ll find it. I need to go to my rooms. Unless Mrsha’s hogging the door, I won’t be a second…”
She came back in half a minute with a magazine. Elirr blinked at it. Rose waved it at him.
“It’s a Gnoll-magazine on tribes and stuff. It’s selling hot in the cities, among City Gnolls, actually. You didn’t know?”
Elirr was clearly hanging out with the wrong, older crowd. Rose was hip to the hop with it. Whatever it was, which was apparently, magazines.
Gnoll Today, Here Tomorrow—this week, all about Ekhtouch! The 20 hottest Gnolls, ranked! You won’t guess who’s #1!
Some things copied Earth too much. More evil had entered the world, seeping through from Earth. Kevin blinked at the tabloid-esque magazine. Joseph leaned over.
“Why do I actually want to read that?”
“Dude, right? Alright, let’s let Rose meet sexy Gnolls. What are we sending with her? Not the laptop. Numbtongue plays games on it and he’s super-depressed. But maybe…”
By the end of the day, Rose was packed up and ready to leave tomorrow by bike. But even before that—Elirr was sending word to Krshia. Value was more than a person or objects. It was knowledge.
 
—-
 
“Alumininium?”
The next day, Krshia was talking with Inkar, Tkrn, and an excited Orelighn and Eska.
“Aluminum. Is that what is in the plane’s metal?”
Inkar looked at Krshia. The Gnoll woman grinned.
“According to Kevin, yes. And he would probably know. That is the metal you salvaged, Orelighn. Apparently the Dwarves know something of it, but it is a hard-to-produce metal for us.”
“Is it particularly strong? We bent it—perhaps it is what allowed the thing to fly?”
“Er, no…it is not the strongest. It is only uniquely lightweight and strong combined.”
“Oh.”
The Gnoll was palpably disappointed. It wasn’t a super-metal, then. The Chieftain of the Greenpaws clearly wanted some fantastic development to come out of the airplane.
As it so happened, there was.
“Kevin has written to us—he is a [Mechanic], Inkar. The one who made the bicycle.”
“Oh, he is? Amazing!”
Inkar was delighted. Krshia nodded. Kevin kept proving to have more Kevin-depths.
“Yes, and Rose, who is coming, will have things for you, Inkar. But he, Kevin, says, your ‘phone’ may be fixed with a simple spell. [Repair].”
“Really? But I broke it to…”
Inkar showed Krshia the cannibalized phone she’d broken strategically to provide sparks. Krshia was unsure; it looked bad, but she was optimistic.
“It may be possible. We must simply find a scroll—Rose will bring some, or a [Mage]. But that may be unwise…similarly, Kevin believes some of the ‘electronics’ may be salvaged if you removed them carefully, Orelighn. The—er—er—‘seat monitors’ that you described, or ‘light bulbs’ overhead and such. [Repair] may work wonders.”
Unfortunately, and this was a Gnoll problem—they had no [Mages] they could readily call upon. Of all the species…well, Krshia had Mrsha for proof positive of that…even if likewise, there was another Gnoll who could prove there was magical potential in them like [Mages] used.
The point was, the Earthers had ideas. First of which was to ask Orelighn to see what parts of the airplane were really useful.
“Can you send word to your tribe, Orelighn? If they can be repaired, Kevin thinks some parts can be fashioned into a ‘flash light’, or perhaps a ‘fan’ out of the airplane. He would need to connect them up, and he says that if the engine or other parts survived, he would like to see them all.”
Kevin was especially interested in the jet engine’s propeller system.
“I will have my tribe check. It would be easiest, though, if this expert could come there…but we will check at once!”
Orelighn hurried off. Inkar was excited too, but Rose would take a while to get here, even by magic bicycle.
“I will speak with Chieftain Eska about finding a [Repair] spell for your phone, Inkarr.”
“Thank you, Honored Krshia!”
Inkar beamed. Tkrn waved a paw.
“What am I to do then, Aunt?”
She looked at him. Krshia scratched at her head and Tkrn deflated. She grinned.
“Your job, Tkrn, is to go out and make friends! Perhaps meet Lehra if possible, yes? Or the others? You, and Inkar, perhaps. Take Orreh and Oor with you for safety this time, but leave the matters of Earth to us for now. Bring us back more tribes to meet—it is hard to attract the famous ones’ attention since every tribe wants to do it! Oh, and nephew—”
She grabbed Tkrn’s arm as Inkar turned, delighted to be able to leave the camp again. Krshia whispered.
“Make her cry again, and I will make you cry, yes?”
She made an ear-twisting gesture. He winced.
 
—-
 
Truly, Inkar and Tkrn realized, there was something nice about a tribe’s hierarchy. For all Tkrn found elements objectionable—in moments like this, he and the young woman could just let the Chieftains worry about the worrisome stuff and enjoy themselves while doing their bit!
You didn’t need to bear the weight of the tribe alone. And Inkar was excited to be out again.
“Eska and Deskie would not let me after I got in trouble. Especially because only a few people know…about me. But you can escort me?”
She glanced at him. Tkrn grinned sheepishly. He gave her a salute.
“Guardsman Tkrn will do his best, Miss Inkar.”
She laughed at that. It was a strange, fast friendship they had made after he had come to her ‘rescue’, mainly by getting his face punched by Steelfur Gnolls repeatedly. But Tkrn felt like it was his responsibility, as much as he liked Inkar.
Here was a Human, from Earth, that he could protect. This time, she was in front of him and he would take a crossbow bolt for her.
Of course, other Gnolls made it weird by assuming things. Dekava had no shortage of raised brows and pointed sniffs—as if she couldn’t tell they hadn’t had sex!
Some of the Silverfangs openly put it down to a ‘weird skin fetish’ that City Gnolls got. The Liscor-Gnolls understood, even if they didn’t know.
“So you are Tkrn, the Gnoll who saved my stupid, lazy brother. I thought you were ten feet tall and strong as a [Berserker], to hear Oor say it, yes? I am Orreh!”
The [Stalker] and Oor met Tkrn and Inkar, as part of the unofficial bodyguards. Oor grinned at Tkrn and they clasped arms.
“This time, let’s not get into trouble, yes? I am still healing!”
“That’s because you had to have breakfast and let poor Inkarr wander around! Well—we have moved next to the Silverfangs, so no one will complain we are in the inner camps, now. Let’s see the Meeting of Tribes!”
Thus, once more, Tkrn, Inkar, and the two Gnolls left their camp for the Meeting of Tribes. They found it was in full celebration. Well, more so than usual.
 
—-
 
“Free drinks! One per Gnoll! And no trying to fool my eyes! [Fair Share]—try it and I will smack you!”
A Gnoll was shouting boisterously from the first table as the quartet walked out into a rush of noise in the main camp. Hundreds, hundreds of barrels of Gnollish drink had been rolled out.
“Free drinks? Can I get one for my friend? She’s part of my tribe! All four of us!”
Orreh’s ears perked up. The Gnoll [Brewmaster] eyed Orreh, but snorted and handed the drinks over in four mugs.
“Put them in a bin when you’re done! And for the young Human woman, why not? We owe Humans today! Just remember—the Plain’s Eye tribe is providing the drinks! And there’s some hot venison being served—also free!”
Free food, free drinks! Tkrn sipped at the alcoholic drink, grinning. And free food! The tribes were being generous and handing out free stuff to all the Gnolls present—as well as paid stuff. Even for the Meeting of Tribes, that was rarer; there was always something one tribe provided to show off or garner goodwill, but a number of tribes had pitched in.
“What are we celebrating today?”
He asked some Gnolls who were headed to dance together. They were following a catchy, fast, drumbeat in the distance and howls. The Gnolls grinned and laughed.
“Why, justice of course, kin! Hadn’t you heard? The monster, the Prime Minister of Belchan is dead! The one who slaughtered our tribes!”
Tkrn blinked. Today was the day Lyfelt’s execution had been announced. Other peoples took it differently, or didn’t pay much attention outside of the news cycle.
The Gnolls were celebrating it.
“Justice! Did you see the trial yesterday?”
“I did. But that [Queen]—the Arbiter Queen of Jecrass, she was smart and young, but she should have asked us, yes? We would have given her an answer quickly enough!”
“Well, all the Humans had the right idea. Hello, Miss Human! Good job!”
“Th-thank you?”
It was odd for Inkar to realize this was the celebration of a man’s death. But even Tkrn had no sympathy. Orreh just shook her head when Inkar expressed confusion.
“Why not celebrate a tribe-killer’s death? I wonder if it was painful. I hope it was. The dead Gnolls won’t come back. But at least there’s free food and drink! Let’s see what the attractions are—unless you want to dance?”
They changed day by day. Some were always the same, like tribes selling goods, but any number of events might occur, like the Woven Bladegrass’ combat tournament.
The great tribes. Now he was here, Tkrn was learning them.
Or at least, hearing the names by repetition.
Az’muzarre, Plain’s Eye, Gaarh Marsh…just hearing them told you which ones mattered. They were some of the ‘old guard’ though, to use a Drake expression.
There were hot newcomers. Demas Metal for novelty, Ruinstrider for their Named Adventurer…
And Woven Bladegrass.
“They do not have any shops, do they? I keep hearing them spoken of—but do they sell Bladegrass? What is that?”
Inkar turned to the others as her keen ears picked up the same conversations as the others. Orreh grinned.
“Bladegrass isn’t a toy, Inkarr. Nor can you make many things out of it. Not like…a bag, or other things.”
“But they are called Woven Bladegrass…”
“Ah. That’s a technique they use. Bladegrass by itself is…weak, you see? Sharp, but fragile. If you walk through it, it will cut you bloody, unless you’re Steelfur, I guess. But if you weave it so—you can make something sharp. But weak. They use it for arrows. Little pellets they throw from slings.”
“Oh. Do they sell it?”
“No. The Woven Bladegrass isn’t that sort of tribe. I don’t think they have many…artisans. They probably have [Crafters]. But they do not sell things. They are a proud tribe, yes?”
Tkrn shifted. Orreh and Inkar noticed.
“You do not think so, Guardsman Tkrn?”
The Plains Gnoll looked at him. Tkrn hesitated. He was more keenly aware of being a ‘City Gnoll’, so he was unsure…but he felt like he had to say it.
“From what I heard, in Liscor, the Woven Bladegrass tribe is thought of more as…[Raiders], Inkar, Orreh. That is what the cities say, though—didn’t they sack several Drake cities?”
Orreh tilted her head. Oor grinned.
“Do they say that? That is a Drake perspective. We think of Woven Bladegrass as a tribe who will fight Drake cities. Especially the bad ones.”
“Only the bad ones?”
Inkar pressed them. Her two tribe members hesitated. That was the question, wasn’t it? Tkrn decided to change the subject.
“They must be fearsome fighters, then. As bad as Steelfur? My fist still hurts.”
“Oh, of course! Maybe not as bad as Steelfur because their Chieftain has his great Skill—but high-level. They’ll have a big voice at the Meeting of Tribes; they didn’t even really have a presence twenty years ago. Their Chieftain is new. Fierce.”
Just how fierce, the four saw moments later. Someone set up a howl, and when everyone looked their way, bellowed.
It wasn’t a warning howl, more of a ‘look at me!’ thing. Inkar saw a young Gnoll point as some aggrieved adults or curious people turned his way.
“Foot races have begun on the south side! Smaller competitions, and a large race by all the winners of the small ones! Ten gold if you win a short race, a hundred for the big winner! Horse races, same place! Same rewards—only horses!”
Instantly, a lot of Gnolls flowed that way. Inkar laughed in delight.
“Races?”
It was something she knew well. Her people on Earth had that custom, and she began to drag the other three over. Ironically, Inkar was a lot more into the idea than the other three Gnolls.
“I don’t ride horses. And I’m not fast enough to win a footrace. I guess we can watch—if Relc was here, he’d compete. What about you, Orreh, Oor?”
“We’re no good. Orreh likes lying in tall grass and waiting for her prey and I’m only decent.”
Orreh sighed. Inkar’s eyes were sparkling, though.
“Could I race? I’m good on horses!”
That was…true. Orreh and Oor exchanged a glance. Orreh grinned gamely.
“I could get your horse, Inkar. But don’t get your hopes up—it might be Gnolls only.”
 
—-
 
It was not. Or at least, the riding competition wasn’t. Footraces turned out to be Gnoll-only. A curious distinction, perhaps due to the culture of Gnolls.
They raised nomadic animals like horses, whereas they were well aware that a Courier or City Runner existed among all peoples. In fact, since many Gnolls didn’t live in cities, they were underrepresented here. So to prevent a sweep of the footraces, Gnolls only ran.
But they were proud of their riding abilities, so Inkar actually signed up. It turned out there were multiple competitions, and it wasn’t as dull as Tkrn feared.
“Sprints, here! Who will compete in obstacle racing? Long distance—twice around the entire Meeting of Tribes—and jumping over there!”
A race was going on, staggered, such that the audience could pivot from footrace to horseback races without waiting for more than a minute at most. And it was entertaining!
“Three, two, one…go!”
Gnolls took off on foot, racing each other to be first to run a thousand feet. There were no shorter sprints, Gnollish attitude being that if you couldn’t run a thousand feet, were you running?
Well, it was a bias that came from a people who travelled far. The other race was ten thousand feet, and had a different kind of runner.
Tkrn saw lots of young Gnolls who clearly thought they were fast realize that they were, in fact, competing with dedicated runners. Fast they might be, but they fell behind a City Runner, a high-level [Warrior], three [Barbarians], and one of the younger [Shamans]. They blazed across the ground, almost as fast as a regular horse.
“You! Disqualified!”
A Gnoll howled at the [Shaman], who was using magic. Skills were game; magic was not.
“They run quick!”
