“I have enough money. It is to share. Let’s head back.”
The Minotaur grunted. Tkrn trailed after him lamely. Did Venaz not like him? No—it was just that Tkrn hadn’t much to say. If conversation was a give and take, Tkrn didn’t have much to say. Venaz had led with the race bit, and Tkrn had vouchsafed that it was dangerous. What a novel, really top-tier reply and a lead-in to so much meaningful conversation.
Venaz was much like the older Senior Guards who didn’t have anything to say unless it mattered, and told you to shut up if you chatted about something they found trivial. They weren’t mean, although you could take it as such. Tkrn felt it was more like they just didn’t like wasting words on meaningless conversation.
He walked in silence for a minute as Venaz looked for their group; they were finding some place to sit in the sun. He gestured, and Tkrn sniffed.
“What did you buy?”
Venaz sighed and Tkrn’s ears flattened. He could practically see the Minotaur’s thoughts. Engaging conversation topic. As if you can’t look over and see?
“A few treats. Tarts, pastries—some of it is new, like the popcorn.”
Tkrn glanced over. He saw a few familiar items as he hunted for something to say.
“I nearly participated in the murder of a Minotaur in our jail. You’re a Minotaur, right?”
…Was what he did not say, because Tkrn wasn’t stupid. He decided it was best to keep silent—until he smell-saw something and laughed out loud. Venaz glanced at him.
“Anything amusing?”
“Oh—no. It’s just that—they really are stealing everything from Liscor, aren’t they? Cookies and popcorn!”
He pointed. Venaz glanced down at a stuffed basket. Cookies, lined up, perhaps stolen from Silverfang baking ideas. He blinked.
“You know what these are? I’ve never seen them, but they looked like a bread.”
“They’re sort of like that. It’s a good sweet! I bought them all the time with my paycheck.”
“You don’t say. Where did they come from?”
“Liscor. At least, I’m sure they started there. Maybe they came from wherever the person who brought them was—but we’ve had them for months now! What flavors are they?”
“There was only one flavor. Were there supposed to be more?”
Venaz double-checked the basket of expensive cookies. Tkrn grinned.
“Where I was from you could buy a basket of all kinds of flavors. Some for fun. Those must be vanilla. You can get cinnamon, oatmeal, fly, blood, raisin…”
“Fly? Blood?”
“Oh—those are novelty, mainly. How much did you pay for them?”
“A gold for the basket.”
“A gold? I could get you…thirty cookies at least, in Liscor!”
Venaz’s eyes slid sideways.
“Ah, you did say you were from Liscor. Where they were introduced.”
“Yes—and the popcorn. Although the beef flavor is new.”
“You don’t say. Didn’t the Silverfang tribe bring over baseball and soccer, too? I wanted to see a game, but we missed it.”
“We have all the gear. They might be playing later today.”
“I should like to see that.”
Tkrn realized the Minotaur was finally engaging him in actual conversation. He grinned, and saw Venaz looking attentive. Tkrn realized that this was the moment Krshia had wanted him to set up. He chose his words carefully.
“I could…ask the tribe to set up a game if they’re not planning on it already. You might like baseball. It’s much like swinging a sword—only different. But you can send a baseball flying.”
“That’s quite interesting, thank you. Merrik, Peki—food. Listen to this. I paid for these snacks, but apparently they come from Tkrn’s home city. Liscor.”
“Ooh. Venaz, we’re going to have to buy all this again when Wil and the others get here. I hope Yerra’s got fresh taste buds because I’m going to treat her. Pass it around; they’re getting ready for the finals in the foot race sprints! What’s this about Liscor?”
Inkar, Orreh, and Oor glanced up and cheered at the sight of so many edibles. Tkrn saw the other students turn to him and felt a thrill—not least because it was his city!
“Liscor’s where a lot of this came from. I actually ate cookies on the first day they were brought out. An [Innkeeper]…made them…”
His face fell for a second, but no one else seemed to notice.
“Fantastic stuff. Sweet—chewy—I’d love them as rations. How much did it cost, Venaz?”
“One gold for the basket. Apparently I was overcharged; it’s cheaper in Liscor.”
Peki began to choke on her cookie. So did Oor. Merrik just grimaced.
“Throwing gold around, aren’t you?”
It was clear he and Venaz had more money than the Pomle [Martial Artist]. Venaz just shrugged.
“Pass the pie, will someone?”
He broke a small pie of hot meat in half and offered the other half to someone—Inkar took it and split it again for Tkrn. Venaz chewed happily on the meat and gravy mix.
“Ah. And the two sports games come from Liscor. Again, Liscor…Tkrn offered to show us the game.”
“Now there’s something. Would you mind actually doing that, Tkrn?”
Merrik’s eyes lit up. Tkrn’s nod wasn’t even necessary; Orreh and Oor fell over themselves agreeing for him. Then—the last footraces began.
First, one of the final ten thousand foot runs. By this time, the tournament had attracted even some famous Gnolls.
Steelfur Gnolls were lining up, although they were obviously heavy with the fur—but the best [Warriors] wanted to show off their tribe. Some other top-level [Warriors] and so on from other tribes were participating too.
Lehra Ruinstrider herself had apparently tried running a race—and lost. Tkrn wished he’d seen that. But now he saw something curious.
“Who’s that Gnoll?”
A strange Gnoll was walking into the race grounds followed by a horde of Gnolls. All with the same markings or smells. Orreh stood up to see and her eyes widened.
“That’s—I think that’s the Chieftain of the Woven Bladegrass tribe!”
It was indeed. Gnolls were turning and murmuring. Inkar, Tkrn, and the others stared. Not least because the Chieftain of the new combat tribe wasn’t what they expected.
She—and it was a she, in her late twenties!—was short, less than six feet tall, which was short indeed for a Gnoll! Scrawny, compared to some of the Gnolls present.
And yet, her tribe followed her. One of the [Shamans] hurried over.
“Chieftain Werri, will you be participating?”
She apparently said, ‘yes’ because the other Gnolls stirred. The Steelfur Tribe set themselves, clearly wanting to win—or beat the Chieftain of the Bladegrass tribe. So did a Gnoll Courier, looking more worried about beating the competition than the odds of doing so.
Everyone watched with interest. Did this Chieftain have hidden depths? Now a huge crowd was watching the races.
“She’s so small. I heard she was a great warrior!”
“She is. Looks are deceiving.”
Venaz was frowning at the Gnoll. A lot of the Woven Bladegrass tribe was standing behind their Chieftain, despite the race being about to begin. Some would probably compete, but there were probably two thousand just there with their Chieftain.
No one was about to tell them to get out of the way. They were a tough tribe. Also—Tkrn realized the Steelfur Gnolls were eying the Bladegrass tribe with a bit more than rivalry. Perhaps they felt the Bladegrass tribe was threatening them?
“That’s right. Smart Minotaur; she’s a lot better than what she looks like.”
Venaz frowned. Tkrn did too. That was a bit rude. He looked over and saw a paw grabbing three cookies and a handful of popcorn.
“Hey! We’re sharing the snacks! What are y—”
He stared. The small Gnoll was old—and definitely not Oor or Orreh. He was also surprising; Berrigral of the Wild Wastes tribe was casually plundering their snack pile. Venaz twisted in his seat.
“Honored Berr!”
“I smelled good food. I’ll tell you about Chieftain Werri. That’s a different name, by the way. They used to know her as Werina. And she used to be nothing.”
The Gnoll sat there. The [Announcer] was counting down. He looked at her.
“Did you train her?”
Venaz glanced at the small Gnoll. Then Berr. Tkrn realized the Minotaur was remembering the fight. Berr grinned at him, gap-toothed.
“Good thought, Minotaur. But I didn’t have to. She made herself without any of the old tribes helping her. They called her Werina. Her family were Paworkers. Ever heard of them?”
Tkrn stirred. Orreh and Oor looked blank. Then—the [Announcer] shouted.
“Go!”
Everyone’s head snapped back. And Tkrn looked for Chieftain Werri and didn’t see her. He did see a much taller, stronger-looking Gnoll standing where she was.
Her fur was brown like a forest and tinged with green in places. Almost like moss. The other Gnolls took off. But Werri, the Chieftain of the Woven Bladegrass tribe, didn’t run right away. She bellowed.
“Woven Bladegrass tribe! Run!”
She began sprinting across the ten thousand foot run and all two thousand plus Gnolls went after her. Many were holding weapons, or even wearing armor. They surged in a single group behind her.
…And passed the Steelfur Gnolls. The fastest runners in the heavy tribe, along with a quarter of the runners, saw the Bladegrass tribe surge past them.
“They have to be using Skills! She’s cheating!”
“No. She’s not. They’re just fast.”
Berr watched Werri running at the head of the group. True, there was variance in speed. But even the slowest Woven Bladegrass Gnoll was fast. The last-place Gnoll in the race wasn’t a Woven Bladegrass Gnoll.
—Of course, Werri and her tribe didn’t win. They placed high, some of them, but the Gnoll Courier outran them all.
That was predictable. Even so, Tkrn exhaled as the Gnolls crossed the finish line. That was a display from the Woven Bladegrass tribe. He turned to ask Berr more questions.
And realized the Gnoll had taken all the snacks and run away. Venaz went after him with Peki and Orreh.
“[Barbarians].”
Venaz came stomping back, empty-handed, ten minutes later. Merrik blinked.
“You let that old Gnoll get away, Venaz?”
“He was tossing the snacks at his tribe. We wouldn’t have gotten scraps even if I did grab him. And I have no desire to actually enrage a [Berserker].”
The Minotaur flopped down as Peki flew back, with a new bag of popcorn. He nodded over his shoulder.
“Besides. The Wild Wastes tribe might not have been able to afford cookies for a gold piece. If you could buy goodwill—let them steal your snacks.”
Tkrn looked at the Minotaur. It was so easy to forget how cunning Venaz could be. Also, it was a revelation to think that a tribe as old and known as the Wild Wastes tribe wouldn’t be able to pay for a few gold’s worth of snacks for an Honored Gnoll.
Oor saw the look Inkar was sharing too. He whispered loud enough for their Gnoll-hearing and theirs alone.
“Don’t mistake that. The Wild Wastes tribe isn’t rich in gold—but they have plenty of things to them.”
That made sense. Everyone nodded, and settled back as a second snack run was set up. The last race they were going to see was the thousand foot dash, the ten thousand one being scheduled for later in the day to give the competitors time to warm up.
There was a [Shapeshifter]. Venaz folded his arms.
“I’m keen to see what species he actually is. Maybe multiple? Wolf is my bet. I’ll bet you three cookies, Merrik, Peki.”
“Wolf’s too obvious. I bet it’s a fast cat-thing.”
“I won’t bet for cookies. Too expensive.”
Peki turned her beak up. The starting line had a [Barbarian], one of the Wild Wastes tribe’s, the Courier Gnoll—‘Furstep’, a rather generic name in Tkrn’s opinion—the [Shapeshifter], three [Messenger] or [Scout] types, and a Woven Bladegrass [Skirmisher].
The excitement was real. The bets, realer. Everyone watched as the [Announcer] began the countdown.
“Three, two, one, go!”
The first hundred feet vanished in front of the charge of the competitors. They were running—the first seconds of shouting and cheering had Tkrn on his feet with the others. But then—
“Thief! [Thief]! He’s stolen artifacts!”
A voice from the crowd. Half the heads turned. And Tkrn saw a shape blur out of the crowd, followed by dozens upon dozens of Plain’s Eye Gnolls. They were chasing a young Gnoll with a scarf wrapped around his face, dark clothes—
Gnolls grabbed for him. The Gnoll slid past them, under the legs of a horse, and barreled onto the race track. The racers hadn’t heard, so caught up in the race. Tkrn saw the Gnoll being pursued by a vast mob of Gnolls. The [Thief] had a bundle he had shoved into a bag of holding. He ran, arms and legs pumping—
The Courier in the front was vying with the accelerating [Shapeshifter] for the finish line. They heard shouts, screams, and the crowd going wild as they accelerated for the final, three-hundred foot dash.
The [Thief] passed both of them. The Courier and [Shapeshifter] slowed as he ran past the finish line. He outdistanced nearly a hundred horses going after him—Tkrn’s jaw dropped.
“Get that [Thief]! It’s him—the Thief of Clouds! The disgrace to our people!”
The winner of the thousand foot dash ran across the plains. The Thief of Clouds, one of the most infamous Gnolls that no one was proud of, ran into the distance and abruptly—vanished. The [Riders] spread out, calling for anti-invisibility or camouflage spells, but they never found them.
“I think that Gnoll actually ran faster than I could shoot an arrow. Mind you, there are faster Couriers, even among the Gnolls. I’m sure it wasn’t a sustained Skill. But that was something.”
Everyone was talking afterwards. Venaz was talking to the others who were telling Tkrn and Inkar about the Thief of Clouds.
“It’s said that one time, a cloud passed over a caravan escorting a relic-class item to Pallass. In the time the [Guards] were under shadow, the Thief of Clouds slipped in, stole the relic—and the cloud! When the Drakes looked around, both were gone! And later, the relic appeared on the black market.”
“Like the great thief in my children’s book. You know, the one who stole the Eye of Baleros? Thivian Stormless?”
“I know him! The Lightning Thief, yes? I read the same book as a child. But that is a story. That Gnoll gives us a bad name. Bad enough we’re called thieves by the Drake cities—he also steals from his own people! At the Meeting of Tribes!”
It just went to show that some Gnolls didn’t respect tribe or tradition. Even so, it was the talk of the hour. And Tkrn was secretly pleased to have been there to say he had been there.
What was more surprising was that Venaz remembered Tkrn’s promise. And he prevailed on Tkrn since the races had been suspended for an hour after the drama.
“So? How’s my posture? Wait, don’t tell me. Let me puzzle it out. I feel like I’d rotate my body as I swing. Like…this?”
