“It is, it is! No one else has any manners or offers me tea. And when I try to talk about home…please, would you sign something for me? My daughter would love an autograph from Feshi. She’s a huge fan. And I know it’s something you must get asked, but can you talk about Daquin? The sea voyage?”
Wil blinked as she found some paper for him to sign. So did Feshi. But he was only too glad to.
 
—-
 
Three hours later, Feshi stretched as they went outside. As Tkrn and others had observed, if unconsciously, travellers connected. And travellers from roughly the same home meeting abroad connected even more.
“That went well. Although my tail was stiff from sitting on it too long, yes?”
She grinned at Wil. He ducked his head, embarrassed.
“Sorry, Feshi. But it was nice meeting someone from…”
“I understand.”
The Gnoll [Strategist] nodded at him. The two had nearly twenty pieces of faerie flowers, and Lyonette had trusted them with four actual ones at a song. Wil was half-tempted…but Yerra was more important. Besides which, that would be wrong.
“All we need to do is tell the [Herbalist] we want to purchase the pain recipe. Weatherfur Gnolls can probably make it up, right?”
“Our [Shamans] surely can. Then we will go to the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Yes.”
The two students walked along, relieved. Finally something was going right. Feshi kept glancing at Wil. He met her gaze on glance eight.
“So what did you think?”
His eyes were keen. Feshi relaxed.
“I wondered if you had noticed what I noticed.”
“I wonder what you noticed.”
The two students glanced at each other. On the silent count of three, they exchanged notes.
“She smells of a Gnoll, you know. Not—intimately. Young, I think. She said her ‘daughter’, but the ring on her finger does not belong on the finger that says she is married. Nor did I smell that. She’s from Liscor, and she has faerie flowers and stays at Mivifa’s house and knows Saliss of Lights.”
Wil had missed the scents, obviously, and he snapped his fingers as she reminded him about the adventurers.
“I’ve got a bit more, Feshi. Did you notice that she claimed to be from Gaiil-Drome?”
“Was she lying?”
He shrugged.
“She could be from there. But here are my observations: firstly, she never addressed me as a superior, although she used my title several times. I know we’re travellers, but that implies she’s used to familiarity or even thinks we’re of the same rank.”
“Is that salient?”
Feshi tilted her head, trying to emulate what the Professor would say. Wil shrugged.
“I’d argue it is, Feshi. It’s almost instinctual. Second though—her hair’s red.”
“People have red hair.”
“It means more in Terandria. She almost tried to cover it up at first, did you see? I don’t think she expected to meet me. Lastly, she had amazing manners. Every way she sat, the way she offers tea or lets you sip first before she does while making a conversational point…”
He trailed off. Feshi was raising her brows.
“…Do you know much about Calanfer, Feshi?”
“No. I know the war—”
“No, besides that. I need to send a [Message] back home. But I know more since we’re neighbors. Such as the fact that their 6th [Princess] is missing. And…”
Wil glanced over his shoulder.
“…I can’t help but swear I’ve seen her, even outside of maybe a royal portrait. Liscor. Didn’t we see a lot of battles there, when the television was first being invented?”
Feshi was blinking at all the rapid deductions.
“Are you sure, Wil? This is an amazing coincidence, yes?”
“Who else would be travelling in the company of Pallass’ two best [Alchemists]? And have access to a magical flower?”
What Wil didn’t say was that ‘Lion Solstice’, who might be confused with a Lyonette of the House Marquin of Calanfer if he was right, had given him one more big clue. And that was her nature.
He had felt deferential to her, as if he should bow and accede to her will. A [Princess]. And he had a [Lord]’s intuition.
“So what do we do about it? Tell someone, yes? No?”
Wil Kallinad thought as he looked at Feshi. After a moment, he nodded to himself.
“I think, Feshi…we should go to the Meeting of Tribes. She seemed nice.”
Feshi grinned. Not everything they knew had to be used. She nodded, and Wil and she walked off to give Yerra the good news. Wil would investigate to be certain, but he was content to let the [Princess] of Calanfer her secret. She had done him and his friends a good turn.
Besides, he doubted they’d ever meet again. Maybe in a decade. He was bound for the Meeting of Tribes.
 
—-
 
One last thing.
The Meeting of Tribes was full of events. Lehra and her new friends, deals between tribes—and soon, the summit of Chieftains, who would decide on important matters.
Such as, perhaps, the fate of Doombringers, if Krshia Silverfang had her way. But more would also occur there; people would bring forth important secrets to share with the tribes. Knowledge is power, and power would be shared there.
The fate of Gnolls might change. They had to decide on a number of important things, some of which were public knowledge.
The Raskghar would be seen there. They were still in-transit. From Pallass, as a gesture of goodwill.
But one Pallassian had arrived today, having had to run the entire way. Roadwork, her master had called it. And typically, he’d thought it was good for the gonads—if females had them.
She had something to tell the tribes, for all she was of Pallass. A monumental revelation.
Gnolls could cast magic as [Mages] did. Gnolls could be [Mages].
Yes, she was Level 7, having not been able to level fast despite breaking her ‘barrier’ to her class. Yes, she wasn’t a full student. But she had muscles, and Grimalkin had praised her and told her to present herself.
So she did.
“[Fire Bolt].”
She loosed the fiery missile into the air, and followed it with a [Light] spell—and then conjured a little pillar of stone from the ground. Three spells, but barely taxing given Grimalkin’s solid foundations in magic.
[Mage] spells. She was also a [Student], and, dubiously, a [Bodybuilder], both classes she’d gotten while trying to ‘break through’ to her [Mage] class.
Even some of the watching Gnolls looked impressed as she flexed—that wasn’t part of the magic, but Grimalkin rubbed off on his apprentice. Ferkr waited. The Plains Gnolls, the third group she’d demonstrated her magic to, in order to prove Wistram wrong, looked at her.
After a second, they began to applaud. Ferkr sighed—but then heard a voice.
“Good tricks! What are they, artifacts? A wand in your fur?”
She looked at the speaker, an older male Gnoll. He grinned at her. Ferkr shook her head.
“No, this is magic. This is my class. Use an appraisal spell!”
“And how should I cast one? With my own wand?”
He laughed and so did the group. Ferkr looked around, confused.
“Didn’t you see the spells?”
“It’s a nice trick, young Gnoll. But someone tries this every Meeting of Tribes. The last two had it.”
One of the female Gnolls advised her. Ferkr was dumbstruck. This was the third group to see her casting magic and not bat an eye.
Some Gnolls had believed, but these doubters…she lifted her paws.
“I’m not using a wand! I can cast with my bare paws. Listen—my master, Grimalkin of Pallass says that the Gnolls not being [Mages] is a recent belief! We sent an apprentice to Wistram forty years ago, and the rumors are older than that, but it is possible.”
“Of course it is. And I’m sure you’ll prove it. Because of all the Gnoll [Mages] I see walking about.”
Her first heckler rolled his eyes and snorted.
They didn’t believe her. Ferkr was stumped. She’d cast a spell in front of them and…she raised her paws.
“I can cast more spells. If you want, you can test me. Get a [Shaman]. I’m serious. Get truth spells, appraisal spells, from scrolls or wands.”
The Gnolls blinked at her. Ferkr looked around, trying to call on Grimalkin’s dignity.
“I am Grimalkin of Pallass’ first Gnoll apprentice, Ferkr! By my fur, I will prove we can cast magic!”
The chuckles faded. She stood there, challenging them and the Gnolls looked at each other.
“I believe you.”
One of the younger Gnolls spoke. He looked at Ferkr.
“If you speak before the Chieftains—I’ll try to become a [Mage].”
“Thank you.”
She smiled at him. The crowd looked at each other, and then began to disperse. Some of the Gnolls apologized.
“Maybe you are a [Mage]. If so—I can find my tribe’s [Shaman]. I’m from Greenpaw. Will you wait?”
“Of course. I’ll perform more magic. As soon as I go to the, um, bathroom.”
One of the Gnolls grinned. He pointed her off and Ferkr stretched as she headed towards one of the smelly tents. Magic. There was another [Mage] among Gnolls, even—although so young and obviously a rare case compared to Ferkr. It was possible. She just…
“Excuse me, Miss. Are you the young Gnoll who claims to be able to cast magic?”
Ferkr turned as a Gnoll approached. She smiled.
“Yes I am. If you want me to show you, I can as soon as—”
“Good.”
The Gnoll smiled. Ferkr felt someone grab her from behind.
It didn’t go as well as the Gnoll thought since Ferkr was strong. She punched one Gnoll hard—but there were eight of them. The [Shaman] tapped his staff as Ferkr went limp. The last thing she saw, as the paws lifted her up and sleep took her, was the markings on one.
A warrior’s markings. A Plains Gnoll warrior’s insignia, showing his tribe.
She saw…an eye…
And then she vanished.
