“I don’t know, Wall Lord. Perhaps you’d like to…?”
“No, I would not!”
Zail was growing angry. He controlled his breathing; his attendants hovered worriedly behind him.
“My son is making poor decisions for the Gemscale family. I never thought Navine would be a better choice—no, something’s come over him. The war changed him. It happens. You lose someone and…”
He was muttering to himself. Alrric watched with one eye, carefully trying to work. Zail looked up.
“I want to see all the reports. All the figures, how much he’s paying everyone, daily takes from each mining shaft—everything. Put it in his office.”
By their Ancestors. Alrric winced. He’d feared this was coming. Zail had ruled the Gemscale family before Ilvriss and he wanted to get his claws dirty again. He steepled his paws and tried to smile.
“Wall Lord Zail. Your son is managing the company well. Except for this…incident, which I am motivated to believe was in the company’s safety, you’ve seen the quarterly reports.”
“I have. But I’m no longer confident. I want the reports.”
Alrric met the steely gaze of the old Drake. He took a breath. He hadn’t wanted to do this, but he took some small pleasure in it.
“You are not the head of the Gemscale corporation, Wall Lord Zail. Until I receive a formal notice from the Gemscale family, I can and will refuse to both show documentation and take your advice. With respect, sir.”
“You—you dare you…?”
Zail struggled to his feet. His attendants tried to calm him down as he stared at Alrric. The [Administrator] held his gaze.
“I am trying to run the Gemscale company to the best of my abilities, sir. And Wall Lord Ilvriss is the head.”
It was true. But Zail was still furious. He paced back and forth. But what was he going to do? Fire Alrric? He had to get the Gemscale family to replace Ilvriss, and Alrric knew there was little chance of it, even with Ilvriss’ actions. They’d put Navine in charge instead, and a lot of the Gemscale family did not like her, even with Ilvriss’ unprecedented bad sale.
Zail knew it too. The Drake breathed heavily, and Alrric feared he was going to drop dead on his carpet. And wouldn’t that just end the day on the same note as it had begun?
But then the Wall Lord’s eyes narrowed. He took a seat again, even accepted the drink mixed with tonic. He sipped at it, and stared at Alrric.
“My son is leaving. And now one third of the Gemscale miners who were going to be devoted to this new seam have to work the old ones. Faith in our company wavers, and while we’ll live well off the adamantium, this is a blow.”
Literally to one third of their profits. They’d sold off their rights to other seams and would have to work spent ones or just hope they found something new. Alrric sighed.
“Yes, Wall Lord Zail. This would appear to be the situation.”
The Wall Lord nodded. But there was something about his intent gaze that made Alrric think this wasn’t senility. He lowered his quill as the Wall Lord peered at him.
“I want those reports. And you will begin taking my…suggestions, [Administrator]. My son has put you in this position, and you have done—well—over the last decade.”
“Thank you so much, Wall Lord Zail. But I don’t believe—”
“Who owns Seam #213 BE?”
The question caught Alrric off-guard. The Gnoll frowned.
“Seam…?”
He went for his filing cabinet, staring at Zail suspiciously. He found a document of all the current holdings, changed monthly, and pulled it out. Thanks to his filing system, he read…he shrugged.
“The Glasswing family holds it, but I don’t think it’s actually being mined for anything. That’s normal. It’s dead. Tapped.”
All the old gemstones were gone, and if memory served, that area had only ever yielded some magicore and low-grade iron. Not exactly profitable. Zail shook his head.
“No. It’s not. If you dig three hundred feet down and a bit to the southwest, you’d run into another vein. Magical gemstones. And—monsters.”
Alrric lowered his document.
“…That’s a bold claim, Wall Lord Zail. Now, how would you know that?”
The Wall Lord’s gaze was distant. But his eyes were sharp.
“I meant to give it to Ilvriss on my deathbed. It’s hard to buy the seam’s rights without setting something off. A long time ago, I hired a [Diviner]. We…it was a bad time for the Gemscale family. We were looking into—riches. We found it, even got down there, but I had to ask a [Geomancer] to seal it up. To prevent—evidence.”
He meant he was trying to secretly mine another family’s treasures. Alrric bit his tongue.
“And you sat on this knowledge for how long?”
“Fifty years. We could never have mined it in secret. You’d need adventurers. Proper Gem Regiments; the monsters were infesting the magical gemstone deposit. And the Glasswing family has it? Well…if someone was buying up old seams on a whim, especially if the Gemscale corporation looked like it was searching for something…”
“They could rather easily get it for a song. Practically nothing.”
Alrric was slowly pulling out some paper to write a memo. Something casual to the Glasswing’s [Administrator] or [Secretary] or such. How would he do it convincingly? Well, appear to be casual, which told them he was actually desperate, which disguised the fact that…
Zail looked at Alrric.
“Well?”
The [Administrator] met the old Drake’s gaze for a long time. Ilvriss was leaving. And this…he drummed his paws on the table. At last, he nodded.
“I’ll have all the documents sent over to Wall Lord Ilvriss’ office—your temporary office—directly, Wall Lord.”
Zail smiled in satisfaction.
Ilvriss left the next day, with a small entourage. An expedient move given his unpopularity with…everyone. Not only had he chased off the popular Sellme, he’d offended the Walled Families with his direct action.
The Gemscale corporation had a new boss, which turned out to be the old boss. Alrric made a few purchases, and sent some [Deep Miners] out with very specific instructions and the Erchirite Spears that Ilvriss had left in the city, and more security besides. Zail sat in Ilvriss’ office, his immediate family all having left for Oteslia.
It was probably fine.
 
—-
 
Outrage in two Walled Cities. For different reasons. But the end reason was money.
“This is unacceptable! I will call on the [Druids]!”
One of the [Researchers] was shouting. Saliss and Xif were ready to shout back, but Lyonette was in charge, now.
At least, of this. She folded her arms.
“Researcher Medivort, you have a faerie flower.”
“But you’ve tampered with it! It’s—”
“…Unable to reproduce? Why would that matter for a man purely devoted to uncovering its effects, [Researcher]?”
Lyonette smiled sweetly at the Human man. He glowered. The little faerie flower was indeed tampered with.
It was a simple process to make it very tricky to grow even cuttings of faerie flowers—and they were already a finicky species. Lyonette gestured.
“We have more petals, stems, or other parts of the flower, Researcher Medivort. Dried and fresh.”
Separated. The [Researcher] turned to his fellows.
“This is a monopoly!”
“Why, yes it is.”
The monarchy enjoyed monopolies. And the [Princess] was still a [Princess]. Well, there was a running battle in Oteslia now.
And unfortunately for the liberal-minded [Herbalists], [Gardeners], and so on, who would like to liberally cultivate the flower for their own ends, any chance-obtained flower that someone happened to have in their pockets rather than in the one now well-guarded location where Saliss’ flowers were being grown—might vanish.
The Gentlemen Callers were playing a game of thieves with Oteslia and they were rather good at what they did. So for the first two days, Lyonette was setting the terms of engagement.
Of course, the First Gardener and [Druids] were weighing in. Neither side was happy, but Lyonette kept pointing out that the flowers were being sold. Just not the flowers themselves.
Fair, it was fair to say they were a plant that should be for all. But they were not even of this world. Oteslia had no idea of how they had been obtained.
Anyways, it was the only real leverage Lyonette had in Oteslia, so she would keep it. The [Druids] saw she was providing it at a reasonable cost—some [Scholars] were working on her projects, others paid for it at fairly low prices compared to Sage’s Grass. But they had to go through her.
They might have forced it, Lyonette believed, if it weren’t for Saliss, Xif, and the threat of Pallass hanging over their heads. Politics.
Speaking of politics, she knew Magnolia Reinhart was in Oteslia and she was wondering if the [Lady] would reach out. Would she wonder why Lyonette was here? She had to know about Erin…ideally, they would not meet. Lyonette had no wish to entangle herself in Magnolia’s scheme.
She missed Mrsha.
 
—-
 
“Politics.”
Wil Kallinad spat the word. Feshi echoed him.
“Politics? I don’t understand it fully. How can they suddenly not provide the medicine?”
The [Lord] ran a hand through his hair. Yerra was sitting, pale with nerves.
“Someone’s taken all the faerie flowers. The ingredients for Yerra’s cure.”
“So…does that mean it’s back to toughing it out? Because I can do it!”
Yerra tried to grin. Wil shook his head. Feshi did likewise.
“We just have to get access to it. The [Herbalist] claims this—this person’s put a limit on the sale of flowers and he’s already making medicine for the First Gardener.”
A headache cure! He’d told Wil to go to another [Herbalist], but many were selling the now-extremely precious flowers, rather than using them. Buyers were appearing across the world who wanted even the parts.
Wil hated it. They had to know Yerra needed the medicine! Apparently it was two greedy [Alchemists] from Pallass who were doing this.
“I’m going to speak to them, Yerra. You stay here. Just…relax.”
She had one more dose. The Selphid nodded; she’d been stuffing herself with food after being cured. Then proceeding to ‘empty her stomach’ manually since the Selphid’s body didn’t need to eat as much as the real thing. It was just for taste.
“Feshi, will you come with me?”
Wil wished Venaz or Merrik was here; they might be helpful. But they had stayed at the Meeting of Tribes because Wil thought that was their next destination with Yerra almost cured—or at least, her on the mend and the pain-medicine secured.
This was a hiccup. Feshi nodded.
“Of course. The Weatherfur tribe will help too, if it is possible.”
She checked the dagger at her belt, and Wil touched the sword. Yerra stirred, but he assured her.
“We’re not going to fight.”
It was just them making sure Fetohep’s gifts were safe. They already had invested in anti-[Thief] precautions, but attempts had been made. Well, the Gnolls from the Weatherfur tribe were guarding this place.
Wil Kallinad prevailed on the owner of the faerie flowers at where he had been informed he could find either a ‘Xif’, a ‘Saliss of Lights’—whom Wil was worried about given the Drake’s reputation—
Or a Lion Solstice? She blinked as she opened Mivifa’s door and greeted Wil. He stared at the young woman with red hair. She blinked at the familiar [Strategist] with a few touches of red in his own dark brown hair, bordering on black.
Feshi didn’t blink.
“Are you—from Terandria?”
Both of them exclaimed almost at the same time after introducing themselves. Lion Solstice stared at Wil. He nodded, and her eyes went round.
“Wait. I know you! You can only be Wil Kallinad! House Kallinad’s [Strategist] they sent to the Titan’s school? And you’re—Feshi! I saw you on the television!”
By now, the two were used to their fame. They exchanged a hopeful glance. Wil cleared his throat.
“Yes, Miss Solstice. But we’re still in Oteslia looking for a cure for Yerranola, our friend. I don’t know if you recall…”
“Of course! Have you found it? Oh—you must think the faerie flowers could help!”
“As a matter of fact, we know they can cure her pain. But we heard—”
Wil Kallinad was confused. He had been all set to fight to the death—verbally and socially—to get Yerra’s cure from greedy Drakes hoarding the flowers.
Instead, he found himself drinking tea and talking with Lion Solstice, who was from his home and of course would give them all the flowers he needed!
“It’s not about hoarding it at all. It was stolen from the two [Alchemists]. That’s why Oteslia’s so upset.”
“Ah, you mean illegally grown?”
“Yes. They paid for secrecy, but you know the saying in Pheislant.”
“Loose lips bring Drowned Ships.”
Wil echoed her and blinked—then grinned, despite himself. So did Lyonette.
Travellers from home. Feshi listened as the two began talking.
“How long have you been in Izril?”
“Just under a year. You just arrived, didn’t you?”
“Yes. And we didn’t get to see much of it. Have you been in Oteslia long?”
“Oh, no. I come from further north. I was around Liscor—”
“Liscor? You mean, the Liscor with the soccer games, the door and the dungeon?”
“The very same. I only came south because my friend is—hurt—but you’re from Pheislant! Tell me, please, have you heard anything of the Dawn Concordat’s conflict with Ailendamus?”
Wil swept back his bangs as Feshi politely sniffed at a quiche and nibbled at it.
“My family writes only a bit—are you from around there?”
“I—er—yes. Gaiil-Drome, actually. The forests shelter me.”
“Ah, I visited there twice. I only know what everyone knows. But I’ve been watching every day. I’m hoping the Dawn Concordat can triumph, obviously, but except for the Griffin Prince…bad news.”
“I know. I know; does Pheislant intend to enter the war?”
He grimaced as she leaned forwards.
“Frankly, I doubt it. We clashed with Ailendamus and it was one-sided. But the Order of Seasons might move, although His Majesty probably thinks it unwise. However, if Ailendamus swallows the Dawn Concordat…”
“Would it come to that? Surely the other Kingdoms would declare war.”
Wil reached for a quiche as Feshi sat back, half-listening and feeling as if she were studying the Terandrian kingdoms in class. She looked at Lyonette and then narrowed her eyes. Both Humans were too engrossed to notice.
“Ah, but you say that and yet Ailendamus has performed wars of aggression on multiple kingdoms before. What kind of alliance would seek to overthrow them and would it even work? It’s so good to meet someone else from Terandria.”
Lyonette was smiling.
