Tkrn realized he was not good with women.
Not just ‘Drake women’, or ‘non-Gnoll females’. He felt, in this moment, that he needed a blanket statement for the female gender.
He’d had…luck. If luck meant sex. But was that the end-goal? It also occurred to the Liscorian [Guardsman] that he didn’t have much luck with long-term relationships. Perhaps it was a sign.
But he’d deluded himself up until this moment into thinking he was ‘average’, or ‘decent’, or other lies young men told themselves, regardless of species, at interacting with the opposite sex.
The Gnoll didn’t think so, now. He watched Inkar cry.
Really cry. Not tear up at a sad story, but have a breakdown. A [Guardsman] saw that—sometimes. But even then, rarely. You heard the bad stories, when those kinds of tears were warranted.
In this case? It was Tkrn’s fault. He looked at Inkar, then panicked and went to get someone from her tribe. But who…?
He found Krshia instead. She hit him.
“You idiot, Tkrn, you! What did you say?”
“I—I—was talking about Liscor. And I told her…”
Krshia’s expression changed. She hurried after him, and paused to kick him in the rear.
He’d told Inkar about Erin. And he hadn’t done it well. Or perhaps he had. He’d built Erin up and then—neglected to lead with the present. Inkar had grown excited to meet the [Innkeeper] who had built something wonderful. Then he had to admit she was dead.
“Dead.”
She sniffed. The [Traveller] was wiping her tears away on a handkerchief. Krshia raised her paw, but Tkrn had stayed out of range.
“My nephew is a fool, Honored Inkar, yes. He should have told you better. She is…there are more. Did he say that?”
Inkar nodded. She gulped, hard.
“More. Like me. But the airplane. We are here. I am not alone. I feared I was, you see? But how many…?”
How many were dead? The young woman from Kazakhstan’s fears were reflected in her eyes. She had seen the burned wreckage of a…vehicle…that could have held a hundred people. More. A ship of the skies.
It boggled Tkrn’s mind. A ‘plane’. But Inkar was convinced that even if only five bodies had been found, the other people were also…dead.
It was beginning to dawn on Krshia, as well as the other Gnoll Chieftains of the Longstalker’s Fang tribe and Greenpaw tribe, just how serious this was.
It wasn’t one. It wasn’t two, or a few. And—Krshia had told Erin she thought many Gnoll tribes would have found Earthers if they were there.
Now, the Gnoll wondered how many had fallen out of the sky. Or suffered fates like Erin’s from the start. Her fur prickled, remembering where Imani’s group had appeared. On a Creler nest.
As far as she could tell, there were no other strange Humans among the Meeting of Tribes. At least—in the open like Inkar.
The incident of a few days ago had been a bit of a talk. A dramatic reveal of the Gnoll of Stars, really. A few people talked about the Longstalkers honoring a Human as one of them. But thankfully, larger events eclipsed it each day.
But one significant event was Inkar. Krshia had realized she was from Earth and after some delicate inquiries, the young woman had learnt that the Silverfangs knew of Earth too.
Again, Tkrn’s fault. Krshia had really given it to him then. But it was an unfortunate mistake. Inevitable, in a sense.
For Tkrn’s star had risen. Unaccountably, he’d forged a connection with the Gnoll of Stars, Lehra Ruinstrider, along with Inkar, and even met with others. The [Strategists] from Baleros, a [Shamanic Warrior] from the Plain’s Eye tribe…
A passing connection, perhaps. But that was how bonds were forged. And Krshia Silverfang and her sister, the Chieftain of the Silverfangs, Akrisa, were not about to let a bond, even tenuous, pass with such important tribes. They’d ordered Tkrn to, well, Tkrn himself into good graces.
It had mixed results. But Inkar had at least been a stroke of luck. Chieftain Akrisa had compared it to stepping in a cow pat and realizing there was gold underneath. Krshia had repeated it several times to Tkrn.
After a few days, the initial gathering of the Meeting of Tribes was settling into a proper event. The first wave of introductions were done, and it was time to really get to what mattered. Big decisions all tribes voted or debated. Sales of vast amounts of valuables. Not just day-trading; the Silverfangs traded tons of their iconic silver jewelry, for instance, at their stalls. But real sales.
Like, say—you were at war with this Drake city and your tribe needed help to force them to surrender or fight them off a mine or something valuable? You could hire the Steelfur tribe to go to war for you. If the price was right, and you were the right tribe, with the right favors.
In other ways, it could be arranged marriages. The Ekhtouch Tribe lived for meetings like this. But every tribe really wanted to collect favors. Or push their agenda.
So—alliances were forming. And one of the new, unexpected ones, was the Longstalker’s Fang tribe, the Greenpaw tribe, and the Silverfangs.
It surprised the Gnolls of all three tribes. Oor and Orreh, the brother and sister, the former still nursing bruises he hadn’t been allowed to heal from the stupid fight he’d caused by sleeping in, expressed excitement to Inkar as she came back from talking with Tkrn.
They didn’t notice her tears. That was actually an interesting flaw of Gnolls she’d learned to exploit. They tended to smell or hear your emotions as much as they visually checked. So if she tricked their noses, she sometimes tricked them.
“Why, Orreh?”
The Gnoll [Stalker] grinned.
“Silverfangs are rich. They’re not the best tribe, but they’re in the upper range of tribes you’d want on your side. We’re in the middle. I’m not sure how Chieftain Eska got them on our side, but that’s good. They’ll speak for our interests in an alliance. Greenpaw too!”
The Silverfangs were less happy about the arrangement, but they trusted Akrisa had her reasons. Besides—an alliance was good for all.
The Greenpaws were probably happiest about it all. If Silverfang was upper, Longstalker’s Fang was middle, then Greenpaw was low-tier, to simplify things.
When the three Chieftains met, with a few extras like [Shamans] and Krshia, Chieftain Orelighn made that plain.
“Since these…Earthers…are not as rare as we thought, perhaps their value is a bit less, yes? But we now know this—this plane is expensive. Important. I am willing to put all of it with this alliance that our tribes might gain something, although it pains me to use the work of others—and the possessions of the dead. But Greenpaw needs much. I thank you, Chieftain Akrisa, Honored Krshia, for this alliance.”
They nodded. Krshia hadn’t been sure about just—telling everyone. Tkrn had let it slip and she’d nearly hung him out to dry, but it had been Akrisa who admonished her reaction. She repeated the very same line she’d said to Krshia.
“We are all Gnolls, yes? Time for secrets is past. Earth…technology, wonders and dangers from another world—all tribes must know of it soon, or at least, the Chieftains. A secret like this is a strange knife. I fear it will twist in our paws the longer we hold it.”
Krshia shifted uncomfortably. She had forgotten she and her elder sister didn’t see eye-to-eye, and she was the junior and not a Chieftain here. Moreover, Akrisa was right. Hoarding secrets was a Drake move.
Chieftain Eska nodded heavily. But it was Honored Weaver Deskie who spoke.
“My heart for Inkarr. She learns of her people’s deaths too much. That I should live to see such strange events in the Waning World…well, is this to be presented to all Chieftains?”
“When they gather. But I hope to bring more tribes of like mind into an alliance.”
“What have we to offer if the knowledge of Earth is to be given to all?”
Orelighn frowned. It was Krshia who looked up. The others turned to her and she spoke.
“A consensus, Chieftains, on what will be done with the Earthers. To protect, help, and aid, rather than exploit or kidnap.”
Eska’s eyes brightened. Deskie smiled.
“That is wisdom. And that should be the thing on which all tribes agree. Let us share, then. To friendship with another world, rather than anything else.”
She lifted a bowl. At last, they all ate; they had been sharing a communal pot and meal, as was traditional. They would eat and drink as friends and allies.
Krshia was glad of it. She was glad she thought she could trust the other Chieftains. Because it was a time of action, now. No time to sit on your tail. Akrisa had her tribe, but Krshia contributed as much value as she could.
 
—-
 
The Gnolls had heard about the failed attempt. At least—Elirr had. He was conflicted.
“One cannot simply send little Mrsha away before Lyonette returns. She is coming in a week and a bit. Krshia will do without her until the height of the Meeting of Tribes. But I will oblige her other request.”
So saying, he stared at Kevin. The young man blinked a few times. Then he sat up.
“Yes, hello! Solar Cycles. How can I help you?”
The [Beast Trainer] stared at the [Mechanic]. Kevin sheepishly passed a hand over his face.
“Sorry. It’s been an all-nighter, alright? Pelt’s trick made everyone start demanding adamantium frames…”
“I wish I’d seen it. It sounded badass. Smithing in the center of a firestorm?”
Joseph twisted in his seat in the secret Earth rooms. Kevin shook his head.
“Scared the hell out of me. So…what are we supposed to do, Mister Elirr?”
He looked at the Gnoll. He, Joseph, and Rose were sitting there. Galina was missing. Troy and Leon were exempted from this talk. Imani looked exasperated.
“You’re all too calm! There’s someone from Earth at the Meeting of Tribes!”
“Exactly!”
Rose shot to her feet. She was trembling.
“Someone from Kazakhstan? Are you sure?”
“That’s cool but—I have no idea where that is.”
Joseph raised a hand. Rose turned on him.
“That’s not the point, Joseph! They’ve been there the entire time! Inkar? We’ve got to meet her!”
“What, all of us? I’m busy with the football team.”
“Forget football! That’s not important—”
“I think that’s what Elirr is saying. One of us needs to go. So that’s you, Rose. Besides, we’ve known there are more people from Earth since we met Ryoka and Erin—since the phone call. This is big, but unless Inkar knows more than us, she should come here.”
The Californian pointed out. Rose, likewise from the ‘states’—Elirr had no idea about the places on Earth, but was trying to at least remember—nodded slowly.
“That’s true. So you want me, Elirr?”
“Yes. If you are willing to come, we will send you as fast as possible. It will not be…Wonders of Izril or whatever that carriage service was, but almost as fast. You will have to ride a long time.”
Rose gulped.
“I’m bad at riding. Can I get a carriage?”
Elirr sighed. And already problems cropped up. They would have to arrange at least twenty Gnolls to protect Rose; no one wanted her to get hurt on the way there. But then he saw Kevin grin.
“No problem. You can ride one of the new bikes. Take it there, as a present from the Silverfangs. That makes the most sense.”
Rose blinked. Elirr’s jaw opened.
“You would give one away, Kevin, just like that?”
“Wasn’t that what you were going to ask us? You wanted more than just Rose and Mrsha. You need the Silverfang tribe to be, like, important, right?”
The young man sat back. He was still yawning, but he was hunting around in his belt pouch for his phone. He turned it on, but not to play games or pass the time re-watching something. Rather, he was using the smartphone…like a smartphone.
“Let me check the store’s inventory. We’re still wrapping up Fetohep’s orders, but we do the ‘cheap’ bikes pretty fast. I can spare one magic-bike for Rose, and Selys might actually kill me, but she’ll understand. Let’s see. What else can we ship out?”
“Can I have Montressa or Bezale? I need someone with a [Repair] spell. Inkar has a smartphone, right?”
“I did not ask. But Krshia has asked for all things that might help Inkar. I thought—perhaps some letters?”
The Earthers gave Elirr a blank look. Joseph began to snort before he caught himself.
“What, for encouragement?”
“That’s a good idea! She has to be lonely. She’d probably like someone writing to her, even with Rose…Kazakhstan. Can she read English well?”
Imani defended Elirr. Rose put her hands down and pushed herself up.
“No, no. That’s not important. I mean, write it if you want, Imani. And I’ll definitely deliver it. But don’t you see? We need to impress the other tribes! And I think we can. Elirr, you said they have an airplane?”
Elirr nodded. The Earthers sobered.
“Our Father, Who art in heaven…those poor people. Whatever got us split an airplane in two. They—they must have no idea what happened on Earth.”
Joseph muttered, whispering a prayer and clasping his hands together for a second. The others nodded. Rose chewed at her lip.
“…But it’s an airplane. I hate to say it, but—I need to get Bezale and find Galina. Bezale has [Repair] scrolls, I’m sure of it. And Galina might be able to give me all the Players of Celum’s scripts. They have to be worth something.”
“Hold up. Are we giving the Silverfangs everything? And—are you seriously suggesting [Repairing] the airplane and selling electronics at the Meeting of Tribes?”
Kevin sat forwards. Imani looked alarmed.
“Is that a good idea, Rose?”
“Well—I don’t know! Maybe! We want them to be the best tribe, right? It’s a competition?”
“Of sorts.”
Elirr murmured. He was surprised at how many ideas the Earthers were tossing around. Rose looked at the others.
“It’s not great. But plays, Kevin’s bikes…Krshia’s helped Erin. We should trust the Gnolls, right?”
“Well, they knew about us and Earth and haven’t told anyone. So I’m for that.”
Joseph pointed to Elirr, sitting in the secret rooms. Kevin scratched at his head.
“I guess. There’s nothing we can do about the plane. What are we gonna do, run down there and steal it from them with the biggest bag of holding ever?”
“Yes. That’s true. But not all the tribes are alike.”
Imani’s quiet voice silenced the others. They looked at the [Cook], and then Rose spoke.
“Well, I’m going. And they have an airplane. Better Krshia be leading the Gnolls than…anyone else. I want to meet Lehra Ruinstrider, anyways. She sounds amazing. And all the Gnoll tribes! The Ruinstrider, Steelfur—are the Ekhtouch as sexy as people say?”
The old Gnoll’s mouth opened.
“How do you know so much about the tribes, Miss Rose?”
He looked incredulously at her. Rose just gave him a blank stare.
“Magazines.”
“…Magazines?”
