“In the long run, was it not?” asked Samantha. “Bianca first spent time in the deep wilderness and unlocked a very rare Class, and Nick may now be the only one in the world of his species, on top of having a very powerful Class. The journey may not have been pleasant, but the results are undeniable. And then, of course, there’s Sophie, which I don’t think I need to explain.”

“Still…” said Elise. “Doesn’t that mean that there’s a chance that this will take me somewhere that I will be enslaved?”

“It does,” said Samantha. “But at your current level, I doubt there are many in this world who could successfully keep you. And as I said, this is only for emergency use. Because it is not anchored anywhere else, it is also untraceable. If you use this, no one will be able to follow you. And if you encounter one of the foes that was sealed alongside us and all you have is an ordinary scroll, they will be able to follow you.”

Elise continued to frown at the scroll, but after a few seconds of deliberation, she reluctantly stowed it away in Astrid’s Star. She did not feel good about using the very same device that had nearly ruined the Gray family completely, but if she ever was in such an emergency, she would rather have it than not.

“I’m sure Jessie told you already, but we’ll be disappearing for a while,” continued Samantha. “It’s not safe for us to be anywhere near other mortals. But Aya’Rhun has not forgotten her promise. She still intends to teach you, when she can. For now, she’s sent this.” She produced another item from her pocket, this one a translucent white prism. “Channel your aether into it to activate it. It should be doable for you as you are. The crystal will do most of the work. Just will yourself to see its contents.”

Elise did so, and it did indeed work. It was an exceedingly odd sensation, and it took her a few seconds to get used to it, but once she adjusted, she found it rather intuitive. The crystal seemed to be an archive, of sorts, and it contained what appeared to be a tutorial on basic mana use. Elise couldn’t help but smile when she saw it. She was worried she would get nothing, or would have to wait years until things settled down more, or at worst, try to figure things out on her own, but this was more than enough to keep her occupied for a while. Hopefully, by the time she finished going through it and mastering the technique, either the world would be safer, or Elise would be strong enough to handle the dangers.

“Thank you,” she said.

“And lastly, this,” said Samantha, this time pulling out a bundle of scrolls. “These ones are ordinary. No contact with mortals unfortunately includes Charlotte. She’s currently in a safe place, but she’s no doubt lonely. Each of these scrolls are paired, and there are seven pairs. One will take you to her location, and the other will take you back to where you were. Each can take up to two people, so we request that you visit her regularly until you can find a better, more permanent home for her, and then bring her there.”

“I will,” said Elise, accepting the scrolls gratefully. “You’re not going to give her to Ostra?”

“No,” said Samantha. “Tyral visited them once, and he said there was something wrong with the organization. He does not like them, and would prefer she stays away until she’s mature and experienced enough to decide these things on her own.”

Elise nodded. “I understand.”

“I shouldn’t spend too much longer here, but do you have any questions before I go?”

“Why don’t you all just ascend?” asked Elise immediately. “Then you wouldn’t be in danger. Surely you’re at that level, right?”

“Well, that was the original plan,” said Samantha. “We were forced to allow ourselves to be sealed away rather than ascending in the past, and we wanted to all do it at once after we were unsealed… but then we met Irylax. I won’t explain further to avoid putting you in danger, but suffice to say, we realized we still had much further to go before ascending was safe. So, in addition to trying to take out these unsealed evils, we will also be working hard to grow stronger so we can accomplish our true goal.”

“I see.”

“Besides, leaving the world behind with more creatures like the serpent running loose would not sit well. We work to protect the mortal realm, and abandoning them to their fate when we know they have no one who can stand against these beings goes against our creed.”

Elise nodded again.

“Is there anything else?”

Of course there was, but most of Elise’s questions would have the same answer. “I can’t tell you because it would put you in danger.” And as much as Elise wanted to defiantly demand the answers anyway, after witnessing the death of the serpent, she knew better. They were right. She wasn’t ready yet.

“No, noth–” she started. “Wait, yes. Who were those guards you were with on orientation day? And what did you say to Liam Grane to get him to back off?”

Samantha blinked, then laughed before snapping her fingers and causing the same two guards from orientation day to appear right in the room.

“The guards were illusions,” she said. “Part of my mystique. And I just told Liam an embarrassing secret of his and threatened to reveal it.”

“What secret?”

“Nothing interesting. Not compared to our secrets, at least. Just an affair with a married woman that his father explicitly told him not to touch. It would have been juicy gossip, and it would have gotten him disciplined, but that’s all. More consequences than he cared to bear, but not enough for him to feel truly threatened.”

“I see.”

“Is that all?”

“Yes, I think so.”

“Then, this is goodbye. I know our relationship was built on lies, but I did enjoy your company. I’ll miss being able to mess with you.”

“I didn’t mind you much either,” said Elise with a smile. “You were a fun mystery.”

“That was my goal,” said Samantha, returning the smile. “See you around.”

She disappeared, just like Irylax had, but Elise knew it was different. Samantha was just so adept with mana and aether that Elise didn’t notice.

I need to get stronger, thought Elise, flopping down onto her bed. I feel so useless.

She spent the rest of the evening reading through the instructions in the crystal from Aya’Rhun, though she didn’t quite get through it all. It was all comprehensible, but complex, explaining the intricacies of how aether and mana interacted, and it also contained a set of progressively harder drills to work up to being able to cast simple spells. Elise would have a lot to do once she got started on it.

But that would have to wait until after the Dungeon Competition. This would be the last bit of time she would get to spend with Sophie for the foreseeable future, and she wanted to make it count.

To the mortals, her ascension had seemed simple and instant. To her, it was the opposite. It was a long, painful process as her body and soul were torn apart and built anew, ridding her of the remains of mortality and replacing it with divinity. She had never felt such pain before, and she wasn’t even able to move or scream. She was in a void, unable to control herself.

Then, all of a sudden, it was over. She had no idea how long it took. She only knew that she was whole once again, and better than she had been. Significantly better. So much better that she hardly felt like herself. Her power as a newly ascended god dwarfed that of some who had been around for centuries.

But she had no time to revel in her divinity, as the moment her mind regained clarity, a shadow fell over her, and she looked up to see an enormous winged figure descending from above.

“Father.”
