Max seriously debated about pulling a hard reset with the game to remove Ren's title, then he thought about how the CEO would react if he messed with Ren so directly again. He was still getting flack for his familiar trick to stop Ren from entering the pocket realms, but like he had pointed out to the boss, he had done that particular coding long before the 'leave Ren alone' memo was sent around the company.

What do I do? Max asked himself, and browsed the information on his screen. I can't interfere with Ren, and I also don't want him talking directly to the AI that runs everything. That could be bad, even with the heavily restricted access inside the game. He sighed. This is going to take some heavy thinking to work around.

Max crossed his arms and stared at the screen, and thought about the two intertwined problems that were going to be problematic to get around, especially since neither seemed to be independent of the other, and the only solution was direct intereference.

*

Billy had been shocked that his attacks against Ren were less than meaningless, and laid on his bed and stared at the 'You have died!' popup message and watched the countdown for several minutes. When the shock wore off, he read the popup over and over again.

“You have died. You have died! YOU HAVE DIED!” Billy yelled and pulled off his VR headset, then tossed it across his bedroom. “DAMMIT!” He yelled and got up off the bed. “I have to wait 6 goddamned hours to get back in there!” He stomped around the room and thought about punching something, then stopped and took several deep breaths.

Punching things apparently doesn't work. Billy thought, then remembered the look of pain and horror on Jennifer's face after he had punched her. He had been so thankful that he had lost so much weight when he had shrunk down, because the punch didn't have much behind it. Jennifer had been more emotionally hurt than she was physically, and he felt bad about both things. Of course, now she was going to have that apparent damage, a bruise on her face in the shape of his fist, for all to see.

“I'm going to apologize to you as soon as I log back in.” Billy said. “I shouldn't have hit you, and I'll make you see that it was just a stupid mistake.” He said and sat down on the bed.

Billy sighed when he thought about what the guys were going to say to him when he respawned in Clint's living room.

“That little bastard's probably hamming it up for them right now, and telling them what a horrible human being I am.” Billy said. “I'll apologize to them right after I message her, and try to explain what happened.” He said. “I won't let Ren steal my friends away from me.”

Billy stood up and walked over to where the VR headset had landed. It was in a pile of dirty clothes, and when he examined it, it looked fine. He brought it over to the bed and laid it on the pillow.

“I'll be back in as soon as the counter is up, Jennifer.” Billy said and smiled the smile of the self-delusional.
