Inferno Maw shot Fairy Moon a brief look, but he said nothing. He did not appreciate allowing angels or demons anywhere near the Twisted Vision. As the chief dragon in charge of keeping these pathways stable and empty of threats, Erick couldn’t blame the guy for his worries.

The celesteel snake shifter man stepped forward, looking miffed, as he said, “Celes wants nothing to do with Erick.”

The red incani woman said, “Hell doesn’t want him to participate in those talks, either.”

Erick frowned at that, asking, “The wrought speak of continuing the Forever War?”

“That’s not what we speak of,” said the red woman.

“The Forever War is outside of your capabilities.” The celesteel man said, “As long as both sides exist, there will always be war, for both sides will always grant divine messages to those aligned with them in order to continue the war.”

The red incani said, “It’s an issue which does not need to be discussed in this particular arena, since no one here is actually a part of that conflict.” She said, “You, as a planar, were exempt from those messages, so you were never a part of the conflict to begin with, though the people of Spur did initially mistake you for a soldier in the Host. The soldiers that do get those messages often use that information to cause a new eruption of the Quiet War. Even without those messages, though, both sides are responsible for heavy tragedies that demand responses.” She casually warned, “Do not start barging into that war now, please.”

Erick’s frown deepened. “I am aware of the messaging phenomenon, and it makes me want to agree with Kirginatharp that the only good solution to the angel/demon war is the destruction of the moons. Just blast them away!” The eyes of practically everyone widened. Erick continued, “They’re already dead, right? And I’m pretty sure the angels and demons and their Veirdly conspirators have targeted me for death, so it is only right to return utter death to them, is it not?” While sudden, actual worry crossed every wrought face, Erick answered his own question before they could, “No, I suppose utter annihilation of both dead moons isn’t the proper response, even if they are already dead. So some talks with actual angels and demons might be good for solving that conflict, which is why Kirginatharp needs to be informed—” Erick’s voice dropped away momentarily.

He had an idea, like a flash of lightning crossing his vision, illuminating a path ahead. Or maybe it was just the Benevolence lightning skittering across his vision. Maybe both.

Erick continued, “Kirginatharp is the Second to Rozeta, therefore he wants power, and he has shown capability with handling power, too. To that end: I offer him the next world to come along, for I already know he would want it. Perhaps he can completely keep the angels and demons away from the next world, if he were there at the beginning and making decisions.”

Fairy Moon did not like this, but she kept her sight forward, upon the wrought.

The wrought had no idea what to make of his offer.

Erick said, “Please take that offer to him, and set up a proper meeting to discuss further events and questions. I can appear with Ophiel, I think, while still remaining inside Ar’Cosmos. I would show in person, but I know how much Kirginatharp wants Wizards, and I’m not sure if he actually wants his Curse removed. That Curse doesn’t actually have to be cured right away, anyway. When the next world opens up, he could take himself and his Curse along with him.” Erick said, “This is a large conversation that needs to happen over a long time, so come back tomorrow with your various answers.”

Erick began to turn.

The white wrought called out, “Are you planning on making Benevolence Dragons!”

“Not unless I need to.”

Erick floated backward, gradually picking up speed. His lightning lashed the ground, leaving sparks and tiny black marks here and there, but no growing life.
