The wrought had come with their own contingent of ten people. Erick had no idea who any of them were, though they were of most races and castes. A bright copper human. A dark red incani. A bright silver harpy, along with several duller shades of silver orcol, and dragonkin, and another human. A white owl shifter, and an iridescent snake shifter.

Both sides of the conflict had sighted each other five minutes ago, through [Scry] eyes scattered wide through the Twisted Vision. It had taken that much time for both sides to float toward each other, and to meet on the opposite sides of the clearing.

And now they were here, both sides floating in the air.

Staring. Wondering what would happen now.

From the faces Erick was seeing on the other side, they were worried, and unsettled. Some seemed to be reading off of blue boxes, but that could have been an affectation, for Erick knew that wrought had full surround sight. The only reason he figured it might not be an affectation was that these wrought all looked young. The bright copper human stood out in particular, for being that bright meant that he was barely 30. The young ages on the other side shouldn’t have surprised Erick, though. The older wrought would not step foot in this land, for almost all of them had had dealings with Fairy Moon, and showing themselves here and now would be subjecting themselves to her power.

Erick supposed that was a problem to address in future talks, alongside all their other problems; the fact that Fairy Moon had untoward power over all the wrought was obviously cause for concern. But at the same time, Fairy Moon was using that power to prevent genocidal tyrants from coming in and fully wiping out her people.

And yet, these genocidal tyrants had only become genocidal tyrants in order to kill small fractions of the population in order to save the world from total destruction.

So… Some of their murdering was understandable, in a horrible, horrible way—

Three of the wrought landed. The red female incani, the white male owl shifter, and the iridescent male snake shifter. The others remained hovering behind the main three.

It was time to start.

Erick landed on the ground, keeping his lightning as close as possible. Some jolts still escaped his control and touched upon the ground, though this time they did not leave life in their wake. Ferns withered and died. Mushrooms rotted. Lightning lingered, killing the small things it touched.

A bare moment later Erick guessed at what was happening. It was quite possible that his emotional state had something to do with the manifestations of Benevolence. He supposed that was only right. After all, he had been using emotion in magic for a long time. In that moment, Kiri’s words came to him, reminding him of the time she had expressly said that putting emotions into his magic was a bad idea, for emotions changed and those changes would cause the created magic to behave erratically.

Ah. Whatever.

Fairy Moon stepped down onto the ground to Erick’s left. Inferno Maw settled onto the ground to his right. Everyone else remained hovering.

No one said a word, though based on the thick tendrils of air around the wrought, they were all in the middle of a large discussion. Since there was no discussion on his side—

Erick decided to break the silence of the grove and set the tone for all to come. “We see no surprises on your side, but I assume that I am a surprise to you, and likely in more ways than one. I want you to know that I want this meeting to go right, so take your time collecting your response, but please tell me: Is Kromolok connected to you? I would speak with him directly.”

To their credit, only the young copper wrought showed any signs of distress that Erick had spoken first.

After a moment of quick conference, the red metal incani stepped forward. She looked made of hellite. A counterpoint to the snake shifter made of celesteel? Perhaps. As far as Erick knew, though, the wrought didn’t participate in the Quiet War, or the Forever War, but those born to those specific metals were born into the same system that caused demons or angels to try and connect with them, to influence events down here on Veird.

The hellite woman said, “Inquisitor Kromolok is not directly with us, for Fairy Moon’s power is insidious and even more so here in her Domain, so we are cut off from everyone else. We are empowered to speak on their behalf, though, and to that end: We wish you to leave this land with us, Archmage Flatt. We have decontamination magics standing by to fully rid you of her influence.”

She said the words without any true hope, for she already knew his answer.

Erick said, “I know what the wrought do to Wizards, for I was already offered that particular calming end. I do not desire that particular calming end. My desires require a lot more power than the amount of power that the wrought would be comfortable with me wielding. Therefore, I will not be joining you today.”

The woman nodded, fully expecting what she had received. Only a few people in the group were obviously distraught. ‘Why didn’t he accept our offer!’ some were thinking. Some were preparing to murder Erick if necessary, though only the celesteel shifter seemed fully ready to attempt that idiocy. Not a fully unified group, then. The red woman had some control of the situation, though.

She said, “By your own words, in regard to certain events during Last Shadow’s Feast, you have said that ‘no one deserves to have that much power’. Has that stance changed due to your own beliefs changing, or due to the outside influence of Fairy Moon?”

Ah. So they were calling him a hypocrite then? Or just feeling him out?

Probably the latter.

Erick said, “I’ve known I was a Wizard for a very long time, and it has taken me that long of a time to come to terms with who I am, and who I have to be in order to create the world I wish to share with everyone else. I still believe that some people don’t deserve power, and some people who have no power should have more. I still dislike that someone can blow up a mountain with a flick of a thought. No one should have that much power.” Erick said, “But I have to have power if I am to remain free, and to further my own goals. It is a paradox, to be sure, which is fine since I’m a Paradox Wizard. Rozeta herself helped me to get there, you know. She believes that this whole thing can actually work out for all involved. I even got some blue boxes to that effect not ten minutes ago.”

The red woman nodded, as though she had known all of what Erick would say. Any smart person would have known, though, so Erick did not believe that she was mind reading him, or [Future Sight]ing him.

The white metal owl shifter was different.

He was mind reading Erick, for sure. Erick was under his own Domain, so the guy probably couldn’t just control his mind from there, but he could certainly read Erick’s inner thoughts. He had to be a member of the Inquisition.

The celesteel snake shifter seemed to reevaluate his decision to go on the offensive, though, when Erick mentioned Rozeta’s influence, which was nice to see. Erick had thrown those particular words out there with the express purpose of seeing if he could calm everyone down, and he had. The celesteel guy was clearly trying to hop through some mental hoops to make himself rightfully angry and ready for violence, though—

And ah! There it was.

The celesteel guy eyed Erick, and he was probably thinking that Erick was clearly mind controlled, or soul controlled, or something along those lines, for that’s what people did to control malcontents like Erick. Fairy Moon had already controlled Erick once. She was probably still doing it.

As for Erick’s own side, Inferno Maw just watched, somewhat surprised at both Erick’s declarations of knowing of his Wizardry for a long time, and at Rozeta thinking that everything could work out for the best. Could he trust Rozeta to have Ar’Cosmos’s ‘best’ in mind? Probably not, but he would wait and see, just to see what happened next.

The red woman said, “Any boxes you got could have been faked. That is what this place does. That is who these people are. Please come with us. Leave this land and return to normal magic, so that Rozeta herself can vet you as free of influences. We are not your enemies, Archmage Flatt, and we never have been.”

Erick almost asked them if they had not gotten new blue boxes, too, but apparently they were under orders to ignore all blue boxes once they got inside? Yes, that made sense.

Inferno Maw’s sudden, rumbling laughter cut off Erick’s attempt at clarification. He exclaimed, “You say ‘you have never been enemies’ like anyone could ever believe that! If he wasn’t wearing his Domain then your Inquisitor there would have already ripped him out of our protection. You think this is the first discussion we have ever had with you people? Nay! We know how you operate!”

The red woman took a half step back. She had spoken as much as she was able, and now it was time for another to take the field.

The white metal Inquisitor stepped forward. “This is not a normal situation, and Archmage Flatt is not a normal Wizard. If this were a normal situation, your people would have already corrupted him toward your own desires.”

Erick decided to barrel over the building animosity (which was likely based on true events, all around) and redirect the conversation to what mattered. “Please commit these words to mind, and take them back to Kromolok, and King Alfonin, and all the other wrought, and the Mind Mages, and Kirginatharp:

“Nothing is going to ever be the same now that I am here, and in power.

“I hope the alliances that I have already made with the wrought, and the Inquisitors, and the friendly relationships I have had with the Mind Mages, and with Headmaster Kirginatharp, and with all the other nations of this world, will prove the merit of my character more than the circumstances of who I happen to be. I hope that what I have done, enables you to more easily believe these next words, and the full breadth of their meanings and implications.

“I desire to see this world made more habitable.

“I desire fewer monsters, and more prosperity. Less war and more growth.

“But I know the measure of the wrought, and what they will do when truly dangerous magics come about. I know the dangers of dragons. I know the dangers of magic, and of Melemizargo, and of the Shades. I know the dangers of this world rather well, as I have fought against many of them, from monsters to face stealers, to assassination attempts and war, and many smaller issues that could fill a book or ten.

“And all the while, I knew that if I went to the good people who put themselves in charge of this world, and told them who I actually was, I would be killed, or worse. And so, we are here.

“These circumstances have required me to ally with Ar’Cosmos.

“To that end, I have helped them to create a machine which strips mangled Dragon Essence from a half dragon, or otherwise, turning them fully into whatever base race they were, or which they choose to be. It is the [Reincarnation] magic that I have spoken about before, but in a way that allows anyone to use the machine I have made.

“And so, Ar’Cosmos will likely be putting people out there into the world who are free of the Dragon Curse, in all ways.

“I am also making a House Benevolence.

“I assume that some reincarnated people will want to join my house, but it won’t be a house of dragons. It will be a house of people seeking normal freedoms. The majority of the reincarnated will likely go elsewhere, and hopefully to the Crystal Forest, which I plan on [Cleanse]ing of mimics and turning green.

“I might even get some full dragons transforming themselves into normal people, just so they won’t have to hide who they are anymore.

“I plan on making runic [Renew] webs wherever I need to, in order to defend my interests and the people who live there.

“And as soon as we’re done here, I’m headed back to Ar’Cosmos to make [Gate]. Or maybe I’ll make it here, in this Twisted Vision, so that it doesn’t disturb the inner magics of Ar’Cosmos too much. Fairy Moon has given me all the pieces to [Gate], and since I have my own Element now, taking that final step is just a matter of willpower.”

Erick breathed in, giving the terrified, or hopeful, or expressionless people all around a chance to catch up to his words. There had been a lot there. Fairy Moon simply looked thrilled. Inferno Maw clearly thought that Erick was divulging too much information, but he resigned himself to Erick spilling secrets. If there was one thing Inferno Maw knew about Erick, it was that Erick liked to give away magical secrets all the damned time.

Erick finished with, “I hope the alliances I have already forged out there remain intact. I hope that everyone can just get along, and if need be, simply keep to their own parts of the world and ignore each other. Because know this: I plan on curing the Dragon Curse and I plan on opening new worlds, and you all need more keepers of Scripts on other worlds, unless I am mistaken. So how about qualifying dragons? Rozeta seems to be doing a decent job.”

The wrought contingent was stunned into silence, though some of them obviously wanted to ask questions. Some of them were just staring at all the Death dragons, and judging them as floating piles of shit compared to their wonderful goddess, Rozeta.

The dragons had a much more mirthful reaction.

Inferno Maw let out a stuttering laugh that filled the air with monochromatic fire, and then he started laughing in earnest. His open display of joy rapidly waned, though, for he was still very much aware of his surroundings. The other Death dragons tried not to stare at Erick, for they were still on guard duty, but they did all glance his way.

Fairy Moon was ambivalent.

The white wrought spoke, “Your words are heard and recorded. They will be given to appropriate parties. Will you come with us to answer questions?”

“No.” Erick said, “I will exit Ar’Cosmos on my own time, though that timeframe could be sped up by open displays of diplomacy from all sides. I know Kirginatharp was attempting to get me to come to Oceanside to use my Path to force a lasting peace between Hell and Celes, but that likely will not happen for I plan on finishing the Worldly Path within the next two hours. I am still open to attempting to create a lasting end to the Forever War, though, so please tell him that.” Erick turned to Fairy Moon. “Perhaps we can get a conference going in here?”

Fairy Moon said, “Demons and Angels are allowed on the outskirts but Kirginatharp is forever forbidden.”

