Once again: As of right now, your ‘sandbox’ connection to the Script is well isolated, and I don’t foresee that changing unless you purposefully change it. So unless you specifically start messing with that, I don’t foresee you ever losing access to the Script, until you reach Endless Foundation.

Maybe not even then, though? We’ll see.

Hopefully when I see you again, you aren’t ensorcelled by Fairy Moon.

Erick read that box three times, feeling a swell of something nice inside his chest as he did. He read the nice message a fourth time because he had already glimpsed and read the next message in the line, and he had instinctively pulled back from those angry-looking boxes.

He went on to the next boxes, and his heart thumped hard as he read.

WARNING!

WARNING!

YOU HAVE CREATED A NEW ELEMENT.

YOUR ACTIONS ENDANGER ALL LIFE.

YOU WILL BE JUDGED ACCORDINGLY.

PREPARE THYSELF, FOR THE EYES OF THE GODS ARE UPON THEE.

WARNING!

WARNING!

YOU HAVE CREATED A NEW ELEMENT!

ALL ACCESS BLOCKED UNTIL REVIEW IS COMPLETED.

WHY THE FUCK DOES IT LOOK LIKE PRIMAL LIGHTNING, ERICK?!

WHY?

WE WILL HAVE WORDS, AND SOON.

So, Erick.

This is Rozeta.

My previous messages might have been a bit hasty, but I’m leaving them there to better display my concern.

Your new Element looks highly promising, but there is no keeping any of this secret anymore. You are a Wizard. Your new Element has propagated backward through time, slightly shifting all of your magic that you have ever made. The tainting effect is larger with regard to every spell you ever made special.

There’s quite a lot of this new Element inside [Exalted Rain], for instance, and inside the [Blessing of Empathy] that got taken out of you and put into Koyabez’s Crystal Star. Yggdrasil and Ophiel both contain your new Element, too, as though it was always a part of them. Some magics, though, are conspicuously free of your new Element.

Particle Magic has no benevolence to it at all.

The good news is that you should not experience any real, substantial changes in how your current spellwork actually works, though there are likely to be quite a few superficial shifts.

Other good news: I don’t feel the need to send paladins after you, and instead, I wish to reaffirm our current working relationship in light of this new development. Whatever our working relationship means going forward is mostly up to you.

The bad news is that I have no idea what your new Element can do, and I NEED TO KNOW WHAT IT DOES, ERICK.

Everything!

All nuances!

I need teams of people working with you to understand this newest creation! Particle Magic was one thing, but that was just specialized telekinesis. This is actual magic.

I am VERY CONCERNED over the visual similarities to Primal Lightning.

We will have discussions.

This is Rozeta.

These next messages are to show where several Relevant Entities are on the actual spectrum of approval or disapproval when it comes to you and your new Element.

Also: Don’t get paranoid on me and run away from all my wrought clergy, please. They already have instructions not to harm or overly approach you, and this time there will not be another Sitnakov-type incident.

For the creation of a new and approved Element, the following gifts have been bestowed:

+50 points from Rozeta, for both forms.

An available casting of [Blessing of Empathy], which restores at-will, from Koyabez. The god of peace wishes you to never again be deprived of the artifact that you and he made together, but an actual object is a weakness that is unneeded.

An available casting of [Zone of Peace], which also restores at-will, also from Koyabez. You should have had this spell long before now, too.

Clearance to learn true Time Magic, to be studied at any Church of Phagar, or from Phagar himself, as you desire.

Seeds from the Blessed Bounty Vine, which grants the power of Atunir to any farming field. The seeds will be delivered to you by Champion Yetta. Champion Yetta will also pledge herself to your defense for one year’s time.

Now, normally, Erick, I would not mention this to you, or to anyone, but I feel that we will likely be working with each other soon and therefore a bit of ‘lifting the curtain’ is in order.

I’m getting strange readings from small souls that I know are inside Ar’Cosmos. Specifically, their normal mana output has dropped, but they are not dead. This is normally a very, very rare occurrence. The number of people who are capable of causing this effect either don’t do this anymore because I have asked them to stop, or they’re Wizards stealing mana production from others. Since your own mana output has not gone up by those same increments, then I know you’re not directly responsible.

I hope you are not directly responsible.

I know we had a talk about how stealing another person’s mana is one of the lines I won’t allow you to cross. Therefore, I don’t believe you are doing this directly.

But you are likely involved.

When you get this message, please give me a prayer and we can talk about this oddity and all the rest.

Possible known entity detected!

Initializing mana reintegration…

Partial connection successfully reestablished.

Hello, <Erick Flatt, protean>.

Commencing full reconnection…

<S-grade> anomaly detected.

<S-grade anomaly has been preapproved>

Special exceptions finalized.

Reorienting scan...

Scanning for unapproved influences…

No unapproved influences discovered.

Scan finalized.

Finalizing reintegration...

Welcome back to Veird, <Erick Flatt>!

Stars and brightness, you’re back and you seem to be yourself. I was worried about that.

Your scan looks clean but I’ll resend the anti-Slavery protocols again. Please use them and get yourself out of there!

Anti-Slavery Protocol:

Tap this message or think at it really hard and concentrate on freedom. The Script will attempt to break all ensorcellment upon you, as well as [Greater Teleport] you back to the outskirts of <Spur>.

If you would like a [Greater Teleport] to some other approved city, then think on that city before thinking at this message in order to switch targets.

<Unfortunately your slaver, Fairy Moon, does not qualify for the Kill Quest option. She is more immortal than anyone could ever be. Escape now, if you can.>

Ah! So it is Elemental Benevolence.

I thought you were going to call it that, but who really knows these things when it comes to you.

Good news all around, though! Elemental Benevolence looks like it might directly prevent another Sundering, while simultaneously announcing large scale disruptions long, long before they happen. Still working out how that’s supposed to happen, but we have time now. The next few centuries of life on Veird look rather stable.

You can likely guess, and somewhat arrive at, how much of a true miracle this is, Erick.

The previous boons granted are not reward enough for what you have done.

I will help you craft a boon of your own design, later, when we are in discussions about all of this. I look forward to seeing you in person once again. Before that happens, though, I am sure that you will receive a visit from some of my people. They will be wary, for everyone knows you’re a Wizard now, but they should be respectful. If they are not then let me know.

There will not be another Sitnakov-type incident.

As for the rest of the gods: There are notable exceptions, of course, but practically the entire pantheon of Relevant Entities are eager to make deals with you now that the Truth of your Wizardry looks to be the first real miracle we’ve had here on Veird in a long, long time.

See you soon.

Erick read through and dismissed the blue boxes one by one.

To an outside observer, like Inferno Maw or Fairy Moon, it would have looked like he had simply zipped his eyes up and down a dozen times and then turned his sight back to them. It only took him about that many seconds to read through everything, including the Kill Notifications that he mostly skimmed and then ignored.

Mentally, his finger was on the anti-Slavery escape message, but physically, and spiritually, he was here, in the moment. He was ready to talk to some wrought, and according to what he had just read, he expected that talk to go well.

Erick smiled a little. “Hopefully this talk goes well, for it seems like Rozeta approves of most of what I’ve done, though I take it the eyes of the divine cannot pierce Ar’Cosmos?”

Fairy Moon said, “Certain gods could still visit from Veird if they wished to court a thwapping, but they bargained to leave us be, and I them in turn.”

“Okay then.” Erick said, “So it looks like Koyabez, Phagar, and Atunir also seem good with what I have done, and who I am, so let’s all be nice and hope for some good outcomes from this talk with the wrought, yeah?”

Inferno Maw pulled back a little, a look of disbelief on his large, monochromatic draconic face. “I doubt that it will be an easy talk, but… You can talk first?” He turned, “Or Fairy Moon?”

“Nay, says I!” Fairy Moon began skipping across the shadowy ground of the deep, deep forest, her voice falling into the darkness all around like brightness falling into an abyss, “We go to make magic of talking and treaty! So let’s let the Wizard do the wishing for us all!”

Inferno Maw twisted a little, turning back to face Erick for a moment, before following Fairy Moon into the gloom of the Twisted Vision, saying, “I suppose that would be for the best.” He glanced backward, at Erick, saying, “Just don’t go promising them stuff we cannot condone; I reserve the right to overrule you if you overstep your rule— Bah!” He suddenly zipped forward to follow Fairy Moon, who had vanished into the forest ahead. “You try me too much, Fairy Moon! Leave my language be— Bah! Stop that.”

Pink and green laughter filled the forest like a scattering of will-o-wisps.

… And Erick felt better for those small words of happiness, and teasing between two very powerful immortal beings. Both Fairy Moon and Inferno Maw had turned… Almost lighthearted.

Two other Death dragons flowed outward, taking corner points to the envoy, while the other two waited behind for Erick to start moving. Those rank-and-file dragons weren’t quite so overjoyed. They expected something bad to happen. They also expected Erick to keep up with the group and to move as a unit, and so Erick obliged.

With Benevolence flickering outward, and under his own Domain of power once again, Erick floated forward, moving through the Twisted Vision like a ball of plasma that could have been as bright as a sun, but he toned it down to a mere glow. And he felt good about this next meeting. He felt a lot better about those words he had heard in the Rotunda, too. The dragons were hoping for a new lease on life, and maybe, just maybe…

That new life could happen.

Mirth bubbled up from inside Erick and came out as a small chuckle—

He looked down as he floated, for as he smiled and laughed, his Benevolent sunform was doing something odd. Something wonderful. Instead of silent lightning leaving dark marks and burning the grass and the small ferns, Erick left life in his wake, like a small [Grow] happened everywhere his Benevolence touched.

Ferns unfurled from the ground. White, glowing flowers sprang up here and there, but their glows rapidly faded to reveal yellow, or red, or pink petals. Grasses came out of bare soil, and glowing mushrooms sprouted from deadfall. The mushrooms retained their brightness and light for a lot longer than the flowers.

Erick wasn’t doing it on purpose but he couldn’t help but marvel, in a small way, as he left a trail of spreading life wherever he passed. It was pretty. Some of the glowing shrooms remained very bright long after Erick passed out of sight, according to Ophiel, who had hopped off to investigate a particularly large mushroom that Erick left in his wake. That was fine, for Erick just conjured another Ophiel, and it only cost him a pittance of mana, now that Intelligence was working again.

Some of the dragons in back spared some heavy glances at the carpet of subtle glows, but they were on duty, and they did not linger.

And Erick kept flying forward, following Fairy Moon and Inferno Maw, leaving light wherever he went. It was a small fraction of light, and most of it would likely perish on its own, over time, or whenever someone had a fight in the area. This was where Ar’Cosmos’s defenses were greatest, after all. But the light was still a nice contrast to the deep, dark forest, where the shadowed canopy was at least a kilometer overhead, the sun was nowhere to be seen, and the trunks of the trees were as wide as houses.

Erick made a pretty good artificial sun, though, even though his light was rather more like lightning these days…

But that was fine.

- - - -

Inferno Maw held in the air to the right, above and behind Erick by a good ten meters, though the dragon was a good 50 meters long so he still felt rather close. Fairy Moon was much closer, standing three meters to Erick’s left. The various dragons of House Death had fanned out into the forest, above and behind, to ensure that no one could surround or sneak up on their contingent.

They did not erect any defensive spellwork, though, for the Twisted Vision itself was defensive enough. If the wrought used any Domain magic, or if they did anything over 50 mana, then all Ar’Cosmos’s people would need to do was escape the wrought, and the Twisted Vision would respond to the infection of the wrought with an avalanche of monsters.

The forest all around them was dark, with massive trees scattered far away. The ground between both sides was empty of cover, and mostly flat. There was no worry of anyone burrowing into the ‘ground’ and popping up where they shouldn’t be, for though no defenses were put into the ground, every single thing in this land was not what it appeared to be; it was all a fae trick. The ground and the sky were the limits of this land. There was no [Teleport]ing anywhere through this land, either, for using that sort of Spatial Magic inside this space would sooner put the caster half inside a tree, and that sort of [Partial Teleport] usually killed the caster.

Erick wasn’t sure such a bisection would kill anyone at this particular meeting, though; including him.

He stood in his sunform, but with the light pulled close to his skin. Before he had pulled his sunform close, lightning had flickered off of his feet to silently touch the ground underneath three times. The fern that had sprouted under him still glowed a faint green.

That growth and glowing fern drew the eyes of the wrought on the other side of the clearing, after they had gotten over their initial surprise at actually seeing Erick.

