Inferno Maw was a massive dragon with a head two meters across and a body trailing fifty meters down the street, and gently undulating. White-black fire held inside his mouth like monochromatic, anti-gravity napalm. That fire moved as he spoke, “House Death appreciates the addition of the extra three [Renew] rings you have granted us. They will help further research into that spell, and how it works, but we could never have achieved any of this without you. You are invaluable to Ar’Cosmos and to the future of all of Veird. Not just us dragons, either.” Inferno Maw lowered himself till his head was level with Erick. With deep, grey eyes staring straight at Erick, Inferno Maw said, “Please don’t let them take you, and please do not believe whatever lies they conjure to get you to leave with them.”

Erick looked at Inferno Maw for a moment longer, then he turned toward the Gate. “I am aware of… What to expect from them. I appreciate your words nonetheless.”

Inferno Maw lingered at eye-level with Erick for a moment longer, and then he pulled back. Four other Death Dragons held to the sides of the roads, hovering gently in the air, ready to move at Inferno Maw’s command. He did not give that command, yet.

Fairy Moon hopped forward one step, then said, “We go to have talks with hopefully not-tyrants. Evacuation of Erick will commence if he commands, or is incapacitated by the invaders. Otherwise there will be no nudging of him either way. And now! We go!” She stepped forward, and did not stop walking.

Erick followed, and then he realized he was following. He almost faltered, but he did not.

Inferno Maw followed next. He whispered, “When we get past that Gate you should reconnect to the Script. If you need a minute to go through your notifications, then let us all get all through the Gate, first. We still have ten minutes before I open the pathway for the wrought.”

Erick just nodded. Inferno Maw had spoken a few words about how the Twisted Vision worked. Apparently, everything beyond that metal Gate would move at House Death’s commands, and usually automatically so that no visiting or leaving dragon would encounter another dragon. There were ways to direct that movement, though, and that’s what they were doing today.

Currently, to the right, the switching station had four guards from House Death set up inside that bunker to facilitate those switches. On a more normal day those people would simply move the pathways according to arcane schedules, ensuring that every dragon who left this land did so without meeting any other dragon.

Because the Script was on the other side of that Gate.

… As Inferno Maw had already said. Erick was just nervous.

Fairy Moon went first, stepping onto the silver bridge that arched through the silver square. Erick took a step onto that bridge next, the metal not even making a sound, for it was solid metal. He followed Fairy Moon across that arc of metal, through the Gate—

He crossed through an unseen edge inside the Gate and blue boxes instantly filled his vision like someone had wrapped him in a blue tarp. He could still see out of it, of course, but the messages in that blue space suddenly began shifting as new blue boxes appeared. Thankfully, his mana sense suddenly expanded outward, going from the cramped 5 meter distance it had been all this time in Ar’Cosmos, back out to 50 meters in all directions.

Erick felt a rush of comfort at finally being able to sense the world again, but he focused on his footing and kept walking down the other side of the silver bridge. When he was clear of that bridge he stepped to the side, where Fairy Moon stood waiting, so that the dragons could more easily pass. Inferno Maw and his dragons followed through the Gate one at a time, each of them thick enough to take up the entire Gateway if they wanted. Rapidly, they took points all around the Gate like they were soldiers in enemy territory, which was sort of true, Erick supposed.

But the Pathways were clear of monsters and Inferno Maw controlled those spawns, anyway, and all the wrought had yet to enter into these Pathways, so they weren’t in any real danger. Not yet, anyway, and nothing that the people here could not handle.

Mostly.

Erick was now subject to the Script, which was a different sort of danger. The gods could probably appear here if they wanted, and maybe Rozeta could simply abduct him straight from this place… But since she hadn’t, maybe she couldn’t? Whatever danger he was in, though, was dwarfed by a warm, comforting feeling that spread throughout his entire body—

Ah!

His Stats were ‘coming back online’! Yes. That’s what this was. Health had returned, and washed away every single lingering bit of unnoticed-until-now harm inside his body. Constitution had come back, too, making even the small chill in the air seem like nothing at all. He could probably cast spells for 5% costs, now that Intelligence was fully working again. As for actually casting spells, though, it was time to do some of that; to create some defenses for the meeting with the wrought.

He started with [Greater Lightwalk]—

Not only did every single dragon and fae nearby turn to him as he let out his light and lightning, each and every one of them looking mightily concerned, another message popped up. This message got added to the pile, but Erick did read it first.

Caution!

You have mutated one of your spells in an unknown and potentially dangerous way!

If this was unintentional please see a Registrar or pray to Rozeta to have this change undone. Such a repairing will cost 1 point, or the completion of a Quest.

If someone else did this to you without your consent, please see a Registrar or pray to Rozeta to have this change undone. Such a repairing might be free.

This is your changed spell:

Greater Lightwalk, instant, long range, 10 MP per second + Variable

You are the radiant day.

This spell has become:

Pristine Benevolence, instant, super long range, 10 MP per second + Variable

You are a radiant new beginning.

May your influence be eternal.

Erick read the box again, and then he pushed aside all his messages and pulled up his [Greater Lightwalk] box. And sure enough, his mental command to pull up that box had instead pulled up [Pristine Benevolence]. All the while, wispy white lightning zapped away from his body to touch the ground, leaving lingering sparks and small scorch marks here and there.

Everyone else continued to stare.

Erick explained, “Normally this is [Greater Lightwalk]. Obviously, this has changed.”

Inferno Maw stared, saying, “I should say so.”

“So I heard Domains were bad here in the Twisted Vision, but they didn’t seem to matter inside Ar’Cosmos itself.” Erick asked, “Would it be a problem to try that out, too?”

Inferno Maw smiled a little, his massive maw revealing a monochromatic inferno. “Going into discussion with the wrought without all your protections would be a foolish thing indeed.”

Fairy Moon shrugged.

[Lodestar].

The light and lightning around Erick took on a deeper, more radiant hue, and then it calmed. For a moment Erick had looked like a plasma ball, but with a twitch of effort his sunform looked… Mostly normal. Benevolence sparks jolted here and there across the boundary edge between where his Domain was absolute, and the rest of reality began. Some of those jolts silently traced across the ground, leaving thin black lines where they touched the bare soil.

Another blue box appeared, looking akin to the previous one. Erick only read the last part.

This is your changed spell:

Lodestar, instant, close range, aura, 1 mana per second

Shine Timeless Brilliance.

All of your Light effects are supercharged, and difficult to corrupt.

All of your Light effects require 10x more mana to Dispel.

Your Light effects are uncorruptible and undispellable while they exist inside your Lodestar.

This spell has become:

Lodestar, instant, close range, aura, 1 mana per second

Impose your benevolence upon reality.

All of your Light and Benevolence effects are supercharged, and difficult to corrupt.

All of your Light and Benevolence effects require 10x more mana to Dispel.

Your Light and Benevolence effects are uncorruptible and undispellable while they exist inside your Lodestar.

May your influence be eternal.

… Okay?

[Lodestar] was different, but mostly the same. Except for the occasional lightning, the visuals were mostly the same as the original, so that tracked.

… And now, he was surrounded by his Domain, and his Elemental Body, and he was outside of Ar’Cosmos. Sure, Fairy Moon had some power out here, still, but…

He was finally acting under his own power. He was finally able to act under his own power.

Erick sighed as a heavy weight seemed to falter, and then fall off of his shoulders. Sure, he was surrounded by dragons and Fairy Moon, and he was going to visit a wrought contingent that might want him dead, or neutered, or contained. But here he was, back in his ‘sunform’, with Intelligence dropping his costs to barely anything, and the dragons and the fairy were not hostile. In fact, they might be real allies. Sure, their relationship hadn’t been tested yet, but it was going to be, and soon.

And with that! Erick felt good enough to go over the rest of his messages. With a thought, he lined them up chronologically—

Kill Notifications?

Oh.

Quite a lot of Kill Notifications.

Almost everything here was a Kill Notification.

Monsters of all kinds, with most of them fishes, actually, which painted an odd picture that something was happening… Somewhere. Where the fuck did a ‘harpoon-eye glasser’ live? Oh! Erick recognized the notification for a lesser rivergrieve, though. So something was happening over in Songli? Or maybe some rivergrieves had gotten into Candlepoint’s lake someh—

Erick’s heart skipped a beat. He turned toward Fairy Moon. On one hand, it was odd to see that she was only level 45, except for the first kill which had been level 93, but then again, she was a ‘true immortal’ fae.

Erick asked, “Yggdrasil killed you eleven times?”

Inferno Maw balked, and then he reoriented as though considering that Erick’s words could be true. And then he laughed. The other Death dragons were a bit more reserved than that, briefly turning their heads toward Fairy Moon, and then they turned back to the dark forest all around, resuming their guard duty.

Fairy Moon waved Erick off, saying, “Twas but a temper tantrum from a toddler.”

...Sure.

Why not.

Erick eyed Yggdrasil’s eye and the iridescent white orb merely tilted a bit, as though he didn’t see the problem. Which… Fine! No problem? No problem. Erick turned back to his messages.

Except for the first major message which probably happened when Erick was kidnapped, chronologically, the bulk of the messages seemed to start around the time when he finally learned how to properly accrete—

Ah. Shit. Jane. How was she doing?

Okay.

Erick needed to see Jane, and soon.

But not at this moment. Not while he was in the middle of multiple diplomatic missions at the same time. Jane was fine, and she would keep.

Back to the messages. Almost all of them read like they were automated, except for the most obvious ones.

Anti-Slavery Protocol:

Tap this message or think at it really hard and concentrate on freedom. The Script will attempt to break all ensorcellment upon you, as well as [Greater Teleport] you back to the outskirts of <Spur>.

If you would like a [Greater Teleport] to some other approved city, then think on that city before thinking at this message in order to switch targets.

<Unfortunately your slaver, Fairy Moon, does not qualify for the Kill Quest option. She is more immortal than anyone could ever be. Escape now, if you can.>

Erick did not poke at that message too hard. It was a bit late, anyway. Now, he was sort of allied with Fairy Moon and Ar’Cosmos. The next messages seemed to be about the time when Erick finally started accreting properly. Most of them reminded Erick of when he had first gained a core, back in the Core of Veird. Back then he had gotten a failed ‘return to X’ Quest, too.

To the being cultivating their core:

If you can read this, then I urge you to cease this self destruction. You can return to being a real person if you accept and complete this next quest. It is not too late.

Come back to sanity.

Special Quest!

Return to <UNKNOWN>

Error!

Quest deleted. Insufficient authorization.

To the being accreting their core.

It appears you are accreting correctly.

If you can read this, and I think you can, here are some warnings:

You will lose access to the Script if you become too powerful, for we will never suffer another Sundering. Magic is for everyone, but it is also limited.

While you continue to have a core you will be limited to 500 mana cast per second. If you do not like this limit, then here is a Quest to rid yourself of your core and return your body and soul back to how they should be.

This is the same quest you once spurned, but here now is salvation offered.

Special Quest!

Return to <UNKNOWN>

Error!

Quest deleted. Insufficient authorization.

You have reached the pinnacle of accretion.

This is a warning.

You are close to losing Script access.

Hello, Erick.

This is Rozeta. This is not an automated message, but it was something I typed up while you were in Ar’Cosmos. Maybe you’ll get this and it can help explain some things.

You are likely going to get quite a few ‘you are going to lose Script access’ messages, but I can tell you right now that you will never lose Script access until you hit Endless Foundation, or if you do something that is completely out of character.

Endless Foundation is the full crystallization stage of accretion, and it happens around a transition point between Third and Fifth Foundation, but not always at Fourth Foundation, though that is a rather common starting point.

Just in case they have instructed you wrong in there, let me now give some small words of definition.

First Foundation: gain a shard of a core.

Second Foundation: gain a solid core.

Third Foundation: gain a second core.

Fourth Foundation: gain an arbitrary number of cores.

Fifth Foundation / Endless Foundation: Crystallization, simultaneous absorbing of all cores, simultaneous body manifestation. True immortality and immutability.

We’ve gone over all the rest of what that all means, though we did leave terminology out of all that. I had hoped I could have helped you get here, but then events and the Worldly Path conspired against my assistance.

