The conversion of his bone armor wasn’t just a spell. It was a spell made up of spells connected to other spells. There were small spells making up larger spells. There were patterns connected to other patterns to create an overpattern. He was looking at a system of spells working together, something of multiple complexity magnitudes higher than anything he dealt with before.

Shiv’s mind went blank, and more than any of the times before, he realized just how undereducated he was. He thought he would be able to figure out how to recreate all wounds and shape a few viruses, but this was like bearing the blueprint to an entire biological object in his mana, and he hadn’t the slightest clue as to how to properly wield it.

“Quite overwhelming, isn’t it?” Helix asked.

“That’s a lot of spells,” Shiv muttered, nodding. “This is going to take a while.”

“Centuries,” Helix said. “Even if you pursue this magical discipline, it will take centuries upon centuries. More time than you can possibly imagine. But it will give you more power and influence than you ever imagined as well. And insight. Not only into yourself, but the foundational nature and aspects of existence. Such is the great gift of magic. Comprehension.”

A breath escaped Shiv. There were so many moving parts. And there was a weight pressing on him, grinding against his mana. “It feels a little heavy too.”

“Heavy?” Helix asked. “Elaborate. Don’t just spit out the first word to describe your feeling. What kind of heavy? Specifically, what do you feel?”

“It’s like the very beginnings of mana strain,” Shiv said, narrowing his eyes at the spell patterns containing his bone armor. He moved the spell patterns around, and he watched them glide through his mana field. “I can move it without difficulty. The strain’s just there. It’s not really building that much more. Not changing at all. But it’s not going away either.”

“Interesting,” Helix said. “Then, it must be a bit like Chimeric Assimilation. But your mana doesn’t need to be primed. It’s already activated. It just assimilated the material without—Ah! I understand now. Insul. Try pushing a section of the spell patterns out from your field. Don’t try to move it. Try squeezing it out of its current crystallized configuration.”

Shiv focused his intent and squeezed the spell chain representing his bone armor. It burst and from it emerged his leg armor, bone white and perfectly preserved. However, lengths of spells were now missing within his field, and his mana was dimmer than before.

“Very good,” Helix said. “And your field… It’s not directly anchored to your body, is it?”

“No,” Shiv replied, studying the thin layer of separation. That was the only part that resembled his old mana field. Just a faint membrane of redness. “There’s a gap here connected by an inner field. It’s like my old field.”

“Yes. That’s a partitioning layer more commonly used by individuals. I have it. Most orcs have it. But most monsters do not. In fact, most Biomancy-inclined monsters are deeply infused with their own Biomancy mana. As such, a monster’s flesh shifts when they use their magic, as their way of wielding it is instinctive. Individuals, comparatively, are more manipulative. We interface and use the field to move things. Monsters use their bodies and fields in tandem. Most times, they fail to separate the two entirely. As such, they often also fuse Physicality and their favored Magical Skill more often than not.”

Helix’s explanation made a lot of sense to Shiv. But he wasn’t done yet.

“The skill you just evolved, however, is somewhere in between. Not quite individual. Not fully monster. A bit of separation from both. There is a great deal more instinct guiding it. I wanted you to have Chimeric Assimilation for that reason—so you can actively study and interact with the spell chains in your field. This works too and perhaps even better in some ways, though I suspect its mana ceiling is quite a bit lower than Chimeric Assimilation.”

That took Shiv by surprise. “Why?”

“Because your current mana is constantly activated. I suspect you will be able to create entire biological constructs within its expanse if only you knew the specific spells and patterns. Which you don’t, but that can be corrected in time. Comparatively, the Chimeric Assimilation Skill requires you to assimilate a certain amount of biomass before you can even begin casting or altering spell chains. Of course, its main benefit is a lack of mana strain. When you overdraw on mana, the organic structures stored within break, and you can simply replace them, thus accelerating your education without leaving you vulnerable to constant mana exhaustion.”

“Wait,” Shiv said. He blinked rapidly as he connected Chimeric Assimilation’s capabilities with his Strider of the Unbending Path. “My Master-Tier Chronomancy works a bit like that. I don’t get stressed. It doesn’t last long and the field breaks fast, but I don’t get tired at all.”

“Yes. Another difference between monsters and individuals. Monsters usually suffer mana destabilization rather than strain for a reason. That is because they are not thinking beings at baseline—complex thinking, anyway. They are instinct-driven and unleash their power subconsciously. There is little mental exhaustion to their magical lore.”

The Deathless just stared. “You know something I don’t much get, Helix?”

“What?”

“How are the monsters getting this whole magical lore thing if they can’t think?”

Whistles sounded from all around him. Shiv looked around, and he saw every orc mage in the room bouncing a bit on their feet. “What?”

“You asked the question,” Bonk intoned.

“The question,” Mortar echoed.

“The great theory,” Helix said, holding a finger, “is that lore is shaped by gestalt.”
