“Not great,” Shiv replied. “He's still screaming for us to kill him. Or to let him kill something. But the hurt’s bad enough that someone would have to fill his hands with a weapon and help him drive it into a skull. He’s not doing any killing on his own.”

“And you claim he has a mantle of Divinity now as well,” Irons said, unwilling to process the implications behind those words.

“I don’t claim, that’s just what happened.”

A pained groan escaped the beleaguered Captain. “I lack the words. Give Rose and Roland my sympathies. This is too much. Far too much power. Far too fast.”

“We’ll do everything we can for Adam, and try to figure something out with this coalition thing. With all the Ascendants being drawn out of the capital, though, maybe we’ll have an opening to conduct a more in-depth—”

“I think I know where Melissa might be,” Irons interrupted. Rather than appearing uplifted, there was a dourness to the man’s expression, like he didn’t know how he was supposed to go about things. “Your actions last week left the Inquisition in a state of heightened terror. They concentrated so many High-Tiers in anticipation of another attack that some of their lesser sites became porous.”

“You went and investigated on your own?” Shiv grimaced. “I thought we agreed to do things as a team, with you telling me to do stuff while not exposing yourself?”

“That arrangement continued in your absence.” Irons almost smirked. “I do not possess a noble’s wealth nor a Shadow’s Stealth, but I have my connections and experience. I have comrades too, and some identify as mercenaries with loose morals and little patriotism—the type that just might break into a secured facility or location to balance the blood debts they owe. It is important to know if you are the right man for the job, Shiv. Not even equipment can make up for a lack of expertise, so there comes a time when even the finest warrior must delegate.”

“Right,” Shiv replied. “I’m actually getting that lesson blasted at me from all sides. Can you believe I haven’t had to kill anyone for the last few days?”

Irons’ heart radiated with discomfort. “That sounds like a good thing.”

“It is, but I'm usually not that lucky. Well, maybe less luck and more… I got a bunch of people that help me out with things now. Real powerful Pathbearers too. Between Valor, Jessica, Roland, and everyone else in the Gate, I actually feel like I’m just a cook again—most problems are already settled by the time I get there.” Shiv chuckled. “I guess we really were just handling too many problems raw and on our own.”

Then, a sudden realization sparked in his head. “I really underestimated the worth of community and civilization. Might’ve been too alienated my entire life to properly understand the worth of having a lot of other people help you with stuff. We were just throwing ourselves at problem after problem, most of them too big for us. But up until we got the Gate going and managed to save what was left of Blackedge, no one seemed to care.”

Captain Irons nodded—and his sympathy was so heavy Shiv got a secondhand heartache from the man.

“He is a good sort, and possessed of a softer heart than he would like,” the Harbinger declared. “He has built walls around himself to prevent his innermost self from suffering devastation.” And true to the skill’s words, Shiv saw there to be countless wounds lining the insides of Irons’ core.

“System takes without care, and gives us what we need but don't want,” Shiv muttered. Those words triggered a sudden pull—and a startled response from Irons.

A Glimpse of Perspective flickered over the veteran, portraying him alone in a dark room amongst a dozen veiled corpses. The place was damp, the air was cold, and Irons' armor was battered and dented. Blood seeped from the crevices and gaps that marred the metal, but where he bled free from his body, he hid his face so that no tears would be shown.

“You ever regret caring about things so much?” Shiv asked, curious.

Irons scoffed. “Sometimes. But I lament the fact that other people don’t more.”

“Yeah, that makes two of—aw, what the fuck?”

From Irons’s perspective, Shiv started gagging for no reason. “Shiv?” He leaned in, both concerned and unnerved. “What is it?”

“It’s… it’s nothing,” Shiv said, trying to hold back his nausea. For while he replied to Irons in bursts of dialogue, his other bodies were active as well, and one of them just had the horrible misfortune of witnessing the birth of a nightmarish Dread Leech King that swept through the surfacer district.

A dense sphere of near-solid fecal matter swallowed almost everything around the Surface gateway, but within that disgusting shit-storm, Shiv’s Atlas allowed him a glimpse of what was actually happening.

Incoherent screams, choking, gagging, vomiting, and a carnival of other fetid occurrences made the environment within the sphere of pestilence look like sewer hell. The pink-eyes suffered by the people unfortunate enough to be close would soon be the thing of legend. Then there was the mess of oily leech bodies coiled about each other, forming an undulating nest of writhing lengths. Connected to them were people—mostly Pathless and Initiates, who shrieked for salvation as the leeches attacked them in search of more waste to merge with, and more mana to assimilate.

After getting a flutter of insight from those suffering the indignities of the Greater Mana Leeches, Shiv decided he’d seen enough and stopped using his Atlas for the rest of the day.

He also graciously allowed Jessica to resolve the situation in a flash—because she deserved her moments of heroism too, and she was pretty good at destroying asses. Much better than him, anyway.

“Deathless,” Irons said, back in the capital. “If something is happening, you must tell me. There is no cooperation between us without trust.”

“It’s not that,” Shiv said. “It’s just gross. I think we have a Greater Mana Leech infestation. A bunch of them are, uh, they’re up, uh—”

Irons understood, and stopped reacting altogether. “Ah. A common problem. Practically every campaign sees at least one outbreak—especially when Biomancers are in short supply. Salt and targeted spells are your best solution. Fire is the Vanguard’s choice—or just having a good Disease Resistance Skill. When the leeches latch onto someone with a strong immune system, they usually die quickly.”

Shiv kept his face completely neutral. “Huh? No shi—kidding? That’s rough. I don’t know anyone who has a good Disease Resistance Skill.”

“Do you not have Plaguefueled?” Irons frowned. “I think either you or Adam mentioned that being among your repertoire.”

“What? Nah, Irons, you’re just misremembering.”

“My Memorization is Master-Tier.”

“Well, you just performed a Heroic-Tier of forgetfulness. It happens.” Shiv threw up both hands in an innocent display. “Anyway, back to where you think Melissa is. That’s why I came here to speak with you, anyway.”

“FUUUUUUUCCCCKKKKKKING MANA LEECHES!” Jessica bellowed so loud that her voice caused windows to shatter for three districts across. A pocket of nothingness burst the enormous shit and leech cloud. “COME ON, GUYS! WHAT THE FUCK! YOU NEED TO ENCHANT YOUR WASTE PITS! ANTI-PEST IS PRO-FUCKING LIFE!”

And to make matters worse, Roland returned at that very moment from his run across the surface. Through the gateway. Just as the shit-wave was coming right at him.

Shiv decided to stop focusing on what terrible things were happening inside the Gate entirely and commit himself more to what horrors were waiting within the capital.

“I believe the Inquisitors have moved her from Flamecrown Castle,” Irons said. “From the surveillance logs my associate retrieved, she was spared an execution despite Daughter’s insistence because of direct intervention from ‘The Speaker.’ Melissa was then marked for ‘re-education’ and shuttled to one of a few local facilities.”

“Fucking Veronica.” Shiv scoffed. “Well, at least she’s alive. Kind of surprised, to be honest.”

Irons shook his head. “The Ascendants are amoral, and the Inquisition are brutes, but the Councilwoman is someone who abhors waste. She likely doesn’t see a point in murdering a child. It will take effort to remove the unwanted memories buried inside Melissa’s psyche, plant suggestions toward greater loyalty to the Republic, and return her to the Academy with an excuse justifying her absence.”

“Meanwhile, her sister continues being an expendable murder-doll Daughter can wear,” Shiv spat. “Let’s not be overly kind to Veronica here. She just chose to be the smallest piece of shit she could when it came to Melissa while maintaining a child-murdering pipeline. But yeah. At least she’s alive, and maybe we can find her. So. What are we gonna do?”

“I am going to try to narrow the potential locations. In the meantime, I’m going to brief you on a list of already confirmed facilities to surveil and study.”

“I could try infiltrating,” Shiv suggested. “Not a lot of risk for me.”

“Even if that were the case, being detected would simply see her moved, and our task of intercepting and rescuing her made even harder.”

“Ah. Right.” Shiv paused. “I should have thought that through a bit more.”

“That’s why I am here,” Irons said. “Now. If you have time, we should begin…”

As Irons began going over the details of the surveillance mission, the copy of him that continued playing as Marcus Unblood—pretending that he'd just recovered from a terrible sickness—dragged himself out of his dorm and started living in the library full-time. The flying building of lore and literature never closed, and so he never left. As a Legend, his stamina was nigh-limitless.

And so, for the first time in a long time, aided by a skill that let him pilot each of his bodies in cycled instances, Shiv actually got to learn. He found a nice, secluded place in the back of the library and stacked a small fort of Biomancy texts in front of his body, effectively blocking himself from sight. Two minutes into reading, he stopped to borrow a dictionary. His broader vocabulary was fucking abysmal. Then, he ended up getting twelve more books on grammar, syntax, literature, writing, speechcraft, magical theory, and philosophy.

Constant high-intensity combat had hardened Shiv’s will so much that forcing himself through the boring bits of a book took little effort at all. He still alternated between the texts to give his mind some time to digest the information, and as he got into the magical texts once more, he found himself in the experimental pocket dimensions within the library to practice spells.

Biomancy was at the forefront of his studies, but he also began incorporating all his other lores to make up for months of neglect. Pyromancy proved far more intuitive than Shiv had expected, and there was a certain thrill that came with creating a chain of small explosions in the air. Additionally, all the time he spent in that magically attuned zone caused him to gain several more magical lores that he lacked before, rounding him out even more.

As he flipped through the texts on magical theory, Shiv found himself gritting his teeth in frustration and regret as two specific mega-chapters glared back at him. The first was the chapter on Chronomancy, detailing spells specifically meant for a bound-field caster—which was the formal term for when your mana field was effectively concentrated around your body. Instant alacrity was a well-known concept—and one of the main reasons Chronomancers were so extremely valued. Apparently, attacks and spells could be pre-cast and stored within a Chronomancy field, and powerful Chronomancers were known to literally store actions in a stasis—able to fling those attacks into the future, unleashing them all at once in a single, devastating instant.

Atop instant alacrity were spell-stacking and spell-slotting, which effectively allowed a good enough Chronomancer to be their own Poly-Magi formation as they assembled extremely complex spell shapes stored in advance. It also allowed them to access a new level of spell modularity, which meant they could tweak the very nature of their magics on the go, such as what lore formed the center of a specific spell, and how the other attunements worked in support.

This effectively made his Chronomancy a bit like his Shapeless Tides—Shiv wasn’t even tapping into the lowest levels of either skill’s true potential.

But what drove him into a near psychotic break was the section on Vitality Drain—because there were twenty thousand pages on the theory of vitality, and how it was to be properly used.

His fate was sealed from the very first paragraph.

Vitality is not actually a stream of life force as intuition might lead one to believe, but more like the conditional attunement of existence itself. Such is why a layer of vitality exists over the void as well. It is thin and weak, with the veil of existence easy to pierce, but it still exists. To that end, it is also good to understand vitality as a sort of metaorder that serves as a skeletal structure holding all things in place, a reinforced layer to existence that anchors beings to the System and allows them to gain levels and evolve skills. The skill Vitality Drain, meanwhile, is not about the absorption of life force so much as it is about the alteration of existential order followed by the inevitable imposition of entropy that results from such a disruption.

