Now that I had [Map], I wanted to modify it so I could use [Triangulate] on it, or with it, but before that, I needed to upgrade this spell, as it was too barebones. The [Mapping] skill got plenty of upgrades as it leveled up, but what I wanted to apply to [Map] was the landmark feature. Once I had landmarks, in theory, I could get the coordinates from them and then teleport myself there. This was the ultimate goal I had been striving for and pieced together after multiple uses of [Skill Deconstruct] on the two skills.

Compared to before, adding a few new features to it was actually completed rather quickly, and soon, I had landmarks added to the spell. At the same time, I discovered that our island had actually been officially named Tanglebay, as it appeared on my [Map]. I showed it to Vee, and although she was uncomfortable, she was still delighted to see it there, clear as day, on the system interface.

Is that the reason? I suddenly wondered.

Everyone's access to the system was personal, and as far as I was aware, you couldn't affect someone else's interface. For example, if I were reading a skill, it was, other than attempting to read my body language, an entirely private affair. Yet here I was projecting a [Map] that forced itself into others' systems, regardless of their opinion. Yes, there was sharing skills or traits, but that was something actually granted by the system itself.

Very strange… Maybe it's something to ask about next time I get a chance to talk with Gramps.

I moved on from that subject, and now, arguably, it was the most difficult part of the matter. I had [Map], but now I needed to add [Triangulate] to it. As expected, this was not simple, and I constantly ran into hurdles I couldn't quickly circumvent. When this happened, I would try a few times before pivoting, hoping to gain more [Triangulate] levels as a byproduct and then dismantle it for more information. At the same time, this would let me progress some of my other projects, which I still had far too many of.

My artificial affinity was looking good, and with a few more dismantles, I might have a breakthrough there. As for [Spatial Severing], I had reached a point where I had reproduced it as my very first dimensional attack spell. I had hoped I was the first to discover it, but sadly, I was beaten to it, and it was officially named [Rift Rend].

Well, at least that's a cool name! It even kept the alliteration.

My attempts to create a dimensional aura were also progressing well, and I had a few rudimentary ones that were already working, such as an aura of expanded space around me. What I really wanted was an aura version of [Displaced] so I could make every enemy around me weaker to dimensional tampering, but as if the gods knew what an absurd ability that was, it was proving quite the unexpected struggle.

Even when I tried making it a domain, the results were almost the same. I swear, maybe it's the paranoia talking, but I feel like someone or something is interfering here. Why else would my spell weaves fail so spectacularly?

Regrettably, my cries of unfairness went unanswered, so I had to continue struggling to have my dream spell fully realized. Yet when a door was closed, a window opened, as I had a rather timely breakthrough with [Triangulate]! Yes, my latest deconstruction of this fantastic skill seemed to finally touch on the aspects I wanted: coordinate storage!

Next stop, coordinate calculation!
