The Azure Sea is a marvel of nature, one which never ceases to amaze me.

First of all is the sheer scale of the whole thing, a body of water so immense it feels as if it stretches on into infinity. Having been privy to Pong Pong’s Natal Palace and given the full tour, I know better than most what lays hidden within its depths and thus have a greater appreciation for its vast, untold secrets, for despite his long life and extensive travels, the tiny terrapin has yet to explore the sea in its entirety. There is much beauty hidden within these familiar waters, but there are also an abundance of hidden threats as well, for even a Turtle Divinity does not reign supreme within the dark depths of the Azure Sea. Even whilst Concealed and Cloud-Stepping high above the clouds, I cannot shake the sensation of menace and peril emanating from beneath the waves as the shore recedes into the distance behind us and we move into uncharted waters where few humans have ever gone before.

To say the Azure Sea is teeming with life is wholly accurate and yet somehow still utterly lacking as a description, a fact we are made well aware of as we Cloud-Step over the sea. Without the foggy mist to obscure our vision, the sunlight pierces through the crystal clear waters to reveal all manner of sea creatures swimming about, from schools of tiny fish darting through verdant undersea forests, to huge pods of massive whales surfacing for air and messing with my sense of perspective. In the short span of a few minutes, I spot more unique and interesting creatures than I can count, including what I can only hope is a massive kraken because I’d rather not live in a world where that gargantuan tentacled son of a bitch is considered small. To make matters worse, the kraken is entangled with what appears to be a giant eel of some sort, a vibrant green serpent thicker than most trees and with a nightmarish mouth filled with more fangs than I care to think about. Despite our best efforts to go unnoticed, our passing is noted by both creatures as they establish a temporary truce and untangle from one another while we pass by overhead, only to presumably resume hostilities as soon as we’re out of sight.

Resisting the urge to Scry on their battle and cheer for the scary sea snek, I repress a shudder of sheer terror as we pass several more undersea conflicts to the same effect. In retrospect, it would’ve been much safer to travel along shore, but Dad’s tried this before, and every time his Conceal Experts were somehow discovered and Huanhuzi turned tail and ran before they arrived. The same thing happened when Dad hid Peak Experts on his ships, so I came up with the brilliant idea to travel out of sight from shore during our meetings and everyone just ran with it without a second thought. Now that we’re here over open waters however, I find myself constantly checking the sun to make sure I know which direction to run in should things go south. There’s a good reason why all sea-bound ships are coastal hugging vessels, because the biggest and baddest sea creatures tend to stay away from there. Not out of fear, but simple logistics, since they need more room to swim around than the shallows will allow, and there are times even this isn’t enough to dissuade them from paying water-borne landlubbers a visit, as I myself discovered while swimming in Nan Ping Bay.

As things stand, I’m not the only one having second thoughts about our little jaunt, as grim determination permeates throughout our Peak Expert party, all Concealed together and visible to one another, but invisible to anyone outside our group. I don’t understand how it works, but that’s how it be, and I try not to think about it too hard for the sake of my safety and sanity. I’m grateful it works this way though, because otherwise it’d be hell to coordinate and stick together if we couldn’t see one another. Kuang Biao and the Royal Guardians are going about their business as usual, but the Western Peak Experts and the Azure Ascendants have stopped bandying Sendings about and are wholly focused on the horizon in search of the Concealed pirate fleet. Even poor Rakky senses the tension in the air, his hackles raised and tail lashing as he bounds gracefully through the air as if running on solid ground. Oddly enough, he also moves closer to my side as if seeking solace in my presence, though in all likelihood, Pong Pong is the one Rakky is counting on, should things go sideways.

And for good reason too. Hiding in my hair, Pong Pong is having the time of his life as he radiates all sorts of good vibes towards me. The crazy little guy even wanted to stop for a bite to eat when he saw the kraken and sea snek, emitting a predatory Aura that spoke volumes to his intent. It’s entirely possible the two sea monsters stopped fighting not because they sensed so many Peak Experts travelling overhead, but rather were cowed by the presence of the Divine Turtle Emperor returned to his realm.

Now that I think about it, those sea monsters probably aren’t even the top of the food chain, given how I’ve seen Ping Ping return with one of the kraken’s cousins mostly in her belly, which begs the question of just what in the world is Pong Pong afraid of? There’s something out there that drove him out of the depths of the Azure Sea and into the shallows around Nan Ping where GangShu could track him. This means there’s some beastie out there who is so scary and powerful even a Divine Beast of Pong Pong’s calibre turned tail to run, and while the tiny turtle is something of a coward, given how he reacted to the sea serpent and kraken, it’s clear he would only run from a real threat.

Another Divine Beast maybe? A shark or kraken would be my first guesses, but honestly, it could really be anything at all, some ancient dinosaur full of fangs and fury or an armoured crustacean with shell-cracking claws. I just hope none of them have learned how to Cloud-Step and are safely ensconced underwater, because the last thing I need is for a fucking flying fanged fish to come rocketing out of the waters and ruin my day.

Unable to stop the cold shiver from coursing down my spine, I redouble my vigil and scan my surroundings for signs of anything out of place. Were I able to go back in time, I would choose a safer, more prudent approach, but we’re too far now to back down. In order to ensure our best chances of catching Huanhuzi off-guard, we’ve taken a heading that will bring us around the flank of the Enemy fleet to pincer them from behind, with the plan being that we strike fast and strike hard to cause maximum chaos while the cannoneers set up on the decoy freighter and annihilate the pirate ships one by one. If we turn back now, the Enemy will soon discover its hold devoid of gold or anything of value whatsoever, and they’ll be gone long before we can catch them, rendering all our efforts useless. We’ll also lose the guards stationed aboard and have travelled all this way for nothing, which is a significant cost in time and man-power that could have been put to better use elsewhere.

There’s no helping it though. I brought all these Peak Experts to not only secure victory against the pirate fleet, but also because I needed extra hands to carry the Runic Cannons and cannonballs. Better to take turns sharing the heavy load to ensure the Azure Ascendants have enough Chi left in the tank to unload everything we have at the Enemy ships. This dilemma brings to mind an old idea Lin-Lin brought up which I once thought was ludicrous to the extreme, but now that I’m able to Cloud-Step myself and have thought about it some more, the idea of using a kite or hang glider doesn’t seem too far-fetched. It would for sure make travelling much easier and save on Chi expenditure, even after factoring in the need to Conceal the device as well. I could also rig up something like a hang-glider palanquin, with room for four or so Peak Experts to carry the Runic Cannon while a fifth Warrior mans the weapon itself, creating a mobile platform to rain death upon the Defiled from on high.

Holy shit... Now that I think about it, the cannons aren’t even necessary. I could just fill the palanquin with heavy rocks and just drop them from high above, enabling Peak Experts to go on aerial bombing runs with minimal Chi expenditure. Not only that, it would probably be so much fun gliding around the skies with Lin-Lin and the twins safely strapped and seated inside, which as I recently realized is really the whole reason I’ve dedicated myself to the Martial Path in the first place, to do cool shit. I’ll have to rig something to protect the riders from harsh winds and maybe have a parachute system in case things go pear-shaped, but the more I think about it, the more motivated I am to get word back to Diyako so he can start work on a prototype to test out.

In the interest of operational security, Dad utilizes hand signs to let us know the Enemy fleet has revealed itself to our decoy and the on-board Experts are Sending distress calls as expected. A total of fifty-five proper ships as well as a sizable number of smaller escorts which are only manned by three to five pirates a piece, but those smaller vessels are more or less negligible in the grand scheme of things. More importantly, Huanhuzi’s flagship is present as well, likely due to information ‘leaks’ detailing the strength of the on-board crew, one formidable enough to warrant a personal appearance from the King of Bandits himself. So far so good, since this means the half-badger has taken the bait, and now it’s up to us to close the trap around him. Minutes pass in tense silence as we slow our approach, Lightening for all we’re worth as we drift closer towards our target on momentum and gravity alone. To maintain all stealth, no external Chi is used, whether it be Scrying, Cloud-Stepping, Sending, or anything else, only internal Lightening keeping us in the air as we slowly and quietly resist gravity’s pull while floating down to the waters below.

Honestly, Lightening is probably the second coolest Chi skill next to Cloud Stepping. The others are so combative, but Lightening is just fun. No wonder my sweet wifey puts so much effort into mastering it, as she’d probably have a blast floating this high in the air, fluttering about in the currents as the winds push her about, a feat even the Peak Experts around me are unable to replicate. I myself count my efforts as sub-par when it comes to Lightening, as it still feels like I’m plummeting down, just not as quickly as I would without the skill. It’s not flying, but falling with slow and graceful style, my arms and legs outstretched and robes flapping wherever they can whilst constrained within my golden Imperial armour.

Which is only steel and of almost no defense at all against Huanhuzi’s axe and cutlass, his dual Spiritual Weapons which I will soon face in single combat if all goes according to plan.

Seconds pass in slow and agonizing fashion as the sails pop up in the distance and the pirate fleet comes into view. The sleek vessels dart through the waves in every which way to surround the ponderous, ‘gold’ laden decoy freighter, keeping it from fleeing to shore like wolves encircling their prey before running it down. Why the Enemy is even interested in gold is a mystery to me, but Yuzhen also included a bunch of rare materials in the shipping manifests, including the ingredients needed to carve runes. A brilliant move I never would’ve thought of, but considering how effective the Runic Cannons have proven to be, there’s no doubt in my mind that Zhen Shi is doing everything he can to uncover OuYang Yuhuan’s location to remove her from the equation. Thankfully, Luo-Luo took this into consideration the moment she discovered how powerful these cannons truly were and had the Tyrant relocated to a safe space, one known only to a select few and a place I will not even think about for fear of Zhen Shi’s unknown abilities.

A touch too paranoid? Maybe, but that doesn’t mean I’m wrong. At least I know my Runic Cannon maker will be well protected, alongside the bell-founder whose name I can never remember, off wherever they are and making my weapons of war.

