Credit where it’s due, the pirate fleet knows what it’s doing and does their jobs well. The tiny escort ships are called cutters, bearing multiple sails on their already cramped decks, and a host of them forge ahead before the slower pirate vessels have finished encircling the freighter. Surging over the waves with reckless abandon, the cutters make no maneuvers to avoid the storm of bolts launched their way by the beleaguered defenders. A surge of triumph wells up as I watch a massive ballista bolt scuttle a single ship, but then my blood runs cold as the cutters each reveal a massive spiked column at the bow of their ships, a weapon which looks suitable for hunting kraken or whales. Having read up on their tactics, what comes next is still shocking to behold as the pirate cutters ram headlong into the freighter, which from my aerial perspective brings to mind a scene of house cats trying to bring down an elephant. The size difference almost seems ridiculous and one might think the freighter untouchable, but the audible crack of wood echoes across the Azure Sea as the cutters slam into their target, the sound piercing though the deafening winds to be heard from even so high above. Many of the pirate cutters fail to pierce the freighter’s frame, and the impact launches many more pirates off into the water, but more than enough succeed to achieve their goal. With their payload delivered, the pirates onboard those successful vessels hurl their anchors overboard, ones affixed to the spiked columns now embedded in the side of the freighter. Carefully coordinating their drops together to keep from toppling their prey, the pirates whoop with joy at a job well done, even as some of their allies are struggling to stay afloat, having taken damage and lost sailors in the reckless ramming attempt. That being said, they’ve accomplished their goals, for the Imperial vessel is now also stuck in place as its hull groans and strains from the stress of being pulled and pushed in two directions, the full sails and heavy anchors threatening to rip the ship apart.

Forced to waste precious manpower taking down the sails, the Imperial vessel’s barrage of bolts visibly slows as the larger ships finish encircling their prey. Now comes the moment of truth, and I watch with bated breath, waiting to see if Huanhuzi will personally lead the attack. If he does, then great, because that means he’ll be closer to the Imperial freighter when we ambush him, meaning Dad and the other Peak Experts will be nearby to support me in my duel. Alas, my luck does not hold and the Bandit King’s signature ship remains floating on the outer perimeter while his subordinate vessels close in to subdue and secure the freighter.

Okay then. Plan B it is.

Seconds before the pirates are within range to begin boarding the freighter, Dad gives the signal to attack, and the results are fantastic to behold. Dropping his Concealment, Lei Gong lets loose with a rowdy whoop before triggering his Runic Cannon in time with his comrades, and the ensuing booms are panic-inducing to allies and enemies alike. More than one Imperial Peak Expert is startled by the earth-shattering roar, but the pirates below are left quivering in sheer terror as the King of Pirate’s personal ship topples over sideways in the water and begins to sink, sporting five new ragged wounds on both flanks where the heavy iron projectiles have blown clean through.

The seas are alive with the sound of cannon fire, and I could not be more erect. God that’s hot.

Effective as their initial attack might be, it unfortunately takes a little longer than usual before the Ascendants are ready for their second volley, seeing how the recoil from these massive hand-held cannons sent their near weightless bodies tumbling head over heels through the air. Something we expected and practised for beforehand, so the five former bandits find their bearings and release their hold on Lightening, causing them to plummet out of the skies as they reload for a second volley. Visibly slowing once they resume Lightening once more, they use the jolt from the sudden reduction in speed to secure the cannonballs into the base of the cannons, a necessity in order for the weapon to work properly. Though only a few seconds have passed, they’ve already fallen quite low, and are only able to unleash a second volley and sink the ship closest to Huanhuzi’s personal vessel before having to Cloud-Step their way over to land on the freighter’s solid deck.

The biggest bottleneck is my lack of cannons, as the Tyrant has still yet to wholly master the manufacturing process and cannot craft them as fast as I would like. If I had forty cannons and people to fire them, I could sink this entire fleet in less than ten volleys, but at the rate she makes them, it might well be an entire year before I have that many at my disposal, if not longer. There’s no guaranteed time-frame for manufacturing since a single mistake means she has to start over, and the large, dragon-shaped cannons are packed to the brim with runes on every scale and surface of the weapon itself, making it quite possibly the most complex and ambitious Runic device in existence.

Which means the vast majority of these pirate ships will have to be dealt with the good old fashioned way, but I am more than willing to give it a try. Dad has overall command in the battle, freeing me up to wreak havoc wherever I please, with only Kuang Biao and the Royal Guardians to watch over me. It’s frightening to have this much freedom on the battlefield, but also exhilarating to be given a chance to really cut loose, my excitement mounting as I can finally gauge how far my strength has really come.

Still Concealed from prying eyes, I use Aura to inform Pong Pong and Rakky to stay safe as I hurtle towards yet another ship, my Domain emerging to cover my skin and protect me from the sheer force of my descent. Thankfully, the tiger is more than happy to stay in the air, though Pong Pong offers an Aura of warning and assurance, telling me he’s ready to step in if I should need him. An offer which is all the more precious considering I can sense how scared he really is, terrified by the scent of blood and loud noises emanating from far below, as well as what these things might attract. Good to know that whatever scares Pong Pong is drawn to blood, but we should be close enough to shore that it shouldn’t matter too too much, since he deemed the shallows safe way back when he was fleeing pursuit from the Ascendants. Putting away all errant thoughts, I focus all my efforts on the battle before me and stop fighting the smile that threatens to stretch out across my face.

Because let’s be honest for a second. I hate war, and I see killing as an unpleasant necessity, but god fucking dammit, do I love fighting.

Being the awesome, Cloud-Stepping, Domain Deploying, meme loving Warrior that I am, my first instinct is to do a superhero landing on the deck of the ship, which just goes to show how stupid I really am. Thankfully, I have a loving, albeit overly optimistic father who has finally accepted that I will never learn if left to my own devices, so he sat me down before embarking on this mission and had me walk him through how I expected things to go. The superhero landing was the first thing to go, as he rightly pointed out that Spiritual Heart or not, given the magnitude of the forces involved, trying to land on the ship at high speeds will rightly end with me and two broken legs, which is really the best case scenario. The worst case scenario is instant pancaked death, while a happy medium would be broken legs and a broken ship deck, none of which is ideal.

As such, I wait until the last second to Lighten for all I’m worth and execute the gentlest of Cloud-Steps before hitting the deck, arresting all my momentum to land softly with one foot on the deck. The transfer is abrupt and unsettling to experience as the wind suddenly stops howling and the sound of the world comes back into focus. Creaking wood, flapping sails, startled curses, and bellowed shouts, all this and more filters into my ears as I arrive shrouded in Concealment, but no less than six formidable pirates stand out from the rest as they react to my presence with readied bloodlust. Swords and axes hurtle through the air as these pirates unleash their Domains and close in around me, but I landed with one foot raised for good reason. My boot slams down to unleash a Mountain Collapsing Stomp, and the ship groans and shrieks in response as the Amplified and Reverberating forces surge outward in all directions to tear the vessel apart. Using the same motion to launch myself into the air, I Cloud-Step away as the sundered ship capsizes in two parts, consigning the thirty or so sailors and more than twice that number of boarders to the drink, a thought which elicits an almost child-like glee from deep within my troubled psyche.

So many people are going to die here today, Imperial and Defiled alike, but not only do these pirates kinda deserve it, being overpowered is just so much fun! Granted, Mitsue Juichi’s Mountain Collapsing Stomp would’ve reduced the whole ship to splinters and probably sent a wave of water billowing out in all directions, but he’s got close to a hundred years of experience on me which means I have plenty of room for improvement.

Elsewhere, Gao Changgong’s army of submersibles have surfaced and are scuttling ships as they please, his Western soldiers swarming the ships of their hated Enemies and unleashing a reckoning to behold, all while the Azure Ascendants unleash volley after volley with their Runic Cannons. Here and now however, the Enemy Experts are not content to leave me unchecked, leaping off the ship to continue their pursuit, but the six skilled pirates soon discover they’ve kicked an iron board as my Royal Guardians swarm in and cut them down from above. As I noted during my exchange against Bai Qi, few Warriors care to train in aerial combat given how draining and dangerous it can be, but there can be no victory here without taking a few risks. Standard battlefield tactics dictate we must carefully conserve the strength of our Peak Experts so that we always have something in reserve to deal with any unexpected Demons, but I’ve brought more than enough Royal Guardians to go all in without the need to hold anything back.

I hope.

Devouring Chi to replenish what I’ve spent, I pick out my next target and Cloud-Step over, still cloaked in Concealment and invisible to all except the strongest of Enemy pirates. Rather than aim for the deck however, I soar through the air and raise both boots to drop kick the side of the ship with yet another Mountain Collapsing Stomp. Having only had a second to gather my Chi, this second stomp is nowhere near as impressive as the first, merely blowing a hole in the side of the ship and sending it careening over into the sea. That’s still enough to capsize the ship as it drifts listlessly on its side and starts taking on water, but I land lightly on the fractured side and take a few seconds to unleash a second Stomp for good measure, wholly breaking the ship in two with a satisfying crunch. Again, the Enemy Experts close in to attack me, and again, my Royal Guardians dispatch them with ease, and I head off to smash another ship, enjoying the sensation of cutting loose and running roughshod over my foes.

To be fair, it’s not all fun and games as the goal is to attract so much attention that the hidden head honcho Huanhuzi comes out to deal with me himself, but until such a time, I’m solely on ship smashing duty, and by god is it therapeutic. Zhen Shi has done a real number on my psyche and made me feel like a worthless, good-for-nothing coward, a mindset I am still struggling with each and every day, but now it’s finally time for some good old-fashioned payback. “I’M ON A BOAT!” I howl, while smashing into the third ship, giving into my whims and doing a 720 spin roundhouse kick like I’m some character in a silly fighting game. Oddly enough, even though both took the same amount of time and Chi, this Mountain Collapsing Stomp is more powerful than the second stomp I unleashed, shattering the hull so completely the other side breaks apart from the stress of trying to hold the ship together. Without needing to consider the question, the answer comes to me in a burst of Insight as I put together the pieces and realize my heightened fervour and uninhibited demeanour are lending more power to my attacks, the emotions fuelling my Chi and surging out in a torrent of destructive force. Unable to contain my cackles of glee, I set my inner memester free and crash into the next ship with a guillotine heel kick, screaming, “FUCK THIS SHIP IN PARTICULAR!”

Honestly, even though I know I should be embarrassed, I’m having too much goddamned fun to care.

Unfortunately, now I feel obliged to shout something stupid before destroying another ship, which is really just a waste of Chi and giving warning before I strike, which makes it 3x stupider than it already is. Thankfully, the Heavens have mercy on me as I approach my next target and Dad Sends, “The ship before you is a trap. Huanhuzi lies in wait.”

