Sending back an acknowledgement, I approach my target from a different tack, ordering my Royal Guardians to move in with caution as I descend down to the Azure Sea. Exerting my Chi the same way I would when swimming in my Natal Palace, I plunge feet first into the water without so much as a splash, a necessity when trying to chase down turtles so as not to alert them of my presence. Submerged within the familiar waters of the Azure Sea, I am wholly in my element as I cut through the waves with ease, a silent human missile guided unerringly towards my target. Moving faster than I can even Cloud-Step, I jet past the ship’s hull and along the side of its keel while bracing Unity to one side, the blade biting deep into the wood to carve out the bottom of the ship from bow to stern. Freed from the weight of the ship, the shaved length of wood shoots up to the surface as water surges into the now-sinking vessel, though at a pace slow enough for my purposes.

Turning about to face the ship again, I spread my arms on both sides and deploy my Domain to slow my momentum, throwing up a spray of water behind me. Before the droplets have reached their peak, I Cloud-Step up onto the deck alongside my Royal Guardians, who even now are receiving Sendings regarding the locations of our Concealed foes, ones handled by Buddy manning the Throne of my Natal Palace. Were it Baledagh or another Natal Soul in his place, the warning would come in words and my Royal Guardians would have to interpret the message, but being a dog, Buddy is able to Send a location without needing to use words at all, simply directing their attentions to wherever he senses a threat with little more than a thought. Again, the fruits of Dad’s lessons are bearing fruit, because before, Buddy would also growl and bark while Sending this information along, which was needlessly embarrassing, to say the least.

Thank god my dog is well-trained and never takes action without permission. The last thing I need is for him to Send weird doggy thoughts to people and animals around me...

My training and efforts pay off in spades as we fall upon our foes without warning. Not expecting this all out assault, dozens of Huanhuzi’s personal guards fall before our blades, including the three I personally dispatch with Peace as it zips out of my sheath and darts about like a creature with a mind of its own. Gerel brought up a good point about how in a battle of Peak Experts, seizing the initiative is the key to victory, which wasn’t exactly the point he was trying to make, but that’s what I took away from it, and I am nothing if not an opportunist.

“Surprise Motherfucker,” I shout, even as I execute Akanai’s signature Ground-Shrinking Strike, a name I only recently learned. Balance on Windy Leaf into Pierce the Horizon, all while laughing at my own joke and mentally adding, “Some pies, Motherfucker.”

It astounds me how much useless knowledge I have locked away in my head, but at least it keeps me amused.

Unity lances out to take my Concealed foe’s life, but Huanhuzi’s life is not so easily claimed. The self-proclaimed King of Bandits has never been considered a formidable Peak Expert, merely a passable one that excels at slipping away, or at least that’s what Major General Gao Changgong claimed. Or I suppose I should call him Gao Liang now, but it’s kinda embarrassing that he took the Common word for ‘rain’ and used it as his name, for reasons which escaped me until Yan pointed it out while laughing as I came to terms with my growing male fanbase. That being said, the formidable former Major General stated in no uncertain terms that Huanhuzi’s martial prowess was sub-par at best, citing various incident in which the self-styled King of Pirates was defeated in single combat by Warriors of middling renown.

It turns out the Siegebreaker Gao Changgong might’ve smashed his head against one too many gates, because the Huanhuzi before me is anything but sub-par.

Reacting faster than I previously believed possible, Huanhuzi’s curved hand-axe latches onto Unity’s haft and pulls it aside, a maneuver that takes much more skill and finesse than simply smashing the thrust aside. For his efforts however, the half-badger now has my weapon trapped as he pulls it back towards him, forcing me to overextend to the left instead of doing the smart thing and letting go of my weapon. The cutlass bites deep into my exposed right shoulder, an attack which somehow is perfectly timed with the careening lurch of the ship beneath us, denying me the chance to dive aside as I fight to stand on two feet. For once though, my short stature works to my benefit as Huanhuzi pulls Unity so far it forces me to raise it above my head, intercepting his own attack and preventing the cutlass from cutting clean through my shoulder and torso. Despite this, my wound is deep and I am no longer the quick-Healing Undying I once was, as even stopping the bleeding takes a significant amount of Chi, and I set to Devouring more to make up for the losses.

Releasing my hold on Unity far too late, I quick-draw Peace and deliver a slash across Huanhuzi’s belly, Tiger Swipes the Rushes, but the pirate utilizes the sway of the ship to his own advantage once more to roll away out of range from my short reach. Unity goes flying off into the distance, and as I exert my will to call it back to my hand, my foe uses this momentary distraction to set upon me. A flurry of blows rain down from every possible direction, and I dodge, Deflect, parry, and block for all I am worth, using everything I’ve learned in the past few weeks to fight my way out of this corner. Huanhuzi holds the advantage now, his unorthodox style throwing me for a loop as I try to get ahead of his next move. I came into this thinking he’d have a more unrestrained attack pattern, given how both his weapons are hack and slash with little else to offer, but the half-badger is a cunning combatant who uses the hooked bottom of his axe-head to great effect, trapping or pulling my weapons aside to create an opening where I should otherwise have been defended.

Up close and personal, Huanhuzi is not so formidable or imposing, a scruffy, stubbly, bald-headed, ruffian with more scars than I can count and a fine handlebar moustache that falls straight down to frame his snaggle-toothed scowl like a horseshoe of hair. Beady, narrow eyes and a narrow pointed face round out the rest of his features, all of which is set upon a lithe figure exuding cold, unrelenting threat. Rather than Runic steel, the Bandit King is clad in a black studded-leather chest-piece over a dark silk tunic. The Runic armour sits loosely on his shoulders and can easily be slipped out of should he find himself stranded in deep waters, and I assume the shirt is much the same. A red handkerchief hangs from his belt, one weighted at the end which I believe helps him better judge what direction the ship is about to lurch in, a minor detail I only notice thanks to Buddy’s obsession with dangling objects. A pair of leather bracers protect his wrists and forearms, but his hands are left free and exposed should he have need to pitch in and help out on deck. So too are his feet, the pirate captain going shoeless on-board his ship, a choice he undoubtedly regrets as my boot slams home against his toes.

Foot stomping is hardly honourable or expected from the noble Legate, but I have never been one to fight fair.

Alas, given the extreme speeds I was moving at, I acted long before I thought, because I could have ended the fight here and now if that’d been a Mountain Collapsing Stomp. Now that his attention has been drawn to my feet however, his all-out assault has abated in speed and ferocity, buying me much needed breathing room as I try to fight my way out of this pickle. Huanhuzi is neither stronger nor faster than Goujian, but I lack Pong Pong’s Deflections to protect me from the staggering impacts of our weapons colliding, each trade threatening to throw me off of my feet atop this unsteady sinking vessel.

All the while we’re exchanging blows, there’s a sense of familiarity about the Bandit King which I cannot place, until the resemblance finally hits me in the face. “Oh,” I say, while blocking five blows and countering with a riposte that glances off his chest-plate and only narrowly misses his throat. “So that Divinity was your mother.”

The half-badger falters in place at the statement, his narrow eyes widening as his cold fury turns white hot with anger and resentment. The Divinity in question was the frigid female Divinity who I failed to identify back at the Abbot’s retreat. Honestly, I thought she was human, but seeing how much she resembles her son here, there’s no doubt in my mind she must be the Ancestral Badger. Neither of them have any discernible animal features to speak of, though rumour has it the half-badger has a tail tucked away in the back of his trousers, so I can only assume the frigid Defiled Divinity also had one hidden beneath her dress. Why Huanhuzi is so upset at the mere mention of his mother is difficult to say, but I file it away for later while trading blows and giving as good as I get.

Soon enough, I acclimate to the swaying ship and begin to press the advantage, my speed and strength more than a match for the half-badger pirate who is struggling to maintain cohesion of his fleet amidst this life and death duel. An unfair advantage on my part, especially considering how Buddy is able to detect Concealed pirates and Send their locations to my guards who are quick to act upon the information. Though Huanhuzi has yet to speak, I can see the doubts lingering behind his eyes, wondering just who is hiding nearby to ensure my continued existence. Is it a Divinity? Or merely a powerful Peak Expert? How powerful? On the level of Nian Zu, or is it one of his Famed Fifty? Am I a distraction, or am I really treating him like a whetstone to hone my skills upon?

All these doubts give rise to uncertain hesitation, and I use it to my full advantage. Offering him an opening to strike, I all but dare him to try and take my life, but the Bandit King is no longer so confident that this is the best choice. Better to keep trading blows while looking for a chance to escape, but I use his hesitation against him and unleash a Mountain Collapsing Stomp at my feet. The sinking pirate ship finally tears itself apart, catching my foe off-guard as he struggles to find his balance, only for Peace to sink deep into his exposed foot and pin him to the deck below. Rumbling in fury reminiscent to Princess’s discontented grumbles, Huanhuzi tears his foot free and leaps off the ship, but I am one step behind him as we take our duel to the water below. Balanced precariously atop some drifting flotsam, he clearly expects me to do the same, but I have no experience fighting on floating pieces of wood and no intention to learn on the fly. Instead, I dive headlong into the sea to hide beneath the waves, only to emerge from below and pierce his other foot with Tranquility’s twin blades with a Chi-infused shout of, “Gotcha Bitch!”

Not gonna lie, I’m pretty good at being unpredictable.

Falling over into the waters, Huanhuzi topples into my domain, and I plunge Tranquility’s blades into his torso a half-dozen times before recalling Peace to hand to dismember both his arms. Throughout it all, my opponent doesn’t utter a single sound, though his twisted expression makes it clear he can still feel pain, and my soft nature cannot help but sympathize with his plight. No matter though, because killing him was never the plan, as he is far more useful alive, though I doubt he will thank me for sparing his life. Sending for my Royal Guardians to come take him into custody and keep him from bleeding out, I study the formidable pirate for long seconds as we drag him back to the Imperial freighter intact, slaughtering our way over with relative ease. Victory is mine, at the small cost of a fleshed shoulder and a massive headache that will probably last half a day, but somehow, it all feels hollow and too easily obtained. Huanhuzi is too quiet and too calm for my tastes, his rage contained in frigid apathy as if he’s still wholly in control of his own fate.

Noticing my hesitance, the half-badger cracks a satisfied smile and looks up into the sky, speaking to no one in particular. “So this is how it be, Mother?” Huanhuzi’s gravelly voice is deep and rich, full of crushed hope and bitter acceptance. “What choice be left to me?” Shaking his head, the Bandit King heaves a sigh and says, “I accept. I surrender.”

And all hell breaks loose as the Father’s foul attentions fall upon his newest Demonic minion.

No, not just one, but hundreds of Demonic births take place, all triggered in tandem and leaving us with no choice but to watch and wait. Never before have this many Demons formed at once, and the implications leave me shivering for reasons which have nothing to do with the cold. Though I would benefit greatly from consuming their Ichor, that doesn’t mean I’m immune from their claws or fangs, nor are any of the other Peak Experts here with me. With so many transforming around us, the Imperial Forces will soon be overrun by Demons and Defiled both, and judging by the feral, but resigned grin etched across his pained expression, what little is left of Huanhuzi knows it.

I won my duel, but might well have lost the battle and the war in the process.

Well...

Shit.

Seems like I got got, which I guess makes me the bitch...

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2
