The cervidian turned, falling bits of rock pinging against his armor. He hefted his weapon, then fixed Anton with a metallic stare. The effect of the helmet was striking—perhaps it would have even been terrifying to someone else. The elk’s features had been sculpted into a scowl as hard as adamant.

Anton clicked his tongue as he darted away, resuming his zig-zagging flight. I didn’t hear him at all. If I hadn’t seen his shadow, I’d have been paste. How is he doing that if he’s a crafter? The rumors said he was high-level, but this is ridiculous.

This time, Anton didn’t stop running until his stamina was all but gone. He’d long since passed out of the hills and into the forest that lay between Vestvall and Fel Sadanis, but he had decided to take no chances. Slowing to a walk, he struggled to catch his breath as he searched the canopy for a place to hide. His limbs were trembling, he realized. He hadn’t been this low on stamina in years.

A twig snapped, and Anton froze.

That was deliberate.

He shook his head, smiling to himself. One hunter to another, he could appreciate the artistry behind that simple noise. As he expected, the cervidian was standing there when he turned, not even winded. The elk helm had faded back to invisibility or been sent back to wherever it had been summoned from. Hells, it might just be pure magic. Sleepy was the one who knew about that shit.

The antlered man tilted his head, his craggy face expressionless. His eyes, however, were filled with a rage so cold that it made the winter air feel like a summer breeze. It was a stare that promised death. Inexorable, inevitable death.

Anton checked his stamina, sighing in resignation. Can’t run. Can’t fight. Only one thing left. He raised his arms, unslinging his bow and casting it aside. “I surrender.”

The cervidian lunged.

Anton rolled out of the way, but his foot snagged on a root as he tried to get back to his feet. He tumbled, and his momentum sent his face plowing into the ground. Hurriedly, he flipped himself over, scrambling backward on arms like jelly. He stopped almost as soon as he’d begun, realizing that his opponent was simply watching him once more.

“So that’s how it’s going to be,” Anton said after spitting out a clump of dirt. The cut on his forehead had opened again, and blood and sweat were mixing as they ran down his face. He wiped at his brow, scooting himself back to prop himself up against a tree. The cervidian, meanwhile, had begun calmly walking forward.

Anton frowned. Well, shit.

The hammer smashing its way through his skull was the last thing he ever felt.

⟬you died⟭

Dozer was very confused.

He did not know what this place without echoes was.

He did not know how he had gotten here.

He did not know where Rain-King and Ameliah-Queen had gone or what had happened to the ⟬enemies⟭.

The message he was hearing-but-not-hearing made no sense. Obviously, he wasn’t dead. That was impossible. He was Dozer.

The existence of the message itself was also confusing. It was as if the instinct had decided to speak to him and had somehow drawn itself in one of the blue boxes that Rain-King always saw.

Dozer quivered with realization.

That is what it was! The hearing-but-not-hearing. This was seeing! He was seeing the message!

Focusing on it, Dozer tried to understand what it could mean. It was difficult. Something was wrong. He felt like… He felt like…

His thoughts slowing, Dozer shrunk himself down into a lump, only then realizing that he was on a surface that he could neither hear, feel, nor taste.

Why was he so tired suddenly? Was it time to sleep?

The message changed.

⟬lifetime summary⟭

Dozer

Sentient Bound Entity

Crystal Slime

Level: 1

Age: 52 days

Contractor: Rain — Tame Monster Rank: 0

Criteria not met

⟬prepare for dissolution⟭

These were words!

Dozer wobbled, celebrating his discovery. His excitement brought him back, allowing him to fight the ⟬sleep-need⟭.

If only he knew how to read!

He could understand two lines. The ones that had been…written? Yes, written. The ones that had been written in the language of instinct. The rest was a mystery. That was bad, as Dozer did not particularly like what the second of the instinct-messages was saying. He did not want to be… He did not want to be…

…dissolutioned?

Why was thinking becoming so hard all of a sudden?

Fighting off another intrusive pulse of ⟬sleep-need⟭, Dozer thought harder than he’d ever remembered thinking before. Then he thought harder still. Finally, it came to him.

Rain-King knew how to understand words! All he needed to do was ask Rain-King to read the middle of the message for him!

[Rain-King?] Dozer tugged at the ⟬king-link⟭. There was no response, but he could still feel it there, inside himself, the same as it always was. He jiggled from side to side as he traced the feeling, then began oozing through the nothingness toward his ⟬king⟭. The ⟬sleep-need⟭ dragged at him, but Dozer refused to give in to it. He still did not know what had happened to the ⟬enemies⟭.

The ⟬enemies⟭!

How had he forgotten!?

Dozer quivered with outrage, forcing himself free of the ⟬sleep-need⟭ that was trying to drag him down. He bunched himself up, then leapt, soaring through the nothingness. He leapt again and then again. Each impact with the not-ground launched him faster and faster in the direction of his ⟬king⟭. That direction kept changing, sometimes even sending him back the way he had come, but Dozer would remain steadfast. He could feel the presence of his ⟬king⟭ through the ⟬king-link⟭. It filled him with determination.

After more leaps than Dozer could count—which meant more than three—the message changed, moving in front of him.

⟬resistance detected⟭

Criteria not met

⟬commencing dissolution⟭

Dozer crashed straight through the ⟬filthy⟭ blue box, and it shattered. It would not stop him, and neither would the ⟬sleep-need⟭, no matter how it called to him.

He began to tire and had to stop jumping. The instinct had become almost overwhelming. It was demanding that he give in. That he stop.

That he…

That he…

Die.

Against his own will, Dozer found himself slowing further. He could feel that Rain-King was close now. His presence was like a scent in the air, not that Dozer had ever been particularly good at smelling anything other than ⟬filth⟭. He knew he was almost at his goal. Maybe if he just…rested for a little while…

…

…

No!

I will not!

⟬resistance detected⟭

⟬sapience detected⟭

Criteria not met

⟬dissolution imminent⟭

Fighting harder than he’d ever fought before—harder even than he’d fought against the Dire Rat—Dozer dragged himself forward. The scent of Rain-King was everywhere now, blowing about him like a great wind.

⟬resistance detected⟭

⟬sapience detected⟭

⟬domain interference detected⟭

Criteria not met

⟬dissolution mandated⟭

A memory bloomed in Dozer’s mind, and he knew how he’d died. He remembered the blade of the ⟬enemy⟭ cutting into his membrane. He remembered exploding. He remembered the pain.

I. Did. Not. Die! I am Dozer! Rain-King needs me!

Dozer bumped into a barrier. Its appearance was sudden and completely unexpected. He fell back to the not-ground, feeling himself buffeted by the wind as the pain of his death tried to tear him apart.

No!

Pulling himself back together, he threw himself against the barrier, spreading himself against it. It tasted like it was made of…

Rain-King! This is Rain-King’s membrane!

Dozer pushed harder, but the wall refused to yield. [Rain-King! Let me in!] He quivered in frustration and pain.

[Rain-King!] he tried again, but it was no good. Rain-King wasn’t listening. He would not give up.

[Rain-King! Rain-King! Rain-King!]

The ⟬sleep-need⟭ was calling—promising relief. Promising the end.

No! No! No! No! No! No! No!

Dozer turned, trembling in agony as he oozed into the wind. It had to be coming from somewhere. If it was getting out, then he could get in!

Despite his will, his progress slowed. He could feel himself coming apart now. His membrane felt thin, as if it would burst at any moment. It was being dissolved by the ⟬system⟭. It was ⟬purifying⟭ him.

Like he was ⟬filth⟭.

I refuse!

The wind was a hurricane now, threatening to tear Dozer to shreds even if he somehow managed to resist the will of the universe itself. He was so focused on holding himself together that he barely realized when he reached a gap in the wall. The wind was howling out of it with such force that Dozer almost lost his grip on the ragged edge. Perhaps it only felt that way with how weak he had become.

With every last iota of his strength, he hung on.

And then slowly, ever so slowly, he hauled himself inside.

Criteria met
