She was exhausted. Lyonette felt as though her muscles would tear. Her bones…seemed to ache. And yet Lyonette held her head high. She smiled, even as she ascended the hill, pushing the wheelbarrow up to the door of the inn, legs ready to give out.
She felt so proud of herself, she could burst. Then Lyonette pushed the door to the inn open, and found a small bundle of white fur wrapped around a table leg. Mrsha blinked as Lyonette let light shine on her face, and then looked up hopefully. Her wagging tail slowed when she saw it was just Lyonette.
“Huh?”
The Human girl stared at the young Gnoll. The Gnoll stared back. Lyonette sat down, a jar of honey in her hands.
“What are you doing…? Why are you…?”
Mrsha just blinked at her. Lyonette blinked back. Then, tremulously, she smiled. Mrsha edged closer, wary.
“You’re so thin.”
That was all Lyonette said as she sat on the inn’s floor, stroking Mrsha’s head. The Gnoll nuzzled her. She was indeed thin, and she looked—
Sad. Lyonette couldn’t read Gnoll’s faces, but she saw it in the way the Gnoll curled up next to her. Sad, and lonely.
Just like her.
“Would you like some honey? It’s fresh.”
The Gnoll’s tail wagged. And Lyonette opened the jar. And for the first time in a long, long while, as the sun rose and her weary body ached, Lyonette ate breakfast with someone else.
 
—-
 
“Mrsha!”
Selys burst through the door of the inn twenty minutes later. Lyonette looked up as she and Mrsha stared at a wriggling grub half-submerged in a bowl of white, gelatinous stuff. The Drake stared at the Gnoll, stared at Lyonette, and then at the grub.
“What’s happening? Mrsha?”
The Gnoll immediately hopped off the table and fled into the kitchen. Selys ran towards her, and stopped as Lyonette got up.
“Is something wrong? Miss…Selys?”
“Um—no, nothing’s wrong…Lyon.”
The Drake glanced distractedly at Lyon, not looking particularly happy to see the girl so early in the morning. She pointed at the kitchen.
“When did Mrsha get here? I’ve been looking for her all day—ever since I found out she’d run away!”
“Ran away?”
The Drake nodded distractedly.
“She’s been doing it all week. I normally find her but this time—is she okay?”
“I think so. She’s so thin—”
“She won’t eat! Mrsha, come out of there! Come on! I’ll feed you anything you want, just—”
The Drake went into the kitchen. Lyonette heard scuffling, then Mrsha bounded out and ran up the stairs. Selys went after her. A few seconds later, Lyon heard another shout and Mrsha bounded down the stairs. Selys came down after her, gasping. She had to lean against a table as Mrsha circled the chair Lyonette had been sitting at.
“You can’t stay here! You…give me a second…you’ve got to come back, okay? Be a good girl until Erin and Ryoka come back!”
But Mrsha refused. Lyonette knew the young Gnoll couldn’t speak, but she saw it in every line of her body, and especially in the way the Gnoll clung to one of the tables as Selys tried to drag her outside.
“Come on! Please?”
Mrsha yowled, a noise more bestial than anything else. Selys pulled and pulled…but five minutes later she sat at one of the tables as Lyonette served her eggs and toast drizzled in honey. Mrsha licked her plate—she’d eaten so much Lyon was afraid she’d throw up.
“I just don’t get it. She doesn’t eat anything I give her! Not even steak! Do you know how expensive that is—and where did you get all this honey?”
“I stole it from the bees.”
“The bees? You?”
Lyon just nodded. She hadn’t even had time to change her clothes. She knew she was filthy and wet and from the way Mrsha had sniffed at her, she knew she stank as well. But there was something keeping her upright, and—
“What’s with that?”
Selys turned a bit pale as she pointed at the grub swimming in the liquid. Mrsha sniffed at it and Selys pushed an inquisitive paw away.
“Don’t touch it, Mrsha. It could be…well, it’s gross.”
“It’s a grub. A bee larvae. And that—I think it’s jelly.”
“Jelly?”
“Royal jelly. It’s this thing in hives that bees make. You can eat it, I think.”
“Really? Well why not take the grub out and—boil it first, maybe?”
“The jelly? Or the grub? I’m trying to keep it alive.”
Selys paused, mid-bite, a piece of toast in her claws.
“Why? Are you—are you going to eat it? Do Humans…?”
“No. I want to feed it to the Antinium.”
“To the—and you stole honey from those killer bees Erin mentioned?”
“Not just honey.”
Proudly, Lyonette pointed to a corner of the room. Selys looked and nearly jumped out of her scales.
“Gah!”
The dead bees pressed up against the glass walls of the jars, obscenely squished together. Selys stared at them as she slowly pushed her plate away. Mrsha just sniffed at the jars, tail wagging with curiosity.
“Mrsha, don’t. Those are—come with me.”
But the Gnoll refused to move. And as she ran from Selys and the Drake futilely chased her about, Lyonette had an idea.
“She can stay with me.”
“What?”
Selys looked up at Lyon, panting. She shook her head, glancing around the empty inn and then at Lyonette.
“Out of the question. Erin trusted Mrsha with me—and she’s far too young. And besides…”
Lyonette knew what Selys was saying. Besides, how could Mrsha be entrusted to her, Lyon’s care? But she just pointed to Mrsha.
“She likes it here, though. She likes honey. And—there are lots of beds. I could take care of her. I could, Selys.”
The Drake stared at the Human and Mrsha chased her tail. But when Selys grabbed for her, Mrsha just ran behind Lyonette. The girl stared down at the Gnoll, and the Gnoll stared back up.
It wasn’t as if Mrsha knew Lyonette that well. They’d—well, Lyonette remembered feeding the Gnoll scraps from her plate and scratching her behind the ears, but that wasn’t what made Mrsha want to stay with her over Selys.
It was the inn. It was that Lyonette was here, waiting. And so was Mrsha. And no matter how much Selys argued and tried to coax the Gnoll to come with her—
“I’ve got to go to work. I’ve got to go but—this isn’t over, Mrsha! If I have to I’ll get Krshia!”
The young Gnoll hid behind a chair as Selys pointed at her. She quivered, but she still refused to budge.
“You don’t want to have her come up here, do you? Do you? Come on Mrsha—”
“I’ll take good care of her while you’re gone. I promise. I can make food—”
“Just don’t let her go outside, okay?”
Selys looked ready to tear the spines on her head off. She stalked over to the door, angry, upset. She yanked the door open and blinked at Pawn. The Antinium’s hand paused, ready to knock. But that wasn’t what made all the blood drain out of Selys’ scales. She stared up at the massive Soldier, huge, imposing, staring down at her. Her mouth opened, she gaped—
And then fell backwards in a faint. No one caught her. Lyonette stared at Pawn. He stared at Selys. Mrsha hid behind the jar of bees.
“Oops. I was going to knock.”
He nodded to Lyonette as she helped him drag Selys inside. The Soldiers walked in behind Pawn, so many of them! They filled the room, standing perfectly still behind their leader.
For a few seconds, in that moment when Selys had yanked open the door, Lyonette had wanted to scream. But that instinct had fled the moment she had seen Pawn. She looked at the Soldiers as they stood in the inn. They looked—
Scary. There was no other word for it. But all Antinium looked like monsters, didn’t they? Until you got to know them.
Pawn sat at a table, clearly wavering over the unconscious Drake. He nodded several times to Lyon, and distractedly stared at Mrsha who was creeping closer to him.
“I do apologize. I didn’t mean to scare anyone. I just—I had hoped you were open for business.”
Open for business. The words made Lyon’s eyes open wide. She stared again at the Soldiers, but this time not as a stranger seeing something unfamiliar, but as a…a [Barmaid] sizing up a potential client.
And there was a lot of client, and a lot of them. How much could they eat? Lyon’s eyes traveled to the jar of bees. Her heart beat faster. So she stood up.
And smiled. She smiled at the Antinium, even at the huge Soldiers. Mrsha stared up at one of the silent behemoths, and he stared back. He was missing a hand on one of his four arms. But he was a customer, a guest. And…oh, how would Erin say it?
Lyonette gestured to her empty chairs. She pointed at the bees and remembered there was a special pan for frying them. She looked at the twenty Soldiers, at Pawn, and at the Gnoll poking the unconscious Drake. She smiled, because she wasn’t alone anymore. And she asked them one simple question.
“Would you like something to eat?”
