Have too. Against a lich, Viv thought.

“You have shown much bias and preference towards the ‘Harrakans’,” Medjin spat. “Or at least those who dare call themselves that. They are still a small band of peasants that has yet to prove themselves while my people have held the wall for the better part of a decade. We can make it a race, of course. See if there is truth behind their boasts when they are not placed in the right spot by an overly friendly hand…”

Jaratalassi remained silent until even Medjin reddened; his grizzled peers not really appreciating his petulant display. In the end, the old general answered with more wary exhaustion than reproach.

“If you let your pride get in the way of good planning, you only have yourself to blame for the deaths that will cause.”

“We have shed blood for this nation and we will do so again; until the last beastling lies dead at our feet! Pretenders and traitors have — “

“ENOUGH!”

Jaratalassi’s aura lashed out. It was… above expert, Viv judged.

It was pretty amazing.

“I can tolerate your anger, but not your insults. You may do as you please and you will reap the consequences. That is all.”

The old general finished with a few orders, then the council was adjourned. Sidjin had remained silent during all that time. He appeared thoughtful.

They flew back without much delay. Outside, the sounds of battle reminded everyone that the conflict never ended.

“Let’s do a bit of scouting, I told Zero-Five I would find him a good aberrant to fight,” Viv said.

Sidjin laughed.

“Ah, the Hadals, always a refreshing change of mindset. Of course, let us not disappoint the axe murderer, hmmm?”

They did find a pretty good candidate after only a few minutes. It was even going in the right direction. The two mages torched the rest of the army to make it a fun duel before heading back. They landed in the Harrakan camp a few minutes later.

Zero-Five approached.

“We found you some prey. Go that way,” Viv said.

The Hadal quietly pointed to the side, where a lone figure sat against a discarded crate.

“Irao? I didn’t know you’d come.”

“Hullo. Interesting, new challenge. I… made progress. On my path.”

He sat straighter, eyes lost. Viv knew this meant he had something to say so she waited.

“I found the fortress.”

“What? Where?”

“Not far. It is… not a fortress. Network of tunnels. Low. It is also not a fortress.”

Viv frowned.

“You already said that?”

“Its purpose is not to protect.”

“Then what is it?”

Irao told them, and Sidjin snapped his fingers.

“Don’t tell the others yet,” he said.

“Jaratalassi won’t be happy,” Viv warned.

“And if no one disobeys his orders, it will be of no consequence.”
