Viv deployed her aura. Fully. Draconic intimidation and Champion’s leadership washed over the ranks of the mercenaries in a soul tide just as her anchors came out. The temperature dropped. The air dulled even more. Her soul spoke of a rescued golem, of a long walk through the desert, of a found daughter, of magic with few equals, of the tragic march of refugees and the victorious charge or rebels, of many allies as strange as they were dangerous, of death in the forest, of war, of slain necrarchs, of a blighted arena, of a punished elemental archmage, of crushed dreams — that of others. It spoke of an army reforged from the gaols of history, of a reptile empire stopped, of a new species of intelligent machines, of a demolished city and a rescued population. It spoke of all of this in a single quiet note that rolled over them to remind them that Viv had been here for all of five years, but the continent would remember her for a very, very long time.

It told them she was one of the world’s two active ascenders, and that she was worthy of their swords, even for a moment.

“You may have legendary ancestors, dear duke, but I… I am the legend.”

The tired leader finally allowed himself a smile of relief. His back remained straight for the sake of his men so that only Viv could see how much of a burden her words had removed.

“Very well. For the sake of the alliance, we will close ranks with the New Harrakans. You will not find us wanting.”

“Then I shall see you all in a sea of beastling guts.”

The mercenaries greeted the statement with a few ‘ayes’ that she took as a good sign. After a last nod, she flew out.

It had all gone pretty well. Only after she landed among her troops did Lana turn to her as she was busy convoking water.

“Show off.”

“What? It worked, didn’t it?”

***

Horns rang across the vast battlefield. The Golden Order and the Imperials were ready to depart in good order but the Enorian mercenaries needed more time. Viv watched the Blue Duke ride with a handful of heavy knights to smash roving bands of harassers, covering his men as they approached. By the time all three formations were more or less in position, they were late.

The attacks started around noon and then, they didn’t stop. She had to forget the accursed karaoke, because the beastlings simply never stopped. The attacks were nearly constant. Every time, those were smaller groups whipped into a frenzy, designed to harass and waste ammunition rather than inflict real damage.

The Golden Order performed as expected. They were old hands at killing beastlings, and it showed. Moreover, they were somehow always able to recover their expended ammunition. On the other hand, the Enorians really struggled, even with the wounded soldiers kept side by side with Harrakans so they had the time to recover. Poacher ordered two different volleys towards the early afternoon just to keep them from taking too many casualties. As for Viv, she flew from one end of the battle to the other to kill the true aberrants.

They were just disgusting as she remembered.

Aberrants were cancerous masses of abhorrent tissue assembled as mockeries of living creatures, their body functions stunted and maimed until all that was left was rage and pain. They drank mana like parched fields, so only the most potent spells tore them apart without fizzling. These specifically were also supposed to be very contagious so Viv did her best to keep them away from her troops. Despite these difficulties, things were going pretty well. Casualties were kept to a minimum. Troops rotated. No Harrakan deaths so far. High reserves of naphta and quarrels. Everything Viv wanted to save for the big push was stockpiled and spirits were high.

Then, mid afternoon, one of the priests called her down.

“Your Majesty, General Jaratalassi requests your support on the left flank. If you could fly here… the Zesthanet detachment is in trouble.”

Viv frowned. Zesthanet? They were the only port city on the south coast, far into the wild lands. Did those guys even have an army?

“Where?”

“Past the Zazas group. The general asks if you can hurry, because…”

Viv didn’t hesitate. She flew up, then used colorless spells for acceleration. Her heavy robe flapped in the wind, despite the metal inlays. A colorless layer in front of her face prevented her from being blinded by the dusty air. Desiccated soil gave way to barkless trunks, then to boulders. Below her and to the right, some armies were fighting towering monsters leading endless hordes. She recognized the stallion of Baran on distant battle standards. Farther then.

It only took her a couple of minutes at that speed to spot which group was in trouble. A group of pale warriors with heavy weapons was caught in a short canyon, spread out between the tall walls. This would have been relatively safe normally, but beastlings kept sending themselves over the edge to their doom and the falling bodies smashed on warriors as often as it crashed on the ground beneath. Mighty warriors with bone helmets were fighting a tall, bulbous aberrant to a standstill but as Viv watched, more aberrants crashed yet rose again. Meanwhile, archers struggled to cover the entrance and exit as the most dangerous foes used the walls for cover until the last moment. The southerners were trapped, and about to be overwhelmed.

Yeah, Jaratalassi had it right. Viv was needed. She passed over the closest wave of beastlings throwing themselves into the canyon.

[Sequence: triple nuées]

A black fog hissed in every direction, covering the charging beastlings. In their madness, they charged into the cloud without a care, and the cloud devoured them. The devouring spell covered the approach in a dense fog for a hundred paces in every direction. Even the smaller aberrants that entered it fell within a dozen steps, stripped to the bone. The rain of bodies stopped, and Viv let the spell linger. The dip in her monstrous reserves was noticeable.

Then it was the other plateau’s turn. She did the exact same thing. With no more beastlings crashing on top of barbarians, those below organized themselves. Their front started to push against the beastlings blocking them in, though there were still many aberrants.

But the most dangerous one was still the massive creature fighting against the strongest southern warriors.

Their elites reminded her of Cloud Skull, the magic-resistant warrior who had died facing the Nemeti of the Empire of Dawn. The bone helmets were different and they wore more clothes, sometimes even armor, but their paths were similar. It was also clear they were used to facing large creatures yet the blood on the creature’s lone pincer said that some had been too slow to dodge the monster’s devastating swings.

It looked like a crab, a misshapen one with far too many legs that made it sway as it moved, but it was fast, and its only claw stood at the end of a powerful arm. Viv quickly assessed the situation.

It was a perfect opportunity to try out her new spell. It was part of a series of flowing constructs she hoped would make her a fast and continually casting beast. She’d tested it in the deadlands and it worked. Now, it was time to use it against a live target.

[Aspect of the Guardian]

“Aegis.”

The thick shield formed around her, reinforced by her aspect. Each hexagon bled darkness and she saw the world in dark gray from behind its protective envelope. Outside, the breath of warriors came in puffs. A few looked up towards the light-swallowing ball.

Viv shadow-walked herself behind the crab.

[Aspect of the Destroyer.]

“Shatterstar.”

The shield exploded like a grenade. Voracious fragments pierced the crab from end to end at point-blank range, carving through the shell with ease. Annihilation carved the cancerous flesh, backed by Viv’s certainty that the creature had to disappear.

“Guillotine!”

Void blades emerged from Viv’s fingers as she prepared to bring them down on what was left of the creature’s back. Her instincts were silent, which was weird because… aaaand the thing collapsed on itself.

It was very dead.

“Oh. Well. That did it.”

Two of the barbarians reacted almost immediately. The largest one stomped on the ground once, then he turned on the nearest aberrants that still lived. His massive spear skewered the creature from end to end.

“I had it! I HAD IT!” he complained.

The other one was an old woman with a bone mace. She shook a long-nailed finger at Viv, and a burst of gray mana carried her voice to others far and wide. A shaman, probably. She seemed to be some sort of leader.

“You! You did well. I give you the battle name, Winged Crab Fisher!”

Others nodded in assent.

“Errrr, I’ve been called far worse, so thanks. Now if you will excuse me…”

Viv cast spells until every aberrant she could find was reduced to ribbons, then she refused three different marriage offers before lifting off again. The shaman had given her a small bag of herbal tea as thanks though, so it was all in all a successful outing.

***

Tonight, the war council’s mood was subdued. Gone was the anger of the first night. Gone, too, was the social mood. Although they barely showed it, Viv could feel the tension in the pale faces and clenched jaws. The low hum of conversation spoke of groups that suddenly found they had to cooperate or risk extermination. It was a testament to how savage the attacks had been, and how the presence of mature aberrants altered the playing field. It didn’t help that they were supported by a rabid, starving and eminently expendable mass of beastlings.

Viv checked that Sidjin was ok, though it wasn’t really necessary. The Red Mist had seen a lot of action in his day. He was more experienced than her and, she suspected, the opportunity to lead once again out of her shadow was doing him good. His smug, crooked smile really enhanced the doomed prince persona. Especially with his mussed hair. Hmmm.

Not bad.

Viv shook her head. The map at the center of the table showed a much different story than last time. Where a loose line swept before, now a tight wing speared into the heart of the devastated jungle. Far in front, a gray blob showed the area where the fortress was expected to be.

“Ladies and gentlemen,” Jaratalassi said, “I can see that you have concerns. I do too, of course, however and despite the appearances, our offensive is going as close to plan as is realistically possible. The enemy is fighting to slow us down by any means necessary. It means that the fights are hard, but also that we are achieving our main purpose: the full cleansing of this land. The harder we fight and the more the foe must sacrifice troops to slow us down. If we stop now, if we give them a moment to breathe, then bands, guided by a fell hand, will move around us to attack our flanks, or even the walls. With this said, I have unfortunate news. You may have noticed that the Silver Snakehounds mercenary band is no longer here…”

Viv had not. They were a minor army, barely a few hundred fighters.

“After heavy losses, they decided to retreat against  my orders. They were overwhelmed on their way back to the wall and killed to the last.”

Jaratalassi looked around the table. The meaning couldn’t be more clear. Disobey him at your own risk.

“Other valiant bands have suffered much, so I will reorder the banners. As for good news, I will salute the work of our brave knights under the Order Master of the White Orchard…”

Viv gave the old commander an appreciative look. The white-bearded Baranese lord took the compliments with grace.

“As well as our mage flight under Archmage Sidjin for rushing to the wall’s defense and crushing several large beastling armies before they could attempt to breach it. You have my thanks.”

Viv spared a glance to Prince Medjin, fuming in his corner next to Blademaster Selyen. Had Selyen started to work with him? The ‘dragonslayer reborn’ was unlikely to be a member of   Viv’s fan club after she basically ridiculed him in the City of the Gods.

Served him right. he hadn’t even slain a single dragon.

Looking at the map, Viv realized that Glastia formed the vanguard of the wing. Not a surprise considering they were the largest army, but still something that might have been worthy of praise. Technically, Viv flying to the barbarians’ rescue would have been an honorable mention too, but the clever general had paid only two compliments to emphasize them in what must have been a day of heroic deeds. It was well done, and Viv allowed herself a smug smile.

After all, Sidjin was her boytoy. Any praise directed his way confirmed she had great taste in men. And women. Maybe less for women. It wasn’t relevant right now.

Now all of Medjin’s efforts to discredit his fellow prince had gone up in smoke. That asshole certainly knew how to hold a grudge.

“We have made good speed so far. I expect that we will find the fortress by tomorrow, given what the augurs found. In preparation for that, here is the new formation I propose.”

Jaratalassi took the time to draw several arrows on the map to show where people would move the next morning. It was all to be done while under constant attack which would have made the entire plan a sure recipe for chaos, but Viv had long since gotten used to Nyil where stats made people much more capable of finding their way or staying in formation. Under the new battle plan, Harrak would become the tip of the spear. Ban was going to be ecstatic.

“Glastia will lead the way, not the… untested strangers,” Prince Medjin said in a voice that brooked no arguments.

“My plan protects the most lives,” Jaratalassi said softly.

The rest of the alliance glared at the prince in quiet censure, but the brash man only grew more incensed at the apparent lack of support.

“Your siege army has never won a siege!”

