"There’s someone I’ve been working with recently who’s pressured them into allowing this. He’s of the mind that information should be released gradually. So, it’s possible we’ll be meeting again, if you’ll have me, so I can share more. Today, I’m here just to answer a few of your questions, as I’ve come to believe that doing so piece by piece will be best, so no single truth gets drowned out by the others."

"This person you’re working with... who is he? Did he create these towers that have been appearing all over the Earth?"

Rafael laughs shortly, in a way that makes him seem both innocent and charming. "While he would prefer for his identity to stay a bit more... well, private, he realizes it’s impossible with so much footage already out there. His name is Christoph. Some of you have probably seen him in one of the many videos. And yes, the towers are his."

"So, are you telling me, and all the people watching, that all the things we’ve seen people doing were true? Please remember your answer is basically coming from the Oval Office right now." She pauses and chuckles, "Though you may be a Canadian."

He waits for her to finish, his calm never wavering, and he even flashes another smile, "I might be a big, scary Canadian, but I’ll be making appearances like this all across the world. As for your question, I can confirm that. I can also confirm that many of the things you’ve gotten to see were just the start. People will become even more powerful."

"That... is a lot to swallow for a Tuesday," Faye says, her voice flat but her eyes glinting with interest, and for a moment glancing over at the spider.

"I understand. It’s one thing to see it on a screen and another to see it in your living room. Thankfully, we have some time, and people have the opportunity to get used to them gradually. Following today, more information will be shared regarding 'returnees', those of us who awakened before everyone else on Earth. Those people will be appearing more in public, too."

"‘Have some time’... that sounds a bit scary, Rafael."

"I won’t lie and say all is well. The world is changing, and there are dangers that come with that change."

"Are you talking about an invasion? I think some people on the internet have been calling it 'The Pairing'?"

"Yes. That."

Faye leans back in her chair, crossing her legs with a smile. "You don't want me to ask more about that."

"I would appreciate if you didn't."

"Ha! With a smile that charming, how could I ruin the vibe by being so nosy?" Faye laughs, but she’s already pivoting. "How are you spending your days lately, Rafael? Are you enjoying the weather?"

"Would you believe me if I said I’ve been spending a lot of my time taking care of a cat lately?"

"You know what? I would." Faye laughs, her green eyes glinting with interest once again. "May I ask you something more serious?"

"Please."

"The public is scared of people like you. They’re afraid of you losing control, or worse, deciding you don't need to listen to 'normal' people anymore. Can you say something to the people who’re currently terrified of their neighbors?"

"That’s why I’m here." Rafael adjusts his sleeve, glancing briefly at Septa, who breaks another vase, before looking back at Faye. "The place we were sent served to help us control these powers and to learn about them. In exchange, we can teach the people here on Earth and protect them. I won’t lie and say there won't be individuals trying to take advantage of this, but they will be dealt with. By us. Christoph has already sent a message to all those who’ve returned. There won't be any more incidents. And one more thing, Faye, it isn’t 'us' against 'you.' We are all people of Earth. The same powers we have are awakening in each of you. We just got a... well, a tutorial on how to use them."
