Soon enough, Nanette had a raincoat over her like a blanket and another to sit on. Mrsha wanted to reinforce the towel and bedsheet ‘walls’ and make sure the entire affair wouldn’t collapse when the wind blew too hard.
To that end, Ser Sest with a shovel was beginning to pile dirt up so the wall could be anchored in the ground, and Mrsha was beginning to demand lumber, long boards of wood. Which in turn required nails, and hey, if we were going to do this, why not some insulation? Two sets of walls—could Sest find a huge nail or something to anchor them together? A bedframe would do.
It never seemed to occur to Mrsha to move Nanette. Nor that it would be easier to make Nanette move. She regarded it as a challenge; if the [Witch] had a reason to be here in the middle of a storm, well, Mrsha would happily requisition an entire house for her.
The breaking point was probably the demands for boards of wood. No less than Lyonette and Eloise came up the hill to see why two Thronebearers were grabbing so much from the guest houses.
“Mrsha! Come here, young lady!”
Mrsha hid behind a tree, but Eloise saw Nanette and cried out.
“Nanette! I thought I told you to stay indoors. It seems your daughter saw what we had forgotten. Come, Nanette. You’ll die of sickness and wet.”
She strode over, and Nanette sighed. She didn’t move as the [Tea Witch] bent to pull her up, but to her astonishment, a Gnoll clambered through the branches. She aimed a wand down, and Mrsha the Sniper shot a little arrow of light at Eloise!
The spell bounced off the [Witch]’s hat.
“Mrsha!”
Lyonette was scandalized, and Eloise recoiled slightly. Mrsha blanched as her mother came striding towards her, but then she leapt down, waving her wand and a fist.
“No one is taking her! Back, back!”
She wrote on a card until Lyonette grabbed her—then she was a struggling, silently yowling fighter. She wriggled so hard that Sest, Ushar, and Lyonette together couldn’t hold her. All for what?
Nanette’s dignity? Mrsha’s furious fighting was putting her in hotter and hotter water. Especially when a waving foot kicked Lyonette in the chin and the [Princess] went tumbling down the hillside.
Then she was in grave trouble. Mrsha was racing around the tree, silently screaming while two Thronebearers pursued her, and Lyonette vowed no dessert until the end of the era! And then…Nanette stood up.
Mostly to stop the little girl from getting in more trouble.
“I’ll go. I’ll go, Eloise.”
No you won’t!
Mrsha clung to her and tried to make her sit! Now, Nanette was struggling to go, and Lyonette was grabbing Mrsha and apologizing to Nanette and Eloise—then realizing how cold Nanette was. Eloise stood back, sensibly, and her eyes were on Mrsha.
That was when the entire towel-house came down amid a downpour of rain and the branches and all three umbrellas. Everyone was drenched, smacked in the face by heavy, sodden cloth, and covered in mud. Nanette pulled herself out and reached out, and a little girl’s paw took her hand.
She looked up, and Mrsha, wet, fur dripping, beamed at her and pointed down to the big mess hall. Her stomach rumbled loudly, and to Nanette’s amazement, hers copied it.
Let’s go eat, huh? Mrsha patted Nanette on the hand. The [Witch] looked at her seat and saw it was a tangle of two Thronebearers, a crushed [Princess], and towels.
There wasn’t anywhere for her. So, vaguely, she followed Mrsha down the hill, stomach rumbling, and the [Princess] rose, dignity gravely misplaced, and saw her daughter and the little girl heading down, hand in hand.
Even Lyonette didn’t have the heart to stop them. She simply turned to Ser Sest and Dame Ushar.
“Perhaps we should all forgo punishments for now. Mrsha’s heart was in the right place. Let’s dry off, get some food—Witch Eloise?”
“That does sound like the wisdom of the Hundred Families, Your Highness.”
The [Tea Witch] bowed with a smile, and Lyonette noticed her clothes were dry as could be. The [Princess] sneezed, then looked at the muddy fort.
“Someone will have to clean this up. Ser Dalimont? Ser Lormel? We leave it in your hands.”
The two other Thronebearers looked askance at the mess. Far below, Mrsha pulled Nanette into a warm building and slapped the counter to demand a soup for her and the little girl. Then she sat with Nanette, towels wrapped around them, and the [Witch] found herself eating. She said not a word, nor did she want to move.
But Mrsha did not pull like the others, or push. And the thing was—Mrsha never said anything either. In that way, they were alike.
 
——
 
Erin did not have a day half as good as Mrsha. Her day was filled with wet. Wet, shoveling dirt to help build the levees. Wet, walking Riverfarm to see where the flooding would happen. Wet, following Wiskeria as the [Witch] walked through the mud, let the rain buffet her—and not once did Wiskeria seem bothered.
If she tripped and fell—and she did!—she got back up. If it took her twenty minutes to walk a hundred feet in the blowing wind, she did. If she had to dig for an hour, she did, with nary a complaint.
Erin could feel emotion. She knew Wiskeria didn’t mind. Either that or she was masking her emotions. But that was not true either, because Erin’s hands were wet with blood that evening as Wiskeria embarked on her most grisly task yet.
Butchery.
Erin knew that to eat meat, animals had to die. She was resolved to kill when necessary, but there was something about slaughtering animals that was still terrible. She did not want to do it, even if she would live with it to eat.
But Wiskeria was consulting with no less than Mister Ram, the [Head Rancher] who needed her advice. A pig had fallen ill of something and died, and under Laken’s new orders, the body had actually been burned. It had been the male boar, leaving a sow and piglets. But the female pig wasn’t eating. He hadn’t brought it up to Laken, but Ram was a bit uncertain as to what to do.
“Embarrassing as it is, I usually keep most of my animals fed until it’s time, but this one refuses to eat, even with Skills. I thought you’d have some insight, even if it it was that we could use the pork, Miss Wiskeria.”
[Witches] were good people to turn to for advice. And her response was quick and simple.
“She’s grief-stricken, Mister Ram. I’d tell you to butcher her.”
“Ah, well, I thought you’d say that. But I can’t see a way around it. The [Chefs]’ll be happy. That’ll be a fine meal after all this rainy work.”
Ram didn’t glance at Erin, the perpetrator, as he nodded. To Erin’s dismay, Wiskeria offered to do the job. Ram was surprised, but Wiskeria told him it was no problem.
“Call for the [Butcher], but it will be a good lesson for Erin. I know how to slit a throat.”
Erin did not want to do the job. Nor, it seemed, did Mister Ram. Which surprised Erin. He was a [Rancher], and she assumed it came with the job. But then she realized the same man who raised animals might not want to kill them. In fact, Wiskeria told her that some people would go from farm to farm and render the service for a fee.
“Do I—do I have to do it?”
Wiskeria knelt by the motionless pig and gently propped the sow’s head up. She was careful in case the pig tried to bite or attacked, but the female pig never moved as the piglets were slowly herded away.
“Of course not. Just watch. Hold the head for me. It will be fast. [Farmers] try to make it quick.”
That was when Erin decided she might be able to live without meat after all. It was one thing to see images of slaughterhouses and know there were inhumane ways of killing animals and ‘humane’ ways—that was, ways most Humans were happy about killing people that weren’t them—
Quite another to hold a pig and feel a shudder as Wiskeria ran a blade across the throat.
It was fast. This wasn’t a Shield Spider, nor a monster. It was a pig, but Erin swore she felt something leave. Wiskeria?
Wiskeria’s eyes never changed. But she did feel sad. Just a bit. That was all. And that sadness persisted as Ram nodded with the [Butcher] in tow.
“You’d be a fine [Farmer], Miss Wiskeria. And that’s a compliment if I might say so.”
“Thank you, Mister Ram. Should I do the rest too?”
Wiskeria glanced up, and Ram hesitated.
“The piglets? They’re hardly as old, and they eat. It’d be a waste. Why? Are they sick?”
Wiskeria gave Ram a strange look, and Erin saw her trying to recalibrate, but she didn’t manage it this time. Instead, she replied slowly, trying to understand what she was getting wrong.
“No…because they’re all grieving too. Grieving—now twice for their parents. They can smell the blood. They’ll know. I’m sure most if not all will eat and grow, but if you wanted to spare them the sadness, I am here.”
She spread her hands as blood ran from her blue dress, without staining it. Ram and Erin looked at her, and the [Rancher]’s laugh was uneasy. Even afraid.
“Why, Miss Wiskeria, you’re kind to offer, but—they’re just pigs. I’m sure the sow was—was sad. But they’re pigs. Not even magical pigs. Not like a dog nor…”
His voice trailed off uneasily. Ram tried to smile, but Wiskeria looked at him—and then a smile crossed her lips that was entirely fake.
“Of course. That was a joke, Mister Ram.”
“A joke—dead gods—you play too much with an old man’s heart.”
He laughed and laughed, far too loudly. Then Ram headed off, laughing, and Erin stood there. She looked at Wiskeria and knew—the [Witch] had not been lying.
Ram’s discomfort was one thing. He did not like how Wiskeria talked about the pigs. Like they were people. That had to hit him close to home, and Wiskeria almost reminded Erin of people who said animals had feelings and were as sapient as Humans and deserved not to be eaten.
Which was fine, and Erin could get on board with that. Only, Wiskeria…Wiskeria believed it with all her heart, and she had still killed the pig and offered to kill the piglets.
“Do you think they’re people, Wiskeria?”
As Erin washed her hands in the rain, Wiskeria gave her a blank look.
“I killed a father in front of his children two—no, three days ago. I heard him scream as I broke his neck. He was a racoon. Nanette didn’t realize what I meant either and asked me about it. Was I wrong? I killed a mother in front of her children.”
“I know why you’re saying it like that. But they’re pigs.”
Wiskeria nodded reasonably as Erin’s skin crawled. She responded without blinking.
“And I will remember that, especially after seeing how I made Ram feel. I’ll call them animals. But to you, Erin—what did I say that was wrong? That was a mother. She bled. She felt pain. She grew sad. A Drake can be a mother or father.”
“Yes, but is there a difference?”
Wiskeria laughed until she realized this was no joke. She looked at Erin knowingly.
“Sariants can write. Yet they’re pets. Magical cats can understand speech, if not say it. Wyverns are said to be far more intelligent than the smartest dog, but they’re monsters. Mother never saw a difference, only in who she was allowed to kill without repercussion. So I’ll remember who I can slaughter, but I killed a mother today. I’ve met some people who think animals have no emotions or feelings. As if fish cannot feel pain. They’re as strange as I.”
That just made Erin more uneasy.
“If you think that way, why kill the female pig? Why offer to kill the children? Why not let them live and tell Ram to let her grow old or just not eat until she passes away?”
To that, Wiskeria was silent as she washed and dried her hands.
“…Because it’s how he lives. He raises animals to slaughter, and Riverfarm uses them as coin for meat and hide. I understand people have to make a living.”
“It’s not right. Not the way you see it.”
Erin was wiping her hands on her jeans, again and again. To that, Wiskeria gave her a flat stare.
“Then make the world otherwise. But this is how it is, and I don’t mind it enough to change. People suffer and do things to each other that are cruel, but allowed. That’s how a city functions. I don’t want to change the way Riverfarm works. In fact, I admire it. That is why I’m a [Witch of Law]. Law be my craft. Law and consequence and rules. Of course it sacrifices a few people for thousands.”
Erin stood up and looked at the barn, where the dead pig was and the piglets were setting up a clamor. She shook her head.
“That will not be my craft. That can’t be my craft.”
Wiskeria nodded reasonably.
“I know. You and I aren’t going to be alike. But I still like you. Do you still like me or did that change everything?”
She looked Erin in the eye, and the [Innkeeper] was quiet for a while. She thought of Elirr’s cats. How close were they to people? She heard people hunted and ate monkeys, and Humans and monkeys were far, far too close. How intelligent were they? Didn’t someone teach a gorilla to speak with sign language?
 
——
 
Wiskeria did not teach Erin anything easily. In fact, Erin knew she was like the great coven of the dead because she didn’t teach Erin any spells.
Much to Erin’s frustration, Wiskeria was teaching her how to be, not how to do. Which was fine—unless you wanted to shoot a lightning bolt into the storm. Just once. But no—Wiskeria was adamant.
“Erin, that’s not witchcraft. That’s certainly not my witchcraft, and even my mother would say you’re being silly. You and I can practice spells or making something after you learn my lesson.”
They were now mopping one of the mess halls by themselves, and Erin foresaw two hours given all the mess from boots. They’d already cleaned each table. Without Skills.
They had [Cleaners] in Riverfarm! Wiskeria had told them she and Erin would do this building by themselves. Erin growled at Wiskeria.
“Oh yeah? Would Belavierr call me ‘silly’? That’s what she’d say?”
Wiskeria sighed.
“I can tell that’s sarcasm. Is that sarcasm? Irony? No, is that a joke?”
“No, it’s me being angry!”
Wiskeria muttered under her breath.
“I see. If you want to know how my mother would say it, she’d say, ‘you conflate the power of [Mages] with magic in all its forms. They are a single ray reflected through the narrowest of slits in the wall, but visible to the naked eye. If you would chase that—chase that. But do not come to me when you realize the zenith of their power is to step beyond their pale confines. For we have always been there, and the [Archmages] learn that lesson far later.’”
Erin turned and stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] shrugged, and two faintly red patches appeared in her cheeks.
“She may have said that to me as well. I was young, too. I think I was six.”
“Great! Then I’m a six-year old! Well, I’m throwing a tantrum!”
