So Oliyaya and Agratha were chumming it up, and Erin herself was energetically stabbing her fingers with a needle. She did have gloves on, and she was working on a hat.
Agratha had lent her a normal, pointy hat all in black. Erin was right now attaching chess pieces to the brim. She had decided to try the chess hat on just to show willingness. She could always change it later.
A pawn piece dangled from her hat as she put it on.
“Tada. How do I look?”
She turned to one of the other [Witches], and the woman hesitated.
“Ah, well. It would certainly appeal to the chess-lovers of the world, Witch Erin. And one can always change their hat.”
Erin’s face fell. Even if they were nicer, [Witches] were savage. She poked a chess piece, and the little piece wobbled, then gently smacked her on the side of the head.
One of the apprentices giggled as Erin ruefully took the hat off.
“Yeah, I guess this would get annoying if I don’t change how long the pieces are. But hey—”
She put it back on her head and looked around. Erin felt strange with the hat on her head, but she beamed.
“I’ve got a hat.”
She was willing to try it on, and the [Witches]’ eyes gleamed with approval. It wasn’t just the physical hat, it was the attitude. Erin exhaled.
I am a [Witch].
“Yes. Today you look the part.”
Erin jumped, and Oliyaya cackled, to Agratha’s mild discomfort, but the old [Witch] seemed to read Erin’s mind. She nodded to the pouring rain outside.
“Now, Witch Erin. Shall we talk about how to quiet this old man? A promising [Witch] has come among us. Let us see how far her craft takes us. It has been long, long, since [Witches] battled Elementals.”
The [Witch of Second Chances] gulped hard. This was her mistake—and she feared Oliyaya was right.
 
——
 
The old man would not stop. Not until he drowned Riverfarm. He had been granted a view of the surface, a body that he had longed for.
You had to see it how he did. He was no person, but a force of nature. He was so old he remembered Dryads and Treants. He knew what he could be, but he had no morality that made him acceptable to the mortals he wanted to wander around.
As he saw it—someone had helped him complete himself, given him what he had begged the [Witches] for. Then taken it away, hurt him for being himself. Now he was going to murder Riverfarm and everyone in it.
It wasn’t even Erin’s fault. Okay, it definitely was. But…rivers were bastards. If she’d found a kindly marsh, she might have created another Khoteizetrough. Although some bogs and marshes could be murderous traps of land. Yet rivers?
Rivers drowned people. Name one river that, over the ages, hadn’t murdered someone who’d fallen into it. A few were great and generous and only took a few souls by accident, but most had rapids and sharp rocks.
A tree was a bit safer, even if it might begin kicking the shit out of every [Woodcutter] it saw. A meadow…well, some had sinkholes that dropped a group of picnickers a hundred feet.
Yet in another sense, it was just as well Erin had woken the river. Because now seeing his wrath—Wiskeria didn’t want him anywhere near Riverfarm.
She was going to murder him.
It was a calm certainty in Wiskeria’s heart. She didn’t know quite how; murdering an Elemental was very difficult even if you bound it to a physical form. She might have to, and that was risky, because she didn’t have the means or craft. But they were at war now.
The [Witches] fought the river with Riverfarm backing them up. But—like the fires that had ravaged Riverfarm and this region, Laken Godart was getting an unhappy wakeup call in a weakness of [Witches]:
They were bad at fighting nature.
Oh, they were using their craft. Hedag was pushing entire boulders to the levees, passing even Durene in strength. Eloise’s tea was sending waves of workers back out as if it were the highest-quality stamina potion. Even Mavika’s crows were out in the rain, gliding through the water as it didn’t weigh them down, showering down dirt and stones.
But it wasn’t, uh, exactly the same as a [Geomancer] raising a huge wall of stone. And a Level 40 [Geomancer] would be just the thing for this moment. [Witches]?
The problem was that [Witches] were good at dealing with problems. People, monsters, other magic-users were problems that a [Witch] could stomp, especially if they were wearing boots. But nature?
Nature was, by itself, normal. It was hard to stop a fire because a fire wanted to burn, and it had all the facts on its side. A purely magical fire? Easy. But a natural wildfire, no matter how it started, was so hard that even Califor…
Even she’d had to use great magic to stop it. And she had stopped it entirely, but the cost was too high. Laken needed a normal [Mage] who could arrogantly just dam or divert the river’s course. A Level 40 [Mage]. Good luck finding one of those for free.
Or, alternatively, Wiskeria could end the old man and the river would be a normal one. She had no compunctions about it. Even the pigs bothered her more. The old man was no innocent victim. He was a force of nature opposed to her.
And he reminded Wiskeria of her mother. He did what he wanted. So yes, like her mother—
She wanted to kill him. The [Witch of Law] realized that she was opposed to the old man. And that was her craft. So that morning, she realized something much like Erin was discovering herself.
The two met in the pouring rain amidst all this rain and the war against the river. Erin had a hat. Well, several hats. Wiskeria was standing in Master Helm’s smithy; even he was helping shore up the river.
She was sharpening a knife on a whetstone. But she was watching something else at the same time. Erin stepped into the shed, shaking water off her hood, and turned to see.
“Oh. Look at that.”
It was Mrsha and Nanette. Wiskeria had a good view of them playing under one of the eaves of a gazebo dedicated to the heroine of Riverfarm—Ivolethe. The circular structure was generous to afford the two with a good play area despite the pouring rain, and the statue of the Frost Faerie was larger than life—a lot larger.
Laken was as good as his word when it came to the fae. This was one of six statues of Ivolethe, and it was actually customary for pranksters to put a little token, like a stone with holes in it, or a gift at the statue before doing something untoward.
Wiskeria didn’t like that. It reminded her of…something she preferred wouldn’t exist. Obsessive belief, perhaps. A kind of variant of witchcraft that relied not on magic but something else.
However, her eyes were on the two little children. Mrsha was eagerly signing to Nanette as the girl sat there. She was…putting up with Mrsha.
The Gnoll girl would tap her on the shoulder, race around giggling, and innocently pretend she had no idea who’d done that! Or she would show Nanette some of her treasures, like her warhorn, or come back with some snacks she’d pilfered and share them.
Nothing would do but for Nanette to take a bite or blow on the horn. Mrsha badgered Nanette to play with her—and the strange thing was that the younger [Witch] seemed to react.
Every [Witch] took care of Nanette, but no one managed to get her to do anything. But she did squirm when Mrsha did a flying leap onto her in a dogpile or take a bite of a cupcake. Perhaps it was how annoying Mrsha was.
Or perhaps it was that they were only a few years apart, or that Mrsha was pushy, but didn’t make Nanette do anything. Erin laughed as she saw the two arguing.
“What is Mrsha doing? I’m glad the [Knights] are watching over her. Look!”
Mrsha was trying to give Nanette a ride on her shoulders. The Gnoll girl was younger, but she was growing up fast and she was a Gnoll. She puffed her cheeks and flushed under her fur as she tried to lift Nanette up and run around with her. The swaying [Witch] held onto her hat as Mrsha wobbled six steps—then both went plunging forwards.
Ser Dalimont and Dame Ushar caught them. Mrsha rubbed at her arms and clearly began reflecting that she needed to hit the gym more—which made her explain the gym to Nanette. Then she was pestering the Thronebearers to put both [Witch] and [Druid] on their shoulders.
“I’m glad you brought her. She’s who Nanette needed to meet.”
Wiskeria checked the edge of her blade as Erin watched Nanette look a tiny bit—exasperated. Which was a good sign to Wiskeria.
“Really? Why? Because they’re kids?”
“No. Because they’ve both suffered terribly. Nanette sees it; every [Witch] can. Yet the girl—Mrsha—wears it well.”
Erin turned to Wiskeria and realized the [Witch] was looking at Mrsha. What she saw…Erin had never tried to use her abilities on Mrsha. She didn’t need to.
She knew Mrsha’s long story. But now it made sense. Like Ulvama had once pestered her, Mrsha refused to leave Nanette alone. Even when the [Witch] hurried off through the rain, Mrsha raced after her.
Erin smiled at that, then Wiskeria spoke.
“You’ve got a hat. Is…is that going to be your hat? Because I don’t think it fits you.”
She eyed the hat Erin had asked Agratha for when she’d seen it among the teacher’s collection. Erin had her chess hat and even a bowler cap because she thought the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings would say it looked good on her.
But she was wearing another hat right now that Wiskeria was eying with clear distaste. Erin laughed.
“No! I’m just getting into the idea of wearing hats. How do I look? Milady?”
She tipped the fedora at Wiskeria with a wink. The other [Witch] eyed the hat. Then she slapped it off Erin’s head and into the rain.
“Hey! Okay, maybe that was justified. What about this hat?”
Her chess-hat made Wiskeria frown.
“Hm. It’s better. It still doesn’t quite fit you.”
Erin nodded.
“I know. I’ll give it more thought. But I’m warming to the hat thing. What’s the knife for?”
“Murder.”
The [Witch of Second Chances] hesitated, but Wiskeria simply sheathed her knife. Then she sighed and stared into the rain at the distant, heaving, raging river.
“The older [Witches] never taught you how to summon the soul of a place, did they? If they did, we could murder that old man right now.”
Erin blanched slightly.
“Murder? Wait, you want to kill him? Don’t you think he’ll get tired and stop if we keep him from flooding Riverfarm?”
She was appalled. Wiskeria gestured to the river.
“It’s already close to overflowing. How long is he going to rage? A week? A month? He might be back again and again. I want him dead.”
“No. This is my fault. I’ll try and talk to him, but he’s just—confused.”
Erin set her jaw. Wiskeria chuckled.
“Go ahead and try to reason with him. I don’t think he’ll listen or understand. I only wish I had a craft. I envy you; you’re almost upon it, aren’t you?”
The [Innkeeper] bit her tongue. She nodded slowly.
“I feel like I’m onto it. You really did teach me what I was looking for, Wiskeria. Why—why don’t you have a craft? Or the power, I mean?”
The [Witch of Law] shook her head.
“I don’t know. My class changed. I thought I found my craft, but whatever I’m trying to pull from Riverfarm’s folk isn’t…there. Perhaps it’s wrong or I am. My mother did not approve of my craft, only that I found it. It stands in opposition to what [Witches] are—even Agratha’s kind of [Witch]. I know that, but when I named it, I thought I was right. Perhaps I was not.”
A [Witch] should know when she was wrong. But she sat on the anvil, sighing. She was uncertain, worried about the future, and frustrated by her lack of power. Only Erin saw it. Slowly, the [Innkeeper] found a stool and sat with Wiskeria in the forge.
“Wiskeria. Do you mind if you talk about your craft with me? You’re the most honest person I’ve met. No one’s ever totally honest. Not even Revi. She’s just mean. But you say what you’re feeling. Like a Goblin.”
“…Thanks?”
That was the last thing Wiskeria wanted to hear as someone who wanted to fit in. But then—Erin was that person Wiskeria wanted to be. Someone who pretended so well that she fooled herself, the likable [Innkeeper], if a touch too eccentric and ‘zany’ for Wiskeria’s tastes.
And Erin wanted to be a [Witch] as sure as Wiskeria. They had passed acquaintanceship into mutual envy.
Envy…and opposition. They both felt it. At their cores, they believed different things. Erin might slay the man in the river if there were no other choice and he was a monster.
Wiskeria wanted to kill him. Now, Wiskeria tried to explain what her craft was.
“My mother. You may love her or hate her, but she is my mother. She spoiled me as a girl. She taught me to be a [Witch], but it was seeing her as others saw her that made me one. She has ruined so many things for me. I have eaten every feast, seen so many wonders that I was dull to them. As dull as her soul before she left Terandria. Do I hold a grudge about that?”
She paused, thinking. Water ran down the shed, and Wiskeria would not have minded if it were blood. She could have culled a thousand animals and waded through their entrails and not minded it. She knew these things were wrong and disturbing, but she had seen worse.
“She was my mother. Mothers make mistakes, and she did her best. For a being who has not died and lived longer than the Stitch-folk race…she did well, didn’t she?”
The [Innkeeper] said nothing. She thought of her mother, who tried to teach her daughter how to cook something, despite the younger Erin’s love of chess. Shauna Solstice was not perfect—but she had never stopped Erin from playing chess. She had driven Erin to tournaments and only asked if it was worth it when her daughter was in tears.
She was not Belavierr. Yet Wiskeria believed her mother had loved her. The [Witch of Law]’s voice dropped.
“Of course it was hard for me to find my craft. I have seen the cost of great magic. I walked A’ctelios Salash and felt the Carven City beneath the soles of my feet. I have seen my mother pull a whale onto a beach with a bit of string. The problem is—I do not admire my mother. I love her, in the way children love their parents. I hate her, because I know what she has done. But admire her? No.”
“Not even a little bit?”
The [Innkeeper] had never met the Witch of Webs, but she had heard that admiration in the tones of other [Witches], even the ghosts who had opposed her. Say what you would—but she was a [Witch] to define every other. Even Califor had told Erin that Belavierr was among the greatest to ever live.
Yet Wiskeria alone sat there and shook her head.
