“No one could stop you from doing that, Revi. In physical form or…? I could hold a pair of scissors.”
The Stitch-woman turned, and Typhenous skipped out of the Goblin-style jab she gave him. He stroked his beard, smiling. Revi folded her arms.
“Witches. Why do they have the power to do that, Typhenous?”
“Simply because they cannot throw a fireball the size of a house with the same…oh, ease we can, Revi. I have often been fascinated by other spellcasters.”
“Gotten anywhere with Eloise yet?”
Typhenous calmly plucked a flower out of his sleeve, and Revi snorted. He showed her the yellow rose and then winked.
“I picked up some tea from the south of Izril. Drake and Gnollish.”
“Is that why you volunteered to go to Invrisil? You rogue!”
“Only in a previous life, Revi. [Rogue] is so…well, it consolidates. As for [Witches]—you should know they gain something for not having direct magical power. You are a [Summoner].”
“I still have to obey magical rules.”
Revi sulked, but Typhenous was in his lecturing mood and enthusiastic.
“Ah, but a [Witch] does obey rules. Just not the ones any regular [Mage] who listens to Wistram’s claptrap understands. My observation is that we [Mages] and related classes are rather mathematical. We add together force and power in a steady chain, such that while Archmage Valeterisa and Eldavin and so on can perform incredible feats, if you understand the equation, you can see how they arrived at the result.”
Revi cracked an eyelid open.
“…Go on.”
Typhenous smiled.
“If five times five is an immutable law in magic—Skills can make a shortcut or add another multiplier. I do not suggest Witch Wiskeria can break the rules of magic entirely. Rather, a [Witch] cannot multiply as well as a [Mage]. But a [Witch] can turn ‘5’ blue. And if they add a bit of yellow they’ll get green.”
Revi considered that explanation as she watched Mrsha clapping her paws and demanding to learn Wiskeria’s ways. Then she shook her head.
“You can just say they get magical tricks, Typhenous.”
The old man heaved a huge, aggrieved sigh.
“They get magical tricks, Revi. There. Happy? What were you going to harangue Miss Erin about?”
“The poor Antinium!”
And with that, Revi went storming across the ground, finger raised. She was happy that Erin turned to her with a big smile on her face.
“Revi! There you are! How’s it going? Where’s Gothica?”
“Sewing up some new designs. Impressive Goblin you’ve got there—Erin, I have a bone to pick with you! I heard you said your craft was Goblins and chess! Where are the Antinium?”
Revi was outraged as Erin gave her a blank look.
“How do you know that?”
“Typhenous takes tea with Eloise. Nevermind that. Haven’t you ever been gossiped about? How dare you not mention the Antinium!”
Revi was deeply offended on behalf of the Antinium, none of whom could complain for themselves. She had a soft spot for people ignored. Something about home? No parallels.
Erin blinked at the [Summoner]’s outrage. Wiskeria turned, and Revi stepped behind Erin. She kept shaking her finger.
“And you’re learning weird magic again! From—Witch Wiskeria! Can’t you learn something normal?”
Nanette looked up blankly. Ser Sest had come out with an umbrella for everyone, but despite Erin trying to be as friendly as possible, the [Witch] stood there, not really reacting to a thing. And that was a struggle not even Wiskeria could solve.
Erin had no idea what to do. She looked at Wiskeria, then produced something.
A flame filled with quiet sadness. It burned blue, like the most precious, painful jewel in her hands. Mrsha’s laughter immediately stopped, and she punched Erin’s leg.
Not here! Not in front of…
Nanette? The [Witch] stared at the flame.
“It’s beautiful. Is that your craft, Miss Erin?”
She spoke! But it was a polite inquiry, and Erin’s face grew puzzled as she bent down and showed Nanette the flame. The girl actually touched the cold fire, fearless of the heat.
And it did not grow. Erin glanced up at Wiskeria, and the [Witch of Law]’s face was puzzled. The flame of sadness burned all those who could feel it. Pelt, Erin herself—an entire city had once gazed upon it and fed and felt its flame.
Not Nanette. Revi inched away from the fire as Erin tossed it to the street and it slowly began to die. Erin glanced up.
“That might be part of my craft, Nanette. But it’s sorta…weird. Like everything. Sorry, Revi, but magic is always strange, isn’t it?”
She glanced at Wiskeria and smiled, eyes lighting up with excitement. Revi knew that feeling, of learning a new spell, of a great discovery. But she pointed her finger warningly at Wiskeria even as she kept Erin between the two.
“Well, yes. I suppose if you wanted to learn something—Witch Wiskeria is the best teacher. But I just wanted to tell you that the Antinium should be part of that craft, Erin! It’s unfair to them. And—and you might learn too much. Especially with the two of you here.”
Erin’s head looked up, puzzled, and Wiskeria raised her brows.
“Why is that, Adventurer Revi?”
She spoke! To Revi! The [Summoner] kept Erin between them as she edged back. Erin was giving her the stupid look she sometimes wore, but it seemed genuine.
Didn’t they see it? Revi shook her head.
“You may be a Goblin’s friend, Erin—and I’m sure they owe a lot to you. But you matter more to the Antinium. Just like Witch Wiskeria over here.”
That was when Erin, Mrsha, and the others noticed that Revi was using Wiskeria’s title unfailingly. She was seldom that polite. Erin glanced up and recalled—
Belavierr was Wiskeria’s mother. And she was the legendary Threadbreaker, as old as the creators of Revi’s species. No wonder the [Summoner] was a bit nervous. Revi licked her lips.
“There’s a lot of power in having an entire people behind you. I’m a [Summoner]. I should know. But you don’t even acknowledge that. For the Antinium, I mean.”
She didn’t quite look at Wiskeria. Belavierr’s daughter just shook her head.
“My mother taught me a lot about thread and needle, Miss Revi. She never taught me the deep craft of how life was stitched together. You have nothing to fear from me. My vision, my craft, is incomplete. Clapping my hands is a trick. I see no clear way forwards.”
She stared about the rain, not angry, just sighing. Waiting to see if her future awaited. But Erin?
Erin had seen magic. She had begun awakening to something, and Revi saw it on her face. But the Antinium?
The [Innkeeper] slowly rose and spoke so Nanette and Mrsha and Revi and everyone else could hear.
“I didn’t forget the Antinium, Revi. I just didn’t include them in my craft because I was asked what I really thought was in my heart. And…I love them, and I’ll do anything I can for them. But I don’t know if where they’re going is where I can follow. Pawn especially.”
Lyonette had come out of the awnings, and she stood under another umbrella, looking at Erin. The young woman’s face was slightly sad, slightly happy for them.
“I don’t understand Klbkch’s people, either. I know that. I’ve only met two of them—well, three, if you count the Free Queen. I can’t make them part of my craft.”
“Well—just don’t forget about them. Don’t put Goblins over Antinium.”
Erin looked hurt that Revi even suggested it. She shook her head.
“I wouldn’t. It’s just that I understand one thing about Goblins. I know I haven’t met them all, and there are…secrets.”
She paused a second, then went on.
“I know that. But one thing makes sense to me. A perspective. No killing Goblins.”
There it was, her oldest refrain. Wiskeria’s brows rose, because she had not known this about Erin. But the [Innkeeper] stood there.
“Some might be terrible. Some might be good but do terrible things because they don’t know better or they think they have to. But that is something I’m certain about. So it’s my craft. Chess? Chess is just in my blood. Antinium are my craft, but they’re learning to be themselves so fast I can’t keep up. I’ll help them and serve them food, but they’re playing a game I can’t see anymore. All by themselves.”
She said that so wistfully it made Revi’s skin crawl. Because Emperor Laken Godart had issued a ban on telling Erin or her friends about the Antinium’s crusade against the High Passes. Yet—it was almost as if Erin knew and expected something like this would happen.
And Wiskeria? She looked at Erin, straight-backed, the fire of sadness fizzling out in the rain, that certainty upon her.
So certain. Wiskeria had never felt that way about anything but her mother’s magic. She touched her chest and found only emptiness. Nor did she believe Erin was right about Goblins, not from the history that Wiskeria had learned from her mother, who had met and spoken to their Kings.
But Wiskeria envied that look in Erin’s eyes. As unyielding as pure mithril. Then her head rose, and she heard a shriek—she looked at Erin and then rotated around. But the rain fell on as Revi sneezed, and Erin laughed and Typhenous suggested they all have something hot to drink. Wiskeria though…she looked around for the answer to her mystery.
All she saw was rain.
 
——
 
“It’s raining, it’s pouring
The old man is roaring
He’ll get out of bed
Drag you to death
And devour your blood in the morning.”
—Creepy [Witch] girl, singing outside Laken’s window, 23 A.F.
 
It was a strange thing. The next day, the winds and rain were no less intense. In fact, the storm seemed worse, and by now, it seemed clear that the river was going to flood.
And flood higher than Prost had estimated by far. However, Riverfarm’s neighbors to the north and south reported an uncanny phenomenon; they had only a little bit of rain, and if anything, the river’s water levels had dropped.
It was pushing at the banks in Riverfarm, swelling in this one spot. That was magic. Not the kind you wanted to see, but it was deep and old and made the power of [Mages] look like a drop in a sea.
Why was it that on this kind of day, in between horrible events, that the most magical moments were found, before and after?
Erin wondered. She still, if she closed her eyes or walked in the garden, could see the chess club when they had first defied their Hive and stood around her when Skinner attacked. From that moment had come a tragedy that changed her forever, and she wished she had known what would have become of the two dozen Workers.
Four had lived, and they had gone on to shape their Hive in ways no one could imagine. She cried, imagining what Bishop or Knight would have done or all the others whose names she still remembered.
Yet—they had never seemed as vibrant, as heroic, nor as sure as that very moment. That was the basis of Bird, as much as all of Erin’s lessons. That was the hard part to reckon with.
Great strife and fantastical moments were very close together. Like watching a heroine save the day in the middle of a disaster, a runaway car bearing down on someone, for instance.
But it was never something Erin sought out. She wanted all the…the magic of those moments and none of that danger. Today, she realized something.
She craved it. She hungered in the way Fierre hungered for blood. Perhaps all Humans, everyone did, but that was the very thing that Erin had always wanted, always loved since coming here. An [Immortal Moment].
The basis of her craft. The pure envy and laughter bubbling up in her heart from seeing Wiskeria clap her hands. Magic in every single action.
Even [Mages] would say that was silly. They believed that you could make a body of magic. Everything from your toenails to your blood could be infused with magic. In that way—Cognita was the pinnacle of their existence. If she could cast Tier 8 spells, the Truestone Golem would be the most perfect spellcaster. Or perhaps, a Dragon, a being of magic and time.
However, a [Witch] cheated. A [Witch] did things even a [Mage] called silly. Clap your hands? It had no arcane preparation, no list of magical symbols and powerful incantations bound to the gesture. Wiskeria clapped her hands, and because it was the perfect kind of clap—because she found a true moment in a hundred thousand sweeps of a broom, she performed magic.
That was what Erin wanted. Something opposite of memorizing a series of logical paths and rules. But not easy. That was the trick; everyone wanted to wave a wand and cast any spell they wanted. That was just—that was too easy. You had to work for this kind of magic, but it was the kind of work Erin would do. Seeking it in dark forests and practicing something you loved, rather than memorization and academic study.
So when she woke up the next day amid the storm, Erin felt it coming on her like the storm. Only, it was in her blood. Even the voice in her mind seemed like it was waiting.
 
[Witch of Second Chances Level 13!]
[Skill — From Witchcraft, Sorcery Ariseth obtained!]
 
—And then she knew her craft was waiting for her.
 
——
 
Skills. Erin was a Level 13 [Witch]. She had gained many from that single day when she leveled up. This latest one compounded the others and made her heart skip with excitement. However. They were conditional.
[Infuse Witchcraft: Objects]. [Harvest Craft (Local)]. These were bog-standard [Witch] Skills that Erin had gained along with the more interesting ones. And as you might guess—they all required something Erin needed as much as that hat.
Craft. It was like being a [Mage] with no mana. Now? Erin’s new Skill suggested that her craft might fuel more than even [Witch] magic.
“My dear. My dear. That is the most wonderful—a Verse Skill at Level 13? Well, I have not seen a [Witch] with that Skill, but the meaning should be obvious, don’t you think, Witch Oliyaya?”
Agratha the [Teacher Witch] was beside herself that morning as everyone sat down to make hats. Amazingly, Oliyaya was there too, and despite their enmity, the two sat side-by-side, as polite as could be. The gnarled woman even tipped her hat as her slightly broken, crooked nose turned to Erin.
“A [Sorcerer]’s magic fueled by [Witch]’s craft. Indeed.”
It was the most astonishing thing. And it fit Erin to a tee; if she were honest, a [Sorcerer] matched her far better than a [Mage]. She had always wanted to cast magic, but she had virtually no mana pool of her own. And her new levels—her own understanding of witchcraft and her confession to the [Witches] had changed their attitude toward her.
It was, after all, all about perspective. When Erin had told the [Witches] she thought she was undeserving of their class, she had softened their hostility to her. After all—she thought they were cool. And Wiskeria had shown the other [Witches] a lesson of her own.
