“That was an audience with an [Emperor]. Not part of my lessons. My mother did not make a habit of…well, my encounters were different, and that wasn’t what I wanted to teach you. But I was watching you and seeing what you need to learn.”
“Oh, come on. How was that bad?”
Wiskeria tilted her head as she nodded at people in Riverfarm she knew—which was practically everyone. She glanced over her shoulder and glared. Erin turned her head and saw a pack of six Sariant Lambs hiding behind a parked wagon wheel. She raised her brows, and Wiskeria shook her head.
“We’re not allowed to kick them. Anyways, moving on—there are certain qualities that are [Witch]-like. I’m sure the ghosts taught you some of that. You’re very good at pretending, but not good at being certain. How would another [Witch] describe it…? You’re good at making other people think what you want them to think, but not much good at being it yourself. There, that sounds suitably confusing.”
Erin thought so too. She frowned, but Califor had said something like that.
“How am I good at pretending?”
This time, Wiskeria actually gave Erin a narked look. Her annoyance didn’t abate at Erin’s confused stare.
“You’re doing it to me right now.”
“No, I’m not.”
“Yes, you are. You’re pretending to be confused when you’re only half-confused. You play the [Innkeeper] very well, I can tell.”
“But I am an [Innkeeper].”
Erin protested, but she did have an inkling of what Wiskeria meant. The other [Witch] took a deep breath.
“Yes, but you lean into her more than you have to. I’m sure a lot of your guests think you’re as…as…scattered as you pretend. Or as innocent. Or as confused. Eccentric.”
“I prefer zany.”
Erin felt highly uncomfortable at having her methods seen through so fast. She realized—all the other [Witches] had probably seen exactly what Wiskeria had. Even Grimalkin had fallen for it at first, the old Erin approach. But as Wiskeria explained…
“That’s pure witchcraft, Erin. No wonder Califor thought you had potential. Every [Witch] pretends. Even if they are. No, don’t ask a question, you understand. Mavika always pretends to be Mavika. Yes, she’s probably like that, but look—”
They passed by an open square, and Erin saw the Crow Witch sitting in the center. Laken had ordered a small tree to be relocated to the center of the square as a kind of ornamental piece. Right now, it was festooned with cawing crows, their beady eyes staring at the people who avoided the lone woman sitting with crows flapping their wings and eating from one hand.
That was a look. If Erin had seen that on Earth, she would have immediately bought every good-luck charm she could find. Wiskeria nodded to Mavika.
“She’s not lying—well, not right now—but she’s being extra her. Do you sense her pulling in their emotions?”
Erin did. Mavika was lightly drawing some of the nervousness or fear into her. Like someone skimming the cream off a vat of milk—a gentle, even elegant pull that fed her craft. But it wasn’t fear she wanted, no. It was more like…
“Superstition?”
Erin glanced at Wiskeria, and she got her first smile of the day. Then Erin saw Mavika more clearly.
If you assumed Mavika lived off fear or…crow-stuff, you only understood part of her craft. But she was a [Witch]. A [Witch] of [Witches]; she was the literal [Witch] in people’s imaginations. And because they thought that and she confirmed it, she could do what they believed.
That was the kind of [Witch]-logic that hurt your head, but it was a valuable lesson. Wiskeria nodded to Mavika, and both women tipped their hats. Mavika stared pointedly at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] flapped her apron at her.
Five crows took flight and chased the two young women for two streets. When they finally flew away, Wiskeria glared at Erin.
“You pretend as well as Mavika. But you’re not certain.”
“I’m certainly upset about that! Rude! I was just being funny.”
Erin pointed back at Mavika. Wiskeria eyed her.
“You…you knew she wouldn’t appreciate that. Do you have to joke about everything? Listen. This is easy. You’re not certain. You waver, you’re not…you pretend to be an [Innkeeper], but I don’t think you are one. Mavika pretends and is herself or whomever she wants to be. She could be a charming [Courtesan] if she had to.”
Erin could literally not imagine that. She put her hands on her hips.
“Okay. Maybe, sometimes, I get a bit…nervous about the future. Yeah. But I have stressful things to worry about! I dither. So what?”
“So learn to fix it.”
The young woman waved a hand.
“Do I have to? Is that a requirement for being a [Witch] or can we just say I’m working on it?”
It was incredible. Really—Wiskeria, the normal [Witch], looked like she was more peeved after three hours in Erin’s company than she had been fighting a war against Goblins and dealing with the nobility at the Summer Solstice party. The questions, the backchat—the jokes—she took a deep breath and looked Erin in the eye.
“Before I answer that, I have a question. Erin, how did the [Witches] in the lands of the dead deal with you when you annoyed them?”
Erin bit her tongue. She didn’t want to say, ‘how did you know?’ Instead, she scuffed a foot on the ground innocently.
“They might have made me go talk to other ghosts. Or said really—and I mean really—hurtful stuff.”
To her surprise, Wiskeria’s mouth opened, and the [Witch of Law] snapped her fingers.
“That’s so odd. It must have been because they were ghosts. Otherwise they’d have showed you that.”
She pointed, and Erin looked around.
“What?”
Wiskeria smacked the back of Erin’s head so hard Erin staggered. When the outraged [Innkeeper] turned around, she threw a punch. Wiskeria kicked her right under her kneecap, and Erin swore. She raised a fist, and Wiskeria grabbed a passing mallet out of a [Builder]’s cart as they set up to build another house.
“Whoa, whoa! What are you doing?”
“Escalating. If you hit me, I’ll hit you harder.”
Wiskeria stared pointedly at Erin’s knife. The [Innkeeper] innocently let go of the handle.
“That hurt!”
“Good. It was meant to. Here you are.”
Wiskeria handed the hammer back and nodded to Beycalt, the [Construction Supervisor] of Riverfarm.
“Everything alright, Witch Wiskeria?”
“Just teaching our guests a lesson.”
Beycalt grinned as Erin rubbed at her knee and the back of her head. She debated punching Wiskeria in the shoulder and saw the [Witch] glance at her. Erin uncurled the fingers of her fist.
“Califor wouldn’t have done that.”
Wiskeria raised her eyebrows, looking amused again.
“Not twice. Now, are you going to be serious?”
Her only response was a long exhalation from Erin, and then the [Innkeeper] snapped back.
“Alright. Fine. I’m not certain about things. So how do I fix it? I don’t like making mistakes, and I have. I had…a helper I mistreated. Toren. I got a friend killed, even if he came back. People die when I make mistakes.”
“Fine, but be certain when you commit. Dither too long or while you’re doing something and fail. You know that.”
Erin’s stomach clenched. She didn’t like talking about it, but Wiskeria seemed to understand her dilemmas. Erin whispered.
“What if I’m wrong?”
Her reply was Wiskeria raising her eyebrows and giving her a calm smile.
“Then you’ll be certain you made a mistake. Listen, you know this doesn’t mean certainty about everything. Just…what are you certain about? What do you know very, very well? We should find your craft and make that hat, so this is a great place to begin.”
Erin stood there, rubbing her head, and the answer was actually easy. She took a breath.
“Goblins. And chess.”
If there were any two things in this world that defined her and that she was certain about—Wiskeria didn’t scoff, she just nodded, pleased.
“Well then. That’s excellent, you know. I had to search for a long time to find out what I was certain about. That’ll be the basis of everything you do and how you decide things. I’m sure it is.”
“Yeah.”
Erin felt calmer when she said that. She began walking on, and then she realized one of the crows who attacked her was flying from perch to perch. She glanced over her shoulder, and Agratha stood behind one of the nighttime lantern-poles that Laken had ordered built. She was actually almost invisible despite being too wide to hide; a mundane little illusion spell kept her hidden.
But Erin and Wiskeria still noticed. Erin growled to Wiskeria.
“Is every [Witch] in Riverfarm watching me?”
The other [Witch] just raised her brows.
“They want to teach you, and they probably want our secrets. [Witches] can be grand and helpful and work together and be as petty as cats. And they’re better than most people at both.”
Erin sighed. So far, the day had led her to sweeping for half an hour, being made fun of by an [Emperor], and now she had a sore head and knee. And yet…she glanced sideways at Wiskeria.
“Well, what about you, then? What are you certain about?”
Therein was the charm, because Wiskeria only took one second before she told Erin, and that directness was what Erin wanted, even if Wiskeria were right and she didn’t do it herself.
“I’m certain in what I admire and love and find worthy. Hence—my craft, although it’s a strange connection.”
[Witch of Law]. Erin raised her brows, and Wiskeria nodded to Oliyaya, innocently pretending to plant mushrooms in a trough outside someone’s house, much to the homeowner’s dismay. The woman gave a huge, twisted smile to the two, and Wiskeria muttered to Erin.
“Even I don’t feel like elaborating right now.”
Understandable. Erin saw Oliyaya sigh—then Oliyaya’s head snapped up as the [Innkeeper] innocently put her hands behind her back.
“Do you know what your mother was certain about?”
Wiskeria’s eyes glittered.
“Not where it started. But yes. My mother is certain…that it was worth it. Despite it all, and however long it has been. It was worth it.”
Erin shivered, and Oliyaya cackled as they went on. Wiskeria glanced at Erin and seemed compelled to offer Erin an olive branch.
“Even if you think the other [Witches] are only certain, they can be insecure, you know, Erin. But they just pretend and be certain when it counts. You’re allowed to be afraid. Like me. I’m never sure if I’m saying things right, or if people understand my words, or if I’m supposed to smile or pat someone on the shoulders. Every [Witch] is still a woman. They can be prideful or worry about their looks, or secretly love someone and know they won’t confess, or want to try on a necklace but fear they’ll ruin their image. Right, Mavika?”
She turned a corner, and Erin found herself face-to-face with Mavika. Again. This time, the [Crow Witch] was inspecting a shaking pigeon who had come to the wrong territory. The woman had clearly heard all of Wiskeria’s statements about insecurity.
Mavika, her huge, beady eyes black like a raven’s, thin as a rail, hunch-backed, with yellow teeth and a stare that could stain a wall. Mavika, worried about her looks, secretly in love, and wanting to try on a fetching necklace? The [Crow Witch] stared at Wiskeria, then Erin and replied.
“No.”
Erin looked at Wiskeria, and the [Witch of Law] amended her statement.
“Well, maybe not those examples with Mavika. But even you’re insecure about some things. Like…”
Wiskeria stared at Mavika, and the [Crow Witch]’s shoulders hunched. Her pet raven cawed warningly, but Wiskeria spoke as a bunch of [Washers] including Yesel hauled a prodigious amount of linen to be cleaned.
“Aha. You’re worried that you’ll be one of the last of the old ways, dying, gasping on empty shores as the death of magic—the literal death of magic, not the half-Elf—swallows up every wonder and leaves the world dark and empty. Until only half-people with shells for souls inhabit everything.”
Erin and Mavika stared at Wiskeria. Mavika’s raven, Sephraic, fanned its wings and took off from her shoulder as Yesel and the [Washers] turned as one to stare at Wiskeria. Instantly, the [Witch of Law] realized she’d said the wrong thing. She panicked—as if breaking the code of normalcy were the most disturbing thing she’d done. She turned and looked around.
“That’s completely normal! Just like, uh—Alevica.”
The Runner Witch froze as Wiskeria pointed at her, eating breakfast in Riverfarm’s first outdoor cafe. She began to cast a hex, but Wiskeria was already speaking.
“Alevica’s afraid she’ll die alone and unloved. See? Very normal.”
She turned to Erin and ducked as a hex shot over the tip of her hat. Once again, Erin and Wiskeria found themselves running as Alevica, howling curses, shot spells at them.
Six streets later, they stopped, and Erin clutched at her side. She felt like she was learning a lot. Maybe not about being a [Witch], but a lot.
Wiskeria glanced back to see if Alevica were following, but after she saw no more spells, she straightened her hat.
“That’s another lesson about what not to say in public, I guess. This is why I like being an adventurer. Everyone’s just afraid of dying, and there’s no shame in that, apparently. Any more questions?”
She turned to Erin as if they were still having a chat about certainty, and Erin had to know.
“Alright, what are you afraid of, Wiskeria?”
For answer, the [Witch] just sighed.
“Dying without having a fulfilling life, I guess. It frightens me every year I grow older—and at least a few times per month. Ending without doing something I think is worthwhile.”
She thought about it as Erin fidgeted. It was like speaking to…the most honest person in the world, and it was disconcerting and uncomfortable because of that. No…it was a bit like speaking to a child, like Mrsha. Someone who wouldn’t lie. But Wiskeria just went on.
“Or becoming my mother. But if this doesn’t pan out and I still don’t think I’m on the right track, I might think about giving it a shot. In a year or two.”
 
——
 
At this point, Erin needed a break from Wiskeria. Juuust for a second. She had a sit-down with Pebblesnatch and Numbtongue and Ulvama, who were all sipping coffee that Lyonette had brought from Liscor.
Laken had ordered some made for anyone who wanted to try a cup. So three Goblins were all sitting in one of the mess halls, alone but not hated.
Some Riverfarm folk even waved at Pebblesnatch and complimented her on a dish. It was so strange that Numbtongue looked as amazed as Erin.
“Hey, Pebblesnatch! How are you? How’s my favorite [Cook] doing?”
Erin hugged the little Cave Goblin, and Ulvama glared as Pebblesnatch clung to Erin with a cry of delight. Erin sat down and exhaled.
“Wow, that was a crazy morning. How are you two doing? Hey, Ulvama.”
