It had screamed to Wiskeria, but she could not see. Now—desperately—she tried to reach out, but she had to anchor them in both physical form and understanding.
How could a law be a thing? How could you believe in a law like you believed in the spirit of a river? They were nothing you could see. They were ideas.
And Wiskeria was weak because she believed in nothing true nor anything real but her mother’s magic. The connection wavered.
Then, the [Witch of Law], as she held the burning steel, as she reached into that graveyard of ideas and intent—saw the [Innkeeper] watching her.
The [Innkeeper], not the [Witch of Second Chances]. She looked back and remembered their conversation on the rainy night as Erin began to realize what it was to be a [Witch]. And she looked forwards and saw it.
Lost amidst the blood and decay. Like a growing plant, a strange tree as stubborn as the mountains. Small, so tiny it had barely taken root. It grew, green metal and wild, uncompromising fire. A law, lost amidst the multitudes that had never taken shape.
Yet still, it grew. And it was that certainty in her eyes. The will to impose a law upon the entire world. It rose like mercy, newly forged, and Wiskeria read it as she understood.
No Killing Goblins. Then a wild smile was on her lips. She reached out, understanding what it was to both desire something with all the helplessness in the world—and all the will. She pulled, and the lights shone uncompromisingly. A [Witch] who knew the oldest of ways. Touching the very soul of law itself.
Her craft. And the other [Witches] saw and bowed their heads as Wiskeria drew something out of thin air. An idea coming to rest in a body of steel.
 
——
 
The [Witch of Second Chances] watched, without running, as her friends skidded to a halt, as Gamel and the Thronebearers backed everyone off. They called out to her, but Erin just saw Wiskeria bending over a piece of metal still so hot it scorched her hands.
Metal, not gelatinous liquid. Metal, for something as immutable and as stubborn as…
Law.
Then Erin heard a scream. A shriek that made the Goblins and Humans clap a hand to their ears. They began screaming back, in fear, for they had never heard a sound like that, and it disturbed them.
Some of them—but Numbtongue raised his head. And Inkar? She and Tkrn looked at each other as they stared at Erin. Inkar saw the [Innkeeper], whom she had described as a friendly hill, standing with the strange [Witch of Law]. She saw another great, terrifying mystery descend on the world.
Like Khoteizetrough, but as small as something you could hold hands with. Unlike the old man, the river, this was newborn, days old. And it screamed and wailed like a newborn babe.
In tones that reminded her of electronic sounds. The chirping of traffic lights, the artificial tones of a computer. A synthetic voice crossed with the old bones of metal.
A new being in a new world. Its cry ran through Riverfarm, and the rain ceased as the old man heard the voice and stopped—out of disbelief, astonishment—
And fear.
Wiskeria lifted something up in her hands, and a bright blue light shone from a single eye. A rounded, perfectly geometrical opening in a tiny being of metal. Like the small version of the traffic light.
But this body had legs. Almost like a spider’s, and Helm had fashioned a dozen little limbs, but only the legs had fit. Slowly, it rotated, the sharp tips of its feet digging into Wiskeria’s hands. She was burnt, bloody, but she felt none of the pain as she beamed down at the little Elemental of Law.
Bound to the traffic light of all things. The lights on the traffic light flashed in synchronicity with the little Elemental—then it returned to blinking red, green, and yellow.
After all, the rules of the street had to be enforced. The first agent of these powers gazed out at Riverfarm’s people. It looked around, and the light flashed red as it focused on the fleeing little Mrsha. Then it swung around, and the hostile glare intensified.
But the [Innkeeper] just bent over it, cooing, as the Elemental of Law made furious chirping, quasi-electronic sounds.
“Oh my gosh. It’s a robot!”
It was sort of like one, or a magical robot. But the thing scuttled back and began flashing its angry red light at Erin.
“I think it recognizes you as a foe, Witch Erin. Us too.”
Oliyaya remarked, eying the little Elemental with distaste. It was inspecting everyone, and it already had opinions.
It did not like Alevica. But strangely—it seemed to beep at Mavika warily, and her raven cawed back. As if she were not completely bad. It scuttled over to Hedag, who backed away from it, but it was friendly to her. And Eloise. Agratha it positively liked as the [Witch] exclaimed over it.
And Laken—when the [Emperor] approached, flanked by his guards to demand what Wiskeria had done, the little lantern-being slowly sank onto the two foremost legs of its eight. It bowed to him.
“Well, I quite like that.”
The [Emperor] smiled as Erin put her hands on her hips in outrage. The Elemental of Law looked around, and Wiskeria turned to Laken.
“Here, Your Majesty, is my craft. I see it now. I cannot take justice from Riverfarm’s folk, nor is law that easy to tame. But so long as people obey the laws—I shall have my magic. I am a [Witch] of a new kind of pact. A pact of ideas set against my mother and many kinds of [Witch]. We shall both see what the future holds.”
“A fitting [Witch] for an empire.”
Eloise opined, and Laken nodded. He bent over the Elemental.
“Can this…being do anything? Does it have a name?”
Numbtongue was peering at the creature, who warily inspected the Goblins, with a good deal of distrust. It was a thing of law, after all, and it was no friend to Goblins. But they had laws, and Ulvama of all people got a little dip of the legs like a nod.
She regarded the Elemental of Law with pure horror and backed up behind the others. Erin was hurt by the little lantern-thing’s distrust of her. She bet it would just love Zevara. For answer, Wiskeria shrugged. She tipped her hat and nearly toppled over backwards until Hedag caught her.
“Steady, Wiskeria. You’ve done a [Witch]’s work, eh?”
Hedag smiled, and Wiskeria beamed herself. Such an odd expression on her face because she wasn’t good or used to smiling. But it was so genuine it put a smile on even the wary Riverfarm folk’s faces. They did like her, after all.
“Thank you, Hedag. I don’t know, Your Majesty. All I know is—this one is the first of many, perhaps. I’ve taught the Elementals how to reach out. More pacts will be made by [Warlocks] and those who can hear. Any Elemental has power; I don’t know what an Elemental of Law can do. A Water Elemental can purify water or fight. This one is small, but it will grow. A name…perhaps Riverfarm can come up with one?”
Erin snapped her fingers.
“I’ve got one! How about…Trafficlighti? No, Traffy!”
The others looked at Erin, and the [Witches] slowly shook their heads. The enraged little Elemental began to blind Erin with flashes, and she backed up.
“Okay! I’m sorry. I’m sorry!”
 
——
 
What a strange day. There was no great flash of light or battle to herald Wiskeria’s work, but the Law Elemental was proof enough. The rain resumed, hesitantly, nearly an hour afterwards.
As if, perhaps, the Water Elemental in the river was reconsidering its wrath. It had sensed the Law Elemental, but it was old and the power of this interloper was weak. The rain was beginning to pick up, and the river remembered his anger. Now, he stoked it with the fury of another being opposed to him.
He would rise up and cover the land. He would erase this village and devour until he could create his own body. Now he knew how—he spat upon the banks where the [Witches] tried to stop him. He could grow faster than they could raise the land.
So he would kill them. Kill and…
The old man in the river hesitated. Hesitated, as he sensed the being of metal and oil coming his way. And the two [Witches].
There were more, but he recognized those two. Wiskeria and Erin walked to the river’s edge as it roared and pushed against the levees, so high it was in danger of flooding the fields.
“Old man. Old man, I’ve come to offer you a deal.”
One sweetly bent over the river’s edge. She crooned to him, and the old man in the river hesitated. This was the one who had ignored him for so long. She held the glowing being with an eye that blinked at him. A pathetic thing.
The river swelled. He reached up for her—and Wiskeria drew a dagger. Just a dagger, but she let the Elemental of Law crawl onto one shoulder. Then she bent down, pulled part of the river up in an impossible surge of water as it roiled around her in shock.
Her craft glowed in her eyes as she stabbed the water. It rushed down around her hand as she let go.
The river felt that. Just a tiny prick, but it had never, ever been wounded. Now, the river suddenly fell silent, flat as glass, as Wiskeria bent over it. Smiling.
She had her mother’s smile. But what was reflected in those eyes weren’t immortal rings, but a calm, plain world. A world without great magic where his kind died. She looked the river in the eye and spoke.
“I offer you a deal, old man. Stop flooding. Stop raging, and lie quiet. Beg someone else, and never come to Riverfarm again.”
And why would he do that? He was a river! The old man’s fury was roused like the wrath of the forests—until he looked up and saw the oldest law behind Wiskeria.
Death.
The river quailed. Wiskeria bent low as the [Witches] and folk of Riverfarm watched, and her voice was only for him and the Elemental of Law and Erin.
“Lie silent and still and go elsewhere, old man. Beg a [Mage] for help or wait until this place is bone and dust. But trouble me and I will call you into a body and murder you here and now. Law rules, not your watery kind. Every being will have their chance, and law will change and learn and grow. But trifle with Riverfarm and I will cut your heart out and feed it to this one. Do not make Law your foe.”
The river trembled. He was old, and he had seen and felt the Treants leave this land when he was young. He remembered the forests, and he had heard the last Dryad die.
He just wanted…he wept as he sank, fearing the bright stare of the new kind of being, cousins as strange and alien to him as the folk who walked above him and swam his body.
Then—someone else called his name.
An [Innkeeper]? No, a [Witch]. A young [Witch] with a hat above her head swinging with little chess pieces, awkward and hesitant. Guilty.
“I’m sorry!”
The river stopped. The second [Witch] bent over him and called down as the [Witch of Law] stepped back, her threat made. Erin Solstice looked down, then looked at Wiskeria and her Elemental of Law.
Erin’s craft hung in the air. Wiskeria had some of her craft. It was in Riverfarm’s folk, even the [Witches]. It was so familiar that Erin had known it—but she had not given it a name.
What was it? Kindness? No. Glory? Again, no, these were things Erin had learned, but they were not at the heart of her craft. That was the stuff of [Innkeepers], and Erin wielded them well.
Something else was in her soul. A burning flame, of course. Second chances? Obviously. But what was all this made of? It was the most obvious answer. Erin reached out and pulled it in. In delight; she had caused it a hundred times. It filled her up and burst from her hands. It burned, a strange flame.
Not one color, but like the color of the night sky. Like the stars raining down across her [Garden of Sanctuary]. A translucent, dark flame, like the night sky, shot with streaks of color, from pink glory to pale grey mercy and sadness and guilt and more. Her craft.
Wonder.
Erin pulled it into her, and then it was all around her. A burning flame, making Wiskeria back up and the Elemental of Law hiss at her. She heard a call as she apologized to the Elemental of the River for what she’d done.
“I’m sorry—”
“Erin? Erin!”
Of all the times! Erin looked up, and Lyonette screamed at her.
“Your hat’s on fire!”
“What?”
Erin looked up and yelped. Her hat had caught fire! The cloth was blazing with magical fire. Erin grabbed it frantically, and her hand passed straight through the burning flames.
The poor cloth Agratha had gifted her was long since eaten up by the wondrous flame. Wiskeria looked at Erin’s hat. A flaming hat, pointed and made of fire, was burning across Erin’s hair. The [Witch of Second Chances] felt at it—and the wonder burned brighter. Then she began to giggle and laugh.
“Showy, but it suits her. Don’t you think?”
Agratha was nodding along as she watched with the other [Witches]. Hedag just threw her head back and laughed.
“Now there is a [Witch]’s hat!”
It burned as Erin turned back to the river. The old man stared longingly up at the [Witch] of flame and wonders, reflected on his face. She bent down and whispered to him.
“I’m sorry. I was cruel to you. I always am. You don’t understand good or evil. Drowning people is bad, to me. I can’t let you run wild. You’re dangerous.”
Behind her, the [Witch of Law] nodded. The river wilted and wept. But he understood. Erin wiped at her eyes.
He was so lonely. She understood that. Her voice wobbled.
“I can’t bring the forests and all your friends back. I’m sorry. But I do believe in second chances. Not third.”
“Erin?”
Wiskeria’s smile vanished. The Law Elemental beeped warningly, but Erin drew something out of her bag of holding.
“I know you just wanted to see us. So—I’m going to give you a little gift, okay?”
“Erin, don’t you dare give him a body—”
Wiskeria raised her knife as the Elemental of Law turned red. But Erin was too quick. She threw something into the river, and the greedy water grabbed it. Wiskeria lunged—and stared as a round ball of crystal sank into the water.
“What the—a scrying orb?”
The glowing ball was flashing with a laughing Drake’s face as Drassi sank into the depths of the river. The greedy river had no concept of a scrying orb.
No one had ever left a scrying orb inside it. Nor could it really understand a single orb in its water. But Erin’s craft filled it as she poured all the power she’d taken from her audience into it.
Wiskeria looked at Erin. The Elemental of Law was trying to project a beam of hostile light into her hair, but Wiskeria covered the eye with one hand. Then—the muddy river was receding. Lowering, as the old man’s wrath abated.
Riverfarm’s people watched, even Cade. The boy was afraid of the river now, but his eyes widened as he peered out of Briganda’s arms.
For—the entire river, that long stretch of water, as smooth as glass right now—suddenly lit up. And it began to glow like a mirror, and suddenly, Drassi’s face shone across it. As if the river were the scrying orb.
