Erin threw her mop down. She was about to throw the most childish tantrum yet when she saw Wiskeria sigh. The [Witch] continued mopping, and Erin realized she was being unfair.
She had come to Wiskeria for lessons, and here she was, three days in, being—being—
Being a Lyonette! Being a Lyonette just like when she’d first met the [Princess], who refused to do anything and called everything hard and gave a lot of backsass. And at that, Erin turned beet red and felt ashamed.
Slowly, she picked up the mop and started mopping again. Wiskeria watched her, then spoke up.
“You’re going too fast.”
Erin almost snapped. But she ducked her head and copied Wiskeria’s pace.
Slowly, methodically, the two went back to work. Erin decided it was her penance and resolved to help Wiskeria clean this entire hall no matter how long it took. After all, this couldn’t be fun for Wiskeria. She was doing this to teach Erin, so, damnit, she’d try.
Erin stopped thinking about how tired she was or how to deal with the old man. She’d tried to talk to him, but all she heard was a snarl, manifesting itself in the growing river, the rain pouring down.
It was still raining, and it looked like it was going to go on all night. Erin was worried about it, but she couldn’t even swab fast because Wiskeria kept telling her to slow.
So Erin slowed and just…mopped. And in doing so, she lost focus of her vexation and just mopped.
It was like doing any repetitive task. Once you got into the rhythm, you lost focus, relaxed, and you could enter a kind of meditation. A zen, not dissimilar to running or exercise. Erin—
“You’re drifting off. Focus.”
Erin was going to kill someone. She stopped, hunched her shoulders—and reconsidered.
She had thought, privately, that the lamest thing Wiskeria could teach her was that there was a tranquility or state of mind she should achieve, such that a [Witch] wasn’t too good for any task. Like a [Monk]. Erin had considered that would be a lame lesson—but it seemed like even that far-flung idea was wrong.
Exasperated, she turned to Wiskeria to tell her that she needed the answer after all. Then she noticed, for the first time, Wiskeria’s expression.
The [Witch] was slowly swabbing the floor, eyes on the dirt and water and soap clearing it away. Again, she wasn’t the best mopper in the world.
Silveran would have given her a C-. Oh, she got the floors pretty clean, but it wasn’t great. Yet she really was mopping. Not fast, but thoroughly. Nor was she in that state of mindless zen that you could reach in repeated action.
If anything—she was as focused as the moment when she’d cut the pig’s throat. She was all there. And for the first time, Erin realized what was coming off Wiskeria.
Contentment. No, not just contentment—concentration. She was, Erin realized, swirling her mop in different patterns. As if trying to figure out how the best way of cleaning the floorboards was.
“Wiskeria. Have you ever mopped a floor before?”
“Um…twice, I think. Mother had me sweep, but I’ve only mopped a floor with a mop twice. Once when we tracked in blood to a manor from a kill, the second time when I came to Riverfarm. Isn’t it interesting?”
Wiskeria glanced up, and Erin saw Wiskeria was watching her. Erin frowned.
“Nope. I hate mopping.”
“Ah, well. It’s not the most fun thing in the world. I admit that. But do you see anything? I think you might be getting it.”
Erin hmmed. Then she went back to mopping, thinking hard and watching Wiskeria the entire time.
That was a clue. Wiskeria had just hinted that she didn’t enjoy mopping either. So why was she saying it was interesting? If you didn’t enjoy something, but you got something that made you so content. No—what was that emotion?
Wiskeria gave off so few emotions. But this one…Erin realized it had been coming off her all day. It wasn’t as much an emotion as something more abstract. Like Mavika’s use of superstition in her craft, Erin realized what it was.
Wiskeria was working hard. She was giving this a lot of effort. Just like when speaking to Ram—Wiskeria was fully engaged. She was close to sweating with sheer concentration.
Over mopping? Erin watched Wiskeria’s mop form a figure eight down one length of the hall. Then she tried the old back-and-forth. She seemed to realize it wouldn’t work, so she did a square. No, a zig-zag? What about…a zig-zag that connected the square? But that failed to be economical; now you were using way too many strokes in one section.
So what if you didn’t take it square by square, but zig-zagged across the floor? Then you alternated directions until you were filling in a huge area, such that when the mop invariably spilled water to right and left, it overlapped with dirty spots?
Erin watched Wiskeria crossing into an open area of the dirty floor and then realized the [Witch of Law] was tracing something in the dirt and mud and cleaner floorboards that even Erin could see.
It looked like a kind of strange symbol, almost like a magical rune, filled in a thousand different directions, a crisscrossing shape of intent. Erin gasped. Was this how magic originated? That brushwork with the mop! Was this—
“Wow, that is a terrible cleaning job.”
Wiskeria turned, beheld her creation in muck, and pushed her mop in a straight line through it all. She looked back and nodded.
“This seems faster. Erin, you’ve stopped again.”
Erin was hitting her head with the handle of the mop. Doomed, she was doomed. She would never understand what Wiskeria was trying to show her.
And in that sense, Erin was mistaken. Because she assumed this was a puzzle. She assumed Wiskeria was going the ‘ancient master’ route and trying to hide the answer. It never quite occurred to Erin that Wiskeria was a bad teacher. Or rather, that Wiskeria was such a bad teacher that she hadn’t even managed to show Erin what she wanted the [Innkeeper] to see.
The moment came as Wiskeria turned across the long mess hall, her mop trailing behind her. She had mopped criss-cross. She had been using the broom all day, had picked flowers and shoveled dirt.
Now, as she swung the mop across her body, it ran across the floor. Just a single mophead, dirty from use, the old braids of fiber worn out. As Wiskeria stepped forwarsd the smooth handle twisted in her hands, running the mop across the newly-finished floorboards, not a year old.
Then, Erin’s head came up as she saw Wiskeria step across the forty-foot room from wall to wall. Her foot rose, and she swept across the entire floor, leaving behind nothing. Not a speckle of dirt, not a drop of water.
Her path curved across the flat ground, erasing all the signs of the storm and grit people had tracked in. Far wider than the mere tool she held should have cleaned things. It looked like a brush of cleanliness had slashed across the room from above.
Then Wiskeria’s foot touched the ground. Forty feet away, she completed her step, and the wind blew through the closed room and across the [Innkeeper]’s tied-up hair. Erin felt the bandana she’d tied to her forehead rustle in a breeze that smelled fresh, like the same lavender soap. She saw Wiskeria turn—and then felt the same breeze run past her.
Erin looked down—and the sweeping stroke from Wiskeria’s mop ran across the room like a shockwave. Erin saw the mud and grit flow across the room and gently come to rest in a line against the wall where Wiskeria stood. She looked down and saw sparkling floorboards at her feet.
If Silveran the Cleaner had been here, he would have fallen to his knees and stared at the pristine floorboards. Then he would have looked up at the [Witch] he had disparaged and seen Wiskeria’s smile and the sweat she wiped from her forehead as she lifted the mop in triumph.
“I knew I could do it! There, did you see that, Erin? Do you understand?”
“Wh—wh—wh—what was that?”
Erin stuttered as she pointed to the [Witch of Law]. For answer, Wiskeria planted the mop on the floor, and it stood upright as she spread her hands and laughed as she walked across the clean mess hall.
“Magic. Just like Mother showed me. Real magic. Not a Skill. A perfect brush. Just like a perfect swing of the blade or heft of the shovel. I’ve been trying for two days. Mother? She could do it every twenty-ninth time she swept with a broom.”
“What? Belavierr has super-sweeping Skills? What’s…”
Then Erin caught herself and looked, because this was it. She thought about what Wiskeria was saying and then the lesson the [Witch] was trying to impart. Then Erin looked at the mop in her hands.
“Wait. Is this why you enjoyed mopping so much?”
Wiskeria corrected Erin.
“I didn’t enjoy it. I was trying to master it. I wanted to be good at mopping. Just like everything else. Because it’s beautiful to see an expert work. Haven’t you ever admired that?”
Erin had been introduced to Jelov, the spitty [Carver]. She had seen him trim a curl of wood twice the length of her arm off a totem pole-in-progress. She had seen Ksmvr demonstrate his new school of swords, and yes, she had seen Relc’s spear dances.
All these things were beautiful and made her faintly jealous or purely admire the skill, not Skill involved. Erin would admit to watching Youtube videos back at home of an expert chef flipping pieces of pizza, and she remembered…she’d even seen someone handling a line of shopping carts a hundred long and maneuvering them into place more easily than she could swing a single one around in a shopping mall.
Wasn’t that cool? Of course it was. Just…that was work. It wasn’t like a skateboarder performing a trick or grinding down a handrail. Right?
Wiskeria never saw the difference. But she did see the dawning realization in Erin’s eyes. And the heart of the lesson? She broke into a beaming smile and lifted her empty hands. Then she brought them together in a clapping sound.
Only, something about the way she struck her hands together was perfect. It was the loudest clap Erin had ever heard in her entire life. Like someone who had looked at the very act of clapping their hands and worked on timing and angle until they produced the crispest, loudest sound in existence.
And unlike Earth—there was magic in it. The air rippled out from Wiskeria’s hands, and Erin’s hair blew back as her eardrums howled.
Every single window in the mess hall blew open. A door smacked Mister Prost in the face as it shot open—he had been coming to ask if they needed help. A shockwave scattered the last fragments of dust across the walls into the air, and they fell down like rain.
In the center of the room, a beaming [Witch] looked Erin in the eye.
“Not everything is an Elemental, Erin. You’re looking in the wrong spots. You’re making wonders, making the moment and the great magic you think witchcraft is. That’s half. The other half of all your magic can be in the way you breathe in. A single smile or stroke of the pen.”
That was the lesson that Belavierr had once taught her daughter. Magic could be as large as a floating island in the sky. Or encapsulated in a single clap of the hands. And Wiskeria?
Wiskeria had clapped her hands every single day for eight years until she had learned to perform a single gesture with hands that had blistered and turned raw with pain. What was the point?
The point was that Wiskeria could stride into the rain, with water sleeting off the dress her mother had made her—her mother, the greatest [Seamstress] of all time—who had also perfected something.
Wiskeria looked up at the storm the old man had called down in wrath, water falling so hard it blotted out the sky. And as [Witches] poked their heads out of windows, as Erin stumbled outside, Wiskeria clapped her hands.
This time, she blew open no windows. But Erin thought all of Riverfarm heard the sound. She saw a shockwave of air and water grow outwards, and it struck her in the face and knocked Prost onto his butt again. The rain halted for a second as a bubble of calm appeared. Wiskeria stood there, grinning at Erin—and then the rain poured down once more.
“No Archmage living in this world save for the Death of Magic remembers this! [Monks] clapping their hands, a [Bard]’s guitar, the swing of a [Blademaster]’s sword—it’s all magic.”
She looked at Erin’s face, and the [Witch of Second Chances] slowly raised her own trembling hands. She didn’t clap them together, but suddenly, her wet hands were burning. Burning with a strange fire that flickered out so fast Wiskeria thought she’d missed it.
The [Witch of Law]’s eyes widened, and Erin closed her eyes. She looked down at her hands. But there it was. Out of a mundane, wet street—she pulled something as magical as a clap of the hands. It was coming upon her, slowly. Her craft.
The old man in the river was raging harder and growing with every passing hour. But so were they. Wiskeria tilted her head back, knowing the [Witches] were watching.
“I may have had the Witch of Webs as my mother, but I practiced clapping longer than many people their crafts, every day pushing myself to learn. Witchcraft is part grace, part earned. Part cunning, part wisdom. Mostly, it is doing something only you can do.”
Now, if only she could take power for her craft from the eyes watching her. Alas…Wiskeria reached out for the justice in people’s hearts. The reason in governance. The power of law.
She felt it not. Alas—Wiskeria looked at Erin’s face as the [Innkeeper], the [Witch], looked at her hands and a fluffy white Gnoll and a little girl with a hat full of sadness came running out to leap on her in the rain.
This was good enough for now.
 
——
 
“Oh, clap your hands. Sure, that makes sense. Like someone burping [Fireballs]. ‘Look at me, I’m a [Witch]. I get to rewrite the laws of magic because I’m unique.’”
At least one person wasn’t happy about Wiskeria’s demonstration of magic. She didn’t think it made sense. Or was fair. Predictably—that person was Revi.
And no, it wasn’t because she was sulking. Especially because she had been ready to grudgingly hang out with Erin and was expecting Mrsha to pester her favorite Gold-rank team, and she hadn’t.
But there was more to it than just that. She stood with Typhenous under a magical spell that kept the rain from falling on them. A shimmering stream of liquid in the air curving in a parabola that was called, well, [Water Umbrella]. Tier 3 in complexity, pretty cool looking too.
Nothing like the way a [Witch] clapped her hands. Typhenous was, as always, studying, but Revi folded her arms. Her complaint was cut off by the sight of Erin bending down to talk to the blank-faced Nanette.
“At least she has her priorities straight. But I’m going to give her a piece of my mind. What do you think?”
