What Tkrn and Prost had that was so important was going straight in the middle of the street known for all the traffic jams. In fact, it was so important that Durene herself came to help hang it up. They were trying to hang it from a rope, but realized it was too unstable; instead, they had a post hammered into the street as they cleared a spot with pickaxes.
It was fast with someone as strong as Durene; then they anchored the whatever-it-was to the top. Mrsha stared in confusion as a small guardrail was installed to keep someone from hitting the central post.
What was this strange thing? Prost was shouting about putting paint down to mark the sides of the street, but Tkrn was so wet he could barely hear.
All the while, the [Guardsman] was blowing his whistle and directing the wagons such that they didn’t smash into each other.
It was an even greater concern on a rainy day such as this, where rain made wheels slip and obscured vision. Yet Laken Godart had commissioned a solution, and now, Mrsha saw a strange metal…thing…standing tall on the pole.
It had a kind of triangular base and head and a four-sided rectangle for a body, pointing each of the cardinal directions. But what was odd were the three holes on each side. They were vacant, but as Prost stepped back and began shouting at the crowd, including [Drivers], Mrsha saw him turn to Nesor, the timid [Mage], and the young man raised a wand.
Then the entire apparatus came to life, and Mrsha saw a bright, nay, brilliant red, unlike most mundane colors, come to life. It shone down the street, not bright enough to blind, but visible to the confused drivers.
Who stopped. They stared at the red light, and Mrsha waited…but the light just shone. Shone and shone…and she realized there were green lights coming from the other direction. Tkrn waved the carts through on those sides, while the other two stopped. Then—
The light turned green, and the others turned red, and those two streets stopped. Tkrn waved the new drivers through, and they passed under the aegis of the world’s first traffic light until the light turned yellow and blinked. That meant it was about to turn red, and sure enough, only one wagon made it through before it turned red.
“Red means stop! Green means go!”
Prost wanted to put a sign up, but he bellowed the instructions at the crowd, who really didn’t need more than that.
Red meant stop, green meant go. And like that, the poor Tkrn could be relieved. Like that…the Gnoll [Guardsman] stared up at the beginning of something new. Something that would forever change the Five-Way Cart Fullbody Pileup for good—or create the Ten Mile Wagon-to-Wagon Jam.
Traffic lights. He couldn’t wait to tell Zevara about it, and as Laken had told him, this simple light was only the beginning. Why, you could create entire rules like turning right on red or multiple lights to direct streets—but you’d need paint for that. Proper intersections.
It was going to change a lot. Of course, this was only necessary in a bigger city with traffic, but Tkrn saw it. He glanced around and saw a little Gnoll staring up at the light.
Mrsha stared up at the glowing light as it began to show its signals on a nonstop loop. She admired it for about one minute, then padded off.
Boring.
Mrsha the Increasingly Desultory walked through the empty streets of Riverfarm, fast losing her will to persist in this cold, wet environment. Even with all the will in the world, even as a [Druid], this rain sorta blew. And it also was wet.
She was almost about to call it quits and join a snuggle-pile or eat herself sick with Ulvama when she saw something. Mrsha stopped dead in the street and craned her head. She sniffed, but the rain took away the scent.
Was that…?
 
——
 
“M-Miss Mrsha, wouldn’t you like to sample some cookies? I’m sure that we could find you one. A bushel! Let’s keep it between ourselves, and Her Highness need not know, eh?”
Ser Sest was so cold and shivering even in his armor that he was resorting to base bribery. It worked on the other [Princesses]; why not Mrsha? But then he saw her take off through the streets, and he had to run to keep up.
Once more, Sest cursed the lost hand of cards last night that had led him here. He was certain that Shriekblade was following Mrsha; even if he couldn’t see her, Princess Lyonette valued her daughter’s safety over her own.
Between an [Emperor]’s eyes and a Named-rank, what could he do?
Oh yes, keep her from catching another cold. And his head be it if the rascal got one, but Mrsha had taken his umbrella and thrown it into the air when he tried to hold it over her head! Her raincoat? He suspected she’d stuffed it in the oven when he wasn’t looking because he couldn’t find it.
Where was she going? Mrsha was following something down the street. Only when Ser Sest rounded a corner did he see her charging after a small shape almost as white as she was—only this one had a lot of brown cloth over its body. Sest stopped because, despite them being a familiar sight—
He had never seen a Sariant Lamb wearing a raincoat. It even had little boots. Somehow, the wretched creature was more adorable.
Sariant Lambs hated the rain, but this one was trotting off, and Mrsha was running after it. In fact…as the Thronebearer ran, he saw a line of Sariant Lambs appear. They were all trotting ahead of Mrsha, who was following them.
Dead gods, were the rumors true? The lambs stopped at the edge of Riverfarm, and Sest felt for his sword. They assembled, and he saw the most uncanny thing as Mrsha halted herself.
They were, sixteen of them, forming an arrow. The arrow was pointing out of Riverfarm, up a hill. Mrsha turned and gave Ser Sest a wary look.
“Perhaps we’d better, ah, find His Majesty, Miss Mrsha?”
She hesitated—but Mrsha the Fearless was not about to turn down this mystery. She slowly began running down the street, and Ser Sest ran, this time with a hand on his emergency speaking stone. The lambs dispersed behind him, and he felt worried.
If we ever get back to the capital, I might need to have a word with the Grandmaster of the Thronebearers about the lambs.
Then again, he had heard the [Emperor] had a Skill. So the lambs might be doing this for him? But what could they think was worth Mrsha leaving Riverfarm?
The answer, thankfully, wasn’t that far from the town at all or Sest would have called Mrsha back and triggered the alert. In fact, it was just a small hill overlooking the town. There, sitting under a tree as rain thundered down, running down the trunk and drowning the roots was…
A [Witch]. A young girl, sitting with her hat dripping with water over her wet robes. She made no move as Mrsha and Ser Sest came to a halt.
 
——
 
“A [Witch]?”
Ser Sest the Obvious was the first to react to the strange sight. Mrsha was entranced just seeing Nanette sitting there.
It looked like…well, it looked like some kind of fantasy painting. There was the tree, water running from every leaf. Below it was a girl dressed in dark cloth, blue, but soaked so much it looked black, water running down her pointed hat, face blank as a doll. The water ran past her legs, a veritable torrent heading to the river, and the storm was only increasing.
It would be a lovely painting…but the reality of it had to be the most uncomfortable thing in the world. It was wet. And Mrsha could not imagine sitting there like that.
But the strange girl never moved. Mrsha wondered if she were dead. But she could see the [Witch] breathing.
Yet not once did she move, even when Mrsha padded forwards and waved at her. Ser Sest tried to call her back, but Mrsha ignored him.
Hello? Are you okay? Are you cold?
She couldn’t say these things with writing, and obviously the girl didn’t know Mrsha-signs, so Mrsha tapped a speaking stone.
“Hello! Hello!”
The [Witch] blinked at that. A head came up, and Mrsha saw little round cheeks, pale and shivering slightly with cold, and eyes that should have been shy and rosy brown, wide and innocent.
They were as empty as a piece of glass. Empty and lost. Mrsha stared at the girl. The gaze fixed on her slightly curiously, but then drifted down as if the hat were weighing the head down.
“Miss Mrsha, let’s not disturb this good [Witch]. His Majesty is friendly with them…”
Sest the Stupid called out nervously. He actually tried to pull Mrsha away, and Mrsha leapt up, so that he tried to catch her. The Thronebearer tried to hold onto Mrsha and slipped as she springboarded off his chest. A windmilling pair of arms was followed by a crash as he went bouncing down the hill.
Mrsha spat after him, then turned back to the strange [Witch]. Not once had the girl moved, though she had watched the entire thing.
She was wet and cold. Even if she herself didn’t acknowledge it, the rain made her limbs tremble. Mrsha tapped her stone again.
“Hello! What’s wrong with you?”
She winced—but that was the only phrase that came close to displaying what she wanted to say. The semi-insult made the [Witch] glance up, but this time, she saw the speaking stone.
“I’m fine. Thank you, Miss Gnoll.”
She spoke politely, and Mrsha stood there, uncertain of what to do. She sensed a profound emptiness from the girl. Not even sadness…just a vacancy.
Ser Sest was coming back up the hill, swearing under his breath. He turned to Mrsha as the girl sat there, not responding. Even if Mrsha threw a rock at her like the bad kids, Nanette wouldn’t have moved.
Mrsha threw no rocks, of course. Instead, she turned as Ser Sest glumly hung his head in the rain and, to his amazement and relief, pointed down the hill.
“Food. I’m hungry. Let’s go back.”
“Back, Miss Mrsha? At once!”
In relief, Ser Sest escorted her down the hill, and that was that. The [Witch] sat there, staring at the clouds. Wiskeria hadn’t come by. The ‘old man’ she had talked about must be the one causing the storm.
Nanette wondered how long it would last. She wondered if the water would reach this hill or if Erin would make her go to Liscor. If Califor wanted it…
Her mother was dead. So Nanette sat there, vaguely recognizing the Gnoll, thinking of Erin’s words to her. But still, she could not move.
What she did not expect, nor recognize at first, was the little girl coming back up the hill, followed by a beleaguered Thronebearer. Nanette did not recognize the two at first because this time an umbrella disguised Ser Sest, and he was so festooned with objects that he could barely see.
Mrsha herself had a towel on her head. She parked herself in front of Nanette, and the [Witch] looked up.
If Hedag had not been at the riverside, helping dig the levees, she or Eloise would have come up here, if they’d seen Nanette, and taken her somewhere dry. That didn’t seem to occur to Mrsha. Instead, she grabbed the umbrella the [Knight] carried and clambered into the tree. There, she wedged it among the branches that it might not blow away and began ordering the [Knight] around with authoritative jabs from her wand.
“Er—Witch Nanette, isn’t it? This is for you. Do pardon the intrusion, Miss Mrsha—I am giving her it!”
The [Knight] had a dry towel. In fact, he had several towels and what turned out to be Mrsha’s raincoat. Nanette blinked at it.
“I’m fine. Thank you.”
She tried to assure Mrsha she needed and wanted nothing. The girl offered Nanette a towel.
“I’m fine.”
“Miss Mrsha cannot speak, Witch Nanette. I pray you forgive her insistence. She is a gentle soul.”
Mrsha stabbed Sest in the leg with the wand and made him back up. Then she dumped the towel on Nanette and industriously tried to remove as much water from the dripping area as she could. The umbrella kept the rain from pouring down on Nanette, and Mrsha used up three crisp, white towels and tossed them one after another at Ser Sest. Then she produced, of all things, a quill and paper and wrote!
Ser Sest gloomily read the instructions.
“Miss Mrsha, these are not our provisions! I am sure His Majesty is generous, but I must remind you that I am also your bodyguard. I cannot leave you.”
Nanette saw Mrsha writing and, despite herself, craned her neck to see.
Then…get…Ushar…stupid!
Mrsha wrote word by word fairly fast and very legibly and handed it to Ser Sest. Instantly, he brightened up.
“Well, I suppose that if I must—Dame Ushar, I fear I must call you to action. I believe Miss Mrsha would like two umbrellas, yes, two, and six towels. I cannot explain, meet me at the hill—”
“I’m fine. Really.”
Nanette realized what Mrsha was trying to do and objected as the girl brought forth a fourth towel. But Mrsha just gave her a bright smile.
She had no words, but somehow, the smile managed to say everything it needed to. Perhaps it was Nanette’s own witchcraft, but she could almost hear the little girl mimicking a mother’s voice.
Yes, of course you’re fine. 
Then she proceeded to ignore Nanette and pat her with the towel. The [Witch] let her and had to admit, being drier was better than shivering. She only moved when Mrsha went to remove the hat.
“That’s mine. Don’t touch it.”
She caught Mrsha’s paw, and the Gnoll hesitated. Then she nodded and let Nanette pat it dry.
A second Thronebearer appeared, annoyed, but when she saw Mrsha and the [Witch], things made more sense. Mrsha grabbed the towels and kept drying Nanette; in fact, she then demanded a heat spell, which Ser Sest cast. Of all the spells the Thronebearer had—[Dry Clothing] and [Remove Minor Stains] were two of the cantrips he practiced.
Well, they came in handy here, and then Mrsha was in the branches, wedging more umbrellas up there. She wasn’t even done. To Ser Sest and Dame Ushar’s mild horror, she took the wet towels and, instead of removing them, made them cut holes in the towels and join them together so they formed a kind of cloth wall! Then she hung them over a branch, forming a barrier on two sides that she anchored with rocks.
“Miss Mrsha! The towels are—ow! Ow! Eight more towels, Ushar. Or just bedsheets, Lady Marquin? Bedsheets it is.”
She was making a fort! A fort out of umbrellas and towels and cloth. Nanette was well aware of how expensive cloth could be, but Mrsha was happily ignorant of the fact. It seemed to be her mission in life to shield Nanette from the slightest raindrop and gust of wind.
In fact, she was quite enjoying herself, and while she was young, she was a Gnoll; she had lived in yurts and their travelling tents and knew how one was made, in theory. Nanette kept trying to shoo her away, but Mrsha refused to go, and Nanette would not stand, so all she had were vague words.
Nor did the Thronebearers stop their wayward charge. At first, they protested the cost and imposition, but then they glanced at the wet little girl and saw past the pointed hat.
