“There is nothing to admire. I know how to sacrifice blood to the moons and speak the old languages. But because my mother taught me this—I have seen her turn the tide back on itself. She can summon a hail of needles with the snap of a finger. Or, yes, if she wanted to, produce a blaze to envelop all of Riverfarm. If she wanted to, she could tear the old man from his river and eat him alive. But it is easy for her; why would I admire you for picking up that hammer?”
She nodded to the tool laying on a workbench, and Erin picked it up. It took some effort, and if she were a child maybe it would be harder or if her fingers had no strength or she were blind—but she was not.
It was a simple task. And that was what Wiskeria saw in her mother’s magic. Wiskeria whispered, cupping her chin in her hands.
“Perhaps if I saw her growing, those first days when she sacrificed everything, I would be more impressed. But I just see my mother, and so how can I admire an Archmage casting magic? It is not hard for them. Did you see the Archmage of Izril lifting Fissival into the sky?”
Erin shivered, and goosebumps ran down her arms. That had happened last night.
“Yes. Yes, that was amazing. You felt nothing?”
Wiskeria sighed.
“It was magic. I wish I had any wonder in me for it. But my mother has left me jaded. I looked at Fissival and knew it could fly; I only admired the cost and the way Valeterisa did it.”
She gazed out into the howling rainstorm, a force of nature so breathtaking that for all the malice in it, it was still a sight to inspire and frighten and wake some emotion in you. She saw only rain and force.
What a terrible way to live. Erin hesitated to say it, but Wiskeria seemed to read her thoughts like Oliyaya had.
“Don’t mistake me, Erin. There are still things in this world that make me laugh and smile. I can still enjoy a bowl of soup or the feeling of warmth in my hands on a freezing day. But what makes me feel passionate, what makes me admire and feel alive is not that great craft. It is here, in Riverfarm. It is why law is my craft. Do you see it?”
Erin didn’t. She cast around, thinking.
“You saw something in Riverfarm that made you love it more than Belavierr’s magic? Like what?”
For answer, Wiskeria pointed down at the ground of the smithy. There, Erin crouched down and saw in the wet mud from outside, crawling along the stone floor, a trail of ants.
They must have escaped the rain, and there must have been a crack or hole in the stone floor that they could form a nest in. Right now, they were hauling some of Helm’s old lunch off; a bit of bread, some scraps of meat fallen from a sandwich.
Ants, struggling through drops of rain, hauling the pieces of food around. Wiskeria smiled at them. Erin looked up as Wiskeria spoke.
“When I asked, my mother told me stories of how she would make war on kingdoms. How she would raze villages and cities and break armies against her. She went to the Meeting of Tribes and killed. I do not love her for that. I do not admire her for that. But I wonder—if you faced the Witch of Webs, the Spider in her wrath—what kind of courage does that take? A world of it. An ocean of resolve. A Gnoll with no great levels or Skills faced her with a spear in hand. In every age, women and men of every species stood against her. That is bravery.”
“Oh. I get it now.”
Erin mumbled. She looked up at Wiskeria’s shining eyes. And what the [Witch of Law] saw was something else. She turned to Erin.
“I know you come from a different place, Erin Solstice. Laken hasn’t told the others, even Rie, the truth of it, but he has told me and Durene and few others. I know you come from a planet where magic is dead or forgotten or so quiet it doesn’t roar. And despite that—your people fly. You have gone further than we have, into the stars, and you contrive weapons to slay mountains.”
“Bad weapons. Laken told you about Earth?”
Wiskeria shrugged. She leapt from the anvil and lightly walked past the ant trail, never disturbing them.
“I guessed he was someone from another world. Or at least, another plane. That’s what I admire, Erin. Someone who struggles. Not someone who was born and raised with all the powers and secrets of the world. I admire…Riverfarm. It started as a village, and now it has grown until it makes the Five Families nervous. At the end of it, when flames burnt down around Riverfarm, I think that they might have taken up blade and fist against Belavierr. And if they had won—even if they tried—that is beautiful.”
She turned, and Erin caught a flash of genuine admiration, pure happiness from Wiskeria. The [Witch of Law] looked out, and it was a black world she saw.
Not dark, but a void so long it circled around infinity. A deep lake, where the mortal imagination was a little leaf floating over hidden depths. From the edges came things like Belavierr. Creeping dreads that realized themselves like the Seamwalkers. Monsters and horrors.
Faced with such things, people were like those ants, building a tiny shelter out of ideas and innovation, and when something rose up, they swarmed over it and died by the millions. But a single mortal soul sometimes killed the immortal Dragon or the deathless horror. That was triumph, to her.
“Law. People make all kinds of laws and live by them. Because of law—you can make a civilization thrive. Someday, if Mother ever comes to your world or if a nation rises large enough, it will not be one hero, but the laws, the entire nation which slowly kills her. It might be the end of witchcraft, the end of wilderness and magic itself. But I still admire it.”
Ah. The air left Erin’s lungs, and she saw Wiskeria for what she was at last. So that was why she disturbed the other [Witches]. That was the contradiction at the heart of her class, her craft.
She was a [Witch of Law] indeed. A witch of civilization, of the very idea that ran counter to [Witch] magic. A witch of mortality and the modern age.
“You would love it on Earth, Wiskeria.”
The woman turned, and Erin could almost see it. Wiskeria would love it.
“You could be a normal person if you wanted. Walk into…I don’t know, a cafe? Shop and sing karaoke, work any job, and fly without magic. Yes, I think Earth might make you happy. Because we can reach the moon, and maybe we could fight a war against Seamwalkers and the kind of thing A’ctelios Salash is with nothing more than ideas and a lot of courage.”
Wiskeria’s lips curved into a smile.
“I would like to see that. But you don’t love it?”
Erin shrugged.
“I’m like you. I was raised there, and so I don’t love all the technology that makes sense all the time. I wanted to find magic, and I did. Here. I can’t understand loving a world run by laws. Laws…do terrible things. Not all laws are good, and they make people suffer, sometimes, yeah, so that a lot of people benefit. People twist laws to their advantage.”
Home. She loved parts of it, like hot water and the internet—parts of the internet—and convenience, but this place made her feel alive. Would she want to go home? For her family, yes. For the rest?
Wiskeria reached out and gently touched Erin’s shoulder.
“We truly are different. I think, Erin, that I don’t have much more to teach you. But I should like to be friends. Either that or the best of enemies.”
She beamed, and Erin laughed at the strange [Witch of Law]. Then she hugged Wiskeria impulsively, and Wiskeria patted her on the head. Then Wiskeria heard the sound that had kept her sleepless night after night.
It screamed to her, a sound unlike any she had ever heard. Her eyes snapped open, and Erin jerked.
She’d heard it too. As they embraced, Wiskeria’s strange sound made Erin start.
“What the—”
“You heard it? Where are you? I’ve never heard anything like it. I thought it was a ghast or some kind of ancient enemy stalking me. But it’s beckoning me. I just can’t tell where. Somewhere in Riverfarm.”
Wiskeria had a knife out in a flash. She dashed out into the rain; it was closer! It was calling her. But Erin stood there for a second. Her eyes opened wide.
“Wiskeria. You’ve been hearing—that?”
The [Witch of Law] turned at the recognition in Erin’s tone. The [Innkeeper] knew that sound very well. Erin Solstice saw Wiskeria look back, for never once had Belavierr’s daughter heard nor conceived of that shrill sound that sounded like a scream with no lips.
But Erin—it sounded to Erin like the piercing sound that was entirely automated. The digital, shrill sound of an alarm. But if a siren could have a voice—
It was calling Wiskeria. And this time, the [Witch] heard two voices. One was as shrill and faint as an alarm chiming—sporadic, seeking her.
The other ran through her bones, a deep howl that cut through the old man’s raging. It sounded like the collapse of cities, a thunderous, terrible voice with no words.
This time, every [Witch] in Riverfarm heard it calling Wiskeria.
 
——
 
Mrsha heard no sounds like that. Nor was she playing with Nanette. The [Witch] had shaken her off after Mrsha suggested playing tag.
“Leave me, please. I’m tired.”
Then she sat in a corner of the house she had been given and looked like a sad doll again. But there was a girl there! A girl who should run and tease people and play.
She was so sad. Mrsha had heard her story from Mister Prost, and she’d used three handkerchiefs crying and raging against Belavierr.
It was not right. Someone had to help. Erin was trying, and she was good—but she was also Erin. Mrsha the Super Compassionate had to do something for poor Nanette.
Something…but she didn’t know what. Not exactly. So Mrsha the Resourceful found something and scribbled in it.
When all else failed, she had people to ask. And her go-to, her most resourceful helper was always busy. He was mean and told her not to write ‘odiously’, and he’d said not to contact him since Khelt was a mess.
But Mrsha needed his help. Even though he called her rude things like a ‘pestering plague of insolence’, he was nicer when she told him she was helping someone else, not funding a Balerosian [Prince].
He had a novel idea. So Mrsha thanked Fetohep the Helper and slipped out of her home. She didn’t know if the idea was a good one, but Fetohep was a smart fellow. If he thought it was worth a try…she had to do it.
Even if it meant facing off against her new, mortal nemesis.
He was waiting for her. She had barely opened one of the windows when a [Knight] picked her up and tried to hand her back to Ser Dalimont, who was apologizing profusely.
“Your Majesty, I cannot apologize enough. Miss Mrsha, come here.”
She writhed desperately in Gamel’s grasp. Then she began slashing with paws laced with sharp thorns. He dropped her as a voice spoke up.
“Gamel, don’t hurt yourself. I see that Miss…Mrsha wishes to speak with me. Again. Let her approach.”
The [Emperor] sat in an armchair from which it seemed like Gamel had been reading the news to him from a newspaper. He was frowning at her as she approached. Mrsha checked that Gamel was alright; she hadn’t meant to hurt him.
“Mrsha du Marquin. It does not please me that one of my guests should offer harm to my bodyguard. Nor cause so much trouble. I have heard that it is mostly in aid of Nanette, for which you have my gratitude. But I hope this is an important errand indeed. Or I may have to speak to your mother and express my frank dismay. If that does not solve the issue, I will, perhaps, have to become unpleasant.”
Mrsha gulped. For a blind man, she had the uncanny feeling he was still staring at her. But she stiffened her spine because Mrsha of Just Cause had a reason! She slowly padded over and then cursed because she and he could not communicate well. So she scribbled and handed Gamel a piece of paper.
“…It seems Mrsha wishes to speak to you, privately, Your Majesty. With a single translator. She does not wish anyone else to be present, even her bodyguards.”
“Well now. It seems this must be an important discussion. It surely must be, or else she would not be so insistent.”
Laken’s tone was sarcastic. Mrsha gulped as he stood up abruptly. He gave her an exaggerated bow.
“In that case, we should head to the throne room, which is, of course, warded against spells. Summon Lady Rie! Have the throne room guarded, Gamel, and the Thronebearers shall stand guard as well. I shall entertain Miss Mrsha’s request to the fullest extent of my capabilities. After all—it is important, isn’t it?”
Mrsha was sweating now. Wait…maybe don’t take me this seriously? But she nodded vigorously, and Ser Dalimont’s face as he escorted her to the throne room said this had gone far beyond no desserts ever.
Sure enough, even the mysterious [Lady] who smelled a bit like iron came hurrying over, and Mrsha found herself standing in the throne room as the [Emperor] took a seat, and the session was sealed to all eyes and ears but the three within.
The Thronebearers were waiting for the disastrous consequences to fall on Mrsha’s head. But Laken waited, feeling only a bit like he was bullying a child. But the most annoying child he’d ever met, so he waited.
The conversation between Laken and Mrsha was not smooth, as Lady Rie had to read from Mrsha’s writing, but it was still somewhat coherent. Excluding the pauses for the scritch scritch of the quill and Rie reading out Mrsha’s comments with the occasional aside—it went something like this.
“You’re a mean man.”
“Miss Mrsha, you are an annoying child.”
“You’re not supposed to say things like that to me. I’m cute and young!”
“I am an [Emperor]. I say what I wish. If you came to berate me or demand cookies or something trivial, I will do my utmost to have you punished. I do enjoy pranks and entertainment, but you are as arrogant as a [King].”
“I’m a good person. I want to help Nanette. That’s why I’m here. Listen, you rapscallious pretender to a throne that doesn’t exist. I have, admittedly, been somewhat of a rogue upon these lands, and I will acknowledge a bit of childish glee, but Nanette is in full grief, and I will not waste your time or mine on frivolous issues. Will you hear me out, Your Majesty?”
“…Rie, did she really write that? Really? Er—go on, then. What is so important? If it is cheering up Nanette, I am all for it, but I do not believe a hundred forts of pillows will make her smile.”
