Her voice trembled as she looked around again. As if the last few months had been a bad dream. And she woke into…a cool autumn day and stared at the tombstone where her hat lay. Was it a better waking world or…?
“Go ahead. What is it?”
Erin held her breath as Nanette scuffed her foot on the ground, embarrassed.
“Where…where is Liscor?”
 
——
 
Halrac Everam watched as Nanette slowly packed her things into the carriage. She did not have much; she was used to travelling with her mother, so she had only a small bag of holding and a rucksack.
Briganda was crying again. The instant Nanette had asked Laken to take her class, she’d started and never stopped.
It was quite, quite annoying because the [Shieldmaiden] had a hiccuping sob that was very loud, and Cade kept telling her it was okay. Then he began crying.
It was not the moment that Halrac wanted to say goodbye to Erin in. He longed for a private place to say something.
And as if she knew it, the [Innkeeper] walked towards him, looking shy and concerned that Briganda was there. But the [Immortal Moment] that had begun, to let Nanette say all the things she wanted to the other [Witches]. To her mother…
It enveloped him. Erin came to a stop and shyly ducked her head to Briganda.
“Hi, guys. Sorry I caused such a mess. Are you okay, Cade? I can step over here, Briganda…”
She pointed to the side, but Briganda lifted a hand as she blew her nose—on a messy handkerchief.
“It’s okay. It’s okay, alright?”
She had forgiven Erin, and the [Innkeeper] looked relieved. She waved at Cade, looking so sad, but the boy just stared up at her, clinging to his mother’s leg. He had never understood why it was Erin’s fault, and now he spoke.
“You have a pretty hat, Miss.”
Halrac glanced up in surprise. Erin was wearing nothing on her head. Her brown hair was untidy from being blown about by the wind. The [Hunter] had eyes almost as good as any son of House Veltras who had inherited their Skills and abilities.
Yet he saw nothing on Erin’s head. Until he shifted and the wind blew—and he thought he saw it. Perhaps it was just a memory.
But that was her fire. The flaming hat still burned, flickering over the [Witch]’s head. Erin beamed at Cade.
“The trick is to never take it off. I’m gonna go now, but I’ll be back—and you can visit whenever you want, okay? Just not in the spring, maybe. I don’t want to get into more trouble.”
Briganda looked blank, and Typhenous chuckled. Cade solemnly shook Erin’s hand.
“I’ll be a [Witch] when I grow up.”
Now that made his mother nervous. But Erin just tipped her hat with a huge wink. Then she rose and turned to Halrac.
“We didn’t get to hang out as long as we wanted, did we?”
She looked sad about that, and the [Bowman] shrugged, face blank.
“These things happen. I’m glad you levelled up and found your…craft.”
“I’m not!”
Revi wailed, and to everyone’s astonishment, they saw she was sniffing. She stared at Gothica.
“I’ve met the only person with a sense of style here in this entire dratted continent and she’s going off! Stay another week!”
Erin laughed, but guiltily.
“I’m afraid you’ll have to visit us, guys. Or I’ll finally upgrade that door. But either way, I promise—it won’t be long. The inn is changing. So am I.”
She stood in front of them, and none of Griffon Hunt could deny that. And that hurt Halrac most of all, because the girl who had not changed for so long was different before their eyes. Not worse, no. Not with flaming hat and certainty in her eyes, but she was different, and he was old enough to mourn that. And wise enough not to fear it.
But Erin just turned to Halrac, then she threw her arms around him. Typhenous chuckled as he watched, but this time, Halrac squeezed back a bit. They stood there for a while, until he felt like he’d had a hug as long as you actually wanted to say goodbye.
It just took a bit of forever to do that. The [Witch] and [Innkeeper] stood back, sniffing, and Halrac looked at the girl walking towards the carriage uncertainly.
“Take care of Nanette. She needs help more than anyone else right now. I think you might be what she needs. Laken would not let her go if he didn’t think that.”
Erin nodded, eyes serious. Then she reached out.
“Halrac Everam—I’m going. Revi Cotton, Briganda and Cade Rishaw, Typhenous…um, Typhenous…?”
She turned to him, and the [Plague Mage]’s gaze twinkled with mirth.
“Typhenous the Plague will do, Miss Erin. Or Typhenous the Face.”
She gave him an exasperated look, then, solemnly, recomposed herself and nodded.
“Typhenous Face.”
He began laughing as Erin turned to them. Halrac rolled his eyes and found Revi was doing the same. But he listened as Erin took their hands, one by one, and spoke.
“If I can help Nanette—you’re what Riverfarm needs. You’re the reason Goblins are walking around here. It won’t be long before we meet. But you’ll come back. And when you do, I’ll finally be able to give you the welcome you deserve.”
The Gold-rank team looked at each other. Revi sniffed again. She took off her nose because it was runny.
“Only you could make guarding a village sound heroic. We’re not the Horns. Or the Halfseekers. You—you take care of yourself. Alright?”
Erin hugged them all one last time and turned to Halrac. He nodded to her, then paused. He felt embarrassed, but he needed a hint.
“What are we supposed to do to become that team you want to welcome, Erin? I don’t see many monsters or as many disasters cropping up here.”
She gave him a surprised look, then wagged a finger scoldingly. Erin stepped back and gestured around Riverfarm. Her arms took in the [Emperor] observing them with blind eyes, Master Helm and the folk of the Unseen Empire, the [Witches], and even the watching Sariant Lambs.
“Halrac! Everyone needs a home. I’m glad I saw yours.”
The [Bowman of Loss] opened his mouth to protest, and he looked around. This wasn’t Windrest—but he saw his folks gazing at him. He saw Pebblesnatch watching anxiously, as if afraid Erin would take her favorite adventurer away. Then he staggered as if she had knocked him over with a word. He really was slow on the draw today. He looked at Erin, and she pointed at him.
“If I’m wrong, I’m wrong. But it seems to me like you guys are putting down roots. Trees get up and walk and hit people, or so I’ve been told. But Griffon Hunt might be stronger for Riverfarm.”
Then she was waving and Mrsha was clinging to Halrac’s boots and asking if they could take just him. And he reached down and picked her up and hugged her and told her he’d be back. To visit.
It was a promise.
 
——
 
Everything was going to be different. Nanette sat in a carriage and knew that truth. But [Witches] knew these things, and a little girl, Mrsha, gripped her hand and kept glancing at her to make sure she was okay.
Lyonette was speaking about rooms and friends and the city, and Nanette saw the [Witches] standing there. They tipped their hats to her as the carriage began to move away.
She left her hat behind. It sat on the tombstone, and Nanette felt light. She felt alive, and she saw the anxious [Witch of Second Chances], the [Magical Innkeeper], watching her.
Suddenly, Nanette wanted to know how Erin had met Califor, properly this time. She was hungry, and her feet hurt, and she felt thin, and her robes were smelly from not being washed for a while.
“Miss Solstice?”
“You can call me Erin, Nanette. In fact, you’ve gotta if we’re living together. Miss Solstice is, like, my mom’s name.”
Erin smiled—then froze and looked guilty—and a Goblin wearing black kicked her so hard in the shins Erin swore. Nanette stared fearfully at Gothica, but then she felt the urge to laugh and had to hide it.
But she was no longer a [Witch]. So what came out of her mouth was hard to hide.
“You really did meet my mother?”
Erin looked up.
“I swear I did. Her ghost was so—so tough she kept me safe the entire time I was dead. And she kept talking about you. She made me promise to seek you out, even if you didn’t like me.”
Nanette nodded. Then she felt a prickling in her eyes. Not a twitching in her toes or a crawling of her skin. Tears, wet and mundane, began to spill from her eyes. She sniffed—and her nose ran—and the [Princess] gave her a handkerchief, and the girl, Mrsha, patted her hand anxiously. The [Innkeeper] looked at Nanette, a reflection of grief in her eyes. Nanette began to sob, but she asked.
“Was she—did she look happy? Did she put a smile on other people’s faces?”
She began to cry as they left Riverfarm. Cry and cry, but not without end. With all the grief she’d been holding in her hat. Then she listened as Erin told her stories, and sobbed and ate and breathed.
All the while, a little Gnoll girl was patting her hand and telling her not to cry because they had a chocolate tree. And—and she’d introduce Nanette to Visma and Ekirra, and they were going to be best friends.
The two were so upset that Ser Sest did the only thing he knew to do when a [Princess] was crying, and began to try and sing a lullaby, as if they were both six. Then Mrsha tried to attack him, and Nanette tried to pull the Gnoll off the [Knight].
Then she and Mrsha looked at each other, and both thought they saw a reflection, however strange. Nanette stopped crying and felt guilty. Until she realized she had years and decades and however long she lived and thereafter to cry.
She was so tired of it and so guilty at being tired—until Mrsha solemnly took her hand. Then she began trying to explain who she was, beginning with her names, and she had many. Nanette bent over the writing Gnoll.
“Who’s Relc? Who’s Gire-u-lashia? Are you sure they’ll like me?”
They had better. Or I’ll stab them with a toothpick.
Mrsha puffed out her cheeks and stomach fiercely; she hadn’t quite mastered posturing. But then she was asking what Nanette liked.
“I—I do like sweet things. And flowers and herbs.”
Then we’ll go to Wailant’s first! He’s a [Pirate].
“A [Pirate]? I’ve only met a few crews.”
Then Mrsha’s eyes went round, and she looked at Nanette. And she realized that she, Mrsha the Worldly, had a friend almost, possibly slightly more travelled than she.
As for Nanette? She looked at the kind, slightly presumptuous, certainly arrogant-as-an-[Emperor] girl sitting across from her. She realized something at the same time as Lyonette let out a breath she’d been holding since the carriage started rolling.
Erin did likewise. The two whispered in the way of meddlesome adults, as if believing a witch and a Gnoll couldn’t hear them.
“You know, Erin. Mrsha doesn’t have any friends who can always visit the inn. And I imagine it’s hard to be a young [Witch] roaming about as, uh, they do. This might have been a good idea after all. Did Califor think of this, do you think?”
Erin smiled.
“That was the first thing she asked me—if my inn had any children in it. We’re going to need a playground. Or, at least, explore some of the cool gardens.”
Nanette looked up sharply, and everyone realized she had no idea about Erin’s gardens. Mrsha clung to her delightedly, and then the young witch felt it.
Once a [Witch], always a witch. Even if the walls of the box weren’t there. For the first time in a long, long while—Nanette began to look forwards to something and stared out of the carriage.
It reminded her of walking with her mother and asking where they were going next. It might be scary or dangerous—but she had a vision of following Califor and humming a song. Nanette began to hum it now, and Mrsha listened, then joined in. A little nursery rhyme.
 
Onwards, onwards we go.
Over green pastures and field and snow
Where we’ll end up, nobody knows
So onwards, laughing together down the road.
 
That was how the [Innkeeper] left Riverfarm. With a promise to return, with wonders and knowledge and deeds done, but no death, for once. It was a poor vacation, perhaps, but it was a start.
The party headed back to Invrisil and to Liscor. Two new souls, two new guests and parts of the inn’s family in tow.
Nanette Weishart, a girl with no class, wondering what she would do and when she would come back to claim her hat. But not afraid of the journey. She looked around at a strange family welcoming her in, and remembered how her mother smiled.
Two souls. A witch, and in the hamper containing all the now-eaten lunches for the ride back, a Sariant Lamb. A quiet traveller on a great journey of her own, for death and glory and salvation and terrible, terrible indigestion. But they only found the lamb the next morning.
