For the daughter of a legend, Wiskeria’s eyes were too normal. They were yellow and green, the two colors separate, not some blend of the two, and quite resembled a plain field of grass and daffodils on a sunlit day in nature.
Compared to her mother’s gaze—well, all Erin Solstice knew were stories. Numbtongue had described them like black rings in an orange glow, narrowing and narrowing towards the pupils without ever ending. Not that he’d gotten a good look at her up close.
Mrsha had all of Lyonette’s flowery prose, and she had stared down Belavierr longer than most beings in the entire world. She had written that Belavierr’s eyes, ‘instilled nothing so much as a grand fear within my soul, for I knew there were multitudes looking back at me, and I knew not whence they came and feared to find out.’
Erin, for her part, feared that Mrsha was becoming an old man in her writing style. But the image that had stuck with her most was actually Kevin’s. He had the misfortune of surviving Belavierr, and while she had not declared him a personal enemy, nor had he seen her up close, he had told Erin this:
“It felt like I was looking straight into the layers of hell. From Dante’s Inferno, you know that story? It looked like that.”
All in all, Belavierr’s mere gaze seemed like a suitable representation of the Witch of Webs, the greatest living [Witch] in this world. Wiskeria, though, was her daughter of twenty some years. She was the failure who did not encapsulate Belavierr’s dark myth, for better or for worse. She was the ordinary witch, the [General] of Riverfarm, so not that ordinary—
But she was Belavierr’s daughter, and the product of her mother raising her was everywhere about her if you looked. A [Witch] pretending to be normal without ever recognizing it. But she did try, and of all the [Witches] that Erin had met so far, she alone did not prod or poke Erin to become something.
That was why Erin liked her. And that was why, at the wee hours of dawn, Wiskeria and Erin met to begin her lessons in witchcraft.
This was, of course, before the announcement that Terandria was going to settle Izril’s new lands or the Yoldenites’ broadcast. Five days before that, to be exact. This was the day after the old man in the river had been unleashed and then pushed back to his resting place. Erin still felt ashamed and unsettled—but she wanted to learn.
Just not from Eloise, Hedag, Mavika, Agratha, Oliyaya, or any of the others. Anyways, Erin was nervous, and she had woken up and eaten her magical bisque extra early so that she could even get out of bed.
“Is this the witching hour? No, wait, that’s even earlier, right? Should we have gotten up then?”
She joked around. Wiskeria gave Erin a blank stare, which did not seem to be amused.
Unusually, Wiskeria seemed like she’d gotten less than adequate sleep, and she was a bit ruffled. She replied as she checked her hat and straightened her robes, both deep blue.
“You agreed to learn from me, Erin. Which means you do this my way. Ask all the questions you want, but when I tell you to do something—do it. If I think you’re not trying, I’ll stop and we’ll part ways.”
Erin hesitated. Her desired response was to be a bit funny. But it occurred to her that this was Wiskeria.
Belavierr’s daughter. And if Erin had learned nothing else from the ghosts of great [Witches]…she stuck a hand up in the air.
Wiskeria stared at it.
“What are you doing?”
“Question?”
“Just ask it, then.”
Okay. Erin took a breath and raised her fingers in air-quotes.
“By ‘part ways’, do you mean that if I screw up, you’ll just stop teaching me?”
“Yes.”
“Do I get second chances?”
Wiskeria looked confused.
“Why would you? No. Is that normal to…?”
A note of uncertainty entered her voice, but she caught herself and shook her head.
“No, maybe it is. But not for witchcraft. I won’t come after you or curse you or do anything else. We’ll just stop if I think I can’t teach you or you’re not trying. No second chances. We’re done.”
“For how long?”
An exasperated tone entered Wiskeria’s voice.
“Forever. Until the last Giants die. Until the marrow of the earth rots. Until time expires. I didn’t think I needed to explain that.”
Erin shrugged helplessly, but she felt a strange tingling in her stomach. Anticipation, perhaps. Nerves, as well as…well, Wiskeria didn’t understand why Erin smiled.
“I just wanted to make sure.”
Witches played for keeps. That was the true element of Wiskeria’s nature hidden behind her facade. When she said ‘done’, she meant it. If she threatened to hurt you—she meant it.
Wiskeria rubbed at her eyes and yawned. She gazed at Erin as they stood just outside Wiskeria’s home on the edge of Riverfarm, far enough out that their voices wouldn’t wake the regular citizens.
“I’m sorry. Perhaps I’m just tired. Poor sleep. I was up all night chasing a screaming mouse or something.”
“Are—are those normal around here?”
“Who knows? It doesn’t matter—seeing me when I’m not at my best will teach you how a [Witch] lives. Which is the point. You need lessons in what being a [Witch] means. You need a hat and to find your craft. Three problems. So—I am going to teach you like my mother taught me. Now—”
Wiskeria broke off and closed her eyes for a second. She stared at Erin waving her hands urgently, because the [Innkeeper] had some instant reservations.
“Um. Exactly like your mother taught you?”
Erin didn’t think she wanted to become Belavierr 2.0. However, Wiskeria just shook her head.
“Growing up as Belavierr’s daughter isn’t the same as learning witchcraft from her. It’s all I know. Now, we’ll pretend you’re learning the basics. Follow me.”
Thus began Erin’s lessons with Wiskeria. It would be a lie to say she wasn’t concerned about it all. She had messed up big with the Water Elemental, but Wiskeria was possibly the most concerning teacher out of everyone in Riverfarm she could have asked.
Belavierr’s daughter. Like it or not, that was a reputation that concerned even Erin herself.
…Let alone Mrsha, half-snoozing as she spied on the two from the corner of a house. Lyonette was yawning and holding Mrsha in her arms. Joining them was Numbtongue, wearing only pants, and Ulvama.
Not all in the same corner, even. Lyonette saw Numbtongue waving at her and pointing at Wiskeria. She made a face and shrugged as Mrsha sleepily frowned at Wiskeria.
None of Erin’s family and allies were exactly sure if this was a good idea. Nor, it seemed, was anyone else. Lyonette realized there was a hatted woman standing in the shadow of another roof and jumped as she saw Hedag, the massive woman with the axe and brown robes, silent as a statue.
Then Mrsha froze, sniffed the air, and looked up, and Numbtongue nearly drew his sword when he glanced up and saw Mavika perching on a roof’s ledge overhead. Both [Witches] glanced at Erin’s group. Then they pointedly looked at Gamel, trying to hide behind a wheelbarrow. Ulvama stared hard at Mavika, who ignored her completely. In silence, the groups eyed each other as Erin started her day.
 
——
 
Wiskeria asked Erin to copy her routine. She spoke as she worked, but not as much as Erin thought. The [Innkeeper] would learn by doing, so she ended up following Wiskeria’s morning routine.
The first thing they did was brush their teeth. Then, Wiskeria stretched for eight minutes, mostly her hands and ankles, though she had a few familiar arm and leg exercises. After that, she found two pieces of bread and toasted them over a fire she started from a candle, not any magic. She offered Erin butter and some jam.
When they started sweeping Wiskeria’s house, Erin had to say something.
“Um. Wiskeria. How long are we sweeping?”
She had been very patient. She had done the morning stuff, but the sweeping felt extraneous. Especially after eighteen minutes of methodically sweeping every part of Wiskeria’s pretty clean floors. They were in the living room when Wiskeria raised her head, as if she’d forgotten Erin were there.
“Hm? Until it’s clean.”
She gestured at the kitchen and other rooms in the home she’d been allotted. Erin hesitated.
“Is this part of the lessons?”
“Yes.”
“Ah, got it, got it. So this isn’t just part of your daily thing?”
“No, I meant to give the house a good cleaning. But this is an excellent lesson. Have you learned anything yet?”
Wiskeria glanced at Erin and couldn’t read Erin’s face. Anyone else in the world could have—Erin bit her tongue. Wiskeria just went back to sweeping. She did no magic. She didn’t even have an interesting sweeping form; Silveran would have called her ‘passable’, but it wasn’t like Wiskeria was even that good at cleaning. She wasn’t fast; she moved much like someone doing a chore did. Slowly, without wasting energy or trying to get the job done quickly.
Now, Erin had started as an [Innkeeper] by cleaning her inn. She knew cleaning. She hired Ishkr to clean because there were other things she could do with her day.
In fact, she began to speed up and used [Advanced Cleaning] to hurry the process along. Even that low-grade Skill was being used by a Level 40 [Innkeeper], so, to Erin’s delight, she saw that each pass of the broom carried all the dust and grit out in a huge sweep across the floor. She barely needed to move around chairs or lift things up; it was as if a magnetic force were sucking around them with the bristles of her broom.
Great! Erin guessed she might clean this entire room in, like, eighteen sweeps, and she’d already done nine when Wiskeria grabbed her broom handle with a huge frown.
“Stop that. No Skills. And stop rushing.”
Erin looked up. Wiskeria was methodically crouching to dust under the cupboards with a short-handled broom. At this instruction, Erin bit her lip.
“Alright. Question time, Wiskeria?”
“Go on.”
Erin waved her hands at the broom and cleaning.
“Is this…a metaphor? Or a hidden lesson? Because I’ll definitely do this if it turns out I’m training and I eventually learn how to sweep up a dust storm from practicing this. But if it’s a metaphor, I don’t get it. Am I waxing on or off or just sweeping?”
At this point, Wiskeria’s face suggested that she understood the problems every other [Witch] had had so far with Erin. She took a breath.
“If I told you, it would defeat the purpose of figuring it out.”
“Ah, so there is a lesson! Yoda-style. Got it, got it. But do you do hints?”
“No. And my mother made me do this every morning wherever we stayed. This is teaching you.”
Wiskeria waited, but Erin just nodded and, now not using her Skills, went back to sweeping. She swept for twenty more minutes with Wiskeria, even moved a table so they could properly and mundanely sweep. All the while, she watched Wiskeria, stretched her magical, mundane, and aura senses for a hint of anything unusual, but Wiskeria was just focused.
If there were something to learn, Erin didn’t get it, but she did dutifully follow instructions. She knew there was something to learn. She just hoped it wasn’t one of those boring lessons about interconnectedness or humility. She had never, ever heard the other old [Witches] of yore talking about brooms except to tell Erin that there were better ways to fly.
After that, Wiskeria looked outside and saw the sun finally rise. It seemed too early to Erin, but the High Passes weren’t blocking the sun, so it was coming up fast, even for autumn. Wiskeria led Erin outside, and they began their day with an audience with Laken Godart.
 
——
 
“I’m not angry, Erin. I understand these things happen. The river is alive? Well, Wiskeria, Witches, what do you think?”
“Prepare for the worst, hope for the best. You should raise the embankments around the river and the bridge. Tell children to be careful when playing in the water. All the sensible things an [Emperor] should do. No more, for now.”
Witch Eloise and Hedag were present in the throne room as Laken discussed yesterday’s debacle with Erin. The [Innkeeper] fidgeted. Laken turned his head, eyes closed, to each person, and that was slightly uncanny. She spoke up as Wiskeria nodded along.
“I’ll take responsibility if something happens. I really didn’t mean to. Is Cade alright? Was anyone else hurt?”
Briganda had accepted her apology stiffly, and apologized in turn for decking Erin. Laken shook his head.
“No one is hurt. We’re just discussing how to make sure no one else is in danger. Once again, I’m not blaming you, Erin.”
“Well, maybe I’m blaming myself! You can be mad at me. I can take it. Or pay for…bridge raising.”
Erin saw his eyebrows rise, and she turned redder. The [Emperor] just chuckled, then looked sideways at Lady Rie for a moment as if he’d sensed something she couldn’t see. The oddly…alive…Lady Rie, looking faintly flushed with energy, also made Erin feel slightly disconcerted. Heck, all of Riverfarm wasn’t what she expected, even the Goblins who seemed almost content. Happy?
Laken, for his part, just turned back to Erin.
“There is no need, Erin, I assure you. In fact, I was just reminded that Ryoka herself arrived when Riverfarm was in danger of being burnt by Drake saboteurs…and there was a tornado, though that was a helpful event. Largely. Tell me—how many of our friends from home are there?”
Erin jumped at hearing that, but no one else in the room did. She did notice that Wiskeria, Eloise, Hedag, and Rie all looked very interested. Prost and Gamel just waited, either content in not knowing everything or already knowing what Laken was referring to.
But he was open about the secret. Odd. Erin hesitated.
“One, two, three…Inkar…uh, at least six? And lots more elsewhere. I could ask if they want to visit later. Why? I bet Kevin would, at least. He could bring you a bike.”
Laken grinned.
“I would love that. Truly. Well, the invitation stands whenever they would like. I just mention it because—Mister Prost? We had better make sure all our homes are earthquake-proof. Possibly typhoon-safe as well.”
Erin heard a huge snort of laughter from behind Laken, and Durene, the [Paladin], covered her mouth. Maybe it was a yawn; she’d come back late this morning with the Thronebearers who had run, killed a hundred undead, and run back before levelling up. All of them.
Erin’s mouth fell open, and she realized he was making fun of her! The [Emperor] smiled, and that was that.
 
——
 
“Was that [Witch]-y? Or did I mess up in there?”
Erin and Wiskeria walked out of the throneroom, and Wiskeria raised her brows.
