“Do you think I am so unintelligent? I am Mrsha, and I know grief. I know every drop and dram of it, sire. Nor did I come here without a plan that involves you directly. You see, it behooves everyone to acknowledge when they do not know the answer to a dilemma. You have your court. I have the friendship of the Protector of Jecrass, the Eternal Ruler of Glorious Khelt, the…my paw hurts, so I shall not recite his list of titles overlong. I sought Fetohep of Khelt’s aid in this matter, and he had an idea that only you could act upon.”
“Fetohep of Khelt…? Are you serious?”
At this point, Laken Godart felt like someone was pulling a prank on him, but the little Gnoll continued.
“Do keep up with the times, Your Majesty. Hear me out and decide for yourself. I offer this, a gift, in the name of friendship and aid towards our mutual goal of helping Nanette. Not for love of you or your empire. Now, this is what Fetohep did spake thereof in most private advice to me…”
The [Emperor] listened. Then his brows rose. Then—he halted the throne room’s private meeting.
The doors opened, and the Thronebearers waited for Mrsha to be thrown out and for Lyonette to be summoned. It might be an important lesson, even for the daughter of a [Princess].
But instead—Laken Godart sent Gamel to fetch some snacks, a drink, and two cookies. Then he went back to listening to Mrsha’s advice. It…might pay to be in her good graces after all.
 
——
 
Wiskeria was following a voice. Two voices, now. Like Erin finding her craft—the [Witch of Law] was finding something.
It called to her. Though she had first taken it as danger, now she realized the voice was calling to her.
Calling, in a language—if it could even be called a language—so foreign that even she, who could speak to riverbeds and shadows and read the moons, couldn’t understand it.
It made her skin crawl. It was more than the pricking of her thumbs or the twitching of her toes. It was the clenching of her gut and the feeling that she had a date with the outhouse.
She had never felt this before. By the rumble of my bowels, something strange this way howls.
And she knew where it was. But what—even Wiskeria was not prepared for it.
Every [Witch] had heard the second voice. Only Erin and Wiskeria had heard the first. But the second had been located, and no less than thirty [Witches] were heading towards Wiskeria as she met them in the wet. Nor had it been hard for them to find what was calling to Wiskeria. It was loud, terrible, a frightening sound.
Hedag led the group as Mavika, Eloise, Agratha, Oliyaya, and all the older [Witches] advanced. Their pointed hats matched Wiskeria’s blue one and Erin’s chess hat. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes went round as she saw what was shouting at Wiskeria.
It sounded like the rumble in your bones. The impact of something heavy—but sharp. It sounded like metal’s screech and terrible duty.
The voice, the object that spoke, was in Hedag’s hands as the [Witch] stared at it.
It was her axe.
Her axe was the voice. Wiskeria halted dead in her tracks.
“Hedag? Your axe is calling me?”
“Wiskeria. What craft is this? What voice runs in my bones? No Hedag has ever known this axe to speak. It is just an axe; I have replaced handle and metal again and again. Now, though—it disturbs me. Something is screaming through my axe. I fear to let it go.”
Hedag’s smile was gone. The vast smile of the terrible [Witch] who dispensed justice in places far from cities and Watches was wary. She showed the axe, brown with faded blood and sharp—a headwoman’s blade for one purpose—to Wiskeria.
It had taken more lives than many warriors’ swords. But it was not enchanted. Oh, it had sometimes born craft on its blade to deliver a final justice—but it was not a magical item.
Yet it shouted. Every instinct in Erin’s body said that if an axe started screaming at you, either pray it was a friendly, enchanted weapon or don’t pick it up.
[Witches] were sensible. Most of them had the same opinion, but Wiskeria shook her head.
“There are two voices, Hedag. One has been calling me for days, but I couldn’t tell where it was. This axe is saying the same thing—but louder. I think…my craft calls them.”
“Your craft? But your craft is useless—”
Agratha interjected before she fell silent. Wiskeria’s gaze flicked to her in annoyance.
“That was what I began to think. It seems like we were wrong. I will take the axe and see where it leads me, Hedag.”
“It is your choice, Witch Wiskeria. But I believe we must insist on watching to see what happens. Just in case.”
Eloise called out, and the other [Witches] nodded. They were worried, Erin realized. In fact, Agratha, despite her comments, had already drawn her cudgel. Mavika’s raven was on her shoulder, and Eloise’s eyes were glowing. She had actually brought a cup of tea out, but not to sip at.
They were preparing for a fight. Slowly, Hedag offered Wiskeria the handle of her axe. The [Witch of Law] wiped both hands on her dress, then pulled a dagger from her belt in her off-hand. She reached out to take the axe as Erin fished out Pelt’s knife.
“Wiskeria. Do you want to borrow this? I’ve got a jar of acid.”
She offered the blade, and Wiskeria eyed it.
“That’s sharp. I’ll take it.”
“We could gather charms for armor or a finer weapon in half an hour. I sense little hostility, but I do not like how loudly my bones rattle.”
Oliyaya glanced around, and the other [Witches] waited. Wiskeria hesitated, then shook her head as she took Erin’s knife.
“If something happens to me—leave the axe. You will need all your craft to quiet the river. Besides—if I die, my mother will be here to see why. I don’t think I will. This is my craft. For once, it calls me.”
So saying, she took hold of Hedag’s axe, and Erin waited. She saw Mavika tense and Alevica step behind Oliyaya, but with wand at the ready. She waited for Wiskeria to speak or do something, but as soon as the [Witch of Law] touched the axe handle, the voice ceased to howl.
“Wiskeria?”
Erin saw Wiskeria standing there, hand on the axe handle. She waited for another second, but Wiskeria didn’t move. Then…Erin saw Hedag clench one hand. She stepped back, and Wiskeria stood there, holding the axe handle in midair.
And she didn’t move. Erin saw the [Witches] spread out, step back in a circle, and as she walked forwards, she saw—
Wiskeria’s eyes were rolled up in her head. They showed only the whites, and she had gone as still as a statue. The axe was dead in the air, despite the weight. Wiskeria didn’t move as rain pelted her. Erin gulped.
That wasn’t good at all. She almost reached out to touch Wiskeria, but someone, Eloise, stopped her. Not that there was any point. Wiskeria’s body stood there, but…
No one was home.
 
——
 
The age of [Shamans] was over. [Oracle] was a rare class. Same for [Warlock], even [Witch] and all the other old classes of diverse magic. No one needed the title of ‘Waning World’ to know that ghosts were gone or that magic itself had diminished.
It had been a long, long time since even Belavierr had spirit walked. The closest Wiskeria had ever come was communing with Treants at sea by her mother’s side or going after Erin as she found the old man in the river.
This was similar, but different. Wiskeria found herself going to a place that had no corporeal reality. It was an idea, a representation of something. Her soul went; her body stayed behind.
This was a deeper version of what Erin had done and far more dangerous. If she died, her body would be left behind. And anything could come back.
Worse, Wiskeria had not prepared for this. When she found herself standing in the black world that she had come to, she had neither the axe nor Erin’s knife in hand.
“Wonderful.”
Wiskeria was not afraid. She was wary. If need be, she would fight with tooth and nail and carve chunks out of her essence to fight with. Ideas were as dangerous as material things, here. Her mother had taught her how to survive a journey into dreams.
But this was no dream. Wiskeria felt senses returning to her, but oddly. She smelled and felt—but distantly. She was, after all, within a different kind of world.
Even so, there was a kind of gravity, a kind of…place. Her boots were mired in something that ran around her. She heard little but her own breathing, but she had a sense of…something in the darkness.
There was so little light. It sparked, now and then in the distance, and Wiskeria saw the faint outlines of something. A lot of things.
She was surrounded. But nothing moved, so Wiskeria assumed that if this were a trap, she would have been slain. The question was—where was she and why?
“Hello? You’ve summoned me to your very being, whomever and whatever you are. Welcome me or attack me, but don’t leave me in silence. I am Wiskeria, daughter of Belavierr. Are you my mother’s enemy or friend?”
Wiskeria asked the most obvious question. Yet she received no answer. If this was some Daemon or spirit, she would assume it held a grudge against her mother.
Nothing. Now, Wiskeria heard sounds.
Drip, drip, drip. Something was running down, dripping into the watery floor upon which she walked. She heard a grinding, as of metal on metal, and she smelled iron in the air.
Blood? In the distance, that light sparked again. Again and again, a little flash in a void of nothingness. It was not one color she could see from so far; but it illuminated everything.
Something vast loomed around Wiskeria. She looked sideways and recoiled. Something was crouching over her. Wiskeria hesitated.
“[Light].”
She knew it wasn’t going to work. Magic didn’t fizzle out here; magic might not exist here. Sure enough, her hand produced nothing. At least she had her clothes, but they were only an idea. They were not the same clothes woven by her mother. If she imagined it…
Wiskeria walked through the darkness, and the swish of her robes vanished. For a second, she felt a chill and was naked. Then her clothes reappeared.
“Just an idea.”
The robes would not protect her, nor did she wish to be injured here. So where was this?
The light was the most obvious answer. Wiskeria did not want to touch…whatever was around her.
They were huge. Some of them loomed so tall she imagined they were as large as hills, and she had the uneasy feeling of things above even them. Yet nothing moved. She did not even know if they were alive.
Other things were broken as she walked, trying to time her movements to the erratic light, flashing, guiding her forwards. She kicked something heavy and nearly fell, then bent.
What am I walking through? Wiskeria felt something…wet as her fingers touched it. She brought it up, sniffed, and licked it. Then spat.
“Blood. Blood and rust and water and more.”
She could not name all of it. But it wasn’t a river of blood, which was promising. Not only blood.
To the light, then. Wiskeria ran smack bang into something as she walked into the water. It was heavy and hard, and when she recoiled, something fell to pieces, splashing into the water.
Did something die? She felt a sigh run through this place and backed away.
“If I am intruding—tell me. I have no eyes. I cannot see. If I cause offense, I apologize.”
Did anything hear her? She knew something was here, but she could not tell if it was one or myriad. Wiskeria could only continue onwards, to the light.
It was…far. Far enough that her legs burned by the time she reached it. It was a long journey, running into things that sometimes cut her slightly. Nothing moved until she drew closer to the light, whereupon she began to sense a kind of life, here.
If the darkness from where she had begun were filled with almost nothing, closer she began to pick out—presences.
Not life. There were no lungs, nor hearts to beat. If it were a life, it was a strange one, but it appraised her. Many, many lives, some faint and flickering, others cold, and most as old as time.
Her boots began to crunch on something, and she thought she walked over corpses. But what? What?
The light. It was her answer and guide. And now—Wiskeria realized it had the same voice that Erin had called something from her world. A thin, shrill scream, like a newborn babe in an inhuman, alien tongue.
It was the source of her light and, Wiskeria realized, her anchor and guide. The axe, or what had spoken through the axe, was here, too. They must be her contacts or representatives.
But what was the light?
It lay on a piece of fallen metal, so rusted it was all red and brown, not a trace of the original metal to be seen. The object there was small, hand-sized—tiny. Wiskeria didn’t know what it was, at first, but then, as she approached, she stopped.
“Impossible.”
She used that word so seldom, but she was proud of using it here. Incorrectly, obviously, but everyone used the word incorrectly. For what Wiskeria saw was impossible to some sensibilities.
She saw a tiny object, lying as if it had fallen on the piece of metal. It flashed lights at what she now realized were regular intervals. Not one color. There were three, and the little box with the slanted top and bottom was so small she could hold it up like a lantern.
Which is what it was. But there it shone.
Green, yellow, red.
Green, yellow, red.
The traffic light? It hung in her grip by a little loop, like a lantern, and brightened as she picked it up. Wiskeria felt a chill run down her arms. She began to sense a connection, but then she heard that voice like the falling of an axe blade.
Like a Hedag’s smile. She whirled, and the lantern shone with all three lights, no longer flashing the single pattern. It grew brighter, and at last she saw what this place was.
The first thing she saw was the axe. And it was the axe. Hedag’s axe was in this place. Or rather…
The idea of the axe. If you had no understanding in this place, it might be impossible to comprehend the connection. Wiskeria saw a long piece of rusted steel, tarnished and red in many places, rising from the ground. It had the shape of the axe—all in metal—but the single piece branched out.
As if a tree made of rusted metal were growing from the red water filled with rust and blood. The tree was made up of smaller axes, each blade similar in purpose, sometimes not in design. Hafts of wood transmuted to ancient metal. They dripped with blood.
Most of the axes were broken. In fact—all of them were. The tree had grown fairly tall, such that it was perhaps thirty feet tall in Wiskeria’s perception. Similar to a tree of her world—but dying.
Every single branch was broken. Red blood dripped from the broken branches, like blood. The entire thing was—perishing. Save for one thing.
