“Person.”
The [Shaman] was moody. Numbtongue was amused.
“We slept in the Goblinlands. They’re healthy.”
“Really? Any want to come back to Liscor with us? Pebblesnatch? I invited another [Chef] to my inn, but we could always use two!”
Erin expected Pebblesnatch to leap at the offer, but the Cave Goblin just hesitated. She scratched at her head and then, to Erin’s amazement, spoke.
“This place nice.”
“Aaah! You can talk?”
Ulvama rolled her eyes.
“All Goblins talk, stupid.”
Erin danced around in delight and amazement.
“But Pebblesnatch never spoke! You can talk?”
“Am learn!”
“I am learning.”
Numbtongue corrected the beaming Pebblesnatch. Instantly, the Cave Goblin scowled and raised a ladle of wrath to hit him. He raised a fist, and she reconsidered. In that sense, Goblins were like [Witches].
“You really like it here?”
Erin tried not to show she was hurt. Pebblesnatch avoided her gaze, and Ulvama sneered.
“No Goblins want to go. They all…they all think here is safer, as if here is better. Maybe it is, but there’s no tribe here. Just the blind [Emperor].”
She burst out, too mad to even pretend to speak ineloquently. Erin saw Numbtongue nod.
“Weird place. There’s no real Chieftain. Some people like Raidpear and Leafarmor are sort of Chieftains…but not.”
Erin knew enough about Goblins to understand how strange that was. She harrumphed, not exactly liking Laken being praised for his Goblin-relations. Then she nodded at the door.
“Well, I was learning from Wiskeria, and that was intense. She’s…real. So real it feels like she’s going to throw me off a cliff and I’ll become a [Witch] before I land or go splat.”
“Ooh. Splat-meat. Already mushy. Easy to cook.”
Pebblesnatch nodded knowingly in a way Erin didn’t like. As for Numbtongue, he nodded understandingly. Ulvama just snorted.
“Go jump already, stupid. You have the class. Go. Shoo. Annoying [Innkeeper] finally has annoying people to teach her. [Witches] this. Witches that. All hats and craft. Bleh.”
She pulled one eye down and stuck out her tongue in the most immature way Erin could imagine. She hadn’t seen someone do that in years. She gave Ulvama a long look as Numbtongue sipped his coffee.
“Don’t like your coffee, Ulvama? I love it.”
“Tea is better.”
That one comment earned Ulvama the approval of the [Tea Witch], who did not appreciate this competitor to her domain. Erin sighed and pushed herself up.
“Alright—fine. But if I get swirly eyes and start cackling at the moon, I’m blaming you! Anyways, I have to go. I’m apparently making a hat.”
Ulvama’s ears perked up. She watched Erin leave as Numbtongue nudged her.
“Psst. Ulvama. How important is a hat?”
For answer, the [Shaman] rolled her eyes.
“How important is your guitar, [Bard]?”
Numbtongue eyed his guitar. He glanced at Erin and raised his brows.
“That important?”
“Yup.”
All three Goblins watched Erin head out to get back to her training. No wonder her being here was so important. She really was a bad [Witch].
 
——
 
The thing was, it was hard to tell who was most offensive to the [Witches]. Erin…or Wiskeria.
One was a joking, irreverent, non-conformist as easy to pin down as a feather in a hurricane.
The other was the greatest heir to their class, who wanted to pretend to be normal while speaking the language of the Elementals and refusing to teach anyone else.
Both were not just offensive to sensibilities, either. They were actively, dramatically rude and insulting at times.
That was why only the most patient [Witch] would suffer them making a hat for Erin as part of the competitions to make a hat that Riverfarm’s folk would wear. Something stylish, something…well, impressive. It would certainly boost the [Witch]’s acclaim who won, but there was also personal pride.
Agratha versus Oliyaya. So it was no less than Agratha who let the two [Witches] work on Erin’s hat as she and her friends and apprentices designed a hat for the non-[Witches].
Agratha, the [Teacher Witch], was the third-most abhorrent [Witch] to many other [Witches]. In this room was the trifecta of irritation. What was really impressive, to the outside observer, was that even here, they annoyed each other.
Erin Solstice stared down at buttons and beads and thread. Oh, so much thread. Cloth to form a hat, pieces of wire to create supports to sew onto, scissors and bobbins and…
She was not a sewing-person. She didn’t see a sewing machine, and when she heard she’d have to hand-sew her hat, she nearly backed out altogether.
“You can have help. It’d be embarrassing, but the hat’s quality can vary. Knowing what it should look like is the first step. Do you have something in mind? Remember what I told you—base it around your certainty. If you knew your craft, that’d help, but a [Witch] can wear whatever hat she thinks is good. Think of Eloise or Hedag.”
“Hedag wears a brown shoe on her head.”
Erin muttered, and one of Agratha’s students laughed before clapping a hand over her mouth. Agratha’s own lips twitched as she worked on her masterpiece.
Agratha wanted to create a practical hat, a kind of all-purpose cap for [Farmers] and [Crafters] alike. She was engineering it to be a cross between the wide-brimmed caps you needed to work in the sun with something closer to a baseball cap for versions indoors. And she had put Riverfarm’s pyramid-logo on the front.
It looked almost too plain—until you saw Agratha’s vision, which was to make this so popular anyone would try it on because it represented Riverfarm. She was experimenting with colors to see what looked best.
Casual-wear. Oliyaya, apparently, had gone the opposite way. Like the argument between their ideals, she was creating a hat for a few. A hand-stitched eye upon the top of two ragged wings, dark as night, and all enchanted so that the wearer could walk around in the dark like one of the [Darksky Riders] and see in every environment. A tricorne hat oozing with macabre style that only one or two would ever be made of.
And Erin had to make her own hat. She didn’t want to. She eyed the sketches of a traditional pointy hat and some of the examples of Eloise’s gardener hat with flowers, or unusual ones like Alevica’s, which sometimes had glass goggles enchanted for flying hanging off them. And still, she said the most abhorrent thing for a [Witch].
“Do I need a hat? I just don’t feel like a hat-person. Is this the kind of thing I have to wear all the time, or could I put it on for special occasions like when I’m doing magic?”
Wiskeria and Agratha glowered at Erin as she raised her hands.
“I’m just saying! I don’t know if it’s my style. Once you go hat, you can’t go back. I think that’s a saying. What if I did the thing where I have a hat like this?”
She sketched one in the air over her head, and Wiskeria slapped her hand down.
“You don’t deserve that hat. If I thought you took it seriously, that would be fine. But you’re taking it too lightly. Don’t laugh, and don’t make fun of hats. Not here.”
“Or what?”
“Or everyone in here will poke you.”
The younger [Witches] and Agratha looked up. The thing about sewing circles was…if someone really got on your nerves?
Everyone had needles. Erin eyed them and mollified her tone slightly. She hadn’t realized how dangerous an angry [Sewer] could be.
“I get it. It’s just—I don’t think I’ll look good in one.”
“Then make one that suits, my dear. No one can look bad in a hat if it’s made for them.”
Agratha sounded kind, like the best of teachers, if somewhat annoying. Erin squirmed.
“Yeah, but I just don’t like having to wear one. You know, it feels like being forced to, and I hate that. I could never do a dress code.”
Even the [Teacher Witch]’s smile slipped. She almost snapped back, but Wiskeria eyed Erin’s clothing.
“Why? You wear that apron all the time, and you’re not at work. You don’t mind that. Why don’t you really want a hat?”
Erin froze. She was indeed wearing her innkeeper’s outfit, even though Selys and Drassi had sent her with tons of stylish clothing. She had chosen it…perhaps deliberately…as a kind of defiance against her lessons. She squirmed, fidgeted, and then turned her head. But fixed between all the other [Witches]’ stares, Erin turned beet red and finally admitted the truth.
“I—I—I’m not sure I’m cool enough to be a [Witch] all the time, Wiskeria. I can’t ooze style and self-assurance like that. I’ve been worried all day because Califor, the [Witches] of old like Somillune? I don’t think I can ever be that—wonderful. [Witches], I mean. They’re magic and stories, and I’m afraid I’ll let down their class. Can’t I look like this?”
She said it, and the hostile mood of the sewing circle changed at once. Some of the apprentices glanced up, fumbling with beads and decorating their own hats as they pleased. Agratha’s scowl turned into a beaming smile, and another [Witch] with her hair braided under a hat spiraling upwards in a swirl of different-colored cloths exhaled.
“Aah.”
Ah, so that was it. Another piece of the Erin-puzzle fell into place. The same doubt Wiskeria had seen was all over her. Wiskeria looked thoughtfully at Erin and nodded.
“Yet you tried to bind an Elemental to this land. That’s a level of witchcraft few people can do. You want that, but not to be a [Witch] at all times? I see. You haven’t learned my lessons yet. How about this? Help me sew for a bit. We need to teach you basic threadwork, anyways.”
So she began with showing Erin how to thread a needle and the most basic of tasks, and once again, Erin found herself slightly bored, but less so than sweeping because the [Witches] did talk. They talked about work, projects, gossiped about folks in Riverfarm—but more interesting than regular gossip.
“Cheating on her husband? Well, that will be a to-do when it comes to light. Tsk, tsk.”
Agratha’s coven discussed an affair occurring in Riverfarm, complete with salacious details like the couple meeting in the forest in the dead of night. Unlike gossip, though, this didn’t end with them all tut-tutting or one person speculating on what might happen. Another circle might be the leak from which the entire affair was exposed by. Agratha’s?
“We should have the truth out before it festers. The trick is keeping the husband from going off in a rage and the couple from becoming pariahs—for too long. How sensible is the man?”
Another [Witch], Qitene, the one with the curving headpiece of colors, was a [Cloth Witch], and she was even a Stitch-woman. She was best at working here, although she seemed oddly intimidated by Wiskeria, even though the [Witch of Law] wasn’t doing more than teaching Erin how to sew a straight line. She responded.
“He listens to [Witches], and I think he knows something is amiss. As for a temper—who doesn’t run hot? At least the other fellow has no fiancée or partner of his own.”
Agratha nodded.
“Then let’s pluck the thorn before it festers. I, myself, might go down and have a talk with the man. Does anyone have some small bit of craft for the daughter? Something to delight a girl of six. I need a suitable vintage if he might want to drink, and I will prevail on the [Chef] for a good meal. Then we will have a chat, he and I.”
“And the partners?”
Agratha’s smile was neither nice nor malicious as her fingers worked over the cloth with a needle of her own.
“I understand one of the two is a former [Trader] in class? A month or two of transporting goods to the Unseen Empire’s other settlements and allies might keep them out of Riverfarm. I shall ask His Majesty or Mister Prost about it.”
Erin listened thoughtfully as the coven agreed this might be for the best. In this way, she was reminded of her inn. She had bad guests.
Even Relc had been one, and Menolit too, at times. Agratha’s methods were more direct. She nudged and used very basic ideas like…talking to someone or reassigning the cheating couple to prevent the social wrath of Riverfarm from falling on them.
Her craft, her magic, was very mundane. But it was there, like the little toy that Agratha accepted from one of the other [Witches]. It was one of those wooden propeller-toys that you could spin in your hands to make fly. Only, this one could hover and spin for far longer than it should or return to you if you shot it high into the air. Agratha bowed and owed the other [Witch] a small debt.
“I shall take his daughter’s laughter and make him a brooch of it to wear, that poor man. If he is wise, and if his friends and family support him, that should balm the wound in his heart.”
Subtle magic, for a [Witch] in the modern day. Thoughtfully, Erin doodled on a piece of foolscap as Agratha’s own hat, the cheerful red hat over a sweater and robes, made her look so normal.
Yet she still had magic. Which begged the question—
“What does Oliyaya’s craft look like, Witch Agratha? I know you’re opposed to her. If this is how you help people, how does she?”
Agratha’s smile slipped as she tucked the propeller toy away. The other [Witches] glanced up, and Wiskeria sighed as Agratha replied a bit stiffly, but with a smile for Erin.
“Oliyaya is a [Witch] of traditions, Erin. I’m sure you’ve seen her penchant for drama and frights. Well, her craft is not to help people, I’m afraid. She would simply sell the man a hex to torment the couple or the cheating woman her own protections. She would let a community fall to ruin, tormenting each other.”
The other [Witches] nodded, and Erin winced as she imagined what would happen if you could literally buy a hex to cast on someone you didn’t like. She turned to Wiskeria, and the [Witch of Law] rubbed at one ear. She glanced around—then replied, not quite looking at Agratha.
“Some would say that leaving people to administer their own justice is fairer than guiding a place. If everyone has stones and throws them, they learn not to throw them unless they want a street full of broken windows. Oliyaya’s never been run out of any city, Erin. She has left—before they collapsed, but she would tell you they were already rotten. Good should be good, and bad should be bad, as vividly as possible. Otherwise, everything is just flat and boring.”
She paused as Agratha’s gaze sparked with annoyance, and she calmly met the [Teacher Witch]’s eyes.
“…Is what Oliyaya would say, if she were here. Perhaps not as politely.”
Agratha turned to Erin, smiling.
“That is Oliyaya’s perspective, Miss Solstice. I hope when you find your craft and hat, you’ll use it for the good of as many people as possible. A [Witch] does not need to be feared.”
“Sometimes, she does. They should fear you, or how else will they respect you when you need to stand against them?”
