She was taking lessons from a [Chef] in Pallass in a cooking segment. The scrying spell lit up the entire river as Wiskeria looked at Erin.
“Did you know that would happen?”
Erin winked at her.
“Nope.”
The river fell. The promised wrath never came, nor did it turn into a roving Elemental. In the days to come, people would be wary of it and the levees would still rise, for it was a wild thing of ancient times. Children would be cautioned to be very careful of the river.
All this was fair, even if the old man did not strike at Riverfarm again. But the one thing that would define him and give him a new nickname in the days to come was a strange phenomenon.
They called him the Scrying River, because now and then, one of the television broadcasts would appear for as long as a mile on the water, and a passerby could watch the news on his surface.
All because of one [Witch]. But then—Erin was not the only one. She had given a river something to watch and learn from. In the days to follow, Wiskeria’s craft would be even more notable.
Visitors coming to Riverfarm and seeing the new traffic lights would be instructed as to their simple usage. It made traffic easier, and with the new road lines, traffic jams were less frequent.
But bad and hasty and careless drivers still existed. So someone running a red light or improperly turning would break that law of traffic—and hear an enraged shriek. Then they would look up and see a being of metal glaring and shining a light on them from on top of one of the hanging traffic lights.
The Elemental of Law’s power was mostly to shame someone. It would scuttle after a dog relieving itself on the sidewalk if its owner didn’t pick up the waste. It stared and shrilled at someone breaking traffic laws or tossing trash on the ground.
It was the most annoying thing in the world, but it was young. And growing. What it became…well, that was for Riverfarm to see.
 
——
 
Much love to them. Really. Erin found a lot to admire in Riverfarm. From the friendly people, the tolerance to Goblins, and, she had to admit, the [Witches] themselves.
But it definitely wasn’t her place. Nor did she think she and Laken were on the same page. They would best be described as how Erin liked Wiskeria.
Someone who was slightly opposed to her viewpoint, but who she could respect. That was a good way of seeing it. It was hard for Erin to be humble, sometimes; she liked doing things her way.
But she felt like she’d learned a lot from the [Witches]. As Agratha pointed out, Erin had a lot still to learn.
“Fundamentals, my dear. Fundamentals. Can’t you stay another week?”
“I, uh, have to get back. I heard something crazy is happening back home. There’s yodeling Drakes, and I’m missing it!”
Erin had spent three more days in Riverfarm, not blowing anything up or causing chaos. She actually felt bad about going, but she knew she had to. Agratha sighed.
“Well, we may have to send some teachers to help you out. As a [Witch] to another [Witch], of course. Liscor does seem like a fortuitous place to be, and as Wiskeria proves—[Witches] can be parts of cities.”
“Not I.”
Mavika croaked, but even she nodded to Agratha’s statement. Their class was changing. Oliyaya chuckled.
“Perhaps I shall send Alevica to visit and impart lessons and gifts.”
“Er, no, that’s fine.”
“Master!”
Alevica protested at the same time as Erin. She was going and saying her farewells to everyone. But what was notable was who was going with her group. And who was not.
Numbtongue was clasping arms with Leafarmor and Raidpear, and Gothica was jabbering to some of the Goblins who’d begun adopting her style. Ulvama stood, ignoring Pebblesnatch as the [Cook] waved and sniffed into her apron—until Pebblesnatch ran over and hugged her leg. Then Ulvama patted her head.
But Pebblesnatch was not coming with Erin. Nor were the other Goblins. She’d asked them, and they were staying. Even Laken was mildly surprised as he shook Erin’s hand.
“I thought one would go, at least.”
“They’re your people.”
Erin couldn’t meet Laken’s eyes, so she tightened her grip slightly.
“I guess they trust you enough to stay. Take good care of them.”
“I will.”
He returned the grip, and the two glanced at each other. They’d had a few words in private, and Laken sighed as his head turned to ‘survey’ Erin’s companions.
“You have been the more interesting and delightful of the two visits I’ve had from—friends from home, Erin. Less casualties than when Ryoka visited, but my invitation stands if she ever comes by.”
Erin snorted. They were loading up the carriages as Inkar shook Prost’s hand and he gave Garia a huge load of seeds and goods for Wailant. Lyonette was talking to Eloise, and Mrsha?
Mrsha was inspecting a little [Witch] standing alone, looking lost. Laken and Erin turned as Nanette waited by the carriages.
That was the last thing. Laken and Erin walked over, and the goodbyes halted as Erin bent over.
“Nanette? Are you sure you want to come with me? It’s your choice.”
“If Mother wanted me to, I’ll go.”
The little [Witch] whispered. She had sat with Nanette an entire day and tried to talk to her about Califor or ask her how she was feeling, but it was as if she weren’t reaching Nanette. The girl stood like she had sat, alone, even with Mrsha right next to her.
The little Gnoll girl was staring pointedly at Laken, and even if the [Emperor] couldn’t see it, he could sense the stare. So he knelt.
“Nanette.”
“Yes, Your Majesty?”
Laken opened his eyes, a rarity, as if hoping to see her. His voice was kind as he spoke.
“The [Witches] tell me you bear a heavy, heavy burden. So heavy it’s crushing you, but they cannot take it away. Because you are a [Witch], you carry it like a real thing.”
He meant her hat. Now, Erin sensed it. She looked at Nanette’s cute, pointed hat, and it seemed like the heaviest thing in existence. The little [Witch] hung her head, and Erin didn’t know how she stood.
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
“Do you have to carry it, Nanette? Can you let it go? It will be your end, Eloise tells me.”
The [Witches] nodded as one. They looked at Nanette along with Riverfarm’s folk. The girl’s blank look turned into something closer to a stare in this reality. She gazed at Laken—then slowly tipped her hat up.
The rains had long since gone from Riverfarm, and the autumn day was sunny enough. The mud had long since dried, and the overflooded areas were recovering slightly.
But as Nanette tipped her hat up, water fell. It rushed from her hat, as if the entire river were encapsulated there. It poured down around her hair as Laken jumped and stood. A rushing torrent spread across the ground, rushing past Mrsha, the surprised Goblins, and the [Witches]. They stood as it poured over Nanette’s head.
Water without end, for fifteen, sixteen seconds. Then she lowered the brim and stood, dripping. Erin was drenched, but not by rainwater nor river water.
Tears. And there were more under Nanette’s hat. So many it seemed like her neck would break. Her face was blank and empty.
“I cannot take off my hat, Your Majesty. Nor remove them. I’m sorry.”
“Your class came to you too soon.”
That was all Agratha said, and there were tears in her own eyes. Hedag lowered her head, and Nanette shook her head slightly.
All Laken did was exhale. He looked down at Nanette, and his own eyelashes fluttered, and he brushed at them. Then he glanced at the little girl watching him and nodded.
“You were right, Mrsha.”
Every head turned to Mrsha, with suspicion and wrath and sudden nervousness. But the girl sat there, waiting. Laken looked down at Nanette.
“Nanette Weishart. In deference to the will of Califor, whom I consider both savior and hero of Riverfarm, the great [Witch] of her era, I will let you go wherever you wish. Riverfarm will always welcome you, but it occurs to me that you may see no relief. No rest, so long as your hat hangs so heavy. Your very class weighs you down, and I fear you will drown. So—I have been told that there is something I can do for you. By a very wise…very connected young girl.”
His head turned sardonically, and Nanette looked confused. Laken slowly held his hand out.
“I am an [Emperor], Nanette. While you stand here, you are still a citizen of the Unseen Empire. That is the pact your coven has made with me. If you wish it—I will remove your class.”
Erin’s eyes widened. The [Witches] looked at each other, and a murmur rose from those listening.
An [Emperor] could do that? Only Ulvama didn’t seem surprised, and Eloise and Lyonette. But they all watched as Nanette stared up at Laken.
“My class? But…I’m a [Witch].”
“I know. You don’t have to be. It may be easier for you. It is your choice. No one will force you.”
Nanette raised a hand to her hat. Her hands, so still, suddenly trembled. A note of emotion entered her voice. Uncertainty. Fear.
“It’s…it’s heavy. But it’s my hat. My mother made it for me. It’s my class.”
Laken waited. Nanette shook her head. She backed up.
“No. It’s my hat. It’s—all I have left.”
She would have turned and fled, Erin was sure, but someone else spoke. Erin was searching for the right words, and it turned out she didn’t need to. Not yet. She would, but Wiskeria stepped forwards.
“Nanette.”
The girl whirled to her as if afraid Wiskeria would snatch her hat away. She clung to the brim with her hands, but Wiskeria just looked down at her.
“It is killing you. You bore happiness well, but not sadness. Califor would—”
“She wouldn’t take my hat! Not ever!”
Nanette shouted back, a note of desperation in her tone. She stepped back, and Wiskeria shook her head.
“Of course not. She would never do that. But I think she’d be quite sensible. Do you know what I think she’d say?”
“What?”
The girl stared up at Wiskeria through wretchedly empty eyes. Brown and too old, now. Wiskeria looked down at her and hesitated. She turned, and an [Innkeeper] closed her eyes.
Erin Solstice whispered.
“I think…if Califor were here, Nanette, she would tell you this. ‘A hat is a hat. A girl is a girl. If it is too heavy for you to bear now—put it down. Put it down and rest awhile. Then come back when you’re ready for it.’”
The young [Witch]’s head turned, and her fingers trembled, as if holding back a dam.
“Pick it up later? Can I do that?”
“Of course you can. A [Witch] is always a [Witch]. Class or not.”
Agratha herself said that, and Oliyaya nodded along with Eloise and every [Witch] present. Nanette looked at Laken. Her fingers tightened—and then, with a sob in her voice, she spoke.
“It’s heavy. It’s so heavy I can’t feel a thing. I can’t let go. Can you hold it for me? Just for a bit?”
“…Of course.”
He whispered. Laken Godart reached out as Nanette slowly held up her hat. No water fell, but her arms trembled.
“How do I…?”
“Just accept it. You are no [Slave], nor is this a sin. Will you put it aside? Nanette Weishart—do you relinquish your class?”
She looked at him. There was no ceremony, nor did Erin feel anything but a prickling, goosebumps on her skin. Like a trembling bubble about to burst? Like someone reaching out and lifting something impossibly light. With no substance. A hand, reaching out and touching the fabric of the world.
Nanette’s eyes opened wide, but there were no tears. Nothing—she looked at Erin.
“I can’t feel anything. Yes. Just for a bit. I want to cry.”
She let go of the hat, and it drifted down into Laken’s hands. The [Witches] sighed, and the [Emperor] caught the hat—then his hands trembled. He tried to hold it, but the weight of that piece of cloth bore him down to his knees until it pressed his hands to the ground. It weighed him down—until Nanette reached down.
She picked it up and stared at the blue hat, sewn for a girl. It was just a piece of cloth in her hands. She tried it on, and it slipped on her hair. Then she looked around.
“I don’t…I don’t feel a craft. I don’t know what you’re feeling, Your Majesty.”
She looked about and met Erin’s eyes. And saw Mrsha looking at her worriedly. Nanette stretched and looked around.
“I feel light. I don’t feel a thing.”
Tears were running from Agratha’s eyes, so she took her spectacles off. Eloise silently handed her a handkerchief, and Hedag’s smile was pained. Mavika bowed her head, but when Nanette looked at her anxiously, the [Crow Witch] spoke.
“If you were sure—you were a [Witch] then and now. What will you do, Nanette?”
“I guess…”
The girl gulped. Now she looked uncertain and terribly afraid. Laken turned his blind gaze to her, and Nanette’s voice wobbled.
“Does she—does my mother have a grave? I never even asked.”
 
——
 
Califor’s grave was one of many for the people who had perished in Riverfarm’s fires. Laken had asked if a more suitable tomb would fit, and the [Witches] had claimed it should not matter. Her legacy mattered more than her resting place, so he had commissioned statues and ensured her story would not be lost.
The tomb was square and simple, because it had to be, because there were so many. Flowers decorated many, wreaths and gifts.
Califor’s was empty, brushed clean, but empty, as if waiting for Nanette to visit. The girl still had her robes. Her mother had made them. But she took that blue hat and placed it on top of the tombstone, just so, as if it were wearing the hat.
The wind blew, and the hat fluttered in the wind, but it didn’t budge. It was far too heavy. Nanette bowed, spreading her robes out as if she were bowing to the [Witch] herself. Then she turned.
“I’ll come back for it. Alright?”
“It will be waiting for you.”
The [Emperor] promised. Nanette looked back at the stone. She felt at her head, and her tangled hair was messy. But she looked lighter. She blinked around in the sun, and her stomach rumbled. She stared at the little Gnoll and then at Erin.
Then—and only then—she seemed shy and afraid.
“M-Miss Erin? May I ask a question? Is it an inn my mother wanted me to stay at?”
“Yes, an inn. Do you want to come? We can always come back. I promise.”
Erin was suddenly terrified, anxious, and she wanted to reassure Nanette and say all the things the girl hadn’t heard. But Lyonette nudged Erin aside.
“Hello, Nanette. I’m Lyonette, and I’m very pleased to meet you. Your mother was a grand woman and a [Witch].”
“Oh. Thank you…are you royalty?”
Nanette shook her hand timidly, and Lyonette smiled.
“Whatever would give you that idea?”
Nanette peeked at the Thronebearers shyly, then Mrsha ran up. She held out a paw to shake, and the girl hesitated.
“I—I don’t mind going, Miss Erin. Your Highness. It feels like I’m waking up. May I ask a question?”
