“You’re not on the approved list. But, uh—you’re—I saw you on the scrying spell! You were at General Shivertail’s funeral! Standing right there!”
He gestured. Selys felt a pang in her stomach. She felt a nudge in her side and elbowed the air. Hard. She heard a muffled yelp. The librarian didn’t notice.
“That’s right. I couldn’t stay in Liscor, so I wanted to visit Pallass. It’s an amazing city. I know I’m not on the list, but I thought I could just…”
The Drake fumbled for his papers.
“We’re not supposed to let anyone in. But you’re—I mean, you knew—I don’t see what the harm is. If you’re just looking. I can just write you in as…well, I don’t know if I need to write this. Purpose of visit? Why not? I was devastated to hear about General Shivertail’s passing. Those damn Goblins.”
Selys nodded and made appropriate sounds, sensing someone move past her. Within five minutes, she was past the front desk and moving down the shelves. The helpful Drake had even pointed her in the direction of the texts she’d wanted to find. She paused at a shelf and whispered.
“Are you there?”
“You hit me.”
Pisces’ injured voice was a whisper. He needn’t have bothered; few people were in the archive and none of them were in this section. Selys glared in the direction of the voice.
“Be glad I didn’t do worse.”
“Be glad the [Invisibility] spell didn’t fail right then and there! Physical contact makes it break!”
Pisces retorted angrily. Selys paused.
“You should have mentioned that.”
“I didn’t expect to be attacked! Now, take that book off the shelves in front of you. The one with the green cover. That’s the one we’re looking for, or so I believe.”
Selys did so, carefully. She opened the book, noting the title. General Ironscales, Assorted Myths and Factual Accounts.
“Huh. I didn’t know there was a book like this.”
Pisces’ voice was dismissive.
“Opportunistic [Writers]. This one appears to be a compilation of gossip more than a piece by an accredited [Historian]. But myth may be what we need, so long as it’s detailed. Open it.”
Selys did. The words on the page were tightly written, and she read quickly. A [Receptionist] had to have the [Speed Reading] skill or go insane. Pisces was almost as quick, and he quickly helped her locate the section they were looking for.
“Here we are. The Heartflame Breastplate. Rumored to be worn by…part of a complete set…a complete set? Really?”
Selys glanced up. She felt an invisible hand turn the page of the book she was holding. Pisces’ voice was animated.
“Fascinating. I had no idea! This armor was known for far more than its defensive properties. Look at this passage. ‘One rumor attributes the armor’s defensive abilities to more than just its intrinsic toughness. Legend has it that General Ironscales would walk into battle surrounded by a barrier of flames that could turn aside arrow and spell alike. This rumor may have been due to her ability to breathe fire, but a separate and verified historical entry notes her ‘protection of flames’, rather than ‘protection from flames’ or other wording.’”
“Is that what you were talking about?”
Selys’ heart beat faster. The Heartflame Breastplate was more than just a powerful piece of armor? Pisces sounded excited.
“This is why I told you that research was essential. No doubt other cities are looking into the myths, as well. Too often, people assume to know everything, when in fact, the truth is only a fraction of the whole! Let’s see if we can find any more references to the armor.”
Selys paged through the book, noting every reference to the Heartflame Breastplate she could. There were more books that mentioned the legendary artifact, and with the helpful Drake librarian’s help, Selys went through lists of Drake artifacts, accounts of wars involving the breastplate, and more fables about Ironscales and the artifact.
“This is incredible.”
Hours later, Selys found herself leaving the archives, head spinning. She had learned so much about the Heartflame Breastplate. It had been part of a set, it had a power—all of the stories pointed to it having some kind of flame enchantment that was activated by means of some kind of secret command—and yet there was so much she didn’t know. She walked down the busy street, talking quietly with an invisible Pisces.
“I had no idea it was this famous. I mean, sure, you hear children’s stories, but there are so many! Like the Spear of Kissle, or the tale about Hessca the [Dragonslayer]. None of that’s real.”
“And yet, there is a nugget of truth in some legends. You possess the Heartflame Breastplate. An artifact worthy of any Walled City, any hero. You do. Is that not enough to make you believe in some of the mythology?”
“Yes. No. It doesn’t seem real.”
Selys kept her voice low. Anyone looking at her would just think she was talking to herself. Pisces’ voice was thoughtful.
“You are taking this quite calmly. Are you sure you’re not in a state of shock? I can hardly believe your level-headedness myself.”
Selys shook her head.
“I don’t know. The Heartflame Breastplate? Me, owning it? Thanks to Uncle Zel? I—I still haven’t really felt like it was mine, you know. It’s so sudden. They just showed me the armor, said it was mine, and told me to give it to someone.”
She walked past a burly Drake who was walking her way and sensed Pisces shifting closer to her. There was another group of Drakes walking, and he had to move to avoid them, too. Selys paused until she felt him nearby and went on.
“It’s all too fast. This wasn’t supposed to happen to me, you know? Maybe to Erin. But not me. I just knew my uncle. And he was a hero, but I—it’s too sudden. I can’t believe it happened. And the armor only belongs to me because he’s gone, you know? It’s like everyone’s forgotten that. But I—”
She looked around and realized she couldn’t sense Pisces’ robes swishing by her side. Instead, the burly Drake she’d just passed had turned and was walking her way. Too close to her. Selys walked away from him, irritated, but he was right by her side. What was his problem? She turned and glared at him.
“Hey, some personal space here?”
“Selys Shivertail?”
He looked down at her. He had dark orange scales and a scar over his snout. Selys paused.
“That’s me. How do you know my name?”
She looked at him and realized the big Drakes she’d passed were also standing behind him. A lot of them. In fact, they looked like they were all following her. Selys backed up a step. The Drake with orange scales nodded.
“That’s her. Do it.”
Selys turned and shouted.
“Hel—”
Something hit Selys on the back of the head. She sagged and someone caught her. Selys heard a panicked shout from someone across the street and then a voice.
“Let’s move!”
The world turned black as Selys felt herself being carried away at speed. She saw the empty street and Drakes staring at her in alarm as her head lolled back, but no one was following her as the thugs ran with her. No one was coming to save her.
No one at all.
