“There’s been a concerning development. I’ve kept it quiet, but I thought you and your aunt should know. We had a [Healer] remove the…armor from General Shivertail. However, the Drake complained of an odd feeling and diagnosed himself as sick shortly after touching General Shivertail’s body. He fell ill and passed away within the hour, despite the use of healing potions and antidotes.”
“What?”
Selys stared at Zevara in shock. The Drake woman nodded grimly.
“We’ve decided to cremate General Shivertail’s corpse in light of these events. Magnolia Reinhart did warn us—I exchanged a [Message] spell with her people, and they’re convinced that whatever that was only affects those that touch the body.”
“Won’t anyone mind burning…?”
“It’s standard procedure with some burials. It won’t be out of place. We can claim it was in his will. I know this is all very hard—”
“For me?”
Selys stared at Zevara. The Watch Captain nodded uncertainly.
“It must be hard to deal with.”
She saw the [Receptionist] narrow her eyes in the rain. Selys spoke slowly.
“My uncle’s dead. That’s my business. I’m not the one dealing with his dead body killing people. I’ll be fine, Watch Captain. You do your job. I’ll be fine.”
She turned and walked away. Zevara stared at her back. She turned and found someone to glare at. The Gnoll [Guardsman]. He flicked his ears unhappily as the rain pattered off his armor and helmet. Zevara glared at him. Damn Gnoll hearing.
“You didn’t hear anything.”
He saluted.
“Not a thing, Captain.”
 
—-
 
Everything was a blur. Meaningless, but inescapable in its own way. Selys stood in the wet square as people worked around her. In silence. The crowd that had gathered was tired, wet, but determined to be there. They weren’t openly mourning—they had shed all their tears a week ago. But they came, Gnolls and Drakes and Humans.
Erin came. So did Mrsha, Lyonette, and the adventurers. Selys couldn’t face them, so she stood next to Zevara as the Watch Captain kept the center of the plaza clear. Selys was allowed to be there. She was a relative. People stared at her and Tekshia when she appeared.
Zel’s funeral was a production of the highest order. He was a war hero, and this event mattered. It had to matter. So Liscor had pulled out all the stops it could. So had Pallass. The Walled City had sent a company of [Soldiers] to match Liscor’s own 4th Company. Embria and her men stood in the rain, presenting their arms. Pallass’ dignitaries and senators from their Assembly of Crafts stood with Liscor’s Council for the world to see. Every Drake city was watching.
And yet, there was a limit to how much they could do. When all was said and done, this was a funeral. It couldn’t be a parade, and so the grandeur and effort of the cities was in appearance. The funeral itself was shorter. Somber. Quiet, save for the rain.
It happened too quickly for Selys. Pallbearers of the city’s finest Drakes carried Zel Shivertail’s body through the streets, past silent crowds. Ilvriss, Zevara, Embria…a [General] from Pallass, other officers Selys didn’t know, carried the casket. They laid Selys’ uncle down on a pyre of wet wood. Then they gave speeches.
Selys hid behind Zevara. She would have stood behind her grandmother, but Tekshia was too short. There was no such thing as a [Priest] in this world, not anymore. It was more fitting to let Watch Captain Zevara, Embria, and the other Drake leaders give speeches anyways. Zel Shivertail had been a soldier, and this was a military burial.
She didn’t listen to the words. She just stared at the blank casket and the dried brushwood and logs soaked in oil. Liscor didn’t have much wood—they usually imported it and hoarded what they had to last through the winter and spring. They’d had to get this wood from another city. Not from Celum. Pallass had insisted on providing high quality timber, as if it made a difference. Despite the rain, the fire would burn hot and bright—courtesy of an [Alchemist]’s mixture.
After the speeches were done, Watch Captain Zevara stood and spoke Zel’s last rites. She spoke of heroism, of courage and sacrifice, of a [General], a legend. The Tidebreaker. Nothing about Selys’ uncle. She finished with a question Selys had heard once.
“Who will stand to avenge him? Which Drake will honor his memory?”
It was a question asked after Drakes died in battle. It was customary for someone to speak. Selys waited, numb, wet, and cold and saw the eyes of the crowd.
They were staring at her. Selys turned white with shock, and then red. She was standing in the small crowd around the casket. And she was the youngest Drake there. That sent a cold shock down Selys’ spine. They were expecting her to—
Rumors had already spread about Zel’s will. But even without them, the stares of the crowd—Selys saw a [Mage] transmitting the scene—her face—to the world. She wanted to disappear. Again, Zevara asked the question as was custom.
“Who will stand to avenge our fallen? Who will rise for Zel Shivertail?”
The eyes. Selys felt like they were all focused on her. But what was she supposed to do? She wasn’t an adventurer! She was just—
Ordinary. Selys looked down at her feet in silence. Zevara raised her voice.
“Who among you will answer the call?”
“I will.”
For a heart-stopping second Selys thought it was her. But it wasn’t. Ilvriss stepped forwards, his face grim in the rain. Selys saw some of Pallass’ senators glare at him. Then Embria stepped forwards.
“I will.”
“As will I.”
More Drakes stepped forwards. Some in the crowd, others among the dignitaries. They shouted vengeance upon the Goblin Lord, heroes of the Drakes who wouldn’t let the Tidebreaker’s death rest.
It was a pretty scene. Selys wanted it to end. After the shouting had died down, Zevara turned. This was the final moment. She accepted a torch from a [Guardsman], and Selys saw two other Drakes take the brightly burning torches.
Tekshia and Embria. They had been chosen. No one had asked Selys. It was a custom. An officer for Zel from Liscor. The Watch Captain of the city. And Zel’s relative. Tekshia. They approached the pyre.
The casket was closed. Selys could remember what lay in it. Only, Zel’s body was stripped of the armor now. She wondered what he looked like.
The armor. Her armor. Selys wondered why it was hers. He’d given it to her so she could be an adventurer. She vaguely recalled telling him she wanted to be one. Years, oh, years ago.
It had been just a child’s fancy. But he’d remembered it. She stared as the three Drakes stepped forwards. They stood around the pyre. Waiting.
Tekshia Shivertail was the first. She gently placed the burning torch on the pyre. Zevara was next. She held her burning torch to her side until it ignited and stepped back. On the other end, Embria laid her torch on the wood reverentially.
The fire sputtered in the rain, but the alchemical mixture had been mixed well. There was a moment of silence, then the fire engulfed the casket with incredible speed. Selys heard a sigh from the crowd. She stared at the burning wood.
The flames danced in the rain, searing vision, a bright, living thing in the dark landscape. The pyre burned brightly for a long time, and then the rain reduced the fires to ash, then steaming embers. Selys stood in the rain, watching the ash smoke and fizzle until someone touched her arm.
Tekshia. The old Drake woman leaned on Selys’ arm. She’d stood so straight, so proudly during the funeral. Now she looked tired. Selys unconsciously offered her arm, and Tekshia took it.
People were leaving. The after speeches went unspoken. No one wanted to say anything. Rather than leave all at once, the crowd in the plaza just trickled away. Many stayed, staring at the place where Zel Shivertail had been put to rest. Tekshia’s voice was soft as she and Selys walked down the street.
“I’m too old, Selys. Too old to do this again.”
“It wasn’t the same.”
Selys whispered the words. Tekshia looked at her.
“The same as what?”
“As Mom and Dad’s funeral.”
The elderly Drake paused.
“No. It wasn’t.”
That was all they said. Selys walked her grandmother back to her apartment, a lovely spacious one she’d had longer than Selys had been alive. She saw her grandmother off, stood in the rain. Until she realized someone was waiting for her.
“Do you get tired of bothering people?”
Wing Commander Embria stood at attention in the rain. Her red scales reminded Selys of the embers. She saluted stiffly.
“I apologize for my interruption.”
“Good. For you.”
Selys glared at her. Embria hesitated.
“Miss Shiv—Miss Selys. I know this must be hard for you, but there are some matters we must discuss in regards to your—to General Shivertail’s will. If you’ll come with me?”
 
—-
 
The armor sat on a stand. It was a breastplate made of some kind of gold metal. There was really a limit to what you could say about it. Whatever [Blacksmith] had made it had engraved faint patterns into the armor, but the rippling fiery enchantment over the armor made it hard to see. When you stared at it, it was a breastplate that shone like fire and gold, like the dawning sun.
Like a pyre. If Selys hadn’t known what it was, she would have thought it was a beautiful artifact, worthy of a Gold-rank adventurer, maybe even a Named-rank one. But because she knew what it was, it looked…almost cheap. You would have thought a legendary artifact would light up the entire room or make everyone that stared at it fall to their knees in awe. But it was just magic.
Just magic.
“It’s yours.”
Zevara awkwardly gestured at it. She stood in the small room—one of the unused rooms in Liscor’s city hall—with Embria and Ilvriss. Selys looked at the others.
“Mine.”
“That’s correct. There was an argument—a battle, really—over the contents of the will. But the law was clear, and Salazsar and Pallass both backed your right to the armor. The other Walled Cities couldn’t protest, and while the Shivertail family was noisy…well, it’s yours.”
Selys stared at the armor. The Heartflame Breastplate. Just last week she’d had trouble meeting her rent since she’d spent too much on jewelry. Now she had this. This.
“I didn’t want it. I don’t want it.”
The Drakes looked at her with varying degrees of shock. Selys looked around. Military people. [Warriors]. They probably dreamed about getting artifacts like this. But she was a [Receptionist]. What was she supposed to do, wear it in case she was assaulted at her desk?
“This is mine?”
They nodded. Selys looked at the armor.
“What the hell am I supposed to use it for? A paperweight?”
Watch Captain Zevara cleared her throat.
“Miss Selys, I know this is a lot to take in. But this armor—you need to do something with it. We can’t keep guarding it forever. One of the Shivertails let it slip that it was bequeathed to you, and there are already hundreds of [Message] spells asking about it. Soon there will be [Thieves] and people trying to take it at all costs.”
“Someone already tried.”
Everyone looked at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord nodded to the armor.
“Last night, one of my people caught someone lurking around the side of the building. They escaped, but there was an attempted break in an hour later. A [Burglar], a local criminal, according to Senior Guardsman Relc, who apprehended him.”
“It’s already started. And it’s only going to get worse. Artifacts like this attract people like flies. And this one—Miss Selys—”
“I heard you. What am I supposed to do with it?”
“Sell it?”
“What?”
Selys looked at Ilvriss. He studied her and the armor with a quick, appraising gaze.
“I would like to offer to buy the armor from you, Miss Selys. I realize I can’t offer you fair compensation for a legendary artifact without a known value, but consider it. You could sell the artifact in exchange for coin, goods, services…this could make you a very wealthy Drake.”
“Wall Lord! Miss Selys hasn’t had time to process any of this. Give her time—”
“It’s an offer, Watch Captain Zevara. I have no doubt Miss Selys will receive countless others by the time the day is done. I simply want her to be aware that I can pay my price up front and out of pocket.”
Ilvriss’ voice was calm. Selys couldn’t imagine how much he was talking about. Ten thousand gold coins? No, for any powerful artifact—
“The army could use the breastplate. Miss Shivertail might consider choosing to give the armor away to someone allied with her interests, rather than an outsider.”
Embria slid smoothly into the conversation, smiling politely at Selys. If she hoped to be friendly it didn’t work. Selys eyed her and Ilvriss. Zevara raised her claws.
“Wing Commander, Wall Lord! Please, let Miss Selys decide for herself.”
“You mean, to sell an incredibly powerful magical artifact. Just like that?”
The Drakes looked at each other. Zevara coughed.
“Not right away. If you have any questions, feel free to ask. Your grandmother is sure to have an opinion on the issue.”
“You don’t have to make a decision today. We can defer the issue.”
“The issue of guarding it will of course be undertaken by my [Soldiers].”
“And my people. There’s no cost of course, but there is a limit—”
“A representative from Pallass is waiting to speak with you, and you have [Message] spells from—”
It was like rush hour and she was alone at her desk. Selys looked from face to face as the Drakes who were far, far too important to ever speak with her normally jostled each other for her attention. Then she had a thought.
“I can’t. I’d love to ask—but I can’t. I have to go. I have an appointment. My job.”
“Doing what? I’m sure it can wait.”
“No it can’t. My grandmother gave me a task and it’s today. Now, in fact.”
“Doing what?”
Selys wanted to laugh hysterically.
“I’ve got to go supervise a [Necromancer] in the sewers.”
They stared at her as if she were mad.
 
—-
 
“Hey. Sorry I’m late.”
Selys walked down the street. Pisces glanced up and sniffed. He was standing next to a sewer entrance. He wasn’t wet. A barrier of air shielded him from overhead, keeping his spotless robes nice and dry.
“I would complain, but given the circumstances, I will refrain.”
“Gee. Thanks.”
Pisces glanced at Selys, and then his eyes flicked down the street. Selys didn’t have to turn to know that a group of figures was not-so-discreetly loitering there.
“I assume that those following you are friendly in some sense of the word?”
“They’re [Guardsmen]. And Liscor’s [Soldiers]. Oh, and I think some of them are Wall Lord Ilvriss’ people.”
“Ah.”
