“Yeah, not with skeletons. But what about Crypt Lords? Skeleton archers? Ancestors, you’d probably have done better than your Bone Horror if you just animated three skeletons and given them bows and swords!”
That stung his pride.
“My Bone Horror was customized to fight in narrow spaces!”
“By a [Necromancer] who’s never ventured into the sewers in his life! What happens if it runs into a slime?”
“Well—I, ah, suppose it would destroy the slime’s core.”
“Not if it’s engulfed entirely. Did you give it a way to deal with armored rats?”
“Armored rats?”
“They get weird. You could have made your Bone Horror better.”
He flushed.
“And I suppose you have a better idea?”
Selys did, actually.
“Yeah. Armor. And a projectile weapon. Let it shoot bone spikes. There are some undead that do that, aren’t there? That way, it might survive an encounter with some of the nastier things down here. And make a bigger Bone Horror, too. Something that can hunt down the huge monsters. That way you can have the little one flush out the tiny monsters while the big one patrols the sewers.”
She pointed down the sewers. The main water tunnel branched off down the intersections, but there were walkways on both sides of the canal where something could patrol. Selys looked back at Pisces and saw him staring at her. She smirked at him.
“If you’re going to create an undead monster, Pisces, do it right. Can you make more?”
The [Necromancer] had to fumble to reply.
“Um. Yes. I can. I lack the bones, but assuming my creation secures enough corpses…I can create another later tonight if that is acceptable. A variant like you described—I haven’t tried—bone spikes, you said? Which undead uses…?”
“Ever heard of a Spiked Stalker?”
“I—well, I’ve heard the name, but I’ve never encountered one…how do you know about them?”
Selys rolled her eyes mockingly.
“I’m a [Receptionist] for the Adventurer’s Guild. I have to memorize monster weaknesses and variants. You’re the [Necromancer] here. What’s your excuse?”
She saw him blink at her, and then, surprisingly, grin.
“My apologies, Selys. I will be sure to brush up on my knowledge of the undead. Am I to take it that you’re approving my creation of more undead to patrol the sewers?”
Selys wavered. Tekshia hadn’t given her permission. But Tekshia wasn’t watching a bit of poo float down the sewers. She nodded firmly.
“Yeah. Do that. Four should be enough if they’re working around the clock.”
“I’ll draw up new plans. And speaking of work—I believe my creation has already cleared out a nest. Would you like to inspect it?”
She was feeling a little better. Selys sighed.
“Might as well. Lead the way.”
Pisces took her down two corridors and into a gap in the sewer walls where the stone had crumbled away and enterprising rats had built a nest. Right up until a certain undead had found them, that was. Selys looked at the ravaged rat corpses with disgust. Blood was already running into the waters. Design flaws aside, Pisces’ creation really was good at its job.
“Alright, I think I’ve seen enough. I don’t need to watch it disembowel a moth corpse to know it’ll do it.”
“Excellent. And there are bones here for me to use. I’ll, ah, get to work after you leave.”
“Considerate of you. Well, thanks, Pisces. I’ll tell Grandmother—I mean, the Guildmistress—that you’re doing a good job.”
Awkwardly, Selys turned away from the bloody nest. She looked around the dark sewer tunnels with dismay. Pisces had created a [Light] spell, but the only other light came from the drains that let a little light in from above.
“Which way leads out of here? I’ve got a lot to do, and I can’t stand around watching crap float by with you. However much more fun that might be.”
“Ah. I’ll guide you out. Am I to take it that you’re deliberating on your current predicament?”
Pisces stood up and pointed. Selys followed him, frowning.
“My ‘predicament’? What would you know about what I’m up to?”
She heard a sniff and a cough as Pisces walked in front of her, shining the light orb so they could see where they stepped.
“Gah! An unfortunate habit—Miss Selys, I would wager that the entire city knows the contents of General Shivertail’s will, at least what pertains to you. He left the Heartflame Breastplate to you, and it is no leap of the imagination to assume that every important figure in the south of Izril desires it badly. Have you had many offers to sell?”
Selys bit her lip.
“Two, so far. Well, one to donate to Liscor’s army. Apparently I have more [Message] spells waiting for me. And people.”
“Hmph. No doubt. Well, I would hate to offer my advice unsolicited, but I do hope that you take care in choosing what you do with the armor. Leaving it be is obviously untenable, but selling it or giving to the wrong faction would be politically risky.”
Pisces’ knowing tone made Selys glare at his back.
“What do you know of Drake politics?”
He shot an amused glance over his shoulder.
“Enough to understand that strengthening Wall Lord Ilvriss’ position would undermine Pallass’ authority to restrict his travel through their Walled City. Salazsar and Pallass are currently at odds, so I wouldn’t be surprised if you were immediately approached with a counteroffer to sell the armor to Pallass. And if you don’t agree, I would imagine Pallass would quickly put pressure on Liscor and you to sell the armor to them or one of their allies.”
Selys gulped. That did sound likely, now that Pisces said it. Her little sewer adventure meant she’d missed speaking with the important people waiting to talk to her. Was that really what they’d do?
“You’re sure?”
“Well, I suspect that if you didn’t give away the breastplate within the day, multiple factions would start forming alliances to compete for the armor. Pallass doesn’t have to have the armor—neither does Oteslia, or any of the other Walled Cities. Simply denying it to their adversaries would be enough, and you would be caught in a whirlwind of competing influences, so to speak.”
“Is there a best move?”
Selys felt dizzy at the thought of all that. Pisces laughed.
“For you? For your finances? Or for Liscor? If you are worried about your safety, and would rather see this taken care of efficiently, I would gift the armor to Liscor’s army for a small sum of gold. They can hardly afford to outbid a Walled City, but you would be considered a patriot and would offend the fewest number of parties that way.”
They’d reached the stairs leading up. Selys shook her head.
“How do you know all this? Wait—you’re just making all this up! You can’t know all this.”
“Can’t I?”
Pisces gave her a superior glance. He began walking up the stairs backwards, looking down at her as he rattled off a list of facts.
“The Heartflame Breastplate. Last in the possession of General Ironscales of Oteslia. Lost in a conflict with the Reinhart and El family over a dispute regarding trade from Chandrar that resulted in a clash north of Liscor, a rare exception to the traditional conflicts in the Blood Fields. The armor and General Ironscales were lost when her command was routed and she disappeared in the chaos. The Heartflame Breastplate is known for its keen defensive properties and was considered to be unbreakable whether by magic or physical force…”
He trailed off as Selys stared at him. Pisces shrugged.
“Artifacts are of extreme interest to [Mages], particularly ones that haven’t been discovered yet. I confess, I did listen to the gossip. As for politics, I have studied Drake culture as a matter of interest. I am sympathetic to your circumstances, Selys. You have been thrust into an unpleasant dilemma.”
“Don’t I know it.”
Selys groaned. She could smell damp, refreshing air from above. She climbed out of the sewers with Pisces and locked the metal doors. She stank, and she wanted a hot bath, but she’d have to make a report. Selys glanced sideways at Pisces.
“Okay, you’re smart, for all you don’t know undead as well as you think you do. What would you do if you were in my boots?”
“Me? Do you mean, who would I sell to? No one. Not at the moment.”
“What do you mean?”
The young Drake woman frowned at him. Pisces rolled his eyes heavenwards, a gesture that reminded Selys of herself.
“Simply put, the desire for you to sell or give away one of the most precious artifacts known to Drakes does not seem to be in your best interests, is it? Artifacts appreciate in value. And this artifact, well, it is an unknown quantity in part.”
“How so? It’s the Heartflame Breastplate. Everyone knows about it!”
Pisces smirked.
“Ah, yes, everyone. Tell me, Selys. How much do you know about the artifact you possess? Its history? All of its magical effects? You know a few rumors passed down by Drakes around a mug of ale. Are you certain you know everything about such a legendary artifact? Just like that?”
Selys nearly bit her tongue. She hadn’t thought of any of that. She was still grappling with the idea that the armor was hers! She looked hard at Pisces.
“I don’t suppose you know a lot about it, then?”
He hesitated. Pisces stroked his chin and looked at Selys. He seemed to waver and then shrugged to himself. He drew closer, and Selys heard him whisper as the rain soaked them from above.
“I know where we could find out.”
 
—-
 
There was a crowd of Drakes passing through The Wandering Inn. They first came through the door to Liscor, waited impatiently as the connection was switched to Pallass, and walked through without so much as looking around the inn. Sometimes the Drakes would come the other way, and they were forced to wait in queues as they travelled from Pallass to the inn to Liscor.
None of them had much good to say about Humans today, and the [Innkeeper] in charge of changing the doorway from place to place was pretty fed up with it all. She’d just opened the door to Pallass for the umpteenth time when someone spoke her name.
“Hey Erin.”
Erin Solstice looked up in surprise.
“Selys!”
She waved at Selys who smiled as Drakes poured past her into Pallass. The Walled City was windy today, without a cloud in the sky. Erin eyed the lovely weather longingly. Selys glanced at the doorway.
“Lots of traffic?”
“Everyone wants to come through and back and through again!”
Erin rolled her eyes as a group of Pallassian [Soldiers] in yellow armor marched past her. She lowered her voice.
“Hey Selys, want something to eat? No one’s hungry, and they’re all glaring at me. They just want to travel to Liscor which is good because I have the you know whos in the basement.”
She pointed, and Selys glanced at the trap door to her basement. It was open a crack, and she saw a crimson eye staring at her before the trap door closed. Erin grimaced.
“I feel really bad, but it’s like—you know?”
She waved her hands to indicate that Hobgoblins in her inn was not a safe move right after Zel Shivertail’s funeral. Selys nodded. She edged towards the door.
“I’m not hungry, Erin. Actually…I’m going through to Pallass. Do I need to sign something or can I just walk through?”
“Oh? Well…no one’s signing things today. Go on through, I guess. I’m going to have to let people go to Liscor in a minute, but if you wait, you can get back in. I think.”
Erin gestured to some of the Drakes and a pair of Gnolls who’d come into the inn and were waiting impatiently. Selys nodded.
“How long do I have? If I want to stay in Pallass for a while?”
The young woman had to think.
“They’re holding the door open for the next…six hours. Just come back by then, okay? I feel really bad for the [Mages]—they’ve got to work really hard.”
She pointed to a sweating Drake standing by the door in the inn. There were more on Pallass’ side, and they were rotating in shifts. Selys nodded. She glanced casually over to her right at a patch of empty air.
“Well then. I’ll see you later, Erin.”
“Sure! And—wait a minute! What’s this about you inheriting—aw, she’s gone.”
Selys had already left through the doorway. Erin sighed and looked at the [Mage] standing by the door. He was frowning at Selys’ back, or rather, the air to her right, but he looked up as Erin sidled over. She leaned over conspiratorially as the Drake glared at her suspiciously.
“Psst. Want a snack?”
The [Mage] stared at her. He glanced around at the unhappy Drakes and then at her inn, perhaps realizing for the first time that it was an inn, and not a waiting zone made into his own personal hell. He hesitated and then replied in a whisper.
“…What kind of snack?”
 
—-
 
Selys walked through Pallass, trying to look casual and not gawk. A Walled City! She’d just walked through, and now she was here! She looked around and jumped as a young man strolled across the street next to her. Pisces smiled pleasantly and whispered.
“Don’t jump!”
“I thought you were invisible!”
“I just kept the spell up long enough to enter Pallass. Humans aren’t unheard of in the city. I just wanted to avoid suspicion at the doorway, a sentiment which I thought you would share.”
The Drake [Receptionist] glared at him. She was on pins and needles just having walked into Pallass. The idea of it! But Pisces had been so sure. And he’d been right! No one looked twice at Selys. Everyone was entering and leaving Pallass, and so the normally vigilant guard on Erin’s inn had been slack enough for Pisces and Selys to slip through.
Now they were walking down the street, mingling with the crowd—of which there were a few Humans, it was true—looking for a building. Selys followed Pisces as he read signs. The [Necromancer] practically exuded confidence as he walked down the street, as if he had every right to be here.
“Hm. I think that building is it. Right up ahead. The architecture matches what we might expect, anyways. Ah yes, here we are!”
He pointed. Selys saw Pallass’ Archive, the repository of books and Drake knowledge, looming in front of them. It wasn’t so much a library as a treasury of texts. Drakes certainly couldn’t just walk in and take out books. They hoarded their valuable scrolls and books. Normally Selys would have been turned away at the door, but again, Pisces had a solution.
“Name?”
“Selys Shivertail.”
The Drake on duty at the desk looked down at his parchment, did a double take, and stared at her. Selys smiled weakly. He stared at her, opened his mouth.
“Uh—Shivertail?”
“That’s right. I’m, uh, visiting Pallass for the day. I was hoping I could read a few books…?”
Selys let the question linger in the air. The Drake stared at her, and then at his parchment.
