Pisces glanced at Selys and then at the sewer entrance. It was an iron doorway set into a tunnel that went all the way down to the sewers, Selys knew. It was locked, but Selys had a key. Pisces glanced at Selys again. She just glared at him. She was wet. She didn’t like Pisces that much, and she didn’t want to hear a single acerbic comment out of him. She wasn’t Erin, who had the patience to deal with weirdos all day. But to her surprise, Pisces cleared his throat.
“I could do this myself. Or we could postpone this task for another day.”
The [Receptionist] blinked at him.
“I have a job to do. And I have to follow you and make sure you’re doing it right.”
“Yes, but if you’d like to take a break, I would be more than willing to relegate this errand to a later date. I understand today might be somewhat stressful…”
He trailed off, and Selys realized what he was getting at. He was actually being tactful. She paused.
“I’d never hear the end of it from my grandmother if I shirked my duties.”
“You could tell her I failed to turn up. Or that I requested an extension.”
Why was he trying to be helpful? Selys’ tail curled with stress.
“I—appreciate the offer, Pisces. But Zevara, Olesm, and everyone else is breathing down my spines to get the sewers cleared. Let’s just get this over with.”
“As you wish. I assume you have the key?”
“Yeah. Move over.”
Selys fished around and came up with an old key. She unlocked the doors while Pisces stared over her shoulder.
“Please tell me that your escort isn’t going to follow us into the sewers. Fifteen Drakes and Gnolls crowded down there would be—”
He paused.
“—Fairly entertaining, actually.”
Selys bared her teeth.
“I don’t think they get paid enough for that. Besides, we’re not going in far, are we? Here we are.”
The sewer doors opened and let a terrible stench out. Pisces covered his nose and coughed. Selys gagged. She heard the [Necromancer] mutter a word, and a breeze blew past her. The smell vanished.
“Huh. Thanks.”
“Wind spell. A shame I never mastered scent illusions. Are you alright, Miss Shivertail?”
She was getting sick of being called Miss Shivertail. Selys eyed Pisces.
“It’s Selys. I’ll live. Where’s your undead creation?”
“In here.”
Pisces patted a bag of holding at his side. He hesitated. The steps leading down weren’t wet, but the rain was blowing in and there was a good amount of moss coating the old stones.
“You really needn’t come down with me. Neither of us need be here, to be honest.”
“I’m going. Stop trying to talk me out of it.”
Selys glared and walked past Pisces. She took the steps down as the stench of the sewers grew worse and worse. The steps led down to a very large, very flooded sewer. Selys had been down here only once before, back when she’d wanted to become an adventurer. One hour in here had disabused her of that notion.
The sewers of Liscor. Every decent city had sewers, at least in Izril. It rained too much not to invest in such things. But sewers brought trouble. They were a breeding ground for disease and pests, for one thing. Monsters had a nasty habit of invading the sewers, and as such, it was considered a rite of passage for most adventurers to start at Bronze-rank by slaying giant rats, slugs, slimes, and other monsters in the sewers for copper and silver coins. It was disgusting work, but it was plentiful.
If Liscor’s sewers were different from other sewers in other cities, it was in size. To manage the runoff of water, the sewers had been built larger, to withstand the heavy rains that came every year. Selys could see black and filthy water rushing down the main tunnel as she descended the steps.
You’d expect sewers to be filled with green sludge or resemble some kind of bog. You would be wrong. These sewers were meant to send the water out of Liscor. If they were clogged, something had gone wrong. And in fact, it was that very issue Selys was here to address with Pisces.
“Ancestors, what a stench.”
“It’s certainly pungent.”
Pisces seemed more immune to the horrendous smell down here than Selys. He wrinkled his nose and covered his face with one sleeve, eying the moss and lichen growing on the walls of the ancient stone. Selys breathed through her mouth.
“According to Olesm, the sewers are getting clogged thanks to moth bodies and rats. Those damn things stop water flow with their nests. Fortress Beavers do it too sometimes. I saw several streets being flooded since the drains are blocked.”
“That was my understanding. Olesm commissioned me to solve the problem, and I offered the use of my undead. I have my creation ready to deploy. Should I…?”
“Yes!”
Selys just wanted to be out of here. Why was she here when she had just inherited a magical artifact? If she sold it, she’d never have to work in the sewers again. She watched as Pisces rummaged around in his bag of holding and then produced a handful of bones. He tossed them to the ground and pointed.
“Rise.”
Selys had never seen anyone animate an undead before. She watched in horror—and fascination—as the bones floated upwards and rotated, joining together to create a skeletal…thing on the floor. It was definitely not the skeleton of anything that had once been alive.
It resembled a dead animal that was half dog, half cat, and somehow, half rat. There were too many bones, and it had tearing jaws, long claws, and ‘spines’ of sharpened bones. It looked like it had been born to hunt down other creatures its size. Selys shuddered.
“That’s your creation?”
“Please don’t be alarmed. This creation is totally under my control. It is a variant of a Bone Horror, scaled down for utility. It will not approach you or harm you in any way.”
Pisces spoke quickly, holding his hand out as the bone hunter…thing flexed its body, raising a clawed leg and opening and shutting its mouth. Selys stared at Pisces and then at the undead horror he’d made.
“I’m not scared of it.”
“You aren’t? Ah, well, that is good. As I told Olesm, it won’t take any action without my command, and it will follow my instructions most precisely. You need not look at it.”
The thing appeared to be checking its body for faults. Selys stared at it and then at Pisces. He was half-shielding it from her view.
“Are you afraid I’ll pass out or something?”
He sniffed.
“I am aware of your people’s fear of the undead. I would not wish you to faint or become hysterical, especially given our proximity to the water.”
He stared at her with a mixture of disdain and condescension. Selys felt her blood boil. He thought she was going to run away screaming? She’d heard from the other [Receptionists] that they were terrified of him. Selys glared at Pisces. She stared at his Bone Horror and raised her foot. Then she kicked it into the water with a splash.
Pisces gaped at her. Selys glared at him.
“What? Don’t tell me it’s too fragile to take a kick?”
“No, but—that—”
Selys folded her arms.
“I’m not afraid of the undead. I just don’t like them. Is it going to get to work, or do I have to kick you into the water after it?”
It was cathartic to see the [Necromancer]’s jaw drop. Pisces raised a finger and then turned and pointed. Selys saw the water shift, and a dark shape moved out of sight. She waited, and then saw the undead thing clamber out of the water and lope down the elevated walkways.
“Good.”
Pisces watched it go and then eyed Selys. He almost looked impressed. Selys got the impression that no one had ever kicked his creations before. She just glared at him.
“What?”
“Er, nothing.”
“Good to hear. How long until that thing gets to work?”
“It should already be hunting down rat nests, ah, Selys. It will locate them, climb into their dens, and eradicate them. If it senses a blockage, it will excavate the offending area.”
Selys raised one of her brows.
“Excavate?”
“It will, ah, disassemble any corpse or blockage it finds. My creation can dissect most creatures quite quickly.”
“Gross.”
Selys sighed. Well, adventurers did the same thing. That was one of the reasons why it was so hard to get people to do sewer work, despite the higher pay. It was a disgusting job where you had to haul dead and rotten body parts around. And if you fell into the waters—well, if there hadn’t been rain for a while, it could get nasty.
“Just show me when it kills things. I’ll stand here, say that you’re not creating an army of undead in the sewers, and go home. You can leave and I can go, okay?”
“That sounds like an excellent plan. Selys.”
“I know.”
The Drake folded her arms. Pisces blinked at her, still looking off-guard, and raked a hand through his hair. They stood together in silence as the waters flowed past them. There really wasn’t much Selys wanted to look at. After a while, Pisces spoke.
“It occurs to me that we haven’t spoken at length before now.”
“I don’t hang around Erin’s inn that often. And you don’t show up in the Adventurer’s Guild too much.”
“Yes, well, I am aware when my presence is unwanted.”
“Maybe if you stopped making undead and sneering at everyone, we’d all like you more.”
Pisces’ eyes flashed.
“My pursuit of necromancy is my choice to make! My spells are useful—even if only a few individuals are willing to acknowledge that fact. The fact that the Adventurer’s Guild refused to consider my reasonable offer after Olesm had approved it reflects more poorly on you than I. Or am I incorrect in thinking you resorted to my services due to a lack of interest in your ‘tried and tested’ methods of clearing the sewers?”
His voice was hurt and waspish. Pisces sniffed haughtily and immediately regretted the action. Selys just sighed.
“Yeah, you’re wrong. I said it was okay.”
Pisces paused.
“You did?”
Selys nodded, keeping her eyes on the dark waters. Why was she here?
“Yup. My grandmother was the one who objected. You know her? Tekshia Shivertail? She hates all [Necromancers].”
“But you don’t?”
The young man in white robes peered at Selys, looking suddenly a lot more interested and a lot less standoffish than before. Selys frowned.
“I don’t like [Necromancers]. Or the undead. But I thought Olesm’s idea made sense. It’s for the rats. I hate those things.”
“More than the undead.”
Selys’ tail curled around her legs with distaste.
“Have you ever woken up to a giant rat creeping around your kitchen?”
“Not as such. But I see your point. Well. I withdraw my former complaint. Am I to assume that it was your intervention that allowed this project to continue?”
Selys shrugged uncomfortably.
“I talked with my grandmother. Don’t thank me. It’s just that we have a sewer problem, and I live here. Better a [Necromancer]’s creations than sending adventurers down to deal with it. Do you know how many adventurers die each year in the sewers?”
“I believe that would be a rhetorical question.”
Pisces backed away as Selys raised her foot threateningly. She glared at him and sighed.
“Two. On average, two idiots lose their footing and drown. Or actually die if the rats swarm them. I know that’s not a lot, and it really only happens if someone’s careless. But that’s two reports I have to make—two dead bodies someone has to explain to their families. That’s why I’ll tolerate your damn undead, even if I hate them.”
“I see.”
The necromancer fell silent, and Selys kicked at a crumbling bit of stone. Pisces was not her ideal talking partner. She’d be happy if they never talked, actually. It wasn’t that he was that unpleasant—not once you took him down a peg—but Selys could live her entire life without needing to engage him in conversation. But here she was. She’d actually kissed him once. Why? Oh yeah. The mistletoe.
If Pisces recalled that incident, he didn’t seem to remember. Or care. He was focused on what Selys had said, frowning over her words like a true debater.
“While I appreciate your pragmatism, Selys, your statements raise a question for me. If you can see the utility of the undead, why do you despise them? Because of their appearance? Their nature?”
The question didn’t so much hit Selys in the gut as bounce off her scales. But it wasn’t a fun question, either. Selys stared past Pisces, wondering if she shouldn’t answer, evade the question, or kick him into the sewers. But no—that wouldn’t be fair. She sighed.
“My parents died when the Necromancer attacked the city.”
“Ah.”
The young man froze. Selys eyed him.
“Are you going to tell me you’re sorry?”
He wavered.
“I would like to express my condolences. Yes. But it was not my undead that killed your parents.”
Selys’ tail uncurled and lashed a bit.
“I didn’t say it was.”
“No, but the implication is there. And I understand your animosity towards all undead. But if I may—I would place the guilt on the Necromancer.”
“Not the undead?”
Pisces spread his hands.
“They are monsters. Some think. Most are mindless. But they hunger after the living, and yes, cause death and destruction if not stopped. But they are a force of nature, Selys. And to a [Necromancer], they are tools. Servants. And sometimes, yes, sometimes, valuable creations. Works of genius.”
“That killed my parents.”
Pisces shoulders hunched.
“Yes. In that sense the undead can be weapons. And they can be horrific. But it was the Necromancer who made war on Liscor. I don’t ask you to put aside your hatred, but look at my creation and see it as a tool, however disgusting, Selys. I see value in it. I know the bone and shape frightens others, but there is a craftsman’s pride in my creation.”
“That’s what you say. All I see is a horrible bone thing.”
Selys turned away. She heard a sigh. Pisces looked at her back but didn’t pursue the topic. She felt…well, not angry. Not really. She’d gone over her parents’ deaths too many times to flare up at Pisces. After a while, Selys couldn’t help it. She looked over her shoulder at Pisces, who was busy reading a spellbook he’d pulled out of his bag of holding.
“You should have given it armor.”
“Excuse me?”
He looked up. Selys gestured around the sewers.
“Some of the rats and monsters you see here get big. They’ll smash this thing with their bodies if it provokes them, no matter how many claws and spines you give it.”
“Really?”
“You ever seen a three hundred pound rat bodyslam someone? They’ll crush your little bone horror. You should have given it armor. And a ranged attack.”
Pisces closed his book.
“That’s not exactly possible with most undead, Miss Selys.”
She snorted.
