“Me?”
Selys stood in a dark room. A flame in an oil lamp gave it light, but it was too dark. A black casket lay on the long hardwood table in the center of the room. It seemed to absorb what little light there was. Outside, the rain fell, turning everything dark and obscuring the sky. Selys stood, listening to the screaming.
“Check it again. I don’t care. Check it again! That can’t be what he wrote!”
The [Mage] standing in the scrying orb was being besieged by all sides. He held up the will like a shield as the angry Drake woman shouted at him.
“General Shivertail’s will is perfectly clear! Miss Shivertail, he left his personal equipment to one Selys Shivertail. That would include the—”
His gaze flicked towards Selys, towards the casket. Selys remembered the brilliant armor. But she also remembered her uncle’s face. She didn’t know what to say. Her face was pale. Her knees felt weak. She knew she should be shocked, and she was. But another thought was surfacing in her mind, cresting all the other thoughts.
Why? Why did you have to do that, Uncle?
Her first reaction wasn’t gratitude. Selys wasn’t agog at her good fortune. For a moment, just a moment, she was angry at Zel, angry at her uncle, for putting her in this situation. And then she was ashamed. She looked at the casket and then at the angry Drakes, fighting over Zel Shivertail’s possessions. His sister-in-law was pointing at her and screeching.
“Unacceptable! Unacceptable! That Drake girl isn’t one of the main family! She didn’t even know my brother!”
“Selys.”
Someone shifted the scrying orb. Selys saw Watch Captain Zevara hold the noisy magical artifact away from her. She edged over to Selys and whispered.
“Why did General Shivertail leave…?”
She looked stunned. Selys stared at her and shrugged.
“That’s Uncle Zel for you.”
Watch Captain Zevara gaped. Selys laughed a bit bitterly.
“He must have written the will years ago. Back when I wanted—well, I used to want to be an adventurer. He remembered it and never said anything.”
“Typical of him, really.”
Tekshia looked only a bit shaken. She glanced at the casket and shook her head. She looked almost fond for a second.
“He would accidentally leave you something like that. He never wore fancy armor and he had few magical artifacts, compared to other [Generals]. Did you hear that part about giving you a sword? I bet he thought…”
All three Drakes winced as they heard an angry squawk from the orb. Zevara looked at Selys and made a rapid decision. She cleared her throat, loudly, and stared into the scrying orb.
“Ladies and gentledrakes, I’m afraid I must interrupt. Am I to assume that the contents of General Shivertail’s will have been read out?”
“Yes! And there’s nothing I can do to change it!”
The beleaguered [Mage] was shielding himself from several angry members of the Shivertail family. Zevara nodded.
“In that case, I, Zevara Sunderscale, have borne witness and will oversee the distribution of General Shivertail’s will within Liscor.”
“Oh no you won’t.”
The angry sister-in-law strode up to the scrying orb. Selys got a good look at her nostrils and angry mouth as she grabbed it and glared into it.
“That will cannot apply to the armor! Where is this Selys Shivertail? Is that her? Come over here! Renounce your claim to the armor—”
“Enough, Xalia!”
Zel Shivertail’s father angrily grabbed for the orb. He glared into it and stared at Selys.
“This will be a matter for our cities to decide. Watch Captain Zevara, I want you to hold onto the armor until—”
“You don’t give orders here! Give that back to me!”
Xalia fought with her father-in-law over the orb. Zevara regarded the skirmishing Drakes with a look of revulsion. She spoke loudly as she held the scrying orb away from her face.
“The will is clear. Zel Shivertail has left his possessions to Miss Selys Shivertail. You may dispute the will’s contents as you please, under the law, but until then, I’m afraid we have pressing business to attend to in Liscor. I apologize for the necessity, but we really must go.”
“Don’t you dare—”
Zevara muttered a word, and the scream was cut short. The room was suddenly very quiet. Selys looked at Zevara. Tekshia sighed.
“Ancestors, what a mess. Now I remember why I haven’t seen my sister in twelve years.”
“What’s going to happen?”
Selys looked around, her tail twitching uncertainly. The two older Drakes looked at her, and Selys was dismayed to see that neither of them had an answer for her. The awkward silence was punctuated by a door opening.
“Watch Captain? Is everything alright in here?”
A Gnoll [Guardsman] glanced inside quickly. He must have heard the shouting. Zevara looked at him. She glanced at Selys, hesitated, and then snapped an order.
“No. Get me every [Guardsman] you can spare and secure this building! I want Relc, Klbkch—and get me Wall Lord Ilvriss and Embria!”
She turned to Selys and Tekshia as the Gnoll barked an order and someone started running. Zevara sighed.
“You’d better take a seat. This might take a while.”
They looked at Zel Shivertail’s casket.
“Elsewhere. I’ll find you a room.”
Selys stared at the Watch Captain as she strode out the door. Then she looked at the casket as her grandmother began muttering about Wall Lords and the army. A [Fireball] had just landed right in the middle of Selys’ normal life and blown it to pieces. But it had already been shattered.
Zel Shivertail was dead. Her uncle was gone. All that followed seemed oddly appropriate in light of that. Selys took a seat and waited. What else was there to do?
 
—-
 
“The Heartflame Breastplate. A national artifact and a symbol of the Drake people. Mentioned in several stories and older myths…the last known sighting was over two centuries ago, in a war between the Humans and our people. General Ironscales had possession of the armor, and it was deemed lost when she fell in battle.”
Ilvriss stood with his back to the window. His eyes blazed. He was a Lord of the Wall, but he looked as excited as a child who’d peeked into the Adventurer’s Guild for the first time. His tail swished back and forth as he spoke.
“We know the legends. The stories of it stopping an enchanted lance thrust to the heart? It never being broken? All confirmed by history. Of course, I haven’t had the time to properly investigate all the old tales—and Liscor lacks an archive. But every [General] knows the stories.”
“Stories. Myths. An artifact from the legends was sitting in the Reinhart armory for two hundred years. And turns up now.”
Tekshia sat in a chair, looking older than Selys could remember. Ilvriss nodded, and the spark went out.
“True. It didn’t save General Shivertail. He—must have been truly cornered to have fought so hard.”
He looked towards the door. They were sitting in another room. Ilvriss had come at once, and he’d seen Zel’s body. He looked—Selys had heard of his animosity with Zel, but Ilvriss looked truly unhappy. He shook himself, as if trying to wake himself.
“Speculation about his death is…in regards to the armor, I concur with Watch Captain Zevara’s assessment. It does belong to Selys Shivertail by law.”
“You’re serious?”
Selys looked up. She stared at Tekshia and Ilvriss.
“This had better not be a joke. Grandma, if this is anything like that prank you pulled on my 20th birthday, I swear I’ll—”
“This is no joke, Miss Shivertail.”
Ilvriss stroked at his chin with a claw as he spoke. Selys shut up. It really was intimidating to be around him. Not only was Ilvriss classically handsome in all the Drake ways, he was a Lord of the Wall. That was practically royalty to Liscor, who had no nobility of their own. And Erin had thrown a pan at him? Selys was too nervous to do anything but listen as Ilvriss spoke with the confidence of his station.
“Drake law is specific. We lost the Heartflame Breastplate in a war with the Humans. Whoever had a claim to it lost that claim, and it became a possession of Zel Shivertail when Magnolia Reinhart gave it to him. He gave it to Miss Selys via his will, so it is legally hers.”
“Is there a specific law that states that? My extended family will fight tooth and claw if there isn’t.”
Tekshia looked at Ilvriss. He closed his eyes and nodded.
“‘Lands, property, and possessions lost to war are forfeited. A city, group, or individual cannot claim ownership over an object they used for the purpose of making war.’ The Agreement at Osthia, ECL. 426.”
“What a weird law. Why would we give away anything we lose in war?”
Selys shook her head. She’d just had a conversation with Erin about that very thing. Ilvriss smiled drily.
“If that law didn’t exist, we’d go to war more often than we did. Like wills, these laws were put in place in order to prevent fights over lost treasures.”
“And conveniently, it means that Miss Selys’ case is rock solid. Anyone who wants that armor will have to overturn universal law to get it. Even a Walled City would have trouble making that case.”
Watch Captain Zevara sighed as she rubbed her eyes. She looked at Ilvriss.
“…And that means we have a national-grade artifact sitting in the other room. Ancestors. I’ve got Relc watching General Shivertail’s body with his partner, but I’ll need more than that if word gets out.”
“I will send my men to secure the building.”
Ilvriss nodded at once. Zevara raised a weary claw.
“Thank you, Wall Lord. But Wing Commander Embria insists her men take that duty. We’ll move everything to a safer location within the hour, as soon as a [Healer] arrives to…”
She broke off delicately. Tekshia snorted.
“Rob my nephew’s corpse? Did you have to tell that army hothead what was happening?”
“I didn’t have a choice! I’m a Watch Captain, Miss Tekshia. It’s my duty, and they would kick up a fuss if I didn’t mention it. And I’m sure they’ll want to speak with Selys about…”
All eyes turned to Selys. She looked around.
“My armor?”
Her armor. The Heartflame Breastplate. Selys wanted to think about it, but the image of Zel’s face kept flashing through her mind. Why was no one talking…? Probably because this was easier to talk about. Because this was something they could actually do something about. The older Drakes talked, arguing about what should be done. Selys sat still, not really listening.
She felt like throwing up. Why was all this happening? Before she knew it, it was dark and Tekshia was turning to her.
“Selys, dear. Go back home and sleep. We’ll sort this out.”
“Gee, thanks, Grandma.”
Selys tried to be sarcastic, but her heart wasn’t in it. Ilvriss turned.
“I’ll send someone—”
“Forget it. The rain’s not going to kill me.”
Selys got up and walked out of the room. The older Drakes looked at each other. Zevara sighed.
“But someone else might. Do you think Miss Selys understands what just happened?”
Tekshia sighed.
“She’s young. And she just saw her uncle’s corpse. I don’t think she’s grasped it yet.”
“Well, what should be done?”
Zevara looked from Ilvriss to Tekshia. All three Drakes eyed each other. They were on the same side. Nominally. But the image of that artifact shone in their minds. What would happen next?
Selys didn’t know. She walked through the street, not realizing that half a dozen shadows were following her. She walked into her small apartment, took off her soaked clothes, dried herself, changed, and lay down in her bed. She was too tired. Too tired to…
Selys slept.
 
[Heiress Class Obtained!]
[Heiress Level 4!]
[Skill – Increased Income obtained!]
[Skill – Lingering Presence obtained!]
 
“Ancestors!”
Selys shot out of her bed, her face lighting up with sudden surprise and happiness. Then she sagged.
“Oh.”
She stared out the dark, rainy window and then covered her face with her claws and wept.
 
—-
 
Everything happened too fast. Selys woke up after a night full of troubled dreams. She walked around her apartment, swearing and eating the dried meat and stale bread she had in her cupboards. She opened the door to her house to collect some rainwater to wash and realized her house was being guarded. The big, burly Gnoll standing right outside her door tipped her off.
She stared at him. He nodded to her and adjusted his helmet. He was standing beneath the eaves of her doorway so that the rain didn’t hit him.
“Miss Shivertail. Watch Captain Zevara sends her regards, yes? She would like to speak with you as soon as you’re willing. Before the funeral.”
Selys just looked at him. There were so many things she could say in reply, but none of them came out. Her usual biting remarks were missing. The funeral was today.
“When is it?”
The Gnoll glanced towards the sky.
“Hrr. Four and a half hours from now, if I’m a judge. The bells will ring from every wall twenty minutes ahead of time. Everyone will be there. I do not think anyone would miss it, no.”
Selys didn’t think so either. She closed the door and put on her rain gear. She didn’t feel like showering. When she left her house, the Gnoll [Guardsman] followed. They met Watch Captain Zevara in Liscor’s largest plaza. The Watch Captain looked like she’d been up for hours. She looked tired and grumpy as she drank a stamina potion.
Selys knew what that was like. Erin had talked about something called ‘coffee’, but all Selys knew was that if you were flagging, a stamina potion would keep you awake long enough to finish your shift. You just felt like you were dead inside the entire time.
“Miss Shivertail. Apologies for the guard. In light of recent events I thought it was best.”
“What’s all this?”
The plaza was full of people. A stage had been constructed in the center of the plaza, and Selys could see wet flags, wood barricades already holding back groups of civilians…
“The Council wanted the funeral to be public.”
“Funeral. But I thought we were going to send off his body—”
Zevara paused.
“We were. But a compromise was reached last night. General Shivertail’s family have no objections to holding the funeral here. A delegation from Pallass will arrive, and General Shivertail’s funeral will be seen by all the Drake cities. His ashes will be sent to his home for burial.”
Bury me with my—Selys blinked. That was the compromise? She met Zevara’s eyes, and the Watch Captain nodded ever so slightly. Then Selys fixed on something else she’d said.
“Ashes? You’re going to burn him? Why?”
The Watch Captain hesitated. She gestured at the Gnoll standing behind Selys, and he backed up. Zevara walked closer and lowered her voice, although the rain drowned out the sound nearly completely.
