She nodded. “Yep.” A second later, she waggled her hand. “I could probably still squeeze my way into a medium-sized martial school, so long as I made a good showing in the lower rounds. But my dream is to make it into one of the biggest schools. The most powerful ones on the continent. And for that, I need to win the tournament.”

“Win the whole thing?” Rhys puffed out his cheeks and let out a slow breath. The image of Bast flashed through his head, studying under the Sword Saint, the most powerful martial artist in the continent. Sure, Bast would’ve only had a year or two to study, but he knew how quick a learner his friend was. And that was just who he knew about. Who knew how many powerful martial students attended the big martial schools in the area? Students who could properly train against equally powerful students, instead of beating their heads against the insensate wall that was Cynog?

She laughed. “It’s fine. I’ll be happy starting at a medium-sized martial school. I’ll work my way up to the big ones. But it would be nice if I could get it in one, you know?”

Rhys nodded. “Yeah.”

It was just like in his world. The college you went to, the people you attended it with, could set the level of your success for the rest of your life. Sure, you could always struggle and overcome, but it would all be easier if you started from a powerful position. He understood that better than anyone, and so, he understood what Ev aspired to better than anyone. Rhys patted her back. “Whatever I can do to help, just let me know.”

“You don’t want to take part in the tournament?” she asked.

Rhys hesitated, then shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe? I’ll see when we get closer.”

For now, after all, he was happy in Infinite Constellation sect. The place was full of wonderful, wonderful trash. What else did he need? And yet, he knew that was only for now. Eventually, he would clean all the trash and absorb all the gunk in that toxic trash pit. After that, well, it was a small school. His objectives were bigger than that. He wanted to become the most powerful mage he could, and that meant finding a school big enough to help him gain his dreams. But would that happen in one year? That was what he wasn’t sure about.

Ev knocked his shoulder. “You should. Even if you’re not aiming for another school, it would be a good experience for you.”

“Yeah, yeah,” Rhys said. There was another angle here: he was trash. Could he prepare enough in a year to handle a tournament? Sure, with all his buffs, he could fight pretty well, but… compared to students who didn’t start as trash, how did he compare?

I’ve been doing pretty well against my fellow students here, a little voice in the back of his head noted. But at the same time, this was a tiny school, full of the refuse that couldn’t make it into any other school. He couldn’t meaningfully track his progress against these students. Even if he outshone all of them, that didn’t make him not trash on an objective scale, rated against students from every sort of academy.

Ev snorted, seeing his consternation. “Don’t make that constipated face. If it hurts that hard, don’t think about it yet. You’ve still got a year to figure things out.”

Rhys nodded. “That… is reassuring.”

“Plus, don’t worry about beating me. They organize students by Tier,” Ev said.

“I would hope so,” Rhys replied, chuckling.

She looked him over. “You healed up?”

“Yeah,” Rhys replied.

Ev grinned, raising her fists. “Come on, then. I want to try out those new techniques of yours for myself.”
