“It’s a gray area,” said Lute. “You can cast it wherever you want, but I generally cast in private until I’m good enough to mutter or even abbreviate them. I think if other Avowed do pick them up from us and use them incorrectly the Palace might assign a Chainer to give them a talking to…and that doesn’t sound like fun for me. Obviously don’t go out and have a tutoring session like this with someone else until you’ve gotten permission to be a teacher, too. And—”


“I get permission to teach at some point?” Alden asked in surprise.


“I assume you do. The Palace lets all of their Artonan members teach restricted chains once they’ve made it out of the novice echelons, so I don’t see why they wouldn’t let a human do it, especially if his heart contains all the light of the sun within it.”


“Prostration,” said Alden. “Prostration. Prostration.”


“Just don’t say it in front of the girls, jerk.” Lute looked like he was on the verge of falling off the bed. His blonde hair was brushing the rug. “Do you like Natalie?”


“Yeah, of course.”


“‘Of course,’ he says. ‘I have both my eyes.’”


Oh he meant like that.


“We’re friends. I’m friends with all of them.”


“I know. But…if I’m thinking about developing a crush on one of them, I want to make sure it’s someone you’re not into. That wouldn’t be cool.”


“You plan your crushes in advance?” Alden asked with interest. “I’ve never heard anyone mention that was an option.”


“I got burned last time. I could like Emilija. She’s funny and cute. All your intake friends are hot. And she’s seventeen, but she didn’t treat me like a kid. She didn’t make a big deal out of any of the things people usually care about…probably because she’s not from here. And I don’t think she was mad when my self-confidence chain made me tell her she looked amazing in the bikini.” He bit his lip. “She seemed happy I’d complimented her, right? It wasn’t too much that I looked up how to say it in Lithuanian?”


Alden was growing more and more sure that the self-confidence chain was dangerous.


“I must’ve missed that one while I was watching the fireworks. It’s fine with me if you develop a crush on Emilija. She isn’t dating anyone as far as I’ve heard. Do you…am I supposed to ask her if she likes you back?”


That sounded so awkward.


But Alden had encountered a lot of people asking about crushes recently. Maricel had asked her roommates if they liked him. Her roommates and others at the party had asked him if he liked her. Jeremy had a serious girlfriend. Maybe it was just time for them all to be doing this kind of crush-checking regularly?


“I’ll murder you if you do,” said Lute


Or not.


“Just offering,” said Alden. “Anyway, go for it. I heard she scared some assholes who were giving Natalie a hard time into leaving intake early, and she’s so positive about everything on Anesidora, and she’s good at <<funny-mean>>. I think she’s cool.”


“You just use Artonan in casual convo?” Lute shook his head. “You really are in the wrong language class.”


******


Before their last few minutes in the privacy booth were up, Lute gave Alden two jewelry-sized boxes. One had an inch-long silver piece of metal in it, shaped like a rounded rectangle with a hole in the center.


“It’s a chain link,” said Lute. “Symbolic. You can earn more by being a good wordchain user in the Palace of Unbreaking’s eyes. It doesn’t do anything or get you anything, but you can string them together and feel proud of yourself.”


“Like earning badges or gold stars?”


“Yes. But alien,” Lute said dramatically. “Don’t throw it away. You’re supposed to keep it with you at all times. I don’t even do that with mine. Just shove it somewhere where you won’t lose it. I keep them in my closet.”


The second jewelry box had a flattened piece of cloudy crystal about the size and shape of a checker.


“I was surprised when he said he was going to give you this.” Lute stared at it. “Apparently, it’s because you’re an Avowed. They don’t give them out to most of the palace members. Just some people. It’s more inconvenient than the chain link. If you don’t want to use it, you should give it me, and I’ll do it for you.”


“What is it?” Alden asked.


The small piece was heavy in his hand. It reminded him of the material the trading table had been made of in the consulate building.


“It’s an Opposite stone. If you have it with you while you perform a wordchain, it glows for the person that has the other one. It’s really just symbolic in your case. I checked. They don’t know what you’ve cast, and they don’t become your literal Opposite for chains. It’s going to be a notification toy for you and the person who has the other half. But…it probably means a lot to that person. Because they got a stone suddenly when almost nobody else gets one.”


“I need to do it every time?”


“No. But if you’re not going to do it at least every few weeks, I’ll take it.”


Lute held out his hand.


Alden looked at him. “Do you want me to give it to you?” he asked. “I will. But it won’t be trouble to stick this in a pocket or something while I cast.”


“If you’re sure you’ll do it, that would be best,” Lute said slowly. “But I know it’s a pain to keep track of a little thing that’s not actually significant to you. I ran mine through a washing machine a few times because I forgot about it…which was very crappy of me.”


He’s serious about the rock, thought Alden.


That seemed odd. Lute was even pretty casual about the ledger. He didn’t think it would be a big deal to Parethat-uur if Alden botched wordchains every now and then, but he clearly didn’t want him to mess up with the Opposite stone. Even though he’d just said it was only a toy.


“I’ll be careful with it.”


Lute was still staring at it.


“I’m great at carrying random objects. It’s what I do. If I’m not using wordchains for a few weeks, I’ll pass it off to you. How about that?”


Lute finally dropped his hand. “That would be…it’s better if it’s you. Your Opposite will be so honored that it feels wrong to lie about who’s making their rock blink. But they might be crushed if the rock never blinks. And I don’t know if they get to keep being your Opposite if you lose your stone. They might assign you someone else for some crazy Artonan reason.”


“It’s a religious artifact for them. I get it. I’ll be careful.” Another thing struck him suddenly. “You said the Palace is giving it to me because I’m an Avowed. And you think the Opposite will be honored. They’re not a wizard, then?”


It was the natural conclusion to draw. An Avowed got the special rock when most ordinary wordchain students didn’t. And regular people could cast wordchains. The Palace probably had a large non-wizard class membership.


“Most likely not,” said Lute. He sat down on the green velvet chair again and started putting on his shoes. “…it’ll be someone your age. Born on the same day as you, as close to the same minute as possible. They go all-in on the matching if they can.”


“Oh,” said Alden. He smiled down at the stone. “So they’re a kid.”


An Artonan exactly his age should be physically and emotionally closer to human twelve.


“That’s amazing—imagining that someone born the same minute as me might be holding their stone right now, too.”


Lute finished tying his laces, then stood up. “All right. Money spent. Tutoring completed. Bed jumped on. Alien gifts given. Some Chainer secrets revealed.”


“Crush selected,” Alden added, reaching for his own shoes.


“Crush selected,” Lute repeated. “Wevvi fruit…”


He craned his neck toward the case the fruit had come in.


“I just finished the last bite,” said Alden. “And because of that, I may need to stop by a dispensary when we leave for another one of those ‘unruly stomach’ injectors. My guts are wondering why I’ve chosen to put a whole raw custard-flavored pumpkin in them on a beautiful Saturday.”


<<We all make sacrifices for the Unbreaking,>> Lute intoned as he collected all the things they’d be taking with them when they left.


“Thank you for teaching me. This was awesome of you. It’s great for me, but you’re getting nothing out of it except for tons of my company.”


“It’s not like I have a glorious social life. I would just be sitting around playing my harp and studying.”


“Still…” said Alden. “If you think of some way for me to return the favor, let me know.”


“Tomorrow. The girls—”


“That’s just me having a good time with all of you, Lute. It wasn’t a favor last weekend, and it isn’t this one either. And now I’m asking you to spend even more time on the phone with me while I go down to F and possibly piss off a mind-controlled Brute lady.”


Lute was quiet for a second. Then he said, “Well…that’s just me having a good time with you, Alden. I’ll watch you piss off Brute ladies every weekend. It sounds very entertaining.”


Alden laughed. “Sorry, but I hope it’s boring for you. I want to get to her apartment and find out that she’s not even there. If she’s at the healing hospital right now getting checked for mental manipulation like I recommended, that would be the best possible outcome.”


“Fine. I’ll root for that this weekend. But next weekend I’m rooting for a Brute lady to take a swing at you.”


Alden stood and looked around the privacy booth. He made a decision.


“Hey, the thing on my profile that made your boss excited…”


Lute’s eye fixed on him.


“It’s not something I’m embarrassed about, but it doesn’t feel like me. I don’t know how people will see it, and I definitely don’t want to introduce myself to everyone I meet that way and then have to, like, prove it with every breath I take.” He shrugged uncomfortably. “Anyway. It’s just a commendation.”


“A commendation?” Lute’s fingers tightened on the box that held Alden’s new inkwell and brush. “You mean…one for fighting chaos. Like the kind Haoyu’s mom has?”


“Does she have one? I didn’t know.”


“Two. I think she got one before he was born and another when we were in seventh grade. His dad has one. I’ve heard him mention them before. And there were a couple other people in our school whose parents had one.” Lute looked away from Alden to stare at the cut-crystal sconce on the wall in front of him. “Most of them were really proud.”


“Mine’s not for fighting chaos,” said Alden. “I was sitting in a little bit of chaos for months and trying to stay alive, and then I was running away from it. The commendation is for taking care of someone while I was there and taking her with me when I left. I think. They just gave it to me. It’s not like there was an explanation.”


Lute didn’t say anything.


“I figured you were probably curious. And I’ve learned a lot about your Chainer stuff,” Alden said. “I’m sure the faculty know, and I trust you more than any of them so there’s no real reason to keep it a secret…I just don’t want people to look at me and think ‘Guy with Alien Accolade’ instead of ‘Guy Trying to Remember How to Do High School.’”


“Yeah, you’re terrible at that,” said Lute. “You speak fluent Artonan, you study way too much, and you try to save cultists. You need to get some chewing gum stuck to your learning cushion next week, accidentally set one of your rugs on fire, and fail to turn in homework. Then you’ll be cured.”


Alden felt relieved. “I did set a shirt on fire.”


“Oh right. The tag tried to kill you so you defeated it with your spell impression.” Lute gave him a half-smile. “Thanks for telling me. That’s…it’s cool.”


“It’s just a thing that happened.”


“Which commendation is it?” Lute asked. “I know there are different ones.”


“It’s for Exceptional Bravery in the Absence of Obligation.”


“Well that confirms that your heart really does burn sinners to death.”


“Shut up.”


“I can’t help that words have meanings, man. The meaning of those words isn’t open to interpretation. No one made you be brave, and you chose to do it anyway.”


“It really is just a thing that happened.”


“I won’t bother you about it,” Lute said. “I do understand wanting to be High School Guy instead of something else. And it would be peculiar to introduce yourself to people with, ‘Hi. I’m Alden the Commended One.’ Don’t do that. Everyone will think you have issues.”


Alden snorted. “I’ll try to avoid it. By the way, I don’t want Haoyu and Lexi to hear about it yet.”


Lute looked surprised. “You haven’t told Haoyu?”


“No. I only told you because we’re getting to know each other and your boss was acting like I had a supernova in my chest. It was nice of you not to push for info.”


“You should tell Haoyu. You two get along so well and he’s going to be thrilled. He’ll probably carry you home to his mother like, ‘Look! I found another one of you! Compare stars while I take notes!’”


“I’ll tell him if it comes up naturally. I’m not desperate to keep it from him or anything. I kind of want to do better in gym before it comes out, though.”


“That’s random.”


