“I’m positive they only let me into the hero program because of the commendation,” Alden explained. “And not because it says I’m brave. They didn’t talk about bravery at all in my interview. I don’t think they consider it the most necessary quality. They were just afraid of making the Artonans mad or something, so here I am. I’d like to show all of my classmates I don’t suck before they find out about the star and start guessing about it.”


Lute’s expression darkened. “I hadn’t thought of that. Being the class weakling is…bad. Being the class weakling and having something that will make other people jealous? That can ruin your whole life.”


“I’m not the class weakling!” Alden protested. “I’m doing well. I just think I can do even better.”


Lute gave him a look. “Be realistic. You could be levitating a meter off the ground, weeping diamonds, and exhaling clouds of poisonous gas, and some of those privileged little rankists would still know right down to their bones that they were better than you because you’re only a B.”


“They’re not that bad.”


“They are,” Lute muttered. “Trust me. I know several of the people in your program. Some of them are better than others, and not all of the ones who buy into that mindset are dicks because of it. But it’s like…this is the puddle we all grew up swimming in. Even if they understand that it’s wrong and they actively try to reject it, they still default to thinking that way a lot of the time.”


A chime sounded through the room suddenly, and the lights flickered.


“That’s our two-minute warning,” Lute said. “Before they open the door and kick us out.”


“I’m ready to go when you are.”


Alden grabbed the wevvi fruit case. None of Parethat-uur’s gifts had been sent in anything that looked remotely disposable. The cases, chests, and small boxes were all wood and leather with embroidered cloth interiors.


Rich people need to stop giving me things that are too expensive to get rid of. I don’t know what my dorm room’s going to look like a year from now at this rate.


Dozens of boxes full of lavender and alien curios probably. At least he was going to smell good.


Lute’s fingers hovered over the latch that would open the privacy booth’s door. Alden waited, but he just stood there, facing the paneled wall.


“I do think it’s amazing,” he said as the lights flickered again. “The fact that you earned a commendation. I feel like I need be clear about it. I think it’s amazing, and I’m glad you made it back to Earth and that you’re alive.”


Alden raised his eyebrows. “Thanks. You don’t have to say stuff like that, though.”


“I do,” said Lute, still not looking at him. “Not to make things weird for you or anything, but just so you know…I mean it. I think it’s terrible something bad happened to you, and I hope nothing like that happens to you again.”


He hooked the latch with a finger and pulled before Alden could ask what the sudden change in tone was about.Unauthorized use: this story is on Amazon without permission from the author. Report any sightings.
 
 
*
