She gestured towards their table. Ceria followed Pisces as he sat down next to Alais and her team. Somehow, she and Yvlon were at the edge of the table while Pisces and Ksmvr were in the center. Of course, they were the unknown quantities. Caddin was asking Ksmvr exactly what he was while Pisces listened to Alais introduce her team.
“…and that’s Caddin, of course. We’re a mix, mostly [Warriors] and [Archers]. Not really [Hunters] for all we look the part. You see, it’s about my magic. I’m a specialist. Nothing like a Wistram-trained [Mage] in terms of quality, of course, and I’ve got some [Warrior] classes as well. Not exactly a pure [Mage], right?”
She shot Ceria a quick glance. The half-Elf sighed. Wistram [Mages] did earn their reputation for snobbishness. But Pisces was shaking his head.
“Practically speaking, a pure [Mage] is quite inflexible. We should all have some means of defending ourselves, if only to fight foes capable of using anti-magic effects. My fencing is as much hobby as for self-defense, which is a necessity among [Mages], wouldn’t you agree?”
The [Aeromancer] was nodding eagerly, forgetting the others as she talked craft while Ksmvr tried to explain what an Antinium was, from his perspective.
“Of course. But it’s a tricky line. I’m good with a staff, but as an [Aeromancer] I find it’s hard to avoid electrifying metal. You see, I’m self-taught, so my team’s had to learn how to use non-metallic weapons…”
Alais looked embarrassed, but Pisces shook his head.
“It’s quite understandable. I wouldn’t dare to fire off a [Lightning Bolt] spell around Yvlon. Wistram does teach control, but electrical spells are extremely hard to control given how fast the currents move. If we have time, perhaps we could exchange lightning form techniques? I might not be able to cast Tier 3 spells, but I do have some knowledge of spell theory I could compare…it would be a pleasure to learn from someone with practical experience, however. I find Wistram students often fall behind people with field experience…”
“You son of a Creler.”
Ceria mumbled to herself as Pisces instantly charmed Alais and the other adventurers. And somehow, he even seemed partly genuine to her. But she knew he was still putting on an act to make a good first impression. She didn’t know if she hated or was grateful to him for it.
And she’d forgotten how likable Pisces could be if he tried, damn it! Ceria watched him play the humble [Mage] from Wistram so well she nearly forgot to take part in the conversation. Yvlon, who’d waited for the introductions to finish, leaned in.
“It’s been a while, Alais. How’s your team been? We haven’t seen each other since Liscor. Has anything big come your way since then?”
Alais looked up. She frowned, and Caddin and the other five looked up as well.
“Nothing to say, Yvlon. We earned some gold, but we spent it getting some new equipment from a [Carpenter]. You know how it is. Wooden swords. Maces, clubs, wooden arrows. We’ve been keeping ourselves busy.”
Ceria raised her eyebrows. That was hardly an answer. Normally any seasoned adventurer would have a story to tell or complaints about money lost. Yvlon frowned, but someone else approached their table.
“Hullo there. Is that Yvlon and Ceria I see? Mind if I stop by?”
That voice was familiar. Ceria twisted. Her face burst into a smile. She shot to her feet.
“Stan! Why didn’t you say something earlier?”
An older man in his early forties was standing by the table. He wore chainmail and had a dagger at his belt along with a small, brown pouch, but he didn’t carry any other obvious weapons. He let Ceria hug him and then shook Yvlon’s hand. He stared at Ceria’s skeletal hand for a second and then at her face, before nodding to Alais.
“I didn’t think to see you today, Ceria. Yvlon. It’s—quite good to see you two looking so healthy.”
Caddin shifted. Ceria blinked at Stan. Normally he’d be bursting to ask her questions, like someone half his age, but he was more reserved as well. Her stomach twisted. Had someone passed away recently?
“How’s the team, Stan? Are the Boltspitters well?”
“Us? We took a few bad injuries, but nothing to speak of. Lailli’s laid up with a broken foot, but we’re working to keep her fed in the meantime. Who are these two? I heard you’re named Ksmvr?”
“That is correct. I am Ksmvr.”
“Pisces.”
The [Mage] stood up and shook Stan’s hand. Ceria smiled as she waved at Stan and the two members of his team sitting at their table.
“This is Stan, you two. Crossbow Stan. He’s the only Silver-ranked adventurer around here that has anything like a nickname. He’s a bit of a legend locally—he’s got his own fighting style too!”
Ksmvr looked very interested.
“Really? Please elaborate, Captain Ceria.”
“Why not let Stan explain. You love that, don’t you, Stan?”
The adventurer smiled. He touched his belt and the bag at his side.
“I do indeed. I’m a [Crossbowman] by trade. I don’t know if you’ve ever used one, but the damn things take a bit to load. True, you can fire them fast, but there’s nothing like a good bow for speed. Except you can load a crossbow ahead of time. So if I needed to fight, I could do this—”
He raised his hand. And suddenly there was a loaded crossbow aimed at the table. Two of the younger adventurers sitting with Alais’ team swore and jerked out of their chairs, but all of the older ones just laughed. Ksmvr had frozen in place. He opened his mandibles slowly.
“I see. That is impressive. Look, Captain Ceria. I did not move. See?”
He waved a hand at her. Ceria smiled.
“Good job, Ksmvr.”
Pisces sniffed, then caught himself and looked dutifully impressed.
“I see. A bag of holding to store a preloaded crossbow. But may I be so bold, Crossbow Stan? I’ll bet you didn’t keep just one crossbow, did you?”
The veteran adventurer chortled. He flicked his hand next to the bag of holding and a second crossbow appeared, replacing the first. It was a neat trick, but the adventurers he was pointing at did not appreciate it.
“Put it away, Stan! You’ll hit someone one day! At least use an unloaded crossbow!”
“Aw, shut up, Caddin. I’ve never hit anyone yet. By accident, anyways. But you’re right, young man. That’s my specialty.”
“I assume that is a bag of holding, as Comrade Pisces said?”
Ksmvr peered at the small bag at Crossbow Stan’s side. The man nodded proudly.
“That’s right. Preloaded crossbows. I have six of ‘em. My bag can’t fit any more. Every time I had enough coin, I spent it on a better bag of holding. Not that I need a new one now; if I can’t take down what needs taking down in six shots, I might as well be dead. I guess I need better crossbows or enchanted quarrels now, but this is good enough for Silver-rank work.”
He made the second crossbow disappear quickly. Ceria nodded approvingly. Stan, or Crossbow Stan as he was affectionately known, was an old man in the adventuring job. Not as old as Typhenous, but he’d stayed in the Silver-ranks because he didn’t have the punch to go any higher. That didn’t mean he was a slouch, though; she’d seen him put four crossbow bolts into a charging Ogre in less than ten seconds. Ksmvr nodded.
“I admire your style of fighting. It complements your advanced age and decaying reflexes.”
“Oh, Ksmvr—”
Ceria put her head down on the table. Stan was too busy laughing to take offense.
“So this is an Antinium? It can tell jokes! And you—you’re one sharp [Mage] if you can figure out my trick, young man. Pisces, was it?”
He paused.
“I feel like I remember your name. I’m sure we haven’t met, but have you been through Celum before, sir?”
Pisces raised his eyebrows and shrugged.
“I’ve passed through once or twice, but I wasn’t an adventurer then. This is a career change. I hope I can count on you to teach me the ropes, as it were.”
He shook Stan’s hand. The man smiled again.
“Pleased. Have you known Ceria and Yvlon long, Pisces?”
He glanced up at Ceria and Yvlon swiftly for some reason before looking at Pisces. The [Necromancer] gave Stan a disarming smile.
“I knew Ceria back in Wistram. We met while she was in Liscor, and I was delighted to join her team after it reformed.”
“I see. I see. Well, I just wanted to say hi. I won’t keep you. Perhaps we can have a chat later today. Is your team going to take a request today, Ceria?”
“We thought we’d look around. We’re planning on working in Celum for a bit, Stan, Alais. But we can stay and chat! How’s it been?”
“Oh, you know. The same sort of assignments. There was a bit of a flood of monsters after Lord Tyrion’s army passed through, as well as those damn Goblins. Critters from the High Passes came out; we had to kill a good number of Carn Wolves and Eater Goats and a few other nasties. Not worth taking up time with.”
This time both Ceria and Yvlon frowned. Stan and Alais? The man looked down at the [Aeromancer] and cleared his throat. She stood up.
“I don’t want to take up your time if you’re going to work. It’s already midday. We’ll catch your team later, Ceria. Where are you staying?”
“The Wandering Inn. You know it?”
“That inn in Liscor? I’d heard it was in Stitchworks, but I’ve never been. Never wanted to go to a Drake city and besides…but we’ll maybe pop by. I’d like to chat with Pisces about magic if I may.”
Stan nodded.
“Right. We’ll catch up later. Ceria, Yvlon. Good to see you again.”
He turned and returned to his table. And for some reason, Thunder’s Solace vacated their table to join him. Ceria stared at them and bit her lip for a second. She turned to Yvlon.
“That was a bit abrupt.”
The [Warrior] gave her a crooked smile as she watched the other adventurers go.
“They must be thinking about Liscor.”
“Think they don’t want to talk about Calruz and the others? I was ready for it.”
“They might be trying to spare our feelings. They noticed your hand. We can tell them it’s okay to talk about later.”
“Right.”
Ceria shook herself. You couldn’t be too considerate in this line of work. She appreciated it, but Alais and Stan had both experienced losing teammates before. She looked around.
“I guess we’ll tell the [Receptionist] how long we’re staying and that we’ll work around Celum for…a few days? Ah, Ksmvr, that’s something teams like to do. It helps if someone wants to hire us, and the guild can keep track of the teams in the area in case of emergencies. You take a seat or check out the job board. I’ll be a moment.”
She got up. The other adventurers got back to their seats or their discussions, although some still stared at Ksmvr. And Ceria and Yvlon, but that was only to be expected. The hubbub returned, but quieter. Ceria supposed the other teams were sizing their reformed party up. She approached the [Receptionist].
“Hi there. I’m Ceria Springwalker, and I lead the Horns of Hammerad…”
The woman at the desk blinked at her. Ceria had to repeat herself a few times; whomever the [Receptionist] was, she wasn’t on the ball today. When she finally got back to her table, she had another surprise. Ksmvr was sitting with Pisces and Yvlon. He had a full stack of the papers from the board on the far wall. Yvlon was trying to make him put them back.
“But Yvlon, we can easily clear all these requests. If we do ten today, and twenty tomorrow…”
“Ksmvr, did you steal all the requests from the board?”
Ceria was scandalized. Ksmvr’s mandibles drooped as he looked up.
“Have I committed another social error?”
“A small one.”
Yvlon sighed. She pointed at the now-bare job board at the back of the guild.
“Ksmvr, there’s a few unspoken rules in the Adventurer’s Guild. One of them is that it’s not polite to take all the requests. You can do it, but you lose a lot of friends that way. And if another group takes a request, stealing their mission is also bad sport.”
Ksmvr looked from her to Ceria. Pisces was yawning as he looked around the room; none of this was news to him.
“Oh. But how is it determined whose request is taken? This system is largely unintuitive.”
Ceria smiled.
“It is. But it’s easy to tell. Go put the requests back. You see, the second board there, with the three requests on it? That means someone’s taken them, but they’re an open assignment. Like gathering materials, ooh, taking out a pair of Eater Goats…checking up on a possible Troll sighting…you see? Out of courtesy we won’t take those. And if we did, we’d talk with the teams involved, reach an understanding.”
Ksmvr nodded as he re-pinned the pieces of paper he’d claimed.
“I see. I see. What is that board above it?”
“Exclusive contracts. See? Escorting a [Trader], someone wants a bodyguard…things only one team can do. But the board you took from is open game for now. It’s generally organized so the harder and riskier assignments are near the top. See? Each one has a difficulty assessment for the recommended level—as well as if you might need a certain class, like [Mage]—as well as location, pay, urgency, and so on.”
Ksmvr peered closely at the board as Ceria worked her way up to the top. He rubbed his hands together eagerly as he contemplated options with her.
“I see. I see. Ah, Captain. We could gather Sage Grass. It pays in copper coins per pound.”
“…Not really our thing, Ksmvr. Besides, the local farms make the prices too low.”
“Would you like to hunt down some wolves?”
“How much is the pay per head?”
“Four silver coins.”
“No. Unless someone puts a substantial price on the heads of a monster, it’s generally not worth our time, Ksmvr.”
“And four silver coins is not?”
“To track wolves? We’re not [Hunters], and it could be a pain.”
“Ah. So what is our preferred assignment?”
Ceria frowned absently.
“Something that involves high risk. It generally means more pay. Plus, high-level monsters have bigger bounties. What about—oh. This…might be ours.”
Right there, at the top of the board, was a bounty. And it was a good one. Twenty gold pieces and sixteen silver ones, with the potential to earn a lot more if Ceria was right. She stared at it. Ksmvr peered up at it.
“That is substantially higher than all other requests. Is it a powerful monster?”
Ceria shook her head absently. She noticed Yvlon and Pisces getting up to see. She plucked the request off the board and showed them. Yvlon frowned. Pisces raised his brows.
“Not monsters. Humans. This is a [Bandit] extermination request.”
Ceria scratched her head.
“I didn’t know a group had popped up.”
Yvlon’s frown deepened as she scratched at the metal covering her arm.
“It must be new. Do you think we should…?”
