Yvlon sounded admiring. Ksmvr leaned over, blank.
“I do not understand what this configuration of flesh means. Comrade Pisces, please explain.”
“It shows high abdominal strength, Ksmvr. And I realize the distinction is lost on you, but I find it a quite attractive view.”
Pisces leaned over for a better look. Garia turned red, and Yvlon reached over to punch him.
“No, don’t!”
The Runner girl looked pleased as she lowered her shirt. That was another change. Garia would never have been so bold. Ceria blinked as Pisces edged back from Yvlon, and Ksmvr prodded his own stomach.
“So you’re really trying to be a [Martial Artist], Garia? Aren’t you a [Runner]?”
Garia took a longer drink and nodded.
“That’s right. But the two classes have great synergy. After all, both are about the body. I’m hoping I can consolidate the classes. But I have no idea what class I’d get, and I’m running out of ways to improve. I do practice punches every day—and kicks as well as this dodging routine I learned—but I’m just dying to meet Ryoka again. I want to see her face—and get her to teach me how to do some flips!”
“Ryoka taught you how to do those punches? Now it makes sense.”
Yvlon sighed and rolled her eyes. Ceria nodded too.
“Of course. She took both you and Calruz on, remember, Yvlon?”
“As if I could forget. That was one way to meet her.”
The [Warrior] rubbed her cheek ruefully. Garia smiled.
“I was there when she took Calruz on with her fists, remember?That’s not something I’m ever going to do, but when she visited my parent’s farm, Ryoka also taught me how to do a basic punch. She wanted me to defend myself. Honestly, I didn’t see much point in it, but she did some incredible tricks as well, so I thought—why not? My dad was all hyped up after her visit too. He practically forced me to try her punches the day after she left, and then spar. I don’t know if you’ve met him—”
“Wailant Strongheart? Doesn’t he run a really productive farm around Celum? I remember hearing about how productive his fields are.”
Yvlon looked curious. Ceria blinked at her.
“How do you know that, Yvlon?”
“I do take an interest in that kind of thing, Ceria. My family runs a number of businesses. He runs his farm practically by himself, or so I heard. Dangerous, even for a farm located close to Celum. But I take it he’s good at fighting?”
Garia smiled ruefully.
“Dad’s not alone. But you’re right. He can take care of himself. So can my mother. She’s a [Green Mage].”
“That explains it. Is your father a former adventurer, then? A soldier?”
“No. He was a [Pirate].”
Yvlon choked on her drink. Ksmvr politely patted her on the back.
“You are drowning, Yvlon.”
“Thanks, Ksmvr. A [Pirate]? You don’t hear about that every day!”
“No. But that’s an entire story…anyways, my dad’s still really good with a sword. And his fists. He kept egging me to become an adventurer and learn how to fight. I’m no good with a weapon, though. After Ryoka left, he made me do a hundred of her punches exactly like she did, and then tried to get me to spar. Normally I can’t even touch him, but he kept egging me on. And then I threw one of Ryoka’s punches and got lucky and—”
Garia spread her hands helplessly. Ceria winced. Pisces frowned. He leaned over to Ceria.
“Ceria. Correct me if I’m mistaken, but wasn’t Garia in the possession of the, ah, [Enhanced Strength] Skill?”
“Yup.”
Pisces winced. So did Yvlon.
“Ouch.”
Ksmvr looked up.
“Ah. That Skill is a more potent version of [Lesser Strength], is it not? I thought it was difficult to acquire for [Warriors], though.”
Yvlon dabbed at her mouth with a handkerchief.
“Rare, yes. I wish I had it. But it’s more common for [Farmers].”
“And I was one until I quit. It’s one of the reasons I was so big growing up, or so my mother always said. And I got a solid hit on my dad during that sparring session.”
Garia waved a hand. Ksmvr stared blankly at her. Ceria smiled slightly.
“Ksmvr, it’s not a complete comparison, but remember Calruz? Imagine him hitting you as hard as he could. He’s probably a bit stronger, but I remember a guy with [Enhanced Strength] nearly knocked him flat in a bar brawl one time.”
“Ah. I see. The potential for bodily harm rises. Commendable.”
Garia shook her head.
“I didn’t hurt my dad that bad. But I did knock him out. It was a lucky shot to the head, but still. I can’t tell you how good that felt! I’ve never so much as touched him when he didn’t want me to. That night I gained the [Martial Artist] class. And I decided that if I could knock my father out, a good punch would do just as well for any [Bandit] I met. Or monster! So I kept practicing off-and-on. And then I got to Level 6 and I realized what my class could do for me.”
She indicated her body. Ceria frowned.
“So you got a Skill, and you could just lose weight? Like that? Isn’t that insanely powerful?”
Yvlon nodded.
“I know dozens of [Ladies] who’d kill for a Skill like that, Garia. Literally kill.”
“Well, they can learn to do a few punches and see if they get it. I don’t think it’s a powerful Skill by the standards of my class, you see. It just helps me lose weight, which is what I wanted. I guess that’s why I got it?”
She looked around the table for confirmation. Pisces nodded. Somehow he’d signaled for another plate of fries, unabashedly putting it on Garia’s tab.
“Indeed. It’s a well-known phenomenon that classes and Skills are acquired often in line with the user’s desires. I myself don’t have any Skills involving the summoning of flesh-based undead, for instance.”
“Silver and steel, Pisces. Of all the things to say while we’re eating.”
Yvlon glared. Pisces raised a hand.
“I merely bring it up as a point of reference. I much prefer skeletons to zombies, you see. Rotting flesh is so…unrefined.”
“It also carries disease. I am contributing this fact to the conversation.”
“Thank you, Ksmvr.”
The Antinium beamed. Garia looked around.
“I don’t know about all that. But I’m just so happy I got the class. It’s not the only Skill I got, of course—I learned a few techniques too! I can do a really fast kick, I have a dodging Skill—and I’m a lot faster on my feet! But that’s just because of the weight loss. I can’t wait to see what other Skills I get, though. So I’m learning all I can about my class. But Ceria and Pisces are right. There’s practically no one with this class in Izril.”
“Huh. So what will you do?”
Garia shrugged.
“I’m trying to see if there are any [Martial Artists] or people with similar classes among the adventurers on the continent. There probably are, and I’ll see if I can talk to them and if they’re willing to share. Aside from that, I do my research. [Mages] know a lot, you see, and experienced travellers from Chandrar are helpful. If I could go to a larger city or a port…oh, and you’re wrong about [Martial Artists], Ceria. Just a tiny bit.”
“Oh? How?”
“Weapons are actually part of the fighting styles [Martial Artists] use. You see, it’s about the attitude and…discipline? The point is, some use hands and feet, but there are entire styles that take other body parts into account. Also, there are groups of [Martial Artists] in Chandrar too, Pisces. There’s this famous nation called Pomle, and I was trying to see if I could send a [Message] spell there, but they don’t even have a Mage’s Guild.”
Garia sighed. Pisces sniffed.
“I knew that. I was simply referring to the practice in a broader cultural sense, not minorities by continent—”
“Shut up, Pisces. She’s more of an expert than you.”
Ceria smiled at Garia, privately delighted. The City Runner grinned at Pisces.
“Well, I have done my research. But if you know anything, Pisces, I’d love to find out more. There really aren’t any experts around. Oh, there are [Brawlers], and I’ve heard of [Fist Fighters], but they’re completely different. I did hear a rumor about a…[Mage] in Pallass? He apparently trains his body. And doesn’t Erin’s inn have a door to Pallass?”
She looked hopefully at Pisces. So did Ceria, although the comment wiggled at a part of her memory. But she didn’t keep her ear to the door like Pisces did with his constant spying. She was more of an expert on adventuring and, uh…half-Elves. He nodded at last.
“I believe I know the [Mage] you’re referring to, Miss Strongheart.”
“Garia.”
“Miss Stronghear—”
The young woman reached over and poked Pisces. His chair rocked a bit.
“Garia.”
Yvlon was smiling. Pisces blinked twice.
“…Garia. The Drake in question is known as Grimalkin. I’m familiar with a few particulars about him; he didn’t attend Wistram, but he did visit the academy…hm. He graduated from Fissival, but his, ah, unique beliefs make him a pariah in the magical community. However, I believe his theories are sound, if excessive. Ceria, you might remember him. He’s the one who challenged an Archmage to a duel.”
The half-Elf snapped her fingers.
“Him? I remember that!”
Yvlon was astonished.
“Someone challenged an Archmage of Wistram?”
The others leaned forwards. Ceria nodded.
“Two years after I left Wistram with Pisces. I remember hearing all about it. He lost, didn’t he?”
Pisces sniffed.
“Of course. He isn’t a high enough leveled [Mage] to beat any of the current Archmages. I believe he was up against Archmage Feor, a bad matchup, given Feor’s extensive abilities to control a duel.”
“Right, right. Good thing he wasn’t up against Amerys, though. She does not hold back.”
Pisces’ lips twitched as Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Garia all looked blank.
“He might have done surprisingly well. He did land a hit that nearly shattered Feor’s barrier spell. Apparently he suffered a bit of the impact. I would have quite liked to have seen that.”
So would Ceria. And she was impressed too; she knew how good an Archmage’s barrier spells probably were.
“So he’s some kind of fighting [Mage]? That might be what Garia wants.”
Pisces sighed.
“Alas, I think ‘physical mage’ is all too apt a term for Grimalkin. He emphasizes physical enchantment spells. Which means he can fight on par with a Gold-ranked [Warrior] with ease, but as a consequence he neglects other forms of magic. His motto is that a [Mage] should be able to keep up with [Warriors]. I admire the concept myself, as I combine aspects of fencing combat with my spellcraft in battle, but I doubt Grimalkin is that acquainted with the kind of fighting Miss…with what Garia desires. [Martial Artists] use Skills and battle techniques, not spells, and they can rival even powerful spells at high-level.”
He indicated his rapier as he spoke. Ceria was nodding, but she saw Garia looked disappointed. Ksmvr waved a hand.
“Comrade Pisces. Comrade Pisces, please explain to me. How powerful would you rate a [Martial Artist] compared to a regular [Warrior]?”
“Well—”
“I’ll answer that, Ksmvr. I am the expert here after all.”
Yvlon smoothly interrupted Pisces. He sighed loudly, but took a drink as she took over. That was actually a good sign, as was the way Yvlon didn’t glare at him in any seriousness. The Horns were easy around each other, and Ceria could see Garia glancing from face to face as she sipped from her drink, listening.
Yvlon shot Ksmvr a smile as the Antinium turned to face her. They had a good connection. If Ceria could sometimes sense what Pisces was thinking from their shared past, she thought that Yvlon liked Ksmvr, and she was the only person who Ksmvr didn’t address with any degree of formality.
“You see, Ksmvr, it’s a hard question. [Warriors] like me wear armor, but I do know [Martial Artists] usually go without. It’s more of a question of how rich and what level we are. You see, at low levels, the [Warrior] wins if they’re equipped right. We can wear armor and use steel weapons. Bare hands and feet aren’t much use even with some Skills. And the problem continues at higher levels.”
“Ah. I see. Your Sword of Weight and my Forceshield would be powerful weapons a [Martial Artist] lacks.”
Ksmvr indicated the sword at Yvlon’s side and the small bucker he carried. Yvlon nodded.
“Exactly. But it’s not all clear-cut. For instance, [Martial Artists] have to train, and not all [Warriors] do. I practice my swings, but I don’t do the…”
She waved her arms vaguely. Ksmvr copied her. Garia shook her head, amused, but didn’t break in.
“…So maybe [Martial Artist] is a stronger class than general [Warriors]? It might be like having a [Blademaster] class in terms of quality. And their Skills are quite good. But we get enchanted gear. So it’s more even at higher-levels. One thing’s for sure, though. Take away a Gold-rank [Warrior]’s gear and give him just steel and pit him against a [Martial Artist] of the same level, and I know who I’m betting on.”
Ksmvr nodded a few times. Then he raised his hand.
“To clarify, which one would you bet on?”
Everyone laughed at that. Garia called for another round as Ceria got up to pee. She had to chuckle over Ksmvr. But someone stopped her on the way back from the toilet.
“Miss. Excuse me, Miss.”
The [Innkeeper], Timbor, halted Ceria. He gave her a wide and slightly nervous smile as he indicated her team.
“That, uh, that thing with you. That’s one of them, isn’t it? An Antinium? From Liscor?”
“That’s right.”
The man licked his lips as Ceria frowned at him.
“He’s not going to do anything, is he? I know Garia, and she’s a good girl. Er, and I know your team’s the Horns of Hammerad, right? But one of the Antinium…it’s safe, it won’t act up, right? You can promise me that?”
Ceria glared.
“Ksmvr can control himself. He’s an adventurer.”
“Right, right. I only wanted to know…”
Timbor backed up, for all he was quite a bit taller than Ceria. She debated freezing his feet to the ground, and then shook her head. If she hadn’t met Ksmvr, Pawn, and Klbkch, she might have felt the same way.
“He’s quite nice. Don’t worry. We’re not staying the night. We have an inn. Ksmvr hasn’t killed anyone there yet.”
The [Innkeeper] flushed a bit.
“Of course. Look, I didn’t mean to say…”
Ceria let him go at that. The others were laughing as she came back. Garia was telling them stories of her new adventures on the road.
“…and that’s when I realized I really was a lot better! Fals came running back up to me, and then he just stared at the dead thing on the road. He couldn’t believe it! I was going to keep running, but it turned out the bounty on the monster was worth more than my delivery!”
Yvlon chuckled at that. Pisces leaned over to Ceria as he smiled.
“She punched a Rockdevil to death.”
“What?”
