Pisces shrugged. Ksmvr peered at the request. His antennae were twitching rapidly, which Ceria knew meant he was puzzled.
“I was unaware Humans could put bounties on each other. This changes my perception of the role of adventurers.”
“No, Ksmvr—it’s not—these are [Bandits]. Lawbreakers. We’re not [Mercenaries], but someone has to take care of [Bandits] as well as monsters. And sometimes the local City Watch or militia or [Lord] can’t handle the matter, or they do it by putting up a bounty. We get paid to take on the [Bandits]. It’s dangerous. Monsters are predictable. People aren’t.”
Yvlon nodded. She absently studied the request.
“Still, this is a twenty gold bounty.”
By her side, Pisces sniffed.
“Is that considered high, Yvlon? I would assume a single [Bandit] would be worth twenty gold pieces.”
“Well, yeah. If they were high-level. But this must be a fairly low-level group. Or the bounty hasn’t risen yet. It’ll go up if they keep causing trouble. If it were the Bloodfeast Raiders, it would be…what’s their bounty?”
“Four hundred thousand gold pieces, I think. If the entire group’s destroyed, or most of them. Eighty thousand for credible information about who their members are or how they operate. Twenty thousand per head on top of that.”
Yvlon whistled. Ceria shook her head.
“A bit more than our pay grade. But this? We could do this.”
“For twenty gold pieces…”
Pisces sniffed. Ceria frowned at him.
“It’s a lot more if one of the [Bandits] has an individual bounty. What’s this say? There are about thirty of them? We can keep any money they’ve stolen usually and sell their gear.”
“How charitable. But thirty individuals is a considerable risk.”
“You’ve got that right!”
Someone called out. Ceria turned and saw more than a few adventurers had been listening. Stan waved at them from their table. He was frowning as he pointed at the paper in Ksmvr’s hand.
“Ceria, I’d stay clear of that one. Me and Alais were talking about clearing it with a few other teams, but the gold reward isn’t high enough, even if we can keep their possessions. The bandit group that’s referring to isn’t hard to find—but they’re dangerous. They’ve got at least two [Mages] and a leader. Some kind of [Bandit Chief]. My group ran into some of them a while back. They tangled with a few patrols, raided a caravan…there used to be more, but they killed several adventuring groups and quite a number of [Guards] and people in outlying villages.”
“Jeeze. How’d your team get away?”
Stan shook his head.
“We ran for it. It was only fifteen we ran into, and they weren’t after us. I shot two; Lailli got knocked off her horse. That’s how she broke her foot. I wouldn’t take them on without outnumbering them. We do know where they’re probably camped, but no one’s had the guts to go after them yet.”
The Horns looked quickly at each other. Yvlon raised her brows, and Ceria nodded quickly.
“Really? Then maybe we can join you, Stan. We wouldn’t even need that many teams. With your group and Thunder’s Solace if you’re willing, Alais, we could probably take on that [Bandit] group.”
Caddin snorted.
“You insane, Springwalker? There’s, what, fourteen of us if we combine forces? Not counting Lailli. There’s around thirty of the [Bandits], probably more.”
“If we know where they’re at…how reliable is the intel, Stan? We can set a trap. And believe me, between our teams, I’m sure we can handle a good number.”
Ceria looked at Pisces and Yvlon. If they were low-level [Bandits]…Yvlon put her hand on her sword, and Pisces smiled. She could practically see him plotting how to use his Bone Horror to greatest effect. Ceria turned back to Stan, but the older adventurer wasn’t jumping at the idea.
“I don’t know, Ceria. We’d like that bounty, but working together’s a bit…”
“Come on, Stan. We’ve known each other for years. Trust us. We’re a lot higher-level than you remember. Me and Yvlon have new gear too, and Pisces and Ksmvr are good, for all they’re newbies.”
The half-Elf came over to the table and leaned over, trying to persuade Stan. Caddin, sitting next to the man, snorted.
“We know about your gear, Ceria. That’s not it.”
“What, then? Our experience? We’ve fought a lot worse than [Bandits], Caddin.”
Ceria looked at the young man, confused. He scowled up at her.
“Don’t play dumb. You know exactly what I’m talking about. Do you think we’d join with you? Really?”
His tone was very hostile. Ceria stared at him.
“Caddin, I don’t get it. What’s wrong?”
“What’s wrong? You just stride in here and ask what’s wrong? Don’t you know? Or don’t you remember?”
He shot to his feet, knocking his chair back. Ceria blinked at him. His face was flushed. And she realized he hadn’t so much as smiled at her once, or spoken to her beyond that first meeting. She looked at Alais. The [Aeromancer] avoided looking at Ceria. She grabbed Caddin’s arm and tried to pull him down.
“Caddin, drop it.”
Caddin shook Alais off him.
“No! If you and Stan aren’t going to say it, I will. Look! She doesn’t even get it. Not her, or Yvlon. Does her team know?”
He shoved back from the table and strode around Ceria. She realized the room was silent. Caddin pointed furiously at Yvlon as he stopped in front of Pisces and Ksmvr.
“You, Pisces. And you…Antinium. Do you know what those two did?”
Pisces raised his eyebrows.
“What do you mean by that?”
Suddenly, Ceria had an unpleasant feeling. A horrible sinking in her stomach. She thought she knew why Caddin was so angry. She looked at Alais and Stan. Neither team captain met her eyes. Caddin clenched his fist.
“I mean, do you know what happened to their previous teams, Mister Pisces? Or do you not care? And what about that Antinium thing?”
“Ksmvr.”
“Does he know? Or did they recruit him because no one else would work with them? Yvlon and Ceria. They both lost their teams. Both of them! And Yvlon was a captain! She lost her entire team, the Silver Spears! And all of the Horns of Hammerad died but Ceria! Did you hear about that?”
Ceria went pale. Yvlon had gone white. Pisces blinked at Caddin. He looked around, and his gaze focused on the silent room. He narrowed his eyes for a moment and then turned carefully to Caddin. Innocently, he spread his hands.
“I am aware Ceria lost her team. How could I not be?”
“Then—how could you—”
The Silver-rank adventurer spluttered. Pisces paused. His eyes darted to Ceria’s face.
“I know it was a tragic accident. A dungeon dive gone wrong. But surely that wasn’t Ceria’s fault. Or Yvlon’s. Adventuring is a terrible business.”
Pisces’ voice was smooth and reasonable, even sympathetic. Caddin choked.
“But I heard—”
Pisces gripped his shoulder.
“Please, friend. Let me explain what I heard as someone who was there. You see, I know my friend. And believe me, Liscor’s dungeon was truly terrible. I don’t know what rumors have passed this way—”
“More than rumors. There was a man…”
“Even so, was he a witness? Because I was. And let me just say first—”
Ceria felt herself begin breathing again. Pisces was trying to steer Caddin back to the table, speaking in a carrying voice. So that was why…she looked at Stan and Alais. She had to clear whatever misinformation had been put out there. Both were listening to Pisces, which was a relief. But Stan was rubbing at his head, looking very perplexed.
“Pisces. I thought I knew the name. Where did I…?”
“Let’s sit. Is there a drink I can buy? I’ll clear the air. But first, what is my friend accused of? Yvlon? She’s quite honorable, friend Caddin. And when her team went into the dungeon—”
Crossbow Stan abruptly got up. He pointed a trembling finger at Pisces. The [Necromancer] broke off, and Ceria felt a lurch in her stomach. Oh no. She sensed what was about to happen.
“Dungeon. You mean crypt. And I remember that name. Pisces. Someone’s looking for you. And you lied.”
“Excuse me?”
Pisces turned, but his posture was suddenly wary. Stan shook his head. He raised his voice until it was almost a shout.
“You’re not a [Mage]. You’re a [Necromancer]! A filthy [Necromancer]!”
And that was it. The silence of the guild, the tense atmosphere turned hostile in a second. Ceria’s head whirled as she heard the screech of wood on wood. Eight adventurers had just gotten up. Pisces looked around as he took a step back. He hesitated, sighed, then sniffed haughtily.
“I’m quite clean, sir. But I will acknowledge the truth of your words.”
Caddin jerked away from him as if he were infected. He stumbled back, face twisted, and then pointed at Ceria.
“You see that? A [Necromancer] and one of the bug people! No one else would partner with her, or Yvlon!”
“Is this true, Yvlon? Are you really working with a [Necromancer]?”
Alais was on her feet. She glared at Yvlon. The armored woman’s face was pale, but her voice was steady as she held up a hand.
“Pisces does use necromancy. But hear us out.”
“Traitor!”
An adventurer shouted that. The hair on Ceria’s neck crawled. Pisces had a hunted look and for good reason. [Necromancers] weren’t popular in Izril after Az’kerash. But adventurers had another reason to hate them. After all, they were sometimes called on to take care of undead outbreaks, and if a [Necromancer] was behind it…
“Stan, Alais, everyone, let’s calm down.”
Ceria called out. She raised her hands, shouting to be heard. The two captains looked at her. Ceria waved her arms, praying neither Pisces nor Ksmvr made things worse.
“What’s going on? Why are you all so upset? Pisces is a [Necromancer]. It’s true. But he doesn’t animate people. He uses bear skeletons. And Ksmvr’s Antinium. So what?”
“So wh—”
“Caddin. Let me handle this.”
Alais pushed Caddin back hard. She walked around the table and came face-to-face with Ceria. She wasn’t smiling. And she wasn’t looking at Ceria like a fellow adventurer. She glanced at Ceria, and then at Yvlon. When Alais spoke, it was to the silent Adventurer’s Guild. Three dozen heads turned to watch her and Ceria. The adventurers of Celum were silent as Alais began.
“Ceria, I don’t know you that well. But I know Yvlon. We’re friends. We were friends. But here’s the thing. The last time we saw each other, you were about to go to Liscor. With Calruz as your leader, not Ceria. And Yvlon, you had your team. Where’s Kina, Veitul, Domie? Where’s everyone else? Horn? Sostrom? Gerial?”
She looked at Ceria. And the half-Elf knew that Alais knew the answer. Ceria felt a pit open up in her stomach and cold memories leak through.
 
Ceria stared at him. Gerial’s face was white, and he looked almost as bloodless as Skinner’s body. He shuddered, and she felt it.
“Run. I’ll—I’ll buy you some time.”
He pointed down the corridor. Ceria’s feet began to move, but she halted them.
“Gerial—”
He shoved her away.
“Run, damn you!”
 
Skinner. Ceria’s heart was beating wildly. She looked at Alais. At the grim look in her eye.
“They’re dead. They died in the crypt.”
She nodded.
“They died in Liscor. We all heard about it. It was a massacre, wasn’t it? But somehow you two survived, and you’re already adventuring again? Practically unharmed? With a [Necromancer] and one of…of those?”
She pointed at Ksmvr uncertainly. The former Prognugator didn’t wave a hand. He’d sensed the mood. Alais went on.
“It feels like we just heard about Liscor when news came from Albez that the Horns of Hammerad had just found a huge amount of treasure there. Ceria, what would you think about that?”
Ceria shook her head.
“The way you say it…we didn’t just get out. We lost a lot. Yvlon barely escaped. She was hurt and I—I lost my hand.”
She held up her skeletal hand. Alais nodded slowly, staring at it.
“I see it. But it’s still moving. And if you made it like that, how’d no one else get out. Gerial? Calruz?”
This time Ceria wavered.
“Calruz did make it out.”
“Then why isn’t he—”
“He got lost in the dungeon. And he lost an arm. He’s mad now, and he killed a bunch of other people. Alais, I made it out because I found somewhere to hide—”
But of course that was the wrong thing to say. Ceria bit her lip. Caddin shouted.
“Aha! You see? She hid, and Yvlon ran!”
“Everyone ran!”
Yvlon burst out. She snapped at Caddin. The [Warrior] whirled, looking around the guild. She wasn’t afraid like Ceria. Yvlon was furious.
“Spit it out, what you’re saying. Alais! Are you saying we abandoned our teams? We were all retreating. The other teams died fighting, but once that monster came out—Skinner—we knew it was impossible. So we ran. Ceria and I were lucky. Pisces and Ksmvr joined us later. What’s wrong with that?”
Alais said nothing. She just looked Yvlon up and down, uncertainly, as if she couldn’t trust a word Yvlon had just said. Stan got to his feet.
“Yvlon. Ceria. A question. After you two got out, what happened to the adventurers that died? Their families?”
“We made sure what was left was cremated. There wasn’t enough to bury, and we couldn’t figure out who…we made sure the families got all the money we had left. I survived by the skin of my teeth, Stan.”
Ceria spoke through numb lips. She looked at the old adventurer. He met her eyes, searching. Then he nodded.
“I want to believe you, Ceria. And I heard the families of the deceased got something. But it’s just…a [Necromancer]? Really? And you know what they say about the Antinium.”
He held up a hand before Yvlon could shout.
“And it’s not just that. Look, we’ve talked to more survivors of that night than just you two. One of Cervial’s [Hunters] from the Flawless Flights made it this way a while back. Poor bastard had nothing left. Said Liscor’s City Watch had confiscated all of his team’s possessions and their gold was gone. The way he told it, both his team and Gregor’s went up against that boss from the dungeon first. The Silver Spears and the Horns were out of the way. He said he never saw your teams—you’d already run away.”
Ceria’s stomach twisted. Cervial and Gregor had been trapping the area outside Skinner’s door without realizing it was already unlocked. They’d never stood a chance. Yvlon clenched her gauntleted fists.
“Say that again. Who was it who’s spreading those lies?”
Stan raised his hands slowly.
“I’m not saying I believed him. He was done as an adventurer, and he was cursing Cervial and Gregor as well. Said they’d walked their teams right into a trap like fools. Which I don’t believe. But he did say that all of his team’s possessions and the loot they’d gathered were confiscated by Liscor. Is that true?”
