The [Ice Mage] nearly spat out her drink. She stared at her full mug, and then at the [Barmaid] filling Pisces’ tankard.
“Hold on, we didn’t order—”
“Mister Timbor sent a free round around.”
“Oh.”
Ceria felt a bit bad about her sharp tongue now. Then she felt better because it was a free drink. Pisces raised his eyebrows as he watched Garia showing Yvlon and Ksmvr a scar.
“Trouble?”
“No, actually. The [Innkeeper] was just worried about Ksmvr being Ksmvr.”
“Ah.”
“That reminds me. When we go to the Adventurer’s Guild, let’s be careful. Because they have weapons, and I’d hate for one of them to react badly to Ksmvr.”
“I quite agree. Although, is your guild in Celum that dangerous?”
Ceria made a face. She tried not to drink too much ale before a job, but this was free. She’d have to sober up a bit. Maybe she’d grab a sobering potion at Octavia’s before she left.
“Not really? But you never know. Look, it’s been a while, but Yvlon and I know most of the groups around here. Let’s head over after this. And when you get there, try not to mention the undead…”
She saw Pisces nod. Garia was turning to her as he sat back up in his chair.
“So Ceria! Erin’s doing well, or better, I guess. I’ll drop by and visit her. And little Mrsha too! But have you seen Ryoka around? I’m dying to talk to her, but no one’s seen her in Celum for ages! Is she running errands around the Drake cities?”
Ceria stopped drinking. She looked up. The smile faded from Yvlon’s lips. Pisces looked up as he ate one of the remaining cold fries.
“Ryoka? We haven’t seen her, Garia. Not for a long while.”
“What? I thought she was in Liscor! What about Mrsha? She was looking after her!”
The Runner was shocked. Ceria shook her head. She looked at Yvlon and remembered the day Ryoka had disappeared.
Regrika Blackpaw. Her mysterious mage friend. Her chasing after Ryoka—
She gave Garia a truncated version of the story. The City Runner shook her head.
“And she just left? No one told me!”
She pounded the table, making the cups and plates jump. Ceria eyed her.
“You wouldn’t have been able to help, Garia. Believe me—we ran into Regrika or whoever that Gnoll really was. She took out a Gold-rank adventurer like that.”
She snapped her fingers. Yvlon nodded.
“Ryoka had some kind of connection to her. She left before we could get answers, but there’s a bit of ill will, Garia. Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers, not to mention Liscor’s City Watch, Zel Shivertail, that Wall Lord Ilvriss…all of them wanted to talk to Ryoka. If she comes back, she’ll have some explaining to do.”
Pisces nodded. His tone was suddenly pensive as he leaned back in his chair.
“I believe the circumstances around Miss Griffin are…complicated. One thing is for certain, however. She is nowhere near Liscor. Nor do I believe she ran south. That would prove unwise.”
“Because the Blood Fields are active?”
The [Necromancer] blinked.
“Hm. Of course. Besides, Erin did indicate she’d run north. It is surprising you haven’t heard news of her, Garia.”
Garia folded her arms and closed her eyes.
“Maybe I was listening in the wrong places. I thought she was in Liscor. You know, semi-retired and looking after Mrsha? She had a lot of gold. If she went north…I’ll ask Fals. Or I can put in a request through the Guild if Ryoka’s still running. I want to see her. And if she’s north, I can do a long run.”
“How far do you run these days?”
Ceria blinked at Garia. The City Runner smiled a bit.
“A lot farther than I used to, Ceria. Farther, faster…and I can defend myself. I still can’t handle people with arrows or the dangerous kinds of monsters, but I can usually outrun anything. And I’ve taken care of myself since then. I’m not the Garia from before. I wish I’d learned this years ago. Maybe I would have been on the track to becoming a Courier by now, not Persua. Although now half the male Runners in the Guild keep asking me if I’d like to go running with them. Which they didn’t do before I lost weight, but they seem to think I can’t remember two months ago. They’re annoying, and some of Persua’s old friends are mean. Still, I’m glad she’s gone.”
The half-Elf had to agree.
“No one’s bothering you from her gang?”
Garia waved a hand, frowning slightly.
“Oh, Claudeil and Toriska vanished, and I think they got sick of her. Persua had other friends, but she lost almost all her clique after she got in trouble. I’m fine, really.”
Ceria smiled to hear it. The half-Elf downed the rest of her mug and then she got up from her chair.
“We’re not the same either, Garia. It’s been a long time since we were in Celum. For work, I mean. But we are better. The Horns are back.”
Even if Calruz is in jail. Even if he’s going to die. Ceria paused at that bleak thought. She shook her head.
“I’d love to talk to you tonight. But we did come here to do a job, so…”
“Of course. I shouldn’t have kept you. Hey, why don’t we meet at The Wandering Inn for dinner? If Erin’s made fries, what else has she done? I’d love to find out!”
Garia got up. Ceria nodded.
“If we don’t have an overnight request at the guild, I’d love to. We’ll send word. Or stop by at the Runner’s Guild.”
“Sounds good. And hey, Ceria, Yvlon, all of you. If you need something delivered, feel free to ask at the guild. They can get in touch with me even if I’m on a delivery. I’m still not as fast as Ryoka, but I’m the best City Runner in the area now.”
“You?”
The City Runner smiled at them. Ceria had never seen that look on her face. It was proud, triumphant, and for a second Ceria forgot the old Garia. Then the young woman turned.
“I’ve got to go practice. I’ll see you tonight hopefully!”
And then she was gone. Ceria looked at her companions. Yvlon looked thoughtful, Pisces and Ksmvr were busy eating the last of the fries. The half-Elf shook her head. She noticed Timbor, the [Innkeeper], lingering nearby as they left. He was staring at them, or maybe just at Ksmvr? But he said nothing as the Horns made their way into the street.
“Whoof. I drank too much. What was that, three mugs?”
Ceria muttered as she left The Drunken Swordsman. Yvlon steadied her with one hand. The [Warrior] didn’t look at all tipsy, but then she’d had some watered wine and then rosewater tea for her drinks.
“You need to sober up. Or pray our destination’s a ways away.”
“If the request is a day or two away…gah. I’ll be fine.”
Pisces wrinkled his nose as he brushed crumbs off his spotless, white robes.
“Ah, the most tiresome aspect of adventuring. Can we choose a request closer to Celum? I would prefer to exterminate monsters and recline in comfort tonight.”
Ceria mock-glared at Pisces.
“We don’t get to choose the jobs, Pisces. Well, we do, but the best paying ones aren’t fun for exactly that reason. Besides, you’d better get used to this if you want to continue with us. We need to make a name for ourselves now we’re done with Liscor and the dungeon. Or we’ll never make Gold-rank.”
The [Necromancer] sighed, but he didn’t argue. Yvlon tsked softly as she walked with Ceria down the street. It was a familiar route for her and Ceria. Pisces and Ksmvr trailed them. The Antinium was getting a lot of looks now. Ceria just hoped no one would call for the Watch.
“Captain Ceria, may I ask a question?”
“Yes, Ksmvr. You don’t need to ask.”
“Thank you. When you say we are ‘done with Liscor’, do you mean we will be travelling away from Liscor? Will we not stay around Miss Erin’s inn?”
The question brought Ceria and Yvlon up short. They turned to look at Ksmvr. Then they shot a glance at Pisces. He shrugged.
“I defer to your judgment, Captain Ceria, Comrade Yvlon. You are the senior adventurers as you constantly remind me.”
Yvlon sighed.
“I like Erin’s inn. But even with a door to Invrisil—especially since you can’t take more than two or three people per day—we’ll have to leave her inn eventually. We can stay in the area and visit often, but I think we’ll have to say goodbye at some point like the other Gold-rank teams.”
Ksmvr nodded a few times, then had a thought.
“Oh. I believe Erin will cry.”
The half-Elf rubbed at her head.
“She will. Dead gods, that will be painful. We don’t have to face that just yet, though. Like I said, we’re not at Gold-rank yet. Falene made that clear, along with those damn Ashfire Bees.”
Pisces leaned forwards. The flow of traffic on Celum’s street had practically stopped. People were staring at Ksmvr. He was staring back with interest.
“So our current objective is…?”
“Get more artifacts. Get to Invrisil and call in whatever favor Ryoka bought for us. Uh…find Ryoka? Maybe. Level up a bit. I’m Level 28. If I could hit Level 30…I’d love to gain a new class instead of [Wounded Warrior]. Something actually strong, like Ylawes’ [Knight] class. I feel like the weakest link sometimes.”
Yvlon grimaced as she flexed one arm. Pisces eyed it silently.
“I happen to agree with that. We could certainly use some refinement of our existing tactics as well. I admit my Bone Horrors aren’t at the level I desire. Yet. And I need new bones. I’ve lost all but the components for one Bone Horror after the last one was incinerated.”
Ceria shook her head as she turned the street. The Adventurer’s Guild was only a block away.
“Is that humility I hear, Pisces?”
“Merely common sense, Springwalker. Or don’t you agree?”
“I agree. Totally. I have [Ice Wall] and [Frozen Armor] now, but those are defensive spells. Pretty good ones; I’m miles ahead of old me. But until I can throw [Ice Lance] around like my old master, I’m only good at locking down opponents. And when I do learn the spell, you’d better watch out! Because then I’ll be—”
“Still considerably weaker than Falene, Revi, Typhenous, or Moore?”
“Shut up, Pisces.”
Ceria irritably kicked at Pisces. But he [Flash Stepped] out of the way. She balefully eyed him as he smirked at her.
“Come to think of it, aren’t you in the same boat? You don’t have any offensive spells past Tier 2. And your rapier isn’t much good even when you set it on fire. Your Bone Horrors do all the work, and they’re surprisingly fragile.”
He sniffed at her.
“I’m refining them, Springwalker. Or do you think it’s easy to design undead? It is not. And since I cannot use traditional undead forms like skeletons, much less humanoid corpses, I must design new Bone Horrors from scratch. Additionally, the cost of animating a Bone Horror is considerable. If I maintained them like normal [Necromancers]…”
Yvlon scowled.
“You’d have an army. How many can you raise?”
The aforementioned [Necromancer] hesitated.
“Well, if I needed to…you are aware [Necromancers] and [Summoners] are related in discipline, yes? Only, the undead are permanent constructs while [Summoners] like Miss Revi use temporary beings that are generally more potent or diverse. So in theory, if I were trying, I could raise quite a number of, er, low-level undead. Zombies. Ghouls. Skeletons. But I fear that method leads to circular patterns. I would need to constantly acquire more undead as I expended them. You see, the undead thrive on death magic, so they would need to generate it to avoid me paying the cost in mana myself…”
“And then you’d unleash them on a village to gain more, and we’d have to hunt you down. I get the idea.”
Yvlon sighed. She shook her head.
“Fine. Forget I asked. Your Bone Horrors are strong enough even if you can only summon a few. And I like you more when it’s just those.”
“Why Yvlon, I was unaware of your positive sentiments. I return it quite happily.”
Pisces smirked. Yvlon rolled her eyes. And Ceria realized someone hadn’t spoken up recently. She looked back.
“Ksmvr? What’s wrong?”
The Antinium was trailing behind the other three, looking at the ground. He looked up and opened his mandibles. A woman walking out of the shop turned white as she saw him.
“Monster! H-help! It’s a—”
“Oh, shut up.”
Ceria pushed her aside. She pulled Ksmvr forwards gently. The Antinium clicked his mandibles softly as Yvlon and Pisces looked back.
“Ksmvr, what’s the matter?”
“Nothing, Yvlon, Captain Ceria. I am merely ruminating on my despair. You see, I am quite useless. And Yvlon’s statement about her being the weakest link is fundamentally incorrect; I am clearly the weakest and most inept of the team. I tender my apologies and crushing guilt to the team.”
The other Horns looked at Ksmvr. Then they exchanged glances. Ceria coughed.
“Hey, Ksmvr, that’s not true…”
“I appreciate your lies, Captain Ceria. But the facts do not lie. I am the lowest-leveled among the team by far. I have not even hit Level 20. Whereas Comrade Pisces is now in excess of Level 30, and both you and Yvlon are closing in on Level 30, which is a mark of true ability.”
Ceria bit her lip. That was true. Level 30 was the point where you really started standing out from the crowd. She’d been fantasizing over what she might get at Level 30 for a Skill—or maybe a rare spell. It was amazing how fast she’d leveled since she’d first met Ryoka back in Albez. Then, she’d barely been Level 23.
Gaining six levels in a few months was fast leveling at this stage. Even if Erin was…well, she didn’t count. And [Mages] at Level 30 or higher were nothing to sneeze at. Come to think of it—Ceria eyed Pisces. If he didn’t have the restrictions placed on him by Liscor’s and Celum’s laws regarding undead, could he have a small army of undead following him around like he’d said?
But Ksmvr was the priority to cheer up right now. Pisces placed a hand on Ksmvr’s shoulder in an uncharacteristic display of warmth.
“Ah, Ksmvr. Don’t despair over your lack of levels. I understand the Antinium level slowly. You should regard your inferiority not as a mark of failure but as a byproduct of being in the company of the truly gifted.”
“That is true. I am quite inferior.”
The [Necromancer] sighed.
“That is not quite what I…one’s competence does not merely reside in their level, Ksmvr. In time you will rise to something approaching my competence. I am sure you will eventually outstrip Springwalker and Miss Byres.”
Both of them glared at Pisces, but he was doing his best. The [Necromancer] paused as if he’d just had a thought. He turned to Ksmvr.
“Besides which, you are barely three years old.”
Yvlon tripped. It was a full-body thud, which attracted every head. And it must have hurt. But she was on her feet moments later.
“You’re how old, Ksmvr?”
The former Prognugator scratched at an antenna.
