“Three. I was created in secret by my Queen as a replacement Prognugator in case of Revalantor Klbkch’s injury. I understand you are trying to cheer me up, Comrade Pisces, but I was considered fully trained by my Queen’s standards after two years since my creation.”
“Ah, but friend Ksmvr, Captain Ceria and I took, er, at least a decade of training to reach our levels.”
Pisces put his arm around Ksmvr’s shoulder. Ceria and Yvlon were too busy waving silently at each other to interject. The Antinium brightened.
“Truly?”
The young man nodded grandly.
“The maturation of Humans, half-Elves, and other species is much slower. Now, I grant you, it would still have taken you quite a long time to reach our level. But your current failing can be excused. I’m sure Ceria would agree with me.”
He glanced pointedly at Ceria. She stopped dancing about and cleared her throat.
“Er, yes. Of course. You’re one of us, Ksmvr. And you’re quite accomplished. For a three-year-old. Pisces. You didn’t mention that to us.”
Behind Ksmvr, Yvlon made a fist. The [Necromancer]’s smile turned glassy.
“What? Well, it’s perfectly natural for Antinium…”
“Still, you didn’t think it was important?”
“The lifespan of Antinium…”
Ksmvr held up a hand as he looked back at Ceria.
“Captain Ceria, I am fully aware of your complaint and prepared to address it.”
“Oh? Go on, Ksmvr.”
He nodded.
“I am aware that you know the average lifespan of Workers is only around two years in length. However, I would like to hasten to assure you that this is not a biological clock in any way, but merely a byproduct of high mortality rates owing to monster invasion, drowning, and accidents in the Hive. My body will not begin to deteriorate in quality owing to my age for at least a decade.”
“Oh.”
“Please do not be angry at Comrade Pisces. He merely sought to keep my advanced age a secret to avoid embarrassing me. You see, the Prognugator of a Hive must be trained, for years, whereas Workers and Soldiers are practically fully competent moments after being created. I had to learn to use weaponry, study tactics, history…”
Ceria sighed.
“That’s not quite why we were mad. But I’ll discuss it with Pisces later. Look…you’re fine as you are, Ksmvr. Let’s just drop that and deal with it later. Look, we’re here.”
They’d finally arrived at the Adventurer’s Guild. Ksmvr stared up at the two-story building and tilted his head from left to right. Ceria had to own it wasn’t the most impressive of spots. Oh, it was certainly bigger than Liscor’s guild, nearly twice as large, but it was still the Adventurer’s Guild of a moderately small city.
It was worn, the sign marking the guild was old and the paint had faded, and the guild had open shutters, not glass. Some loud laughter drifted out from the guild, as if it were a pub. Still, it was familiar to Ceria. In a way, it was home.
“What a mediocre guild. We might as well have gone to Pallass. Or waited until Invrisil. This is almost as poor as Miss Selys’ guild. Ah…don’t tell her I said that.”
Pisces studied the guild’s frontage dismissively. Yvlon and Ceria turned to glare at him.
“It’s not a big guild. It doesn’t need to be. And there are good Silver-rank teams in there, so watch your tongue, Pisces. Come to that—Ksmvr.”
“Yes, Captain Ceria!”
He straightened at once. Ceria eyed him.
“Don’t be nervous, Ksmvr.”
“I will endeavor to suppress my natural apprehension, Captain! But this is the second Guild I have ever entered! I must make a good impression!”
Ceria thought quickly. She really liked Ksmvr, she did. But she knew him pretty well now, and she knew exactly how much trouble those words might mean.
“Right…how about you don’t. Uh, Ksmvr, this guild hasn’t ever seen Antinium. So they might react—we’ll handle it. Yvlon and I. What I want you—and you, Pisces—to do is stay quiet, follow our leads, and don’t cause trouble. Got it?”
“Understood, Captain! I will be quiet and not cause any trouble!”
“Wonderful. Pisces?”
“Yes, oh, glorious Captain?”
He gave Ceria a sycophantic, fake smile. She gave up.
“If you start a fight, Yvlon and I won’t bail you out. Alright, Yvlon. It’s been a while. Want to see the regular crowd?”
The [Warrior] smiled. But there was a hint of…what? Apprehension? Something like that in her eyes. Ceria felt a strange flutter in her stomach as well and couldn’t place why. Why was it?
Oh. Because the last time I was here, I was with Calruz. Calruz, Gerial, Sostrom, Hunt…we were about to go to Liscor.
The memory froze Ceria in her tracks. She stared up at the guild. Then she shook her head, took a deep breath, and pushed open the door.
 
——
 
A worn room. Floorboards recently swept clean. Swept, but not scoured, because years of mud and dirt trekked into the room had etched itself between the cracks in the floorboards. There were stains too. Dark ones. Places where adventurers had bled. And perhaps, places where they had died, surrounded by friends after a mission gone wrong.
Marks of victory, small triumphs and battles forgotten by all. Scratches where someone had demonstrated a new Skill. Worn tables and chairs, but not too worn; after all, adventurers would start fights or break furniture by accident. So the wood was cheap, and the only permanent fixture was the desk with the [Receptionist] and the board filled with slips of paper. Jobs.
Ceria Springwalker looked around Celum’s guild. It was like she remembered. All of it. She felt a wave of nostalgia and sadness grip her. Then someone prodded her in the back.
“May we come in?”
Thank goodness for Pisces. Ceria jabbed an elbow backwards, missed Pisces, and hit Yvlon’s breastplate. The [Warrior] jerked out of the same reverie. As Ceria cursed and rubbed her elbow, Yvlon walked past her.
“Looks like a midday crowd. Not that many teams in.”
Ceria looked up. Instinct overruled her feelings. She surveyed the room a second time. The Adventurer’s Guild really did resemble a pub in a lot of ways. There were plenty of tables and chairs to sit about and, adventurers being pragmatic, some did indeed bring their lunches to eat while they prepared for a job or came back from one.
More than that, an Adventurer’s Guild always had someone hanging about. It was a place to socialize. All of your friends might be here if you were an adventurer. This would be more of your home than any inn.
Yvlon was right. This Guild wasn’t nearly as crowded as it could be. It could probably hold close to eighty people before feeling quite cramped. Right now it held only about three dozen, including the staff. Ceria shrugged.
“I don’t know. This isn’t too bad. Looks like, what, four to six teams with a bunch of individuals?”
“Something like it. See anyone you recognize?”
Yvlon studied the room casually. Adventurers had noticed the door opening and some were casually turning to see if there was anyone they knew, or someone new to note. Ceria frowned.
“I’m looking.”
She thought she spotted a group she recognized by the job board. The telltale sign was the lack of any glint of metal on them. Ceria motioned Pisces and Ksmvr over. The [Necromancer] looked bored. Ksmvr was the exact opposite. He was craning to see and more and more of the adventurers were noticing him. Ceria saw one woman punch her companion and point. They weren’t stupid; they could see Ksmvr was one of them. But an Antinium had probably never walked into Celum’s Guild. If Moore, Seborn, or Jelaqua had walked in, they’d get the same kind of look.
“Let’s get a seat before we start chatting. Over here. Pisces, please don’t start a fight.”
Yvlon looked at Pisces. He sniffed.
“I can be the model of discretion if I so choose.”
“Do it, then. Good morning, Miss.”
Yvlon waved at the [Receptionist] as she passed by. The woman at the desk looked up.
“Good morning, Miss—”
Her eyes widened a bit. Yvlon paused, but before she could ask if the [Receptionist] knew her—and it would be awkward because, like Ceria, most of the staff looked the same to Yvlon after a few Guilds—Ksmvr tugged at Yvlon’s arm.
“Yvlon, please explain. Is this guild similar to Liscor’s? I note a number of architectural and stylistic changes, but the concept remains the same. Is this so?”
“That’s right, Ksmvr. We’ve got a [Receptionist] like Selys, a place to hang out—training yard’s around back probably—and they’ve got a supply of emergency potions. This guild doesn’t sell food or drinks, but it’s got the basics. Job board, place to sit, place to turn in bounties and collect gold.”
“Ah. Thank you for clarifying. I wondered if Drakes and Humans were dissimilar in how they ran their guilds.”
“It might be different in a Walled City or how they manage their guilds up north, but Liscor vs Celum? We’re too close by to be that different. Come on. I think I spot…”
Yvlon headed towards the tables near the end of the room. Some of the adventurers were looking their way. After all, Yvlon was hard to miss. No, their entire team was hard to miss. Yvlon was wearing all-plate armor, and even if you couldn’t tell it was enchanted, it meant she was pretty successful. Or her family was rich. And Pisces and Ceria both wore robes, marking them out as well. And Ksmvr was Ksmvr.
A young man a few years younger than Yvlon, a bit younger than Erin, was staring at them uncertainly. He looked at Yvlon first, and then at Ceria. The half-Elf saw his eyes go to her face as she scrutinized him. Was he…?
The adventurer’s eyes widened as he saw Ceria’s hand. But then he stood up. He raised his voice.
“Is that Ceria? Ceria Springwalker? And—Yvlon?”
The guild went silent. Now every head turned. Ceria felt her heart jump. Yvlon stopped.
“Caddin?”
The young man walked towards them. He wore leather armor, and he carried an odd weapon with him. It was a sword. A sword, but one made of wood. From handle to hilt, it was just wood. But polished wood. Expertly carved and honed until it had an edge that could cut paper or flesh. It still looked incongruous, but Ceria knew the sword had killed more than one monster. She smiled broadly at Caddin as he halted, staring from her to Yvlon with shock.
“It’s us, Caddin! Are you surprised to see us? We just came from Liscor! We’re the Horns of Hammerad. The new group, I mean. The old one’s…”
She trailed off. Ceria felt her heart skip another beat as Caddin stared at her. She waited for him to ask the obvious. But he just stared at her.
“Yeah. We’d heard you’d reformed the Horns of Hammerad. But I couldn’t believe it.”
His eyes shifted to Yvlon. The woman smiled at him.
“Good to see you again, Caddin. How’s the team doing?”
“Us? We’re good. Yeah. They’re right over here. Hey! Guys!”
Caddin waved a hand absently. Ceria saw six people stand up. Three more men, three women. That squared with what she remembered. One of their group was a [Mage], but she, like the others, wore leather armor. Not one of them had a hint of metal on their persons. Their weapons were wood. Even the tips of their arrows were crafted out of wood. They paused behind Caddin as Ceria introduced the Horns.
“Caddin, this is our new team. You know Yvlon, but this is Pisces and Ksmvr. He’s from Liscor, and Pisces is from Wistram. Ksmvr’s an Antinium, but they’re fairly normal in most ways.”
“Hello. I am Ksmvr. I understand you are competition.”
The Antinium raised a hand as he extended another one to shake. Caddin jumped.
“An Antinium? I thought they—”
He caught himself. Gingerly he reached out and shook Ksmvr’s hand, flinching a tiny bit as he touched the Antinium’s exoskeleton. Ksmvr shook his hand cheerfully.
“I have now met Mister Caddin. Is he a superior adventurer, or inferior, Captain Ceria?”
Yvlon suppressed a sigh. She waved at the [Mage], a woman in her mid-twenties with faded ashy hair, as she came forwards.
“Caddin’s a Silver-rank adventurer, just like us, Ksmvr. My team knew him back in the day. His group’s named Thunder’s Solace. They have a [Lightning Mage] for a leader. Their entire team goes without metal so they can use electric spells without getting hurt. And this is their leader and said [Lightning Mage]. Hello, Alais.”
She reached out. Alais gingerly gave her a one-armed hug. She blinked as Ksmvr extended his hands, but shook them.
“Yvlon. It’s good to see you…I thought we wouldn’t meet. After I heard about Liscor—but I did hear your group was back. Ceria.”
She nodded at Ceria. The half-Elf vaguely remembered Alais, but not as well as Yvlon. She nodded back. Alais blinked again at her and Yvlon, looking far more surprised than Ceria would have thought. Well, after Liscor…but she didn’t bring it up, like Caddin. He was still staring at Ceria. Ksmvr didn’t notice their feelings. He was speaking cheerfully, and Ceria was glad of that.
“It is a pleasure to meet a [Lightning Mage]. May I ask if you are superior or inferior in magical capacity to Captain Ceria?”
Pisces gently coughed next to Ksmvr.
“I believe the term is [Aeromancer], Ksmvr. And asking about inferiority and superiority is considered a social flaw in most circumstances. A pleasure to meet a fellow [Mage].”
He stepped forwards as Alais and her team focused on him. Yvlon and Ceria both held their breath, but Pisces seemed to have taken Yvlon’s words to heart. Perhaps too much so. He instantly approached with a hand outstretched and a charming smile.
“Captain Alais, is it? My name is Pisces. I’m delighted to meet you. I’m a [Mage] from Wistram. I hope you won’t hold it against me.”
It was a joke about Wistram [Mages] and their at times hard-to-work-with natures. Alais’ eyebrows shot up, and there was a chuckle from the other adventurers. Whatever awkwardness had persisted from Caddin spotting them vanished in a second. Alais reached out, and Ceria bit her tongue as she shook Pisces’ hand.
“I’m very pleased to meet you. You’re a new part of the Horns of Hammerad along with, er, Ksmvr here? Are you a general [Mage] or a specialist of some kind?”
Pisces smiled apologetically.
“I’m afraid I haven’t reached that degree of specialization with my [Mage] class. However, I do practice a bit of fencing. Perhaps I’d make a good [Spellsword]? May I assume your team knows ours, or at least Yvlon and our captain?”
He indicated Ceria politely. Alais looked at Ceria and Yvlon.
“Oh, of course. From nearly two years back. We’ve worked with…Yvlon’s old team a few times. And I know Ceria’s old team. Where are my manners? Come and sit with us.”
