“True. I barely had anything left. My wand was gone, and Yvlon lost everything but her armor and sword. The rest went to the adventurers’ families, honest.”
Crossbow Stan nodded. He looked at Ceria, and she realized he was staring at her side. At her wand. Slowly, he pointed at it, then at Yvlon.
“Fancy enchanted armor you’re wearing these days, Yvlon. Magical buckler on that Antinium. And Ceria’s got a new wand. Where’d it all come from?”
Ceria felt a flicker of anger at the implication. Yvlon was already furious. She snapped back.
“Albez. Did you hear about that?”
Stan nodded slowly.
“I did. And I’ve been to Albez before, many times, Yvlon. Probably before you were even born. I’ve never found more than a few trinkets. How’d you find treasure in Albez? Let alone a haul like…”
He waved a hand at them. Ceria shut her mouth firmly. Olesm. Stan looked from her to Yvlon. Alais cut in.
“We’re not saying your teams didn’t fight, Yvlon. Maybe you did. Maybe you got lucky. Or maybe you ran. We can’t prove it, and truth spells are tricky when everyone saw something different. But suddenly partnering up after the crypt? Suddenly finding treasure in Albez when no one’s found anything worth speaking of for nearly a decade? Working with a [Necromancer]?”
She pointed at Pisces. He’d folded his arms and was looking around. He glanced pointedly at Ceria, but she couldn’t signal him anything. All the other adventurers were just watching. But their eyes…
Stan took over, like the fatherly figure he was to so many adventurers in the area.
“If you can tell us how you got so lucky, we’ll believe you. Maybe you found a map. But if you did…where? Did you get it from the crypt? Did you, maybe, find something and not tell anyone about it? Not share it with the survivors? Or the deceased?”
“Did you leave them—”
Caddin broke off. He was trembling. So was Ceria. But she was shaking with nerves. One wrong step might lead to something very bad. Everyone was listening. She looked at Yvlon. The [Warrior] hesitated. She glanced at Ceria, then she spoke.
“There was a map.”
The stir in the room was the prelude to something. Yvlon raised her voice.
“There was a map! But it didn’t come from Liscor’s crypt. It came from a Drake we met in Liscor who was part of the dungeon raid. Ksmvr joined our group by chance. I was penniless and Ceria too. She knew Pisces from Wistram. And Ksmvr we’d met. We took a chance when we discovered there might be treasure still in Albez. We took a chance, risked our lives, and we found it! It was luck. It was a miracle! But we didn’t steal it from the people who died in the crypt. That was a nightmare. But I swear, I kept fighting until I thought I’d die. Ceria barely survived herself, and she helped hold the undead off. I’ll swear that on any truth spell you want.”
She turned, putting a hand over her heart. No one spoke. Ceria looked at Caddin. He looked furious, still. And Alais and Stan—none of them looked like they quite believed Yvlon.
“Well? You can cast a spell! Test me!”
Yvlon shouted. Alais shook her head.
“Maybe we will. But Yvlon—it still doesn’t sit well with me.”
The armored woman rounded on her. Alais didn’t flinch from Yvlon’s furious stare.
“What doesn’t sit with you, Alais? The truth? Do you want to see my arms? I burned my armor into my bones in Albez!”
“I don’t doubt that—”
“Then what do you doubt?”
Alais crossed her arms. The air around her was crackling with more than just tension.
“You were never the sort to work with [Necromancers]. You hated them. As for Antinium—this Ksmvr thing looks safe enough, but you’re telling me the Drakes just ‘happened’ to have a map of Albez all this time? And never exploited it?”
“It was chance. He found it purely by luck.”
Yvlon ground her teeth. Alais raised her eyebrows.
“Pretty lucky to find a map of Albez in Liscor, isn’t it?”
Silence. Stan looked at Ceria. His eyes were worried and upset, but he did still look at her.
“Anything you want to add, Ceria?”
The half-Elf spread her arms helplessly.
“Yvlon’s telling the truth. I don’t know how to prove it besides swearing on truth spells, Stan. Either you believe us or you don’t. I know it seems suspicious, but we earned our treasure separately from the crypt. Maybe one’s tied to the other. If I hadn’t survived and met Ksmvr when I did, I wouldn’t have been tipped off to Albez. But we didn’t steal from the dead. We ran, but there was no choice. If you’d been there, you would have seen it. I lost this hand trying to stop the undead. Believe me.”
She raised her skeletal hand and showed Stan that. He nodded slowly.
“I’m trying, Ceria. But you have to understand us. Even if what you said was true. Even if it’s on a level, all of it…it’s hard to look at you or Yvlon.”
“Me? Why…?”
“Because your team was the one that brought everyone to Liscor. The Horns helped convince the others. And Yvlon—you were a team captain. You lost your entire team. And you walk in part of a new one? You think it’s that easy?”
Caddin spat on the ground. Ceria stared down at the wet mark on the floorboards. Yvlon glared at Caddin.
“People have lost friends before. Stan! You lost two-thirds of your team when I was a rookie! And Alais, you’ve lost at least six members!”
“Yes. I did. But this is different.”
The woman crossed her arms defensively. Stan, on the other hand, looked troubled. And Ceria remembered that he’d stayed far away from the guild for a long time after that disaster. She looked at Yvlon. How easy would it have been if it were Stan coming back wearing new magical artifacts and a new team after…?
“Yvlon. I get their point.”
The woman rounded on Ceria. The [Ice Mage] gave her a warning stare, and Yvlon hesitated.
“I get it, Yvlon. It’s not true, but they’re upset. They have every right to be. We…lost our teams. We can explain, but it doesn’t change what happened. And working together…I get that too.”
She looked back at Alais and Stan. They nodded. Ceria turned. Ksmvr was still seated, silently watching. She wondered how much he understood. Pisces was aloof, coldly looking around.
“Look, if anyone’s not convinced, get a [Mage] with a truth spell. Or come to The Wandering Inn and find us there. We’ll tell you what happened as many times as it takes. For now…we’re not going to stick around. Just think about what we said. As for this—”
Ceria walked back to Ksmvr and held out a hand. The Antinium handed her the bounty on the [Bandits]. Ceria brought it over to the [Receptionist]’s desk. The woman stared silently at her.
“I’d like to take this request, please. Can you note that we’re trying to complete it?”
The woman stared at her. She stared at the bounty. Behind Ceria, someone laughed incredulously.
“By yourselves? Are you mad?”
Ceria turned her head slowly. She spoke very deliberately to Caddin.
“We can handle it.”
“You’re not getting any help from us.”
He gave her a disgusted look. Ceria turned her back on him, clenching both hands.
“We don’t need it. Like it or not, Caddin, we got stronger after Liscor. We leveled.”
“By taking the treasure you found from Albez. I didn’t see you sharing it with any of the families that died.”
The [Receptionist] jumped as Ceria slammed her hands on the table and turned.
“We had a fund! They got what we could give! Are we supposed to give everything to them? We didn’t even get that—”
She broke off. Ceria turned away.
“Forget it. Let’s go. Ksmvr! Pisces, we’re leaving! Come on. Yvlon, you too.”
She walked towards the door. A few adventurers blocked Pisces’ way.
“How do we know this [Necromancer] isn’t using corpses from our graveyards? Or he isn’t responsible for the undead?”
Pisces sniffed.
“I suppose you’ll have to take that on faith. Ask me a truth spell. But get out of my way.”
“And the Antinium?”
Some of the adventurers were standing around Ksmvr. He hadn’t moved, mainly because standing up would run him right into a man in leather armor from Thunder’s Solace who was standing over him and glaring down at the Antinium. Ceria turned back. And the bones of her skeletal hand were beginning to freeze over as more than grief and guilt took over.
“He’s going with us. Stan, tell the others to let Ksmvr go. He’s done nothing wrong.”
“Tell that to us, Ceria.”
“Okay. Back up. Before I make you.”
One of the other [Mages] made a scoffing sound. Ceria turned. But she’d crossed over from apologetic to angry. Yvlon strode over.
“Back up. Ksmvr, come on.”
She thrust the adventurer standing over him aside. The man stumbled, then whirled. He put a hand on the wooden mace at his side. Yvlon immediately put her hand on her sword hilt.
“Don’t do anything you’ll regret, Jerat.”
“Same to you, Byres. Just give me a reason.”
The two tensed. Ceria opened her mouth, but she didn’t know what to say. Part of her wanted Jerat to attack Yvlon. Part of her was shouting. Yes, she knew what it looked like. Yes, she understood their feelings. But part of her was furious.
How dare they. How dare they think we ran and left everyone to die. How dare they assume we abandoned our friends? How dare they think that? Especially because—
It was partly true. So Ceria hovered on the brink of lashing out. Jerat’s knuckles went white on his mace’s grip. He lowered his posture—
“Jerat!”
Stan snapped. He slapped his hands together, making the room start. Jerat looked up. Stan drew a finger across his throat.
“Cut it. Let them go. We’re all too hot-headed right now. We’ll talk this over. Speak later. Back up. That goes for you too, Caddin. Everyone. Let them go.”
The adventurers slowly backed up. Ceria could see hard faces, tensed muscles. But Stan was speaking sense, so the other Horns had room to move. Ceria began breathing slower. Pisces walked toward the door. Yvlon turned and offered Ksmvr a hand.
Ceria was so relieved the Antinium had heeded her words to stay still and not cause trouble. One of his stray comments could have ignited everything. Yvlon was breathing hard, still. Caddin stomped past her, and then turned. He glared at Yvlon as Ksmvr grabbed her hand.
“Guess you got ‘lucky’ again, Byres. I’m sure your team’s real proud of you from where they’re lying in the dirt, Yvlon. We all are.”
The Antinium had been rising, hand holding Yvlon’s. Ksmvr fell back lightly into his seat as Yvlon let go. He watched as Yvlon straightened. Ceria and Pisces, standing by the door, saw Yvlon turn. The [Wounded Warrior]’s hands clenched. Her armored fists rose. Caddin’s glare of hatred turned to one of alarm.
He stepped back, too slow, and too late. Yvlon’s fist caught him across the jaw and sent him flying into the table across from him. Caddin skidded across the top, knocked over a [Mage] sitting in the chair, and tumbled to the ground. The other adventurers stared at him, got up—
And the entire Adventurer’s Guild burst into chaos.
 
——
 
“Ksmvr, don’t move! Stay down and don’t draw your weapons!”
In the first moment of action, Ceria screamed. Then she reached for her wand, blasted a Bronze-rank adventurer off her feet with a spray of snow, and ducked. The first chair passed over her head. Ceria raised her skeletal hand, holding her wand, and snapped.
“[Frozen Armor]!”
She saw and felt ice race across her body. A glistening sheet of ice covered Ceria, weighing her down, changing to imitate actual plate armor. Just in time—someone struck her in the chest as she rose. A Human woman shouted in pain as her fist struck not soft flesh, but Ceria’s icy armor. The half-Elf rocked back, pointed her wand, and shouted.
“[Ice Wall]!”
The adventurer tried to jump back. But the ice that shot up snared half of her body. She fell down, and Ceria halted the spell. One adventurer down.
Dozens to go. Some of them hadn’t immediately entered the fight, but the instant Ceria began casting magic, at least five [Mages] began sending spells her way. Ceria went running and dove behind the [Receptionist]’s desk, raising another [Ice Wall]. Two spells hit her, and one shattered her wall spell. But the spells weren’t meant to kill, just really hurt. Neither Ceria nor the other [Mages] were using deadly spells.
Yet. She saw Yvlon kicking over a table and trading punches with Jerat as another adventurer tackled her from behind. Yvlon was shouting in fury, and despite Jerat’s size, she was punching parts of his face in. Of course; he was probably eight levels behind her! But she was outnumbered. Ceria pointed at the adventurers around her and shouted.
“[Ice Wall]!”
Three adventurers shouted as ice engulfed their legs. It wasn’t a vertical [Ice Wall] Ceria had just conjured, but a horizontal one. Some broke free of the ice and stumbled away, but Ceria could engulf them by altering her spell. She aimed again, then something struck her in the head. Something hot.
“Aaah!”
Ceria screamed as something burned the side of her face and her hair. Her [Frozen Armor] had caught part of the spell, but that had been a dangerous attack! She turned, ducking down and clutching at her head and saw the [Mage] who’d thrown the fire. He was pointing at her with a wooden stave of his own. Ceria aimed at him, and then saw something charging at him from the left. She screamed.
“Pisces, no! Don’t!”
The [Mage] turned, saw the huge skeleton of the bear charging him, and screamed once before the bear crashed into him. The [Mage] went flying, but the bear didn’t savage him. It turned and rammed into another adventurer, sending the man sprawling. Someone screamed.
“Undead! The [Necromancer]’s—”
Ceria heard a gurgle. She looked around wildly and saw Pisces. He calmly raised a chair and brought it down on the head of another [Mage]. The man’s friend charged Pisces, but the [Necromancer] blurred away.
[Flash Step]. Pisces turned and hit another adventurer menacing Yvlon with a chair. Then he disappeared again. No one could hit him; he was moving too fast with the chair. He gestured, and his bear charged a group of adventurers. They drew their weapons. Ceria froze one, but the other charged the bear with a yell. It was fine if it was the bear. If no one—
“Kill the [Necromancer] before he summons more!”
“Fucking tree rot!”
Ceria leapt up. Her first blast of snow shot Caddin, the speaker, off his feet. The second blunted [Ice Spike] hit a woman with a bow in the midriff. Pisces whirled. He saw a [Rogue] flip towards him, and pointed.
“[Shock Volt].”
The spell blasted the [Rogue] off her feet. She landed on the floor, twitching. Ceria looked around.
“Pisces, look out!”
