After the rush of notifications finally stopped, Pyre was immediately hit with a sharp burst of pain. Getting a bunch of flesh torn off and half-melting, it turned out, hurt quite a bit. Not as much as the Great Fall had, but enough that the demon made the executive decision to flop back against one of the remaining trees and take a breather for a second.

Her eyes scanned the area. The clearing was a mess from the fight. The earth had been cracked open, and craters littered the spots where she and the chimera had clashed. A few odd plants now jutted out from the ground where Callan’s magic had landed, and several tree trunks were covered in deep gouges or cracked. The one she’d slammed into looked like it was going to fall any second now.

The cave, at least, and the waterfall were perfectly serene. That was good. It would’ve sucked if they’d somehow damaged the crystals in the fight. Speaking of which, she should probably go find those crystals, but her body currently felt too heavy for her to want to get up.

A flash of movement passed by one of her eyes. Callan carefully hovered over. The ghost looked exhausted—more tired than she’d thought a ghost could look. The wound on his arm had stopped bleeding by now, but his brows were furrowed in what looked like concern. His eyes kept darting between her, the dead chimera, the rest of the clearing, and the piles of melting flesh that were pretty much half liquid at this point. Good to know that she, like her flesh lump brethren, had apparently replaced bleeding for melting when taking damage.

Pyre shot the ghost a lazy grin. “Yo,” she said. “Nice draining.”

His forehead scrunched even more, and he drifted closer. “Are you okay? You—you lost a lot of flesh.”

Pyre snorted. She opened her closest mouth, ready to give a sarcastic remark, but paused. She studied the ghost. Really studied him.

Callan’s brows were still furrowed, and he kept staring at the torn flesh. He looked truly, genuinely concerned. The demon felt some of that instinctive sarcasm dissipate.

“Well, I’m not actively melting anymore, so that’s good. Might take me a bit to heal, though.” It was a good thing she’d picked up the [Regeneration] trait earlier, otherwise she’d probably be screwed.

“Can I help at all?” Callan asked, the anxiety practically radiating off of him.

“Nah, just give me a few minutes, then we can dig through that thing’s cave. You probably got a fuck ton of notifications too, right? Go look through those.”

They’d have to leave the area eventually—they were pretty far from the village, but who knew what someone might have heard. It would take any patrol groups a while to reach them, though, so they did have some time, which was good. She didn’t think she could really move all that well right now.

Callan nodded slowly. “I’ll stay on watch,” he said. “You, uh, just focus on healing.” With that, the ghost hovered away, floating a little higher so he had a better view of anything approaching the clearing. Pyre raised an eyebrow, once again struck by how sincere he seemed.

She shook the thought away and directed her attention to the string of notifications she’d received. While she waited for [Regeneration] to heal her injuries enough to move around again, it seemed like a good chance to go through everything.

First, she pulled up the description for [Impact Absorption]. It had leveled during the fight, which was cool. Her skills seemed to take way longer to level than her traits did on average.

A quick scan of the skill window revealed that [Impact Absorption]’s cooldown had been reduced from 6 hours to 4 hours. Still a pretty long time, but it should also be able to absorb more damage now.

She was also happy to see [Eye Growth], [Amorphous], and [Regeneration] had all leveled as well. The latter, especially, would be very useful right now. She could also grow more eyes, but four was working out pretty well so far, so she’d hold off on that until later.

Next, she’d gotten a fuck ton of levels. Her eyes lingered on the first notification in the list. The chimera had been 11 levels above her—no wonder it was so damn strong. She vaguely remembered Callan mentioning it was “leveling fast.” That seemed like an understatement. Assuming the chimera hit its second evolution threshold at level 30 like she did, it really might have reached that in a day or so.

Pyre decided to worry about distributing points last, but she did note that class levels only seemed to give 5 points per level as opposed to species levels, which gave 10. For now, though, the demon turned her attention to the class skill options. She focused on them, bringing up the descriptions for each one.

Class Skill: Basic Enfeebling StrikeIf user activates this skill and hits a foe within a time frame equal to this skill’s level x 10 seconds, that foe’s subsequent physical attacks deal less damage for a duration equal to this skill’s level x 1 minute. The percentage decrease in the foe’s physical attack damage increases with this skill’s level. Once this skill reaches level 10, it can be upgraded to Intermediate.Cooldown: 8 hours. Cooldown decreases with skill level.

Class Skill: Basic Brutish ShoveThis skill allows user to shove foes a further distance than usual. The percentage increase to shove distance increases with skill level. Once this skill reaches level 10, it can be upgraded to Intermediate.Cooldown: 1 hour. Cooldown decreases with skill level.

Class Skill: Basic SaviorAfter activating this skill, user must choose a target. If the target is wounded by a physical attack within a duration equal to this skill’s level x 1 minute after this skill is activated, the damage will be halved and the user will sustain the other half of the damage. The skill then automatically ends and cannot be activated again until its cooldown has passed. Once this skill reaches level 10, it can be upgraded to Intermediate.Cooldown: 1 hour. Cooldown decreases with skill level.

Pretty interesting options, Pyre thought. They were definitely more specialized than that first starter skill had been.

At a glance, all three options had something going for them. [Brutish Shove] had the most vague description, but it intrinsically appealed to the part of the demon that did, in fact, enjoy the satisfaction of tossing enemies around. She could see it being especially useful as a crowd control option. Her main question, though, was exactly how much of a difference it would make. She had such high strength and constitution right now that she could already shove shit pretty far. Did she really want to take a skill to do that even better?

Maybe she would’ve if the other options sucked, but they didn’t. [Savior] was a fascinating skill in a lot of ways, mostly because it revealed what kinds of things system skills could do. It was very specialized. From the description, she suspected it would probably get a ton of boosts once it hit intermediate proficiency, too.

If Pyre was the leader of an adventuring party or something or just a more compassionate person in general, she might be jumping on the skill, but the fact of the matter was that she was a demon who’d mostly been traveling solo so far. Callan excluded, but he was an incorporeal ghost. The idea of taking damage for someone else didn’t really appeal to her, so as interesting as the skill was, she didn’t plan on taking it.

That left her with [Enfeebling Strike], which she happened to be a big fan of. Its cooldown was long, but it sounded incredibly useful and was a good way to up her survival chances even more. Now, she suspected the amount of damage it reduced probably wasn’t a ton, but it lasted for a minute, and the chimera fight had proven that every little bit counted. It was a shame it only worked on physical attacks, but hey, maybe it would work on magic too after it hit intermediate proficiency. She could hope, right?

Mind set, the demon selected the skill.

[You have selected the [Basic Enfeebling Strike] class skill]

A brief wave of warmth passed through her, but Pyre was already focusing on the next notifications. There was just the new titles and subtraits to look at now, and she made the executive decision to view the subtraits last. The demon pulled up her two new titles.

Title: Group CombatYou are familiar with group combat. When fighting with allies, in addition to receiving experience from your own direct contributions, you will receive a portion of experience for the foes your allies defeat within the same combat.

Title: Chimera KillerYou have slain a chimera, gaining knowledge and experience from the encounter.You deal more damage when fighting chimeras.

To be totally honest, Pyre hadn’t thought too hard about how experience worked when fighting in a “group,” as the title said, though she’d argue that two people hardly made for a group. Whatever, she wasn’t gonna complain about getting a new title.

Based on the description, it sounded like you automatically got experience for your own direct kills (obviously), but also for “contributing,” which she guessed meant dealing any form of damage to a target even if you weren’t necessarily the one who dealt the final blow. This title took it a step further and let you gain experience from stuff your allies did without any help from you at all so long as you were both active during the fight.

It sounded like a pretty good deal to Pyre, and it meant fighting in groups was probably way more advantageous than fighting solo in general. Her eyes flashed briefly over to Callan, who was hovering around the clearing switching between keeping watch and viewing his own notifications. She focused on her system screens again. She didn’t know how much use she’d get out of the title, but she was glad to have it.

Chimera Killer, on the other hand, was very straightforward. If she ever ran into another chimera, she’d be able to do more damage to it. Nice and simple and good for her.

With that out of the way, Pyre directed her attention to the last thing on her menu: the subtrait shards.

First, she agreed to apply all of them. It was nice that three of the unique subtraits she’d gotten from the chimera only needed one shard each. It probably would’ve been hard to find a lot of those elsewhere. She’d also gotten another [Vibration Sense] shard, but that wasn’t nearly as interesting as the other four.

Once the waves of warmth faded, Pyre started pulling up the new subtraits and reading through their descriptions.

She quickly realized she couldn’t pull up a description for [Skeletal Recall], probably because she still needed two more shards to get the subtrait, which was a shame. That was one of the ones without a self-explanatory name, too, but she supposed she’d just have to wait until she got more of those shards. For now, she read through the three windows that did appear.

Subtrait: Bone ArmorAllows user to create bone plates across the body with increased hardness and durability. These bone plates are also more resistant to magic. They must be created flat atop the flesh and cannot be extended out like regular bone growths.Main Trait: [Ossification]

This must be what the chimera had. Well, Pyre had seen firsthand how tough this shit was, so she was glad to add the subtrait to her arsenal. It was a little unfortunate that she couldn’t create, like, extra durable spikes to stab things with, but she’d take the defensive boost.

Subtrait: Incorporeal TouchAllows user to physically interact with incorporeal objects and creatures as if they were tangible.Main Trait: [Amorphous]

And this was the subtrait that had let the chimera hit Callan. It also would’ve been super useful against that very same chimera, but better to have it late than never. At least now Pyre wouldn’t have to struggle so much if she ran into another incorporeal being, especially since she couldn’t use magic, which seemed to be the “default” solution for them.

A part of the demon had hoped to get whatever ability had let the chimera turn itself incorporeal at will—that shit was seriously busted—but it was probably a main trait. Not the kind of thing she could get via subtraits, unfortunately, but this was definitely better than nothing.

Finally, the demon moved on to the last subtrait she’d gained.

Subtrait: Memories of the FleshWhen the user devours a target’s flesh, user is able to view flashes of the target’s memories. At lower main trait levels, these flashes are random, but a target can consciously guide certain memories to the surface. The intensity and detail of these memories increases with the main trait’s level. At higher levels, user is better able to influence what memories are seen.Main Trait: [Flesh Eater]

This was a weird one, to be honest. Frankly she’d had no idea the chimera had an ability like this to begin with, but then again the thing hadn’t been able to talk, so it wasn’t like it could say it. She wasn’t sure what to do with the subtrait, either. Maybe it could be used to gather information, but at low levels it didn’t sound like she could control what she saw anyway.

For a second, Pyre wondered what would happen if she ate some of her own flesh. There was still a torn-off chunk a little ways away that hadn’t totally melted yet, after all. She eyed the little piece of flesh.

Fuck it. She had nothing to lose.

Extending some of her body out, she bit her second mouth into the half-melted flesh. Then promptly spit it out when it tasted like absolute dogshit.

“What the fuck?” Callan yelped. Pyre ignored the ghost in favor of trying to get the taste out of her mouth.

