Both Pacore and Giovanni must have a lot of faith in me if I’m being given this much freedom. A chunk of the ore will go to a new set of armor for myself, and a tiny bit is all that is needed for Kervin’s knife, but the rest is up in the air. Do I stick to spears and swords, or do I mix things up with a different weapon?

I don't have any more dellinium, so more arrows are out of the question. Maybe I should try making a shield?

I should ask Tabitha; if anyone knows what Pacore might need, it was her.

"I take it you'll buy other stuff too, right?" I ask just to make sure.

“If you make it, Silver Herd can sell it,” Kervin reassures me. “Ingots, tools, weapons, building supplies," Kervin glances at my glowing forge and the steel rods lying next to it. "Until there's a proper seize fire between Scholl and Olebert, and the trading routes are once again opened up, we'll buy anything you got."

“That’s good,” I happily remark.

“Everything is secured, Boss,” Ryiba calls out to Kervin as he walks over to us, followed closely by Reel and Lurte.

“Good,” Kervin smiles at his men before focusing back on me and bowing politely. “I’ll be back later in the day to watch Reel get his ass kicked by Pacore’s student.”

“Hey!” Reel snaps.

Kervin ignores Reel's protests. "I have business with the future headman of this village, so I’ll leave you to your work.”

“See you later,” I politely wave the four men off and watch them slowly leave Master’s clearing.

I too, need to get back to work. I'll need to hustle if I want to get everything done before Kervin comes back. Brother said he needed roughly a hundred steel rods before they started digging out the wall's foundation, so I better get to it.

Never a moment's rest.

**********

For once, I stood at the edge of the quarry and not inside it.

I watched as Reel stretched just as I did before each of my sparring sessions with Tabitha. And for the first time, I saw Tabitha do the same.

She already had her weapons drawn and was lightly swinging them around to warm up. Tabitha must see Reel as a real threat; that, or this is going to end really quickly.

"Three copper says Tabitha is going to win."

“What, no way, Tabitha is going to crush him. I’m not giving you my money.” Standing next to me, Frank and Lloyd were just as vocal as ever, giddily awaiting the fighting to start. By their excitement and how vocal they were, you would never guess they’d been working all day.

When Lloyd doesn't rise to Frank's challenge, he turns to the others nearby. "What about you, Boss? You think the new guy can beat Tabitha?”

My brother hums in thought. “I’m not sure. We’ve seen Aaliyah spar with Tabitha, but we’ve never seen this Reel person before. Is he any good?” Brother directs his question towards me.

“He is,” I simply state and leave it at that. If it were just Richard and me, I’d tell him Reel was around the same level I am or that Tabitha is in the 90’s, but I don’t want to give away their levels in front of Frank and Lloyd.

“But he is used to fighting,” Master’s tired voice enters our conversation.

The sun was going down, and everyone should be retiring for the day, but here we all were, ready to watch the fight between Reel and Tabitha.

Brother, Sandra, Master, Frank, and Lloyd stood near me while Kervin, Lurte, and Ryiba made up their own group a few dozen feet away from us.

“It’s starting,” I point out to everyone when I see Reel and Tabitha take up their respective stances.

“First to bleed?” I hear Reel ask the armored woman in front of him.

“Sounds fun,” Tabitha responds with her signature savage grin.

Frank and Lloyd go quiet as the air changes. Reel and Tabitha both release their bloodlust simultaneously, and every one of us is forced to swallow a nervous lump in our throats, even me.

I thought I was used to the pressure Tabitha usually releases during our fights, but this was different. There was a quantitative difference between the Tabitha in front of me and the one I regularly sparred with. The Tabitha in front of me was out for blood! Reel wasn't as bad, but

the pressure he released wasn't that far off from Tabitha's.

Reel felt like a drawn dagger ready to pounce in the face of Tabitha's might.

"Holy shit," Frank mutters, and I see that he and most of our group were trembling. Only Master and I were fine, but I did notice how strongly Master was clenching his fists while my hand had reflexively moved up to grab my hammer.

And then Reel vanished.

There were gasps of surprise around me, but I kept my eyes on the battlefield. I wasn’t going to miss a second of this fight.

I might not be able to physically see Reel, but Sense Mana still let me track where he was. And he was… just standing there?

Reel hadn’t taken a step since he became invisible, confusing me greatly. I’d figure he’d throw a dagger or creep up behind her.

Though the dagger probably wouldn’t be that good of an idea. As soon as he releases his weapon, I doubt it would go very far before it lost its invisibility, and that would give away his position.

“He’s invisible; come on!” Frank loudly complains.

I watch as Reel finally starts to make his move. He moves slowly back and forth, testing to see if Tabitha can track him as I can, but she just stands there, facing forward with a smile plastered across her face. Tabitha doesn’t so much as twitch as Reel slowly positions himself to the left of her.

She holds her shield on her left arm, but dealing with that is better than the sword in her right.

Twenty feet, fifteen feet, Reel slowly closes in on his target, and Tabitha still hasn’t moved from her initial position. Is Reel going to be able to successfully ambush her?

At ten feet, the void of mana that is Reel lunges at Tabitha. Part of me thinks that it might be all just as quick as it started, but the woman who's been training me all this time doesn't disappoint. Tabitha's feet blur at the last second, and she reorientates herself to face the still invisible Reel. I can’t see his expression while he’s cloaked, but I’m sure he must be surprised.

Tabitha swings her sword at the empty air, and a loud clanging noise echoes throughout the quarry. Dirt is kicked up as Reel is sent flying by Tabitha’s strike. Space appears to shatter around Reel as the effects of his magic item are broken, and he is revealed to my shocked companions.

“I should’ve known I couldn’t sneak up on you," Reel grimaces and shakes out his arms. The blades of the two daggers in his hands were ruined from parring Tabitha's sudden strike.

“It wasn’t a bad attempt, but better than you have tried and failed,” she gloats.

“Then I guess I’ll need to do better," Reel rises to his feet in defiance with a cocky grin. He tosses away his useless daggers and draws two new ones. Both serrated weapons are longer than the first pair he used and radiate a higher degree of magic.

Reel rushes at Tabitha, who takes a step forward to meet him, and what happens next is a flurry of strikes between the two.

Sparks fly all over the place as enchanted metal meets enchanted metal. Both are Dexterity-based fighters, and yet they’re both different from one another.

Reel is like me and moves around a lot, while Tabitha prefers short, swift movements. Reel attacks from two angles with multiple weapons, while Tabitha guards with her shield and counterattacks with her sword.

The new daggers Reel is using have to be enchanted for endurance because, unlike his first two, they hold up when he uses them to parry Tabitha's sword. Reel is forced to dance between a very thin line of attacking and defending due to the length of his weapons. He has to get in close, while Tabitha is more comfortable at mid-range.

“Amazing,” I hear Sandra say.

I take my eyes off the battle for a moment to sneak a peek at my friend. Her eyes were wide, but she didn't look as shocked as Frank and Lloyd. Both men are staring into the quarry speechless with their mouths hanging open. That’s a first for them.

I’m a little jealous that they’ve never looked at me like that when I was sparing Tabitha, but more than anyone else here, I can see that the fight between Reel and Tabitha is a step above anything I’ve done.

The way the two anticipate each other’s movements.

The way they predict the others strikes.

The sheer number of feints they use!

This is a true battle between high-leveled individuals.

I can only watch and marvel at the spectacle in front of me like the rest of them.

After trading countless blows in a matter of minutes, the two finally separate, with neither of them so much as scratching the other.

“Another hidden talent in this corner of the world,” Tabitha offers her praise to Reel while ignoring the sweat dripping into her eyes.

“That means a lot coming from you,” Reel pants.

That's all the two say before they rush at each other again like frenzied animals. The two of them were the epitome of an anime fight come to life, which is incredible.

My heart speeds up as time seems to come to a crawl. I had never seen either of them fight like this before, and it was eye-opening. I need to practice a lot harder if I’m ever going to press Tabitha as Reel is doing right now.

Maybe I, too, could be like this if I never took up crafting and devoted all my time to practicing with my weapon, but that’s just not me.

Neither of them is slowing, even though both are starting to get winded. So it was only a matter of time until one of them messed up and allowed the other to tag them. Which would it be? I had a suspicion who it might be.

Suddenly, Reel made his move. He uses Flash Step to appear behind Tabitha. She uses her stance-changing skill to reposition herself, but Reel had already Flash Stepped again and lunged at Tabitha by then. He aimed for the split-second cooldown before she could use her skill again.

Reel thrusts his right dagger at her exposed side, but a flash of light halts it before it can pierce her skin. Tabitha has a manic look on her face as she looks down at a frozen Reel. Tabitha’s shield was glowing and had wrapped her in a cloak of light.

So that’s what her shield does, it produces an effect similar to my Mana Skin, but seeing how it stopped Reel's enchanted dagger, it was probably a lot stronger.

Tabitha stabs at Reel, and he's forced to duck away. But as he ducks, Tabitha steps forward, and shield bashes him, sending him stumbling.

From there on, the fight turned incredibly one-sided. Tabitha kept the pressure on Reel, never letting him recover until she could slice him in between his armor.

Reel didn’t flinch when he was cut or groan in pain; he merely looked defeated. "It's my loss," he admits lowering his daggers. "Truly, the rumors about you don't do you justice."

The light slowly fades around Tabitha. “You weren’t so bad yourself,” she genuinely smiles. She sheaths her sword and wipes the sweat from her face, signaling the fight to be over.

“That…Was…Amazing!” Lloyd shouts while everyone else respectfully claps.

Reel smiles under everyone’s praises before dropping to his knees in exhaustion.

I use Air Walk to hop down into the quarry and offer him a hand. "Well, you survived," I joke as I help him to his feet.

“Shut up; I'm sure you know how strong she is," Reel hisses at me.

For a second, my smile collapses. "I do now," I mumble under my breath. For all Tabitha's been pushing me, she’s never fought like that. I finally saw what she’s capable of, and it pains me to admit it, but I’m nowhere close to reaching that level yet.

"I'm the one who lost; how come you're the one who looks defeated?"

“It’s nothing,” I force a smile and shake my head. “I’m just sad I didn’t get to see her squash you flat like I thought she would. You’re better than I give you credit for.”

“He was,” Tabitha walks over to us and stares down at a limping Reel. “Your talents are wasted here; why not come and work for my Master. Scholl would appreciate your talents."

Reel's eyes widen in surprise, but he chuckles and brushes off Tabitha’s offer. “Thanks, but no thanks. I already serve a man I respect.”

“Humm, pity.” That’s all Tabitha says before she turns around to face the others who were walking down into the quarry.

“Lady Tabitha, you were amazing!”

“Truly splendid!”

Frank and Lloyd fawn over the armored woman as Kervin walks over to us.

“You, ok?” he asks, raising an eyebrow at a battered Reel.

“You don’t have to worry about me,” Reel groans as he straitens his back. “After a good night’s rest, I’ll be good as new.”

“You know it was stupid of you to challenge her, right?” Kervin asks in a low voice so that others couldn't hear him. “What if you offended her and she decided to kill you?”

Reel scoffs. “Then I would’ve died,” he matter-of-factly says. “She went easy on me,” Reel says with a bit of frustration in his voice. “I couldn’t tell while we were fighting, but seeing how she's nowhere near as tired as I am, I don't think I pushed her as hard as I thought I did.”

Kervin steals a glance over his shoulder at Tabitha, who is nodding along to the people congratulating her on her win.

“I had to try,” Reel firmly states. “I needed to see the gap between me and the next level. That’s the only way I’ll improve.”

Kervin sighs and shakes his head. "You're crazy; you know that?"

Reel chuckles, “It’s the best way to live. You can let go of me now,” he tells me.

