By the time Liam was due back, she was fascinated by the earring and trying to determine its potential uses. She made him sit down and watch one of the few bouts he’d won against the speedster three times, telling her new things he’d noticed after each viewing.

“Liam has a hard time not thinking of the weapon as a mace,” he said after the last one. “Or a bat.”

“I think I know what you mean by that, but explain it to me for your own benefit.”

“He knows the big block on the end is just foam, and he knows it’s light enough for me to change its direction rapidly. He’s seen me twirl it really fast. But if I swing it at him with a big arm motion, like I’m using a club of some kind, he expects it to behave like one. And he expects me to move like I’m swinging something heavy.”

Alden watched the foam block catch Liam in the chest again.

When Liam came back into the room and Alden took the earring off, he thought, I can use something like that against Winston.

“Ready to go?” Liam asked. “I’m ready to go! Bobby, did you see anything I could improve while you were going through the videos? Alden, I’ll pretend to be a dumber speedster as many times as you need.”

“You can keep choosing between smart and dumb whenever you like,” said Alden. “It’s good practice for me both ways.”

“I still can’t believe a Celena North hero program student would run at you full throttle,” Liam said. “You explained how your skill worked, and the first thing I thought was, ‘Just go slow until the last second.’”

Alden sighed. Liam walking across the floor toward him like he was out for a stroll had been an unwelcome surprise during that first fight. Even though it was how Alden would have fought himself if he were a speedster.

When Alden dueled, he often had one dangerous shot of some kind, a net, or a rope. Super speed should be used for dodging his attack, or it should be used after the opponent had gotten under his guard, for the winning blow. Otherwise, it was something Alden tried to use against them.

“Nobody dies by walking slowly into a fishing line,” he said. “I just hope Winston doesn’t realize that.”

******

now

******

Big Snake nodded from a couple of blocks over as Alden approached with his weapon over his shoulder. A second later, Winston Heelfeather zipped by on his left so that he could enter the block a step ahead of him.

“You think a fifty kilo will be enough?” he asked, spinning to watch Alden approach. “This is our first real fight.”

Here we go.

“It is. I’m glad I’ve had so many chances to watch Finlay move before this one came up. I think it’s trained my eyes. You’re not going to look as fast to me as you did when I beat you last time.”

“You didn’t beat me.”

“I did. Everyone saw it. And you had a boost from Max when I did it, too. This time you’ll be even slower, so I like my chances.”

“You used a trick.” Winston’s tone was so affronted that Alden wondered if he actually believed himself. “Today’s fight is the only one that matters.”

Alden headed toward his end of the block.

“There’s some fishing line on one end of this big-ass mace!” he called. “And the head of the big-ass mace comes off if I want. I bet I can catapult it across the block at you before you can blink. Don’t say any of it’s a trick since you know it’s there!”

Was that enough? Seems light for smack talk, but I can’t bring myself to shout anything too rude in front of Big Snake. I don’t want him to think I’m a jerk.

It’s not impossible to do this even if Winston’s careful instead of careless. I’ll still have a chance.

His heart was pounding more than it had all class.

He turned around. Winston had gone extremely red.

Alden took a step back.

Jeez. Is that a vein popping on his forehead? He looks like he’s about to blow from just those few words.

How much does he hate me?

Enough to tag me in a half hour long apology video, apologize to everyone and Scotland, and leave out the one, absolutely reasonable thing I asked for.

“Why did you tell me you were going to apologize then not do it?” Alden asked.

They had eighteen seconds on the start timer.

“I did apologize.” Winston was taking up a position like a sprinter at the start of a race.

Alden held his weapon in two hands and took up his own starting position. Like Olive had in his first duel of the day, he tried to look like a batter waiting for a pitch. “Why are you lying to my face when we both know it’s a lie?”

“I. Apologized. To the people who needed apologies. And everyone’s over it but you,” Winston retorted. “But they’re about to see…you don’t matter. You’re a B-rank. And a Rabbit. This is a school for heroes. Even if you got lucky a few times, it isn’t your world.”

It isn’t my world?

The tension that had been building all day burst like a dam.

“Søren had it right.” Alden’s eyes locked onto the speedster. “You’re a nasty little fucker.”

[90 second duel]

[START]

******

Winston Heelfeather had been a member of the track team at his old school.

He hadn’t been the best member, but who would ever care about that again? Nobody.

That was how it worked once you were so far beyond others that they couldn’t even see your dust. Your weaknesses faded from memory. Fans came to you.

On the day the team had held that goodbye race for him, he’d started with his body in a position just like this, and he’d run, and not a single person could touch him.

Humans versus a superhuman.

It was a shame that S versus A was often the same way.

But today…in this fight…

He’d been watching so many videos of Alden’s duels. The Rabbit played around with weird tools, trying to come up with tricks and traps just like Max. To make up for his weakness.

Because he’s a B. He’s only a B. The System gave him a good skill, but he wasn’t strong enough for an A.

Winston had always considered himself a good person, but at this moment, he could admit that he wanted to look down on Alden Thorn from a rank above and a class beyond and show him what real, honest power looked like.

He has a weight. Not even one of the biggest weights. Must be worried about his skill wearing out. All I have to do is dodge it, and I’m faster.

I’m so much faster.

“You’re a nasty little fucker,” said Alden.

Bringing up Søren?! He hasn’t even managed to fire a shot like that one that took me out since then.

Who does Alden think he is?

Mehdi plays with him in duels. Rebecca beats him when she’s not trying out stupid stuff. I’m an A-rank, too.

Why is he staring at me like I’m the one beneath him?

Winston wasn’t using a weapon of any kind. He was going pure speedster, for when he told his fans about this. Pure Brute. A fair fight.

[90 second duel]

He was going to put his hand around a Rabbit’s neck and squeeze…

[START]

Winston blasted toward his victory with almost every bit of his speed.

He wasn’t hitting that damn fishing line again.

He wasn’t stupid.

Alden hadn’t even moved from his starting spot. He was just waiting there to swing his homemade club. Winston felt a rush as fast as his own feet at the sight. This was it. Exactly what he’d wanted all term. Such a simple, clearcut display of their powers.

Alden could hold a lot of weight. He could swing it with his human strength. But it didn’t even matter if he was using that wordchain that was practically doping today, because Winston knew he could dodge a human swinging a bat. He could dodge other A-rank Brutes swinging things at him most of the time.

Thank you for the fair fight.

Finally.

Redemption.

He’d stay up all night tonight, working out exactly how to describe this duel to his followers. And listening to the worst of his roommates pack his bags.

“You know how Max hasn’t been letting me record videos in the living room for you guys? Well, he and I had a little bet…” That was how his Trime post explaining that the Adjuster had moved out would start.

Almost there.

Alden was waiting.

Almost.

The Rabbit was just staring. Was he even going to respond?

There.

Alden was taking a couple of steps back? He’d suddenly moved his hands to the middle of his rope handle? Didn’t matter. He was swinging it like a bat!

Too slow! I see you.

Winston was going to go over where the arc of the swing would carry the fifty-kilo sandbag. His fans had been complaining that he attacked from below too much.

Kick him in the face. Pin him to the wall.

He jumped.

Then squeeze.

That was the plan. It was a great plan.

He was flying through the air, twisting his body for the kick.

Something wrong happened.

Very suddenly.

Faster than Winston could react.

******

He’s fast, thought Alden.

His weapon was so light in his hands it almost felt like it wasn’t there. The time for thinking was over. He just needed to keep his eyes open and move.

When he reaches the midpoint…

Winston had reached it.

Alden grabbed the blue painter’s tape on his handle, the balanced spot, between the index and middle finger of his right hand. He closed his fist to hide the grip, then he took a couple of steps to wake up his legs for whatever was about to happen.

He kept pretending he was swinging a bat…one that could be something other than a bat any instant now.

Trust the practice.

Trust the wordchain to help you do what you can do sometimes.

Winston was jumping. Smirking.

There.

Alden’s feet and arms moved. His wrist and fingers twitched.

And Winston Heelfeather crashed feet first into a sandbag that had just altered its course, flawlessly, at the speed of that twitch.

Get him!

Winston hit the floor. He was rolling backward, about to get his feet under him again.

Alden sprang toward his enemy. He had already snapped his wrist back, moving the handle of his weapon so that the heavy sandbag was behind him.

GET HIM!

He flicked it forward again as fast as he could, not questioning what his right arm and his fingers were doing, aiming without thinking about aiming, releasing preservation at the moment his eyes said the black blur of the bag was about to meet Winston’s body.

There was a boom when it hit.

Not a huge one. Not one louder than Alden’s own yell as he preserved what was left of the weapon and pounced on Winston’s crumpled form. He was kicking the speedster over onto his back so hard his foot throbbed, trying to get the fishing line in a position so that when Winston sat up it would poke out one of his eyes and give him a blinding penalty and then Alden would be able to—

The victory notice flashed huge in front of his eyes at that moment, while he was waving the fishing line tip back and forth like he was trying to scratch Winston’s nose with it.

“No. I’m not done,” he said, even though his arm had frozen as soon as the notice appeared.

He stared down, analyzing what was in front of him.

Winston was lying there open-mouthed with his legs and arms bent like…

Like he was trying to come out of that roll and get on his feet, and I broke his neck with a hundred pound chunk of accelerated sand, instantly stiff-suiting him.

“You died? I was expecting to have to move around a lot more. And swing a few times. I didn’t want to have to, but I thought I would. You know…”

Alden backed away and let his cord go limp again so that he wouldn’t look like he was thinking of using a weapon after seeing the victory notice.

He scanned the gym and caught sight of Kon and Haoyu, still together in the practice area, pointing at him and jumping up and down, though they didn’t have the bad manners to scream, “Alden beat Winston!” out loud.

Max was in a dueling block, facing off against Astrid. He’d have to watch the whole thing on video later.

I’ll have to, too. It was so fast I don’t quite know what I did.

So much practice and planning…for a few seconds of the real thing.

Winston’s legs unfolded as his suit released him.

“Good duel,” Alden said. He took a breath. Ah. I won. “Yeah. Good duel. I liked that one.”

He looped the paracord through one of the handles on the sandbag and picked it up. Winston was still lying on the floor when he left the block.

******

******
