Though bone tired from the frantic, desperate scramble to retake the outer wall, Yan went against her better judgment and accepted Brigadier Hongji’s invitation to join him at the eastern gate, where they waited alongside various other high ranking Officers to receive her husband.

Much as she hated to admit it, it wasn’t longing or excitement which brought her here, since Rain and Grandpa Du both understood that a good soldier never passed up an opportunity for sleep, especially not after an entire week of nonstop battles. Though the Defiled preferred to attack at night, the so-called Chosen were more active during the day, resulting in an alternating schedule of conflict which left Yan precious few hours for undisturbed slumber. She envied those soldiers like Kyung, Dastan, Wu Gam, and Sutah who could fall asleep in an instant and doze through an earthquake undisturbed, but even the distant clamour of battle put Yan on full alert, to say nothing of the constant screams of tortured prisoners. She couldn’t remember the last time she slept for more than three hours uninterrupted, and while meditation helped soothe her frayed nerves and ease her tired mind, it was no replacement for true sleep.

However, instead of taking advantage of this rare lull in battle, Yan forced herself to bathe, change, and stay awake to greet her husband in front of the entire castle, because it would be expected of her. So much had changed in the last week, and a small part of her still couldn’t believe that Falling Rain, her handsome husband and beloved fool, was now Legate of the Outer Provinces. Though she always believed Rain was destined for greatness, he was still a few months shy of turning twenty-one and already held the highest ranking civil and military office outside the Eastern province, so where was he supposed to go from here?

Perhaps it was all some sort of strange joke, arranged by Rain’s Patron to draw out traitors, rebels, or agitators. Even as Rain’s ShenMu heartwood carriage rolled in through the gates, Yan half expected the pretty boy Shen ZhenWu to step out from its confines to surprise them all with a joke, because this carriage, beautiful as it was, simply didn’t feel like something a high-ranking Imperial Official should ride in. When commissioning a carriage for Grandpa Du, she compiled a detailed list of the most important moments in his career, from his unexpected, mid-combat Condensation of Aura, the stunning reveal of his Natal Palace after the Black Scarf Rebellion, to his Awakening to the Blessing of Wind on the summit of Wutai mountains. Even his battle with the Butcher of KunLun was included, alongside his rise as a Great Teacher in the wake of his crippling, and true to his talent, Charok depicted each and every scene in elaborate, lifelike detail. The first time she saw the finished carriage, those marvellous scenes almost came to life and made her feel like she was there watching his glorious career unfold before her very eyes, an epic tale of an Imperial Hero and Living Legend, her adoptive grandfather, Du Min Gyu.

Now that was a carriage befitting of an Imperial Official, a stately work of art which depicted those greatest of accomplishments. Rain’s carriage was also a beautiful work of art, perhaps even more so than Grandpa Du’s since Charok had living models to work with instead of basing everything off of transcribed, second-hand accounts and the poetic imaginings of playwrights, but that was where the similarities ended. The first thing everyone noticed was the realistic depiction of the Guardian Turtle which served as the roof, standing there with four, staunch legs bent to keep her belly low to the ground and beaked mouth opened wide in clear warning. This wasn’t so bad, and perhaps was even the most majestic part of the carriage, a dynamic creature of divine power portrayed in all her glory, except the entire effect was ruined by the fact that said Divine Turtle was currently hanging out the window, with her eyes wide and mouth agape while gawking at the gathered soldiers.

Gone was the hulking beast of yesteryear known only as the Guardian Turtle of Ping Yao, and in her place was a darling, diminutive creature who responded to ‘Ping Ping’ and looked too adorable to be afraid of. Though still recognizable as the same species of turtle (alligator snapping, according to Rain), the new Ping Ping was far smoother, rounder, and cuter than her previous, admittedly fearsome self. Overall, Yan loved the change, since the sweet turtle’s appearance now matched her loving demeanour, but it made her look less like a Divine Beast and more like a show animal, one bred and raised for pure aesthetic value. There was no arguing that Ping Ping wasn’t a Divine Turtle, not after so many soldiers and officers saw her drive the Bristleboar Divinity away, but her new appearance didn’t inspire the same majesty and wonder as her previous form, which had been raised as a symbol of the Mother’s grace and power.

Luckily for Ping Ping, no one knew what a true Divine Beast was supposed to look like, so there was no basis for comparison, but poor Rain would undoubtedly be compared to his patron and come up woefully short. Though she loved him with all her heart, Yan had to admit her husband was no match for the painfully perfect Shen ZhenWu, with his broad shoulders, chiselled features, and well-defined cheekbones. Rain was handsome, pleasing to the eye, and more or less cut in the same shape, but Shen ZhenWu was a sculpted masterpiece with the ability to look regal and imposing no matter the situation. It wasn’t that Yan dreamed of trading Rain for Shen ZhenWu, but objectively, it was clear the latter was physically more attractive than the former, which matters in ways which had almost nothing to do with sexuality. People trusted attractive people, because the Defiled were clearly ugly, so for this reason, she believed Rain had his work cut out for him if he wanted to fill the boots of his office. As far as she could tell, everyone respected Shen ZhenWu and saw him as the hero who’d come to save the outer-provinces, while Rain... was Rain. No matter how spectacular his accomplishments might be, it wasn’t easy to look up to him, and not because of his height. Well, that was part of the issue, since heroes were supposed to be larger than life and tall enough to hold up the Heavens, but even at his best, Rain was a short, slender, boyish youth with an admittedly vacant expression most of the time. Add in the fact that everyone now knew he’d once been a tormented slave, and Rain fell far short of the mysterious and powerful Imperial Scion.

It didn’t matter that he had a lion-mounted Death Corps guard to escort him. How could Rain be Legate if no one respected him? Even if he did everything right, people were still likely to disparage and denigrate him on appearance alone. With so many disadvantages already working against him, Yan believed Rain had erred in riding this carriage here, because it presented the wrong image. It might have worked if Ping Ping still retained her formidable size and appearance, but now, all Yan could see were the beautifully carved animals festooned across every surface, which certainly suited Rain’s tastes and personality, but was far from inspiring, much like Rain himself. She loved the likenesses of Banjo and Baloo standing on their hind legs at the back of the carriage, and the realistic bust of sweet Sarankho sitting on her haunches which served as the figurehead. Jimjam and Aurie looked adorably playful, carved as they were on the carriage doors, and seeing so many quins, rabbits, laughing birds, and other animals scattered about put a smile on her face, as Charok had gone into painstaking detail to show them in various states of harmless, carefree happiness.

But at the end of the day, it did not look like the vehicle of a powerful official, and while appearances weren’t everything, it went a long way in first impressions.

As the carriage pulled up to a stop and the doors swung open, Yan watched the crowd with bated breath, worried they might react poorly to seeing their Legate step out barefoot with clothes and hair in disarray. To her surprise, there were no hidden smirks or incredulous stares, no angry glowers or hateful sneers, and when she turned her attention back to the carriage, she almost gasped in shock for the shabbily dressed husband she expected to find was nowhere in sight. In his place was a regal young Warrior clad in ornate golden armour, his helmet hanging from his belt and long hair pulled back in a neatly coiffed style. An unadorned steel sword hung from his belt, as did a serviceable knife, but otherwise, he carried no other obvious weapons as his arms were occupied with holding the Divine Turtle in one and Mama Bun in the other. The animals conveniently covered up the ‘Liang’ character on his chest as he marched up to Brigadier Hongji, who received him with a Martial salute before stiffly falling to his knees for a bow. Everyone else in the courtyard, Yan included, followed suit as Hongji intoned, “This servant greets Legate Falling Rain.” There was just enough Chi into his words for them to echo off the courtyard walls and leave the rest of the castle undisturbed, but it was clear where the Brigadier stood, firmly in Falling Rain’s camp. “Castle JiangHu is yours to command.”

“Rise, good friend. Everyone, please rise.” Although not augmented with Chi, Rain’s soft-spoken voice was teeming with warmth and clearly heard by every Martial Warrior in the courtyard. More than one soldier straightened up with pride at the familiar greeting, because while Rain might not be the awe-inspiring Legate Shen ZhenWu was, he was still the highest Official in all the lands, and Brigadier Hongji was much beloved by the soldiers serving under his command. To hear the Legate call their commander ‘friend’ was certainly something to boast about, or at least it would be if Rain refrained from calling everyone his friend, as he was wont to do. “Brigadier Hongji, you and your soldiers have done well to hold this long, a valiant effort from you all, and I will not have brave heroes of the Empire kneeling for me, nor do I see any reason to change things up. Command of the castle is yours Brigadier, and I, Legate Falling Rain, request permission to enter.”

“...Permission granted.”

Yan wasn’t sure if this was the right move, since doing so eroded his already shaky authority, and it was clear from his hesitant tone that Hongji wasn’t certain either, but the soldiers around them seemed to appreciate the gesture, empty though it might be. A Legate still outranked a Brigadier, not to mention the two Lieutenant Generals who’d come with Rain, Akanai whose timely arrival kept the entire castle from being overrun by Demons and Peak Experts, and Grandpa Du who was currently shuffling off the carriage with one hand resting on Lin-Lin’s shoulder, no doubt to keep her from hopping onto Rain’s back as she so often did. Catching her eye, Grandpa Du’s weathered features broke out into a cheery smile, one which radiated pride as it moved between Yan and Kyung standing beside her. As soon as the formalities were over with and the escorting soldiers dismissed, Yan tactfully moved past Rain to embrace Grandpa and Lin-Lin. “I’m so glad to see you both,” she said, though in truth, she was a little surprised to see Lin-Lin here, since Rain was so overprotective of her.

“And I am glad to see you.” Stroking her hair with a warm, tender smile, Grandpa held her tight for several seconds before breaking the embrace. “I’ve some teachings to pass onto you later, ones shared by your clever husband no less, but that can wait until later. Go on, if you keep him waiting any longer, I may find myself no longer welcome in his home. Now where’s my grandson?” he asked, pretending he couldn’t see Kyung standing right before him, if only to make the half-cat acknowledge the connection. Much like his half-sister, Kyung was utterly unreadable even at the best of times, but seeing him timidly step up as if afraid Grandpa Du was talking about some other grandson was both adorable and heart-wrenching to behold. Linking arms with Lin-Lin, Yan left Grandpa to his cheerful reunion and enthusiastic retelling of Kyung’s accomplishments to escort the impatient half-hare to Rain’s side, where she took Mama Bun away to let Rain greet Yan properly.

“Hello wife,” he said, flashing his oh-so-charming smile while slipping his arm snugly around her waist, which combined with his longing gaze forced Yan to rethink her earlier stance on how Shen ZhenWu was the more attractive of the two. “I missed you.”

“Missed you too.” Hugging him harder than intended, she squeezed his armour tight until she heard him draw a sharp breath. “Sorry for leaving when I did, but we didn’t know...” How long it would take before he woke up again, or if he would wake at all. The Medical Saint couldn’t even hazard a guess, only stating that Rain was in good health and in no danger of dying anytime soon, which was the only reason Yan left him to defend the front lines. That went poorly, with the front lines abandoned and the second-lines struggling to hold, and though she hated to even think it, she was even more worried with Rain in control. He was no tactical genius with decades of experience commanding multiple armies in the field, he was just a silly, brilliant, lovable man who was in far over his head and never afraid to admit it. She still remembered their time together after the Society Contests but before his duel at the wall, when he almost lost himself to grief and hatred after stumbling upon the burnt, gristly remains of an unfortunate village. It was an understandable mistake, but one a more experienced Martial Warrior would have never made, and while he eventually recovered from it, Yan feared the Empire might not survive the first of Rain’s mistakes as Legate.

Which of course begged the question: why was he here?

Unfortunately for Yan, Rain was getting good at reading expressions, and he could see the question burning behind her gaze. “Nothing to apologize for,” he said with a wink, following up with a scandalous kiss to her cheek, as bold and brazen as ever. “And keep that in mind, because as happy as I am to see you, I didn’t come all this way just to hold you in my arms.” Gesturing for Hongji to proceed into the castle, Rain said, “Come now. There’s work to be done, but we’ll talk more once we’re in private.”

Turning to follow the Brigadier, Rain stopped at the sound of Lin-Lin’s voice. “Hubby, I think you’re forgetting something, ya?” Barely able to conceal her smile, she glanced back at the carriage before fluttering her eyes at Rain, the very picture of innocence as she held fluffy white Mama Bun in her arms, adorably swaddled in Lin-Lin’s ever present white silk scarf. “Something reallllly important to someone here?”

“Ah. Right. Here Yan, could you hold her?” Handing over Ping Ping before she could refuse, Rain dumped the Divine Turtle into Yan’s arms and returned to the carriage as she stood frozen in shock. Her first thought was “Don’t drop the Divine Turtle”, and the second was “I hope she doesn’t bite me”, but the sweet girl favoured Yan with a bright turtle smile and a squeak. This was their first real meeting in her new form, but Ping Ping’s greeting and Rain’s implicit trust meant the Divine Turtle was utterly unruffled over being left in Yan’s arms, though she did squirm about a fair bit in protest over being held out like a platter. Instinctively drawing the turtle close, Yan carried her the same way Rain had, with their bellies pressed together and Ping Ping’s shell facing forward. In response, the Divine Turtle clung tight and nuzzled her affectionately before sending a small burst of loving Aura surging through Yan’s body, proving once and for all that she was still the same sweet, gentle giant who nuzzled her oh so carefully back when they first met.

A few moments later, Rain emerged from his carriage with a large, cushioned box in hand, and Yan could hear the faint sound of scrambling from within as well as a single, feeble thump. In response, Ping Ping squeaked and emitted an Aura of calm, this one stretching far enough to encompass even Brigadier Hongji ahead of them and Rain’s ever-present Peak Expert Guard, Kuang Biao. Both stoic men’s eyes widened in shock, but otherwise, they asked no questions, though it was clear they too were wondering what was inside the box. Deducing that it was the red panda inside, Yan quietly moved so that Ping Ping could be closer to her mysterious little friend with the excuse of greeting Song, who just dismounted to join them, and somehow, that seemed to calm the ornery creature down.

How it could even tell what was going on outside the box, Yan would never know, but she assumed Ping Ping had some way of reassuring the beast. Whether it was really the reincarnation of Guan Suo or simply a grumpy red panda, Yan looked forward to the day when Rain finally charmed the adorable beast and Yan could stroke his fuzzy muzzle, because at the end of the day, the red panda was a darling little creature whom she yearned to hug and hold.

Since Yan was now responsible for the Divine Turtle, she bade a silent farewell to Song and Lin-Lin as they set off with their wagon of pets in tow, leaving Yan, Grandpa Du, Kyung, and Rain to follow Brigadier Hongji for a briefing with every high-ranking officer in the castle. Technically, as a lowly Third-Grade Warrant Officer, Yan lacked the authority to sit in on such a meeting, but none of the other gathered officers seemed willing to point this out, and Zian even gave her a small nod of acknowledgement, which for him, was the same as a big smile and warm embrace. Truth be told, Yan would’ve been much happier skipping this meeting to go with Lin-Lin and Song, as it’d been over a week since she’d hugged any of those darling floofs to sleep and she was long past due for a nap. Unfortunately, Rain didn’t hand the red panda over to Lin-Lin, so Yan was stuck by his side, not that she minded too much since it gave her a chance to see her husband at work.

There was something different about him now, something that’d changed since she last saw him. It wasn’t the way he dressed or styled his hair, though it did have something to do with it, because while she’d seen him all dressed up before, it never quite suited him like it did now. His armour and robes had always been perfectly tailored, but somehow, it previously felt as if the armour was slightly too big and sat off-kilter on his shoulders, though looking back on it now, Yan realized this may have just been Rain’s penchant for slouching ever so slightly. Now, the armour sat perfectly atop his lean, broad-shouldered frame, so seamless it could almost be a second skin, and the silken robes underneath were smooth and unwrinkled. That didn’t seem possible considering how often Rain shifted and squirmed, never able to sit still for more than a minute at a time. Granted, he had good reason for this, as ever since he shattered his Core, most fabrics chafed his skin something terrible, though it’d been some months since that had been a problem, but the mental habits were still there. Now, all the problems that plagued him were gone now, as far as she could tell, but while some scars still remained, such as his penchant to flinch when petting the animals the wrong way, Rain seemed more confident and dynamic than ever.

Which was good, because he would need all the help he could get, and Yan had precious little to offer in matters of this scale.

After hearing Hongji’s battle report and an updated status of the castle troops, Rain took over the meeting so naturally Yan could scarcely believe her eyes. “The Death Corps will hold the centre,” he began, placing his people in the most fiercely contested section of the outer walls. “Kuang Biao, arrange a schedule and coordinate with Hongji to relieve the forces currently stationed there after their shift is over. I want twelve units broken up into six shifts, with no unit working two days in a row.”

“By your will, Legate.”

“We’ll also need rapid response teams of Peak Experts waiting on standby. Brigadier, I’ll leave the arrangements to you and Lieutenant General Akanai, but if the Defiled send their Demons at us again, I want them to pay for it. I’ll speak with the Royal Guardians and see how many Peak Experts they can spare, but I’m sure we have enough here in the Citadel to make the Enemy regret trying the same tactic twice.”

Nodding in agreement, Akanai sniffed and said, “A shame the Dark Child slipped away. A dangerous and resourceful Demon, that one. I can see why it gave Bralton and Erien such difficulty. I look forward to trading blows with it again.”

“Sorry Grand-Mentor, but I’m afraid you’ll have to wait longer than you’d like.” Grinning as he said it, Rain took advantage of the witnesses to needle Akanai so, though others would take his form of address as a mark of respect instead of the slight to her advanced age as the Chief Provost saw it. “Once you’re finished here, I was hoping you would coordinate the Sentinels and light cavalry out on the plains. Seeing how they’re already in the field, I figured we could keep them there where they’ll be free to hunt down any roving bands of Defiled who try to circumvent our defenses. The Enemy grows bolder with each passing day, so I think it’s time we put the fear of the Empire back into them, those few who survive, at least.” Not the best idea, as this made the cavalry vulnerable to ambush when resupplying from the castle, an issue Akanai immediately raised, but Rain already had an answer ready. “Have them resupply directly from the supply trains,” he said, and everyone in the room straightened up at the thought of it. “The logistics might get a little complicated and the convoys will move slower as a result, but it’s worth it since it’ll also offer more security without needing to devote armed escorts to every convoy.”

It took almost a full hour for the gathered officers to hammer out the rest of the details, mostly because Rain encouraged anyone with an opinion to speak up and was predictably hit by a deluge of saliva from over-eager ass-kissers, but he handled them well enough with a little deflection and diplomacy. Then, about fifteen minutes in, he lost his patience and snapped at one Central fool who couldn’t organize a linen closet much less a resupply schedule, yet kept insisting he was perfect for a job which had already been assigned to a Lieutenant General. Still, Rain’s inclusive efforts paid off when one Central Officer suggested the patrols take more supplies than needed and bury them somewhere they could later return to. A trick Western merchants used when traversing through the desert, the Officer claimed, leaving vital supplies at easily found landmarks since it was easy to get turned around in a sandstorm.

As the meeting continued, Yan realized Rain had a knack for command, not in the sense that he knew what needed to be done and how to proceed, but rather as a facilitator who put all their objectives on the table and let the experienced Officers present decide how best to proceed, all without having things devolve into a heated shouting match. An effective model of leadership, but hardly efficient, yet it made everyone present view him in a different light, Yan included. They’d both come a long way since they first met, when she thought him an insufferable ass and he mistook her as a man, so long that she’d forgotten he was not the genius everyone believed he was. In many ways, he was actually exceedingly stupid, like how he thought this communal planning was a good idea, but he made up for his innate stupidity with hard work, dedication, and the ability to learn quickly without the need for detailed instruction.

Yan wasn’t the only one who noticed it either, as she caught more than one Officer nodding along as Rain voiced his thought process and smiling when he came to the answer himself. Not everyone was amenable to Rain or his particular style of leadership, but they were either outnumbered by his supporters or content to keep quiet. Politics was not her area of expertise, but it seemed like her beloved husband had things well in hand, which made her heart swell with joy. There was a time when his awkward brand of humour and complete lack of social graces made him come off as rude and confrontational, but after spending a year and a half as Shen ZhenWu’s pawn and later the Minister of Finance, it seemed like Rain had not only gotten the hang of social interaction, but was now wholly in his element. By the end of the meeting, he had not only memorized every Officer’s name and rank, he was even able to jokingly chide them without giving offence and win a few begrudging faces over to his side.

All of this was thanks to Luo-Luo, who had played a crucial role in Rain’s transformation from Warrior to merchant and politician. A good thing too, since there was no one among the People who could have helped him in this regard. An oft-repeated joke was how they made Akanai Chief Provost, Sarnai Speaker, and Gerel the spokesman of the Iron Banner, and anyone who knew all three found it utterly hilarious how the most famously unsociable individuals of the People were given the most socially demanding jobs.

With the majority of issues before them taken care of, Rain dismissed everyone with a joke save for a select few who remained behind. Brigadier Hongji stayed, as did Akanai, Naaran, and Grandpa Du alongside a few other faces Yan didn’t recognize, but they were all ranked Colonels at a minimum. His smile fading away, Rain stood at the head of the table and said, “What I say next does not leave this room, and is only to be discussed through sending. Castle JiangHu will fall in a matter of days.” Yan’s mind raced through all the possibilities, but Rain held up a hand to preempt all questions, not that she would have voiced hers anyways. “As far as our scouts can tell, the Enemy has committed three armies to the field, the largest of which is here at Castle Jianghu. They are making no preparations to send more just yet, which presents us with a unique opportunity, one Colonel Generals Nian Zu and Shuai Jiao are keen to take advantage of. In three days, we will withdraw from Castle JiangHu and engage the Enemy in a fighting retreat, drawing them back towards the Central Citadel and stringing their forces out behind us. Once the Enemy army outside these walls commits to the pursuit, forces from the North and South will converge in around them, allowing us to dismantle the largest Enemy Army in the field, piece by piece.”

Silence ensued following this bold declaration, and Yan couldn’t help but turn to see what Grandpa Du’s reaction was, but he wore an expressionless mask of indifference and showed neither approval nor concern. Akanai was the same, but she didn’t interject, which meant she agreed with Rain’s plan at least on some levels. Smiling grimly at the Officers around him, Rain’s beautiful amber eyes burned with ambition. “I won’t lie. This will be difficult. I ask much from the Warriors of Central, but no more than what I ask of myself.” Anyone who knew Rain would also find this statement comical to the extreme, because he demanded more from himself than even the Heavens might expect. “I’ve brought the Death Corps, the Royal Guardians, and the Sentinels of the People here with me not just because I expect the fighting to be bloodiest here, but also because I believe this can be accomplished with minimal losses so long as we all work together. For the first time in history, the Enemy has united against us, so I implore you all to put aside our differences and stand together as one, so that we might strike a devastating blow against the Defiled and turn the tides of battle in our favour.”

Though it wasn’t clear what Rain was asking, Brigadier Hongji was the first to respond, placing a closed fist over his heart in a show of sincerity. “This one is yours to command, Imperial Legate.” All of his subordinates followed suit, as did Grandpa Du, while Naaran and Akanai merely moved to Rain’s side and patted him on the shoulder and cheek respectively. The other officers either voiced their insincere support, or kept quiet and non-committal, but at least no one outright objected to this course of action. Naming Nian Zu and Shuai Jiao as the architects of the plan might’ve had something to do with it, but all this was already far above and beyond Yan’s meagre comprehension, she might as well not even be in the room.

With this done, Rain outlined a few meagre details of the retreat plan before finally calling the meeting to end, at which point he escorted Yan out of the fortified command centre with Kyung, Grandpa Du, and at least a hundred Death Corps guards in tow. “Well now that all the ham-fisted speeches are done with, might I say you look more gorgeous than ever,” he whispered, once they were relatively alone on the bustling castle streets, “But exhausted. Let’s get you to bed, shall we?”

“If this is your way of romancing me into the sheets, you should know I find it effective, but uninspired.” And it might be horrid to even think this, but she was happy to have him all to herself, even though she was also worried for Mila who was out in the field and would remain there as part of Rain’s roaming light cavalry forces.

Grinning in a way that made him look even younger than usual, Rain squeezed the hand that was resting firmly on her hip. “Good to know, but as much as I would like to help you fall asleep, I figured I would go greet the old retinue, then make the rounds and try and raise morale wherever I can. I hear the castle took a beating before we arrived and the Enemy almost broke through, so there’s still much to do before I join you again.”

Disappointed by his response yet wholly understanding of his responsibilities, Yan felt the flames of desire sputter out and die. “It was a close thing,” she whispered, reliving the horror she felt when she heard Brigadier Hongji order all Peak Experts and Demon Slayers to help him retake the outer walls. Those rare individuals were a precious resource carefully guarded, so for the Brigadier to commit all of them showed just how desperate the situation had become. If not for Akanai’s timely appearance, then the inner walls might have also been overrun, and Rain’s reinforcements would’ve arrived to find the Defiled in firm control of the castle.

Saying nothing, Rain held her a little tighter as they made their way back to her room, but as they drew closer, he grew more distracted with each passing step. Sweet Ping Ping also showed signs of agitation, squirming in Yan’s embrace to glare at the western walls in obvious concern. Eventually, Rain just stopped in place and closed his eyes, tilting his head as if straining to hear something far away. “...Do you hear screaming?”

It was always jarring to be reminded of it, as Yan had gotten so used to the tortured howls she tuned them out without even thinking, because there was no other way she could survive with her sanity intact. Lacking the enhanced hearing of a Martial Warrior, Rain was only just hearing it now as they neared the inner wall, but Yan could hear them from all the way back in the command centre. “Yes,” she replied, deciding that blunt and honest was the best way to proceed. “The Defiled are torturing Imperial prisoners just out of bow range. It never stops.”

The effect was instantaneous as his eyes ignited in anger, and Yan hadn’t even told him the worst of it. Even then, he took the time to wordlessly ask if she wanted to go rest, but she opted to go with him instead. A part of her wanted to tell him to stay away from the outer wall, because there was nothing he could do to change things, and he would inevitably blame himself for being powerless, but she knew it would be as pointless as asking the sun not to rise. Rain was not someone who could turn a blind eye to suffering, else he would not be the man she loved and married, so she would support him through this as best she could, even if it meant suffering beside him.

The trek to the outer wall was long and arduous, with the screams growing louder with every step. Somewhere along the way, his Death Corps escort doubled, then doubled again just to be safe, though safety was in short supply here in Castle JiangHu. Trembling in her arms, Ping Ping emitted a quiet, mournful squeak which broke Yan’s heart, and even passing her to Rain didn’t do anything to raise the sweet girl’s spirits, but he was adamant to see the atrocities for himself. As they marched up the stairs behind the dark-armoured form of the Death Corps, Yan studied Rain closely to see how he was doing, but there was little more to his expression than anger and dread. Wholly understandable given their circumstances, but he was also not sweating or out of breath despite the long trek and brisk pace. Stairs almost always slowed him down, to the point where he never stopped complaining about them, but here and now, he took them two at a time with ease when even Yan felt the strain in her calves.

In the first letter Rain sent after waking from his coma, he told her that his Core was still shattered and he wasn’t a Martial Warrior again, but seeing him here and now, Yan wasn’t so sure this was true. Then again, endurance had always been his best trait, and his hearing most certainly hadn’t recovered, so maybe it was just anger and determination driving him forward, and she was simply tricking herself into seeing clues that weren’t really there.

Then, as he emerged from the outer wall, he took one look at the horrific tableau across the field, and uttered a single word which shook her to the Core. “Stop!”

That was all he said, but all of a sudden, Yan couldn’t do anything to deny him, even though she had no idea what he was saying no to. Following his wide-eyed gaze, she glanced out over the battlefield and saw one particular pair of Imperial prisoners standing directly in front of them, but over two kilometres away, one a victim strapped down to the stone plank and the other an accomplice with crude hammer in hand. The latter had his weapon raised and ready to strike, but somehow, Rain had not only seen them with mortal eyes, but also projected his voice across this vast distance to interrupt this detestable act. From this far away, Yan could barely make out more than the general outline of things, but she noticed that the ever-present screams which were magnified for all to hear, had finally fallen silent.

All because of Rain.

There was no other explanation Yan could come up with, but according to his letters, there were powers at work which no one understood, including this mysterious gift of Oration. He couldn’t control it, but it just happened in times of high emotion, and she couldn’t imagine a scenario more evocative than this. There they were, two Imperial citizens, with one about to torture the other simply to avoid the same fate, a sick, twisted game played by the Enemy and put on full display for the defenders of Castle JiangHu. To Yan and the others who’d been here for days, this had simply become part and parcel of their horrific world, but Rain was just getting his first taste, and she feared he would not take it well.

Slowly scanning the horizon with a pained expression, Rain took in the abominable cruelty before him without blinking. Everything he needed to know about what the Defiled were doing was laid out in plain sight, with almost a thousand Imperials frozen in various states of injury or complicity. Somehow, Yan felt like Rain could see more than even she could, his eyes taking in every grisly, appalling detail and still continuing to look for more, all out of a misguided sense of empathy and self-sacrifice, as if his pain could somehow make things better for those suffering across from him. It put her in mind of the boy who almost got Rain killed back in Shen Huo, Dugu Ren. Found guilty of his heinous crimes, Ren was sentenced to death by torture, but Rain took pity on him and cut Ren’s throat himself, which Yan only learned after the fact. Even if he didn’t agree with torture, why did Rain have to torture himself by killing the man? He took no pleasure in killing, that much was obvious, so why didn’t he just... speak on Ren’s behalf, or ask Akanai to end his suffering rather than handle it himself?

Rain was a good man, but if he tried to blame himself for the suffering which took place here, then Yan was powerless to help him.

“To be human, is to choose.” Speaking to the prisoners across the field, Rain launched into a speech which sent a shiver down Yan’s spine, able to feel the power in his words yet incapable of defining it. “Unlike the wolf or sheep, we humans have the freedom of choice. We can choose to be little better than beasts, to murder, rape, and pillage without care for the consequences, but most of us choose to rise above our primal urges. We can choose to lie and steal, but most choose to be honest and forthright. Some of us choose to be loving parents, caring siblings, or filial offspring, and others choose differently, but at the end of the day, we always have a choice.”

Pushing past his Death Corps guards, Rain stood at the parapets with the Divine Turtle in his embrace, patting the sweet creature’s head to soothe her fears away. “Thus, to take away another person’s ability to choose is one of the most monstrous things we can do, for in doing so, it renders both parties as little more than beasts, when we humans have the potential for so much more. Even now, in the dire circumstances you find yourselves in, you prisoners have a choice. Perhaps it is not much of one, but it is a choice nonetheless. Will you choose to be less than human? The Defiled have made that choice, and now they would force it upon all of you. Some of you have refused, and now you lie broken and dying, while others have passed into the warm embrace of the Mother, but hear me: do not give in to despair. Where there is life, there is hope, and while I cannot promise to march out and rescue you, know that your pain is fleeting and life impermanent, but the choices you make will have lasting consequences. All you who lie there awaiting death, know that you have chosen to be human, to be better than what the Enemy desires us to be, and for this, you have my utmost respect and admiration.” Narrowing his eyes, Rain’s voice took on a harsh tone as he addressed the accomplices, though how Yan could tell, she wasn’t entirely sure. “As for those who choose to inflict pain on your fellow prisoners in order to escape that same pain yourselves, know that the consequences for your actions will come sooner rather than later. Lie all you want about how you have no choice and your hands have been forced, but at the end of it all, you have chosen to inflict upon your fellow man that which you would not have inflicted upon yourself. Repent now and turn back before you are too far gone. You still have the ability to make your own choices. Do not let the Enemy take this away.”

For long seconds, nothing happened, and every prisoner, Defiled, and free Imperial stood rooted in silence, until one man broke the spell. Yan couldn’t even tell who it was, but she heard a tormented sob echo out into the night, followed by countless others which took up the cry as almost every hammer-wielding accomplice on the field turned their weapon upon their captors. As much as Yan wanted to see those poor prisoners fight their way free, this minor rebellion had little to no effect on the overall situation, as they were beaten and tossed aside with laughable ease. New prisoners were brought in to finish what the others started, and perhaps it was Yan’s imagination, but she felt like most refused to take up a weapon or turned it against their captors. Then, one enterprising fellow took up his hammer and used it to free his intended victim from his suffering, only to be viciously beaten and strapped to the plank in his victim’s stead.

Prisoners continued to die in droves, but tortured screams no longer rang out in a constant symphony of suffering. Instead, defiant roars filled Yan’s ears as the prisoners found courage from Rain’s words and chose to be better than their captors. A difficult choice considering their circumstances, but it was the only choice they could make, and one many made proudly. It was still horrific, but also inspiring in a way, for Yan hoped she too would have the courage to follow suit if she were ever caught in their position.

Having fallen silent after saying his piece, Rain stood and watched it all unfold, as one hero after another consigned themselves to death through torture by defying their Defiled wardens. Soon, the prisoner camps rioted and the Defiled responded with force, but no matter how many times those prisoners were beaten down, another group always found it in themselves to rise up. Within the hour, the Defiled camp was in disarray as they dealt with the prisoners harshly, but no matter what they tried, only a handful of prisoners cared to take up the role of accomplice from thereon forward, whereas before, it was closer to a fifty-fifty split.

Eventually, Yan convinced Rain to leave and brought him back to his quarters, a stately set of suites where Song and Lin-Lin were already set up. Without saying a word, he went in and curled up with his wildcats, bears, and bunnies, reflecting on what he’d seen and lingering on the pain it caused. If Mila were here, she’d make Rain understand why his pain was illogical, while Lin-Lin would somehow put a smile on his face, and Luo-Luo would help him work the problem until it no longer plagued them, but Yan had none of their gifts. All she could do was hold him close as he cried himself to sleep, wishing she could do something, anything to help ease his pain and lament at how nothing had changed. Rain was Legate now, but she was powerless to help him, just as useless as that inexperienced cadet who served alongside him in their first campaign against the Defiled.

When she left with Grandpa Du, Yan thought she would return the worldly hero, but man proposes, and Heaven disposes. Not that she cared anymore. She had her heroic husband, and she would endeavour to become a woman and Warrior able to stand at his side and help shoulder his burdens.

Stroking his hair as she held him close, Yan thought back to his decorated carriage, and decided it was a carriage befitting an Imperial Official after all, by virtue of it suiting Rain, who was the highest Official in all the outer provinces, and an admirable one to boot. Grandpa Du lived for war and battle, his life wholly devoted to the Martial Path, so it made sense for his carriage to display his accomplishments, but while Rain was talented to the extreme, he didn’t care for war or what it wrought. If he had things his way and was smart enough to follow his heart, he would never set foot on another battlefield again, and instead dedicate himself to bettering the lives of everyone around him, but the Mother demanded much of Her Chosen Son, so here he was to fulfill his duty and obligation. That was his choice, to do whatever he could to help win them this war, even though it pained him greatly to do so. Oh her poor, sweet husband. All he wanted was to be left alone to raise his pets, but even this was too much to ask for. Perhaps someday, he would be free to follow his dreams, but until such a time, he would have to settle for being a mere beleaguered, Legate.

Such was life, trials and tribulations without end, but alas, some trials were not meant to be survived.

Chapter Meme
