Pushing past his Death Corps guards, Rain stood at the parapets with the Divine Turtle in his embrace, patting the sweet creature’s head to soothe her fears away. “Thus, to take away another person’s ability to choose is one of the most monstrous things we can do, for in doing so, it renders both parties as little more than beasts, when we humans have the potential for so much more. Even now, in the dire circumstances you find yourselves in, you prisoners have a choice. Perhaps it is not much of one, but it is a choice nonetheless. Will you choose to be less than human? The Defiled have made that choice, and now they would force it upon all of you. Some of you have refused, and now you lie broken and dying, while others have passed into the warm embrace of the Mother, but hear me: do not give in to despair. Where there is life, there is hope, and while I cannot promise to march out and rescue you, know that your pain is fleeting and life impermanent, but the choices you make will have lasting consequences. All you who lie there awaiting death, know that you have chosen to be human, to be better than what the Enemy desires us to be, and for this, you have my utmost respect and admiration.” Narrowing his eyes, Rain’s voice took on a harsh tone as he addressed the accomplices, though how Yan could tell, she wasn’t entirely sure. “As for those who choose to inflict pain on your fellow prisoners in order to escape that same pain yourselves, know that the consequences for your actions will come sooner rather than later. Lie all you want about how you have no choice and your hands have been forced, but at the end of it all, you have chosen to inflict upon your fellow man that which you would not have inflicted upon yourself. Repent now and turn back before you are too far gone. You still have the ability to make your own choices. Do not let the Enemy take this away.”

For long seconds, nothing happened, and every prisoner, Defiled, and free Imperial stood rooted in silence, until one man broke the spell. Yan couldn’t even tell who it was, but she heard a tormented sob echo out into the night, followed by countless others which took up the cry as almost every hammer-wielding accomplice on the field turned their weapon upon their captors. As much as Yan wanted to see those poor prisoners fight their way free, this minor rebellion had little to no effect on the overall situation, as they were beaten and tossed aside with laughable ease. New prisoners were brought in to finish what the others started, and perhaps it was Yan’s imagination, but she felt like most refused to take up a weapon or turned it against their captors. Then, one enterprising fellow took up his hammer and used it to free his intended victim from his suffering, only to be viciously beaten and strapped to the plank in his victim’s stead.

Prisoners continued to die in droves, but tortured screams no longer rang out in a constant symphony of suffering. Instead, defiant roars filled Yan’s ears as the prisoners found courage from Rain’s words and chose to be better than their captors. A difficult choice considering their circumstances, but it was the only choice they could make, and one many made proudly. It was still horrific, but also inspiring in a way, for Yan hoped she too would have the courage to follow suit if she were ever caught in their position.

Having fallen silent after saying his piece, Rain stood and watched it all unfold, as one hero after another consigned themselves to death through torture by defying their Defiled wardens. Soon, the prisoner camps rioted and the Defiled responded with force, but no matter how many times those prisoners were beaten down, another group always found it in themselves to rise up. Within the hour, the Defiled camp was in disarray as they dealt with the prisoners harshly, but no matter what they tried, only a handful of prisoners cared to take up the role of accomplice from thereon forward, whereas before, it was closer to a fifty-fifty split.

Eventually, Yan convinced Rain to leave and brought him back to his quarters, a stately set of suites where Song and Lin-Lin were already set up. Without saying a word, he went in and curled up with his wildcats, bears, and bunnies, reflecting on what he’d seen and lingering on the pain it caused. If Mila were here, she’d make Rain understand why his pain was illogical, while Lin-Lin would somehow put a smile on his face, and Luo-Luo would help him work the problem until it no longer plagued them, but Yan had none of their gifts. All she could do was hold him close as he cried himself to sleep, wishing she could do something, anything to help ease his pain and lament at how nothing had changed. Rain was Legate now, but she was powerless to help him, just as useless as that inexperienced cadet who served alongside him in their first campaign against the Defiled.

When she left with Grandpa Du, Yan thought she would return the worldly hero, but man proposes, and Heaven disposes. Not that she cared anymore. She had her heroic husband, and she would endeavour to become a woman and Warrior able to stand at his side and help shoulder his burdens.

Stroking his hair as she held him close, Yan thought back to his decorated carriage, and decided it was a carriage befitting an Imperial Official after all, by virtue of it suiting Rain, who was the highest Official in all the outer provinces, and an admirable one to boot. Grandpa Du lived for war and battle, his life wholly devoted to the Martial Path, so it made sense for his carriage to display his accomplishments, but while Rain was talented to the extreme, he didn’t care for war or what it wrought. If he had things his way and was smart enough to follow his heart, he would never set foot on another battlefield again, and instead dedicate himself to bettering the lives of everyone around him, but the Mother demanded much of Her Chosen Son, so here he was to fulfill his duty and obligation. That was his choice, to do whatever he could to help win them this war, even though it pained him greatly to do so. Oh her poor, sweet husband. All he wanted was to be left alone to raise his pets, but even this was too much to ask for. Perhaps someday, he would be free to follow his dreams, but until such a time, he would have to settle for being a mere beleaguered, Legate.

Such was life, trials and tribulations without end, but alas, some trials were not meant to be survived.

Chapter Meme
