With the majority of issues before them taken care of, Rain dismissed everyone with a joke save for a select few who remained behind. Brigadier Hongji stayed, as did Akanai, Naaran, and Grandpa Du alongside a few other faces Yan didn’t recognize, but they were all ranked Colonels at a minimum. His smile fading away, Rain stood at the head of the table and said, “What I say next does not leave this room, and is only to be discussed through sending. Castle JiangHu will fall in a matter of days.” Yan’s mind raced through all the possibilities, but Rain held up a hand to preempt all questions, not that she would have voiced hers anyways. “As far as our scouts can tell, the Enemy has committed three armies to the field, the largest of which is here at Castle Jianghu. They are making no preparations to send more just yet, which presents us with a unique opportunity, one Colonel Generals Nian Zu and Shuai Jiao are keen to take advantage of. In three days, we will withdraw from Castle JiangHu and engage the Enemy in a fighting retreat, drawing them back towards the Central Citadel and stringing their forces out behind us. Once the Enemy army outside these walls commits to the pursuit, forces from the North and South will converge in around them, allowing us to dismantle the largest Enemy Army in the field, piece by piece.”

Silence ensued following this bold declaration, and Yan couldn’t help but turn to see what Grandpa Du’s reaction was, but he wore an expressionless mask of indifference and showed neither approval nor concern. Akanai was the same, but she didn’t interject, which meant she agreed with Rain’s plan at least on some levels. Smiling grimly at the Officers around him, Rain’s beautiful amber eyes burned with ambition. “I won’t lie. This will be difficult. I ask much from the Warriors of Central, but no more than what I ask of myself.” Anyone who knew Rain would also find this statement comical to the extreme, because he demanded more from himself than even the Heavens might expect. “I’ve brought the Death Corps, the Royal Guardians, and the Sentinels of the People here with me not just because I expect the fighting to be bloodiest here, but also because I believe this can be accomplished with minimal losses so long as we all work together. For the first time in history, the Enemy has united against us, so I implore you all to put aside our differences and stand together as one, so that we might strike a devastating blow against the Defiled and turn the tides of battle in our favour.”

Though it wasn’t clear what Rain was asking, Brigadier Hongji was the first to respond, placing a closed fist over his heart in a show of sincerity. “This one is yours to command, Imperial Legate.” All of his subordinates followed suit, as did Grandpa Du, while Naaran and Akanai merely moved to Rain’s side and patted him on the shoulder and cheek respectively. The other officers either voiced their insincere support, or kept quiet and non-committal, but at least no one outright objected to this course of action. Naming Nian Zu and Shuai Jiao as the architects of the plan might’ve had something to do with it, but all this was already far above and beyond Yan’s meagre comprehension, she might as well not even be in the room.

With this done, Rain outlined a few meagre details of the retreat plan before finally calling the meeting to end, at which point he escorted Yan out of the fortified command centre with Kyung, Grandpa Du, and at least a hundred Death Corps guards in tow. “Well now that all the ham-fisted speeches are done with, might I say you look more gorgeous than ever,” he whispered, once they were relatively alone on the bustling castle streets, “But exhausted. Let’s get you to bed, shall we?”

“If this is your way of romancing me into the sheets, you should know I find it effective, but uninspired.” And it might be horrid to even think this, but she was happy to have him all to herself, even though she was also worried for Mila who was out in the field and would remain there as part of Rain’s roaming light cavalry forces.

Grinning in a way that made him look even younger than usual, Rain squeezed the hand that was resting firmly on her hip. “Good to know, but as much as I would like to help you fall asleep, I figured I would go greet the old retinue, then make the rounds and try and raise morale wherever I can. I hear the castle took a beating before we arrived and the Enemy almost broke through, so there’s still much to do before I join you again.”

Disappointed by his response yet wholly understanding of his responsibilities, Yan felt the flames of desire sputter out and die. “It was a close thing,” she whispered, reliving the horror she felt when she heard Brigadier Hongji order all Peak Experts and Demon Slayers to help him retake the outer walls. Those rare individuals were a precious resource carefully guarded, so for the Brigadier to commit all of them showed just how desperate the situation had become. If not for Akanai’s timely appearance, then the inner walls might have also been overrun, and Rain’s reinforcements would’ve arrived to find the Defiled in firm control of the castle.

Saying nothing, Rain held her a little tighter as they made their way back to her room, but as they drew closer, he grew more distracted with each passing step. Sweet Ping Ping also showed signs of agitation, squirming in Yan’s embrace to glare at the western walls in obvious concern. Eventually, Rain just stopped in place and closed his eyes, tilting his head as if straining to hear something far away. “...Do you hear screaming?”

It was always jarring to be reminded of it, as Yan had gotten so used to the tortured howls she tuned them out without even thinking, because there was no other way she could survive with her sanity intact. Lacking the enhanced hearing of a Martial Warrior, Rain was only just hearing it now as they neared the inner wall, but Yan could hear them from all the way back in the command centre. “Yes,” she replied, deciding that blunt and honest was the best way to proceed. “The Defiled are torturing Imperial prisoners just out of bow range. It never stops.”

The effect was instantaneous as his eyes ignited in anger, and Yan hadn’t even told him the worst of it. Even then, he took the time to wordlessly ask if she wanted to go rest, but she opted to go with him instead. A part of her wanted to tell him to stay away from the outer wall, because there was nothing he could do to change things, and he would inevitably blame himself for being powerless, but she knew it would be as pointless as asking the sun not to rise. Rain was not someone who could turn a blind eye to suffering, else he would not be the man she loved and married, so she would support him through this as best she could, even if it meant suffering beside him.

The trek to the outer wall was long and arduous, with the screams growing louder with every step. Somewhere along the way, his Death Corps escort doubled, then doubled again just to be safe, though safety was in short supply here in Castle JiangHu. Trembling in her arms, Ping Ping emitted a quiet, mournful squeak which broke Yan’s heart, and even passing her to Rain didn’t do anything to raise the sweet girl’s spirits, but he was adamant to see the atrocities for himself. As they marched up the stairs behind the dark-armoured form of the Death Corps, Yan studied Rain closely to see how he was doing, but there was little more to his expression than anger and dread. Wholly understandable given their circumstances, but he was also not sweating or out of breath despite the long trek and brisk pace. Stairs almost always slowed him down, to the point where he never stopped complaining about them, but here and now, he took them two at a time with ease when even Yan felt the strain in her calves.

In the first letter Rain sent after waking from his coma, he told her that his Core was still shattered and he wasn’t a Martial Warrior again, but seeing him here and now, Yan wasn’t so sure this was true. Then again, endurance had always been his best trait, and his hearing most certainly hadn’t recovered, so maybe it was just anger and determination driving him forward, and she was simply tricking herself into seeing clues that weren’t really there.

Then, as he emerged from the outer wall, he took one look at the horrific tableau across the field, and uttered a single word which shook her to the Core. “Stop!”

That was all he said, but all of a sudden, Yan couldn’t do anything to deny him, even though she had no idea what he was saying no to. Following his wide-eyed gaze, she glanced out over the battlefield and saw one particular pair of Imperial prisoners standing directly in front of them, but over two kilometres away, one a victim strapped down to the stone plank and the other an accomplice with crude hammer in hand. The latter had his weapon raised and ready to strike, but somehow, Rain had not only seen them with mortal eyes, but also projected his voice across this vast distance to interrupt this detestable act. From this far away, Yan could barely make out more than the general outline of things, but she noticed that the ever-present screams which were magnified for all to hear, had finally fallen silent.

All because of Rain.

There was no other explanation Yan could come up with, but according to his letters, there were powers at work which no one understood, including this mysterious gift of Oration. He couldn’t control it, but it just happened in times of high emotion, and she couldn’t imagine a scenario more evocative than this. There they were, two Imperial citizens, with one about to torture the other simply to avoid the same fate, a sick, twisted game played by the Enemy and put on full display for the defenders of Castle JiangHu. To Yan and the others who’d been here for days, this had simply become part and parcel of their horrific world, but Rain was just getting his first taste, and she feared he would not take it well.

Slowly scanning the horizon with a pained expression, Rain took in the abominable cruelty before him without blinking. Everything he needed to know about what the Defiled were doing was laid out in plain sight, with almost a thousand Imperials frozen in various states of injury or complicity. Somehow, Yan felt like Rain could see more than even she could, his eyes taking in every grisly, appalling detail and still continuing to look for more, all out of a misguided sense of empathy and self-sacrifice, as if his pain could somehow make things better for those suffering across from him. It put her in mind of the boy who almost got Rain killed back in Shen Huo, Dugu Ren. Found guilty of his heinous crimes, Ren was sentenced to death by torture, but Rain took pity on him and cut Ren’s throat himself, which Yan only learned after the fact. Even if he didn’t agree with torture, why did Rain have to torture himself by killing the man? He took no pleasure in killing, that much was obvious, so why didn’t he just... speak on Ren’s behalf, or ask Akanai to end his suffering rather than handle it himself?

Rain was a good man, but if he tried to blame himself for the suffering which took place here, then Yan was powerless to help him.

“To be human, is to choose.” Speaking to the prisoners across the field, Rain launched into a speech which sent a shiver down Yan’s spine, able to feel the power in his words yet incapable of defining it. “Unlike the wolf or sheep, we humans have the freedom of choice. We can choose to be little better than beasts, to murder, rape, and pillage without care for the consequences, but most of us choose to rise above our primal urges. We can choose to lie and steal, but most choose to be honest and forthright. Some of us choose to be loving parents, caring siblings, or filial offspring, and others choose differently, but at the end of the day, we always have a choice.”

