“Missed you too.” Hugging him harder than intended, she squeezed his armour tight until she heard him draw a sharp breath. “Sorry for leaving when I did, but we didn’t know...” How long it would take before he woke up again, or if he would wake at all. The Medical Saint couldn’t even hazard a guess, only stating that Rain was in good health and in no danger of dying anytime soon, which was the only reason Yan left him to defend the front lines. That went poorly, with the front lines abandoned and the second-lines struggling to hold, and though she hated to even think it, she was even more worried with Rain in control. He was no tactical genius with decades of experience commanding multiple armies in the field, he was just a silly, brilliant, lovable man who was in far over his head and never afraid to admit it. She still remembered their time together after the Society Contests but before his duel at the wall, when he almost lost himself to grief and hatred after stumbling upon the burnt, gristly remains of an unfortunate village. It was an understandable mistake, but one a more experienced Martial Warrior would have never made, and while he eventually recovered from it, Yan feared the Empire might not survive the first of Rain’s mistakes as Legate.

Which of course begged the question: why was he here?

Unfortunately for Yan, Rain was getting good at reading expressions, and he could see the question burning behind her gaze. “Nothing to apologize for,” he said with a wink, following up with a scandalous kiss to her cheek, as bold and brazen as ever. “And keep that in mind, because as happy as I am to see you, I didn’t come all this way just to hold you in my arms.” Gesturing for Hongji to proceed into the castle, Rain said, “Come now. There’s work to be done, but we’ll talk more once we’re in private.”

Turning to follow the Brigadier, Rain stopped at the sound of Lin-Lin’s voice. “Hubby, I think you’re forgetting something, ya?” Barely able to conceal her smile, she glanced back at the carriage before fluttering her eyes at Rain, the very picture of innocence as she held fluffy white Mama Bun in her arms, adorably swaddled in Lin-Lin’s ever present white silk scarf. “Something reallllly important to someone here?”

“Ah. Right. Here Yan, could you hold her?” Handing over Ping Ping before she could refuse, Rain dumped the Divine Turtle into Yan’s arms and returned to the carriage as she stood frozen in shock. Her first thought was “Don’t drop the Divine Turtle”, and the second was “I hope she doesn’t bite me”, but the sweet girl favoured Yan with a bright turtle smile and a squeak. This was their first real meeting in her new form, but Ping Ping’s greeting and Rain’s implicit trust meant the Divine Turtle was utterly unruffled over being left in Yan’s arms, though she did squirm about a fair bit in protest over being held out like a platter. Instinctively drawing the turtle close, Yan carried her the same way Rain had, with their bellies pressed together and Ping Ping’s shell facing forward. In response, the Divine Turtle clung tight and nuzzled her affectionately before sending a small burst of loving Aura surging through Yan’s body, proving once and for all that she was still the same sweet, gentle giant who nuzzled her oh so carefully back when they first met.

A few moments later, Rain emerged from his carriage with a large, cushioned box in hand, and Yan could hear the faint sound of scrambling from within as well as a single, feeble thump. In response, Ping Ping squeaked and emitted an Aura of calm, this one stretching far enough to encompass even Brigadier Hongji ahead of them and Rain’s ever-present Peak Expert Guard, Kuang Biao. Both stoic men’s eyes widened in shock, but otherwise, they asked no questions, though it was clear they too were wondering what was inside the box. Deducing that it was the red panda inside, Yan quietly moved so that Ping Ping could be closer to her mysterious little friend with the excuse of greeting Song, who just dismounted to join them, and somehow, that seemed to calm the ornery creature down.

How it could even tell what was going on outside the box, Yan would never know, but she assumed Ping Ping had some way of reassuring the beast. Whether it was really the reincarnation of Guan Suo or simply a grumpy red panda, Yan looked forward to the day when Rain finally charmed the adorable beast and Yan could stroke his fuzzy muzzle, because at the end of the day, the red panda was a darling little creature whom she yearned to hug and hold.

Since Yan was now responsible for the Divine Turtle, she bade a silent farewell to Song and Lin-Lin as they set off with their wagon of pets in tow, leaving Yan, Grandpa Du, Kyung, and Rain to follow Brigadier Hongji for a briefing with every high-ranking officer in the castle. Technically, as a lowly Third-Grade Warrant Officer, Yan lacked the authority to sit in on such a meeting, but none of the other gathered officers seemed willing to point this out, and Zian even gave her a small nod of acknowledgement, which for him, was the same as a big smile and warm embrace. Truth be told, Yan would’ve been much happier skipping this meeting to go with Lin-Lin and Song, as it’d been over a week since she’d hugged any of those darling floofs to sleep and she was long past due for a nap. Unfortunately, Rain didn’t hand the red panda over to Lin-Lin, so Yan was stuck by his side, not that she minded too much since it gave her a chance to see her husband at work.

There was something different about him now, something that’d changed since she last saw him. It wasn’t the way he dressed or styled his hair, though it did have something to do with it, because while she’d seen him all dressed up before, it never quite suited him like it did now. His armour and robes had always been perfectly tailored, but somehow, it previously felt as if the armour was slightly too big and sat off-kilter on his shoulders, though looking back on it now, Yan realized this may have just been Rain’s penchant for slouching ever so slightly. Now, the armour sat perfectly atop his lean, broad-shouldered frame, so seamless it could almost be a second skin, and the silken robes underneath were smooth and unwrinkled. That didn’t seem possible considering how often Rain shifted and squirmed, never able to sit still for more than a minute at a time. Granted, he had good reason for this, as ever since he shattered his Core, most fabrics chafed his skin something terrible, though it’d been some months since that had been a problem, but the mental habits were still there. Now, all the problems that plagued him were gone now, as far as she could tell, but while some scars still remained, such as his penchant to flinch when petting the animals the wrong way, Rain seemed more confident and dynamic than ever.

Which was good, because he would need all the help he could get, and Yan had precious little to offer in matters of this scale.

After hearing Hongji’s battle report and an updated status of the castle troops, Rain took over the meeting so naturally Yan could scarcely believe her eyes. “The Death Corps will hold the centre,” he began, placing his people in the most fiercely contested section of the outer walls. “Kuang Biao, arrange a schedule and coordinate with Hongji to relieve the forces currently stationed there after their shift is over. I want twelve units broken up into six shifts, with no unit working two days in a row.”

“By your will, Legate.”

“We’ll also need rapid response teams of Peak Experts waiting on standby. Brigadier, I’ll leave the arrangements to you and Lieutenant General Akanai, but if the Defiled send their Demons at us again, I want them to pay for it. I’ll speak with the Royal Guardians and see how many Peak Experts they can spare, but I’m sure we have enough here in the Citadel to make the Enemy regret trying the same tactic twice.”

Nodding in agreement, Akanai sniffed and said, “A shame the Dark Child slipped away. A dangerous and resourceful Demon, that one. I can see why it gave Bralton and Erien such difficulty. I look forward to trading blows with it again.”

“Sorry Grand-Mentor, but I’m afraid you’ll have to wait longer than you’d like.” Grinning as he said it, Rain took advantage of the witnesses to needle Akanai so, though others would take his form of address as a mark of respect instead of the slight to her advanced age as the Chief Provost saw it. “Once you’re finished here, I was hoping you would coordinate the Sentinels and light cavalry out on the plains. Seeing how they’re already in the field, I figured we could keep them there where they’ll be free to hunt down any roving bands of Defiled who try to circumvent our defenses. The Enemy grows bolder with each passing day, so I think it’s time we put the fear of the Empire back into them, those few who survive, at least.” Not the best idea, as this made the cavalry vulnerable to ambush when resupplying from the castle, an issue Akanai immediately raised, but Rain already had an answer ready. “Have them resupply directly from the supply trains,” he said, and everyone in the room straightened up at the thought of it. “The logistics might get a little complicated and the convoys will move slower as a result, but it’s worth it since it’ll also offer more security without needing to devote armed escorts to every convoy.”

It took almost a full hour for the gathered officers to hammer out the rest of the details, mostly because Rain encouraged anyone with an opinion to speak up and was predictably hit by a deluge of saliva from over-eager ass-kissers, but he handled them well enough with a little deflection and diplomacy. Then, about fifteen minutes in, he lost his patience and snapped at one Central fool who couldn’t organize a linen closet much less a resupply schedule, yet kept insisting he was perfect for a job which had already been assigned to a Lieutenant General. Still, Rain’s inclusive efforts paid off when one Central Officer suggested the patrols take more supplies than needed and bury them somewhere they could later return to. A trick Western merchants used when traversing through the desert, the Officer claimed, leaving vital supplies at easily found landmarks since it was easy to get turned around in a sandstorm.

As the meeting continued, Yan realized Rain had a knack for command, not in the sense that he knew what needed to be done and how to proceed, but rather as a facilitator who put all their objectives on the table and let the experienced Officers present decide how best to proceed, all without having things devolve into a heated shouting match. An effective model of leadership, but hardly efficient, yet it made everyone present view him in a different light, Yan included. They’d both come a long way since they first met, when she thought him an insufferable ass and he mistook her as a man, so long that she’d forgotten he was not the genius everyone believed he was. In many ways, he was actually exceedingly stupid, like how he thought this communal planning was a good idea, but he made up for his innate stupidity with hard work, dedication, and the ability to learn quickly without the need for detailed instruction.

Yan wasn’t the only one who noticed it either, as she caught more than one Officer nodding along as Rain voiced his thought process and smiling when he came to the answer himself. Not everyone was amenable to Rain or his particular style of leadership, but they were either outnumbered by his supporters or content to keep quiet. Politics was not her area of expertise, but it seemed like her beloved husband had things well in hand, which made her heart swell with joy. There was a time when his awkward brand of humour and complete lack of social graces made him come off as rude and confrontational, but after spending a year and a half as Shen ZhenWu’s pawn and later the Minister of Finance, it seemed like Rain had not only gotten the hang of social interaction, but was now wholly in his element. By the end of the meeting, he had not only memorized every Officer’s name and rank, he was even able to jokingly chide them without giving offence and win a few begrudging faces over to his side.

All of this was thanks to Luo-Luo, who had played a crucial role in Rain’s transformation from Warrior to merchant and politician. A good thing too, since there was no one among the People who could have helped him in this regard. An oft-repeated joke was how they made Akanai Chief Provost, Sarnai Speaker, and Gerel the spokesman of the Iron Banner, and anyone who knew all three found it utterly hilarious how the most famously unsociable individuals of the People were given the most socially demanding jobs.

