“Lady, I don’t know where you come from but this here is Markeis land, not your pampered backward shithole. It’s the real world. You’ll find that your fancy hair dye and nice clothes won’t count for shit when I have my blade kissing your throat, you hear?”

Viv judged here and there that diplomacy would lead nowhere. There was still a chance to force them to back down, however, and that was better than a fight. Fights were messy affairs.

“A glorified street thug telling me I need to see the world? That’s rich. You got it backward. Markeis is the isolated backward shitstain on Enoria’s knickers and you lots are just gnats feeding on it. You have seen nothing of the world… yet.”

Viv cast the sneaky cloaky, slowly letting the solid black mana cover her form. She didn’t see herself, but she knew from the village that the sight could be intimidating. Black tendrils coiled out, seeking through air like lampreys.

“You are not the big players here, you are street scum so out of their depth you can’t even comprehend it.”

She cast a telekinesis spell and the manacles lurched out of the assassin’s grip, her reflexes working against her as she let go to grab at a dagger. Viv grabbed the purloined restraints. The thugs were going for their weapons. She raised her new hive shield spell. The intimidation might still work.

And then Sidjin’s first strike hit the shore.

The explosive spell obliterated the entire pier and parts of the glade beyond. A cloud of wood shrapnel and red mist expanded out in a cone. The shockwave hit Viv like a punch.

Of the archer and the mage, there was nothing left.

The sheer surprise stunned Viv for an instant, then the first arrows plinked uselessly against her magical shield. Compared to the javelins Enorian military archers shot, those were barely mosquito bites, but she didn’t lower her guard. The assassin had instantly drifted out of the blast zone. A string of darkness threaded after her, showing her movement. Viv cast a net at her. The bands of black mana arched after their target, but the assassin used a skill and disappeared.

Slippery.

Viv focused on the archers next. Her net took into account the nimble warriors’ flexibility, cutting their escape options before skewering them. The last of the thugs were running for their lives into the nearby woods.

There was a terrible screech, a white blur, and the sound of flesh being submitted to forces it was not designed to withstand. A human voice screamed but it was cut short by a wave of heat. A last arrow clanged against a much larger shield surrounding the ship. Sidjin had rushed to the deck circle and placed the ship in a protective bubble.

Arthur’s head popped over the railing.

“Squee!”

“Thank you,” Viv replied, “but…”

She leaned forward and saw a trail of blood on her left, with the assassin’s corpse slowly sinking in the mud. On the right, an enterprising  fellow had tried to scale the wood and been scorched for his trouble. There was also smoke and, yep, the ship was burning.

“Arthur. You set our ship on fire!”

Enemy!

“You burned the enemy and the ship too.”

“Squee.”

“We are on the ship!”

The dragonette sheepishly moved her clawed hand. Water formed a depression, then a wave brushed along the hull, covering the small fire. It faded for an instant but the embers immediately started to smolder after the water was gone.

“Squee.”

“Arthuuuuuuuur.”

There was a burst of magic from the central circle and the fire petered out. Viv and Arthur glanced at Sdjin, standing in the middle of the circle with dignity.

“The great Arthur has no need to trouble herself with this task. I anticipated that we may be fired upon — pun intended — and added a few defensive measures. Although, your fire is several times stronger than what human mages could manage so please refrain from hitting us in the future.”

The mighty She-Who-Feasts-On-Spiders-etc consented to it with a graceful wave of her sinuous neck.

“So…” Leit said.

The shore was the scene of the most savage devastation.

“So yes. The negotiations, ah. Right. Say, your marsh drake, or what I thought was a marsh drake, is a marsh drake, right? Marsh drakes blow fire. Correct?”

Qualifying the little menace as an ‘arson gremlin’ seemed ill-advised at the time, Viv judged.

“I mean, the evidence is in front of your eyes,” she bullshitted.

“Yes. Obviously, she cannot be a dragon,” Leit said.

“That would be insane.”

“Yes, well…”

A distant tree crashed down.

“I suppose we should be on our way then?”

“That might be wise,” Sidjin said, looking behind.

Viv pocketed the manacles just in case, though she was also considering dropping the cursed thing at the bottom of the river. She was disappointed when she realized that besides telekinesis, none of the spells she’d practiced could compare to shaped black mana when it came to battle. She would need more time. The manacles were a nice acquisition, however.

“It appears we have picked up a tail,” Sidjin said.

Behind them, two fast ships appeared from behind a bend. There were also three smaller skiffs that moved as fast as modern jet skis. Each carried a pilot, a mage, and a couple of archers. They all bore a crest like a shield with a fish on it.

“I think we’re being pursued by the law,” Viv idly commented.

It was her first time. Technically.

“I know, exciting, isn’t it?” Sidjin added.

“Oh dear oh dear oh dear oh dear that won’t do at all,” Leit said. “By guild rule, I must stop!”

“Those are clearly criminals in uniform. They would have attacked us if we didn’t refuse to be kidnapped,” Viv said.

“Irrelevant to the situation,” Leit said as the skiff made a quick approach.

“Don’t you have a duty to protect your passengers from harm?”

“Well… yes… within reasonable limits.”

“Those are reasonable limits, we just need you to keep going.”

“Think of it this way,” Sidjin added with a pleasant voice as he poured mana in the circle. “We won’t allow ourselves to be taken, so if you still want a ship at the end of the day, you’d best move, yes?”

“Oh dear. The guild won’t like this one bit. Very well. Full sails!”

The cry was picked up by the few sailors remaining on deck. Others rushed out of the hold and busied themselves doing sailor things. It mostly involved undoing knots, that Viv could tell.

Meanwhile, the skiffs were getting close now. One of the mages cast a spell and his authoritative voice carried over the Shal river.

“We have found you in violation of the law of Markeis. Drop anchor, lower your weapons, and prepare to be boarded.”

“Oh, oh, oh, can I tell him no? I’ve always wanted to do something like that,” Viv said.

Sidjin nodded, clearly concerned, but Viv merely used a voice enhancing spell and clutched the railing.

“ANY OF YOU FUCKING PIGS MOVE, AND I’LL EXECUTE EVERY MOTHERFUCKING LAST ONE OF YOUS!” she roared with excitement.

Sidjin sighed and raised the shields. It was probably an outlander thing.

***

In the dark recesses of a lightless, confined space, a pair of yellow eyes lit up. The ancient mind behind those ominous orbs inspected a new addition to its charge’s profile.

New Title added: Anarchist

//NO.

//DO NOT TRY ME, DEAD ONE.

The title faded away, having fulfilled its function. Nous, God of Magic, would never let his own death get in the way of a little bit of trolling.

***

Viv’s first spells hit one of the agile ships, despite the pilot’s desperate attempts to stop her. One of the nets killed an archer, but the mage reacted fast. He lifted a hand, and a black mana shield blocked her next spells.

“You are insane!” the mage screamed, spell still active.

Several offensive spells launched towards her, but Sidjin’s larger shield blocked them without issue. The skiffs activated something, and a blue, watery shield expanded over them. A net from Viv penetrated only lightly, and the damage was almost instantly repaired. Nevertheless, she could have killed another man if she had aimed a bit lower and the three fast boats sailed away towards the other shore, never slowing down. At least, they could not attack the other side of the River Flower since the old ship was still very close to the edge of the river. Viv switched to blast and fired once, arcing her projectile to hit the ship’s center, realizing it could only move forwards and to the sides.

The smaller ship stopped where it was and let the spell land harmlessly in front of it.

“Wait, those things have brakes?”

“The blue mages use their power to stay mobile, but it’s tiring business. Keep the pressure on!” Sidjin advised.

Their foes looked like they were changing tactics, seeing how useless attacking the Flower itself was. Viv shuddered to think what would have happened if they hadn’t prepared.

Their new strategy involved a massive wave, which they were building up farther and to the right of the River Flower. The depression in the otherwise flat waters looked extremely strange, as if a turbid ocean had suddenly come from across dimensions. Viv realized the danger. Even if the wave didn’t sink the ship, which Viv didn’t think it would, the three fast crafts merely had to delay them until the heavier ships caught up to them.

They charged towards Viv, tidal wave in tow.

Which also made them much easier to hit. Viv waited, then arranged three blasts which she shot at the same time. The lead skiff tried to dodge and caught two instead. The ship disintegrated, though the mage and one of the archers managed to dive in time. The other two split up once it became clear inertia would do the job for them. Viv watched the wave approach and realized she was without recourse, once again. Fortunately, she was not without allies. Sidjin’s circle flashed blue and the waters around it settled immediately. Only a tiny joke of a ripple came to lick the River Flower’s Hull. Viv was aghast.

“Did you think of everything?” she asked Sidjin.

“I have something against wind attacks as well,” he replied.

The worst thing was, he wasn’t even smug about it. Perfect preparation was just a matter of fact.

“Okay then,” Viv said, then she returned her attention to the two surviving skiffs. She targeted the one who had raised the black shield earlier, casting in quick succession. As expected, the first blast was blocked by a black mana shield, which made it perfect when the yoink hit.

The expression of pure bafflement on the mage’s face was a memory Viv would cherish for a long while.

The next blast took the mage’s hand with it. He screamed and the fast craft came to a stop. The last one disengaged.

The two larger ships didn’t give up the chase. They were quickly gaining on the Flower. Viv walked to the stern and watched them approach.

“Can’t we go faster?” she asked Leit, who was standing in the middle of the deck with fear-tinged dignity while his crew did their best.

“We will not outrun them,” Sidjin replied.

“It is as the good mage says, I’m afraid. Patrol ships are designed to catch up with all but the fastest transport ships. They are not even at full speed right now. I fear… a confrontation will be inevitable.”

Leit’s next words were interrupted by a loud clang and Viv turned just in time to see a flash of metal. She reflexively shielded, but she was not the target this time.

Sidjin lifted a fist and punched forward. A woosh of displaced air heralded a terrible impact. Wood groaned, and only Viv’s reinforced reflexes prevented her from falling. She looked down to see a harpoon smacked sideways into the hull. The shaft had only dug a few centimeters in, thankfully. If it had been the tip going in first, they would have had trouble.

A chain followed the harpoon, attached to the ship behind them. It was already growing taut.

“You stopped that?” Viv wondered. The projectile was clearly enchanted to the gills.

“No, I attacked the chain. It’s not enchanted after the first ten links or so.”

“Oh,” Viv replied.

She blasted the chain and cut it cleanly.

“That will work nicely. They can still catch us, however,” Sidjin said. He calmly walked down and returned with a metal plate engraved with symbols.

“Is that our spare heating plate?” Leit blurted.

“Yes.”

The mage threw it in the water.

“I can reimburse you?” Sidjin suggested.

“At this stage, I think I can justify it as a business expense.”

Viv was about to ask a question when a panicked sailor burst out from below deck.

“Something’s eating into the hull! We have a breach!”

Viv’s mind went into overdrive. She leaned over the railing the sailor was pointing out and saw absolutely nothing.

She could, however, feel the blue mana being hurled at the wood. It felt constructed.

“It’s the mage we sank, the first one.”

“Alas, protective domes seldom extend to the lower part of the hull. Can you handle it?”

Viv thought. Her disintegration mana was strong but also indiscriminate. It would disperse against the water before she could cover the bubble of blue she felt under her feet, and that was before she got through the bubble the mage used around himself not to drown. She imagined fighting a blue mage near water would universally be considered a bad idea, but it was done. If only she could see him and…

Actually, maybe she could.

Viv slowed down time and focused to release a very, very powerful blast of light under the surface. The rave-like purple glow lit the murky waters, revealing the frame of the mage floating under the surface. She cast immediately, and missed by a hair. She had not accounted for refraction.

“Fuck.”

