Before Viv could strike again, the mage fled, spooked. Apparently, the man was unwilling to forfeit his life for a corrupt city. It did not surprise Viv in the slightest.

“They are gaining on us,” Leit said.

He was sweating a lot.

“I find it rather more exciting than I expected.”

“Will you reconvert into a smuggler?” Viv asked him.

“Gods no. I’m going to drink.”

“Speaking of drink, I believe the time has come to depart Enoria. The border is near. I propose to go out with a bang, Viviane dear, I’ll take the right and you take the left?”

“Gladly.”

Sidjin gestured and a whirlpool opened in front of his target, dragging it in. The prow was caught and led the rest of the ship towards the depression. Once it was close enough, Sidjin gestured again and the whirlpool turned into a maw of colorless energy blades. The crew yelled with consternation as their ship slowly, slowly dove into a blender. Splinters and flying planks flew out of the vortex.

“As I mentioned, the hulls are often a weak point,” Sidjin concluded as the spell faded. The damage was enough to put the ship out of order.

“Is it my turn?” Viv asked.

“Yes.”

“Alright. Hocus, pocus, draconicus.”

A screeching Arthur dive-bombed the remaining patrol craft, setting all the sails ablaze in a single pass. A shield blocked most of the remaining fire before it could turn the deck into a raging inferno. The pursuer was disabled, however.

“I call foul,” Sidjin calmly stated.

“I thought you would.”

While the pair bickered, Leit turned around and found a barrel to sit on. He removed a flask from his breast pocket and took a discrete swig, the container disappearing quickly when a sailor made his way to him.

“Captain, I don’t think it’s a marsh drake.”

“It is a marsh drake i anyone asks.”

“Okay…”

***

The journey continued for two days without incident. Viv did her best to practice mixing colorless and black mana, finding it surprisingly difficult. It was the first time she struggled to achieve what others took for granted. Sidjin had an explanation as to why.

“You love black mana and black mana loves you. Using it is second nature. You are struggling to do what comes naturally to other casters as a result. Don’t worry, and take your time. It’s just a minor hurdle.”

On the next morning, they arrived at a small outpost where Leit sent a report to his headquarters via one of the guild’s branches. Viv expected trouble for turning the ship into a fortress and dishing it out, but in reality, it was Leit who got chewed out and quite viciously too.

“Your negligence and lack of foresight led to the grave endangerment of your passengers. Not only did you stop at a dangerous destination, but you took no steps to address the risks inherent to changes in the gangs’ hierarchy once you discovered them. After that, you knowingly led your charges into an obvious ambush. Their survival is due to their luck, skill, and wherewithal, not your services. Had they perished, you would have been removed from the list of approved captains and incurred serious penalties. Regardless, a disciplinary hearing will decide a suitable punishment. You may not decline carrying your passengers to their final destination, and you may not charge them for the repairs or the loss of your spare heating plate.”

The tongue-lashing had been delivered in a detached voice by the branch manager, since he was only here to relay it. The fact that Viv and Sidjin were present for the blame made it public, always a significant choice when humiliation was concerned. It either meant they cared about their reputation, or about Sidjin and Viv’s future patronage. Perhaps a combination of both. She didn’t think it could be an accident.

Nevertheless, she was more relaxed when they left since it was now someone else’s problem and that’s exactly how she envisioned her journey to Helock. It made the following conversation slightly less nerve-wracking for her.

Viv picked a clearing near a waterfall, a short walk away from the outpost towards nightfall to have it. It was not going to be easy, and isolation from the other humans would not be a bad idea. She sat by a stone and shared a pile of freshly bought jerky with her adopted kiddo.

“Hey Arthur, I wanted to talk to you a bit.”

About stealing?

“Did you steal anything?”

Not.

Recently.

“It's not about stealing. I trust you are a big girl now, and you know why it’s not a good idea.”

Thieving bad.

Looting good.

I know.

“What I wanted to talk about is that… I fear I may be reaching the limits of what I can do for you. Or rather, what I know I should do. You see, you’ve been growing very fast the past year, faster than any creature I’ve ever met. And certainly faster than a human.”

Of course.

All humans stupid.

Except mother.

And bankers.

“And here lies the problem. When we met, you didn’t know how to talk and you were very small. It was obvious that you needed food, water, and safety. That I could mostly do. Then you grew up and started taking things and I became generally sure you needed self-control and a sense of cause and consequences, if not right and wrong. Even then, it was a bit iffy because… you are a dragon. And I am using human logic and instincts to take care of someone who is not human by any means. It’s just the best I can do, the only thing I know how to do. It might not be enough.”

Mother provides good meat.

And gold.

“As outlandish as it sounds, there is more than meat and gold in life.”

The dragonette tilted her head pensively.

Also.

Scritches.

She nodded to herself, satisfied with her wisdom.

“And magic,” Viv said, getting Arthur’s attention. “And flight, and combat, and possibly etiquette. There are no books on dragon rearing. I’m operating on guesses, but it’s clear there is a lot for you to learn that I cannot teach. And I don’t want that, because I want what’s best for you. I just don’t know what it is.”

I am still happy.

And safe.

And not hungry.

Lots of magical meat!

I grow fast.

“Yes, you do. And you fly for longer periods of time, and explore much more than before. In bird terms, that would be called fledging.”

Am no stupid feathered thing!

“Leaving the nest, whatever you want to call it. Listen, there might be a point when you need to do more things or feel like doing more things. You can tell me. You can make your own plans. We’ll be going to Helock for a while, and I know you don’t like cities or being locked in for that matter. Don’t wait until you feel too sad to tell me. Talk to me. Tell me what you need.”

If I don’t know?

“If you don’t know what you need, we’ll figure it out together.”

Ask other dragons?

“Well… we may not have a choice. I just don’t know how to contact them without being roasted.”

I protect you!

“Sure.”

“Skreeeeeeeeee!”

Viv jumped at the sudden and unexpected scream, but Arthur didn’t show any sort of pain.

Called.

“Wait, what?”
