Seriously, explanations would be appreciated! Not that she could clear her face enough to ask.

“Oh, and make sure she’s thoroughly covered too. Just dunk her a few times. And keep her in there until I say you’re both done, so I can clean both of you idiots at the same time.” Those words were followed by the arrival of a familiar ball of squirming and protesting fluff.

“Will you tell me what that was all about already?!” Ranthia demanded. She was holding Clover over her bare chest, watching the last of the blood flow back into the metal barrel—courtesy of the seventh Skill gem that she’d seen the barkeep blow that night.

“Let’s see if you have enough wit to figure it out for yourself.” The barkeep had an uncharacteristically amused expression on her face as she raised a hand.

Ranthia prided herself on her ability to react to danger. Evasion was a core aspect to her combat style, for Xaoc’s sake! But the barkeep was still triple capped at level 2560.

Thus, the stone bounced off Ranthia’s cheek before even her [Divine Eyes] could react. And her hand went to her face instinctively, although…

“It didn’t hurt?” Ranthia blinked in surprise.

“Figured as much. And yes, it was the same rock I hit you with before and I threw it just as hard. Now piece it together, dumbass.” The barkeep crossed her arms expectantly, wearing the same grin.

…Absurd. It couldn’t be!

Sure, she had seen it come up in books, though it’d always been just as ridiculous as the idea of eating hearts to gain strength. And yet… She knew the barkeep too well to believe that it was a joke. But how in Xaoc’s name could bathing in a dragonkin’s blood have made her stronger?!

It wasn’t strength. Well, there was a little of that (allegedly; though if it was true, Ranthia couldn’t feel much of a difference). Instead, it was her vitality that had truly changed and not through her stats or in any way the System listed, she was just innately more resilient.

And improvements to her baseline had a dramatic effect once they were bolstered by the System. She wasn’t twice as durable or anything quite to that extreme, but it took a significant amount of additional force to puncture her skin with her knives. Also, the rough forest floor failed to bother her during her walk home to the extent that she never realized that she’d forgotten to put her sandals back on until she moved to take them off.

They were sitting atop the pile of enchanted winter steel that was her share of the wyvern, delivered during the barkeep’s repeated trips back and forth. The pile of expensively enchanted containers were in the way, but she’d worry about storing them another time.

After all, even the changes to her body had barely kept her attention while she rushed back to the city with her impatience nipping at her heels. As important as the increased innate vitality was—both for her survival and for Clover’s life expectancy—it couldn’t hold a candle to what was to come.

“I know you’re sleepy, but let’s class up first. Together.” Ranthia grinned down at her drowsy Bond.

She’d been twenty-three when she last classed up her Mirror-aspected class. And that was two years after she last classed up her Void-aspected class—ninety-eight years ago. That was before she even encountered the shimagu. Back when she had expected to live out her mortal life within Remus’ borders—and had worried that those were her final class ups. Sure, she had hoped to unlock her third class and believed it to be possible, especially once she met Night, Ocean, and other Sentinels, but it’d been something of a distant dream back then.

It was hard to even imagine what she could expect from her core classes’ evolutions. [Diffuse Reflectance] had kept her alive against all odds—and in the process, had made her immortal. [She who Dances with Chaos] was always intended to give her the tools to fight against any opponent, not that she’d truly expected to find herself using it to fight against entire armies or monsters from ancient legends.

But at last, the time had come. And every necessary delay was past—she just needed to sit down and enter her world within.

“What a fool. You seem to have forgotten every warning you ever heard.” Her guide was sighing and shaking her head from the moment Ranthia manifested.

She wasn’t quite sure what she was expecting, but her world within seemed to be untouched and unchanged. Really, expecting anything different was silly—it hadn’t been that long since she obtained [Adventuring Priestess of Chaos]. No matter how much time had passed since she took the class she was replacing, her inner temple remained eternal. The door to the temple itself remained sealed and difficult to even notice, her guide still wore simple vestments behind her counter, and the racked blades were as familiar as ever—though the colors were further removed than ever from the reds, oranges, and yellows that she had once expected.

And the case that memorialized her [Paladin] class was sealed tight, just as it always was.

“I had plenty of time to think about it. And I can’t even imagine what I want out of my combat class until I know what my survival options are. I’ll be back in once I’m done here to class up my [Warrior] class too, of course—I’m not going to stick around with a [Mage] tag.” Ranthia delayed her answer until she finished looking around.

“So, you do still claim to have a lick of sense.” Her doppelganger deadpanned.

“Yeah, if you’re going to try to mock me, can you at least wear a leather bodysuit? Your imitation of the barkeep falls flat without it. Not that we have the figure to match.” Ranthia waved off the barb as she approached the counter. “Alright, I know we don’t really have a plan we’re following anymore for my classes, but at least I know what I don’t want. Significant sidegrades, element changes, or anything that would revoke my immortality, for example. My survival still comes first.”

“Our survival.” Her guide countered, though she still nodded her agreement even as she offered the rebuke. “Very well, wait there. I shall bring applicable options as I find them.”

It was only a matter of moments before Ranthia’s other self delivered the first short sword. As expected, it bore a pyrite pommel stone and a wrapping that was just barely on the blue side of blue-green—hardly a promising sign, though Ranthia still touched the weapon to absorb its story.

[Reflections of Ranthia]. The class was arguably a sidegrade, in that she’d lose access to her mirror images. But in their place, she’d gain the ability to create a true clone of herself—a perfect copy, wholly independent and able to think for herself. Each time she used the core Skill, her current body would reset to match the clone, and she’d be able to choose which of them would be the true her. Naturally, her duplicate wouldn’t have the System, though other Skills would allow her to share her stats and Skills with the clone for varying costs.

It was powerful. By sharing her stats and Skills, her clone would be able to match her prowess and would be utterly independent. She would have the ultimate assistant in every battle. And she nearly discarded the class outright. The class was revolting and horrifying in a way she had never imagined! Each and every time she used the Skill, she would create a second Ranthia—someone that was fated to die, knowing all the while that she was nothing more than an ephemeral copy. There could only be a single clone and a single ‘true’ her. If she used the Skill again, the clone would cease to exist and be replaced as she once again split into two independent beings—one of them helpless without the other.

Unlikely. To say the least.

The second class, [Polished Steel], wasn’t much better, despite it avoiding any nightmare fuel. The wrapping on the hilt was undeniably purple, but the class itself was… well, it was boring. The only true difference between [Diffuse Reflectance] and [Polished Steel] was that her images would become more resilient, based on her vitality. Useful, but nothing about the class really grabbed her—it was just as bland as its name.

Sure, [Diffuse Reflectance] was great—it had kept her alive for almost a century. But she had expected something more than the exact same class after so many years!

After the two duds, Ranthia’s enthusiasm was undeniably dimmed as she moved her eyes to the third sword, especially given that it was ‘merely’ wrapped in one of the late shades of blue. [Shards of the Shattered Mirror]. Okay, fine—technically, it was named [The Uncountable and Chaotic Shards of the Perpetually Shattered Mirror]. But no, there was no way she was going to call it such a pretentious and overly long name! Fortunately, the class itself was much more in line with what she was hoping to find—a true and direct improvement to what she already loved about her class. A few limitations were altered, but the big thing was that it finally freed her from the power cap for her images! They wouldn’t be limited to a mere 1% of what she was capable of any longer. Instead, she’d have an expanding pool of power that she could assign freely to her images. She’d have the flexibility to spread it out among many images or to concentrate it narrowly, even on a single image. If she did that it could wield up to 80% of her stat product.

Her images could finally become independent threats and she’d once again be able to use them to force even powerful opponents to split their focus!

Honestly, she was tempted to accept the class on the spot, but her guide was still bringing swords faster than she could finish assessing even the broadest strokes of each class. And when her doppelganger delivered a blade while fixing Ranthia with a judgmental glare… well, who wouldn’t get curious?

[Parallel Passions]. It was… well, it was pretty much just a sex class, yes, but surprisingly, it didn’t really inhibit her viability in combat! Admittedly, she wouldn’t gain much combat utility from it, aside from [Facets of Passion] getting absorbed as a Class Skill and lightly improved. Instead, [Echoes Reflected] would evolve into a Skill that allowed her to get sensory feedback (as well as pleasure, obviously) through her images. There was some potential there, and she could actually imagine some (non-lurid) uses for it.

…Short list. It wouldn’t make the final cut, tragically, but it would be hilarious to watch her guide’s reaction when she lined up her final classes to mull them over.

The next blade was just barely on the purple side of the divide that followed blue. The biggest change [Dancing Multitudes] offered was that it removed her restrictions on how many concurrent images she could maintain. Instead of being capped by the image-creating Skill itself, she would be gated by a new Skill that controlled them much like how [Submind]… wait. No. Unfortunately, that wasn’t quite right.

“Okay, new restriction—no more classes that eat [Submind] and turn it into a class Skill. Unless it somehow allows me to use the Skill with [Divine Eyes in the Void] as well, of course.” Ranthia made her request the next time her guide delivered a blade. Sure, she still hoped to eventually master using [Divine Eyes in the Void] without [Submind]’s assistance, but the Skill had proven itself invaluable even back when she only had a single ‘eye’. With the second (even if it had finally calmed down), she couldn’t risk losing broad access to her mental Skill.

“Very well. While I have your attention—this blade inarguably falls afoul of your previous rules, however I still believe that you would wish to review it for yourself.” Ranthia’s guide reverently set down yet another short sword with a hilt wrapped in blue while she spoke, before resuming her search.

It felt more than a bit odd for her guide to refute her restrictions, though her surprise didn’t keep her from promptly absorbing the blade’s story. And yeah, [The Endless Echoes of Eternity] was unlike any of the other class options that she’d seen—or expected, for that matter. It was a class that changed everything.

She never imagined that she’d be even momentarily tempted by any class that stripped her of her mirror images. But her imagination soared with what it offered in their place. The name of the class was literal—as she moved, she would leave echoes in her wake. They would be intangible and largely unassailable, yet she’d be able to use a Skill that she could only describe as [Reflections of Reality]’s direct superior to revert herself back to any of her echoes at will.

Never again would she suffer while she waited for the Skill to activate.

Instead of backup dancers of limited (one class option aside) ability, she would be alone, reveling in a far more chaotic dance. Forget feints, she would be able to make true attacks, then revert and come from another angle once the enemy’s defenses were focused! The inability to scatter her images was a drawback, but she would still have some measure of control over the frequency and duration of her afterimages—she could adapt how she danced.

But that was the crux of the issue. She would have to retrain herself—[The Endless Echoes of Eternity] was outright incompatible with every last instinct and habit that she’d established. The class wouldn’t be a survival class any longer, it would be an extension of her primary class. She would be a dancer that wielded two elements for the same seemingly reckless dance.

The other drawback was that an opponent that figured out the trick—a visibly obvious trick, at that—would be far deadlier than one that figured out how her current shifting worked. Relying on afterimages, it would be significantly more difficult to leave one somewhere an opponent might never expect.

“…This isn’t a good class if I’m outmatched. Unless I’m confident that I can always decisively end the battle with a single clean hit…” Ranthia vocalized her thoughts. She wasn’t seeking her guide’s advice—which was why the woman remained silent—but she was starting to regret not classing up her Void [Warrior] class first.

Yet if she had, she’d regret not knowing the confines of her Mirror [Mage] class. There really wasn’t any way to win against what-ifs, not without perfect and impossible levels of knowledge and foresight.

