“…Well, among the other things, that fascinating bicycle as it’s called. Made by a guest of the inn, you see. Among other inventions. The same one the Wind Runner, Miss Ryoka Griffin—another dear friend—rode?”
The nobles stirred as the penny dropped. Lord Deilan’s eyes lit up.
“Ah. The House of El has an order for several of those devices. But the backlog is going to be months. We’ve been outbid by Chandrar, Baleros…”
The others grumbled. Erill just leaned forwards as Typhenous stroked his beard.
“That is regrettable. But as it so happens—I have some illustrations of the device from up-close. A young friend of mine may have brought some…notes.”
Grev got a 20% cut. Typhenous didn’t have more than sketches, however. You didn’t sell the golden cow. But that was enough for the nobles to make him their best friend. Moreover…he stroked his beard.
“I happen to know the inventor myself. It may be that I could put in a private word. Even make introductions. Certainly, for the House of El. But this is a celebration! Let me not distract you—although have you heard of the skateboards? Fascinating thing, really…”
The closer that Grev had smuggled to him was a single gear prototype in his pocket and some of the bike chain. Typhenous sat and stroked his beard—what else was he to do on this day?
 
—-
 
Revi was crying. She sat at a table and quite ruined anyone’s fun whenever they looked at her. She was not Typhenous; she hadn’t even seen Halrac.
Briganda was letting Cade play. She hadn’t known Erin as well and she was more concerned with her son, who could forget his sorrows and laugh.
But the [Summoner] could not. She could not enjoy this day. She was not the only one.
Erin Solstice had quite ruined the day for the others as well.
Ylawes stood with Delanay, eating nothing, just waiting. He might have royally burned a bridge between Byres and Veltras. But if he had, he didn’t care.
A teary-eyed Falene sat at a table. Quite—quite ruined.
The only reason Jasi didn’t weep was because she was on stage. But when she did have cause to weep, as Juliet, the audience felt as though someone had truly died. The Players had never been realer.
More raw.
And yet—it was today. This day. Hope was a guttering flame on a fading candle.
But it still burned. Because of the [Lady Firestarter]. Because of what had been put in place by the [Innkeeper].
“Little sister. Why are you weeping?”
Falene looked up. A lined face, white hair—the other half-Elf sat. She sniffed and wiped at her eyes.
Zedalien inclined his head to her. She replied, with the ritualistic greeting.
“I’m sorry, brother—it’s just, someone has died that I knew. That I respected.”
“I see. The same is true of me. Have you been long from the forests of home?”
The older half-Elf spoke with formality, unlike a certain bug-eating half-Elf who wanted nothing to do with the traditions of their villages. Falene bowed slightly, recognizing him.
“Not at all. Do I have the honor of addressing Zedalien? In service to the House of El?”
“Let us not be formal. Falene Skystrall.”
He knew her. The half-Elf glanced around, but he was off-duty. This was a party. So he placed the bottle of wine on the table.
“Shall we raise a cup to those we knew well, sister?”
“Yes, brother.”
The two half-Elves drank. As those close to immortality did. The mortal lives passed too soon.
Too soon.
 
—-
 
She was not dead. Ryoka Griffin stood there, waiting. Searching the trees on the outskirts of Riverfarm. Looking about—
Until she was interrupted.
“Miss Griffin?”
Tyrion Veltras. Unlike Deilan and Ulva, he had not gone far. Socializing. Partying. Libations…none of those words fit Tyrion Veltras.
“Lord Tyrion. Is something wrong?”
Ryoka turned and tried to remember to bow. The [Lord] looked at her. Uncertain—she noticed a tiny flicker of it in his eyes. His face could have been one of the statues in Riverfarm for all it moved.
You had to watch for the tiny clues. The [Lord] sketched another bow.
“…You appear to be waiting for the visitors.”
“I am—that is, I’m sure they’ll arrive.”
They had to. Ryoka bowed in reply, as awkward as the [Lord].
“Please, don’t mind me. I hope your sons and you can enjoy the party.”
“I will endeavor to.”
Tyrion lied. He regarded Ryoka as she went back to standing. After a second, he coughed into one fist.
“…Miss Ryoka. You’ve been standing there for quite some time.”
She blinked again.
“Have I? I’m just waiting…”
“You have been standing there for nearly an hour.”
This time Ryoka’s head swiveled around. She had? Her head was filled with cotton. She was just—waiting.
“I’m sorry. I’ll just stand here longer, if that’s okay.”
Tyrion eyed her.
“Would you at least care to move elsewhere?”
Was he being courteous of her? Ryoka hesitated.
“I’m fine, really.”
“I see. However, I am indebted towards you, Miss Griffin.”
She turned to face Lord Veltras.
“—And I am exceptionally grateful, Lord Tyrion. But you don’t have a debt. This is all I wished for. Just this. Please, enjoy yourself.”
“I do not believe I can. Nor do I believe my debt is fulfilled. What you did was no small thing.”
God, he was so stubborn about honor and debts! And he had no tact! Thus spoke the pot of the kettle. She just wanted to be left alone!
But reluctantly, she nodded. Lord Tyrion scanned the area as Ryoka moved, stumbling a bit.
“Your guests…seem to be a strange lot.”
“They’re rude, dangerous bastards.”
Ryoka replied before she caught herself. She bit her tongue—but she was beyond caring, really. Tyrion stared at her.
“I…see. And this event—you have no interest in anything here? I see gelato and treats that I would have assumed cost a fortune.”
“Not the ice cream. You can make it if you want. It’s cheap. I gave the recipe to Magnolia Reinhart. That’s why she was interested in me.”
So you can take that and leave me alone. Please?
Lord Tyrion twitched slightly at Magnolia’s name. His head swung back to Ryoka.
“You…knew the recipe?”
“I did. Do you want it? I gave it to Magnolia and I regret it. One more of the Five Families can’t hurt.”
Ryoka’s mouth ran on her anxiety, pain, and annoyance. Tyrion Veltras hesitated.
“I am sure Sammial and Hethon would be delighted. You are not…an ally of Magnolia Reinhart? I had heard otherwise.”
“She’s manipulative, pushy, and she doesn’t show up for parties. She and I are quits. I just don’t want to kill her, that’s all.”
Had Tyrion’s lip actually twitched in a smile at that first part? He turned away.
“I see.”
“Tyrion! Tyrion—oh. You have company.”
Lord Pellmia staggered over to Tyrion in a miniature sugar-high. He blinked at Ryoka. Tyrion turned to Pellmia.
“Lord Pellmia, let me introduce Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner to whom House Veltras is indebted.”
“Well, don’t let me bother you. A pleasure, Miss Griffin. You’ve done much for Izril. As has the late Maviola El.”
“Thank you.”
Ryoka wanted to go back. Or drown herself in the melted ice cream. Pellmia looked at Tyrion and Ryoka.
“Did you have something to speak to me of, Pellmia?”
“I was going to say you had to see these plays! But I wouldn’t want to interrupt—”
“The Players of Celum are famous. Why don’t I let you two…I’ll just eat something. Food.”
Ryoka saw her chance and backed up. Lord Tyrion half-nodded as he saw Ryoka heading towards a table. Pellmia watched Ryoka go, then, wincing, turned to Tyrion.
“Apologies, Tyrion.”
“For what?”
The [Lord] looked at Pellmia blankly. The other, older [Lord], eyed him, and then decided they should go back to the play.
 
—-
 
Ryoka stared at a shrimp. It stared back. She had no idea who had brought shrimp, or from where. If she had inquired, she would have learned it was the group from Invrisil, who had access to seafood, as well as House Veltras’ coastal holdings who’d helped bring some.
“Ryoka? Ryoka! I’m so glad you’re okay!”
The City Runner nearly kissed the shrimp as someone slammed into her then seized her in a hug.
Dustrider Charlay hugged the Wind Runner. Alevica and Delanay were also in tow, mainly swept up in Charlay’s good mood.
“Charlay?”
Ryoka blinked. Charlay was beaming.
“It’s so good to see you! I thought you were dead! I was trying to help and I fought [Assassins]! And leveled up! You should have seen me—and Alevica helped out! I knew she had a good heart! Actually, I thought she was evil, but—”
“Let go of Ryoka, Charlay.”
Alevica stabbed Charlay in the side with a wand. The Centaur did. Ryoka stood, swaying a bit, and saw the [Witch].
“So you made it.”
“Yes. Hello, Alevica. Thanks for…everything.”
The [Witch] eyed Ryoka.
“You look like you’re still dead. And you look like you’re about to rip your heart out. Good thing Belavierr isn’t here.”
Ryoka jerked at the name. Alevica saw her emotions as clearly as…Charlay’s face fell.
“Oh. Someone said that you um, lost someone. Are you okay, Ryoka?”
“No.”
“Ah.”
The Centauress hesitated, dancing on her hooves. She didn’t know. The somber Emergency Runner on the other hand—Ryoka blinked.
“Delanay? You came?”
The young man tipped his hat to her.
“House d’Artien received an invitation. I thought it was only fitting…and I thought we’d meet. I forgot you knew Dusty Charlay.”
“I’ll kick you, Delanay!”
Charlay adjusted her back hooves, scowling. Delanay moved out of the way.
“And you know the Witch Runner. A number of the interesting City Runners, in short.”
“I didn’t know you knew the Hunter’s Guild’s brat, Ryoka.”
Alevica and Delanay stared at each other. No love lost between the descendant of [Witch Hunters] and [Vampire Hunters] and a [Witch] herself. Alevica smiled. Delanay tipped his hat.
“We don’t conduct witch hunts any more, Miss Alevica.”
“Witches have long memories. Delanay.”
“Do they remember why they were necessary?”
At any other time, Ryoka would have been worried. Trying to defuse the situation, or sweating bullets. Now? She was just looking around.
“Did Fierre come, Delanay?”
The wrong person to ask. The Emergency Runner shifted to look at Ryoka and his hand twitched.
“No. I have yet to meet her. We were all at the inn when…I’m sorry. I was inside, and I didn’t think to go outside. Miss Solstice had left the city on foot…”
Ryoka felt sick. She hadn’t known the details. And Delanay? He stopped, seeing her face.
“I apologize. I shouldn’t bring this up.”
Charlay looked from face to face, uncomprehending. Alevica just stared at Ryoka’s emotions, observing in her own way. Ryoka shook her head.
“No—no. I don’t know how…how did it happen?”
“Perhaps it’s better to say in some privacy. With…some drinks.”
Delanay glanced around at the merry faces, his expression somber. Ryoka nodded.
“I’ll uh, get drinks!”
Charlay raced off, all too eager to escape the conversation. Alevica just snorted. She looked at Ryoka.
“You actually pulled it off. I had to stick around and see. Incidentally—we’re square. Understand?”
“Yep. Thank you.”
“Well…good.”
The Witch Runner hesitated. She turned on her heel, as if to leave, and turned back abruptly.
“Have you spoken to Eloise? You might. She’s probably got a tea for you or something.”
“No. I’m waiting for the guests.”
Alevica and Delanay both looked at Ryoka. Neither one knew what she meant. But soon, Charlay was racing back with ales, and Delanay gestured to a table.
“…Why don’t we sit. And I’ll tell you what happened.”
Ryoka nodded. She drifted after Delanay. Someone else followed.
“Tell me, too.”
Alevica started. She hadn’t spotted the figure just standing there. She nearly grabbed her wand. Halrac stared at her.
He had a week-old beard. He didn’t look like he’d eaten. Or washed. Or…Ryoka stared at him.
“Halrac?”
“Tell me how Erin died.”
That was all the [Scout] said. Delanay looked at Halrac warily, then tipped his hat.
“This way.”
The Gold-rank adventurer grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder before she could follow the other Runners. His grip was painful. Ryoka looked at him. He looked as lost as she felt—but there was something in his eyes.
Typhenous had found him before going off to hobnob. The [Scout] had the same glint as when he was drawing an arrow back to loose.
“Typhenous told me Erin might be saved. What do you need to do?”
“Wait. Laken—his Majesty’s visitors need to arrive.”
His grip tightened—then released. Halrac stepped back, nodded once.
“If I can help, tell me.”
“Okay.”
They followed Delanay in silence. And as the party progressed, midday slowly progressed towards noon. But slowly.
It was the longest day, after all.
 
—-
 
Blackmage, or Aaron Vanwell, sat in his rooms. Tinkering with his iPhone. He was depressed.
The [Innkeeper] was dead.
He did not know her. But Montressa’s desperate plea had hit Wistram and sent eddies of the event through the Academy.
And of course—consequences. Aaron was part of the Revivalist faction. ‘Theirs’, in a sense, but he was also placed to listen to Archmage Nailihuaile’s unguarded insights.
And she. Was. Pissed.
Not only was it clear that Montressa and Bezale—both of whom owed loyalty to the Scriptels and Revivalists, who were allied—had been hiding news of the [Innkeeper]’s existence, they’d failed to protect her.
Now one of the most valuable Earthers was dead. Aaron himself had been reviewing all the rumors and stories of The Wandering Inn. He’d seen the war in Invrisil.
And ‘batman’. Who was, in fact, Ryoka Griffin. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Exceptionally cool. In fact, someone who’d lived up to his expectations of her.
She’d flown. With a glider! And she had command of wind magic! Wistram knew her name too. They wanted her as much as they had wanted Erin.
Unfortunately, she’d been in a coma and then under the direct protection of House Veltras, whom even Wistram Academy didn’t want to anger.
Still…she was a Runner. Aaron opened the iPhone, wondering if he could try connecting the magitech amplifier that Naili was working on soon. In theory, it would allow him unparalleled range on the iPhone. But you still had to figure out how to call other devices using the software, not a linking spell.
The way Wistram did it was—crude. Aaron had thought it was amazing when it first happened, but it really was just like sending a mass-ping to every device. Nothing subtle at all. They could connect to all iPhones, but making it individual was…tricky.
To connect to ‘batman’, they’d just traced the link back to her iPhone. They had to manually connect each time. It wasn’t nearly as efficient as an actual iPhone. If only you could build a network.
