And if only you didn’t need at least eighteen mages to form the spell! Aaron couldn’t, say, call Ryoka right now and warn her. He wanted to.
He had mixed feelings about her inevitable spiriting to Wistram. On one hand—he could really use someone with her perspective here, like Cara. On the other hand—she would stay here.
More Earthers had arrived, like that Troy kid, who was an actual [Mage]—and a good one! But they wouldn’t leave. Also—Aaron was worried.
Wistram had collected so many Earthers, and now Naili had let slip they wanted to move onto ‘the next step’ soon. As ominous sayings went—that was top of Aaron’s list.
But what could they do? Aaron had not been able to save Erin. She had been dead before the other [Mages] had even [Messaged] Montressa. Before someone had even told him she was in danger.
Too fast. Why didn’t magic let you bring people back from the dead? Heal? There were so many questions.
So many consequences. Montressa was dead to the Revivalists. The Academy was sending her replacements—had been already. And calling every [Mage] they could here. Great [Mages] who seldom returned to the academy were enroute.
And Aaron was relatively helpless amid all of this. The Earthers were. And they still had no idea why they were here. Or what they could do.
The young man closed up his iPhone. All this was not new. And yet—
It was today. Aaron sat there, on his bed, in his room. And he waited.
He had been waiting for this day for half a year.
 
—-
 
The time was slipping by. The sun fading. And yet—no one came. No wind stirred the trees. No one was coming.
Ryoka drifted through the party, trying not to throw up the food and drink she’d eaten. Her head was spinning.
Delanay had told her the events, simply, without elaboration. Ryoka wished she hadn’t heard.
How quick. How—wrong. Why like that?
Erin.
Where were they? Ryoka dragged at her hair. Around her, people were having fun. But Laken Godart had retired to his personal home. He, like her, seemed to be waiting.
Waiting for—
“What’s a slut? Are you one?”
A familiar voice made Ryoka do a double-take. Sammial was asking one of the [Tumblers]. The woman stared at the boy.
“Sammy!”
Hethon dragged him away. Face flushed. Sammy tried to wiggle out of his grasp.
“Stop dragging me, Hethon! You don’t know either! Stop pretending like you do!”
“I know you’re not supposed to ask! You asked that half-Elf, Lady Imarris—you’re going to get us in trouble!”
“No one will answer me! Lady Ieka just told me to ask Lady Wuvren.”
Ryoka stared at the two boys. They spotted her and looked uncertain.
“It’s the Wind Runner. Are we allowed to ask her questions?”
Hethon muttered to Sammial. The boy huffed.
“Who cares? She’s not as fun as all of this! I want to ride the Oliphant!”
He nearly ran off, but his older brother had a grip on his arm. He had to; they’d already lost poor Jericha. The [Aide] might be a trained warrior and so on, but she was no match for running children on a sugar and excitement-high, racing through the crowd and squeezing through gaps she could never manage.
Before the two boys could run towards one of the tame Elephants being carefully led around an area by the [Beast Master], Ryoka reached out and grabbed them by the shoulders.
“Stop.”
She still felt sick-empty-waiting. But someone had to stop the two. Especially Sammial. The boys looked up.
“What?”
Ryoka Griffin squatted down. This was surely not the place or time. But—
“To hell with it.”
Hethon and Sammial’s jaws dropped, Sammy’s in delight. Ryoka sighed.
“Okay. Sammial, you want to know what a ‘slut’ is? It means—someone, a female, usually—who has sex with other people. Sometimes for money. But it’s an insult that means you have sex a lot. It’s not a nice word. And asking someone what it means is exceptionally rude. Calling someone that is a terrible insult. Understand?”
She didn’t want to explain sex to the boys. But Hethon looked appalled and Sammial exhaled.
“Oh. Is that what it means?”
“Yes. So don’t say it, okay?”
“Fine. I thought it meant something better! So that City Runner said that you and father…”
Sammial’s forehead wrinkled as he thought about what Persua had said of Ryoka.
“Oh. No wonder Jericha smacked her. Okay. She should have been beaten twice as much!”
Apparently, he knew what sex was. The little [Lord] glowered. Ryoka sighed.
“Good. Just don’t ask—”
She was straightening when she saw Jericha’s wrathful face. The woman was standing right behind her.
Ryoka flinched. Hethon and Sammial looked up.
They saw the angry caretaker and ran.
“Miss…Ryoka Griffin. What are you teaching Lord Hethon and Lord Sammial?”
“Er…language?”
The boys shot out of sight. Jericha looked like she needed a stamina potion. She elected not to go right after them and glared at Ryoka.
“And why did you decide to teach them that crude word?”
“Because no one else would? And they kept asking people. I’m sorry—but someone had to tell them or that kid, Sammial, would have asked Ulva Terland or someone.”
Ryoka held up her hands. Jericha blanched at the thought.
“That would not have been…appropriate. I see. Well—Ullim would normally have instructed the boys!”
“…Is he here? I don’t know who that is.”
“No, but—”
The [Aide] looked put out. Ryoka stared at her.
“I’m sorry. Someone had to tell them. And you didn’t. Don’t they have other caretakers?”
The woman hesitated.
“Lord Sammial can be—difficult. His aura, his nature…he lost his mother at a young age. Few can resist his commands. I am one of them, but most [Carers], no. We have made attempts. But Ullim and I are his main guardians. And Lord Veltras is often indisposed.”
Poor kids. Ryoka had a flash of nostalgia herself. Give Sammial a few years and some of Earth’s culture and he’d be doing the same stuff she did. Jericha looked at Ryoka in silence. After a moment, she blew out her cheeks.
“Well, I suppose Lord Sammial will stop asking. Is all to your satisfaction, Miss Griffin? Lord Tyrion bade me check.”
“Almost.”
Ryoka lied. She had not seen the fae. And they—she looked up at the sky. It was already evening?
The day was running out. And the fae had not arrived. Ryoka stared up at the orange sky in despair. But it was the Summer Solstice! She had done…everything Teriarch had suggested.
But he hadn’t been sure. Maybe…maybe that was it. Ryoka had done everything right. And sometimes it wasn’t enough.
What else could she do? Ryoka closed her eyes, trying to think.
“The statues? Where’s—”
She spun. A sudden thought of panic striking her. Had Laken…? She’d asked about the gifts, the bribes, the things Teriarch had planned. But what about—
Ryoka went running. Jericha wavered between her, the two kids, and decided to have a cupcake.
The Wind Runner ran. Laken had forgotten to—
She found the statue of Ivolethe in the gazebo. Ryoka stared up at the carved face. The inscription.
 
The Winter’s Savior, Ivolethe.
 
It was made of stone. And it was not the only one. Laken Godart had commissioned multiple statues of her. Ryoka fell to her knees. She could almost see her friend again. The sculptors had based it on the little, frozen statue.
She took it out now, put it on the pedestal upon which the large statue stood. Ryoka’s head bowed. The statues were here.
Tyrion, Deilan, and Ulva were here.
The party was in full-swing.
Laken had invited them.
Everything was ready. But Erin was dead. The world was not right. Ryoka rested her head on the cold marble. Tears ran down her cheeks at last.
Barelle the Bard took the stage. Even the Players of Celum were silent. The [Bard] raised his harp. To sing of the [Innkeeper] of Liscor.
The Wandering Inn.
It was exactly evening, the sun caught midway before it fell completely from the horizon. Ryoka Griffin wept.
Barelle touched the glowing string of magic on his harp.
And the lights.
Went.
Out.
 
—-
 
Luan was around an peninsula when he heard the shouting. He turned his head and groaned.
“Not them again.”
A Lizardfolk crew appeared as their [Invisibility] spell ran out on their canoe. Luan had suspected he was being followed.
It wasn’t exactly as if they’d been the stealthiest thing on the waves. He could see something breaking the surf and the motions of paddles.
What was more, he knew this Lizardfolk crew. They were one of the first groups to try to go after him. [Bounty Hunters] with access to spells and artifacts.
Also—stubborn as could be.
“We have you this time, Luan! Give up!”
The leader brandished a wand. Luan shouted back.
“Would you get lost? You know you can’t catch me!”
“No! It’s personal! You’ve gotten away from us four times! Do you know how much gold we’ve spent?”
They’d tried to ambush him four times, at sea and on land. One time, the Bushrangers had kicked them about but spared them. Luan rolled his eyes.
“I guess I’ll just turn back, then. Hold on—”
He began to swing left, to shore. The Lizardfolk stirred.
“Wait, is he actually going to do it? That worked?”
Luan’s paddles dipped in the water as he turned—then he shot away.
[Time of the Olympian]! 
His personal Skill. The [Expert Rower] took off, as if he were performing his best ever. The Lizardfolk shouted and tried to go after him.
“He’s running! Get him! Attack! Attack!”
One of them used a [Haste] scroll on the group. The canoe, propelled by multiple hands, shot after Luan. But he was fast.
“We’re going to lose him again! How is he so—”
Luan grinned as he heard them fading away already. His Skill had more than one effect. But mainly—it was to replicate his best performance. With Skills included. Every time he broke his record, he moved faster. And he’d be fresh after finishing his max-speed and max-distance row.
That was his capstone Skill. The [Expert Rower] rounded the peninsula, ready to lose the [Bounty Hunters] again.
That was when the [Fireball] hit the water in front of him and the explosion and water spout rocked his boat. Luan swore—swerved desperately—and the second [Fireball] hit the water.
“You won’t get away, Luan!”
The Lizardfolk’s leader had aimed wide on purpose. Luan saw they had two Wands of Fireball. He swore.
“You’re crazy! The Bushrangers will have your neck frills! I’ll tell the Nagas on you!”
That was a Lizardfolk threat. The [Bounty Hunters] hesitated.
“Pull over!”
“Get lost!”
Luan rowed desperately. The [Bounty Hunter]’s leader cursed.
“More fireballs! Don’t hit him—make him go to land!”
They took careful aim as a chase ensued. Luan was dodging fireballs, weaving back and forth as the [Bounty Hunters] tried to move him towards the shore.
“Just slow down! We’ll only break your boat and your legs! You don’t even need them to row! One leg! That’s all we’re asking!”
“Leave me alone!”
Luan was sweating. They were clearly desperate and he had to watch the flashes of the incoming fireballs or be hit! They wanted to damage his boat. If they got an oar or—
He was rowing further out to sea, to dare them into the bigger waves while weaving past a burning spell. They had to run out of charge on those wands!
That was when it happened.
On Izril. Over the party, as the [Bard] touched the magic chord and Ryoka wept.
In Wistram, as Aaron reached for a screwdriver he’d made himself.
Above Liscor.
From distant Chandrar. As far north as could be. Even in the dark chamber far underground where the Blighted King stood with the [Mages] in front of the completed ritual spell.
They all felt it. They saw it.
High overhead—
The sun went out.
It was fast. Luan saw the shadow sweep across the world. He looked up, shading his eyes—
“What the?”
He saw a celestial body cross the sun. One of the moons! It was—
 
—-
 
“An eclipse! Sire! The moment is now! Do we—”
“Begin the ritual.”
The Blighted King spoke. The [Mages] drew on their power. The ritual called for an eclipse. It was—
 
—-
 
“Nothing to worry about, everyone! Just an eclipse.”
Ryoka heard Barelle the Bard speaking as she stumbled back towards the party. There was still light of course; everything was just thrown into shadow. And indeed, it was a fast eclipse.
No one panicked. This was not a primitive people who saw this as some horrible celestial event. They had seen eclipses before.
It was almost a letdown. Almost. Across the world, people shaded their eyes, noting the eclipse. Would you look at that? The King of Destruction shaded his eyes and ordered a charge.
A few [Mages] felt magic fluctuate, altering their spells. But only the Blighted Kingdom used this moment.
Before Ryoka had reached the [Bard], the sun was already returning. Light swept across the ground and people laughed, calling to Barelle to ask if he’d staged the thing.
The [Bard] just gave them a mysterious smile. Ryoka stopped, panting.
It was just an eclipse. But it mattered.
The light was restored. The sun shone. Ryoka Griffin looked around. Lord Tyrion half-rose. Her face.
The Wind Runner looked—he strode towards her.
“Miss Ryoka. Is something wrong?”
She looked at him. Eyes bulging. Throat suddenly dry. Ryoka stuttered.
“They—they—”
They hadn’t come. Tyrion didn’t know what to say. He felt like he’d failed, somehow. He shook his head.
“There is still time, Miss Ryoka. Your visitors—”
“They’re here.”
The Lord of House Veltras stopped. He looked at Ryoka Griffin. Then, slowly, looked at her eyes.
He traced their direction. And then he turned.
The rest of the mortal folk looked around. What was she…?
Lady Ulva Terland lowered a cup. She blinked. Then her eyes focused on something.
A laughing…man…was sitting next to her. On the lap of one of the War Golems. His teeth were pointed. His voice was like spring and life.
He shone with the full radiance of what the half-Elves had lost. Zedalien rose. He saw them.
Standing on the stage. Grabbing food. Durene jerked as she saw someone ahead of her.
They had not been there a moment ago. The Fae had joined the gathering, unnoticed except by a few.
The [Witches] stood together, staring at a laughing figure who danced and pirouetted next to one of the [Tumblers] until she stopped, mystified by her double.
The Summer Court of the fae. Ryoka’s eyes filled with tears. They were here. This day—
She saw a figure step out, in front of her. Ulva Terland’s [Bodyguard] rose, about to cut down this intruder! Then—stopped.
“My [Dangersense].”
He let go of the blade. Ulva saw him back away. Then she saw another figure emerge.
A warrior, armored in frost. Faceless behind his visor. The [Bodyguard] stood like an ant before a mountain, frozen in fear.
