It was the note of grandeur. Of wonder. Of great deeds and momentous occasions. It was orange—if such a poor color could be applied to the string.
“This day belongs to you, dear guests. And whilst I invite you to all dine and make merry, there shall be great tales, performed by the Players of Celum. Wondrous sights, by the Skylights! Performances by masters and mistresses of their craft all. And I shall sing. Sing of battle against the Circle of Thorns. Tell the story of a brave Runner—”
There he looked at Ryoka. She would have flushed if she were not so numb, at all the stares. Barelle lowered his hand and touched the first chord again.
“—and of the [Innkeeper] of Liscor.”
The crowd stirred. And those who knew the name or had heard it felt that pang in their chests. Barelle touched the orange chord again and the moment passed.
“But this is not the time. At this moment, by your leave, Lords and Ladies, Emperor—let this celebration begin!”
 
—-
 
Now, this was what Hethon and Sammial had come for. No sooner had Barelle spoken then the sky turned dark. Someone screamed and others gasped as a Dragon appeared in the air.
It was no real Dragon, but an outline of one, made by a thousand thousand sparkling lights of color. It roared and clawed the air, then swooped down and burst like a rain of fireflies on the awestruck crowd. Glittering bits of its body fell, sparkling—and Hethon caught one on his hand and stared at the beautiful thing before it faded.
And that was the opening. The Starlights, a famous [Illusionist] group, began to conjure more creatures. A Manticore bounded down the street, perfect in every detail, roaring, and a performer of a different stripe battled it in a display of footwork and stagecraft that even had Pralcem approving.
What wonders! What spectacle! Within moments, Sammy’s dour mood was blown away. Food was swept onto countless tables. A [Tumbler] bounded down the street, trailing streamers on her colorful costume. She flipped forwards, doing a handspring, then did a double backflip over Sammial and Hethon’s heads. They cried out, but she was already bounding forwards.
Jericha just watched, a tad bit wary. But they were just performers. A [Juggler] was already setting up his flaming daggers in a safer spot, the audience clearly separated by a striped line of paint on the street.
“Wow! This is amazing! You were wrong, Sammy!”
Hethon burst out. He’d seen the Starlights once, before Sammy had been able to watch. But there were the Starlights and Barelle the Bard! And the Players of Celum and—he gawked as he saw a [Wizard] carefully setting up a complicated, glowing field of magic.
“Sammy. Sammy! That’s—that’s—the Wonderous Omnivel!”
“What?”
Sammial shouted. His head spun around and he went running towards the purveyor of the fabled Box of Wonders, the most high-end, sought-after artifact for children everywhere, if you could afford it.
The Wonderous Omnivel was in the same entertainment circuit as Barelle the Bard, and no less admired—if by a younger crowd. The field was a larger version of his Box of Wonders.
“Step forwards, children! Make a line!”
The [Wizard] waved his wand as children who knew him surged forwards in a screaming mob. He sighed, and then pointed.
“Have you ever dreamed of dancing with Dragons? Walking with Giants?”
A huge foot appeared, and everyone jumped back as a towering shape—sixty feet high—appeared!
But only in the fifteen by fifteen foot spot. Jericha folded her arms, not fooled by the powerful illusion. Omnivel’s field of magic was under his control. And in it, you could make little armies fight, pretend to be a [Mage] of your own—
If the [Wizard] looked slightly sour, it was because a certain Academy was apparently working on an improved version of his famous Box of Wonders—and threatening to ruin his livelihood. But today, he let Sammial and Hethon enter the field and begin dueling with swords that emitted jets of fire and sparks.
And he was one of many. The Flowers of Izril watched, slightly impressed. Of course, it was certainly a display of wealth and connections to get Barelle the Bard, the Skylights, and so on. But the nobility didn’t run towards the simpler attractions. They’d seen illusions. What interested them—and soon the children was—
“Ice cream!”
Eliasor’s eyes widened as she saw the heaping bowls of the stuff. It was carefully chilled with ice, but it was there.
In…flavors? One of the panting [Confectioners] of the Unseen Empire—recently given the new class—had signs indicating the flavors.
Strawberry. Lemon (Sour!). Vanilla. Mint…
“There are multiple types of it? Wait—this can’t be gelato, can it?”
Lord Pellmia was aghast. He strode to the head of the line. The [Confectioner] bowed instantly.
“Milord, it is! We have every flavor and these…cones. Or a bowl, if you would prefer? There are also sweets to add. Only—eat it too fast and your teeth will ache, sir!”
Lord Pellmia stared at the toppings. Both fruits like banana and baked goods. A ‘cookie’?
“But—I bought some gelato for my family in our city! And we paid gold for it—freshly imported from Terandria, no less!”
He spluttered. He’d gotten barely a bowl of the stuff and paid far more than he should have for that! And it had been vanilla.
“His Majesty knew the recipe, milord, and we have been preparing a wide variety of dishes from his home. We also have slices of ‘cake’, and a number of dishes…”
Lord Pellmia stared. In point of fact—Laken hadn’t known ice cream’s manufacturing process. But Erin, Ryoka, and Imani had all contributed to the Unseen Empire’s preparations.
…Mostly Imani.
There were pizzas, burgers, all the unhealthy foods—and more complex dishes waiting in the wings. Imani had sent culture. Erin had sent fries.
That drew the nobles over by storm. Gelato? Pellmia walked towards his family, bemusedly holding a double-scoop ice cream cone of mint and lemon.
“Lord Hethon, Lord Sammial, I believe the other children would like a turn.”
Jericha managed to get the two to stop hogging the [Wizard]’s attraction when she produced two cones of ice cream. The boys whirled about and let the other children take a turn. Indeed, even the [Wizard] and some of the performers who didn’t need to use their hands were indulging.
Ice cream aside—Hethon’s jaw dropped as he saw the interesting foods, not to mention the other displays.
“These are not free. Trinkets for sale! Charms!”
A [Witch]—Agratha—was slapping down someone who was just reaching for objects on display. Across from her, [Traders] and [Merchants] had set up.
“Artifacts for sale! Silk from Chandrar—”
“Are those [Witch] charms, Jericha? I want one!”
Sammial pointed. Jericha dragged him back.
“Milord, your father would not want you to buy—”
Laken Godart’s ears already hurt from all the sound. But he was watching with his vision as the entirety of Riverfarm exploded with motion. He was keeping an eye on the [Witches].
It was typically Agratha who had organized the stall. Her brand of [Witch] would sell charms of lesser power directly to even the nobility. The Mavika, Alevica type were not part of that.
But they were here. And he was very wary of how they’d interact with the nobility. They’d promised to behave—but that was a loaded promise.
Thankfully, it appeared the first thing they’d done was raid the buffet. Laken nudged Gamel.
“Gamel. I need your eyes. Did…Hedag just walk off with an entire cake?”
“…Yes, your Majesty.”
“Ah, very good. Just making sure.”
Which also meant that Mavika had stolen six pizzas and was taking them to her crows. Laken sighed. At least he’d prepared for this kind of thing.
This was the party. People mixed and mingled, and strange meetings occurred amid the entertainment.
“Alevica! Alevica! It’s me! Good to see you! Look what I found! You have to try this! It’s milk and ice cream!”
“Charlay, get off of me. We are not friends! I will hex you!”
The Centauress was pressing a milkshake at the [Witch]. Exasperated, Alevica grabbed it, took a sip, and immediately went off to find all the sweets with Charlay.
“Wot’s this? Wot’s this? Chess? I happen to be a good player myself.”
Lady Eliasor found a small group standing around a chess table. An enterprising boy around her age had set up there and was taking all comers.
“You play chess, um, sir?”
Eliasor didn’t quite know how to address Grev, who was clearly not of the nobility. The young man was taking on two at a time. A [Witch] with a blank expression was hanging back, watching.
“That’s right. You want to play, Miss [Lady]? And you? [Witch]-girl?”
Grev addressed Nanette and Eliasor with a gap-toothed grin. It slipped slightly and he looked towards the stage.
“Do you even play chess?”
Eliasor had been taught by Zanthia, but she was surprised this boy knew. Grev looked at her.
“I was taught by the best player’n the world. Come on. Step up and play! We’ll put some money down on it! Anything in your pockets if you don’t have coins.”
Those were fighting words. Nanette held back, but the others moved in, ready to test Grev’s boasts. Eliasor was first to find out he hadn’t been lying.
 
—-
 
And then the Players of Celum took to the stage. And those who thought that the party was decent realized they hadn’t seen nothing yet.
A [Witch] took to the stage as Macbeth began. Instantly, Wiskeria, Eloise, and a number of [Witches] stared at the poor [Actress]. The nobles turned.
“So this is the play I’ve heard so—”
One of the [Lords] of the House of El exclaimed before his voice went dead. He spoke on, then looked around, miffed.
A Terland couple experienced the same thing as they entered Eltistiman’s [Cone of Silence]. The air turned dark around the stage and those who wished to attend the play found comfortable, padded seats or the grass was waiting for them.
The Players of Celum existed in a world of their own—audible from afar, but with a theatre set up.
A copy of the [Grand Theater]. And when Wesle strode onto the stage—more people turned and drifted over. Curious about the famous play.
What a grand day. Midmorning and the party began. It would be a long day. The longest day.
Behind the curtains, the Players were preparing, focused only on making every play the best. The B-team waited; they’d rotate in and out throughout the day, giving the [Actors] time to mingle and relax.
“Oh, Thomast! We have to see the play again! But do get me some unpoisoned wine! And the gelato! And—”
Bethal was tugging her husband to multiple places at once as the [Knights] half-followed. Half had been downed already; Ser Kerrig was sitting at a Go board and playing one of House Veltras’ guards. Of course, many of the security were spaced out, but they’d trade places with those attending the party.
And there was a camel you could ride! And an Oliphant over there and—
Hethon and Sammial were running about as Jericha raced after them, trying to do and see everything at once. They were laughing, and people were meeting each other around them in hilarious or strange encounters that Hethon would have happily watched if there weren’t all these entertainments!
 
—-
 
“Tall one, aren’t you?”
Dawil stared up at Durene. She turned around—and around—then stared down. The Dwarf looked up at the half-Troll girl. The [Paladin] nearly dropped her drink.
“Oh, dead gods! Are you a Dwarf?”
“Never met one of us? You a half-Troll? Name’s Dawil.”
“D-Durene.”
They shook hands as they stared at each other.
 
—-
 
Lady Ieka stomped through the crowd, looking for Bethal so she could shove the [Lady] into something. She saw the [Lady] standing in front of a cake and advanced.
“Lady Imarris, isn’t it? Ah, I didn’t know from behind. A pleasure again.”
She turned at the familiar voice.
“Erill?”
Lord Erill Fienst bowed slightly. He regarded Ieka with a touch of wariness, and she felt her heart jump for a second. But then she smiled.
“A delight to see you, Lord Erill. I see you made it to this gathering as well?”
“Per your request. I’m simply happy all this business with that damned Circle is done with.”
A warning tone. Ieka froze—then nodded.
“Quite. And who have we here?”
She stared a touch blankly at the tall, bearded fellow with a smile. He looked like…an adventurer?
“Typhenous, at your service, Lady Imarris. Gold-rank adventurer. May I say, I have been such a huge admirer of House Imarris’ magical acumen?”
“Oh—er—thank you.”
Bethal moved away and Ieka lost her opportunity for revenge. She regarded Typhenous a bit warily. Why was this Gold-rank adventurer courting the nobility? Or rather—why was Erill allowing it?
There were any number of socialites trying to bother the Flowers of Izril, but normally they were brushed off—Ulva was surrounded by Golems who practically threw anyone trying to bother her into the crowd. She was making for the gelato—with the intention of stealing a [Confectioner]. She wasn’t the only one.
And yet—Lord Erill very politely nodded to Typhenous.
“Griffon Hunt, a team employed by his Majesty. I don’t know if you know of them…? I was rather thinking we should sequester a table. Or perhaps watch the plays?”
Typhenous chuckled. Ieka stared blankly at the [Merchant Lord] and her eyes flickered.
[Memo]. You’ll want to listen to this, Ieka.
Her eyes flickered to Erill’s face. And she noticed no less than Lord Deilan El drifting over with two of his house.
“Lord Erill. Lady Imarris. And who is this?”
Deilan looked directly at Erill as Typhenous swept off his hat to bow deeply. None of the others—and two more nobles came over, one from Terland, one independent—knew why Erill was throwing [Memos] around. But the [Merchant Lord] was known for his intuition. And all those attracted were of a certain…interest.
“I have, in fact, seen all the performances performed by the Players of Celum. I encourage everyone to watch, of course. At least one play!”
“Really?”
Ieka’s brows rose higher. This was a well-connected Gold-rank adventurer! Some of the other nobles also blinked. Typhenous was smiling.
“Indeed. Well, I had the great…great honor to stay at the inn where they first originated.”
For a moment, he looked old and tired and—then he smiled again.
The streets had their own way of doing things. As with Grev—well, the master of such things was currently talking with the head of one of the Five Families and half a dozen other nobles.
“In fact, this inn—The Wandering Inn—was an extraordinary place. Truly. I don’t know if you’ve heard of the [Innkeeper]. Or the wondrous inventions she came out with?”
Ieka had heard that she was dead. Typhenous looked around, then produced something.
