The longest day of the year was a special moment.
A time of meetings. A time of power. Of magic.
On the day of the Summer Solstice, The Wandering Inn was filled with the grieving. A lost young woman who was neither dreaming, nor dead.
Disaster. And broken promises.
Lyonette had not left the inn. She had not gone for the great party in Riverfarm. This was not a time for parties. No one else had gone, either.
Maviola El was dead.
This day, the sun rose, burning with the colors of glory. A flame so distant. That burned all the brighter because one day, it too would go out.
It burned across more than one world.
This day was an important day.
 
—-
 
Daly Sullivan, no relation to the [Popstar] of Terandria, was in a bad mood today. He was restlessly checking the new, prototype steel-limb crossbow. Paige had installed sights.
Crossbows. He stared at it, listening to the aggrieved argument. He scratched at his arm and stared, for a second, at the bug bites covering his skin.
Over seventy on his body. He looked around and snapped.
“Someone toss me the bug balm, would you? I’m starting to itch again.”
Someone did. Daly cursed as he slathered the ointment on his skin. The rest of the Bushrangers were equally as chewed up. Their bug spray—in fact, charms—had gone dead during this last mission. They’d been eaten alive in the undergrowth while trying to remove an infestation of baby Hydras.
‘Baby’. Hah. Daly had been in a foul mood. And that was before trying to kill a regenerating monster, let alone dismember it until the flesh stopped regrowing.
At least they had bags of holding these days. Small mercies.
However, he was in a bad mood for more than just that reason. Someone was dead.
He did not know her. And yet—he knew her. The shock had not been followed by deep grieving. He had never spoken, actually, physically, spoken to Erin Solstice.
But she was from home. And she…
A foul mood had engulfed the Bushrangers, who were privy to some details of the classified information in the United Nations company. No one wanted to start keeping secrets, but leaking the fact that another Earther had died wasn’t great for morale. And that Joseph was actually from Earth and there were more?
Well, she might not be dead. But his dark mood continued. He heard it in the air as Dawson, Kami, Tofte, and the others aired their grievances. At last, Daly couldn’t stand it any longer.
“Oi. All of you, shut up and stop whinging.”
The others looked up, glaring his way. The Captain of the Bushrangers glared back, in no mood to be nice.
“What the fuck are you so mad about anyways, eh, Dawson? You’re mad because you didn’t get to haze Luan and the new recruits? Take that—shove it up your arse and jump in the harbor.”
“Come on, Daly. We’ve been fighting and adventuring for months. Luan just gets to stroll on in and—”
“Show all of you up? Looks like it. Me included.”
Daly scratched at another bite, irritably. Luan had gone off to get them treated by Geneva; he’d been worried one was infected.
He’d gotten eaten more than the others. A hundred bites, poor guy. But some healing potion or tonic would clear him up. Daly was only waiting to make sure he had no budding infection. Take the potion when you were in Geneva’s presence. Luan had first go at it.
No one was happy in the Bushrangers—at least, the ‘old guard’. Old guard, as if they had done this for years.
“It’s just not fair. We have Skills.”
“Oh yeah?”
They were mad because Luan had volunteered to help with their mission hunting Hydras. Not people—but he’d been out of sorts since he kept having to dodge [Bounty Hunters] who wanted that stupid claim on him the Iron Vanguard had posted. The only way to overturn it was to match the bounty and the United Nations company didn’t have the funds.
So he’d come with some prospective new rangers. Someone had gotten it in their heads to make it a tough mission. Weed out the idiots who thought this was fun and games—especially those who hadn’t seen actual fighting and been found after the United Nations company settled in Talenqual.
It was stupid—but there was some logic to it. Daly had told Siri and Tofte to ensure it didn’t get out of hand. Sure enough, the bugs, the hiding and stalking for two days had made some of the new recruits give up the moment they got back to the city. The Bushrangers had done a forced march of nearly thirty kilometres there, and again on the way back.
No huge packs, bags of holding and stamina potions—but still. It was exhausting, especially the lifting of Hydra meat, fighting, setting up traps—
No Rustless Vanguard or the other teams that sometimes joined with theirs for this mission either. Dullahans moved too slow, and the Hydras hadn’t necessitated splitting the rewards. So, a no-fun, all-Human experience. That Drake and some of the ‘non-Earth’ volunteers had been left behind as well on clinic guard-duty to allow the Earthers to be themselves.
What made Dawson and the others so hopping mad was that despite not having Skills and being almost as green as the other prospective adventurers, Luan had marched there and back, and outdone all of them in terms of keeping his energy up and being the most active member.
“He was going to the Olympics, Dawson. What’s there not to get?”
“As a paddler!”
“Say that when he’s about and he’ll smack you. Say it closer to me and I’ll do it. So what? He was in better shape than we are now. Still is.”
The others grumbled. It amazed Daly. He’d seen how fast Luan was on the water. They all had. You wanted to say that Dawson—decently in shape, good guy most of the time—was a match for one of the world’s top athletes? Even if that was in water?
“You know those terrible rugby players, basketball, baseball, football—whatever you want? The ones who’re in the worst teams in the sports leagues, Dawson?”
“Want me to start a list, Daly? What’s the point?”
“You bring them to a college team. High school team. And they’ll destroy the competition. And that’s the bad players. Luan’s in good shape. Deal with it.”
The Bushrangers stopped quarrelling as the door opened. Luan emerged, bug bite-less and stretching.
“Next. Sorry it took so long. Turns out…we have leeches.”
“Fucking hell.”
Dawson exploded. The others checked themselves. Luan grimaced.
“Below the skin. Get a thorough check out. I’m off. Daly—your team’s got nerves of steel. I only wish you had skin like that.”
“Get us some Stitchfolk and we will. Thanks, Luan.”
The [Expert Rower] smiled as he grasped Daly’s arm. The [Axe Warrior] resisted the urge to scratch at his bites or stare at his skin. Geneva could not come fast enough; Siri was in the checkup room like a shot. Luan shuddered.
“I’m not doing that again. And I think those idiots chasing me gave up. I’ll do a delivery. You have my sincerest respect.”
Had he been taking lessons from Ken? Or listening in? Or perhaps that was just Luan. The others fell silent as he bade farewell and jogged out the door. Heading to the harbor. Daly rubbed at an arm, thought he saw a strange, subtle bump under his flesh and stood up.
“Okay. Everyone, pipe down and let’s draw lots who’s getting into Geneva next. Last person picked, we’ll give them a mercy by letting them set themselves on fire.”
The others clustered around. Tofte moaned.
“I hate this continent. Why can’t we take aquatic jobs with Luan?”
“Crelers in the water, Tofte.”
“I hate this world.”
 
—-
 
Luan jogged down to the harbor where his boat was in storage. He paid the [Harbormistress] his rental fee; he’d already gotten a juicy delivery request. Gold, for an experimental scroll in Talenqual. He was going to drop off some of Geneva’s pre-made cures in their doses at the same time.
He’d meant what he said to Daly. Endless respect for his group. Enough that he didn’t mind the hazing; he’d had it done before in other groups. Plus—they’d failed.
He got into his boat, looking around for [Bounty Hunters]. But he’d gotten sharp and no one had really noticed he was in the city as far as he could tell. The Bushrangers had arrived before dawn today and headed straight for the clinic.
Quickly, Luan got in the boat and began to, well, row. Two strokes and he was shooting past an incoming ship. The [Captain] of the low-riding cutter whistled as he saw the City Runner flash past.
“Now that’s a fast boat! Who’s that Sea Runner?”
“Luan the Rower. Talenqual.”
“Write him down—are those enchanted oars?”
Luan grinned as he passed out of earshot. Not enchanted. Just skill. Just practice. Just Earth technology and magic, making the boat and equipment light as—if not lighter—than the top-of-the-line stuff from his world.
And Skills. He skimmed out of the harbor, moving faster than any other craft, even those with magic wind in their sails. They waved at him, and the [Rower] raised one hand for a second, calling out.
He felt safer now. Once he had a head start, the [Bounty Hunters] usually gave up. Luan sighed as he left the jungle-swamps of Talenqual’s land behind and headed into the rivers and sea. No less dangerous; there were giant crocodiles, sea monsters, sea-[Raiders], and yes, Crelers in the water.
But it beat leeches under your skin. He shuddered and checked his gear. Crossbow, a few artifacts—a map, and so on. Luan began to row, using a magical compass as a guide, and mirrors to check around him.
However…he never noticed the group trailing him. Because the second craft was invisible.
 
—-
 
…And then Ryoka Griffin woke up.
She had been dreaming. Unhappy dreams, nightmares, amid the nonsensical ones. Of running. Of Ferin.
Of falling. Even in her dreams, she knew she had to make it. She was crawling along the ground, fighting for every inch of ground. And she knew not how far—or how much longer.
She had to make it.
In her sleep, the young woman had been straining so hard the rest of the world seemed far off. She was reaching for the vial. Trying to lift it upwards. Only—it wasn’t Tyrion Veltras who reached for it. It was Mrsha.
Then Lyonette, face disapproving. Erin—
Ivolethe.
A voice spoke, as Ryoka was fumbling with bloody fingers. Ferin was trying to capture it with a loop of wire. It didn’t really make sense—but she was knocking it aside as it sliced off her fingers with its sharpness, trying to pick up—
“Pick up what?”
Someone asked. Ryoka had no answer. The voice was curious.
“You nearly died, didn’t you?”
That was definitely so. Ryoka’s closed eyes flickered. In her dream, she saw Erin bending, smiling, asking her.
“But it’s time to wake up. You’ve been sleeping too long.”
She was awake. The voice disagreed. And after a second—it sounded peeved.
“I want to speak to you. Stop saying ‘no’. Wake up. I command you! We’re nearly there. Stop dreaming!”
“Sammy—Jericha said she’s healing. We should leave her alone.”
Another voice. Suddenly, the first was younger. The second older, but more hesitant. The first made a foot-stomping sound. He coughed.
“She’s going to miss her own party! Did you hear me? I said—”
Ryoka had just found the vial. But it had turned into Ivolethe’s statue again. She let it drop into the wind—
“Wake up!”
It was an order. A command, however young. The power of an aura. Ryoka’s eyes—
—opened. She inhaled.
And woke up.
The two young [Lords] recoiled as the young woman sat up, her black hair flying about as she reached for the vial—then a healing potion—then—
Sammial backed up a step. Hethon, his older brother, stared at Ryoka Griffin. The City Runner, his mysterious savior. The one who had brought the cure, who looked maybe Chandrarian or Drathian and had no background.
No levels.
She looked around, dazed. Then tried to leap forwards. Since she was lying under bed sheets in the inn, she tangled and spectacularly went over the footrest of the bed into a crashing heap.
“Wow.”
Sammial breathed. He’d never seen someone face plant like that. She had not failed to disappoint, and it was the first five seconds of her waking up.
“Wh—where am I? What—”
Ryoka looked around, dazed. Hethon tried to bow—Sammial ran up.
“You’re awake! I knew it! Wait until I tell father what I did!”
He was going to be in such big trouble. Hethon saw the Wind Runner’s eyes focus on him. She stared.
“Who’re you?”
“I’m Hethon. This is Sammial.”
The boy was trying to untangle Ryoka and only making it worse. She stared at the two of them.
“Who?”
The two young boys faltered.
“The…ones you saved? The ones you brought the cure for?”
“Oh.”
She’d forgotten their names! The young woman tried to hide it at once, but it was obvious. Hethon exchanged a look of dismay with his brother. And here they’d been told she was a brave person who’d come all this way for them! Certainly, father had insisted on the best [Healers] and even taken them all this way.
“Er—Hethon and Sammial…Veltras?”
Ryoka’s mind started to focus on the facts. The two young [Lords] nodded.
“I’m Sammy. Sammy, not Sammial. This is Hethon. My older brother.”
Sammial added, to make sure she got it right. The young woman looked like she needed all the help she could get.
“I made it? I did it! Did I? Oh, dead gods. What happened to—”
She lurched up—fell down. Her legs and arms were weak from, well, nearly a week and a half of inactivity.
So many days had passed. She had no idea. Ryoka looked around, as if Hawk, Salamani, and Tritel and Ci were right behind her.
“The other Couriers. They were right with me when the [Assassins]—Ferin—what happened to them?”
She looked at them. Hethon blinked. Sammial wrinkled his forehead, as if missing a step that should have been there. There was no ‘milord’ or ‘sire’. But he answered, as if she were a peer of the realm.
“The—the Couriers fought bravely, Miss Griffin. House Veltras saw to them. They almost all survived.”
“Almost?”
Hethon wavered. Tactfulness in the face of death was not something the young boy had ever had to learn. Sammial—didn’t even try.
“The Moonlight Rider died. But his horse lived. He sacrificed himself for the horse. Everyone was talking about it. You nearly died too. You were shot by three crossbow bolts. Jericha said that if one was an inch to the left, you’d have never walked again.”
Ryoka stared at him. Abruptly, she sat down. Hethon and Sammial realized she was in her undergarments and turned their backs instantly.
“Tritel’s dead?”
Hethon peeked over his shoulder. The Wind Runner’s face was a sudden mask of grief. And—it looked too familiar. Guilt and grief.
The worst was yet to come. But neither one knew that.
“Tritel—was anyone else…? Hawk. Salamani? The [Witches]? My friends?”
