She turned to them, her eyes flickering as she realized they might not know. Sammial turned around, then turned back for her modesty.
“All safe. The Guild of Assassins tried to kill some of the others. Like your [Farmer] friend.”
“Lupp?”
She shouted his name. Hethon winced. Ryoka went up again—
“Don’t worry! House Veltras saved them! They protected everyone! The Guild’s strongholds are burning and father says he’ll hunt down the Circle of Thorns—those that haven’t surrendered already.”
Sammial boldly informed Ryoka. She stared at the two [Lords]. Around the rather rich guest room of…an inn? A shuttered glass window, the [Lords]—Ryoka’s mind began to piece more together.
I’ve been saved. I’m somewhere in safety. Lupp is safe. Lupp was in danger?
Tritel’s dead. I have to—to—how did Hawk even get there?
Ferin must be dead. Or…
More thoughts occurred. Grief, guilt—but sudden urgency, too. She had to get ready for the party! Tell Erin and Mrsha and the others she was alive! How long had she been out? Ryoka looked around—then stared at the two boys.
“…Why are your backs turned?”
They were facing the other way. Hethon muttered, the tips of his ears flushed.
“You’re half-naked, Miss.”
Ryoka looked at her undergarments.
“Ah.”
She grabbed the blanket. Looked around for clothes; there were none to hand.
“Where’s my bag of holding? My gear?”
“Jericha has it. I’ll get her.”
Hethon marched towards the door. Ryoka blinked, swaying. She felt so…weak! Well, she’d been shot. Fallen out of the sky, run for days on end—
“Maviola? Saliss?”
“Both fine. The Drake went home. Father says it’s almost a shame he didn’t die since he’s the enemy, but he’s offering money for everyone who helped.”
Ryoka relaxed a bit. Sammial peeked, seemed to decide the blanket had restored Ryoka’s modesty, and turned about.
“You saved—”
He coughed.
“Saved—”
Ryoka heard the wheezing sound. Familiar—she saw the young boy double over and reached out for him as he was struck by a fit of gasping coughs for air.
“I’m fine! Don’t touch me!”
He shoved away her hand. No—his voice had stopped her. Sammial inhaled, his cheeks flushed. Ryoka had heard a rattling cough in his lungs.
“The poison?”
“Father says I would have been worse if not for you. I have a [Healer] now they’re not all cowards.”
Sammial panted for breath. Ryoka opened her mouth—but he had decided it was his turn to ask questions.
“You saved me. Me and Hethon. Father will reward you for that. But I want to know why you did it. Was it really for this party?”
“That’s right. I—needed a favor.”
“So it wasn’t for fame or money? That’s what some people said.”
Sammial informed Ryoka with a child’s bluntness. She shook her head, slightly.
“I just needed a favor. And—it was the right thing to do.”
She felt embarrassed, saying it like that. Sammial stared at her. And like a child, he nodded.
“So you were brave because it was for us? But you didn’t even remember our names.”
“I just woke up.”
Why was she talking to this kid? Ryoka looked around—then decided to wait for clothes and ‘Jericha’. Sammial wrinkled his brow.
“Would you have done it for anyone?”
“Maybe.”
“So not just because we’re important?”
“I guess? It wasn’t purely altruistic.”
“I don’t know what that means. Explain it. And stop using complicated words!”
Ryoka blinked again. Was he—was that an aura? Or was she imagining stuff?
“It means—‘doing good things for nothing’. I did want something from your father. Where is he? Where am I?”
Sammial ignored the question. He stared at Ryoka, looking at her.
“So you brought the cure because you wanted a favor and to do the right thing? Do you want gold?”
If you’re offering, I’ll take it. Ryoka half-shrugged. Sammial tilted his head.
“Are you lying? I don’t feel you’re lying. I can tell, you know.”
“I’m not. I did it because it was the right thing to do and because I needed a favor only your father could help me with.”
Ryoka half-rose. At least to look out the window.
“Did you help father because you’re a slut?”
The Wind Runner paused, one hand on the windowsill.
“…What?”
Sammial was looking at her innocently.
“That’s what the other City Runner called you. She said you did this only to seduce father. And that you got all the other people killed because you were a selfish, greedy bitch. That’s what she said. Then Jericha hit her and tossed her out. I got to watch the guard kick her out. She kept coming back so they had to drub her. She was nasty.”
He said that with some satisfaction. Ryoka’s mouth moved.
“Which City Runner?”
“I don’t know. Purse-a?”
“Persua?”
“Yep. She had the cure, but she was late. Father told Jericha to offer her some money, but she threw a fit and called you all kinds of names. What’s a slut? No one will tell me, even Hethon. Because he doesn’t know either.”
Ryoka’s mouth opened and closed. Persua had been here with the cure? How uncharacteristically brave. And—thrown out and beaten?
Well…even in the darkest night, there was a silver lining indeed. Ryoka shook her head.
“I’m not a—don’t use that word.”
She almost smiled at the thought of Persua mouthing off and—dead gods, why didn’t I wake up for that? Then Ryoka was reminded of something.
Whore. Only, it wasn’t someone calling Ryoka that. It was something the fae had once said to Ceria…
The fae. The party. Ryoka’s smile vanished.
“I have to go. Thank you for telling me, er—Sammy. Is your father…?”
She strode for the door, adjusting the blanket so it wouldn’t reveal anything. The boy blocked the door.
“Stop! I didn’t give you permission to leave! I have more questions! Can you control the wind? You cannot leave a [Lord]’s presence without my permission!”
Ryoka felt someone tug on her shoulders and legs invisibly. She looked back at Sammial. He was scowling at her with regal displeasure.
What a little brat. Ryoka was reminded of herself. She shook her head.
“Sorry, kid. I’ve got to go.”
Sammial pointed.
“You will stay! I command it!”
Ryoka walked to the door, opened it a crack, and looked outside. Sammial stared at her back, open-mouthed.
“I said—why isn’t it working?”
“Sorry. But I have to know—”
The Wind Runner swung the door all the way out and stepped through it. Then she saw a woman—a [Mage]?—striding up the stairs behind the second, older boy. Hethon Veltras and Jericha stared at Ryoka. Ryoka blinked.
“Oh. Um. Hello?”
The aide to Tyrion Veltras looked Ryoka up and down, mildly shocked. She saw Sammial stomping his foot behind her. Ryoka looked at Jericha. The woman gazed at Ryoka, then at her slipping blanket. She offered Ryoka a change of clothes.
“You are awake, Miss Griffin. Just in time. Lord Sammial, Lord Hethon, please exit the room and allow Miss Ryoka Griffin time to change. I shall inform Lord Veltras at once.”
“Ah. Sorry.”
Ryoka took the clothes. Sammial reluctantly left the room. Hethon stared at his mysterious savior. Jericha closed the door.
 
—-
 
A minute later, Ryoka was just buttoning the shirt as the door opened. She was glad that whomever had chosen the clothes—Jericha?—hadn’t chosen the most restrictive clothing.
Probably because she was a Runner.
The woman entered before Ryoka. The City Runner turned from the full-body mirror. She had been checking herself. Seen the scars where the crossbow bolts had gone through her. She had one just to the left of her belly button and down, mirrored on her back.
It didn’t matter. And it did, a tiny bit. She’d worry about it later.
“I’m er—sorry. I wasn’t thinking and—”
After she’d been given more time to think, Ryoka felt like she might have made a poor impression greeting Jericha half-naked like that. But the woman just bowed slightly as she shut the door.
“Lord Hethon and Lord Sammial are eager to speak with you, Miss Ryoka Griffin. Lord Veltras had been on his morning ride, but he will doubtless be impatient to do the same. I have had a breakfast set for you—and I would like to speak before you descend.”
She looked at Ryoka, with that courteous impassiveness of Magnolia’s maids, servants like Reynold. But there was something behind her gaze. A number of things, chief of which was appraisal. And other emotions.
If Ryoka could have read them—it would have been curiosity. And sympathy.
The Wind Runner could not. She only felt uneasy.
“I uh, didn’t mean to expose myself—not that I did—to—”
“Lord Sammial is impetuous. He should not have tried to wake you with his aura. It could have gone wrong, but your timing was impeccable, Miss Griffin. Lord Veltras might have attempted to do the same himself.”
“Oh. Good?”
Jericha nodded. She studied Ryoka again. Then she bowed, crisply.
“Forgive me, I have not introduced myself. I am Lord Tyrion’s personal aide-de-camp and bodyguard. Jericha Synthel of House Veltras, [High Mage] and [Noble Aide]. I, and House Veltras, are in your debt, Miss Ryoka Griffin.”
The Wind Runner stared.
“Oh—I’m Ryoka. Ryoka Griffin. Um, Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Er—[Wind Runner].”
Jericha’s brows rose smoothly.
“You are not, Miss Griffin. Forgive me. We took off your artifacts for magical healing. Nor are you of Reizmelt. Or Izril.”
The young woman hesitated. Oh shit. Jericha went on.
“Rest assured, Lord Veltras is purely grateful. It is my duty and that of House Veltras’ staff to look into such matters. Your friends, as Lords Hethon and Sammial might have informed you, are safe…from the Guild of Assassins and Circle of Thorns.”
Her gaze flickered. Ryoka saw it, but she was too busy being flustered.
“Thank you. Truly.”
“It is the least we can do. The Circle will be eradicated. The Guild of Assassins will pay.”
A dark flash across Jericha’s eyes. Ryoka gulped. Not someone to anger. She’d already noticed enchanted armor and the wand. Ryoka cast around for something to say.
“I’m grateful, truly. I don’t mean to be rude—but I’d like my friends to know I’m fine.”
“We kept them apprised of your condition. I shall assist you in expediting news of your recovery. Similarly, we have treated all those who participated in the delivery that we could find. Recompense is being paid for all incurred expenses—with the exception of the Drake, whom I understand had an outstanding bill of astonishing magnitude. However, Lord Veltras will fairly reward all those who came to his aid.”
Oh. They really were grateful. Ryoka blinked.
“T-thank you. You’ve done everything. I—how long have I been out?”
Another look. Jericha exhaled.
“A week and a half, nearly.”
“A week and a—oh no!”
Ryoka jerked. That was practically—she whirled.
“I—I’ve—I’ve failed! I was going to ask—maybe there’s still time. I need a favor! I know this is wrong, and Lord Veltras is a [Lord] of the Five Families, but when he arrives, do you think—?”
“Miss Ryoka Griffin.”
“—There’s this party. And I need one of the—three of the Five Families to attend! Is it the Summer Solstice?”
They were too far away. Ryoka began to hyperventilate. Jericha spoke again.
“Miss Griffin!”
Ryoka looked at her. Jericha had a mildly exasperated look on her face.
“If you would allow me to finish—Lord Veltras received your request. He assented. He will attend this gathering with the [Emperor] of Riverfarm on the Summer Solstice. Which is today.”
“But we’re—too far.”
It was all the way back near Invrisil. Ryoka wanted to run. But her legs were jelly. She wanted to scream. All her plans! And she’d gotten—
Wait. Maviola. Magnolia? Tyrion? It was three! But they were so far away! Jericha pinched the bridge of her nose. She had spectacles.
“Miss Griffin. Please, listen. The Summer Solstice is today. Lord Tyrion Veltras received your wish to attend the party. Your waking was the only complication. However—you are in an inn less than forty miles from Riverfarm. We have been transporting you as you slept to arrive at the party in time.”
The City Runner’s head turned. Jericha gave her a small smile.
“…Oh.”
Ryoka’s heart was still beating wildly. But that—oh.
It was almost like other people could arrange things and keep to a schedule. It was almost like they were better than Ryoka at it. And it was also almost like she had decided to embarrass herself on purpose. But Ryoka didn’t need to work at it to be a master in her field. It was sheer, natural talent.
Noise from outside. Horses—Ryoka heard the din of a large number of them. Jericha glanced out the window.
“Lord Veltras has arrived. He will speak to you at breakfast; it is very early morning, you see. We should arrive within the hour at Riverfarm, after a short breakfast. However, I wish to…apprise you of a few details, Miss Griffin.”
Something was off about that statement. But Ryoka saw the last flicker in the professional façade. Everything had been going so well—
“What?”
The [High Mage] took a breath. And she looked uncomfortable for the first time. No—she had been from the beginning.
“…The party aside, issues of decorum, Lord Veltras’ safety and what you wished…no. No. Miss Griffin. You may wish to sit.”
“Is it Tritel and Ci? I—I know. Did anyone else…?”
Ryoka felt a sudden fear gripping her heart. Jericha just shook her head.
“Not on the delivery. Sit down, Miss Griffin. I received a missive for when you woke up nearly a week ago.”
“What? What does it say?”
Jericha produced a folded piece of paper. Ryoka unfolded it with shaking fingers. She noted the sender as she unfolded it.
The Wandering Inn, Liscor. From Erin? But the way—had something happened? [Assassins]? She looked up, searching Jericha’s face for anything.
“I have read the [Message] myself. Please—Miss Griffin.”
Jericha cleared her throat. Ryoka read. Her eyes skimmed—stuck. Went back up. Focused on a word.
The [Aide] stood there. Below, Hethon and Sammial ran as their [Bodyguards] kept everyone back in the screened inn to tell their father that Ryoka was awake! Lord Tyrion nodded as he dismounted. But he did not ascend yet. Jericha had told him too. And he did not know her.
But he understood.
Silence in the room. A minute. Two. Ryoka’s eyes were flickering down the page. Going back up. Reading again. The rest of her didn’t move. After four minutes, Jericha felt moved to speak.
“We—were unable to send aid to the inn. You see, it is not part of the north. We believed it was secure. We did have agents in Celum and Liscor watching the door. But it was—a Drake city.”
Hectval. An accident. A petty little raid.
Ryoka read down the letter Lyonette had sent to her. Up again.
