But someone did laugh. No. Laugh was too weak a word for it. They guffawed. They roared with laughter. Howled with it.
Hilarity! The others, nobles, dignitaries, looked around in horror, trying to move out of the way. Someone was laughing at Tyrion’s expense?
It was funny. But to laugh now was to laugh at the Five Families. Who would dare? Jericha reached for her wand and two of House Veltras’ guards drew their blades.
“Who dares to mock House V—”
The bared steel produced a ringing reply two dozen times over. The crowd parted. And there—Ryoka saw a flash of color.
It was, of course…pink.
Lady Bethal Walchaís was doubled over in laughter, clinging to her husband. The Knights of the Petal surrounding her stood at the ready. Lady Bethal looked up and pointed.
“His face. Oh, Thomast. This is already everything I wanted!”
“Lady Bethal Walchaís?”
Ryoka felt stunned. She was here? Of course, Ryoka had sent an invitation to her. But to see her in the same spot as Tyrion…
“House Walchaís.”
Jericha muttered it like a curse. And lest you forget—Izril aside, Bethal stood on one side of a divide. With Magnolia Reinhart, who would have stood opposite Tyrion Veltras.
“Lady Bethal. Sir Thomast.”
“Lord Tyrion.”
The [Chevalier] bowed smoothly. Bethal waved a hand as she continued to chuckle.
“Delightful! And that is Miss Ryoka? We heard you were hurt! So delighted! Carry on, please! We’ll just be watching.”
‘We’? But look. Ryoka saw a group standing with Bethal. The Knights of the Rose, of course. She recognized Ser Kerrig. Welsca…
Dame Truvia would not be there. Ryoka felt another jerk. But then—someone in a yellow…tracksuit? Altered a bit, but—
Lady Pryde’s arms were bare, exposing some rather defined arms. She was watching Tyrion coolly with her escort. And then Ryoka felt it.
House Ulta. House Walchaís. House Veltras—even if it wasn’t the Five Families?
Hope blossomed in her chest. Tyrion himself looked surprised. He had known this party had more than his family and persuaded some of the nobility to join him. For instance, he saw Lord Pellmia standing at the opposite site of the reception and nodding to him with other nobles who had ridden with him. Lady Ieka glowered at Pryde and Bethal and stared at Ryoka urgently.
She’d done it. But what a mess of a party. House Veltras stood down, but they looked ready to draw on the [Knights]. It could be disastrous. She just hoped it was worth it.
“Lord Veltras. We apologize for the disruptions.”
Rie came forwards before anyone could interrupt a third time. She greeted him, the two young [Lords] who replied awkwardly, and then turned to Ryoka.
“And Miss Griffin. We have heard…of your loss. His Majesty would like to meet with you after Lord Veltras.”
“Of course. Lady Rie.”
Ryoka still felt stabbed. She wished, oh, how she wished Erin were here. Because—this was a moment worthy of Erin. If Erin had but been here, interrupting a third time with a chess game and a bowl of ice cream or something? Ryoka would have laughed herself sick.
But she wasn’t. Only her spirit was here. And it was her spirit…Ryoka’s eyes cleared. She looked at Lady Rie urgently.
“Lady Rie. I will meet with Laken. And—he has my eternal gratitude for all of this. I was—asleep. But—but—is Magnolia Reinhart here? And Grand Magus Eldavin?”
The name stirred the crowd. Grand Magus…? Ieka wished that her aunt were here. Valeterisa was going to throw an unholy fit, but she’d been chased away by all the needful socialization.
But Eldavin? Teriarch? Ryoka’s hopes were dashed by Lady Rie’s hesitant shake of the head.
“Lady Reinhart has not. Nor do I believe she will be. Excuse me, Ryoka—we have to introduce Lord Veltras more formally.”
No. Ryoka felt her heart lurch. But decorum or not—she grabbed Lady Rie’s arm.
“Eldavin. I need to speak to him. He’s not here? Are you sure? He’ll arrive, though.”
The people waiting listened intently. Nobility or not, they sensed this was an important conversation, breached dignity aside. Rie turned back with a pained expression.
“I’m sorry, Ryoka. But he will not be coming.”
“No, he will.”
Teriarch would heal Erin. No matter what he said. He had to. Another panacea—she’d let him put whatever geas he wanted on her. She’d do whatever it took! Besides—
He’d promised. Lady Rie was just mistaken. But then the [Lady] looked Ryoka in the eye. And Ryoka heard the second bad news of the day.
“He will not. Because he sent word via [Message] spell, Miss Griffin, tendering his regrets. He is unavoidably detained. At sea, I understand.”
Ryoka stood, swaying. Hethon backed up in case she threw up on him. And Ryoka understood the great tragedy of Dragons.
Not only did they do what they wanted—
They RSVP’d to let you know they weren’t coming.
“That’s it, then. The party’s going to fail. This—we don’t have enough.”
Tyrion stirred. Sammial, Hethon, Jericha—the listening nobility stirred. Not what you wanted to hear after you’d come all this way. But Ryoka looked around. She had one of the Five Families.
One. And she might have swung it on a technicality. If she had a Dragon to vouch for it. Without him? Ryoka felt a dread certainty that this was not enough. And because the fae’s magic was part belief—her certainty reinforced the failure.
She’d failed.
“Miss Ryoka! Would you please not say that right here? Right now?”
Rie could have happily killed Ryoka. But the young woman looked so faint that Rie steadied her instead.
“Did she just say the party was ruined? Well, I’m not leaving until I have cake. And someone explains that statue to me!”
Bethal murmured around. Pryde glowered at her.
“Would you be silent? And besides—cake is extremely bad for your figure, Bethal.”
“I’m not the one trying to lift pieces of metal, Pryde. The things you think are fun.”
Their loud argument drifted past Rie, who was trying to—well, everything was ruined. Lord Tyrion’s eyebrow was twitching, Jericha was staring at Ryoka worriedly, and at any moment Sammial would ask what a ‘slut’ was.
Complete destruction. Chaos. Failure. And without an Erin to make it right. At this time, who could make it worse but someone drily coughing.
“Excuse me. We have been waiting to greet House Veltras for quite some time. Please tell me this event is not cancelled. I would hate to have travelled this far for nothing.”
“I’m so sorry, Lord El. Miss Griffin is just overwrought—”
El? Ryoka’s head slowly rose. The great weight on her—she looked up and saw a scholarly nose and features. By that, rather than a warrior’s thickset build, someone who looked more at home investigating scrolls. Writing notes.
Overseeing the construction of a magical item.
The man looked at Ryoka quizzically. Both were sure that they had never met. Yet—one knew the other.
“You are Ryoka Griffin.”
“Y-yes. Who are you?”
The man smiled. His bodyguards and the nobility around him looked offended. Ryoka saw two dozen people, male and female, and their escorts. Even children. And she realized it was a group.
They were all nobility. The man inclined his head.
“I am Lord Deilan El, head of the House of El. I greet you, Wind Runner of Reizmelt, on behalf of Lady Maviola. I hope this occasion is not cancelled. Or her last wishes will have been for naught.”
The House of El? Ryoka stared. How—?
Maviola El. Lord Tyrion was turning to Deilan, recognizing the man belatedly at last. Deilan greeted Lord Tyrion.
“You received my missive, Lord Deilan?”
“As a matter of fact, Lord Tyrion, the House of El was already planning on the Riverfarm event before now. We had received the invitation—but it was a letter from our House’s matriarch that moved us to certainty.”
“A letter?”
Deilan looked at Ryoka and half-smiled. He was the one who had spoken when he heard Maviola’s name. And grief—it was written across the House of El’s faces. Two dozen of their number had come with him, bringing over a hundred servants and escorts.
“Before her demise, Maviola El made preparations in the event of her death. She had…hoped to attend personally. But we promised to carry out her will regardless.”
Two of the Five Families stood there. A number of House Veltras’ nobility were already here; Sammial pointed out a [Hawk Lady]—an aunt, conversing with a huge, slightly odorous man.
Lord Gralton Radivaek. A few panting dogs raced about. And Ryoka felt something in her head. In her chest.
Hope.
Lord Deilan and Lord Tyrion looked at each other, and then at Ryoka.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin. I believe you needed three of the Five Families present for your party.”
“How did you know…?”
She looked at Tyrion. The [Lord] glanced at Jericha. The [Aide] sighed.
“Miss Griffin. When you did not wake up, we communicated with Emperor Laken Godart as to your wishes. We have known Lord Deilan will arrive. And there is at least one Wellfar, present.”
“But I needed—”
The heads of each family. Ryoka bit it back. It seemed so childish and pedantic after two had arrived. But those were the requirements. Tyrion looked at her. Lord Deilan lowered his spectacles, half-moon rather than Jericha’s full ones. He finished Ryoka’s sentence.
“—the head of three of the Five Families, correct?”
Ryoka looked at him. Heart jolting along. And then she saw him smile.
Someone murmured. The ranks of Riverfarm’s forces, the nobility, were thrust aside. Ryoka’s head rose. She saw Durene edging back from a figure that eclipsed even her.
A giant gemstone instead of a face, smooth, turning and glowing softly. The War Golem advanced. And more, smaller ones, spread out. The Wind Runner heard a murmur.
She saw a double-line of bodyguards. Flashing enchantments. And something like an open sedan chair lower. The figure who sat on it touched the ground warily, as if expecting it to open up beneath her.
Next to Lord Deilan, Zedalien and the other members of the House of El bowed. Sammial and Hethon were urged to do so. Ryoka looked around and realized everyone was bowing.
The woman wasn’t—old. At least, not as old as Maviola had been in truth. Gresaria. She could have been in her sixties, which was far from old!
But she looked aged. Worn. And terribly frightened. Not immediately, but in a way that defined her life. She paused just past the wall of Golems and her personal escort.
“I would not have come to such an…event. Especially given the dangers suggested. However. Both Lord Deilan and Lord Tyrion prevailed upon me to join this occasion. And I will not have it said that the House of Terland was ever made up of cowards.”
The woman looked at Ryoka Griffin curiously. The Wind Runner realized she hadn’t knelt. She tried to do so. Her legs practically folded up under her.
“Am I—excuse me, milady. But am I speaking to…?”
Ulva Terland inclined her head silently. Her hair, made dead white too soon, reflected the wrinkles of her face. Ulva Terland, once a twin of Petria Terland.
Head of House Terland.
Three heads of the Five Families stood together. Tyrion, rigid as could be. Deilan, face troubled by grief and the uncertainties of his new station. Ulva—uncertain. But resolved.
“I have come to see my nightmares. And to participate in this great event. So. Do three of the Five Families not stand here, girl? Or is it only Magnolia Reinhart who would complete us? I do not see her here.”
The gathered stirred. And Ryoka Griffon looked around. Her head spun. And she saw.
Faces she had taken to just be staff, or Riverfarm’s folk. No. The escort, aside from the army and some of the highest-ranking members were Riverfarm.
The rest? Nobility.
Lord Sanito Alman. Lady Edere, looking tearful and awed by turns.
Lord Ranga, still wearing white for the [Innkeeper].
Nobility near or about Invrisil.
Lady Bethal. Lady Pryde. And behind them, practically surrounded by some of the eligible bachelors—and some married men—
Lady Wuvren. Next to her, an older woman with a flock of younger [Ladies], some little more than children. Counterparts to the curious group of [Witches] with hats.
Lady Eliasor Melissar had been told to stay away from the kindly [Tea Witch] by Lady Zanthia. She did not know why. And she stared at Ryoka Griffin with a great deal of curiosity.
Across from them, more familiar faces, if not to Ryoka, than the others. And some she knew full well.
Lord Gralton. Lord Pellmia.
And then—
Lord Yitton Byres and his wife, Shallel. They had just missed the Horns of Hammerad, who had ridden out to give battle to the Guild of Assassins. But one child had returned.
Ylawes Byres and his team had come. The [Knight]’s head rose. He offered Ryoka a salute. So did the Emergency City Runner with the crossbow.
Delanay d’Artien, and his colorful family, all dressed with sheer style.
The Flowers of Izril had gathered here, in greater profusion than anyone could remember in a decade. Enemies and allies alike. Ryoka Griffin looked around.
House Valerund! House Walchaís! House El.
And an [Emperor]. Ulva Terland’s voice was soft.
“Is this enough, Runner?”
Ryoka looked up at her. Then she bowed her head. When she rose—it was with all the intent in the world.
The Dragon was gone. Magnolia Reinhart was missing. Erin and Maviola were dead.
But the party awaited. And the fae. Ryoka Griffin thought of her friend.
Her friends.
“Yes, Milady Terland. I believe it is. I thank you. Let this day be a day we shall never forget.”
One way or another—
It would be.
 
—-
 
Some had come. Not the beating heart of The Wandering Inn. Not Numbtongue, or Mrsha or Lyonette—
But some had come. People who had been on the way.
Like the Players of Celum. Jasi embraced Ryoka, having had the presence to not charge at her the moment she saw her. Wesle was in tears.
“I don’t know how we’ll perform. It’ll be a ruined show—and in front of the entire—entire—”
Emme trailed off. Ryoka felt Jasi sob into her shoulder. Kilkran and some of the others couldn’t even leave their rooms.
“Did it really happen, Ryoka? We weren’t there! It doesn’t seem possible!”
“I—she’s not dead.”
“She seems pretty dead to me!”
Andel clenched his fists.
“How would you even—and that Drake city isn’t burning down right now?”
That was how Maviola El had died. That kind of rage. Ryoka just let go of Jasi.
“Erin got you to perform?”
“She told us to. If we’d known how big this event would be—we’d have accepted rather than declined to begin with!”
“I don’t think anyone knew it would be…”
Ryoka stared past the Players. If it had been a lighter time, oh, what a moment this would be.
“Wuvren. You look well.”
“Ulva! I haven’t seen you at a gathering like this in ages! But you look dreadful. You must try to get out more, my dear.”
