Wuvren looked like she was a daughter or granddaughter addressing her elder. Instead—you had to remember that Wuvren was a bit older than Ulva. Behind her, Pryde was…flexing…as she spoke with Gralton.
“I’ll lend you a set. You see? We have a contest with the Walled Cities.”
“Huh. And you just push at them?”
“Technique, Gralton. Technique.”
“Lord Byres. I haven’t spoken to you since the siege. And this is your son. Ylawes Byres? I have heard much of your achievements.”
The [Knight] bowed. His grief-stricken face did not stop him from keeping to his manners.
“Lord Veltras. It is an honor. But I believe we have been in proximity recently. My sister and I were close enough to you, but we did not meet.”
Tyrion’s eyebrows rose slightly.
“Indeed. Where was this?”
“Ylawes—”
Yitton received an elbow in the chest from his wife. Ylawes glanced up.
“The Walls of Liscor, I believe. I was in a fine position to see the trebuchets firing upon us. I blocked one of the shots myself.”
“Ah. You were…there?”
“With a number of innocent civilians. Sir. I look forwards to tendering my greetings to Emperor Godart. Forgive me—I have just lost a friend I held in great esteem. So my words are slightly blunt.”
That was the level of conversation Ryoka wasn’t listening to. She was speaking to the others.
“You have to perform. And make it one for the history books, Wesle, Jasi, Emme. You have to perform. You know the guests are…special?”
“Winter Sprites?”
Ryoka stirred. Jasi sniffed.
“I was there with Erin. And—his Majesty told us in confidentiality. He knows you, Ryoka?”
“He’s a friend of Erin’s. Or…would have been. Listen. You have to perform.”
“I don’t know if I can cover this grief with a smile. But I could do a sad play—if there were one wretched enough for me.”
Wesle muttered. Ryoka looked at him.
“No. You have to be better than you ever have before. Wesle. Jasi. Perform your best. And there’s a chance…we’ll be able to bring Erin back.”
The Players of Celum looked at her. Lord Gralton tilted his head. Ryoka didn’t notice that, or the other listeners. It didn’t matter.
“You’re not making sense, Ryoka. Lyonette said there was a chance—”
“This is that chance. I put together this party for—it doesn’t matter. I have something new to do. Even if I have to throw it all to the wind, I’ll bring Erin back first if I can. But they must come. They must be entertained. This must be the greatest party ever. We have the guests. Now we need entertainment. A moment.”
“Are you being serious, Ryoka?”
The Wind Runner turned. She saw a huge, bald, bearded man with a throat worn by sobs. Kilkran. His eyes were red. But he had her shoulder in a fierce grip.
“So help me, but if you are lying to us in any way—I will show you wrath that Macduff never showed Macbeth!”
As threats went, it wasn’t the most impressive. But—Ryoka looked Kilkran in the eyes and then around at the other [Actors].
“Cast a truth spell if you want to. There is a chance. Just a chance. But you have to perform and get the other guests to arrive.”
“There’s a chance they won’t even show?”
Pralcem was astonished. But the others were regaining their spirit. Ryoka saw it. Emme’s head rose.
“Picky?”
“The most. Can you do it?”
“Are you—”
Wesle coughed. He looked around. Suddenly, the color was in his cheeks. His voice rose, and heads turned at that sound, that ineffable quality captured there.
“Are you serious, Ryoka Griffin? If there were one chance in a million—Players of Celum! Stop weeping and on your feet! We have performances to get to! Get the stage set! Get the B-team out of their rooms!”
“Move! Move! We have to set up for A Midsummer’s Night Dream—but if we need performances, I want our best! Macbeth in thirty minutes or I’ll feed all of you to the crows!”
Galvanized, the [Actors] surged off. Ryoka turned. She realized—someone was standing next to her. But he was short, so she’d mistook him for Emme and missed him in the crowd.
“I heard the same. Told the lad to come here. Is it true?”
Dawil looked up at her. Ryoka looked down at the Dwarf. Helmetless, grief-stricken. But determined.
“Yes. It’s only a chance. But it is a chance.”
He exhaled slowly.
“How?”
For an answer—Ryoka showed him the statue of Ivolethe.
“Winter Sprites.”
His eyes flickered. The Dwarf looked at Ryoka.
“In that case—you might want to get settled in. I heard the party’s all day and into the night. And now you’re here, it should get rolling, right?”
“Absolutely.”
Behind Ryoka, Lady Ieka Imarris’ eyes glittered. This was no time for the Circle of Thorns. The Circle was broken. But this—she felt like this was just as important.
Today, she would have her answers. She strode towards Ryoka Griffin. Many people wanted to speak to her. From Ulva Terland to Tyrion, to Sammial to Laken Godart. She should have secured Ryoka beforehand. But this day—
Bethal Walchaís tripped Ieka. She watched the [Mage Lady] go down and strode forwards.
“Ryoka Griffin! You must meet Pryde and the others!”
The party began in style before it was even late morning.
 
—-
 
It was today. A party for the ages took place. The Circle of Thorns lay vanquished.
Tyrion’s sons were well.
And they had scarcely seen a day like this! Hethon and Sammial had attended events with their father before, but House Veltras was well-known for being the least demonstrative of all the houses. Even compared to the poorer House of El, which had been well-known for its merrymaking, ironically.
Just as crucially—this was no refined event for the nobility. This was a party, designed to attract the attention of people from another world. So—Ryoka, Laken, and Erin and all the others had pulled out all the stops.
Laken Godart himself greeted the heads of the Five Families. And that was a scene of dignity and circumstance. Neither party bowed and the [Emperor] himself offered the most concessions as he greeted them.
Yet still. Nobility stood on an [Emperor]’s land. Sammial and Hethon didn’t pay attention. Nor to the other greetings.
“I thought this was a party. Do we have to wait until evening for—”
Sammy was whining in Hethon’s ear as he looked around. Ryoka had gone off and Jericha was keeping them away from the fascinating [Witches] and the half-Troll and anything that looked remotely exciting.
“Our guests may arrive in moments. Or far later. I ask only that Lord Deilan, Lord Tyrion, and Lady Ulva join me in inviting them.”
Hethon’s head turned back.
“Wait, they’re doing something with the Wind Runner, Sammy. See?”
“I don’t care. I hate her. She’s boring and windy and she cries. I thought she’d be exciting.”
Sammy glowered at Ryoka, having apparently made up his mind. He’d probably go back to begging for stories in another minute. Hethon saw his father standing with the others.
“In the name of Izril, as Lord of House Veltras. I invite the guests to this gathering.”
“By the will of the House of El, I, Lord Deilan, and by the will of Maviola El, I call upon any guests to attend this place under the rules of hospitality and in peace.”
“I am Ulva Terland. If the [Emperor]’s guests deign to show themselves, be welcome. If not—do not tread this ground. For this day is a moment for those here alone.”
Then came the [Emperor]. Hethon craned his neck, but then Sammial was running off and Jericha dragged Hethon along after him. He thought he saw Ryoka whispering something—
“Where is the food? The entertainment? Jericha! You said this was a party!”
Sammial stared about, crestfallen. The streets were decorated, with garlands of flowers, bright paint, everything polished and the ceremonial area had been bedecked with the colors of summer.
But Sammy didn’t care. He had walked through great houses and stared at masterpieces of paintings, magical wonders. There weren’t the amazing Golems of House Terland—and they weren’t on one of Wellfar’s amazing ships!
It was disappointing to him. Sammy wandered off, whining, and Hethon quite missed the auspicious moment. He stomped after Sammy. But in truth, aside from the solemnity—he hadn’t missed much.
 
—-
 
No one immediately came after the invocation of the four. So—after a minute of silence, Laken Godart clapped his hands.
“It appears we will wait on our fickle guests, my subjects. Then—we shall begin this great event. My thanks, Lords and Ladies of Izril.”
He inclined his head. The nobility murmured. They weren’t certain as if to be amused or disappointed. Had the [Emperor] had some grand event that had fallen through?
Or…
What had made Sammial Veltras so disappointed was the perceived humbleness of the entire affair. Never mind the days, weeks of preparations for everything down to laying entire streets in brick, painting every surface, producing a prodigious amount of food and getting enough worthy accommodations for the flood of people who’d descend on Riverfarm.
Still—it was humble compared to what an [Emperor] should provide. And yet. The other nobles were far more impressed with the separate area, especially when they heard what made it so…unique.
“The children will take part in the main festivities in Riverfarm as I understand it. But this ground has been curiously prepared.”
Lady Zanthia had been speaking to some very nervous nobles, who had neither tittered with laughter nor disparaged the lack of wealth on display. She glanced significantly towards Pryde, Bethal, Wuvren, and their escorts.
The allies of Magnolia Reinhart raised brows. Hethon and Sammial aside, the younger [Lords] and [Ladies], children, were already growing impatient.
“How so, Zanthia?”
The oldest of the [Ladies] gestured at the stage, where the Players of Celum were already waiting behind a curtain to perform. Pryde thought that was what was meant—they certainly were the main attraction to the nobility, many of whom had heard of the ‘plays’ that had swept Invrisil. They were prepared to sneer at the lesser events—or be dutifully impressed.
But Zanthia pointed at the benches, tables, and Pryde realized she meant something else.
“The construction. I understand that nothing here was made with iron. Not nails. Not frames. And do you recall one of the requirements?”
“…Don’t bring possessions of iron. Don’t offer offense—I thought the iron bit was just some custom of the [Emperor]?”
“I thought so too. But some of the nobles attended another party. And they have seen the [Emperor]’s court. Or—his guests.”
Pryde didn’t see what was so significant about that.
“That is hardly surprising. I should imagine they’re simply late. Travelling—”
Zanthia raised one brow.
“If they were, why were they summoned? Pryde—I just spoke with Lady Bevia Veniford. She has met these visitors. And they are not a species she recognized. Not half-Elven, although they reminded her of them. They came out of nowhere. And they were both dangerous and magical. Is that not so, Bethal?”
The others looked at Bethal. The [Lady] smiled.
“I recall nearly being poisoned, but yes, Zanthia. I wouldn’t take these ‘guests’ lightly. Would you, Thomast?”
“No, Bethal. And I urge you to all remember the rules. They are not to be taken lightly. Nor—any offense given. Even in words.”
The [Chevalier] did not quite look at Pryde. The other [Ladies] stirred. And some of the eavesdropping nobility glanced at each other.
Indeed, Bevia and Rael Veniford were not the only nobles who’d attended the second gathering of the fae in this world. And their memories of those times were enough to stop people from laughing at the failed occasion.
They felt it. Saw it in every line of the Wind Runner’s taut face, scanning about. The [Emperor]’s calm watchfulness.
Something was coming.
Tyrion Veltras himself felt wrong footed. Had something gone wrong? He turned to Ryoka after Laken pronounced the wait.
“Miss Griffin. Was everything not in order?”
“No. I think it’s working, Lord Tyrion. Thank you.”
Ulva and Deilan raised their brows. Tyrion looked around.
“These guests—do not deign to attend a gathering from three of the Five Families?”
“I think they might. But they’re fickle.”
“And they’ll just pop out of nowhere? I warn you—my escort has secured all of Riverfarm. His Majesty has assured me of my safety, but my protectors have their own methods. I would not wish for accidents.”
Ulva warned Ryoka. She was disconcerted when the young woman looked at her and shook her head.
“They won’t be arriving any way your escort would detect, Lady Terland. Forgive me. I can’t quite explain.”
“Can not? Or will not?”
Deilan was the most curious of the others. Ryoka hesitated, which was answer enough.
“Lady Ulva. Lord Deilan and Lord Tyrion. I believe that task falls to me. They are, after all, nominally of my court. Although my titles are more gift than formality. As you will understand it—I granted them the titles of [Marquis], [Baron], [Knight]—for services rendered. But they answer to a different ruler.”
Marquis? The [Emperor] had granted them titles as a favor? The three stirred. But as they began to speak with the [Emperor], a plucked note sounded across the ground.
It came from Riverfarm. The escorts of the nobility, servants, guards, Riverfarm’s people, visitors from local cities and towns who had come, hearing of this moment, [Merchants], not-quite-nobility who had ‘invited’ themselves here when they heard of what it would be—
All looked up. The sound hung in the air. Ryoka’s head rose. She had never heard a note so pure. Yet—for all its beauty, it sounded like tears.
Like sorrow. Like—
It was a blue chord. A humming string bound of the same thing Deilan had seen so many times on his aunt’s fingers. A glowing flame.
His eyes filled with tears at the memory. Ulva made a sound.
“Oh. Him?”
She looked at Laken Godart. Tyrion Veltras’ face was stone. But even he shifted.
There he stood.
Barelle the [Bard]. Ryoka Griffin shot a quick glance at Laken. He’d gotten him! But the second chord sounded as the [Bard] plucked a second magical note on his harp.
“Ladies and gentlemen. Guests of the Unseen Empire. And visitors from however far they come. I am Barelle the Bard. And it is my duty, my honor, to open this day of festivities. This longest day. This—Summer Solstice.”
The second chord sounded like laughter. Like happy days. Sammy started laughing upon hearing it, and he wasn’t the only one. But the third chord played even as the guests turned.
And it was a solemn note. Neither happy nor sad, but conveying some other emotion. As if Ryoka stood in a grand cathedral for the first time. Or stared up at a distant mountain’s peak.
