The [Princess] wrote it out. Not just Erin. But Maviola. In shaking words. Jericha had made this copy. There was no way for Ryoka to know how many tears had stained the page that Lyonette had written.
She was almost the last to know. The others had been told. A week ago—
The Slayer had listened to the screaming as he checked his swords. Just sat there, tending to the blades, saying nothing. Only the Queens asked what was wrong. And he had no words for them.
The [Emperor] sat on his throne, covering his face with one hand. Wondering what would happen. Halrac was missing. Cade was crying—so was Revi. Typhenous just gripped his beard, so hard his hand turned white.
Yvlon kept Ksmvr company. Ceria had just passed out. Drinking. Pisces had left. He had been shaking. Refusing to say anything until he was out of sight. Out of hearing. Tears still ran down Ceria’s cheeks. Frozen water. Somewhere, the [Necromancer] begged for help. Voice shaking, eyes overflowing with liquid. And yet…
—Among many. The words struck Ryoka again. Just…printed words.
 
Erin is dead.
 
Lyonette clarified it. But—that was how she said it. Not ‘neither dead nor alive’. Not more hopeful words. Because those said that she would recover. And the truth was that even the [Doctor] didn’t know how. And—
 
Ilvriss is trying to find a potion or artifact. Saliss has made what he thinks is an antidote. Everyone is looking for a way to revive her.
But no one knows what to do. Ryoka. If you read this before the party, please, respond. 
Do something if you can.
 
Ryoka read again. She saw it, clear as if the [Princess] had sent a picture. More than a superior healing potion. More than just poison.
More than a mortal wound. Bring her back. After her body was frozen. After she was—
Impossible. Ryoka knew half of what Geneva did. A quarter. And she knew no science from her world would save Erin.
Even a Wall Lord’s treasury had nothing immediate. Ryoka thought all this. Then she read again.
And again.
 
Erin is dead.
 
Jericha waited six minutes. Then eight. After nine, she counted down the next minute in her head. On ten minutes exactly, she cleared her throat.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin?”
The Wind Runner said nothing. She was not…crying. Jericha slightly bent to make sure of that. She looked at Ryoka. But the young woman looked—the [Aide] hesitated. And then reached out to touch Ryoka’s shoulder.
In the inn, below, Tyrion was waiting at the breakfast table being served personally by the [Innkeeper]. In the light of things, it was probably not the place to be. But there wasn’t exactly another place large enough to accommodate his escort.
“Father! Father, come on—”
Sammial was trying to drag his father out of his seat, not wanting to wait.
“Sit down, Sammial. We will wait for Jericha to summon Miss Griffin. A [Lord]—a man does not simply walk into a lady’s room—”
He was turning to admonish his son as Hethon reached for a crusty piece of fluffy bread made with ‘baked soda’.
A scream tore through the inn. Hethon’s hand jerked. Tyrion stood in a moment, hand on his sword. He halted the bodyguards as they surged for the stairs.
It was a female voice. Ryoka’s? Hethon stared at his father. Tyrion looked towards the stairs. He waited.
No second scream. No more sound. He waited—then nodded to one of the female [Bodyguards]. She ascended the stairs, and came down in less than twenty seconds. She gave Lord Tyrion a nod.
The two boys had no idea what the nod meant. Tyrion did. He sat back down. He did not reach for the bread. The [Innkeeper] stared upwards. The [Lord] simply waited.
After ten minutes, Ryoka Griffin went downstairs.
 
—-
 
It was the sixth worst breakfast Hethon and Sammial had ever sat through. They were bouncing with questions. One comment from Jericha made them realize this was not the time.
Lord Tyrion had bowed to Ryoka. In his way, he had asked if she wished food, or to be underway. Ryoka had greeted him, sat down.
She’d eaten breakfast. It had garlic in it and Hethon liked it a lot. It was as puffy as some of the best [Baker]’s bread and there was a fine repast.
Ryoka Griffin said nothing. Or rather—she responded mechanically. Lord Tyrion only buttered his roll. Ate with efficiency as Sammial babbled questions that Jericha kept shushing.
“This is so tasty. Why is it so puffy? What’s baked soda got to do with it? What’s soda? What’s a sl—”
Hethon kicked his brother under the table. Sammial kicked back and forgot his question. Jericha went into the kitchen; she did not sit to dine, obviously. Ryoka was a rare exception. Although, Tyrion had made sure his bodyguards were eating in shifts. The female [Bodyguard] was surreptitiously chewing on her own fresh, hot garlic bread.
“It’s ‘baking soda’, Lord Sammial. Some alchemical invention you use in food. Very safe. We had it tested of course.”
“Naturally, Jericha. Inquire about the manufacture.”
“Of course, Lord Veltras. Already done. I believe it is already being sold by [Alchemists] in major cities.”
“Alchemists made this? But healing potions taste bad.”
Sammial was impressed. Hethon stared at Ryoka. He couldn’t help but remember the scars from the crossbow bolts. She was also very pretty. Of course—so was Jericha. And many of the [Ladies]—and his mother. But different.
Her face was so blank, though. He wanted to ask who had died. Jericha had only said that it was Miss Griffin’s friend and obviously, don’t bring it up.
“Yes. Quite. If it produces this quality of bread, I imagine every [Baker] will see a demand for it.”
Tyrion’s voice was as stiff as his back. He was slightly uncomfortable in his sons’ presence. They did not often breakfast together; the sons rarely waking up as soon as their father. But Lord Tyrion had not missed a meal, not been out of his sons’ presence for more than an hour since their recovery.
Hethon was all better—he wished they’d stop treating him like he was glass. But Sammial’s cough had come back. And it wouldn’t go away. Sometimes he couldn’t breathe—so the [Healer] was here and—
“…made it.”
The young [Lord]—all three of them looked around. Ryoka Griffin stared at the roll.
“Excuse me, Miss Ryoka?”
Lord Tyrion spoke, very graciously giving her a lot of deference and not asking she use his noble title. Hethon hadn’t seen him do that with anyone before. Ryoka muttered again.
“My friend made it. Baking soda.”
“Your friend?”
“An [Alchemist] made it for us. Another friend. But my friend asked her to.”
“By ‘friend’, Miss Griffin…”
Jericha had looked over sharply. With keen interest. Lord Tyrion’s eyes flickered. The Wind Runner whispered.
“The one who died.”
Fifth worst meal ever. Hethon stopped eating the bread and decided to have some sausage instead. Sammial opened his mouth to ask a question and his father looked at him.
“Miss Griffin. If you would like to rest—”
“I have to go to the party.”
Hethon wondered if she was ready for the party. Certainly, even Tyrion looked slightly confused. But he nodded.
“At once, then. Two minutes, Hethon, Sammial.”
“If you would like a tonic, Miss Ryoka…”
Jericha murmured discretely. Ryoka looked up.
“I’m fine.”
Certainly—there were no tears. She was not weeping, or shouting or…
Hethon knew mourning. He had seen it after his mother died. He had seen grief. Ryoka Griffin just looked blank. Of course, he had seen that too. But he had expected more after that—scream. So filled with anguish.
The sun was shining brightly, just rising in the early morning. It had yet to rise over Liscor, where the High Passes blocked the sun. But it was bright enough here. It had been a glorious summer day. The longest day of the year, skies blue, warm—
“Lord Veltras! We may be under attack! It began just—”
Hethon saw a shield blowing past his face. A man was actually flung off his feet by the gale-force winds howling around the inn. The young [Lord] looked over his shoulder.
Wind Runner.
Ryoka started as she saw the howling gale. The inn had been so well-made—and perhaps the Skills of this [Innkeeper] so good, she hadn’t heard the shouting or felt the wind blowing. She looked out.
The gusts of air and screaming breeze stopped. The escort of three-dozen of House Veltras’ finest stopped sheltering and looked at her.
Two of the carriages had been blown over. The wind had destroyed part of the stables—everything around the inn for thirty feet had been ravaged. Nothing past that.
Sammial and Hethon stared as Ryoka began to apologize. Lord Tyrion just shook his head.
“Pay for the damages, Jericha. Inspect the carriages’ axles. Hitch up the horses. We ride for Riverfarm. I intend to get there within the hour.”
 
—-
 
And so they did. It was hardly as if Sammial and Hethon were unused to travel in general, or this; they’d been moving for the last five days. It was easier with Ryoka not lying in the spare carriage; they could all sit in one.
Another impropriety in the normally perfect delineation between noble and commoner. Neither son complained, though. Normally only Jericha or Ullim would ever ride inside the carriage.
Both boys kept staring at Ryoka as they rode. Gone was the howling wind; now, a strong breeze gave the horses relief as they carried the carriage forwards. If anything, they were amused by how she reacted to their mode of travel.
“We’ll get to Riverfarm, forty miles away so soon?”
“Yes, Miss Griffin. There are ways of travelling that far that quickly, magical teleportation aside.”
If Jericha was expecting Ryoka to blink at that, the City Runner nodded.
“I know. I’ve seen Magnolia Reinhart’s carriage and…other vehicles that move that fast. But this doesn’t look like that level of enchanted carriage.”
Apparently the Wind Runner had flown on her last stage of her trip! Through the typhoon! Hethon wanted to ask—again, not the time.
At ‘other vehicles’, Jericha did the peering thing she did with the spectacles that Hethon liked, but Ryoka was too distracted to notice.
“I see. However—that will not be necessary. Lord Veltras, the carriage is ready.”
“Very well, Jericha. Ride with Miss Ryoka and my sons. Hethon. Sammial. You are to give Miss Griffin peace.”
That was an odd statement to Ryoka—until she realized something.
They’d attached the carriage to Lord Tyrion’s horse. She stared as the man rode, on a unique contraption.
“You see—Lord Veltras is a superior rider. By this means, we can easily reach Riverfarm within the hour. It is an honor few are granted.”
To make a [Lord] into, well, a [Driver]! Hethon hadn’t understood until now why they normally rode in a regular carriage. Sammial bounced up and down. He loved the sensation of speed.
“And it can go forty miles an hour? What about eighty?”
Tyrion’s head turned back to Ryoka.
“…I can reach that speed. In a carriage it would be difficult. That will not be necessary today, I believe. Nor will I attempt it, Sammial.”
“There are those who believe such speeds will inevitably destroy vehicles, unless they are relic-class, Lords Hethon, Sammial.”
Jericha adopted her lecturing tone of voice; she often supplemented their [Tutors]. Ryoka made a sound. Hethon glanced at her. She just looked out the window as if it were normal to see the ground blur so.
Another clue. If Ryoka Griffin’s mind was like static. If the world were turned upside down.
If Erin was dead…she was taking it pretty well. Look how well she was taking it. Ryoka hadn’t tossed herself in front of the carriage. Or stabbed herself with the butter knife. She’d blown the winds by accident.
She was perfectly. Calm.
Tyrion Veltras, riding with his escort around him, boosted by his Skills, watched as, beyond him, the wind snapped the branches of the trees of a nearby forest. He forbade comment.
Ryoka Griffin sat there, listening to Sammial asking if he could try a flying carpet—how fast did they go? And so on. She was just—
Relaxed. Amazed at how steady she was. Because she would not panic. She would not weep.
Not now.
The Summer Solstice. Ivolethe. All Ryoka Griffin had to do was—
Bring.
Erin.
Back.
If she failed, she could break into pieces. Teriarch. She had to talk to Teriarch! Maybe he’d be there. He had promised. Surely. He had mended her heart. What was a frozen body to a Dragon? No, wait, he definitely had some grand healing artifact. She’d trade anything he wanted for it. Anything in the world. Surely…
What if it failed? Maviola wasn’t there. And Magnolia—
If she failed—if—
Erin was dead.
Calm. Ryoka inhaled.
It was a long ride, for how short it was. In time, Jericha saw fit to press Ryoka. Gently. But she had to. She let Hethon and Sammial fight over the Box of Wonders where they were conjuring armies to fight each other.
“No fair. You can’t use [Knights]!”
“Says who? Stop using [Mages], then, Sammy.”
“Miss Ryoka. I feel at this moment I must clarify some matters with you.”
Jericha spoke. Sammial and Hethon glanced up, listening covertly. Ryoka started.
“I’m fine. What? Sorry.”
The [High Mage] gave Ryoka a moment. But she was insistent.
“Miss Ryoka. Lord Veltras considers his debt to you a matter of honor. Few occasions would ever merit his attendance on such short notice. Let alone unasked, with his sons recently recovered—”
“We’re fine, Jericha.”
Sammial belied that by coughing. The [Aide] dipped her head, but she looked back at Ryoka.
“I understand this is a huge honor. Thank you. I cannot be more grateful.”
Ryoka looked like she was speaking through a numb face. Jericha nodded slowly.
“—And Lord Veltras has met with…Emperor Godart. However, as his aide, I would like to know what this party…is. As well as any possible dangers to Lord Veltras. We have been receiving [Messages] from a Lady Rie Valerund instructing us of a number of oddities. I understand there will be guests of the ‘Unseen Empire’. Strange guests indeed. Moreover—there will be danger. Lord Hethon and Lord Sammial will not be endangered.”
It was not a question. Ryoka jerked, glanced up. Jericha adjusted her glasses, looking at Ryoka again. The young woman hadn’t changed into her clothes or equipped her artifacts. Even then—the spectacles were enchanted with a number of powerful spells.
It was true what Jericha saw, or else Ryoka Griffin was at least Level 40 or had some kind of magical artifact of a relic-tier embedded into her body. Well, with how much the [Healer] had pulled out of her stomach, Jericha doubted that.
Even so. Oddity beyond oddity. Lord Tyrion was listening in via speaking stone, over the rush of wind from outside the carriage as he rode.
