He had not cared. Debt was debt. But the more Jericha had investigated—first as a rote matter, and to protect Miss Griffin’s associates, the more curious both had become.
She. Had. No. Levels.
Not classes. Not Skills. Tyrion had first assumed she was some kind of expert [Rogue], but Jericha had found nothing even after upgrading the [Appraisal] spell.
Similarly—no one knew Ryoka Griffin. Oh, Celum did. Invrisil. Liscor. But no one knew where she had come from before Celum. No one had any identity of her family, her past—
Jericha had searched her possessions and found nothing extremely unique. But the fact remained that the Five Families would normally be able to identify most common people’s roots down to when they’d first developed baby teeth.
The levels were one thing. The fact that she commanded the wind without, extraordinary. But not unheard of! That would have been enough to interest Tyrion. But there was her connection with the [Emperor]. The inn.
She had woken the Archmage of Izril. She had delivered to the High Passes, to a Grand Magus thought long dead. She had run the Bloodfields.
And she carried a bag of holding of such superlative quality that Tyrion had considered it would have upgraded his personal gear if he’d replaced his with it.
Of course, a lot of this was explainable. Tyrion was no fool. Ryoka was obviously the beneficiary of patronage from Grand Magus Eldavin. She had earned it through bravery, as he himself had witnessed. She had attracted Magnolia Reinhart’s attention, though, and that he could not readily explain. Perhaps Magnolia was headhunting, but she had taken an unusual interest in Ryoka.
Now, he listened as Ryoka replied to Jericha.
“There is…danger. I’m sorry. I would have said as much. The kids—”
“I am Lord Sammial Veltras! Not a k—”
Muffled, Jericha soothing Sammial’s wounded pride. Ryoka went on.
“The kids should not go to the…full party.”
“So the missive indicates. Will they be safe?”
“From the guests, yes. They would be anyways. They don’t hurt children.”
The guests? Lord Tyrion checked his equipment. He had brought the Aegis of Veltras, the personal shield his family carried, as well as his personal dueling sword and lances. He had his armor on. And his guard could have slain a hundred [Assassins] in open combat by themselves.
But he feared [Assassins] and poison, which he realized he had few defenses against. Jericha pressed Ryoka.
“What guests are these?”
“They’re…strange folk. I can’t explain fully.”
“I’m afraid you must, Miss Griffin. Lord Veltras will not allow his sons to be placed in more danger. Nor he himself.”
“They behave—differently. Listen. There are rules. Don’t promise them anything. Don’t agree to anything. Be respectful—”
“Djinni rules? Are these djinni?”
“No. But that’s a good way of thinking of them. Djinni that you cannot offend. Just as powerful, too.”
Tyrion shifted in his saddle. And the mystery deepened.
“I understand there will both be [Witches] and Goblins, albeit kept safely under guard. Both of which are…unusual?”
To understate things. Ryoka started.
“Oh. Them. Yes. They should be fine.”
“I want to see a Goblin! Why don’t we kill them, Jericha? They’re Goblins.”
Sammy again. Lord Tyrion listened with impatience, but the ethics of Emperor Laken’s personal choice regarding Goblins distracted the conversation for twenty whole minutes. And they were already moving into Riverfarm by the time they got back on track. And in that time—
“In the name of the Unseen Emperor, halt! Is that House V—”
Lord Tyrion blew past the escort of Darksky Riders so fast that Beniar didn’t even have a chance to ask. He galloped after them as some of the guard slowed to explain that Lord Tyrion knew the way. Meanwhile, Ryoka was shaking inside the coach.
“Magnolia Reinhart isn’t here?”
“She has left Izril, yes. We know she is at sea in a flagship of House Reinhart. Will that be a problem?”
“Oh no. Oh no. I didn’t tell you! But I needed three of the Five Families to attend! I—”
Ryoka put her head in her hands. She’d been unconscious! And Maviola—
“Miss Griffin. We have three members of the Five Families here.”
Jericha’s head rose. She indicated Hethon and Sammial. Ryoka hesitated. That was true! But—her face twisted. Teriarch would doubtless say that it was style over substance when it came to the fae. Three of the same House didn’t count.
“I don’t think that’s enough, Miss—Jericha. I—we’ll try. All I need Lord Tyrion to do is—be present. Laken and I will—oh no. Oh gods…”
“Miss Griffin. Miss Griffin.”
Jericha gave up as Ryoka began to—she hesitated, eying Hethon and Sammial, and then reached over and flicked Ryoka on the forehead.
Pow. Tyrion himself heard that. He half-twisted. Jericha lowered a smoking forefinger and innocently hid it behind her back as Hethon and Sammial stared at her, open-mouthed with awe.
Ryoka was slightly dazed. Her forehead rang with the magic-powered impact. But it had shut her up. Jericha smiled politely at her.
“I hope you will calm down, Miss Griffin. All may not be lost. We are arriving in Riverfarm. Please step this way.”
“You killed her, Jericha! That was amazing!”
Hethon burst out. Jericha winced. She raised her voice innocently.
“I hardly ‘killed her’, Lord Hethon. It was just—”
“Her entire head went pow! Against the headrest!”
Jericha hesitated. Before she could reply, Lord Tyrion spoke crisply in the speaking stone embedded into an earring.
“Jericha. We have arrived. Open the doors.”
“At once, Lord Veltras!”
The [Aide] practically fled the carriage. She saw Lord Tyrion looking at her, and held the doors open.
“Lord Hethon, Lord Sammial? Miss Griffin?”
They were here. And the welcoming committee was just getting into place. Ryoka Griffin left the wagon and heard the sobbing voice calling her name. And it became realer.
 
—-
 
Laken Godart felt Tyrion Veltras shoot across the borders of the Unseen Empire like an arrow. He felt the man move past Beniar in a flash. Laken turned his head.
“He did say he was coming this morning. I didn’t notice last time during the raids, but he moves fast. Pulling a carriage no less! And—he has Ryoka.”
“You’re sure, Emperor Godart? You saw into Lord Veltras’ carriage?”
“He is on my lands, Lady Rie. Make sure he is greeted with all dignity. And oh, Prost? Gamel? Double-check our security. Nothing must go wrong this time. Wronger than it has. Isn’t that so?”
He heard a squeak from Lady Rie. Laken Godart sat on his throne.
He was in a terrible mood himself.
He had not wept for Erin. But he had not been able to remove the ache from his chest, either. He felt tired as he stood. Older.
But Ryoka was here. Let the Summer Solstice party she had worked so hard for commence. He had helped take up her burden as she lay resting. It was the least he could do. He thought it was almost all in order. But there were a few problems.
Erin wasn’t coming. Obviously. And…the [Emperor] sighed.
Neither was Maviola. Even now—what was for him an ache of loss for people he did not truly know—
In the Goblinlands, a second wave of grief had struck them down. Pebblesnatch lay in one of the biggest cauldrons. She wanted someone to light a fire under it and boil her.
Better that than any more. Erin? Erin? The kind [Innkeeper] who had—
The chef’s hat muffled the crying. From one Cave Goblin. It did nothing to hide the crushing silence. The sounds of grief. Ulvama strode around the camp, hitting Goblins. Not knowing why they hurt, only trying to keep them busy.
And they were the Goblins. Laken sat on his throne. He would meet the others later. Dignity of an [Emperor] and all that. He had met them, one after another. They had come. Because of Ryoka. Because of her deeds.
But also because of Erin. Maviola. He sat there.
This party was their doing.
“May some damn good come of it.”
In his head—he felt those who deserved to speak to Ryoka at this moment, at this time, already gathered. The [Emperor] would ensure it ran smoothly.
“Your Majesty? Just something—one of the [Chefs] has been working hard on your recipe. Everything’s ready. Food has been met with compliments from the nobility already here—”
Gamel poked his head back into the throne room hesitantly. Laken’s head rose.
“And? What’s the issue?”
“One of your…dishes, sir. Since some of the guests…you see, it’s the one with the writing…”
For a moment, he didn’t understand. Then the [Emperor] did. And Laken hit the armrest of his throne and shook his head.
Oh—this party. This damned party.
“Throw it away, Gamel. Don’t bother with erasing the words. Just—throw it away. Make other ones. My apologies to the chef. But no.”
“Yes, sire.”
Gamel went to dispose of the custom-made cake. Laken had forgotten. But it was today as well.
Happy birthday, Erin Solstice.
 
—-
 
They were here. Lord Tyrion dismounted as his escort formed ranks around him. A worthy reception had been granted one of the Five Houses of Izril.
The army, led by a [Witch]-[General], was standing at parade rest. Prost, Rie, and an actual carpet had been brought out. Obviously, the finest of lodgings, newly built, would accommodate such august guests.
They were practiced at it, having welcomed scores of nobles already. In fact—some of the nobility were here, murmuring, to see it themselves.
Lord Veltras, here. For this party—which they all understood was not just for an [Emperor]’s whimsy, but some grand event with special guests.
And someone had organized it. Called it together, prevailed on the [Emperor] to make it happen. That was the rumor. That it was in fact—
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt. She stood there a moment, as she left the carriage. Lady Rie focused on Ryoka for a moment—but she had frozen when she saw Lord Veltras. Nervously, licking her lips—she spoke. She had no plans for this party other than to make sure it went exactly as Laken wanted it.
“Lords of House Veltras, we are honored by your presence. The Five Families stand! The Unseen Empire and Riverfarm welcomes you on behalf of—”
“Ryoka! Ryoka!”
Someone burst past the others. They’d barely noticed the [Lord] of House Veltras. The guards turned—Jericha held up a hand as a sobbing Stitchgirl ran towards Ryoka.
Revi. The normally-taciturn [Summoner] was sobbing. She’d taken one eye out, but the tear ducts were still working. She grabbed Ryoka as Hethon and Sammial stared.
“Revi?”
Ryoka started. She hadn’t known about Griffon Hunt. Revi hugged Ryoka. And had they gotten along before then?
Did it matter?
“She’s dead. Oh, dead gods, Ryoka! Wait, do you even know? Erin!”
“I know, Revi. I k-know. We’re going to make it right. Where’s T—Eldavin?”
“Who? He’s not here!”
The two spoke at each other, oblivious of the crowd. Tyrion stared as someone else broke ranks.
“Is that Ryoka? I’m so sorry to hear—move aside!”
Briganda half-shoved past Tyrion to grab Ryoka and Revi. She was holding Cade, who was red-eyed and slumbering. Typhenous hesitated as he stared at Tyrion. He edged around them as Briganda, oblivious, grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder.
“We haven’t really met. Briganda. Part of Griffon Hunt. They told me about you. They said you were one of Erin’s friends. Heard you were in a coma.”
“That’s right. I—I just heard.”
“Excuse me.”
“Shut it. This is a personal moment.”
Briganda snapped at Jericha. The [Aide] hesitated. Sammial stared at Revi. So did Hethon. Stitch person! And they looked like adventurers? The old man looked like a [Mage]—
“Where’s Halrac? Are the Horns…? Halfseekers?”
“Gone. Halrac, I mean. He just left when he heard about Erin. Oh, Ryoka. They said Maviola El is dead too!”
Someone made a noise in the crowd. Perhaps it was also seeing Tyrion standing there, clearly ignored. Someone else made a sound at Maviola’s name.
“Excuse me, but—”
“The Horns aren’t here. I talked to Ceria. She was dead drunk—barely able to send. She says they won’t make it. The Halfseekers—Lyonette and everyone was supposed to come, but with Erin—”
“Excuse me? Are you a Stitch Person? You there, speak to me!”
Sammy. Hethon saw the huge [Shield Maiden]’s head turn. She looked at Cade, then the boy who was just a few years older.
“Young man, we’re in a bit of a moment here.”
“Well, I want to speak to Ryoka Griffin! I’ve been waiting all morning and she keeps being busy! You all—leave! Stop crying!”
Briganda’s eyes narrowed.
“Shove off, kid. Before I spank you for manners. Don’t you know how to behave in front of grieving people?”
Sammial stared, open-mouthed, until Lord Tyrion tugged him back. Jericha cleared her throat with a look like someone had kicked her—although she was also trying to hide a smile.
“Lord Tyrion. I apologize for this interruption. Perhaps Miss Griffin would care to conduct this meeting to one side?”
He had prevented his escort from literally grabbing and tossing everyone present. Tyrion nodded curtly.
Briganda and Revi’s head swung left slowly as their ears caught wind of the name.
Lord Tyrion Veltras? They stared at the carriage, emblazoned with his crest, and the escort, which they had not noticed in their grief. Typhenous was carefully hiding behind Briganda, who was as tall as he was.
“Um. Ryoka?”
“This is Lord Tyrion Veltras. I’m sorry. It’s just they knew Erin—the person who passed.”
“I understand. As I said—I am aware of the moment. And in debt to you, Miss Griffin. Perhaps elsewhere, though?”
Tyrion bowed stiffly. Revi edged back. She and Typhenous had to grab Briganda; she’d gone stiff as a board.
“And that was…?”
Jericha turned to Ryoka. She did a double-take and Hethon eyed Ryoka worriedly. The Wind Runner looked as white as a sheet. After the meeting. No tears; although Revi had wiped her face on Ryoka’s shirt. But she looked like she had when they brought her in from the road, crossbow bolts still in her back.
“A Gold-rank team. Griffon Hunt. Please don’t hold it against them. They knew her well too.”
Another nod. Jericha stepped forwards and shakily, the reception began again. They were halfway through the speech Lady Rie had planned when—
“Ryoka! Ryoka! It’s you! It’s me! I heard you were h—”
Dustrider Charlay charged through the crowd, saw the gathering, and stopped uncertainly. She caught sight of all the staring faces. The sigil of House Veltras.
The Centaur turned dead white, made a whinnying sound, and turned and galloped away. Ryoka stared.
She did not laugh. You could have put together the best slapstick routine in the world and if you got hysteria from her, it would be hysteria.
