Tala actually considered that for a long moment. “Honestly? No, it isn’t.” She sighed. “I would never do this in the Cycling Cities, and that distinction isn’t because of who is involved. I’m not valuing gated lives above gateless. The culture here demands shows of strength, and that means death. The fools often see anything less as weakness. What I will be doing is manipulating the situation and potentially concentrating the death to the local branches of one or two Houses, but if done another way, this could become a feud that would last centuries, leading to far more people dying across far more cities. This is brutal, but in this society, in this culture, it is the cleanest method I can conceive of.”

Lea was clearly still conflicted, but she didn’t argue further.

Tala sighed. She couldn’t let that stand. “Lea? You have reservations. I’m going to be bringing you along with me, and I can’t have you in a mindset that will lead this to breaking you.”

Lea met her mother’s gaze then. “How is this different from what the Black Legion will do?”

Tala rocked back. “What do you mean?”

“They want to remove a small fraction of the life on this world to safeguard the rest.”

“Ahh.” She nodded. “I see. Well, the core reason is that even if I am rather sure they will choose violence, they could choose to work with us, and they would be better off. The second House should do just that, and while they will bend initially out of fear, they will remain when they truly realize how much better working with us is.”

“So, they could choose… Just like we could choose to give up magic?”

Tala smiled, then, shaking her head. “Aside from those who quite literally can’t give up magic without dying, the cost in sapient-life-years—and the quality thereof—would be astronomical. That is like saying we could give up eating after a certain age. While technically true, the costs of that ‘choice’ would be extreme.”

“So… the difference between what we are going to do and what the Black Legion seeks isn’t a difference in kind but degree?”

Tala’s smile grew as she regarded her daughter. “Absolutely. That is a very mature realization. Very few types of action are universally evil, but the way in which they are done, and the degree to which they are carried out can make almost any type of action so.”

Lea gave a slow nod. “I see.” She took another luxuriant bite of a strawberry tart, closing her eyes to enjoy the delicacy. When she opened her eyes again, there was a sparkle within them. “I understand, Mom. Let’s go secure a better future for gated humanity and the House of Blood.”

Tala nodded in return. “Let’s.” She reached out and flipped over the privacy plate to show ‘Service Please.’ “But let’s finish our tea first. There’s no cause to rush through this time together.”

Lea only hesitated a moment before taking up the oolong tea pot and refilling her own cup. “Of course, mother. What was I thinking?”

The women shared a smile, then set to talking about how they would actually approach the rebuking of the House of the Frost Lance.
