…fine.

-If you go, though, you have to take Rane. It would only be proper.-

Tala growled within her own head at her alternate interface even as Alat chuckled.

* * *

Tala moved through her daily practice with comfort and ease, excited to get to her latest experiments but not willing to rush things.

Still, she couldn’t help some of her thoughts wandering in that direction.

It had been nearly two months since the wolf had all but killed her, and while she had a host of legitimate means of explaining away the closeness of the fight, she had been left with a singular understanding, a specific drive.

She wanted to be better.

One thought that she’d had shortly after the clash had been to soulbind some precious metal incorporators, and then use the created material for her inscriptions.

That had turned out to be a bad idea for many, many reasons.

First of all, even in the best circumstances, it would only be a means of circumventing the wolves’ specific dueling requirements without gaining her much—if anything—in any other regard.

Secondly, the ‘best circumstances’ wouldn’t exist as incorporated material was awful for inscriptions. It inherently required magic to maintain its existence. So, power flowing through it was lessened, and the resulting workings were inherently less stable.

The reasons to avoid her theorized plan continued from there, but even either of those two were enough to disqualify it outright.

As she rolled out of her final stretch, she called the first of the inscribed arrows to herself, studying it once again.

She had—obviously—memorized the twists and turns of the three-dimensional construct long ago, but she found actually analyzing it with her eyes and threefold sight seemed to make it easier for her to pull new insights forth.

Beside the arrow, she began to form iron spellforms in the air.

Now, iron was an awful conductor of magic, being a near-perfect reflector of power. So, Tala didn’t use iron as wires like she would with any other material. Instead, she used it to make minuscule pipes.

As a result the spell lines were actually made of her own magic, with iron counting as the medium in which they were set. And, as it turned out, that was quite similar to how the arrows had been made.

The arrows largely employed spell lines made out of precious metals, with steel as the medium.

While different, that was close enough to start out with, and Tala had been working to find the particular quirks of magic and iron workings. The greatest difficulty was factoring in the minute amounts of air that filled the pipes as well, through which the magic had to travel in order to be the spell lines for the working, but that turned out to function like working in a variable medium. So, there was precedent for her attempts, and foundations of knowledge from which she could pull.

When she had finished her designated time for those practice attempts, she poked Terry, who had been sleeping nearby on a pillow she’d acquired for him.

He’d been unusually clingy since the wolf incident as well. He barely went off on his own to hunt, and he seemed to have taken a far greater interest in Tala’s day to day activities.

Not that she was really complaining. He never got in the way, and she enjoyed his company quite a bit.

“Hey, are you ready to spar?”

With a flicker, he was up on her shoulder, and letting out a trill of affirmation.

“Well, alright, then.” She grinned. “Let’s get to it.”
