The tension is palpable for a few seconds as we stand about the small clearing on the hilltop, my heart hammering away in my chest as a bead of sweat forms on my brow. Damn it, why did someone come for that tool, Kai? Please be gentle sister, don't be too uncaring.

Alsantset locks eyes with the Du Min Gyu for a brief moment before speaking, still sitting at her desk. “Brigadier Cho Jin Kai died in battle six days past, a casualty of a newly formed Demon.” Welp, that had all the tact of a fish to the face. Worse, she returns to her work, effectively dismissing the old man from her concerns, speaking as she dips her brush in ink. “Mila, see to it that the Lieutenant General has access to all reports of the battle, and show our visitors where they may set up camp.”

Sumila stands from her makeshift desk, brushing off her hands as Li Song mimics her slightly off to the side, before she gestures for them to follow, but Du Min Gyu stands stock still, unblinking, just staring at Alsantset. The bead of sweat slowly makes its way down the side of my face as the seconds pass, the camp bustling as Soldiers and Sentinels carry out their duties, the sounds of practice weapons striking and distant, jovial conversations filling the silence.

Ignoring everything else, the old man continues to stare at Alsantset, who carries on writing her report as if she didn't have a care in the world and wasn't being stared at by a man who massively outranked her. Wincing inwardly, I ready myself for tempers to explode, for soldiers and escorts alike to begin grasping at weapons, shouting and clamoring for blood. He seems like a level-headed sort, so I can only pray that he won't do anything rash and besides, the Justicar is right there, that has to offer us some amount of safety.

After several dozen hammering heartbeats, my near-panic subsides as it becomes more and more clear that the old man is in shock. My heart begins to ache for the poor soul, and I'd like to offer my condolences, but I don't know how that would be taken. I mean, I offered him a ride on Zabu and that was apparently a faux pas. How is someone supposed to act in this situation? Everyone else just seems to be ignoring him as he remains rooted to the spot, his thoughts and emotions a complete mystery to me. His guards stand stoic, unmoved by the news, their faces stony and unreadable, yet the tension in their bodies is unmistakable; they are ready to fight.

Minutes pass as Alsantset continues with her work, discussing with a few Sentinel leaders, sending them west and south to forage for more food, our supply of grains and vegetables beginning to run low. She calls over the army officers and orders a camp check, a quick walk through to spot any issues, before once again returning to her report. I honestly think that she's just trying to look busy now, mostly because I'm not completely sure what she keeps going back to write. I mean, how much paperwork could she possibly have? The Sentinels don't really seem like the sort to file away requisition orders in triplicate, or whatever it is that armies need to keep track of.

The wind picks up and scatters a number of papers which I instinctively reach for, grabbing them mid-air and running after the pages that escaped me. Catching the last page, I turn around to bring them back to Alsantset and freeze at the scene before me.

Somehow, in the 5 seconds I spent chasing paper, the entire situation has devolved into a hostile standoff, the Lieutenant General's guards all standing with weapons drawn, arranged in a circle around the old man, while the enforcers surround the Justicar in a similar fashion, their heavy, short staves held at the ready, their masked faces hiding all emotion besides determination, staring doggedly at the Lieutenant General.

The wind continues to pick up, whipping around us, seeming to increase in power with each passing moment, whipping past my ears with an almost thunderous noise, drowning out all other sound, throwing up dirt and dust as it circles around our small group, obscuring our vision. My ears feel the pressure mount, as if they are about to pop, and my mouth opens to try to equalize it. The old man's face is twisted in anger, his veins bulging in his neck and forehead, his fists clenched, blood seeping out between his fingers as nature responds to his fury, the winds converging on his position, the dust creating a half-dozen visible trails leading towards him. Alsantset stands firm, her hands pressed against her reports, keeping them in place, her face calm and collected, unperturbed by the display of power.

My clothes begin flapping as the wind rushes past me, almost pushing me towards the old man as I lean back into it, readying myself to draw Peace and charge to defend my sister. Adujan places her hand on me, restraining me with a simple touch, else I would have already charged forward. Around us, outside of the vortex of pressure, the Sentinels stand ready, their bows lifted and arrows pointed, ready to draw and loose at a moments notice should things devolve any further.

Without warning, the howling wind cuts out, the entire area settling down in an instant, and except for the wind-blown hair and ruffled clothes, I would worry that I had imagined it all. Finally, the old man speaks, his voice hoarse and quiet. “If there is even a remote possibility that you savages have caused Kai's death, I will bring death and calamity down upon nine generations of all your families.” Somehow, his voice carries across the hilltop booming despite the low volume, and from the looks of things, the Sentinels around us hear him as well. A few draw their bows back, but stay disciplined enough not to fire. Turning on his heels, he begins moving towards Sumila, following her away and the Justicar moves out as well, his posture unperturbed, his masked face hiding any emotion he may be feeling.

Almost immediately, everything returns to normal around us, Sentinels moving along their daily business, Alsantset sitting back down to resume writing once again, as if nothing out of the ordinary had happened. After pausing for a moment, I walk up to the desk and place the pages back on Alsantset's desk, a small nervous chuckle escaping from my lips. “Well, that went well.”

She ignores me, continuing to scribble away, and I look at what she is writing, her script almost illegible for the last few sentences, her hand quivering, imperceptibly to the eye but easily discerned when looking at the results of her calligraphy. Gently patting her shoulder, I try to offer support, again unsure of what to do. Social nuances are complicated. Looking up, she flashes me a brief smile before putting her brush down, swallowing hard and taking a deep breath, calming herself before she speaks.

“Stay away from that man, Rain. Although the Justicar offers us some protection, if Du Ming Gyu is distraught enough over his disciple, he may just kill us all and damn the consequences. He might even succeed.” Giving Adujan a sideways look, she tells her, “Keep him close, have him study and stay out of trouble. It would be best that Min Gyu not learn that Rain was the cause of our dispute with the Brigadier.” She opens her arms for a hug, and I oblige, patting her on the back as we embrace.

I'm a little miffed at how everyone thinks it's all my fault, I mean, I wasn't alone in that bar fight. It doesn't seem fair, at worst it should really only be half my fault. Opening my mouth to defend myself, I forcefully clamp my lips shut at Alsantset's glare, as if she were daring me to quarrel with her, ready to scold me into submission. Taking the coward's way out, I quietly slink away with Adujan as we head towards our tent to collect my book.

After crawling into our tent, I finally turn to Adujan and ask, “Was that not the craziest thing you have ever seen?”

Startled by my question, Adujan blankly looks at me for a moment, lost in her own thoughts. “It was incredible. He is a man blessed by the Divine Wind, in command of a power that all warriors aspire to.” Her eyes are wide in adoration, and if we were standing, I think she'd be swooning. The man was like a hundred years old, have some dignity. Who knew she would go all fan-girl on him.

“Taduk told me that things like that were possible, but he never showed me or explained just how it was done. You feel like explaining?”

She scoffs at my expectant look. “How the hell am I supposed to know? I don't have a teacher or mentor, all I know is that anyone who can do something like we just saw is a top-tier expert in the Empire. One in tens of millions, Rain, that's how rare someone like that is. I knew he was strong after watching him cross the river, but for him to be so incredible...” A wistful look overtakes her face, as if pining for the old man and I try to ignore the surge of jealousy that flares up within me. The guy is wrinkly and old, and Adujan is just my friend. No need to be jealous. “Ugh, of all the days to promise not to cultivate, witnessing such an amazing display of power and unable to meditate on it. Just imagine if I were able to learn how to do that, or if he were willing to take me as a disciple...” She sits there, her body slack and face full of longing.

“He taught that jackass Kai, who knows how good of a teacher he is.” It's silly being jealous at an old man, over a girl who is just a friend. Still happening though, despite my best efforts.

“He taught a man, who despite massive personal flaws, managed to attain the rank of Brigadier, while still looking young. Among the People, I doubt more than a handful would have been able to match him in single combat, and it's likely that only the Chief Provost could have defeated him with certainty.” Her eyes are shining as she sings praises for our foe. “Just think how amazing it would be to learn under him, a man who can summon the wind with a crook of his finger.”

The thought of being able to do the same sends a wave of motivation through me as I grab my book. I still need to do some reading, but I'm too antsy to sit still at the moment. “You promised not to cultivate, but what about sparring? There's no way I can study now, I need to burn off some of this energy and it sounds like you have plenty to spare.”

Giving me a sly smile, she tilts her head slightly. “Spar with you? I suppose I could, but it would have to be in private. I don't want people whispering that I'm bullying a cripple.” We eagerly head out to find somewhere isolated, both of us unable to remain still, my seemingly ancient dreams of flying through the air, raining fire and lightning down upon my enemies more realistic than ever.

Grabbing a few practice weapons, we ride out towards the southern end of camp, finding a small clearing out-of-the-way across the river, and after some quick warm ups, I stand across from her, my practice sword at the ready, awkwardly held in front of me.

Without any tells, she launches herself forwards, her blunted short-spear whistling towards my neck as I dart aside, letting her weapon slide across mine, forcing it out and away, sending her off-balance. If I had a second hand, this spar would be won with a piercing strike into her kidney, and by the look on her face, she knows it. A smile snakes across my face, and I cannot resist taunting her a little. “Seems like this cripple has the … Upper hand.”

Her groan makes the incoming pain worth it as she redoubles her efforts, showing no mercy to me as she circles to my right, taking advantage of my disability. She prods forward twice with her spear as I set my bearings, my swings too wide and off the mark when fighting backhanded, and she exploits that as well, moving dangerously close to sweep my leg, sending me flying to the dirt, the breath squeezed out from my lungs.

I see spots of black and white, and when my vision clears, Adujan stands above me, her foot pressed against my chest and her spear in my face, a self-satisfied smirk on hers. “And to think, you were moving so well earlier this morning, but I guess things are more difficult when you actually have an opponent.”

Smacking on her boot to move it aside, she plants it firmly against me, refusing to let me up. Childish. Grabbing her foot, I lift my right foot up and snag it inside her vest, launching her backwards as I lift her foot, and she gracefully spins in place, as expected. Still lying on the ground, I bring my left knee up to strike her in the pivoting ankle, tripping her and sending her to the ground with a thud. Scrambling up, I slap her weapon aside and mount her stomach, my knees pressing against her arms and my hand on her throat. “This is great, we're evenly matched now that I only have one arm.”

She responds by posting her hips and throwing me off violently, and our positions are soon reversed, my one arm fully extended and held in a joint lock, while her knee rests heavily against my throat. She holds it there for a few seconds, cutting off the blood to my brain, and then releases it, the resumed flow causing me to go light headed as I gasp for air on my back.

As soon as I can sit up, I notice her giant grin as she squats in front of me, having waited for me to recover. “This is fun, beating you up while you're almost helpless. I could see myself enjoying this quite a bit.” She extends a hand to help me up, but feeling spiteful I pull her off-balance, sending her crashing into me. Rolling about, our spar having descended into a wrestling match, my one arm grasped firmly on her bicep as she squirms about, trying to escape my clutches as I move around her back, wrapping her arm around her neck, holding her in place with my legs around her waist.

