Wrestling in the dirt is exhausting, every movement taking more energy than expected, and in minutes, Adujan is feebly struggling, her strength spent fighting against my weight advantage, and she taps my arm repeatedly. Letting go, I lean back, gasping for air, having held my breath for a good amount of time during that fight. She rests her head against my shoulder, her chest heaving, her face crimson with exhaustion as she sits between my legs, the two of us panting as we catch our breath.

Now that the adrenaline has worn off and our competition at a standstill, I realize that the two of us make for a compromising display, sitting together, limbs entwined and bodies sweaty. If we had sparred like this in the open field, I think Alsantset would have me kneeling in front of her while she scolded me about decorum and propriety. The only reason she never lectured me about Mei Lin was because it was obvious that the little rabbit girl initiated all of our physical contact.

As if she can sense me thinking of another woman, Adujan elbows me in the gut and I double up in pain, now my head leaning on her shoulder. Leaving me to gasp, she gets up and retrieves our weapons, tossing my sword at my feet. “Again.” Her mouth is set in a pout, evidently unhappy at her loss. Prideful little Adujan, can't stand getting beat by a cripple, even if it was only because she was fooling around too much.

Chuckling at the absurdity of it all, I pick up my sword and stand gingerly. “No more wrestling.” Nodding at me in agreement, we begin sparring once again, this time properly. We spar and rest, chatting about how the other can improve, noting flaws and strengths as we catch our breath, before standing once again to start over.

We spar until lunch, and after a hot meal, I spend the rest of the day studying the book that Tokta gave me, a dry read, working to memorize the text and diagrams through repetition. After dinner, I head to the Healer's tent, and as soon as I step in, Tokta puts me to work, grinding herbs and making unguents while he quizzes me on my knowledge, not only from the book, but basics in healing. He seems to be gauging just how much I know, but I can't tell if he's impressed or disappointed, his tone never changes. If it weren't for the fact that he spent long minutes correcting me, I wouldn't even know if I was right.

As the night winds down, I take advantage of a pause in the questions to ask one of my own. “If I cut off my finger, can I just reattach it, rather than regrow it?”

At my question, he turns towards me, fixing me with his stare, eyes narrowed as he studies my face. I try to weather his gaze, but I cannot help but shrink back underneath his attentions. After what feels like an eternity, he sighs and motions for me to sit at his desk with him. He speaks in a quiet tone, all of his attention on me, different from his usual dismissive attitude. “You can, but only if it is your finger. You have more questions. Ask them.”

Given permission, I perk up and ask, “Why must it be my finger? What if I were to take someone else's finger and attach it?” Or, you know, a bears arm.

“You would die.” His hushed voice takes me off guard and I lean in to listen carefully. “If the blood is incompatible, any transplant will be rejected and allowed to rot, killing you from within as the body attempts to destroy all traces of foreign blood. If it is compatible, the next time you attempt to meditate, the Energy of the Heavens will reject you, burning away the grafted finger and killing you in the process.”

There goes my dream of bear arms. “Why?”

He simply shrugs at my query, unsure of the answer himself. “That is the way of the world. There are limits that have been imposed upon us by the Mother, and we work within them. Abandon your thoughts of experimentation and learn the proper methods.”

“What about improvements? If I need to know all this knowledge to regrow my arm, then it stands to reason that I could make changes, like thicker bones or denser muscles.”

“Not possible. You require the knowledge in order to direct you chi into growing the arm correctly. The body understands how the arm should be, the plans already laid out, but it simply cannot regrow it without you directing it, supplying it with the proper materials. Deviations from those plans results in growing a formless lump of bundled nerves and muscles, so any mistake you make will have you screaming in agony, unable to focus on anything else. Feel free to try, but you will only make more work for me, having to remove your attempts at experimentation, and I will warn you now: The pain will linger.”

Dejected, I ask one last question. “What about modifying my body as is, like making myself stronger? Taduk told me it can't be done, but never explained why.”

This elicits a surprised reaction for Tokta, and he quickly asks, “Have you ever tried to do anything like that?”

“Um, yes, but nothing happens.” My face reddens, hoping he doesn't ask what I tried. It sucks being short.

“Stop trying, it will not end well. I cannot believe that Taduk has given you so much free rein.” Taking a deep breath, he launches into a story. “The history of the Empire is long and you are not the first to think of these questions. Most recently, almost 800 years ago, the scholar Zhen Shi theorized that the process of a Defiled turning into a Demon could be replicated with Chi, and spent decades conducting experiments attempting to improve the human body.”

He pauses for a moment, lost in his own thoughts. When he speaks, his voice is haunted, resigned. “He killed hundreds of thousands of people in the process, documenting every failure in great detail, proving that if nothing else, it is an impossibility. The man was brilliant and driven, but a monster in human skin, testing on human and beast alike, each experiment ending in the pain and suffering of his subjects, his methods becoming more drastic and cruel as time wore on. In the end, the Empire caught wind of his experiments and sent warriors to stop him, but they were unable to ever bring him to justice. Zhen Shi escaped, and likely carried on his experiments until he died.”

After a long pause, his eyes refocus on me, his hand grasping my shoulder tightly. “Abandon your thoughts of modifying your body. Learn to heal properly, you have a quick mind and some talent, do not squander it chasing a fruitless dream.” After dismissing me, he leans back in his chair, looking more tired than ever, his eyes haunted at the memories. Slipping out, I wander back to my tent slowly, thinking things through.

Something that Tokta said resonates in my mind, that my body knows how things should be, has a plan, in which case, why wouldn't it be able to regrow my arm on it's own, with just normal healing? It doesn't make sense that I have to direct it, but I'll keep studying, learning the 'proper' way to heal. Once I've learned that, then I can figure out how to improve it.

Having received more questions than answers, I lay awake in my tent, staring up in the darkness, one question in particular continually circling my head.

I wonder if I can find a copy of those notes. While the methods of gathering the information were monstrous, to not use the information would be foolish.

At worst, it'll let me know what not to try.

Chapter Meme
