A man with white hair and a monocle in his left eye. He dressed like a scholar. As Randildy’s expression hardened, Randidly saw himself, in all his anxious fury, reflected perfectly in that monocle. He was seen in his entirety, a desperate man with black hair and intense emerald pupils.

Then the white-haired man tilted his head and smiled. The reflection shifted, showing a soft, blue grey eye.

Pangu. Randidly’s jaw clenched. Well, I guess all the elements are really present.

“Do you want to do this,” The blindfolded woman drawled out the words. Randidly could see that gargoyle pressing his lips together, clearly wanting to interrupt her, but lacking the authority. Randidly rolled back his shoulders as she finished her sentence. “The easy way, or the hard way?”

She watched him closely, reveling in the disparity between their powers.

“Your universe has value to us,” The bark-skinned woman spoke. “Surrendering it without a fuss will earn you our goodwill.”

The gargoyle seemed emboldened by another individual speaking. “Even so, we must address the matter of the refused restriction and Field Identification-”

“Choose now,” The blindfolded woman raised a finger so it pointed straight up at the sky. Even through the bare image fabric of the multiverse, Randidly’s skin buzzed with the implied threat. The gargoyle visibly deflated.

Randidly steeled himself and sent a message to Neveah. Brace for impact.

The blindfolded woman seemed to sense his resolve as Randidly flared his defensive image. She clicked her tongue. The finger swung down.

The force punched a hole directly through Randidly Ghosthound’s chest, taking most of her heart and a portion of his left lung. His wound spat a mist of blood backward, failing to cloak the glowing portal in the least.

*****

“Sorry about the ride. Our usual means of transportation… is indisposed at the moment.” Neveah said as she released Pine.

Pine shook his head, calming his racing heart and tried to remain focused. “I do not mind. And this place… this wilderness is what you desire?”

To be truthful, Pine had loved that Neveah relied on physical power to speed them across the spatial divides. They had raced through the cracks in space, crossing from the Nexus proper into the Alpha Cosmos by sheer didn’t of momentum and ingenuity. From there, they had gone away from the Ghosthound’s origin planet to one of the orbiting moons. There, Neveah had taken Pine out away from the few cities to this distant place.

Yet it wasn’t just that. There was also the strangest familiarity in how Neveah moved, in the passive Aether patterns she maintained around her body.

The two were entirely alone. Crossing into the Alpha Cosmos appeared to have a screening effect, so that the dark subconscious no longer hung like a depressed cloud over Pine’s mood. Several wide fields stretched in front of them, messy with tall grass. From a look at the soil, Pine could tell it was rich, but it was also studded with stones; the land would need to be worked for a bit before it was useable for anything. And in the distance, he could see small ridges.

Only in those ridges did Pine sense local wildlife. The place was untouched.

“Not this place specifically, but what it could become. I want… I want it to be over too,” Neveah said quietly, she turned and looked at Pine and her eyes glistened with tears. “I understand that sentiment. I am… quite like you, I believe. I am bound to Randidly Ghosthound. I sense his suffering each day. And it… is a strain. I support him as best I can… but I want him to stop pushing himself, to stop throwing himself into these situations, to simply… simply accept the gift of this land and retire from his battles.

“It might be difficult for you to envision, but Randidly Ghosthound… he has a capacity for joy that is difficult to fathom, considering his work ethic and determination to ignore that part of himself. I have seen him take fields like this and turn them into gorgeous farms. He grows food, cooks it, eats it, shares it with friends. There is such a contentment in him then…”

Neveah closed her eyes as tears ran down her cheeks. She wept silently, just a little bit of her inner pain leaking out. She didn’t even wipe the tears away, as though this happened so often she couldn’t be bothered to address it. “I want that for him. For him to understand that’s enough. That he doesn’t need to be more than just that man. So, so badly.”

Pine felt a strange stirring in his heart. Perhaps to cover up the strange emotion suffusing him, he coughed. “I do not mean to question your desire… but is this desire not for someone else? I do not think you can lecture me on my indecision, if your desires are also not your own.”

Neveah barked out a laugh. She reached out and slapped her cheeks. “No, that’s fair. We truly are… more similar than I expected. But can you see the possibility of this? That is what I wanted to show you. My desires… it is not anything specific. Just… I see the life we have been living, the… Path, we have taken. And I want it to be different. A different way. These wild places remind me of possibility and potential. That we could always shift and go somewhere new. Do you see it?”

A breath of wind came through the fields and the grasses sang their support. Here, the whole world could change. There was nothing holding them back.

Pine blinked as he listened to the rustling weeds. There wasn’t another soul for miles. Just the ground, beneath their feet, the grass, the stones. Neveah hadn’t asked him what he would do with this place, but rather whether just looking at an untouched location, did he sense the potential? He had to admit, as he allowed his senses to wander around the unused space, he felt something.

A different Path, huh…

However, the moment was short. Neveah suddenly frowned. “Ah, be careful, this might be-”

The whole world beneath their feet wrenched sideways. Pine almost toppled over, despite his low center of mass. And his connection to the wider Nexus informed him it wasn’t just their planet, but all of the worlds were suddenly and powerfully buffeted.

“What was that? Did the Engraving-” Pine paused at the concern he heard in his own voice. What did it matter if the Engraving failed?

Didn’t he want everything to end? At least his part in it?

Or did he just want a fresh start?

“Ah, no, the Engraving should be fine. That’s just Randidly getting into a pissing match with a bigger bully.” Neveah shook her head. In that small motion, she was rueful, fearful, exasperated, worried, and affectionate. “No matter how many times he gets punished for it, he always gives them the first shot. He will make them pay for that privilege, but… well, we should be getting back. I hope you… enjoyed, seeing what I do.”

Neveah waved her fingers, conjuring several Engravings. Weirdly, Pine looked at the moments and felt another hint of that sensation of familiarity. “The way you use Engravings… where did it come from?”

“Ah. I wondered if you noticed. I… have a theory.” Neveah was briefly still. But then she put her hand on Pine’s shoulders and they were moving again, hurtling across vast distances. They streaked out of the Alpha Cosmos and back into the Nexus proper, and suddenly Pine could feel the darkness pressing against him. Suddenly all the hope and possibility he saw in that grassland shrank and vanished. He felt small.

He felt afraid.

Yet despite a faint trembling, he latched onto that strange sensation of familiarity. He looked up at Neveah, as they slammed back into the ground, standing now in the middle of the golden Engraving. It was an enormous, hulking thing now, wreathed in golden veins that held everything in place. He couldn’t see its edges, where the three circles whirled around the central portion.

Neveah, after another hesitation, turned back to Pine. The floating golden sparks cast strange, living shadows across her face. “I can tell you, if you wish. But… well, it is a delicate time. Perhaps it is better to wait.”

“Tell me,” Pine said. Their environment was light and motion, chaos and oppressive darkness. He didn’t know what he wanted, but he knew everything was about to change.

Neveah looked at him with sad eyes. They were emerald, like the Ghosthound’s but so much softer and more solemn. “We… come from the same place.”

That just made Pine frown. Neveah shook her head rapidly, and Pine realized she was nervous. “No, ah, that’s not a helpful thing to say. Umm… I’m not sure how much you know about your parents’ people… the people of Elhume and Yystrix. But they have a constant population. Couplings have two children, who are formed from half of each of the parents. And after those halves are given away… the parents waste away. What I mean to say…”

Pine suddenly understood. His eyes widened.

“I have suspected for a while. But… I was afraid to tell you. Because… because of me, she-”

“You are my half-sister.” Pine looked at Neveah. “Your familiarity; you have the same energy mannerisms as mother. She… created both of us.”

Now it was Neveah’s turn to blink. She offered him a brittle smile. “Yes. She was already wasting away while she… well, she helped shape Randidly’s growth. She laid down the groundwork for him to possess a Vessel, while running simply on fumes of what she once was. We didn’t know until she was gone, what she had given. Or what it cost her. And-”

Neveah was almost babbling now, all of her calm sophistication vanished. “And I bet you were wondering why she never came back. It might have felt like- like she abandoned you. But she didn’t. She wouldn’t. It was because of me-”

“It is not your fault,” Pine blurted out the words. His emotions spun within him, too complex and layered to separate. It was a tightness of his throat, a heat in his chest, a constant, desperate thrumming. Perhaps a portion of it was almost accusatory, after feeling abandoned for so long, wanting to push it all onto her like Neveah so feared, but-

But Pine felt her guilt. And he has suffered for so long under a similar guilt, he spoke from the heart before he had a conscious reaction.

“It is not your fault,” Pine repeated as his feelings percolated down through his body. A half-sister. A mother who hadn’t abandoned him, not like he expected. A father who now stood, empty as he was, because Pine had asked him. A plan for a better Nexus. A cold one, in which he was left alone, but… “She… she was just like us, wasn’t she? Giving, even when she shouldn’t.”

“Wanting happiness for someone else. Wanting to lead them to a different Path, even until the end.” Neveah nodded. “Not being afraid… to walk that path alone, without recognition.”

Pine fell silent then, confused and lost. The golden light raged and swelled around them. The darkness pressed down against his chest. With the new information, Pine wasn’t sure exactly what he wanted.

But… he did want a chance to find out.
