Randidly Ghosthound waited for the representatives of the Providence Squad to arrive with his head held high.

His mind remained torn in a thousand different directions. He spewed out huge currents of Aether and Nether, more every second as he paid the bill for the Nexus renovation Neveah had structured. He ignored the tugs on his consciousness to fix the flaws in time. He felt Neveah and Pine’s movements as she steadily convinced him, even while the universe soul still carried a deep icicle of depression that left the fabric of the universe chilled. His Nether Core whirled so quickly he wondered if the actual physical heart, located in the core of Kharon Academy’s Labyrinth, had turned molten.

All of it eroded him in the smallest bits. Yet he had experienced a version of this a half dozen times with the Visage of Obsession. And if anything, the process felt cleaning. He forgot he housed a universe, he held a half finished Samsara event, that he was just a projected being generated to protect the Alpha Cosmos.

His heart beat quickly, feeling real in his chest. His name was Randidly Ghosthound and he housed a manic glee as the unknown approached.

The Alchemist calculated the likely outcomes. Yggdrasil creaked and groaned as it released all of its pent-up growth and thickened its canopy. The Songstress of Absence sang and sang and sang, working herself up for this grand finale.

Tiamat, Dread Chimera and Grey Fear, looked at Randidly with its focus on another matter. Can you feel them coming?

The starfield around him glittered, silent and imposing. Yet even as that approaching, blazing star resolved itself into a flaming chariot with wheels as large as mountain ranges, the shadow of the approaching figures pressed against him. It was not just history or density of Nether than leaned against him, but also the presence of their Vessels, which could only have been refined through multiple Pinnacle events, rivaling his own.

Despite himself, Randidly couldn’t help but flash a cheshire smile as he answered his images. Every trick deserves an audience. Let’s leave them riveted, shall we?

Congratulations! Your Skill Arch Heretic’s Thaumaturgy (P) has grown to Level 1983!

Providence has detected the activation of a lesser System! Superseding-

Pantheon Intervention: We refuse.

Warning! If you refuse to comply-

Pantheon Intervention: Do your worst.

Congratulations! Your Skill Apostate Moirae’s Seditious Touch (GD) has grown to Level 1722!

The brushes with the Providence System felt feather light, quickly rejected as they failed to find easy Aether to grasp on his person. Yet Randidly could begin to feel the austere methodology present in this glittering starscape. From the depths of the Nether Core, where the door to the sea of shapes hummed, he felt the glimmer of a resonance.

If the Nexus, and by extension the Alpha Cosmos, felt akin to a pool of images, with each individual floating and affecting the larger environment somewhat, this… was a place drained of that suspension fluid. All the images and significance stood on their own, isolated by a harsh structure. The shadows that Randidly sensed, of the Eternities, were just the way that his senses picked up on the foreign powers.

Such a vast and cold place, Randidly observed. Such rigid labeling and structure.

But while the energies of Aether and Nether were kept curiously isolated, Randidly’s skin soon heated with the approaching furnace of a chariot. The transport rumbled as it closed the distance and Randidly could feel the six presences headed his way. As they neared, their ‘shadows’ became increasingly clear. The peculiar combination of Aether and Nether of the multiverse felt incredibly dense. A few drops of cool sweat slid down his spine. His smile just stretched wider and he made a few more preparations.

At the distance of perhaps only a mile away, Randidly had a realization. The structure of their powers are layered. Purposefully. They probably experience an Eternity, bastardizing the process of Aspect creation, by using their own selves as the Aspect. Which isolates their energies, creating the first stages of this horrible, mausoleum feel… but then they reach the Pinnacle. They step outside of the threshold of their bodies, allowing to push past the barrier create by the Eternity event… and then they use the freed energy to experience another Eternity…

Over and over again, until they form those tension filled statues…

So this is the Path they have chose. Randidly flicked a sleeve and darkness billowed out from his back. The evolved form of the partial Aspect gifted to him by Nyx, Tiamat’s Veil of Death and Shadow, spread out like a dove blanket to obscure the space behind him. He couldn’t yet call on the full might of the Nexus’s darkness, but he pulled a fraction of it, those hungry ghosts willing to be led away answering his call. Tens of millions of spectral hands curled into claws. He stood at the head of the army, ready for his resistance.

He might feel their shadows stretching across him, but Randidly Ghosthound had a lot of experience fighting in the shade.

But he didn’t stop there. He blinked once, twice, and on the third blink his left eye became completely obscured by darkness as an event horizon opened from his bright pupil. It swirled lazily for a moment, allowing the Songstress of Absence to pass through his body and hide herself in the folds of the veil behind him. Randidly Ghosthound’s third image pressed and pressed, distorting the space further.

The fabric of the multiverse was stronger here, held in place by the long shadows of the Eternities. They applied enough pressure it squashed all the interstitial, gaseous image fabric he had grown used to. But Randidly Ghosthound had experience a Pinnacle even and was at the cusp of an Eternity. He squeezed and even this turned to putty beneath his fingers.

Congratulations! Your Skill Tiamat’s Veil of Death and Shadow (ND) has grown to Level 1813!

Congratulations! Your Skill Siren’s Dirge of Bottomless Taking (P) has grown to Level 1757!

The constant flow of VPs had pushed him back up to 3000, even though only a short amount of time had passed. Randidly’s eyes flashed in anticipation. Only a little bit more now…

He poured those 3000 into his Impossibility Creed. He flexed his fingers. He looked up and welcomed the six presences who exited the flaming chariot and flew out to float above him in the starfield.

Each popped, to his vision. As though an artist had traced their edges, to emphasis the pressure they exerted just by existing.

The leading figure was a gargoyle, his stone features implacable. Muscular arms hung down from bulging shoulders, while talon-tipped wings hung from his back. Making eye contact made it slightly difficult for Randidly to breathe, as the heaviness of this existence leaned against him. Both the gargoyle’s image and his significance were hidden in the churning patterns of energies running through his body, but the sheer presence of his Vessel set Randidly’s teeth on edge.

Randidly had to wonder how many times the layering process occurred, as these individuals managed multiple Eternity and Pinnacle events. And from a quick scan, the gargoyle was only the third most powerful individual in the group.

“I told you this would be worth it,” A golden haired woman with skin the color of tree bark whispered to a similarly colored man next to her. The duo, who seemed to be siblings, stood to the right of the leader. They regarded Randidly coolly, as the gargoyle pivoted and gave them a look.

The gargoyle cleared his throat. “Randidly Ghosthound. You have flaunted the rules of Providence by refusing to accept the restrictions on unregistered users. Do you dispute this?”

Even the words had a compelling affect, likely due to the intensity of these layered existences. Yet Randildy’s body could withstand their displeasure. Which, he suspected would intensify before the showdown was over.

Still, Randidly hesitated before answering. He sounds so officious… is it really possible I could just… buy time by playing along with their bureaucracy?

“I do.” Randidly said, lifting his chin.

“Ahem, let me assure you, your word will not be enough to convince us,” The gargoyle’s lip curled upward. But it was also obvious he was enthused by the prospect of Randidly’s denial. “With my privileges, I can view the activity logs. You burned away the restrictions as soon as they formed, with waves of raw energy. How do you explain this?”

Your restrictions were so weak that just the humming of Aether and Nether through my body annihilated them. How the hell is this my fault? Randidly complained inwardly, even while he felt lightheaded from the volume of force rushing through his veins. He considered said, “I didn’t understand the process. I know better now.”

The gargoyle seemed to consider this. “Hum. You are newly arrived and therefore unregistered. I also possess the capability to assign a field identity, which can serve as your registration. So long as you comply, we will view your earlier transgression with lenience. I shall begin.”

In Randidly’s chest, he felt Neveah and Pine conversing. Wanting to buy them time, he simply waited for the gargoyle to move.

…but as soon as the process began, and he could feel his lips pulling back and showing his teeth. What the hell is this?!

A Field Identification under the purview of Providence has been initiated. Processing…

This time, perhaps because Randidly had gotten a better read on the way Providence operated, he clearly sensed the mixed energies of Aether and Nether shifting into place around his body. A framework formed directly in front of Randidly. It twisted in front of him, his skin crawling with the wrongness he witnessed. Because stretching before him, an open, pulsing  gullet of sharp energy-

It took a notification for him to guess why no one would think him appalled by this sight.

Congratulations! Your Nether Penance Empty Vessel Fosakes the Path has grown to Level 1811!

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Temporal Thaumaturgy Mends Eternity has grown to Level 1811!

They are showing me a Path, Randidly blinked slowly as he considered the vague distortion right in front of him, in his awareness just a lightly tinted screen. He barely registered it, because what waited beyond was so disturbing. I just can’t see it.

Likely, the hint of a Path offered would be enticing. Or perhaps more subtle, just a reflection of what a more powerful form he could become. A distorted reflection, an aspiration, a tongue-in-cheek bribe persuading him to follow their methods. Yet that flimsy lie only made his lip curl.

What Randidly did see was a helixing series of spiked Aether rails. He saw the true face of their Field Identification. Once Randidly took a step through that Path, he tried to touch the image of his future these monsters offered, those rails would snap into place. His awareness stretched, further and further, following the two energy retrictionsas they swam closer and closer as they progressed, in the process driving the spikes deeper and deeper into the target.

Until an identified individual found themselves frozen and inert. Until the tracks had been thoroughly driven into the image and ideology that all an individual could do was follow the layering method, demonstrated by these monsters, to find strength in their lifelessness. To embrace the calcification of their being.

Randidly Ghosthound chuckled. In a wave of energy, this time purposeful, he annihilated the innocuously named Field Identification.

The gargoyle shifted his weight. “You refuse?”

Before Randidly could answer, another voice cut across his.

“Clever. You used the disturbance of erasing the restriction to mask your true purpose in arriving… but did you really think we wouldn’t notice?” The female humanoid on the gargoyle’s left, wearing a black crown and with a blindfold tied across her eyes, sneered. From her tapping foot, her patience had clearly run out. “The opening of a sub-universe. Well, interloper, don’t bother with subterfuge. Since you came here with a plan to waste our time, I hope you are prepared for some… bumps.”

The blindfolded woman, the most powerful individual in the group, gestured. Randidly didn’t feel her energies activate at all. She didn’t appear to use an image. She simply… mobilized her Vessel, not in a physical way, but in a domineering way. The inert statue moved.

She told the multiverse the way it would be, with all the static depth she possessed. His instincts shrieked in warning.

Randidly’s Skills, the spatial distortions from the Songstress of Absence and the Veil from Tiamat, were shredded. After a second of glittering images fragments obscuring the truth, the distortions vanished, wiped away with a stern intention. Randidly clenched his fists at the casual display of power. Behind him, a portal unfolded, showing a vision of the Nexus, from where it connected to the wider multiverse.

For all their frigid stillness, the power of these monsters is real. Randidly bit his lip. So much for stalling.

The portal that would remain there, a bleeding vulnerability, until Neveah’s Engraving finished its work and Randidly’s Vessel could engulf the Nexus.

Until that work was complete… Randidly needed to face these monsters alone.

Yet truthfully, it wasn’t the woman, despite her obvious power, that made Randidly the most nervous. His gaze shifted to the last two individuals of the six, who stood slightly behind the woman, like assistants. On the woman’s left was a shorter individual, cloaked in shadow and lazily flicking daggers across long fingers. And on the woman’s right…

