“I might have gone a bit further, since my girlfriend trusts me not to take things too far; but, you jumped ahead and used up a good opportunity.”

Ellaria let him out of the hug and sighed. “You would have helped.” She said sadly.

“Possibly.” Ren said. “I don't know for sure.”

“But... before... you said that...”

“Right. No sex.” Ren said. “I didn't say 'no touching'.”

Ellaria's mouth dropped open, because she never thought about that possibility; and Ren felt her emotions deflate.

“I messed up.” Ellaria said. “I could have... we could have... and now...”

“I'll be more... cautious... in the future.” Ren said and smiled. “Thank you for keeping me company.”

Ellaria sighed and her wings dropped down. “I think it's time for my shift.”

“Not for another 2 hours.” Teepo said. “You woke up early.”

“Not for another 2 hours, but I'll take you back to the others.” Ren said and took her hand. He started to walk across the room and down the stairs, and he gave her his thanks and appreciation. She took some of it, but she was a bit too depressed about what could have happened to enjoy them. He took her outside and over to the other tower and stopped in front of the door.

“Can you kneel for me?” Ren asked, and she did. “Please don't be sad.”

“But... I... we...”

Ren put his arms around her neck and deftly avoided hitting her wings. He put his lips by her ear to whisper. “You were still the first one I invited to bed.” He breathed, and she shivered from the intimacy. “We cuddled, we shared feelings, and we both had a nice enjoyable sleep in each other's company.”

Ren gave her a kiss on the cheek and gave her a feeling of enjoyment and thanks. She took his feelings this time and let her ability savor it.

“Thank you.” Ren said.

Ellaria didn't know what to say to his genuine feelings, and just stared at him as he let her go.

“See you soon.” Ren said and walked back over to his tower and went inside.

“I think you surprised her.” Teepo said.

I think so, too. Ren thought and went over to his forge. He started making basic bracers, 40 of them, and added more ore to the smelter when he needed to. While he waited for it to simmer, he enchanted 1 gold coin diamonds with a glyph of 5 Speed runes, others with Protection, and more with Warding.

When he had enough done for all 40 bracers, he opened a recipe for armored boots, and cut the foot off of it. He made 40 of those, then enchanted more diamonds. When he was done, he activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability and used the amputated boots to make 20 pairs of Boots of Striding and Leaping. He used his Gem Setting ability to recess 2 diamonds into the metal to increase the Speed, 2 for Protection, and 2 for Warding; which completed the 6 gems a single item could hold.

Ren used Double Infusion to make the items binding upon equip and part of a set, then thought about the bracers. He opened the recipe for the Bracelet of Major Displacement.

Bracelet of Major Displacement

Although it appears to be a normal bracelet, upon command its magical properties distort and warp light and sound. This displacement works just like the Displacement spell and lasts for a total of 300 minutes; which the wearer can divide up as they see fit.

Ren made a bracelet and used Retain Essence, then added 50 runes of Time to increase the time limit to 550 minutes, just because he could, then put the enchantment on a bracer. He used Double Infusion again to make them binding and part of a set. He did this for 20 of them, then added the small diamonds of Speed, Protection, and Warding. When they were done, he opened the Amulet of Natural Armor recipe.

Amulet of Natural Armor (Wondrous Item)

This amulet grants the wearer a natural armor bonus, and protects the wearer as if they were wearing heavy armor. This does not cause the wearer to suffer heavy armor penalties, however. This cannot be used with actual armor, and the bonuses and protection are lost if armor is equipped.

Ren made an amulet then used Retain Essence to store it, then replaced the restriction of not being worn with armor with 5 glyphs of 10 runes each for Strength, Dexterity, Agility, Vitality and Endurance. He put that on the 20 other bracers, then made an Amulet of the Spider. He used Retain Essence and then modified it to be binding and part of a set, then used Double Infusion to add it to the Bracers of Natural Armor. He used his Gem Setting skill to add the small diamonds enchanted with Speed, Protection, and Warding to complete them.

When Ren was done, he had sets of modified boots that the succubi could wear with their odd-shaped feet, and gauntlets that could be worn with their odd-sized hands and fingers. When worn together, they would get +90% to their Speed, +80% Defense to Armor and counted as having heavy armor on, and had +80% to Concealment. They would also generate a copy of themselves 5 feet away when they wanted to for up to 550 minutes, or just over 9 hours, thanks to the Displacement enchantment, and had +10 to 5 of their important stats and +2 to all of their stats for a complete set. They could also stick to things like a spider and had an inherent Web spell they could cast every hour.

With a bit more modification, these will work for Lara as well. Ren thought and started to refill the smelter when Teepo told him it was morning. That was a quick 4 hours. He smiled. Time to go.
