“I can show you if you want.” Ren said and looked around at all of the stunned faces. “Would anyone like to see that?” He asked. “Anyone? No?” He smiled. “Then let's move on, shall we?” He looked at Patty. “If you don't want me to build a warehouse, can I at least expand this storage?”

Patty didn't respond because she was just as stunned as everyone else. She knew he was telling the truth. Margaret, the old hunched-over lady with the Amulet of Truth, was counting the stacks of bushels behind her to see how many they actually had.

“M-m-my Lord.” Patty managed to get out. “There's no room in the village for a warehouse, or more storage.”

“Not above ground.” Ren said and smiled.

“Wh-what?”

“I'll dig.” Ren said. “I'm tempted to use my Staff of Earth to shift the dirt around, but I can't dig down with it. All I could do with it is make a pit. So, I'll just dig the old fashioned way right here under this place, and you'll have lots of cool dry storage space for the wheat when I'm done.”

“How... how long...”

“Give me an hour.” Ren said. “I should have a good-sized space done by then.”

“O-o-okay.” Patty said. “Everyone, let's give him some room to work.” She turned around and tapped Margaret on the shoulder. “Let's go.”

“But I'm still counting!” Margaret said, and then she saw Ren. “Oh! Hello, My Lord.”

“M'Lady.” Ren said and gave her a slight bow.

“He needs the space to work.” Patty said.

“I'll lose my count!” Margaret said, and Patty sighed.

“Come. On.” Patty said and hauled Margaret out of the storage space. Everyone had left quite quickly, except for Falla.

“Can you really walk on air?” Falla asked, her voice full of wonder.

“It's a spell I know.” Ren said. “According to the description, I can walk up into the air like it's a steep hill.”

“Wow.” Falla said, and her eyes were full of sparkles and dreams. “I wish I could walk on air, too.”

Ren took out a wand and exchanged the spells inside with Air Walking, then held a hand out to her. “Come with me.”

“We can do it right now?” Falla asked and took his hand.

“It'll only be a short walk, but yes.” Ren said and smiled. “We can go right now.”

“Thank you!” Falla said as they left the storage area. A few people were milling around, and one woman was trying to watch Ren, but not watch him at the same time.

Teepo?

“Yeah, she's the one that asked if you could fly.”

Perfect. Ren said and cast Air Walk on himself and Falla. “Hold on tightly, Falla.”

Falla nodded and Ren took a step up into the air and put his foot down; only, it didn't go to the ground. Ren smiled and stood up on that foot and was off the ground by 6 inches.

“Me, too!” Falla said and stepped up beside him. “I'm floating!”

Ren took several more steps up into the air, and just like the spell said, it was like walking up a hill. He knew he only had a short time to play, so he didn't go up far; but, Falla was right there beside him and she was overly-giddy with happiness.

“Thank you so much!” Falla said and hugged Ren tightly. “Can... can we run?”

“I think just a jog.” Ren said. “If we go too fast, we could fall.”

Falla nodded, and started to jog through the air, and Ren kept pace with her. They jogged around the storage area, and she turned and led him over to her house.

“MOM!” Falla yelled. “Look! No feet!”

“Falla?” Gemma came out of the house. “What are you shout-AHHH!”

Falla laughed and laughed at her mother's reaction to her being suspended in the air. She was about 8 feet up, and close to the top of the one storey straw and mud house.

“30 seconds.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought. “Our fun's almost over.” He told Falla. “Walk this way.”

Falla sighed. “All right.”

Ren led her down the air 'hill', and she followed him reluctantly down to the ground. They got there just before the spell ended. Falla let his hand go, looked up at him, and wiggled her finger at him in a 'come here' gesture. He knelt in front of her, and she smiled.

“I love you.” Falla said, and kissed Ren on the cheek. She didn't run off, or giggle, or anything of the sort this time; she just stood there and looked at Ren expectantly. In her mind he had given her a gift so precious to her, that she thought he had earned... and deserved... her love. Her mother on the other hand, had gasped, grabbed her chest, and her husband had caught her before she fainted.

Those three simple words, given freely by an uncomplicated heart, had touched Ren more than he thought it would. He knew the young girl didn't mean it in any kind of sexual manner; because it wasn't the same love as what a woman had for a man. It was the love that a child offered to their favorite toy, their favorite food, or even give to their best friend. Ren had never felt that kind of love before, and a tear came to his eye.

“Thank you, Falla.” Ren said and kissed her cheek.

Falla's face burned a bright red and she ducked her head in embarrassment.

“Falla, look at me.”

Falla didn't lift her head, but she moved her eyes to look at him.

“You never have to look away from me, okay?” Ren said softly. “That's not what will make me happy.”

“What... what will make you happy?” Falla asked as she lifted her head and looked at him.

“That. Right there.” Ren said and touched her face. “Look at me. Smile. Say hi when you see me.”

A smile spread across Falla's face.

“There we go.” Ren said and took her hand. “M'Lady, if you will excuse me.” He kissed the back of her hand and let it go. “I must cover myself from head to toe in dirt to try and make Patty happy.”

Falla laughed and Ren grinned at her.

“It's going to take more than dirt to do that.” Fern said.

Ren nodded to Fern, his wife Gemma, and Falla; then he ran over the road and went into the storage area to dig it out like he said he would.
