The longer I stare at the [Rank Up] box in my mind and think about pressing it, the Primordial Aura saturating the system text becomes far more dense.

It's like trying to push two magnets that repel each other together, the harder I try pressing it, the more difficult it becomes.

I've never faced any resistance inside the system itself like this. Every feature that has a [YES] and [NO] option has always been seamless. Some hidden mechanism would always activate and push the function through no matter what.

Now, I even share live thoughts with Maria, and she feels the same exact thing happening in her mind.

It is the most logical plan of action to rank up and gain another boost in power to enter this central domain, but it becomes very clear this isn't going to work.

No extra mana, or divine energy, or increase in the high-quality ether filling our pools is going to change this fact.

It feels like an external force is interfering, like some kind of seal made from an incredibly complex variation of Primordial Aura.

At the same instance, I can feel the many enlightenments of my Knights, Commanders, Generals, and Admins as my Primordial Aura starts to merge with their systems. I can feel it doing the same with mine, at a far faster rate and with more potent aftereffects.

I've gained multiple buffs that glow with this Primordial Aura on my status, and many of the demon race skills have been upgraded again far past Celestial Grade to Primordial.

However, even these don't feel quite right.

I activate my [Primordial Defense], bringing my aura inward to surround my Sacred Body in a tight layer, then activate [Primordial Resonance]. It forces my mind to concentrate only on the present in front of me, creating a slight tunnel vision effect.

My senses everywhere else are still active in the back of my mind and will trigger my attention if necessary, but this blocks out all distractions to put me in an artificial flow state.

The potency of my Primordial Aura temporarily increases by many times over.

I recall seeing a few First Bloods using this buff. It would increase their speed, attack power, and battle IQ for a short period of time. However, it didn't stand out much when they all were one-shot killed. Now, I can see its effectiveness.

I scroll through my status and find that this feeling actually makes itself clear in multiple places.

The first is around my Soul Sword.

It was impossible to sense when my awareness was at a lower frequency, especially in the Blue Zone when my sword first fell into a dormant state. Now, I can see there is some kind of mental barrier between us.

It didn't fight back before because I didn't have enough Primordial Aura for it to care. Now, when I try to nudge my mind closer to my Soul Sword, it repels me away just like my [Rank Up] notification.

Next, I start feeling this aura everywhere.

It appears in every one of my Celestial Grade skills.

At first, it doesn't make any sense, but I open up all of their information and scroll through their settings and find that this aura is actually coming from their [Upgrade] options.

I have enough [PP] to force upgrade one [Celestial Grade] skill to [Primordial Grade].

My mind instantly falls to [Absorption], but when I try to mentally press [YES], the option gets further and further away.

Even in this flow state, I can't find the root of this barrier that's making itself known all throughout my system. It's like someone or something has placed a manual potential-blocking bottleneck in its code.

After hitting more dead ends, I deactivate these buffs and look to Maria.

"Still nothing..."

She replies but doesn't look back toward me, she only points forward at something else.

"Well... I think we're going to have to make do with what we have. There's no need to break through the central domain barrier if they're letting us through."

The dark void of nothingness in my mental image of the central domain starts to show a small crack in its outer edge, and of all places, it appears right in front of us.

Visible to the naked eye, massive white high-quality glyphs start to glow, revealing themselves from the invisible state they were cloaked in moments earlier.

I can recognize all of the symbols as the Dryad's language, but I don't feel any Primordial Aura coming off them. When my own aura tries to flow toward them, it's blocked and repelled by an ominous invisible force, just like the feeling inside my status.

An archway slowly opens up, large enough for both of us to fit through in our enormous battle forms if we wish. Yet, there is no one greeting us on the other side of the opening.

My eyes are sharp, and corruption pools up in my fists while Maria pulls out her blade, but it is for nothing.

The only thing revealed behind the archway is an empty forest filled with Ascended Demons and Primordial Trees. I can see them clearly, white blurs of demon-shaped light flying through the forest. Yet, I can't sense the Primordial Trees at all.

It's like a window was opened up into the central domain, inviting us in, but I can't sense anything inside.

All I do know is that the barrier of strange Primordial Aura that was covering this domain is not present in the small archway that's opened up. If we move forward now, we could easily make it through.

I stay silent and try to analyze the scene before me, but no additional information becomes clear. There is not even a trace of the aura left behind from the being that opened this archway in the barrier.

I'm almost certain the Imperial Family Head is going to be inside, but I have some doubts.

If he is so close by, why would he let us destroy all of these ritual sites and kill off his armies of Outer Guards and First Bloods? It wouldn't make any sense.

Yet, the longer I stare forward, imagery of one of the visions I inherited from the Demonic Glyphs flashes in my mind. It's of a Demon and Dragon flying over a final stretch of forest before coming across an enormous Primordial Tree of Life.

While I can't sense their auras, my natural eyesight is strong enough to see and put together the patterns of the trees. I quickly realize that this is the same exact stretch of Primordial Garden, and sapling trees that I saw in the past are right in front of us.

I feel a hand hold mine, then squeeze it, breaking me out of my daze. While all of this information rushed through me in about half a second, it is close to an eternity when faced with our dilemma.

"So, do we accept the invitation?" Maria remarks.

In the back of my mind, I begin to see chaos among the higher-ranked system users in the Lower Realm break out once they all catch on to Monk's discovery.

I slowly nod and drown out the system messages and stare forward. Whatever this phenomena is, the cause of it is inside this domain... Not only that, but if this Domain is affected by the same seal that's present in my status, the answers to how I can break it may be inside as well.

"Yes, I think we will."
