Rather than anger, Mila sank deeper into her beloved’s arms and heaved a long and tired groan as all her motivation drained away. Once again, she’d overlooked the obvious and almost stumbled into disaster, so she no longer had it in her to care about Buddy’s theft. Perhaps it was for the best. If he ate and threw the vine up, it was still less of a waste than forging it into a Spiritual Runic Weapon no one besides Rain could use. “I messed up,” she admitted, hating how much she loved the feeling of Rain stroking her back as he cradled her close, and she wiggled on his lap to make her intentions known, wondering how he hadn’t figured it out for himself just yet. “Was so excited to see if I could make it that I overlooked something obvious and apparent.”

“Well, the base concept still works,” Rain said. “And now you have a new problem to chew on, my beloved scholar. Won’t take you long to figure out, of this I’m sure.” That’s how he was, an endless font of confidence and optimism whenever Mila was concerned, and she loved this part of him most of all. He was always so hard on himself, but she would have never gotten this far without his support. Nuzzling in close, she pursed her lips as he nattered on, wholly ignorant of her mood. “We’ll probably have to add a new profession to your growing list though of career paths. Runic Divine Blacksmith? Fitting, but a bit boring. What do you think?”

“Don’t want to think.” Craning her neck to kiss him hard, Mila held it until she was almost breathless and drew away panting. Idiot man. She didn’t want to talk, she wanted to be consoled, but of course while he was always eager and ready to go, the one time she wanted to initiate, he missed all the signs and forced her to behave like one of Luo-Luo’s wanton Imperial Servants, who were always angling to catch Rain’s attention.

Thankfully, he was content with his lot these days, and even better, her kiss got the message across. Their second kiss put a smile on her face as he carried her off into the bedroom, one she had built for this very purpose.

Which besides marrying Falling Rain, might well have been the best decision Mila had ever made.
