Warrior. Blacksmith. Officer. Wife. Daughter.

All titles Mila wore with honour and pride, but recently, she’d added yet another to the list, albeit one she never admitted out loud. This wasn’t to say she kept it a secret, since most anyone who knew her had either already affixed it to her in their minds or would agree that it fit her well, but that wasn’t the same as announcing it for all to hear. Nor was it a mark of shame to bear such a title, as most would don it at one point or another in their lives, and retire it far too early for her tastes. In fact, the Abbot would argue that the Empire would be better served if everyone aspired to wear this title with pride, and Mila agreed wholeheartedly, though that didn’t mean she was willing to advertise it for all to hear.

Mostly due to the fact that announcing herself as a ‘student’ implied she still had much to learn.

Which wasn’t untrue, but it detracted from all her other titles and accomplishments, which annoyed Mila to no end. It’d taken years to accept her love for learning, and years more to realize it was a core facet of her Path, one which drove her ever onwards to the Peak. To her, learning was more than a means to an end, but rather a passion and interest which she pursued as avidly as Luo-Luo’s love of the arts, Rain’s adoration of floofs, or Yan’s obsession with trashy romance stories. It wasn’t just mere curiosity driving her to study all manner of different subjects, nor was it solely in an effort to advance her career, profession, or Path. While it was wholly satisfying to apply something learned in one subject matter to another, Mila found that she enjoyed the process of learning in and of itself. All it took was for something to catch her interest and a few days later, she’d be deep down a maze-like rabbit hole of obscure facts and information, brought there by a trail of questions and queries which she never thought to ask before.

Why did iron rust, but silver and copper would only tarnish? Why did gold bend when steel would break? Why did some Spiritual Hearts meld with certain metals while rejecting others? All questions she’d asked Papa as a child, one still learning to hold her hammer right, but he had no answers for her besides, ‘Because that is the way the Mother made it’. Perhaps true, yet not the entire truth, and not an answer that would satisfy her curiosity. In the interest of progress, she learned to curb her questions and stifle her curiosity, because as Mama put it, Mila would go nowhere fast if she spent all her time chasing down answers to immaterial questions. Some answers would simply have to wait, a fact she had to accept unless she was willing to waste time and fall behind.

Which she wasn’t, as Mila was nothing if not competitive.

Meeting Rain had done much to rekindle her curiosity, because much like her, he was always asking questions to things he didn’t understand. Unfortunately, his scope of interest was much narrower than hers, or at least that’s how she felt until she’d learned of his past life’s memories. Only then did she realize that it wasn’t a lack of interest which kept him from asking questions, but rather a vastly different perspective combined with a general baseline of knowledge which far surpassed anything she could even imagine. Iron rust and copper tarnish was the result of those metals reacting with oxygen, which in and of itself was a subsection of air that humans and plants required to grow and function. The malleability of metals was determined by a multitude of factors including microstructure and atomic structure, meaning not just the grain of the metal, but the arrangement of its base building blocks, objects measured in units so small that the tip of a needle might well contain thousands upon thousands of them. While Rain couldn’t answer her burning questions regarding Spiritual Hearts, he was a treasure trove of knowledge just waiting to be mined, and she spent many long days and nights picking her beloved husband’s brain for nuggets of information.

Like why a certain sand was needed for concrete, while a different type altogether needed for mortar. Rain himself didn’t know the answer, but Mila discovered the answer after a few weeks of correspondence with Gwangjong, the brilliant stonemason and member of the Consortium turned Minister of Engineering. Concrete was mixed with coarse sand and gravel so that the wet mixture had more surface areas to bond to, creating a stronger material. Mortar on the other hand required finer sand to better absorb moisture and reduce swelling as the mortar dried, a simple answer to a question that most would not even think to ask.

Rain most certainly hadn’t, which was why it took so long to finish developing mortar even after they had concrete in place. That was one of the most frustrating aspects of his past life’s memories, how he knew just enough to touch on the surface of most mundane subjects, but not enough to go into any real depth or be of much use. Names of metals and alloys that were stronger than steel, like carbon steel, vanadium, and titanium, and no earthly idea how to find or create them. Growing the same type of crop in the same field year after year was bad because it leeched much needed nutrients out of the soil, but he couldn’t say what crops to plant in what order to replenish it, which meant it would take years, if not decades of experimentation to figure out the answer for themselves. Then there was the ‘Personal Computer’ Keystone inside his Natal Palace, which he used to automate or execute the vast majority of his Chi skills these days, yet when asked to explain how it functioned, the best he could do was utter some nonsense about harnessing lightning and calculating sums using ones and zeroes.

It boggled the mind to see Rain utilizing something so powerful and complex without understanding the basic mechanisms behind its operation, and he couldn’t even claim ignorance due to incomplete memories of his past life. While the vast majority of details remained spotty, he knew enough to admit that he doubted he knew much of anything at all, having been some sort of administrator working out of an office that dealt with matters of payment or service issues. A call centre employee, working with a ‘phone’ that allowed him to talk in real time with people across the world with little more than the press of a button, the more Mila learned of his past life, the more she found to be amazed by. What would the Empire look like if they were capable of such feats? How might things change with but a single technology from his past life? Things were not so simple however, as she’d been working with Diyako for years to create what Rain believed would be the most transformative piece of technology he could think of, namely the steam powered engine. Creating a working prototype had been simple enough, a matter of weeks to make a tiny model of an engine that fit on a tea table and used steam to move a piston up and down. From there, she thought it merely an issue of scaling up and moving on from there, but they ran into obstacle after obstacle from the very first step.

For starters, Diyako calculated that the power outputted by their working model was pitifully inefficient, largely due to the loss of heat and steam as it travelled through the pipes, but also a lack of pressure. Then there was the issue of condensation as the spent steam would fall back down into the reservoir of boiling water, reducing the temperature and increasing the amount of fuel needed to power it. Weight was a problem too, because if they wanted to build an engine capable of outputting enough mechanical power to move its own bulk, it would weigh close to a hundred and twenty kilograms before accounting for water or fuel. After adding on the weight of the frame for the vehicle and a single passenger, it became clear that their steam engine was far too inefficient and required further refinement before moving on, which felt like a punch to the gut to Mila who’d been looking forward to riding about on a steam-powered vehicle.

It didn’t help that Rain couldn’t even show her what a working steam engine looked like in his Natal Palace, or that the ‘gasoline’ engines he could show her were nonsensical and nonfunctional. To make matters worse, Mila decided that she herself would have to learn the complex mathematics Diyako used to tackle almost every problem he approached. That in and of itself took her three years to master, in between seasonal campaigns to help retake the west and revelling in marital bliss with her largely idle yet still beloved husband. To make matters worse, by the time Mila knew enough about mathematics and engineering to be of use, Diyako had advanced the progress of their steam engine to the limits of their working knowledge, and there was nothing to be done except wait for better technological innovations or fresh ideas. The metals available were too heavy or unable to withstand the heat or pressure, and even Papa couldn’t forge the delicate parts Diyako needed to create the measuring tools needed to fabricate the necessary complex components of his theoretical steam engine, which included hundreds of tiny moving parts as two separate piping systems for high- and low-pressure steam.

This would soon become the pattern of Mila’s last decade, a perpetual cycle of study and hard work that amounted to theoretical successes while actual success sat just out of reach. Even though Rain claimed it probably took decades for steam engines to go from an idea to a working concept in his past life, Mila had thought the matter so simple and easy to accomplish she’d been all but assured of success. That being said, she discovered that mathematics was of more use than she once believed, not just a tool for calculating weights and sums, but ratios and forces and whatever else she might imagine, like music or seasonal changes. It didn’t take long for her to apply her newfangled understanding of numbers to the creation of Spiritual Weapons, as she set to codifying the various different ways to test a Spiritual Heart for compatibility with metals and materials. What was once a matter of trial and error became a precise working of measurements and numbers as she worked tirelessly alongside Papa to share their findings with other Divine Blacksmiths of the Empire, but again, the results were lacklustre. Theirs was a prideful profession, and few cared to even read their findings much less share their own, claiming that much like the Martial Path, the perspective of another blacksmith might well dilute or even taint their own understanding. Some even went so far as to accuse Mila of intentional sabotage, grumbling about how she intended to ruin an entire generation of prospective Divine Blacksmiths with her ‘ruinous’ findings.

Which was disheartening to be sure, but Mila never expected much of it. Divine Blacksmiths were few and far between, limited more by the lack of materials than anything else. It helped that the people of Saint’s Tribulations Mountains were highly receptive of her findings, and Rain’s abundance of Spiritual Ore recovered from the Butcher Bay Stronghold was enough for dozens of Divine Blacksmiths to hone their craft and make names for themselves, craftsmen who pledged support for the Sentinels who protected their families and loved ones. As for Mila herself, she continued to refine her understanding of forging, striving to move beyond the state of knowing without knowing and understanding without comprehending to one in which she could grasp all the nuances and subtleties of melding metallurgy and Spiritual Hearts together as one.

A long and winding path of study which saw her seek out teachers in all manner of differing subjects, things that seemed only marginally related to the creation of Spiritual Weapons, but helped answer questions she never even thought to ask. Discussions with bridge builders and architects granted her a better understanding of the physical world and how various forces interacted in seemingly nonsensical ways. She spoke with mathematicians and physicists to better understand the properties of the materials she so often worked with. Discussions with pharmacists and physicians showed her how the human body reacted with medicines and poisons alike and how to modify it using compounds like the Rising Dragon Elixirs they’d won from the Society Contests all those years ago. Further correspondence with all manner of horse doctors, hound masters, sheep herders and the ilk opened her eyes to how many similar mechanisms existed in the animals living around them. They all had hearts, lungs, stomachs, livers, and kidneys, yet she never imagined that the basic principles behind those organs worked the same whether you stood on two legs or four, and studying how Rain’s animals ‘digested’ the Energy of the Heavens contained with Spiritual Plants was eye opening indeed.

