Today, she intended to forge not just a Spiritual Weapon, but one incorporating a Rune into its creation which would enable its wielder to emanate the power of the Sun without a Blessing of their own. Though common sense suggested she start small, Mila couldn’t help but aim for the stars as she put together her plans to craft a spear capable of delivering a beam of concentrated sunlight at their foes. Forget spring-loaded projectiles, as this was a weapon fit for a Martial Warrior, one she hoped to bestow upon young Tate before he left for his first campaign in the Western Province.

No, she couldn’t think so far ahead, not just yet. After a full night’s sleep, she’d come into her forge room to make certain all her tools and materials were laid out in perfect order at her workstation. They weren’t of course, so she spent the better part of an hour arranging and rearranging things to her liking before settling down to meditate and still her mind. Seeing her take a seat on the floor, Guai Guai pounced over before raising his arms high overhead, eager to play after a morning spent flitting about to and fro, and Mila could not bring herself to deny the sweet red panda. It was for the best, because then she could tire him out and hand him off to someone else before starting work at the forge, and perhaps even squeeze in a quick lunch just in case she became lost in the throes of Inspiration as soon as she started. The delay turned out to be a blessing in disguise as some twenty minutes later, Buddy poked his head in for a rare visit, since she spent little time at the forge these days.

“Hello Buddy,” Mila cooed, patting the hounds head as he placed his basket to one side and sat with a tiny huff, his shoulders sagging like he carried the weight of the Heavens upon them. “What’s all this? Spiritual Berries and Yam Leaves? Who’d you steal these from? Well, I won’t take it all away, but you have to share at least a little with Guai Guai.” Thinking nothing of it, she grabbed a yam leaf to hand over to the red panda, but Buddy did something inconceivable. His head shot up, his neck stretched out, and he closed his jaws around her wrist. Not hard, and without any real strength to it, more of a careful and deliberate action made with tucked tail, drooping ears, and wide-eyed woe as he let out a soft and piteous whimper.

Her first instinct was to scowl and glower until Buddy let go, but he looked so miserable and downtrodden she didn’t have it in her to be angry. “I’m sorry,” she said, leaning over to kiss him on the head, and to her delight, he let go and gave her forearm a few licks in apology. “Here, you can have it back.” Handing over her ill-gotten gains, she grinned as she watched Buddy place it back into his basket with his customary lack of coordination. Divine Beast or not, if the fate of the world were ever to depend upon Buddy’s physical abilities, then they were all doomed. For all his wonderous abilities, Buddy still couldn’t catch a ball before it stopped bouncing or run an obstacle course without crashing. The dog was as ungainly a creature as she’d ever seen, and just smart enough to do the stupidest things, so she was eager to see what he was up to today. “So you can’t spare anything for Guai Guai?” she asked, holding the squirming red panda out for Buddy to see. The little glutton was fully focused on the basket of berries and yam leaves, as well as what appeared to be a small bowl of fruit jelly tucked inside too, but Mila didn’t want to risk having Buddy snap at Guai Guai. Despite being over ten years old, Guai Guai was still as silly and childish as ever, always clinging to Mila and playing with her tail instead of spending his days in the garden with most of the other animals. To be fair, she preferred it this way, as she couldn’t bear the thought of being separated from him for long, not after keeping such close company this past decade.

Proving he was still the same sweet dog as always, Buddy heaved another sigh before begrudgingly offering Guai Guai the same yam leaf he’d just retrieved. The little red glutton greedily devoured the treat without so much as a thank you, but Buddy gave him a few licks to show there were no hard feelings at all. Putting Guai Guai aside, Mila showered the sweet hound with love and attention he so deserved. “You’ve had a hard day, haven’t you?” She asked, grinning like a fool as he clambered into her lap for a hug and rested his chin on her shoulder. “Oh, poor sweet Buddy.”

In reply, the hound grumbled and growled as she stroked his neck and patted her flanks, emitting an Aura of general pique and discontent. It was unlike anything she’d ever felt from him before, as even after the harrowing battle with the Eternal Emperor, Buddy had been cheery and upbeat, so full of love and affection it was difficult to believe a mere beast capable of such depth of emotion. What he shared today was more along the lines of what she expected from Rain when he was in one of his dour moods, though those were few and far between these days. Her heart breaking for the poor beast, she snuggled him close and kissed his forehead while wracking her brain for ways to cheer him up. Food was usually the answer, but it seemed like others had tried and failed already, else he would not have a basket full of treats to carry about. Besides, who was silly enough to try and feed him yam leaves? Perhaps that was the very reason for his lack of appetite, so Mila decided to try another tact. “You want to play fetch?” she asked, and to her delight, Buddy’s ears perked up as soon as he heard the word.

Grinning as the hound spun in excited circles, Mila watched him a moment longer before retreating to the attached bedroom. It didn’t take long to find a ball they could play with, as Guai Guai also loved to play fetch too, but when she emerged, she found Buddy standing with his paws braced against her workstation and mouth reaching for the Spiritual Heart. Caught in the act, the thieving dog froze in place and looked at her, while she stood firm and looked at him. Time came to a standstill as she considered her options. If she charged in, he’d panic and bolt, with even odds on whether he took the prize as he left, so she cocked her head and said, “Buddy. Down.” Sweet darling that he was, he flinched at her tone and shifted his paws, only to remain standing as he let out a mournful grumble. “Don’t,” she said, making sure to keep firm eye contact at all times. “That’s not a toy. Leave it.” It took many months to source a Spiritual Heart suitable for her needs, and the thorny vine was most ideal, a sturdy yet flexible vegetative material which could store the energy of the Sun. What use did a dog have for it anyways? If Buddy wanted to play tug of war, they had plenty of tough ropes and old blankets.

Even in the throes of anxiety and apprehension, Mila knew it the moment Buddy made his decision. Those big brown eyes of his were so soft and full of worry while locked in her gaze, only to break free as he blinked and cast aside all his worldly concerns so as to satisfy his current desire. His jaws snapped up the Spiritual Heart and he sprinted away before she could open her mouth to protest, not forgetting to collect his basket before leaping out the window and soaring off into the clouds without so much as a second glance.

Leaving Mila standing there in shock and frustration over having been played like a fiddle by a deceitful and duplicitous dog.

The sounds of Guai Guai’s working away at the crispy yam leaf stem brought her back to reality, and she took a moment to bask in his adorable expression, his eyes half closed and lips smacking with relish as he took another bite. “You’re lucky you’re cute,” she grumbled, heaving a long sigh before closing her eyes in an effort to rein in her temper. One that fell far short of the mark as her mounting anger and embarrassment threatened to bubble over into a boil, and when she felt she couldn’t contain it any longer, she took a deep breath, then a second, before Sending a scathing command. “Come. Here. Now.”

There was no reply, only a sense of surprise and urgency as he hurried to obey, but it still took him a full minute to appear. He arrived breathless and out of sorts, his shirt wrinkled and loose pants hanging low beneath his butt. “Hello beloved,” he began, pulling his waistband up and smoothing his tousled hair before coming in for a hug. “Is there something I can help you with?”

“Find your furry idiot of a dog son,” she growled, and Rain dared to flinch before her fury, stopping short of embracing her as he stood with arms held wide. “Find him and bring him here, now.”

Rather than leap to obey, Rain slumped his shoulders and sighed. “Oh no. What’d he steal?”

“A Spiritual Heart!” Her anxiety and frustration bubbled over as she took a half-hearted swing at her husband’s arm, and he had the gall to wince. The man was a True Divinity with a wholly Refined Physique capable of turning aside swords and spears without the use of a Domain. A full powered punch from her couldn’t hurt him, much less the tiny little love tap she’d delivered. “It was the perfect material in more than one way, and I was going to use it to make something incredible, but then that stupid dog tricked me and stole it away.”

“He tricked you?”

Though quickly suppressed, the hint of amusement in his demeanour filled Mila with rage. “That’s beside the point! Why are you still standing here? Go find him now!”

“Afraid I can’t.” Slowly moving closer towards her, Rain slipped his arms around her waist and drew her in for a hug, with all the care and consideration one might approach a rabid wolf. “Buddy’s been hiding since early this morning, when he stole a basket of berries from Tali.”

Well, at least part of the mystery was solved. “I know he stole a fruit jelly from Luo-Luo,” Mila grumbled, burying her face in her husband’s shoulder as he slowly eased her back into the forge room and closed the door behind him. “Who did he steal the yam leaves from? Yan?”

“Yea, though technically he didn’t steal from either of them.” Probably because he knew they were soft marks, and Mila wouldn’t so willing hand over a Spiritual Heart. Crafty little mutt. Adding the barest hint of shrug, Rain shifted and lifted her up into a princess carry while making a circuit around the room. At least he didn’t go so far as to rock her back and forth, but she did so love to be carried, even if she was still pouting over the loss of her Spiritual Heart. “Was so insistent on getting yam leaves, he wouldn’t even accept fish from Yan. Weird right? Seems Buddy’s prepping for a feast, or waiting to gorge himself on Spiritual Plants, though I have no idea why he stole your Spiritual Heart. Was it from an animal?”

“No, it was a vine.” An animal organ she could at least understand, since they’d long since learned that carnivorous animals could grow stronger by feasting on the flesh of Spiritual Beasts. “Not even close to resembling something Buddy might want to eat.”

“Would probably enjoy playing tug of war with it though.”

Rain’s attempt to inject humour into the situation wasn’t helping, and she warned him against trying again by biting his neck. Not too hard, just enough to leave faint teeth marks without breaking his skin, and he chuckled and nuzzled her in reply. For long seconds, neither of them said anything, until Rain said, “A Spiritual Weapon built around an embedded Rune. Interesting concept.”

It still annoyed her how easily some concepts came to him, so she simply grunted in acknowledgement. After a few seconds of more silence, she huffed and grumbled, “You best get my Spiritual Heart back then. It’ll take weeks to run the calculations on a different Spiritual Heart, assuming I can even find one that fits my needs. The vine was perfect, embodying both hard and soft while remaining a green plant that absorbs sunlight for nutrients.”

“Don’t worry my love,” Rain said, taking a seat and sliding her into his lap so that she could see his smile. Truth be told, she loved how effortlessly he carried her about, which allowed her to go fully slack in his embrace and pout her worries away. “Buddy probably won’t eat it, and if he does, he’s liable to throw it up anyways. A bit of a wash and it’ll be good as new. I hope.” Before Mila could retort, Rain nodded towards the forge and asked, “How were you planning to regulate the flow?”

“What?”

Tilting his head in muted surprised, Rain repeated himself. “The flow. You know. Of Heavenly Energy through the Rune. I see you’ve got the structure in place, and all the directions fixed, but how is Heavenly Energy supposed to flow through the Rune while the user’s Chi is also flowing through the whole weapon at the same time? One with the Weapon, inviolable soul, impermeable Core and all that seems like it’d get in the way. I mean, I could probably settle those issues manually, but I dunno about anyone else.”

