Rain pushed her a step further by encouraging her to explore the differences and study fish, reptiles, and all manner of other creatures as well, which allowed her to better understand the mechanisms behind their similarities. What’s more, he pointed her towards Zhen Shi’s horrific notes, which were full of gruesome details regarding the torture of his various test subjects, yet more often than not presented her with the answers she sought or the right questions she so desperately needed to progress. Most notably of all was his success in creating Wraiths, Defiled tribesmen whose bodies were Refined in a specific manner using the remains of Spectres and Demons both. The mechanisms used in the process of Refinement was both macabre and brilliant at the same time, not simply the passive immersion in Heavenly Energy but the focused direction through which it was applied utilizing forces beyond her ken. Reading those stomach-churning notes had become something of an obsession for her, and it upset her to reflect back on all the times when she idly wondered what would have happened if he cut here, removed that, or made some other slight modification in those grisly ‘experiments’.

Easy to see why the Eternal Emperor’s divested Natal Clone had fallen so readily, brought low by his tireless pursuit of knowledge for the sake of knowledge itself, and Mila had to remind herself far too often not to make the same mistake.

Granted, Zhen Shi had mostly been done in by his unbalanced obsession to overthrow the Immortal Emperor, one possibly driven by his need to become ‘complete’ once more. Had he instead waited another century or two, he might well have progressed to the Peak of his Path and stood a better chance of overcoming the Eternal Emperor. What’s more, without the significant pressure of the war placed upon him, Rain might well have never ascended to True Divinity, or any sort of Divinity at all, leaving the two sides more balanced without a third party to interfere. That was all neither here nor there however, merely idle thoughts Mila enjoyed exploring in her spare time, of which there was not much. There was always more to learn just around the corner as she met with all manner of authorities on subject matters both mundane and esoteric in nature. As far as she was concerned, she could learn as much from the Brotherhood’s Abbot as she could from the old farmer Kong Qiu, a man blessed with the mind of a philosopher and the heart of a gentleman, and the Empire had far more hidden philosophers than Abbots.

Again, all this learning took years to accomplish, and there was still so much more to learn, but aside from a handful of military victories in the Western Province, she had accomplished little to nothing of value. Meanwhile, Yan was coming into her own as a teacher and surrogate mother, always looking stern as she stood at the school gates watching the kids run in with smiles on their faces. Luo-Luo was all but running the Northern Province now, working hand in hand with Magistrate Yuzhen who focused more on the military aspects of her office while leaving economics to Mila’s brilliant sister wife. Lin-Lin had come a long way from her lackadaisical, carefree self and was now overseeing the cultivation of Spiritual Crops in bulk quantities, while simultaneously helping out as an emergency Healer for all the nearby villages should they ever have need of such services. As for Li-Li, she’d focused solely on her Martial Path at the expense of almost everything else and had progressed by leaps and bounds. Were it not for Mama’s strict standards, Li-Li’s name would have long since been added to the Emperor’s roll of Peak Experts, likely the first of their generation short of Rain, who didn’t really count due to his atypical Path and the difficulties involved in quantifying his level of skill and strength.

As for Mila? After learning enough about the physical world, she turned her attention to the metaphysical, which meant long and frustrating conversations with her beloved husband. Largely because he wasn’t sure about how much to share, and thus, in her opinion, tended to err on the side of caution far more often than necessary. Which meant that despite being the foremost authority of the metaphysical forces, Rain wasn’t of much help at all, not when he was being a stubborn, mule-headed, pain in her backside who refused to elaborate. “We all must walk our own Path beloved,” he’d say, stealing away her anger and resolve by taking her hand, cupping her cheek, or flashing his stupidly handsome smile. “If I give you the answers today, you will suffer more for it tomorrow.”

The fact that he was right made his refusal to succumb to her charms and wiles all the more aggravating, though in truth, she enjoyed the illicit attempts to cajole secrets out of him. All for naught however, until she finally broke down and confessed her true reason for pressing him so after three months of failing to grasp even the most rudimentary of Taduk’s Runes and understand how they worked. “Eight years,” she’d said, her head resting against his chest and eyes unable to meet his. “That’s how long I’ve been at this. Eight long and fruitless years, with nothing to show for it, and now I’ve hit a wall with Runic Inscriptions. Mama keeps hinting at me to refocus on the Martial Path, but if it’s like you say and all Paths lead to Divinity, then how did I go so wrong when choosing mine?”

“It’s all a matter of perspective.” The sensation of his hand stroking her cheek was still fresh in her mind, as if they’d had this conversation yesterday rather than two years past, and she marvelled at how gently, yet firmly he’d forced her to meet his amber eyes, so full of warmth and confidence. “You look upon the past eight years and see only your lack of achievement. I look at those same years and see a brilliant woman laying an unshakable foundation for the vast and arduous Path she embarked upon.”

“Are you saying my eyes are bigger than my mouth? That I’ve overreached and should reassess my goals?”

It’d taken all of Mila’s self restraint not to gnaw on her husband’s cheek in a fit of pique, and Rain knew it. Grinning like a fool, he shook his head and said, “No. I’m saying you’ve prepared well for the trials and tribulations ahead. It might help to look back on what you’ve learned and consider how you can apply that knowledge to your current difficulties. Considering the breadth and depth of your perspective, I’m sure you’ll find something that will help you understand Runes.”

The next day, it was as if a fog had lifted from Mila’s mind as she studied Taduk’s Runes with fresh eyes and watched the pieces all fall into place. There was a method to his madness, which included but was not restricted to humming and dancing as he inscribed nonsensical doodles into metal using an ink so expensive its value was measured by the drop, because its prime ingredient was the blood of a Divinity. Not just any blood however, but blood infused with the Divinity’s essence, or what they’d taken to calling Spiritual Blood. The reason for which was simple enough. Much like the steam engine required airtight piping made of materials capable of withstanding certain levels of heat and pressure, a Runic Inscription required ink capable of containing and directing the Energy of the Heavens surging through it.

So simple an explanation, yet one she failed to see these last three months because, as Rain would put it, she was too close to the problem. It was her first attempt at crafting Paragon all over again, when she failed to account for the force of an extending spear moving at close to the speed of sound. From here, it was a simple matter of studying how the various ‘parts’ of the Runic ‘machine’ came together to carry out their intended function, an esoteric problem broken down into its most fundamental components in a way she understood. Conceptually at least, because while Diyako’s theoretical steam engine contained hundreds of moving parts, a single Runic Inscription possessed countless integral elements contributing to its function, elements that she suspected were unique to the Craftsman’s personal Insights and perspective.

Which meant there was nothing for it but to become a Runic Craftsman herself. Until now, her interest had largely been academic due to the exorbitant expense required to train a novice, but if her husband couldn’t afford it, then no one could. To her great surprise, Rain’s encouraging words turned almost prophetic as she picked up the knack of Runic Inscription as easily as turning her hand thanks to her sturdy foundation. Within the year, she was churning out Runic items faster than any Craftsman in history, and she still had so much room for improvement. Mathematics, engineering, pharmacy, medical studies, material sciences, all this and more played a role in her unprecedented progress as she applied her knowledge and experience as a Divine Blacksmith to help pioneer a new method of Runic Crafting that was so simplistic, almost any Peak Expert with enough patience and a steady hand could master it.

At least that was the theory, provided said Peak Expert was willing to put some effort into understanding a handful of subjects to help them along. The largest issue Runic Craftsmen faced aside from the structure of the Rune itself was figuring out how to inscribe it on different materials of different sizes, but Mila discovered that math was once again the answer to all her woes. It was merely a matter of determining said material’s capacity, resistance, and tolerance for Heavenly Energy coursing through it, along with a few other variables that weren’t strictly necessary unless the Rune met certain criteria, and even then, it was easier to change the Rune to adapt to the material than anything else. Theoretically, if she knew all those variables, then she could use them to uncover a formula to calculate the shape a Rune needed to take in order to generate a specific outcome, though that was more speculation than fact. Still, she found it laughably easy to devise a half-dozen different Runes that only required minor modifications to apply to different materials, the first six characters of the Runic Language she hoped to one day develop into a fully functional system.

She accomplished this largely on her own, as Taduk had no head for numbers, and when she showed Rain her work, he was just as excited as she’d been. “This,” he began, after having spent hours pouring over her notes with a focused enthusiasm he’d been so lacking of late, “Is revolutionary. This is the beginnings of a defined system with which almost anyone can harness the raw Energy of the Heavens utilizing Runes. You don’t have all the answers yet, and I doubt we’ll uncover them all even if we devote the next three centuries to this and nothing else, but the potential is there.” Which Rain proved to them both by forging a Rune using only Chi and Domain, one based on the principles she’d laid out for him to read. It didn’t do much besides create a bright light that faded away after a second, and was remarkable only because it was a light created by Rain using a method Mila devised that relied on her Blessing of Sun. While it didn’t seem like much, this marked the first step on a new Path never before seen in the history of the Empire, one that could very well supplant the harnessed power of lightning so instrumental in Rain’s memories of his past life.

Unfortunately, they both agreed it was best to keep it a secret for now, as the potential for destruction and disruption were staggering to behold. What’s more, it was always good to keep a dagger hidden in the dark, especially since Rain hardly seemed to train these days and was more than happy to rest on his laurels. Granted, as the sole True Human Divinity of the Empire, he had more than earned the right to relax, but Mila was not capable of idling her days away like him. While she continued studying and expanding upon her Runic Language, she revisited old subjects in an effort to apply what she’d learned and perhaps broaden her horizons, which brought her to where she was today.

The calculations had all been made, the numbers checked, rechecked, and verified a dozen times over. Her materials sat upon the table before her, all painstakingly gathered and inspected to make certain every variable and possibility had been accounted for. The steel was the highest quality available, a carbon-steel alloy that was stronger and harder than anything she’d ever worked with, yet familiar enough that she should have no issue forging it into the weapon she envisioned in mind. Steel wasn’t the best material to meld with her chosen Spiritual Heart, a thorny vine which had hardened at both ends, yet remained pliable in the middle, but considering the difficulties ahead, she felt it was better to work with a familiar, albeit sub-par material than an unfamiliar but more suitable ingredient like bone or wood.

From there, the rest all fell into place. The binding agent was a standard one for incorporating metal and plant fibre, while a bowl of ink sat ready and waiting to be infused into her creation. To top it all off, the shape of her design had been drawn from three different perspectives, cast in iron, modelled in clay, and even carved into wood and painted various different colours to help her better navigate through the complex creation process. All necessary because today, she intended to accomplish something no one had ever attempted before, not as far as she could tell, and if successful, would offer the Sentinels and Rain’s trusted allies an advantage over their enemies they could openly display, unlike her marginal success with her Runic Language.

