I loved evenings in the Ever Steady. Especially when we weren’t being beset by slavering hordes intent on subjugating and/or eating us.

Steve, Nix, Haddock and I relaxed on folding chairs on top of what was currently named ‘the old city wall.’ It was a confusing title that ignored both that we weren’t really a city yet, and that the new, actual, city wall was very much still a work in progress.

Everywhere around us, the massed hordes of humanity were hard at work. Humans as a whole, both here, and back on Earth, had taken in the scare from our experience with the Kadren and adjusted appropriately.

Haddock explained the scope of the new wall to me earlier. Not only were they octupling the area behind the wall, they were also adding a sleuth of new defences into the creation, magical and otherwise. One of the new, mundane, additions, was apparently going to be a series of ziplines going from the bird’s tower to all new towers along the outer wall.

I looked over my shoulder, spotting a hint of movement up on the bird’s tower. The Captain had returned. He’d been one of the last to be released from his slave band, and judging from what I’d heard, he was pissed. He’d been rendered powerless by the Kadren onslaught, and he was pushing everybody hard to make sure it’d never happen again.

Outside the walls, hunters were returning triumphant, hurt often as not, carrying with them the spoils of war. Collectors were dismantling, separating, and purifying. Crafters created. All was chaos. All was good.

The period – less than a month, all told – where nearly all humans had been enslaved and forced to work at a gruelling pace under their new bestial overlords – had not been kind. The Kadren were cruel taskmasters, uncaring about human fragilities or sensibilities, and absolutely relentless when it came to results. Yet, they’d also been surprisingly rational. Perhaps it was the limit of each Kadren only being able to enslave a single sentient at the timebeing that did it. But they rarely killed humans without reason, and made sure to keep them fed and watered.

When they’d been delivered from enslavement, about a third of all former slaves went back to Earth, broken, damaged. The mental toll had been too much. Yet, among those who remained, there was a new fire to be seen. The burning need to improve, to grow stronger and never be subjected to something as brutal as their period in slavery again.

For a subsection of the slaves, the inhuman treatment had paid off unexpected dividends. Crafters, Collectors and a few select other weird builds had sky-rocketed in levels. The constant labour and influx in experience had forced their growth to levels they otherwise would not have obtained. Granted, given that the desires the higher-leveled Kadren had mostly revolved around food, drink, leisure, along with a surprising focus of scouting and discovery, these ‘lucky’ souls had ended up with a subset of skills that might not be the best for combat or survival. However, it did prove well for the future of farming and influx of food among our rank.

Back on Earth, we had learned, they’d taken the incident seriously. As soon as they managed to get a full accounting of events, some had argued that they needed to close all access, or limit it to select, trained people. Of course, everybody saw that as the thinly veiled excuse to limit access to armies that it was, and the idea was loudly and publicly shut down.

Yet, our experience did change things. Before, Ademia was viewed as the Fountain of Youth, a magical, half-fata-morgana vision of unlimited power and glory. Thousands dead, and hundreds more returning to Earth to speak of people being enslaved, abused and sometimes eaten… it brought reality crashing into that glorious mental image, shattering it like a pint glass against the skull of an Ultra. Don’t ask.

Where, before, we saw hundreds of people arriving each day, now we were down to maybe a hundred. However, those who arrived tended to be rougher. More desperate. Ready for violence. Better prepared.

I leaned back in my chair and sighed. I really loved the evening sky in Ademia. Steve tended to go on about the wonder of different constellations, of the absolute proof that we were somewhere else entirely. The only thing I knew about star signs were that anybody mentioning them in combination with dating and wasn’t joking, it was a red flag.

Constellations aside. The night sky here was just… glorious. Untainted by smog or streetlights, the stars were bright and clear in a way even the remotest locations back on Earth would never be able to match. On top of that, a broad purple-green belt of heavenly bodies draped every night in a magical light that almost seemed intended to give our new life an otherworldly glow.

I loved every bit of it.

“It feels like forever since we had a chance to relax and just chat.” Nix mused, after a long bout of companionable silence.

Haddock grunted. A moment later, a soft whistling sound emerged.

“Oh, for Christ’s sake, Haddock, why?” I choked. “You need a healer!”

“I love you. I really do. But sometimes, I dream of choking you slowly.” Nix said, holding her nose.

Once the worst of the stench had dissipated, Steve mused. “You know, I can’t remember that we ever did have the chance to just… chat. We were always planning the next step in our path to survival, plotting talents and the like.

“We had that one evening in Last Chance.” I mused. “Didn’t we? Or am I doing that coping thing where you look back and think of times as being better than they actually were?”

Nix tittered. ”No. That was a lovely evening. My husband wasn’t trying to poison me.”

“So, what have you been up to? Did I see you shouting at Major Pain earlier today?”

She groaned. “Don’t ask.”

“Sorry, Nix. Can’t do that. Because it sounds like it’ll be entertaining. To me.”

She stuck out her tongue at me. “Well, the good Major needed a good shouting at. He was being a jerk. Him and that leader of the Asian coalition.” She tapped her lip. “Let’s see. Obviously, Hubby has been helping out a lot with the constructions. You wouldn’t think it, at first, but his talents are eminently suited to help other workers. He can build temporary constructions that can help with anything you’d want. Scaffolding. Stairs. I think he even built a crane once.”

I held up a hand. She outright ignored me.

“That one broke. It’s finicky.” Haddock grumbled. “I’ll get it.” For a moment, nobody spoke, then he split into a wide grin and said “Plumbing.”

Nix clapped her hands. “We’re getting plumbing! All thanks to Haddock! Turns out that talent of his for temporarily removing soil is perfect when you want to lay piping for a simplified sewage system.”

“That’s lovely. Let’s go back to where you were shouting at-“

“Fine. She groaned. ”The Major was being dumb, and I couldn’t stand for it.”

“I believe we would love a bit more detail than that.” Steve nudged.

“Long story short. Hubby has had plenty of things to keep him busy. I was getting bored. Helping torch underbrush and sending the occasional flash flood at things that need cleaning was going to bore me to death.” She didn’t really meet our eyes. “Well. And. Since the battle, for some reason, people kept going to me for answers-“

“No way. You’re getting political!”

“I am not!” She protested. “I just… let my opinion be known, here and there, okay?”

I snorted. People had tried to get me embroiled in all sorts of disputes and disagreements. I hadn’t let them. I could barely manage my own damn life back on Earth. I sure as hell wasn’t going to try to be the judge of others. Well. There was the one asshole who’d been exposed as trying to start his own magical sweat shop when I was nearby. I’d tossed his sorry ass back through the portal and told the soldiers at guard exactly what he’d done. They could deal with the mess.

“And how’s that going for you then?” I decidedly did not smirk, but gave her a proper smile. As much as I loved to make fun of her, Nix wasn’t always as tough as she portrayed.

“Frustrating. But… actually, better than expected. For some reason, people actually listen. And since I mostly say something when it’s stuff I think is obvious, we are making a few good changes here and there. Getting some ground rules set in place. Creating jobs and a reward system for people who don’t want to risk their lives every single day but are okay with actual work.” She shrugged and didn’t look up. “That was why I clashed with the Major, too. He wanted to keep going without any rules or oversight. I’m not saying we need, like, a new Bill of Rights or something like that-“

“We absolutely do!” Steve spoke up, with a vehemence that stopped Nix from talking, and made me turn my head to take him in.

The mellow Canadian sat up in his deck chair, looking straight at Nix with an intensity you rarely saw from him. “What do you think Star Trek would be like without the Prime Directive? The Free Town Project, but with phasers, that’s what. Humans need guidance. Guidelines. Without some sort of moral compass, something, someone to look for, there will be chaos.” His uncharacteristically emotional outburst stalled, and he cleared his throat. “Listen, I’m not saying that people will automatically turn to crime and mischief if we don’t have rules, or police, or Jesus, or anything like that. I actually believe the exact opposite. Humanity is fundamentally good. But we do need guidelines and consequences in place to make sure that the exceptions do not take advantage of the rest of us.”

Nix nodded softly, still not looking up. ”That’s what I’ve been saying too. Somebody should make sure there are rules. Some order.”

I clapped my hands together. “Then get to it!” I couldn’t help but laugh at the shocked look on her face. “Sorry, Nix. But… I really mean it. Who else is going to do it? The Shield of the Titan have found their new titan to worship now the old one kicked the bucket. The SCA Seven are down to three, but they’re not going to do anything that doesn’t benefit themselves. The HBBVJ Coalition and Expanding the States honestly feel like they’d vote for slavery if they got the chance. Even the U-Nerds don’t care about anything beyond their own group.”

“Then you do it.” She complained.

I snorted. “The first time I tried to make a big deal, I talked myself into owing Cuilcis an open-ended deal. Even if I had the temper and interest, which I don’t, I don’t have the brains for it.” My lip quirked up. “I’ve been trying to be helpful around the place for a while now, and I’m chomping at the bit to get away already. I can’t do the things the crafters do, and I don’t have the head for any of the leadership nonsense that people try to saddle me up with.”

The edges of Nix’s mouth moved progressively downwards. “Don’t you start again!” She snapped at Haddock.

I raised an eyebrow at her.

“So, he may have been trying to tell me that I should just go for it as well.” She huffed. “Damn you. I guess we might as well talk about it.”

Struck by a sudden thought, I dipped a hand into my Personal Universe and emerged with a handful of items. I leapt to my feet and dispersed the items among the four of us. “Somebody gave me this earlier today. It’s Skreeling jerky, but glazed with a sap that’s sort of like hot honey. It’s ridiculously good. Sorry for interrupting, Nix. Talk about what?”

Nix graciously took the large piece of dried meat and nibbled at the edge. Her eyebrow shot up. “That is good. Erm. What we wanted to talk about was… Haddock and I? We’re not going back out there.” Her voice trailed off, and she pointedly didn’t look at me.

“Oh.” I grimaced, then nodded slowly. “Yeah. I… kinda figured. You guys weren’t exactly planning to go out and conquer in the first place, were you?”

Haddock snorted. “That’s saying it mildly. Just wanted a house.”

“Castle.” Nix corrected with a raised finger. Then she tittered. “All these levels, fighting for our lives and whatnot – I feel a lot stronger than I used to. But it’s not for me. Or for my man. The stress of fighting… one day, we’re going to mess up, and it’ll be the last for us. So, we’re calling it quits while we’re ahead.”

“Building your castle.” I nodded with a soft smile.

“Damn skippy!” She beamed, then blurted out, as if in a hurry to get it over with. “Obviously, if you ever need our help, you’ve got it, and if there are any tough fights or you need something crafted or-“

“Nix.” I reached over and rested a hand on her shoulder. “Chill. It’s all good. Nobody here ever opted in for a lifetime commitment. And you said it straight from the get go. You want your castle, and to be able to defend it. You shouldn’t be ashamed that you’re getting what you wished for.”

She looked at me, relief and something else shining in her eyes. “I am so glad.”

Continuing. “You should be ashamed that you’re leaving me to fend for myself.”

Haddock grunted. “Dude.”

I continued, holding a hand dramatically against my forehead. “Alone in the wilderness. Bereft of friends. Of protectors. Of helpers who can summon chaise longues for naptimes.”

Nix fought against the grin trying to break through her scowl and failed. “You’re such an ass.”

“You best believe it.” I shot a glance at Steve. “How about you? Settling down? Or are you still interested in seeing what’s out there?”

The naturally bald and bearded Steve had started out with a figure that was grade-A dad bod. Somewhere along the road, he’d transformed into something else. Somebody sturdy and… solid. His gaze was equally unwavering as he quoted. “It’s not safe out here. It’s wondrous, with treasures to satiate desires both subtle and gross; but it’s not for the timid.” With a soft smile, he added. “I have been called many things. But never timid. I’ll be at your side, if you’ll have me.”

“Happy to, brother.”

“So… are you planning to leave soon?” Nix asked.

“Not much planning involved, to be honest.” I shrugged. “But I have to admit that I am getting a bit of cabin fever. Sitting around with little to do just isn’t me, and the nearby monsters are so low-leveled they’re not really doing anything for me. So, yeah. If it were up to me, I’d be off tomorrow morning.”

She tapped her upper lip thoughtfully. “You will need to hold off on that. Don’t complain. I know you want to. But I’m going to need at least a handful of hours tomorrow to make sure you’re sent off properly.”

“I swear to God, if you’re arranging a parade or some shit-“

“Whoa. Chill. I might want to get things a bit more organized here in Ever Steady, but that doesn’t make me, like, an administrator or politician.”

We pointedly avoided her gaze. Haddock cleared his throat.

“It doesn’t!” She insisted. “Anyway, that’s not it. I’ll just need a bit of time to make sure you’re not sent off unprepared.”

“I have prepared. I have plenty of food and water for two persons. Plenty of mana coins, courtesy of those from Last Chance who died. Even some healing food.”

“Uh huh. And how about other magical items? Replacement armour? An extra shield, should yours break, or get torn from your grasp? Are you going to rely on that silly buckler that still has tooth marks from the Ghastlings?”

“Um. I was going to find something, obviously.” I flagrantly lied.

“No, you were not. And you are not. You’re going to take a nice walk around the place, say goodbye to everyone you know, properly, and then you’re going to let Momma Nelly handle everything for you, because you cannot be trusted to plan ahead.”

Haddock grunted and nodded, satisfied with his input.

I frowned, about to complain. Then, way too late, I realized what was happening. This wasn’t her ragging on me. Rather, it was her way of taking care of me, of saying goodbye properly, saying they cared. I gave off an exaggerated sigh, then responded in the only proper way. “Yes, mum.”