“My family…” I said. “I know my sister Iris is with the Bloody Peaks Tribe.” My fists clenched in my lap, the mere thought of it infuriating me. “Valrok gave her to his daughter… to tame. And Fox heard a rumor that two of my brothers are at a place called the Burning Steeps. My mother… the fighting pits… and I don’t know what happened to Luke.” I lifted my gaze back to her. “Please. I’d do anything to rescue all of them! I-I want them back! I want my pack to be whole again!”

The room went quiet after my words.

Even the soft trickle of water from the palace courtyard suddenly seemed loud in the silence.

Rin did not answer immediately.

Her metal finger remained still on the table as her red eyes studied me. Not unkindly. Not coldly either. Calculating.

I swallowed in anticipation. Feeling my future, and the future of my family, weighed on her next words.

“Your pack was scattered across at least three different territories,” she said calmly. “Bloody Peaks. The Burning Steeps. And the fighting pits you speak of are on this continent, but belong to a foreign power. These are all hostile factions. And, you have a fourth sibling whose whereabouts are unknown.”

“Yes…” I said quietly, knowing the enormity of what I asked.

“This is no small favor. You are asking the Verdant Empire to interfere with multiple external powers. And as I’m sure Genzo would have at least mentioned, we are in the middle of a war of our own, with the Iron March to the north. They are an even greater enemy than any of those I just listed.”

My fists tensed. “Please. As I said, I’ll do anything. I’ll help with your war. Whatever you want me to do, I’ll do it.” Then I eased as I felt Lily lick my hand. She looked up from between my legs and whined before resting her muzzle on my thigh.

Rin’s eyes shifted away, something close to sympathy sinking into her expression. “The answer to your request is not one that I alone could give, here at this table. However, I will at least ground your expectations. It is unlikely we will be able to do as you ask.”

My heart sank at that. “But Genzo said… because I’m a transmigrator…”

“Yes, but you are a child, and no matter how powerful, one person alone cannot win a war. Yet, your request may bring even more enemies to our gates at a time when we can ill afford additional adversaries. It is ultimately up to the emperor to what extent we may help, if any. Though I can say with certainty that, for the foreseeable future, it is impossible.” She let a pause sit before adding, “However, what cannot be done today may become possible in time, though it may take years.”

Years… I already knew as much, but I didn’t want to accept it. “What about the Bloody Peaks? They are not really that powerful, are they? There’s Valrok, but you seem stronger. And I killed a bunch of them myself! And I’m only a pup!”

“A campaign against the Bloody Peaks is no simple thing,” Rin said. “They are far to the south, and the mountains where they reside are difficult for an army to scale. With their airborne superiority, the difficulty only becomes greater. They don't have the greatest army, but when faced with an attack at their heart, they can hold back a force many times greater than their own. This is a lesson the Umarii learned twenty years ago.”

I clenched my teeth, unable to help the growl in my throat. “Well, we don’t have to wipe them out! I just want my sister back!”

“Enough.” Rin said the word with such authority that it did its job of silencing me. “I’m not going to sit here and explain every geopolitical angle involved in going after any one of these forces. Even an extraction mission could create conflicts the Verdant Empire is stretched too thin to risk dealing with.”

“Then why did I even come here?” I hissed between my teeth.

Her head tilted. “You came here to offer us something. And perhaps to seek safety. But not to make demands of your own.”

My eyes shot up to her, fury filling me at those words.

“She’s got a point, kid,” the Fox said. “Now wipe that look off your face. You’re in no position to dictate them on what they will or won’t do.”

I knew she was right, but didn't want to accept it. I kept my lips from curling back and baring my fangs, though my teeth clenched behind them.

“Now then… as for what you can offer us…” Rin’s lip twitched in a feint smirk. “I’ll grant you an audience with the Emperor, and if you wish to join us, he may be willing to lay out a path towards what you desire.”

“Join you… What does that mean?”

“It means that you may be offered a place amongst our ranks.”

“A place?” I repeated, ears giving an involuntary twitch.

“Service,” she clarified. “Training. Opportunity.” A metal finger tapped against the table. “The Verdant Empire does not involve itself in the affairs of others without reason. But it does invest in those who may one day become an asset. And your potential is great.”

“So you get me as a future weapon. And what do I get?” I asked. “I get a vague promise that maybe one day you’ll help me save my family?”

“I wouldn’t call it a promise, even if it were mine to give. But I’ll say this. If you fight for us, you will grow strong. To hunt in the wilds is one thing, but with us, you will receive training, leverage, and opportunity. In this world, power bends to everything, and if you attain enough of it yourself, you can get anything you want. And should we later be in a position to aid you in your mission, we will do so. We don't forget our allies or leave debts unpaid.”

A heavy silence followed. It was more or less as Genzo had said, but now with the offer sitting before me, it felt more real, heavier, and totally unfair. No promises, no guarantees. Just a recruitment pitch.

The silence stretched until. “Empire train Grick too?” He nodded. “If Puppy fight. Grick fight too!”

Rin’s eyes shifted over to him. “There is room for all who wish to pledge themselves to our cause. Now then, as I said, I will grant your audience with the Emperor. He will decide what your future may look like under our banners. If you do indeed decide to join us. But for tonight, you may rest.”

With those words, the doors at the front of the room slid open. The five serving girls from before practically floated in, took a uniform distance from one another, and bowed their faces below their sleeves. Some of them carried linens, and others changes of clothes.

Rin stood and began walking around the table, taking her leave. “Bring our guests to their rooms. And explain to them the rules of the palace.”

“Yes! High Regent!" they all chimed together. Then one at the center of their group came forward and addressed us directly. “Please, right this way.”

But before Rin disappeared through the doors, there was one other thing I wanted to know that I didn’t quite get the chance to ask yet. “Wait. What does Hellborne mean?”

Rin stopped, turning enough to show me a soft smirk. “I wondered if you would ask.”

“You… knew I knew?”

“Detecting when a skill is used on you is no high-level skill of its own,” Rin said simply. Then she nodded to the girl who seemed to be the head servant. “Aiko, feel free to gossip openly with our guests. She might find the rumors of my origins… enlightening.”

Aiko dipped into another bow, sleeves draping like curtains. “As you command, Mistress.”

With that, the High Regent took her leave, her boots echoing down the hall.

The servants straightened in perfect unison, and Aiko turned to us with a practiced, gentle smile. “Please, honored guests. This way.” She gestured toward the hallway, and the others flowed ahead like a little river of silk and linens.

I hesitated a heartbeat, Lily sticking close to my legs, and Grick carefully climbing down from his chair. Fox opened her muzzle in a loud yawn. She still held that calculating glint in her golden eyes.

Read Next Chapter Now!
