And yet, it was all working in Laken’s favor. His entire presence was a tantalizing mystery. Who was the strange man with the bag of gold and a Troll bodyguard? Ryoka could see the gears whirring in people’s heads and decided to give Laken a hand.
She looked over and saw Reynold still writing furiously in the notebook, dipping his quill quickly into the small inkpot he held. She had to admire that—pens were so much easier than having to balance ink and quill and notepad with just two hands. She moved over and elbowed him, making the [Butler] jump.
“Hey. Get in there.”
He stared blankly at her.
“What?”
She nodded toward Laken and Merec as they began to discuss prices and what exactly Laken wanted.
“Do something. Anything. Just enter the conversation, alright? It doesn’t matter what you say, only that you’re there, saying it.”
Reynold hesitated, and then shook his head slightly.
“Miss Ryoka, my job is to escort you.”
“And take notes.”
He flushed a bit and lowered his quill.
“Well I—I can’t just interfere in business like this. It’s not my place.”
“Oh. Okay.”
Ryoka shrugged and walked away. After a few moments Reynold went back to writing down what was being said. He glanced over towards Ryoka and realized she was gone.
Reynold’s head turned frantically, but she wasn’t anywhere in front of him. Then he felt two hands on his back. He half turned—
And Ryoka shoved him.
She pushed Reynold forwards, sending the [Butler] stumbling closer to Laken and Merec. Reynold regained his footing and posture immediately and looked graceful while doing it, but now all eyes were on him. Ryoka looked the other way and twiddled her thumbs behind her back.
“Oops.”
 
——
 
I break off when I hear the scuffle of feet on the floorboards.
“Is someone there?”
I hear a man clear his throat, and then hear a familiar voice.
“Reynold, sir Laken. May I offer you my services in this matter?”
I hesitate, but only for a second. Why is he helping? No, don’t question it—just roll with the cards that are being dealt.
“I would be most grateful, thank you. Do you by any chance know how much I should be paying for forty bags of barley?”
I hear Reynold sniff delicately.
“Given the way the Merchant’s Guild does business, I would question whether the goods being sold are of acceptable quality. Master Merec, I trust these prices all reflect the condition of the wares for sale? I have heard of weevils and Harvest Devils being found in warehouses in the city as of late.”
Merec splutters.
“Our goods are beyond repute, sir. I can have a sample brought over—”
“A sample might do, but a personal inspection of random bags at the site would not be objectionable, I trust?”
“No—no—”
“Very well then. But I also trust you are not wasting Mister Laken’s time with trivialities such as individual item counts? The Merchant’s Guild surely has a list of the cheapest and most plentiful products on hand, does it not?”
“I—will have some sent for right away.”
 
——
 
Ryoka grinned as she watched Merec stand and hurry off to speak urgently with some harried employees.
“Not bad, huh?”
Ivolethe, munching down on another walnut, just shrugged in reply. Ryoka shook her head.
She didn’t know what Laken’s game was, not exactly, but she knew he needed to have the [Merchants] here thinking he was a big shot. And who better to help with that bit of fiction than Reynold the [Butler]? They might not know who he was on first sight, but Ryoka would bet every gold piece she owned that the people staring at him and talking behind their hands were trying to figure out which [Lord] or [Lady] he served. Once they found out he was Magnolia’s aide…
“Ooh, looks like they’ve put it together.”
She’d never seen a ruddy face go that pale that quickly. Merec made his way back to Laken with profuse apologies and offered him a frothy fruit drink. Ryoka could have used one herself, but only Laken, Durene, and Gamel were getting the deluxe treatment. The negotiations went on, and Ryoka shifted from leg to leg until she heard adventurers being brought up.
“We have several good teams, Mister Laken. There are Gold-rank teams I could hire if you—”
“I want those two teams, Mister Merec. The Celestial Trackers and the Windfrozen Riders.”
“As you say sir, but may I ask why those two…?”
Ryoka saw Laken lean back and smile mysteriously. She wondered if he’d practiced that smile or if he was just that good at acting. Or maybe that was just how he smiled?
“Here’s the thing, Merec. May I call you that? I need adventurers to protect Riverfarm, but I don’t want to hire people who just want coin or who will look down on the villagers. Why those two teams? Well, early today, I sent my…man out to all of the adventuring groups he could find earlier this day, begging for help. Of the ones he talked to, those two were the only ones who didn’t immediately send him off or laugh at him.”
Ryoka turned to stare at Gamel. Wait a second—she remembered seeing him doing that! He’d been approaching the teams in the plaza, begging for help!
“Clever.”
Laken went on, explaining his reasoning to an enthralled Merec and the audience around him.
“When I was young, I heard a story about a [King] who did very much the same thing. Well, the story has many forms, but it’s always the same. The [King] would go out, disguising himself as a peasant or ordinary man and talk with people, ask for aid, or challenge them to ascertain their worth. Only after he had gotten the measure of them would he reveal himself. For you see, people aren’t genuine when they know you’re rich or powerful. I want those teams, Merec. They might not be famous, but they do care.”
“Of course, sir. I will have someone go over to the Adventurer’s Guild this instant—”
The young man held up a hand and Merec fell silent.
“I want to hire them not only to escort the wagons, but to guard the village for at least a month. If they won’t agree, then I will find another team. You may post more guards and adventurers if you want, but I need at least two groups to protect the village. Now, if you will tell me the price I’d be paying for that…”
Ryoka turned and moved out of the crowd of onlookers, shaking her head as she left the Merchant’s Guild.
“Amazing. How the hell did he get all that money, Ivolethe?”
The faerie just stared up at Ryoka, cheeks bulging. She swallowed and didn’t answer. Ryoka scowled.
“Whatever. But at least I’ve got Reynold off my back. Well, there are probably other spies around, but I hope they like running.”
She left the building and began to jog and then run down the street. Back inside the Merchant’s Guild, Reynold stood to attention next to Laken. He knew Ryoka had gone, had seen her leave, but he couldn’t make himself abandon the conversation. Laken kept asking him questions and Reynold found himself pressing Merec hard on the young man’s behalf. He was stuck, and Reynold realized this might have been Ryoka’s plan all along.
 
——
 
Ryoka had intended to go to the Mage’s Guild to send the Horns of Hammerad a message, but she found herself in the Runner’s Guild first. It was just a thought. She wondered if the [Receptionist] had heard about Valceif yet.
But when she approached the counter, the young man on duty immediately asked her to wait. Confused, Ryoka found herself ushered to the side while one of the staff on duty went to go get the [Receptionist] she’d talked to.
When the woman came walking down the stairs, Ryoka realized something was wrong. It was written all over the woman’s face. The young woman felt a lurch in her stomach, though she didn’t know what the problem was.
“Miss Ryoka? You were asking about the whereabouts of Valceif Godfrey?”
The [Receptionist] led Ryoka to an unused counter to talk. Ryoka nodded, keeping her voice deliberately casual.
“Yeah, I was wondering. Do you know where he is?”
“I do, Miss. I’m sorry to say that Valceif is dead. He was killed two weeks ago on a delivery.”
Ryoka blinked. She rubbed at one ear and stared into the other woman’s grave eyes. She opened her mouth and slowly closed it.
“How? I mean—I mean—how? How did it happen?”
“He was killed on a delivery, Miss Ryoka. A group of [Bandits] waylaid him. It wasn’t an assassination or someone trying to intercept his delivery. It was simply—bad luck.”
A hole had opened up in Ryoka’s chest. She felt herself lurching, felt all the positive emotions drain out through a pit in her stomach and the void rush in.
“You’re sure?”
“Yes, Miss Ryoka.”
There was too much sympathy in the [Receptionist]’s eyes. She’d seen this before, told other Runners the same thing, Ryoka knew. She hated that. She hated…it couldn’t be true.
“Bandits did it. [Bandits]? How could they get him? Valceif was—he was a Courier. He could outrun a horse!”
“They used magic. When they were captured, the surviving bandits said that they’d used a [Sleep] spell on the road. Apparently they took him unawares, before he knew they were there. It’s rare that a Courier doesn’t have magical items to ward against such spells, but—”
Ryoka’s hand had gone over her mouth when the woman mentioned the [Sleep] spell. When the [Receptionist] got to the part about magical items Ryoka threw up.
 
——
 
Someone got Ryoka a towel and some water to wash her mouth out with. Ryoka stared at her hands as she sat at a table.
“It was my fault. I got him killed.”
There was a gasp. The [Receptionist]’s eyes flicked to the young man and other woman hovering around Ryoka. She glared at them.
“You didn’t hear that. Either of you. If I hear a word out of your mouths—”
They fled. Ryoka raised her head to stare at the [Receptionist].
“Why bother hiding it? It’s true. Valceif—he had—he had an amulet. A dreamcatcher that could shield him from spells. He gave it to me and I broke it. If I hadn’t—”
“I understand. But you must not say that openly.”
The woman stared at Ryoka.
“Why?”
“Because Valceif had friends. And family. And they might come here seeking vengeance if they hear the wrong things. Rumor would spin you as his murderer.”
“I might as well be. I killed him. I did it. I let him run off without protection—”
“Listen to me.”
The [Receptionist] tapped Ryoka’s arm, making the younger woman look up at her. There was kindness in the other woman’s gaze, but something made of steel as well.
“Valceif Godfrey was a Runner. He was a Courier—one of the best of us. He knew the risks of running without an artifact and he took it. His death was not your fault. He helped you because that is what we Runners do. The people who killed him are at fault, not you. Runners carry deliveries, but we do not bear grudges. We run and die and help each other. Valceif was a true Runner to the end.”
Ryoka stared at the [Receptionist].
“You were a Runner?”
The woman’s mouth turned up slightly.
“City Runner. Like you. I grew too old and slow for it. It’s too dangerous and I have a child. But I know what it’s like. I’ve lost friends too. Valceif probably thought he could outrun any mage before he bought another charm, but he made a mistake. That’s always how it happens. A small mistake or bad luck.”
Ryoka shuddered.
“But if—”
She paused and shook her head.
“I know. I know I couldn’t have known. But if—”
“If you could have, you would. But it was just bad luck.”
The two sat in silence for longer than Ryoka knew. Time lost its meaning for a while, but no one came over to bother the [Receptionist] and she ignored the queue at the desks.
After a while, the [Receptionist] thought she heard a voice. She looked at Ryoka, but saw nothing. It was a faint sound, almost indistinct. Then the woman saw a blue creature, a being of frost and ice standing by her ear. She stared at the Frost Faerie, but Ivolethe just whispered into Ryoka’s ear, quietly.
Time passed. All three sat in silence, then, Ivolethe sitting on Ryoka’s shoulder stared dreamily upwards. She did not weep, but there was something deep in the faerie’s eyes. A hint of forever. At last, Ryoka stood up.
“I’ve got to go. Thank you.”
The faerie darted towards her pouch and the [Receptionist] stood. She didn’t comment about Ivolethe, just walked with Ryoka to the doors.
“Come back if you need to.”
“I will.”
Slowly, Ryoka left the Runner’s Guild. All the energy she’d had before, all the excitement, was gone. She felt numb and hollow, and she remembered the feeling. She’d known it before.
Too many times. But this time Ryoka didn’t give into the feeling or allow it to overtake her. That was a luxury for later. Right now she walked and then jogged down the street, feeling as though she were shot or stabbed while she moved.
 
——
 
The man at the desk in the Mage’s Guild was only too happy to show Ryoka the many messages left for her. In truth, they were all short slips of paper, [Message] spells being far too expensive for long missives, but there were a lot of them.
Ryoka stood at the counter, aware of the man’s eyes on her as she flipped through message after message. Quite a few were from Krshia, asking when she would come back.
There is unrest. You must return soon. Do you have what is needed?
Ryoka remembered the book full of spells in her bag of holding. Another promise, long delayed. She shook her head and read the next piece of parchment.
This one was from Ceria.
…hope you can reply soon. Let us know. We hope all is well.
They must have been worried without a response for days. Ryoka felt something else stab into her heart, but it was already bleeding so it hurt only a bit.
The next message was from Pisces and more direct.
What’s taking so long?
Just that. Ryoka sighed and took the next bit of parchment out. She read it and froze. It was from Lyonette.
Come back. Mrsha misses you.
The void in Ryoka’s heart didn’t shrink, but now she could feel it hurting. She thought of Mrsha. How long had it been since she’d seen her? She’d just run off, looking for Erin—but Erin had come back and Ryoka hadn’t.
“I have to go back.”
The bored man at the desk looked up, but Ryoka’s eyes were on the pieces of paper. She pulled a lengthy one out from Erin and almost smiled at it.
“Excuse me.”
“Yes, Miss? How can I help you?”
The man covered a sigh as Ryoka pulled out a bag of coins.
“I need to send a message to all these people in Liscor. Can you post an open response or something?”
“Certainly. What would you like to send?”
The man had a silver-tipped quill ready. He paused over a piece of parchment as Ryoka closed her eyes.
“Tell them I’m sorry. And I’ll be home soon.”
The man paused, and coughed.
