Kaelor—in my body—started jumping around and twirling his arms in every direction, getting a feel for what it was like to be me.

“God, you’ve been fighting like this all along?” Kaelor said. “Your wingspan is abysmal, your muscles are lacking, and—”

“Can we stop body shaming?!” I cried.

But I was starting to understand what he meant. Even I could tell how vast the difference between his body and mine was. Every step I took felt lighter and more explosive, and even my senses felt sharper than before.

Was this what it was like to be a Firstborn?

Up above, Gal’Meth let out a laugh that echoed through the entire realm, causing the stars themselves to flicker. The mist below our feet began to swirl, reacting to it.

“Soul swapping is a rather entertaining concept,” he said. “I find it surprising that your souls are compatible in each other’s flesh.”

That’s right… a soul could only inhabit a body if it was compatible with it. Why was I compatible with Kaelor’s body, anyway? Was it just a strange coincidence?

But Kaelor didn’t bother questioning the entire ordeal like I did. Instead, he used the wings attached to my body to take flight, soaring toward Gal’Meth. Out of nowhere, Gal’Meth summoned a sword, clashing it with Dawn Sunderer. The two fought midair, flying around the realm as they did so.

“Kaelor seems awfully fine with being in your body,” Meriel said. “If anything, it might even be easier for him to fight in it considering it has two arms.”

I looked down at my missing left arm. It was… strange. One second, I had two arms when I was in my actual body. The next second, my left arm completely disappeared as my soul was transferred to Kaelor’s body. Seeing only empty air where my arm should’ve been felt unsettling. How was Kaelor able to fight so well all this time despite missing an entire limb?

My eyes widened as I came to a realization.

“Wait,” I muttered. “If Kaelor’s in my body, then what about my System skills…?”

I frantically cast [INVENTORY], hoping it would work.

Thankfully, it did. A void rift appeared beside me like usual—which confirmed that my System skills were tied to my soul rather than my body.

“Interesting,” Meriel said. “And I presume you inherited his magic?”

I nodded. I could tell right away that my mana was different. Kaelor’s mana capacity wasn’t as abundant as mine, but it felt more efficient and more concentrated, which made sense considering he exclusively used wind magic.

“Looks like I’m better than you at wind magic now,” I said.

“That’s debatable.”

Meriel gathered the winds and took flight, heading toward Kaelor.

“Oi, you forgot to pick me up, too!” I called out. “I don’t have my wings anymore!”

She looked down at me. “I intentionally left you down there. Just use the wind to fly. Kaelor does it all the time.”

With that, she left me on the ground.

What was I even supposed to do? I was able to cast several wind spells, but I had never actually tried using them to let me fly. Maybe I was becoming too dependent on those wings. Still, it shouldn’t be too hard, right? My [MERIEL’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT] passive skill should make it easier to use spells that Meriel herself knows how to use.

I began to focus my mana, imagining the wind sweeping me up by my feet and carrying me high into the air.

To my surprise, it worked perfectly. Without any sign of struggle, I flew high into the air with a mere thought, joining Kaelor and Meriel in the midair fight.

I guess Kaelor’s body was just naturally attuned to wind magic.

As Kaelor continued pushing Gal’Meth back with an onslaught of attacks with my Dawn Sunderer, Meriel supported him with spells that allowed him to fly faster and strike harder. She occasionally mixed in a few offensive spells, though she tried keeping it minimal since she would risk accidentally hitting Kaelor with one of them.

I joined in with the dagger in my hand, shooting toward Gal’Meth from the side. Seeing this, Gal’Meth quickly kicked Kaelor back to create distance, opening his palm toward me.

For a second, I felt my body becoming heavier. No—I felt my soul itself becoming heavier. This was the same spell he had cast earlier that had knocked me out of the sky while I was still in my original body.

But the spell didn’t go through. Kaelor quickly flew into him, forcing Gal’Meth to cancel the spell and defend against the attack. I took the opportunity to cast [INSPECT] on the sword he was wielding.

[ITEM: SOUL RENDER]

Rarity: Demonic

Description:

A pitch-black longsword forged from ancient souls. Pale cracks pulse along the blade like veins, whispering words from the soul’s final moments. The weapon strikes the soul itself alongside flesh.

Effects:

- Partially ignores physical defense, striking directly at the target’s soul

- Soul-inflicted wounds are much harder to heal

- Greatly amplifies all soul-based abilities cast by its wielder

Just like the Soul Anchor Ring, this weapon also had a demonic rarity. I wasn’t even sure if rarity actually mattered at this point, but the description and effects were already enough to show how terrifying that weapon was.

“Don’t get hit, Kaelor!” I shouted. “His sword could attack your soul directly, not just your body! Or, uh… my body! You know what I mean!”

He replied without looking back. “Got it!”

It was strange to hear someone else talking in my voice. It honestly sounded a bit different from how I imagined.

I fought alongside Kaelor. Despite having a numbers advantage against Gal’Meth, it didn’t seem like he struggled to dodge our attacks. It was difficult for him to launch attacks on us with how relentlessly we were pushing him back, but still, none of our attacks landed.

How could this be possible? Even Aurelius, who was just as nimble, eventually got hit.

But Gal’Meth? It didn’t seem like he was slowing down at all.

Eventually, Kaelor and I retreated back to Meriel’s side, panting heavily. Our attacks came with a cost. Each swing we took used up more of our stamina. On the other hand, Gal’Meth didn’t seem nearly as tired as we were, since he was mostly defending against our attacks.

“I know what’s happening,” Kaelor began, staring at Gal’Meth. “You’re not reacting to our attacks. You’re predicting them.”

The demon tilted his head. “Is that what you think?”

“You’re reading our souls’ intent—that’s how you know our every move. Which means…”

Kaelor suddenly shot forward, swinging Dawn Sunderer wildly. Unlike before, there was no coordination or strategy to any of his attacks. He just swung the sword as quickly as he could, like a child holding a sword for the first time.

Somehow, it looked like it was working.

Gal’Meth was pushed back through the air, grunting as he tried to defend against the flurry of hits. His expression was different from before. He wasn’t relaxed.

He was struggling to defend.

Soon, Kaelor broke through the defense. Dawn Sunderer sliced Gal’Meth’s shoulder, causing him to wince and retreat far through the air. By now, Kaelor was fully exhausted and wasn’t able to follow him. My body did have horrible stamina, after all.

It was my turn to chase the demon down.

“I see,” I began. “Since he can read our intent, attacking without thinking is exactly how we defeat him.”

I gathered the wind behind me, using it to propel myself toward Gal’Meth, leading with my dagger. Wielding a dagger instead of a sword felt incredibly different, with the obvious difference being the length. However, the main advantage was how much easier it was to wield. If there was any weapon someone could attack with without thinking, a dagger seemed like one of the better options.

Gal’Meth tried to defend against it, but he couldn’t.

One slice slipped through. One shallow jab caught his stomach.

Finally, he was hurt. Who would’ve known that the best strategy for this battle was to just not think at all?

Gal’Meth backed away, looking down at the thin cut across his stomach before brushing a finger across the blood. He stared at it for a long moment.

Then he laughed.

“Excellent,” he said, his eyes gleaming. “I was beginning to think none of you understood souls. Abandoning reason to embrace instinct is an elegant solution. You’ve found my weakness. I’ll applaud you for it.”

Before any of us could speak, he disappeared in a blink.

I felt something touching my back. I turned, seeing Gal’Meth’s hand. I swung at him, but he disappeared again, reappearing between Kaelor and Meriel and touching the two of them as well. Before either of them could react, Gal’Meth teleported again, completely disappearing from the air this time.

“Down here,” he said in a taunting voice.

The three of us looked down. He was back on the ground, standing in the mist.

But it wasn’t just him. In front of him was a faint light. A clone. But it wasn’t a clone of my soul, or a clone of Kaelor’s. It was larger than the ones we saw before.

It was a clone of all three of our souls combined.

“No…” Meriel began, her eyes widening. “Don’t—!”

Gal’Meth jabbed his sword through it.

Pain shot through my body and my soul itself. Kaelor and Meriel felt it as well.

The three of us fell out of the air, crashing down below. Meriel and I barely softened the landing with our wind spells. Kaelor spread his wings just before hitting the ground.

I tried to stand, but it was a mistake. Gal’Meth jabbed his sword through the clone again, causing all three of us to scream in pain.

I didn’t know how much more pain we could handle.

We had no other choice but to stay down.