That wasn’t to say that Imperial victory was a foregone conclusion, for the fighting would still be bitter and bloody indeed. Perhaps the Legate had other ideas regarding how this Western offensive would go, but even if they had an unlimited number of Runic Cannons and enough Peak Experts to fire them consistently without stopping, this crusade would be an undertaking of years to come, if not decades at the very least. This of course made Akanai’s clandestine plan to take out three valuable targets in quick succession all the more unfathomable, for there was no good reason to rush things so. Mao Jianghong here in Shi Bei, Mataram Patriarch YuGan in Tian Zangli, and of course Bai Qi in Pan Si Xing, all notorious Imperial traitors with pivotal roles in the Enemy’s cause, which made it all the more difficult to kill them. And yet, Akanai set out to do just that, in the opening moves of the offensive no less, a gambit akin to Hikaru Shindo’s combination finisher in his legendary chess match against the dominant grandmaster Zhou Weiqi, a series of desperate and seemingly illogical moves from an unknown challenger that eventually forced the grandmaster to sacrifice piece after piece until he had nothing left to defend his king.

That was Akanai’s goal here, to kill all three of the aforementioned Peak Experts in quick succession, with each army responsible for a single head each. To call her bold was not doing her justice, for if Nian Zu were in command, he would have instead focused more effort on taking Shi Bei to slowly solidify their foothold in the Western Province. Ostensibly, he was able to do just that here, but he’d been ordered to place more value on killing Mao Jianghong than taking the city intact, which was not something he entirely agreed with. Taking four harbours in a single night was a phenomenal start, but capturing Shi Bei would enable the Imperial Army to draw even more focus away from the Western Wall and bring the war back to the Western Province itself. Akanai had her reasons for giving these orders of course, and she’d shared them with Nian Zu, but while he wasn’t wholly convinced of the need to go to such extremes, he couldn’t deny the potential rewards to be reaped. This was a gamble of epic proportions, one weighted in their favour of course, but one with the fate of the Western offensive on the line, not to mention possibly even the fate of the outer provinces as well. A risky proposition to undertake, but Akanai had the vision and resolve to go through with it, which was exactly why young Rain placed her in charge.

A fact which Nian Zu was entirely grateful for, because there were Living Legends, and then there were Warriors like Akanai of the Bekhai who he now knew stood head and shoulders above them all.

Though irksome to be treated like a child by a woman who didn’t look a day over thirty, Nian Zu could not argue that it was nice knowing there were taller shoulders standing ready to hold the Heavens up for him. For too long, he’d stood at the peak of humanity and bore the burden of service for those beneath him, so it was something of a relief to know that the fate of countless citizens of the Empire no longer rested solely on his actions and decisions alone. There were others like Akanai, Liu Xuande, Baatar, and yes, even young Falling Rain that Nian Zu could count on, so he focused on completing the task he’d been assigned and trusted his allies to do the same.

A good thing too, for Military Advisor Liu was a farsighted man who made ample preparations to make up for his shortcomings, having long since devised the tactics he set out to use today. Thanks to their newly mastered ability to speak and Send at the same time, Nian Zu outlined Military Advisor Liu’s plans in real time to his officers with a few helpful words from the Imperial Scion himself. Pre-constructed iron fences were strategically placed all about, simple obstacles consisting of a base and a long central rod affixed with spikes which projecting out at an upwards angle on one side and held up a canvas canopy on the other. Unsupported, even a single Defiled tribesman could easily move the spikes without aid, especially with soft sand underfoot, but the point of these fences was to provide Imperial soldiers a place to stand guard while still providing shelter from the sun and sandstorms. What’s more, with enough soldiers supporting the fence, even a full out cavalry charge would fail to move it, though Nian Zu was not all too sure if the spikes would prove the deterrent the Military Advisor believed it would be.

More impressive were the deadfall traps set up all around the base of the camp, simply contraptions of leather and iron that could be triggered by hand or tripwire to send an avalanche of heavy objects raining down on the Enemy below. While stone and water were scarce here in the west, young Rain had long ago pointed out that empty storage containers packed with sand would prove almost as effective, especially if they put in the extra effort and ‘irrigated’ the sand in the latrines first. Hardly the most glamorous of jobs, filling boxes and barrels with sand soaked in piss and shit, but there were always soldiers in need of discipline and this task would prove most effective.

While all this hubbub was going about, the Military Advisor also put his teachings regarding darkness and obfuscation to good use. The sandy, uneven terrain made it difficult to dig in and fortify their position, but it also made it impossible for the Enemy to keep track of all their comings and goings, especially with the near constant clouds of sand thrown up by periodic gusts of winds. Using this to his full advantage, the Military Advisor positioned soldiers all about the dunes to weave a tight-knit web of sentries and noise traps from which no one could navigate without being seen or detected. While Concealment and Sound Barriers could be employed to render a Wraith nigh undetectable, neither skill would do them any good if they should step on a trip wire which triggered a bell situated fifty or a hundred metres away.

Impressive as all this was, these traps and tricks were not what made the Military Advisor so formidable, but merely the garnish on the dish like the fake roses made from carved radishes so many restaurants liked to include. Pretty to look at and nice to have, but a meal they were not. Instead, the rice and meat of the Military Advisor’s skills came from the way he laid out troop formations, eschewing the neat and orderly squares of classic military doctrine for all manner of seemingly nonsensical yet highly efficient arrangements, such as the Tortoiseshell formation he employed here in Shi Bei. The units situated on the outermost layer of camp were arranged in an irregular octagon, with a battle-ready force waiting on standby at all eight cardinal directions. In the second layer of camp, the troops were arranged in a hexagon instead, with six more units on standby and ready to support the outermost layer at the drop of a hat, while also positioned so that even if the Enemy broke through in two cardinal directions, the second line of defences could easily hold long enough for additional reinforcements to form up and collapse on the assailants from all sides. Then, at the core of the camp was the command centre and the catapults themselves, which would have a clear line of sight to fire at or over the walls of Shi Bei below and wreak havoc on the Enemy defenders, with the double benefit of allowing Nian Zu and his Famed Fifty to guard the valuable weapons of war as well.

And to top it all off? The Military Advisor even managed to position the Irregulars and gave them specific lanes of fire in order to minimize the chances of an errant bolt getting caught in the wind and hitting a friendly target instead. The end result was a multi-layered and multi-faceted deployment plan that covered all angles defensively while relying solely on their war machines to mount an effective assault. Hardly sporting to sit outside the walls and lob stone after stone at the inhabitants within, but even if Nian Zu were to link up with Akanai and Baatar’s forces both, they would still lack the numbers to take Shi Bei in a direct assault. Thus, it made sense to use the natural terrain to force the Enemy to come to them, where they would have no choice but to march uphill under a hail of bolts and stones before coming blade to blade with some of the finest Warriors Central had to offer.

Or at least he hoped they were among the finest, but having only taken the measure of their commanding Officers, Nian Zu was not entirely confident this was true.

The meeting did not take too long, as Nian Zu only needed to ensure that his Officers understood their responsibilities and how to react when holding one of the fourteen critical points of the formation. Were it not for that, Nian Zu might not even have needed to call this meeting, but it was always good to test the mettle of the Officers under his command. Ishin Ken-Shibu grasped the key points the quickest, and while young Da’in asked many questions, the way she phrased them showed that she understood the concept well enough, but was only asking to be sure. Competent, yet lacking in confidence, a flaw Nian Zu never would have expected in the domineering Sword Princess Ryo Da’in. Several other Officers made inquiries designed to either curry favour, make themselves seem important, or bring up unrelated issues they believed needed to be rectified, such as lacklustre neighbours or an ‘untenable’ camping grounds, but Nian Zu responded with the same lack of tolerance each and every time. This sort of back and forth was expected from a Central Commander, but Nian Zu was of stubborn Northern stock through and through, so he refused to engage in their political squabbles.

As he neared the end of his patience, the Sword Saint spoke publicly for the first time in days. “When do you expect the offensive to begin?”

A question which gave away just how inept she truly was, for no commander would pick a set time for an assault. While he could have given her a general time frame, he felt it better to educate her instead, though to do so without sounding condescending or patronizing would be a tall task indeed. “When the time is right,” he replied, nodding with pursed lips as if he too was troubled by the issue. “I see two complications before us. The Art of War tells us that ‘the quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim’, but the right time has yet to arrive. Our troops are eager and their courage indefatigable, but even the greatest Warriors among us need time to rest after seven days of hard marching through inhospitable terrain.” Resting both fists against the table, Nian Zu glanced about the room and met the eyes of as many Officers as he could to gauge the measure of their courage. Though more than one seemed nervous about the prospect of battle and relieved that they would have time to rest, their anxiety was tempered with eager desire to cross blades with the Enemy below. “To this end, ensure your soldiers do just that, with special attention paid to the measures outlined beforehand. Water is to be conserved, but not by the soldiers themselves, who must finish every drop of water given to them at the proper intervals. Avoid staying out in the sun for too long, for even Martial Warriors are not immune to heat-stroke or sun-blindness, and above all else, remain vigilant and on guard against Wraith attacks so that we will be ready to seize the opportunity when the timing presents itself.”

Pausing to let his words sink in, Nian Zu rifled through his papers and pulled out a sheet bearing the likeness of a man, one he’d studied far too often of late. A handsome fellow with a strong jaw, sculpted nose, and noble bearing, the lines around his eyes spoke of wisdom beyond his thirty odd years of age. Everyone present had seen the drawing at least once before, but Nian Zu showed it to them once again to engrave the likeness in their minds. “The second dilemma we face is one presented by the Three Hunting Strategies, namely ‘know the enemy’, yet we know little of the Enemy commander. Mao Jianghong, former Guard Captain of Sanshu turned traitor to the Empire. As a young man, he lost his family to a bandit attack, one which he later discovered had been ordered by the Merchant Council of Sanshu to safeguard their financial interests, interests the Mao family threatened to ruin with their refusal to join the Council. Rather than immediately act on this information, Jianghong bided his time and dedicated years of his life to rising through the ranks to become Guard Captain instead. This tells us our foe has patience, intelligence, and talent aplenty, yet his actions since defecting from the Empire have shown him to be a threat comparable to Bai Qi himself.”

A few scoffs of derision and disbelief followed Nian Zu’s bold statement, but he was gratified to see Jeong Hyo Lynn nod in agreement. They knew full well the power a Marshal could wield given enough wealth and connections, and Mao Jianghong had served in this same capacity for the entirety of the Enemy forces, which marked him as a man comparable to Rang Min himself. The lessons learned in trade and diplomacy could easily be translated over to the battlefield and vice versa as well, but most importantly of all, Nian Zu could not gauge the skills of a man he’d never seen in combat, especially when all his information was two years out of date.

