Thankfully, the Chosen in Shi Bei were limited to a hundred and fifty thousand strong, while there were less than two-hundred Half-Demon abominations in total. Unfortunately, the defending Defiled forces still numbered in the millions, the majority of which were deranged Defiled. Untrained and undisciplined Defiled who waved their weapons and shouted up a storm long before the Imperials could even hope to hear them. While Imperial doctrine favoured quality over quantity, in enough numbers, quantity had a quality all of its own. Most of the Defiled were clad in the local style of head wraps, veils, and long, loose garments that covered them from head to toe to protect them from the blowing sand and sweltering heat of the Western days, while also offering adequate protection against the near freezing nights. After almost two years of fighting, it was difficult to tell if these Defiled were tribal invaders or maddened locals who lost sight of the Mother’s light, and though Nian Zu prayed it was the former, in his heart, he knew many of the Defiled he saw today were once his comrades and countrymen.

Difficult to fault them for their lack of faith and hope, because enduring two years under Enemy rule was no easy matter, but with the Legate’s current indisposition, all Nian Zu could do now was free these poor souls from the mortal coil and beseech the Mother Above to have mercy on their souls. Though the Legate still clung to lofty ideals and believed most of these apostates could be brought back into the light, Nian Zu had his reservations regarding the boy’s idealistic dreams and feared Rain was in for a rude awakening indeed. Even if his secretive ability to Cleanse was widely accepted without doubt, any and all Western survivors would still suffer from the stigma of having possibly been tainted for years, if not decades to come. Prejudice and discrimination would be the least of their worries, for even though the Bloody Confessor was dead and Demonized, there would always be others willing to take up his divisive cause for more reasons than faith. Say what you will about Goujian’s abhorrent ideals and lacking conviction, but he never abused his power for personal gain. The same could not be said for the dozen or so opportunists seeking to fill the void he’d left behind, all of whom were vying to stand out from the rest while simultaneously benefit themselves in the process.

Yuzhen and the other Marshals were already hard at work stomping out these aspiring demagogues at the Legate’s instruction, with clandestine help from spymaster MuYang and his fanatic associates, but like cockroaches, there were always more rabble-rousers hiding in the shadows nearby. Traditionally, the Disciplinary Corps was responsible for these sorts of affairs, but their efforts had fallen off of late, ostensibly because their workload had increased under ‘the new Legate’s rule’, but most likely because they wanted little Rain to look bad. Regardless of the reason, this was a matter more for the Magistrates of the Empire, as the Imperial Army was not in the habit of enforcing the law. That might change soon enough if the Legate were to move forward with his vision of liberating the West, so Nian Zu had been paying special attention to these affairs over the last few months.

This was the sort of issue that could wait until after Shi Bei was retaken however, so Nian Zu turned his mind back to the task at hand. Slowly but surely, his army marched ever forwards until they arrived at the staging grounds he’d picked out in advance, at which point he left Military Advisor Liu to oversee the camp formation with help from the Junior Officers while he called a meeting with his highest echelons of command. The Three Hunting Strategies said that in order to defeat the Enemy, one must know the Enemy, but the Art of War emphasized that one must also know thyself, meaning one must understand one’s own limits as well as the limits of those serving under them in order to achieve victory over the Enemy. In this facet, Nian Zu fell woefully short, for rather than the Northern Warriors he’d trained and served beside throughout his long and lengthy career, the bulk of his army hailed from Central instead. Better if it were Shuai Jiao or even fast rising Chen Hongji commanding the forces here, but given the circumstances, Akanai’s division of manpower was almost perfect save for one minor detail. Were he himself in charge, Nian Zu would have given Akanai command of Central’s soldiers while he took command of the Southern forces himself. While his skills were more suited to the siege here in Shi Bei and the Southern Warriors of more use intercepting the reinforcing Defiled forces in the field, he could not help but feel like Akanai was doing herself a disservice by taking command of the patriarchal minded men of the South, which was putting it nicely.

Then again, for all he knew, that was exactly the reason why Akanai took command of the Southern forces herself, to show them how far a woman could go if given command of an army, but somehow, Nian Zu didn’t think she would change many Southern mindsets, if any at all.

Regardless of his thoughts on the matter, it was far too late to change things now. Greeting his Officers as they filtered into the tent, he inwardly railed against Central’s strict adherence to protocol even here out in the field, with Officers entering one by one in order of lowest to highest rank. First sorted by official rank of course, followed by social if necessary, and over the past month and a bit, more than one argument had broken out regarding the perceived pecking order among them. On several occasions, Nian Zu had noticed his Officers entering in a new order, yet none could deny that his second most prominent Major was none other than the Sanguine Whirlwind Du Min Yan, whose battlefield contributions and marriage to the Legate was superseded only by the outstanding talents of the Painted Dancer, Ishin Ken-Shibu. Nian Zu had no complaints regarding the young man’s competence, both in tactical command and prowess on the battlefield, having already earmarked the young family patriarch for great things ahead.

That being said, talented as Ken-Shibu might be, there was no doubt in Nian Zu’s mind that the young man would not have been the last Major to enter if Ryo Da’in still held the same rank. Were it up to him, he’d place the eldest Ryo Scion at the top of his Lieutenant Colonels as well, for thus far, she demonstrated an exceptional ability to parse his orders and knew exactly when to ask the right questions and when to still her tongue, a skill many of these Central Officers had yet to learn. Given another decade or two, Nian Zu was confident she would easily replicate her father’s meteoric rise to Colonel General, if not surpass it, yet for some reason, Da’in was not afforded the same respect as her male peers. It seemed Central shared at least some of the worst traits of Southern beliefs, in that women were inferior to their male counterparts due to physical differences alone, for despite her current achievements and future potential, she was among the first of his Lieutenant Colonels to enter the tent, outranking only those ‘lowly’ Officers without wealthy families or powerful factions to back them.

If only Central had more of those diamonds in the rough, but Nian Zu supposed finding one Chen Hongji in this generation was already more than enough. More to the point, having already proven herself to be something of a prideful firebrand, he was surprised to see young Da’in simply accept her low place in the pecking order without complaint, no doubt due to the political pressure her family faced in the wake of her father’s death. May he rest in the arms of the Mother Above, but it was not Nian Zu’s place to step in to assist the Ryo’s, especially after their baffling decision to throw their lot in with Shuai Jiao instead of working with the Legate to oppose the ambitious Commander General. All other factors aside, Nian Zu knew the quality of the Legate and Shuai Jiao both, and this alone was enough to fix him firmly to young Rain’s side if ever given the choice. Shuai Jiao was a snake and a hypocrite, a man who pretended to be different from the rest of Central’s nobles yet behaved in the exact same manner so long as he could get away with it, which somehow made him worse than the vermin who owned up to their behaviour.

What’s more, the Commander General had yet to provide the Ryo’s with any discernible benefit as far as anyone could see. Young Geom-Chi and Seoyoon were also serving under Nian Zu, but neither one warranted an invitation to this meeting as they were both still Senior Captains yet. Not a rank to sneer at for children their age, but the war and young Rain’s meteoric rise had radically skewed expectations to the point where he had to remind himself of that fact almost daily. Of course, it was possible the Ryo’s allied with Shuai Jiao not for mutual benefit but were pressured or even blackmailed into compliance, but that hardly seemed likely considering Jeong Hyo Lynn’s incredible skills. Nian Zu had only seen the Sword Saint draw her blades once, and only for a short while, but even that much was enough to convince him to never face her in single combat himself.

No, if they should ever find themselves at odds, his only chance would be to strike her down from afar, preferably while she wasn’t looking. If they were to exchange blows in close combat, Nian Zu wagered he’d last all of ten moves before losing a limb, and maybe fifteen before she took his head, for he saw no way in which he could defend against her dizzying flurry of blows.

The rest of the pecking order came as no surprise, but Nian Zu was almost beside himself with impatience by the time Du Min Gyu settled in at his side while the Sword Saint made her way in last. Promoting the woman to Lieutenant General had been a grave mistake, for she was a duellist first and a mother second, with ‘Military Officer’ sitting somewhere close to the bottom of her admittedly remarkable skill-set. At least she knew not to reach beyond the bounds of her limited knowledge and left most of the military planning to others, but Nian Zu needed a little more support than her silence from his supposed second-in-command. Truth be told, even though he was also a Lieutenant General, Du Min Gyu was not much better when it came to matters of tactical command, but at least Nian Zu had the Imperial Military Advisor to make up for their failings. Another sign of Akanai’s nigh flawless distribution of manpower, though he would have liked to have Baatar, Chen Hongji, Han BoHai, or even Jia Yang here to help him. Hell, he’d even accept help from Rang Min at this point, because despite all his faults, no one could fault the former Situ Patriarch for lacking intelligence and foresight. In matters of tactics and schemes, Rang Min might well be second only to young Rain and the Military Advisor himself, as evidenced by the massive success he found under Yuzhen’s employ hunting down Enemy spies, smugglers, and assassins these past few months.

Too effective really, leading some to suspect Rang Min was playing both sides and hoping to come out on top, but Nian Zu knew better. Say what you will about the man, but Rang Min was no traitor to the Empire, for he loved both Clan and Society too much to ever even entertain the notion of defection.

With his Officers all gathered, Nian Zu could finally begin his meeting, during which he outlined his plan for the siege. “The Military Advisor has deployed our catapults here,” he began, gesturing at the map laid out before him and ignoring the frowns in response to his breach in protocol by jumping right to the point. As if he was going to waste precious seconds on social niceties here in this oppressive heat with so many people gathered in one place, and already he could feel himself growing faint. The area he indicated was a forward ridge, the peak of a sand dune that dropped off into a sheer, nigh-impassible cliff that overlooked Shi Bei to the west below. Anyone seeking to scale those cliffs and attack the catapults situated atop them would have to go out and around to reach their position, which was deep in the centre of Nian Zu’s forces and not so easily assaulted. At first glance, he could hardly believe anyone would build a city in such an indefensible location, but having spoken to Gao Changgong before setting forth from Meng Sha, Nian Zu learned that the cliff-face had not always been there. With constant winds eroding the dunes already in place, the Western Province’s landscape was forever in flux and there was little humans could do to stop it. According to local lore, the city was the very reason why the cliff formed where it did, for the city walls blocked all easterly winds and prevented them from smoothing out the peaks any lower than they already were. A boon for Nian Zu, as it meant his catapults were well-insulated from infantry and cavalry alike. Only Peak Experts, Demons, or Half-Demons could assault their position with ease, and they would do so unsupported by the chaff they so depended on, meaning the Enemy would pay a hefty price to do so.

