Though others might think he’d drawn the easiest foe of the lot, Nian Zu believed that killing Mao Jianghong would prove no less of a challenge than taking Bai Qi’s head, for though the latter was a fearsome foe with polearm in hand, Mao Jianghong was unlikely to accept a duel from Nian Zu or the Sword Saint, or even emerge to fight in battle himself, meaning that if they wanted to claim his head, they would have to wade through a sea of Defiled corpses to take it.

And so, Nian Zu dismissed his Officers and settled in to find the right timing for his first attack, one that did not arrive on that first day. Night fell and morning found him looking out over the walls again, scanning the Enemy deployment for signs of change and weaknesses to exploit, but alas, there was no bounty to be had. As he said to his Officers, the right time had yet to arrive, and he knew this in a way he could not entirely explain. In fact, before reading The Art of War, he never conscientiously understood the value of proper timing, so he only recently discovered how vital it’d been in his rise to glory. As a young man, he found fame thanks to his Shooting Star, a simplistic ability in which he threw his mace at his opponents and killed them before they could close the gap. This skill saw him through many a duel, and for a time, his detractors had laughed at him and claimed that he would soon meet his end, for his foes only needed to block, dodge, or parry his Shooting Star in order to claim Nian Zu’s head.

And yet his head remained firmly attached for months, then years before his opponents switched to less direct tactics, but he never stopped to wonder why. What his critics claimed was entirely true, yet no one who stood out to challenge him was able to stop his Shooting Star, and now, decades later, Nian Zu finally understood why. It wasn’t because he threw his mace too quickly for his foes to react, or that the strength behind the blow was too powerful for anyone to block, but rather Nian Zu’s innate sense of impeccable timing. He knew exactly where and when to throw his mace to ensure his opponent could not block or avoid it, but he could not explain exactly how he knew this in words. It was an ineffable sense of movement and reaction that somehow enabled him to easily discern the best time to act, like when his opponent was retreating and unable to counter or over-extended and incapable of blocking. It could happen in the opening seconds of a duel, after a cautious testing of his opponents skills, or as a last resort after a frantic back and forth exchange, but the timing always revealed itself without fail, even when his opponent was a powerful Divinity like Zhu Chanzui. He just knew when to throw his mace so that his attack would land true, an intuitive premonition of knowing yet not knowing he could not teach or even describe.

Unlike young Rain however, Nian Zu was not one to let his lack of understanding stand in the way of using this skill to his advantage. The timing would arrive soon enough, but he knew that this battle was not the only factor to keep in mind. There was also Akanai’s army to take into account, as well as Baatar’s strike force to boot, meaning it was possible Nian Zu felt the timing was not right because he knew his allies were not yet in place. How he knew this, he could not say, for he had only limited contact with Akanai these past few days and no contact with Baatar whatsoever, and yet he trusted his instincts without fail.

One day, then two, and finally a third passed, and still Nian Zu’s army sat idle outside the walls of Shi Bei, ignoring the Enemy’s attempts to bait them out of position and responding to the true threats with the bare minimum of force required. As the sun rose on the fourth morning however, he strode out of his tent to take in the sights, and found what he saw most pleasing to the eye as his gut stirred and heart soared with certainty. “Hear me,” he projected, his voice booming out over the camp and echoing all the way to Shi Bei and beyond. “This is Colonel General Nian Zu of the North, ordering all soldiers to standby. Irregulars, ready the catapults and commence firing on my mark.” Thirty odd seconds passed in complete and utter silence save for the howl of the wind and the puttering of boots in the sand. Upon receiving confirmation that all catapults were readied, he allowed himself a grin and said, “Loose death upon the Enemy.”

The catapults creaked and thumped as they delivered their heavy payloads, and the keening whistle of doom cut cleanly through the raging winds before coming to an abrupt halt with a crash. Perhaps it was his imagination, but Nian Zu could almost hear the screams of the dead and dying rising up in distance as the Enemy forces came alive like a rattled wasps nest, with some overeager tribals already making their way uphill to cross blades. Thinking to stir them up even further, he saw fit to add his own attack into the mix. His mace in hand, he casually tossed it high into the air and felt it disappear into the Heavens above, invisible to the naked eye yet so obvious to his senses he could track its trajectory with both eyes closed. Chi thrummed within its metallic frame as the Shooting Star built up speed, altitude, and power, the last of which he directed and Amplified with proper timing and determined intent. After three seconds of fighting against gravity, the weapon reached its peak height, and just as its momentum was spent, he gave it a little Guidance to bring the mace hurtling back down to the earth below.

The Enemy sensed it coming, or at least those sensitive enough to the workings of Chi as he poured everything his Core had to offer into this one, singular attack. Only a few ever awakened this sense, something Rain simply called his Spiritual Sense, yet another ability Nian Zu possessed yet never noticed beforehand. Knowing the Enemy saw their death coming filled him with a sense of pride and satisfaction, one which redoubled as the Shooting Star crashed into the eastern wall of Shi Bei with a deafening explosion that rocked him back on his feet. For long seconds, the sand quaked beneath his boots and he feared he’d overdone it, that his attack would bring down the sand dune beneath him and consign hundreds, if not thousands of Imperial troops to their deaths, but the dunes of the West were hardier than they appeared. When the dust finally settled, Nian Zu rubbed the sand out of his eyes and laid eyes upon the destruction he’d wrought, a sight which filled him with such glee even as he recoiled in horror at the devastation he’d caused.

Prior to today, the most destructive blow he’d delivered was the one which toppled his manor at the Northern Wall and slew his Wraith and Demonic assailants, one which resulted in a crater measuring no more than twenty metres across at most. Never before had he unleashed a blow so powerful, and he’d never been able to match it again, for reasons unknown until he read young Rain’s primer. More specifically the section regarding the link between Chi, Heavenly Energy, and souls, which made it clear how he delivered so devastating an attack against his foes while teetering on the brink of death.

Simply put, Nian Zu had poured his very soul into that attack, one he believed would be his final send off before sinking deep into the Mother’s warm embrace.

This attack however, was different. He only survived unleashing such devastation at the Northern Wall thanks to the Medical Saint’s peerless prowess, but this time, Nian Zu’s attack was not driven by instinct, Insight, or desperation. No, this was the result of pairing his signature attack with the lessons gleaned from Rain’s explanation of the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, and the outcome was satisfying indeed. Emanating from the epicentre of his Shooting Star was a crater no less than a thirty-five metres across, with bloodied bodies and broken rubble strewn across the smooth surface of the pit where the eastern wall once stood, and for all of a second, Defiled and Imperial alike stopped in their tracks to take in the devastation Nian Zu unleashed.

Then, without warning, cheers broke the silence that had fallen over the battlefield as the Imperial forces chanted his name and celebrated what Nian Zu had accomplished here today, a feat which would truly cement his place in the annals of history forevermore. The time to act had finally come, and though the Enemy would put all their efforts into killing him now that they knew what he could accomplish, he knew that so long as no new variables were introduced here in Shi Bei, then victory was as good as in his grasp.

For he was Colonel General Situ Nian Zu, no longer simply the Guardian of the North, but the Guardian of the Empire itself.

Chapter Meme
