As the walls of Shi Bei rose in the distance, Nian Zu mopped the sweat from his brow and stirred with the eager impatience of a man one-fifth his age.

Though many of his soldiers had visions of taking the city within a single day, he knew such an outcome was more than unlikely considering the Enemy was not known to retreat or surrender so easily. Even if they did, such a victory would come at a great cost to the Imperial Army, but he still enjoyed the mental exercise that came from parsing through such a possibility regardless, like working on a puzzle that was supposed to be unsolvable and trying to come up with a working solution. It wasn’t just for personal enjoyment however, as this served as much needed practice for the campaign ahead. For the first time in decades, he was out of his element, thrust into an unfamiliar role which filled him with a heady sense of thrill and trepidation. Throughout his long and lengthy career as an Officer of the Northern Imperial Army, Nian Zu never once led or took part in an offensive operation against a foe, whether it be Defiled, rebel, or otherwise. He’d never even personally led a bandit or beast hunt, as he understandably avoided taking part in such excursions early on in his career, because doing so would have been akin to handing his enemies a knife with which to kill him.

That being said, defending against overwhelming numbers was his forte, the means through which he made his name, and now the roles were reversed while the disparity in numbers remained more or less the same. This was a fresh challenge to take on which brought with it a rush of excitement alongside the unfamiliar fear of failure, and Nian Zu savoured it as best he could, for this was a rare treat for a man his age. Shi Bei would be his inaugural offensive campaign, and at a hundred and one years of age, he was not so keen to add a black mark to his otherwise unblemished record of achievements.

Slow and steady, that was the backbone of the plan, but he needed more than the broad strokes if he wanted this to succeed. The details fell into place even as he rode ever closer to his destination, scanning the surroundings with the naked eye and Scrying both to get a good read on the terrain. It would be mid-afternoon by the time the army arrived at the staging grounds he’d picked out, a wide, ridged dune facing the northern walls which sat more or less level with the City itself. Even though there was an elevated plateau to the east which would give him the high ground and force the Enemy to march uphill to assault them, staging his army there would be a mistake. There were too many smaller dunes surrounding that position, affording the Enemy ample cover on the approach and limiting his crossbows’ fields of fire, while positioning his army along the western or southern walls would leave his flanks too open to reinforcing Defiled. Yes, now that he’d seen the lay of the land with his own eyes and reaffirmed what the scouts had relayed to him, he was convinced he’d made the right decision and could confidently deploy his troops in the formation laid out by Imperial Military Advisor, Liu Xuande.

To call the man a genius was selling his talents short, for the Imperial Scion had an affinity with massed warfare that not even the greatest Generals of this time could match. While his martial skills were lacking, not even Shuai Jiao dared protest when the Legate bestowed this newly conceived rank upon Liu Xuande and placed him so high in the chain of command, for there was no denying his talents. His treatise somewhat arrogantly titled ‘The Art of War’ was an eye-opening experience which Nian Zu made mandatory for all his Officers to read, for the Military Advisor had taken the complex intricacies of massed warfare and condensed it all into thirteen easily digestible chapters. Weapons, strategies, formations, and disciplinary efforts, The Art of War covered it all in simple and succinct details that any commander could easily put to good use, and Nian Zu was no exception. Gone were the days when the army marched ahead of the supplies, for though it slowed the army down as a whole, it was better to proceed at the speed of their slowest unit than to waste time and manpower backtracking to defend their beleaguered supply lines. As The Art of War pointed out, hungry soldiers would not fight, meaning an army without provisions was already lost, so what point was there in having them arrive at the battlegrounds early without their supplies already in hand?

Then there was the matter of different priorities, for in the past, Generals of great fame and renown all placed heavy emphasis on an army’s strength, speed, and coordination, but in Military Advisor Liu’s eyes, the most important factors of all were information and timing. With enough information and proper preparation, victory was all but inevitable, but revealing one’s hand too early or too late could render all that effort wasted as the Enemy pivoted to take a different approach. The influence of information and timing didn’t end in the preparatory stages either, because the right information in the midst of battle could allow a competent Commander to better tip the scales of balance in his favour. It could be something as simple as reinforcing or withdrawing from an area about to be overrun or guiding a unit around the enemy flanks to strike at a soft and vulnerable target, or complex as Hongji’s multifaceted defence of the Central Citadel wherein he coordinated the movements of his guerrilla units to strike where the enemy was weak and retreat from where they were strong. Simple enough to understand, but not so easy to pull off, as any experienced Commander could tell you, yet Liu Xuande managed to somehow boil down the concept into a handful of clear and concise points.

Move like the wind, as fast as circumstances would allow and without strict adherence to direction. This meant to make haste without rushing, and to avoid fixating on a single route for the sake of the route itself. There was no need to fear deviating from one’s planned path so long as there was good reason for it, or put another way, an able commander was one who knew how to adapt to changing conditions.

Consolidate your soldiers like trees in the forest. Moving in neat and orderly ranks might look nice, but was hardly always practical in the field, but that didn’t mean you should simply allow your soldiers to march as they pleased. On the field of battle, overeager soldiers advancing ahead of everyone else were even worse than cowardly troops lagging behind, because brave soldiers were a precious resource to be guarded and developed. Thus, the comparison to a forest, for while natural forests did not grow in neat rows, they still retained the quality of density and compactness, so soldiers should learn from this as well. Neat was nice, but compact better, for a united body of soldiers would arrive on the battlefield together.

On the offence, strike like fire, fierce and unchecked. Half-measures secured half a victory, which was also half a defeat, so when the right opportunity presented itself, a commander should hold nothing back. Hammering a gap in the enemy lines only translated into an advantage once those lines were overrun, so better to commit too many forces to ensure a favourable outcome rather than to risk your flanking force getting bogged down in a long battle of attrition as combatants from both sides flocked to reinforce their position.

On the defence, remain immovable as a mountain. This pertained not simply to holding a defensive position, but also warned against transitioning too quickly from defence to offence, for many a battle had been won or lost by luring soldiers away from their allies and defensible positions without the proper support. Though an opportunity for bloodshed could be lost, it was more important to preserve the overall integrity of an army’s battle lines than to pursue minor gains with unacceptable risks.

Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, denying as much information to your foes as possible, and when you move, do so with the speed of lightning. Again, it seemed obvious when reading it, but upon reflection, Nian Zu realized just how often he neglected to do just this. Take for example the battle in which he revealed Baatar’s prowess for all the Northern Wall to see, and more importantly, showed off his new protege to DuYi. It felt like a lifetime ago when they met on the Wall so DuYi could warn him about the Enemy’s ability to communicate over long distances, but rather than immerse himself in memories of the man he loved, Nian Zu picked apart all the errors in his battle plan that day. Seeing the Enemy massed before their gates, he’d ordered Baatar out on an offensive cavalry push, one meant to sweep aside the chaff to give the soldiers on the wall a moment to breathe and redress their ranks. While the move ultimately proved to be a rousing success, looking back on it with fresh eyes filled him with dread and disbelief, for there were so many things that could have gone wrong. Before ordering the charge, he’d committed his cavalry to lining up at the gates, with no infantry to support them whatsoever. Mostly to keep the area clear and unobstructed, but any fool with eyes and the ability to Scry would have seen the offensive charge coming well in advance, which the Enemy did. Were it not for Baatar’s phenomenal coordination and ability to direct his Warriors to target the Enemy during transition, the entire cavalry force might well have been lost, trapped by the Enemy’s maneuvers and worn down through attrition. Granted, Nian Zu had known of Baatar’s skills going in and foresaw everything playing out exactly as it had, but he could have massively reduced the risk involved by simply rallying his cavalry a little further back from the gates before sallying forth. By arranging them to appear like a rapid reinforcement unit moving into a better position to react, he would have obfuscated his true intent and denied the Enemy commander the chance to prepare his strategy to deal with Baatar’s all too obvious counter-attack.

So simple and succinct, yet full of much needed wisdom and insight, The Art of War was an invaluable resource for commanders the Empire over, and Nian Zu was eager to put his newfangled knowledge to good use, the first of which was to never move faster than circumstances allowed. After thirty days sitting idle in Meng Sha and seven days of marching through dust and sweat to reach Shi Bei, Nian Zu’s soldiers were ready and raring to draw first blood with the Enemy forces, but he kept them on a tight rein and did not let them march any faster than half-pace. Though the Imperial Army was technically on the offensive, everyone would all do well to remember that they were still grossly outnumbered. As he drew closer to his destination, Nian Zu spotted the Enemy defenders lining the walls of Shi Bei, and they made for a formidable force indeed.

Most prominent of all were the dark-armoured forms of the so-called Chosen, the disciplined Defiled elites standing stock still upon the battlements. No doubt they were suffering from the desert heat even this late in the year, yet not a single one shifted or fidgeted for as long as Nian Zu watched. This was more than mere discipline, but inhuman focus as they conserved their energy for the battle to come. It was still jarring to see so much restraint from an established foe notorious for their lack of self-control, but he knew it could only partially be attributed to training and indoctrination, as he’d seen the Chosen break ranks in battle before. No, the reason for their strict discipline now was primarily due to the presence of the misshapen forms scattered throughout their ranks, the armoured Half-Demons who served as commanders and punitive officers both. According to the intelligence gathered by spies and scouts alike, most of these forsaken conglomerations of man and Demon hailed from the Mataram Clan itself, the end result of seemingly hundreds, if not thousands of years of clandestine research and experimentation. In the wake of the Mataram Clan’s betrayal, Imperial Scholars uncovered a possible link between the progenitor of the current Mataram Royal line and Zhen Shi himself, meaning these traitors had hidden their dark intents in plain sight and no one ever thought to look all that closely.

Small wonder the West fell so quickly, and Nian Zu shuddered at the thought of how close the North came to suffering a similar fate. If the Enemy had succeeded in seizing control of Sanshu and silencing all witnesses to the act, then they could have gone ahead with their plan to have Yo Ling feign death and defeat at the hands of the Golden Highlands Coalition, leaving Nian Zu and the rest of the province none the wiser to the fact that they had an entire city of wolves lurking in their midst.

