What truly stunned her as she watched was how many parts were reused, having twisted, turned, moved, and reoriented to come into play in other parts of the insanely elaborate structure.

Honestly, she couldn’t comprehend how it worked at all… until Alat unveiled her threefold sight and Tala realized that the whole thing was moving in four physical dimensions.

She did gasp then. “Rane. This… This is incredible.”

He beamed beside her. “Do you like it? I’ve been bugging Lisa some, but much of it was just the result of study, and trial and error.”

She gave him a flat, unamused look. “You did not ‘trial and error’ your way into this in less than a year. How did you even make this in less than a year?”

He chuckled. “Oh, that. I commissioned most of the parts… well the three-dimensional parts. I simply put them together.”

She arched an eyebrow. “But you conceived of it? Designed it?”

He smiled widely. “Absolutely. It’s something that’s been boiling in my mind for years, and I have finally achieved the understanding I need to create it—though part of that understanding came during the actual construction—I am the sculptor of motion, after all.”

She shook her head. “This, Rane… this is magical. I think I might understand how it can work, but even trying to imagine a simple scene, and how it would need to be constructed?” She shook her head again. “This is beyond me.”

He squeezed her close and kissed the top of her head. “I’m glad that you like it.”

She turned to regard him before going up on her tip-toes to kiss him. “It’s beautiful.”

* * *

Rane stared at the cunningly crafted bracer that fit perfectly to his arm, affixed firmly without inhibiting movement or pinching no matter how he turned, twisted, or stretched. “This… This is amazing.” He grinned up at Tala. “And with the iron, your aura and authority will have an even better anchor near me.”

She laughed. “Better than our literal soulbond?”

He hesitated, a mischievous glinting sparking behind his eyes. “Well… I guess not, but I could throw it at someone in a pinch.”

Her tone dropped dangerously. “Don’t you dare.”

* * *

Tala felt only a little disappointed when she set out from Alefast, Waning, a few days after her anniversary. She was on foot with the group of Defenders.

They didn’t have a fast means of transportation—save their own quick feet—and that meant that the trip would likely take at least a couple of days, no matter how fast they reset the cell.

She’d been told not to simply transport them, unfortunately.

Rane had already bid her goodbye, and Terry was at her side, running and flickering through the wilds, gleeful exuberance in his eyes.

The eight Refined who surrounded her—treating her like an honored guest that they needed to guard—were nice enough even if a bit reserved. She hadn’t even officially met anyone beside the leader yet.

Maybe she wouldn’t have needed to meet anyone else? That would actually be preferred…

She sighed, putting the issue of names to the side even as she focused on following their navigator, a woman who seemed to be using a small compass-like device to point their way toward the approximate cell location.

-I could take us straight there… Well, you could too, but the point stands.-

Hush you. We are here for one task, and so if there isn’t any danger, we’ll stay in the background… probably.

-Yeah, we’re good at that.-

…I said hush.

-Fine, fine.-

Even if she really had no desire to get to know the group, it was heartwarming to see the camaraderie between this Defender unit, but it was also odd to be on the outside of it, clearly being an add-on.

This must have been how the Paragons who came with us would feel.

It made her miss her unit—and Master Girt especially—all the more.

Well, it’s going to be an interesting trip regardless.

-Indeed.-
