And perhaps Maquit and Ilmt had noticed, because their gazes fixed on Geneva for a second longer than normal. But they only smiled when she looked back at them and made a joke about Humans being easier to guard than Dullahans—at least Humans don’t forget their heads! She knew they wanted to talk to her body’s other occupant, but they’d been very careful and the right moment had never sprung up.
“We’re nearly there.”
Essil interrupted the group’s chatter. The Lizardwoman looked back over her shoulder and pointed as, ahead of them, Talenqual appeared out of the jungle. Geneva looked up and sighed.
Home. Or at least, a place where she lived. She rode towards the city, hunched over her pony. It had been two weeks of travelling. And they’d accomplished…something. They really had. She just wished she could smile. Because after all this time, she still felt so useless that it hurt.
 
——
 
“They’re back!”
Daly was lounging in one of the two sofas the apartment held when Andel burst through the door excitedly. The young Australian man was on his day off from fishing, and he’d seen Ken, Geneva, and Aiko coming through the gates. His words provoked an uproar among the Earthworlders.
“At last! Let’s go meet them!”
Excitedly, Mary jumped to her feet. Dawson waved a lazy hand. He was playing on the one gaming smartphone the company shared.
“Bah, they’ll be here any minute. They know the way.”
“Aiko’s back?”
Kirana poked her head out of the kitchen, looking excited. Daly nodded, and she ran upstairs to find Priya as they both were good friends with Aiko. Daly looked around. He saw Blake, who was sitting and talking with a few of the other recent newcomers, look up from his briefing about Baleros and the world. So did Nicoletta and the Italian kids.
“The others?”
Nicoletta looked confused. Daly nodded. He stood up.
“That’ll be Ken, Geneva, and Aiko. Ken and Geneva are two of our company’s leaders. Along with Luan.”
“They’re very good. The highest-levels our group has. You’ll like Ken. He is a [Negotiator]. And Geneva is famous. The Last Light of Baleros is what people call her.”
Nicoletta frowned, still struggling a tiny bit with Tofte’s Norwegian accent. She hesitated.
“The…Last Light?”
Tofte nodded. He tried to explain how Geneva had gotten the name—which was a trick in itself because the story was complicated. Daly, who had been there, only half-listened. He glanced around and saw Siri coming down the stairs.
“I heard Ken’s coming back? And Aiko and Geneva?”
“That’s right. Our [Doctor]’s returned.”
Daly felt a bit of relief in saying it. Ken and Geneva being here would make him relax a lot. He hoped they’d come with good news or, better yet, a lot of money. But them just being here and not necessarily on the road would be good. Siri frowned.
“I met Geneva only once, when I first came here. Then she left on her trip.”
“Oh, right. I forgot you’ve only been here for a bit.”
It felt like Siri had been part of the company, and the Bushrangers, for ages. But she was new. Daly saw Siri was frowning slightly.
“What’s up?”
“Hm. What’s she like in person? Geneva? She was very—”
Siri broke off. Out of politeness, perhaps. Daly wondered what her experience had been. He hesitated and then shrugged nonchalantly.
“You’ll see her in a few seconds.”
The Swedish girl eyed him, but didn’t push it. And indeed, she settled back down in the chair she’d been using. Meanwhile, more of the company not working flooded back into the apartments. They wanted to greet Ken and Aiko and Geneva.
Many of the most eager ones were the newest members, the ones who had barely had a chance to get to know Ken and the others before they’d gone on their trips. They hadn’t spoken to Luan, who was always working, or gotten more than their first encounter with Geneva. Ken, they knew; he’d helped find a lot of them. But the others were more mysterious. And Geneva?
Sometimes, Daly still heard stories about her. From adventurers, no less. And every time Quallet came back with his growing company, newer members of Gravetender’s Fist would be with him, just to see if the myth had any feet. Daly couldn’t tell what they thought after meeting Geneva. But it was the question everyone asked at first.
What was the Last Light of Baleros like, really? What was Geneva, the [Doctor], like as a person? Daly had seen her on the battlefield. But he had known Geneva afterwards. And what she was like was—
The door opened. Daly heard an exclamation from the stairs, then a shout.
“Ken! Aiko! Geneva!”
Everyone turned. Half the room shot to their feet and crowded the door. Daly heard a familiar voice, exclamations, and then Paige shouting.
“Alright, everyone, back up! Back up and let them through!”
Hers was not the voice of a [Negotiator], but sometimes you just needed to be loud. The Earthworlders moved back, and Daly saw a familiar face. Ken was wearing the conical hat, but it was pushed back, and he was smiling, shaking hands. His face lit up as he saw Daly, and the Australian felt a jolt of relief in his stomach.
“Ken!”
He pushed his way forwards. Ken approached slowly through the crowd.
“Daly! It’s good to see you!”
“We’ve missed you. Could have used you yesterday—and Aiko too! Hello there!”
“Hello, Daly! Hello, Paige! And Kirana, Priya—”
Aiko lit up as she hugged her friends from India. Daly looked around. People were crowded about, Blake, Nicoletta, Lorenzo, and Diana were craning to see—
And then there was a moment of calm. Heads turned. Some of the laughter died out, and people turned to see the third member of the company who’d come back.
No one leapt forwards to hug her. She did not tower over the others; she was a bit short of six feet, tall for a young woman, and dressed in travelling clothes. But that wasn’t what marked her. Geneva Scala could have been any young woman with Italian heritage. But her eyes. They were…
Intense.
Yes. Intense was the word. Look at Geneva from the side and you might not sense it at first. But take one look at her gaze or notice how she moved, how she walked or even stood. It wasn’t posture so much as readiness. She felt intense, and if Ken made you relaxed, Geneva made you check the skies for a storm or listen to the wind. She had the same pressure in her gaze that Daly sometimes saw in Siri’s eyes when they were about to enter combat, or in Dawson’s. Or his own, in the mirror on dark nights.
You wanted to know what Geneva was like? A look said it all. She looked around the room, clearly conscious of the effect her entrance had had. She nodded.
“Hello.”
Ken could have said that and turned it into an opening for conversation. Geneva’s statement somehow shut it down. That was Geneva, even when she wasn’t acting as a [Doctor]. She was just driven when there was nothing to drive.
And she didn’t smile often. Sometimes, Daly thought she’d forgotten how. Then she’d give him a natural smile, and he’d know it wasn’t Geneva who was doing the smiling. Daly looked around. People were hesitating, silent, unsure of how to greet her. He wondered if Geneva had the same effect on Lizardfolk. Probably not. Even her personality had limits.
Still, it was awkward, so Daly did his best. He put a smile on his face, reached out, and slapped Geneva on the shoulder. She blinked at him.
“Good to see you, Geneva! Our [Doctor]’s back, everyone!”
There was a pause. Geneva stared up at Daly, and he saw her lips twitch. Then a natural, welcoming smile came over her face. It looked completely normal. But Daly still felt a shiver run down his spine. A natural smile, but she hadn’t given it.
“Good to be back! Thanks, Daly.”
And that wasn’t her way of saying it either. But the effect was welcome. Everyone not in the know immediately relaxed, and the babble of voices broke out again. They crowded around Daly and Geneva and the others, asking questions. Ken had to hold up his hands and raise his voice.
“Please! Everyone! We just arrived. Let us give Paige some things—we have souvenirs as well! And then we will have time to answer questions! Paige, I have a pack—”
“Put it in my work room. Kirana, do we have food?”
“We have wonderful snacks!”
The Indian girl beamed. There was a cheer—and like that, the twin apartments were filled with people eating the snacks Kirana and the others were bringing out, sitting on the couches and floor and table, listening to Ken relate the stories of where they’d been and what they’d seen, or to Aiko doing the same, but from a different perspective.
And somehow, Daly found himself standing next to Geneva. That was the second thing you’d notice, if you looked. Geneva Scala, the Last Light of Baleros, didn’t command the room. After you got over the intensity of who she is, after you looked past the legend, you realized Geneva was just…ordinary. Or rather, she didn’t do extraordinary things. In fact, she was fairly quiet. Until something demanded her attention.
“Had a good trip?”
“Uneventful. But yes, perhaps. There’s good and bad—Ken’s planning on filling you and Paige in tonight. We got some of the things she wanted.”
Geneva sighed. She looked tired, and Daly imagined she’d been travelling from dawn to arrive by midmorning. He coughed.
“How was the road? Did you take a Centaur carriage?”
“No. Too expensive. We rode. Ken’s guide had ponies, so we made most of the journey on horseback. Not my idea of fun.”
“Aw, you don’t like horses? I’m partial to them myself. Although they are temperamental buggers.”
Geneva looked up. She hesitated.
“Next time, I’ll give you my seat.”
It sounded like a joke, even if her delivery was terrible, so Daly laughed. Geneva didn’t smile, but the corners of her mouth moved. The two looked over at Ken.
“Is Luan…?”
“Nope. He came in once. Dumped a bunch of gold coins on us, slept for almost two days straight, and then went back out. Said he had a big contract. He’s really gunning to get a Courier rating.”
Geneva looked concerned.
“He should take it easy.”
“That’s what I said. But did he listen? He’s flying up in levels, Geneva. He did ask about Aiko, but that was it.”
“Oh. Aiko asked about how Luan was doing too. She had something she wanted to talk to him about. I don’t know what.”
“Ah.”
Both Daly and Geneva’s eyes slid towards Aiko, who was happily chatting away. Geneva shuffled her feet. Daly bit his lip. As far as they knew, it was just friendship. But you had to wonder. Luan was married, but Aiko had admired him until she’d learned about that pressing fact. It was probably nothing. And if it wasn’t?
“So—did you encounter any trouble on the road worth mentioning? How were your guards? Did you need an escort? The Bushrangers are doing better. We’ve taken a good number of contracts since you left—all hunting or recon ones. We could spare some of our own if you need it next time.”
The [Doctor] looked up and then shook her head slightly.
“No, our Selphid [Guards] worked very well. Not that there was any need for violence. They did stop a [Thief] from targeting Aiko one time, but the trade roads are very safe. Honestly, we probably didn’t need them. But they’ve said we can hire them again, and Calectus’ name is still good.”
“Well, we’ll definitely have you going with someone. Alone’s too risky for my tastes.”
Daly frowned. Geneva nodded. The two stood together another moment as something Ken said elicited a laugh. Then Daly had to ask.
“So…how’d it go? The cities, I mean? Did you get the company’s name out? Obviously you didn’t find anyone from home—but how many people did you see?”
He had to know. Daly had been hoping—dreaming, really, of Ken’s small expedition to the nearby cities coming back with a bucket load of gold coins. Enough to put the company in the black for months and give Daly time to think about outfitting his Bushrangers, and Paige the money to really get to work on translating things from their world over here.
They hadn’t gotten any [Messages] that indicated wild success, but that wasn’t the sort of thing you advertised, was it? Especially since rumor had it that some [Mages] were on the take and would sell you out to [Bandits] or other lowlifes. Or just sell your information to anyone who wanted to be in the know.
Daly was hopeful. Right up until he saw Geneva look down. She clenched her hands and then looked him dead in the eye. There was that intensity. But that was just Geneva on the surface. Behind that, what she’d been through, there was a normal person there. And the guilt in her eyes told him everything before she opened her mouth.
“Nothing.”
“What? Nothing?”
Geneva nodded. Daly saw her close her eyes, and then she spoke slowly. Quietly, above the chatter in the room.
“Nothing. I performed two surgeries—removing an old arrowhead and pulling three rotten teeth. That’s it.”
Daly felt his stomach drop as if Geneva had slugged him.
“But—”
But you’re the [Doctor]. They’d sent her with Ken to learn what she could, so Ken could make introductions, get their company known. And Geneva was their ace. The miracle worker. The Last Light who’d rake in the coin performing surgeries. That was the plan. But Geneva just shook her head.
“They had [Healers] who could do a lot with potions, poultices, and so on. And there are [Doctors] in this world—or at least, people who can perform the most basic of surgeries. With healing potions, though, that’s all they need.”
Of course. Daly imagined it. Cut yourself? Healing potion. Break a bone? Set it and use a healing potion. Lay your leg wide open so you could see the bone? More expensive healing potion or a [Healer]. And he saw it in Geneva’s eyes. Frustration. She looked away.
“No one needed me.”
 
——
 
It would have been easy if Daly got angry. But he didn’t. Geneva saw him take the bad news like a physical blow. She knew it would hit the others hard, once news got around. Ken was only telling stories of what they’d seen—huge, sprawling Lizardfolk cities, magical artifacts, tall towers built out of magicked stone—although not on the level of skyscrapers. Interesting people, fascinating experiences. But nothing about the money.
“So how much did it cost?”
The young man from Australia looked ready for the worst. Geneva paused.
“We’ve got sixteen gold coins. So a little over two-thirds of what we left with.”
A huge sigh left Daly’s mouth. That was a lot of money spent. But if they’d used the full amount, it would have been a lot of money—probably a month of the Bushrangers working their best—lost.
“Not bad. How’d you manage it?”
“Like I said, I did two surgeries. And Aiko earned some money doing her manga sketches of people.”
