“Caricatures?”
Daly smiled for a moment. Geneva nodded.
“Close. Lizardfolk loved them. And Ken saved us money by being Ken. He talked us into better rates for practically every inn we stopped at. Same for the [Healers] I visited.”
“So you did get what you needed? There’s something, at least.”
Daly was trying to put a good spin on it. Geneva frowned.
“Yes. And there’s a bit of progress there. But again…”
She couldn’t lie to him. Even if she wanted to. Daly hesitated. It would have been easier if he said how disappointed he clearly was. But he didn’t. Instead, he did the best thing possible. He put his hand on her shoulder and gave her a smile.
“Hey, I’m glad you’re back. We need you here.”
It was the perfect thing to say to make Geneva feel worse. She just nodded.
“I’m sorry.”
“Hey, what’s to be sorry about? If they don’t need surgeries—we should have thought of that. And frankly, it was bum luck. There could have been work for you. Someone slips, cuts off a hand—or has an accident that a potion can’t handle?”
Geneva nodded. That was true. There could have been a dire situation that only she could have solved. But it hadn’t come up, though they’d visited a few sprawling large cities with people living together in the tens or hundreds of thousands. No one had needed her, even when Ken was selling Geneva’s talents as loudly as possible. Because there wasn’t a war going on. And that meant Geneva couldn’t do much.
What she could do, in the end, was teach what she knew. She could make a field surgeon out of Aiko and anyone else who wanted to learn. She could teach them how to operate, remove shrapnel, staunch bleeding—but what use was that to someone when a healing potion could do the same?
“If someone lost a limb…”
“It has to be fresh. And ice isn’t that common around here. No one thinks to ice a limb, Daly. If word got out what I could do, I imagine they might. But…”
That was something Geneva had on healing potions and [Healers]. She could cut away organs or limbs affected by poison, magical rot, and so on and use spot-applied healing potion to regenerate the area. She could also reconnect an arm or leg if she was very, very quick and the limb hadn’t begun to rot. In those two areas, she was useful. But the rest? Not at all.
“So I didn’t do much. I wish I could say I did, but I was useless on the trip. I would have told you by [Message], but Ken said it was better to break the news in person.”
Or rather, what he’d predicted was that anyone who was at the Mage’s Guild would spread the word about rather than just relay it to Paige or Daly. The Australian nodded. He frowned at Geneva, clearly trying to think of something to say. And then he had it.
“I think the Centaur boy—colt, sorry, please excuse my mistake—you saved would disagree. And the [Wood Cutter]. And Quallet.”
“That’s true, I suppose.”
But those were all people she’d helped earlier. She could have stayed in Talenqual, and both of them knew it. Daly coughed, looked around, and then waved.
“Hey, Kirana! Can we get one of those? Kirana, you know Geneva, right?”
“Yes! I know Geneva. Hello. Would you like one? This is a dahi kebab. Vegetarian.”
“Hm.”
Geneva recognized the deep-fried vegetable dough ball that was offered. She took one and bit into the bread-crumb exterior. It was still warm and delicious. Daly snagged two, and Kirana scolded him.
“Hey! I’ll share with Geneva.”
The [Doctor] took another bite, peering at the two.
“Are you doing well?”
“Yes, thank you!”
Kirana smiled at Geneva. The two paused, because Geneva had nothing else in her arsenal to say. Then Kirana turned as someone shouted her name from the kitchen.
“You’re terrible at talking to people. Were you always like this? Eat the kebab. It’s really good.”
“Shut up.”
Daly glanced at Geneva, then realized who she was talking to. He bit into his kebab, and his eyes opened wide.
“Bloody hell, that’s good! No wonder we’re spending so much on our food budget each week!”
Geneva savored the rest of the dahi kebab. It was very good, and she suspected it had been chosen to appeal to the widest variety of people—there were some vegetarians mixed in with the Earthworlders, although some had been forced to compromise their values to survive.
“First time having them?”
“Kirana and her lot are always coming up with new stuff. They practically run the kitchens now. Indian cooking works really well with Baleros’ markets, apparently. Lots of spices, similar foods—”
“That’s lucky. Perhaps we could sell some of the foods they make?”
“Paige was talking about that. Kirana wants to hit at least Level 15 before we try that, but she’s open to the idea. Really, the issue would be getting a market stall or somewhere to sell from. And the ingredients. It’s not too bad, but we might need someone to stand watch. And…”
They needed money, but they were waiting for us to come back. Geneva’s last bite soured in her mouth. She nodded.
“We’ll work something out.”
What else could she say? She turned as she saw Ken had gotten up. He waved at the people who were protesting and trotted over to her and Daly. He gave the Australian a smile.
“Daly, I wanted to talk to you.”
“If it’s about the money, Geneva just filled me in. No worries, mate.”
Ken’s eyes flicked to Geneva for a second.
“She did? Well, I think it is disappointing, but it is not all bad.”
“That’s what I was saying. You guys did accomplish the rest, right? Paige’s disappeared upstairs.”
Ken nodded.
“We did do good work. I introduced our company to many others, and Geneva did meet with every high-level [Healer] in the cities we visited. I think it was productive—I also have many things to share with everyone. A map of the world, and I’ve learned of other continents. And I’ve learned about the Four Great Companies.”
Daly exhaled. Geneva could see him taking that on, bolstering his mood. Now, why couldn’t she have said it like that? Probably because she hadn’t done any of that. Except for spending money bribing [Healers].
“Making connections, huh? Good lad! Don’t suppose you’ve got anything that would help us out? The Bushrangers, I mean?”
“Actually, I did. I met a few groups who were interested in yours. I know their names, and I wanted to share them with you—later. There were a few intriguing job offers that I saw in other cities.”
“We should take our group on the road, then?”
“Maybe. But I will share more tonight.”
People were already calling for Ken to come back. He waved at them again. Daly smiled.
“Well, I can wait. But oh! Before you go—we had a little adventure of our own. We just finished a contract hunting these armored pigs—Stelbore they’re called—when guess what? We got word of some ‘strange Humans’ hanging out in an abandoned village. So we checked it out and—”
Ken’s eyes widened.
“You found more people from Earth?”
Geneva’s head snapped up. Daly nodded.
“Just yesterday they came in. They’re still hungry, but we rescued four. A kiwi—uh, a guy from New Zealand named Blake and three Italians. The Italians barely speak English, but I thought you should meet them. And Geneva—”
“Have you given them a checkup?”
The Italian-American was looking around. Daly shook his head.
“Only a once-over. They looked pretty fine—but one of them has diabetes. We gave them your emergency treatment!”
That only worried Geneva more. She looked at Daly.
“Can I see them now? Are they here?”
“Oh yeah. They’re still bulking up. Uh—hold on. Let me get them. Hey! Blake, Nicoletta! Geneva wants to see you! She’ll do a medical examination!”
Daly raised his voice. The four newest Earthworlders looked up, startled. With Daly’s help, Geneva moved them upstairs to a room. Ken stayed below to keep chatting, but Geneva had something to do and she intended to do it now. Better yet, she knew Italian.
“Oh, thank God! No one here speaks Italian! Are you really a doctor?”
Nicoletta was incredibly relieved to speak in Italian rather than her faltering English. Geneva, whose Italian was rusty, faltered for a few sentences before speaking quickly with the other two. Lorenzo and Diana clustered around her, asking all the questions they couldn’t due to the language barrier.
“Sì, sì, I am a [Doctor]. I was training in medical school before I came here. I want to give you a checkup to make sure all is well. Are you hurt? Diana, I hear you have diabetes.”
“Not very bad. But it was terrible. I was very sick—until they gave me a—a potion?”
Diana explained. Geneva breathed a sigh of relief.
“It is a stamina potion. It helps, although we do not have insulin to properly take care of you. But I promise, I will do my best. Please let me check you just in case first as I answer questions. There are many small ticks and insects in Baleros as well as diseases. You are probably fine. But could you help me put up a curtain? Then I will check you one by one.”
Quickly, she rigged up one of the privacy curtains that the company used to separate the genders when sleeping in a large room at night. Geneva got out a few tools from the pack she’d carried on her journey and saw the three Italians and Blake, the girls first. They were less embarrassed to get a checkup from Geneva, especially because—and this was the tricky part—Geneva had to see them in their underwear.
In fact, she’d have liked to see them naked, but she settled for verbal descriptions and having them check themselves. That also meant Blake and Lorenzo had to check each other’s rears, an intimate experience neither enjoyed. But necessary.
“No spots? No injuries or other pain? Swelling?”
“None. Thank you, Doctor Geneva.”
Lorenzo replied, blushing a bit. Geneva didn’t blush—she moved her stethoscope and bent her ear to listen to him breathing. She didn’t know what she’d do if she heard something terrible, but knowledge was the first step.
“Breathe in. Hold your breath. Breathe out…thank you. You’re quite healthy.”
In the time since she’d operated on the battlefield, Geneva had made a few more tools with the company’s resources. She now carried a few items out of a general practitioner’s kit. Among them were a primitive wooden stethoscope—really just some paper and a tube to magnify the sounds—a measuring tape, wooden tongue depressors, clean gauze, alcohol for disinfectant, and so on. But her real kit, which was useless now, was far more advanced.
Metal retractors, scalpels, scissors, and hooks. Different sized needles with thread specialized for one kind of stitching or another. Clips, clamps, forceps, and tools to cut or snip bone. Sutures.
To most people, a surgeon’s gear might look like some kind of serial killer’s torture devices. And there were commonalities. Surgery wasn’t pretty or pleasant. And unfortunately, Geneva had learned, it wasn’t that useful either.
Back on Earth, Geneva had been studying as a general surgeon. She’d cut corpses open and been a good student, but her actual experience had been almost all theoretical when she’d been taken. She’d learned to be a surgeon the hard way—by killing her patients before she’d improved.
And a surgeon wasn’t the same as someone practicing general medicine, no matter what people thought. But since Geneva was the only person who’d taken classes and read up on medicine, she had to fill that role too. She summarized her report to Daly and Paige as the four headed back downstairs, relieved and chattering to themselves.
“They’re fine. Completely. Diana’s one to watch, but they’re all fairly healthy for people who survived the jungle. Their only complaint is just malnourishment, I think. The bug bites aren’t infected, they show no signs of fever—and the scars show no signs of inflammation. Keep feeding them simple foods in smaller meals.”
“We’re doing that. Anything we should do for Diana? I have her carrying the stamina potion like Filip and I’ve told Nicoletta what to do, but is there anything else?”
Geneva shook her head.
“All we can do is stabilize her with the potion if her hyperglycemia begins acting up. Frankly, I’d rather have low blood sugar than high—as far as I can tell, stamina potions generate some kind of insulin that will regulate the high blood sugar, but it requires a high-grade potion. Low blood sugar is simple. We can give her calculated amounts of food. But she and Filip need to keep regulating their intake. It’s guesswork, but I’ll monitor them…”
She saw Paige and Daly nodding and felt like a fraud. They listened so attentively to her words. As if Paige and Daly hadn’t done everything needed already. Daly had gone out there and rescued the four. What had Geneva done? Come back, proclaimed all was well and they were doing a good job. But somehow, the two Australians still looked relieved to hear Geneva say it.
“It’s a relief to have you back, Geneva. We’ll talk more when Ken’s free of everyone—we’ll have to pry him away—but I’m gonna grab us all after dinner for a chat. In the meantime, I’m sure you could use some rest. Do you need to take a nap? Kirana could make you a lunch—”
“I had something to eat and her snacks. Thank you. I might walk about for a bit. But I’ll be back for dinner. Ah—Aiko’s pack is full of—”
“I put it in my workroom. We filled your space with bodies—the apartments are full to bursting at night. But you can take over my spot anytime. Just let me know.”
Paige reassured Geneva. The [Doctor] nodded. What else was there to say? Nothing.
“Then I’ll…head out for a bit. Exercise my legs.”
“Sure. Good to have you back!”
Paige smiled. Geneva tried, but the courtesy was something she couldn’t return. So her invisible friend did it for her. Which was worse, because both Paige and Daly knew Geneva’s secret.
“Geneva! Will you come and talk with us?”
Nicoletta called out as Geneva came back down the stairs. The young woman hesitated. The Italians were clearly dying to speak to someone, but Geneva was saved by Paige.
“I think Geneva needs to walk about. Why don’t we work on some English? You’ll need to learn, sadly. But we’ve got some useful stuff. One of us has a smartphone with a huge dictionary loaded onto it, and we might be able to transfer the files or just switch phones. Do any of you know how to jailbreak phones? Because working with the software is tricky. We should also check your stuff for anything useful…”
Geneva exhaled as Paige took over talking to the four newcomers. Blake looked puzzled as he fished out his smartphone.
“I’d like to help, really, but my phone’s been dead for ages. Unless you’ve got a charger—and a solar panel?”
Daly grinned.
