“And there is another company which emerged recently. The Forgotten Wing Company. They seized a lot of land from the other companies. They are the closest to us. Based in the south.”
“Yes! They are led by the Titan!”
Daly’s brows show up.
“I heard of that guy. The best [Strategist] in the world, right? What do you know about him?”
Ken shrugged.
“Much of it is gossip. So I did not trust it. But he is very intelligent. He teaches other [Strategists], and he is famous. Apparently he loves playing games of strategy? Anyways, his company is considered very powerful, but—”
He raised a finger.
“—It is considered fragile.”
“Fragile? How? It’s a fucking massive company, isn’t it?”
Daly frowned. Ken nodded.
“It is. But it is new. And people think that since the Titan and the leader—it has another leader called Three-Color Stalker whom no one knows except that she is a powerful [Assassin]—they think that if those two die, the company will fall apart.”
“Ah. So a few high-level blokes are the only things holding it together.”
“Yes. Pretty much. But while they live, it is very dangerous.”
“And the last company? The Eyes of Baleros?”
Siri was done drinking. She pushed her glass back and got some water instead. Ken frowned.
“I know little other than they are based deep in the jungle. Very secretive. They have the smallest land, but no one fights them. They are a species company. Of Gazers.”
The others at the table frowned. None of them had met a Gazer. From what they understood, they were a secretive people with huge eyes that had powerful magical properties. Ken hadn’t been able to get much solid information about them, but what he had heard had disinclined him to meet them in person.
“I have heard of Gazers and I…do not think they would be a good company to anger. From what I understand, the Eyes of Baleros is a very difficult company to work with.”
“Huh. So. We have a mixed company? The Forgotten Wing? A Centaur and Lizardfolk company, a Dullahan company, and a company made of…Gazers.”
“Actually, it is Centaurs, Dullahans, Gazers, and the Forgotten Wing Company.”
Aiko corrected Daly. Ken nodded.
“There was a Lizardfolk company who was the fourth Great Company, but the Forgotten Wing company replaced them.”
“So they’re really dangerous. Fine. That’s valuable information, Ken. But from where I sit, we’re not in a position to tangle with them anyways. I’m more focused on getting a solid base of support around here. Maybe work out a deal with Quallet—fuck, I don’t know. We need land or some big revenue source.”
Daly sighed. Paige nodded as she knocked back another shot of rum.
“I agree with Daly. I’m not suggesting we attract attention to ourselves, but having some backup would be nice. We’ve got allies, but they’re small players compared to a Great Company. And if war threatens, the company protecting this place, the Featherfolk Brigade, isn’t going to necessarily cut it. They don’t owe us anything, more to the point. And if they don’t like another company basing themselves here…”
“You want an army.”
Geneva spoke quietly. Daly looked up. He hesitated.
“Not one to fight with. But—there are big [Bandit Lords] and other companies out there, Geneva. I’d be reassured if we could scare them off, rather than chance it, if battle came calling.”
There was nothing she could argue with about that statement. Geneva was well aware of how Baleros worked. The strong survived. Daly sighed longer, louder.
“Honestly? A Gold-rank adventuring team would make any company hesitate. If we could get the Bushrangers to that level—”
“Impossible.”
Siri said it flatly. The Australian glared at her, but she was unmoved as she sipped her glass of water.
“We don’t have the levels, Daly. And though we do level, it’s too slowly. To level faster, to gain more money, we need artifacts to take on more monsters. Crossbows are too weak.”
“I know, but we’re paying the United Nation’s bills here, Siri.”
She nodded, but the frown didn’t go away. Paige looked between the two.
“I’m working on this new invention that might help—but we could use money back at home too. The apartment’s so full that we’ll start having fights.”
“And my tools and experiments take money. Rather than earn it.”
Geneva looked into her glass. How many times had Okasha filled it? She slumped over at the table. Daly winced.
“Don’t mind me, I’m just running my mouth. Look, Geneva. If you need money, we’ll earn it. You just keep figuring out stuff like antibiotics, syringes, and so on. We can pay the bills with the Bushrangers.”
“But Daly, you just said it. You need better weapons. Armor. Artifacts.”
Aiko looked worried. Daly grinned.
“Don’t worry. That’s if we want to take on bigger threats. We can earn a living just taking on lower-level monsters, right Siri?”
The Swedish girl nodded reluctantly. Geneva tried to remember the Bushrangers telling stories of hiding in the forest while bugs ate them alive. But Daly acted like it was nothing.
“Daly, you work very hard. If we can support you and your team—”
Ken began, but the young man from Australia waved a hand.
“Don’t worry about it. We can keep going on as we’re doing. It’s not the most profitable, but hey, even if Dawson bitches about it, a few days of rest make up for some hard hunts. Besides—”
He smiled tiredly.
“It’s not like I do much around here.”
Everyone looked at Daly. Paige shook her head and rolled her eyes. Ken frowned and slowly stood up.
“I do not think that is true. You hold together the company when we are gone. We rely on you.”
“Naw, that’s you and Luan and—”
Daly looked at Geneva. But Aiko was protesting.
“I think you are excellent, Daly! We need you, so do not be—Ken, what’s the word?”
“Modest.”
“Modest, yes!”
Daly flushed a bit.
“Well, okay. But look, I just meant the Bushrangers can keep funding us. And Luan’s pulling in coin—”
“Like I said, give me a few days, no, one day—there’s a lot Blake was talking about I want to try, and I have this idea—”
Paige spoke up. Siri leaned forwards.
“We can take on other assignments. If we get other weapons. They don’t have to be magical. But I was thinking. What if we carried warhammers—”
“For breaking armor? That’s heavy—”
“Well, only some of us. But with traps…”
“I am going to talk to Kirana about opening up a stall outside! We can sell some of her cooking.”
“—And if I can get the formula right, we don’t even need to use metal. Ken told me about a Japanese version that—”
The conversation was growing confused. Lots of voices melded together. Geneva slumped at the table, pouring herself another drink. She whispered the word in between the voices.
“Sorry.”
So many people trying so hard. And here she was. She vaguely realized that Okasha was trying to get her to stand up.
“Your liver isn’t happy. And I’m…drunk? We should lie down.”
That was a good point. Geneva got up. She didn’t remember excusing herself, only that the others were smiling and positive, and she—felt useless. She trundled up the stairs. Paige had told her to go to her workshop to sleep. After two tries, Geneva found it.
She lay on the ground, world spinning round and round. Trying to think. Okasha was singing in her head, babbling. The silly Selphid was drunk. Couldn’t hold her liquor. Not like…Geneva.
“Whee. Hey, I’ve never been in a living body, so I had no idea it does this when you get drunk. Did you know you have this weird thing that—”
“Go to sleep, Okasha.”
At some point, the Selphid did. Geneva felt it tugging at her mind too. She couldn’t move anymore, even when Paige and Aiko stumbled into the room and went to sleep. Geneva just lay there, feeling the floorboards pressing against her cheek. Her thoughts were muddled. But she knew one thing.
She was useless here. Useless, for all her knowledge. Sometimes, she wanted to go back to the wars. Where she had some use. But she couldn’t. She knew that. She couldn’t be a [Doctor] on the battlefield.
Because in war, it seemed that all a [Doctor] could do was make things worse.
 
——
 
The next day, Geneva woke up without a hangover. In fact, she felt fresh, good—and had a bladder that seemed to encompass her entire body. She got up, peed, and heard Okasha whispering in her head.
“Everything hurts…”
She’d taken care of the alcohol in Geneva’s system but couldn’t do the same for herself. Geneva let Okasha rest and ate for both of them. Then she went upstairs and began to do the only work she could. And even that was deferred work.
“How do the petri dishes look, Aiko?”
The girl peered into the glass dishes that Geneva had bought. The cultures of primitive gelatin were growing molds. The [Nurse] had a mask on her face. Geneva stood back, watching.
“Careful with the petri dish. Remember, my sterile field is down. The masks—”
“Yes, Geneva. I know. The bacteria is growing well. But the antibiotics…see?”
Aiko handled the dishes carefully, taking care not to bring them too close to her face. The masks were Geneva’s design, but she couldn’t be sure how well they protected Aiko. Geneva peered at them, taking care not to touch the petri dishes.
Her hands were sterile thanks to her Skill. And while Geneva had learned she could temporarily disable the field that cleansed the area around her, her hands would kill the bacteria in a moment. She frowned at the samples she’d made up.
She had mixed several of the [Healers]’ poultices into new batches, trying to find a mix of antibiotic agents to replace penicillin. So far, the results were promising…but hardly as good as penicillin itself.
“Not bad. But not good either. Look at how the bacteria’s resisting the samples. We have two strains—#4 and #6 that look like they’re the best. We’ll try them against other cultures. Let’s get a mouth swab. From someone else. Daly, maybe.”
“Yes, Geneva.”
Coming up with an antibiotic was one of the achievements Geneva was determined to hand the United Nations company. It was essential. Preventing diseases might not earn much money for the company—healing potions really did kill off a lot of people with bad illnesses if used carelessly on them—but it was vital nonetheless. She’d trade her left leg for penicillin. Hell, both legs. This world needed it. She needed it. Without that, Geneva’s skills outside of a battlefield were practically zero. Infections were the one thing she could cure, but this—
Geneva was laboring over another antibiotic test case with Aiko when someone pounded on the door. Daly thrust open the door, stopped as Geneva shouted at him, and backed up.
“Sorry! But I thought you should know—we just got word that the Gravetender’s Fist company is marching towards us!”
Both Aiko and Geneva looked up. Geneva’s heart skipped a beat.
“Did they say if they had injured?”
“No word on that. But they were doing a patrol along contested territory. I’m going to say hi to them! Meet me there!”
Daly raced out of the room. Aiko looked at Geneva. She nodded.
“Pack up. Seal all the containers. Carefully. Then we’ll head out.”
She straightened. A company had injured, usually, even if they were on peaceful duties. Accidents happened. Not that she wanted it. And healing potions—but there was a chance. She should hurry. Geneva looked around for her medical kit. Okasha, who was still recovering from her hangover, whispered in her ears.
“The company’s back? Oh good. Maybe someone will be hurt so you’ll stop complaining.”
Geneva ignored that. But a part of her, a cynical, dark part, hoped Okasha was right.
 
——
 
The Gravetender’s Fist company was camped outside of Talenqual. Naturally, a mercenary company couldn’t all enter a city. That was practically an invasion. It was only because Gravetender’s Fist had a reputation for honesty that they were allowed near the city at all. That, and the fact that the reigning company who controlled the city, the Featherfolk Brigade, outnumbered them substantially.
Gravetender’s Fist was still a small company. But they were gaining respect. Not only did they have an experienced leader, Quallet Marshhand, but every soldier was armed with a crossbow, which they usually fired before switching to other weapons. It was an interesting tactic, and refilling quarrels and selling crossbows had earned the United Nations company a tidy profit.
And Quallet’s company had strong ties to the United Nations company. Even if one wasn’t under control of the other and neither company owed the other anything, they had an agreement to support each other where possible. But none of that was really why Daly hurried towards the camp. He only stopped when he saw a distinctive Lizardgirl walking towards Talenqual with a slight catch to her stride.
Quexa looked a bit older than Daly remembered from his first encounter with her. But she was no less cheerful, and by now, her peg leg barely slowed her.
“Daly! I knew we’d see you! I told Quallet we had to stop here, and he agreed! How are you? You look good! Are the Bushrangers doing well?”
“Quexa. It’s good to see you.”
The two stopped as they met just outside of Talenqual. Daly looked at Quexa and then noticed she had company. Quallet, a Lizardman, and two officers that Daly vaguely recognized were accompanying the [Mercenary Captain] along with Quexa. She was his second-in-command. Quallet nodded at Daly as the Australian turned to greet him.
“Quallet. How’s business?”
“Good. We’re off-duty. We finished a patrolling job. Decided to stop by here.”
“I heard. Did you see any fighting?”
Quallet shook his head.
“Mostly quiet guard duty. But we did run into a [Necromancer]-led company on our route back this way. Brief battle—we both agreed to a ceasefire after we shot two volleys at him. Nearly broke his magic barrier.”
Daly smiled.
“Good to hear. Hey, I know Paige and Geneva are headed this way. I just—came along first.”
Quallet nodded. He glanced at Quexa then cleared this throat.
“We’ll head into the city. We’ve got business there. Quexa, find me later. I need to talk to Geneva.”
That got Daly’s attention.
“Anyone killed?”
“No. I’ve got two bad infections among my troops for Miss Geneva to look at. Human.”
He walked past Daly. Quexa fidgeted. The other officers followed Quallet, but the Lizardman stopped. He held out a claw.
“Hey, you’re the Human that Quexa had sex with! Hi! I’m Zalel!”
Daly choked. He hesitated, looked at Quexa, who was blushing with embarrassment, and held out a hand. The Lizardman shook it energetically after a moment.
“Uh, nice to meet you.”
