“Great to meet you too! I’d love to chat, but old Quallet’ll get mad. Quexa, I’ll catch you later! Hey, wait up!”
Zalel followed the others. Quexa stared daggers at his back until he was gone and then turned hurriedly to Daly.
“I didn’t have sex with him. He’s just an old friend. Just so you know.”
“I didn’t ask.”
Daly instinctively replied. Part of him wanted to say it was fine whatever Quexa did, but that would be a lie. He hesitated.
“So, how’re you doing?”
“Good! I’ve been practicing new spells. Marching with the company—it was pretty dull, but hey, the job’s a job, right? And the company’s growing. It’s good to see you.”
Quexa blurted that last bit out. Daly smiled.
“Look at us, standing around. Say, want to go for a walk in the city? We can talk on the way.”
“Sure! I’m just dying for a nali-stick by the way.”
“It’ll be our first stop. My treat.”
“Oh, really? You’re so nice.”
“Well, maybe you can do me a favor in return.”
Quexa gave Daly a sharp look, and he elaborated.
“We’re looking for someone who can teach us [Repair]. Know any [Mages] who might be willing to do it for cheap?”
“Oh. Sure! I know a few names. What, are the ones in this city giving you a hard time with your flashy-things? Leave it to me! But tell me—how’ve you been? What have the Bushrangers been doing? Let’s find a cool place to sit, and you can tell me about it. Over a few nali-sticks. And some juice?”
“I’d love that. You’ve got the time, right?”
The Lizardgirl smiled.
“Quallet won’t mind. Come on!”
She pulled Daly forwards. He followed her and saw Quexa turn her head back and pause for a second.
“I’m not having sex with you afterwards, though. Just throwing that out there. Well, not just for a nali-stick…”
For the second time in as many minutes, Daly nearly inhaled his tongue. He stopped, sighed. And then he laughed.
 
——
 
“I didn’t want to interrupt you. But both of them have it bad, and they were whining to me the entire way here. They insisted I get you right away.”
Quallet looked as if he were always in a bad mood. But Geneva knew him well enough to know he was genuinely concerned for the two Human men he wanted her to see. For her part, she was fully equipped. Not that her patients needed surgery—they had infections. Bad ones, but Quallet had spared her the details.
Aiko was following Geneva, carrying some of their gear. Geneva paused in front of the tent where her first patient was waiting.
“Where’d they get the infections? Battle?”
“I wish. They got it at the last town we stopped at.”
Geneva frowned, perplexed.
“From what? Cuts? Something they ate? A bug?”
The [Mercenary] looked embarrassed. He shifted from foot to foot, a rare sign of discomfort.
“No. Ah, from a brothel.”
“Oh. So the infection’s…”
“I can tell them you don’t need to see them if—”
“No, it’s fine. I just need to be sure. It is on their genitals?”
Quallet nodded. He flushed a bit. Geneva was calm. She looked at Aiko. The [Nurse] looked distinctly embarrassed. Geneva was a [Doctor], and to her, private parts were all the same when someone was on the table. But Aiko was hesitant.
“You can let me do the diagnosis. I’ll only call you in if I need help.”
The Japanese young woman shook her head vigorously.
“No! I’m your assistant. So I will go with you! It’s just…”
She flushed again. Quallet looked at the both of them.
“I don’t think embarrassment’s going to be the worst of it. I took a look and—”
He shook his head.
“—it’s bad. The worst case of it I’ve seen.”
“Does it have a name?”
Geneva frowned. Quallet shrugged.
“It’s one of the new ones. I think they call it Yellow Rivers. But I didn’t ask too many questions. I’ve kept them isolated like you said I should do, but I wasn’t about to leave them.”
“No. You did the right thing. I’ll handle it from here. If there’s anything I can do—they know I can’t work miracles, right?”
Quallet nodded. But the look he gave her told Geneva that the story of the Last Light was still widely told in his company. She shook her head and took a breath. Not a surgery. But she was still a [Doctor].
“Alright, Aiko. Excuse me—”
She pushed open the tent flap. The man sitting on a cot and clutching at his groin looked up. His eyes widened as he saw Geneva and Aiko with masks on. His eyes went to Quallet, filling with hope.
“Is she—?”
The man nodded. The mercenary practically scrambled to his feet. Geneva held up a hand, wishing her reputation didn’t precede her. Now the fear was in her. What if she couldn’t help him? No, she had to see first. She was ready.
“Please. I’m just a [Doctor]. I can’t work miracles. I’m told you have an…infection. May I see it?”
“Uh—show you? Here?”
It was funny. For all she was a [Doctor], and he had clearly been hoping to see her, the man was obviously unprepared to drop his pants in front of two young women. But Geneva was used to reticent patients. She had the man lie back and pull his trousers down slowly. Aiko hid behind Geneva, peeking from behind her.
She needn’t have worried. The instant the man’s trousers and then underwear were off, embarrassment was the last thing that was in the mind of the two girls. Geneva saw the yellow-stained, wet underwear peel away. She saw a flash of paler skin. And then red and yellow and—
“Ah.”
Aiko’s eyes went wide. She covered her eyes—then her nose—and then dry heaved. Geneva mastered the impulse as the smell hit her—and then her nose went dead.
Thank you, Okasha.
But there was no way to turn off her eyes. Geneva stared down at the man’s groin, which was saturated with the worst case of…Yellow Rivers was a good name for it. The Human man looked up at Geneva, eyes pleading, full of pain. He was a man. Male, and proportioned as any man from Earth would be. But the rash and…it was hard to tell at first.
Geneva had seen a lot of horrific sights in medical school. But, she had to admit, even her stomach wanted to eject itself. Aiko was still gagging. Not just because of the sight. Because of the smell and the way the infection dripped.
But Geneva was a [Doctor]. And after a moment she took to assess the situation and control herself, she got to work.
“This is clearly a problem. You used a healing potion on it, didn’t you?”
“Yes. I thought it was a sore, but after I used it—it hurt so much. Please, can you fix it? I’d lose it. If it meant all this went away, even cutting it right off would be—”
The man whimpered. He was in a world of suffering. And that, more than anything, gave Geneva the ability to touch the inflicted areas, clearing pus away, getting a good look at the problem and telling Aiko to hand her the antibiotic treatments she’d worked up. That, and a strong pair of gloves.
 
——
 
The first patient took thirty minutes to tend to, and Geneva gave him a list of instructions and promised to be back the next day. His infection wouldn’t resolve itself overnight, no matter what he might have hoped, but she could see that her visit had given him some hope of surviving. The second patient Geneva saw was a little better—but only just.
“The same symptoms, the same illness and vector. It definitely came from your brothel.”
“And will it spread?”
Quallet was waiting for Geneva and Aiko after they finished the second patient. Geneva scrubbed her hands in two buckets of soapy water, never mind the fact that her hands were sterile and she’d worn gloves. There were some things you just needed to wash up for.
“Not if they keep out of contact with the others. And obviously I should say this: no sexual intercourse.”
“Won’t be a problem. You couldn’t pay anyone in the company to touch those two. Man, woman, Lizardfolk, Dullahan, Centaur—I don’t even think the Selphids would want a body like that.”
“Definitely not.”
Quallet nodded back towards the tent.
“Will they survive?”
“It’s down to how well my treatment works. And how clean they can keep the injury. They won’t be marching with you any time soon. They need rest, and the infections can’t be contained and agitated by their clothing.”
The [Captain] grimaced.
“So, what? They’ll be lying buck-naked with that out for—”
“Not in the open. There are bugs. I’ve bandaged the infections, and they’re not to agitate them. But yes. We’ll need two medical tents. And I’ll be back.”
Quallet gnawed on his lip, but he acceded without much fight.
“As you wish. But the cost—”
“It won’t be much for the treatments. Don’t worry about it.”
“Nonsense. I’ll cover it. And I’ll take it out of their hides once they’re better.”
Quallet shook his head and growled. Geneva looked at him. He was a good man, for all he acted aloof sometimes. She sighed, wiped her hands on a towel, and stood up.
“I hope I can make a difference. But seeing that—there’s something I need to do. Aiko, we’re headed back to the headquarters.”
“I’ll go with you. I need to talk to Paige about more crossbows anyways.”
Geneva nodded. She, Quallet, and Aiko—who wasn’t feeling hungry or eating ever again—walked slowly back to the city. They didn’t make much conversation. Quallet and Geneva lived in different worlds. But somehow, they understood each other. They each had their way of living.
“Geneva? How are the patients? I heard there were some people with bad infections.”
“Oh yes. Quallet can fill you in. But I’ve just had a thought. Actually, I could use your help. I need to make something.”
“Really?”
Paige perked up. Geneva nodded. She led them upstairs and borrowed some parchment. She began sketching her design. It was simple, really. It took Aiko a few seconds to figure out what it was. Paige got it in a moment.
“Oh come on. Really?”
“You think it’s not necessary? Because believe me, after what I just saw? We need them.”
“Oh, the infections were down there? Oh, gross…”
Geneva ignored the comment. She kept sketching, noting different materials down. Okasha raised Geneva’s hand and pointed at the image.
“What’s that?”
“A tool that will stop more infections. But we don’t have the right materials. Paige, there’s obviously no rubber available to us, but I think linen might work. Can you get me some?”
The Australian girl hesitated.
“I can get you linen—but really? Sorry, I know it’s silly, but this? There’s potions—”
Geneva interrupted her brusquely.
“And this is a different issue. Get me the linen. I need it to be waterproof and come up with a treatment for it. Something that won’t harm internal organs, but which might neutralize anything. Aiko? Where’s the medicine kit?”
The two girls went to get what Geneva wanted. Meanwhile, the [Doctor] tried to wrap her mind around the problem. They’d need it to be protective, but not cumbersome. It could not come loose. How would you hold it on? And obviously it would have to be tailored. Dullahans were like Humans, but there were different sizes. And Centaurs and Lizardfolk…
Geneva stared down at what she had designed. The simplest of tools from her world. Something so basic she hadn’t thought of it. Well, she had when she’d heard of some of the Earthworlders having sex, but when she heard about morning-after potions, she hadn’t looked into it. But after seeing that bacterial infection, Geneva was sure it was necessary.
“I don’t get it. But then again, this really isn’t a Selphid problem, is it?”
Okasha stared down at the blueprints. Geneva ignored that. The Selphid might understand bodies, but she didn’t understand germ theory.
“This will save lives, Okasha.”
“I guess? But will it save Selphids from our problem?”
Geneva looked up.
“Not in this way. But the problems are related. I’ve thought a lot about the symptoms you’ve described to me. Obviously I need to see the patients first, but if I’m right, isolating an antibiotic or even taking measures like this might—”
The door crashed open. For the second time this day, Geneva spun. She thought it was Paige or Aiko being loud. But it wasn’t. It was Daly. He was panting.
“Geneva! Get your surgical kit!”
Geneva’s pulse spiked. The tone of Daly’s voice, his posture, it all told her one thing. And then she felt a jolt of fear.
“Is it Quexa?”
He’d been on a date with her. But Daly was shaking his head. He pointed to the hallway where Siri was shouting at the other Bushrangers.
“I just got a [Message]. At the Adventurer’s Guild! It’s the groups of adventurers who went to the dungeon!”
Geneva just stared at him blankly. She had no idea about the dungeon that had just been found. Daly tried to explain, tripping over his words as he beckoned at her.
“The Rustless Guard, Salamander Swimmers, the Fivefold Verminslayers—all the adventurer teams who got to the dungeon are retreating. They broke through into an old tomb and unleashed a bunch of monsters!”
Monsters. Geneva whirled and looked for her surgical tools. She rushed out the door after Daly, shouting for Aiko and then giving up and running after him. He was shouting at the Bushrangers to assemble. But they were far from the dungeon! Still, Geneva ran after him.
“What kind of monsters? Spear Spiders? Face-Eater Moths?”
She’d treated both injuries. They were horrific to deal with, potions or not. But Daly just looked back, his face grim.
“Worse. Snakes.”
 
——
 
Captain Eldima looked up and saw death. It flowed from the dungeon, dozens of sinuous bodies. She turned and shouted.
“Retreat!”
Around her, adventurers were running. The Dullahan turned and ran, trying to carry both her tower shield and mace. But she was so slow. Her new iron armor dragged at her. And she knew the enemy was closing on her. So she readied herself. It wasn’t heroism that prompted her, just the knowledge that she couldn’t escape. She looked back and saw them.
Snakes. Or rather, serpents. Not pythons or the other snakes of the jungle. As dangerous as they were, these snakes were far, far worse. They were huge.
Giant snakes. That was all. But even the smallest was as wide as Eldima. And the largest? It rose and struck like lightning. An adventurer screamed—the fangs sank into the Lizardgirl’s back, and she jerked twice before the jaws crunched down. And then the snake swallowed her whole.
Effortlessly.
That was what the dungeon had held. No treasure. Even after all the excavation of the tunnels, all the adventurers had found were already-looted rooms. And then the snakes. They’d been resting in the dungeon, fat, gorged on the prey that wandered by the entrance. Now they had a meal.
“Rustless Guard, stand and fight!”
