Eldima cried out. Her Dullahans turned and formed a wall of shields. The first snake slithered towards them. It regarded the metal-clad Dullahans and hesitated. But it could feel their heartbeats. So it wavered and then struck.
The impact threw Eldima and three of the Dullahans back a step. But they’d blocked the snake. It recoiled, hissing, and one of Eldima’s [Warriors] charged, swinging an axe.
“No! Kiltem! Get—”
Too late. The snake lunged. But not with its mouth. Kiltem’s charge was stopped as the serpent rammed him with its body, sending him to the ground. Quick as a flash, it was on him. He screamed as it bit at his body, rending the iron and his flesh beneath.
“—off him!”
Eldima charged forwards and bashed the snake with her mace. It recoiled, but its scales were thick! It butted Eldima, knocking her back. She stumbled—and another snake swung towards them.
“Keep running!”
“No! Kiltem’s down!”
Eldima shouted at the others. But they were wavering. The snakes had already taken out two adventuring groups in the dungeon. Eldima and the others had been battling them for an hour and a quarter, frantically trying to collapse tunnels in the dungeon, setting traps, anything to slow the serpents. But the hungry monsters had kept coming regardless.
And now? It was over. Eldima raised her shield, hoping to strike a blow at the serpent still trying to eat Kiltem. She had [Power Strike]. But it might not even damage the serpent. She swung desperately. She saw the snake coil and tried to bring up her shield—
The impact knocked Eldima’s head loose from her body. She hadn’t secured it properly, and her head went flying. Eldima felt the air rushing past her head and then screamed in pain as it struck the ground. Desperately, she rolled her eyes, but she was on her side. She could see her body and tried to control it. The snake was puzzled by the missing head, but it wrapped itself around Eldima anyways and squeezed.
Pain. On the ground, Eldima’s head screamed. Her body fought, but it was constricted, helpless. Her team tried to save her, but the second serpent was fighting them. And all Eldima could do was watch and feel her body dying.
It was every Dullahan’s worst nightmare. This was like how they executed their criminals. Eldima’s eyes filled with tears. She struggled, cried out—
“Please!”
And she saw a flash out of the corner of her eye. Movement. But not the fleeing adventurers. Movement in the other direction. A figure advancing, rather than fleeing from the dungeon. Eldima saw the figure raise something in its hand. A crossbow. And as she watched, he fired once.
The bolt shot from the wooden bow. It sped across the ground and hit the serpent crushing Eldima in the eye. The shot was perfect—the serpent recoiled, screaming, and let Eldima go. She saw her body fall to the ground. Sobbing, Eldima ordered her body to run towards her and snatch up her head. She placed her head on her body and turned, feeling her bent armor, her fractured bones. And then she saw him. She’d thought it was her imagination. But there he was.
Daly, the Captain of the Bushrangers, lowered his crossbow. He pulled the drawstring back, loaded another quarrel, aimed, and fired. The next bolt struck the serpent menacing Eldima’s team in the side of the head. It turned. The bolt had broken on its scales. But it was distracted. The Dullahans backed away, carrying their fallen comrade. And Daly pointed.
“Bushrangers, advance!”
Five figures strode past them. Each held a crossbow. Each raised it and fired. Five more bolts flew. One struck the serpent in its open mouth, and it recoiled. But only for a second. Then it came on.
The other serpents had noticed the strange anomaly in their fleeing prey. They turned, locking onto the Bushrangers. The five reloaded and then broke up as the snakes advanced, shifting their aim to individual snakes. They fired—the bolts struck scales. The snakes flinched, but then realized they weren’t hurt. So did the adventurers. One cried out.
“They’re not going through the scales, Daly!”
“Then aim for the eyes! Just keep them busy! Siri! Hit the lure!”
“On it!”
One of the Humans had something in her hands. She hit something. A light blossomed on the device she held. Eldima, staggering towards the group, trying to shout at them to run, heard a loud sound. And then a deafening sound that went straight through her body and armor.
The thundering dubstep was cranked up past what the speakers should have allowed. It was so loud that Eldima’s ears rang. She clamped her hands to her ears. But the effect on the sensitive snakes was even worse. They had no ears, and they writhed in agony and retreated as the sound thundered. One of them lunged—Dawson raised his shield and went flying.
“Fuck!”
The Bushrangers had attracted all the attention of the snakes. They abandoned the fleeing adventurers and focused on the team. Anything to get the music to stop. But Siri used the speaker like a weapon, aiming it at the nearest serpents.
“Pull back!”
Eldima staggered towards Daly. He was shouting, waving his team back. But too slowly. They were going to be surrounded! And whenever this strange artifact ran out, they’d be dead.
“No! A few more moments! Get in position! Stay with us!”
Daly roared at his team and Eldima. She thought that’s what he said—she couldn’t hear anything. The serpents were getting over their fear of the blasting music, though. Rage was propelling them forwards. Daly was pointing back. The Bushrangers ran backwards. The snakes followed.
They were going to die. They’d responded to the [Message] spell in time, but the Bushrangers were an ambush group. They weren’t equipped to go up against giant serpents! Eldima despaired. And then she looked behind her and saw them.
A row of bodies. It stretched across the muddy ground. Hundreds of bodies. Centaurs pulling wagons. Lizardmen and Lizardwomen holding crossbows. Dullahans armed with pikes. Eldima froze. There was an entire company here! A huge one! What company had appeared? She knew that the Gravetender’s Fist company was in the area. But this was too large to be just them.
Then she saw a Lizardgirl at the front of the ranks point at the serpents. The agitated monsters hadn’t realized the danger they were in. But they got a clue as an orb of fire blasted from her claw and struck one in the face. It writhed in agony. And the army in front of them raised their crossbows.
“Move!”
Daly grabbed Eldima. His team was racing to the side. Out of the way. And before they were even in the clear, the first volley of crossbows fired.
Hundreds of bolts flew through the air. Behind them, Centaurs with longbows aimed and fired. More [Mages] threw fire and lightning and acid. The serpents weathered the bolts, took the spells. They charged forwards, armored, huge. But the assembled force didn’t waver. The first rank of pikes swung up as more spells and arrows targeted the snakes’ eyes. And then one of the [Mages] threw a bolt of lightning that left only a crater where the largest serpent’s head should have been.
“Dead gods.”
Eldima whispered. She heard laughter above the ringing in her ears. She looked up and saw Daly, still grabbing hold of her, whooping and laughing as the serpents fell. Only one even reached the lines of warriors. The Dullahan looked up at Daly, and her thoughts were wonder.
 
——
 
“How did he do it?”
That was all Eldima could ask. All the other adventurers could ask. Bewildered, they watched as the company of warriors and irregulars calmly butchered what remained of the serpents, hauling the valuable meat and scaly hides away towards the city. Eldima looked around.
“How?”
Her gaze was on Daly. He had led a group back into the dungeon, to look for survivors. Now, he was tending to what wounded there were with a small team. Eldima’s ears were still ringing, but she saw Dullahans who’d been fighting pass her by and managed to ask the question everyone wanted to know.
“Who? The Human? He didn’t call us here. And we aren’t one company. The two on the field are from Gravetender’s Fist and the Featherfolk Brigade. You should recognize us.”
The Dullahan looked affronted. Eldima instinctively bowed her head; she was wearing mangled iron armor, and he wore steel.
“I am terribly sorry. But if he did not call you all—how?”
Why would so many respond to an adventurer’s [Message]? Normally, they’d just lock down the city and leave the adventurers to their fate. The Dullahan wearing steel frowned severely, but responded grudgingly at last.
“It was the Captain of the Bushrangers who made the plea, but our company commander acceded to the request thanks to another member of the Captain’s company. A…[Negotiator] convinced us to engage in this fight, as it was clearly one we could win.”
“You?”
“And the others. He pulled every one he could grab out of the city. Adventurers, Runners. Sailors.”
For a second, the Dullahan looked almost admiring. He pointed at a figure who hadn’t been part of the fighting.
Ken. He and Daly had organized the operation. And it was true. They hadn’t bothered to invite just one company. They’d gathered everyone they could find.
Giant serpents could kill one Silver-rank team. Or even a group of them. But a Gold-rank [Mage] who headed the Mage’s Guild in Talenqual? The Guildmaster of the Adventurer’s Guild? A [Captain] and his crew? Child’s play. And they had come. For sport. For the nobility of the cause. For an easy battle and a share of the profits. Anyone could make the argument. But only Ken had done it.
Eldima stared. But then she noticed another figure passing by all of the wounded, rapidly going from figure to figure, and then the silent shapes. Checking them. And Eldima’s eyes widened as someone whispered her name. She recalled a rumor and saw a legend in the flesh. And she looked at Daly and wondered what company he belonged to.
 
——
 
Wonder. Relief. Such were the emotions of the survivors. But Geneva was just…frustrated. She roamed the battlefield, ignoring the dead serpents that were being butchered. The smell, the sounds—all of it was reminiscent of a warzone between companies. But in this case—
“Any wounded? Any injured?”
Geneva called out for the eighth time. But she heard no one. No cries of pain. No shouts for a [Healer] or a potion. The adventurers who had fallen were dead beyond a shadow of a doubt. And the others?
“I’m fine. A healing potion took care of my wounds. And you splinted my bones. I will be fine. I am in your debt, [Doctor].”
The Dullahan named Kiltem reassured Geneva when she went to check on him. He was one of the few people she’d treated, and even then, the adventurers had known what to do. He would need to be carried and heal for at least a week, but with potions, his broken bones and body would mend quickly.
There was nothing for her to do. Again. Geneva looked around the battlefield, at Daly who was congratulating and thanking some of the people they’d called upon with Ken, at the Bushrangers testing their crossbows on a serpent corpse and shaking their heads—at the departing adventurers, [Warriors], and [Mages].
Useless. She’d come out here, rushed out here thinking to help evacuate the wounded. To save lives. But this hadn’t been her battle. It had been a triumph for the United Nations company—thanks to Ken and Daly. Thanks to diplomacy, words. Goodwill.
Geneva loved it. Hated it. She turned and walked over to Daly.
“Geneva? Everyone well?”
“They’re all fine. The dead—I can’t do much for them.”
Daly was high on relief and victory. But he paused as he saw Geneva’s face. He reached out and grabbed her shoulder gently.
“It’s good they didn’t need help, eh?”
She looked up and met his eyes. Guiltily, Geneva realized he was right.
“That’s true. I’m sorry.”
“Hey. Everyone knows you want to help. And you do.”
“How?”
He shrugged.
“Just by being here. Look.”
He pointed. And Geneva turned. She felt the eyes on her at last. Soldiers from Quallet’s company. The Featherfolk Brigade’s warriors. Even adventurers and sailors. Looking at her.
“They know you’ll be there when they need it. That’s enough.”
Daly’s voice was quiet. Geneva looked back at him. He smiled at her.
“Sometimes a [Doctor]’s work is just in the head. Just making people feel safe. Right?”
Geneva hesitated. And then her lips quirked. It wasn’t quite a smile. But it was close enough.
“No wonder Quexa likes him.”
Okasha remarked softly. For once, Geneva couldn’t disagree. She looked at Daly.
“You did a good job.”
He grinned, a look of delight for the compliment. Then he gave her a slight bow.
“Wish it were always that easy. But then, how’d we split the coin? Lousy job, this. Didn’t earn a copper penny, what with that lot hogging everything.”
Geneva chuckled. Daly nodded towards the Centaurs who’d raced a lot of the people on foot here.
“That lot’ll be heading back soon. Want to hitch a ride?”
“I think so. Let me at least fuss over the Dullahans with broken bones.”
After Geneva had loaded the Dullahans onto the smoothest wagon and ensured they were moving comfortably at a slow pace, she and Daly took another ride home. The two Centaurs were chatting the entire way back.
“Fantastic! I don’t know how you got those grouches from the Mage’s Guild to do it, but that was incredible! And we saved those adventurers.”
“And we get paid, right?”
“We’ll guarantee it ourselves, even if others claim all the serpent hides and meat.”
Ken reassured the Centaurs. Pihava tossed her head like a horse, her long hair doing the same work as a mane.
“That’s quite generous! Your company pulled out everything it had. Why? Do you know the teams that were in the dungeon?”
Ken and Daly exchanged a glance. They were riding in the front. Daly answered for them.
“Nah, just the one. It’s not that. It’s just—they needed help, right? And you don’t abandon your mates when they’re in trouble.”
“But they’re hardly your mates.”
“Not yet. But I think we could become friends. And hey, that’s what our company does best. Right, Ken?”
He nudged the Japanese [Negotiator]. They laughed. Geneva listened to the laughter. And she felt…better. Peaceful. Daly was right. It was a blessing not to be needed.
The Centaur’s wagon pulled into Talenqual with the others, pausing as the sudden influx of traffic caused a small jam. But they were content to wait, and Ken and Daly called out towards the others getting back to their jobs and lives, shouting congratulations, thanks. And Geneva was sure their company would be a name on every lip tonight.
“Alright! Back to the headquarters! I don’t care what anyone says—I’m buying some alcohol and we’re partying it up!”
