“There’s no one I’d call a leader. I handle the home front. Kirana’s good, but she bosses around the girls from her country mainly. I think she has something on them or there’s a reason why they’re listening to her she’s not saying.”
“Caste system? Doesn’t India have that?”
“Mm. Might be? But I think it’s something else. Maybe her parents were someone famous. Or maybe she’s just better at leading them. She had to get them out of the jungle after the guys got executed.”
“True. Ah, well. We’ll hold off on Kirana. Too many girls as it is. Yow!”
Daly yelped. Ken smiled, and the Australian checked the deck.
“Got fifty-four cards—no jokers. But instead—hah! Good on Michael. Look.”
He raised a card. Instead of the joker card, Michael had painted a [Doctor] wildcard, complete with a red cross. Geneva blinked at it as the others chuckled. Daly placed the two aside as he shuffled the deck.
“Alright, before we get to chatting—what’s our game? Swedish Rummy? Oh Hell? Donkey?”
“Aiko and Ken probably don’t know those games. Don’t make it complex, Daly. Let’s just start with poker. We can go from there.”
Daly shrugged. He began dealing out the cards. Siri looked at her hand as Aiko quietly asked Paige to refresh her on how to play.
“What shall we play for?”
“How about…coins?”
“Oh come on—”
“Not for real. It’s all company money anyways. But we do have a bit of spending money. Say we use that and pool it? But the winner takes like…a few silver coins more than the others?”
Geneva nodded, and the others agreed. Soon, they were playing cards while talking, pausing only to bid and reveal who had the winning hand. Daly chuckled as he took the first bid with three twos.
“So? I think we’ve all heard the bad news. No big haul from the expedition.”
Siri looked up. Geneva had only met her once, doing her examination before she’d left. The [Doctor] stared down at her garbage hand and shook her head.
“That’s right. I’m sorry—”
“It wasn’t Geneva’s fault! Healing potions are too useful!”
Aiko protested. She was a poor player of poker, as was Ken. It wasn’t a natural game to them—they probably would have swept the competition playing another game, though. Mahjong, maybe. Ken knew how to play that. Aiko was bleeding silver while Ken won a hand by luck.
“It’s fine, Aiko. Thank you, but I can’t say anything other than that I should have seen it coming. There’s no need for [Doctors] outside of a battlefield. Not as much need for them there either, frankly. That’s all.”
Geneva sighed. That was the truth of it. If a company had healing potions in supply, even on the battlefield, they could heal most injuries right off. Her business came from poor companies—or situations where healing potions were hard to come by. Things like Evercut Arrows gave her work, but they were in short supply in taverns. Usually.
Paige exhaled, trying to keep sounding upbeat.
“It can’t be helped. But you did get me some of the ingredients I wanted. And you got our name out. That’s a plus. But Aiko did say you got some work done with the [Healers], Geneva.”
The [Doctor] nodded as she placed her cards on the table.
“Fold. That’s right. I went around to [Healers] and paid them to show me their poultices and secret recipes. Mainly in hopes of discovering something useful. I also investigated past diseases, plagues, and other ailments that occur on Baleros. To familiarize myself with them before I have to treat them.”
She looked at Siri as she said this. The Swedish girl nodded seriously, placing two cards down and gesturing at Daly to give her two in return. She had an excellent poker face.
“What did you find?”
“Honestly? A mixed bag. As I said, injuries aren’t nearly as bad here as they are in our world. True, amputations occur more frequently since healing potions have limits and surgery is primitive, but people survive amputations, and there are magical prostheses.”
“Pro-what? Ken?”
“Prosthetics. They’re…”
Ken lapsed into Japanese. Aiko nodded.
“Oh! Like Quexa’s leg!”
“Except some are magic. Which means you can have an arm made out of fire or some shite like that. What else, Geneva?”
Daly frowned at his hand. Geneva shrugged.
“Illnesses aren’t as prevalent either. At least, plagues and other major outbreaks don’t occur that often, despite the lower level of hygiene.”
“Oh come on. Why not?”
“Two reasons. Actually, three. First, a disease like a plague tends to move from city to city much slower, and the population density is lower here. Second, there isn’t as much international traffic. Less chance of diseases spreading to vulnerable populations without airplanes. Third—”
“Healing potions?”
The table groaned. Paige scooped up her winnings. Geneva frowned at her hand. She was getting trash.
“But not in the way you think. Potions don’t cure diseases, remember? They accelerate a body’s natural functions.”
“They make it worse.”
Siri looked up. Geneva nodded.
“Either a [Healer] figures out some kind of cure or the potions make the disease worse and it kills off everyone it infects. Plagues are far more deadly in this world because of potions. And when a truly virulent one appears…”
The others fell silent. Paige grimaced.
“Please tell me you can cure that. Or do something?”
Geneva glared at her cards and slapped them down on the table, one by one.
“I. Need. Antibiotics. But without them, there are some remedies that seem to work. There’s some antibiotic components in each of the recipes I learned. Not strong ones, though. But it’ll do until we can find something like penicillin. I’ve been using red wine or spirits as antiseptic…and there’s honey, ginger—and garlic.”
“How effective is it?”
Geneva sighed.
“Honestly? Don’t get sick. I can do something for you, but I’ll be relying on the body’s immune system as much as what I can do externally. But I am working on medicines. Poultices based off the [Healer]’s personal remedies that combines the best of them. So I’ll be able to do some work…but I’m not about to try and cure diseases.”
“Unless we can get an [Alchemist] to figure out how to find the penicillin mold.”
“If it exists. And won’t that be expensive?”
Daly muttered sourly. The table fell silent. Geneva felt a pang in her stomach. Ken, who’d lost every hand since his lucky one, looked up.
“It is not hopeless, though. We are improving. A few months ago, we were eating rice and afraid of paying rent. This is better. The Bushrangers are gaining fame. We are saving money. This is working.”
The others looked up. Ken smiled around the table. Then his eyes slid to the cards.
“Five copper coins.”
He had a good poker face too. Geneva calmly slid her coins over.
“Raise.”
“Call.”
“I fold.”
“Fold.”
Ken met Geneva’s eyes, a polite smile on his face.
“I raise.”
“I fold—no, I don’t—shut up, Okasha!”
Two voices burst from Geneva’s mouth. She scowled and put down her cards as Siri blinked and Daly sat back. Paige and Ken showed their cards along with everyone else. Daly laughed as it was revealed that Geneva had pure trash and Ken had a straight. The [Negotiator] took the round, and the others tossed in their cards.
“You had nothing!”
Okasha protested with Geneva’s voice. The [Doctor] closed her eyes.
“That’s why I was bluffing. Ken and Paige probably would have folded if we went another round. Okasha, you’re terrible at gambling.”
“You have nerves of steel.”
The Selphid grumbled. Ken smiled.
“Hello, Okasha. I probably would have folded. Geneva is very hard to read.”
“Hello, Ken. Hi everyone! Nice to meet you, Siri.”
Okasha smiled with Geneva’s face and introduced herself. The Swedish girl had heard about Geneva’s secret, but she had to do a double-take and ask the usual questions of Geneva. Did it hurt? What was it like? Geneva answered as best she could as Daly narrowed his eyes at Ken.
“Wait a second…are you reading our moods with your Skill?”
“I would not do that!”
Ken protested innocently. And his meager coin pile attested to that fact. Geneva grumbled as the table got back to the game.
“Let me do the gambling.”
“Fine. I’ll drink. Pass me the bottle, Paige? Thank you!”
The conversation passed back to the expedition’s results. Ken had a lot to say. He’d been more than just a mouthpiece to talk up the United Nations company. He’d observed, listened, and gossiped with as many people as possible. And his conclusions were frank.
“Baleros is…dangerous. Of the other continents, it is one of the most dangerous. Chandrar and Baleros are considered to be roughly equal—although Chandrar is more dangerous because of the climate than war. But Chandrar has slaves and the King of Destruction that we heard about.”
“Oh yeah. I heard people muttering about him.”
“Yes, he is concerning. But Baleros is just as dangerous. We were unlucky to come here, but luckier in some respects. There is a continent—Rhir. It is very dangerous.”
“I heard there are Demons there.”
“Demons? As in actual…?”
“I think they are a type of monster, Daly. Not Demons—yokai, Aiko—or anything else. But it is very deadly. On the other hand, Terandria and Izril are safer. There are Drakes, who are apparently very angry, who fight with Humans and Gnolls on Izril. They hate Lizardfolk, but Humans live on the northern half of Izril.”
“And Terandria? I’ve heard it’s mostly Human.”
“Yes, it is safe…but it is farthest of the continents away from Baleros. All the continents are far. Ship voyages are also dangerous and take a long time. We could hire a good ship and [Captain], but…”
“…Paying for all of us would be tough and we’d be starting from scratch, huh?”
“Exactly.”
“On the other hand, it’s something to consider. Okay, how about where we are?”
“Well, I think we chose a good city. You see, we are here—”
Ken paused the game to pull out a map of Baleros. They were on the lower southeastern coast, and Talenqual was connected via the trade roads to most of the other major cities in the area. He outlined a few zones north and to the west.
“There is fighting over there, but I think it is unlikely to come here. Talenqual is safe. And—this may be good or bad—it is not controlled by a Great Company.”
Daly nodded. He frowned down at the map. They were just a dot. Baleros was massive, and to Geneva, it vaguely resembled the Americas, albeit with a few noticeable differences. There was no Panama Canal—the continent was a fairly solid chunk that had a large southern jungle and vaguely hammer-esque north half. She watched as Daly traced their route—barely more than an inch on the map.
“Hell, this place is big. Tell us about the Great Companies, Ken. They’re the big players around here, right?”
Ken nodded. He sat back as the card game took a nap and the others leaned in.
“Okay. There are Four Great Companies. You know of them, right?”
Everyone sitting at the table nodded. How could you not? The Four Great Companies were the most powerful forces on the continent. More than nations, more than cities. Their reach was vast, and hundreds, possibly thousands of smaller companies had links to them.
“Well, I asked and each one is different in…temperament? Reputation, leadership—they are all distinct. As you know, the Iron Vanguard is up north. They are mostly Dullahans.”
“A species company.”
Paige put in. That meant a company that represented a species’ interests as much as their own advancement. Ken nodded.
“But not all Dullahans. The Iron Vanguard is old and established in the north. The north is, ah, cold. One of the only cold places in the world.”
“Pause. What do you mean ‘only’ cold places, Ken?”
The Australian girl frowned as she held out a hand. Ken pondered how to reply. Geneva stepped in for him.
“Only two continents have snowy regions. Except for Chandrar—the desert might qualify as a tundra. But besides mountains, only two areas have semi-permanent snow. The north-most parts of Baleros and Terandria.”
Paige frowned.
“Nothing on the south side?”
“Not a thing. Chandrar’s farther south, and it’s a desert. But not snow. And there isn’t an Antarctic region that I can tell.”
“Odd. Where is the equatorial line, then?”
Siri traced a finger across the map, perplexed. Daly hesitated.
“There might not be one. I was chatting with a bloke in the bar, and he claimed the earth was flat. Think that’s right? Or is it just a round planet and no one’s made the connection yet?”
Ken shook his head gravely.
“No, I think the earth may be flat, Daly. You see—I asked and there is an end of the world. Ships sail off it. It is a known fact.”
“Ah.”
The table went silent. Everyone tried to digest that information. Paige sat back, shaking her head.
“Two moons, a weird equator, the end of the world…I wish we had a telescope. Or a satellite.”
“You can build one later. Go on, Ken. The Iron Vanguard’s northern Dullahans. And?”
“Ah. You see, the Iron Vanguard has many…fortifications. The north is poorer, but it has some good metals to mine. So the Dullahans fortify it—and the Iron Vanguard controls much of the region. They are…an aggressive company. But they prize heavy armor.”
“Bunch of [Knights] tromping around tanking fireballs. I get it. And knowing Dullahans, they’re a right laugh.”
Aiko giggled. Ken nodded. That was fairly spot on.
“Their leader is the Seer of Steel. A [Juggernaut] with a body made of the most expensive armor money can buy.”
Siri raised an eyebrow.
“Why do they call him the Seer of Steel?”
Geneva muttered into her drink. Okasha poured her another refill. Both of them liked alcohol.
“Because he doesn’t go into battle with his head. He leaves that far, far away in his fortress. He controls the body with a scrying orb in place of his head. That way you can only hit his body. He’s practically impossible to kill, or so it’s said.”
“That’s properly intimidating. But I suppose a big shot would be like that.”
Daly slid his eyes sideways to Siri. Geneva wondered if they were trying to figure out how they’d kill something like that. Aiko looked around and spoke brightly.
“Very scary. But the Male—male—Ken, how do you say it?”
“Maelstrom’s Howling.”
“Thank you. Yes, they are not so bad. They are Centaurs! And Lizardfolk. They have a Centaur leader and her daughter’s one of the main commanders, and they control the—middle?”
She pointed to the map of Baleros.
“Very open plains. They have the most space, but since it is so wide, they cannot control—”
She mimed to say ‘all of it’. Ken nodded.
