“Never them. I’m a [Doctor]. That was a Caesarian section. The first I’ve ever done. It’s something used if a birth can’t be done traditionally. Only a [Doctor] can do it.”
“I see. Then fate truly was kind.”
“My child?”
Geneva’s head turned. Miss Hastel’s head was raised. She was looking around. And Geneva saw a limp, wet shape. Clearly unhappy with being alive, struggling to get up. The [Midwives] rushed over. Caleffe stayed put.
“I can only thank you. From the bottom of my heart. Geneva Scala, you have saved their lives.”
She looked at Miss Hastel and the child. Geneva shook her head.
“It was an emergency. I did what I could. But I don’t want to ever do that again.”
A blind Caesarian section on another species without anesthesia or assistants or…Geneva wondered if something this nightmarish had ever happened. No, surely there had been worse cases. She heard a strangled laugh to her left.
Paige was sitting on the floor. Her legs had given way after she’d put the blood transfusion equipment down. She looked at Geneva, face pale, but laughing.
“What’s so funny?”
The Australian girl shook her head.
“Did you hear what you said, Geneva? Only a [Doctor] can do it.”
Geneva’s slow mind took a moment to react. She could hear Okasha whispering in her head.
“Thank goodness, thank goodness. A child!”
And then Geneva’s brain processed what Paige was saying.
“Oh. Oh.”
Caleffe nodded. She looked again at Miss Hastel.
“I know of many women who would prefer to know there was another way, a backup. Especially for Centaurs. The fear of it—”
“No scarring or stretching, right?”
Paige giggled, a touch hysterically, with relief. Caleffe looked at her with great interest.
“Really?”
“Caesarian sections should only be performed if necessary. There is still a risk, and the operation is traumatizing.”
Geneva said that automatically. But her mind was racing. A potion could heal the trauma in moments. Miss Hastel was even able to stand, though the [Midwives] were urging her to rest, and Rital was trying to support her—a somewhat futile endeavor. But she was standing, and she looked—
Another cry made Geneva’s head turn. She nearly dropped her scalpel. The foal was standing. He—it was a he, Geneva had barely noticed—was a tiny thing. A baby and a horse, mixed into one. But there was something entirely Human about the way he struggled to his feet, instinctively going towards his mother, who couldn’t be stopped from going to him.
Geneva stared. And in her head, the fear, concentration, intensity of her work, willpower, determination, all of it coalesced into a single moment. A kind of realization. A thought.
She’d saved dying men and women of all species, dragged them back to life and heard them thanking her. She’d saved lives on a bloody battlefield only to watch them die minutes later. Afterwards, she’d been as numb as relieved. The victory bittersweet. But this?
She looked down at the colt, already trying to stand. This was pure.
“I guess I should have trained to be an obstetrician.”
Geneva numbly spoke. It was the kind of stupid thing you said after an event like this. Caleffe looked confused. Paige grinned. And somehow, Geneva found herself sitting. Watching as a baby Centaur suckled for the first time. And then the door was opening, and she heard a cheer that made the baby start wailing, and people were staring at her—and she’d forgotten to wash her hands—
At some point, Geneva slept. And it was a fine, good, deep sleep. The call had come. And she’d been up to the task. That was all she’d wanted.
 
——
 
That night, Talenqual celebrated. For what, you couldn’t say. Not because no one knew—but because there were too many reasons. Because of the victory against the giant snakes? Because of Miss Hastel’s amazing birth that had defied all odds? Because of the Last Light? Because the legends were true?
You couldn’t say. But the streets were abuzz, and the United Nations apartments were filled with motion and life. Daly felt like he was caught up in a whirlpool. Every time he turned around, there was something to drag his attention. Kirana showcasing her foods to a hungry street. Rital, coming to shake his hand and thank him again and again because Geneva was asleep. An adventurer doing the same for different reasons—
“Mister Daly?”
Daly turned. A Dullahan with somewhat battered armor was standing in the street, head in her hands. She was chewing on a dahi kebab. She looked embarrassed and relieved and straight at Daly.
“Eldima? I mean, Captain Eldima, right?”
The leader of the Rustless Guard shook her head.
“Eldima is suitable. After all, your company saved mine.”
“Ah, well, it wasn’t just us. It was everyone—”
“Only one company organized it. It was yours.”
Daly didn’t fight Eldima on the issue. He turned and looked down the street. The Dullahan joined him. People were partying with the Earthworlders, and someone—Dawson probably—had just begun playing some music, almost as loud as when they’d fought the serpents. The bastard had even started with Down Under.
“You spent money for us. Hiring the Centaur Runners. Convincing the other companies and adventurers to help us. And it seems your company is giving out free food.”
Daly winced. That perception was probably one reason why this street was getting flooded. But he could only shrug.
“That’s the United Nations company for you, I guess. We’re poor, but rich in friends. Which is, I dunno, better? Something like that.”
He glanced sideways and saw Eldima smile slightly. Rare on a Dullahan.
“It is a strange philosophy for a mercenary company to have.”
“Ah, well, we’re more than just mercs. We form alliances. Friends. We don’t have enemies, really. This company wasn’t meant to seize power. But to protect. Gather folks like us.”
“I see. It is strange. I would have laughed to hear that a while ago.”
“Why?”
“Because that is how all of the Great Companies first formed.”
The Dullahan looked back at Daly. He blinked. Eldima tilted her head, and then put it on her shoulders and fastened it. She took a deep breath, then looked at Daly.
“I would like to join your company.”
“What?”
Daly was caught off-guard. Eldima took a breath.
“We owe you a debt. Besides which, my team is—not doing so well. We are slightly in debt for our armor, and it is hard to find work that pays enough. Reaching bounties on time, the cost of healing potions…”
“We’re not so hot ourselves. The Bushrangers aren’t famous, Eldima. We barely get by. And our headquarters—”
Daly gestured. Eldima nodded.
“I understand. But we would be willing to collaborate. Work together. But I feel—your company is one that I can trust. One that it would be good to be…friends with.”
She looked at Daly, almost pleadingly. He hesitated. But then the music swelled, and all he could do was smile. He held out a hand.
“Well then. I can’t say for sure what’ll happen next. But we can always use more friends.”
And he saw a smile. And that was all you needed on a night like this. Daly laughed. He looked up for a second, grinned at the sky, then taught a Dullahan how to dance.
