“Oh, mate. You’re going to love this. Guess what? A magic spell charges up your phone.”
“No way!”
The exclamation elicited laughter as the new Earthworlders flipped out. They fished out their electronics—they only had phones, having been teleported while being on a bus—but each one was a treasure trove of data. As were they themselves. As Paige explained as Geneva slowly edged over to the door, anything they knew from earth was invaluable.
“Anything. Chemistry—we have a periodic table up, but no one can remember the bottom parts—math, like the Pythagorean Theorem, knowledge of how to replicate different things from Earth—”
“Like cake! I remembered how to make that stuff. Beautiful!”
Dawson blew a kiss. Daly laughed.
“But your first cake was utter shite, mate! Leave the cooking to Kirana!”
“What, you’re saying I can’t cook? Shove off! I’ll show you. Hey, Kirana! Let me help with tonight’s dinner—”
“We don’t need more poison, Dawson! We’ve got enough to kill the monsters with already!”
One of the other Bushrangers hollered. Everyone laughed. Blake looked at Daly.
“I suppose making weapons would be one of those important things, yeah?”
Geneva froze. She looked at Daly and Paige. The [Engineer] girl hesitated and glanced at her.
“We don’t want it to spread. But yes. Anything you can tell me is useful. However, remember what I said about bringing up anything from home around others. I know how to make gunpowder…I think.”
“And a lot of our tech’s either not useful or too hard to build, frankly. Light bulbs, batteries—not that great when you can just cast [Light]. I’ll kiss you myself if one of you knows how to put together a steam engine, though.”
Daly grinned. He felt at his back and then looked around.
“Oh, right. You saw that we used crossbows, right mates? They’re our bread and butter. Paige is trying to improve them, but it’s tough. Guns are out of our reach for the moment. Plus, half of us think a good crossbow is better than one of the old firearms.”
And I told them under no circumstances could firearms be imported to Baleros’ mercenary companies. Geneva felt a pang. She knew what Daly did was important. And she’d seen monsters. Even so. Blake was conferring with Lorenzo, who was interested. The young Italian was making a cranking motion with one hand. Blake was nodding.
“Yeah, yeah. I saw your crossbows, Daly. They look good. Ever think of making a ballista?”
“Sure. We’ll mount it on our elephant. Too hard to carry, mate. But Paige is working on a monster one. We’ll put it on Dawson’s back.”
“Oi, Daly! What’ve I done to deserve all this?”
“Recently?”
Another laugh. Blake nodded, but now he looked excited.
“Yeah, but have you thought about—do you know about repeating crossbows? Lorenzo was saying that there’s one that shoots like that. Chinese or something—”
He got no further because Paige reached out.
“Tell me more! No wait, sketch it!”
There was an uproar. Geneva hesitated. Repeating crossbows? That sounded…terrible. She imagined the damage one crossbow could inflict. And if you chained it up like a machine gun…
“Sounds useful.”
Geneva ignored the voice. She walked outside. Somehow, it was cooler outside than it was inside with all the body heat of so many people crammed together. But not less humid. Geneva looked around the bustling street, took a few breaths, and then began to walk. She needed to walk.
So. She was back. Daly had taken the news well. So had Paige. Neither one would say they were let down. But Geneva felt bad enough anyways. She’d earned no money. She hadn’t had any patients. And she’d wanted some, as horrible as that was.
She was part of the United Nations company. Named after an ideal of Earth. A company that was the only thing protecting the scattered people from her planet. They were poor, but everyone was pitching in. And Geneva was trying. But she felt useless today and most days after leaving the war between the Roving Arrow company and the Razorshard Armor company.
And what was worse, in a sick way, she missed the battlefield. She missed being needed all the time. Here, she was dead weight unless someone was hurt, and healing potions trivialized how much she could add. What good was a [Doctor] without patients?
“You’re being mopey again.”
Someone spoke in her head. Geneva sighed. It was her invisible guest. The reason Geneva was never alone. Okasha the Selphid voiced her opinion, speaking in a very quiet voice in Geneva’s head. No one else heard. No one else could hear. Because Okasha lived in Geneva’s body. She was a Selphid possessing a living being, the most heinous of crimes a Selphid could commit. If anyone found out, Okasha would die. But she had done it to save Geneva’s life.
A long time ago. No, mere months ago, Geneva had been working as a [Doctor]. An enraged [Sergeant], Thriss, had struck a blow along her spine, paralyzing her. Geneva would have died from blood loss or at Thriss’ hands if it weren’t for Okasha. The Selphid [Rogue] turned [Nurse] had killed the sergeant, and then offered Geneva a choice.
She’d gone into Geneva’s body, bridged the gap and the destroyed nerves, and now helped Geneva move. Without her, Geneva would be helpless. And she could do more than just that. She was Geneva’s protector, her friend, and the literal voice in her head.
Sometimes she was a quiet passenger that only did a few things, usually with Geneva’s left hand, like swat at flies. Other times she was active. She could possess Geneva at will. Not that she usually did that, but a smile, a twist to avoid stubbing her toe, waking Geneva up in the morning at the right time.
Geneva had grown used to Okasha’s presence over the months, but it was still strange. She shared her body now. And unfortunately, that meant sometimes the person she was sharing it with had a different opinion.
“I’m fine. I deserve to be depressed. We didn’t bring anything back.”
“You got information. And the [Healers] did give you what you wanted.”
“Daly was expecting us to come back with coin. Instead, we just wasted what he worked so hard to get.”
Geneva heard a sigh in her head. The Doctor spoke, her lips barely moving. Okasha didn’t need to hear the words out loud; she was in Geneva and could read her vocal cords and muscles. Her voice was distinct from Geneva’s own as well, at least when she wasn’t using Geneva’s vocal cords, and she could change Geneva’s voice in astonishing ways if she chose to as well.
“Okay, but how does being sad help with any of this? It’s pointless, and it just makes your mood worse. Cheer up.”
“I don’t want to. Okasha, don’t—”
Too late. As she was walking, Geneva suddenly felt a jolt of emotions—a compounded mix of excitement, energy, and what she could only describe as happiness—shoot through her. She stumbled, and Okasha steadied her. Geneva felt the Selphid doing…something in her. It wasn’t a horrible feeling—not like the Selphid writhing about.
Okasha’s biology allowed her to spread out incredibly finely, and her control was impeccable, at least with practice. Geneva was the first living being she’d ever been in, so occasionally there were accidents. But not now.
Whatever was running through Geneva pepped her up in a moment. Instantly, she felt better. The funk clouding her mind vanished. Geneva felt her spirits rise. And then she grew angry.
“Stop that!”
A passing Dullahan looked around and saw Geneva scowling at the air in front of her. He opened his mouth, and then Geneva snapped again, apparently to no one.
“I didn’t ask you to do that. I hate it when you do that! Don’t do it again, understand?”
The Dullahan decided to walk faster. Okasha was unmoved.
“I just tweaked a few things. It was just a little adjustment, nothing big. Don’t worry.”
Geneva scowled.
“I know exactly what you did. Those were hormones. Dopamine, serotonin, endorphins. You released them into my brain, my system, to make me feel better.”
It was incredible and scary to think Okasha could do that at will. But Geneva knew what she’d felt, even if she couldn’t control the effect it had on her body. She sensed Okasha hesitate.
“…Hormones? No, it wasn’t that. It’s, uh, completely different. Look, it’s just this little—”
“Don’t play games. I’m a [Doctor]. I know everything about my body.”
That was a lie. But Okasha fell for it. She was surprisingly gullible, or she overrated Geneva’s knowledge.
“Damn it. Okay, I’m sorry. I was just trying to be—how did Humans ever learn so much about their own bodies?”
“We had to. We didn’t have healing potions or magic. We fought plagues and disease, advanced on the backs of a few people who found a cure, a new way of doing things.”
They had no magic on Earth. No Selphids either. If they had, most of the mysteries that had taken scholars and doctors centuries to uncover would have been solved instantly. Selphids knew almost everything there was to know about the body—even if they didn’t have the medical lexicon that Geneva did.
“I’m sorry, Geneva. I’m just trying to be helpful.”
“By smiling at people? That’s not me, Okasha.”
“Would it kill you to be friendly? Oh wait, you can’t smile.”
“And you smile and then they think I’m crazy because I don’t act like you.”
“Well, excuse me for caring!”
Geneva heard something like a gurgling sob in Okasha’ voice. The Selphid went quiet, and Geneva felt her left side begin to drag a bit. Okasha had stopped assisting Geneva’s movements and was just passively feeding Geneva’s instructions to her body. When that happened, her left side was slower to react. Geneva’s stride became a limp, but the [Doctor] took a vicious pleasure in knowing her body was under her imperfect control. Then she felt a bit guilty. But she did hate thinking Okasha was influencing her. It was just—
The streets of Talenqual were filled with people. Hawkers selling goods, people going about their business. And children. A Dullahan ran past Geneva, then tripped. She was a little girl with her head attached to her shoulders and covered by a ratty scarf. Her armor was very poor—plant matter and bark as opposed to anything else. Practically a beggar. She bumped into Geneva and caught herself.
“Whoops! Sorry, Miss Human—”
She gave Geneva a gap-toothed smile, quite unusual for a Dullahan. But children took after every culture, didn’t they? Geneva stopped.
“I’m fine. Are you—”
Her right hand, which had been reaching for the Dullahan child as she backed away, suddenly shot forwards and grabbed the Dullahan’s wrist. The child yelped in alarm. Geneva heard a growl. Her voice. And her face was suddenly scowling.
“Drop it.”
Okasha glared with Geneva’s body. The [Doctor] froze in alarm, but the Selphid had control of her body. The Dullahan tried to get away—her arm began to detach from her body, but Okasha just tightened her grip.
“Leave your arm and I’ll bring it to the Watch. Want to live as a one-armed Dullahan wanted by the City Guard all your life?”
“Fine!”
The Dullahan withdrew a pouch and tossed it on the ground. Geneva’s coin pouch. The [Doctor] gaped mentally—she hadn’t even realized it was gone! Okasha was unimpressed, though. She snagged the pouch, checked it, and put it back on her belt. Only then did she let go and glare at the [Pickpocket].
“Get lost. A poor thief picks on [Healers] and [Doctors], kid. Next time at least go for a [Merchant].”
The Dullahan girl fled. Okasha walked Geneva forwards as the crowd, who had noticed the incident, resolved itself back to normality. A few people shot Geneva admiring glances; Okasha kept Geneva moving until Geneva’s heart rate had slowed. Then they had another conversation.
“Thank you.”
“No problem. You want to walk?”
“Yes.”
“Alright then. Your turn.”
Geneva’s pace faltered and then returned to normal. Geneva looked around, but the Dullahan child was long gone.
“You scared her.”
Okasha was unmoved.
“So? I don’t feel bad. I would have kicked her if you’d let me.”
“Kicked her?”
Geneva was appalled. Okasha punched Geneva’s right shoulder with her left hand lightly. A Lizardgirl on the road eyed Geneva with interest.
“It’s for her own good. She has to learn not to be caught. Or the next time someone gets her, she’ll lose her arm, her hand—or even her life.”
The thought was incredibly depressing to Geneva. She looked around again, as if she could draw the girl out of the crowd.
“Then we should have helped her.”
“How? By giving her your coin purse? Someone will just rob her. Or she’ll spend it and steal again and again. That’s how I grew up.”
“No. She needs someone to take care of her. If her family isn’t there, or if they’re not responsible, she needs a home. Guidance.”
“Planning on saddling the United Nations company with a mouth that’ll steal from them and bring trouble down on them?”
“No.”
But that was the option, wasn’t it? Geneva bit her lip.
“On Earth, there are institutions that help people in need like her. Orphanages. Soup kitchens. Homeless shelters.”
“And do they save everyone?”
The cynicism in Okasha’s voice made Geneva acutely aware of what a lie it would be to say yes. She shook her head.
“No. But it’s something. The system is there, even if it is flawed. It’s…”
A helpless rush ran through her. This time, Okasha did nothing to stop it. Geneva walked on, looking around. Yes, Baleros had richness and beauty. But it was a world. This was a city. There was just as much darkness to it. And in Geneva.
That was the problem. Okasha’s hormonal treatment could only do so much. Geneva spoke out loud as she walked down the street.
“It’s—not just me being disappointed in myself, Okasha. I told you. I’ve diagnosed myself. I’ve had a traumatic event. I’m not sure of all of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder’s symptoms, but I’ll bet I have it. Me and Daly and at least half of the United Nations company. The four newcomers certainly did.”
“You told me about that. I still don’t quite get it. I mean, I do. You’re shaken up from battle. But you’ll get over it. Everyone does.”
“Will we? People from Earth aren’t used to war, Okasha. At least, the ones from countries like Nicoletta’s aren’t. There’re cultural differences, a difference in expectations. Most Humans don’t even see butchered animals. Many will go most of their lives without seeing a dead body more than once or twice—and usually in nonviolent situations.”
And even if they do see them, it’s on the news or at a remove. It’s not war.
Okasha’s voice was wondering in Geneva’s head.
