“I didn't know I was saving the city when I ran off like that.” Ren said. “I died instantly and didn't discover the extent of the damage until the next time I went to the city and saw the crater.” He laughed. “What a sight that explosion must have been!”

“We couldn't look at it because it was so bright, so missing it wasn't a big deal, unless you wanted to go blind.” Teepo chittered in laughter, and everyone laughed.

After that, they all helped to make supper and ate it at the table, then changed into appropriate sleeping attire and climbed into bed. The Sustenance Rings kicked in that night and they only had to sleep for an hour to get a full night's rest. When they woke up, it was Dilseffa's turn to groom Ren.

Like Yuwen had done it the day before, she started at the end of his arms and legs and worked inwards, to end at his private area. Ren stored his underwear and they exchanged looks, and she didn't even try to lick him before she changed. She was quickly covered in fur and her ears slid up and grew out, and they stuck straight up. Her powder puff tail popped out and she felt Ren's slight disappointment.

“Dilseffa, I...” Ren started to apologize and she quickly stuck out her tongue and licked his member. “GAH!” He exclaimed, then shock replaced his surprise. “Wait a second! That felt like a real tongue!”

Dilseffa ground her teeth in happiness as she twitched her whispers at him. “Not all of us have ridges or spikes on our tongues.”

“Show me, please.” Ren said, and she stuck out her tongue. “You mean you can...”

“Not fully.” Dilseffa said and her straight ears rotated and fell down behind her head. “My teeth are too long to take you into my mouth.”

“You can finish the grooming without doing that, right?” Ren asked, and she nodded slightly. “Then go ahead.”

“Thank you, Ren.” Dilseffa said, ground her teeth a little more, then started to lick him completely. Her tongue was too short in this form to give long licks, so she darted her tongue in and out quickly, and covered him in little licks instead. It was a sensation that he hadn't felt before, so he enjoyed it immensely and quickly finished. Before he could thank her for pleasing him, she quickly licked up the mess he had made and her whole body shivered. She ground her teeth in happiness and moved up to lay down beside him.

“Thank you.” Ren said and rubbed the spot between her big brown eyes and her ears. Dilseffa ground her teeth again and closed her eyes as he kept petting her.

“Breakfast.” Yuwen said and came into the bedroom, and they all enjoyed another meal. “This is really going to throw off our days.”

Ren chuckled. “Having two days to do one day of work makes everything a lot easier.”

“Is it?” Artemis asked. “I seem to remember someone doing two days of work in one day.”

“Or a week's worth.” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.

“Or a thousand years worth!” Ren escalated the number ridiculously and laughed, as did everyone else, then the three Pervarians felt that he wasn't joking or lying.

“Wh-what... you...” Yuwen started to say, and Ren took her hand.

“If we measure my life here by adding accelerated time, I'm very, very old.”

“More like ancient.” Teepo said. “What does a few million years mean if they don't count, right?”

Ren laughed. “You got it, Teepo.”

“Millions...” Yuwen whispered.

“...of years...” Dilseffa whispered.

“...old.” Tiyaphi whispered, then her hand touched Ren's face. “I was kind of joking the other day when I blurted out that I loved you.” She said, and he felt her tender and caring feelings. “For someone as long-lived as you to pay attention to me, let alone do the things we've done with each other, is the best compliment I could have ever received.”

“Tiyaphi, I... I'm the one that's complimented.” Ren said and put a hand on hers. “That you don't hate me...” He looked at Yuwen and Dilseffa. “That none of you hate me for changing your lives like I have, is the best compliment I could have.”

They felt his deep sincerity and it touched their hearts, then they gasped as his feelings turned into a deep well of desire.

“Besides letting me lick you, that is.” Ren said with a big grin, and the three of them blushed deeply.
