Mila giggled at his odd choice of words before falling in line with pride, picturing his Sentinels tumbling head over heels through the forest. Reassuring his soldiers, delegating when necessary, accepting responsibility, he was growing into his role as a leader. So what if he received a combat command before her? After his incredible performance at the Bridge, it was an appropriate reward. For now, she would settle for being under his command, although not for too long. She had aspirations of her own.

After a half hour ride, Rain gave orders to his squad to stay behind and began crawling through the underbrush, slithering forward on his belly like a snake. Rolling her eyes, Mila followed on foot, noting to properly teach him how to walk silently through the forest. Moving slowly until they reached the edge, they peered down at the Society encampment, an overgrown valley, empty but for the half-dozen sentries scattered about. At the back of the valley was a crudely hidden cave entrance, less than two meters tall and a meter wide. According to the report, after 20 paces, the cave opened into a large, underground cavern with a large stream running through it and room enough for all the Society forces, estimated at two hundred soldiers. A group of failures, they had been unable to find a path into the village all winter, the icy slopes impassable to all but quins and top-tier martial experts.

Slipping away without a trace, they made their way back to Rain's squad, her eyes scanning their surroundings, unsuccessfully searching for their Sentinel watchers. This was an impossible task for Rain's squad, so that left only one possibility. Huddling close to Rain, she fumed in anger as she whispered her advice. “You're being used as bait. Gerel wants you to charge in and lose terribly, drawing out the Society forces as you retreat. When that happens, his forces will swoop in and clean up. It's too dangerous for you, you should leave and tell Gerel to clear them out himself. Small, enclosed spaces favour veteran warriors, not raw recruits. Your losses will be horrendous.”

“Hmm... I'm touched by your concern, but a little insulted by your lack of confidence. I'm not going to charge in and fight them head on.” Rain smiled grimly, glancing at Song. “What do you think? Will the plan work?”

“Too many if's. If we can secure the entrance, if your tricks work, if your troops are accurate, if the enemy has no escape route, then you might succeed. However, if you fail, you only lose the element of surprise, an easy retreat available to you.”

“Okay, not exactly encouraging, but I'll take it. Might as well take a chance.” Taking a deep breath, Rain closed his eyes and relaxed. Upon opening them, he almost became a different person altogether. His body relaxed and exuded confidence bordering on arrogance, an unfriendly smile on his face and a dangerous glint in his eyes. “Gather up.” Rain scanned his warriors with scorn. “Look at yourselves, a group of cripples turned freeloaders. I hope you enjoyed yourselves these past few months, with your warm meals, daily massages, and hot baths, because it is time to earn your keep. Just remember, your deaths are worthless to me, that only saves me from further costs. If you want to pay me back, only years of service will suffice. Now, let us ride forth and slaughter our enemies.”

A little harsh, but his Sentinels seemed used to the abuse. As Rain passed, she grabbed his arm and whispered, “You didn't tell me the plan.”

Winking roguishly, he mounted his quin and drew his weapons. “You need not worry about plans, my beauty. Stay by my side, follow my lead, and be ready with a kiss when I am victorious.” Turning to Rustram, he began giving orders and positioning his Sentinels, looking every bit a warrior.

His beauty. The words brought a blush to her cheeks as she mounted Atir, unable to hide her smile. She liked seeing him so confident and bold, but only if it was warranted. If the worst were to happen, she intended to drag him to safety no matter the cost.

He wasn't the only one who wanted a kiss when this was over, and she refused to kiss a corpse.

Chapter Meme
