“Get in,” he said.

If the girl wanted that crone dead, she could kill her herself. Didn’t sit right with him to let a bunch of toughs rough up an elder either. The girl could always whip his back if she disagreed later, but the crone would be dead now if Ban did nothing. He’d done nothing enough for a lifetime. Now he’d do something.

The envoy slipped in with a gasp of sheer relief. Yeah, she would’ve been dead.

Ban did his best to look bored out of his skull while the pursuing pact slowed down. They didn’t hesitate for long, the cunts. Less than one minute now. Delay? Fuck this wasn’t a job for him. He was no sweet talker. Wished he had his wife’s brain sometimes.

“Well hello there,” the lead asshole said. He was a clean northerner with a smooth face but scarred hands.

Trained killer for a living then. Farmers like Ban were marked by the sun. Smiling too, the twat.

“Welcome to the Harrakan embassy. What can I do for you today?” he asked.

His men formed a half circle around Brick and him. Not good. They felt dangerous and armor wasn’t useful when one was swarmed.

The doors of the embassy opened behind him. Silently, six heavies took their place at his side. They formed a half circle centering on the door. Ban cursed himself for having left the second squad near the palace just in case the girl left in a huff so she wouldn’t have to wait for an escort. Old fool he was.

The killer’s smile dropped a little when the heavies came out. He was still a killer though.

“It’s come to our attention that a, hmmm…”

The smile returned with a vengeance.

“That one of our people was seen entering your facilities. Old Meneteleon. Confused lass, a bit long in the tooth. She should have retired ages ago to let clear-headed people in charge. Seeing as she’s not all there anymore at her advanced age,” he continued, tapping his temple, “I was thinking you should return her to us for her own safety. She might be having an episode. Wouldn’t want anything to happen.”

Ban mulled his options. He probably had some. Sadly, he was a bonehead. A bonehead with a reputation to uphold.

“Meneteleon asked for asylum and was granted it. Please direct your request to the Empress, long may she reign.”

The killer’s eyes flashed and Ban felt something, like a cold edge resting on his throat. It came and went in a moment.

It took all of Ban’s willpower not to swallow his saliva. Aura, had to be, Powerful one to pierce his so easily. Shit. Man was late fourth step, and not a nice one.

By his side, Brick shifted. She’d dispersed it. Had to say something. He was the goddamn tip of the spear.

The Tip of the Spear.

“Nice try. Meneteleon was granted asylum. You can ask the Empress when she’s back if that makes you all mad. In the meanwhile, the only thing you’ll get from us is a foot of steel in the guts if you don’t fuck off.”

“I’m afraid I can’t do that. See, she is one of our own and not fully herself so, by law, it’s kidnapping. Yeah?”

Ban remained silent. The killer sneered.

“The issue being that we are authorized to follow a victim of kidnapping into neutral grounds, yeah? You see where I’m going with this. So step aside. I’m not asking again.”

Ban measured his chances. Not good. Too few on his side to form a real line, but he only had to buy a few more seconds.

“There’s only one way for you to live to see the next dawn and this ain’t it,” he said.

“That’s a shame.”

Both sides reacted at the same time. The Lutenians struck in disorder, not fully ready while the Harrakans retreated behind their shields. Had to do something. Right.

“Bash,” Ban ordered.

With a degree of coordination born from hundreds of hours of practice, the heavies’ circle expanded for the instant it took for shields to find faces. Unarmored men fell on their companions, unable to brace. This was the breathing room Ban needed.

“To the gate, double ranks.”

Ban took a step back with Leto and Brick to the side. The killer was upon him and swept at him contemptuously. The strike slid on his spear before striking his helmet, to the side. Shock. Flaring runes. He was fine, still fine. Struck back. The power of his blow surprised the killer but not enough. He was too old. Still strong enough for that one. Would show him. The other five formed a backline. They were really compact now but vulnerable on the side. Leto blocked three strikes and countered, shield red from the heat of fire techniques. Brick swept with the flag even as a blade somehow twisted into her guard. The foes were trying to kill the Harrakans, Ban realized. Not disable.

The second line unleashed attack skills. Two of the foes were exposed and without their armor. They fell. The killer whistled and the unarmored ones moved to the flanks. Not enough people to hold the line. That was fine. He had held long enough.

“The Rose!” a voice yelled.

“AND THE THORNS!” others replied.

Music to his fucking ears.

Six knights crashed into the flanks of the Lutenian formation, their blades a blur. Fucking northerners were lucky Rollo was on foot or it would already be over. he signaled for the heavies to press forward. Ban wedged his shield against a light fighter and pushed with a roar. His strength multiplied for an instant. An opening. A foot of steel through the guts as promised. The killer managed to rotate his men though half a dozen were bleeding on the ground by then. He struck at Rollo who deflected the blow with a powerful swing that left the killer off balance. Ban signaled and the Harrakans spread out.

And then, Ban was pushed to the side.

He didn’t really feel anything except a pressure that seeped through his armor. The Lutenians were left sprawled on the ground. Some of the knights were picking themselves up with difficulty while Rollo stumbled back to his feet. Brick was fine. An aura? Ban pushed back the panic. This was… he couldn’t be sure but he thought it was a blademaster. Solar felt the same way. Only, Solar was on his side.

Not good.

“You will desist this instant. You are desecrating a sacred ground,” a bored and slightly annoyed voice said.

A man stood at a good distance, his face a pale mask around two large eyes that didn’t seem to blink. Cracks on the cobblestone extended from his feet to the flaring defenses of the manor on one side, and Rollo’s men in front. He had a sword strapped to his back and another to his hip, that one half drawn. Ban recognized the unsheathed one. It was the Sword of the Dragonslayer - a powerful artifact.

This was Selyen, champion of the Mornyr arena. The Dragonslayer Reborn.

“Drop your weapons immediately,” he said.

But Ban could not.

He was defending the manor and he was the tip of the spear.

He was oath-bond to stand his ground.

“The Imperial Guard never retreats, and never surrenders,” he replied more calmly than he felt.

The knights reformed behind him, except for Rollo who courageously stood slightly in front of him. They were both fucked and they knew it.

“I said, drop your weapons.”

A monstrous pressure fell on them like a wave. Ban grit his teeth. It was like facing something Arthur set on fire, the same feeling of doom. It didn’t change shit. He was what he was and he would have it no other way. Thanks to Brick, he wouldn’t have to.

“No.”

The man casually unsheathed his blade. An arc of pressured air smashed against the shields of the imperial guard. Runes flared and men pushed. For a moment, Ban thought it would not be enough but skill and determination let them interlock their shields and, against all odds, they held. As for Rollo, he simply cut through the shockwave.

“Unfortunate,” the man said.

Ban smiled. Selyen saw it and frowned. He slowly turned on himself.

The skies darkened. Color bled from reality, making Ban’s heavy armor turn from scruffy black steel to night made manifest. The monstrous pressure changed from a single weight on his shoulder to a contest of wills, like standing outside in a storm. Ban could not even hear himself breathe when the girl slowly floated down with those strange wings trailing behind her like wounds.

“I have been very patient so far. Do not make me reconsider,” she said to Selyen.

There was something cold and serpentine about the words, a certain finality to it, like hearing a priest talk about the gods. They sounded like they would become true and there was something oddly comforting about it,

“Stand aside. Your men have broken the law,” Selyen replied with frustration.

“You don’t know that yet.”

Ban watched anger finally twist the blade master’s pale features.

“Don’t make me teach you a lesson, spellcaster.”

“That’s ‘Empress’, not ‘spellcaster’. Let me rephrase. You will stand down until we understand what’s going on or I will cut you to fucking ribbons.”

Ban didn’t see what happened. One moment, the two were standing at a distance. The next, Selyen was almost to the girl with his blade drawn but he was caught in a sort of ball made from black blades, like her weird sword spell. They surrounded him entirely.

“I never bluff,” she said.

Yeah, the girl practiced with Solar. Trying to jump on her was fucking stupid.

The man didn't try to fight her off. Instead, a priest in Maranor robes sprinted in to calm things down. Ban reformed his men near the gate after exchanging a silent nod with Rollo. His old bones ached. His heart beat so hard he might have broken a rib. That was fine. The problem was now in the hands of the girl, just as he intended. No fancy shit, no heroics. His side was alive, the embassy was secure. He could ask for nothing more. He was the Tip of the Spear and he had done his job.
