Viv had expected some sort of amphitheater. Instead, the council took place in a large, well-lit room centered around a large round table. Agents in dark armor checked every chair even as they walked in. A skylight above their head let in the morning sun, and the warm rays shone on the arrow tips of bowmen. The Mornyr delegation was already sitting in contemplative calm. Garm was here, along with a placid man wearing the symbol of Maranor and a woman in an opulent dress who had to be representing Sardanal. They were the only delegation with three members as the third would act as the moderator for the show. The Glastians had sent a male scholar she didn’t know but also Shaya, a princess who didn’t hate Sidjin. Viv remembered Shaya had gathered her dueling team from mercenaries and outsiders back in Halluria. She smiled at Sidjin when he entered.

That always felt weird to Viv but whatever.

The next delegations came in one by one and in silence. King Erezak of Baran was the last one to sit, his white cloth shining as if basking in an inner light. There were now enough command auras in the room to inspire an army to charge into hell itself. So far, they formed an uneasy truce rather than clashing with each other. Given the average Paramese ego, Viv didn’t expect for it to last.

“Hello, and welcome to the summit of the Paramese alliance,” the priest of Maranor said confidently.

Viv tuned out the introductory remarks to focus on her surroundings. The room felt as crowded as an elevator during rush hour despite the sword-length space between different delegations. It made her feel on edge. The fact her danger sense remained quiet only increased her anxiety. Would everything just go to plan for once?

The speech finished with a short prayer to the gods, a chant joined by everyone present. Viv was no exception, only hers was less devotion and more an expression of support and, in Neriad’s case, concern. She finished with a silent prayer to Nous who remained unnamed. Maybe if she prayed enough, he would remove the vandal status.

She could only hope.

“Our first order is the recognition of New Harrak as a permanent member of the alliance. I welcome Viviane of Harrak, the Outlander, as its Empress.”

A wave of discomfort crossed the room. Viv really had to grow into her new position.

“Empress Viviane will propose her argument then as tradition, we will proceed to a vote. Every member will be offered a chance to justify their choice, following which the empress can offer a rebuttal and request a second vote. May the gods guide us with their wisdom during this historic occasion.”

In reality, those were as useful as Viv’s initial speech, on the same level of impact as butterfly farts and electoral promises. Viv kept her opening remark short and to the point as her peers would appreciate brevity. She merely stated that actions spoke louder than words and that Harrak was eager to join the alliance in stopping the threats to civilization, especially the one that came from the deadlands. There were polite nods when she was finished in appreciation of her rhetorical skills and the fact she’d not wasted everyone’s time.

By tradition, Mornyr was the first to vote. It was the woman who cast it.

“Mornyr represents many faiths, treasures different qualities, yet we all stand together in the defense of life and civilization. The Lady of the Deadlands has shown piety and understanding of all of them. Order was brought to the city, its institutions expanded and the rule of law upheld for all, both the powerful and the meek. Righteous war pushed the dead back while green things and hard working folks filled the void they left. The forces of Harrak have brought dignity to the fallen and punished those who would desecrate them. Finally, centers of learning already bloom in the cities of Kazar and Sinur’s Gate. I would dare say that luck is on your side.”

A flash of terror froze Viv’s chest. She managed not to look at the priest of Maranor. It was still a little early to get found out as Emeric’s protegee.

“As such, Mornyr votes in favor of acceptance. We bring our two votes to the tally.”

Two glass containers appeared in the middle of the table. Three white balls clicked at the bottom of the left one, two for Mornyr and one for Harrak.

The priestess indicated that Viv could now reply. She stood promptly.

“In the name of Harrak, we thank you for your trust. We will endeavor to uphold the ideals we share at all times.”

“Very well. As per tradition, Baran will now vote.”

The old king stood for a rather long-winded speech. He was the oldest person here and probably the highest-ranked one as well. Viv found herself drawn into his acclamation of the values of progress and the reclamation of lost lands for humanity. When he finished, Viv had to take a second to recover before she could respond.

“Harrak thanks you for your support. So long as you stand against the threats to our east, you will find us at your side.”

That was now ten votes in Viv’s favor and the game was already over. The revelation didn’t seem to shock anyone, though Viv had expected some last moment shenanigans. The Luten ambassador didn’t seem pleased. Actually, where was the old woman who had accompanied him during their meeting? She wasn’t here. Curious.

In any case, it was Enoria’s turn to vote next. Sangor didn’t hesitate.

“After careful consideration, we have decided to support Harrak’s claim. We hope to grow beyond our difficult start, one caused by traditionalist elements we have defeated since, and we hope to deepen our cooperation for the good of mankind and to push the deadlands back.”

This short declaration came like a thunderbolt on an empty sky. King Erezak turned his head like an owl spotting another predatory bird. Auras flashed, revealing nothing but surprise. Viv did her best to appear unaffected.

“We thank King Sangor for his support and we, too, hope that the gate network will bring safety and security to both our lands.”

There was a tense silence while people reassessed the situation. Viv wasn’t sure why, but apparently they’d expected her and Sangor to be at each other’s throat for the foreseeable future. Why would they think that? Did they believe she was a rabid vengeful bitch bent on total destruction?

Puh lease. She only slaughtered the guilty… and they were already dead!

“Ahem, I believe Helock should be next to vote?”

It would be pointless anyway. With thirteen white stones in her bottle, Harrak’s accession was as good as granted. Nevertheless, just as she was supposed to make speeches, the others were supposed to keep voting until the end. Protocol had to be observed.

“The citizens of Helock would like to reserve judgment at the time. We abstain.”

The ambassador gave Viv a curt nod. Unbelievable. And probably a last minute decision not to aggravate her for a cause that was already lost. She was given a chance to reply and chose not to do so. There was nothing insightful to add that she could think of. Thirteen for, none against.

Next was Luten, representing the Pure League. Viv expected a rather firm rebuttal and she was not disappointed.

“This woman has no interest in the future of humanity, or civilization. This is all a ploy and the evidence is all around you, yet you refuse to see it, blinded by the promises of portals and free deadland forts. I am telling you now though I am speaking in the wind: you will regret the day you offered her a place among you as the farmer regrets grabbing a snake. She is not fighting for you. She is fighting for herself, her own power, and she will pursue any means necessary to achieve her goals.”

Well he wasn’t completely wrong there.

“She speaks of civilization as if mankind was not its champion, yet she clads her men in birdbrain steel, hosts redskin brigands, and sends ahead of her the abominations of Halluria, the cursed hadals. Those are not, in case it wasn’t clear, the agents of civilization. On the contrary! Make no mistake, the future of humanity requires a cold mind and an iron grip on both ourselves and the lesser races. You all know this, and none of you stooped to the utter degeneracy of accepting inhuman rejects among the ranks of your advisors, yet you tolerate it in her. She is not one of us. She is an artisan of disorder and she will pollute your people by normalizing that which is obviously against nature. She is the crack in the edifice of our order. Her rule will be a getaway to audacious claims and divergent behavior. You embrace chaos today because the prize is too good. We cannot oppose you, but we pray you come to your senses before the rot sets in too deeply. Luten, as always, will remain the guardian of humanity and we formally oppose Harrak’s accession to the alliance. If it were up to us, they would be purged from our ranks with the gravest prejudice.”

The ambassador’s outburst left a heavy silence in its wake. It was Viv’s turn to offer a rebuttal. After the end of that fiery declaration, all eyes were fixed on her. According to most courtesy rules in the multiverse, she was well with the right to kick that asshole in the nads. Some of the elite guards had fingers inching towards their sheathed weapons, just in case. Viv wasn’t here for that. She was here to prove Harrak was a legitimate power, and legitimate powers didn’t resort to brawls.

They poisoned instead. Not that she would waste effort doing it.

Instead of blowing up, Viv gave the fuming ambassador a polite smile.

“I fear Luten’s principles and our own cannot be reconciled. I do not value their opinion, and so I see no point in arguing with them.”

The collective auras relaxed as if twenty people were taking a breath. Her last jab was meant to infuriate the ambassador and it worked as intended, which was all Viv wanted. There was no need to waste energy on that bozo. She would visit the Kark lands soon enough, and then… but that was for later. For now the votes were thirteen to two in her favor with two abstentions,

The next city to vote was Zesthanet to the south. Their representative was the palest man Viv had seen, with white hair to match which she found a bit strange because he was quite young. He made a nice speech on the need to help each other to expand which Viv thanked him for. It was no secret they aligned with Baran on every vote which led to a fourteen to two advantage. That left only Glastia. Princess Shaya smiled warmly at her brother, well, half-brother.

“With regard to Prince Sidjin’s significant contribution to the defense of Glastia as well as the punishment he endured, the city has decided to offer him amnesty. We are proud to support the claim of a nation that would have one of our scions as ruling consort, and we will look forward to working together against our foes.”

“Thank you,” Viv replied. “Rest assured that I will personally lead our military to rid your walls of the beastling tide during the next offensive.”

Final result: fifteen to two. Harrak’s claim was validated beyond any doubt. A wave of relief washed away Viv’s stress. No nation could just casually invade her without the others piling on. Her merchants and citizens now had legal status all across the continent, protecting them from easy abuse. Her young mages could join the Academy without hassle, her soldiers could transit without being seen as bandits. Refugees could no longer be stopped at the border without diplomatic repercussions.

Harrak was legitimized.

And then the relief was swept away by dread. Viv stood up abruptly, drawing the full attention of the representatives.

The defensive wards on her manor strained.

“Prince Sidjin has my full confidence for the deadland forts issue. Now if you will excuse me, my embassy is under attack.”

***

Harrakan embassy, two minutes earlier.

Two minutes to the patrol turning the right corners and then twelve to the change of guards. Increase water rations because it was hot as an oven here. Ban checked the roofs around him one more time. Had to thank Irao properly for his training at some point.

He hated standing guard. Unmoving defenses were just scarecrows waiting for a good kicking, but appearances were important for rich assholes and the girl needed him to look good. So he would look good and fancy in that Enttiku-cursed black armor.

He stole a glance towards Brick. Still fine holding that huge flag. Good.

“Sir?”

Leto pointed to the right. A woman was running towards him at full speed.

Absolutely not good.

[Diplomat, not dangerous]

The analysis skill filled him with impressions. She wasn’t a warrior at all, not that it mattered. Always some cornudon shit going on with the girl around.

“Leto, general alert. Quietly. Brick, you stay with me.”

“Yessir!” the two replied.

The third guard was already running back inside. Ban looked right. A minute thirty seconds. The old woman was upon them so he had a better look. White hair, rich but frumpy clothes. Sagging skin and deep set eyes that come with exhaustion. Not normal. His instinct flared. He turned to face her and she didn’t let him open his mouth.

“Asylum? Asylum, please?”

“Who are you?”

“It’s urgent!”

“Who. Are. You?”

“Gah! Sen Meneteleon. Envoy, well, ex-envoy of Luten to Mornyr. Please let me in!”

Soldiers rounded the bend at high speed. Two dozens, half heavily armored and the rest in relaxed attire. All armed. Same style of clothes as the ex-envoy. Here for her, as clear as a Cornudon turd on a wedding dress.

What to do? The girl wasn’t here to decide. Solfis and Irao were out. Needed a split-second decision.

Ban fucking hated it. That was diplomacy. He was a damn guard.

“Surrender oath now or you’re on your —”

“I surrender under the laws of war. By all the gods. I am at your mercy.”

Fuck.

