With long historical precedent, skill orbs found in an exploration were usable by the crew members and they could choose not to for an extra payout from the buyer. Such came about because it was impossible for the buyer to be sure someone hadn’t absorbed a copy of the skill in transit without checking. Instead of forcing the issue, they offered additional payouts of eighty percent of the fair market for the skill to anyone who could prove they didn’t absorb the skill in-transit via spiritual inspection.

For rare and valuable skills, or ones that didn’t have a skill shard equivalent, that value could be astronomical.

For the crew, the problem was the skill they had found was quite possibly an explorer’s single most-wished-for ability.

Accidents happened and in fights the winning side’s seekers could die, leaving a vessel to navigate blindly with only general energy levels to guide them. It didn’t happen often but it happened.

Few such teams safely made it back to settled space and the ones that did were often traumatized by the experience.

With an ability to know where a set point was, any exploration team would pay handsomely just for that added sense of security.

The issue arose in that while more than one person with the skill in a crew was useful, the usefulness was greatly reduced. Guild’s contracts weren’t ironclad, so any of the crew members could take their newfound skill and start their own team or join someone else's. But Lila’s guild was one of the best, a guild they had fought to get into, and if they took the skill, they might get put into new teams and ships, breaking up long standing groups to maximize their newfound value.

Matt’s thoughts went along similar lines.

He didn’t intend to sell; rather, he’d prefer they use it as a betting tool with the other Ascenders.

They all explored chaotic space somewhat regularly, and would bet handsomely against them for the opportunity at the skill. Not to mention its sheer exclusivity, they could get a lot out of it if they played their cards right and made smart bets.

That was if Lila didn’t just take it from them. Her dragonnic nature to hoard meant she had really interesting items they might not be able to resist. The skill would be perfect for her guild and in that case, it might be worth not taking the skill himself for the additional payout.

Probably not, but he considered it.

Ultimately the allure of a new spell intrigued him too much and he, like everyone else in their group of seven, pressed his finger to the skill and directed it into his inner spirit, near his core.

The sensation of absorbing the skill was strange.

Normally, when a skill entered a cultivator's spirit, they were doing exactly that. Taking the very skill structure from the skill shard and bringing it into their spirit.

The skill orb didn’t do that at all.

Rather, the skill appeared in his spirit as if it had always been there.

It wasn’t Matt’s first time absorbing a skill from a skill orb but it always felt strange and he liked to try and glean more information about the process.

Beside him, Liz pulled back her finger and said dramatically, “I chickened out and put it in my outer spirit. Once everyone who wants the skill takes it, I’ll maybe go for a second and see how it gets converted.”

Matt, unbothered by his own failure, shrugged. “I’m just going to play with my new skill and not talk about the chance that any use of the orb is its last.”

That earned him a glare from pretty much everyone until Matt warded away the superstition with a gesture.

Along with everyone else, Matt cast the spell he was tentatively calling [Home].

Ignoring its stretched and distorted appearance, the spell was of a different design philosophy and that became clear when he sent mana into it. Instead of a quick and snappy response as his mana entered the skill structure to let him aim or interact with the spell, Matt had to wait for the entire skill to be flooded for it to activate at all.

When it did, he was surprised to find he didn’t have intent controls at all like modern skills.

The skill had the magical equivalent of two buttons. Pressing the one that took precedence in his mind, Matt was once more surprised to find the skill didn’t place a spiritual marker like most tethering skills. Rather, [Home] captured a dozen snapshots of the space he was standing in and imprinted it into the skill’s structure, so there wasn’t an active mana cost, just a small reserve, in a manner Matt couldn’t hope to follow even if those very structures weren’t a tangled mess.

Interestingly enough, even when the skill was in its passive reserved mode, Matt could feel the spot he marked. It was like a general awareness that would easily fade into his background awareness if he wanted it to but could be brought to the center of his attention if he desired.

By sending more mana into the skill, he activated the other ‘button’.

As Allie said, it gave him an understanding of how best to return to his saved point. In his case, it told him he had already arrived.

Pulling his mana from the reserve portion of the spell, Matt felt his connection to the spot fade.

As the crew members decided if they wanted to absorb the skill or not, the five of them immediately started looking to see if they could afford to buy out everyone else so they could bet a usage of the orb with the other Ascenders.

Given the low percentage they had to pay out to the ship and crew, they could manage it, but claiming the orb even between the seven of them might cost them quite a lot of other value, even ignoring the payouts to the crewmembers who chose not to absorb the skill.

Thankfully, most of the crew ended up taking the skill, knowing they might not get another chance for a long time.

Eventually the skill would start to make its way back into rift drop tables the moment any of them entered a rift, just as if the skill was a truly newly created skill, but even for a Tier 14 skill that might take a long time, let alone a Tier 20. Considering the distance the skill seemed to work at and that it worked across chaotic space, Matt would bet [Home] was closer to Tier 44 than 14 when it did get found as a reward.

Given the complicated nature of the skill, no one would be making one with Rah’s methods either.

Sadly, when Liz reabsorbed the skill for a second time and brought it into her inner spirit, where her Tier 1 Talent affected skills, the skill simply shattered under the transformation.

They hadn’t expected it to transform, let alone the skill to be good, but it was still a loss given that skill orbs had an unknown amount of times they could be used before they too broke.

Some skills orbs had been used tens of thousands of times and others broke on the third usage with no one being able to tell what caused it or when it would happen.

Given the nature of the skill, Matt expected Allie to insist they wait around but instead she replied, “Nah we don’t have to stay, let’s leave. We got everything interesting.”

Matt could tell she was fucking with them and wanted someone to ask but none of them were willing to give her the satisfaction.

Aster, with a glint in her eye, looked over to Rah instead of giving into Allie’s games. “Rah, do you have any idea what she is hinting at? You're the skill master here.”

Rah looked at Allie who gave him a challenging smirk.

With his own quieter but no less challenging quirk of the lips, Rah replied, “I assume the spell's method of recording the location is enough to work with her ability to create waypoints allowing her to passively pick up waypoints as we travel. Normally I wouldn’t think such a coincidence is likely but given her attitude and that she was the one who was right at every turn, I have no reason to suspect this is anything but a fated opportunity for Allison and as such went with the best case outcome I could think of.”

Allie's jaw dropped.

She didn’t even play the act up, rather she looked honestly surprised and everyone caught it and realized what that might mean.

Aster immediately pounced and asked. “Is that true?”

Finally getting control over herself, Allie shook her head. “I fucking wish! I’m going to need to modify the skill before I can do that but it's more about exposing more of my spirit to the skill’s recordings than anything else. Even after the modification, at best I see myself being able to slowly gain the waypoint as if I was spending a lot of time at the marked spot.”

That meant she wouldn’t be able to force a second waypoint to appear if they found a more interesting location without canceling the skill or waiting for it to finish.

And that was if Allie was correct at all and if her modifications worked.

Matt personally believed in her and her tendency to do the impossible.

She’d figure it out eventually and like she said, she was already deeply connected with her waypoints so she didn’t actually need the skill for its original purpose like everyone else.

That settled, they re-entered chaotic space only a few hours behind where they wanted to be and still well ahead of most of the other teams.

Sadly, most wasn’t all.

As they entered the world Magnus’ Talent said was valuable enough to explore as a main target, they found another team. They had only recently arrived and were still setting up a more thorough exploitation setup than the Unsparing usually did on the world below. They clearly wanted to delve the rifts for the first clear business as well as loot the over worlds Natural treasures.

If the numbers they saw were representative, it looked like a fully mobilized guild was staking their claim to the Tier 19 world and intended to not only take the overworld items but the first delve rewards as well.

The main ship was a dozen times larger than theirs and made entirely out of Tier 36 materials.

It also had dozens of smaller ships that ranged in Tier from Tier 15 all the way up to Tier 37.

The instant they entered real space and the others saw them, said group went on high alert ready to defend their world.

The Unsparring was on high alert as well given that they were entering a yet un-scouted system, but they weren’t faster than several higher Tier spiritual perceptions waves that tried to probe past the shielding the Unsparing had installed.

Annoyingly, they didn’t even get to bluff their way through as the guild was the same one whose exploration team they had looted a few months ago.

Gladstone's Exploration Pack.

Their pilot didn’t wait around to see what the other group had to say and immediately tore back into chaotic space and took off in their prearranged escape route.

Matt watched the sensor readings as they flew away at their best cruising speed.

Sadly, it wasn’t enough.

Or rather, their opponents were determined to pressure them.

Two Tier 30 ships exited into chaotic space and then a moment later were followed by two Tier 35 ships.

All four ships immediately turned and followed their wake.

The two Tier 30 ships were slower than them with their current speed and they almost immediately recognized that fact and turned around, leaving them to be chased by the two Tier 35 ships, which seemed to keep up with them easily enough.

Matt watched for any other surprises and was happy to see the mothership and guild leadership hadn’t decided to chase after them.

Their cannoneer called out, asking for permission to fire their rear facing cannons, which Matt finally noticed were the same size as the rest of the weapons, which went against most ship design conventions. It was overkill for most ships but he chalked it up to Lila being Lila and pissing enough people off that she liked having really big cannons protecting her rear.

No matter the reason, Matt was happy to have them there.

Their captain looked at them but Zack just waved. In minute-to-minute ship combat, they weren’t going to interfere with the experts. Not when none of them had any real experience with it.

Before any shots were fired, a message was sent to them from one of the ships. “I am Vice Pack Leader, Vincent Arbon. We only want a reasonable remuneration for our guildmates' pain and suffering. Give us everything you took from the world you pushed our people out of and we will let you go.”

Matt was still formulating a proper response when Allie called out through a comms channel with a cocky grin, “Eat my ass!”

In-person, she however added, “Fire at will! Fuck these guys, we aren’t giving them shit!”

The cannoneer didn’t wait for a second command and immediately started firing.

Their first shot was a massive deep topaz-colored beam which tore a hole in chaotic space as it raced across the massive distance between the two groups of ships.

The beam was noticeably weaker when it arrived but there was still enough energy that it turned one of the Tier 35 ships’ shield opaque as it slammed into it. They took the blow head-on without diverting, while the second ship, seemingly waiting for them to attack, returned fire.

Having already encountered the same guild once before, they were ready when the two ships had cannons way larger than typical and it was only thanks to their pilots’ skill they dodged the massive blast of energy.

The Unsparing immediately sped up to its true best speeds but the two higher-Tier ships refused to let go of their trail, using their higher-Tier engines and materials to match their technological advantage and steadily close the gap.

At the sight, Matt felt surprisingly helpless, which was a new feeling for him.

He was relying on higher Tiers to do a lot of work, both fighting and fleeing; and he didn’t quite like it. Given how he wasn't a pilot and he couldn't easily fight in chaotic space this energetic, there was little else that he could do.

