Keeping his Concept running, he ensured everyone on the ship was able to donate their passive regen to the ship’s stores, allowing them to slow the rate at which they burned through their energy reserves.

Those reserves took a noticeable dip when their luck finally ran out and one of the trailing ships landed a direct hit.

Being both oversized and over-Tiered, the shot knocked down their shields. It didn’t have enough energy to damage the hull but it didn’t need to. Chaotic space rushed in and tore at their ship's physical structure the moment the shields went down.

The maintenance crewmembers got the shields back up and running in less than a second but the damage was done and their hull and external components took non-trivial damage.

Almost immediately, they lost about three percent maximum speed from their engines as components were scared from their exposure.

Even before their engines were damaged, they were only keeping ahead by burning a lot of mana and every hit that forced them to fully rebuild the shielding would drain even more.

Their captain called out a few orders but their cannoneer and pilot were already perfectly in sync. Mostly their commands kept the rest of the crew busy and preparing for the worst case scenario.

Matt did notice that their cannoneer was very good. That shouldn’t have been a surprise, given he was the best Lila’s guild had to offer, but he hit three out of four shots even through the other ships’ desperate doges. If they had been closer, or if they had comparatively stronger weapons, he would have taken both ships out on his own, but it took him two shots, hitting one after the other, to break their shields. He had done so to one ship twice, trying to force them out of the chase and give them some breathing room but the chasing ships had started cycling which ship led the charge instead of letting the Unsparing do as they pleased.

They had been targeted by big fish.

Not only big fish but a proper guild’s big fish.

Despite being far more freeform, the various exploration teams could be ranked similar to the Realm’s various armies, with the more prestigious units, or rather exploration groups or guides, generally being stronger, better combatants, or just better equipped than comparable but less-well-known teams.

Gladstone's Exploration Pack wasn’t a top-level group, but they were well established and had good ships, which meant with their five Tier difference between ships, they were close to being overwhelmed at the first mistake.

Thankfully, Lila had continued to adjust her ship as she Tiered up and that meant, despite being made out of Tier 30 components, she had used the best she could steal or salvage off her enemies’ ships. That, combined with spending mana like it was free, kept them far enough ahead of their pursuers that they were still able to dodge most shots.

They didn’t necessarily need or want a kill on their opponents but they needed to make it clear they weren't pushovers, even if they were lower Tiers.

After talking it over, Matt and everyone else followed Allie and Zack as they headed to one of the hatches. He didn’t need to follow them but neither had anyone else and Matt didn’t want to be the only one sitting on the bridge.

Opening the hatch exposed the other Ascender team to the remnants of chaotic space trapped in their fragile mana barrier but they easily healed through the acid-like damage.

They had all practiced and could shut the door fast enough if the barrier went down and they were in real danger.

Looking backward, Matt used his [AI] to overlay the pursuing ships for the duo, wanting to help where he could.

Zack created a harpoon of deeply pearlescent swirling energy that screamed danger to Matt’s everything.

Then, before they could ruin their own ship by letting the free-cast bomb detonate, Zack tossed it through Allie’s accelerator spell.

An instant later, the arcane spell impacted the rear ship's shields with a bright explosion as it materialized in its shields with no warning at all, just a moment before the Unsparing’s own cannon fire arrived.

Seeing the success, as large portions of the ship's hull went flying and both ships peeled off, Matt clapped Zack on the back, even as Aster grumbled to Allie who immediately started preening again.

Not a combat-useful spell given how long it took even Zack to create, the arcane spear wasn’t meant to deal damage directly. Rather, it was a design Zack had come up with during his downtime after the war. Created with a specific mix of unstable combinations of mana, held together by his Talent, when they came in contact with mana shields, it caused utter and unadulterated havoc.

The yet-unnamed spell wasn’t a shield breaker in the traditional sense, as those spells usually tried to overload the shield projector. Rather, the particular concoction of energies didn’t like homogeneous mana types and when it came into contact with something as uniform as a mana shield, they reacted violently, sending a wave of the arcane mixture through the rest of the shield, further destabilizing it.

For all of its advantages, the spell came with a downside. Mainly that it didn’t affect the projector and the crew could reestablish the shields fairly quickly if they cycled them properly.

Still, it had been enough and allowed their cannoneer to cause serious damage and the second Gladstone's Exploration Pack ship had chosen to save their comrades rather than continue to chase them down.

Without running another set of divinations from their seekers, they were flying a little blind, but they still had some of the less valuable planets marked and chose another one of them that was deeper into the breach, hoping to get back ahead of the other guilds.

Matt took the reminder of their relative power for what it was and made a note to remind everyone they needed to rein in their bravado before it cost them severely.

That and he needed to encourage the rest of the crew to donate more mana so they could fly at their max speed longer without it looking suspicious.
