“Seems real.” Lute looked toward the park. “Can I say something that kind of sounds wrong? And then you can pretend I didn’t. It’s like I’ve been needing to say it out loud, but it’s weird.”

“I promise I’ll forget it by tomorrow.”

“I can be so unbelievably powerful,” said Lute, almost in a burst.  “On the night I saved my dad, I crushed asphalt under my feet. I bent metal bars with my bare hands. I could see in the dark. I saw all these scared faces looking down from the rooftops when I was running through F, and I realized I was stronger than all of them. I saw the faces of the guards keeping people off the Span when I sailed over their heads, and they couldn’t touch me.”

He breathed in. “Okay. Thanks. Now, forget I said it. Anyway, you knew some of that already, and you saw me being a human slug for several consecutive days recently, so I hope you don’t think I’m bragging.”

“You brag so much about the dumbest stuff. Why would I think it was bragging when you say something legitimately awesome?”

“I don’t brag.”

“The whole time you folded polar bears you were bragging about doing origami faster than me!”

“That doesn’t count.”

“Haoyu and I thought you were going to change your name to Elite for a while after you got that acceptance letter.”

“I am Elite Lute. One of the chosen few.”

Alden rolled his eyes and started walking. “You’re fine. Come on, chosen one. I’ll buy you lunch. I don’t know why you think you’re going to surprise me talking about your feats of superhuman strength. I’m the one who said you might be a hyperbole one day.”

“Bite your tongue off. No I won’t.”

“Hyperboles can’t tell people to bite their tongues. It’s too threatening.”

Lute’s steps had a bounce to them. “Let me look up what food is here. There was a pho stall last year that was delicious.”

“Can I ask you one question about what you just said, though?” Alden said when they reached the edge of the market and blended into the crowd. “Not a really serious one, but I’m in question mode these days when it comes to my future and other people’s. Careers. Lifestyles. Ways of being a person. You know…”

“I’m not sure I do know, but yes to the question part.”

“What are you going to do with it?” Alden looked at him. “All that power. What will you do with it other than your job on the Triplanets? Not now, but when you’re old. Like thirty-five.”

“Thirty-five is old? You clearly didn’t grow up among would-be immortals.” Lute stood on his tiptoes to try to see over the sea of heads in front of them. “I plan to make music. Somehow and somewhere. When it comes to the power I was just talking about that you promised to forget…probably nothing. It hasn’t been a big part of my life except for that one night when I really needed it. And I’m not sure I want more of it. Can’t I still be Lute Velra—harpist? Instead of Lute Velra—pavement destroyer.”

“Of course you can. The world would lose something if you gave up on harpist.”

The words came easily. They were true. But Lute’s answer left Alden without much to hold onto.

He realized he’d been hoping, a little, that the most powerful human he’d met in his age bracket would provide him with a flash of insight into his own soul.

That was a lot of expectation to put on another person, he chided himself. Just be normal for the afternoon, why don’t you?

He started looking around for gifts to get Kibby.

******
