He’d left his shopping bag from the toy store behind the counter at the mask shop, but he still had his messenger bag with him. He pulled his tablet out and turned on the camera feature. He saw storefronts, a man with high speed points running on the street, and the glint of sunlight off the silver bell on a passing bike.

No Lute.

“You don’t show up on this either,” he informed the apparently empty air where Lute had been standing. Tucking the tablet away again, he looked at the map of the neighborhood that the girl had sent them. Several local shops and one restaurant within the rental zone welcomed people wearing the mask to come play pranks or steal things, as long as nothing was damaged and items were paid for or returned when the mask rental was over.

Alden was surprised that it didn’t cause more trouble than it was worth to the businesses, but he set off toward the mask-friendly shoe store, occasionally moving randomly in one direction or another in an attempt to find and tag Lute. That behavior earned him a stare from one passing woman. Wow…so unfair. I was shouting in the street a minute ago, but now that I’m being quiet, people are all judgy about a little extra motion.

He’d almost reached the store when Lute appeared again, lying on the sidewalk right in front of Alden so that he almost tripped.

“What if I’d kicked you in the face?”

“But you didn’t. You leaped to spare me.” Lute held out the mask. “Your turn.”

The scratch of concrete against his fingers, the cool dampness against his face—Alden became Anesidora again. He wore the mask into the shoe store while Lute browsed.

At first, he just walked back and forth in front of the few people inside, marveling at the total lack of reaction. Then he sat down beside a man who was trying on dress shoes, wondering if he’d notice the depression of the bench cushion.

He fogged a mirror with his breath and wrote, “Hello!” on it. He knocked over a platform sandal. The employee who was bringing a shoebox to Lute heard the sound of the sandal falling and looked Alden’s way, but there was no sign of suspicion on her face.

Lute, of course, was grinning

These are superhumans who can’t tell I’m moving around right in front of their noses. This mask is like being given S-rank talents you can take on and off. Making this sort of thing must be insanely—

[Video Call from Twenty-seven Hundred and Sixty-second General Evul-art’h, Artona I.

Connection fee waived.]

Stuart?

Alden had assumed the Primary’s son would be sticking around LeafSong for a few days. He texted Lute to let him know he was taking a call, and Lute nodded in almost the right direction.

“Answer,” Alden said.

Stuart was in his family’s manuscript library again, this time with a collection of materials on a table in front of him. His content smile turned into a startled expression. “Alden, what are you wearing on your face?”

“It’s a mask that hides me from others. Of course it doesn’t work on the Contract, so you can see me on this call. But none of the people in this store know I’m here. Look.”

He walked over to Lute and jumped up and down.

“They don’t hear me if I shout. They don’t notice my footsteps. I tried stomping as hard as I could, and nobody looked.”

“What are you hiding for?” Stuart sounded concerned.

“I’m not really. It’s just an object you can borrow from the creator, to experience. Lute and I are shopping together today, and he wanted me to see this. It’s called the Anesidora mask. It only works here.”

“I think I know what that is, then,” said Stuart. “Masks like that increase your belonging within an environment. That one must be strong or designed specifically for sneakiness. You wouldn’t be able to shout in an ordinary one without being noticed. They’re a casting tool.”

Alden’s attention sharpened at that. “They are?”

“Yes. If the magic a wizard wants to do will be affected by the strength of their connection to a place or element, they can use something like that to help.”

“That’s interesting.” He tucked the information away in his small but growing mental file of wizard knowledge that might one day be useful.

“I called,” said Stuart, “because I wanted to hear how your most recent MPE class went. But it seems like this isn’t a good time.”

“MPE again?” Alden strolled down the nearest aisle. “Wednesday’s class wasn’t as exciting as Monday’s, so I don’t have much to talk about. Do you really like watching me practice like that?”

Stuart’s interest in Alden’s gym classes didn’t seem to be fading. During their last conversation, when Alden had recounted his defeat of Winston and shared videos of his different duels, the Artonan boy had asked even more questions than he had in the past about everyone’s talents and what Alden thought of those talents. Maybe he was becoming an Avowed dueling fan.

We’re like the ultimate amateur version of Brutal Ring specials. Got to get all the character details and rivalries straight in your head to fully appreciate our fights.

“I enjoy it,” said Stuart. “Seeing that class may also show me things about Avowed abilities and how you use them that wouldn’t be clear to me otherwise.”

“I’d be happy to talk to you about it. Not right now, since it would be rude to Lute, and we have a limited amount of time to keep the mask. Will later be…?”

The appearance of a small creature on the sleeve of Stuart’s coat made Alden trail off. He watched it climb slowly up Stuart’s arm toward his shoulder.

“Later will be fine,” said Stuart. “If you send me a message when you have time, I’ll call promptly.”

“There’s a klerm on your arm.”

Stuart looked at the wrong arm.

“The other one. Climbing your sleeve.”

Stuart let out a chirp as he spotted it, and the klerm responded with its infamous skeeeek-skeeeek sound. Stuart grabbed it, his cupped hands barely muffling the noise. “It must have gotten into one of my pockets! Why didn’t the teleport leave it at school?”

He cracked his hands open to give the klerm a suspicious look.

“Maybe it’s one of the ones you saved the other day. It wanted to thank you.”

“It’s probably one of the ones I saved today,” Stuart said, still focused on his hands.

Alden stopped beside a table full of women’s athletic shoes. The company’s slogan, in bold typography on the sign at the center of the table, was, “Add magic to your run.” Which was a little bit funnier on Anesidora than it would have been in other places.

“You’re still saving them? You don’t have to do that for me, you know.”

“I’m not doing it for you. I did it for you the first day. But now I can’t stop noticing every time I pass a plant that’s caught one, and if I don’t try to help it, I think about death and pain and you in my next class. Which is <<detrimental to learning>>. So I just rescued all of them today.”

“I’m sorry, Stuart,” Alden said, smiling. I made him worry about the campus bug zapper.

“It’s my own fault. Paying overmuch attention to something like this…I am <<prone>> to it.”

“You’re just making the river safer. For klerms.”

Stuart blinked. “Yes,” he said after a while. “I’ll submit this act of great service to the Grand Senate for recognition.”

“Do it,” said Alden. “I’ll talk to you later.”

Stuart was chortling when the call ended, and the klerm in his hands was still making its racket.

Alden was glad they were going to talk again soon, but he was a little distracted by how tight and icy cold the mask had gotten.

Trying to ignore it, he grabbed the “Add magic to your run” sign, walked out of the store, and let Lute know via text that they had successfully robbed the joint.

When Lute came out, Alden attempted to startle him by grabbing him from behind. He barely gasped.

I blame Aimi Velra, Alden thought. She has a history of grabbing people and hauling them away. She must have done it too many times to Lute when he was younger, and now he’s numb to this sort of scare.

“You stole an advertisement?” Lute asked when Alden had taken off the mask and showed him his prize. “I can do so much better than that.”

“The restaurant’s closest, but according to the rules, we’re only allowed to mess with the bread baskets there, so I don’t see how.”

“Watch me in action,” said Lute. “Evil is in my blood.”

A few minutes later, while Alden watched through a restaurant window, Lute managed to balance several baskets of bread on top of bottles and chair backs before one of the servers, who’d seemed unaware that anything was going on, suddenly spun and nailed him with a high speed brioche bun.

Alden only knew the woman had aimed accurately because the bread ricocheted off of something he couldn’t see before it hit the floor.

<<Got the ghost!>> she shouted. The other servers and a few of the diners cheered for her.

“That Brute throws so hard,” Lute complained, rubbing his stomach as he and Alden raced away. “And I think she set that last bottle there as a trap for me. She was the one who put it on the table.”

The restaurant wasn’t the only place where the employees considered catching their masked visitors to be a sport. Alden thought he had very smoothly nabbed a caboose from a shop that sold model train supplies, but then foam discs started flying at him as he approached the door.

“I’m a Longsight!” shouted the guy shooting the discs out of a toy gun. “I’ve got my eye on everything in this shop. Are you with the thief, blond boy?”

“No, I don’t know him.”

“How do you know it’s a him, then?”

“I meant…what thief?” A disc bounced off the back of Lute’s head as he took off.

“The locals have gotten so much more aggressive since the last time I did this,” he said later, biting into the last of his smashed brioche bun while they regrouped by a post drop and reviewed their ill-gotten goods. “I’m into it, though.”

“Me too,” said Alden. “Our time’s almost up. Do we return everything on our way back?”

“Unless you want to keep that unicorn shower cap forever.”

“I’ll add it to the class gift basket. Gotta put one really special luxury item in there to show off my amazing taste.”

He’d be buying the caboose, too. It looked like the one Boe had found the lost kid trying to camp out behind. Alden thought giving him something to remind him he was definitely not a “scumbag type” was the right thing to do.

Lute let Alden wear Anesidora while they made their purchases and returns, and they were back out in front of the mask shop with a couple of minutes to spare.

“Hey, does my face feel like it’s freezing to you?” Alden asked.

He’d wondered if the feeling would fix itself, since it hadn’t been quite as strong at the beginning of their adventure. But it hadn’t.

“From the mask?” Lute reached up and pressed the back of his hand to Alden’s forehead. “Normal temperature. I think…that chill isn’t real. It’s just something some wearers experience.”

They headed inside.

The girl welcomed them, and Alden watched her check the mask before she put it back in its case. “Honestly, what would it cost to buy it?”

“Honestly? The last custom piece my grandfather made for a human was around six million.” She put the mask back under the glass counter. “And it took him a year and a half to get all the supplies together and do the work. Wizards keep him moderately busy, and he doesn’t need jobs, so he’ll only take on new projects he finds inspiring. I don’t think he’ll ever sell the Anesidora mask for any price. It’s part of his art to let people use it this way, and our neighborhood enjoys it.” She looked at him. “You’re pretty new to the island, aren’t you? How was it for you?”

“It was good,” he said. “Really fun.”

Alden and Lute bought a few normal pieces before they left. They selected a red and green half mask for Lute to wear to the Christmas market and a green and gold one for Alden. Then they chose a couple of the strangest masks they could find for the class gift basket.

“All right,” Lute said as they walked out. “I was going to swing by <<White Shop>>. Everything there is white, and they magically recolor it for you before you leave. That might take time away from other places, though. Do you want to skip it?”

“I’d rather do the market and the Fetuna importers,” said Alden. “And there’s a specialty skateboard place I looked up online while you were balancing bread.”

“For Haoyu?”

“I thought I’d get him a more Brute-proof board.”

Soon enough, they were approaching the park where Alden had met up with the parkour club. It had been turned into a bustling market of tents, tables, and domes. People were heading in with eager expressions and heading out with shopping bags, painted faces, and giant spice cookies shaped like snowflakes or trees.

He and Lute put on their Christmas masks. Alden had to tie his at the back to secure it instead of simply resting it against his face like he had the enchanted one.

“My face used to feel like it was freezing,” Lute said suddenly. “When I wore the Anesidora mask. Today, it was only a little cold.”

They both paused.

“Does it know how at home we feel here?” Alden asked.

“I think it’s like that, yeah. I had my heart set on getting away for a long time. You’ve only been here a few months. It would make sense.”

“It would.”

Lute shrugged. “I guess it’s fine that I’m more at home than I was. Despising the country you live in can’t be good for a person.”

“If you stain the rug in our living room ninety-nine more times, you’ll truly become one with Anesidora. It’s a spell I heard about.”

