Faelorian chuckled. "Are you more stupid than I thought? The ground is soaked in desolation. Shovel's turn to rust, and my techniques rot and wither away. Everything the All-Seeing Eye touches turns to dust," he pointed at his head, "including my mind, apparently."

"Why didn't you try this first?" she asked curiously.

Faelorian glared up at her. "Did you not listen to my story? I briefly captured one of the dark god's heralds for merely a few minutes and earned a marking for death. Do you really think the All-Seeing Eye won't smite me down when I cut one of his roots?!"

"Smite down a Monarch like you in your own house? Please, be serious," Mistress Veilshade chuckled. Monarchs didn't die, not that easily, at least. She knew Faelorian had spare bodies ready to harbor his soul and many life-saving artifacts. It would take the All-Seeing Eye showing up directly to threaten him even a little.

Faelorian shook his head and went back to his work without another word. A silence settled between the two for a while until Faelorian seemed to strike what he was looking for. Pulling away the earth, he exposed an ethereal, almost ghostly-looking root filled with a suspiciously familiar black liquid.

The cursed sap I found at the sap harvesting outpost? Mistress Veilshade's eyes widened, but she didn't warn Faelorian. She was curious to see what would happen next.

Desolation, as thick as smoke, billowed off the root and into the room with a hiss. Both of them instinctively protected themselves with auras of Qi while the rest of the room began to crumble around them.

"Finally," Faelorian whispered under his breath as he withdrew an axe from his spatial ring. It began to immediately degrade. Not wasting any time, Faelorian struck down with the might of a Monarch, only to barely manage to cut through the root. Grunting, he shrouded the axe in Qi this time and struck again and again. The entire building quaked with each strike.

The root turned out to be far thicker than either of them had expected. It was like cutting into an underground tunnel.

Just as Faelorian was about to cut halfway through the entire root, he struck the section containing the black sap. The moment the sap came into contact with the air, it violently bubbled and turned into a miasma that flooded the room.

Mistress Veilshade instantly recognized that this sap acted far differently from the one she had trialed a few days ago. It was violent and engulfed the room in a fashion that suggested sentience, like a swarm of insects.

Faelorian screamed in pain and fell to his knees as the miasma seemingly worked alongside the desolation and engulfed him.

Mistress Veilshade had seen enough. She swiftly encased herself in shadows and evacuated. The miasma continued to seek her out as she wove through the house. Still, she managed to outrun it by leaving the residence, rocketing into the sky, and putting the defensive formation of the building between herself and the miasma. Even from outside, she could hear Faelorian's howls of pain.

The trapped miasma hissed angrily against the formation's green aura before switching targets and swarming toward the terrified guards. No matter their level of cultivation, they were unable to fight back. She watched in silence as the guards fell to the ground in agony, only for their skin to turn ashen and their bodies to slowly morph into bark.

"That was unexpected," Mistress Veilshade muttered as she watched the horrors unfold beneath her. "While this miasma has no hope of killing Faelorian, it's concerning how much more violent it is compared to before."

She stayed there in the air, pondering what to do for a while longer when her sixth sense for danger told her something terrible was about to happen. Listening to it, she shot further into the sky and activated all of her life-saving artifacts.

The following seconds felt agonizingly long as she poised herself to respond to any threat.

Yet nothing could have prepared her for what happened next.

Just as Faelorian had prophesied moments earlier, the All-Seeing Eye didn't seem to appreciate having its root cut and answered with the wrath of a slumbering dark god.

The ground erupted, showing that everything until now... had merely been a hint of the dark god's true power.
