Jake knew that there was no fucking way Arnold had any sacred skills, and even if there was another rarity above mythical, perhaps parallel to sacred just without the divine aspect, Jake seriously doubted Arnold would have managed to-

”No, all of them remained the same as before my evolution,” Arnold answered with a deadpan expression. ”To clarify, I even gained one such skill due to my new variant race.”

It took Jake a moment as he just stared at the mad scientist, not seeing a hint of jest on his face. Arnold wasn’t the type to joke to begin with, so unless his new skill was one that made him into an award-winning actor, he was telling the truth.

”What the fuck?” Jake exclaimed in pure disbelief. ”Is it a sacred rarity skill or something else?”

Jake knew he wouldn’t be able to know if it wasn’t sacred rarity, but if Arnold had one similar to Jake’s, his question wouldn’t be considered Forbidden Knowledge. Wait, maybe there was some special void-related rarity Jake didn’t know about… yeah, that was possible.

Arnold frowned as he shook his head. ”I believe you just attempted to share something considered Forbidden Knowledge. Interesting.”

”Okay, so not that,” Jake muttered. Okay, he was getting more and more certain it was something void-related, because if not, Jake would feel like a damn fraud. It only had to be one, though, right? He had to know. ”Say, how many of these skills above mythical do you have?”

The scientist looked in thought for a moment, perhaps checking his status, before answering. ”I do not wish to give you an exact number, but several.”

”Again, what the fuck?” Jake was seriously beginning to question everything. Was Arnold somehow the secret disciple of the First Sage, or what?

”I do not understand your surprise. These skills aren’t rare,” Arnold continued to talk casually. ”Upon further thought, I do not believe there are even D-grades without such skills, though of course effects and power vary despite them all sharing the same rarity.”

By now, Jake realized something was definitely wrong, but Arnold still looked as serious as before, and not at all like he was fucking with Jake. Just as he was about to ask what the man was even talking about, he suddenly understood.

”Please tell me you’re not talking about fucking unique skills,” Jake said in disbelief.

”Hm?” Arnold raised an eyebrow. ”Naturally. Unique skills are technically considered both a higher and lower rarity than mythical, as their power can vary near-infinitely, and it’s not at all unnatural for one’s most Record-dense skill to be of unique rarity.”

Jake just stared at Arnold for several moments, wanting to curse out the guy, and his deadpan expression plus absolute sincerity in his voice just made everything worse. A couple of seconds passed as Jake just sighed.

”Contact me through Miranda when you have any updates on the weapon and equipment. If you need anything, you can also ask Miranda,” Jake said, knowing he had been defeated this time around.

”I will,” Arnold nodded, either not noticing or not caring about Jake’s sudden mood shift. ”Do you plan on teleporting back to Earth, or are you flying?”

”Neither… though I guess this could count as flying,” Jake said as he summoned his Wings of the Malefic Viper. The plan was to head back to the Order of the Malefic Viper now, but he had one last thing he wanted to see if he could do first:

Make it all the way back to Earth using Wing’s escape function.
