Interesting. Akanai had stepped in herself to help stop the Ursagons, and her officers had done the same in the east. The change in Rain was far too pronounced, but it was long overdue that the boy stopped worrying all the time. She looked at Brigadier Gao's face, which was still smiling expectantly. “There's more?”

“Indeed there is. The boy killed a Champion in single combat. A clean victory, roaring to the heavens like a true warrior. The boy is skilled and fights decisively, without hesitation and with no set pattern to his attacks. It's quite impressive for one so young, and I would be hard pressed to choose a favorite should he be matched against the little magistrate. Had your Sentinels made it to the finals of the contest, then that truly would have been a match worth seeing.”

Her grin was beginning to overstretch her cheeks, and she tempered her jubilation. Despite Rain's achievements, she must not forget that he had disobeyed her orders. Something would need to be done about that, but she was reluctant to dissuade his newfound enthusiasm for battle.

“There is yet more.” The words interrupted her musings. “Your little terror attacked a Demon without my protections. The Demon was worried enough about the attack to deflect it, rather than ignore it as one would expect. As if that were not enough, I swear the boy would have attacked the Demon barehanded if I had not stepped in. He suffered some minor injuries from the clash, but I checked with the little magistrate and your boy returned up the mountain, hale and healthy.”

She could do little to contain her joy any longer, anxious to ride up with her husband and speak to Alsantset. The girl was likely already scolding Rain, and knowing the boy's attitude, he would say nothing of his accomplishments. Taking a deep breath, she stopped her restless leg from shaking, and asked, “Very interesting news, but you still have not gotten to the point. You did not come here to give news of my subordinate.” Long winded, stone-headed blowhard. Always an agenda with these city folk, never could they simply enjoy a meal. Placing her chopsticks down, she finished her cup of tea and wiped her mouth. “Speak plainly then. I've no patience for half-truths and insinuations.”

“Ah of course.” His smile disappeared for the first time all evening. “We half-beasts have always held a precarious position within the Empire, venerated for our strength, yet unable to hold office. A measure to keep our strength in check, so that we must always answer to a human.”

Akanai snorted. “I prefer to be referred to as Demi-Human. Half-beast is derogatory.”

The oaf chuckled at her displeasure. “Is it now? I never understood that mindset. I've heard it argued that it frames us as less than human, but I am proud of my beast heritage, and I would not allow any to say otherwise. I've met my Ancestor, and while the old bull is an insufferable ass, his power is awe-inspiring. Half-beast is a moniker I wear proudly.” He thumped his chest to accentuate his point. The idiot.

“And?” She was rapidly losing patience. Politics were why she lived deep in the mountains, away from 'civilization'.

“I can see your disdain for me. You value your freedom, and see me as one who serves, and it is true. I have served the Man family since as far back as I can remember, serving every head of the Man family of my own free will since it's inception. Do you know why?”

“You desire power, and through the Man Family, you can wield it. The head of the Man Family is a mere puppet, and you hold his strings. That is no great mystery. ” Akanai stood, ready to dismiss him. “I have no interest in starting my own 'family', to dive into the snake pit of politicians and nobility. I see no value in it.”

The servile idiot outright laughed at her, and she managed to keep herself from breaking his jaw. “My father took me in as a child, a simple poor farming man, too kind to allow an orphan to starve to death despite barely having enough to feed himself. When he was conscripted for war, I fought at his side and through his achievements, he was raised from common soldier, to officer, all the way up to Marshal of the North in his old age. I stayed at his side until he died, at which point I continued to watch over the Man Family descendants, caring for each one as if they were my own. Some grew to fame, others died in obscurity, but the Man Family as a whole has flourished beneath my administration.”

Akanai pursed her lips. “You've yet to make a point.”

“Patience, patience. The current head of the Man family views me as a grandfather, and his true grandfather also views me as a grandfather. I hold power because they respect me. My entire life has been devoted to the Man family for one simple reason: they gave me my name, Man Giao. Without it, I would be nothing. There is power in a family name, and it binds me to them tighter than any oath, my service freely given due to love and affection. I would do anything to keep them safe, and I tell you all this so that you know that I do not offer this lightly.”

He paused to allow her time to consider his words. “I know of your troubles with the Society and I wish to formally offer the resources and allies of the Man family to the People. I will swear an oath, as will the current Patriarch, Man Loi Ming, so that we may bring low the Society together.”

She answered his heartfelt offer with a single word. “Why?” If she were to ally the People with the Man family, it would set them on a course of no return. While the People could retreat into the mountains, any allies would be left behind, to the mercy of the Society.

“Three reasons.” He lifted a single finger. “I erred in challenging Magistrate Hai, and have lost his trust. While Hai was merciful, the strained relationship makes things difficult for the Man family, and I am hoping that you will speak to Hai on our behalf.” A second finger. “You lead your people, not a human. This fact alone would earn you enemies, and would also have earned my aid. There have been too many talented Half-Beasts overlooked for human's, and it does not sit well with me.” A third finger was raised, the Brigadier's eyes darkening as he scowled. “Lastly, I owe a debt of blood to the Society, that has gone unpaid for too long. With your aid, I can strike back at them, without embroiling the Man Family in a legal feud.” He stood and saluted her, fist in hand, and bowed slightly as the servants packed away the table. “All that the Man Family can offer is within the papers I gave you. Look them over at your leisure, and know that my family and it's allies are all ready to aid in any way possible, whether through strength of arms or weight of purse.”

Without another word, the Brigadier strode from the tent, leaving Akanai to stew alone. The gesture was appreciated, but the weight of the decision was one she did not wish for, not in a time of war. Politics, bah. She had intended to wait until Baatar was able to return her covert missive, but it seemed that she may need to make a decision earlier. Worse, if she chose to stand and fight, little Hai would be drawn into the battle as well, unable to keep to his affairs. Her good mood spoiled, she grimaced as she sat down at her desk once again, grumbling to herself as she read through the papers in order to see what the Man Family brought, and if any of it could be useful in the battle against the Society.
