Ser Greysten, Hundredlord Cortese, Ser Markus—all stumbled as the ship suddenly tilted. Rabbiteater grabbed at the railing, swearing, as armored [Knights] skidded or went sprawling on the deck. So that was it? The [Pirates] swarmed ahead as the [Knights] tried to adjust. They could fight on—
The ship kept tilting. First five degrees. Then ten. Then…thirty…
The Hobgoblin saw the entire deck heave starboard, and now people were going flying, unable to stand upright without something to hold onto. He felt the world lurch—and his arm was now anchoring himself, Markus, and Cortese, who had seized the Spring Warden’s hand.
“Damn! Pull us up, Rabbit! They’re—”
The [Pirates] were still coming. Rabbiteater looked ‘down’ the ship tilted towards the [Pirates] and saw them charging up the deck like a hill. But they had footing, unlike the [Knights], who were sliding, falling down—and being hacked apart while they could barely stand upright.
“Damn.”
Rabbiteater heaved with all his strength, and Ser Markus pulled himself up onto the railing. It was turning into a massacre. Ser Greysten was swinging one arm as he clung to a rope, and Rabbiteater saw what had to be the [Pirate Captain] pointing as he kicked a [Knight] into the waters. Cortese howled at the [Sailors], trying to assert command.
“We can’t fight like this! Break away! Break away!”
The [Sailors] with Skills kept their footings, but the deck was in chaos—and this was only one ship. Rabbiteater saw, as he looked around the fighting, another ship struggling. [Pirates] weren’t using a Skill on that one, but one was hammering something through the floorboards—and then they were fleeing a second before it exploded and blew a hole straight down.
Scuttling the ship unless it could be patched.
Naval warfare. It was disorienting—Rabbiteater snapped at Cortese, who was shouting to ‘break away’ still.
“We can’t run. We kill that [Captain] or they’ll kill all of us. The Skill can’t last forever.”
A minute was all the [Pirates] needed, though. Cortese looked down at the [Pirate Captain], and Rabbiteater grunted.
“Get Greysten to back me up.”
“Rabbiteater!”
Cortese saw the [Knight] adjusting his grip, swinging himself down the railing—then Rabbiteater let go, jumped—and went flying towards the [Pirates].
If he had a slope and bad footing, he might as well jump on them. The Hobgoblin’s axe was glowing as the [Captain] looked up and beheld a light.
[Solar Storage – Brilliant Grand Slash]. 
A glowing arc cleaved across the deck. Rabbiteater felt his axe tear through two Bloodtear Pirates—
“[Emergency Block]!”
The Bloodtear Pirate [Captain] screamed, and his sword blocked the axe-swing—and his arm compressed against his side. Rabbiteater’s axe halted as it bit into one arm—and then the two were tumbling into the surf.
Rabbiteater punched and slashed wildly as he landed in the water, and he couldn’t tell where the enemy [Captain] was. He swam randomly until he sensed where ‘up’ was—and surfaced.
An arrow pinged off his armor as he looked around. Rabbiteater flinched, then saw [Pirates] aiming down at him, cursing and swearing as one threw a rope down to their [Captain].
But Rabbiteater’s ship was righting, and he saw and felt a furious explosion of heat and light from above. Ser Greysten charged the [Pirates]’ ship with a roar, and Rabbiteater swam towards his ship where Cortese was shouting for him. He began to climb—
 
——
 
“—We will lose Eminent Domain. The ship cannot be saved from the waves. Our enemy broke away in the fighting, and we are maneuvering to regroup, Earl.”
Rabbiteater was panting as he listened to an after-battle report from the acting-[Captain]. They’d won.
For a given value of ‘win’. They’d survived and gotten all the ships save one out of the engagement with the [Pirates]. It was a crazy game of cat-and-mouse. The Terandrian fleet was currently attacking the ship that the [Knights] had engaged with.
“Understood. Legend’s Wake has targeted Reaving Mary. Brace.”
The other [Pirates] were breaking off fast. Rabbiteater longed to tear off his helm and inhale, but he was making sure Markus was alright. The dazed [Knight] gripped his arm for a second before his eyes refocused.
“Rabbit. Did we make it?”
Rabbiteater looked up as a familiar ship, the second largest, swung towards them in the distance.
“Yep. Iradoren’s firing. Watch—”
The Legend’s Wake glowed, and the air overhead lit up. Rabbiteater gazed at the sky, and a gigantic, glowing sword chopped down. It was larger than the ship he was on, and it struck the [Pirate] ship across the center.
The enemy ship wasn’t quite bisected, but Rabbiteater saw the glowing blade hit the decks; wood splintered up, and the entire vessel trembled—then snapped straight down the center. The roar of water and debris flying everywhere made the people around Rabbiteater recoil.
“Dead gods!”
Cortese had seen the ship’s primary spell fire twice so far, but even now, it made him flinch. Rabbiteater as well.
Iradoren’s ship was massive, only dwarfed by Golaen’s ship. It was ancient and apparently—half-Elven. It had what looked like boughs of carved wood like greenery on the sides, a brilliant white-and-grey paneling like clouds, and even a damn tree growing on the ship’s deck.
The tree was apparently magical like the entire vessel. It also had weapons on it from the age of half-Elven dominance.
Such as whatever the heck that spell was. Legend’s Wake also had a magical shield and turned for the next target as the two ships it had been engaging both sank.
Iradoren’s people were not only dangerous, but his ship could hold down anything but the Bloodtear Pirates’ best. Its shields rippled as something struck them from afar. A five-fold salvo, which it returned with giant, glowing beams of light.
One of the two Bloodtear Admirals had ballistae that fired burning bolts. The two began battering each other again, and Rabbiteater saw Terandrian ships fleeing as Iradoren covered them.
It seemed, for a second, as if Legend’s Wake might win the entire engagement by itself, but Rabbiteater saw the ship maneuvering to continue retreating. He imagined Prince Iradoren wasn’t happy about it, but the magnificent half-Elven ship had a flaw that the Bloodtear Pirates had to know as well as Rabbiteater’s side.
That level of magic couldn’t be sustained forever. Iradoren’s ship was as old as the Kingdom of Myths, and even if it looked good—its functions were lower than they had been in their heyday. The Bloodtear Pirates would love to catch and swarm it if it sailed out alone.
“Regroup with Legend’s Wake.”
Altestiel’s voice was clipped and terse as Rabbiteater, panting, looked around and saw more clashes across the sea.
 
——
 
The Terandrians still should have made it. Rabbiteater had, oddly enough, a number of moments to socialize and even dine.
Be it so stupid, this was a running engagement, with hours between pursuit and combat—and sometimes even minutes spent watching another ship draw alongside, though magic and Skills closed the gap extraordinarily fast at times.
Regardless, the [Pirates] had to eat and regroup just like any force. So they’d come at the Terandrians hard if they saw an opening, but on the first night, Rabbiteater had actually had the displeasure of dining with Altestiel, Iradoren, and a number of others on board Rainbringer.
Altestiel’s flagship used water like a weapon. It had massive tanks on the ship’s deck filled with, well, water. Few shipboard weapons, which Rabbiteater had heard Iradoren scoffing at—until he’d seen Altestiel fight.
The Earl of the Rains didn’t bother with ship-weapons like trebuchets or ballistae, which were expensive and hard to manufacture or maintain, or big artillery spells. Desonis…didn’t have a surplus of any of that.
What it did have were [Hydromancers] and Altestiel’s own spells. That was enough to conjure jets or even walls of water to hit other ships, Earl Altestiel’s own water-bridges that he could use to board an enemy ship…
Or start a whirlpool. Rainbringer could create a vortex that it could use to swing itself around a battlefield or draw enemy ships into the heart of. Altestiel had sunk three ships this day, and he accepted Menrise’s hug and nodded at Rabbiteater, who clapped him on the shoulder.
“Fine work, Rabbiteater. You saved your ship from too many casualties. Ah, Prince Iradoren. Your Highness has destroyed no less than eight vessels?”
Rabbiteater turned and sighed as he saw the tall, impressive Human representative of Erribathe, Prince Iradoren, standing there. He looked like, well, a [Prince of Men]. Hair whipped by the wind, features youthful and proud, gleaming with vitality, an ancient circlet on his head, his half-Elven wife (whom Rabbiteater couldn’t remember ever saying a word) bowing as his retinue spread out. Both a full-grown man and someone who could endure decades without changing.
Altestiel bowed slightly, and Iradoren lifted a hand with two flashing rings, a faint grimace on his face as if destroying the most ships of today were a regrettable thing.
“Seven. One survived. Legend’s Wake regrettably cannot activate the [Execution of Foes] spell unless the enemy vessel is slowed. I congratulate Ser Solstice on his stirring defense, and I understand Ser Greysten slew the enemy [Captain]?”
It was still stiff formality with the [Prince of Men]; even Cortese and Titanguard Etrogaer, the huge representative of Golaen, were more retiring. Prince Iradoren nodded to Rabbiteater. Reluctantly.
They did not like each other. Rabbiteater was prepared to put that aside for the moment…Iradoren was not. Which made Rabbiteater, accordingly, sort of wary.
Ser Greysten interrupted the cold protocol of Iradoren as he came forward and nodded, too tired to bow.
“It wasn’t a battle I care to boast of, Your Highness. The [Pirates] do not fight fair, and I am loath to take on that battlefield again.”
“Indeed. They fight…adeptly for rogues. Nor do they relent. Sister. I trust you were unscathed?”
Iradoren scowled deeper and bowed to Seraphel, who looked embarrassed.
“I have done nothing but let braver souls fight in our defense, Your Highness. Thank you.”
Iradoren’s eyes flicked to Rabbiteater again.
“Ah, yes. Our [Knights] know no end to their valor. Let us sit and speak—there are few reinforcements coming from any hold. Wellfar has expressed a certain fellowship, and Lord Etril Wellfar has apparently made a fiery case, but I have heard nothing from Zeres but sympathies. The Drowned Folk likewise, and our half-Elven counterparts.”
“To be fair, only the fastest ships would even have a hope of reaching us, Your Highness…”
Altestiel’s protest was cut short by Iradoren’s glare. Rabbiteater privately doubted anyone wanted to sail into a fight like this.
Even so—they should have gotten away but for two factors.
One—the Bloodtear Pirates refused to relent. They did not normally engage warships like Altestiel’s or Iradoren’s. Even the Throne’s Will wasn’t a target for regular [Pirates]. But no matter how many ships they lost, they kept coming, and their crews fought to the death.
“Insane. Purely insane. I saw them storming our decks after we’d hacked apart hundreds of them. They wouldn’t…stop. They only fell back once after they killed a few of our number, and that was because there were barely a dozen left.”
Even Etrogaer looked shaken, having seen the Bloodtear Pirates storm into an almost suicidal slaughter on one of his vessels. Iradoren drummed his fingers on the table as Lord Firrus Kallinad exclaimed. Talia was here, standing rather than sitting with her father, but listening as the leader of Pheislant’s forces spoke up.
“What could Alchemist Irurx have paid these [Pirates] for this kind of courage? I can think of nothing to motivate individuals to fight with so little fear.”
“Scum have little to lose.”
Iradoren’s voice was frosty. Rabbiteater made a soft snorting sound that Iradoren shouldn’t have heard over the low murmurs…but the [Prince]’s eyes slid sideways, and Seraphel poked Rabbiteater hard.
Altestiel demurred more politely.
“In my experience, Your Highness, Lord Etrogaer, this is unusual. Bloodtear Pirates are notoriously fearless, but this is unprecedented. They would normally break off after receiving casualties. Instead, they lock onto a ship and only seem to break away after slaughtering an entire crew. I cite two oddities here. Firstly, in one case they left the servants and lesser tradefolk of one of our ships, Sweetleaf, alive; it’s making for Terandria. The nobility were butchered as well as the [Knights] and [Captain]—and secondly, ships that seem to succeed in bringing down one of our ships flee the battlefield entirely.”
“They will all be bountied and hunted down in due time.”
Iradoren’s voice was cold, and Etrogaer and several nobles nodded. Rabbiteater tilted his head. He felt like they were missing the point that Seraphel, Altestiel, and several others including Lord Firrus had noted.
Why were the Bloodtear Pirates so damn bloodthirsty? That wasn’t a joke. Yes, reputation and all that. Yes, the Terandrian fleet was rich, but this was not a rewarding fight. At best, the Bloodtear Pirates were trading equally, and [Raiders] hated taking fights like that.
Redfangs wouldn’t have done that, and Rabbiteater assumed the Bloodtear Pirates were practical like they were. Something else was motivating the [Pirates]—but that had been long established.
“We have one hope, though I am loath to bring it up. Nadel has signaled it has the currents and will intercept by early afternoon. I…am going to allow it.”
Earl Altestiel hadn’t touched his food, and he sat, weary, his indigo hair untidy, as a great cheer arose—and then fell as nobles looked around, Iradoren got to his feet, and Lord Firrus lowered his head.
“A toast to Nadel’s bravery!”
 
——
 
Lord Belchaus Meron of Nadel, the Lord of the Dance, had not been part of Terandria’s huge colonization push. But he had gone to sea to wish his friend, Altestiel, a good voyage.
Perhaps he’d feared this very occasion, if nothing so dramatic as the Bloodtear Pirates, because he hadn’t been back in Nadel when the Bloodtear Pirates were spotted.
The Lord of the Dance could have returned to Nadel and rightly claimed the odds at sea were incredibly slim. But he’d turned right around and stormed across the sea to the defense of his friends and fellow people.
Nadel. One of the famous sea powers, at least defensively, all due to one man. The Lord of the Dance was said to be one of the finest experts in ship-to-ship combat in the world.
