It was a question. His crew stirred as Captain Aldrail, who had multiple times bitten off someone’s nose or face when offended, leaned on the railing of the upper deck, staring down at his crew. The light that had meant blood and death for countless foes wasn’t in his eyes.
Not today. His voice was soft, musing, and when he spoke, he said the things that might have cost him his [Captain]’s position another time. Because they were true, and because when you heard them—it might change how you saw one of the [Captains] of the Bloodtear Pirates.
“This is it. Plainsblood, you all know me. Whether you’ve crewed with me a year or a decade, whether I was some idiot new to Rosech’s crew or starting out, bad times and good, you knew Captain Aldrail. When Rosech told us about the opportunity and these Skills, I jumped at the chance. I never asked if you wanted it, and I noticed some of us jumped ship. I wish them the best, but I thought—if you stayed with me—you got it.”
Nods. The Taligrit ships were growing larger in the distance, and one was trying to broadside them. A few lightning bolts going astray, a standard [Fireball]—Aldrail ignored them. The Plainsblood wasn’t close enough to be in danger.
“In a few minutes, we’ll be fighting to the death. There’s [Knights] on board that ship. Nobles too. No rules. Not this time. Kill them, and if you get what you want—back off. No order of who gets what. You’d not listen if I gave the orders, and this is the fairest way. To anyone who lives—we have a ship that’ll take you somewhere, but whatever you decide, it’s your choice.”
“What if some of us want to follow you, Captain?”
Gorry wanted to know, and Aldrail focused on his [First Mate].
“No. I’m going it alone, Gorry. You want to find me? I’d rather you didn’t, but I can’t stop you. Good luck if you do, but I won’t be with any of you after this.”
They stared at him, because even his crew didn’t quite understand—but they would. Aldrail was focused more on the sky. The rain was lessening. Shame—they fought better in a storm, but he was trying to remember it.
“I’ve seen a lot of sunsets. A lot of great moments at sea, glorious and pitiful. I was trying to think of something. Trying t’say…I was happy. About all this. I’m not sure I was.”
The Gnolls listened. Aldrail continued, his voice soft. He hadn’t shaken when he’d been belly cut and thought he was dying, but now…
“I’ve got something to say. I never talked about it, not to Gorry, not to anyone. Even old Rosech never—we don’t talk about why we join the Bloodtear Pirates. Everyone’s got a reason. Me? I had nothing to lose when I heard of ‘em. I was born in a Drake city, you know. I never was a Plains Gnoll, though I went to the tribes a bit. My mother was a Paworker. Ever heard of them?”
They did know that name. A few growls rose, and Aldrail nodded.
“Y’don’t need to know more than that. Except…my father was a hard-working Gnoll. I think he was. Mother, Father, and me not knowing much except who was really in charge. I hated that city. If you had power, you could attack a man easily as a woman, and who was he supposed to tell? What was he—or she supposed to do? That’s where I grew up.”
Even now, he couldn’t really tell them, but those eyes were boring into him, and Aldrail kept going, voice shaking now. The ship was growing larger, but he had a compulsion to tell them. Was it a confession? No…he wanted someone to know.
“I ran away. Came back eight years later and settled the scores, or so I thought. But it didn’t matter. After that, nothing worked. I tried to find better places, better people, but I was cursed. Cursed because I never could tell a genuine hand from a fake one—and maybe they saw I didn’t really expect someone to actually help me, so all I met was bastards. I learned how to scare them. Learned how to win even with my back to the wall. When I found the Bloodtear Pirates, I found freedom. At sea.”
People who’d respect him and who were dangerous and insane, but in their way, honorable enough for the few last things that mattered. No more rules, no more expectations other than to survive.
That’s how they’d all come here, with few exceptions. Aldrail saw them smile and looked at them, face blank.
“I haven’t been happy. All my life. I guess I did love this life and you all, but I’m not sure I was happy. Get it? I thought we deserved better. I thought it was never fair for me or—”
Thump. An explosion. The [Pirates] turned, and Aldrail saw they were in range of the other ship now. A [Fireball] off the bow. He saw Gorry’s head turn to him, but the [Pirates] were spreading out.
“Guess that’s my speech. I hate speeches. Get ready—someone smash their hull spells—”
Aldrail was sort of glad they’d interrupted him. He didn’t have a finishing conclusion. He’d been rambling—and then it was the business they knew.
Plainsblood took on spells on their way in, and their return fire from the one working ship-spell and a bunch of magical harpoons were focused on the other ship’s hull-spells. Crippling them rather than damaging the deck.
If that was odd, well…the Gnolls had the luxury of not needing to hurry. They came in fast, and the two ships locked like lovers as gangplanks were thrown down and arrows fell like rain. A Flame Elemental roared up, and Aldrail ran across the gangplank in a dream.
Then blood coated his fur, and he snarled as a flaming brand burned onto his chest. He slashed forwards, and flames burned his face; he could have run back—but he’d seen a nobleman holding what looked like the artifact that had summoned the Flame Elemental.
Aldrail kept going as flames burned across his body. A flaming Gnoll who felt liquid running down his fur and realized it was one eye—but he kept going.
A [Knight] was in his way, but the armored man with a cape, longsword, and silver bell wasn’t what Aldrail wanted. Gorry leapt at him. Aldrail passed Gorry, and the two locked gazes.
“Thank you.”
Then the nobleman, backing against the door of his cabin, trying the handle, swinging around—he had a sword and the Flame Elemental. He slashed—and the sword curved and struck Aldrail in the shoulder.
It must have aimed itself. The Gnoll staggered, but he ran onto the blade. He saw the man’s face, a carefully groomed mustache, even what looked like waxed hair—a purple cape with a yellow lining.
Who are you?
The two men locked eyes, and then Aldrail kicked the flaming statuette out of the [Lord]’s hand. The other man flinched as Aldrail brought down his sword to impale the man, but his sword cracked against a personal barrier.
Damn. I should have known it wouldn’t be easy. The nobleman rolled away and came up with a glowing dagger. Aldrail swung at him, and then a [Servant] or someone tackled him.
“Lord, run—”
Aldrail kicked the idiot away and advanced on the deck. He could see Gorry locked in combat with the [Knight], and his crew was harvesting their prizes. They were doing it.
The nobleman was gasping. Aldrail’s body was so badly burnt from his insane charge he realized, dimly, the man was cursing at him.
“—do you want? Do you think you’ll win? Taligrit will hunt you down. My blood is of the Hundred Heroes! I will not beg for mercy.”
“Good. That’s good blood.”
A swaying Gnoll [Captain] advanced. A few of his crew saw him and hesitated, but they backed away. The nobleman of Taligrit realized he was alone; his crew was being butchered—
Or was it? The nobleman looked left, then right and realized it was not the slaughter he’d assumed.
[Knights] were dying, and some of his retinue who were fighting were being hacked down, but [Sailors] and [Servants] were pleading for mercy, and it was being offered.
Rather, it was as if the Gnoll [Pirates] had no eyes for them. They were stalking down the decks, some vanishing belowdecks, and they were killing—the man closed his eyes.
“What do you want?”
“You. You…still don’t get it?”
The Gnoll was still on fire, but he kept coming, one eye socket empty, the other eye brown and glittering, fixed on the man as if he were the most…most important thing ever. He didn’t even know the man’s name or title.
Ransom? The nobleman waved the dagger, thinking to feint, and Aldrail kicked him, barrier spell and all, and launched him across the deck. The nobleman went rolling, backed against a railing as he tried to get to his feet, and saw it at last.
It was the strangest thing. It was First Mate Gorry, who, true to his name, was covered in blood. He had killed the [Knight] he had dueled. One of his axes was shattered from the combat, and he was cut badly—but the [Knight] was the one who fell. Gorry’s other axe was embedded in the [Knight]’s neck where armor met helmet.
Blood was staining the deck. It pooled around the figure, staining the cloak of Taligrit’s finest. Seeping into the floorboards, crimson and vivid.
A life lost. Years of training. A name the [Pirates] had never known, and a legacy gone.
Yet they did care in some way. Slowly, reverentially, Gorry pulled the axe from the neck. He paused a moment, then bent over the stain of blood. The nobleman thought the Gnoll would lap it up or coat more of his body with the ichor.
Gorry did not. Slowly, he lowered his axe and placed it in the pool of blood. It seemed, to Aldrail and the nobleman, that the pool of blood rippled for a second, then became clear. Like a mirror that reflected not the cloudy skies, but something else.
Something…beautiful. Something that had no name amidst words or colors you could describe. The closest thing might be a long road. A journey through wild lands and times. Potential. Brightness and darkness. The very thing that made up triumph or failure.
It shimmered in the blood leaking from the [Knight]’s body, and Gorry lifted his axe up. The blood ran down the length of the blade, and when the Gnoll spoke, it was his Skill that explained it.
“[I Dipped My Blade in Destiny].”
He lifted the axe up, still staring at something, and the nobleman looked at him, uncomprehending—then Aldrail. Then he saw it.
A laughing Gnoll was holding something as she stood over another corpse. The nobleman saw a strange, powerful light, terrible and glorious, cradled in her paws. She did not join the last of the fighting. She just held it tight to her chest and left. Returning to her ship, as if she had no more desire to loot or kill. Her whisper—lingering in his ears.
“[I Stole Fate].”
The man looked around and then he heard them all intoning Skills. Some were similar—but there were so many. Another Gnoll wearily looked up and howled, and his fur rose as his voice raised in triumph.
[The Worthless Pawn Rises].
“What—what Skills are these?”
“A gift, Human.”
Aldrail stopped, leaning on the railing. The Gnoll looked half-dead, and the nobleman scrambled up. He slashed across the Gnoll’s chest, and his glowing dagger left a trail of light that burned with the [Pain] spell embedded in it. He could do this! H—
The Gnoll grabbed the arm and saw the barrier spell rematerialize. With one arm, Aldrail began smashing the man into the railing until the wood and metal began to crack. He slowed when he realized the spell was gone and he was hammering the man’s face into the wood.
“Now you get it.”
They thought it was gold, fame, or that Irurx could pay the Bloodtear Pirates enough. The Alchemist was just an excuse. Aldrail lifted his sword, and the nobleman stared up at the Gnoll, flat on his back, bleeding. Then—he laughed.
“Our fate? You—you want to steal that? Of all the things—”
He began giggling, and it was so unexpected, Aldrail paused.
“That’s all we want. All of us.”
The Gnolls were streaming back to Plainsblood, ready to cast off. Their comrades were sailing past them, still cheering. Waving.
There was no more battle for Aldrail’s crew. They were done. They had received what they wanted. Fate.
Destiny.
The nobleman stared up at Aldrail, blood leaking into one blue-yellow eye. And Aldrail didn’t know who he was or what his fate had been. He hoped it was a good one. Some Skills let you steal the best of them. It depended on who it was. What you wanted.
His Skill was different. Gorry was watching him as the Gnoll [Captain] leaned on the railing.
“You…do you know what you’re stealing?”
The man gazed up at Aldrail with actual pity. A strange contempt Aldrail couldn’t understand. The [Captain] paused, panting, blood and ash in his mouth, and looked the man up and down. Cape torn, face broken, noted his magical rings, at the ship—his twisted smile, and then inhaled. Exhaled, and his head rose, and he breathed in and out.
Then Captain Aldrail met the nobleman of Taligrit’s eyes and smiled.
“Yeah. It looks beautiful. I’ll use it better than you.”
“I—”
The Gnoll drove the sword down through the man’s chest before his nerve could leave him. He heard a sound like a gasp, and the next words were lost. Then—Aldrail stumbled back and leaned against the railing.
He almost fell over the shattered wood. Someone called out.
“Captain—I’ve got a potion. Captain?”
Gorry. The [First Mate] was pointing at the ship, and Aldrail’s ears were ringing. He stared up at the sky—then down at Gorry and the man he’d killed.
There. Done. He could finally rest.
His body was wounded, but Aldrail felt so…relieved he sagged. Someone caught him.
“Captain!”
Gorry was waving a potion in his face, but Aldrail shoved it away. He didn’t need it. The Gnoll whispered to Gorry, to himself, as he saw Unsettled King passing. He looked up, and Rosech was watching him. Captain Aldrail of the Bloodtear Pirates—smiled.
“This time, I’ll have no one to blame but myself.”
“Aldrail?”
Gorry held the older Gnoll, confused, until he looked over and saw the dead man that Aldrail had killed was…gone.
There was no pool of blood to dip his sword into. No stolen fate or change in Aldrail. Not at first. The Gnoll breathed in and focused on Gorry. Then—his smile grew brighter.
Aldrail was glowing. Gorry felt the weight in his paws, the body of his [Captain], vanishing. He tightened his grip—and Captain Aldrail broke apart into fragments of light. For just one second, Gorry heard a sigh. Then—as the wind swept the fragments of light away—
He swore he could hear an infant crying.
 
——
 
Captain Aldrail was gone. Rosech and his entire crew had seen it. Even for them—it shook the Bloodtear Pirates slightly.
“Which Skill was that? Father?”
Irrel spoke softly, staring over the railing at the place the Gnoll had been. It wasn’t like the other ones. The Dorhmin boy held his spear. It was shaking; he hadn’t fought hand-to-hand yet.
There was no point.
