How did a mere slingshot fire a projectile powerful enough to matter if it had to be light and about the size of a Human head? Well, it either used enchanted munitions, which Lord Firrus doubted House Kallinad could pay for or produce in acceptable numbers.
…Or it attached a bag of holding where the slingshot’s cup was, and when the operator let go, what was in the custom-made bag of holding came out at speed.
Like, for instance, a giant piece of stone far larger than the slingshot; a damn boulder that a crew had to wrestle from a Chest of Holding to the smaller bag of holding for another shot.
Or a cluster of eight Potions of Blast tied together which hit the enemy deck and—
Whumph.
The flare of light made Lord Firrus look away; Talia just watched in grim satisfaction as an entire portion of the deck exploded. Firrus snapped.
“Volley two—stones only!”
They had to conserve their precious alchemical weapons. A second wave of stones smashed into the decks, eliciting screams and curses—and Griffindance took two blows from [Fireballs] from the startled [Pirates]—and was past them.
The [Pirate] ship was still intact, even though it was taking on water. They had too many damn Skills, and Firrus saw one hole in their hull being patched in real time; planks of wood were slamming themselves into place with some kind of emergency repair Skill.
He might have been forced to choose between finishing the vessel off or continuing onwards, but there was an exclamation from one of his [Battlemages].
“Lord Kallinad! Break, say again, break from [Pirate] ship! Erribathe is unleashing spells!”
Firrus whirled instantly.
“Take us away! Now!”
Griffindance accelerated, and Firrus cursed, looking up at the sky. He had told them again and again not to unleash spells when their ships were so close! The waves alone—
The Terandrian nations were wroth, and the hour was dire. The damage Lord Firrus’ ship had done to the enemy vessel was enough. It had slowed and opened itself up as a target. Now…the storm overhead cleared, and Firrus’ mouth went dry as something materialized overhead and came shooting down from the heavens.
“Light of Pheis—”
The roar of water and the sound of a gigantic spear of magic, serrated, an ancient haft of some Tier 6 spell, roared down, and the geyser of water and thunder—and Griffindance listing in the water—drowned everything out.
Minutes passed before Firrus’ ears stopped ringing. When he got up, he saw smaller explosions in the water as more arrows—these ones physical, sent from a continent way—rained down.
The Bloodtear Ship was already gone. Firrus called out as Talia lowered her shield.
“Was that two nations?”
“Three. Avel, Erribathe, and Tourvecall.”
“Tell them to coordinate their long-range attacks! And to wait until we’re clear!”
He bellowed back, and the [Mage] hesitated. He was probably sending spells directly to the war councils of each kingdom, and royalty might be reading his communications real-time. Firrus didn’t care.
“Send it now! Take us onwards!”
Of course, Terandria’s fleet had one major edge in this engagement. Their nations had seen their people and nobility under attack and were hurtling Skills and spells into the sea. If these were armies meeting on the field, Firrus thought that the Bloodtear Pirates would have already been annihilated by Terandria’s wrath ten times over.
But at sea—he saw the Unsettled King swerving and dodging another gigantic spear from Erribathe. The ship rocked, but the spell went wide by hundreds of feet, and the Bloodtear Pirates had ample protection against scrying spells and direct Skills. Just like the Bloodfeast Raiders…
“Tell Erribathe to stop wasting its magic! That is a direct order from the fleet!”
How many emergency spells were they burning through? Even the Kingdom of Myths couldn’t just waste that kind of power forever. If a Bloodtear Ship lost a mast or rudder or slowed—it was an easy target.
The traditional broadsides at range had become too dangerous; the Bloodtear Pirates clung to Terandria’s fleet in the storm in intense boarding actions. And so that Terandria’s kingdoms couldn’t keep raining down spells on them.
Firrus had noted the intensity of the support had lessened over the last few days. Part of him wondered how much magic had been irrevocably unleashed—but he could not gainsay the need. As Griffindance collected its bearings, one of Firrus’ [Signallers] lowered a flashing lantern. The [Lord] turned and saw the warship he’d saved flashing a reply at him.
“Throne’s Will is thanking us, Lord Kallinad.”
“Signal our respect and take us about. Earl Altestiel needs us. Tourvecall is in danger of being pinned.”
Lord Firrus snapped. He nodded at the armored figure standing on the railing, and Ser Solstice waved back. Talia nodded at him, and then Lord Firrus was sailing onwards. Dead gods and the light of Pheislant, he wouldn’t quit until his people, the entire fleet, were safe.
He could just not fathom why the [Pirates] fought so hard. But that question came to them all on the fourth day as they neared Wistram, as the final battle began. In a lull in the storm, at least some of them finally had the simple answer to the question.
Was it worth it?
 
——
 
The Terandrian side of things had to suck.
The Bloodtear Pirates weren’t mind-readers, but they suspected the Terandrians were having a bad time. A wake-up call, maybe. They had thought themselves undefeated, arrogantly sailed across the seas, and someone had hit them in the stomach and given them a reality check.
Mind you…some of those ships proved why Terandria got to swagger.
“We lost Tit’s Up.”
“Dead gods, not Tit’s Up. That ship always made me smile.”
There was some reverence and respect at sea, but they had fun with things, too. Life as a Bloodtear Pirate should be fun. That was what Captain Aldrail of the Bloodtear Pirates believed.
Plainsblood was his ship, and it didn’t have a damn slingshot with a bag of holding attached to it. But a part of him was still a seafaring lad who loved seeing the ships and what they could do.
Unsettled King, Maxy’s Longshot Gamble, even Shifthold, or Seagrass’…Seagrass—all proud ships on their side with crews and capabilities that matched Terandria’s finest.
Aldrail had seen more sights in this battle than he’d witnessed in much of his life. A Sea Serpent—nay, three of ‘em—attacking a ship of desperate [Knights]. Maxy crewing her ship and staring down one of Golaen’s warships as the two fired siege-weapons eye-to-eye until Golaen blinked and tried to pull away.
Blood and thunder, they’d tell stories of this battle forever. Aldrail’s part of it? Maybe not.
Plainsblood had taken a lot of damage. That damn ship, Legend’s Wake, had tried to chop it in two! Only Aldrail’s Skills had saved his ship from being cracked in two, and the keel was damaged. Probably beyond anything but a master [Shipwright] or [Captain] to repair.
It wasn’t worth it. Any other battle, if he thought he’d lose his beloved ship or so much of his crew—over forty had died—Aldrail would have told Rosech or Maxy to take their orders and shove it up someone else’s tailhole.
This battle—was worth it. The Bloodtear Pirates were counting their losses, and their speaking stones were buzzing with chatter. No one cared if the idiots of Wistram or Terandria’s fleet were listening in or if someone was scrying them. Apparently, Wistram was damaged, so Maxy had said ‘today was it’.
All or nothing.
Admiral Rosech himself was aboard his bigger vessel and leaned over the railing as Plainsblood counted its losses…and successes.
“Oi, Aldrail! Did you survive that giant damn sword?”
“You know it, Admiral. I think Plainsblood is a goner, but I saw that damn [Prince]’s snooty expression. Shame we didn’t go after him.”
Rosech laughed down as Captain Aldrail raised his head. Gorry, his [First Mate], was manning the wheel; their [Helmsman] was dead. The all-Gnoll crew whooped and cheered, but there was a solemnity that made them fall silent again.
“Don’t go after him. I told everyone—his damn ship is mincing anyone it runs into. Maxy’ll hold him down, and if we see an opening, we go for it. But it ain’t worth the trouble.”
“It is if we get him.”
Aldrail…had been tempted. But not stupid. He didn’t need to kill the [Prince of Men], but he saw Rosech’s eyes gleam and his head turn. Aldrail called up at him.
“How’s your lad? Irrel? Still alive?”
He hoped the Dorhmin boy was. Every ship was going in, and there were no guarantees.
Rosech’s eyes flashed triumphantly.
“Not a scratch on him. You think I’d be smiling right now if he wasn’t?”
“He won’t get what he needs if he doesn’t go into the fighting.”
The [Admiral] was cool and calm when he was at his most dangerous.
“He’ll get it. Worry about yourselves, Aldrail. See them two ships up ahead? They teleported some nobles out, but they’re ripe. Your crews want one?”
Aldrail glanced up, and his eyes gleamed. The Gnoll looked at his crew, and they gazed at him. There was a hunger in their eyes and in his soul.
“We’ve got…six who already have what they need. I reckon we’ll take the larger vessel. Six stay below. Then we’re done. Fair enough, Admiral?”
Captain Aldrail wasn’t sure Rosech was going to go for it. In a battle like this, any good Bloodtear [Captain] or crew mattered—and Aldrail’s crew of Gnolls was very good in combat. But Rosech just looked down at Aldrail, and his face?
His lips were smiling. Not the smile of a man about to shove glass splinters through your eyes or the crazed look of delight in battle while blood dripped off his chin.
It was a rare smile. The smile he only gave his son, Irrel. The smile you lost a bit when you became a Bloodtear Pirate.
“Go for it, Aldrail. Hey, Plainsblood! This is your chance. You damn Gnolls will miss the big event, but there’s not enough of the crew to go around for Unsettled King. Get out of here before I make you charge that [Earl]!”
He waved a hand and shouted down at the Gnolls, and they shouted up insults as Rosech’s crew came to the railings.
“We survived Legend’s Wake! Where were you, Admiral, huh?”
“Giving us scraps like always? I won’t miss you, Rosech!”
“Hey, piss off with you sniffing idiots already!”
“Farewell! Plainsblood is going out! Hurrah! Hurrah, hurrah—”
Then they were cheering. Captain Aldrail saw friends and enemies, people he’d crewed with and those he’d sworn to kill if he got the chance, swarming to the railing, waving down at him, cheering, even throwing things at him.
He snarled insults, pretending, trying to look offended—but then his ship was passing by the prow of the larger ship, and he saw Maxy’s ship, Longshot Gamble, painted black with golden trim, all poise and grandeur, ballista bolts on fire and set for another volley—and the half-Elf herself was there.
She was saluting them with a sword, and when Aldrail looked past her, paw lifted to wave, he saw Captain Jiupe offering him a middle finger, her crew, and other Bloodtear ships slowing so they could let Plainsblood pass.
Two wallowing Terandrian ships were lifting the flags of no quarter as they turned, setting themselves against the Bloodtear Pirates, shouting with all the rage of their noble continent.
Perhaps it sounded to them as though the Bloodtear pirates were uttering some blood curdling cries, but what Captain Aldrail and the Gnolls heard was—cheering.
Goodbyes. Laughter, applause—and for a second, the Gnoll ducked his head and raised one paw, clenching it into a fist.
Farewell, brothers and sisters. They might never see each other again. If his wish came true, Aldrail doubted he’d meet them except in another life.
He hoped, now, that it was true. A part of him still doubted Rosech’s promise, even after seeing it with his own eyes, even after getting his Skill. But he wanted it more than anything.
Gorry interrupted Aldrail’s moment after a few minutes as their ship moved ahead, towards the two Terandrian ships now. One of their counterparts, Salvage Yer Boots, was moving to intercept and still cheering, but Gorry’s tone was urgent.
“Captain. Our ship’s not going to last half a day. We’re holding it together with Skills and spit. We’ll have to meet up with one of the other groups leaving. Plumped Jellyfish says they’ll take us on.”
That was another ship that was ‘done’. The crew had gotten what they’d wanted, and anyone who still needed it had transferred to another ship.
“Thank ‘em and tell them we’ll be there.”
If we don’t all die killing these bastards. It was still a ship of…Aldrail checked their notes.
Taligrit? He had no idea what that kingdom was about. He hoped it was sunshine and rainbows. It didn’t matter. Gorry nodded and pointed.
“Crew’s waiting.”
“What’re we facing?”
“[Knights]. Longbows. Looks like they’ve got some weird spells on deck.”
Aldrail accepted a spyglass and confirmed it.
“That’s…a damn flame elemental. We’re gonna lose some fur, boys and girls. Damn, I knew it wouldn’t be easy. I should have taken the smaller ship.”
“Nobles on this one, Captain.”
“Well, nevermind. Alright. Everyone, muster up!”
Everyone but those tending to an urgent task dropped what they were doing and came over to Captain Aldrail. He wasn’t one for speeches.
He was a damn Bloodtear Pirate. He’d nearly sacked Savere, which would have been a feather in his cap. Maybe if he’d taken the Siren’s post he’d have declined the invitation. Maybe if he’d swanned off with that half-Elf, Ceria, he’d have had an adventure on Chandrar or been dead.
What would life have been like if he’d done this or that? Aldrail didn’t know, but he knew Gorry. He knew himself.
Captain Aldrail was a [Pirate Captain of Carnage]. His first mate, Gorry, was a [Dualblade Marauder]. It said a lot about them.
A third of his crew were Gnolls who’d been exiled from the Tribes, the rest from the cities. They raided whomever and whatever they wanted. Zeres had a bounty on them, but they’d minced Drake crews. Aldrail had plundered the seas, spent a fortune on brothels and wine and good times and ill.
He’d seen Krakens in storms, drank with Goblins, and fled monsters he had no name for. And he had been…
The Gnoll stared across his crew, noting One Eyed Morry, Fangtaker Fen, who hated his old nickname he’d gotten when he’d been…dead gods, fifteen. A decade since then. Their oldest crewmember, old Gitore himself, who’d once been slapped by Garsine Wallbreaker and lived to tell the tale.
Outcasts. Rogues. Bloodtear Pirates had a code, but they were free. They were feared, and he had been…
“Happy?”
