It sounded like the falling rain.
His heartbeat, that was. He could hear it as his rain-slicked hands worked, echoing from the tips of his fingers through his body. Rabbiteater’s heart drummed like the rain, a downpour that reminded him of the rapping beat of Calanfer’s drums during the procession.
Fast and light. It sounded oddly cheerful.
“Storm’s letting up.”
That was it. The Goblin’s head turned up, and some rain fell through the slits of his visor and stung his face, making him flinch. The sky was still dark, and the winter rains were freezing, but he felt no chill, only the awareness it was cold.
Thunderclouds the size of islands filled the firmament above, a jigsaw puzzle of the sky, and they had been black tempests, the rain pouring down along with bolts of lightning. Red rain; even now, it had an ochre hue. Unnatural, as if all the blood that had spilled into the oceans had altered the world forever.
Perhaps it had. Perhaps they’d call this place a new Bloodfields. Rabbiteater turned his head, and in the whipping wind and diminishing rains, he could now see the fleet. They were sailing in ragged clusters, few vessels as proud as how they’d set out.
One or two looked almost pristine. Iradoren’s ship, Legend’s Wake, and Pheislant’s own lead warship, crewed by Lord Firrus Kallinad, Griffindance, were both unharmed. The rest had sails torn by fire and arrows, and the decks were damaged. Railings torn or hulls smashed in by failed boarding attempts.
They didn’t sail in a colorful procession anymore, organized by nations, each one bearing the proud flags. They were clustered around larger warships like little Goblins following a Hob into battle. Even now the Hobgoblin could see, behind them, their enemy.
The Bloodtear Pirates were regrouping again. Red sails bleeding blue. Poorer, less-beautiful vessels that had already had scars, but moving like a pack of Carn Wolves, each one unafraid, moving ahead or behind to get into formation.
They were done testing the limits of Terandria’s ranges. They were probably healing up, choosing another ship or angle of approach. Rabbiteater saw flashes of light from the ship sailing in the center of Terandria’s formation.
Rainbringer, Altestiel’s flagship and pride of Desonis’ navy, had scars. A huge black mar across the prow from one of the Bloodtear [Admirals]’ ships. A tear in Desonis’ sails, so the image of a wave rolling across a windswept castle looked more like a black void trying to erase the kingdom itself.
Yet his ship still sang. Colored light-spells redirected the fleet, moving the armada into defensive postures. When the Bloodtear Pirates attacked, his would be one of the first vessels to intercept. That or the core of Desonis’ ships, far more maneuverable than most nations’, some covered not with wood but tanned Hydrahide.
This was what Rabbiteater had seen for the last two…make it three days. Either this or a brutal melee, ships locked together or sinking, burning lights raining down, and the distant clang of swords until it was their turn. Then he’d lock eyes with a [Pirate] boarding this ship and feel his axe rise for a terrible purpose as his heart roared.
Three days. This was a naval engagement, a proper war at sea. If anything, they might have fought a week or more in running battles, Rabbiteater had heard. But the ferocity of the Bloodtear Pirates and the urgency of the Terandrian fleet’s escape meant this would be over soon.
“I think we’ve finally beaten their Skill. Praise be to Wistram.”
Lady Menrise’s voice made Rabbiteater turn. She clung weakly to a railing. She looked ill. Three days she and many spellcasters had been trying to turn the Bloodtear Pirates’ greatest advantage: the Third Tide, which let them sail with a storm at their backs.
“Good job.”
Her head shook slightly as he patted her on the arm. Menrise was wearing a dress, which looked ridiculous in a battle and was rain-soaked, but it was the most enchanted piece of armor she had. On the Throne’s Will, the flagship of Calanfer, you had either [Soldiers] and [Sailors] armored to the teeth with the [Knights]—Thronebearers with the exception of Rabbiteater—or nobles, who were either in armor or dressed like they were at a ball. Menrise was shivering uncontrollably, so Rabbiteater took off his blood-red cape and let her wear it. She folded it around herself.
“Don’t thank me yet, Rabbit. We could barely lessen the winds with all of Tourvecall fighting the Skill. It must be Wistram’s weather bubble. We’re close enough for them to shelter us. See?”
She pointed, and then Rabbiteater did see it. He had heard tales of Wistram’s isle surrounded by a bubble of perfect weather and had imagined it thusly, but the Academy of Mages had changed.
He could see no bubble, but the island looked…off compared to a few days ago. Something had happened, and Wistram seemed to bulge leftwards slightly. Symmetry unbalanced as if the academy had expanded, like someone bursting their pants, which had been hiding more of them inside.
The bubble was likewise gone, but in its place…Rabbiteater traced an oblong shape, expanding just over the fleet’s heads, in the sky. Where Wistram’s weather-spell extended, the storm did indeed reduce vastly in intensity.
“Hm. Are they gonna help after all?”
“They must have repaired some of the damage from whatever struck them since the Solstice. I fear we’re still too far for help from most [Mages].”
They were, by all reckonings, at least a day away. Half a day for the really fast ships. Some had suggested that a…valuable group go ahead and take shelter at Wistram.
The Terandrians had tried it—twice. One vessel had made it according to Seraphel. The other had been caught by the Bloodtear Pirates’ own ships and butchered.
The two’s musing on the railings were not the only sounds on deck, of course. [Sailors] were constantly moving around, taking orders from the [Captain] trying to eke out another knot of speed from the sails and winds. But a loud, familiar voice interrupted Menrise and Rabbiteater.
“They’re closing again, Rabbiteater. Storm or no—the Kingdom of Taligrit is flagging. The Earl has indicated the fleet will not move to save them. [Teleportation]’s saved as many as it can. Look.”
Hundredlord Cortese limped across the deck, accompanied by Baeris, his pet lioness. Both had looked better; Baeris was damp, teeth bared, and Cortese had a leg injury he’d refused to heal with their limited potions. He didn’t have the confident swagger Rabbiteater was used to, or the fearlessness of Kaaz’s nobles.
The Goblin could have used that right now. Cortese pointed silently, and Menrise put both hands together, palms touching each other, and pressed them to her own helmet’s visor.
“Magic guide them.”
A pair of ships was lagging behind the Terandrian formation, slowly sliding out of line and losing the protective bubble. It wasn’t hard to see why; one had only a single sail remaining, and a broken mast showed Rabbiteater why they couldn’t keep up. The other was listing left; a broken rudder.
That was how the Bloodtear Pirates hunted. They’d attack, be pushed back, then pick apart the ships unable to keep up. If the Terandrians tried to save the wounded ships…
“It will be the last we cede to them.”
Cortese spoke softly as Rabbiteater saw the Bloodtear ships moving. One was breaking towards the Taligrit kingdom’s vessels, and he heard, even from so far away, a dull sound.
Cheering.
“How’s it the last one we’ll lose?”
Cortese jerked his head at Wistram ahead of them.
“By tomorrow, we’ll be in Wistram’s aegis. If the [Pirates] are to stop us, it will be today. Brace yourselves.”
Ah, so this was it. Menrise began shivering uncontrollably again, and Rabbiteater put an arm around her shoulders and hugged her. She grabbed Cortese’s arm, and he locked eyes with Rabbiteater as he stopped and put one hand on top of hers.
No bravado. No claims they’d make it. Rabbiteater had never had that faith to begin with, but even Cortese just looked at his friends, then behind them.
The Terandrian fleet had left a third of its vessels behind. Some were actually sailing against them, re-crewed by the Bloodtear Pirates. Most had sunk beneath the waves. Any illusions about their victory were gone.
The Bloodtear Pirates had no end. Nor was it just them; a black ship sailed alone amidst their number, given a wide berth by even the other Bloodtear Pirates, unto the grim counterpart of Altestiel’s own Rainbringer.
Shifthold. The Alchemist’s own ship.
By now, Rabbiteater knew the names of the most dangerous ships on either side and understood, in the terms he thought of for this sea battle, how the sides fought and how things were going. Shifthold was another ship that would not die no matter how many times the Terandrians tried to bring it down. Every time it sailed into battle, one of the ships holding half-Elves would falter—and Rabbiteater had seen half-Elves leaping into the waves rather than be taken by Irurx.
Insects buzzing as it came. Twisted figures throwing back robes and leaping onto the other ship, and the sound of Irurx laughing like a madman.
The Throne’s Will had never sailed against Shifthold. Calanfer’s ship wasn’t thought to be able to hold it off, and Altestiel had saved it from the worst of the fighting. It was a fair appraisal; the Thronebearers had fought hard, but they were no champions of naval warfare or boarding actions.
“Cortese. Rabbiteater. Menrise. There you are. Did you hear…?”
A fourth and final voice. Princess Seraphel du Marquin and a small retinue of her bodyguards, her two most dedicated [Maids], and Ser Thilowen, the lead Thronebearer, all approached. Ser Thilowen stepped back after a bow to all present, and the Ivory Four—Altestiel was on his own ship—stood together. Seraphel relayed the news without wasting time.
“They’re asking us to send words of encouragement to Taligrit’s vessels. The Iron Vanguard has declined a third day to intercede in the fighting. They look to be making for Wistram as well. If it’s the [Pirates], the storm, or safe harbor—I heard the Rhir expedition is also making for Wistram.”
Cortese’s voice was raspy, lacking his usual bravado.
“In case the [Pirates] go after them? Wonderful. And their response? Rhir. We know the Dullahans won’t lift a finger.”
“…Rhir claims theirs is a colony fleet, not one prepared for war.”
Cortese didn’t dignify that with a response. He just turned to the ships wallowing behind him. His lips moved a second before he spoke.
“What are we supposed to say to the doomed ships?”
“Prince Iradoren is giving an address. I declined to add anything…”
Seraphel came to the balcony and noticed Menrise shivering. She looked around.
“Does anyone have a warming spell?”
“I’m fine. I’m not that cold. Thank you, Seraphel.”
Seraphel came to rest on Rabbiteater’s left and looked at him. He patted her on the shoulder.
“Good work.”
Seraphel gave him a blank look as she adjusted her tiara. She was wearing a protective vest over her best dress, but the tiara was the real defense. It had saved her twice from stray shots.
“For what, pray, Rabbiteater?”
“Surviving. Not panicking. Is hard.”
Cortese gave Seraphel a nod after a second, and Seraphel gave Rabbiteater a bleak smile.
“I’ve hardly done anything as…”
“You helped clean up people. Sew wounds. Talked. It matters.”
Seraphel stopped protesting. She hadn’t been able to fight, but this wasn’t a contest. It wasn’t a…it didn’t matter. They were right here, and the four odd friends had done away with everything.
Including titles. Rabbiteater was just ‘Rabbiteater’ right now. Seraphel, Cortese, Menrise, likewise. It made them feel closer. Rabbiteater was turning his head, surveying the decks. He knew they could not, but he was looking for any ship capable of saving the doomed Taligrit vessels.
Be it so cruel though—Rabbiteater needed only three ships to survive this battle.
Throne’s Will. The ship he was on with his four friends. Rainbringer, where Altestiel was leading from. Okay, maybe the Impetuous Step, led by Lord Belchaus—but the last was Ephemeral Days.
The Order of Seasons’ own ship where Ser Markus, Dame Talia, and Ser Greysten were. Their sister-ship, Spring’s Delight, had Pertheine on it, the Spring’s Warden. Two seasons of the Order of Seasons had been fighting among the thickest parts of the battle, but so far as he knew it, Markus was alive.
Nevermind. Five ships. Five ships out of what had been over a hundred…and a handful of reinforcements.
Rabbiteater’s eyes lingered on the battered ship from Nadel and the eight ships in Lord Belchaus’ retinue. Then his gaze lingered on the ships sailing in an entire wing of their own, bearing bright white sails with a familiar lightning bolt and thunderhead.
That was no nation’s navy in the world, but a universal symbol.
[Storm Sailors] proudly wore that on unaffiliated vessels. They were sailing on the Bloodtear Pirates’ flank. Against the Terandrians. And the ships that had meant to be the fleet’s salvation…
A long three days. Treachery, turnabout, and mystery. All the best things, on the Solstice no less. Rabbiteater remembered it vividly.
 
——
 
Two days ago.
The Bloodtear Pirates could fight Terandria’s finest at sea—and win. Half of it was their levels; they were the most dangerous [Pirates] in the world. The other half was the sea.
On the eve of the Solstice, Rabbiteater’s ship filled with Thronebearers, and the Order of Seasons had met one of the ships trying to board the Throne’s Will. They’d run straight into [Pirates] who’d boarded them.
Figures swinging onto the deck from above as boarding ramps were lowered. Ser Greysten pointed, and one exploded, sending screaming, burning figures into the surf. Rabbiteater saw a [Sailor] fire a crossbow and take one of the [Pirates] down, and a body thumped onto the deck.
“They’re insane!”
Each [Pirate] was outnumbered ten to one! Ser Markus didn’t even have a chance to hit one before a dozen swords ran through the [Pirate]. But Rabbiteater felt his [Dangersense] ping a second before their [Captain] screamed.
“‘Ware foe! They’re going to try to seize the ship! Don’t let—”
A [Pirate] dropped on the man and buried a sword in his chest. A howl of victory went up, and Rabbiteater had no idea why. But more [Pirates] were pouring across the gangplank, barely making any headway—then he saw the one who’d killed the [Captain] raise a sword and heard a shout.
“[Rock the Ship].”
