He’d come out of the blue on the first day as the Terandrians had broken off from Izril’s coasts and tried to make for Wistram. Sixteen ships and his personal flagship and an oath to stall the Bloodtear Pirates so the Terandrians could escape to Wistram—or die trying.
The celebrations had overtaken the fleet that night. The Lord of the Dance had cleaved towards the [Pirates], ready to stall them, and a second force had also been spotted answering the Terandrians’ call.
Admiral Imor Seagrass, the self-styled leader of [Storm Sailors], famous for his merchant fleet, had arrived with no less than forty ships, his entire main fleet. Everyone from Iradoren to Markus had been toasting the two and promising vast rewards of gratitude for their heroic actions. Even discussing turning the war-capable ships to beat the [Pirates] with such odds.
Rabbiteater had felt odd about it, and he’d seen Ser Thilowen whispering to Princess Seraphel. He’d gone to bother her in the afternoon about it.
 
——
 
“Rabbiteater, it is entirely improper to visit a lady in her room by one’s self.”
Hundredlord Cortese and Rabbiteater were arguing and poking each other in front of Seraphel’s cabin. Rabbiteater scowled behind his visor.
“She’s got [Maids] and a Thronebearer. Why are you here?”
“To represent you so no crude rumors arrive. There are some, you know. Between you and your friend Ser Markus—there’s hardly time for rumors, but apparently you are thought of as uncivilized.”
“Why are you chap—chappering—”
“Chaperoning?”
“That. Three people can have fun, same as two.”
“Rabbiteater—”
“That’s why I’m here, Rabbit. Three’s fun, four’s crazy.”
Menrise poked her head out from the side, and Rabbiteater laughed as Cortese spluttered. The Hundredlord wearily adjusted his doublet as the door opened.
“At least Ser Markus isn’t here. The things I hear about that man…”
Ser Solstice nodded, deadpan.
“All true.”
“Dead gods, really?”
They had to smile. They did, and Seraphel led them in to have tea of all things. They smiled, laughed, and Menrise hugged Seraphel against all propriety, and Rabbiteater grinned…until the smiles winked out.
It was like that. You laughed. You cheered. Then reality hit you. And if you wept, even that wasn’t as long as when you were safe.
It was Goblin expressions he saw around him. Not more miserable or lesser than any other species, but that of honest people facing truth.
“You wished to speak with me, Rabbiteater?”
Seraphel met his gaze through his visor directly. She seemed…determined. Which was good. Rabbiteater nodded.
“Why’s Admiral Seagrass helping? It makes no sense.”
Cortese stopped drinking tea, and Menrise paused in opening her visor to insert a cracker. Seraphel took a deep breath. A relieved one, Rabbiteater thought.
“You noticed it too?”
“I’m smart. Not book smart, but stupid smart. Makes no sense.”
“How so? Lord Seagrass knows we’re some of his most valuable clients. He has been promised a fortune’s fortune—enough for a man such as him to retire on. Even if he loses his entire fleet.”
“That’s how a noble thinks, sure. Makes no sense for him. Is he Terandrian?”
“No, Rabbiteater. And he has a point, Cortese.”
Seraphel soothed a bristling Cortese, and the Hundredlord hesitated. The [Princess] was gnawing at one lip.
“We have—thanked Lord Imor Seagrass profusely for his actions, but there was a concerning moment, Rabbiteater. I brought it up with Altestiel. My mother offered Lord Imor Seagrass a sizeable sum in advance of his efforts with a simple contract to pay the rest upon assessing his damages. Substantial. Thousands of gold pieces per any ship lost, and this would be only Calanfer’s contributions. He declined.”
“Why? Was it unsatisfactory? Kaaz has already sent him gold—I imagine the man is milking each nation he can. Let him.”
Cortese was working out why this was a problem. Seraphel took another breath, and Rabbiteater’s skin began to tingle.
“Yes, well, my mother’s contract was magically binding, Cortese. It presumed, in the language, he was going to…go to our defense, and that was the only objectionable clause. A very generous contract that any honest man wouldn’t hesitate to sign, and I believe her.”
Menrise’s head slowly rose, and Cortese stopped chewing on his snack.
“Then…but the alternative would be ludicrous, Seraphel. He is reliant purely upon trade, and the goodwill of—offending Terandria would make him anathema to most nations—he wouldn’t survive the damage to his reputation.”
“Yep. Unless he thought it was worth it.”
Rabbiteater’s head was itching. He longed to remove his helmet and scratch—and damn it all what they saw. He felt a tingling in his gut, and that hope that you felt? He’d felt hope during the war against Ailendamus, and it had turned out he’d lived despite the odds.
This felt like something else. Rabbiteater saw a girl with a white flag in his vision. He saw a [Florist] and Garen Redfang’s last smile.
Seraphel looked at him and hesitated—then the door swung open.
Dame Neranthei nearly swung on the man who shoved the door wide open, letting the pouring rain and winds in, but Earl Altestiel was panting. His ship was close enough to let him run over on a water bridge.
He stopped when he saw his friends.
“Come to my ship.”
Cortese got too his feet too slowly, premonition weighing him down.
“Altestiel, what—”
The Earl of Rain’s face was grim and bleak. He spoke without inflection, like a man delivering cold facts.
“Belchaus is under attack. The Bloodtear Pirates and Imor Seagrass have attacked him from two sides. He’s attempting to break for our position.”
The Ivory Five stood or sat there a second, then Rabbiteater leapt to his feet, and Seraphel exhaled. They got up and ran to Rainbringer…and Rabbiteater saw it.
It was all so damn familiar. Why was he predicting what was going on as well as a trained [Princess] of diplomacy? Because they were like him, he realized.
He just couldn’t figure out what they were getting. But they were like him.
 
——
 
Lord Imor Seagrass did the unthinkable. Under dark skies, his ships, crewed by ‘honest’ [Storm Sailors] who really were the counterparts to [Pirates] most of the time, even if they did some occasional piracy…
They attacked the Lord of the Dance from behind as the Bloodtear Pirates flanked them and then turned on the Terandrian fleet. The second doom came upon the Terandrian fleet as [Storm Sailors] joined [Pirates] under common cause.
Lord Belchaus barely escaped with ten ships. He’d only escaped because he’d begun breaking for Terandria’s fleet the moment he saw Seagrass moving on his flank.
Impossible. Inconceivable. Outrageous. In between rapidly reassessing their situation, which had gone from bad to worse, the Terandrians demanded to know why Seagrass had thrown his entire reputation into the waters. For what? Gold? Plunder? The chance to seize a ship like Legend’s Wake?
It made no sense—except to Rabbiteater. He could only articulate it to Seraphel like this:
“They’re…not desperate. Not in the way Iradoren thinks. He thinks they’re like, uh…[Peasants]. Rabble. [Rogues].”
“And they are not?”
The two sat in Seraphel’s cabin in the Solstice’s night, alone, and damn the Markus allegations. They were both tired from a sleepless night, but it didn’t matter. Seraphel was looking at Rabbiteater. As if trying to see past his visor.
She’d treated him differently. Did she suspect…? He didn’t know. She hadn’t run, though. She seemed to hang on his words differently now. As if carefully rethinking each one as if it came from someone important and strange.
An odd feeling. He looked at her, a [Princess], and felt sorry for her. She was one of the heirs to a nation, and he had beheld Calanfer and seen its size and riches. And the misery of the [Princesses]. But she did not understand.
“They’re in pain. The Bloodtear Pirates. It’s like…pain. So much so they can’t tell anyone else is hurting too. That’s why they fight. But they have something they want. I don’t know what it is, but it’s worth it. Whatever it is, it’s enough for Seagrass and all of them to die for it. That’s what you can’t understand.”
Seraphel pursed her lips thoughtfully as she refilled his cup with tea.
“I see. I agree it must be something. I cannot imagine what Irurx has promised them. But pain, Ser—Rabbiteater? I understand they are…from rough lives and our wealth appeals to them.”
Rabbiteater shook his head. He’d been afraid of this, but he didn’t know how to word it.
“No. See—it’s not like that. Gold is just gold. You might die over it, I guess, but my—I wouldn’t.”
“I see. But it is a valid desire, surely?”
He met her eyes seriously.
“Not for this. Listen, Seraphel. Their lives…aren’t like yours. I came from a bad place, once. Worse than this ship. Your home. Worse than being a [Peasant]. It’s hard. I’m not saying it’s…hm. How do I explain? How about this? You suffer, sometimes. You, Aielef, Vernoue, suffer a lot. I’ve seen it. I get some of it.”
Seraphel ducked her head.
“Thank you for saying that, Rabbiteater. I—”
“—They bleed.”
Rabbiteater interrupted Seraphel. He saw her pause, her lips tighten, and knew she didn’t like that. Seraphel took a slight breath, smoothed her fingers along one crinkle of her dress, and looked up with a smile.
She’s mad. Rabbiteater had seen Meisa smile like that. He was glad they’d broken up, now. They were all going to die.
“I understand your analogy, Rabbiteater. But…believe me. It is not always easy being in my role. I know I am a [Princess] and it must be ludicrous to hear, but—”
Her fingers dug slightly into the fabric of her dress.
“—it is not—easy. All the time. Allow me to say that? Please?”
There was a world of feeling in her tone. Rabbiteater heard her. He paused, then sucked more tea from the straw in his cup.
“Then we’re two kinds of misery killing each other. No wonder we’re equal. Whatever they want, Seraphel, is enough that they’ll kill us for it. It’s not gold. It’s not just our ships or magic artifacts. Believe me. If they’re like me—if it’s a reason like I think it is, they won’t stop until the last ship of theirs is gone or they get it. We have to find what it is or we all die.”
She looked at him, really looked at him there, and then Seraphel got up slowly.
“Not all of us. This seems to be a Terandrian issue. If you were to take a boat, say, you might be able to escape. The Bloodtear Pirates are known to be hospitable to people they like. Whether they let you go and you signal for pickup or you are a captive—the odds are not in your favor, but what would you say if you were to find a boat with provisions ready to launch?”
The Goblin actually stopped for a second in surprise. Was she suggesting…he looked at her sharply.
“Why would I run? You’ll die if they get you. They aren’t taking prisoners.”
“Ser Solstice. I am surrounded by [Knights], and Altestiel has taken great pains to safeguard my ship. If they get to me—I wager one more [Knight] will make little difference. With respect. This isn’t your battle.”
Seraphel saw Rabbiteater’s helm tilting left and right. The Goblin sat there, elbows resting on his knees.
“I’m not leaving you all to die. Why are you speaking stupid?”
Her cheeks turned red.
“I am just suggesting—”
“Is there a reason I should run?”
Then she did hesitate. Rabbiteater might be ‘stupid smart’, as he called it, but he had a certain intelligence that was incisive. He noticed the hesitation.
“Does someone else want me dead? Good time to try.”
“I—am just suggesting an option, Rabbiteater. Frankly, I don’t know if that puts you in more danger.”
He peered at her as she clasped her hands behind her back, and she saw him stand and come over. He tilted his head left and right as she stared at him. Her hair was like rubies; his armor gleamed, a [Champion]’s raiment. If he was a Goblin…she stared into that black visor and could almost smell his breath.
It smelled like tea. Mostly because he’d drunk it. If she reached out, she could touch his tears or even take off that helmet. Her heart was racing. Rabbiteater’s helmet moved back—
He headbutted her. Gently, but Seraphel staggered, fell into a dresser, and almost collapsed onto the gently rocking floor.
“You’re silly.”
“Rabbiteater! That hurt! I am looking out for you, and you—”
Seraphel got up, feeling at her forehead. It felt scratched! She strode after him as he sat down, chuckling. The Hobgoblin looked at her, and whether that red flash from his visor was her imagination or not—he crossed one leg, lifted the tea cup and straw, and slurped the rest down.
“This is why I’m staying. Friends don’t leave friends.”
What was she supposed to say to that? Seraphel sat down weakly and began to chuckle. Then laugh and giggle as Rabbiteater smiled at her. And they thought it.
This Goblin [Knight] should not die.
This silly [Princess] should not perish.
If wishes could come true…after a while, the laughter stopped.
 
——
 
The Solstice night saw the worst fighting thus far, in the chaos that refused to give any relief. At that time, Prince Iradoren had experienced the conflict enough to lose his confidence that Terandria would emerge from this unscathed, but the second day had enough bloodshed to convince him…the worst might come to pass.
Legend’s Wake did not sink or come close to it, but twice its magical shields went down, and the other ships of its escort had to screen it while the magical stores were replenished. Three times, Iradoren himself fought. Two defensive boarding actions, one offensive.
“By the Kingdom of Myths—slay them all! [You Are Humanity’s Finest]—attack!”
His people were varied and adept at countless battlefields. The hill-tribes of Torek’dale, relatives to the fallen Taligrit commonfolk, wrestled bears for fun. They swung huge battleaxes down on [Pirates] while half-Elven [Archers] who had lived for decades practicing only the bow fired over the heads of Dwarven [Stalwarts].
His ship even had enough room for riders to maneuver in the rain, and Iradoren refused to let the [Pirates]’ Skills activate.
The [Prince] himself strode into battle with his bodyguard, and the first [Pirate] who tried to lock blades with him saw the Sword of Humanity, Iradoren’s relic sword, swinging at her torso.
The Drowned Woman tried to block with both scimitars, and his sword sheared through both enchanted blades, the woman, and kept going. Iradoren attacked without slowing; he was seventy years old, his immortality taken from his pact with half-Elves, his body still a young man’s.
