He was near a blademaster as half-Elves reckoned such things, and the [Pirates] could not block nor parry his blade. It was, as Rabbiteater had observed, a [Bane] weapon to all Humanity’s foes.
Which was everyone.
 
——
 
They broke after two attempts and then tried to down Legend’s Wake from afar. One of the two Bloodtear [Admirals]—the half-Elf known as ‘Maxy’—had a dangerous ship that kept firing those wretched ballista bolts at his ship.
It forced Iradoren’s own [Captain] to attack and break away, and all the while, Iradoren saw the lesser ships of the fleet struggling. Their running battle meant any ship crippled was lost, and he nearly lost Legend’s Wake when he tried to rescue one of Kaaz’s ships and the Bloodtear Pirates swarmed his vessel.
Then it just kept getting worse. It was a long night, without end, and Iradoren did not know why dawn took so long to come, only that communications with Wistram abruptly went dead.
The Academy of Mages had been launching long-range spells, but at some point just after midnight—the assistance ceased. Thusly, Iradoren was demanding answers from his [Mages] as well as consulting with Earl Altestiel.
A good man. Set upon. Haggard, but without question doing his best despite the odds against them. Iradoren had seen him sailing his ship straight at Unsettled King, and he had tried to kill Admiral Rosech.
Altestiel had failed. The effort had cost Altestiel’s ship; huge scars and patched holes proved the Bloodtear Pirate could match Terandria’s finest warships.
If Maxy was capable of holding down Legend’s Wake at range, Rosech had slain too many good warriors of Terandria to count in boarding actions.
“This has been a disaster, Prince Iradoren. When the time comes, I shall take responsibility for my failures—I just cannot see what the Bloodtear Pirates want! And every coincidence and damned unexplained event turns against us! First Wistram—now sabotage?”
Altestiel, in a rare display of emotion around Iradoren, hammered a fist into Iradoren’s wall and then apologized, but the [Prince of Men] just raised one hand.
“You will find no ill will from Erribathe, you have my word, Altestiel. I have already spoken to my father of your efforts and that of the others I have seen fighting their utmost. It is indeed a cascade of our enemies. They come out of the woodwork. My people still have no idea who it was. An investigation is difficult at this moment. Do you have any inkling?”
The weary [Earl] looked up and shook his head.
“None. I know it was a woman. Sword in hand—striking of appearance, but no one can remember what she looked like physically, only describe how she felt. She took out my mainsail, which is enchanted. Did the Legend’s Wake suffer any damage?”
Iradoren hated to admit it, but he lowered his voice.
“…Our ship is powered by magical forces. Her attack was incisive and damaged the propulsion effect. It was as if she knew where to strike to slow us.”
That would have allowed Legend’s Wake to accelerate and leave the rest of the fleet behind. Not that Iradoren had considered it except as a final resort to save as many nobles as he could…but the fact that someone had stymied them so precisely boggled the mind.
“That seems to have been the goal. At least The Wandering Inn still stands, at last I heard. Some good out of this day, but no one will tell me anything else.”
What a non-sequitur. Or an apparent one. Iradoren didn’t have time to discuss the fate of an inn…until he was reminded of an odd connection. He forced a smile.
“This may be a disaster, but if we survive, at any cost, we will have faced one of the greatest challenges of the era so far. Allow me to cease taking up your time, Earl Altestiel. You must rest, and I confess I am also wearied. At least two more days remain.”
Altestiel nodded, yawned, and half-bowed.
“True enough. I hope you forgive my outburst, Prince Iradoren. I will prepare a statement to the fleet. If nothing else, we have proven no ship of Terandria will fall without a fight in blood. Perhaps the [Pirates] will relent after they have also suffered enough losses.”
Both men doubted it. Iradoren bid Altestiel good night and then sat, thinking a while.
He did not call for his consort, Aradien, though he valued her advice and wisdom. She had the perspective of her people, but Iradoren confessed that at the moment, his was a purely banal, Human concern.
The [Prince] meant what he’d said: he believed Terandria’s ships would survive this encounter in some part. It was sheerly impossible for the Bloodtear Pirates to destroy them all. That was just pragmatism. Of course, making sure the right ships survived mattered.
So many losses…they might lose heroes like Ser Greysten, Lord Firrus, or countless others. Iradoren would mourn every good soul, but the fallout from this?
Disastrous. The humiliation and embarrassment to Terandria would fall not just on Altestiel, but the man who could have halted this and had failed.
Iradoren. He was, after all, one of two members of royalty present and the more senior and higher-level of the two by far.
The Kingdom of Myths had not awoken from its slumber to become a laughingstock of Terandria with Ailendamus at its borders.
“This is a disaster of unprecedented proportions. If it were sheer incompetence, it would be one thing, but the Earl of Rains has done his best, as have numerous war-leaders. It behooves no one to see Altestiel laid lower than necessary. Embarrassing, shameful as it might be, there is one method to salvaging this situation—partly.”
Iradoren was thinking. He had not told his father much—his father was purely worried for his son’s health. Iradoren was worried for his kingdom.
He had a solution. It was one thing to be ambushed by [Pirates] driven to this act of madness, to acknowledge, yes, Terandria had been arrogant at sea, that Imor Seagrass and other factors had led to this failure. But a narrative could hinge upon a few smaller details.
Such as…the possibility this expedition had been cursed by a traitor. That was an explanation the Hundred Families of Terandria might well believe. If someone had orchestrated this doom, well, blame could be assigned, but it would be deflected.
Depending on the traitor. A scapegoat could be found, but the truth mattered more.
And what better truth was there than…Iradoren’s fingers twitched towards the hilt of his sword.
A Goblin? His enmity towards ‘Ser Solstice’—or rather, Rabbiteater—had not abated, but it had changed to almost a kind of gratitude. He was glad the [Knight] was here.
A door opened, and Iradoren spoke without looking up.
“Aradien. Send for the [Captain]. I wish us to maintain proximity to a certain ship in the coming days.”
It would not do for Ser Solstice to perish at the wrong moment. But unmasking him once [Scrying] spells were re-established? Accusations need not be made beyond that. The narrative wrote itself. Calanfer might suffer, but Iradoren would personally see to it that Princess Seraphel not suffer unduly.
Regardless of what she knew. Everyone made mistakes, and hers was a tragic enough tale. Iradoren made a plan within the scope of the battle, which he would devote his attention to well and properly. But someone would have to take the blame for all of this.
Let it be a Goblin.
 
——
 
By the estimates of Altestiel’s [Strategist], Kiish, by the dawn of the third day, post-Solstice, the Terandrian fleet had suffered twenty percent losses.
At the end of the third day, that number had risen to thirty percent. The Bloodtear Pirates’ original force stood at forty percent losses via both pure casualties and attrition of ships fleeing the field.
During the Solstice, a certain member of the Terandrians had distinguished himself with honor and proceeded to continue to do so thereafter.
“Talia. I do believe your [Knight] friend is a Drake.”
Lord Firrus Kallinad lowered a spyglass on the third day of fighting, but raised it again in appreciation as he saw the Throne’s Will fighting off another ship.
Talia Kallinad winced and said nothing; she should have been with the Order of Seasons, but Firrus had requested his daughter’s presence on his ship. She had argued it was her duty to follow the Summer’s Champion into the thick of things, but he had insisted.
A parent’s fears. Griffindance was better-equipped for ship combat than the Order of Seasons’ boarding ships, and he had pointed out they were still a target of the Bloodtear Pirates.
Right now, they were navigating away from their last engagement, and he had noticed Ser Solstice fighting and had gotten a chance to see what everyone else was talking about. Lord Kallinad had speculated about the man’s identity; who hadn’t? His daughter had refused to give him hints, which he supposed was a knightly thing to do even if slightly hurtful, but he and the Terandrian fleet now knew…Ser Solstice was definitely a Drake.
One big hint was him breathing fire.
He must have been desperate enough to use his secret weapon. Of course, at this umpteenth hour…Lord Firrus shook his head. He had probably hidden his abilities apurpose, perhaps used them in battle when no one was watching. But now…
Golden flames licked across the deck of a [Pirate] ship. Ser Solstice recoiled as if the flames had burned even him, but it was nothing compared to [Pirates] fleeing the blaze he had exhaled. When he lifted his axe, why, the cheering cut through even the din of battle around him.
“I can feel a Skill even from here. It’s almost like Prince Iradoren’s own inspiring aegis. I cannot believe you never invited him to House Kallinad, Talia.”
“I—he was exceptionally busy, and everyone has their flaws, Father.”
Talia spoke through gritted teeth, and Firrus shot her a long, level look.
“A Drake may be a [Knight] if that was your objection, Talia.”
“That was not my objection, Father.”
Maybe it was romance. Firrus grimaced and dropped it. A parent didn’t want to know such things, but it was a likely reason given her reaction. Ah, well.
It stirred his heart during these dark hours, and that was enough. Lord Firrus returned to the engagement.
Ser Solstice breathed fire and, indeed, seemed to radiate his aura so strongly that the [Pirates] lost momentum around him. It did not stop them from coming against the others, but Terandria was not without teeth.
Yes, many ships were unwisely crewed with [Soldiers] used to land-combat and laden with supplies, but Terandria had warships. There were several leaders.
Earl Altestiel’s Rainbringer, capable of using storms and whirlpools.
Prince Iradoren’s Legend’s Wake, a magnificent warship that had sunk more ships than any other this engagement.
Golaen’s Bastion of Contempt, the biggest vessel crewed by the huge folk of the Kingdom of Giants. Ungainly, perhaps, but it had weathered countless attacks without faltering.
Nadel’s own Lord Belchaus and his Impetuous Step. Heavily reinforced, akin to a man wearing armored boots—Lord Bel had rammed countless ships with it before swarming the deck.
And lastly—Griffindance. Be they so humble, Pheislant was a naval kingdom, and this ship was Pheislant and House Kallinad’s pride.
Unlike most ships, this ship was fast, maneuverable—and had a Griffin-feather design on the ship’s cladding. When it cut starboard or port, it was not with the sluggishness of even the best ships, but a maneuverability so uncanny that it left many uncertain of how a ship could move this fast.
The secret was powerful wind spells and a buoyancy that negated much of the weight of the vessel. Griffindance was smaller than the other capital ships, but it had sacrificed hull plating, siege weapons, size, and everything else for two ‘wings’ that Lord Firrus ordered extended.
The carved wings were there for stability. Firrus glanced behind him and saw Bloodtear ships trying to close on his rear. He also saw Lord Imor Seagrass’ damn Sea Serpents in the water and gave an order.
“Activate the Griffinweight enchantments! [Burst of Air]!”
It took several precious seconds before he felt his ship accelerate suddenly as all hands braced. It wasn’t as dramatic as, say, a leap skywards, but for a second—Griffindance skipped over the waters.
A hop that carried them well out of range of the pursuit. One wing retracted, and the vessel slowed, turning, then retracted the other wing and came up on the ships attacking Throne’s Will from behind.
They hadn’t expected reinforcements so fast. The [Knight] leaning over the railing and exhaling fire stopped and flopped onto his back, gasping, as Lord Firrus saluted him and the Calanferians and gave an order.
“Portside—loose fire upon these wretched [Pirates]!”
His daughter lifted a blazing shield, covering her father, as Griffindance sped across the [Pirates]’ rear and launched one volley, then two.
Other nations had disparaged his ship, privately, for its size and for the sheer fact that it was not some relic built in the age of half-Elven empire like Legend’s Wake.
This ship was a mere sixty years old, practically newborn as magical ships reckoned such things, and built with modern magic. Some ancient magical ships could teleport, fire spells miles away, turn invisible…
Firrus’ beloved ship could hop, turn quickly, and instead of ballistae or siege weapons or magical artillery spells, it had poured every enchantment into being lightweight and maneuverable. If you couldn’t fit another spell onto the vessel, what could you use for ship-to-ship combat that was lightweight?
Well…Lord Firrus saw figures pulling back on giant Y-shaped structures on deck. There was a platform for the operator to stand on, and you had a specialist who helped reload each weapon manually since they only fired one shot.
They were giant slingshots on Griffindance’s deck. Similar, perhaps, to the Greatbows of Ailendamus’ design; Firrus’ father had unabashedly ripped off the concept, but the Greatbows were impossible to steal and still too heavy.
So slingshots. The other nations had laughed and laughed with their [Lightning Bolt] spells they could fire from their ships, standard to many ships, larger vessels that wallowed under enemy fire—
Lord Firrus saw a [Slingshot Specialist] draw on one oversized weapon and the banding tense…then release with a satisfying crack.
Here was the trick. You could hurl a head-sized stone damn far with a slingshot of that size, with tremendous accuracy, and the entire contraption was lightweight. But, ah, that wasn’t much use against an enemy warship, was it? You could harry the deck, but Firrus and Pheislant didn’t go in for boarding actions constantly. Griffindance did not enjoy slugging matches. He had to do enough damage in a few volleys to count, then skim away.
