“I don’t know. I wish she’d leave. I’m fine.”
—Heard that and laughed. Threw back her head and cackled as Lucifen stared at her. Her hair was on fire. Rips and holes in her heart. Skin burned and still—searching the storm.
He was smiling and trying to hide it. Trying to lie.
She was giggling as she clung to the wheel.
Death was walking with them. A weary crone, a mother of her own, eyes downcast and lost. A maiden of days that would never come.
Waiting.
Screaming in his ears. Rabbiteater strode to starboard and stared around for the [Pirates]. Then he realized he hadn’t heard the scream through his ears.
“Roshal!”
Eyes burning. A black sail and chains looming out of the darkness. Fire in her chest and vengeance in the words coming from her lips.
His [Innkeeper]. Rabbiteater stared into the storm and wished she would turn around and leave.
But he knew she never would.
That was why he loved her.
 
——
 
Forty-one Lucifen. Ulvama. Erin Solstice.
The Naga’s Den was meant for a crew of hundreds. Even with spells, Erin could barely steer it. But she did steer it. Voices babbled around her, Lucifen arguing and shouting over each other.
“We have familiar spells tending to the rigging. Someone find answers on whether we should stow enchanted sails in the storm—”
“—They’re being overwhelmed. The storm’s separated the ships, and the Bloodtear Pirates are tearing the Terandrians apart. Let alone Roshal, this is suicide, Visophecin—”
“Ship to starboard! Roshal!”
She was almost there. Erin Solstice knew Rabbiteater was out there. She could sense him. Even hear…she turned her head and snarled as she saw the familiar chains of Roshal.
The second ship was harder to fight off than the first. The Lucifen had taken down the first ship easily. The smaller craft had taken those black rays of light to the keel or whatever it was and fallen behind, unable to turn.
This one—made contact and tried to board. Erin let go of the wheel, and The Naga’s Den began to lurch. Visophecin activated his warform, and the Lucifen, nobles in black finery, fired spells off the railings, hiding behind barrier spells.
None of them save Visophecin could activate their warforms. Erin ran forward, and Ulvama knocked her down.
“Beware of arrows, stupid!”
One of Erin’s rings flashed, and both women flinched as an arrow veered just in time. Hedault’s enchantment. Ulvama scrambled up and looked downwards.
“[Buzzing—], no. [Viper’s Summoning].”
Snakes burst across the deck, biting at figures milling about and trying to throw ladders up. The only thing saving Erin and the Lucifen from being overwhelmed was the height of the two ships. The one below was no warship, and the [Slavers] and [Slaves] had to climb up ladders the Lucifen smashed.
“Flame.”
Erin conjured a ball of it. Not a [Fireball], but just a mass of black flames she hurled at the other ship. It clung to the hull, burning hard despite water they dumped on it.
“Take the wheel, Erin Solstice! We must keep moving.”
Visophecin’s voice was a shout, and she saw him leap onto the other ship and begin savaging [Slavers] in close-combat. She dashed back to the wheel, cursing—he used his gate powers to stride back onto the deck.
“There are too many. We must cripple their ship. Aim for the sails and their rudder.”
Azemith snapped at him.
“They’re doing the same thing to us! There’s a Djinni at our rudder. Someone—”
“I will combat it.”
The ship refused to turn like Erin wanted. It was more than a simple ship with a single wheel that controlled everything. Cursing, she fought the waves that were growing stronger as Roshal’s ship kept pace with theirs.
And they were not even upon the Bloodtear Pirates and Terandrians yet. But they were close. Erin knew it.
“Argh!”
Azemith screamed as an arrow pierced one of her barriers. She ripped it out of her arm, swearing in a language Erin didn’t know. The Lucifen were arguing.
“They have barrier-piercing arrows! Magic? Skills?”
“Someone cast a gust spell. Or diffuse us with illusions.”
One of the Lucifen began casting just that until Igolze shouted at them.
“There isn’t a point! They’re hitting the entire deck! Reinforce your barriers and take cover!”
Erin was stuck behind the wheel, but Ulvama charged over with, of all things, a shield. She raised it as she muttered a spell, and Erin’s warpaint glowed.
“They’re not good at fighting, Erin. They are and they aren’t. Like [Mages].”
The [Innkeeper] nodded her head as she surveyed the decks. The ship was so…empty. She could see Lucifen moving back and forth, keeping under cover, and the flicker of spells and Visophecin fighting a glowing figure at the rear of the ship, but she felt like she was on a ghost ship. And the storm made it feel like she was one of the last people in the world. Ulvama was the only real person in this nightmare.
But Rabbiteater was out there.
So she kept the wheel moving, trying to not fight through the waves but move perpendicular to them, which was how she thought you did it, as the Lucifen began blowing more air into the sails. At least the wind was partially at their back.
The Bloodtear Pirates wanted to catch the Terandrians, so the storm obliged Erin. The Naga’s Den groaned as explosions pinged off its hull. Then the Lucifen were exiting gates around Erin.
“They have the deck.”
“Someone take the wheel—”
Erin snapped as she drew her dagger and one of her acid jars. She whirled, and Visophecin reappeared, panting.
“The Djinni has fled from damage. No one take the wheel. You are to remain safe, Erin Solstice.”
The Lucifen began raising black walls of light that obscured everything, like miniature shields, and snapped spells from behind them. They fought like modern-day soldiers, Erin realized. In squads, shooting their killing spells, exploding groups of [Slavers] coming over the sides—Azemith shrieked again.
“There are too many of them! They’re locked onto the side of the ship!”
Visophecin adjusted his suit, rain slicking his face and clothing.
“I will remove them.”
He strode down the deck as Ulvama, narrow-eyed, drew a bow she’d found and shot an arrow into one of the figures. Then she pointed.
“[Sproutwood Curse].”
One of the Lucifen glanced over and bared sharp teeth in a smile of appreciation. Ulvama just drew another arrow.
Erin saw and felt The Naga’s Den tilt and right itself. Visophecin must have severed something. She accelerated as the Lucifen cut down another rank of figures and halted. One of them spoke, urgent.
“Is that it?”
“Regroup. We should recalculate tactics.”
“My magical stores are low. We cannot take another battle the same way. I propose animating the corpses.”
“My thought exactly.”
Erin re-focused on the waves ahead until she heard a cry and felt an explosion—then it was just ringing in her ears. She whirled, and a Lucifen was lying on their back.
“—[Slave] collars exploded.”
That was what Ulvama said when Erin’s hearing came back. The Lucifen was alive, but hurt. Visophecin ordered the rest of the bodies thrown overboard.
They were nearing the Bloodtear Pirates now. Erin could see, in the distance, signs of the battle. How? Occasionally, she’d see a flash through the storm, a striation of color, but the real clue was the light.
Something was sending beams of light up that would cut through the storm itself. Whatever it was—Erin aimed at that and her sense of Rabbiteater.
“There is a Luminary—a rogue Luminary of the Drowned Folk. We knew they could summon Krakens. Did we know they could fight with that kind of power?”
One of the Lucifen licked their lips as Visophecin returned to Erin’s side. By now, the Lucifen were taking on the tasks of the ship, willingly or not. Black shadow familiars were clumsily doing the rigging with Lucifen or trying to tack with the winds—and one was even in the crow’s nest.
Visophecin didn’t try to reason with Erin again. He just spoke, loudly, in her ear.
“Each species discovers dangerous ways to protect themselves. Erin Solstice, that Luminary can burn a hole through a ship. She is not where Rabbiteater is.”
Erin spun the wheel grudgingly, and they turned left. Then she heard it again.
“Roshal! Another ship! Port, this time! It’s coming in—fast—”
She closed her eyes. This time, Erin drew her knife and an acid jar and stared at them. Paltry weapons compared to the Lucifen’s spells or even Ulvama’s magic.
“Here. If you insist—can you use this?”
Azemith, one of the Lucifen, tossed a crossbow at Erin and a quarrel of bolts. Erin pulled back on it, grunting at the effort, until she heard a click. She put a bolt in the slot, aimed it at an empty patch of deck, and fired.
She did it one-handed. A mistake. The recoil made the crossbow almost twist out of her hands. Erin swore, and Visophecin produced something else.
“This wand will fire [Shatterbolts]. It has twenty-two charges. Use them wisely. I am sending for more artifacts, Azemith, but Rhisveri can barely locate us, let alone transmit weapons.”
“If someone would rescind her demands—”
“No. You’ll run if I do. How do I fire this?”
Erin took the wand and aimed it around. Visophecin moved her arm out of the way of his leg.
“Cometh is the trigger phrase. There is a grip-activator keyphrase as well, but I do not believe you have the training not to use it accidentally. Do not aim it at anything you don’t intend to kill.”
“Got it.”
“Use the shield, too. Spells don’t always work.”
Erin picked up the shield Ulvama had found, grunting as she glanced right, towards the port.
“Okay. Someone else grab the wheel. Shoot the [Captain]. I’ll try to set the ship on fire with my Skills. It doesn’t go out easily.”
“Armor up. Now.”
Visophecin snapped, and Lucifen began putting on pieces of armor from Roshal’s stores, reluctant. They advanced to the port side. No arrows yet—but Visophecin held out an arm, and Igolze used a portal spell to appear down the deck. Igolze aimed a finger down as Visophecin’s eyes flickered, and he raised a finger to his brow.
“Hold!”
Erin raised her wand, but the firing word was on her lips when she heard that. She yanked her wand up, and a bolt of magic shot downwards—hit the floorboards and ripped a hole in the deck and missed the enemy [Captain].
But that just meant it added itself to…a lot of holes on deck. Erin stared down, shield raised to cover most of her head, and blinked.
Wait a second. The ship was covered in bodies. There was someone sitting on a chair in the middle of the smaller clipper ship. The occupant of this ship was…one person.
The rest were ghosts.
A glowing crew filled the entire ship as a single man got to his feet. He wore some kind of old-fashioned naval uniform, and as the Lucifen recognized him, if vaguely, Visophecin called out in sudden relief.
“We have reinforcements. Bring him aboard.”
“Are you sure? Who—him?”
Azemith cried out, and Erin stared down at the man as someone conjured a bridge spell for him. He strode upwards, followed by ghosts, and she saw they were a crew.
A dead man wearing a [Cook]’s hat, holding a cleaver, huge, with a scarred fist striding next to a narrow-eyed woman holding a wand, fiddling with her glasses. Officers—high-ranking ones, she thought, striding onto the deck and finding various spots on the ship with ease.
Never saying a word.
A ghost crew. Even Erin and Ulvama stared at them. Then at the man who had brought them.
“Admiral Dakelos.”
“Viscount. I have been sent by Duke Rhisveri to escort you and—Erin Solstice—to safety.”
Two incredibly blank eyes flicked to Erin for a second as she saw the man salute. He hadn’t even blinked when the [Shatterbolt] passed over one shoulder. Erin narrowed her eyes at him.
“Who’s this?”
Visophecin had never met the man in person, but his voice sounded slightly hopeful for once.
“An [Admiral] of Ailendamus. Admiral Dakelos’ Skill…of course. Eminently practical. Did Rhis—Duke Rhisveri send anything else?”
“Supplies and armaments, sir, as much as he could teleport. I encountered one ship of Roshal’s already. From their communications, they are hurling every ship they can at you. I estimate there might be four in the waters.”
“We’ve run into two. Do you know where we are headed, Admiral?”
The man turned to Erin, now, and half-nodded at her.
“The Bloodtear Armadas. I understand this is a mission with little chance of survival. Miss Solstice, my orders are to follow you and recall House Shoel. My Skill will provide you with a full escort.”
“No.”
Erin and Visophecin said it at the same time. Several Lucifen hissed at Erin, but the [Innkeeper]’s expression was almost as uncompromising as the [Admiral]’s. She studied the man. He wasn’t the tallest or most imposing, and she might have mistaken him—but for his expression. He didn’t blink at her, just took in her burned arms, her company, Ulvama—
It wasn’t that he didn’t care. It was that he didn’t react to it. She eyed him and the ship he’d brought with him. Dead [Slavers].
“Are you good at killing, Admiral Dakelos?”
That was the only time he did react. The [Admiral]’s eyes flickered, and he opened his mouth—then raised a hand and gestured around.
“Look around you, Miss Solstice. My crew have fought to the death once already. They won’t hesitate a second time.”
Erin turned. Her eyes found the crew that had last served on the Spitoon.
Strategist Veine. Vorrmen, Giqe, Moirmen, Feifen—[Ensigns] and [Strategists], deck officers and more.
They said nothing. But they behaved as if they were alive. A Drowned Man, humming, was inspecting the wheel. Veine’s head was on a swivel, and when Dakelos looked at them…Erin saw something familiar.
“Okay. I’m in charge. No one’s leaving until I get my guy. Rabbiteater. There’s also Earl Altestiel. I want to save them both.”
“The Earl of Rains? Understood. The Bloodtear Pirates will be hunting both, Miss…how should I address you?”
“Erin is fine.”
The [Admiral] had broken his reserve twice. Once when he looked at his crew. The second time when he came to her name. After that, he was calm.
“My [Helmsman] will take the wheel.”
“No, he won’t. I don’t trust him not to steer us away. I know where Rabbiteater is.”
Dakelos paused and looked at Visophecin, and the Lucifen’s silent glare made the [Admiral] jerk his head in a nod.
“Vorrmen will assist you. Viscount, I am told House Shoel are superior spellcasters. I respectfully recommend they stay behind my crew.”
“We have every intention to, [Admiral].”
One of the Lucifen remarked drily. Erin was already at the wheel again, and the dead Drowned Man’s ghost spoke.
“Which heading, Miss?”
