He hadn’t been able to get a Skill, but Rosech…Rosech’s eyes gleamed as he looked at his Dorhmin son. He raised his voice as heads turned to him.
“Rebirth. I never knew Aldrail wanted it. But he got his wish.”
“Rebirth? Why’d he ever want—”
Someone began, and their voice trailed off uncertainly. Rosech lifted his own sword and examined it. He had killed a score of men and women, from a member of the Thousand Lances to a fleeing noblewoman…but what he wanted wasn’t there either. Not yet.
He envied Aldrail his certainty. Admiral Rosech turned from the Gnolls, who had gone quiet, and nudged Irrel.
“Give them a proper sendoff, lad. Storm’s clearing. It won’t last. Tell them. Tell the Terandrians who we are.”
His son looked at him, then ran down the deck, pulling something out of his bag of holding. Admiral Rosech looked back at the place Aldrail had been, then ahead.
There was even some sunlight coming out of the clouds. A few rays after three days and nights of unending rain. It still looked like it was mixed with blood, but the Bloodtear Pirates following the Terandrians gazed at Wistram and a fleet of everything they desired.
They feared death. But the promise of what they might receive—what they had never had and had wanted—oh yes.
The moment Rosech had seen that ghost, he had known it was the end of the Bloodtear Pirates. One last dance, and they’d pay for it. But it was the greatest treasure of a lifetime. It was a lifetime.
A sound broke the silence and the rushing waves. Admiral Rosech turned his head and beamed as the ships ahead and behind him heard it.
 
——
 
“What’s that sound?”
Rabbiteater broke away from the sight of the Taligrit ships. One was sinking; the other had been taken by [Pirates]. But a [Message] had gone out from one of the two doomed vessels at last.
Destiny.
Seraphel, Menrise, Cortese, they were speechless. That was what the Bloodtear Pirates had come to steal. There was no buying them off. No surrender.
They were stealing the fates of the nobles. For better or worse. Rabbiteater got it. But in this moment, he just listened.
It was a trumpet. Someone with prodigious lungs was playing from the prow of Admiral Rosech’s ship. The notes were clear and carrying. It sounded like a triumphant, yet sad and lonely song. The Goblin swore he could see the [Pirates] standing to attention, listening to the music.
 
——
 
“One of the subhumans is playing the sound. Does a [Marksman] have a clear shot?”
Prince Iradoren narrowed his eyes as he looked at his half-Elven archers. One of his warleaders murmured urgently in his ear.
“Your Highness—if I understand the Bloodtear Pirates correctly, you would draw the wrath of their [Admiral] upon Legend’s Wake without end.”
Iradoren grimaced—and lowered his hand. The song played on.
 
——
 
“Rosech. Is that your lad? I had no notion he played a trumpet. Or could play, if you don’t mind me saying.”
Admiral Maxy called out to Rosech as the elegy went on. He broke away from the silent, solitary figure standing at the prow of his ship, raising a battered brass trumpet to the sky.
“He’s a natural. The Dorhmins didn’t know their kind could play neither.”
His smile encapsulated his world, standing there. The half-Elf saw Rosech breathing in and out. This was the final day. She had things to discuss, like tactics and strategy. Wistram—or a strange rumor there were Roshal ships behind them, clashing with another in the storm.
Rosech didn’t care. He looked at Irrel, then turned to Maxy.
“I’ll have the finest destiny for my boy, Maxy. My word on it.”
“He’s got no Skills.”
The half-Elf saw the [Admiral] lift his sword, staring at it intently.
“Then I’ll do it for him. Let’s go. Time to collect our fortunes.”
 
——
 
So there it was. Destiny itself aswirl, and not even the gods could see what came next. Power that would drive even the fates mad. Gifted without hesitation to the one group that wanted it more than anything.
Because it fit.
Their targets might disagree it was worth what the Bloodtear Pirates thought. However, Rabbiteater just stood at the rear of his ship and understood now why some of them came for him.
“It’s so ridiculous. I welcome them to mine. Let them choke on it.”
Seraphel du Marquin’s voice was incredibly bitter. The Cursed Princess stood next to Rabbiteater, and if he had dared to disagree, she would have slapped him. Rabbiteater was still listening to the horn playing.
“You and I, Rabbiteater. You and I—they have made fair fools of themselves with us, at least.”
The Princess of Calanfer went on after a second. She called it bitter irony, even as she waited for the worst. They were speeding up, and clouds roiled against Wistram’s weather bubble. To the south, she was told, a number of ships were coming her way, and there was some stir about a lost [Innkeeper] and threats and promises from all sorts of sides. Roshal, of all groups, even the Antinium and…
Rabbiteater just turned to Seraphel suddenly, and that helmet…Seraphel reached out.
“Hey.”
Her [Ghost’s Hand] passed through his visor and touched a face before he recoiled. But then Rabbiteater let Seraphel feel urgently at his cheek and touch…
“That’s my nose.”
The [Princess] stared at that visor, and her fingers felt…lips moving upwards. Someone smiled at her, and her fingers tried to move the visor, but it was glued shut. The [Knight] took her hand and then pointed at the [Pirates].
They were locked onto him, some of them. Others had eyes for the [Prince of Men] or other targets.
“They’re right.”
“Who are? The [Pirates]? About you? Me?”
The Goblin laughed.
“Me. I have the greatest destiny I could ever dream of.”
His head turned to the Bloodtear Pirates, and he rested his hands on the railing. Rabbiteater looked at them, and his aura grew brighter until Seraphel could smell an inn’s kitchen, feel warm air on her skin, and she heard a young woman laughing. A little white thing scampered around Rabbiteater’s legs, and he lifted a memory of a flower between his fingers—then spoke to the [Pirates].
“Come and take it.”
 
——
 
“The Admirals have given the signal. It’s time.”
He couldn’t stop shivering. The boy looked up, and the crew around him stood up slowly as their [Captain] got to her feet.
Captain Lidera, the old Luminary, gave no speeches. Her eyes were cold steel, and her faintly glowing skin brightened as her face grew taut. But her first mate, the boy wearing veils, kept shivering.
“Solwes. Stop quaking. It’s time.”
“I’m sorry, Luminary Lidera.”
He forgot to call her ‘Captain’ again. The young Luminary’s skin was glowing like a captive firefly, and Captain Lidera of the 2nd Armada of the Bloodtear Pirates bared her teeth. She was half-Jellyfish, but truly gifted by the sea.
In her youth, she had been so bright they said she put Pheislant’s lighthouses to shame. She had glowed like a beacon for ships in the dark. A living legend—spent by the time Solwes was born.
The Drowned Folk used their Luminaries hard. Lidera had stolen him away from her fate when he had asked her. And their long road escaping their kindred seeking him had led them to this day.
“Destiny. It’s not something for you, Captain, but I hope you don’t mind if we jump ship once we get ours.”
One of the Drowned Folk respectfully addressed Captain Lidera, and her nod was curt.
“Go with my blessing. There’s no future I need. That goes for any Drowned Woman or Man; those who’d care to stay are welcome, but flee if you have what you need. Be wary of your kin afterwards.”
Solwes had seen the Bloodtear Pirates gut ships before, but this had been a slaughter enough to quell any dreams of freedom from his curse for him. He whispered.
“They’ll not stop hunting any of us till the ends of the world.”
Captain Lidera just nodded. She’d told the crews what they’d lose from this action, but Bloodtear would end after this. It was already over as she had explained it to Solwes. No nations would allow such a force to exist now that they’d seen the Terandrians being torn to pieces. If the Iron Vanguard didn’t pounce on the survivors, both would be shocked.
“If they know our faces or where to look, they’re welcome to come after my head. I don’t need a damn tapestry. I just need…one string. Begging your pardon, Captain. I would have loved to be chosen by light itself.”
The Drowned Man’s eyes lingered on Solwes’s veiled skin, and the first mate spat at him, bad form or not.
“You wouldn’t like it, trust me, Goshell.”
“Let him taste it first, Solwes. Now—be silent, all of you. It’s beginning.”
Captain Lidera raised one withered hand, and Solwes still heard Irrel’s trumpet echoing in his memory. But the clear skies?
They were turning black again.
It began on Rosech’s and Maxy’s ships. A slow…stamping. Faint, but rhythmic. Solwes, used to hearing the most minute sounds in the deep dark waters, tuned into the rhythmic stamping. Then it became louder suddenly.
Clapping. Loud. Then a rhythmic cracking. It was the sound of Captain Lidera cracking the tip of the cane-sword she carried on the deck. Slowly, Solwes joined in, matching the timing. He felt the crew stomping with him, and it began to sound more like drums as the Bloodtear Pirates began to sing.
The [Storm Sailors] hunched their shoulders, and ships like Alchemist Irurx’s Shifthold were silent as a wind that had no origin began to blow at the Bloodtear Pirates’ backs. They felt resistance this time.
They had used this Skill too many times, and now they were fighting masters of magic. With his gift, Solwes could see a bubble in the skies, the magic itself bounded in the air. Invisible to most eyes, but in his vision, clearly linked to Wistram, expanded beyond its natural boundaries to tame the storm.
Weather magic. Wistram was altering the very patterns of weather to hold the magical hurricane at bay. There would be consequences, but at this moment, the Bloodtear Pirates blew on the edge of the bubble. Gently—then as their voices rose, a crimson storm began to brew.
 
“We sailed under flags of no quarter. We took no prisoners.
A storm at our backs. Blood in the water, blood in the sky.”
 
The Third Tide. Solwes raised one covered hand to the sky, and red droplets ran down his arm, soaking into the black fabric. He felt the wind rising—then go silent. A crewmember stopped chanting and swore.
“They’re fighting it—”
“Keep going. This is the last dance of the Bloodtear Pirates. Keep singing. Does Wistram best us at sea?”
Now, Captain Lidera snapped like a crack of iron amidst the chanting. The Bloodtear Pirates wavered—and kept singing as their storm roiled at their backs.
Solwes was sweating. He strained, one member of a ship amidst tens of thousands. Pushing, a storm roiling at bay as the Terandrians tried to reach Wistram. This was it. Death. Death.
Death.
What would they do for what they dreamed of? For what Solwes sought—freedom? An end to being the Luminary?
He’d draw as much blood as he needed. He only wished it were his captors, not Terandrians. But Lidera had taught him to take what he needed.
The Drowned Boy looked up at her, his skin glowing brighter as he strained with the rest of the [Pirates] on the swaying ship. Solwes was half giant-clam, another glowing type of species that could be blessed with the extreme radiance of a Luminary. He looked up, and Lidera’s lined face and her glowing eye were fixed on him, not the war above.
“Solwes.”
“Cap’n?”
She stopped slamming her cane against the wood of her deck and drew the blade from the cane sword’s sheath. The former Luminary looked at her first mate and ward with a faint smile.
“Find your destiny in this battle. Even if there’s nothing to be had—I free you of it. [I Claim Your Fate].”
He didn’t know what that meant until she ran him through. The crew turned, and their voices faltered. Someone shouted—and they saw Captain Lidera run through her beloved ward. The boy stumbled backwards and fell, a crimson blade buried in his chest.
“L-Luminary.”
Solwes felt nothing at first, then a searing pain. He cried out, began to scream, then gagged on the pain. Lidera kept the blade buried in his flesh, closing her eyes. Then she tossed something at one of the Drowned Folk around her.
“Heal him. Now, back up.”
One of her crew fumbled with the bottle, staring. He bent over Solwes—and hesitated as the boy writhed.
“Solwes, your skin—”
Even in the midst of his pain, the boy looked at his arms. He expected to see a bright glow of distress—but all he saw was pale, rain soaked skin mixing with his blood, which was clear, like a clam’s.
His glow was gone. Then Solwes looked up and realized what Lidera had done. He saw her faded skin begin to brighten, and the former Luminary breathed deeply, in and out. Her eyes were closed; then, as she opened them, a brilliance burst from both eyes like [Light] spells, shining upwards.
The other Bloodtear Pirates were still chanting, fighting the storm. But the crew of Lidera’s ship had gone silent. Awed, some of them dropped to their knees, even those who had forsworn the laws of the Undersea Crews. One of them gazed up at her, eyes wide.
“Captain Lidera—”
“Rosech and I have our own wards. His job is harder’n mine.”
A woman walked without her cane to the prow of her ship. She spoke now like Solwes remembered. With the accented dignity of a Luminary, the nobility of the Drowned Cities, but also with the slang of a [Pirate].
Two lives. One woman. Most landfolk had no idea what a Luminary even was. Most Drowned Folk didn’t know all their powers. Lidera put one foot up on the prow of the ship and took off her cap. Her skin was growing brighter still, brighter than Solwes had ever dared let his skin be underwater.
Like a beacon to any hungry monster. A guiding light to Drowned Ships. Or—more. He’d never finished his training, but Lidera. Ah, Lidera…she turned her head, and then she did speak, like Aldrail to his crew. A kind of confession.
“I was the Luminary Resplendia for countless years. I enjoyed it. Never counted ships I damned nor the power plays of cities except as it benefited me. This was the more honest life of the two. I’ve committed sins against shore and wave in the name of the depths. It was close to here. North by many miles, but close enough when I spent the last of my light.”
She was growing even brighter. Now, motes of light were beginning to hover in the air, though the crew dared not even look at her. It would become so bright they’d see the light through their heads.
A killing light. The healing potion was letting Solwes sit up. He had never seen this kind of light before.
“Captain…”
