She looked down at him as she took his great burden and smiled. Then she pointed across the sea.
“It was I. I who did what nations begged us for and led the Luminaries to wake the deeps. To break the tide that came from Rhir the only way we knew how. With Old Hungry. I summoned him from his slumber.”
The crew looked up at her, mouths open wide, as Lidera began to shine—brighter. Now, she was walking up steps of glowing light. And surely they could see her across Terandria’s fleets; Legend’s Wake fired something off the prow. A beam of light to burn their ship to ash, but it dissipated before it got halfway towards them.
It was light. Heat and light, maybe, but still light. Here was a master of it. Captain Lidera’s voice rose.
“I still remember how to cave in a ship’s shields with light alone and let them perish in the depths. They taught me how to summon Krakens on Terandria as a girl. How to blind a man at sea until he cracks his ship on a reef. Look at the sin of Luminaries for the first and last time, Solwes. You do it like…this.”
She pointed up at the sky, and he saw the thinnest ray of light rising from one aged fingertip. Like a signal to the stars themselves. The beam shot high into the air, cutting through clouds and the stratosphere. Impossibly high—the chanting faltered as Wistram’s bubble of weather struggled with the Bloodtear Pirate’s storm.
Then Captain Lidera cut the weather spell in twain. The ray of light bisected the spell, and the magic of Wistram began to implode.
Red rain blew down on Solwes, and a howl filled their sails. The Bloodtear Pirates began screaming as a gale roared around them like a hundred thousand voices.
And she kept glowing. The storm raced around the Terandrians, engulfing their vessels, and now Solwes saw a glimmer from Wistram’s spires. Attack spells?
Captain Lidera pointed, and a ray of light shot from the prow of her ship and scorched Wistram itself. Then she was laughing, and someone seized the helm and dragged Solwes to his feet.
“Find your destiny, Solwes! With us!”
They were all chanting, standing on the railings, as the Terandrians slowly turned to face the [Pirates], a storm crashing around the fleeing Terandrians, pulling them back. [Storm Sailors] raising their blades, as hungry as [Pirates]. A wail of insects from Irurx’s ship, and there was blood in his eyes as Solwes looked up at that terrible light from the Luminary. She pointed a finger, and a hole burned through one of the sails of Legend’s Wake as its barrier vanished.
Then their ship locked with the first vessel, and the Drowned Pirates poured across the deck. Fighting. Dying as the last day began.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater didn’t know who that glowing figure was, only that his [Dangersense] went off as if he were facing someone like Great General Dionamella or Eldavin.
Must be a monster. His skin was absorbing her light, which was something. The storm raged around them, and he heard Earl Altestiel’s voice clearly through the linked speaking stone.
“This is the Earl of Rains. We will not reach Wistram’s shores with the storm on us. Slay that woman—we must turn and fight—prepare for battle groupings. Hundred Heroes guide your blades.”
“This is it! I should go to Kaaz—”
Cortese and Menrise were hesitating on board the Throne’s Will, but it was too fast. Their ships were already turning, and Cortese looked at Rabbiteater, Seraphel, then drew his sword. Baeris was howling as he extended the sword, and Rabbiteater touched it with his axe.
“—This is a fine place to be. Ser Solstice, Lady Menrise, Princess Seraphel. It would be my honor to stand with you on this day. Calanfer, Kaaz, Tourvecall, and Izril.”
“And Desonis. Altestiel’s here in spirit. I-I’m honored to be here too.”
Menrise’s voice shook as she tried to give them a peace sign. Seraphel—she glanced at Rabbiteater, and her voice was low.
“I have had the privilege of meeting people I wished nothing more than to be besides only once before. There is no finer company…nowhere I would rather be if…”
She trailed off, and Rabbiteater nodded his helm.
“We’re friends till the end.”
They looked at him, and Cortese broke into a genuine smile.
“You say these things well, Rabbiteater.”
For a moment, the Ivory Four looked at each other, and Rabbiteater wished Altestiel were here. He saw Rainbringer turning with Belchaus’ ship flanking his friend as Seraphel took Menrise’s hand and shook Cortese’s other hand and looked at him to say—
Ser Thilowen interrupted the moment in a shout.
“Ward the [Princess]! Your Highness, I insist you take shelter—now! They’re coming in fast—”
Then the Bloodtear Pirates were on them. And the storm blew harder until the world Rabbiteater knew and loved became a twisted blur of rain distorting everything. Flashes of light illuminating everything into stark contrast. Frozen moments of disorientation. Then violence.
 
——
 
“Coming up the—”
A Thronebearer was shouting as Rabbiteater looked around. Then something caught her and dug into her armor. A—hook?
Grappling hook. It wrapped around the woman’s armor and began to drag her off the ship. Rabbiteater tried to remove the hook, then hack at—
The hook pierced the golden armor and began to saw into the woman. She began screaming until the hook tore through her—and more were falling.
[Pirates] coming up—Rabbiteater saw a grinning face rising as he peered over the railing. He hacked one line, but the ropes refused to give. Enchanted ropes. 
“They’re enchanted, Cortese! The hooks!”
Rabbiteater shouted, and the man slashing at another set of hooks cleaved through the railing instead, sending figures tumbling down. Rabbiteater saw the first [Pirate] rise over the edge of the railing and buried his axe in their head. That grin of desperate desire turned confused as red ran from the gash in the skull and bloody brains—
 
——
 
—kept breathing until the bodies were crackling with golden flames. Then he fell over and lay, gasping for air.
The Dragonbreath was too much. He couldn’t breathe! Someone kicked him in the face.
“It’s him! Ser Solstice!”
A blade clanged off his armor, then a hand urgently felt at his neck. A piercing blade tried to stab through the gap in his armor, raised his armpit—he felt metal tickling his flesh.
[Greater Toughness]—the [Pirate] was leaning with all his weight on the blade. Rabbiteater stared up into a bearded man’s face, teeth gold and silver and his eyes alight with hope. Another man trying to wrench off Rabbiteater’s helmet punched his head and looked up.
“Why’s he laughing? Why—”
A hole appeared in the [Pirate]’s head, and the dagger driving into his throat stopped. Rabbiteater found his breath at last as the other [Pirate] recoiled. Menrise! He grabbed a leg and rose as a hail of arrows fell, and Seraphel threw herself forwards. A flash of light from her tiara—
 
——
 
“—down. Is down. Can anyone rescue the survivors? Anyone? Throne’s Will, respond! I am moving to—”
Earl Altestiel’s voice was crackling from the speaking stone. Seraphel tried to shout a response back as Rabbiteater tried to get up.
“Can’t…breathe…”
“Your chestplate is dented in. [Repair]. [Repair]—”
Menrise was trying to help him. Rabbiteater had to get up. He saw a line of golden [Knights] being covered in blood.
They had half the deck, and Thronebearers kept dying. Calanfer’s [Soldiers] were throwing themselves forwards—blood was washing over his visor. Seraphel screamed as her tiara overloaded and an arrow passed by her face.
Rabbiteater got up as the pain constricting his chest eased. He heard a howl. Cortese was fighting five-to-one, bleeding, and his faithful bodyguard were lying around him. But someone had leapt to his aid.
“Baeris—”
A [Pirate] drove a spear through the lioness’ side as Rabbiteater shoved Menrise aside and raised his axe to throw. But the lioness was already dead—
 
——
 
“—Erin Solstice.”
Rabbiteater was shaking Cortese repeatedly. He didn’t know how long. The man wouldn’t look up from the limp body in his arms. The Goblin only stopped when he heard the sound.
His armor was torn, exposing chainmail beneath in two rents. He looked up, and Altestiel was shouting, a water-bridge linking his ship and Throne’s Will.
“Earl, we have to go—”
Kiish was shouting, but Altestiel was pointing at Rabbiteater.
“What?”
He heard nothing more. The Earl was running, and in the distance, Rabbiteater heard blaring horns. A wail—Ser Thilowen cursed.
“One of Cenidau’s ships is sinking—”
 
——
 
Cortese reappeared on deck after laying Baeris in the hold below, and Seraphel told them the time as he slowly came to the railing. His face was devoid of tears save the rain. He stood there and gripped Rabbiteater’s and Menrise’s arms tightly. Rabbiteater saw Menrise squeezing back. Seraphel checked a timepiece.
“Twenty-nine past ten, gentlemen, ladies.”
“Which one? Day? Night?”
The Hundredlord’s voice rasped. Seraphel hesitated—Throne’s Will was laboring towards Wistram. At least, Rabbiteater thought it was Wistram. They were navigating via [Scrying] spell now.
The whipping rain and waves were so tall and dark that he could see few other ships. They appeared out of nowhere suddenly. The entire ship dipped, and Seraphel clung to the railing. She dropped the timepiece, and it went into the waves—
“[Brace the Deck]!”
Rabbiteater stabilized as the [Captain] howled and the ship went down a massive wave—it broke over them, and Seraphel’s tiara shielded them from the wave.
Ser Thilowen appeared to check on them, but he had given up ordering Seraphel to safety. The [Princess] caught her breath.
“Morning! We’re being scried by Wistram. The news.”
Rabbiteater looked around. None of this mattered; Menrise and Cortese didn’t respond, just kept scanning the distance. The [Lady]’s hand was shaking as she held her wand in a deathgrip, and Cortese’s face was white.
“How many ships are still out there?”
“Altestiel’s alive. Should I turn on his voice? The—the broadcast might tell us more than our eyes—”
No one responded, so Seraphel fiddled with the scrying spell and a hand mirror. Cortese stared at her blankly for a minute, then turned and almost struck Rabbiteater.
Menrise did hiss—then shout because no one could hear her.
“Rabbiteater. What are you doing.”
He was posing, giving her peace-sign to the air and putting his axe over one shoulder. He saw his friends gazing at him uncomprehendingly.
“I’m looking good. In case she’s watching. I don’t want to worry her.”
Seraphel’s eyes found him, and Cortese’s snarl changed to—he nodded, and Menrise waved weakly upwards. Rabbiteater clenched a fist and nodded upwards, and when Seraphel got the glitching broadcast working, he caught a glimpse of himself and hoped she wasn’t watching what came next.
 
——
 
They burst out of another wave and came through a lull in the hurricane. The eye of the storm kept moving. Three Bloodtear ships were circling a single ship.
“Pheislant. Your Highness, there’s no saving them.”
It wasn’t Lord Firrus’ ship, but a lesser one. Rabbiteater didn’t recognize the colors of the house, but he saw the nobles. There were at least two. He knew this because they were on deck.
[Sailors] and [Soldiers] exchanging crossbow bolts and spells with [Pirates]—and there they were.
A [Lord] and [Lady], a couple dressed in finery, swinging each other around the deck. At first, Rabbiteater thought it was Nadel instead of Pheislant. Then he saw it wasn’t a Skill.
They were just dancing. Eyes locked on each other. A wild ballroom dance as the [Lord] spun the [Lady] around. Blood in the eyes of the [Pirates].
Bodies falling. Rabbiteater locked onto the couple dancing, and Seraphel du Marquin looked around. The [Royal Knight] shook his head. Ser Thilowen gave an order again. Seraphel turned her face to her friends. Then pointed a finger.
“Save them.”
They kept dancing as Rabbiteater drew his axe again and inhaled. Throne’s Will surged forward, and he saw figures boil off the three ships and onto the decks. The two nobles kept holding hands even in the moments before they vanished.
Then the ships were turning upon them, and he exhaled golden flames that tarnished on the waters until he couldn’t breathe anymore.
 
——
 
“—Your Highness, Legend’s Wake is hailing us. Prince Iradoren wishes to safeguard—”
“—Lady Menrise must come with us! The lower deck is flooding, and if it is not repaired—”
“—casualties have mounted to three hundred. I am arming every servant and civilian and forming lines out of—”
“The [Admirals] are hunting ships down.”
Flickers of consciousness. He was listening to Seraphel. Swinging his axe as someone grabbed for Menrise, and he almost cut the [Sailor] down. Listening to Thilowen.
Waiting. The voices were receding, and the howling roar of the storm was growing louder. He could hear the raging Third Tide.
Feel it coming.
Maybe it was their auras sweeping down on him. Crushing ‘voices’. Obliterating ships. He was waiting for them. Squeezing a [Princess]’ hand. Holding Cortese’s arm as the man tried to run forwards. Speaking to Altestiel and trying to remember what a joke was. Gripping Menrise’s shoulder.
He was dreaming, and he’d wake up soon. 
“What are you dreaming of, Rabbiteater?”
Seraphel looked at him, and he saw her fingers contorting with his grip and let go. The [Knight]’s head rose.
“I almost think she can hear me. It feels like she’s just around the corner.”
He turned his head, and all he saw was a wave rolling upwards like the sky. It crashed down, illuminated by faint golden light, and he thought she saw it.
Or he saw her.
Flickers through a storm like memories of home.
A burning pain on his wrists. The rasp of her throat as rain stung his…her face? 
A Hobgoblin’s glowing eyes and skin paint.
The smell of burning oil and sulfur.
A wheel gripped in her hands.
“Your friend? Your…[Innkeeper]? The person you love?”
The [Princess] looked at him, and he thought she saw it. Not Seraphel. Her. Erin, somehow.
A flicker of warm light dappling onto worn, comfy tables. The smell of baking bread and acid juice and the scamper of paws.
[Aura of the Hearth].
Home.
“Not in any silly way. Like a mother who’s not really one but sometimes is. The friend you need. The person you won’t forget. Like redemption it turns out you never needed because you were okay after all.”
His head rose, and the wave broke, water rushing around him, and someone screamed.
“Ship to starboard!”
Seraphel looked up at Rabbiteater as he rose slowly. He was staring into the storm, away from Wistram.
“How could she be here?”
