Erin waited, but that was it.
“Okay, so he got across the sea. So what?”
“Erin! Do you know how hard it is to cross the sea with an army? Wars on one continent are one thing, but someone actually being able to cross the thousands of miles to another continent is unheard of! I mean, no one’s ever done it and actually managed to get an army across in one piece!”
“But it’s only a sea, not an ocean, right?”
Selys looked at Erin blankly.
“Is there a difference?”
“I think so. A sea is like the water next to land, while the ocean is…not. Plus, oceans are bigger.”
“Okay. So it’s an ocean. The point is that he did it. And now he’s back!”
That did seem serious. Erin made all the appropriate noises of concern while a thought clanged around in her mind.
“So the King of Destruction might be coming here, and that’s bad.”
“Very bad. Although…”
Selys hesitated.
“I don’t know that the council will do anything about it. Or the army, really.”
“Why?”
“Well, he’s so far away. What would we do? All the kingdoms and lands he conquered don’t obey him anymore. Chandrar will probably join together to fight him, so we don’t have to do anything.”
“So there’s nothing really bad happening?”
“No. Yes! I don’t know, it’s just really big, that’s all.”
Erin nodded.
“I get it. Oh, and by the way, I got the [Warrior] class yesterday.”
“Really? That’s great news, Erin!”
Selys’s face lit up and she smiled at Erin, worries over a distant king forgotten.
“What level are you?”
“Just Level 2. But I was wondering why I got the class now. I mean, I’ve fought a lot of things before. Why did I get it for going into the ruins?”
Selys frowned and thought.
“This is the first time you went looking for a fight, wasn’t it? I mean, you went exploring before, but you never really went out knowing you were going to kill something.”
“That’s the difference?”
“It’s all about purpose. I mean, I cook food for myself but I still haven’t gotten the [Cook] class. But if I tried to make that my hobby or job, I’d probably get the class right away.”
“And you’re a [Warrior] now as well, aren’t you?”
Selys nodded proudly.
“Level 4.”
“Does that mean you’re going to buy a sword and start killing monsters?”
Erin couldn’t see her friend doing that, but she supposed anything was possible?
“What? No! It’s just nice having another class. I mean, don’t get me wrong. I’m not looking to become an adventurer or anything.”
Selys raised one hand and laughed.
“I had training with a sword when I was young, but I stopped. If I’d continued…maybe I’d be around Level 12 by now. But now…how many years would it take to reach Level 20? Probably at least a decade. Only someone like that Ceria has the time to level more than one class.”
“Really? That long?”
“Of course. I mean, if I were a soldier fighting on the front lines maybe it would only take a year or two, but I don’t fancy risking my life.”
That was odd. Erin was leveling up a lot faster than Selys was describing. Why was that? She started to ask Selys, and then remembered what Ryoka had said about discretion. She closed her mouth. Then she opened it again, deliberately.
“I got to Level 18 in my [Innkeeper] class after the undead attacked.”
Selys had been taking a sip from a glass of water she’d poured herself. Disappointingly, she didn’t spray it all over Erin, but she did choke and spill the water on the desk. Erin swept the paperwork and inkpot out of the way before they got drenched.
“What? Seriously, Erin?”
“Very seriously. Do you know why I’m leveling up so fast?”
Selys had to frown as she mopped distractedly at the spilled water with a cloth.
“It must be all the things you’ve done. I’ve never heard of an innkeeper fighting off an undead attack, or—or starting and running an inn by herself.”
“So it’s doing hard stuff that makes us level faster? Adversity?”
Selys had to raise her shoulders and tail helplessly.
“I don’t know. I’m sorry, Erin. I know how my class works. The more people I serve, the better a job I do at keeping people happy and sending adventurers on requests, the faster I’ll level. But this guild is so small I’ll never get past Level 20 before I retire. You’d have to ask other innkeepers how they level.”
“Oh. But I don’t know any other innkeepers.”
Erin saw Selys tap her lips with one claw. The Drake glanced around the mostly empty guild and then seemed to come to a decision. She nodded at Erin.
“My shift is over soon. If you want to wait with me until then, I’ll introduce you to a good one.”
 
—-
 
Erin walked with Selys down the streets of Liscor, staring around at the unfamiliar sights.
“That’s it. I have no idea where we are.”
She was in a different part of the city, where Drakes were the main foot traffic on the ground and the shops and buildings seemed to cater more to their kind. And she had no idea where she was.
“I never knew Liscor was so…so big! And I’ve never seen this place!”
Selys laughed at Erin for that.
“Erin! You never go anywhere except the Market district and to visit me!”
That was true. Erin blushed as she and Selys walked slowly through the streets, her friend pointing out places she liked to visit.
“It’s not that I don’t like new places, but the first time I came here…”
Erin remembered getting horribly lost and annoying everyone around her. She’d stepped into more than one building to be chased out when she realized it was someone else’s home. Besides, back then she’d felt definitely unwelcome.
But now with Selys at her side Erin felt comfortable, if not welcomed in this part of the city. Some Drakes knew Selys by name and no one was throwing stuff at Erin. It was a good start.
“So who are we visiting? And where are we going?”
Selys pointed down the street.
“We’re heading towards the north side. There’s a good inn there – the Tailless Thief. It’s the most famous—and expensive—inn in the city. The innkeeper’s the one I want you to meet, though.”
Erin felt at her belt pouch.
“I uh, didn’t bring that much money with me.”
“Oh don’t worry. I know the innkeeper we’re going to meet, and you’re new. We’ll get at least one free drink and probably a hot meal.”
“Really?”
“Sure. Peslas is generous. Just let me say hello first.”
Peslas turned out to be the biggest Drake Erin had ever met, with the possible exception of Relc. But where Relc had huge shoulders and massive arms, Peslas was just…huge.
He wasn’t fat. Not exactly. He had a huge belly and he was a big Drake. Some of the fat was actually muscle. Erin was pretty sure of that because when she first saw him, the Drake was hefting a huge keg of alcohol onto a counter by himself.
“Selys!”
The instant he saw the younger Drake, Peslas broke into a huge smile.
“Child, how have you been? It’s been months since I last saw you! Come here!”
Selys smiled politely at the large Drake and moved forwards so he could hug her with one huge arm. Peslas grinned at her as Selys introduced Erin, and then his smile faded a bit and was replaced by surprise.
“A Human? I heard there were still some in the city after the undead attacks but—wait, I know you! You’re that [Innkeeper] in the abandoned inn! Well, you know young Selys?”
“I brought her here to see your inn, Peslas. That’s if you’re not too busy?”
“Of course not. How could I turn away Isshia’s grandchild? And you, human.”
Erin stuck out her hand and received a crushing handshake. She didn’t wince though, and Peslas smiled toothily at her.
“Here to learn from the best, are you? I can’t say I blame you. Some parts of my inn are trade secrets of course. But then, we all start at the bottom so look away! I doubt you’d be able to copy any of it.”
With that, he called for a barmaid to seat Selys and Erin and in moments, they were seated and being served drinks and some crunchy meat pasties. And what Erin saw was an inn in motion.
Peslas’s inn was close to full despite it not even being midday. He had a range of customers, from old Drakes that Erin guessed were retired to younger Drakes who looked like affluent business owners. And of course there were the barmaids, all female, and all Drake.
In short, this was an inn for Drakes and run by Drakes. Erin saw not one Gnoll, and she realized she was getting a lot of casual glances. Selys covered for Erin though, chatting away and keeping their conversation light as Erin looked around.
So. This was a proper inn. Erin could see all the signs. No broken chairs, no holes in the walls or clumsily patched spots, and bright lamps and a bustling staff to boot. The mug she’d been given was filled with some kind of fruity, thick drink that was tasty as it was alcoholic. And the food was good, too! It was an inn without any flaws, fights, or skeletons.
And Peslas was at the center of it all.
The big Drake moved from table to table, not with the speed of someone serving drinks, but a lazy amble that took him to each customer, where he could chat, share a pint, and gossip. Occasionally Peslas would disappear into the kitchen and return with a plate or show someone to a seat – or lift a keg – but these were clearly all things he did as a favor to friends. He didn’t need to work.
What Peslas did do was interact with customers. He made sure they were served on time, listened to their worries and successes, and talk. His mouth never stopped moving.
“No. She left you? Even after you got her the ring?”
Erin saw Peslas sitting across from them two tables over, listening to a maroon-scaled Drake as he sniffled into his meal. Peslas was holding a tankard in his hands – the sixth Erin had seen him drink in the hour.
Apparently, from what Erin could gather, the Drake that Peslas was talking to had lost his girlfriend of several years right as he was about to propose. After the woebegone Drake had spilled out the story, the older Drake’s eyes were brimming with tears.
“You were always too good for her.”
Peslas wiped the tears from his eyes as he patted the younger Drake on the shoulder. He turned and shouted for a barmaid. She came over with two mugs and Peslas seized one.
“Everyone, a round is on me! Let’s all toast young Relss and drink to his luck in future loves!”
The inn cheered. Erin found another large drink heading her way and wondered how many times Peslas did this every week. Or every day. He was generous. Sometimes he insisted a meal was on the house if a customer had had a bad day, or he’d invite someone from off the street for a free drink.
“Can he afford all this?”
Erin whispered to Selys at one point when they were finishing their meals. Selys looked surprised, and then nodded.
“Oh yes. He’s quite wealthy, and his inn does a tremendous amount of business. All of his regulars come by often. Well, they’re all just as rich as he is.”
“And he’s the best innkeeper in the city?”
“The best innkeeper in a hundred miles, you can be sure!”
Peslas boomed from behind Erin and she nearly spilled her drink. He caught it, laughing as he seated himself at the table.
“I’ve heard there’s an innkeeper who’s nearing Level 50 in the Human city up north.”
“Which one?”
“Oh, the biggest one. What’s it called? First Landing. Yes, that’s the one. That’s the highest-level innkeeper on this continent, but then, most of the ones around my age are at least Level 20 or higher. Some are even Level 30, like me!”
He tapped his broad chest and laughed. Selys and Erin smiled at him, and Erin scooted back a bit so she wasn’t right next to the big Drake. He grinned toothily at her again.
“So? What do you think? Can your little inn take some of my better ideas?”
Peslas gave Erin a patronizing smile, but the human didn’t rise to the provocation. Erin nodded to herself as she looked around.
“I think so. I’ve figured out something, at least.”
“Oh?”
Peslas and Selys leaned forwards over the table, expectantly. Peslas’ eyes were dancing, but Erin didn’t pay him any mind. She gestured to one of the Drakes serving a table.
“I need a barmaid. Or a waitress. Or someone who can serve drinks and clean up while I cook.”
Both Drakes blinked. Erin went on.
“I’ve got Toren, but he’s not really the serving type. Plus, if I don’t have to cook I can do other things. Like not cook. So yeah, that’s my new goal. Get a barmaid.”
Peslas looked incredulous.
“You don’t even have a barmaid? Are you by yourself in your small inn, Human?”
“I’ve got a skeleton, but he’s busy finding firewood and getting water for me.”
For a second, Peslas stared at Erin and then he howled with laughter. Other customers looked around, already smiling for the joke as he slapped the table. When he’d stopped guffawing and entering into the wheezing stage, he looked up at Erin, wiping tears from his eyes.
“I like you. Yes, you’re nothing like the Human nuisance I heard about!”
“Oh?”
“I’d heard you were just a pest that went around causing trouble. But you’ve got spirit for a Human! I like that. A shame your inn will never be half the inn mine is.”
Curious, Erin leaned forwards slightly. The alcohol was good, but she wasn’t getting drunk thanks to her skill. Peslas looked slightly tipsy, though.
“Why’s that?”
Peslas flicked his fingers at the same time as his tail.
“Why else? Location, girl. I told the Human who used to own that inn the same thing, but he never listened.”
“There was a Human who ran Erin’s inn before her? I never knew that.”
Now Selys was part of the conversation. The Drake blinked down at her second tankard and then at Peslas. He nodded at her, smiling and waggling a claw.
“That was years ago. Back before the Necromancer—well, we got a lot more visitors from the south. People weren’t afraid to cross the Blood Fields back then, and there were more than a few villages. A small one grew up around that inn, thanks to the human who ran it. But it was all destroyed.”
“Why? What happened?”
For a moment Peslas’s broad face grew serious as he looked at Erin.
“The undead happened. They forced everyone to flee the area. When the human did come back, he never really got the inn running again. No one visited and one day he just stopped coming into the city. I warned him. The fool.”
Erin remembered the skeleton in the upstairs room. Peslas laughed, and she looked at him.
“I think he was brave.”
He shook his head at her, chuckling.
“Stupid, yes. Brave? Maybe, but bravery doesn’t sell drinks.”
“But he did his best. Anyways, he started his inn from scratch.”
“You need more than your best. You need something special. That’s what you need to learn, young—Erin, was it? You need a hook.”
Peslas gestured around his inn.
