“My inn’s known for being the best around. Best service, best food—best beds and best drinks as well! What do you have to offer people to make them come all the way to visit you?”
Erin shrugged. She wasn’t sure she agreed with everything Peslas had said about his inn. It was good, but if it only served Drakes, how good could it be?
“I play chess. I’m not the best at it, but I’m pretty good.”
This time Peslas’s laughter echoed even to the furthest corners of the room.
“Chess! There’s something interesting! You play, do you? Would you wager on a game? A few gold coins? Silver? I’d bet two coins to your one. Whatever you like!”
Selys frowned at Peslas, but the larger Drake didn’t seem to notice. For Erin’s part, she remained calm.
“Oh, if you wanted to make a bet, I’d bet everything I had. Ten gold coins? Fifty? Your inn? Want to take me up on it?”
For a moment Peslas blinked. Selys cut in, smiling at the innkeeper.
“Haven’t you heard? Erin beat Olesm in a game of chess the first time she met him. She’s never lost a game to him, and he plays her almost every day.”
That caused a ripple among the Drakes who were listening to their conversation. But Peslas just laughed again, and waggled his tail in the air.
“Spirit! Humans are full of it. Just like I said to the last innkeeper. What was his name again…?”
He flicked his tail dismissively. Erin stared at Peslas, not smiling. He was rude, or maybe just drunk. She would have offered to play him a game anyways – perhaps with a handicap like being blindfolded – when she felt something touch her foot. Erin nearly freaked out until she realized it was Selys’ tail.
The young Drake smiled at Peslas as the larger Drake finished laughing again and making a joke to his friends about humans looking alike.
“It was nice to see you again, but Erin and I have to visit some of our friends. Thank you for letting us watch you at work though.”
“Of course. Give my regards to your grandmother, will you?”
Peslas got up and showed both Selys and Erin to the door. As Selys had said, he made no mention of the bill, but he did stop Erin at the door.
“My inn is always open to other [Innkeepers]. Come by if you’re ever bored and have a drink with me! But I think even your far-off inn will be getting business soon enough, Erin.”
“Oh? Really?”
He nodded sagely, tapping the side of his nose—or was it snout?—with a claw.
“My [Intuition] skill tells me that this is so. I’ve never known it to be wrong. Prepare your inn well, and perhaps you might level up a bit young Erin. Ah, well. Best of luck on your little endeavor!”
 
—-
 
They were several streets away from the inn when Erin finally decided to break the silence.
“Um, thanks for letting me visit the inn, Selys. It was really helpful.”
Selys looked at Erin out of the corner of her eyes and then burst out.
“You’re not mad? I’m so sorry about Peslas, Erin. I didn’t know he’d be so rude!”
“He wasn’t so bad. I’m sorry too—that I was rude to him at the end, I mean. I know he’s your friend.”
Selys made a face as they walked along.
“Erin, he’s not my friend. I barely know him. He’s an acquaintance of my grandmother, that’s all. I barely talk to him every other month. Besides, he married a girl who’s nearly as young as I am!”
Erin tried to imagine that and thankfully failed. Selys scowled as she walked along, her tail twitching in irritation.
“Anyways, he’s a jerk. I’m glad he hasn’t earned more than one or two levels even after his inn became the biggest in the city.”
“Really? But his inn’s so busy.”
“Yeah. Isn’t it strange? I guess there’s some other reason why he’s not leveling, but it doesn’t really matter. Peslas is rich, and that’s all he cares about. He doesn’t need any more levels.”
“I guess. It’s just that his inn was nice. I just thought it was odd he didn’t have any Gnoll customers.”
Selys hesitated.
“They don’t—come here that often. It’s not that he wouldn’t serve them, it’s just that they don’t ever really go outside their parts of the city.”
“I see.”
“Humans go wherever, but your kind don’t really live in the city.”
“Right.”
Erin was still thinking. She was thinking about her inn and she understood what Peslas had meant about location. She thought he was wrong, but she got it. She and Selys walked on again, out of the Drake residential district. At last, Selys broke the silence.
“Anyways, I’m sorry he was like that. He’s not rude to me. But you’re another [Innkeeper] and…Human.”
“It’s no problem.”
From there the conversation lightened. Erin and Selys were smiling again by the time they reached guard barracks.
It had been a huge surprise to Erin to learn that Liscor did not in fact have a hospital. Selys hadn’t even known what she’d meant when Erin described the building and its function.
In Liscor, people either healed up in their homes and hired a [Healer] to visit with herbs and potions, went out to get cured, or relied on organizations they belonged to. The Adventurer’s Guild had several beds for wounded or homeless warriors for instance, and the Watch had the same.
So that was where Erin and Selys found Ceria and Olesm, resting up in a secluded part of the building. The half-Elf and Drake weren’t strictly under guard, but neither were they free to run around. But they weren’t in trouble, either.
“We can’t really be blamed for the entire ordeal. The city knew we were going in, and besides, we lost almost everyone in the attack.”
Ceria explained the situation to Erin as she accepted a cut and peeled apple from the young woman. She was resting in one of the beds while the other three sat around her. Ceria was still quite thin and paler than normal, but Erin was happy to see she looked a lot better than she had.
“We fought, rather than just run away. That helps. And there’s also the fact that all the treasure—such as it is—was taken by the city. That’s enough of a fine.”
“And I told them that Ceria and the others shouldn’t be blamed.”
Olesm sat on the stool, nodding furiously as he crossed his arms. He was more active than Ceria, although he too looked thinner and paler than normal. He gestured in the direction of the rest of the building.
“I told Zevara that, and she was very understanding. I think the adventurers will be let off without any charges. But um, they might not get their equipment back.”
“As if we could use it. The few that survived are either still wounded or don’t ever want to pick up a sword again. I went to see Yvlon and she’s barely responsive. As for me—”
Ceria shifted in her seat, lifting her other hand as she chewed at the apple. Erin and Selys both froze up a bit as the yellow bone and blackened skin of Ceria’s spell-damaged arm appeared. The mage grinned crookedly.
“I’m not going adventuring anytime soon. My good hand’s ruined and even if I do decide to adventure, I have no wand or spell books. Rot, I don’t even have any gold to my name. I dropped it all in the Ruins.”
Erin exchanged a look with Selys. She looked at Ceria, trying not to make it seem like she was staring at the skeletal hand.
“But you’re okay? You’re feeling fine except for the…”
Ceria shook her head and gestured to the limp bones.
“I’ll be fine. My hand is a small price to pay for my life. If I could have traded it for the others—”
She broke off, and everyone was silent for a minute. Erin’s eyes still stung at the mention of the others. Gerial. Sostrom. Calruz.
Olesm was the first to break the silence. He gestured at his own bed, on the other side of the large room from Ceria. The Watch didn’t have enough rooms to give the two privacy. That had scandalized Selys until Ceria pointed out that she and Olesm had had plenty of time to get to know each other in less-hospitable beds.
“I can’t wait to get better. I’d leave right away, but Captain Zevara insists I take it easy.”
He grinned at Erin.
“Then maybe I can visit your inn and play a few games of chess with you. We could play now, if you’d like…?”
Erin ignored the hopeful look in the Drake’s eye and shook her head.
“That would be nice, but I need a better hook.”
“A what?”
Selys frowned at her friend.
“Oh come on, Erin. You can’t listen to what Peslas said.”
“But he’s right. Chess doesn’t earn money, especially because none of the Workers are coming back to the inn. Not that there’s…many…left.”
Another silence fell over the small group. At last, Ceria cleared her throat.
“Well, I’m certain the lovely Watch Captain will kick me out of here sooner or later. When that time comes I’ll probably be looking for a place to stay. Erin, would you mind if I went to your inn? I don’t have any coin, but I’ll pay you back as soon as I earn some.”
“What? No!”
Olesm and Selys’ tails froze up as Erin looked indignant.
“I’m not going to ask you to pay. You can stay in my inn for free! As long as you like!”
Ceria smiled and shook her head at Erin.
“That’s very kind, but I know you’re in need of money too. I wouldn’t want to impose.”
“No, I insist. You’re Ryoka’s friend too, and I’m sure she’d want that. Besides, you can earn your keep! Can you cook?”
“Nothing you’d like and not with the ingredients from around here, I’m afraid.”
“Well—well, that’s fine. You can do magic. I’m sure I could find a job for you that would really help. Yeah. I could…hire you as a barmaid?”
“Not a good idea. I’m not the bar-serving type and I don’t do well with…males. Besides, what could a one-handed barmaid do?”
“Well, either way, I’ll let you stay as long as you like. Money doesn’t matter more than friends, after all.”
“Thank you. I appreciate it.”
 
—-
 
Selys and Erin spent another hour talking lightly to Olesm and Ceria, and Erin even played one game with Olesm, winning handily, before they left. The last stop Erin knew she had to make was back to Krshia. To pay for the clothes, for one thing.
But she had an unpleasant surprise when she visited the Gnoll. Krshia still had everything Erin need in stock, but the Gnoll told Erin it would cost half against as much as it had last time Erin had visited.
“Food is far more expensive now. I will give you my best, but it will cost much more. And I cannot deliver it anymore. I am sorry.”
“What? Why?”
“My Street Runner, he is busy, yes?”
Krshia explained as she began packing items into a bag for Erin to carry.
“My Runner, he does many deliveries in the city now and elsewhere. Many were hurt and killed when the undead attacked. He has much to do and cannot make the trip through the snow to your inn. Not without charging more money.”
Selys nodded.
“Normally we’d be finished preparing for winter by now, but what with the attack and repairs, we’re shorttailed. Besides, winter never comes when you’re expecting it. Everyone’s really busy.”
Well, that meant Erin had to carry her goods from now on. She looked glumly at the massive shopping bag Krshia was preparing and imagined a trip back through the snow.
“Well, if that’s how it’s gotta be…”
“Mm. Again I am sorry. But do you have anything else to add?”
Erin blinked. She suddenly remembered one of the things she’d planned to get while in the city.
“Oh yeah. I’m looking for some special stuff while I’m here. Ground beef! I want a lot of it, and some cheese. Ooh, and some mustard! And bread. I need sliced bread, or buns. That’s even better. And tomatoes, vinegar, and um, eggs. I’ll take a lemon or two as well if you’ve got any.”
Krshia didn’t have any lemons, but she did have everything else. It was expensive—but the Gnoll told Erin she was lucky that the winter had just started.
“By the end of the season, such things will be too expensive for you and me, yes?”
“I’m just glad I still have money to pay for it. Business is slow and I need to make something amazing!”
Erin nodded to herself as Krshia finished packing the last of her additions into her bag. Erin reached for one strap, hefted the bag—
And felt all her confidence drain away.
“Hey! This is really heavy!”
“I am sorry, but you ordered much. Perhaps you should leave some and make two trips?”
Erin tried to imagine going back and forth twice in the snow and shuddered.
“I really don’t like that idea. Isn’t there another way? A sled, maybe?”
“Hey, I’ll carry it if it means I get fed.”
Erin turned. Relc was standing behind her, smiling down at her. And by his side was a familiar face, but one Erin wasn’t used to seeing again.
“Klbkch! Relc! What are you two doing?”
“Guarding, mostly. But we came by to see you. I’ve got a message for you, and Klb is just bored.”
The Antinium nodded politely to Selys and Krshia before turning to Erin.
“Good evening, Erin. I hope you are recovered from events a few days ago?”
“What? Oh yeah, I am. You’re okay, right Klbkch? Gazi cut you up bad.”
“I have fully recovered, thank you.”
“And me! I’m better too, thanks for asking!”
Relc interjected, puffing out his chest and showing Erin and the others a few new scars on his chest and arms. He looked at Selys as he smoothed the spines on his neck, but she only sighed and rolled her eyes.
It was good to see both were well, even if it was odd to see Relc so friendly. Erin remembered how he’d been before Klbkch had returned, but she put it out of her mind.
“So you can carry my stuff?”
“This? Of course. I carried stuff twice as heavy every day when I was a soldier.”
Relc grinned at Erin and flicked Krshia’s bag dismissively. The Gnoll sniffed at Relc as Klbkch addressed Erin.
“We would like to visit your inn tonight, Erin. If that is not an imposition?”
“What? No! Come on, by all means! I’ll cook up a feast!”
Erin smiled happily at the two guardsmen. For once, it seemed like everything was back to normal in a good way. Relc was ebullient as he seized Erin’s shopping bag.
“Great! I want a lot of food tonight! You can take the cost of me hauling this to your inn out of my tab, okay?”
Klbkch’s elbow shot out and rammed Relc in the side. The Drake yelped and glared at his friend.
“I was just joking.”
“No. You weren’t.”
“Ants. This is why…”
Relc grumbled as he lifted the pack with ease. He looked around for support and found none. He scratched at the spines on his head, muttered under his breath, and then looked at Erin.
“Oh, hey. Your inn exploded by the way.”
Everyone stared at him. Relc looked at Klbkch, and then at Erin.
“What? Didn’t I say that earlier?”
