After a while, she decided that they didn’t have one. Tara’s latest shot had hit a man in the lower chest. She expected that the wound was easily treatable by any healer worth their salt, but the man vanished just as soon as the injury was inflicted.

The enemies drew back as their numbers dwindled to half, and they carefully retreated back, about a hundred feet or so out of range.

As the seconds ticked by, Melinda thought that the Kingdom side would retreat again as they had before. But suddenly, a dozen arrows slammed down from above them. The enemy had somehow positioned archers above them on the rim of the ravine, and they were taking advantage of their position to shoot without worry of friendly fire.

Melinda and Tara were both hit. Tara was wounded in the arm, but Melinda was slightly luckier, as the arrow only hit her in the lower torso. It was mostly a flesh wound.

She healed Tara as Vinnie started to raise them a roof, but he started cursing immediately. “Shit! Their fucking earth mage waited for this.”

If the other mage was resisting his new earth workings, it was a massive problem. They were sitting ducks under the rain of arrows from above.

Thankfully, their commander realized that as well and screamed, “Charge in close!”

Melinda and her team did as ordered, and ran at the enemies in front of them. Kyle took an arrow in his leg as he ran, and Melinda was only able to heal it as they engaged with the Kingdom fighters at melee range.

It was a hectic fight, and she had to constantly reposition herself so she wasn't a target for the archers. The Kingdom archers had the high ground, but the side of the ravine they were positioned on top of didn't give them very good angles to their targets. Meanwhile, Tara had her pick of targets, and was busy becoming a menace with her own bow.

A quick glance at her AI told her things were going well. Her team had gotten spread out during the fight, and Kyle’s healing cooldown meter was heavily into the deep orange zone. If he took another hit, she was pretty sure he would be removed from the fight. She checked her team’s status on her AI. She wasn't sure how Sam and Mathew had gotten to the other side of the valley, near where the mine was. When there was a loud explosion and wave of fire in that general direction, she thought they were screwed.

To her surprise, it was the mine entrance collapsing, and then a second burst of fire caused the Kingdom fighters to retreat.

Even the archers above them retreated, and left them to their now ruined mine. Or at least, the Queendom would need to excavate the collapsed ravine wall, and then fortify the place before any mining could actually start.

Melinda checked everyone again, and when seeing that both Sam and Mathew’s outlines were flashing orange, while quickly deepening to red, she took off into a sprint.

Sam stopped her with a near scream. “Everyone back away! They detonated some sort of poison.”

Melinda was going to rush in, but Sam's next words were enough to cause her to stumble to a halt.

“It's affecting our mana, so stay back.”

Melinda didn’t know of any mana related poisons, but their existence wasn’t entirely absurd.

After Sam shouted that last bit, she and half a dozen other fighters who had been nearest to the mine vanished in a quick procession.

Melinda’s anxiety started to escalate off the charts, but she forced herself to be calm. Baxter was there, and he wouldn't let anything happen to her friends.

As much as she wanted to rush forward and get teleported to the hospital as well, she could only join her teammates if she died. That wasn't exactly a good choice, no matter how much her conscience screamed at her that she was the only one who could protect her friends.

Instead, she started to move to the remaining wounded. She was at around half mana after her battle ministrations, and her three fast converting mana stones were empty as well. Still, she had enough mana to cast [Area Healing], and she let its longer-lasting healing take care of the easiest wounds of those up and walking.

That left her with just three people who were too wounded to move. She healed an amputated foot, a shattered collarbone, and an arrow through the pelvis. The amputated foot would need to be checked out by the hospital, as without her Talent, it would be a patch job at best. But she was pretty sure that Baxter would cover for her, and just fake the healing needed. She had prevented the woman from bleeding out and losing her points.

As she finished the last wounded fighter, the leader came over and asked, “Can you move yet? I don't know what poison that was, but I want to get the fuck out of this area.”

Melinda nodded and pointed. “Those two need to be carried, they need to stay off their feet, but let's get out now. I can do healing checks once we’re clear.”

The other fighters had been waiting for just those words.They threw their comrades over their shoulders and started running out of the valley. Vinnie had been put to work, and had created a winding set of switchback stairs that the Queendom fighters were flooding up.

The commander kept pace right behind Melinda, ensuring that they were the last two to leave the now quartered valley.

As they reached the top of the hill, Melinda used a tiny fraction of mana to check herself and the commander, whose name she still didn't know. She didn't have net access to bring up his public profile, and he wasn't on the top one hundred most important Queendom fighters list that she had downloaded.

She stuck out a hand and said, “Melinda. Healer and leader of my Path team.”

The man removed his helmet and returned the hand with his own. “Adam. Tier 7 platoon leader in her Majesty's army.”

He tucked the helmet under his arm, and after letting go of her hand, said, “Marvelous that you found this place and all, but do you know what that poison your teammate talked about was? Or even a guess at what it could be?”

As Kyle, Tara, and Vinnie joined her, she said, “No, and I’m finding nothing inside of us either. So I don't think it was spreading or anything. Our teammate is a poison user herself, so while she might know, I haven't a clue.”

Adam cursed under his breath before saying, “Well I assume we’ll be placed under quarantine and act as a guarding force at the same time. At least until we get a report of what that was.”

With that, he ordered everyone to start felling trees to create a makeshift barrier for them to defend. Melinda didn't have an axe, so she helped haul the logs into place before Adam called a halt.

“We got a reply back from the hospital. Our men were hit with a byproduct of the mining. Something called depleted copper. According to the report, it’s the inverse of the mana infused copper that this place is teeming with. It seems like it's copper that forms around the mana conductive version, and it absorbs the mana of anyone it is near. It’s a nasty byproduct of mining the stuff, but it’s not exactly lethal. That's the good news. The bad news is that we all will apparently need to detox later, and from the cursing I'm getting from Jamie, it’s pretty foul both going in and coming out. At least they didn't actually die. They were brought out as a precaution, since it's easier to treat sooner rather than later.”

Adam shrugged. “So, we’ll be guarding this place for a bit before we make our way back to the neutral city and check ourselves into the hospital. But headquarters is greatly pleased that we pushed the Kingdom back. Leadership expects that they took the little bit of copper they’d already mined, and left us to deal with the dirty junk they left behind. Luckily, we stopped them from getting a foothold, or mining more than a few hours' worth of material.”

Melinda wasn’t in range of a network ,and had to take the man at his word, but it didn't seem too bad.

Adam moved over to her team and plopped down after wiping his sweat-slicked hair. “Fucking Kingdom tried to screw us good on this one, but they managed to fuck it up.”

Tara raised an eyebrow as she asked, “How so?”

“Our analysts did the math, and apparently, they didn't get to blow up the boxes of depleted copper. Or not all of them. If they had broken more of them, the radius of the poison outbreak would have been much larger. They couldn't even do that right. Cowards.”

He ended the statement by spitting to the side over the barrier.

Kyle peered over the edge of the cliff into the ravine. “What if they already disposed of the rest of it?”

Adam looked thoughtful at that suggestion, but finally shook his head. “Maybe, but it’s doubtful. The nearest rift is half a mile deeper into our territory, and that's the only safe way to dispose of the toxic waste. Chuck it into a rift and let the instance cycle. No, I think there’s a few boxes of the stuff sitting down there under the rubble.”

Vinnie just shook his head. “I sure as shit don't want to be a part of the clean-up team that has to work that job. Or the new mining team for that matter.”

Adam raised his canteen to that, and they jokingly toasted to not being so unlucky.

An hour later, their relief team came in sealed suits, and they dropped off some additional suits for them. The suits came equipped with air runes to keep the air breathable, but the long flight back to the main city left Melinda hot and sweaty as she was led through quarantine procedures.

Having someone else scrub her down while she raised and lowered her arms as directed wasn't the most pleasant experience, but it was worth it to know that she and her gear were being professionally cleared of any lingering depleted copper.

To amuse herself while being scrubbed down, she read about the stuff, and cursed at the Kingdom for being so petty as to detonate the boxes of waste.

The material started off as perfectly normal copper when left in a mana rich area. The higher the mana concentration relative to the Tier of the mineral, the faster it absorbed the ambient mana. But as the copper drew mana deeper into itself, the outermost layer had so much mana moving through it. The layer took on the opposite property, and started to repel mana.

That layer would dissolve into the surrounding soil, and then start to slow the growth of the mana infused copper, until it reached an equilibrium.

That was the problem, though. It made mining the special copper annoying if all precautions were taken, and quite dangerous if not. The contaminated soil was separated off and tossed into rifts to be destroyed ,as it could poison the land for months at Tier 6, until its properties were equalized with the environment.

If introduced to a person, the effects were much worse. If the dosage was high enough and left long enough, it could cripple the person’s ability to use mana until it was purged. Then, the body had to be almost fully regrown limb by limb to replace the infected tissue. Apparently, a high enough Tier healer could speed up the process, or you could spend a few million mana to simply overwhelm the absorption properties of the copper.

The best and fastest way to deal with it was to quickly purge the body, and do it quickly.

It took a message to Baxter to completely settle her fears. The dosage her teammates had gotten was nothing to be worried about. It was only one-tenth the most dangerous levels. The army watchers had confirmed that only one-quarter of a box had been detonated, and unless someone directly ate that amount, it was mostly harmless. At worst, without treatment, her teammates would’ve had higher mana costs for a few months. Still, the army wasn't going to risk it, and immediately pulled them out.

An hour later, she met with her teammates, and they were given a chalky white drink that seemed to cling to her insides as she drank. It tasted like rotten sewage dipped in a corpse.

She managed to choke it down while glaring at Baxter, who delivered the potion.

“It can't be made to taste any better?”

She was pretty sure he was fucking with them, or at least her, by leaving out something to make the drink taste at least somewhat palatable.

His cocky grin grew wider. “Nope. There really isn't. It's frog bane. It’s nearly a poison all on its own for how bad it tastes, but it sticks to your insides like a film ,and will grab anything remaining inside of you. Like inhaled or swallowed copper dust, for example. Then, there’s the harpies’ cleanser, which also tastes absolutely awful. But that’s even worse, as it also makes you shit your brains out, on top of coughing up a lung or three.”

He smiled and said, “You can all go home at any time you'd like now, but I’d recommend staying, as you’re going to want more than one toilet to hug. If you have to share, it’ll get messy quickly.”

“I hate you. I hate you soooooo much right now.”

Baxter laughed as their faces contorted, and they all ran to the curtained-off bathrooms. To Melinda's horror, the toilet had a sink right in front of it.

This would not be fun.
