

Unless the professors were trying to hide what had happened. Dekora snapped her fingers, ignoring the way a few of the students roaming around gave her a puzzled look. They would try to hide it, wouldn't they? Their favored student accidentally killing off an entire class would destroy their reputations, so of course they would. And it was exactly the type of thing the inner circle of Hunters would want to spin into a story.

Come to think of it, she hadn't seen any of Kessi's classmates around, and this explained why. They must all have been dead or horribly injured.

Dekora's disgust grew. Waiting for a story seemed pointless. And why would the Haelforge professors hide the actions of a wild mage when it led to so much death? Their ridiculous sympathy for them knew no bounds, clearly.

Fine. If the professors wouldn't expose her and her handlers wanted to wait, she'd simply have to prove herself. She was fully capable of spinning the story without needing assistance, and she certainly didn't need anyone to do it for her. She would prove she belonged in that inner circle.

"Kessi!" Dekora faked her enthusiasm as she waved at her fellow student. "I was wondering where you've been! Are you alright? I haven't seen anyone from Fire Resonance since you had the class."

"O-oh." Kessi flinched slightly, and something within Dekora snarled in vicious satisfaction at the sight. "I'm fine. Class was fine. Everyone's just... busy, is all."

"Are they?" Dekora put on a look of false sympathy, then placed an arm around Kessi's shoulders. "What are they busy with? I was hoping to get Caea to help me with a project."

"They all managed to rank up their fire resonance several times," Kessi said, sighing. "I didn't get any, though."

What?

"What?" Dekora said. "What do you mean, they ranked up their fire resonance?"

"You wouldn't believe it, but when I touched the Firestorm Scale, I accidentally summoned Vesuvius," Kessi whispered nervously. "And he was grateful. He gave us all blessings. Except me, for some reason? He said I wasn't compatible."

What? No. Kessi had an inverted summoning aspect; she should have summoned a rampaging monster, not a nice elemental god. Besides, her Observer had said everything went as planned, so she had to be lying.

"Are you sure?" Dekora asked. Kessi gave her a strange look.

"What do you mean, am I sure? I was there," she said. "You can ask Vesuvius yourself, if you want. He's visiting. The rest of the class is with him." Kessi jerked a thumb at a nearby classroom, and Dekora whirled around, hurrying to the class without bothering with a response.

Again, what?

When she threw open the door, she saw what was clearly an inverted aspect summon—a creature made of darkness instead of the merry fire that might have been expected from an elemental god of fire. It stood there in eerie silence, with the rest of Kessi's class chatting animatedly amongst themselves, like they weren't standing with a monster.

And it was a monster. She could see it. Every time the flame flickered, she saw the decaying bodies of everyone she'd loved, everyone she'd lost—

"What's the matter, Dekora?" Kessi asked, having rushed after her. She sounded concerned. "Are you alright?"

Everyone she'd killed.

"What are you doing?" Dekora asked, her voice trembling. "You're supposed to kill them all. Why aren't you killing them all? Why are you just—having a lesson?"

"What are you talking about?" Kessi asked, frowning at her. "What do you mean, kill?"

"If you aren't going to kill them all," Dekora said, her voice getting a little frantic and high-pitched, "I'll just do it myself!"

She was a third-cloak archmage. Some of these Haelforge students were powerful, sure, but they were nothing before an archmage. She could use fire magic to slaughter the lot of them, pin the blame on the elemental and salvage all of this...

Some small part of Dekora's mind screamed at her that something was wrong. Her mana sense was going haywire, buzzing violently to the point where she had to fight her instinct not to flee immediately. She grit her teeth—these were novices. She would be fine.

"I'm going to fix this here and now," she growled, gathering her mana for a [Nova Blast].

Ten minutes later, Dekora staggered down a hallway, singed and bleeding. She couldn't stop panting. One of her horns was chipped, and it was a miracle she'd even managed to find this relatively quiet hallway.

She didn't understand. The students should have run out of mana ages ago, but they were flinging around high-cost spells like they were nothing. Their barriers seemed impenetrable, and every one of them were cackling in glee, like fighting a third-cloak archmage was some sort of exciting after class activity.

As if that wasn't enough, she couldn't even run! She tried. Dekora was no stranger to a strategic retreat, even if running away from novice mages was utterly humiliating. But the school's hallways seemed to twist into a maze, and the corridors she'd once known like the back of her hand now seemed like it was an endless series of forks and twists and turns.

She'd have to report this, she knew. Shame burned in her gut at the thought. The two Hunters that had taken her in and trained her had been so kind. They'd treated her like she was their daughter, and now she was going to disappoint them. The thought made her snarl and slam a fist against the wall.

No. She wouldn't. She was still an archmage. There were other spells she could try. She just needed to gather herself and navigate this stupid fucking maze.

Dekora—celebrated Red Hunter, newly minted third-cloak archmage, and the third minotaur to ever be recruited into the ranks of the Red Hunters—staggered her way further down the hall, her anger slowly growing.

She could do this. She could.
