“Sure does. Until you consider Lisa. Another Scout. Her negative quirk? She can’t do ranged damage at all. But her positive talents amplify and improve the attacks of others. Including.” He raised a finger. “Nearly doubling the distance of any friendly ranged attacks, and adding damage on top.”

I blinked in appreciation. That sounded like somebody who’d be able to take out an enemy before they even realized they were there.

“Or we have Ben Stiller. Not that Ben Stiller, no. Our Ben is a Collector who prefers to travel solo. His Tier three quirk halves his running speed. An absolute pain for him, I don’t mind telling you. But his positive quirk makes enemy monsters not see him as hostile, as long as he doesn’t attack. Meaning, when he’s out gathering, he just waltzes right by any monsters and does his thing. Balls of steel on that guy, I tell you that much. He’s also the reason why we know so much about local monsters and deposits.”

I shook my head in equal parts awe and dismissal. That sounded like a damn lunatic. But if it worked, who was I to judge?

“We do attract the nerds. Some of the nutjobs too, I’d wager. But, often as not, we end up with something that’s worth the pain. And from your reactions, it doesn’t look like you’d be the worst fit for our merry bunch. If you decide to take the leap, go to our encampment, that side of town,” He pointed in a specific direction. “and tell Major Pain I’ve vouched for you.” He took a deep breath. “Yes. I know how the name sounds. I hate it even more than you, because I have to say it hundreds of times a day!”

I asked a few follow-up questions, regarding food, equipment and any gear needed for excursions. The two former were provided by U-Nerds, no questions asked, as long as it wasn’t anything outlandish. The latter hadn’t been relevant yet, because nobody stayed out at night. Then I thanked him and took my leave. Both he and I knew that my decision had already been made. Of course, some of it was due to the lack of proper alternatives – but dammit if I didn’t like the idea of the negative quirks. All my life, I’d paid whatever price had to be paid, without getting anything to show for it. Now, I’d be rewarded for any cost, and as long as I thought things through, any choice would be more than worth the cost in the end. I just had to not mess up.

It was time for me to finally choose my path in this new world. Time to get strong!
