“Oh, splendidly. You hit something with it and the compressed springs explode outwards. It could down a man in plate. But it might shatter your hand, and the springs require a tool to compress again.”
The man beamed with self-evident pride for the creation he had worked so hard on. Both he and Pisces knew that aside from maybe Colth, no one would ever use it. And Colth…probably just once. It hurt Pisces’ chest a bit, because there was something in this place that made him wish it were more respected.
What the [Necromancer] didn’t realize, of course, was that he was no gifted liar. The Mad Ones had seen royalty, adventurers, the desperate, all come for their treasures. He was an unguarded fellow, for all that he was. They saw his dismay and appreciated that, of all the Horns.
Mind you, they did wish he’d spend more.
 
——
 
The problem, in the end, was that Pisces had not enough time in the Mad Ones’ camp and the mentality Colth had lectured him on.
He still spent like a Silver-ranker, which was to say, not at all. Whenever someone quoted him anything above a hundred gold pieces, he winced. Several thousand and he just didn’t have the ability to buy it.
Even useful things! The Mad Ones had magical items on sale. Not everything, not private projects, but one gamely showed him a series of enchanted pots.
“These are designed to eat magical interference and still maintain holding. How it works is that it’ll start to vibrate—then crack as you exceed your interference. You can use them as Bags of Holding or as ways to survive your equipment detonating. Store it until you have that issue.”
They were a set of six, each one designed to break in such a way that they vented the magical dissonance and bought you time to transport gear—or just made your bag of holding sixteen times larger. It was splendid, and Pisces saw the use case for them.
…He didn’t spend thirteen thousand gold pieces on them. He could have. Pisces had estimated he could spend forty-six thousand gold pieces on—on something. But when he tried to make himself buy these useful items he might well need if they found magical loot or just to carry things—
Thirteen thousand gold pieces? When it would break? After twenty minutes, the Mad One sighed. That was the problem they faced.
Trader Hexata was perusing the shops and making deals too—Pisces saw her, but she couldn’t have afforded the pots nor found a buyer. So the Mad Ones needed either something cheap and mass-producible or a big spender.
Pisces was not that kind of person. He hemmed, hawed, appreciated their work, and spent nothing, and they would have begun chasing him away, politely, for the sin of getting their hopes up but for that other annoying thing about him—he wasn’t a complete idiot.
“So this crossbow auto-cranks itself with each shot?”
“Partially. The impact reloads it slightly, but you crank the entire thing back anyways—it’s designed for someone who can use [Power Shot] or overload it. In theory, it would almost perfectly reload without magic. Which then lets you enchant it with something else instead of a reloading spell. I’ve had two Hunters from Noelictus ask about it, but the perfect buyer…”
A somewhat brusque [Tinkerer] knew Pisces wasn’t going to buy it, but she did have to show off. She was going to pointedly suggest he go to another of her associates when he murmured.
“Fascinating. You know, I had a similar design in a skeleton I made.”
“Really?”
She raised a brow, and Otevious, who had been about to go back to his workshop, half-turned. They weren’t entirely dismissive, but Pisces hesitated.
“I—it wasn’t so adept. A friend dared me to innovate, you see. And they couldn’t reload since I never figured out how to have them self-crank the crossbows or reach around inside. Too much fine control when I mass-animated them.”
“So you created a mass-animatable skeleton with a crossbow mechanism inside? Uh huh. And you’re Level 60? An honor.”
She took off a glove to shake his hand, revealing a lot of scars from accidents with wires, and he raised his hands.
“No, no! I was entirely inept, you see? My teacher at the time also speculated it was a waste of complexity because you’d be able to animate less. I—drat—let me just show you. Animate Skeleton Chestburster!”
It took him a second to remember how, but when a skeleton with the ribcage configured to blow up did arise, the two Mad Ones blinked, and then the [Tinkerer] was leaning forwards.
“Wait, this is a hurling design. Very simple, but—”
“Careful, it’ll snap and explode in your—”
Pisces grew alarmed, but she instantly disarmed the mechanism by pulling the bone that would snap outwards and spray bone shrapnel. Then Otevious was peering in as well.
“I’ve seen Goblins build similar weapons. Simple use of compressed force…but that’s the necromantic challenge, isn’t it? You can create an entire crossbow out of bone, Calice. I once saw a [Necromancer] do it in a single spell.”
“Impressive.”
“Yes, but it’s such a headache he couldn’t do it twice, and it costs more mana. This is a good mix between efficiency and complexity! Hey, Poetr, you like undead? Come see this!”
Pisces puffed up a bit as they called other Mad Ones over to see. Right up until Calice made a comment.
“I doubt it aims well, though. And the force won’t take out anyone in armor. Plenty of room to adapt; is this the first trial? How many iterations did you go through?”
“I, ah—well, this one worked, and I’ve barely used them in combat—”
Their looks of appreciation became ones of sardonic exasperation instantly. Pisces lifted his hands.
“It wasn’t a viable concept, and I have Skeleton Champions!”
“Well, if you kept it here, it wasn’t viable. Far be it from me to tell a [Necromancer] his business. How many undead have you created that are new? I’d love to see them.”
“Well, ah, new—”
Poetr slapped his forehead.
“Oh dead gods, he’s an Az’kerash [Necromancer]. Mass-summoner. No offense, I’m sure it works well, but he was a very uninventive spellcaster, historically speaking. You know?”
Pisces tried to protest, but he’d thought the same thing himself. Even so—
“He was one of the two most powerful Archmages of the time, though, sir! And a master duelist and—”
“Oh, no, I’d never deny that. Have you studied his life? I have a lot of proscribed accounts of his battle prowess, and as a duelist, he was supreme. As a creator…I think it was Terandrian sensibilities. When I compare that to the [Necromancer] who invented the Crypt Lords…”
“Er, someone invented Crypt Lords?”
They smiled as Poetr insisted Pisces have a cup of tea with him and began to talk undead, even if not all of them were experts. Some had fought undead, and Calice had once come up with the concept of a skeleton bound to an oversized crank-crossbow which would revolutionize loading speeds—Noelictus hadn’t wanted to buy or trial her designs.
They chatted more with him, because one had to, of course. There was a mind behind that poor adventurer’s brain of his, and it was the duty of the Mad Ones to engage it. Unfortunately, it meant they lost the chance to upsell more stuff onto him, but sacrifices had to be made.
 
——
 
When Colth found his team, he was flushed from running around buying things. Ceria was eating overpriced food, Pisces was not really reading his spellbook, and Yvlon was asleep.
“I’m finished buying items. Did you get anything?”
“Nope.”
The other three Horns’ complete lack of purchases made Colth scowl. He nudged Yvlon with a foot. She was dead asleep on the ground.
“Come on, we have to at least see if we can convince the Mad Ones to move to Reim.”
“They clearly don’t wish to, Colth. Unless we can secure transport, it seems pointless. I’d try moving them to Germina, but assuming we cannot get them to leave, where are we bound next?”
Pisces glanced up, and Colth hesitated.
“Well, pending Her Majesty wanting us to make up for our debacle, we could roam some of the eastern cities. Search for Pisces’ friends.”
Pisces sat up a bit. Bearig, Merr, Eloque—his heart began to beat faster. Ceria glanced at him and stopped shovelling loaded fries into her mouth.
“Sounds good. Let’s get going. I say we skip even talking to them. They’re crazy, but boring crazy after all. Hey, Yvlon. Yvlon, c’mon, we’re going.”
She nudged Yvlon again, and the woman didn’t wake up. Ceria and Colth tried before Ceria smirked, then reached over.
She shot a snowball into Yvlon’s face, and the [Armsmistress] came up swinging.
“CERIA—”
She spluttered, lurched two steps after Ceria, then sat down. And yawned. Colth frowned at her.
“C’mon, Yvlon. What’s with you?”
“I don’t…know. I’m just really tired. Are we leaving yet? Did anyone explode?”
“Not for lack of trying. C’mon.”
Pisces got up, a bit disconsolate. The Horns were walking out of the camp, and Otevious and the others hadn’t come to see them off. They’d done their business, and Pisces didn’t see Trader Hexata.
There was something off about the entire trip, he decided. It just wasn’t fun. He didn’t know what had changed. Even going to Invrisil or camping outside the walls hadn’t been always mindblowing, but there had been an enjoyable component that was lacking here.
Part of it was Ceria, Colth doing things his way, or Yvlon being tired but the team just wasn’t…together. He knew the others were feeling the same way, at least, Ceria and Colth did. He was making plans.
“Okay, let’s head for an eastern city. We might as well put Delitandra’s group to work. We’ll get some actual progress done on our goals.”
“Yeah, and we could do some strategizing in the carriage. You know, how to fight together and not get wiped out? Even fight some monsters.”
Pisces was reminded of something as they approached the walls and realized they didn’t have a ladder. Ceria obligingly began to make some ice stairs, and he did the same. They stared at each other’s ramps, and Pisces began to de-animate his only for Ceria to do it first.
“Bone before ice, especially stairs.”
“Er, thank you, Ceria. I was going to ask, but I forgot—Delitandra, what about that Jaw of Zeikhal? Did anyone end up stopping it?”
Delitandra and the Heromakers had been observing the Horns and taking notes. Possibly, they dovetailed with Pisces’ feeling, because Delitandra leapt forwards.
“Ah, to that, Pisces, I do know it was ended. So do not fear for commonfolk.”
He did relax at that; it had hurt his conscience. She strode up the stairs with him.
“In fact, the one who took out the Jaw was one of the adventurers you met in Tyrant’s Rest. It was none other than Itkisa herself.”
“Torreb’s daughter? She took it out by herself?”
Pisces was surprised. A single adventurer had taken out a Jaw of Zeikhal? Even a young one—Torreb had been famous for killing one in single combat. There was someone who clearly wanted to capitalize on her father’s myth. Or perhaps, reforge it anew. He rubbed at his chin.
“If we assume all the teams we met were hired to go against us in some capacity, then it follows that she might have been hired to fight us as well.”
He climbed the walls separating the Mad Ones from the rest of the world and stopped. A sleepy Yvlon walked into his back and nearly fell down the stairs. Colth had to push her back up. She complained.
“Pisces—”
Then she heard a voice, and her head snapped up. Pisces stared down the wall at a figure who stood outside the Mad One’s commune. The wind blew at her cloak, and she still, even now, looked too different from what he felt she should be.
Like a mother despite the chainmail she wore and the oversized club planted in the dirt. Itkisa, the newly-made Gold-rank adventurer, lifted the club one-handed, and it was as tall as she was. She pointed it at Pisces.
“I was hired to defeat your team, Horns of Hammerad. I thought, from the stories of you, that you’d fight the Jaw over the Tomb. My mistake. Shall we?”
Pisces stared at her. She smiled at him, and he felt a crawl down his back. Ceria was mouthing at him.
Stall. Colth was swearing as he reached for a bow.
“Hey, Itkisa! Are you sure you know what you’re doing? There’s four of us and—”
He was calling out in a loud, confident voice when Pisces saw the woman tense. She crouched, and he shouted.
“Watch out—”
She leapt, and he [Flash Stepped] off the walls. Yvlon blinked up as the woman fell to earth, club swinging. Pisces half-turned, drawing his r—
Itkisa hit the walls, and they exploded. Dirt rained down. The ground shook—was it still shaking? Pisces stumbled and saw a figure rising from the hole she’d cleaved in the compound’s defenses. She turned, and he swallowed.
Aw, hells. Then the second adventurer battle in as many days began.
 
——
 
She just didn’t look right. And she knew that too.
Itkisa wasn’t even the right…species. Torreb had been Stitch-folk. His body had been thread and cloth so scarred and pitted by war it had made him look like the Hemp-folk. But no one had ever asked him his thread.
He had transcended social norms. He had been the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar, perhaps the world. The unstoppable force that armies feared. Whom even Mars the Illusionist had not eclipsed.
Her father. Itkisa knew Torreb better than anyone else in the world. His wives had not outlived him or stayed with him, for Torreb was exactly as people had known him: unpredictable, unshackled by rules, prone to violence or whimsy. He could have passed from this world into the next like that whirlwind, shifting things around by his passage, but for one thing.
Her. Itkisa’s mother had claimed a Skill from him.
[Inheritance: My Father’s Strength]. A simple Skill. A brave Skill for a mother to leave a child. He’d killed her for it, even though it hadn’t taken anything from him. Torreb had just hated the fact that someone else had gained what he had earned himself. As if that were cheating. Perhaps it was. Even now, she didn’t know how to use his strength. He had never taught her. He’d kept her by his side for a lifetime, terrified she’d grow up and kill him in the way of brutal succession, like they were animals.
To be fair, she had killed him at the end. Just not the way he’d expected.
