“Ah, here are the Horns in their triumph! And where would they be without their erstwhile trainers and companions?”
She bandied herself and her team into the room, over the shock of the four adventurers who seemed sleep-deprived and tense. Delitandra was ready, without appearing to be so, for the blow. She guessed the Silver Killer or Colthei, but she was surprised when she was greeted with, if not enthusiasm, then restrained politeness.
“Instructor Delitandra, how did you find us?”
“Ah, we had it from Queen Yisame’s staff, and the rest was simply a matter of hiring a carriage, Necromancer Pisces. Now, to work. Shall we break down the disaster of the tomb?”
She smiled cheekily, but Pisces just smiled back at her as Ceria sighed, and Yvlon sat back. Colth’s face was unreadably polite, but the rest of the Horns…
“We’ve gone over our errors, but we could certainly rehash them, Delitandra. It was a defeat, but at least the Wildcards are alive, and we are, in the end, teammates. I respect my team immensely, and we shall unify more satisfactorily in the next encounter.”
Pisces nodded a few times as he met her eyes. Delitandra stopped bracing, eyed him to see if he was lying or being sarcastic, and sighed, partially in relief.
So not simmering rage or blame. They were doing the earnestness approach, eh? How…wholesome. More than she’d thought. The Horns really weren’t as dysfunctional as many teams she’d met.
It made her like them a bit, to see them trying to be reasonable, regular people. Even if she knew they were nothing close to that. She smiled and slid into a seat next to Pisces. Insisting he tell her again.
You will be a Named-rank team and, perhaps, spawn a [Hero] among your own. You cannot be normal, poor souls. But is it kinder to break you open or let you crack on your own?
That she did not know, for once.
 
——
 
The Heromakers of Hraace weren’t as annoying as Pisces feared. True, Delitandra was a bit pressing, but they listened to the account of the raid, speculating without lecturing on how the Horns might have broken Wildcard’s defensive lines.
The agreement everyone had, from Yvlon, Colth, Ceria, everyone—was that they’d been taken off-guard by a team of unique classes. Lareceina, Kusal, Leonardo—they had been using Skills and combinations in ways the Horns hadn’t fathomed.
“Combined Skills. We don’t have a single one. A combined spell with me and Ceria, but…that is Earthers for you.”
Delitandra hesitated.
“Earthers? I don’t know the term…”
“Trey and Teres’ lot. Otherworlders. You know. The Heromakers surely know about Earthers since all the world powers do.”
Ceria’s face was too bland as she sipped from some juice the Heromakers had brought, and Pisces almost smiled as he saw Delitandra’s eyes flick to her cohort. Colth pushed himself up.
“I’m going to freshen up. Someone explain to the rookies what that is?”
Even Yvlon chuckled, and Ceria skipped off.
“Oh, woe is me! I’m so tired and messy! If only someone were here to tend to my aches and pains!”
She called out, and several of the instructors dashed off. Delitandra hesitated, and Yvlon rose with a grimace.
“I’m dog tired. I’ll catch some sleep now that we’ve hashed it out.”
Pisces could have used his bed too, but he lingered as Delitandra fixed her eyes on him. She smiled, and he felt guilty.
“We have taken you from your home, Delitandra, and I am conscious of your efforts on our behalf. Ah, Ceria could explain it better than I…”
Even annoying as she was, it was a mouthful, and he was tired. Delitandra waved this away.
“That we came was because we did understand you had lost, Necromancer. Not a bad thing, to lose, in fact. Better to have it bloodless than one where your team died, truth?”
“Truth…but a bitter one.”
He sat, still guilty. Yes, they’d reminded themselves they were a team, but he hadn’t managed to say to Ceria…and he and Colth had been rather up in each other’s faces. He wondered how Yvlon felt. Delitandra seemed to read this all in him, because she produced something.
“We have prepared new lessons for you, Pisces. Doubtless, you are tired, but I would think that we have at least three hours for you to practice some fencing. I am no gifted fencer, merely passable. Araxia would be, annoyingly, the best candidate to teach you, but let us retire to the practice courts this mansion has for some swordplay. Mm, yes, swordplay over magic, I think.”
He blinked at her.
“Actually, Delitandra, my bed is rather inviting now…”
He stood. She popped into place and took his arm. He was quite conscious of her proximity as she smiled sweetly at him.
“You don’t mind my bosom, good. Your lessons did something for you—but we should have focused as much on combat, clearly!”
“Er—but one learns with good sleep, Delitandra—”
Somehow, she maneuvered him to the practice courts, not his inviting bed. And she was pushing a stamina potion in his face. Pisces was about to say, ‘thank you, but I insist I need sleep’ when she hit him with a blow below the belt, metaphorically speaking.
“Your father’s appearance on the television was doubtless seen across the world. Did you watch it or not? He is better than you at fencing in many ways. Though in a duel you might have him. With magic. Had you any questions for us?”
He froze. She watched him, too warily, he realized, as if expecting him to lash out—Pisces took a breath.
“I do not hold that man in any regard, Delitandra. He may be my biological sire, but that is all.”
“Is that why you don’t wish to acknowledge when he has a point?”
Another blow between the shoulders. He hunched his…thought about saying something unkind, then swung around slowly. She was a Heromaker of Hraace. And sworn to secrecy. Her people had taught the King of Destruction. Pisces wavered, peered around, then lowered his voice.
“So you think I’m a Silver-bell at best and inferior too, Delitandra?”
Her eyes were oddly sympathetic. She half-bowed, hand across her chest.
“Did I say that, Pisces? Do not mistake the voice in your ear with my own. I too know what it is like to have no parents worth respecting.”
She did? He hesitated, and something in him wanted to know—Pisces untensed a bit.
“My mother is fine.”
“I am sure she is. Did she say nothing when he was at his worst? Then she is no mother, but an accomplice.”
“She was—he’s a wrathful man, and she wasn’t—”
He grew uncomfortable, then angry. But Delitandra’s words were gentle.
“If I overstep, tell me, but I too have known what it is like, Pisces.”
“You had, ah, a parent undeserving of his position?”
Pisces blinked at her, and Delitandra scratched at her side.
“I had someone who sired me, who I would not call a parent. And someone else who stood by and let such abuse happen, yes. The Pedagogia is my parent, just not one connected by blood, and she is vexsome enough as it is. One can choose their parents, Pisces.”
“One…cannot, Delitandra. I understand you don’t regard your birth-parents as such, but they did raise you.”
She smiled calmly at him, and for once, she didn’t feel lecturing, just someone talking earnestly to him, and he wondered what her childhood had been like.
“And I give them credence for that and nothing else. Words have power. If you met that man, Padurn, in the open, would you let him speak to you like that?”
“…No.”
The thought of it made Pisces’ stomach clench, and Delitandra nodded.
“I would not ask if you’d run him through because murder sullies one—but you could at least break a bone.”
“He’s a respected [Fencer] of Ailendamus, and I’m still not sure I could beat him without magic or a trick.”
“If he deserves it, would your team not have your back? I would help.”
For an instant, the image of Ceria, Colth, Yvlon, Ksmvr, and even Vofea jumping Padurn came to mind. He almost laughed, then realized that Yvlon might actually do just that. The idea of his father, skilled with a blade, fighting the Silver Killer of Izril…Pisces would have liked to see that.
So he smiled and relaxed for a moment as Delitandra grinned. Then he looked at her—
“What about your parents?”
She offered him a mysterious smile.
“The Pedagogia had my back, Adventurer Pisces, so don’t fear on that account. She is far from perfect, but I do give her credit in this. When she’s dethroned, she would make an excellent instructor and caretaker of children under thirteen.”
He chuckled, softly, and then, because he felt better, he managed to ask the question he hadn’t dared voice in front of his team. Pisces stared at his feet, then cleared his throat hesitantly, hoping she wouldn’t laugh or judge him.
“…Delitandra. Since you are here and know something about dueling and weapon arts. Ah…could you tell me? What exactly did my father mean when he said I would never rise to a Gold-bell?”
It had been bugging him in the quiet moments. Pisces sort of knew what was meant, but he also was uncertain. Delitandra smiled.
“You did not see his explanation?”
“No, we turned off the broadcast. Did he say?”
“I shall summarize it for you, if that is simpler.”
“Please.”
Pisces sat with Delitandra, not knowing that three members of his team eyed him from the windows as they sat in the courtyard. The dry desert air warmed and the sun shone down on the sandstone mansion. He listened to her gratefully, growing rapt with interest and pain, but less of it.
Since it was her, not that man from his childhood and home.
 
——
 
Padurn Jealnet’s lesson on fencing was simple, and he had touched on Pisces’ flaws surprisingly little, because most of his lesson had been on the fundamentals of true fencing.
But he had made reference to what he meant. There was a difference between Pisces, who had achieved the still-renowned rank of the Silver-bell, and that of a Gold-bell [Duelist]. It was, in Delitandra’s words, simple.
“He criticized you on what you, he, and anyone else short of the King of Duels or Maestro lacks, Pisces. Attack and defense.”
It was so simple, the way she said it. Pisces imagined Padurn would be full of lectures and harsh voice…he blinked.
“So simple?”
“In essence? Yes. He would have put maneuverability in there, but I think he could not in good conscience. Your [Flash Step] is enough to keep up with a master.”
She smiled, and he turned red and demurred; Raelt had him in footwork, but that was not what Delitandra meant.
“Consider the Skill your father has, Pisces. [Automatic Parry]. Any blow, any attack he is capable of deflecting, he will. How could you defeat such a man?”
“Make him slip? [Invisibility]? [Deathbolt] to the face?”
Pisces would enjoy that. But even saying it made him realize what Delitandra and Padurn meant. His face fell, and he rested his chin in his hands as he sat on the bench where ornamental ivy twined about the wood seat. It smelled of dusty sand, but also of some of the fragrant flowers planted here. Bread from Colthei’s kitchen. Her personal fragrance.
He edged away on the bench. She edged over.
“If you had neither, and only the sword, could you damage him?”
“Not without a Skill, and I do not have any ones purely for a [Fencer]. If I baited him into [Joveln’s Parry]…”
“So none that can wound him. His point is this: any Gold-bell duelist can do the same without a Skill. At Level 40, nay, Level 50, how does a mortal man hope to wound a true master? Thus, the quandary you and he face.”
Attack and defense. Pisces blinked.
When you got down to it, he had no attacking Skills, did he? He’d noticed it against Bograms and the Champion of Monarchs. Oh, he could stab someone through the heart, and that tended to work. But against an Adult Creler, against a significant foe…
“So I lack for a way to both damage a foe with my rapier—or even regular spells—or defend?”
She smiled.
“Exactly. Now, I shall not lecture you on magic because you are the expert, and spells are more a matter of learning the right ones and using them correctly. But swordplay? There are a few ways to damage a foe who has armor or defensive abilities bar none. The King of Duels has learned some; you recall his spiraling stab he used to wound the King of Destruction?”
A masterpiece of footwork and that classic, piercing thrust. Pisces nodded. Delitandra drew her sword, which he noted was a fencer’s foil today.
“Let us practice and see if we can find you one. There are three means I can think of easily: a Skill, which you might learn, a magical spell you might use in conjunction with the rapier, or your natural aura. To warm up, attack me. [Instruction: Supreme Bladework]!”
He rose, body exhausted, but with a bit of a will. Nevertheless, some the old Pisces was in him, so he had to ask.
“Shouldn’t I get some sleep first, though, Delitandra? One does learn better with rest.”
Her eyes twinkled at him.
“It is the observation of the Heromakers that our clients are most motivated to train after a humiliating defeat, Pisces. Or is this not so?”
Damn. He sighed and drew his rapier.
“I suppose I could do an hour…”
 
——
 
Here was the thing; being able to deflect the King of Duels’ stab, the Maestro’s, or any high-level Skill like the Hero of Zethe’s, sounded like madness to Pisces. You either had a barrier or weren’t there—surviving such attacks was impossible.
Or the territory of Gold-bell duelists. He was crestfallen by the problem, but at least he was thinking of how to solve it. Nor was Delitandra completely out of ideas, just stating the many obstacles to overcome.
“Here is my best and simplest way to upgrade your attacks, Pisces. [Bound Spell]. You needn’t the Skill for it, though it would make it faster. You have been in the company of Magus Grimalkin, who is famous for his use of it. He can bind three spells into his fist. You need only one. Consider: could you bind a spell into the tip of your rapier?”
He blinked and regarded his bone-metal rapier. Bind a spell and fire it off?
“I…don’t see why not. I’ve done it before against Lenxiol, actually. [Light Spear], in fact. Well, not the spell like that…”
It wasn’t as powerful as a Tier 5 spell, which he didn’t know, but the thought of stabbing a foe and blasting a Tier 3 spell into their chest had some charm. Thus, Delitandra encouraged him to try binding it in the middle of a fight while she attacked, then had him practice the spell on her while using it for maximum damage.
She had a Skill that granted her immunity to harm while they were practicing, so Pisces quickly learned that the spell needed a bit of time and the right strike to fire off. Doing so while also practicing his swordplay was a good workout and Pisces found himself sweating far before he customarily woke up.
