(If you missed it, The Wandering Inn is now in bookstores! So is Beware of Chicken—the hour of web serials has come to print! Thank you for your support and get a copy if you have space on your shelves! —pirateaba)
<Innktober is coming again and they have a survey to fill out if you have a moment! https://forms.gle/i1ycwLSxKPq8A8HG9>
 
Trigger Warning: Click here for details.
 
 
“I’m bored.”
The problem with being a [King] was that the unguarded statement echoed. It was an offhanded comment as he yawned and went from his command tent down the line of soldiers. A [Strategist] mentioned it to the [Archers] firing flaming arrows skywards, setting trails of burning lights through the sky.
The air—choked and thick with burnt flesh and smoke–was hard to breathe in as the infantry stormed the walls. The cavalry circled like wolves, dueling the chariots trying to break the siege. Both ran over the dead, pressing armor and blood into the sand.
Nevertheless, amidst the fighting were men and women armed with chains. They walked with barrier spells up, fearlessly taking prisoners. Administering first aid with expertise—not mercy. [Slave Takers] picking the battlefield for the best spoils before they expired.
The King of Destruction’s words were carried by a line of infantry climbing the [Light Bridges] instead of ladders, storming a breach in the walls where the defenders lay dead. A [Mage] heard it while retreating to regenerate mana. When they fought forwards, umbrellas raised, setting screaming Stitch-folk ablaze, one of them carried it to the front of the fighting.
There, champions of Nerrhavia’s Fallen were trying to duel a pair of blademasters, who cut down all comers without slowing. A dance that had lasted three hours. Orthenon the Steward and Mars the Illusionist stopped only once when they heard that comment. The [Vanguard], who had killed over a thousand defenders of one of Nerrhavia’s fortress-bastions, brushed at her hair which showed none of the gore adorning her actual body and the floor. She threw down her sword and, to the defenders’ incredulity, stopped her advance and stormed backwards.
Orthenon scowled before issuing curt orders for the attackers to hold the line. He fell back as well.
Outside, Flos Reimarch sensed the battle for the fortress, another of Nerrhavia’s border citadels, slacken. He winced and sighed. Sometimes, he didn’t want people to hear every word he said.
 
——
 
Sometimes, the King of Destruction and his vassals quarrelled. It was usually him and Takhatres or him and Orthenon, who seemed to have the most strife. Amerys could grate, but any one of Flos’ Seven had been known to war with him betimes.
Mars did it, funnily enough, with pure passive aggressiveness. She sipped from a cup of water with a straw in it as Flos remonstrated with her.
“Mars, I meant the war, not your heroics. Please, we need this fortress taken or they’ll send another damn army, and we’ll have to retreat.”
“I don’t know, my drink isn’t cool enough. I think I’ve sprained my fragile throat.”
He personally snagged ice cubes and dumped them in her cup. She sipped again.
“Now they’re dirty.”
The King of Destruction sighed. He stepped away, and Mars nearly put down her cup; her face fell, but Orthenon held out an arm, and she pretended to be studying her cup by the time Flos came around.
“Mars, it was not an instruction for you to fight harder. Do you think I would have claimed that?”
“I could have taken the citadel faster. But I’m tired, and we need to level the soldiers and not waste my gear.”
“And never did I think to instruct you on the ways of war. Allow me to explain.”
“Of course, who am I to gainsay His Majesty in any way?”
She beamed at him, and Flos raked at his hair. He pressed his fingers together.
“I meant it in the sense of recent events. The Horns. The battle at the Meeting of Tribes—the Winter Solstice, terrible as it was. Were these not events to shake the heart?”
“It did get my heart pumping.”
Mars admitted grudgingly. Flos plied her with another cup of wine, which she refused hesitantly.
“I have to get back on the walls…”
“Indulge us both a moment, Mars.”
She sipped after a second, and he did likewise. Then they traded cups and took a gulp of each other’s. He and she smiled at the Chandrarian tradition.
“It was that damn Goblin King which reminded me I had never met one. And one appears and…! The sight of it, Mars. Now, think of our war here. We are winning.”
“Winning while the Empire of Sands grows in strength and sends armies at us. They’ll have one here soon, despite all Takhatres did.”
Orthenon put in. Flos grimaced.
“Between that and the oddities Trey suspects in Khelt—yes, there are events of notice, Orthenon. None rouse my passions. Remember the Nerrhavia’s Fallen of old?”
“Armies of Level 40 experts and Djinni? Facing armies literally a million strong? You had just hired me and I had to lead the offensive against all that. Plus, Mars came at you nineteen times before she switched sides. Takhatres had just joined, and he was always going off on his own…”
Orthenon’s face was a full grimace of distaste. Flos himself shuddered.
“Dead gods, yes! A nightmare! The only good battle was the million-army one. That Great General was so daft as to think he could field it and it wouldn’t be a giant, bloated carcass starving him of supplies. That was the only fun battle with no great sorrows. But the rest had my heart aflame. Now, look at them.”
He stared out of his war tent.
“It’s just Hemp. No one of a true level wants to fight us.”
“They don’t want to die. They know we’re better at killing. It’s the same reason the Herald of the Forests and the Mage of Rivers never took up against us on the field is because we’d hunt them down. Everyone remembers the old conquests.”
“So we just fight through the lowest-level soldiers. It’s sensible, but that’s why I said that. It does not level us. It is not what you deserve, my champions, and…I fear it is dulling our wits. I am helpless as well.”
Ah. Mars relaxed. Orthenon exhaled.
“Your Majesty has won splendid battles—”
“Bah. Feints and basic strategy. There’s not a single Great General of the lot worth fighting. Queravia would have taken me to pieces.”
Another pause; it was rare to hear him invoke her name, even now. But Flos said it like a man drawing a splinter from his skin and then sighed.
“Queravia. There. And Tottenval too. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had so many of us the first time. Now? We will advance. We are advancing, but it is boring. How many Hemp have turned for us?”
“One in eight.”
“Good. Keep offering them that over chains. I would rather they all turn…but I accepted peace with Nerrhavia’s Fallen the first time instead of taking them all as my vassals and breaking the nation apart. Perhaps it was a mistake. But the last time, they fought like Manticores.”
“If we get to the capital, it may change. Cheer up, Your Majesty. They might send Djinni at us again.”
“Not after I freed them. Go back to the walls if you will it, please, Mars. Let us not shed blood in vain. I just wish I could be there with you. But I don’t have my armor, and even if I have a new sword…”
He touched the one that Silvenia had given him. Flos sat, and Mars tried to cheer him up.
“I, uh, I have some armor that might fit you, Flos—”
“No, no. It’s not Relic-grade, no offense to your armor, Mars. Only you can wear a set and not risk a piercing arrow. I learned my lesson with the King of Duels. I…funny.”
Flos flexed one scarred hand.
“When I was younger, I didn’t mind the lack of active Skills as much. I didn’t need them. I could do more Skill-attacks, too. What was that damn zig-zag Skill?”
“[Criss-cross Cut]?”
“[Typhoon of the Sword Saint]?”
“…Might be a third one. I tried it the other day and nearly threw out my back. I’m stronger than I used to be, but not hardier, and certainly not as fast. Did I really wrestle Djinni back in the day?”
“I remember you fighting one across an entire battlefield for two hours while we tried to pull you two apart.”
Flos sighed.
“Youth really did make up for so much. Now all I’ve got is treachery and wisdom or whatever the damn saying is. Hmm.”
He didn’t continue his train of thought. Just opened and closed his hand. Mars hesitated, glanced at Orthenon, then turned.
“I’ll have the fortress taken by dawn, and we’ll see to you remembering one of your learned Skills, Your Majesty! Thanks for the drink. No hard feelings, eh? Coming, Orthenon? Those soldiers aren’t going to slay themselves, unless Gazi stares at them hard enough.”
She strode out of the room. Orthenon rolled his eyes.
“Coward.”
Flos thought he heard the Steward say that, but when he turned his head, Orthenon just bowed and left. Leaving the King of Destruction alone.
“Lacking.”
He stared at his hand, articulating each finger inwards. As if trying to divine something in his hand’s movements he did not perceive by vision alone. Flos closed his eyes.
“When I heard that bell ring, my soul rang with it. The Horns of Hammerad. What a pity they didn’t wish to stay. Perhaps it was me. A [Dreamer]. Heh.”
He smiled, then stared at his hand again.
“I swear I remember a lesson on this. But it’s been so long. Perhaps I should have gone to Hraace, but I cannot spare myself. Boring.”
His hand twitched again, and Flos imagined a cup of water. He tried to catch a falling drop. Pure imagination falling upon his palm. He sat there in silence, then sighed.
“I don’t…get it. Perhaps I should have taken a year to train. But the moment I awoke—no, my kingdom needed me. I should have never slept. But it occurs to me now, Queravia, that the [King] who returned should have been better, not just the same. You were right, Tottenval. Everyone changes. Drevish. You would have told me that, wouldn’t you?”
The peacemakers and doves of his Seven were gone. The ones who knew how to wield both pen and ink as well as blade and spell. Amerys was the last remaining and she…Flos glanced up.
They were far from the battlefront where she fought, but he fancied he still saw the bolts of lightning she was hurling. She didn’t like fortresses she couldn’t break, and she was venting her fury on the forces of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Since her duel with Archmage Valeterisa. Flos had enjoyed it and thought it good for Amerys, even if it was a loss on multiple fronts. The romance angle seemed to be where it actually stung and Takhatres had been sulking for ages for reasons Flos hadn’t gotten out of him.
“Still, I will need your snippy guidance, Amerys, once we consolidate an actual empire. We may struggle more without Drevish or Tottenval in rulership. Until then…”
He stared at his hand, practicing, because there was nothing more interesting to do. Flos wished the Pedagogia were here. Perhaps the Quarass…?
Then his head rose. In the night, as the fortress’ alarms rang again for the Illusionist and Steward, Flos Reimarch’s gaze turned north.
“What is this…?”
He remained fixed in place until someone came running.
“Your Majesty! Word from the north!”
He turned at once, poised for action, filled with anticipation and—well, loss.
“Khelt?”
But no—it wasn’t Khelt. Trey would have communicated to him. Flos had expected the message to be about those odd Antinium or Fetohep, but the [Messenger] bore more important news still.
“The King of Myths and a fleet of ten thousand from Erribathe has been spotted off the coast of Medain! It seems as if they intend to land—but there was no word of them, nor is Medain prepared for them. Their navy is moving to potentially blockade the port.”
Almost, the King of Destruction smiled. Almost with delight, wonder, suspense—but he jerked his attention down to his hand.
“I see. Leave it until we have more word. They are far north.”
Surprised, the messenger halted, for the King of Destruction might have called the entire warfront back to see. But he just sat there. Studying his hand.
“Your Majesty had longed to see the Army of Myths, sire.”
“Yes. Yes, it was a dream of mine. They never sent forces against me in any numbers, even when the Crusade happened. But I am here. We must not abandon the war.”
So said the older man. The messenger bowed, and Flos added, after a second—
“Besides. The Horns of Hammerad lie south of me, now. They delight my heart too.”
His eyes rose and gleamed in the dark. He had a feeling Chandrar had not seen the last of them. The coliseum was an amusing distraction, on par with Mars’ exploits as a girl.
He could still hear that bell ringing.
The King of Destruction waited, practicing in the long night. Bored until the moment he was not.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad were finished.
Washed.
Done.
They, a team of three Gold-rank adventurers, veterans at least by the standard of how many threats they’d gone up against, and a Named-rank adventurer, had been stalemated by a new Gold-rank team.
Yes, Earthers. Yes, they’d had an advantage and setup. But that was how it started, wasn’t it? Excuses. If it had been any other team, if they’d gone to blood—then Pisces, Yvlon, and possibly Ceria would be dead.
They’d lost ‘it’. And by ‘it’, Pisces assumed Ksmvr. Or perhaps their cohesion. Their teamwork. Their spark.
He’d been up all night, tossing and turning, despite the sumptuous bed Yisame’s people had given him in the closest city. Thinking about how he’d messed up, how his team hadn’t fought together. Seeing those glowing orbs of compressed mana on his chest.
He didn’t like losing. No one did. Pisces couldn’t remember the last time his team had lost a battle like that. When had the last time been? Montressa’s team, yes. They’d fled some battles, but not been defeated for a long while. Incredible, really. Charmed—but it meant he didn’t know how it worked.
Losing.
It felt bad. Not just because Colth had shouted all the above at his team before storming off into his rooms. Yvlon was utterly silent, and Ceria had been cracking jokes, making plans and observations about the Earthers—Pisces had just gone to bed to think.
Bad mood. Failed quest. Yisame had to know, even if the Wildcards had loudly proclaimed the Horns had taken the bounty from the Tomb of Yad’thuv—Pisces wondered how much trouble they were in.
We’ve never failed a quest either. Wait, no, they’d failed to clear some bees out once, but—never something like this.
At some point he realized he was twisted such that his upper body was facing left, and his legs, and waist, right.
