They had a ladder by now and tumbled down it. Hexata and her two older brothers were a funny trio. Not the most well-to-do. Scrappy in a vaguely Octavia way, Pisces decided. They were much taken with him and chatted openly.
“You say Stitch-folk bodies are all that much better, Scourge, but our limbs fray and wear down a hundred times faster than yours. We need to restuff or repair an arm in but a month whereas your flesh heals.”
“Constant repair vs a permanent body. Tradeoffs; I do understand. Even so, one of my teammates nearly lost her arms to infection. When I think of that—”
Pisces recounted Yvlon’s battle with her infected arms as Hexata, Grulive, and Xomet listened with rapt interest. Hexata stared at Yvlon herself as the Silver Killer landed on the ground next to Colth; he’d leapt down easily, and she landed on her metal foot which extended to stab the ground then arrest her fall. Ceria just slid down a ramp with the Heromakers.
“So you too have come to visit the Mad Ones then, Scourge? For any one purpose or just to see what they have cooked up this month? If I can introduce you to any—I visit them often to see what they make. And if you need anything…”
Pisces thought it might be good to have a contact like Hexata. He was taking her card when Colth swept over.
“Pisces! We’re meeting the Mad Ones—hello, excuse us. Pisces, c’mon.”
“I was just meeting Trader Hexata here—”
Pisces reached for her card as she proffered it to him with a desperate smile, but Colth moved such that he blocked her and didn’t seem to see the card. He hurried Pisces away, and Hexata sighed as Pisces twisted.
“Colth, what are—at least say hello—”
“Pisces, don’t waste your time, and therefore ours, with the small fries. She’s a Level 20 [Trader] who doesn’t even know how to get a rope. I get you like being in that Silver-ranker mentality but we don’t have time for that. Even Yvlon’s figured out who she is now.”
Pisces stared at Colth, rather offended. The [Ultimate Supporter] saw his glance and grimaced.
“Oh, now you’re all upset.”
“I just don’t think it’s fair to write off anyone for being low-level—”
“Listen, Pisces. I get it. I had the same thought, but after the ten thousandth person you meet who’s earnest, excited, and just needs a tiny bit of your time, some gold, or a favor—it gets old. You’re famous. That girl who was so excited she wanted you to sign her breasts? You’re going to meet a lot of people with that energy, and I’m warning you—it’ll burn you out. Even Eld got that, and he was a literal [Beet Farmer]. I’m trying to preserve your youthful charm.”
Pisces understood Colth’s point on some level. But he couldn’t help but snap back.
“Wouldn’t it be better if you let me wear out such feelings on my own?”
Colth glanced at him, and Delitandra half turned from where the Horns were talking to a gaggle of odd-looking people.
“Maybe. But it sucks seeing someone make the same mistakes, Pisces. Perhaps that was an earnest young [Trader] who just wanted to strike a deal. But the first one who takes your money or tries to sell you under the river—we’re trying to keep your innocence. Dead gods, is this how Larra and the others felt about me?”
Colth just shook his head, sighing. Pisces didn’t know what to say to that, so he sniffed and met another group of the King of Destruction’s famous vassals.
The Mad Ones.
 
——
 
A question for you. Flos Reimarch, King of Destruction. Famed for ruling all of Chandrar and having countless mighty vassals who had as-yet not joined him.
Like the Monks of Sottheim or the Loquea Dree. Each one whose capabilities were such that they put other forces to flight. Yet in his conquests, his battles with nations to re-establish his empire, he had betimes bemoaned his lack of good, standing forces.
Wished the Rustängmarder were with him, for instance. Or Amerys. Or…the Mad Ones.
Out of all of his vassals, not once had the King of Destruction invoked groups such as the Monks of Sottheim except maybe in a passing comment about high-level staff fighters or experts in childrearing. Yet he had spoken of the Mad Ones a hundred times more than other groups.
Why? It occurred to Pisces to question why his team had been asked about the subject, and that curiosity had taken them to the place where Nerrhavia’s Fallen had begrudgingly allowed the famous group to settle. He understood they were, well, eccentrics.
[Alchemists], [Inventors], [Mechanics]—crafters who had formed a kind of commune, but who were so unpredictable, so prone to making things explode, that even regular [Alchemists] wouldn’t hang out with them.
His guess would be that they’d be like Octavia after three nights without sleep, or mini-Salisses. Full of that energetic chaos, unable to sit still. He was…sort of right?
They had a lot of energy, and once you got past the relatively deserted area around the walls, you ran into tents. Some freestanding buildings, but mostly tents. Clearly pitched a long time ago; people had altered them to stitch two together, formed a walkway between another, and there was patching indicating where holes had been made.
For instance, one wooden building appeared, well, cheap. Not bad, but Pisces suspected it had holes, and the wood wasn’t all one type of board. It was clearly cobbled together from scrap; he’d associate it with a poor district in old Celum.
But one wall was made of steel or some metal, a huge, vaguely round splash of material that looked like the wood in texture and was clearly tough; pockmarks indicated impacts against it. The entire building was a microcosm of the Mad Ones’ camp.
Improvisation, chaos, a lack of great funding, and occasionally something crazy you had to glance twice at. The inhabitants of each building had the same vibe.
Most were dirty. Sand blew over their compound with some regularity, and if not that, then the fumes from other alchemical works or just grease and dust created a second layer of skin on them. They were a bunch of species—though Stitch-folk and Human predominated—and wore overalls or vests with lots of pockets for tools. But where they diverged from the quintessential mad genius look was the magic.
A lot of them were spellcasters. Pisces saw more varieties of spell schools and magic he’d never conceived of across the camp in a single minute than he’d seen in all of Wistram.
Weird magic too. Like…he saw someone bending a strand of fire magic in a complete circle with a wand. Then tying a knot in it. Utterly free-form—and the fiery knot blew up in a miniature explosion, but the young [Mage] had already taken cover behind a bench. He popped up and chewed on a biscuit, mildly singed.
“Damn, it keeps blowing up like that. But I need a knot here, or something close. Anyone know knitting or needlework?”
He called out, and a few others turned. One raised a hand, but didn’t come over; the Garuda was forging something at an anvil.
“I do, but what’s the project?”
“I want to shape raw magical threads together.”
“In a tapestry or something?”
The Garuda leaned out of his open-air forge, growing interested as he pushed some goggles up. A few more of the other crafters glanced over, visibly interested, but the young man shook his head.
“No, I’m thinking more like a statue. Or an art piece, but not linked up like a tapestry. I’m trying to make a spell that’s beautiful. Any takers?”
The Garuda shook his head and slapped his goggles back down without a word. The other crafters went back to work, and the young man sighed. He went back to his task and formed another circle in the air. Added a different kind of twist in the fiery thread, prepared to dive…and when the strands didn’t detonate, added another circle with a pleased look.
Pisces had never seen someone free-cast like that. Holding magic in the air was hard as hell. He stared as the young man kept working. Two circles now, and he was adding more magic around it, giving it contouring, details. He was, in fact…
Making a pair of breasts. Pisces stared at the floating magical ‘artwork’ as a passing Mad One scowled at the image. But the young man kept working with the dogged persistence of someone who believed that a fire-spell in the image of a naked young lady was a worthwhile addition to the world.
“I love these guys.”
Ceria Springwalker was grinning from ear to ear as she took in the camp. Their guide was a Stitch-man in his mid-fifties. He had some white hair and was bald except for a frizz of hair like a halo around his head. And from the grease stains on his fingers, he was more of a mechanical sort. His name was Otevious, and he had served the King of Destruction himself.
“This is all the freeform stuff, guests. Don’t mind them. The better, more structured projects with funding are more interior. Anything’s a project out here. You get silly ideas from the younger lot like this all the time. ‘Is my Potion of Excellent Sensations working? I need fifteen lovely ladies to volunteer for me!’”
He shook his head at the foolishness of youth. Yvlon gazed at the panoply of people working around her. Something exploded, and she reacted instantly, making a shield out of her arms. She blocked a tiny, glowing piece of metal that had nearly gone through Ceria’s nose. The half-Elf recoiled. Pisces himself hadn’t reacted fast enough.
Otevious had leaned out of the way of the shrapnel.
“Right, that reminds me. Barriers up, guests? Unless you’re a [Warrior], of course. I think we have some rings…nope, we either used the last bunch up or tried upgrading them. If you’re killed by something exploding, that’s the risk you take. Even Flos knew that. Sorry, I’m all over today. Who are you again?”
Refreshingly, he had no idea who they were. Ceria held out a hand.
“Ceria, Horns of Hammerad?”
“You sound like adventurers.”
“Er, yes. Gold-rank? We conquered the Village of the Dead? Reached the Crossroads of Izril? That’s Yvlon, the Silver Killer. Killed the Champion of Monarchs?”
Otevious blinked at Ceria, then put on a disingenuous smile.
“Charmed, I’m sure! The Champion of Monarchs you say? Never liked…her. If we need any silver killed or crossroads found, I’m sure we’ll call on you two!”
That took the wind neatly out of Ceria’s sails, and Pisces hid a smile. Otevious led them onwards.
“No offense, truly. But we don’t, uh, pay attention to current events as much. Unless it catches our eye. We have one of those things everyone yammers about in camp. Scrying orbs, right. Television? Weird name. Someone new to our camps was familiar with it, but the nomenclature felt wrong to me. Wistram wouldn’t name it that. Um…oh, right, it’s from another world.”
This time, all the Horns glanced at him, and Otevious smacked his forehead.
“The entire Earth wing of studies. Too much damn funding for all that. Was that why you were here? You said Flos sent you.”
“We’re here on behalf of a number of prospective clients, sir. May I ask if we can help by providing our unique skillsets? I’m a [Supporter], and we have a high-level [Necromancer], [Cryomancer], and a [Warrior] with living metal arms!”
Colth leapt in, clearly trying to ingratiate himself with Otevious. He obviously thought this would arouse the man’s passions, but Otevious glanced over the Horns and shrugged.
“How long are you here for?”
“Er, we could be here a day or two—”
“Pass. I’m out of [Eureka Moments] for the month, and unless you find someone who wants to gamble on a breakthrough in a day, you won’t find much interest. Again, no offense, but if you’re not going to put in at least four months’ time, using someone with high-level anything is pointless. You’ll be gone soon, and then we’re back to square one.”
What an interesting perspective. It made sense, but that took Colth out of the running as he recalibrated. Pisces and Yvlon got nudges to go humiliate themselves, and so Pisces thought and tried next.
“We are here at the request of His Majesty of Reim and the Quarass, asking for you to relocate your camps to their nations, Inventor Otevious. Naturally, I imagine this is a tricky political matter, and we do not wish to endanger your camp. Is there a governing body here we should speak to? We have made no promises other than to carry the requests.”
Even if the Quarass had a good incentive for Colth to help her. Otevious blinked at Pisces and then scratched at his head.
“Governing body? Sure, there’s the Funding Committee. But we’ve fielded both monarchs’ requests for, what, nearly two years now? Ten for the Quarass, I think. Flos came back and wanted us to join him, which has some appeal, but then we’re at war, and he always wants the weapons. Other things too, and the funding was appealing, but…I think we’re just going to let him come to us.”
“Er, pardon?”
Otevious waved his hands around.
“Tell him what we told—wait, we never hired a Courier did we? Oops, no wonder he’s mad. Right, well, this is perfect. Tell him that we’re delighted he’s back, we’d love to take his gold—when he conquers this section of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, we’ll get right back to it! If he had any big projects in mind, we’ll get a few concepts running. How’s that?”
Pisces’ mouth stayed open, and he stepped back. Once he conquers…Ceria raised one finger to her temple, a grin of delight on her face. Colth grabbed it.
“Er, Master Otevious. You’re willing to work for the King of Destruction? What about Germina?”
“Oh, sure. The Quarass is a wonderful collaborator if you can get her to sit still on anything. It’s like asking a Djinni for hints; she’ll get you ahead, but it’s bad to rely on her. We’re down for both.”
“Which one?”
“Whichever gets here. Or offers us a lot of gold to move. Actually—if the Quarass could pick us up with a Djinni? Lift the entire camp up and just move it around? We had a prototype regarding that. Hey, Yerelia! Guests! Where’s your prototype concept for the House-mover?”
They entered the inner camp where there were better buildings with actual enchanted walls and fewer people. A woman stepped out from working on a complex series of magical objects floating in a glass aquarium. Some spell was sucking the light out so they moved in a black void. She lifted something off her face—odd monoculars over both eyes with multiple colored lenses which could flip into place to magnify her vision.
Yerelia was another Stitch-woman, albeit one with one hand which was a Gnollish paw, the other being a tentacle that split into five digits, like fingers. She also had digitigrade legs and walked out in a fashion Pisces found fascinating—and wondered if it was cumbersome. The Horns stared as the woman called out.
