“No, not spell scrolls. The blend of papyrus or parchment used for it was long set before us. But His Majesty did need plenty, so we set up fields and tools to make more. Most of it still lies in Belchan; doubtless, he needs for more [Mages], but he will not ever need parchment again, unless those idiots burnt down all the workshops.”
Monsters of efficiency. That was the Mad Ones’ power. Mind you—they didn’t dislike the glorious bangs, either. Yerelia was chuckling as she recounted some other stories for the two Horns.
“And yes, sometimes he just wanted something to explode, so we’d all take a break and design five different spells or explosives for him! Then he’d have it hurled by a trebuchet, or Takhatres’ people would drop it on the enemy. Ah, those were sights indeed. Flos had too much money. We grew spoiled under his rule. We’d make something that exploded or a living magicore serpent that he’d unleash on his foes. True, it’d crater a hole through an enchanted wall, but it was never worth the cost, you see? It scared his foes, but this is better.”
This humble community at the edge of Nerrhavia’s Fallen? She nodded in response to Pisces’ words.
“Yes. Oh, we need more gold, but we are making things that can be scaled up, that are needed. Things not meant for war or combat alone—there were some ways in which they served more than that, but it drew too much focus. With too much gold, we make one-shot marvels, and that’s fun for a moment. They will not reach Terandria’s shores. Knowledge will. So this is my project. It has no commercial value, but it came with our understanding of Earth, so I have the funding for it for now.”
She hung another orb in the aquarium, and now Pisces and Yvlon focused on it. They peered at the floating ball of red with white clouds spinning through it.
“What is this, Engineer?”
“A planet. A simulation of interstellar bodies; I’m trying to approximate the exact gravity and flow of stars in this other world. Purely so we have a baseline to measure with. Some of the ideas these children come up with are fantastical, but we cannot tell if we’re making what they want too well or if their rules are different. Gravity, for instance. They claim it’s the same as their home, but they also claim their world is three times smaller than ours. Something is off—we want to know what. A shame we don’t have a map of our world, but, well…would you like to see how they’re supposed to orbit the sun?”
Yerelia pointed, and Pisces and Yvlon stared at each other. Their mouths opened.
The who now?
 
——
 
A young woman was standing behind a glowing barrier as Otevious worked on his projects, which included more magic than Yerelia’s had. He was peering at a canister of something that everyone was staying away from, using metal arms to manipulate it as he took the lid off.
“So, for the sake of our guests, you are telling me that the key to advanced pyrotechnic heat is not more magic. At least, in your world it is not. The secret that Dwarves hold over us in their Dwarfsteel is a more fundamental reaction. More fundamental than even alchemy—which we shall separate from ‘chemistry’ as two differing fields. One uses magic. The other…the most natural forces. Elemental.”
“Elements, yes, sir. And this might work because it’s not one exact combination—”
“It’s the reaction that matters. That goes against some alchemical truths that hold that it is usually one set of combinations that are incredibly difficult to replicate. Magic refuses to be put in a neat equation, often. But this? Once lit, this will create an extreme—what’s the word?”
“Exothermic reaction, sir. B-but it’s just a theory! A game theory, even! I don’t remember how it works—”
Otevious had a visor over his face, and he snapped it down with a maniacal grin.
“It’s a nice theory. Let’s test it. Three, two, one—”
He lit something. Whatever it was, it took a second to ignite the mixture of reddish dust that Colth and Ceria were peering at, but then there was a flare. An explosion of light, and Pisces saw the canister turn red-hot.
Something was burning in the center of it. Burning, and it did not go out despite not having…a flame? It was so damn hot that Pisces saw it melting the metal canister. Yvlon shifted, eying the metal, and stared.
“That’s no fire I’ve ever seen. Is it magic…?”
“It’s not magic.”
Colth responded quietly. The burning mixture tilted outwards as Otevious used his metal claws to tilt the mixture onto a variety of substances. Most of which the burning metal ate through—fast.
“It’s working! It’s wooooorking!”
He was shouting in delight. A crowd of Mad Ones were all watching, nodding—not cheering, but watching. And the young woman whispered.
“Thermite.”
“Non-magical thermite. Alchemists can produce the same reaction, but we did it without. No fire crystals. No salamander skins. I’m calling this—victory for replicable materials from Earth. Victory for their elemental table—I’m requesting money for a [Mage] capable of casting memory spells.”
One of the other Mad Ones was shouting as people took notes. Colth interrupted quietly.
“Victory for modern warfare?”
Otevious was lecturing the other Mad Ones about this compound. Which apparently, refused to go out when smothered. In fact, water would just make everything explode if you tried to pour it on this stuff. Pisces shivered as he imagined that being thrown on them. But to his surprise, the [Inventor] just turned and shook his head.
“It’s a finicky combination, Adventurer Colthei. If we can make a flask of it that detonates, I imagine it’ll scare Stitch-folk. Might be used to intimidate the poor Hemp-folk. I’ll vote against manufacturing it if that’s the only use-case. But even if we made it—and cheap—so what?”
He pointed at Pisces.
“I knew I remembered you lot somewhere. Liscor, yes? We were trying to buy that acid stuff. Don’t you get it from a fly over there?”
Pisces jumped.
“We do, sir, but—”
Otevious was taking apart the thermite, removing the unburnt material to stop the burning reaction as the young woman peeked over.
“I was going to breed some, but no one would transport the things. And a [Druid] we consulted said it might ‘spread across habitats and wipe out natural populations’. Bah. That’s acid in a jar at almost no cost. This is an expensive blend of metals you need to grind up. No comparison.”
In his books, acid beat thermite. At least in the case of throwing it in people’s faces. However, Otevious grunted.
“The real use for this isn’t pure violence. I’m thinking…if you slap a simple illusion over this? It’s a non-magical powder that melts locks, and the Acid Fly acid cannot do that. A [Rogue]’s friend. I want to test this on enchanted locks. Tell the Funding Committee that if we make a workable vial-sized prototype, we’ll have money coming in from every [Rogue] in the world.”
In a minute, he’d talked himself out of making a weapon of war and instead pivoted to a way to rob vaults. There it was again; Colth wore a genuinely unsettled expression as he tried to peer at the recipe list. He met Pisces’ eyes and nodded.
These people are actually dangerous. Pisces realized the occasional bang and noise from the exterior of the Mad One’s commune was a false illusion. The real danger was here.
“Alright, young lady, we’ve earned our funding for today. Let’s get some food, and you write up that report. Then we’ll chat about the uses of this stuff from your world.”
Otevious let his apprentice go, and Pisces saw the Earther dash off. He had to ask.
“Where did she come from?”
“Oh, we found her. That’s Botane. It was…a year ago? My, how time flies. Come, come, prospective clients. Let me offer you some food.”
The man led the way to some tables, and Yerelia had seen Yvlon too. They sat the Horns down and presented them with some actually quite good food.
…That someone had run from the city. And which also cost—Pisces nearly spat out his bite of pita bread filled with savory meat when Yvlon whispered the price in his ear.
“Eighty gold coins?”
The two inventors beamed at him.
“Nothing but the finest for our guests.”
They were charging the Horns for their food at insane markups! They really just wanted money, didn’t they? Otevious didn’t deny it either as he chuckled.
“All of this costs gold, guests. Plenty of it! Even if I were to make my rogue’s favorite device, I’ll give 70% of the profits to the Funding Committee.”
“They take your profits?”
Yvlon was aghast by the worst-sounding deal in the world, but again, the old Stitch-man just chuckled.
“We don’t care about personal wealth. Far better that I have anything I earn taken away so it can be allocated. No one gets all of what they want unless they have something truly, truly revolutionary. But by combining forces, we can all keep this going. Another plate?”
Pisces wisely refused a second helping, but he felt like this trip was illuminating if nothing else. Even Flos Reimarch hadn’t been as interesting as this group. Overwhelming, yes, but he felt like the Mad Ones were making things that would truly change the world. Colth was the skeptical one.
“May I ask how you met Miss Botane, Inventors? One doesn’t just find…Earthers. Larra never found one, and her inn moves.”
“Larracel the Haven doesn’t seem interested in people who aren’t above Level 40 or rich, Colth.”
Pisces returned softly, and Colth hesitated and bit his tongue before nodding.
“But the free bread—argh, but I don’t believe an Earther just pops into your camp. Did she seek you out?”
The [Engineer], Yerelia, was unabashedly eating the food the Horns had just paid for. She frowned.
“I think it was the scrying orbs, remember, Otevious?”
He snapped his fingers.
“It was. It was right when Wistram began mass-producing them. A few of the younger members of camp had them. Why not? Then someone—I think it was Addy?—noticed the spell was easily reversible. We didn’t like that. Cue us smashing over three dozen of the damn things and repurposing the crystal. But that got us paying attention, and we noticed weird scrying spells. Who made the sensor net?”
For a second, Yerelia stopped eating.
“Thomos.”
“Ah.”
Otevious pushed back his plate after a second. Then he swallowed and turned to the Horns.
“He built a rather impressive scrying spell detection network. It ‘caught’ spells and backtraced them. We saw who was sending and what they were searching at. We were all rather fired up about Wistram, you see. That’s when we noticed young folk getting grabbed. Botane was the fourth girl, and she was close enough that we rode out and nabbed her before anyone else did. Well, we did it with two other groups.”
Someone had been searching for Earthers? Pisces was astounded.
“How many do you have? May we meet them? We know someone—”
Colth nudged him hard, and Pisces kicked back, scowling. The secret was out! But Otevious just shook his head.
“Botane’s the only one who remains. The rest left. Or died. Whoever was after the Earthers sent [Assassins]. We suspect it was Roshal or someone connected to them. They destroyed Thomos’ scry-catcher, killed him, killed a number of our camp.”
Pisces lost his appetite abruptly. He sat there as Yerelia nodded. Both of the Mad Ones glanced across the camp towards where a gap might have been…? Someone had replaced whatever had been lost, and only they saw it.
“If it was Roshal, they wouldn’t have stopped until they got their quarry. So it wasn’t them.”
Colth’s voice had an edge to it despite his pleasant smile. But here was the last mistake he made. Otevious gave him a blank glance.
“It might have been them. We are not speculating more than we have, and the matter rests for now. It is not forgotten, Adventurer, but we are well aware of the risks of taking on a nation as we are. If the King of Destruction finds us, we will discuss it with him. Along with any other grudges we might have.”
Then he looked dangerous despite the sweat on his silly bald pate and simple inventor’s clothing. Colth frowned.
“But Roshal does not relent, sir. Believe me, they want Earthers. They wouldn’t stop at a hundred [Assassins]. They have endless Ranks.”
Yerelia pulled a plate over and took another pita sandwich and bit into it.
“So they do, young man. But even they run out of Faces. After the eleventh one we killed, they stopped. We are the Mad Ones of Chandrar. If they throw an artillery spell at us, we throw one back.”
Ah. So that was why they existed. Pisces wondered what kind of weapons the world’s greatest group of inventors had stored away. He shifted, and it was Yvlon, the Silver Killer, who sat up from where she might have been napping during the story. He frowned at her, but she gave the others a sleepy smile and said—
“On that topic, if you have anything we can use, we’ll buy it from you. At a fairer price than lunch.”
The two inventors grinned. They’d been hoping she’d say that.
 
——
 
Ceria caught up with Pisces after the second hour of being in the Mad Ones’ camp. He was essentially being given the run of their inner area. He could walk over, and one of the Mad Ones would put aside what they were doing—assuming they could—and pull out whatever they had that he thought he’d like.
More than one was open to making something for him, but then you were talking budget, timeframe, expectations…Ceria walked over and leaned on his shoulder.
“Pisces, I’m ready to go.”
He turned to her.
“Ceria, this is the most incredible camp we’ve ever been to! You haven’t even asked about all the things they’ve made, surely—”
She rolled her eyes.
“Yeah, yeah. It’s amazing, they’re smart, I can see why everyone wants them. But there’s not going to be anything for us. Colth, yes. Yvlon? Maaaaybe, but I doubt it.”
“They’ve invented amazing things, Ceria—”
She peered at him, then shrugged.
“Okay, sure. I’m gonna nap like Yvlon. Let me know when you’ve worked it out.”
So saying, Ceria wandered off to find a place to snooze, and Pisces stood there and was unaccountably stung.
That implied he was missing something. That implied she thought with her circlet she’d figured out—why not just tell him?
Dissonance, again, with his team. He would have loved nothing more than to go around, the four of them, inspecting each item and arguing whether they needed it. But his team wasn’t together.
Ceria was cocooning herself in ice magic to avoid potential accidents, snoozing in the street. Colth was running from inventor to inventor, trying to figure out what to buy with his funds. And Yvlon?
“Come now, Yvlon. This is fun! Let’s go around.”
