“That old thing? Buried in my files; we got rid of the actual prototype, remember? What’s with the guests? Nice magic on them. Recruits? Hired help? Did the committee finally pay for a good [Mage]?”
“Nope. Just lookers.”
“Damn.”
“They might send us all to Germina or Reim, though. Got a preference on which one?”
The woman leaned on a curious object that looked like some kind of wrench married to a needle; it was altering magic around it, Pisces realized. And it had a strand of magic in it? He peered at it as Ceria squinted.
“Um…I’ll take…Germina. Probably. They have better finger foods. And poisons.”
“Poisons, I forgot! Put my vote in for poisons too. If you’re taking votes when you abduct or transport us, that is.”
Otevious snapped his fingers and turned to the Horns. Ceria’s smile seemed forced this time.
“Er, you don’t mind if we put sacks over all your heads and cart you north?”
The two [Inventors] stared at her. Otevious scratched at his chin.
“I’d hope it was faster and a bit more elegant than that. But we’re hardly going to fight adventurers who kill silver, are we? Just make sure you have us disarm all the active experiments of a certain type or they might explode when you take us. Even in Chests of Holding. Oh, and you’re bringing our experiments, right?”
He seemed actually worried there, and a few more crafters came over, mostly in their later years. Pisces presumed these were the ones who could duck or knew how not to explode themselves.
“Still working on your Earth projects, Yerelia? How’s it going? Who’re the lookers?”
“Adventurers. They’re going to kidnap us to Germina or Reim—they haven’t decided yet.”
“Damn, I was working on a project—did they say when?”
The Horns were treated to several stares, and Colth opened his mouth only for a woman holding a canister of what might have been magicore to open it and check on something.
“Can I persuade you to wait until Beithday? I’ve got a few projects I’d love to finish up if we’re getting kidnapped again. Want to try this one?”
She offered the canteen around, and everyone instantly refused. Pisces hesitated long enough for her to shove it in his face, and it turned out to be not magicore but…soup.
Soup with at least some magic in it. He eyed it, and Pisces, who had stared down at Erin’s magical cooking, feared to imbibe whatever this was. It had a sludgy quality to it. If colors could melt…the woman sighed and took a bite of whatever it was. Instantly, she spat it out.
“I’ve poisoned myself. Let me know about the kidnapping when we get that sorted.”
She walked off. Colth was trying to clarify.
“We’re not kidnapping anyone. We’re just asking on behalf of Their Majesties—”
“Didn’t we tell Flos we were waiting to be conquered?”
“We forgot to pay the Courier, remember? We had them doing exercises instead before they got mad and left.”
“Right, damn. No wonder he sent this lot. Are they threatening to kill us if we don’t go?”
“Not yet…”
Ceria was laughing too hard to do anything. Colth had the colorful expression of a man trying to up his weirdness levels to keep up. Pisces was just hesitating and wondering if Erin would have fit in or been blown away by them. Even the Heromakers were clearly not sure what to do.
They trained heroes, not dealt with madfolk. In the face of all this, every head turned to Yvlon Byres.
The Silver Killer of Izril, who had been yawning a bit. Pisces thought the camps were fascinating, if obscure, but he supposed Yvlon had no appreciation for it. Ksmvr would have loved this. She blinked at him, hesitated as Colth and Ceria nudged her, and sighed when she realized it was her turn.
Without much faith in herself, she lifted a hand.
“Hello, my name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the Silver Killer of Izril, but the truth is, I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez.”
She held out a hand, and Pisces’ eyes rolled up into his head. But the inventors turned, eyed her, and Otevious shook her hand.
“Splendid introduction. What rank of adventurer?”
“Er, Gold.”
“Thank you. I’m Otevious, [Inventor of Mechanical Genius]. Some may call me the Madman of Oletto, but the truth is I didn’t kill that many people. I got my name exploding three buildings, but casualties were minimal.”
Another hand from Yerelia.
“Pleased to meet you too. Yerelia, [Engineer of Magic’s Grasp], on the Funding Committee. Some may call me Yerla, but that was a nickname when I was a child. I don’t think I’ve killed anyone except monsters, and half of those were accidental.”
Yvlon’s face grew more colorful as the others shook her hand. The rest of her team was clutching at their sides. Pisces was shaking in agony, trying not to laugh, and Colth was crying.
Yvlon appeared ready to kneecap the lot of them, but she bared her teeth and then glanced around the camp.
“Very delighted, I’m sure. Before we figure out about, um, kidnapping, which I don’t think we’re doing, may I ask about this funding I keep hearing about? Are the Mad Ones in need of financing? We do have a bit of gold, and if you had anything to sell, we’d be interested.”
The inventors paused a second and Otevious squinted at Yvlon.
“Gold-rank adventurers don’t tend to have that much. What’s your budget, a thousand gold pieces?”
“Er…we could spend more than that, I think?”
Yvlon glanced at Pisces, and he tried to recall how much the Horns actually had in the Merchant’s Guild. That, it transpired, was enough for one of the other Mad Ones to eye them.
“[Investor Appraisal].”
He looked the Horns up and down, then ran off. The other Mad Ones turned—saw the Garuda tear into a tent, and come running out with one of his inventions. Otevious’ eyes brightened, and Yerelia rubbed her hands together.
As it so happened, Yvlon had said the magic words.
Funding. Instantly, two dozen more Mad Ones emerged from their workplaces to welcome their favorite guests!
Paying customers. Pisces blinked, then saw Yvlon smile smugly and put her hands on her hips. The rest of the Horns half-glared at her as the Silver Killer met their eyes. Then Yvlon yawned again.
 
——
 
“It’s all about funding. No one has much gold, and if we have any, it’s either spent on necessities or it goes to the Funding Committee.”
Yerelia was a lot more willing to spend time with the Horns after realizing they might give the Mad Ones gold. It was remarkably straightforwards; the Mad Ones didn’t care for fame or levels if it didn’t help them.
But gold was gold. The reason they liked the Horns was, well, because the Horns were easy marks.
“You’re not lookers, you’re spenders. Very important difference there. We get [Traders]—”
“Ah, like Miss Hexata?”
Pisces was standing there with Yvlon as Yerelia worked on whatever strange Earth-creation she was about. She was delicately maneuvering magical strands together in the weird tank, which was actually a fishtank she’d converted into this project. Ceria and Colth were meeting with a lot more people, trying to figure out who was in charge.
Good luck to them; Pisces doubted there was anything for either one to make sense of in terms of actual leadership. Even Ceria’s circlet would be flummoxed by this place because it was a well and true commune.
Having been part of one himself, he knew how it worked. Some people were in charge, of course, but the rest? Chaos. Yerelia was as good as anyone to talk to since she was on this Funding Committee, and Yvlon was so out of her depth she was sticking by Pisces out of pure desperation.
The unlucky [Trader] was known to the Mad Ones by name at least; Yerelia glanced up.
“You know Hexata?”
“We just met. She broke her legs jumping into the compound—”
“Oh, the walls. Yes, they make them higher each time something blows up or escapes. We’ve had to move eight times. But Nerrhavia’s Fallen gives us a budget. We spend it, so we always need more gold.”
“Why would Nerrhavia’s Fallen give you a budget? My impression was that you were considered terrible nuisances. Yisame said you were a stain on any nation you came across.”
Yvlon interrupted, and Pisces winced at the blunt statement, even by her standards, but Yvlon clearly had the lay of the land here. Yerelia just smiled.
“That is the position any monarch would take, but we have our uses. There was some kind of plague of those damn beetles. Oresects? It annoyed us so much everyone stopped working on our projects to figure out what the Great Sage had made and create a cheaper solution.”
Yvlon and Pisces stared. The Mad Ones were responsible for ending the Oresect plague? Yerelia just nodded absently.
“Not by creating the mixture that kills the bugs, of course. That was already done. We just devoted time to taking one of the ingredients—Kalaab seeds—and finding a cheaper solution. That’s all we needed to do. That’s how you win wars. Against bugs, people. Economize the cure. Well, if that didn’t work, we were going to create a Rustshredder spell, but it would have been less effective.”
—There it was. Just for a second, Pisces saw something. He hesitated, and Yvlon’s head rose like a woman who had just seen a threat. For a moment—they eyed each other.
“So you do understand war, Miss Yerelia? You served Flos?”
The [Engineer] glanced up again.
“Of course I did. All the older members did. It was good for levels, but we died fast too once the [Assassins] realized who made his weapons. If we’re not keen on joining him, it’s simply because all his inventions go one way. Nor did we find something meaningful in what we made, by and large. Because most of it was just war.”
“Like what?”
Pisces didn’t know the legacy of the Mad Ones well, so Yerelia just thought a moment, before snapping her gloved fingers.
“What might you know? Ah, the Tripvine Bag, for example. The same one I trust you have used, or at least, seen as an adventurer.”
It took Pisces a moment to realize what she meant, then he stared.
“Your people invented the modern Tripvine Bag?”
“A more effective version of it, yes. Tottenval’s seeds were hugely effective, but it was in how they were packed and organized. A shame; when he was alive, they were practically a sidearm in every [Soldier]’s arsenal. Terrifying to fight, I’m told. Astounding tactics came of his plants; any cavalry charge turned into dead animals. You could tie down a formation and just ignore them or shoot them dead while your forces advanced. That was worth making—to some. I wasn’t responsible for more than the bag and configuration. I’m no [Mage], you see.”
Yerelia recounted this all distantly. Pisces blinked. He stared at the tool she was using and protested.
“But you’re using magic right now! This entire creation—”
Little orbs were hanging in the pitch blackness, made out of magic, and it was so adept he couldn’t see the details of the delicate mana weaving. But Yerelia just smiled, and here her eyes did light up. She tapped the monoculars on her face.
“Ah, but that’s because I’m using this tool. I invented it myself. I can neither see nor use magic, Adventurer Pisces. I was born without the talent. But I have always wanted to make magic, so these lenses let me see it. This tool lets me manipulate magic very carefully.”
“But these are spells! You can make a spell with—”
Pisces had heard of expert [Mages] using their fingers to adjust magic. Never someone creating a spell from ambient magic. He watched Yerelia tease another strand out of the air, and she nodded.
“Yes. It’s not fast nor simple. Even now, I can injure myself greatly, so there is no mass appeal for this device. I didn’t argue my case hard in front of the Funding Committee, but they’ve seen the value of it.”
“Giving a non-[Mage] the ability to see and manipulate magic isn’t worth money? How does this committee work?”
Yvlon was incredulous, but Yerelia laughed.
“I can see why His Majesty took an interest in you. Let me see if you can understand how we think. Outsiders seldom do. Yes, my creation is valuable—to me. Yes, it is revolutionary—again, to me. But consider that it only gives me the abilities of any Level 5 [Mage]. Is there a benefit in making more? Yes…but is it worth spending the time, the resources, to refine this process? To make something that will be used across the world? For now—no. When this tool can do what a [Mage] cannot do easily, then it will be ready.”
She held up the curious grabbing device that held magic like thread, and Pisces thought he saw it. It was not a lack of passion; it was in Yerelia’s eyes, her evident pride in her work. But it was a kind of ruthless efficiency.
I am not yet ready to change the world with this. And the way she had spoken of the Tripvine Bag…that was the quality of Mad Ones that set them apart from a casual [Mad Genius], Pisces realized. They understood the difference between the glorious bang and something that would change the world.
The woman went on, casual.
“I was part of the teams that worked on alchemical items, as I hadn’t finished this design. Not all of what we made is still in use, of course; the designs change and alter, but I am proud of it. Potions of Blast, healing potion bottles—”
“Wait, wait, you made all of that?”
Yvlon was in disbelief, but again, she was mistaking the woman. The [Engineer] snorted again.
“Of course not! We just created the version that was most effective. You see? We experimented to make lower-cost versions of each formula, altered designs for the King of Destruction’s army. You know how you can smash a healing potion on someone? Who do you think made it so the glass shatters yet won’t break from sitting on it?”
She tapped her chest and grinned. Then she went on, sighing.
“Spells too. So much basic spellcraft like making a Rune of Cooling last another week—you come from Pallass, yes? Some of our designs they used on their ballistae. It was damned hard to get ahold of samples, but then we churned them out! The Drakes were always so confused at how we made them, but once you actually break one down…well, it’s teaching a generation to think without the need for Skills. Their Engineering Guild is a fine asset; if we’d worked with them, we’d have had the Flying Gnoll in the air a decade ago!”
That was the fearsome power of the Mad Ones, Pisces realized. Their hands were so subtle in how it had changed the world. On a hunch, he asked, and she grinned at him.
