Well, she’d waited decades to find out who she was. And yes, she looked like a mother despite never having borne children. She wasn’t a lithe figure nor scarred by battle. She was thickset, stomach wrapped with a colorful band of red cloth one of her half-sisters had given her. One of the few not fighting over Torreb’s wealth. Her armor a mix of cheap chainmail, battered and scavenged for she had no coins; he had left her nothing. Leather under it that she might move around freely. No potions, no magical items. Just a single club.
One woman versus four storied adventurers, one a Named-ranker. The world’s most famous team, arguably. Itkisa fell like a comet, and only someone like her would know why she smiled.
Smiled like a girl, alive for the first day in so long.
A shard of ice grazed her cheek and tore her bronze skin open. The half-Elf would have shot Itkisa through the cheek but for her moving her head. So fast. Deadly—
But she saw them. The [Supporter] raising a bow, then switching as he observed how fast she was coming down, dropping it and drawing his blades. The yawning [Armsmistress] who didn’t react, blinking upwards and her pupils dilating.
All a moment. Then Itkisa struck the ground with the force contained in her body. Like a child hammered the earth. Not too hard. She could split the club if she swung it too hard, despite the magic on it.
It wasn’t even a Skill. Just—
Impact. Dirt heaved upwards in a column around her, and she shielded her face with her free arm. For a second, she was blinded by her own att—
Dodge. The second spell came through the dirt, an [Ice Lance] that would have hit her in the chest. Flawless aim, as fast as an arrow. If she was just Torreb’s strength, she would have been dead.
But she was a [Warrior] in her own right, and it was still slower than a cup that Torreb hurled when drunk. Itkisa punched the [Ice Lance] and grimaced.
Pain. A cold shock as it exploded. Her flesh wasn’t as tough as she needed it to be. Like the King of Destruction, the only man Torreb had thought might win an arm-wrestling competition with him. She knew the [Supporter] and [Armsmistress] were here, so Itkisa did as Torreb had done.
She swung her club again. And the dirt, a second spell—everything in her reach vanished.
 
——
 
The explosion of Itkisa landing was followed by a second one in moments. Pisces had no idea what was going on; he’d taken cover reflexively. Then he saw a spray of what he thought was Ceria’s ice magic—but in fragments?
Then the wind hurled shrapnel at him. Three impacts on his chest; he grunted and sat down. His underarmor saved him, but what…
Dirt.
Dirt and stones. Hurled by her swing. When Pisces got up, she was swirling that club around. One-handed, laughing.
The Horns were all running for it. Yvlon was stumbling away as Colth dove and rolled out of the way of Itkisa’s strike. Ceria was hiding behind three [Ice Walls], firing [Ice Lances] at Itkisa. But the woman was alternating between dodging, punching, and swinging through the magic.
“Incredible.”
Pisces aimed a finger at Itkisa’s back and hesitated. Again, this all felt wrong. She was a fellow adventurer. Why were they fighting…?
But she was terrifyingly strong. Strong in a way that instantly spoke to him of a Named-ranker. That strength…Pisces shouted.
“Itkisa, stop! We don’t want to fight with you!”
[Deathbolt]. It shot at her, and she turned, saw it coming, and went to punch the magic with her free hand. Then block it with her club. Her face twisted with uncertainty. Then she sidestepped, cursing.
—She walked straight into an explosion. One of Colth’s flasks hit her and blew up. He followed it with a charge, and Itkisa leapt clear of the blast. Her skin was bloodied and charred, but she had some kind of toughness Skill or she’d be dead. She snarled.
“Pisces! Flank her with Colth at range! I’m going to chill her!”
Ceria shouted, and the air around Itkisa grew cold. She was backing up, and Colth was keeping out of range of her swinging club. It was longer than she was tall but she swung it as fast as Pisces could swing a shortsword! He couldn’t get close—so he flipped something else at her face.
Acid flask. This time, she went to catch it, and it exploded in midair. Colth’s Skill—it showered her in steaming acid, and Pisces cried out at the same time as Itkisa.
Before the acid could coat her fully, Itkisa did something Pisces had never seen before. She had a traveller’s cloak on her shoulders. She didn’t reach for a potion; instead she grabbed her cloak and swung it around her.
She snapped the cloak, and the gust of wind snapped all the acid off her skin. The spray of it hit Colth, and he leapt back, shouting.
“Dead gods—”
Could you do that? Manifestly, but Itkisa was panting. Sweat and some acid on her skin froze over, and she glanced at Ceria.
“So this is…how did he say to do it again?”
She was muttering. Colth had sheathed his shortswords and was juggling an assortment of alchemical weapons. He gave her a sinister smile.
“Surrender or you’re not going to survive the next attack. You have thirty seconds before you’re a block of ice or a new corpse for Pisces to use.”
Itkisa met his eyes, her orange irises flashing in anger. For answer, she tightened the grip on her club. Colth backstepped fast—but he missed the woman’s next trick. Itkisa had dug one of her sandals into the ground. Pisces shouted.
“Colth! Watch out—”
Itkisa kicked sand at Colth. Another simple trick unless you were so strong—
It looked like an attack spell. Sand and dirt nearly hit the [Ultimate Supporter], who dodged with a Skill. He came up, eyes wide, and Itkisa—
Kicked again. Colth vanished in a spray, and she pointed.
“You.”
Ceria was aiming a wand at Itkisa, concentrating hard. She saw the woman draw back one hand and blinked.
“No w—”
The club smashed through two of Ceria’s [Ice Walls] and nearly took the third one out. The shockwave still slammed Ceria down. She lay there, gasping for air, when she saw Itkisa leaping at her. One fist drawn back to punch through the spells…
Yvlon hit Itkisa before the woman landed. The two collided with a sound like ringing metal, and then they were punching, rolling—before a blow tossed Yvlon back onto her feet, and Itkisa rolled upright. She had a bloodied nose. Yvlon had a dent in her face.
But her body was metal. [Aspect of Iron]. She shook her head, and her face re-formed as she raised her fists. Sluggishly. Pisces appeared behind Itkisa, shouting.
“Enough! We don’t have a quarrel with you!”
She twisted around, and four Skeleton Champions rushed at her. To stop her, not—she punched through one’s face and tore through another with a fist so fast the third and fourth were stumbling when she kicked through both of them. Pisces ducked a flying piece of bone, but he had a finger aimed at her. Again, she hesitated and went to k—
He nearly stepped away, but she stopped. Why? He realized he was standing in the ruined wall; the Mad Ones’ camp was behind them. She pivoted, and the spray of dirt missed the camp—he had already stepped away from the gap as well.
For a second, they hesitated, and Pisces wavered as Itkisa frowned at him.
“Pisces—just [Deathbolt] her three times. She can survive it.”
Ceria croaked as she crawled up and conjured an [Icy Floor] spell. The half-Elf tried to skate away as Itkisa swivelled. She angled herself to face both Yvlon and Pisces at the same time.
Barehanded—she was lifting a palm towards Pisces, a fist towards Yvlon. Martial arts? She seemed warier of Pisces than Yvlon for reasons he didn’t understand until she spoke.
“It’s harder than I thought. Fighting other adventurers. My father always feared monsters over men. But he faced the greatest of monsters. Hitting someone like that—”
Ceria was skating away at speed, eschewing static defenses. She fired another [Ice Lance] at Itkisa’s face. Itkisa pivoted—grabbed the [Ice Lance], and threw it.
Completely wide. It went flying into the distance as Pisces and Yvlon stared at it. But they had never seen someone grab a spell and throw it back. He widened his eyes at Yvlon.
Do I cover you? He wasn’t about to go in close against that woman, even bare-handed. Yvlon…yawned at him. Then gritted her teeth.
“Something’s wrong. Itkisa, why are we fighting?”
“For glory. You are the most famous team in Chandrar. How else am I to make my name?”
Itkisa re-pivoted to them and kicked again—Ceria ran into a second storm of dirt and coughed. The woman’s eyes darted right, left, and Pisces croaked.
“I have no desire to kill you.”
She focused on him and smiled—then her eyes grew round in alarm. She whirled with a cry, and Colth stabbed into her from the side. [Greater Invisibility]! She was quick—he got in two slashes, but her punch sent him skidding across the ground. Pisces fired a [Deathbolt] into Itkisa’s legs. She dodged the second one, staggering. Yvlon—
—Had missed her opening. She stumbled forwards. Itkisa was cursing. She reached into her bag of holding as she searched around for her weapon, but it was far out of reach.
“To the death, then?”
Colth and Pisces hesitated as Ceria shouted.
“[Dangersense]! Get back!”
The woman was checking her bleeding body and damaged armor. She ruefully shook her head.
“A team is better than a woman alone. Magic. [Rogues]. Though you’re not much of a team. Ksmvr of Chandrar was more frightening.”
“We’re more than enough for you. Back off.”
Yvlon Byres was walking at Itkisa, swaying. Pisces was moving left, invisible, and he saw Colth crouching as he snuck up on Itkisa’s back. Ceria was casting as Itkisa peered around, tensing—and then she focused on the Silver Killer.
Something was very wrong with Yvlon. She wasn’t running at Itkisa, and her eyes were unfocused. She took two more steps, silver hands clenched, then…yawned. Her eyes rolled up in her head, and Itkisa halted, hand still in her bag of holding.
“Ah. You’ve already fallen prey to the empire’s games.”
She regarded Yvlon, then turned away from the woman. Almost sympathetically, she looked straight at Pisces—and Yvlon fell forwards on her face.
“Yvlon?”
Pisces stared, and Colth shouted.
“Poison—no, it was the damn kiss! Get her out of here, Ceria—”
He charged Itkisa as Pisces took aim. He didn’t want to [Deathbolt] her again, and she was staring at him.
She doesn’t know how my magic works or if she can block it. She was going to come for him. He prepared to [Flash Step] and then heard Ceria shout again.
“[Dangersense]! Oh tree rot—[Fortress of the Ice Q—]”
He heard a whistling sound, glanced up, and saw something falling at him. Itkisa and Colth gazed upwards, and she bent and heaved the ground upwards as Colth leapt and covered Yvlon with his body.
“[Emergency Shield]—”
Then the falling ballista bolt split into eighteen separate shards which Pisces realized were individual arrows bound together in a single—
 
——
 
The explosion was still ringing in his ears. He got up and began to [Flash Step] around in a circle.
Dizzy, but he’d get killed if he stayed still. [Invisibility]—he couldn’t concentrate on the spell. Dust everywhere. He ran into someone in the cloud.
Ceria nearly shot an [Ice Lance] through his face. She was covered in dirt, but there was a shell of ice over her body. She mouthed at him. He blinked at her, and she slapped his head.
“[—store Hearing]! Take cover behind my barrier spells!”
She’d raised a glowing barrier. When had she learned to cast…? Pisces looked around as his head cleared and saw Yvlon and Colth. He’d dragged her behind a metal barrier he’d set up, and Itkisa was shaking her head. But she hadn’t fired…
The five brawling adventurers all turned, and they remembered where they were fighting. The wall around the Mad Ones’ camp was broken in where Itkisa had hit it, and a few tents were downed from Ceria’s magic or Itkisa kicking around dirt. But there was still a crowd of the Mad Ones.
And—Pisces felt compelled to focus on this—
Adelaide. She was sitting on some kind of weird contraption. It looked sort of like Bird’s ballista…if you’d attached the ballista to something that reminded Pisces of Pallass’ elevators. It was like an extending stand that put her twenty feet straight in the air. From this mobile platform, she’d fired a single bolt which had exploded on their position.
The entire contraption was noisily reloading, and Pisces saw another Mad One aiming a five-tubed something at him. He had no [Dangersense], but he put up his hands slowly.
Yerelia had a simple megaphone. She shouted into it.
“Adventurers! If you keep fighting near our camp, we will kill you. Take it elsewhere.”
Four Gold-rankers and a Named-ranker looked at each other. They eyed the Mad Ones. Colth slowly raised his hands, and Itkisa took her free hand out of her bag of holding. She raised her hands as well as Ceria muttered.
“Okay, maybe we should have bought their stuff. But that wasn’t for sale! You gonna fight when we go for round two? Colth and I can’t take her out alone, Pisces.”
“I’m not killing her.”
She stared at him as the Mad Ones made vague shooing motions. Some were shouting at the adventurers to drop some gold before they left. Ceria exhaled a plume of frost.
“Listen, Pisces, we have to work together.”
“She’s not a monster.”
They stared at each other as Itkisa walked over to grab her club. Ceria felt at her head and grimaced as she pulled the circlet off. She dusted her robes off, and they saw Colth levering the unconscious Yvlon up. Awkwardly, Pisces walked away from the Mad Ones’ camp after dropping a few hundred gold pieces onto the sand; no one else had done that. Ceria vanished, and Colth was moving towards the magical carriage.
He stuffed Yvlon into it, and Pisces found himself walking next to Itkisa. She glanced at him as he hesitated. But both peered at the Mad Ones’ camp—
“Further away! At least a mile!”
Neither he nor Itkisa were willing to break the treaty, so she nodded at him.
“Your choice, Adventurer Pisces.”
“To do what, fight to the death? If the three of us battle you, it won’t be bloodless even if you win.”
“Or your team could fall back and ride away in the carriage. I am here for the glory of chasing the Horns away, as I was employed to do.”
“What? You want us to flee?”
She smiled at him as she rubbed at her bleeding cheek.
“It would advantage you, with your warrior gone. And it benefits me greatly. Somehow, though—”
Her eyes flicked to Colth, who had turned from the carriage to favor her with a sinister smile. Then she stared at an empty patch of air to the side.
“—I doubt your teammates will be so reasonable.”
