Even a jester’s cap with ostentatiously ringing silver bells attached to the ends. She was doing cartwheels past the Horns while exposing a lot of skin. And when she saw Pisces staring at both her and the fan, she also pulled down her tunic, exposing more skin and pierced nipples with gold on th—
Pisces kept staring until he realized everyone was watching him.
Then he turned invisible and fled.
 
——
 
An entire continent’s ride north, the Pedagogia of Hraace was sighing over the image of Pisces Jealnet goggling at a mere pair of breasts.
She was riding hard towards Medain, though the King of Myths had yet to approach the coast. Hraace had to be part of this negotiation and event. Why not? He had a fondness for her kingdom, and there was opportunity here—and danger. His nation was kith and kin to [Heroes].
But she sent a few pointed reminders to Delitandra that if she wanted the Horns to be a success, she had better do her job rather than bask in the fame.
“We trained him to talk to beautiful women.”
One of the older Heromakers complained, and Araxia sighed again.
“Clearly, we should have had him do less polite conversations and more touching. I thought a [Necromancer] who specializes in bone would be less minded to pay attention to flesh. Or perhaps he’s uncomfortable with fleshy bits so he specialized in…”
A prudish [Necromancer]. She rolled her eyes, but she hoped the Horns had learned a lesson from the failed tomb raid. She hadn’t needed Delitandra’s report to understand they had been defeated in some sense, there. Incomplete. And not just for lack of their other members. Worse, now…she glanced south.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen had embraced the Horns. They had made a splash the first time, each member in their way. Ksmvr of Chandrar, that famous name, Yvlon the Silver Killer, Ceria the Ice Squirrel, Pisces the Scourge—all had made their titles here. Each one inspiring nations.
However, that had been the splash of visitors. When they had returned, the stories had grown perhaps beyond them. But Yvlon Byres had shown Nerrhavia’s Fallen that her team had grown to continue fitting the legends; a rarity. So often it was the other way around.
“But therein lies the great danger. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is too large. Too filled with stories and means to lay low even [Heroes]. Or to match them or bring them to events worthy of them. It is the crucible.”
And she rather feared the Horns had just failed another important test. Well, they weren’t dead, and Delitandra was the one there. So the Pedagogia rode onwards, unaware that the King of Myths himself had come to Chandrar for the Horns of Hammerad, however unwillingly. If she’d known that—
Well, she’d have probably doubled her bet or something.
 
——
 
Predictably, his team teased him about the breasts incident all day. Colth, that unscrupulous bastard, just had to repeat the Jecaina incident to everyone in earshot. The Heromakers were horrible.
“If you’d like more training in that regard, Pisces, you wouldn’t lack for willing volunteers, both among us or fans—we would need to go over safety in the bedroom.”
“Safety? From what?”
Ceria nearly spat out her drink as they sat in the enchanted carriage. Pisces was leaning out of an open window, red-faced, considering hurling himself out of the speeding vehicle. Delitandra counted on her fingers.
“Aside from assassination in bed, unwanted pregnancies, disease, pillowtalk that leaks secrets, the mundane such as a jealous lover shaving one’s hair or leaving a lovemark, avoiding entanglements, sleeping with an important individual, [Devotee] Skills that connect you—”
Ceria’s amused expression turned sour instantly, and she sat and tugged her circlet down.
“Bleh, your nation takes all the fun out of adventuring.”
Delitandra favored Ceria with a smile.
“We are used to these things, Captain Ceria. Torreb himself was said to have fallen prey to such a Skill, albeit that might be said to be more of a mother’s love for her child. Inheritance of his strength, not theft. He resented it even so.”
Pisces didn’t know that. He saw Yvlon look up. She was yawning, less impressed by the parade despite the unexpected kiss.
“Someone inherited his strength?”
“Itkisa. The woman who was glaring us down. I heard a rumor she was only a bit stronger than someone with [Enhanced Strength]…until Pomle. She might have been hiding her true potential all along. For decades.”
Colth put in, growing more interested, and Delitandra nodded at him, eyes glinting.
“Or perhaps Torreb himself had her on a leash, eh? She was invited to Hraace, you know. But she refused. She claimed she’d visit if she had need of us. From how she appeared, as a Gold-rank adventurer, she seems to want that fame denied her, yes?”
“True, but she’s in her, what, forties? She’s lost a step, and even if she is Torreb’s daughter and hung out with him, how much does that translate into killer instincts? Ever seen her fight?”
Pisces was all for the conversation changing to Itkisa, but unfortunately, Yvlon took that moment to yawn again.
“I hope she’s not actually against us. First Wildcard and these Gold-rank teams—we need some friends. Ceria, did you have to humiliate them?”
“Hey! I’m just getting back at them.”
Ceria protested, and Yvlon and Pisces glowered at her. Colth shrugged.
“They’re still rookies, Yvlon. It’s a bit of friendly hazing. Izril’s adventurers do it all the time. The Haven’s lot are nonstop with it, and guess who’s always the rookie?”
He made a face, and Pisces frowned at him.
“Shouldn’t you advocate to end that system then, Colth?”
“I just throw jabs back as I level. We’re one dysfunctional family up there, and they need to pick on someone.”
Colth waved it off, but Pisces persisted.
“If it bothers you, you could tell them to simply stop, surely.”
For all Erin teased him in the inn, she didn’t really let anyone pick on anyone else—well, she had people she picked on like Jewel or Montressa, Bezale, and Palt, but those tended to be grudges they had earned. The Haven was old-school adventuring, though. Colth shifted and folded his arms. He opened his mouth, closed it—
“Listen, they’re all grumpy children in the end. Don’t worry about me, I’m a big boy. Unlike someone who treats all breasts like they have an [Attention Target] Skill glued to them.”
He flipped it back on Pisces again with a Skill, and the [Necromancer] flushed. Then Ceria made it worse by coming to Pisces’ defense. She slapped him on the back.
“Hey, Pisces has seen tons of breasts! Mine, uh…ones on dead bodies, I’m sure—he just has an appreciation for the physical form!”
“Ceria, please stop.”
Yvlon’s eyes had rolled up in her head. Ceria pointed slyly at her.
“Yvlon’s the one who got a kiss.”
“That shouldn’t have been allowed—”
Delitandra and Colth were annoyed about it, but Yvlon just grimaced.
“Chandrar truly is foreign. I mean, I know about women kissing women. Ysara is uh—but in public?”
Now it was Pisces’ turn to glance at Colth, who seemed even more amused as Delitandra and the other Heromakers eyed the Horns, gauging their opinions.
Pisces felt, as a fairly well-travelled fellow, that he understood other cultures—and you saw a bit more laxity in social customs in the cults or other groups he’d frequented. Just look at Ama and her, uh, paramour.
Ceria? Utterly unconcerned by issues of morality thanks to her circlet, and Colth was the most worldly of them all. But Yvlon…she peered around. Raised her metal hands.
“I’m not offended. Just not a fan of people kissing me. If people want to—I mean, is that a custom in Chandrar? It’s awful foreig—I mean, I respect Stitch-folk culture.”
“You mean all culture, Byres.”
Pisces saw his chance and took it. Yvlon eyed him.
“Not Izrilian. I know that for a fact.”
“Heh.”
Colth snorted, and when Yvlon eyed him, he coughed delicately into one hand.
“Clearly, you don’t know noble circles well despite your upbringing, Yvlon.”
“You’re telling me—the entire reason my sister left the north is—okay, give me an example, Colth.”
“[Soldiers], [Ladies]—I think the [Lords] have more of a hangup, but I could tell you stories—Drakes and their Turnscales, oh my. Your sister clearly didn’t care to hide who she was, but I bet she had all the stories. Didn’t you say she went on a ship? Now, let me tell you, depending on the ship—”
Yvlon eyed Colth, whereupon he began to give her a lecture that started with bored [Sailors] at sea and went the gamut of species and places and classes. Yvlon stared and, after a few minutes, had to hold up a hand.
“Wait, waitwaitwait. People sell artificial…penii?”
She stumped Colth and the Heromakers for a solid minute. Pisces sat back with a relieved sigh as they unpacked another one of Yvlon’s Byresisms. At least she seemed to realize it herself, because she sighed.
“Immoral. I can hear my mother now in the back of my head. Okay, tell me what is actually going on with this kind of thing. And if someone laughs, I’m kicking them out of the carriage.”
 
——
 
Another day, another event. Pisces tried to read his spellbook. His Djinni spellbook with the weird little mirror on the cover that auto-detected which magics he was capable of learning and selected spells for him based on his inputs.
His studies weren’t fast with it mainly because studying through all of what he’d been through was hard. Magic was hard. If he had been in Erin’s inn for eight months with little else to do but read and practice, he’d make great progress, he was sure.
On the road with plenty of distractions? Hard to learn magic, and again, it wasn’t magic like he was used to. He studied Lighted Arrow spells, not [Light Arrow] spells. The spellbook taught you how to form arrows out of light magic, how to give it acceleration, force, even spin—and to fail any one component of the spellcasting was dangerous, as he had learned to his own cost when he’d nearly blown a finger off.
Even so, Pisces would have done better in his studies except for…
He stopped reading the complex litany of magical instructions on how to give his arrows a homing target and felt a cool gust on the back of his neck. Pisces leaned left, propping his spellbook against the wall of the carriage. After a second, the cold air tickled the right side of his neck. He shifted again. Then stared pointedly down at Ceria’s head, which was trying to insert itself under one arm.
“Springwalker, do you mind?”
“Nope, go ahead, Pisces.”
She was contorting her neck to try to read his spellbook. Which was the main problem. He sighed.
“You’re a bit distracting—”
“I’m not saying a word! You just go ahead and keep reading, and I’ll turn myself into one of those long-necked things from Tiqr.”
“A giraffe?”
“Sure.”
“Perhaps if you studied your own spellbook?”
Ceria’s expression was of a wounded doe he’d shot repeatedly with Ksmvr’s crossbows. Colth called over.
“Sniffmaster Pisces hates company when he’s studying, Ceria. He wouldn’t let me read either.”
“You two are hardly unobtrusive!”
Pisces complained as he flicked the page over. Instantly, Ceria flipped it back.
“Hold on, I wasn’t done reading.”
…Which proved Pisces’ point. Colth was arguably just as bad; he’d try to get Pisces to discuss each page and his key takeaways and summaries instead of blissful silence. Pisces appealed to Yvlon with his eyes. She was just staring into the distance, pondering the dynamics of love in its many forms.
 
——
 
It was something of a relief to get out of the carriage. It was only an hour’s ride, actually. Their adventure had taken them close to one of the Horns’ objectives.
The region that the Tomb of Yad’thuv was based in was not a…rich one. Dry—and not all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was so dry!—occupied by a lot of Hemp-folk, and its cities were connected along long routes, forming part of the famous trade routes that brought goods across Chandrar.
The Glass Straits themselves connected to this area, and Pisces remembered his voyage there with the freed [Slaves] a lifetime ago, or so it felt. But they were a glittering band on the horizon. What the Horns had come for, and the place that lay outside the city of Halqued, was a rather large commune exiled from the city proper by about three miles.
Not far enough to judge by how residents in the city refused to go anywhere near the strange compound. It had walls, fifteen feet high and made of dirt and sandstone, but here was the curious thing: the walls faced the wrong way.
They faced towards the compound, and slanted dirt let one walk up from the outside. In fact, Pisces realized, there was no formal entrance. He saw someone walking up the walls, then try to hop down into the compound below—he winced as they landed. Colth, who’d been checking they were in the right place, glanced up.
“Compression fracture, two places. Idiot.”
“Nasty. Pisces, go help the poor bugger out.”
The Horns were getting out of the carriage and stretching, and Pisces did indeed stride over and hear the wail of a woman’s voice.
“Help! My legs! You damn fools, help!”
She was screaming at two people standing on the wall above and clearly not willing to jump down and break their legs. Pisces cast [Featherfall] and hopped down…he saw a woman clutching at her legs.
“Excuse me, I am a [Necromancer]. I can heal—”
The woman stopped screaming, did a double take when she saw him, and raised her hands.
“B-Bane Pisces? I don’t own slaves! I thank you, but if you just help me—”
She had a dagger out, but not for him. He realized she was sawing at her broken legs, despite the pain. She was trying to remove the stitching—
Right, Stitch-folk rules. Bemused, he took the dagger, gingerly severed the strings, and her legs became cloth the moment they were cut. Cloth with broken white fabric sticking out from the brown ‘skin’, he saw.
The woman, who it turned out was a [Trader], had new legs she pulled out and sewed on in a trice. There was some blood on her clothing, and she was clearly shaken.
“Nerrhavia’s bones, that hurt! My best legs too! Agh, and to embarrass myself in front of a famous adventurer no less! I thank you, sir. If I were Human, I’d need your magic. One wonders how anyone does without cloth for flesh.”
She stood, and he had to own, he was impressed.
“Stitch-folk bodies are certainly far more adaptable and easy to repair than Human ones, Miss?”
She bowed.
“Trader Hexata, Bane! And if you need for knickknacks, curios, interesting items, I will go across Nerrhavia’s Fallen for my clients! And if my two idiotic brothers would deign to come down and introduce themselves?”
