Ceria re-materialized with a curse. She could cast [Invisibility]? Pisces stared at her as she called over her shoulder.
“She’s aura-sensing, Colth. Either that or a tremorsense. Pisces, get over here before she takes you hostage.”
“I’m negotiating. We could fall back, Ceria.”
“Fall back? It’s three versus one, and she’s no Torreb.”
That made Itkisa twitch. Her eyes narrowed at Ceria, and Pisces actually put an arm out to block her. He stared at his offending arm. So did she. Then Pisces addressed Itkisa.
“Did you have to attack us to begin with? To my knowledge, we have never quarrelled, Itkisa. I was actually hoping to talk civilly; you met Orjin of Pomle, and your father was a famous adventurer. I would hate to maim or kill each other.”
A flicker of guilt crossed Itkisa’s face. She brushed at her black hair that she’d tied back in a ponytail, then shook her head.
“It is hard to be Torreb’s child. I am grabbing for what you have plenty of, Adventurer Pisces. Fame must truly taste like water to you if you don’t see how much circles you. Perhaps I was too hasty to judge you. For all they call you the Bane of Roshal. Or Scourge. Which is it?”
“Neither. I’ve barely killed any [Slavers]. I…I think someone is using my face.”
She regarded him as they walked away from the Mad Ones’ camp. Ceria and Colth were following to their right and left, clearly communicating as they eyed Itkisa and counted their distance from the camp. But the woman just smiled at Pisces.
“Titles are not things we choose, Pisces. I am Itkisa, Torreb’s Daughter. The Scourge of Roshal is a fine title, to my mind. If you feel it is undeserving, or wish to rise to it, prove it. But I do not think a boring pretender would draw blade on the King of Destruction.”
He blinked down at her; he was taller than she was. But she had seemed like she was towering over him a moment ago. Pisces came to a halt in the dirt, and she gripped the club tighter at once.
“We are not a mile from the Mad Ones’ camp, and I think if anyone could measure, it would be them.”
“I am not going to fight you, Itkisa. I would prefer we part without violence.”
He crossed his arms, sheathing the rapier at his side. She eyed him as Ceria and Colth halted. Itkisa pursed her lips and dug one foot into the earth with ease. She peered down at her sandals; she’d ripped the toe off the one she’d been using to kick dirt at Colth and Ceria.
She must wear out clothing and gear with how strong she is. No wonder she wanted gold and fame if she couldn’t afford it yet. Itkisa glanced up at Pisces.
“If you were to retreat for the sake of my reputation—”
“Hell no! Pisces, we’ll just kneecap her! Get over here!”
Colth shouted. Pisces scowled at him. Itkisa sighed.
“If we agreed on terms—”
Then she pivoted at the same time as Pisces leapt back from her. Itkisa raised her club, then sighed and lowered it. Ceria waved her arms frantically, shouting.
“We’re too close to the Mad Ones! Stop, stop—oh hey, that’s our side. Or not—hells!”
She went skating away, but belatedly—something hit her, and she tangled in it, cursing. Pisces saw the net covering the Ice Squirrel, and Itkisa lifted a club and blocked another thrown at her. But there were more, and ropes were flying from…
Chariots? One missed Pisces, and he began [Flash Stepping] away. He remembered the war in Pomle—and these were the same damn chariots! He saw Silk [Chariot Riders], whooping as they shot forwards. Carrying the flags of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and shouting…
“All will put down their blades! In the name of Queen Yisame—you are all under the authority of the crown! Do not resist, Torreb’s Daughter, Horns of Hammerad!”
They tried to net Itkisa again, but she swung her club and sent the nets flying. However, she did halt as more drew flaming arrows and aimed at her. They were trying to net Colth as well—he was dodging back towards the carriage. The lead [Rider] screamed.
“Her Majesty’s wrath on any adventurer who fights us! You are to be escorted back to the capital—now! Cease fighting, all of you! Where are…?”
Itkisa had lowered her club, though she kept tearing nets off her. She was sighing, and the chariot riders were circling the adventurers.
Nets. They didn’t look like much but when they landed on her, Itkisa growled, and had to rip at the bright, colorful threads. She heaved—and nearly ripped her own skin off as she cursed.
“What the—”
They were tough! Little stones made of jade carved with runes were attached to the nets to weigh them down, and each one was sewn out of some kind of magical thread. Tearing one apart took a lot of her strength, and she wasn’t the only one.
Colth had slashed two in midair only to find his blades barely cut the thread as well. And when you were caught—
“Hells, it’s anti-magic!”
Ceria was trying to cast a spell, but she was covered partially by two, and she wasn’t able to even cast [Ice Spike]. She was wriggling, though, trying to get out from under—
“By Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you will obey! Hoist the Banner of the Dark Queen!”
The charioteers saw the three Gold-rankers bristling, and one of them unfurled something. A black standard caught the air, and Itkisa gazed up—
A flash of darkness fell over the world. A fell wind blew; the carrion-eaters were pecking at the dead. A fortress loomed, and from it, bones littered the ground. Itkisa felt her chest heaving with panic. She stumbled back—
Fell to a knee—
The woman blinked and pushed herself up. This time, the effort cracked the earth, and not from the weight of more nets. The standard blowing in the wind was physical force. It flattened everything around the charioteers, who were immune. She rasped.
“That’s the standard of the Immortal Tyrant!”
She recognized it. Her father had told her about this when he had inspired her with tales of adventure. One of the proscribed relics of the old era. It had utterly flattened Ceria Springwalker; the half-Elf was lying spread-eagled on the ground, trying to breathe. Itkisa could stand only because of her strength. And Colthei…
He had been crawling towards the carriage with Yvlon Byres in it, but the [Charioteers] had already secured it. One had swung a spear, delicately, and sheared the door clean off. It was screaming about ‘property damage to Wistram’ as they emerged, carrying the Silver Killer, who was still unconscious.
That spear cut Wistram’s magic like it was butter. Itkisa had watched Archmage Valeterisa duelling Archmage Amerys, and the Drake [Spearmaster]’s weapon that Amerys had shattered was not so fine.
This was a full Nerrhavia’s Fallen Silk detachment. Wealth beyond measure. All for the Horns? She gritted her teeth, but then raised her hand as well. There was no mistaking that standard.
Colth had put up his hands as well, scowling. The duo who had gotten to the carriage shouted at their leader.
“We have the Silver Killer! She’s asleep!”
That was a huge relief; the Stitch-woman in charge wiped her forehead. Unpredictable adventurers…she counted.
“That leaves the Ice Squirrel and Scourge. Damn, they’ve vanished. [See Invisibility]!”
She raised a feathered mask shaped like an owl to her face that she’d brought for just this purpose and peered around. It took a second before she saw a crouching half-Elf trying to scuttle into the Mad Ones’ camp.
“There!”
Ceria reappeared and swore before half a dozen nets hit her. The chariot leader rubbed at her neck; it had been a long ride in the damn heat for this.
“Horns of Hammerad, Adventurer Itkisa, we are on the Queen’s mission! Do not resist, I ask it in sanity’s name. Who else? Do we pick up Wildcard?”
She consulted her list. The [Queen]’s words had been to return the Horns and any adventurer team brawling with them. The other Gold-rank team wasn’t here, so the [Chariot Leader] decided to leave them off the list. A subordinate riding in her chariot leaned over as they aimed a flaming arrow at Itkisa.
“What of the Heromakers with the Horns?”
“Bah. They’ll follow as their kind does. Alright…where’s the Scourge?”
She’d been searching around for Pisces, and a few of the other chariots had produced their own anti-invisibility artifacts. Your casual [Invisibility] spell did not work on the Chariots of Tussah, who were an all-Silk group that had more gold than one could dream of.
Not that they wanted to tangle with the Horns or Torreb’s daughter. The [Chariot Leader] was hoping the Scourge of Roshal didn’t know about her family’s [Slaves]—surely, he was a reasonable man and less prone to violence than the Silver Killer, who ate ears like one ate dates?
He was still a Gold-rank adventurer, and they numbered over two hundred across fifty chariots. No ordinary team could face that many, and no [Mage] escaped their eyes.
…So where was he? The woman peered around, then snapped.
“He can’t have gone far. Anti-illusion magic. Is this artifact dead?”
The chariots split up, circling the area. Some Stitch-folk even leapt down to search on the ground. They would have entered the Mad Ones’ camp, but the insane lot appeared, and they were armed—the remaining Horns and Itkisa were shepherded towards the magical carriage. Then Itkisa was given a separate one for fear of violence.
After twenty minutes, the charioteers were stumped. And the adventurers were getting more antsy, as were the Mad Ones. Fearful of more violence, they decided to head back towards the capital. But the irate [Queen]’s representatives echoed the same question the charioteers were asking themselves.
How did you manage to lose one of the Horns of Hammerad? Everyone knew Adventurer Pisces could cast lower-level illusions and [Invisibility], so the Chariots of Tussah had brought plenty of artifacts to locate him. But he was—gone.
Did he know a magic unknown to them? The Mad Ones swore they were not harboring him. The embarrassed [Chariot Leader] rode back the long road to Nerrhavia’s Fallen capital, sweating and cursing adventurers in general. All this for the Queen’s favorites. Well, she did get an autograph from the Ice Squirrel, which cheered her up. But she wondered where Adventurer Pisces had gone.
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
I have been defeated. Routed. Demolished in the marketplace of ideas. I did an AMA for r/Fantasy to celebrate the book launch the other day, and I didn’t answer all the questions.
To be precise, I apparently answered 494 over the course of eleven hours, with breaks. I tried, but they kept coming. Turns out bigger subreddits and more people asking questions has defeated my winning streak. Now it’s 2-1.
Anyways, if you’d like to check them out there were some lore questions! I’ve gotten better at answering AMAs, so I didn’t reply with ‘read and find out’ most of the time. But all of this was to celebrate the book launch and…
It’s here. People have been posting images of them getting the book or for the book bingo—you know there’s another bingo game we’re playing, right? It’s amazing to see in stores, and I went out myself to see one; there it was, next to a book from Ursula Le Guin. I saw Dungeon Crawler Carl and other web serials next to books like Terry Pratchett, and it was an amazing experience.
I will write a blog post with more thoughts, but thank you for being part of the journey, and if you want to help, asking a library to stock the book or leaving a review is very helpful! I am tired, though. Very tired; I fell asleep six hours early the other day. Probably from all that AMA writing and book signing.
So this chapter is ‘short’—it’s the target length I used to try for years ago. I’ll keep chapters shorter, with apologies, because I am both tired and I’ve run down my backlog to zero for the book launch. But I’m gonna continue to write. I’ll just take a second now and then to crack open The Wandering Inn and see if I’ve forgotten anything. Thanks for reading,
—pirateaba
 
PS: Today we are just featuring art that was tagged on social media! As well as an amazing creation by SpookyOwl, a reader who made a terrarium of The Wandering Inn! Look at the tiny figures and give them a like!
 
 
The Wandering Inn Terrarium by SpookyOwl!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/spookyspookyowl


Bluesky: https://bsky.app/profile/spookyowl.bsky.social


Linktree: https://linktr.ee/spookyowlart

Terrarium Showcase: https://bsky.app/profile/spookyowl.bsky.social/post/3msu3apgpyk2a
