She tried, he could tell. But she was leaning on him, and she was heavy.
“Sorry, Pisces. I didn’t get good sleep last night, I think. I’m exhausted. It is fun, it is.”
After their late night of discussing the raid, Pisces could admit he wasn’t the freshest, but he tried to put some energy into both of them.
“They have everything from weapons to homemade spells.”
“Ksmvr would love it here. Please don’t buy a home-made spell.”
That, uh, was the thing. Anything the Mad Ones made was usually a prototype, and they were fairly good about warning you that user-injury was likely if you used a spell or invention. Or…bomb.
 
——
 
Botane was helping do sales. Apparently, the young Earther had been inducted into the Mad Ones’ senior membership as a kind of roving apprentice. She was advertising to Trader Hexata, Colth, and a few other clients and exasperating one of the Mad Ones.
“And here we have an attempt at a Djinni’s magical makeup, madam and sirs, which was made of gaseous magicore infused with—”
“It’s a bomb. It explodes in a cloud, and no one knows what it does.”
The group edged back from the container made of, alarmingly, wood. The Mad One in question, Adda the Alchemist, glared.
“It’s a beautiful experiment even the Djinni admired, Botane! Ignore her. Here we have another attempt at the cumulus Djinni’s body—”
“It’s also a bomb. This one has 20% more magic in it.”
Botane indicated the item, and Colth checked his money pouch. And whispered.
“[Check Integrity]…pass on that.”
Everyone instantly passed on the second canister, and Adda put it carefully into a reinforced chest. Then put that chest in a second chest. Then loaded it into a vault in a trolley. The vault was made of steel, Pisces couldn’t help but note, and enchanted. When she lowered the entire contraption into the ground, he decided to step back.
“Very well, very well, how about one of my best flasks? Perfect for a—”
“It fills the tunnel with a long line of clouds which explode. It was another version of the Djinni bomb.”
Colth did bid on that one. He began haggling with the others as Adda pulled Botane aside.
“Young woman, I appreciate your help, but please, stop characterizing all my inventions in such simple terms!”
“If it blows up, Alchemist, it’s a bomb. They’re going to buy your works.”
“Yes, but the Djinnis loved the attempts! They said so!”
“They said it was ‘hilarious’ to get you to make more, Alchemist. Look, they’re going to buy them! Excuse me, if you like that—”
Pisces would have loved to talk to her; she had a few scars he could see, but he wasn’t sure if she’d gotten them from here or just…coming to this place. However, he was distracted because while he was not in the market for…bombs…the Mad Ones knew he had gold.
And they were a-hunting.
“Necromancer! Silver Killer! I have just the item for you. Are you tired of fighting crowds? Would you like to walk into a room and obliterate everything? This is a lovely, lovely experiment in dimensional magic that sucked in a lot of wires and a few people that I could part ways with! Now, I imagine that once you unleash this, it will let the wires out at high speed.”
Pisces eyed the orb he was being offered, and here was the thing: he didn’t want to hold the contained ball of wires.
In fact, he didn’t want to be anywhere near a compressed orb of what he was told was five hundred feet of steel wire compressed into about a baseball’s worth of space. He didn’t think it would go well in a bag of holding, and he was not sleeping in the same building with that around.
When he said that to the [Enchanter], the man was very understanding.
“Absolutely, absolutely. I would have definitely said that putting it in a bag of holding would be an amazing way to murder yourself. I assumed you wouldn’t do that. How stupid do you think the average person is…? Hold on, let me get a piece of paper to write that down.”
He hurried off, and Yvlon sat down on the ground. Pisces nudged her.
“Yvlon, are you playing into your Silver Killer role? Did you not break out into a sweat at the sight of that thing?”
“What? No, I got it’d kill us, Pisces. I’m just…I’m sorry, I really need a nap. I’m gonna lie down on Ceria.”
She got up, and he hung his head glumly. Was it that boring…? No, he thought she was genuinely tired. But what did Ceria mean? That ball of compressed space was definitely Named-rank gear. Transport and safety issues aside, he couldn’t name anyone who wouldn’t fear that thing.
The answer came to him with the next prospective seller: Otevious himself. He walked over with an object in his hands.
“This may interest you, Necromancer. I’m told you do something with the rapier? Any [Rogue] crossover, perchance?”
“I do use [Invisibility], but I’m afraid not, sir. Colth is our generalist.”
Otevious hmmed.
“A shame. Well, let me pitch you on this. I was a Gold-ranker myself as a lad. I did a bit of the old dungeon raiding, and I dabbled in smithing, magic—I’m not a huge fan of alchemy, but I’ve gotten into the chemistry stuff.”
He was a genius. Someone who made things for the joy of it as much as chasing after value. And what he’d made was…
At first, Pisces took it to be a stylish cigar case. It was made of wood, long and thin, and the real clue was the image of a cigar on it. It also said Cigar Case, which Pisces felt was slightly redundant. Otevious even slid open the case to reveal space for exactly, uh, one cigar.
Pisces was about to ask what kind of cigar it was in the spirit of things when the [Inventor] flicked his wrist and a piece of metal snapped outwards. It locked into place with a click as two other sections unfolded and locked into place.
In a moment, the man was holding a shortsword with an actual edge. Pisces stared at the composite, folding sword Otevious had made and resisted the urge to applaud wildly. The Mad One smiled at the expression on Pisces’ face.
“I did the same thing with other weaponry. But daggers are so concealable—a rapier is a long, flexible piece of metal. Very difficult, but if we made part of the blade telescoping—this is a prototype. Would you like to see my concept for a personal rapier?”
 
——
 
An unfolding sword. Pisces stared at a bunch of roughs on a piece of canvas that showed exactly how each piece could unfold and fit together to form a rapier. It would, when assembled, compress into a block of metal about as long as his hand.
It seemed insane, but Otevious was confident it could be done.
“The trick will be a magical alloy. Not too magical or it would defeat the purpose of a backup weapon. But with it you’d have a blade you could smuggle into a room. Now, the flick-action should result in the full blade. It might not be the sturdiest, but—”
A sharp rapier when no one thought you had one? Even in battle, you could surprise a foe! Pisces was like a kid looking at magical toys.
“That—that does seem useful, Master Otevious, and I would be in Chandrar for a while longer. How much would one—?”
“Five thousand gold pieces.”
Five thousand!? Then again, Pisces caught himself, he could pay for that. And this was the most interesting blade he’d ever seen. True, the handle wasn’t that impressive since it had to unfold, but when he heard that, Otevious had an idea.
“What if the handle were a mesh guard that expanded when you flicked it? I’d have to prototype it, but that’s intriguing…and I was going to make it just a piece of metal, but if you had a good cover for the item? A flute? I could potentially try to find space to make it a case—”
A custom-made unfoldable rapier. Not in a cigar case, but Pisces was rubbing his hands together.
“This—I think I may have room in my budget to commission this, Master Otevious. You see, I do not have a rapier of sufficient quality myself. This is what I am working with—”
When he showed the man the bone-metal rapier, Otevious was very interested and lifted it, remarking upon how Pisces had married ivory and steel to create a working balance.
“You say you reforged it in the middle of a battle?”
He frowned as Pisces nodded.
“I’ve been practicing spells to remake my blade in case that should happen again. [Bone Rapier]—if I have the ivory.”
He cast the spell he’d improvised, and a rapier made of bone grew from his bag of holding. It was slightly off when he held it up; a bit unbalanced. And [Flame Rapier] was good, but as Pisces had learned in his duel, dangerous to use on a foe who didn’t care for the flames. But with the metal one—
When the [Inventor] saw Pisces conjuring both rapiers, his interest and excitement in his unfoldable rapier project vanished. Pisces didn’t understand at first and thought the rapiers were just too showy or unimpressive. But the man took his unfoldable shortsword prototype, then pulled the concepts of the rapier off the drawing easel and laid them aside. He smiled.
“Well, that’s a shame. But if there’s anything else I have…?”
“I’m sorry, Master Otevious? I thought we were coming to a deal.”
Pisces was confused, but the [Inventor] just nodded to his designs.
“I can see you’re well served with improvised weaponry. I should have expected no less from a [Necromancer].”
“But your unfoldable rapier was a masterwork of metallurgy! I’d gladly pay for it!”
The style! Yet Otevious waved it off.
“It is nice. But if it’s just for vanity, pardon me if I don’t waste our time on it. That’s the problem with making weapons, you see? His Majesty was always complimentary, but…it’s just hard.”
He sat on his messy workbench, and Pisces felt a tingle on the back of his neck. Ceria’s words came back to him.
“I’m sorry, Master Otevious, I fear I’ve offended your sensibilities. I don’t follow.”
The Mad One glanced up and smiled. He explained, kindly, to Pisces what the issue was.
“I take no offense, and it’s nothing you’ve said. It’s just magic, young man. Magic is our enemy, for all we use it. It is damned hard to beat. Here, let me show you an example.”
He hunted around his workspace and then came up with a shortsword, a simple one enchanted with a cutting spell.
“A good testing benchmark. This is a simple blade, the kind any Level 20 [Enchanter] and [Blacksmith] who pour some energy into their work can make. It is…difficult to surpass. You have seen our numerous creations, many of which are deadly. Most of which cannot be mass-replicated. A benchmark we use in our camps for weapons is: is it better than a [Fireball]?”
Pisces blinked. A [Fireball]? A Tier 3 spell most [Mages] could cast…he saw Otevious gesture at the folding blade.
“That would be the work of a month. Custom prototyping, advanced metals—all for what? A blade that springs to hand when you could cast [Bone Rapier] and produce one nearly as fine in a moment. There is no point to my invention, Necromancer. In the same way, this shortsword…there is nothing I can do, from a mechanical sense, to best it. A simple cutting spell and it is sharper, more deadly than most blades. Oh, I could make a spring-loaded blade that does more damage—for single swing. But I am defeated again.”
By magic. Pisces sat down as the Mad One flipped the blade up and caught it by the hilt. He glared at the enchanted shortsword, then shrugged.
“We live in a world where magic exceeds science. Except for maybe the weapons of Earth…which I do not feel like creating as of yet. And even then, can they beat the true foe, the one that humbles us all?”
“What would that be, Master Otevious?”
The Mad Ones had magic. Otevious seemed to enjoy more mechanical projects, but Pisces had seen any number of magical creations here too. But the man just waggled his finger in Pisces’ face.
“The real foe is not just magic. I thought it was, but in truth, it is simply…rarity. Or as I put it, levels. Earth is delightful because it is not as convenient as our world, you see.”
He folded his hands together, and Pisces frowned at him.
“I don’t follow. They have achieved a higher level of technology in some ways—but they lack magic.”
Otevious nodded.
“They also lack rarity and levels. That darling girl tells me they have made weapons that erase cities. I told her we made the same. She told me hers can destroy an island. Hers could pollute a thousand miles and leave it dead. I told her we sank the Continent of Glass. Damned nations with a single spell.”
The City of Shields in the Crossroads had been destroyed when they threw a volcano at it. After turning all metal to…Pisces shivered, and Otevious nodded again.
“The difference is, Necromancer Pisces, one world does this with fundamental elements, however rare. They can mass-manufacture what they want within limits because it is a formula. Here? It is a Level 80 [Archmage]. And that is why we win and lose. That is why my sword is useless. Because on Earth, Dwarfsteel is a top-tier metal. Here? If I were to want to improve it, I’d hire someone to dig for Adamantium or better. Or find a [Smith] with [Forge of the Supreme Temperance] or some such…”
Ah, and there it was. Pisces finally got it. Otevious patted him on the shoulder, not resigned or even upset, but just…realistic. Brutally so.
“In a sense, we Mad Ones are mad because we are challenging the true rulers of creation: levels. We lose, time and time again. Your [Bone Rapier] spell has bested my invention. Well done, I applaud you on your levels, young man. I shall do better.”
Pisces twisted as Otevious put the show-weapon aside. He tried to protest, offer the man a flower because he did have great appreciation for all this.
“Master Otevious, I truly do think your blade design is inspired. An [Assassin] might make great use of it—”
“Or simply gain a Skill that lets them hide a blade. I would look into a mithril rapier, young man. Or an enchanted one. There is no point to mine, made of simple metal, because you cannot enchant sections of metal the same way. Perhaps if I made a blade with the help of a Level 50 [Enchanter], such that each segment were pure mithril and enchanted with runecraft so there was no magical interference on each part…”
Otevious sat back, speculating, then glanced up at Pisces and grinned.
“…But it would just be one. And take too much time, you see? Come, come, let’s see if anyone else has something worth you buying.”
He chivvied Pisces up, not actually that down, but then Pisces saw what Ceria’s intelligence had already led her to understand.
Aside from, well, a one-time explosive, Pisces and Ceria were [Mages]. They cast magic, and the Mad Ones were in a race against them. What they had…Pisces gazed at a spring-loaded axe hanging on Otevious’ wall.
“Does that work, Master Otevious?”
