That explained the agony in his back. He untwisted and curled up. Rolled around in his sheets. Tried the old blanket half-on, legs and arms splayed free, sleeping move. Got up to pee. Drank some water.
After about fifteen hours of tossing and turning, he got up and checked the time.
Thirty minutes had passed.
Pisces fished around in his bag of holding and found a rare item he seldom used. Which…he probably should have used when the going got hot.
The Wand of Pisces that he had never really used had come from Enchanter Hedault. To his knowledge it was still in Izril, in a certain Gnoll girl’s care. That was fine; it smelled. Mrsha used to carry it around in her mouth. However, after the Coliseum of Monarchs he’d, uh, acquired a wand from one of the dead [Mages]. It wasn’t great, tuned to generalist-fire magic but Colth had insisted he at least have one. Pisces pointed it at his temples.
“[Sleep]. [Sleep]. [Sleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeep].”
He stared ahead and wished spell resistance wasn’t a thing [Mages] got.
 
——
 
Yvlon was awake when Pisces stumbled into the fancy living room of the literal mansion they’d been given. He didn’t see her at first. He was poking around in the pantries for food when she spoke.
“It’s just ingredients—”
“Aaaaablgeh!”
He screamed, leaping back and flailing for his rapier, which he didn’t have. She stared at him. He turned red. She averted her gaze and coughed.
“…Ah, eggs and flour and even milk. One could wish for cereal or something edible.”
“Right. Right. The pantry’s preserved. Would fruits or grains kill them?”
Pisces rummaged around.
“I supposed it’s to encourage you to go and peruse the local markets?”
Yvlon was sitting at a huge, obsidian table; there were glass chairs too, beautifully blown in different colors. The living room connected to the huge sitting room with all kinds of fancy, rich furnishings. Pisces would have happily lived here all his life. It was one of the most gorgeous place he had ever seen.
A shame they’d be gone in the morning. He wanted to investigate the mansion while he was awake, and opened his mouth to say that—when a shadow detached itself from the wall.
“We’re just going to pretend we didn’t hear Pisces scream like that?”
“Whifgha!”
That was the sound of Yvlon’s arms turning into spikes and her leaping out of her chair. Colth was not smiling. He was standing, arms folded, scowling. He did raise an eyebrow at her.
“You two don’t check for rogues. It’s going to get you killed.”
Pisces and Yvlon glanced at each other, then began investigating the cupboards with zeal. Colth stepped forwards.
“I’ll make bread or something. One side.”
He pushed Pisces and Yvlon aside and began to fill a bowl with alacrity. Pisces was going to protest that he could do it when he saw Colth had the dough halfway done. The Ultimate Supporter was already turning a heating rune on the oven, and his bread was half-risen. Pisces sat at the table with Yvlon.
“The reason they don’t put grains, fruit, or anything else in the cupboards is because rats get in. Or insects. You know how many idiots leave the cupboard ajar? Preservation doesn’t stop a colony of flies turning food into maggots. Nothing puts off a fancy guest like that.”
“Ah, makes sense.”
Pisces sat as Colth worked. Yvlon seemed as sleep-deprived as he did. Colth…well, it was hard to tell. He shoved the bread in the oven.
“You’ll get food in five minutes. I don’t know all of our team’s customs. Do we just not talk about how badly we got our asses kicked and play it off like Ceria’s doing? Or are we going to sit down and analyze what we did wrong?”
His face was flat. Pisces shifted. Glanced at Yvlon. She bit her lip and spoke.
“I…was just realizing we hadn’t lost a battle like that, Colth. The Fire Elemental came close, but we don’t analyze fights. Jelaqua made us do it, remember, Pisces? But we never kept it up. Ksmvr always wanted to, but we usually just finished an adventure and were resting up.”
“Ah. Oldschool adventuring. No room for mistakes until someone’s dead, then we just fight and tear ourselves apart. Any interest in not doing that?”
“Plenty, Colth. Believe me, we’re not blind. I know we’re all upset, so I assume Ceria wanted us to rest up.”
Colth was opening a pot of butter and smelling it. He flipped a butter knife up in the air, a spinning circle.
“Ceria’s judgement is off. Could be the circlet. Could be she just doesn’t know how to lead. She wasn’t the last leader of the Horns, right?”
“She was more like the 2nd or 3rd in command. Gerial and Calruz were the two leaders. But she does a fine job. Usually.”
Again, Yvlon glanced at Pisces. He got up to find plates. Colth inserted the butter knife into the butter. Flicked it onto the table. Yvlon stopped it with her palm, and the [Supporter] grunted.
“But you can’t tell if the circlet’s making her act like that. [Freedom From Morality] doesn’t cover everything. Is she actually that much smarter…?”
Pisces found some ornamental plates with too much color on them. Mosaics on the plates…he put them on the table.
“I’d like to think she could have come up with all our tactics before the circlet. Her spellcasting’s better, but…perhaps we should discuss it with her?”
“Feels like we’ll just ask her about the damn circlet. That last battle was all our faults. Or do you disagree?”
Another quick glance between Yvlon and Pisces as Colth opened the oven, and the bread was already smelling good. Pisces sat down.
“No…I quite agree, Colth. We should have fallen back when we realized the Wildcards were so entrenched. And when I mentioned they were Earthers, we didn’t stop to negotiate. You told us to take the [Mage], Lareceina out. Yvlon could have killed her when she charged in.”
The Silver Killer flinched. Pisces smiled at her, or made his lips move to show her he didn’t mean it. She averted her gaze, drumming her fingers on the table. Rose up to get the plates; the bread was already done. Colth cut it into pieces, tossing the steaming plates on the counter. Pisces slowed them before the clatter awoke Ceria. Then came a jar of marmalade, other jams—Colth threw himself into a chair.
His eyes were hard. When they focused on Pisces, the [Necromancer] leaned back. Then Colth’s flat voice gained heat.
“I didn’t abandon the plan because they were raining attack spells on us. You held back.”
“I did the best I could have—”
“You had a [Shatterbolt] I didn’t see you use once. You’re capable of [Deathbolt], and you could have taken their captain down, but you gave him an opening to fight back. Let alone the new spells you’ve learned.”
Colth leaned over the table. Pisces’ back itched because he’d thought the same—
“They were Earthers, Colth. People from Erin’s world. I know you know what that means. If we had killed them—”
A hand was gripping the front of his robes. Colth pulled Pisces forwards and hissed at him.
“In a combat situation, you don’t do the nice thing, Pisces. You take care of your team. If you don’t, you die. I’ve lost too many friends to hesitation! I thought you’d get that, and we nearly died—”
“Hey, this is great bread. Anyone want butter? I prefer jam. Is it old?”
Yvlon put the bread down between Colth and Pisces. Colth let go, and Pisces stared at a jar. Yvlon sniffed it.
“…It’s bad.”
“[Rejuvenate Supplies].”
Colth pointed at it, and Yvlon whistled.
“So handy. Okay, who wants a drink—?”
Pisces and Colth eyed each other. The [Necromancer] rasped as Yvlon got a water pitcher and poked at a magical dispenser.
“I understand that too, Colth. But they’re children from another world. Couldn’t we have spoken?”
“Your Captain gave you orders, Pisces. I was backing her play. So was Yvlon.”
“So I’m supposed to just go along with her? She’s got no morality, Colth—”
“If any of us died, it’s on you, me, and all of us to bear that. You didn’t have to murder them—do you think I expected you to do that? Just cut them down and patch them up after!”
Pisces was glad Colth didn’t grab his robe; the [Supporter] had stabbed a piece of bread with the butterknife. But Pisces was rather surprised by his finger jabbing Colth’s armor.
“They were in the right! We didn’t know we were robbing Hemp-folk! If we’d talked—did we have to even take out the other Gold-rank teams? I didn’t sign up to adventure to fight over stealing treasure!”
“Funny, you don’t have a problem when it’s a grave you don’t know. From your background, I would have thought you understood needing to be practical when it’s life-or-death! We cannot make a mistake here, and if we have to cozy up to a damn monarch to achieve our objectives, we will!”
Colth got up, which was good, because Pisces was already on his feet. The two were almost nose-to-nose when a pair of metal hands pushed them back. Pisces felt cold on his chest; the water pitcher. Yvlon put it down.
“Don’t fight, you two.”
She seemed oddly worried, earnest, as she patted them on the shoulders. Colth snarled.
“I’m just trying to get it in this idiot’s head how close to death we were!”
“I know how close we were! But if we had murdered one of Wildcard, do you think—?”
Pisces’ voice echoed in the room before he felt a cool hand on his shoulder. Yvlon grabbed his shoulder and Colth’s.
“Don’t. Fight.”
She didn’t pat them on the shoulders. Rather, pulled them up and lowered them in their chairs. Both men squirmed, and she let go. Pisces felt at the grooves in his flesh. He and Colth leaned back in their chairs. Yvlon forced a smile.
“Let’s be reasonable here, right?”
“…Absolutely.”
“We’re perfectly rational, Yvlon. No fighting here. Let’s have some bread.”
Pisces ate some of the actually tasty bread as he eyed Yvlon. She was glancing at him and Colth, and he smiled at Colth. The [Supporter] smiled like a man stabbed, but they continued eating bread. Yvlon spoke after a second piece of buttered bread.
“I’m sorry I charged in like that. I should have waited, but I thought I could end it.”
“That’s not the issue, we weren’t backing you up—”
“—if I’d dispelled her magic or we’d come at them with different tactics—”
Everyone broke off. Yvlon chewed on her bread. Pisces pushed his plate back. Colth blew out his cheeks, began to speak, and closed his mouth. Drummed his knuckles on the table in a rhythm until he noticed Yvlon and Pisces watching him.
“Listen, we’re at cross-angles, I know. We’re not doing regular adventures. Even the Crossroads were, well, pure adventuring. This is politics. I don’t like it, but we’re in a powerful kingdom, and we have objectives.”
“I know.”
Colth glanced at Pisces, then at Yvlon.
“Sometimes, you’re right. I, we, should back you up. It’s just hard because that’s not how I’ve operated.”
“I could be more reasonable. I just miss Ksmvr.”
Yvlon was carving a groove in the table. It cracked. Pisces and Colth winced. Colth was staring at Pisces.
“If we step out of line too much, we put those we care about in danger.”
Pisces’ heart sank. Yvlon glanced up.
“Are you talking about Pisces’ slave friends? He said that to me. He’s not blind, Colth. He’s just not a murderer like us.”
The [Supporter] blinked. He stared at Yvlon, and Pisces’ heart hurt as he turned to the Silver Killer, and she averted her gaze. Pisces opened his mouth. Had nothing to say. Searched for the right words, and he always had enough words. Fancy words. He coughed, cleared his throat—
“Hey, team! I thought I smelled food!”
Ceria bounded down the stairs. She was bleary-eyed, but she skidded across the floor, windmilling her arms, and the rest of the Horns regarded her. She had messy hair, but on her head was the circlet, lopsided but gleaming in the dark. They stared at it as Ceria rubbed her hands.
“Free bread? This is a fancy mansion! Serve me up two, and are we gonna talk about how the battle went? I get it; it feels bad. But hey, Earthers, am I right? Let’s agree we all made mistakes and chill out before we do a breakdown. Thoughts?”
She looked around and faltered as she saw their expressions. Ceria glanced up and took her circlet off. Coughed.
“It’s for spell memorization in my sleep. Listen, I get they were Earthers, but they attacked us. And not all of them are statistically going to be good or worth…”
She trailed off.
“Make it three slices of bread.”
 
——
 
A story for you. As a girl, Delitandra had once been backhanded by her mother so hard she had broken her jaw. At the time, it was considered excessive, but not beyond the limits of a parent’s actions in Hraace.
A different time, you see. Children had been seen as more of means towards great achievements as Hraace aspired. Insurance if you yourself hadn’t made a mark in your time; their works would be your own. Thus, children were vessels to be shaped at any cost, like Hraace’s aspiring heroes. Delitandra had grown up under that ideal…before the Pedagogia had been overthrown by Araxia, a young instructor who had found the King of Destruction and attached to his rising star.
Then the Terandrians had been chased from Hraace. Then the old ways were dealt with, and the Pedagogia had made an example of Delitandra’s mother and dragged her in a lap around the capital by chariot.
No one had mourned the old Pedagogia. Much less the girl who had aspired to join that new court of the Heromakers. It was old history, and the two often warred with each other like, well, mother and child these days.
But the promise was kept. Never again would such ill deeds be allowed, and it had been an oath Delitandra had never questioned. Never should another child of Hraace fear such violence.
Except, perhaps, today in service of her duties. As an adult, Delitandra did not look forwards to it, but if need be…
“Play the fools for all we’re worth, and if needed have them take out their tempers on us. But have a care. Let me speak before you all.”
She cautioned the other instructors in her small posse before they entered the mansion where the Horns of Hammerad were resting. It was still before dawn, and the Heromakers were exhausted. They had sat out the evening when news had come from the Tomb of Yad’thuv. Of what had happened.
The failure of Yisame’s quest. That was not open news, of course. The Horns were being celebrated, but the Heromakers could read between the lines. Simple extrapolation and some checking of sources told them it had been, at best, a draw.
So they came. Elena had not been around, and for this, Delitandra had judged her best left behind. For when she sprang through the doors, a smile on her face, she was annoying.
