And somehow, during his practice, Pisces realized that he had an audience.
Not the Heromakers of Hraace; they had the amazing ability to be unobtrusive helpers. Rather, he realized Yvlon Byres was there, sitting on the patio, sipping on a chilled fruit drink with ice in it. When he wavered and Delitandra nearly scored a point on him, she waved.
“If I’m in the way…”
“No, I ah, I am simply practicing. I imagine it’s boring.”
They did practice together, or had in Liscor, but this was just his fencing warmup, even if Delitandra was helping. Yvlon hesitated and pointed to her drink.
“They’re making drinks for us. Well, Colth was competing with Ietco, one of the Heromakers, on who could make the best drinks. This is nice. Agave and Ceria’s ice.”
She also had some snacks. Pisces hungrily snatched some jam-coated cheese on crackers and realized it was very tasty stuff. The riches of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, again. Spicy jam, no less. Then he went back to practicing.
It was all awkward after the—well, the miniature fight. Yvlon said nothing, but after two more short bouts, she made a comment.
“Delitandra is very good with a sword.”
“Only when training. Would that I had a Skill to allow all my abilities to translate to battle—Araxia has that.”
“Really?”
She’d be a menace if Delitandra’s [Supreme Bladework] Skill were active at all times. The Heromaker winked at Pisces.
“The benefit of a trainer who levels is that they are allowed to use their talents when supporting their chosen client. Ah, well—I prefer to train, anyways. See, Yvlon, he is trying to refine his incisive attacks and defenses.”
They were practicing high-level swordplay. It wasn’t a classic fencing bout, but more of Delitandra creating exceptionally dangerous offensives where she would use a Skill or mimic an attack a Gold-bell [Fencer] might use, forcing Pisces to defend or dodge, and he’d try to break her guard.
Not quite as dangerous as the Maestro or King of Duels, but Yvlon nodded after a moment.
“He can’t break your form.”
Annoyingly, Pisces could not. [Supreme Bladework] made Delitandra parry Pisces or defend like Padurn could do; even his most incisive lunge just ended up with a blade at his throat. It was good insight, and he did prove he could break the guard in the end—but only with magic. [Deathbolt]—or rather a black streak of light magic mimicking the spell—had Delitandra cursing and failing to dodge it.
“A Gold-bell might parry it. And it is not impossible to dodge with better footwork. Hence the [Light Spear] trick. Shall we try it? Though please, not the spell itself.”
Pisces obligingly bound the spell to the tip of his rapier, and he did try it several times, but when he missed three times in a row—
“If I know it will appear from the tip of your blade, it is easy to account for.”
Delitandra leaned under the spell as it blasted out of the tip of Pisces’ rapier. He sighed.
“I might surprise a Gold-bell duelist who can’t see magic with it—but only once. And I cannot help but think that King Raelt would just parry or dodge it.”
“I wish I’d met him.”
Yvlon commented as she put aside the snack bowl. Pisces had nothing but good things to say about Raelt, and they swapped stories of [Kings]—he always felt like he got the better end of the deal, though he wished he’d met the Mage of Rivers and Herald of the Forests.
“Adventurer Yvlon, I am getting tired—apologies, I’m not as fit as I wished to be after that ride. Would you care to let Adventurer Pisces practice his defenses? Your arms are as fast as a Gold-bell duelist.”
Delitandra asked after another bout, and Yvlon hesitated. She eyed Pisces, and he realized they hadn’t sparred since the incident with Numbtongue. Her arms had been too deadly to try in a practice setting…
“I’ve got better control these days. Why not? If you’re okay with it, Pisces.”
“Do I get a barrier spell?”
He meant it as a joke, but she handed him her Ring of Siphon Barriers, and since that worked, he found himself [Flash Stepping] out of the way of exploding needle-arms.
“Dead gods, Yvlon!”
“You have a barrier on, be quiet.”
She grinned, and he got hit by three needles as her arms turned into two pincushions that made it literally impossible to dodge if you were around her. Pisces leapt back.
“This is worse than a Gold-bell duelist.”
“Good practice, though. Can you parry her metal arms when they extend?”
Delitandra was cheering him on with the other Heromakers, and Pisces tried it; he parried two spikes in quick succession. The other eight stabbed the shimmering barrier over his skin. Yvlon grinned, and he poked her in the chest with a rapier.
“What about your defenses?”
“That’s my ring. We’re teaching you high-level dueling, Pisces.”
“Surely you need practice—”
“I’ll just make shields with my arms or use my [Aspect of Iron]. Delitandra, you told me you had a better plan for this than just Pisces dodging faster. If the [Light Spear] trick isn’t good enough, what else is there?”
She and Pisces turned to Delitandra. The problem with learning a new attack was that it was damn hard. You didn’t just learn a new Skill overnight, and Delitandra confessed she had two problems.
“The way of auras is difficult and long, and yours is not exactly a royal one or a specialist’s, Pisces. The Order of Seasons in Pheislant are known to use theirs to bypass enemy resistances.”
“I know them, but my aura isn’t trained. Erin would have an easier time of harnessing hers. Do I seem like a good aura-trainer, Yvlon? Hah!”
He flicked his blade at Yvlon’s face, trying to bait an attack out, but just grinned at him. She didn’t flinch in the face of a blade even inches from her skin. She trusted him too much—and she was holding a sword of her own, now.
He’d forgotten she was a good swordswoman. Quite competent, if not nearly as fast as he was. But even one-handed, without a shield, she made for a good partner…because her arms would elongate, letting her stab faster than he expected or contract so she could pull the sword close to her body.
She was so damn unpredictable that they began getting into the sparring in general as Delitandra commented.
“Truth, Adventurer Pisces. Then the next logical step would be to copy a move of old. We had thought to teach you an old Gold-rank duelist’s technique. [Joveln’s Parry] is on that level.”
Pisces smiled as he demonstrated that very move and jarred the sword out of Yvlon’s hand. She swore, stomped over to pick it up, then made her off-hand turn into a blade arm. She went in swinging as he [Flash Stepped] away hurriedly.
“Who did you have in mind?”
A sweet smile from Delitandra.
“Az’kerash.”
“Wh—”
Yvlon hooked his leg, and Pisces went down. She pointed a sword at his chest, and he stared at Delitandra before she heaved him up. Then both stared at Delitandra, slightly aghast.
“Az’kerash? But he’s the Necromancer. Y-you can’t be—”
“What is proscribed in Terandria and Izril is not so heinous here, Necromancer. In fact, he pioneered a number of dueling moves, given his acclaim. Chandler’s Rebuke is, in fact, a famous dueling move he developed.”
His ears perked up so much at this they almost waggled like Ceria’s. Of course Pisces knew about Chandler’s Rebuke. It was a famous move, and he’d tried to find a copy of a recording or even an account of it—! But the Necromancer himself had never described dueling to Pisces, just magic.
Delitandra could not know about Az’kerash’s occasional tutelage, of course, but Pisces was powerfully curious.
A second problem. When he asked to see it, she hesitated and coughed.
“Er…the issue is that most texts on him were burned during our Terandrian occupation. We are sending to Hraace for a master duelist’s techniques, but as I understand it, Chandler’s Rebuke was a move that allowed him to parry an enemy [Archmage]’s spells, close the gap, and stab them through the chest or stomach in a single blow. He apparently once deflected a Tier 7 spell before running his opponent through.”
That sounded insanely cool to Pisces. Yvlon was only too willing to let him try it.
“I could make a huge fist and let him parry it. How does it go?”
Another of the Horns appeared at this point. Ceria, who came out munching on food. She was surprised to see Yvlon and Pisces there, but she listened to an explanation of what was going on, and then Colth emerged in an apron. He was scowling, but even his eyes lit up.
“Are we teaching Pisces to parry? Excellent, that was the one thing old Deniusth used to do well. Chandler’s Rebuke…I can’t say I’ve ever heard him mention that move, but he never talked swordplay with me.”
“Really, Colth? Didn’t the other adventurers teach you?”
The Ultimate Supporter sat on a railing as Ceria conjured a chair out of ice and threw herself onto it. It wasn’t like the awkwardness of the morning was gone, but for a moment, they were just…
Pisces swore he saw Delitandra smiling, but when he glanced at her, she was blank-faced, just listening keenly. Colth scowled as he accepted a drink from one of the Heromakers.
“I took lessons and went with all of them, even Mihaela on her runs, yeah. But I was the rookie Silver-ranker, not a partner most of the time. Valceif was the little kid they coddled. Me? Deniusth couldn’t talk swordplay with most of the old guard. Larra’s a [Wizard], Mihaela kicks, Eld’s a sword-and-board user. It really annoyed Deni that he was good with a sword but everyone could best him in their own way. He is talented.”
Both as a musician and swordmaster—he was a Gold-bell duelist, though Pisces hadn’t seen him fight. Ceria eyed Colth.
“And you’re a dual shortsword user and Named-ranker. Even if it’s not the same, you’d probably dice a Silver-bell duelist in a fight. Why’d he never talk to you?”
Colth hesitated, then smiled blandly in that way Pisces knew.
“I’m the kid. We were never on the same level.”
“That’s stupid.”
Pisces nodded, and Yvlon grunted in agreement. Colth lifted his hands.
“Look, he conquered Chalence before they called me a Named-ranker—”
“Doesn’t change the fact that he’s more arrogant than most adventurers. And I’ve met Elia and her team. You gotta remind them you’re on their level, Colth.”
Pisces put in.
“Precisely. Weren’t most inactive until the New Lands? Surely you merit some authority over them.”
“Bah, they’re just old…”
But Colth seemed pleased by the commentary. He shook his head.
“The point is, Pisces needs a good technique. Let’s get back to that. Chandler’s Rebuke—how’s it go? I’d like to learn it myself.”
He, Yvlon, and Pisces clustered around a memory crystal Delitandra had prepared of the only example her group had of the move. Even Ceria eyed it, and Pisces saw, to his astonishment, a familiar figure.
Archmage Eldavin. Wait…
“Hey, this is that lecture on Az’kerash he broadcasted! Wait, is that Chandler’s Rebuke?”
It wasn’t actually Eldavin, but a [Duelist] performing the technique for the Archmage of Memories. He was doing a rather stylish offhanded parry move before he stabbed through an opponent. It was…odd to Pisces. Yvlon frowned at it, then swung one arm up.
“I could do that. That’s literally a parrying move you do with a shield. Pretty fast, and you thrust the arm out wide…”
“Probably so if it’s a monster or something you make sure you’re opening their guard. It’s nothing special. Wait. This is incomplete.”
Colth realized the same thing as Pisces, and Delitandra gave them a pained smile.
“The, ah, problem is that this move is purely demonstration, Horns. Eldavin himself mentions it is just the movement, not the Skill or spell.”
Ah. Pisces had been wondering how you were supposed to deflect Tier 7 magic with that. He stared at the offhand.
“Do you…hold a buckler or something?”
“It’d have to be Relic-class gear. And you wouldn’t call that a move if it required an artifact, just talk about how his shield was great. It sounds like something anyone could pick up.”
Colth opined. Pisces tried the move a few times, but when Yvlon threw a big punch, he nearly sprained his wrist trying to deflect it.
“So Pisces needs to figure out what that move was, eh? It’d sure be useful—though how about a good attacking Skill instead? He’s gotta kill things too.”
“Better to defend than attack, Captain Ceria, surely. An adventurer must survive—more drinks?”
Ceria was rolling around her ice-chair as Colth elbowed Yvlon aside to enter the dueling ring.
“Yeah, well, if Pisces had done more attacking, we’d have taken out Wildcard. Maybe we need a non-lethal attack so he can actually participate.”
The [Necromancer]’s relaxed smile vanished in a heartbeat. He stopped taking the glass of juice from a Heromaker, and Delitandra winced.
“Adventurer Colthei, the training, the training—”
“Fine, fine. Let’s actually get serious, Pisces. C’mon!”
Colth drew his Baneblades and came at Pisces fast and hard. He tried to get in close, right under Pisces’ chest, and the [Necromancer] swore.
“Selphid’s tits, Colth! I’m practicing against other Gold-bell duelists, not [Rogues]!”
“Some can move like this. Go ahead and fire spells, I’ll put up a low-tier barrier. Better yet, Ceria?”
She waggled her fingers.
“I can do a personal barrier. What’s your poison? [Mana Barrier]? It’s real standard, and Pisces can go through it if he hits too hard, but I’ve only got that and [Arcane Deflection].”
Pisces blinked at her, and Yvlon raised her brows.
“Those are new.”
“Yeah, well…”
Ceria hesitated, then indicated her circlet. Pisces bit his tongue, jealous. Those sound like Tier 3 spells, and she’s just learning them while I’m stuck on my Djinni spellbook? He coughed.
“With spells like that, one wonders how we failed against Wildcard. Can’t you just dismiss the summons or whatnot?”
“Or cast a spell to blind them? If that circlet’s teaching you magic, you should get it to teach you some swordplay too. Can you get it to work on Chandler’s Rebuke?”
Yvlon smiled, and even Colth snorted as Pisces grinned. But Ceria’s face closed off, and she leapt up.
“Yeah, yeah. Sadly, it only works on what I’m figuring out. It’s got spells—and no, it’s not loading my mind up with anything else. Speaking of, I need a nap because I did not sleep well. You lot have fun beating each other up, the dedicated [Mage] is gonna train her brain. On a pillow.”
She waved airily and then skipped into the house. Pisces hesitated, and Yvlon raised a hand.
“Ceria, I just—”
She trailed off and glanced at him. Colth drew his blades again.
“Leave it. We dancing, Pisces?”
