“Not unless you let me actually practice my way, Colth. I don’t need to be deadlier.”
It was the Ultimate Supporter’s turn to scowl. He rammed his swords back in their sheaths.
“Just so long as you remember that we’re dead if you ease up, Pisces! Argh—you know what? You’re right, I’m not a fencer, and I don’t do rapiers. Never got the hang of them. I’m going to head inside too.”
He walked off the fencing courts, and Pisces bit his tongue. He hadn’t meant—that left Yvlon and him. Delitandra’s face was clearly troubled, and she turned to Yvlon desperately.
“Yvlon, would you consider at least helping us train with Pisces? If we were to do two-on-one, that is also—”
“Sure.”
The Silver Killer’s voice was quiet, but Pisces blinked at her. She just shifted and met his eyes.
“I have time, and it’s good to practice again, right, Pisces? Unless you don’t want me here.”
“No, I—absolutely it is. And you could train your arms if you cared to.”
She smiled at that, and after a second, they went back into the ring. Neither one spoke for a moment, then Delitandra hurried in, all smiles, to get back to training Pisces. And they didn’t talk for several bouts, except to comment on a blow or a perceived weakness…
But more than once, Yvlon caught Pisces’ eyes, and they’d nod or smile. That felt normal.
Natural.
Between them. At times, Pisces thought he saw Ceria in the window or felt like Colth was eying them, but the other two didn’t come out. Less than ideal, but Yvlon ended up toweling off sweat as Pisces gulped more water and reminisced about other battles with the Heromakers.
That was good. In fact, Pisces protested, after three hours, that he was good to keep going. Yvlon hadn’t objected, and the exercise took his mind off everything else.
If they were going to take today to rest, he might as well salvage his poor performance. They’d have to talk to Yisame soon, but…Pisces saw Delitandra raise her eyebrows.
“Ah, no, Pisces. We must have you fresh and pampered within twenty minutes! To the baths!”
“What? Why?”
He didn’t get it, but a shout from above made him glance up; Ceria was waving her arms from the windows.
“Get out! I’m sleeping! I’m—”
The Horns were all being awoken by the Heromakers. Delitandra gave Pisces a bright smile.
“Why, because we must be at your parade in the city in thirty minutes, Pisces.”
Yvlon stopped sniffing at one armpit and half-turned. She squinted suspiciously at Delitandra.
“Our what?”
“Your parade. Surely, the heroes who conquered the Tomb of Yad’thuv expected no less? Especially the ones who won the battle against so many Gold-rank teams?”
She waggled her eyebrows, and Pisces took a second before he groaned and tried to object. But Delitandra overruled him.
“It is not from us, but from Queen Yisame. She desires it, and it is a good lie. To save face if nothing else. Humor her. Quick, to the baths!”
They almost carried Pisces away to freshen up. He vanished into the baths with a yelp, and Delitandra was giving orders on attire, how they should act—Pisces blasted a spell at her to get her to leave his bathroom.
It wasn’t all fun and games. And the parade…
Well, that sucked on multiple levels.
 
——
 
Ten thousand Stitch-folk turned out in the city of Yarithuv, throwing brightly colored grains from the rooftops, cheering the Horns of Hammerad, scrambling to pick up pieces of dropped silk confetti, and bowing down to the feet of the Horns as they walked down the endless red carpet. Their deeds were being shouted, and images flashed about them.
Pisces wanted to die. He had been flushed so red for the first few minutes that people had been staring at the image of him flying overhead and his face as if wondering if he were a different species.
Yvlon Byres walked along stone-faced, muttering her famous greeting under her breath. Colth was smiling and waving, in pure propaganda-Colth mode, utterly disingenuous.
Only Ceria seemed to enjoy any of it, skating along, blowing frost kisses—but even she grew bored after twenty minutes.
“Hey, guys? Do you think Yisame thinks too much of us?”
Three of her teammates’ glares answered her. Ceria sighed. She turned and began shooting plumes of snow into the air, then at the crowd who screamed and chanted her name.
“Ice Squirrel! Ice Squirrel!”
They were delighted, agog—but Pisces didn’t feel like he’d earned it. More than that—there was something artificial about how enthusiastic the people were. He got liking his team, he really did. Look at Colth, who was a Named-rank adventurer, or Ceria, who could bring ice even to dry Chandrar. But…they hadn’t done much.
It hadn’t been broadcast, their fight. The above-ground parts had, but this was no Village of the Dead scenario, or the Crossroads. It was further confirmed when Colth slowed to whisper.
“[Enthusiasm of the Masses]. Mass Skills from whoever’s job it is to keep the people happy. They’re going to go insane—then we’ll be forgotten.”
Pisces’ face showed how much he liked that thought. Even Ailendamus didn’t do that…! And Yisame was okay with this? Well, of course she was. Yvlon appeared conflicted and clearly decided to not worry about this by striding ahead.
“We messed it up for her. We have to Knight a bit. You two look good.”
So saying, she pumped her fist up in the air and morphed it into a blade-arm. The crowd reeled back, then screamed louder. Yvlon bared her teeth and strode forwards.
“Hello! My name is Yvlon Byres! Some may call me—”
She was really trying. Pisces half-heartedly thrust his rapier skywards and was so embarrassed that he conjured all of his Skeletal Champions to show off, slinking behind them. Colth was better; he did a flying frontflip, drew his daggers, and began to do acrobatics. Ceria was conjuring her Frostmarrow Behemoth—Pisces ran over to kick her, and there was laughter. Yvlon smiled at him.
She didn’t really want to do this. But Yisame was her friend. Pisces…felt bad for Yvlon, in a way. He was apprentice to or being favored by a monster, Az’kerash the Necromancer. But Pisces saw him fully. Yvlon had a devoted fan and friend who was the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And it seemed to only now occur to Yvlon that Yisame wasn’t always the best.
It was the richness, for one thing. Could you be too rich? Pisces had not hitherto asked that question because even Magnolia Reinhart had not seemed excessively wealthy. Oh, she had powerful magical items like her carriage, mansions, and a staff, but he could almost picture being able to afford one of those things, especially as he had made Gold-rank.
But Yisame threw a parade and the cost clearly never occurred to her. Whereas he?
He saw it.
It wasn’t even a big parade, he could imagine her telling Yvlon. Just one for a modest achievement. So all you had to do was reserve a city. You know, grind all the commerce, all trade, all pedestrians down the main thoroughfare to a halt for a day?
Nevermind that, that was just bureaucracy. Then you had to announce it to the public, and the public didn’t show up to a parade, even for the Horns, without some free food. So buy out every storefront along the walkways, have them give out food.
You needed to hire the staff to deal with that—oh, and [Guards] because you needed to block off the parade from the people. Every [Guard] in the city might do, and maybe some more hired help. Pull it from another city.
Obviously, it followed that you needed music, someone to give a short speech, emergency [Healers] in case of problems—Pisces saw two tents, and wondered if Sage Etrikah had thought of that. But now consider the parade.
…Four of the Horns of Hammerad was not a great parade. They’d be here, and gone, in a second, and they weren’t impressive alone. An easy fix for Yisame’s people!
Of course, you had an army march through. Just a show-battalion, six thousand Cotton and Silk soldiers armed to the nines, with their own trumpets and drums. But one battalion was below standard.
So two Grand Elephants, captured from Tiqr. A bunch of entertainers, a mix of tumblers, bards, and so on! A few [Illusionists] for the magic, and with all that and the things Pisces hadn’t seen, he wondered if the Horns could have afforded to pay for this parade between all the gold they’d earned.
But that was the power of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. The power of empire. He watched a Grand Elephant tossing its head and wondered if it was sedated. It had [Beast Tamers] to soothe and guide it, people on its back tossing flowers—
Even a team whose entire job it was to pick up poop. Because animals did defecate, and there, Pisces saw it.
A collar around the neck of a Stitch-girl who ran after said poop with a bag of holding. His stomach lurched. A [Slave]—
“Hey, some parade, huh?”
Ceria nudged Pisces, and he jumped. She was smiling. She glanced at the little figure who’d vanished after the elephant and whispered.
“Cool it. Yisame’s keeping the you-know-whats low. See how there aren’t any among the staff?”
He glanced around and realized the servers with drinks, guards, everyone else was a civilian. Which wouldn’t have been out of the ordinary in Izril. But here—
“She’s doing it on purpose?”
“Makes us feel better. Must be harder and jump the costs, but I doubt it’s even a flea to the palace.”
Her tone was casual, and she seemed approving. Yet that just made Pisces wonder how many [Slaves] would be here elsewhere or who had been pushed out of sight for…his sake. Ceria glanced at Pisces and bit her lip slightly.
“Listen, it’s politics.”
“I know that.”
He wasn’t blind to the reality of their situation, it was just that he felt this parade wasn’t needed, even to make it seem like the Horns had won at the Tomb. It truly was just for Yvlon Byres; when she began walking down the parade route, there was a roar of sound, and he wondered if it was all for the Silver Killer or if more Skills had been activated.
All for Yisame’s best friend.
Pisces wondered how you dealt with that. He had ex-[Slaves] for friends. He admired the Death of Chains. But if you had an actually unscrupulous person as your ally? How did you deal with that? He had only had Erin Solstice, who didn’t really have a flaw beyond being silly at times.
Not one flaw.
Maybe she could add more flavor to her spaghetti.
Sometimes, she played into her own stereotype too hard.
Sure, he could think of bad things, but she had been kidnapped by Roshal and was stranded at sea. In Baleros though…that woman on the scrying orb…
No, he didn’t have bad things to say about her. In fact, he had a rapier he would happily insert with a loaded spell in anyone who had problems with her. She didn’t respect undead enough, that was her flaw. And she could be hurtful in taking teasing too far.
Pisces was escaping the reality of the parade with his analysis of Erin Solstice’s limited faults, and it was going pretty well. Right up until the crowd moved, and he saw someone break past the guards.
Of course, a parade had guards. To keep the adoring crowds back if nothing else. Bored Stitch-folk wearing the [Queen]’s livery. Most of the people screaming didn’t actually try to push forward; the Silver Killer was, uh, famed. But for whatever reason, there was a swell as Yvlon passed by a group of young Stitch-folk, and they pushed—and knocked one of the [Guards] flat. Most went down with him, but a few scrambled up and ran towards her.
Including a young Stitch-girl. She was…odd. Her steps shuffled, and Pisces saw she was smiling, eyes locked on Yvlon. She came forwards as Yvlon hesitated, then stuck out a hand.
“Er, hello. My name is Yvlon Byres, but the truth is—”
Pisces saw Colth striding forwards, and some of Delitandra’s people were moving as well, smiles on their faces. But the Stitch-girl walked up too fast. As Yvlon was talking, she halted in front of the Silver Killer, too close, and stood on her tip-toes. Then she grabbed Yvlon and kissed her full on the mouth.
Pisces stopped dead still. His mouth opened. Yvlon froze up. Her eyes went wide, then she shoved the Stitch-girl back. The girl stumbled into the crowd and vanished as everyone cheered. In the next moment, Ceria was laughing, doubled over, pointing at Yvlon’s face. Colth was swearing.
“Those damn idiots—Yvlon, are you okay? [Poison Detection]—clear! Are you feeling good?”
“I’m fine—stop overreacting, Colth.”
“They got us! It’s a killing kiss! A hex!”
He was shouting, but the crowd was cheering the unexpected kiss, and Yvlon was so flustered she just wiped her lips on her arm. Colth kept inspecting her as the flustered [Guards] got in position, and Delitandra’s people clustered around Yvlon, but the Silver Killer didn’t feel anything wrong.
She was still red as they wound down the parade ahead of schedule. She glared and pointed.
“That kind of thing is meant for Pisces!”
“Me?”
He jumped and glanced around, fearing random Stitch-ladies with designs on his lips. Not that he was entirely—Yvlon sighed and went to pinch one of Ceria’s ears.
“Can we please get down to business? Please?”
They had to make something of this damn debacle. As fate would have it, someone had come to see the parade for Nerrhavia Fallen’s most popular team.
Leo, Kusal, and Lareceina were all staring at his team as they passed by. They appeared either unimpressed or jealous. Pisces waved weakly and smiled. Well…this was awkward. From bad first impressions to this.
He really hoped they could be friendly. Sadly, Ceria spotted the team and took this moment to bound over and put Lareceina in a headlock.
“Hey! Look at the losers we had to beat! No hard feelings!”
She gave Lareceina an aggressive noogieing, and Pisces ran over to pull her off as the red-faced [Mage] fought her. All he wanted was some civil, mutually respectful conversation in peace and quiet. Was that too much to ask?
Apparently, yes. He turned his head, then saw the true power of fandom: another Stitch-girl, entirely unprompted, had decided to sequester a signature from one of her heroes. Namely, by pulling her shirt up and exposing her breasts. He stared at her. Then at the quill she was waving at him.
Stitch-folk had a, uh, more open attitude towards the body. Which Pisces observed in a scholarly way by noting a second performer who had apparently been hired for the Horns’ parade as extra entertainment. She was wearing familiar clothing to him: that of a [Fool], all bright, big panes of colorful fabric that clashed against each other.
