“Ok,” she managed, her voice sounding weak even to her own ears. She wrapped her will around her domain and bent it, pushing it toward the hellfire and blood, but gasped as the domain retaliated, burning her much weaker mana and spiking her already almost unbearable levels of pain.

“Again,” Azryet commanded, and she struggled to obey, barely noticing the chimes of notifications in the back of her mind.

Against the backdrop of agony, her Sage of Learning twisted her very interpretation of what mana was, blending what she had just seen him do with what she had found within Clarence’s strange pages. She knew how to twist her domain to make it compatible, but this was in some way the opposite.

She threw her mana at the impenetrable wall of hellfire and blood, screaming in pain and frustration as she tried to wield her pitifully weak mana as a weapon, emulating the actions of a god to defeat the domain of a god.

“Wield the dungeon rage itself,” Azryet said, making his mana surge beside hers, ripping through the dense domain with annoying ease.

Wield the dungeon rage? What that might even mean, she had absolutely no idea. She was not even able to see his pain. But what is dungeon rage… Frustrated, she lashed out, but all she managed was more pain and destruction. She had no idea how to fight with rage. It wasn’t even a weapon. The only thing she knew that fought with rage was her Carnage Berserker.

Berserker…

Her pain-riddled mind refused to let go of the concept, even though reason told her it simply couldn’t be even remotely related. Not knowing what she was exactly going to do with it, she reached through her Martial Insight and connected with the mind of Tol’brekk.

“Bleed for me,” she commanded.

The giant troll roared, but not with anger or pain; he roared with a furious anticipation of combat, the profound will to fight even the intangible mana before them. He raised his bloody axes and spent his life and blood in a giant surge of power, cleaving the axes downward at the domain before them.

But it was not his attack that she understood. In that moment, Ali understood the mind of her berserker – the will to throw everything into combat, and how even his own pain could make him stronger. Sage of Learning drew heavily upon her mana pool, leaving her lightheaded from the sudden, enormous drain, and suddenly, all the floating pieces aligned within her mind. It made sense.

She pulled from her domain, shaping it to her will, and stabbed her rough construct into the heart of the Demon God’s domain like a serrated dagger, filling it with all her rage, pain, will, and power. The fabric of her domain crystallized, gleaming emerald surfaces as hard as diamond, held in a lattice of indestructible gold that bristled with the needles of her Disruption. There was a sudden crack, a detonation that rocked the cavern, and her mana recoiled from the resulting explosion.

Ali looked up, dazed and confused, finding herself several meters back, plastered against the cavern wall, stunned and winded.

“That was it.” It was all Azryet said, but his voice oozed with pride and satisfaction.

Ali stared, but she could see nothing different.

“Here,” Azryet said, indicating a small dent in the domain before them. A patch that looked like a small creature had nibbled at it. It was a small bite-sized gap, no more than several centimeters wide.

“That’s all?” she managed to squeak.

“You destroyed a measurable section of the domain of an entity that is several thousand levels above you,” Azryet said. “There is no shame in your achievement. Why don’t you check your notifications and see which advancement you have earned?”

“Right.” Trust him to put it in that sort of perspective. Only a mere few thousand levels difference.

Ali pulled up her notifications.

Arcane Insight has reached level 77.Arcane Recall has reached level 40 (+2).Sage of Learning has reached level 64 (+4).Martial Insight has reached level 86.Domain Mastery has reached level 42 (+5).Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Azryet.Received god-tier instruction in domain combat. Mentor: Clarence.Extensive study of domains and the nature of mana. Domain Mastery has surpassed level 40.Witnessed advanced domain warfare.Endured the dungeon-rage of a god.Destroyed the domain mana of a god. Domain Mastery gains Berserk Domain.(Your domain gains power proportional to your rage.)Domain Mastery gains Domain Combat.(Wield your very domain as a weapon of pure destruction.)Domain Mastery gains Domain Architect.(You are the architect of your domain, wielding and shaping it in any way you can imagine. Replaces Adaptable Mana.)Choose one advancement.

Ali studied her three choices carefully. Berserk Domain, she was certain, would turn her into a beastly dungeon equivalent of a berserker; something she couldn’t imagine being useful until she glanced at Azryet and remembered just how much surface area he claimed was in conflict on the boundaries of these two giant domains.

But that path is not for me.

Domain Combat seemed more her style, a simple choice to wield the mana of her domain as a weapon, something which would be immediately useful as soon as she crossed the rift. Domain Architect looked incredibly potent, but the fact that it replaced her Adaptable Mana worried her. That was the skill that made it easier for her to share domains with others and leverage alternative mana affinities within her domain.

She looked over to where Azryet was waiting, surprised to see several demon corpses lying on the ground beside his two drake guards. He hadn’t specifically asked, but on impulse, she decided to share the three options with him. “Do you have any advice?”

“Curious,” he said, pausing for a while before continuing. “I have never seen Berserk Domain before.”

“That’s my least favorite.”

“Perhaps it is the result of you using your berserker to understand some aspect of dungeon rage? Perhaps there is something that lurks within you that resonates with the berserker way?” he said, rumbling deeply, and it took a few moments before she realized he was making fun of her use of her berserker to stand up to him.

Ali elbowed him in a scale and then rubbed it as she realized he was harder than the cavern wall.

Apparently, her reaction earned an amused curl of his vast lip. “Domain Combat is the most straightforward – it was my first one,” Azryet noted. “You will be able to fight an invading domain, and the skill will do most of the work for you. After my second evolution, I unlocked Domain Architect. It is substantially more versatile, but it will take equally substantial practice to use correctly.”

“I’m worried about it replacing Adaptable Mana,” she said. “I use that to make monsters that require other affinities.” She chose not to mention her use to share space with Lira; it no longer mattered, and it risked reopening the deep wound in her heart.

“I don’t think you should be concerned about that,” he said. “Domain Architect will supersede that, you will be able to restructure your domain to emulate any of these effects, provided you understand how it works. If you have memorized your Adaptable Mana, you will be able to duplicate the skill in no time, if not immediately.”

“So, Domain Combat would allow me to take back my domain without training, but Domain Architect would require some potentially difficult training?”

“This is correct,” he answered.

“Do you have a recommendation?”

“I would choose Domain Architect; its versatility is unmatched. And it so happens that we have a piece of a domain for you to train on.” His great taloned forepaw indicated the cavern before her. “I will leave my guardians here to protect you while you work. If you can wipe out the domain, I will grant you this space for your own. In the meantime, I will search for your rift.”

“Ok, thank you,” she said, and she chose her advancement. After all, it seemed wise to listen to a Dragon God and no, the idea was not making her sweat. Not even a little.

Domain Mastery – level 42All your magic within your domain is empowered by the domain itself. The mana reserved for domain-enhanced monsters is reduced by 72.18% [3% reduction per skill level].You are the architect of your domain, wielding and shaping it in any way you can imagine.Mana: Adjust the shape and composition of any non-living material that is part of your domain. Range: Domain.Mana: Permanently attach anything you have made to your domain. Its mana signature is imprinted onto the domain allowing it to be automatically respawned when killed or destroyed. Domain attached minions may not leave the area of attachment and may be further enhanced with Domain Magic. Range: Touch.Enhancements: Domain, Boss, Raid.Nature, Arcane, Mastery, Domain, Intelligence

As soon as she had committed to her choice, her notification chimed again.

You have learned a new Domain Magic: Arcane Inspiration.Arcane InspirationRequirements: Domain Mastery has reached at least level 40. Inspiration has reached at least level 20. Source: Class.The boss, any minions, and summons gain Arcane Inspiration – an arcane-affinity buff that restores mana over time. If the buff is dispelled or removed, it is automatically recast. Skill – Domain Magic

Oh, nice, she thought, scanning the new skill. It was not the most powerful domain magic she knew, but she could think of several interesting applications for it. Particularly when it came to horde-style summoner bosses with minions possessing powerful magical attacks. Maybe elementals?

She put it down for later and glanced up at Azryet. He nodded at her, so she rolled up her sleeves and pressed her mouth into a firm line. She would need to practice her new skill extensively.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
