“Please?” Ali begged. “I need this.” Her friends would most certainly die if she let Nevyn Eld escape back to the Crypt of Kings. The fight they were embroiled in was already insanely dangerous – any disruption, much less the Blind Lich himself, would be deadly.

“It’s Ali, Cael…” Gage said.

“I… of course,” Cael answered. “I’m sorry, Ali. We’ll always help our sister.”

Ali couldn’t see them, but if she could, she was certain they would be shivering. Making them choose between her and their memories of Nevyn Eld before he’d turned himself into a Lich had to be awful, but she had no time. She would have to apologize to the twins later.

Suddenly, the vast spatial suppression array thrummed with power as Cael fed the mana of the Infinite Maze into the gigantic formation.

“Thank you,” Ali gasped, her stomach unknotting. “You have no idea how many you might just have saved.”

Notification chimes rang out, this time coming from one of Ryn’s pupils studying language in the guild hall up above.

You have gained Reputation.+1 Authority.

Oh, thank goodness, she thought. The class was large and incredibly focused, but although there had been several advancements ripping through her tithe already, this was the first one that had triggered reputation.

Back in the forest cavern, dense, compacted balls of void smashed into the Aegis of Absolution, deleting dirt, moss, and grass all around him, but the void magic clung to the shield like sizzling black glue, giving off an awful stench of ozone and sparks of mana that seemed to be scoured off the surface of the shield.

Ali’s eyes widened as her powerful mana sight and her Sage of Learning fed images and analysis into her mind, teasing apart the strange phenomenon strand by strand.

It’s… working? Maybe?

It was the tiniest of changes, as if an infinitesimal layer of the shield had been scoured away by the abrasiveness of Void Nullification. A brush of sandpaper against the polished sphere, but it was something. For the first time, she had affected the impenetrable shield in any way other than having it flicker and darken from potent impact.

Mana surged within the Lich, and Ali gasped at the sudden lance of dungeon rage stabbing through her mind like a rusty blade.

Ugh… What is that? It had happened several times, now – far too often to be a coincidence. Every time he did something big, it affected her just like dungeon rage. No, it’s not the big spells… Ali zipped through her memories. It did not seem associated with his use of the fouled Authority that she was growing more and more certain he’d somehow harvested from the Well of Eternity using his eldritch pet. Just before it hit, she recalled a dark surge as he drew heavily on his mana pool. If her memories were accurate – and they were – that was one consistent sign. That has to be a clue. Is it something about the nature of his mana? A unique spell I can’t quite see? Sage of Learning was prickling something fierce, and the sense of the answer being on the tip of her tongue was growing overwhelming.

Malika was beside her in an instant with fresh healing.

Inside his void-scoured Aegis, a small, folded paper talisman, shining with potent magic, appeared in Nevyn Eld’s hands, and he ripped it down the middle with an impatient gesture. The magic spilled out into the spherical barrier, pulling at him for a moment before it fizzled and dissipated.

“What…” he roared.

A moment later, another powerful teleportation formation manifested, this one even enhanced with Authority, but it too fizzled against the immense weight of the Infinite Maze pressing down upon them.

Thank you, she thought, shooting thoughts of silent gratitude to Cael and Gage like a prayer to her guardian angels. It seemed that even Authority had its limits when pitted against so much power. Her legs were wobbly, and her mouth was dry, but Nevyn Eld was still here, stuck in her dungeon.

Right where I want you, she thought, her mood oscillating somewhere halfway between wry sarcasm and a bout of gallows humor.

She shrugged and unleashed the void, blasting another cascade of black holes at the dark shield while unleashing the Zone of Destruction upon the ground beneath him.

How much is it going to take?

“You are beginning to vex me greatly,” Nevyn grated, turning to her and firing off an Authority-enhanced bolt of death magic.

Instinctively, Ali reached for Minion Teleport, knowing her Disrupt was on recharge from denying his teleportation spell, but, of course, it failed, suppressed by the very aura that she had invoked to trap Nevyn Eld.

Her eyes widened at the sight of the deadly bolt of magic hurtling toward her, far faster than her body could react. But her mind was so fast she would be forced to endure the excruciating sight of it reaching her…

No, she thought, summoning her Barrier and burning her point of Authority to reinforce it. She took the added precaution of attaching it to her domain also. She still flinched back as the bolt smashed itself against her protective shield, but with the power of her Authority, it stood firm against his spell. Ali’s chime sounded again.

+1 Authority.

Huh? Ali froze in surprise at the unexpected notification. No reputation? Still, she had gained a point of Authority somehow. But then it clicked – her Barrier returned a portion of the mana it blocked to her mana pool. Somehow, it had just done the same with Authority. She didn’t quite know how to exploit that yet, but her mind was awhirl already. She repositioned the barrier, hoping to draw another attack.

“Very well. You leave me no choice,” Nevyn Eld said, his voice deathly calm as he drifted closer. His bony hands reached up and grasped his blindfold, and he ripped it off. Underneath it, his face was ravaged by death, shriveled and twisted with a blackened cheekbone protruding through the leathery, decaying skin below his left eye socket. His lips were long gone, revealing teeth so dark they may have been made of ebony, but it was the shadowed hollow eye sockets that drew all Ali’s attention.

Deep within those sockets, a cold, harsh light ignited.

Soul Magic.

Somewhere beside her, Malika gasped. But what formation was being created, she could not tell; it was as if she were seeing only a fraction of the full pattern. Like hearing one side of a conversation. Authority burst forth, and his eyes blazed.

The realm gong shook Ali to the bones.

[Realm] Nevyn Eld [The Blind Lich] has used The Ninefold Way: Gaze of the Shattered Soul.

Instantly, her body froze. She struggled to move, but not even a finger responded to her will. Her heart raced as her adrenaline began to surge, but she found herself unable to even breathe. She fought against the grip, desperate to force her lungs to respond, but all she got were spots in front of her eyes and sweat beading her face.

“Now, let me show you the path to death,” the unmasked Lich hissed, drifting unhurriedly closer to Ali’s kobold priest. A gaunt hand reached out, and a familiar, dire spell burst forth.

Sacrifice.

The essence of something from within her frozen priest was ripped free at his grasp, yanked out of the kobold’s chest, and drawn toward the Lich like a choice morsel. Her connection with her minion snapped, and the kobold fell to the ground in a heap.

“Arise,” he said, pointing at it.

Ali twitched, trying to Disrupt it, but to her horror, she found her mana was just as frozen as her body. She could not cast a thing.

The kobold priest slowly rose to her feet as her once-shiny scales darkened to mottled black, and her flesh sank into hollow and hanging folds, withered away from within.

“Now. You,” he said, fixing Ali with his piercing gaze. The dark, withered hand extended from his robed sleeve, and the formation appeared once more.

No! she screamed, but the sound only echoed within her own mind. The grasping horror of his Sacrifice reached for her, claws of cold darkness piercing her breast, sliding within. They plunged deep into her chest, contracting to encircle her heart.

Then, he pulled.

Pain, like nothing she had ever known, burst from within, threatening to overwhelm her mind. She struggled in vain, unable to scream, unable to run. Helpless. Desperate, she reached for anything.

To her surprise, she found something.

Arcane Recall triggered in a burst of spent life as she shoved it toward her God Maker title. She felt a click as the magic resolved, and then her soul was ripped from her body.

You have died.

The recharge on her God Maker title reset as Arcane Recall completed.

[Realm] Aliandra Amariel [Defiance of the Meek] has cast the mythic spell: Cycle of Rebirth.

You have gained Reputation.+5 Authority.

Fuck. Not again! It was all she could manage to cling to her consciousness this time and throw up an Authority-enhanced barrier around herself.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
