Towards the crack in the mountain where the Titan had emerged from. Not to the Titan’s aid. Ressa was panting for air. She took a step towards the mountainside.
“Magnolia. I need…someone check out that crack in the mountain.”
She thought she heard an affirmative, but then she sensed an impact through her feet and heard a terrible scream of metal. Ressa grabbed Ressga and swung the Goblin behind her. She deflected something with her dagger; the impact sent her crashing down.
Blood in her lungs, pain in her chest. Something had impaled Ressa; the Goblin was crying out and trying to tug it free. Ressa glanced down, about to tell Ressga it was fine; she had a healing potion.
Then she saw what had hit her.
A glittering, golden piece of metal covered in red blood. Not all of it hers. A piece of a scale. Ressa looked up and saw the Dragon’s face. Part of it was torn away, and the Titan raised his arms, howling victory as he struck again. And again—
 
——
 
Mists were rolling in through the valley now, over the mountains. Two figures lurched to their feet, rammed into each other, fell apart, then met again, repositioning for a better charge, forcing one off the other, striking the ground—rising—
No mortal armies to stop them. Just impacts.
The ground was hard. The Dragonlord was being smashed into the earth again and again by the Titan. Yet the ground barely yielded; it was Teriarch whose scales were bending under the force of the fighting. He fought wordlessly now, silently, biting and tearing with no regard for his safety, but he seemed to slow with each impact.
By contrast, the Titan was accelerating again. His Skills—he halted the Dragonlord’s charge effortlessly, knocked him back—
“[Hammer of the Heavens].”
Teriarch hit the ground, and his chest was bowed in slightly. He tried to rise—vanished as a wave of fog covered him—the Titan thundered forwards, ignoring 2nd Army’s attempts to slow him—
They reappeared in a tangle of flesh and metal. The Titan had Teriarch by the throat again, and he was bashing the Dragonlord’s head with one fist. Someone tried to catch his arm—he tore the [Lady]’s grip away without a second’s thought.
Thud. Thud. Thud. Krch—
His face. The Dragon’s angular head bent inwards. His face deformed, and the Titan howled as the writhing below him only grew madder. He put his foot down, trapping the Dragonlord, and put his hands together, hammered them down, and the head dented inwards again.
The ground barely moved this time. Mercilessly hard—harder than the Dragonlord’s battered scales. Somewhere, a [Lady] was screaming. Explosions rippled the Titan’s back, and he laughed, bending to wrench the metal jaws apart. Ripping the lower half of the face away, holding a jaw of gleaming brass scales, wet and bloodless—
Bloodless?
The Titan gazed in confusion at the lower half of the Dragonlord’s jaw. There was no flesh, no blood, no viscera attached to the bent metal. As Teriarch’s head rose, the Dragon’s metal body still clawing at the Titan, his ruined head shone amidst the mists, and the Titan and watchers realized something.
There were no pupils in the dark eye sockets. No familiar eyes. And through the gaps in his damaged armor, you could see…darkness.
No flesh. No blood. No organs.
The Titan was fighting an empty metal shell. His outer layer of scales, but the Dragon inside had vanished.
The Draconic Warrior’s gloating confidence turned to concern in a moment. He swivelled, putting his arms up, and the nearest cliffside exploded outwards. A Dragon, armored in stone, landed on the Titan, roaring, as his empty shell renewed its assault.
Tricks. The Titan’s mouth was open in rage, and the Dragon spoke.
“[Second Sun].”
Fire burned white hot as the Titan twisted away. Molten flesh poured out of his chest, and the Dragonlord pointed. Above him, the air flashed, and a light shone from high overhead.
“[Winds of Zeikhal].”
A gust carried sand, filling the valley with enough debris to blind everything. The blast knocked the Titan down, midleap, and he lay on his back, staring upward as the Dragonlord spoke a third time.
“[Javelin of the Frost Giant].”
This time, the Titan caught the javelin before it could run him through and pin him down. He rolled, and when a vast tree root sprouted from the ground, he fought free of the pinning branches before they could pierce him from within and rip him apart.
Yet the lights still shone. Now there were four of them, high overhead, piercing the dust and mists. The Draconic Warrior saw them as he swung a hand, shearing through a wing of the fake Teriarch. He peered up, spoke an oath, and tried to flee.
“No!”
The fifth element of the Dragonlord’s spell was metal.
Fire, air, water, earth, and metal. Components of old forms of alchemy, building blocks of reality. On five separate peaks above the valley, an elemental rune shone, forming a pentagram.
[Pentagram of the Five Alchemies]. Each spell had activated a rune, and now the Draconic Titan was in the center. It was crude by the standard of the Dragonlord; the simplest of diagrams enforced only by the power of the spell.
It was enough. Teriarch, armored in pieces of stone, having sacrificed his outer scales for this diversion, lifted a claw. He spoke:
“[Sealing Gates of the Five Sages]. Vanish another twenty thousand years, wretch.”
The Titan leapt—and two gates slammed closed as a pentagram of magic flashed through the air over him. The dust and mists closed in until it seemed as though another world lay between the Dragonlord and mortals and the Titan—and the two doors of stone, etched with the secrets of alchemy, were the only opening between the two worlds.
The Titan seized the doors, trying desperately to hold them apart. His arms shook—and the doors moved together as his strength failed him. His mouth was open in horror and fury.
“You—”
His voice was twisted with effort as the doors closed until his head was in danger of being smashed between the gates. Teriarch watched, pouring his magic into the spell, teeth bared.
The Draconic Warrior’s eyes bulged as the gates narrowed further, and his right eye was the only thing visible now as his fingers trembled to keep the gates from closing. The people in the valley should have seen the Titan’s bulk behind the doors, but there was nothing. Just empty ground and mist.
The doors closed another fraction, and they were crushing the fingers now. The Draconic Warrior screamed, a howl of rage and fury, and the doors snapped shut, his fingers falling to the ground, writhing and then falling still. The doors stood there, stone slabs leading to another dimension, containing an Old One.
A prison for a monster, as you might find in a forgotten corner of the world. Meant to be hidden away and never opened. Every eye was on the gates. The Dragonlord panted for breath, exhaling slowly, slowly. He turned his head, voice rasping.
“I think—”
Then the gates cracked. The reverberation made the valley ripple, stone and earth rippling like water. One of the five peaks around the valley exploded as one of the runes failed. The Dragonlord’s eyes swivelled back to the doors.
“Ah.”
That was all he said as a second impact shattered pieces of the leftmost door apart. The air snapped—and an eye was visible through the gap. It drew back, and the Titan struck the doors a third time from inside, and the doors fell outwards.
He walked out, hands raised, stepping lightly, his face a strangely serene mask of concentration. Fluid of movement; when he raised a palm, he seemed to shove the air, and the shockwave blew the remainder of the alchemy spell apart.
The movements were familiar, even if the exact nature of the technique was not. Martial arts. The Titan lifted his hands up to the sky, kneeling for a second in silent worship. His voice was reverential as he rose.
“[The Walls of My Prison Broke]. And I was free. Now, Dragonlord—”
One clawed hand rose, palm up, and the other beckoned as the Dragonlord’s breathing resumed its ragged edge. The Titan stepped towards him, and Teriarch exhaled—a hand brushed the flames aside, parting them like a broom parted a stream of water.
Inner energy. Not much. Not trained like a master of Drath, but enough. The Dragonlord limped forwards, ignoring the [General]’s order for him to fall back and fight in tandem with the others.
“We are both at our limits. Come, Warrior of Graves. Let’s finish this.”
They met, and the Dragonlord’s blood began to splatter the ground.
Then rain.
 
——
 
Their final clash was where he bled. The Draconic Warrior was weakened, low on magic and out of his greatest Skills. But the Dragonlord had shed his scales, like a snake shed its skin or a hermit crab its shell.
Too long had he waited in his armor. He had grown too large, and even now, he was slower, imprecise, tearing and biting and cutting with his claws as Dragonlords had once fought—but with a distant memory of finesse.
The Titan was a warrior in the peak of his fury, lashing out with compact blows, desperation turning even his least-used techniques into an edge. Teriarch had no more armor; a jagged claw tore open his underscales, and his blood struck the ground.
Such painful ground. When the Titan knocked him down with another shockwave of internal force, Magnolia Reinhart saw Teriarch’s head raise, and blood was streaming from the stones dug into it.
“He’s too weak. General Shirka, advance! Ressa, help him!”
Magnolia was shouting orders, but she was what she had always claimed she was: a civilian. They ignored her, even her greatest servant.
“The Dragonlord will retreat when he deems it best. He’s still trying to expose the Seith Cores.”
Shirka’s voice was flat, intense, as it had been this entire battle as she’d watched her people die to edge closer to victory. At this moment, Magnolia hated her for it. Ressa was clutching at one arm, panting. Blood coated her uniform, but her wounds were healed—mostly. Her flesh was still regrowing around one arm from the potion, but she had to keep fighting. She rasped at Magnolia, urgent.
“Magnolia, what about the undead…? I can’t get closer.”
She’d tried once already; the shockwaves had tossed her like a ragdoll. Even all of Ressa’s training and levels were overwhelmed in the face of the sheer force.
And Teriarch was losing. Magnolia had never believed it could happen. Each cut and slash from the Dragonlord was weaker. He’d regained his breath, but it was a pale thing compared to his earlier flame. By contrast, the Titan was visibly picking up speed. No longer was he gloating or relishing his victory: he pressed forwards in a single-minded assault, a disciplined warrior now.
If Teriarch fell, what would become of them? Again, the Dragonlord raked the Titan’s chest, ripping out two ribs, exposing himself to a devastating palm-strike which sent him crashing backwards. Teriarch curled up as the Titan lifted an arm—for one second, everyone saw a Seith Core exposed.
But the massed ranged fire, even the two ballistae, failed to destroy the core before it vanished into the chest cavity. And then Teriarch was limping away. Fleeing—the Titan jumped and kicked him into the ground, and Magnolia shouted.
“Servants of House Reinhart, attack!”
To her relief, the order was echoed by multiple voices.
“Spearmaster Gaellis, take a leg out. All forces—begin the assault.”
Primera and Seconda leapt forwards as Xitegen’s Golems stormed down the slopes with 2nd Army’s element. Major Hiclaw and the Wyverns under his command flew with Goblins as Redscar and shock troops prepared to drop in.
The Titan abandoned his careful martial artist’s stance and drew an oversized sword out of the air. He opened his mouth, and burgundy light lit the valley up. The ray of destruction was meant for Teriarch; a figure dove and blocked it with his wings and body.
The Wyvern Lord hit the ground, and the Titan chuckled as his blade swung right and left, cutting a Wyvern off by the wings, coming down and flicking—removing heads of a Drake squad.
Magnolia ran and grabbed the pink carriage as it shot forwards. Reynold took her past the [Soldiers], into the melee, as Ressa and Ressga shielded her. She didn’t see the desperate battle or hear the Titan’s chuckle. Her eyes were only for the battered figure lying on the ground, trying to crawl away.
 
——
 
“Teriarch?”
He was panting, wheezing for air, blood running from his eye sockets, the gashes and tears in his side. His eyes were still open. He was lucid, and the Wyvern Lord was prowling between him and the Titan, mouth open, roaring a silent challenge.
That familiar gaze focused on Magnolia as he raised his head, and she saw stones were dug into his face, shards of earth embedded in his flesh.
“Magnolia. Run. I…”
The Dragonlord tried to rise, then just crawled forwards another length as a second [Ray of Oblivion] tore the air overhead. The Titan was advancing. Magnolia’s voice was too high.
“You have to retreat, Teriarch. We cannot lose you!”
We will lose 2nd Army. Xitegen’s forces. How many can flee outside of my carriage? How many of my people?
She didn’t know, only that they could not lose him. The Dragonlord shook his head, stubborn. Stubborn for once! She had asked him countless times to fight, to make a stand, and now he was here, she saw the nightmare playing out.
“No. No, I have to…”
His voice trailed off. He tried to crawl away again. The Titan was moving towards them, but slowly. He was systematically grinding down 2nd Army’s attacks, fighting defensively for once. Now he had victory in his hands, he was cannily wearing down his foes, letting them expend their artifacts and magic.
He’d beaten the greatest threat. Magnolia knew their only hope was to have Teriarch rise, but she couldn’t do it.
“Magnolia, he has to fight. What can I do, Teriarch?”
Ressa was kneeling by Teriarch, yanking out pieces of stone embedded in his scales. Magnolia was arguing with her, as if it would change anything.
“Ressa, I will not allow it! He is a master of stone and metal and—he can’t even stop the earth from hurting him! His armor is gone! He has to fall back!”
“No. Get clear.”
The Dragonlord was turning, legs shaking. He was rasping a spell, and Magnolia felt Ressga pulling at her. The Goblin’s eyes were wide, and she was trying to take her mistress to safety. Magnolia grabbed the only thing she could: a part of Teriarch’s leg.
“I can’t let you do this. Ressa—”
She was about to order her servant to help her, at the cost of everything else, when Ressa tore another piece of stone out of Teriarch’s face and cursed. She shook red blood onto the ground, and Magnolia realized she’d cut her hands.
“Damn. Sharp as Creler claws. It’s so damn—”
