She tore a piece of linen out of her belt pouch and wound it around one hand. Then stopped. Magnolia had been pulling at Teriarch, for all the good it would do her, and her fingers had been slipping on his bloody scales.
Underscales, yes, but still a Dragonlord’s scales. Hardest in the world, he’d always claimed. She’d known he could shed his scales, but even his newer scales should have been harder than steel by magnitudes. Indeed, they felt it. Yet…the stones from the ground were dug into Teriarch’s flesh. Embedded in his scales. Piercing them with ease.
Magnolia looked down at the ground and bent over. She touched the pale, brown earth, shifted it with her shoes, and kicked at the compacted earth.
“Ow.”
It was hard. Sharp, even. Magnolia tried again and couldn’t even budge the earth. It was pressed so hard together that the brown soil felt like stone itself. Magnolia succeeded in shifting some clods of earth around and saw the pale-brown loam, slightly wet with dew from the mists, turn to—
White? Grey? Pale, semi-translucent material? Not more earth, but something far more luminescent, even filthy as it was. Magnolia realized the carriage, angling to shield her from the battle, had taken on a strange tenor to the wheels.
Instead of the soft rolling, it clacked slightly, a clatter of hard material. Ressga picked up a stone with a handkerchief and bit it. She spat out a tooth and some blood and looked up.
“That not right. Regular stone not that hard.”
Their conversation went unnoticed in the flurry of orders, the dance of death, and battle around them. Teriarch lay there, bleeding, rising vaguely, and Magnolia saw another being turn his head.
The Wyvern Lord. His scales were torn away in two places by the [Ray of Oblivion] spell, and he was wounded, but he protectively shielded Teriarch like a furious child, baring his fangs, hissing.
—Watching the Dragonlord out of the corner of one eye. Magnolia’s head swung over, and the Dragonlord rasped as his gaze turned heavenwards. An old man’s weak plea, a dying fool’s words of bravery. For the benefit of their audience, their foe.
“Please, child. Get clear.”
The [Lady] stepped back. She grabbed onto the pink carriage as Ressa leapt into the driver’s seat and took the reins from the surprised Reynold. Ressga climbed onto it, and the Wyvern Lord spread his wings, shielding them as the Titan began to laugh.
Thum, thum, thum, its heartbeat sang louder as he began to advance again, body recovered.
Thudthudthudthud—the sounds of an army falling back as General Shirka sent Xitegen’s Golems forwards to stall the Titan. Flights of Wyverns breaking away.
Thum. 
A blade cutting after the fleeing Seconda as the Golem leapt for safety.
Thum. 
Eyes on the feeble Dragonlord, struggling to rise, blood dripping from his teeth as he snarled one last time.
Thum.
Sharp stones crunching together as the Titan walked, refusing to give even under his weight. But he never noticed that, did he?
He had bad eyes.
Thum.
The Dragonlord vanished. He winked out of existence, and the snap of displacing air made the Titan blink. He followed the trail of the magic, and his head rose. Up, up, up—
Then there was silence as the Mortemdefieir Titan’s heart stopped. His eyes found the tiniest fleck of gold, so high overhead even the glitter of scales was all but lost in the sky. The Titan took a step back, and the earth rose as his feet sunk into it. He glanced down, pulled at one foot sunk up to his knees in the ground, and the earth would not move.
The Titan pulled as his heart remained silent, and he felt how tough the earth was, how unyielding. The warrior of rot struck at it with his sword, and it would not move.
The ground glittered like jewels.
 
——
 
[Earth to Mithril]. Wide-range ritual. A slow spell.
[Teleportation Anchor] and a simple [Expedited Teleport] spell to bring him skywards.
The rest was easy. It took him a moment to cast. The hardest part was staying on target. But the Titan was an obvious target. Teriarch had tagged him with a locator spell a dozen times during the fight.
The key was then to have a final blow to end the Titan. To expose the Seith Cores. To destroy the foe.
He didn’t have one. He’d used all his magic during the fight. He had no Tier 8 spell hidden away, no Relic blade he could use that the Titan might not turn against him. Besides, his enemy was waiting for that. It had to be authentic.
It was authentic. The Dragonlord was out of flames thanks to his wasted Breath of Life, out of magic with his [Pentagram of the Five Alchemies], out of strength with his duel against the Titan via fang and claw.
All he had left was himself. And altitude. And basic magic.
[Frictionless Surface]. [Room: Vacuum of Air]. [Extend Spell]. [Suspended Motion]. [Flash Move].
Five spells. One reduced friction of his body through the world. The second and third created a ‘passageway’, a vertical chamber from which he fell straight down to earth. The fourth kept him in one place, but temporarily.
He kept casting the last one. [Flash Move]—down. Down. Downdowndowndowndown—doubling his momentum, tripling it, until he reached speeds that would turn a mere orange into a projectile with enough velocity to turn a castle wall to dust.
And he was no tiny orange. The Dragonlord cast all of this in the span of about twelve seconds. Twelve seconds as the Titan, up to its knees in the ground turned into diamonds, tried to get free.
The rest was physics. A Dragonlord’s worth of weight thrown at speeds beyond the speed of sound, towards a target that could not escape, onto an anvil of one of the hardest materials in the world.
He had done this before. But in the past, he’d been younger. So now, he was even heavier than—
The Dragonlord fell, and the High Passes shook. Agony filled his body as he hit the ground and he felt something snap.
Only part of it was him.
 
——
 
In Celum, people felt the earth tremble and stumbled and fell to their knees, crying out. They looked up and saw snow moving along the peaks of the High Passes. Birds flew from forests; avalanches tumbled down along the mountain range.
At the site of the battle, no one was left standing. A pink carriage landed on its side; Wyverns fell out of the air, knocked down by the force of the impact. The mountain trembled, and mithril dust and fragments flew into the air in deadly shrapnel, but the ground did not move—much. The crater was surprisingly small, enhanced as the ground was.
The Dragonlord of Flames awoke, peered down, and tried to claw the staring face gazing open-mouthed at him. He could not. His right claw was dangling at a wrong angle.
Broken. The Dragonlord felt more parts of him were broken, but his other claw worked. It slashed at the face, but the Draconic Warrior didn’t move.
A third of his face was left; his lower torso was obliterated down to the knees embedded in the ground. Splattered flesh and splinters of his bones had ‘cushioned’ Teriarch; the bed of paste ran up to his ribcage, the only part of him left intact.
A pale-white orb was lying under one of Teriarch’s forelegs. As he pulled himself up, he saw the Seith Core fully exposed. The Dragonlord reached down and dug it out of the Titan’s chest.
His ears rang. He could not think. He bled. His bones were broken.
But his foe was not yet dead. The Dragonlord tore ribs free, and the flesh tried to regenerate, then gave up. The Draconic Warrior’s body was in shock.
Where is the rest of you? The Dragon plucked the Seith Core out of the rotten skin. He dug his talons into it, feeling the ancient magics trying to resist him—he ignored the temptations to claim the Seith Cores, how much power they held.
The first Seith Core broke, and the Titan twitched. Its open mouth half-closed. It gaped up at Teriarch, unfocused eyes still in dawning terror.
“Please…”
The Dragonlord ignored him. Three left. He dug deeper into the Titan’s body, like the crudest surgeon performing invasive surgery. Ripping pieces out as the mortals stirred.
They saw the Brass Dragon, half-lying on his foe, wearily casting flesh to the side as the Titan tried to raise arms it didn’t have, kick legs that were gone. It lay as 2nd Army’s stunned consciousness sought order and found it.
Reform. To me. To me…
General Shirka’s mental tone was disorientated, but it firmed, and [Soldiers] staggered back into ranks. They surrounded the downed Titan and Dragon at a great distance, shocked, stunned, trying to understand what had happened. Even their [General] didn’t get it, but she didn’t have to.
The enemy was down. The plan had worked.
Finish it.
Elements of Shirka’s army secured the ground around the Dragonlord. They stabbed anything hostile; there were still a few parasites from the Titan left, though they seemed as stunned as their creator. 2nd Army found Magnolia Reinhart being pulled from her carriage. The [Lady] was dazed, but her eyes focused on the Dragonlord as he ripped the second Seith Core out of the Titan.
“Oh, please…”
The Titan was whispering as the Dragonlord began to crush the second Seith Core. Teriarch ignored the quavering voice. Tuned out the familiar cry for mercy until a note sang through that he recognized.
“Please—die.”
The Seith Core pulsed. The Dragonlord felt it warm in his claws. His eyes opened wide. Madness. He’d prepared himself t—
 
——
 
The explosion kicked Magnolia off the carriage and would have killed her if not for Ressga, who threw herself forwards to stop Magnolia from breaking her neck.
“—lia!”
Ressa leapt onto the carriage and was knocked down by the gust of wind and debris. She cast around, saw the pink figure on the ground—then turned and saw Teriarch.
Smoke rose from the Dragonlord’s mouth and eyes as he stared up at the sky, like some ancient warrior praying to the heavens. It was only an illusion. His blackened scales kept smoking as he collapsed over the Titan’s chest.
The Titan was all but obliterated himself. The remains of a grinning face, strewn flesh—nothing was left of him from the detonation. Nothing but another glowing Seith Core rising upwards.
The third one. Where was the fourth? The Dragonlord tried to chant a barrier or shield himself. The Seith Core pulsed. Then it exploded.
 
——
 
So many quakes. The High Passes were trembling, and so were mortals. Shaking—unable to even withstand the true powers unleashed.
In truth, even immortals shook at the scope of the destruction unleashed here. A Dragonlord and a Draconic Warrior had met in truest battle, and they had found which was the deadlier of the two, in the end.
A battle that even the greatest ages would have recorded as exceptional. Savage and cunning, and at the very end, the Dragonlord had triumphed.
As…the Son of Graves had thought he might. He was, after all, the Pyrelord, the Dragonlord of Flames who had never fallen in battle. It was foolish to assume victory, even now.
It would be the mark of desperation to overload his Seith Cores and take the Dragonlord with him, but it was an option each Draconic Warrior had. Few did it, even at death’s door, because it would be their end. Even so, if he had no option—would the Draconic Warrior do it?
No, never. He wanted to live. He’d never do that. Not unless…it would not be his end. Then it was a tactical decision.
In the crack of the mountain, the last dead Drake’s corpse wiggled into the hollow of the stone. It vanished as the world outside became eye-searingly bright. It was silent, then, save for a few beings.
A few parasites left over from the Titan, worming around for sustenance. A handful of [Scouts] sent by Strategist Ulhouse to check out where the undead were going. Their [Light] spells flared and illuminated the pile of corpses. Troll, 2nd Army’s, Magnolia Reinhart’s, Goblin, Wyvern parts, pieces of flesh from the Titan…
The pile began to shift as a pale-white glow activated in the heart of the rot. The [Scouts] saw it and levelled their weapons. They tried to stab the fourth and final Seith Core. They were climbing the flesh pile as limbs began to form out of the dead meat when something pulsed.
Thum. Thum. Thum.
Soldiers faltered. Hands grew weak—bodies fell and became more flesh that turned liquid and formed a chest. Then morphed upwards to turn into a head. Staring eyes. A bittersweet smile.
The last Seith Core of the Titan reformed the body out of the materials he had secreted away, which had cloaked his final ‘heart’ until his main body suffered defeat. After all, the Dragonlord would have sensed it if he made two bodies.
“One, then. Weak am I.”
A bitter blow indeed. He would have to guard his energies. But it had been worth it. The Titan began to squeeze himself out of the mountain. To kill his greatest foe, it was a worthy sacrifice. The corpse of the Dragonlord would be his new body. Assuming anything remained.
The Dragonlord lay in a depression of stone in the valley, on his side. Intact. He breathed in and out, then jerked as the Titan emerged.
“No…”
His voice was a moan, but the Son of Graves was just as disturbed to see his foe alive. How? He’d felt his third Seith Core detonate. Two should have killed even the Pyrelord. How…
The valley. Part of it had completely collapsed. A cliff had buried the far side of the valley, and the mountainside itself appeared like someone had carved a divot out of it. The Titan didn’t remember that prior to ‘dying’. His eyes focused on the cliffside. Then he sensed her.
A panting [Lady], standing on top of her carriage, hand still raised. Lady Magnolia Reinhart was clutching at her back, hair strewn everywhere, hat missing, covered in dirt, but her eyes blazed triumph. She’d thrown the final Seith Core. Tossed it into the mountain and saved her Dragon’s life.
“Humans.”
The Son of Grave whispered the word like a curse and strode out of the mountain. An army pivoted to meet him, but was shaken. His eyes were on the Dragonlord. His foe had to die. He had to kill him.
Had to. Had to—he had only one Seith Core left. His limbs felt leaden. His magic was exhausted.
The mortals were advancing. The Titan wavered. He glanced back at the crack in the earth, that inviting den where he could hide in the deeps and make another plan. He gazed at the Dragonlord, so near death.
If he just—
A blazing comet overhead made the Draconic Warrior flinch. He fell back, hands raised in terror as a streak of ice passed over his head. Another Dragon! It was slower, far slower than the Dragonlord, but it pivoted, turning for a pass, and he saw—
The Wyvern Lord. His wings were angled, and blue frost propelled him forwards like the Dragonlord had flown. The Mortemdefieir Titan’s eyes grew round with surprise, shock—and the Wyvern Lord roared as he tried to arrest his flight and aim an attack at the Titan.
