“Kill it now. Seal the opening.”
The [General]’s voice echoed through a speaking spell. That decided the Titan. He turned and dove into the crack in the mountain, squishing his body into the crevasse, fleeing down, down as his body turned to liquid, protecting his final lifeline. He would be back. Oh, yes, yes.
Just not today. Not for a while, not while his foe lay above. He was weak—he’d be weak long, and the Titan would rebuild strength far faster than the Dragonlord healed. He’d win. 
Damn him.
Damn mortality.
Damn, damn, damn….
He fled. Above, the Dragonlord of Flame lay there and gave no chase. His foe yet lived. Tears ran from his eyes as he felt his own immortal shame and fear. It was not over. As it had always been, always, always, always.
It was so hard to kill their kind.
 
——
 
The scent of rot faded with each burnt piece of flesh, and slowly, the oppressive weight of the death magic lifted from the valley.
The scars remained. New ones, like the circular weal on the Dragonlord’s side. 2nd Army was wounded, missing figures in the squads and companies gone forever, only numbered in official reports. Only their family and comrades knew their names.
House Terland stood around the pieces of one of their Golems and solemnly gathered up the fragments of its heart, and some shed more tears for the broken Golem than their dead.
As for House Reinhart, each servant who had passed was covered with a pale shroud of linen, if a body could be found. The servants said nothing now; eulogies would come later, and pensions for families paid.
The Goblins cremated their dead while Manus’ soldiers harvested gear from their fallen [Wyvern Riders] and skinned each Wyvern with enough hide to make something useful. They silenced their whining Wyverns as they worked, grim-faced, before burning what was left.
The Wyvern Lord did not allow anyone to touch two of the Frost Wyverns of his Weyr who had perished in battle. Instead, he landed, bent to sniff each one, and then shrieked to the heavens, calling smaller Wyverns of his flock. He began to devour the corpses of the two large Wyverns as his people joined in.
In that moment, he was more Goblin than Goblins, and the Wyvern Lord stopped eating after a few bites. He raised his mouth, dripping with stale blood, and gazed at the one being who had suffered the most and lost the least.
The Dragonlord of Flames was still covered in blood and grime. He appeared nothing like the awe-inspiring legend who had first come upon the armies and promised victory or death. He seemed smaller; he was smaller without his outer layer of scales.
But most of all, he seemed defeated, even more than the Titan, who had fled screaming curses. This was a victory, surely. All but one Seith Core was destroyed. The Titan had been sent fleeing, and even if he emerged, 2nd Army had proven that it could stymie the Draconic Warrior’s advance.
“A second battle with the Dragonlord should be a victory. It only remains to lure the bastard out.”
That was Xitegen’s opinion, and it dovetailed with most of the other commanders present. Yet the Dragonlord kept his head bowed, his tangled mane of flowing metal still twitching with insects from the Titan, blood etched onto his scales.
A [Lady] was removing some of the insects from Teriarch’s mane with her hands, speaking to him. Magnolia Reinhart seemed…relieved. Like a younger woman who had seen both all she feared and all she had hoped for and not been disappointed. In truth, the rest of the mortals could say the same.
They had witnessed a Dragon’s battle with a foe of old. Earthshaking, filled with tricks and maneuvers and, yes, no clean victory, but why did he look so broken by his triumph?
It was because his foe lived. Lived—and would return. The Dragonlord had a second battle to bring. It did not matter if the Titan was weaker; he would make up for that weakness in viscousness, hatred, and vengeance. Rooting that monster out of the High Passes would be…
“—Nigh impossible. Even if I were not wounded, I doubt it could be done. He will hide and prepare traps if I follow him down. Hide away as long as it takes until he can strike. And I…I do not have the will to bring illumination into the heart of the mountain. I fear I will meet my end in those depths at the end of a tunnel that has never known sunlight. I am no [Necromancer], you see. I do not speak the voice of stone to turn every grain of soil and rock against him. I am only me, and that was not enough. I am sorry.”
Sorry? It was as the young species thought of the future, of tomorrow’s battle and the cost of this one, that they finally understood. Every single being present for this battle—they would mourn and grieve, and when they closed their eyes, they all knew a voice would be waiting for them. But he—he had no reward, no assurance that next time he would be stronger.
All the Dragonlord had ever earned were scars, and another dried in blood and pain on his side. Teriarch finally moved and turned his head away from that crack that led into the mountains.
“I must go. I—there is something I can do.”
“Lord Teriarch, if I may, a conversation with you would be instrumental for my city.”
General Shirka strode forwards, still animated, having only fought once this long battle. Her eyes flicked to the Goblins, who were hanging back, packing their Thunderbows, and then to the others.
“I as well, sir. The Dragonspeaker must know of your presence as soon as our communications seal is lifted!”
Major Hiclaw had a bound arm, having snapped his limb after one of the Titan’s shockwaves had tossed him from the air. His salute was no less crisp, though. The Dragonlord saw Xitegen approaching and Rags looking his way. The Dragonlord shrugged his wings, flinching as it opened his wounds further. One wing was tattered; a membrane of magic moved to cover it as he flexed his wings once.
“The Dragonspeaker and I will speak if it is meant to be, Major. This is not over. I will communicate with all present later. Later…I have to go. The Draconic Warrior—”
“We are prepared to scout the mountain, Dragonlord. With specialists from other elements of Pallass’ armies and your aid, we may finish this engagement without giving the enemy time to regroup.”
The direct offer made the Dragonlord flinch. He eyed Shirka as Lord Xitegen raised his voice.
“Yes, if there is a method, House Terland stands to arms with valiant Golems and all that. I’d rather make sure the enemy is dead than celebrate a victory and kick trouble down the road a decade. Should I send for Golems from the north? Doubtless, my family has some kind of superior mining Golem in its vaults.”
He snorted, but he was as focused as Shirka. They turned to the Dragonlord, and he looked away.
Away. His eyes roamed the High Passes, the mists blown away by the conflict, the ground now returning to normal—and beyond the rainswept Floodplains of Liscor. The Dragonlord’s eyes opened wider, fractionally, and he rasped.
“I—believe reinforcements are in order. Yes. Competent help. But given the Titan’s weakness and its exhausted state, I do believe we have a window of opportunity. Yes. I shall gather…I must…I will return.”
He spread his wings and began to walk forwards. Magnolia Reinhart spoke up.
“Teriarch? Where are you going?”
His voice was weak, lost. The Dragonlord did not meet her gaze, nor any other’s. He was staring at something as his claws left the ground, one limp and bound with an impromptu spell. Wounded. Mumbling.
“There, yes, there. Of course. It’s the optimal place to be. I shall be back when I am needed.”
They called out after him, asking questions, begging for a conversation, answers, all those familiar things you asked Dragons. The Champion of Ashen Wings didn’t reply. The Star-Dragon of Iltanus beat his wings and began to glide down, out of the valley, towards the Floodplains. To Liscor?
The reason why was obvious as everyone fixed on the rainy clouds and noticed something odd in the weather patterns below. As ever, Liscor was a basin obscured by storm clouds, rain sleeting down without end. That was not surprising. However, there was a break in the rain cover. At first, it seemed to be a simple fluctuation in the weather, a break in the storm.
—But as moments passed, the aberration refused to change. Rain clouds moved around the gap in the center of the Floodplains, breaking around the ray of light slanting downwards, as if the radiance were a physical thing.
A beam of light, a spotlight, a pillar of radiance from the heavens, illuminating something below. What it was was not immediately visible, but when the Dragonlord, the [Lady], the Goblins, when they saw it, they knew.
The inn.
Thus, the Dragonlord flew away. He departed the mountains, fleeing his wounded foe, his duties, running—for that moment of weakness was always when you least expected it. He flew for answers, for hope, for aid, and left the mortals and his foe behind. They watched him depart, and in his absence, a bit of magic and wonder vanished.
So, then.
All that remained was this. General Shirka’s head rose from her wounded army, and she focused on the other threat.
The Goblins. Slowly, and deliberately, she raised a speaking stone to her mouth and murmured into it.
“This is General Shirka. Begin phase two.”
 
——
 
She was throwing up bile, an insect she’d swallowed, and horror onto the ground. Again and again, in front of her—no, Chieftain Rags’ people.
The [Student] was ashamed. She had done everything she could, maneuvering the Goblins, trying to guess when the Titan would turn and spit death at them. No grand strategy; she’d just played her part in the battle while General Shirka directed the unified forces.
It was still too much. Goblins stared empty-eyed up at the sun as their friends and comrades laid them to rest. It was not the first time the [Student] had seen this, but dead gods, it felt like it.
I come from better days than these. She saw Trueshot abandon her Thunderbow to swing a blade down. An axe; the Hob cut the head off a fallen warrior to make sure they wouldn’t come back. Roughly half an hour had passed since the battle’s ending, she guessed. The forces present had taken that time to begin the labor-intensive task of cleaning the battlefield.
Most importantly, before they could think of moving, following Teriarch, setting up defenses, or just debriefing, was cleansing their wounds.
The damn insects were still everywhere, and more than one Goblin had needed Prixall’s help extracting some of them that had buried into their flesh in the fighting.
“We’re just lucky the Titan didn’t have nastier kinds of insects. Parasites. Looks like it really was a warrior more than plague-spreader. Bad enough.”
Prixall was speaking in the background as Rags coughed and wiped her mouth. The [Student] was aware of Snapjaw’s voice, familiar and unfamiliar at the same time.
Not my Snapjaw. In her timeline, the Snapjaw of then was more relaxed, sillier, kissing Badarrow and a good leader, but not the Snapjaw who strode around, higher-level, grim-faced, a true Chieftain in authority. Especially now. She glanced at Rags, then snapped.
“All Wyverns get ready to fly. I don’t like the Drakes or Lord Xitegen. Double-check wounds—then we’re going to the inn with every Goblin who can fight. Redscar, why did you leave the Chieftain behind?”
She rounded on the [Blademaster], who sat, cleaning his swords. He jerked a head at Student Rags.
“Got a Rags.”
Snapjaw made a fist to hit him, and Rags spoke, fumbling for a water flask.
“That was Chieftain Rags’ order. She—we—knew the Titan was coming. She told me to come here. It was that or try and stop…him.”
She pointed a weak finger at the ray of light shining down, and Snapjaw squinted at it.
“Who that?”
“Pawn.”
Everyone but Redscar and the bodyguards who’d come with Rags were utterly confused. The [Student] was reminded of the other crisis ongoing, and she turned to the place where the Dragonlord had vanished into the mists.
“We have to keep moving. I need you, Snapjaw, Prixall, everyone we can get above Level 30. No one under that. Send the rest to Goblinhome?”
She meant it as an order, but it came out as a question. Snapjaw nodded instantly.
“Tell the Troll Queen what happened. The Titan’s below. Maybe she has to run or leave until it comes out. Bad stuff, but at least…”
The Goblins were moving, separating into groups, when Rags saw the Drakes milling about below start to assemble. Those little hairs on the back of her neck rose, and she held up a hand.
“Wait. 2nd Army’s reforming. Look sharp.”
Instantly, the Flooded Waters tribe moved to readiness. They still occupied the higher cliffs from where they had been fighting; 2nd Army was far below, and Rags could see how much damage they’d taken. Probably 20-30% casualties. Which was merciful in a sense; disastrously bad for the core of Pallass’ best army.
But they have the bulk of their army somewhere else. It was the right call not to bring them in, but could we press the Titan now that it’s weakened? Or would they be more useful around the inn? The [Palace]…we need help there, too.
A darker thought occurred to Rags as she saw the Walled City’s forces closing ranks, forming up.
No. They can’t be…
General Shirka did not stride to the front of her army. She spoke from the middle, in a voice that rang over the valley floor. She still stood at parade-rest, looking much like her army.
Wounded, blood splattering her yellow chestplate, weary, but defiantly precise. Intense; a perfect image of a [General]. And calm.
“Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe! As the conflict with the Mortemdefieir Titan has ended, 2nd Army’s directive has changed. In lieu of an immediate enemy to pursue, our orders to neutralize the Goblin threat in the High Passes resumes. As of this moment, the main forces of my army have begun a siege of Goblinhome in the mountains. My [Goblin Slayers] have encircled your fortress and escape routes. We are prepared to attack.”
Rags’ empty stomach dropped as if someone had flung her over the cliff. The moment she’d seen 2nd Army pivoting towards her, she’d sensed it.
No, nononono—this isn’t right! This isn’t fair! How could you? We came to help you! Her mind was racing to find a solution, to give orders, as her emotions rose in outrage.
“That traitor! Garen Redfang would be ashamed!”
Prixall hissed, and half the Redfangs glared at her as Redscar drew his blades out of their sheaths. Snapjaw had gone deathly pale.
“They can’t have gotten all the escape routes.”
