Redscar saw the Dragonlord’s wings outstretched, propelling him with the roaring pink flames behind him. He didn’t stop or even move greatly. Rather, he dipped one wing and exhaled.
By the time you blinked, he was miles away, but the flames were directly on target. It actually came down diagonally, allowing the Dragonlord to pass by his foe and lead his attack; the slower-moving Dragonbreath was still faster than the Titan could even think of moving. But it wasn’t just…flame. It was, like Zeladona’s blade, something else.
Golden fire emerged from the pink corona and stabbed downwards. Pink, blue, and green fire trailed around the central stream of fire, and some of it, Redscar realized, was coming off the Dragon. He was generating incredible temperatures by the sheer heat in his body and passage through the skies. The Goblin had no word for what he saw—pure plasma, dragged into the Dragonbreath, amplifying the attack.
The Titan saw the golden beam of Dragonfire slicing downwards at him. He was, like Redscar, like the Dragonlord, in a different realm of speed.
So he dodged. It was a Skill—[Graceful Dodge]—that let him twist out of the path of that golden spear of flames. Slowly, like someone underwater compared to the Dragonlord, but he evaded the fire—
The Dragonbreath curved. It rippled before hitting the ground, and the ray of searing fire struck the Titan in the chest. Redscar saw the Titan’s eyes go wide with horror, and the Goblin thought he saw the tip of the Dragonlord’s flame; a roaring Dragon’s mouth.
Flame, like a [Blademaster]’s art, touched the Titan, and then the monstrosity screamed. Redscar threw up one arm, and the air turned into brilliant dawn; the lesser flames engulfed the Titan, like the very atmosphere had turned to flame.
An ocean of blue, cut with pink, green, and purple shone overhead as mortals flinched back, like the aurora of the sky at night. The fire ravaged the Titan; the golden flames disintegrated pieces of his chest, his ribs, his outstretched arms—
Then the flames were gone, and the screaming Titan was writhing on the ground, howling, and the shockwave of wind nearly blasted Redscar off his feet. He anchored himself with a sword and looked up at the sky, mouth open in delight.
The last Dragonlord of Flames had made an art of his war, just like Zeladona. So the [Blademaster] watched, filled with envy and delight.
The Titan tore at his flesh, ripping it off rather than letting the flames continue devouring him. He was trying to run as Rags screamed.
“Fire! Fire again! Keep him there!”
Thunk. Thunk. Thunk! The Thunderbows fired constantly, trying to slow the Titan down. It was running now, and Redscar could see why.
The Dragon was coming back. In the distance, he saw a pink meteor slowly curving through the air like the largest [Fireball] in the world, drawing a streak across the skies. It lit up the rain clouds above Liscor, a wandering comet of magic, and the Goblin stopped for a second to admire it.
“Cool.”
He grinned and saluted the air with a sword. So that’s what the old days were like? No wonder the old Dragon had so many admirers.
 
——
 
A second pass, and this time, he dropped the flames down so a pillar of fire seemed to hit the Titan as it tried to throw up a shield. That hurt it.
The Draconic Warrior had known flames. It had killed Dragons. But it had not felt these flames. They vaporized the flesh off its bones and gave the warrior a taste of true pain, the first it had felt in aeons.
The Dragon’s fire incinerated magic, matter, and even scorched the soul. Teriarch was burning through his energy endlessly quickly, but he didn’t care. He swerved again, already setting up a third attack run.
There was nowhere to run. The Mortemdefieir’s barrier melted in the face of the Dragonlord’s greatest attack.
Again, the Dragonlord cut through the skies over the High Passes, flying west, and his flames lit the heavens. They burned so bright that in rainy Liscor, if you looked up, you’d see what seemed like a second sun passing overhead.
 
——
 
So engrossed was she on Rafaema’s progress back to Manus, and her people trying to see what the hell was happening in the battle, that Dragonspeaker Luciva didn’t look up from her inner war room in Manus’ High Command. Only when someone shouted at her a fourth time did she glance up.
“What? What comet…?”
She dashed from the keep just in time to see it. It was distant; so were the High Passes. But she could see that far-off mountain range dividing her continent. And—yes—
The Dragonspeaker’s eyes widened as she saw a glowing shape, tiny as a mote of light, curving in midair. Heading back towards the mountains.
“How fast is that?”
Someone wondered aloud. The Dragonspeaker cast around and saw [Soldiers], [Tacticians], [Mages]—not a one had a word for what that was. A spell? What kind of spell did that? A Skill?
A…Dragonspeaker Luciva wanted to breathe the word aloud. Then she peeked over her shoulder and realized that if she saw this—
 
——
 
From the northern part of the Great Plains of Izril to the Drake cities to the far north, people stopped in the streets and pointed.
Those who’d been watching scrying orbs showing only the most distant views of the High Passes gazed up and rubbed their eyes. Their eyes followed the pink streak across the sky, a trail of brilliant glory, and they wondered what it could be.
Lord Calidus Reinhart couldn’t take his eyes off the image.
“Aunt, what is this?”
He half-turned in the Reinhart group call, craning his head and leaning precariously over the edge of the balcony to see. He almost fell; one of the [Assassins] had to grab hold of him to keep him from dying. The [Lord] dangled in midair and clearly heard someone sigh.
“Looks like dear cousin Magnolia is up to her ears in danger. Again. I knew we kept her around for a reason.”
Cecille Reinhart lit a puffer stick as she sat back in her chair. The younger Reinharts were agitated, scowling, worried, but the older Reinharts just kept their eyes on the scrying orbs.
Waiting.
 
——
 
The comet burned in the eyes of a young Drake child staring up towards the High Passes. While the adults pointed and wondered if it was some illusion or Pallass’ magic, the child remembered a storybook, and the comet set fire to their imagination.
 
——
 
 
It set a different kind of fire alight in the minds of other nations. [Kings] and [Queens] were pulled away from their scrying orbs and [Court Mages] by old advisors or frantic [Historians], who had old leather tomes in their hands. A name connected to the image of a crimson-scaled Drake, a kindly old man.
For the King of Myths, Nuvityn of Erribathe, there could be no doubt. He called a halt to the procession and turned to his advisors. He forgot how young all but the half-Elves were. They didn’t want to say it for fear of being ridiculous, even with the evidence plastered before them. So Nuvityn glanced at the two oldest half-Elves sitting on the walking cottage. He had suspected it, but now it was confirmed beyond any shadow of doubt.
“The Dragonlord of Flames.”
King Nuvityn felt his heart stir, and Magus Tserre merely sniffed.
“Teriarch.”
She took a deeper sip of tea, then paused and grimaced as she realized that Prildor’s and Nuvityn’s eyes were locked upon her.
 
——
 
A panic in Germina. [Assassins] were running around like frightened nursemaids, and subjects of Germina were standing in a huge crowd just outside the capital city.
“Quarass, come down! It is not safe!”
They remonstrated with the child hovering in the air so high she herself was barely visible, save for the Serkonian Lance held in one hand. That was a harsh, emerald green glow, like a star burning low in the desert sky.
The Quarass of Germina ignored them. She was flying as high as she could, magnifying her vision. She knew it was ludicrous, even with all the spells she could cast, but she wanted to see.
“So it is a Draconic Warrior. Nothing less would have you flying.”
Her hands were too-tight on her staff as she counted the poisons buried in her vaults and made plans. She had known he was alive. But she hadn’t been sure if he would wait this age out, sticking to small deeds and commentary, just like all the others.
No, this time he had come as the warrior. The wrathful foe who burned so hot he reduced kingdoms to ash. The grieving hero who presided over the pyres of his foes. The doom whose light still lit the darkness of her dreams, even thousands of years later.
The Dragonlord of Flames had awoken, then. Let his enemies beware.
 
——
 
Dead silence in Invictel. In the cities of Dullahans, they had old tales too, but they marked their enemies, not fond myths of magic and wonder.
A giant figure strode past the Adamite Chosen, Dullahans wearing ancient sets of Adamantium. The Seer of Steel did not have to duck as he carried his head into a vast, glass dome set in the city, at one of the highest points.
The fact that head and body were united was rare. The Seer of Steel spoke, wishing Tulm were here. But then, the fact Tulm was not spoke to his foresight, as ever.
“WE CONFIRM IT AGAIN, THEN. NOT JUST THE EXISTENCE, BUT WHERE. MARK THE SPOT AND TELL TULM TO BEWARE. PYRELORD.”
Reverentially, the leader of the Iron Vanguard stopped in the middle of the vast dome that enhanced scrying spells to their limit. He placed his head in the center of the contraption as crystal magnifying glasses swung around the dome, locking together in the direction of Izril. And the Seer of Steel watched the comet passing by. Until the glow—vanished.
 
——
 
Three passes, and he was melting.
His bones were melting.
The Seith Cores were unable to keep his body intact. The Titan had been flailing, screaming, in pain.
He’d forgotten pain. That was one of the tricks of the Dragonlord’s breath. It reminded the immortals, those who held death in contempt, of their fragility. It was agonizing.
—But he had to live. Not this death. He had survived the madness of time. He had lain in the darkness so long, dreaming of the sky.
He refused to die yet. He had survived hell, gone insane, dragged himself out of it, and the voice had rewarded him only twice in the aeons of his despair.
The Titan’s arms were melting. He was virtually immobile; the flames had fused his body with the ground, but his chest and head were intact. After the first pass, he had pivoted into the fire. Shielding the only two parts of him that mattered.
The Dragonlord was coming a fourth time. He wouldn’t stop until the Draconic Warrior was dead, and it would not take many more passes. The one mercy was that the mortals had drawn back, stopped their assault.
An opening.
But the Dragonlord was moving so fast. The Titan’s burnt sockets rose to the sky, shedding smoke. He could see, even without the ruined eyeballs melting down his face. Impossibly fast. Death coming again in a line across the heavens.
Moving in a straight line. There would only be one chance. So the Titan whispered words it hadn’t spoken for twenty thousand years.
“[Emergency Healing]. [Lightspeed Reaction]. [I Pierced the Walls in Hate]. [Ray of Oblivion].”
Flesh and bones regrew. The Titan became a blur of movement to the mortals fixed on his form.
A single line of red shot skywards and hit the comet; it fell from the skies, trailing fire. The Titan crowed in victory as it raised its ruined arms, and its flesh began to knit, bones fusing together. It stood there in contempt for that arrogant champion, melted flesh running off its body like tears.
Then the first oversized bolt of lightning actually knocked the Titan off its feet. It landed and rolled, wondering how…?
A woman in pink lowered a tube as a salute from the Emperor of Lightning traced itself across the sky. Then the mortals were attacking again. The Titan rose to its feet, laughing quietly, then bounding forwards, hands open, tearing.
 
——
 
“—riarch? Teriarch!”
He pushed himself up and knew his wound was bad. It had pierced even his good scales.
Hadn’t killed him.
There was that.
“I’m alive.”
The Dragonlord searched around for the enemy and then tried to climb out of the trough of dirt he’d created. The trough of broken stone he’d carved was littered with remnants of his Dragonbreath—and pieces of gold. His scales. He glanced at his right side and wished he hadn’t. There was a charred crater in his flank, and the spell had blasted a hole clean through his wing as well.
Bastard. He was quick. What was his class…?
“Teriarch, he’s attacking 2nd Army! You have to get back here!”
The Dragonlord knew he had to move. He limped forwards, ignoring the crunching of scales, trying to tell if he was bleeding. How deep…?
I’ve had deeper wounds. But he had a true, mortal opening now. Next phase. He could still fight. He could.
“Take—take down his body mass, as I said. Eighty percent. They can’t use Skills when they lose over twenty percent of their form…”
He was mumbling, running, realizing he wasn’t even on the right mountain. The Dragon whispered a spell and leapt, spreading his one good wing open and gliding with the aid of magic. He had to keep fighting. Dead gods, he hated an even match.
Of course they’d sent a monster to kill the Trolls. So fast. Too fast. He had to get in close now. The plan. Stick to…
He could hear voices over the speaking stones and flew faster, despite the agony. Mortals were dying again.
 
——
 
Now the reaper raised his scythe and cut a bloody harvest. The Titan thought of himself thusly, and he also thought of himself as Titan first. He had forgotten the days when he was a small Drake like the mortals below him.
His yellowed teeth pushed further out of their gums as the rotted warrior turned his attention to the pestilential army beneath his feet. He raised a hand and conjured a scythe of green magic to harvest lives.
And he was wrong. The analogy fit. The analogy of the scythe mowing down chaff was known in this world and others, but it was wrong.
Scythes cut wheat and other grains. Reapers, as in Grim Reapers, were fables. Images associated with death that deviated from the real act entirely.
The Mortemdefieir Titan was no scytheman harvesting lives. He was more akin to the farmer eradicating fields infested with mice. All the pleasure he took in the act, his vindictive war with beings so much smaller and individually weaker than he was, resembled the thrashing of a furious and malignant child.
There was no grave impartiality with which he raised that scythe which could harvest countless lives in a single stroke. There was no care for each and every stalk and grain of life, no matter how large or small, no fairness in how the Titan acted.
He was no reaper.
