Water magic. The [Alchemists] loosed potions from slings, and the Chieftain did dodge that. He spun left with a ballerina’s grace; when he resumed his run, his back was laid open with burning acid and alchemical flames, but already healing.
<“Brace!”>
Spearmaster Gaellis thundered as he lowered his spear, readying himself. The front ranks, Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, Garuda, all tensed, forming a line of metal. They had to hold the Kraken Eaters back.
Shieldwall of will and Skill and muscle and bone. The screaming Goblins were spearheaded by Naumel and his Fomirelin. Dozens of them, shoulder-charging into the spears.
Hold! 
The Great Chieftain’s grin widened. He crashed into 2nd Army’s front rank, and a spear snapped in his shoulder. Armored figures stumbled back as he landed in the second rank. Then he swung his axe.
Ten feet of empty space let another Fomirelin smash further into the army, and he hit another [Shieldwall]—and crashed through. He swung a sword left and right, hammering down, then raised a shield to block a counterstrike from a Drake officer. The blow pierced the shield, and the Great Goblin grunted in surprise; he twisted, wrenching the blade from the Drake’s hands, and his teeth snapped shut over the Drake’s head.
Shirka felt over two hundred lives vanish in a second; the Goblins barely slowed down until they hit the third rank. 2nd Army reeled. Chieftain Naumel roared.
“[Tribe: Unstoppable Charge]! [Tribe: The Breaking Wave]! Kill the nobles and Chieftain Rags!”
He pointed, his finger jabbing as he swung his axe again. At Shirka, Ulhouse, Xitegen, and Rags.
He missed Magnolia Reinhart. Shirka had no time to wonder why. The main force of the Kraken Eaters hit 2nd Army.
The Fomirelin’s rush had halted; they swung their weapons around, clearing space, but the regular Goblins didn’t simply charge between them. Instead, a dozen feet from 2nd Army, they jumped.
They came over the heads of the fighting [Soldiers] and landed in the midst of their enemies, slashing and sowing further chaos. Instantly, Shirka directed her warriors to encircle and slaughter the Goblins before they could open the lines further. Then she saw a greater threat.
<“Front ranks, fall back now!”>
Drakes tried to disengage, but the first three ranks were too late. A Hobgoblin who had landed amongst the Drakes turned and threw his battleaxe.
“[Sister, Catch]!”
The enchanted blade spun through the [Soldiers], and a grinning Fomirelin caught the weapon. The Kraken Eaters were turning and engulfing the front ranks entirely, not mindlessly rampaging ahead. Some were grabbing weapons and even trying to yank armor off the dead and living—
The Great Chieftain kept coming. General Shirka drew one of her throwing hatchets and saw his eyes settle on her. She was counting her Skills, now, warning Gaellis.
<“Gaellis, stop their charge or they’ll butcher our wounded. Do it, now!”>
He hesitated, then tore away from her as the Great Chieftain punched a [Rider] off his saddle. He ran through a Wyvern breathing fire, and his lieutenant leapt on top of the Wyvern and began to strangle it as Goblins shot the [Rider] out of the saddle. A mortal foe, not some great epoch of ancient horrors.
<“[Alchemical Coating: Dullwit’s Liquor]. [Returning Throw]. [Unit: Dig In]. Protect Lord Xitegen. Protect—”>
She threw her hatchet. He caught it.
Ancestors, he was fast—
 
——
 
Anxiety. There was no report from the front.
Of course, a communications blackout had been announced. Why, he hadn’t been informed. ‘Auxiliary’ allies.
Supreme General Edellein had informed members of the Assembly of Crafts he’d called for the blackout, of course. He did that to insulate Shirka and to present a unified front. She never understood that.
Nor had he authorized anyone else to [Scry] the battlefield, but he couldn’t…stop them. Once the scrying blackout ended, it was free rein on the battlefield.
Victory was what General Edellein expected as he sat tensely in Pallass’ inner war rooms with Strategist Esor and a few [Senators]. A dead Titan, perhaps being stood upon by a brave Drake in uniform.
—When the scrying orbs flickered to life, he saw General Shirka, the focus of the spell. A hand hefted her into the air, then slammed her into the ground. The struggling Drake cut at the arm with a hatchet. Edellein’s mouth opened wide as the grinning Goblin grimaced—then tossed her, ripped the hatchet out of his arm, and threw it. Shirka rolled; the hatchet glanced off one shoulder pauldron. She blew something from a vial at Chieftain Naumel: corrosive blue flames.
He kicked her twenty feet, then ripped the blue fire off him. The Great Goblin’s head swivelled, and he barked.
“Cazmaw. Kill the Terland.”
“Wh—what is—”
Senator Errif had turned pale, and his cup of wine was suddenly shaking in the Gnoll’s grip. Strategist Esor took one look at the image and snapped.
“Get me a location and precision artillery spells, now!”
Edellein rose.
“That’s not—where’s the rest of the army?”
The image was zooming out, showing him a portion of 2nd Army being assaulted by a vast Goblin tribe. They were pushing back, trying to keep the Goblins from breaking their formation in twain. But the biggest Goblins—the biggest Edellein had ever seen in his life—were rampaging forwards.
Not uncontested; a group of them went down, and he saw Spearmaster Gaellis impale one through the chest, and a flying maid landed on one of the Fomirelin with an axe-kick that snapped the arm like a twig. But General Shirka herself was trying to rise, and Lord Xitegen was retreating as one of his servant-Golems’ faces cracked.
Lord Xitegen?
People were demanding answers, crying out in confusion, sending orders to shut down the broadcast of the battle. But it was too late. Edellein began to bark at Esor.
“Tell 2nd Army to maneuver into Razorback Spray formation—”
Then he silenced himself and just watched, knuckles white on the table. There was nothing he could do, he realized, but watch. The Great Chieftain stomped towards General Shirka as an equally large Goblin grabbed Lord Xitegen in one hand and grabbed his head in the other to pull it off.
 
——
 
When she saw Chieftain Naumel appear, Rags closed her eyes. When they snapped open, she turned and spoke.
“Prixall, tell Snapjaw to grab Redscar and retreat.”
“But they’re—”
“Do it now. Get them out of range. As fast as you can. Leapwolf, go.”
The Hobgoblin twisted in his saddle. He looked down into the chaos of the battlefield, and Rags pointed straight at Naumel.
The Redfang warrior didn’t hesitate. He drew his blades, copying his mentor, Redscar, and rode into the chaos with a whoop of laughter. Rags closed her eyes again, but she didn’t activate any Skills. She was a [Student].
“Prixall. Put me to sleep, then get out of here.”
The [Witch] had just fired off a [Message] spell to Snapjaw. Above, the Wyverns were aborting their attack runs; the Goblin was almost as confused until she got why Rags had given the order. She hesitated, then put her hand out.
“[Deep Slumber].”
The [Student] collapsed. Prixall snapped her fingers as a screaming Frost Wyvern dove towards her.
“[Dispel Magic].”
Then she ran as the Goblin got back to her feet.
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen saw Primera break in half as the Great Goblin crushed her head. That wouldn’t have killed some Golems, but her Golem Heart had been embedded in her head. He’d always thought it was a vanity.
The triumphant Goblin seized him up and tried to rip off his head. Xitegen’s magical rings flared and died in face of that tremendous strength, and he felt his neck twist savagely.
“[D-Defiance After Death].”
He choked the words out, and out of the corner of his eye, he saw the ruined body of his beloved Golem sit up. She pointed one shattered stump of an arm at Cazmaw, and the Fomirelin twisted.
The burning rush of flames ignited Xitegen’s skin, but it didn’t matter. He landed hard, rolling, and tried to draw his sword. He would have run, but he couldn’t see—
He got one blurry image of a roaring Goblin before said Goblin punched him. Xitegen lost his sword and rolled back onto his feet more from momentum than anything else.
He looked around for Lectara, Seconda, or anyone; he just saw [Soldiers] trying to fend off a second wave of Kraken Eaters charging at them.
“I should have made the family kill them ages ago. Complacency.”
The [Lord] staggered upright and rubbed one sleeve across his face. Cazmaw stepped forwards and grinned.
“Complacency.”
He agreed, his voice sonorous and low. Then he charged. Lord Xitegen turned and sprinted for it. A coward ran. A coward sat behind battlements while good men and women died.
Sometimes, you ran from monsters. Lord Xitegen ran until he saw the rear of his forces, wounded men and women and Golems in front of him. Then he stopped, sighed, and turned. They were calling for him to get behind them.
“Coward I may be, but a disgrace to House Terland I am not. [Covering Fire].”
He did try to dodge as that vast hand grabbed for him, but then it was lifting him up. Why was this Goblin so intent on his head…?
Ah, of course. Parity.
Xitegen carefully spat into one eye. He saw Cazmaw’s teeth bare, and fingers delicately grabbed the edges of Xitegen’s neck, claws digging in deep. The [Lord] stared past the Goblin, and his eyes focused on a blurry shape. It looked…like a green comet.
Or a Goblin flying with magical fire.
 
——
 
“[Rocket Kick]!”
Rags kicked Cazmaw in the side with all the force in her body. Even so, she was astonished by the sight of the gigantic Fomirelin tumbling away from her.
The [Apista’s Jetfire] spell kept Rags moving; she swivelled, burning a tight circle in the ground, and saw a man lying on his back. Was he…?
“Lord Xitegen! Here!”
Rags reached for him as a furious, howling roar came from Cazmaw. Goblins were racing after their leader, intent on butchering the both of them. Lord Xitegen was staring at the sky. When Rags extended her hand, those dreaming eyes focused on her.
“Alas.”
He didn’t take her hand for a second. Just stared at her. When Rags screamed at him to get up, the [Lord] reached up.
“The world is upside down. And rightside up. I feared it was always both.”
She had no idea what he was talking about. The Goblin whirled and grabbed Xitegen. She lifted him up, which surprised both of them; her back and arms felt like they’d break, and she spoke.
“[Jetfire Jump]!”
They hit only a dozen feet in the air, mostly due to Xitegen’s weight, and landed behind Controller Lectara as she thundered towards them. Rags dumped Xitegen down, and he stood. He glanced once at her, then spoke.
“Don’t kill this Goblin. Seconda—kill that one.”
Rags turned, and her finger shot across House Terland’s soldiers and Golems. She screamed a single order, from the gifts of levelling.
“[Champions of the Brass Dragon]!”
Controller Lectara grunted as her battered and broken Golem suit took on a polished, golden glow. She saw flame spells reactivating in the magical sigils on one arm. A Terland [Soldier] levelled a flaming spear at the Kraken Eaters. They never slowed as they charged.
They feared no flame.
 
——
 
Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s hand rose, and she swept it over the ground. Her arm was burning. She felt like she was lifting the hills themselves; her arm wanted to break.
She ignored it and pushed.
Three dozen Goblins racing after Cazmaw vanished. Surprised Goblin faces gazed down and wondered why they were flying—
The Fomirelin was harder. He didn’t even stumble as he smashed into Controller Lectara and began to grapple with her hand-to-hand. He grunted as Magnolia tried to sweep a leg, topple him—
Too heavy. Too high-level. The [Lady] took a breath as Controller Lectara blew flames over the Goblin, blinding him. Cazmaw headbutted the woman, stunning her.
Magnolia slapped Cazmaw with all the energy she had left. The Hobgoblin rotated slightly with the impact, grunted, looked around, and found her. He raised his spear to throw at Xitegen and Rags, and the pink carriage hit him.
After he stopped tumbling, Ressga ran him over again before speeding towards Xitegen and Rags. Reynold was running alongside the carriage, dashing into the fighting before speeding back on his enchanted legs.
The [Lady] pivoted, arm twinging with effort, and swept arrows out of the sky. Aiming at her. Someone had noticed her presence; she saw a female [Shaman] as big as the other two Fomirelin pointing at her.
Magic burst from Fituna’s finger in the shape of raging sharks, made out of water with fangs of ice, to take the [Lady]’s life. Ressa cut two apart as she darted forwards and tangled with a pair of Hobs guarding the [Shaman].
Seven leapt through the air at Magnolia Reinhart, and she swept her hand dreamily across the sky.
The spell vanished; no sharks vanished in a spray of water. They just winked out. Fituna blinked; she saw the [Lady] open her palm, and water and droplets of ice fell from her hand as she shook her fingers out.
The confidence of the Kraken Eaters’ [Shaman] wavered. She backed up as a pair of Hobs fell, twitching, and the [Maid] advanced.
 
——
 
General Shirka pushed herself off a boulder and wished that idiot would stop kicking her. It was a viable tactic; their weight discrepancies meant it kept her from forming up with her people, and she kept having to get to her feet.
All she needed was an op—
Shirka ducked a cut from his axe that took off her neck spines. Naumel threw an uppercut, and she raised arms to block it.
The punch carried her up; she kicked him in the face and used the motion to propel herself backwards. He was already swinging for where she landed. There was no stunning him, and he seemed virtually immune to her poisoned blades.
Shirka landed and leaned under the blade until her entire body was lower than her stomach. She came back up; he was on the backswing already. She grabbed the axe’s teeth with her gauntlets and let the force toss her to the side.
“You’re fast. Better than some Named-ranks.”
His compliment and self-satisfied grin said he was having the time of his life. Shirka drew a backup axe and charged. She hacked, right-left, a diagonal chopping motion that gouged into his arm. He grimaced at that; it bit down to the bone, but he took the blows to go for another swing. Shirka was getting ready to leap over the blade when the hilt hit her in the head.
He bashed the pommel into her helmet again and grabbed her. It was, again, the best tactic to use. She wasn’t as strong as he was, and immobilized, he could strike her with all his force or rip her head off. If she let him.
