“General Shirka, stop him from leaving the valley at all costs!”
He was turning, trying to avoid the spiral of insects now swirling upwards towards his position. The two had been testing each other. Trying to find an early weak spot in the other’s defenses.
The Dragonlord of Flame was mobile and refused to close with the Titan; by the same token, the Draconic Warrior knew his limits exactly. He would allow his body to regenerate any wound that wouldn’t impede him.
These battles would inevitably favor the Draconic Warriors as time ran on; even the magic of Dragons wasn’t equivalent to the Seith Cores embedded in his body.
The Dragonlord was casting a new spell as he attempted to avoid the insects. They had no chance of harming him, but clinging to his body until he was borne down by their numbers or fouling his wings or vision? They could do that, and the [Ray of Oblivion] was waiting.
The Draconic Warrior was running for a better vantage point to face his enemy, content to literally outpace the army pinning him here. He drew a foot back as he ran and kicked contemptuously at another squad of [Soldiers] in front of him.
The impact crushed the squad of Drakes and Dullahans into the ground. However, this time, the Titan’s foot drew back and revealed intact bodies, who began weakly squirming or stabbing as the rotten limb drew back.
Ulhouse’s Skill. The Titan was past the squad in a second, and the hail of arrows halted to avoid friendly fire.
“Reposition now!”
General Shirka was bellowing at Ulhouse as her army swarmed forwards, but the Titan was too vast and tall. He simply jumped an entire company of [Soldiers], laughing—
And stumbled again.
It was his right leg. The ankle didn’t so much twist as fail to keep up with his desire to transfer his weight onto it and leap again. The Titan faltered, caught himself, and three dozen projectiles hit him in the right shoulder.
It wasn’t Magnolia this time. No force had made his leg weaken. It was, rather, what wasn’t there that had caused the lapse.
The broken Seith Core. That single moment of opportunity was all it took. Fluid, the Titan took three more steps forwards, and something yanked him around by the right shoulder. He twisted, then swung around to see what was stopping him this time.
The Draconic Warrior’s right arm was aglow with dozens of vibrant, green bolts, launched from above. Goblins. Their Thunderbows had fired the first volley this battle, into the opening the weakened leg had given them. The Titan had simply ignored the bolts that lodged in his skin. His mistake.
His eyes weren’t that good. He had missed the munitions they’d been loaded with.
Anchor Bolts. The magical artifacts strained at the air, humming as they locked themselves at the point of impact along with the Titan’s arm. It took him a second to allow the dead flesh to loosen and tear the bolts free with the skin and tissue. The Titan pivoted, and Major Hiclaw’s Wyverns exhaled.
Flames burst over the Titan’s face and chest as he raised an arm to shield his face. He batted at the air, but the Wyverns broke off before his grasping fingers reached them. The Wyverns dove before strafing away, three flights at a time. The Dragonbreath ate away at the Titan’s skin, turning it molten and charred.
“Kneecap that bastard! Now! [Tactic: Slay the Giant].”
General Shirka pointed a finger, and Spearmaster Gaellis jumped. He hit the Titan in the kneecap as a squad of 2nd Army’s best spear-users hit the Titan with every impact Skill they had.
The right leg buckled, and the Titan wobbled again. 2nd Army closed in, armed with grappling hooks, mounted cavalry prepared to lash the ropes to their saddles and pull the monstrosity down.
 
——
 
Gaellis was the literal spear of the assault, and he pulled his spear back from the cracking cartilage to fully hamstring the Titan. The Drake yanked on his spear—and it stuck suddenly. He grunted, precariously perched on the Titan’s knee. The [Spearmaster] heaved with all his strength, and the spear didn’t move. He wrenched it left and right, swearing, and saw something in the gap he’d created in the flesh.
Red…hands? The Drake saw them grabbing at the tip of the spear. Not true hands, but rather, fleshy bits of sinew mimicking hands. Three had a hold of his spear and were keeping it there. The last had formed an odd, pointing finger—
The [Spearmaster] let go of his spear and kicked off the kneecap a second before the smaller ray of green light could touch him. He heard shouting from below as the Titan lurched upwards.
What was going on? Gaellis saw confusion below and realized his soldiers were in combat. Not with the Titan, but something else.
Objects had fallen from the Titan’s legs, emerging from his sundered flesh. Not just the insects that infested the Draconic Warrior.
Undead, clinging to the scales, some morphing out of his ‘flesh’, reconstituting themselves from where they had been absorbed. A rearing caterpillar-like maggot spraying thorns out of its pale hide as it leapt on the nearest [Soldier]. Undead Trolls, swinging clubs of bone, and more of those hands. Tendons and nerves whipping about and grabbing [Soldiers]. One constricted around the neck of a Gnoll and crushed her windpipe as her friends tried to cut the deadly garrote away.
“Fall back! He’s sweeping the area!”
Shirka’s mental and verbal command reached Gaellis as he drew a backup spear, and he veered off his second assault. The Titan glanced down, disdainful, and reached down with one hand. He pulled at something—his chest—and opened his left rib cage, ripping the flesh apart into his chest cavity like someone opened a door.
The largest grub that Gaellis had ever seen unwound itself from around his ribs and plopped onto the ground with a tremor. It was like a bloated tapeworm and reared up before spraying a cloud of gastric acid at the nearest [Soldiers].
“[Smog of Toxins].”
The Titan exhaled a putrid fog downwards, and then he was gone. Thudding in the darkness—Gaellis heard voices.
“He’s moving! Cut down those monsters and get out of the fog!”
The [Spearmaster] was too preoccupied to issue a report, mentally or otherwise. He was fumbling for a mask designed for hostile toxins and fighting with his other hand, stabbing repeatedly into what might have been a tick as large as he was. Then he ran forwards, throwing [Soldiers] he found who weren’t wearing masks. Tossing them as far as he could out of range of the cloud.
When Gaellis finally got the mask back on his head and could speak, he saw the [Soldiers] attempting to leave the spreading cloud of mists and battling the horrors the Titan had dropped.
The undead were easiest; a [Fireball] lit up one before one of his [Spearmen] impaled the Troll through the leg and jumped back, leaving it easy prey for the squad to bring it down from afar. But those slithering tendrils…
<“Dullahans, forwards! Gaellis, get out of there! We need you!”>
Gaellis heard Ulhouse’s voice in his mind and understood. 2nd Army’s Drakes fell back, and Dullahans moved forwards. They weren’t faster or more nimble than their counterparts, far from it; one of the sinew-worms dodged a hacking [Soldier] with an axe and tried to strangle them. Instead, the Dullahan’s helmeted head popped off, and they seized the worm with their hand. Their limbs detached rather than letting the worms constrict them.
Gaellis ran through the cloud of toxins and burst out on the other side. He ripped the mask off his face and vomited a streak of liquid onto the ground. Then he touched the speaking stone next to his earhole.
“Gaellis to Ulhouse. [Healers]. All forces: the smog is poisonous to touch as well as breathe!”
Then he searched around for the Titan.
 
——
 
The encounter with 2nd Army didn’t slow the Titan down more than a few seconds. While they were battling his minions, he was pivoting, taking aim, as more Anchor Bolts hit him. He’d given up on leaving the valley to strike the Dragonlord.
The swarm of insects had shot up so fast that they resembled a tornado all of their own. Teriarch had been attempting to simply outfly them, but he hadn’t reckoned on their speed. The leading trail of them rose upwards, blocking his way, and he flew above as they outpaced the larger Dragon, closing like a living net.
The Titan took aim as the Dragonlord’s form rose perilously, losing speed with his gaining altitude. He was an open target, and they both knew it. So rather than keep flying upwards, Teriarch abruptly reversed course and dove straight into the heart of the insect swarm. They covered him immediately as he pulled his wings around him, dropping like a golden bat.
What was he doing? Only one being realized what maneuver the Dragonlord was utilizing.
The Wyvern Lord had been circling the battlefield, wondering how to take on the undead…big thing, which was a rival for the ancient glacier-monsters of ice for size. It was too big and used magic? He had been waiting for his opening when the swarm rose. Now, he saw the Dragonlord execute the same maneuver he had used against the other Wyvern.
The Brass Dragon dove into the heart of the swarm and then unfurled his wings as he unleashed his dragonfire. A burst of dazzling flames incinerated a majority of the bugs, but the Dragonlord did something more in that moment.
The Wyvern Lord’s eyes narrowed with shock as the roiling flames turned into black smoke. The Dragonlord vanished in a haze that obscured his location, and the Titan cursed in what the Wyvern Lord assumed were bad words.
So that was how you did it? You didn’t just blow apart something, you vanished—a second burgundy-colored beam pierced the clouds, and the Dragonlord emerged from the opposite side, winging away as insects trailed after him.
Now he was building up speed, and the Titan began to stride forwards again, but the Goblins’ bolts had stymied him. He tore at the magical objects buried in his flesh, and another pass of Wyverns began to breathe elements. The Wyvern Lord shrieked a command at his Wyverns and dove. He didn’t need to be told they were buying the Dragonlord time.
This time—the Titan’s wrath came for the Wyverns. He opened his mouth, and the third beam of light vaporized two flights of Wyverns. The Wyvern Lord flinched as he saw pieces of wings and a leg falling out of the sky.
The Frost Wyverns around him aborted their dives, panicking as Major Hiclaw’s forces scattered. The Titan peered up and swept the beam towards the Wyvern Lord.
He breathed the coldest frost he had, but the beam never touched him. A hail of glowing arrows fell down and detonated in the Titan’s face.
The Golem man. The Wyvern Lord’s breath froze that baleful head for a moment, and then he hit the Titan with all his weight.
The Frost Wyvern Lord tumbled away, then regained his wings, stunned by the impact. He saw the Titan lurch back a step, then come around. A hand reached for the Wyvern Lord’s tail, and the Wyvern Lord swore he saw another hand push it slightly off-course.
Grimy fingers snapped closed and briefly caught the Wyvern Lord, but the frost and his desperate twist got him free. The Wyvern Lord sped away, screeching victoriously. He heard a roar of frustration from behind him and redoubled his speed.
Now would be a good time for that old Dragon to show off! The Wyvern Lord searched around for that brass glow and saw…nothing.
He ran away. The Wyvern Lord’s jaw dropped as he sensed the Dragonlord miles away. He ran away?
No, wait. Why was the Titan suddenly looking afraid…?
 
——
 
Openings. The Mortemdefieir Titan had surprised the Dragonlord of Flames with his enhanced spellcasting. The Dragonlord had still managed to dodge, forewarned by Mrsha’s comments. But facing a true hybrid spellcaster-warrior was highly, highly…no, even if he was a specialist, it would have been the same.
High levels made for nightmarish foes.
The swarm of insects had been meant to prevent Teriarch from gaining time to cast spells. Every second the Titan was distracted, halted in place, the Dragonlord had a chance to set himself up. The purpose of the mortal army was to keep the Titan occupied and not allow it to retreat or prepare for what it knew was coming.
You know me. The Champion of Ashen Wings, Teriarch of Kerozel, had always been known for one tactic in war.
He was miles away already, flying away from the battlefield and accelerating with each second as he reduced the friction of air on his body to a minimum, set up guidance spells, and plotted his course. The further he went, the better.
He needed the space.
The Dragonlord’s wings ignited with pink flames as he angled them unnaturally so they were no longer flying like a bird, but acting as guides. He propelled himself forwards with his flames as he had done against the Great Wyrm of Ailendamus.
But this time, he did it properly. He was not panting for breath, and his wings were steady as his fire engulfed him.
Pink and gold burning around the Dragonlord as he accelerated and then curved. His wings moved only fractionally as he locked them into place with magic—at the speeds he was going, even the slightest deviation would radically alter his trajectory. And he was still accelerating when he abruptly stopped hearing anything.
The Dragonlord pushed through an odd, elastic barrier in the air, and he was moving faster than sound itself, leaving the wind trailing behind him a shockwave of force.
<”Shirka: Dragonlord! We can’t hold him!”>
The spoken missive appeared in his mind, written rather than heard. The Dragonlord’s reply was also dictated from his thoughts.
“I am coming. Clear the area.”
The High Passes were in front of him now, those jagged peaks that hadn’t existed when he had been a boy. Just one smaller but wider mountain…his eyes strained as he sensed that abhorrent mass of death.
One second. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six—now.
He exhaled, spun, and then levelled upright, and he was out of the High Passes, veering past a mountain. He had to adjust his next approach or he’d hit a mountain; Teriarch swerved left, counting down until his next approach.
His speaking spell was transcribing cheering.
 
——
 
Redscar had seen the greatest [Blademaster] to ever set foot on this world draw her sword. Zeladona’s figure was a shadow in every foe he met, and he always felt like he was struggling to capture even a millionth of her skill.
Against this terrible foe, he felt the same. There was no art or swing of his sword that had a hope of doing enough damage. But when he looked up and saw that pink comet burning towards him, he and he alone saw the Dragonlord strike.
The Titan was mid-run, diving for cover, when Teriarch passed overhead, a glowing nimbus of pink fire with a golden core. A meteorite—who struck faster than the speed of sound.
