A misshapen head appeared first out of the crack in the rocks, followed by an arm. Teriarch saw a flat face and two eyes so badly rotted he could see holes in the pupils—before the first volley of enchanted arrows hit the Titan’s head.
It didn’t jerk back; it weathered 2nd Army’s volley as stones rained down around it. If anything, the gap widening just let it pull more of its body out.
“Hold fire, General. You cannot hurt it that easily.”
And it will run. It—he—is testing the forces here. The Titan had indeed paused, but he began to pull more of his body out of the crevasse. A few pieces of his head were smoldering or fizzling with magic; the damage was barely even visible and healed in seconds.
That volley had been someone in 2nd Army panicking. Not the weapons Teriarch had given the Goblins or the other equipment he’d drawn from his vaults. It could have probably killed many, many [Soldiers] of the modern day, even so.
Not this. The head kept expanding, and the Titan rose higher as more of its body pulled out of the crevasse. Now, all of them could see the image that matched Teriarch’s memory.
A giant Drake…but subtly different from the ones standing before the Titan in miniature. This Titan had that same reptilian head and torso, but the neck spines extended down his actual back. Many were broken, but they were long and jagged, and he was stooped when he stood. Used to smaller places, perhaps.
His scales were huge, but more like actual scale mail than Drake armor; they overlapped and shifted, though again, many were torn away, revealing black flesh beneath.
Insects writhed all over the Titan. So many his form appeared to be subtly shifting from afar. The Mortemdefieir Titan was forty feet tall when it stood. Teriarch was shorter than the Draconic Warrior unless he reared up, but he was actually of the same mass as the Titan.
Not as small as they could go, but lower mid-range. Probably one of the largest they could send to fight underground. Which one of the City of Graves’ could it be…?
Too many to know, too many whom he had never bothered to learn the names of. The Titan fully unfolded himself, and Teriarch noticed the final change. Its legs were digitigrade; like a dog, it kept its toes on the ground but lifted the back of its heel upwards.
The Dragonlord remembered Mrsha’s words to him. It was nimble. Quick. Feet like that certainly enabled fast running, dashing from spot to spot. But little stability compared to normal bipedal feet.
Bad eyesight.
The Dragonlord of Flames adjusted his plans slightly in the silence as mortality beheld this old nightmare. The Drake’s mouth was slightly open, revealing a cloud of pestilence, and its half-eaten eyes were darting around, inspecting the army before it. It was naked, but so caked in filth that any genitalia it had been given wasn’t visible.
This was the completed Mortemdefieir Titan, and it had no signs of nerve atrophy. When it took a step forwards it was slow, yet dainty, ending Teriarch’s hopes that the Titan would be uncoordinated. So he spoke as every eye fixed on him, including the Titan.
“I am Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flame. Have you any last words?”
 
——
 
His voice was so…gentle. The Titan started, and for a second, it was there. True, genuine terror. Recognition.
It knew him. Just like General Shirka, consulting old records. Just like the immortals of Ailendamus or old kingdoms of Terandria. The Titan’s movements were so humanoid and adaptive; it jerked backwards, twisting its torso as if to flee into the rock, caught itself, and clenched one clawed fist.
So fast, as fast as a Human ten times smaller might move. Its eyes narrowed and then turned into a gregarious smile, and it performed an exaggerated bow, both hands raised. Both immortals ignored the armies tensed between them. Their voices boomed through the valley.
The Drake’s voice was actually higher-pitched than Teriarch’s, but his every word had an echoing quality and more sibilance.
“Oh mighty Dragonlord of Flames, have you no other words for…?”
The Dragonlord cut him off, voice flat.
“Speak normally.”
He was fanning his wings slowly, and the air was moving; around the Titan, it was foul and still, but a slight breeze seemed to be coming from the Dragonlord, spreading out in every direction. Then it reversed as he drew breath. The Titan’s muscles visibly contracted, and his face twisted in distaste.
“Must I speak in the lesser tongue? We hail from the scaled heart of the true world, Dragonlord. Nevertheless. I ask again. Is this the only thing you have to say to me, when you sensed me wake? I who have been trapped aeons in the crushing dark, clawing against the hateful doors, abandoned by my people, sentenced to madness where only my will kept me alive, sundered into pieces. I who have emerged to this world where I hear none of my kin. Last of all! And the first thing the mighty Teriarch, the Pyrelord who stood over burning Invictel, the Champion of Lost Causes, the Hero of the Wyrm Wars—the first thing he offers me is death! Have you no heart, Dragonlord? Is there no mercy for me?”
He bowed deep, dipping his head lower and sinking to one knee. The Titan’s voice was courtly, fluid, yet gave the impression his fluid address was an act that could be peeled away if he chose.
The Brass Dragon did not move, nor did his implaccable expression waver, even as the [Lady] in pink shot him a nervous glance. He jerked his head slightly at the mountain.
“The Trolls.”
The Draconic Warrior hesitated, and his head came up as one eyelid jerked downwards, narrowing. Teriarch clarified.
“Twenty thousand years you lay below, a captive. I do not discount this. Yet the first thing you did was slaughter the beings you encountered. If you had changed, if you had a moment of regret, you would have spoken to them. You did not. I need no more proof.”
The Titan’s lips twisted as he rose out of his kneeling position. He flexed his claws open and closed as he stood erect, staring up at the sky, at the sun. Wide-eyed despite looking into the sun.
“Lesser species. Levelless, inferior. I should have known the Pyrelord would judge me by this. Thou arrogant slaughterer, slattern for every mewling, worthless creature. Damned tyrant of noble fire, come to purge the world of foes. Slumbering traitor, fornicating with our foes of Chandrar, piss-stained coward of the Draconic Wars, traitor, worm, and sanctimonious preacher of holy virtues! Mother take your worthless hide, wretched bastard-king of flames, spewing your seed of ideals over every inferior people and cause!”
His voice rose as he began to spit flecks of black liquid at Teriarch, the Titan’s bared teeth writhing with huge worms. His face puffed up with rage as he spoke. Rotten pieces of flesh were falling off his body, regrowing…the [Soldiers] closest to him were watching as his body regenerated even as it was devoured and fell prey to the rot of his flesh.
The tirade would have continued, but the Pyrelord exhaled, and the air in the valley heated. The Titan’s invectives stopped, and the Dragonlord’s voice was soft.
“Have you…any last words?”
The Dragon’s irises were glowing bright, and the rest of his eyes had turned black. Vivid purple and blue lights shone at the Titan. Slowly, the rotting warrior tensed, hunching over, and his groin moved, a withered piece of flesh engorging.
His smile was full of putrefaction, and he chuckled as his head moved left and right, taking everything in with that dead gaze.
“I hear Mother’s voice. I will bring her your hide, Dragonlord. Just like your brothers and sisters.”
The Dragonlord’s head dipped, and he closed his eyes for a second. The Mortemdefieir Titan leapt.
He covered two hundred feet in a single jump, carrying himself into the first ranks of the [Soldiers]. They looked up, and a squad of twenty-four died as his foot crushed them. The Titan raised one foot, pieces of broken metal falling from his skin or being pushed back out.
The Dragon exhaled as chaos burst around them, and the Titan jumped back. Just a hop, then another as his feet touched the ground.
Purple flames shot across the valley in a stream, turning the far mountains into a perfect hole oozing molten stone. Teriarch swept the breath right, and the Titan leaned under the flames. Effortlessly fast. Teriarch swept his head diagonally to catch his foe.
The Titan pirouetted out of the way, sliding one foot around and twisting back up and away. He opened his mouth and belched a stream of insects, black bile, and gas back at the Dragonlord. Teriarch leapt up from the ground, air blasting around him as he took to the skies.
The first enchanted munitions began flying as the Titan swivelled to follow the Dragonlord, sweeping his caustic breath upwards.
“Shields!”
2nd Army took cover as the foul insects landed among them or sprayed off magical barriers, which overloaded. Mutated flies and grubs started at the size of a hand or as long as an arm, but began expanding, bloating as they tried to bite or claw everything in reach. In seconds, some were as large as dogs, others half the size of the [Soldiers] and still growing. 2nd Army hacked at them as pieces of the Titan’s body began to blow away.
It ignored them, eyes on the Dragon flying upwards in near-vertical ascent. The Draconic Warrior’s own putrid breath ran out, and it wiped its mouth and seemed to notice the army at its feet.
A squad was charging into the miasma of insects. The Titan bent down and scooped up two handfuls of Drakes and a Gnoll and held them up.
“Dragonlord! Hostages!”
He danced backwards, leaping out of range of the projectiles blowing pieces of the ground apart. The Draconic Warrior’s leg twisted on landing, and he stumbled. Turned with a frown.
“Hm?”
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart had moved her hand as the Draconic Titan landed. Her face was a mask of concentration, eyes glowing with their own force. Her servants weren’t moving; they had their orders.
Ressa saw the Titan stumble and then turn. It didn’t even look at Magnolia, just put its foot down hard—
The [Lady]’s arm twisted around, and Ressa saw her bones break. Blood began to spread under her skin as Magnolia stared at her arm.
“—Healing potion. It’s too heavy.”
Ressga fumbled for a potion until Ressa tore it from her grasp and began to apply it.
“Grit your teeth. Don’t do that again—”
The Titan was hopping around, even faster than Teriarch had said it would be. Magnolia’s eyes never left it; it was glancing around. But her aura was suppressed.
“Reinhart! What the hell was that? Ceasefire! We can’t tag it while it’s moving.”
Xitegen. Magnolia’s face was pale, but she didn’t move as Ressa twisted the arm as gently as she could, cursing and producing a knife.
“I have to cut it open to see what I’m doing.”
“Do it, Ressa. It’s how you fight these things, Xitegen. Don’t let it sense your presence. Or distract it for me.”
“It’ll rip your arm off—”
Magnolia Reinhart breathed in and out. She glanced down at what Ressa was doing to her arm and spoke.
“I am the strongest [Lady] in Izril. I have bested every [Matriarch of Herds] and [Lady] on this continent. I have only lost to one being: the Goblin King. Focus on your battle.”
She saw the Titan, dancing and waving its captive [Soldiers] in the air, turn to spit more breath skywards. But the Dragonlord was so high, now, that he easily dodged the breath. His distant form shone a second—
A bolt of lightning hit the Titan in the chest and turned the entire world to whiteness. When Magnolia Reinhart picked herself up, the Titan was lying on its back, a massive crater in its chest.
“Teriarch…?”
She looked up, and the Titan dropped the dead [Soldiers] as it sat up. It rolled out of the way of the next lightning bolt and stood. Its eyes were narrowed.
“I see.”
 
——
 
The Dragon cast as many spells as he needed for his plan in the air. He was going to cast more on the ground, but his enemy couldn’t be allowed to see what he was doing. Teriarch juked, preparing another [Bolt of the Lightning Giant].
Nimble, the girl said. What was its specialty? Show me. Show me, show—
Mortals about them as ever, and they knew the true enemy was only each other. But a mortal could be the decisive blow. Yet their eyes were only for…
Smiling. That old monster smiled so, damn him. Enjoying this. The lightning had stopped the smile. It came back as the Titan cast his first spell.
He raised his arms high overhead and twirled forwards, dodging a hail of burning arrows like a swarm of fireflies; his hands made a complex set of symbols along his chest, and then he opened his mouth.
“[Ray of Oblivion].”
Red light gathered in streamers around his open mouth and formed an orb of energy. Then the orb discharged a beam of light skywards.
Beautiful. War magic at its finest. Activation via gesture without the need for incantation. And magic meant to kill a Dragon.
The Dragonlord was too high up for any slower spell to catch him. And he was a Brass Dragon. His kind were already virtually flameproof; his scales were among the hardest of all his kind. What could down him?
Flying Dragons normally fell prey to lightning or wind magic, but the greatest Brass Dragons conducted electricity or nullified it at will. What else was there? Water? Ice? His flame had bested Frost Giants. So—death.
A Tier 7 death spell from a war machine created to unleash that magic in moments. The light was darker than the traditional, ominous crimson glow. Burgundy, like wine. Cutting a line through the sky, killing everything in its path.
Magic. Tiny organisms—a cloud was pierced by the beam and began to disperse, as if an invisible force were eating away at it from the hole created by the ray.
The [Ray of Oblivion] missed. The Dragon dipped one wing and swung under the ray, replying with another bolt of lightning. This time, the Titan responded with a second spell.
“[Swarm of the Locust King].”
He dipped his hands towards the ground and pulled up, and the host of insects arose from his body, magnified by the spell. The Titan ignored the bolt of lightning that blew a piece of his head away, exposing brains, which pulsed green and purple. The insects whirled higher, hundreds of thousands, eating the firepower aimed at him and forcing the nearest [Soldiers] on foot further back. They spiraled upwards.
Another spell from a veteran of conflicts with Dragons. He was a death-aligned spellcaster and didn’t deviate from his specialty.
The fourth bolt of lightning went straight for the Titan’s exposed brains, and it raised an arm, letting the bolt open a huge crater down to the bone of the arm. He lowered it, beaming, and then swept around, running for the edge of the valley. Teriarch snapped a command into the speaking stone.
