The Titan was swinging that sword around in huge, long arcs. Bending over to slash its blade along the ground and crush or cut everything in its path. It got several Goblins who failed to duck or jump the blade, cut apart a squad of Shirka’s soldiers.
Then the sword hit a line of 2nd Army’s forces who’d formed a classic spear-and-shield wall. [Soldiers] stood shoulder-to-shoulder, shields raised, as spears from the second rank pointed forwards.
The sword cut across the immobile ranks of her forces and glanced off. The Titan pivoted, eyes narrowed, as the front ranks staggered and were caught by their companions.
Two-handed, the Titan gripped its sword tighter and swung a second time. Shirka ducked a barbed tongue and threw her hatchet again. But her soul was with 2nd Army, with the front lines. Every member of her army on the field was right there, teeth clenched together, braced. That bastard’s sword hit the massed [Soldiers], and everyone in 2nd Army felt it and—heaved.
[Army: Combined Action — Push].
For the first time, the Titan’s arm jerked back, and the gigantic sword nearly tore from his grip as he reeled backwards. His eyes opened wide with shock, and Shirka gave the order.
“Now! Get him!”
Her forces were moving at the speed of thought. They broke forwards in a rush, dodging his desperate, off-balance swipes, coordinating their attacks as they swarmed his feet, stabbing, reacting to threats they couldn’t see, one unified army.
A copy of the famous Antinium hivemind. An army who reacted like a single, instinctive organism.
They took his toes off first. Ripped little bones out of his feet, hacked chunks off his feet as he tried to dance backwards, kicking an army of furious armored shapes a tenth his size. But they kept coming. Through the poison he spewed, avoiding bolts of magic, getting up after being smashed flat by his fists. Dying, cutting, mouths locked into snarls of their own behind their alchemy masks.
—Until he used a Skill. One Skill, and all those minds vanished, and the sword rose, dripping with blood, a chunk of land cleaved free. Then the ancient Drake laughed until the Wyvern Lord rose unsteadily and breathed enough ice to freeze the very scales off the Titan’s face.
He skipped backwards, stumbling, slashing at Magnolia Reinhart’s servants now, who peppered his bad arm with their own artifacts. His flesh was regrowing, toes reappearing—and he threw a glance over his shoulder at General Shirka. One peeking eye, surrounded by mounds of flesh being incinerated by her [Mages], found her.
The Titan bent over and peered at her, teeth bared, and that gloating face became uncertain. A frown—a waver in his own poise as he searched for what he could not find. Dismay. Anger. Fury.
2nd Army’s [General] stood there, arms crossed, gore on her armor and hanging from her tail, watching him. She was bleeding. Her boys and girls were dying. But they kept coming, forming walls of steel and will. [Alchemists] opening flasks which spewed ominous smoke.
[Soldiers] pulling each other up and willing wounded friends to live. Abandoning the dead because there was nothing there. And ever-following their [General], who spoke so seldom.
A stone-faced Drake, face unmoving, giving curt orders.
A snarling, spitting beast of war, demanding the Titan’s head.
Right by their sides, the voice in their ears telling them to dodge, to keep going. With them until the very end. They were never alone.
Thudthudthudthud.
2nd Army advanced, and General Shirka was the only one who was ever truly by herself. She faced a monster from the old eras as her army bled its lifeblood onto this field.
She had faced worse. Seen more of her people die. She had fought wars against rival armies of Drake and Human and Gnoll.
Bleed for me, Titan. Use another Skill until you run out. Your magic is waning faster than it’s recovering.
I will see you die.
Shirka’s claws opened and closed, reaching for the Titan’s throat. She ran across the ground, a thousand pieces of her hungry for its blood. The Draconic Warrior saw her, then. It lost its smile and crouched.
It leapt like a shadow into the sky and fell to earth, blade aimed for the [General].
The Titan of Baleros said:
“Mark.”
 
——
 
She was weeping as Goblins died. Wiping at her eyes and giving orders in a shaking voice. She didn’t want this. She couldn’t do this.
But here she was. She saw every moment, and when the Titan fell, chest glowing like a funereal pyre of every color, downed by the Forgotten Wing company’s surprise attack, she gave the order.
“Snapjaw, Prixall, Redscar, go.”
Three Goblins led their warriors down, leaping off Frost Wyverns and aiming for the Seith Cores visible in the Titan’s body. The Seith Cores were trying to move deeper into the rotted flesh, away from the open air.
—The Titan refused to let the Goblins destroy another. It was lying on its back, mouth open, eyes unfocused and wide. Then it saw Redscar diving, blades drawn, and the Titan vanished.
It moved so fast that Rags had to find it again and saw it hunched with its back to everyone, like a child trying to play hide-and-seek. 2nd Army pivoted on it at once as Redscar’s cursing came through the speaking stone. The Titan of Baleros’ voice too.
“We cannot commit more spells. Tell me that got it.”
“H-hold! We’re trying to take him out! Almost—[Unit: Teleportation Advance]!”
 
——
 
The [Student] pointed a finger, and the Titan’s head turned in the window he had of the battlefield.
Niers Astoragon was aware he was, perhaps, the only outsider with any view of the battlefield at this moment. So he was taking notes. Or rather, recording everything.
Multiple [Mages] were peering to see as much as they could of the battlefield. Foliana was invisible so as not to obstruct their views, and behind Niers, Ryoka Griffin, Erin Solstice, and as many [Strategists] as could fit into a room were standing there.
Iuncuta Eirnos blinked her good eye when she heard the Skill.
“What was that? That’s not a low-level [Strategist]—”
Niers cut her off with a glare. He swivelled back to the image, praying the window wouldn’t close. The Titan was roaring, kicking and swinging his blade around wildly—his flesh was rapidly regrowing around his chest, but the window the Forgotten Wing company had opened was still there.
If anyone could hit him. Right now, it looked like the Titan was poised to do more damage to 2nd Army. He was stabbing down in a flurry of strikes with his sword. It might have literally been a [Flurry of Strikes] Skill; he kicked at the Goblins who were chasing after him.
Redscar raised his sword, and Niers saw a tiny figure grinning in the second before he vanished. The Titan’s foot passed through the spot where he had been, and the huge warrior stumbled before catching himself. He swung his sword at a squad of 2nd Army’s [Soldiers] and then jerked.
The sword seemed to slip sideways. Niers saw the Titan stop his whirling attacks in every direction and look down.
A figure went tumbling backwards as the [Soldiers] fell back in good order. Niers murmured.
“He parried it.”
“Impossible. He just blocked the blow with a Skill.”
One of the younger [Strategists] who’d joined the Forgotten Wing company after Velan the Kind had become the Goblin King protested. This time, Niers said nothing.
“That was a parry. He’d be a good Tallguard.”
Commander Rozcal of Reton rumbled, voice approving. Niers’ saw the Old One raise a foot to stomp downwards, and Redscar ran for it. He crossed his swords and vanished as the foot came down. When the Titan raised his foot, the [Blademaster] was clinging to the leg, and a visible gash was deep in the ankle.
A voice in the silent room. Foliana rematerialized and glanced around.
“Find out what he likes to eat.”
No one said a word as the Titan tried to belch stomach acid and more maggots down on the [Soldiers] in front of him. Niers was searching everywhere. Where was the rest of Rags’ Skill? She wasn’t stupid enough to waste it…
Then he saw a curtain of air peel backwards, like a vast painting revealing huge, flying Wyverns behind it. A cackling Goblin [Witch] undid her illusion spell. Snapjaw and her Frost Wyvern appeared out of the air with two dozen Wyverns at her back.
“[Unit: Big Belch]!”
Her faint voice drifted up to Niers, and every Wyvern in her formation exhaled at once. They caught the Old One straight in the chest, and this time, Niers saw a familiar, white, glowing orb. He sat forwards.
 
——
 
“—using Skills on my people! That Goblin does not have authority to—”
Major Hiclaw had been throwing ten kinds of shit through the speaking stone link until his Wyverns hit the Draconic Warrior. Then he made a choking noise and fell silent.
[Teleportation Advance]. Prixall’s illusion magic wasn’t enough to cast [Mass Invisibility] on a bunch of flying Wyverns, but she could just hide them in the air. And Snapjaw?
The [Chieftain of the Maw] had the silliest sounding Skill in the world. It could make a Hobgoblin burping contest so loud they could cause earthquakes in the High Passes. Or—on Icecube and Wyverns—
It made a whole lot of Dragonbreath.
The first wave of Wyverns hit the Titan with a wave of multi-colored elemental breaths that washed over his chest, obliterating flesh and his ribs. The second pass, led by Hiclaw, exhaled, and the combined Dragonbreath burned clean through Mortemdefieir Titan’s back.
There it was, just under one ribcage, mirroring his heart. A Seith Core shone nakedly towards the sun.
“Hit the core! Now!”
Shirka roared, and every [Archer] with a shot tried to take it. The Titan spun, visibly disoriented, shielding his exposed stomach and the hole running through his intestines with his hand. He stumbled away, but the Wyverns were all over him.
The fury of Manus rained down in strafing runs as the Wyvern flights burnt through the Titan’s back. They broke off, circled, and came back in an onslaught faster than the regeneration of the warrior. He slashed at them, but the mobile Wyverns were diving fast under the Wing Commander, evading the blade.
And while the Titan was trying to escape the Wyverns, the ground forces were preparing to take the Draconic Warrior’s feet out. He stumbled again as something hit one foot so hard it broke every toe. The pink carriage went spinning away, and the Titan fell to one knee.
The rotted, gigantic Drake glanced over his shoulder as Wyverns swept over his back, blasting through one shoulder blade. His eyes were open wide with fear for the lesser species of Dragons.
Fear—and wrath.
How dare you. You? The Dragonlord was one thing. But mere Wyverns?
Manus?
That rotted throat croaked reluctantly. The single good arm of the Titan rose to the sky as his other arm shielded his chest. He reached upwards in supplication and spoke.
“[Bound Spell: The Dragonfly Net]. Mershi. MERSHI!”
Above him, the clouded spring skies darkened. The diving Wyverns faltered, and a voice broke over the speaking stones.
“That bad! Run! Run!”
Snapjaw. Her Frost Wyvern and the flights near her dove away. Major Hiclaw’s forces continued strafing.
“Belay that order! Barrier spells! Dispel hostile magics! Disp—Ancestors.”
 
——
 
On the ground, in the air, the mortals gazed up as the sky darkened. And twice now, across Izril, people in far-distant cities stared up and pointed. Children tugged at their parent’s hands.
Look. Look at that.
The stars were out.
They shone through the navy blue sky over the High Passes. Stars. Glowing dots in the sky. Nine stars that formed a…a constellation, a picture in the sky that no one had ever seen before.
People peered up and frowned, shading their eyes to see. What was that? Those stars—
They seemed like a net. A long pole and a net. But why those stars? And why did they glow? Only a few people looked up and felt that ancient, familiar terror.
Even the Immortal Tyrant stopped smiling for a second. She studied it and named what she saw.
“Constellation magic.”
Then the stars flashed, and she wondered how many had died.
 
——
 
Constellation magic of Mershi, the City of Stars.
Prixall, the [Witch] of the Molten Stone tribe, had heard stories from her mother of grand magics of the Walled Cities. She stood on the ground as the glowing stars seemed to project their astral fire downwards. Power bled down out of the heavens and formed lines of stellar magic, bound together in imitation of the constellation above.
A net. A net made of starfire. It swung down and dragged itself through the air, across the ground, blazing with light so bright it seared her retinas.
She ran. The [Witch] was a Goblin; she turned and ran with every [Soldier] who saw it as the edge of the net dragged across the valley floor in a wall of fast-moving, white-hot fire. But they weren’t the target of the spell.
The Wyverns fell, burning, scales charred to ash, and one of them struck the ground in front of Prixall and a squad of [Soldiers]. They ran around the blackened corpse; the rider was gone. Prixall heard screams through the speaking stone.
“[Full-Speed Fallback]. Hiclaw, get out of there. All soldiers, pull back, pull back.”
Shirka’s voice was steady. The net swept the ground as the Titan lay there, healing. He raised his head, dripping saliva, grinning balefully at them all.
The edge of the net was sweeping towards them. Prixall had already cast [Speed] on herself and everyone around her. She was running up the valley and saw Snapjaw diving towards her, but the flames were going to burn all of them…
A figure bounded towards Prixall, and she dodged. Someone was running the other way? Prixall saw a green figure and a familiar, crimson sword. Redscar? She twisted, and the Goblin jumped into the air.
He had only Garen Redfang’s blade in his hand. The Goblin seemed to hang in the air for a single, long moment as the edge of the net dragged towards him. Then he cut downwards.
[Sword Art: The Lightning Split].
The stellar fire unravelled in front of him, and the section of the net in front of the Goblins and [Soldiers] came undone. The blazing strands passed by on either side of Prixall, and she flinched as the heat turned the ground to glass. Then—the magical spell pulled upwards and vanished, and the twinkling stars glowed for another few seconds before winking out.
Prixall didn’t realize she was sitting down until Redscar strode back towards her and held out a hand. The Goblin checked his blade as he sheathed it.
“Come on. He’s healing. We have to start again.”
He yanked the [Witch] up as she, Snapjaw, Icecube, and the panting [Soldiers] stared at him. The Wyvern Riders were trying to regroup—a third of them had just vanished. And the Titan was getting back up.
“How did you do that, Redscar?”
Snapjaw called down to the Goblin, and he shrugged.
