Rags tried to reassure her. But at the same time, she knew it didn’t matter. The escape routes were meant to let Goblins flee an invading army. If they tried to escape with watchers all over the High Passes…Rags spoke, putting herself into automatic.
“Strategic analysis. They have two ballistae up in the mountains, the majority of their forces…over a thousand [Goblin Slayers]. They’ll have trouble breaking the gates of Goblinhome, and the pass is trapped. They have time. We have Trolls!”
They’ll be eating supplies far faster than normal, though. We’re outnumbered to hell and back, and once Shirka gets up there, she’ll amplify all their abilities. And many of the best fighters were right here…
Unable to return to the mountain unless they could find a secret tunnel not uncovered by the enemy. Oh, it was so damn perfect.
“The inn. Maybe we can use the [Portal Door]…no, it doesn’t lead straight into Goblinhome. Or help from Lyonette? The [Knights]? We can beat 2nd Army to the mountain. If we fight in…”
Snapjaw was trying to think, eyes darting around her. Her breath was coming shallow and hard, and Rags saw her blanching pale white. Redscar just peered down the valley.
“I’ll kill her. Then die. Give me three Wyverns and half the Redfangs.”
He sounded so calm as he swung both swords up and pointed down at a figure standing next to Shirka. The [Spearmaster], Gaellis.
Death and sacrifice. Tragedy and—Rags’ mind was blazing with helpless questions. Could she ask Niers to use his Skill despite the politics? What happened if Lord Xitegen helped?
He was down there, too, and his forces had pivoted first to check 2nd Army, then towards her forces. If he used his Skill, they might never get the Wyverns airborne. But all of this panic was underlaid by a single note of confusion in Rags’ mind.
Shirka’s doing this wrong. For such an elegant betrayal, the [General] had royally messed up her execution, hadn’t she? If she had intended to kill the Flooded Waters tribe, she should have launched her attack thirty minutes ago or encircled Rags’ forces.
The [Student] looked around, but she didn’t see [Snipers] or specialists targeting them. Shirka hadn’t gone for the most crucial element of the Flooded Waters tribe. That caused the [Student] to raise a hand.
“Wait. Something’s up.”
Redscar glanced at her, and Snapjaw broke off her orders. Both hesitated; the [Student] raised her voice.
“Hold your ground. That’s a damn order! I have to see what she’s doing. Trust me.”
After an infinitesimal second, Redscar lowered his swords and Snapjaw’s Wyverns stopped beating their wings. 2nd Army wasn’t coming at them at the moment, just standing to attention. And Shirka was still speaking.
“…Your complete and unconditional surrender. Failure to comply will result in the annihilation of your tribe. I have orders to wipe your people out, Chieftain Rags. Surrender.”
Surrender? Rags fancied she could feel Shirka’s gaze on her skin, like a dagger being pressed into her chest, but it was oddly blunt. The [Student]’s head rose, and Prixall snapped.
“A good way to kill us all when we ‘surrender’! Humans in the north do it all the time! Or worse to captured Goblins.”
“Wait. I think I see what she’s doing.”
Incredulous, the [Witch] turned, and now it seemed like General Shirka was speaking less to Rags and more to everyone present. Lady Magnolia Reinhart was standing stiffly to the side, surrounded by her people, and Lord Xitegen was glancing from Shirka to the Goblins. The 2nd General swept a hand over the battlefield.
“In minutes, the communications blackout spells will lift and contact with Pallass will resume. The report to Pallass and Manus will detail 2nd Army’s defeat of the Old One Titan with auxiliary assets to be declassified to High Command as needed. Subsequently, 2nd Army brought the Flooded Waters tribe to battle and inflicted significant casualties on their ranks. I would prefer the next item in my report to detail the complete surrender of the Goblin Tribe, which I accepted. You have my word your Goblins will not be killed; there is a precedent for Pallass to take in auxiliary prisoners and make use of them.”
Auxiliary…the Raskghar. Rags’ eyes narrowed suddenly. General Shirka’s voice was flat.
“Surrender Chieftain Rags, [Blademaster] Redscar, and Shaman Taganchiel into my custody, now, and I will halt my siege.”
She’d done her homework well enough. Though Prixall was technically in charge—the [Witch] hissed at them.
“Only three? That’s stupid! What about Snapjaw, or me? We can still fight even without you, Rags!”
“Precisely. She wants just three of us. That would probably satisfy her High Command, especially if all of Goblinhome disarms.”
“Not doing that.”
Redscar snorted, but he had closed one eye and was thinking. It was Snapjaw who said it.
“Is she stupid or giving us a way out?”
No Goblin wanted to say it, because it sounded ludicrous, but Rags spoke.
“It’s a way out. Her orders are clearly to destroy us. Or neutralize us…and there’s only one way to do that. I think—she’s not even asking for us. Just a ‘Chieftain Rags’, ‘Redscar’, and ‘Taganchiel’. How would she even tell the difference? We all look alike.”
The skepticism on Snapjaw’s face could have altered reality itself. She hissed at Rags.
“Ch—you can’t take her offer! They’re Drakes! Pallass! Remember Tyrion Veltras?”
Rags remembered Tyrion Veltras. A different Tyrion than Snapjaw knew. She looked down the valley and thought of all the ways she could have done this. What she might do if she had a hostile idiot breathing down the back of her neck like the Professor always claimed. Most of all…Rags turned.
“Someone call Taganchiel. Ask him how close 2nd Army is to Goblinhome.”
She waited for a reply, and it came back in seconds. Prixall glanced up at the mountains.
“2nd Army is well out of range of anything but ballistae and long-range spells. They’ve been firing—”
Everyone jerked around, and the [Witch] continued.
“—into the cliffs. There’s a lot of [Soldiers], Chieftain.”
They were all looking to her. Rags still felt sick, but something was upon her, now, that she hadn’t felt since she stepped through the door from her world into this one. A familiar, tantalizing sensation in her chest.
Hope. She surveyed the Goblins around her and saw so little of it in their expressions and stances. They were ready to fight and die. They had seen the end of countless Goblins before.
This could be a cunning trap. Rags gazed down into the valley, and that imposing [General] stood there, waiting. It could be.
The [Student] inhaled, and all the Goblins around her saw her intent. They could have stopped her; Prixall began to move, and Redscar caught her arm.
“If it is, so be it. I’m not the Rags who leads you. I’m the Rags who believes in miracles. General Shirka! I accept your offer!”
Snapjaw relaxed slightly with something like a sigh. Other Goblins grimly checked their weapons, but ‘Chieftain Rags’ made a show of drawing her shortsword and raising it overhead. She dropped it to the ground, then turned.
“Uh. Can someone pick that up? I’m going. Send two Goblins with me. Not Redscar.”
Awkwardly, she began picking her way down the cliffs. Rags was afraid to see what the other Goblins were doing. Would she see mockery if she looked behind her, disdain for the fool that had replaced their leader?
She slipped on a patch of rocks going down and nearly fell on her face. Cursing, Rags windmilled, and someone grabbed her and hoisted her up.
“Gotcha, Chieftain.”
Leapwolf rode down the mountain, grinning as he hoisted Rags onto his saddle. Her mouth opened in horror.
“You idiot! We’re decoys!”
“Yah. I’m decoying for Redscar.”
“I meant—Prixall, you’re not even male!”
“Taganchiel could be a female name. Besides. I can teleport.”
The [Witch] was floating down the cliff as well. Behind them, the Goblins were tossing down their weapons and then carefully picking them back up and hiding them in bags of holding.
There was a farcical element to everything. Below them, General Shirka was giving orders, and, it seemed, glaring down a bunch of her [Soldiers]. Lord Xitegen seemed the most furious out of everyone, but in a cold way; his Golems were lumbering into a column, and it looked like he was ready to jog off.
Rags’ eyes were on General Shirka and darting to Lady Magnolia Reinhart as well. She was waiting for that deadly arrow to strike her dead, and she raised her hands over her head until they got tired and she felt silly. Then she wondered how far General Shirka’s mandate extended. If, perhaps, the [General] might withdraw her forces in light of her grand victory and pass by Liscor.
Or simply what a [General] of Pallass might say to a Goblin who was her captive. Rags gazed down at the figure of Shirka as Leapwolf descended to the valley floor, and now, she swore she could faintly see a smile on the [General]’s face. It wasn’t as serious or grim an expression as Rags thought. The Goblin’s heart leapt, and she smiled herself.
Then her head turned, and someone blew a strangled note into a warhorn. Rags pivoted in her saddle as Leapwolf jerked, and his Carn Wolf juked sideways. Rags cried out.
“No, no! Stop!”
The [Soldiers] approaching her levelled their weapons and tensed, but the Goblins weren’t attacking them. Rags pointed a finger, screaming, and every head rose to one wall of the valley on the eastern flank of 2nd Army.
A Goblin, the largest Goblin that anyone present had ever seen, jumped onto the ridgeline. He was covered in scars, bare-chested, and he had a two-handed axe fashioned out of the beak of a Kraken.
Chieftain Naumel was beaming, covered in sweat and dirt from his long march, and he pointed a finger down the mountain. Straight at Rags. Then he charged. There was no horn, no clarion call to arms.
He charged and roared, and Goblins poured over the ridge, thousands of them. Great Goblins outpacing Hobs and regular-sized Goblins, wearing warpaint of the sea, screaming as they tore down the slopes at 2nd Army.
The Kraken Eaters had arrived.
 
——
 
“Pivot! Do not engage the Flooded Waters tribe until attacked! Volley! Volley!”
Strategist Ulhouse’s voice snapped after that first moment of stupefaction. His Skill, [Counter: Surprise Attack], saved lives. [Soldiers] slammed into a new shield wall as the lines of 2nd Army moved.
General Shirka was as stunned as Chieftain Rags. The moment she looked up and saw the Kraken Eaters coming, she knew that her [Scouts] on the eastern edge were dead. Ambushed and killed by these Goblins.
She hadn’t noticed. Their ‘voices’ had fallen silent without anyone registering. The Titan’s onslaught had distracted 2nd Army, and the [Rogues] of the Kraken Eaters must have had stealth Skills.
Kraken Eaters. She knew their name. That famous tribe had never plagued the south. Now, they were upon 2nd Army.
<“Break that charge! Focus on the Chieftain! [Prepared Strategy One: Shield Wall]! [Prepared Strategy Two: Arrow Barrage]!”>
They were out of their [Fireball Volley] and [Mighty Cleave]. But 2nd Army had teeth! The time it took for the Naumel’s forces to sprint down the valley were enough for the [Lord] of House Terland to act as well.
“[Again, and Again, and Ever Again]! [Covering Fire]!”
The sky turned dark. Arrows were falling. Strategist Ulhouse pointed a finger, his thoughts raging like icy fire.
<“[Mark Target]. Kill the bastard.”>
A crossbow unit fired, one rank kneeling, the other standing. Shirka saw the bolts tearing a vertical line through the air towards the huge Fomirelin.
He didn’t slow down as he bounded towards the first ranks of Drakes. His tribe wasn’t slowing either. They ran through the arrows, and Shirka’s scales began to prickle in unease.
The last encounter with the Kraken Eaters tribe she remembered was when they went up against a Named-rank team, Orchestra. One of the teams who had cleared Chalence. The Kraken Eaters had sent the Named-ranks in full retreat. And—they had never been destroyed by the Five Families of the north.
<“Hostile magics. Counter!”>
<“Impossible. It’s not battle magic. Shamanic magic!”>
Minds buzzed alarms. Soldiers tensed, but the magics cast by running [Shamans] of the Kraken Eaters weren’t instantly hostile. Rather, Shirka saw the grinning Naumel’s skin change to grey armor.
Then the arrows hit him and pieces of him scattered across the ground as the bolts snapped like a forest exploding. No, not him. His skin.
Ulhouse’s thought-speech was rattled as the Kraken Eaters emerged on the other side of the volley. Magical bolts had managed to pierce the grey ‘skin’ over his body, and some had even blown pockets of flesh and blood out of him. They were healing just as fast.
<“What the hell is that?”>
<“[Sharkskin Hide]. Mass spell. They’re eating the arrows. [Regeneration] on the Chieftain.”>
Shirka was getting sick of foes who could regenerate. She saw Lord Xitegen’s arrows were having a similar lack of impact on the Goblins. She saw one or two fall from a lucky strike to the head or eye; the rest just kept running.
“Strategist Ulhouse, verbal communications. Lord Xitegen, pull back! You’re exposed! Get the heavily wounded deeper into the ranks!”
2nd Army was still at fighting strength here, but the wounded who’d engaged the Titan were over seventy percent of the army in some capacity! The lack of healing potions meant that her troops were hurt—and Lord Xitegen’s forces had taken damage too.
The Golems were setting themselves as the Kraken Eaters’ erratic volley of arrows sang over the ranks of her people. Shirka saw one arrow glance off a barrier spell around her. Another should have bounced—she twisted and dodged it last second.
<“Piercing arrows! Watch yourselves!”>
An alarmed thought-shout from one of her officers, laced with pain. General Shirka grabbed the arrow and raised it. It had a glob of purple she assumed to be poison. But this tribe wasn’t a magical powerhouse. How…?
It looked like a jagged piece of some kind of pink-red gemstone. Shirka narrowed her eyes. A piece of an artifact? A Golem’s Heart?
“Volley! Hit the knees of that Chieftain! Switch to lightning ammunition! Alchemists—volley!”
Ulhouse was targeting Chieftain Naumel with everything he had. But the Great Chieftain kept coming. His protection spells and healing were negating everything but magical attacks. Yet even the [Fireballs] and Arrow of Blast did nothing; he emerged from one volley, grinning, water glistening over his body.
