A voice broke through the Dragonlord’s conversation, and Shirka tensed instantly. Where—how—? That wasn’t coming from her army. She whirled as Ulhouse spun and cursed.
“Dead gods damn it, if someone in Pallass failed to pass on the notification—wait, we’re in a communications blackout. General! It’s—”
Manus. Shirka would have known it from their bearing; southwest, as well as the fact that she knew Wing Major Hiclaw.
Wyvern Riders. She estimated eighty of them with her [Quick Assessment] Skill, which made Gaellis whistle as they came over a ridgeline, flying low to avoid aerial monsters and detection.
“That’s got to be at least thirteen full flights! Who got us reinforcements? Esor? Luciva? No way it was Edellein.”
Whoever it was, they were about to commit real fratricide; Shirka heard the familiar, clipped tones of Hiclaw, a slightly nasally drawl interspersed by the tearing sound of wind, giving orders.
“Flights 1 to 4, prepare for low-altitude strafing runs. Breathe at thirty feet for effect. 2nd Army, be advised, air support inbound. [Company: Breathless Acceleration]!”
They sped up in the air, coming down hard and fast, and Shirka barked back.
“This is General Shirka, abort run, abort! Goblins are friendly!”
“Foreign actor on secured lines, Wing Commander. Identification passcodes missing.”
Dead gods damn it—Ulhouse was rattling a string of numbers off as Hiclaw’s Wyvern, a foul-tempered Darkness Wyvern, shot overhead. His voice was cool.
“Major illusion spell at three o’clock. Brace for traps.”
That idiot thought Teriarch was an illusion? The Dragon seemed torn between amusement and resignation. Meanwhile, Snapjaw was brightly speaking over the officers.
“Ooh, target practice for our new arrows! Ready, aim…”
Before Hiclaw could order an evasive maneuver, Shirka used a Skill she hadn’t needed since she was a [Major].
“[Assert Command]! Drop your wings and descend! Hold fire or I’ll shoot you all down myself! Hiclaw, get down here, you idiot!”
The Wyverns jerked and dropped low out of the air. Some managed to stop themselves from landing, such as Hiclaw’s flight, but many slowed to a glide that bore them into the ground or tried to regain height and ended up flapping ungainly to the ground.
“General Shirka, what the hells are you doing?”
Hiclaw was not happy about the Skill. It didn’t work on the Goblins, but they held fire as his wing broke off their attack run. Shirka couldn’t breathe Dragonbreath like his Wyvern could, but her tone was almost icy enough.
“Wing Major, land on my position or I will [Assert Command] over the testicle I rip off you and your Wyvern. Those Goblins are friendly. Dragon is not an illusion. Affirm and land. Ulhouse, volley every Wyvern flight in the air with [Lightning Bolts] in three minutes.”
“Yes, [General].”
“Ooh, I like her! Do we have to fight her later?”
There was a cackle of laughter from Snapjaw, and Hiclaw’s flight began dropping fast, despite the arguments coming over what was supposed to be a command line. Typical Manus; they liked having access to all other Drake military communications, so they made the commander’s encryption their standard frequency and reserved even more encrypted communication codes for their forces. Just to make sure everyone understood who was in charge.
Well, who was in charge had the most Drakes and the most spells. Hiclaw leapt from his saddle as his Wyvern passed overhead and [Featherfell] towards Shirka.
“General, we’re here to support your forces by order of Dragonspeaker Luciva. What the hell is—”
He was coming down ready to spit clouds of life-sapping darkness when Hiclaw twisted and Teriarch called out.
“No, you idiot, not you too—!”
The biggest Frost Wyvern that Shirka had ever seen in her entire life came screaming down from above. He must have been in the clouds; Hiclaw’s personal Wyvern, Toffy, reacted to the scream by aiming her head up and spitting a stream of blackness that billowed upwards into a cloud.
Deadly and dangerous—for smaller beings. Not the Frost Wyvern Lord. He pivoted, fell, with his wings folded, and unfurled them as he entered the cloud. With a snap, air exploded around him as well as shards of ice. It blew apart the cloud from within, and he passed by Toffy. Shirka swore she saw the Wyvern drop-kick the smaller Darkness Wyvern.
“Toffy!”
Hiclaw whirled as the black Wyvern went crashing downwards. She landed hard, yowling and screeching, but the Frost Wyvern Lord didn’t capitalize on his advantage. Instead, he regained altitude by breathing frost at the ground at the last moment, literally halting his momentum, and flapping upwards. He flew back across towards the Goblins as Teriarch roared at him. His voice was so loud that Shirka pulled the speaking stone out of her earhole to avoid being deafened; she could hear him just fine because he was shouting across the entire valley.
“You feckless idiot! I warned you this was even less your fight than the Goblins’! This is my enemy! My responsibility! Leave! There is no reward for victory; only death for you and your Weyr!”
A dozen other big Frost Wyverns, larger than any tamed Wyverns, Goblin or Drake, had alighted even higher than the Goblins. The Frost Wyvern Lord flew back to them, landed with his back to Teriarch, then flipped his tail up and showed everyone a really good view of his rectal cavity. Hiclaw was tending to his shrieking Wyverness as she tried to roll off her back and onto her feet, shouting questions, and Shirka heard Ulhouse doing the same.
Her only thought was to wonder if there was some mysterious link between cats and the Dragon species. They both walked around on all fours, were balls of ego and magic, and hissed when they got mad.
The Dragonlord of Flames was shouting at the Frost Wyvern Lord, there was chaos in Manus’ ranks as they tried to make sense of what was going on…
2nd Army was silent, telepathically linked. Magnolia Reinhart’s servants were quiet. Shirka swore the woman was drinking tea. She wished the woman were a Drake.
“General, what is going on? Identification code S44E-Helix-1B—”
Shirka cut Hiclaw off without glancing at him. She slashed a hand and spoke.
“That’s a real Dragon behind you, Hiclaw. This incident is sealed to even High Command if you’re wise. Since I know you’re reporting to Luciva, I’ll leave you to decide if you want to risk him frying you. We’re about to engage in combat, and everyone here is an ally. Ulhouse will assign you a battle group. If you don’t fall in, I’ll kick you off the mountain.”
The thumping was growing louder. They might have ten minutes; they might have an hour. Hiclaw hesitated, and Ulhouse strode over. He turned his head as the Brass Dragon slapped his tail.
“You brat, get over here and—”
The largest magic claw that Shirka had ever seen appeared over his head and tried to pull the Wyvern Lord towards him. The Wyvern Lord’s response was to blast it with frozen breath, then spit a ball of ice at the Dragonlord. Everyone took cover, and barrier spells went up. Teriarch stared at the whirling orb of frost, and it vanished in midair.
“At least you understand restraint. Very well.”
A lightbridge appeared, spanning the air, and he began to walk along it as the Wyvern strutted like a superior chicken down to him, using his wings like arms. That seemed to convince Hiclaw that if he wasn’t under an illusion spell, he was insane.
 
——
 
It was all funny. Really, and truly, it was. The sight of the Dragonlord of Flames trying not to eat an aggressive headbutt from the Wyvern Lord, growling at him and castigating him until Magnolia Reinhart called him out like a child, made him a person. It was fascinating.
It was like how Saliss described The Wandering Inn. Meeting new people and seeing them as real, living individuals rather than another face in the crowd. Meeting individuals, not strangers.
Fascinating, alluring. Like a view of what could be if Shirka were not a being who belonged to wars. She would never visit The Wandering Inn in peace, not like this. Nostalgia for what she would never have prickled at her heart, and the [General] watched as that rhythm of death coming from the mountains mirrored her own.
Thud. Thud. Thud…
Wyvern Riders assembled and ready to fly, both Wyverns and Drakes staring at the Dragonlord in awe, visibly whispering, to Hiclaw’s chagrin. Feral Wyverns yawning in the air as the Wyvern Lord strutted past [Soldiers], sniffing at everything, frowning at Magnolia Reinhart and snapping at her until she stared him down, and Lord Xitegen having a bunch of snacks and finding everything as amusing as Shirka.
Then came the Goblin Chieftain. A Wyvern rose over one of the sides of the valley, flying hard, but clearly unhappy. It juked awkwardly downwards, and Shirka thought whoever was riding it was a piss-poor rider. That was borne out when it balked at seeing the Dragonlord and so many foreign Wyverns. Someone fought with it as it half-circled the valley, then deposited a number of green shapes.
They leapt down, and Shirka saw one slow her descent with a jet of green flames. Just like the Wyvern Lord. She began speeding towards the other Goblin forces, propelled, it seemed, by the flames.
“Neat trick. Someone copy that.”
Ulhouse commented as Goblins ran after the first one. They were quick. A small group; eight? At least one of them was high-level, and Shirka adjusted a sight spell and picked them out.
“That Goblin with the swords. That’s the one who fought Zeladona. You were going to take him on, Gaellis.”
The [Spearmaster] grunted as he recognized Redscar. His eyes followed the Goblin.
“Which means that’s the Flooded Waters Chieftain. What’s your take on her, General? Good match?”
Shirka liked to size up enemy leaders, but the 2nd Army’s [General] folded her arms as her eyes found the Goblin and the Flooded Waters tribe surrounded the [Chieftain].
“…I don’t know. Upgrading my threat assessment. I can’t get a read on her. She feels…raw. But she can’t be.”
It was weirding her out. Then she heard a voice come over the command line, breathless.
“I’m—I’m here. This is Chieftain Rags. Let’s do this. I see the battle plans. I’m a [Strategist], primarily. I’ll do my best.”
Something about the way she spoke was familiar. But off. Shirka narrowed her eyes and silenced her speaking stone.
“Ulhouse. Get me eyes on that Goblin. I can’t see her in the throng. Find out what haircut she has.”
“What hair…ah.”
Ulhouse began trying, but when the Goblin strode to the head of her forces, Shirka saw she was wearing a helmet. Very practical for battles. Smart, unlike idiots who wanted to pose for an [Artist] and got headshot; Shirka had one on herself. The [General] just narrowed her eyes.
Why?
That came from the Dragonlord as well. He paused and spoke into the communications spell.
“Chieftain Rags. I told you not to waste the lives of your tribe in battle. Pull your forces back.”
“I can’t…do that. Someone has to fight. I can’t let you risk your lives alone. It’s not right. Someone has to be here, and it’s me. Us.”
She did not sound confident. Shirka saw the Goblins around her subtly shifting with her magnified vision, as if their discipline had taken a hit. Out of the corner of her eye, Shirka wondered if she’d seen Magnolia Reinhart twitch. But then that timid voice firmed, and a note of quiet determination took over.
“…Here we are. I am Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe! I will defend my tribe and Goblinhome and The Wandering Inn to my death! Do you hear me? This day has always come, for all of us! Time to pay our dues. I believe in hopeful days, peaceful days. We will earn those days. With me!”
It was a speech, and Shirka didn’t do speeches, because they could go so catastrophically wrong. It was the kind of thing new leaders did, and she was pretty sure the Titan taught that it was a bad idea to do that, along with Manus.
—However, it seemed to work, and the Goblins let out a distant cheer. Shirka stared at the Chieftain, but she had not the time or ability to quiz her suspicions on this matter.
Then the Titan appeared. Not that very minute, not in an instant. But all that had come before became a distant memory.
 
——
 
The thudding of that heartbeat heralded its appearance first. The sound rolled through the valley, a slow tempo at first, and distant, but growing louder and rising in intensity until it was each second, and each beat made smaller stones on the ground tremble.
Earwax vibrated in your head. Sweat turned cold and kept coming. The tension grew worse and worse—and then the smell reached the army.
Fetid, foul, putrid, none of it described the corpse. It wasn’t even that actively…foul. It smelled like something so old it had passed beyond rot. As if it were just the world now and you would never emerge from the corruption assailing your senses.
The trembling grew worse.
Everyone was looking around, [Mages] scanning the sky, the valley’s edges, [Soldiers] peering in every direction for something, any sign of the enemy. No one could find the spot, but the Dragonlord spoke as the feral Wyverns began to take off. The disciplined Wyvern Riders held—but their mounts were terrified.
“There.”
He indicated a crack in the mountains; a gash almost directly opposite the army. There was no way to fit anything in that gap; maybe the smallest of Goblins in some places, but the mortals eyed it incredulously, asking if there was a cavern just out of sight.
There was not. The Dragonlord knew better. He waited as soldiers shifted and Wyverns began to shriek in agony at the sonorous heartbeat.
Now, he could feel it. A mass of death emerging from the mountain. Death magic so overwhelmingly powerful it would have begun to kill the ground if there was that much nature. Mortals grew weaker; the most susceptible felt the strength leaving their limbs, the beating of their own hearts growing more labored, as did the breath of their lungs.
Terrium Archelis Dorishe dug his claws into the earth. He saw the crack bulge, stone breaking. Then grey flesh began to push out of the crack, like liquid. Expanding as it met the air. Stone was forced free, showering outwards, as more flesh emerged.
An old trick. From a being who could make its body, even its bones, as malleable as rubber. Teriarch just analyzed the extreme state of decay. Skin so dead it had gone from black to brown or remained blue and bloodless; covered in filth, caked blood, and even fungi and various rotten fluids.
And insects. Further confirming it was indeed a Mortemdefieir Titan. It revelled in death and rot.
