—The Draconic Warrior hesitated and swung his scythe down in a wide, cleaving blow, the sickle blade running across the ground. With pure, brute strength, he cleaved the magical weapon through flesh and bones, bisecting dozens of [Soldiers] at the waists in a single blow. Then he swung the scythe back the other way, crowing with delight.
“Come, come! I have such art to make of your bodies! A present for Mother!”
With each step he advanced, he swung the scythe back and forth until the hail of blazing, red projectiles made him shield his still-healing face with an arm. The Titan turned and saw the Golems.
“Terland.”
He tensed, jumped, and then he was falling towards the knot of Golems led by Lord Xitegen. The Titan brought down his scythe on the artillery-Golem fearlessly firing arrows up at him. Burning orange explosions pockmarked his flesh, and the scythe cut the Golem apart. Magic thousands of years old made a curious whispering shriek as the Golem fell apart, and the mortal soldiers cried out in anguish. Then wailed as the blade cut across them.
 
——
 
The Solstice seemed pleasant compared to this. At least those monsters hadn’t been this fast. Xitegen Terland sprinted for cover with his two Golem attendants, leaving those unfortunate enough to be left behind to die.
When he turned, slamming his shoulder into a boulder, Xitegen saw red staining the rocks all around the remains of the beautiful Golem Harbinec, now pieces of ceramics and a sundered Golem heart spilling magicore onto the ground.
Gone. A treasure of House Terland forever destroyed. More importantly, the brave men and women who had tried to defend her now bloody stains the Titan was grinding under one bare foot. He turned his head, grinning at Xitegen, as General Shirka shouted orders in the background. They had to fight the damn monstrosity, keep it down, wound it, while the Dragonlord returned.
Wound that?
Lord Xitegen’s faith in his Golems, his own Skills, wavered as he met the corpse-monster’s gaze. He pointed a finger.
“[Again, and Again, and Ever Again], [Covering Fire].”
Burning arrows fell from the skies, gifted to him by the Dragonlord of Flames. They littered the Draconic Warrior’s flesh like angry ticks, burrowing deep and removing chunks of his skin, but how ineffective it was!
My legs for a sword! A damn Relic! That Dragon hadn’t bequeathed a single one to the assembled forces here! Only arrows and temporary munitions! Why?
Xitegen drew no sword as the Titan stepped towards him. He was no gifted fighter. Primera and Seconda, his Golem bodyguards, would keep him safe. If not…
[Shuttle Run: Fast As You Can]! Lord Xitegen turned and sprinted for it. He heard booming laughter behind him as he dashed, zigzagging around boulders, leaping over stones and praying he didn’t twist an ankle. He had Boots of Speed on, and as he leapt over a patch of gravel, something struck the ground behind him.
A sigh as that lurid green magic pierced the ground deep, then a thunderous rumble as it yanked stone and dirt and the scythe’s blade up. Xitegen ran right, shot a glance over his shoulder—
The Titan was swinging the scythe up again, one-handed. The other was open-palmed, aiming downwards, spraying the ground and House Terland’s soldiers with black fog. Men and women folded up as they clutched at their throats, dropping dead, then jerking to their feet and rising as undead.
Death fog or something. The Titan swung the scythe upwards and cleaved a Wyvern in twain as Major Hiclaw’s forces whirled back. The Titan spat a bolt of lightning that caught another Wyvern dead on; it might not have killed the poor beast, but rider and Wyvern went flying down in a scream. Then the scythe was back on its shoulder, and he was glancing at Xitegen.
Destruction incarnate. Even the legendary tales of the greatest War Golems that Xitegen had read of seemed to pale in comparison to the Drakes’ finest weapon of war. It was enough to make the man’s limbs heavy and eclipse all hope of survival.
So this monstrosity was the second-worst thing Xitegen had ever seen in his life.
The Goblin King was ever worse.
The [Lord] pivoted, and one finger pointed as he dashed forwards.
“[Awaken the Constructs]—Primera, Seconda, now! All forces, bring it down.”
He gave no further orders; he was no strategist or general. The glowing lights of every Golem, eyes and their Golem Hearts, brightened and shone as they moved faster, with more certainty. His two servants leapt as Xitegen kept running—away from any allied forces. The scythe swung down as he sprinted faster, heart thundering in his chest.
A wall of lurid green energy slammed into the ground ahead of the [Lord], and he twisted desperately. His right shoulder passed by the magical scythe, and he felt a tingling—Xitegen dashed backwards, but it didn’t sweep towards him. He gazed up and saw the Titan shaking out its right arm.
Primera and Seconda crashed down, cracks on their porcelain features. The Titan’s right arm jerked spasmodically, and he abandoned his scythe a second; his left hand snatched something, and Xitegen saw the Draconic Warrior’s leg was under attack.
Controller Lectara, armored in her Golem suit, was striking the pallid flesh with her fists, tearing out chunks of the Titan’s skin and firing every spell the Golem shell she wore had been augmented with. Battle Golems were climbing the Titan’s leg, adding their own weight and mass to the attempt to knock the Titan down.
“Lord Xitegen, we’re closing the net! Hold a second longer! We’re teleporting you—”
“Forget me! Save Lectara!”
Xitegen shouted into a speaking stone desperately; he saw the Titan snatch his subordinate and raise her in one fist. Her armor creaked, and barrier spells imploded as the Titan tried to crush her one-handed. Her Golem-armor refused to break so easily, but Xitegen heard a high-pitched whining. The Titan’s other hand came up, and two fingers pinched the Human woman’s head.
Like a child would rip the head off a toy soldier.
Lectara vanished in a glowing shimmer of motes a second before the Titan ripped her armor apart. She reappeared behind House Terland’s lines, stumbling, before regaining her balance and moving back to the front lines.
Frustrated, the Titan threw the armor down, kicked a Battle Golem, and pointed a finger at Xitegen.
The finger fell off the hand as a green-and-red figure dropped from above. Xitegen blinked; Redscar plunged downwards as Frost Wyverns strafed the Titan with freezing breath. Then he saw 2nd Army’s [Soldiers] pouring towards the Titan’s feet.
The Flooded Waters tribe backed away as the Titan swung a fist at the Frost Wyvern dodging out of view. However, again—Xitegen’s eyes narrowed as he saw the arm wobble and the backhand fist miss the Wyvern.
Was that Reinhart’s doing or…? The Titan visibly grew frustrated and lashed out with a kick at the nearest Golem before seizing his scythe up.
“Watch the scythe! Shieldwall formations! Don’t let it reposition—”
Strategist Ulhouse was giving orders, but a second voice cut over the stone.
“Chieftain Rags. The right arm and both legs are weaker. Their Seith Cores were damaged or destroyed. Has anyone seen a Seith Core?”
“Negative. How deep are they buried?”
The Titan had been damaged down to its bones in places by the Dragonlord’s assault. Xitegen had been wondering the same thing—as he ran further from the battle behind him, calling in another shower of arrows, he heard a rasping wheeze. The Dragonlord.
“Not…each limb. Moving them. Chest and head.”
Xitegen shot a glance over his shoulder and grunted. That explained it. The Titan was content to take damage to its limbs, but it had shielded those two parts.
“Break the center and all the core-things go down with it. Wonderful. General Shirka, pull your [Soldiers] back and let my Golems take the brunt of the assault. They’re going to be slaughtered.”
The scythe dipped and cut, and Xitegen saw 2nd Army’s lines tighten up. It wasn’t like spreading out would save them. Poor, brave bastards. This is what Golems were for. General Shirka’s voice was intense in Xitegen’s ear.
“Negative. 2nd Army, hold your ground.”
 
——
 
The Mortemdefieir Titan had recovered from most of its wounds already. It was, still, visibly slower than it had been, but each second saw it moving faster.
And it had Skills.
A platoon died as the glowing scythe swept through them—then the magical blade finally shattered. Every [Mage] in 2nd Army had been trying to dispel it this entire time.
It barely slowed the old warrior. He simply began sweeping two spells around him, rotating with his remaining fingers splayed.
Blood, thick and red, and green poison. The blood became blades which slashed down on [Soldiers] before the poison dropped them. Then the corpses rose.
2nd Army was moving around Shirka like a single organism unified through her, seeking to contain and destroy this gigantic threat.
Ants besieging an invading toad made of rotten flesh. The General of 2nd Army saw and felt it all from her command area behind the embattled front lines.
She hadn’t moved. Her arms were crossed as she watched the Draconic Titan cavort, a sick expression of glee on his face. She could have entered the battle and charged.
He wanted that. The Titan was casting around for Lord Xitegen, searching for the people who held together their forces. Bellowing challenges.
“Is this all you have, little cousins? Face me! I hail from the City of Graves. Once more, I shall teach you and every lesser race their place.”
He opened his mouth and fired another ray skywards, this time at the Goblins on the cliffs. Shirka listened to casualty reports coming in.
“—Four Thunderbows down. Repositioning…”
“4th and 5th Squads pulling back. The poison kills in seconds. We need a [Healer] at—”
“Coming in for another pass. Give us covering fire.”
That was Major Hiclaw. His Wyverns were dying. The Titan kept picking them off as the greatest of threats. Even now, he spun as the Wyvern Lord dove, and Hiclaw and his personal flight both opened up Dragonbreath on him.
Now.
“Swords, take the leg out.”
Shirka said it for the benefit of the others, but 2nd Army was already moving. That [Ray of Oblivion] spell hit the Wyvern Lord full on, and Shirka grimaced; with a screech, the gigantic Wyvern fell out of the skies.
But the flames boiled away the flesh until thick, yellowed bones exposed the chest, and the Titan pivoted, protectively covering his chest. He sprayed a cloud of black fog around him, tensed to leap…
Shirka saw the massive form of the Titan jump out of the clouds, repositioning, and then curve. The Titan hit the ground, barely a hundred feet away, cursing, and she saw his left leg fold under him.
Got you.
[Soldiers] armed with swords were still clinging to the Titan’s leg, slashing at the nerves and tendons, hacking through the flesh. Shirka thought-spoke her next order.
“Alchemy squads—ready for my mark.”
“In position, General.”
The Titan was getting up. He rolled over his leg, tearing at the [Soldiers] trying to disengage, and Shirka felt three die.
She knew their names, connected to each one. Felt those moments of terror, determination, the flashes of agony until they were gone. The Titan tweezed an enchanted sword out of its leg, and Shirka spoke as it rose.
“Mark. [Army: The Alchemist’s Kiss].”
The Titan glanced up and twisted—the explosion caught him in the right breast and sent him smashing flat again. The backblast made everyone around Shirka stumble; wind and dust kicked up as hundreds of alchemical flasks detonated.
Shirka’s 2nd Army used the power of Pallass well. Alchemy. That was one of Saliss’ own personal alchemy combinations.
“Come on, come on, you damn freak…”
Ulhouse was growling as he trained a spyglass on the moving figure of the Titan. It sat up, and Shirka saw two glowing white orbs hidden behind the ribs before flesh swiftly re-knitted. The Titan lifted a hand as everything came at it.
Explosive arrows from above. Goblin Thunderbows, aiming pinpoint volleys. Battle spells—every arrow 2nd Army had—another booming bolt of lightning from Magnolia Reinhart’s relics.
He sacrificed his arm to shield his torso. When the Titan lowered the limb, Shirka saw more bone than flesh, but it was already regenerating as the Mortemdefieir Titan stood with a snarl of genuine fear.
One opportunity gone. Shirka’s eyes narrowed fractionally. This was identical to her image of fighting Wrymvr the Deathless. Healing without end, a war of attrition that would only swing one way, but the Titan was even more dangerous still.
“Kill it! Coordinates locked!”
Ulhouse was screaming, and a spell flashed down from the heavens. Pallass’ support, or maybe Manus’.
A spear made of flames the size of the Titan. It drove downwards, straight for the chest. Burning fire from the vaults of a Walled City saved for this exact occasion. 
“Too slow.”
Shirka was ordering her troops to fall back, to re-establish their shield lines. Ulhouse twisted, half to eye her. But it—
The spear of flames touched down but never burned the Titan. Shirka saw a sword cleave the spear in two, and the Titan rose. He brought the sword low, and more of her people died.
A sword in his hands now. A longsword bearing the sigil of Pallass on the pommel. Glowing with faint magic.
“[Spoils of the Dead: Fit for My Hand]. A pitiful tool for a pitiful era. Where are you, little [General]? Ah. There you are.”
When he turned, she saw a swordsman holding the sword with its point aimed at her, and Shirka understood.
So that’s why the Dragonlord didn’t arm us except with arrows. He’d suspected the Titan could steal weapons.
“Incoming.”
Shirka reached down and flipped her own weapon into her hand as her other found a vial and uncorked it. She took a sip as the Titan threw a piece of its flesh at her. Then it began to slash about itself with the sword, mocking the mortals.
The glob of flesh from its chest morphed, splitting. Shirka saw faces appear, blank-faced and rotten, embedded in the flesh. The main body landed as she jumped back, and the faces in the glob of flesh opened their mouths, revealing biting, extending, lolling spiked tongues. Another piece of flesh crashed down, morphing trunk-like, stubby limbs and pulling itself up, raising a fist.
Crypt Lords and some kind of greater undead. Shirka threw the weapon in her dominant hand. A hatchet; it thunked deep into the nearest Crypt Lord, and the buried metal head exploded. Shirka raised a hand and caught her throwing axe as her bodyguard pushed forwards. As she fought, she could still feel her soldiers dying.
