“I fought a stupid lightning man. Come on.”
When they saw the Titan turn, eyes glowing balefully, he showed them his healed chest, and Prixall sighed.
 
——
 
The Titan of Baleros’s voice was calm. Nothing about Rags was calm, but he injected some of it into her head.
“—out of that.”
“Wh-what? Professor?”
Her Skill was fading out, but the Titan of Baleros was able to speak for a few more moments. The image of him grew hazy, and he spoke again, a tiny man staring down his namesake. Rags was shaking; the glassy marks on the valley floor caused by that constellation spell were still smoldering.
“He’s out of his big Skills and spells. That was a trump card, I’m sure. Did you crack any of those magical Seith Cores? I didn’t have a full view of the offensive.”
Rags shook her head. The Draconic Warrior had recovered all the damage they’d worked so hard to inflict. He was still crouched, his back to the other armies, and one finger seemed to be doodling in the ground. Like a child sulking.
“N-negative. I’m sorry, sir.”
“Don’t apologize. Get the bastard.”
The window blinked out before she could respond, and the young Goblin felt like puking. They were trying. But he just kept—
“That’s three major Skills and a bound spell down. Renew the assault.”
General Shirka spoke as if she were filled with ice. As if she hadn’t just seen a dozen of Wyverns burn and fall like flies.
Her 2nd Army had bled more than any other force on the field by far, but her [Soldiers] just advanced as the Titan uncurled; its back was a smoking mass, but half its ribs and flesh had regrown as it swivelled around to face the mortal army.
When it did—it had something in its claws. Rags’ eyes focused on it. It looked like a rune. A magical spell? Oh, oh—she wasn’t good at magic. But she understood it. It said…
Bleed.
The young Goblin rubbed at one eye. Her hand came away wet. She tried to see the liquid on her hands. Then felt it running from her mouth, her nose, her ears.
“Healing potions.”
The Goblin mumbled. She felt at her side and saw Taganchiel topple over next to her. The rune pulsed in the Titan’s claws as he stood.
“[The Blood Festers, and Rots].”
His voice was crooning, and when he said it, Rags convulsed on the ground. She grew terribly cold, and her hand spasmed. Goblins around her reached for her, and she tried to scream.
“No potion! No! Don’t look! Don’t—”
They didn’t understand fast enough. Goblins gazed down and then bled and caught the sickness he sent them. They reached for healing potions—potions that would kill them by accelerating the rot.
He’d figured out a weakness of theirs. Mortal armies low on proper healing potions—no, unable to counter a mass-wounding spell. The Titan beamed as he bent over writhing figures and then peered around. He began striding, quickly, towards the [General] standing and spitting blood onto the ground.
Do something. Do something. The [Student] was choking on blood in her lungs, in her nose, mouth, ears—filled with despair. She was begging the Professor to come back in her head. But it wasn’t her fault.
Those glorious promises in her head and heart. The Goblins were all looking towards her. Where were her better days? Where was that promise written on her soul?
“Show me…that…brighter—”
The [Student] gurgled, and the Dragonlord roared. He swept his head over the valley and breathed flame.
Fire rained down and struck Rags. A falling sheet of white fire, laced with hints of peridot green and gentle blue aquamarine.
It should have hurt. It should have burned her as she lay, her blood burning and festering in her veins. Instead, a breath of pure, radiant air had entered her lungs, and she sat up and felt like she had inhaled life itself.
Rags stopped coughing. She sat up, spitting blood, and heard Taganchiel cry out in relief as he felt the same blessed magic sweeping over him. Rags touched the flames burning over her and saw them coating the valley below. Then she looked up and saw the Dragon breathing flames into the sky, a rain of purifying fire.
The Titan stopped laughing and swivelled from General Shirka. He lifted one hand as the flames ate into his flesh, turning it to ash. A second time, the two of them locked gazes.
“That will cost you your life, Pyrelord.”
The Draconic Warrior gripped his sword tighter in two hands as he bent his knees to jump. The panting Dragon silently bared his fangs, and the Titan’s smile stretched until it transfigured the entire face, his lips cracking to let out a gleeful little voice.
“You’re out of flames now.”
The Dragon jumped from his perch and hit the Titan, and the two crashed down into the center of the valley, fighting with fang and blade, claw and fist.
 
——
 
The mortals had forced the Draconic Warrior to use his precious Skills and magic. He was running low on spellcasting, hence the use of a blade rather than his spells. But the Dragonlord of Flames had sacrificed his breath for the mortals.
He had mastered Dragonflame in every form. He could breathe smog or lightning, even ice. Yes, he could breathe purifying flames, but nothing was infinite.
His lungs burned and ached. He could not breathe as they collided in the air, and then the miasma of the Titan’s body was about him. They cast few spells as they landed, lashing out at each other.
Gone was any pretense at elegant duels of magic. They tore at each other, trying to gain leverage, strike a weak spot, wrestling on the pitiless ground. The Dragon bit and ripped worm-riddled flesh free. He felt hands trying to find his eyes, clumsy huge fingers trying to gouge them out. He was afraid.
Afraid. Always, always.
He sometimes got mad at them for mocking him. For teasing him, or how they grew angry because he was a Dragon, vaster and stronger and more magical than all but Giants. As if he didn’t know. If it were so easy, he wanted to shout at them—
If it were so easy, why have my people died?
Skills. His opponent had Skills, and he had none. In magic, in physical combat—the rule was the same. I have to know what his trick is.
The Titan’s trick was speed. Agility. He threw powerful magic fast and hard. 2nd Army had forced him to use some of his better Skills, but even then, even now, the Dragonlord knew the rule. Attack mercilessly with guile and savagery and skill and you might win.
—But you’d suffer. You couldn’t anticipate every Skill.
At first, he had the advantage. They tumbled downwards, and Teriarch was on top of the Titan. He weighed more; he had his armored scales on his side, and he bit and tore pieces of the Titan off.
Now I know where your cores are hiding. The chest! All four of them had to be in there. It was also why the Titan was having trouble with its coordination. The damaged or destroyed Seith Cores weakened his magical output, and his limbs grew less responsive.
Giants, now, Giants hadn’t been made, so they could be so much more adept in ways that had nothing to do with war. A Giant could write; most Draconic Warriors had lost that simple dexterity. But it hadn’t mattered in the…
The first blow that didn’t glance off his scales came as Teriarch opened his mouth to rip through a maggot-riddled rib. He was gagging at the taste, trying to exhale any flames—
Impact. His sinuous head curved backwards, and Teriarch’s entire body lifted a moment as the Titan threw a punch upwards. Too fast to see. The Dragonlord felt that.
A second punch glanced off his chest scales, a dull impact he barely felt. His entire body was a fortress, one of the strongest ever conceived. It would take more than even a Titan’s swing to knock him down. Teriarch snapped back with his head, claws raised and—
Four? He took another blow to the head; two to the chest, one to his wings. They hurt.
Some kind of Skill. Teriarch drew his head back as he reared up on his hind legs, slashing desperately. He dug them into the Titan’s arm as the roaring warrior of rot pummeled his body with the other hand.
They were rolling across the floor of the valley, across the stone and dirt, smashing boulders to dust with their sheer weight. Teriarch kept his long neck moving, weaving, like his sparring practice with Alber. He couldn’t let his head take too many blows.
That, of course, left his body open to the hammer-punches, which came harder and harder, like a smith trying to beat metal on an anvil. Worse, Teriarch’s damaged scales meant the structure of his armor was compromised. The metal gave—slowly—but flesh and blood moved and bruised.
Too fast. For each snap of his teeth and gouging of his claws, the Dragonlord felt the Draconic Warrior land two blows, three, a blur beneath him.
Rotten flesh. Slower, slower than living. But there was no pain to inflict, no blood to leech or boil with spells. Just stringy, stubborn meat clinging to bones. He tried to pull more up, and the Draconic Warrior—
A hand grabbed the Dragon’s neck as he tried to yank it back. Then Teriarch saw a slab of meat rise and fall—
 
——
 
The elbow caught the Dragonlord across the face, and the Son of Graves rejoiced. Suffer! The Tyrant of Flames felt that! He—Teriarch—
The Dragonlord of Flames felt it. A legend of the world was twisting in the Draconic Warrior’s grip, unable to break free, reeling, blood running from an eye socket. He was stronger. Stronger than a Dragonlord!
No moment of intimacy, no other victory or triumph or achievement had ever been as ecstatic as this. The Titan felt arousal and lust and hatred and countless conflicting emotions leading to one emotion he called joy.
His repeated blows to the Dragonlord’s head ended as his Skill finally gave way to what felt like a snail’s crawling pace, a slowness in the world after his superior state of being. The Titan raised his free hand to probe at the Dragonlord’s side.
The scales. He had to dig his fingers into the wound he’d made, rip the Dragon apart from the inside, infect his entrails. The Titan realized, though, that something was wrong.
Teriarch’s scales were already damaged. Shredded—and not just by his capstone Skill. They had rends in them, gashes caused by some weapon. He was already wounded? Or had his injuries refused to heal? The Titan’s fingers found the ragged weal of destroyed scales and began to dig into the vulnerable flesh beneath.
Scoop his insides out. Delicious, wet, and then wear his hide. Give it as a gift to Skinner and stack his bones on an altar to Mother and then—
The Titan felt the Dragonlord’s claws digging into his own body, vaguely, but it was futile. Let his foe savage him; the wound healed oh so fast, even weakened as the Son of Graves was. It didn’t hurt.
The Mortemdefieir Titan shook the Dragonlord’s head to see his face of agony as he dug his claws into the exposed flesh. He wanted to see terror, fear, in the being who had frightened him, even when he was supposed to be invincible, that burning warrior of flames who had brought obliterating light even to the darkest places.
Instead, those famous eyes opened, like a distant sea, and there was only willpower there. A bronze sea below the cerulean currents. The Titan didn’t understand. Then he saw the Dragonlord’s teeth were shining, sparking. The claws in the Titan’s body ignited—
Brass Dragon. Masters of alchemy and metal, fire and force. The claws were spraying sparks and reacting to the air. Then they touched.
Click.
 
——
 
His claws caused an explosive reaction that blew apart the arm holding his neck. Teriarch did that rather than expose the Seith Cores. When he bit, his teeth caused another detonation.
How, Ressa had no idea. Some secretion secret only to Brass Dragons? Or a spell? It gouged more flesh out as the Titan flailed, now trying to get away. His arm flopped around on the ground, trying to return to the body, and that was when Ressa acted.
“Staff—take down that limb! Now!”
She raised her dagger, the Blade of Grass, overhead and ran for the limb with every servant fleet of foot. They dodged around the tumbling giants, and Ressa tossed her first throwing knife into the arm, anchoring the blade to a chain. It thunked in deep, and she tossed the chain to the figure running next to her.
Reynold. He seized it and heaved as more ropes flew. [Maids] and [Butlers] trying to web the limb down along with 2nd Army’s cavalry. No one else was close to the two brawling titans; this was insanity.
It was all they could do to help. No one could fire into that melee between the two without fear of hurting Teriarch, and the two rolling figures—
A [Maid] vanished beneath one wing of the Dragonlord as the Titan threw him back, headbutting, biting with his rotten teeth; the Dragonlord’s flaming talons left nothing but soot. Neither one noticed the death. Ressa saw the other servants adjust course. Dodging, slipping on the rocks, vanishing—
The arm was trying to move. Ressa dug her feet in as she threw more anchors with all the weight Magnolia lent her, with all her strength and the other servants. They held it six seconds, nine—
Eighteen seconds before the Titan saw them. It spat one word.
“Die.”
And its heart thummed, a drumbeat of death. Slowly, then with increasing force until horses dropped dead and the servants’ limbs weakened, and Ressa shouted.
“Retreat! Now!”
Some fell, dead, even as the arm floated higher. It joined the Titan as the brawl continued, and Ressa picked up a fallen Drake [Soldier] and ran with their limp body over her shoulder. Had they made a difference? Had they mattered?
She couldn’t say. She dropped the [Soldier] as she reached the lines of fighting mortals. Fighting—their own number had become undead. The Mortemdefieir Titan’s infested parasites kept falling from it, but most of all—
Ressa beheaded another Troll’s corpse as it lumbered past her. She swung her dagger into a dead Drake’s skull—the same Drake she had saved—and she flicked an explosive knife into a giant flea-monster’s head. 2nd Army was maneuvering, encircling the two fighters, prepared to attack if the Dragonlord got free, and disposing of the lesser undead commendably quickly.
Yet—Magnolia’s servants, on the edge of the fighting, noticed something no one else did.
“Big sis Ressa! Big sis!”
Ressa saw the green figure and nearly killed Ressga. The [Head Maid] snarled as she grabbed the Goblin running through the fighting.
“I told you to stay with Magnolia!”
“Big sis, big sis—the undead! They’re all going there!”
The Goblin pointed urgently, and Ressa’s head spun. She saw the undead not fighting 2nd Army were all indeed moving one direction, if subtly. The [Soldiers] were focused on the biggest threat. They didn’t pay attention to random undead, like another corpse, which sat up and then began to shuffle away.
