The Drake quivered in Naumel’s grip, and he reacted instantly, swinging his axe one-handed for her. She exploded out of his hand and caught the axe. The points dug into her claws and drew blood, but she stopped the blade and stepped forwards.
One punch.
The Kraken Eaters saw their Chieftain tumble head over heels, and Naumel pushed himself up and rubbed at his chest. A rib snapped back into place.
“What Skill was th—?”
Shirka tossed a vial into his mouth. The bang blew fire out of his mouth and nose and ears. He reeled, and she threw the axe.
“[Inspiration: My Hero’s Strength].”
The axe thunked into Naumel’s skull, and Shirka swore as his head came back up. He grinned at her.
“[Avert Mortal Blow]. [The Kraken Dives].”
He was up and on her, leaping like some gigantic fish with claws, in a moment. She struggled, punching, trying to knock him off her, and only felt the Fomirelin’s claws stop tearing at her armor when someone stabbed her.
A blade glanced off her armor; she heard a roar, and Naumel tore away. Shirka rolled to her feet and saw a Hobgoblin passing by her.
Leapwolf’s sword had gone straight through Naumel’s back. The Hobgoblin rode like a cavalryman, standing up in the stirrups of his Carn Wolf’s saddle as it bounded away from the furious Chieftain. He saluted her, and Naumel swung his axe.
[Great Cleave].
The Hobgoblin parried the blow with both his swords. [Effortless Parry]. Then his Carn Wolf jumped, carrying him out of range of Naumel. The Great Chieftain spun away from him and found no General Shirka.
“Get me lightning enchantments. Acid barely works, but he feels lightning.”
The [General] was walking into position with a squad of 2nd Army’s heaviest hitters, led by Strategist Ulhouse. The [Battlemage] began enchanting blades, and the Great Chieftain hesitated.
His eyes narrowed, and he seemed to sniff the air. He noticed Cazmaw backing away from Lord Xitegen’s forces and that his Goblins weren’t making it into 2nd Army’s heart. A roar from above made the Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain sweep his eyes skywards.
Wyverns, led by Major Hiclaw, were coming in strafing runs. The Wyvern Lord was carrying a struggling Fomirelin into the skies. Two hundred feet, three hundred—the Wyvern just dropped the Great Goblin from the height, then dove for another target while breathing frost.
“Aspat. Go. Go!”
The Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain turned and pointed his axe backwards. His forces began to disengage. General Shirka advanced, but the Kraken Eaters were as fast on the retreat as they were on the offense; they began hurling magical artifacts, leaving pools of caustic slime or tripvines exploding over 2nd Army’s ranks.
The Goblins only stopped for one thing, which was to grab the best weapon or piece of armor they could find. Then they were retreating over the valley’s edge as Xitegen’s rains of arrows kept falling.
They left only the dead in their wake. And the ruination of plans. General Shirka saw Lord Xitegen wearily stomping towards Magnolia Reinhart, a pair of Goblins casting around as her wounded army regrouped a second time. General Shirka wanted to wave at that short Goblin. Instead, she had to shout.
“Lower those weapons!”
Rags turned as the nearest [Soldiers] of 2nd Army raised their weapons and aimed them at the [Chieftain] and Leapwolf. She met Shirka’s gaze, and the [General] heard a voice in her earpiece.
“I am taking authority of this disaster. Destroy both tribes, General!”
General Shirka calmly took her earpiece off her head and spoke into it.
“Eat shit, High Command. All forces, stand down.”
She rubbed at her face and wished Chaldion were still in charge.
 
——
 
Orders were being given. A Goblin tribe was running. Two Goblin tribes were moving, in fact, but the Kraken Eaters were merely preparing for another attack. The other was fleeing, faced with battles it did not want nor need.
The sun was shining down on an inn, and the Titan lived.
Disastrous. You could well say that. Or was it a triumph?
The Dragonlord still lived. He flew downwards, rain glancing off his scales, and in the High Passes of Izril, a [General] of Pallass threw down her hatchet in front of her army for all to see. She tore the helmet off her head as she was relieved of command.
General Shirka of Pallass raised her hands over her head as General Edellein ordered Strategist Ulhouse to take charge. The [Strategist] paused to spit blood and then removed his badge. Spearmaster Gaellis planted his spear point-first in the dirt.
Calmly, slowly, thousands of [Soldiers] tossed their blades down, which was, when you got down to it, a really stupid tactical move if the Kraken Eaters decided to look over their shoulders. But in this moment…Lady Magnolia Reinhart would have bet on peace between Gnolls and Drakes before this sight.
She caught her breath as Lord Xitegen Terland glanced at the Goblin who stood, panting, one foot nearly twice the size of the other after kicking Cazmaw. He did not offer her a hand to shake, nor Leapwolf. Instead, he dug around in a bag of holding and motioned with one finger.
Seconda, his personal Golem, stepped forwards and produced from her midsection a platter of glasses. Lord Xitegen Terland pulled a vintage from his bag of holding, cut the top off with an enchanted knife, and poured three glasses. He handed one to Rags, one to Leapwolf…one to Leapwolf’s wolf, Coatsparks…and then poured himself a fourth.
The two Goblins and Lord Xitegen stood awkwardly with glasses in hand and without much to say in the face of all their problems, like unhappy newcomers at a party. Then the young Goblin gazed up. She tossed back her wine in a single gulp that made every [Vintner] and [Wine Connoisseur] who saw the image wince and then shaded her brows as she looked skywards.
Even now, Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe swore she could still see his brilliant light.
“When we need him most, he will be there. When the worst comes, we will not be alone.”
That was all she said to Leapwolf. Lord Xitegen stared bleakly at the distant, screaming [Supreme General] of Pallass, and then at the mountains where 2nd Army’s forces still lay, the Kraken Eaters, and then towards the shining ray of light hanging over Liscor.
“Young…lady. I admire optimism from you more than even myself. But when the next, imminent calamity arrives, I don’t know if he will have the strength to survive it.”
This statement he felt was reasonable, if bleak. Yet Lord Xitegen was unprepared for the blazing smile that the young Goblin gave him. She held her glass out for a refill.
“I don’t believe I specified who ‘he’ was, Lord Xitegen. It could even be a she. All it takes is one brave [Innkeeper], or Dragon, or [Lord] of House Terland…Goblins aren’t picky about our champions.”
She beamed at him, and the [Lord] of House Terland stared at her with an open mouth of dawning realization and horror. Then he began drinking as fast and hard as he could.
 
——
 
<Repeating assigned levels for clarity out of combat…>
 
[Student of Grandmasters Level 47!]
[Skill – Rocket Kick created!]
<Rocket Kick — Allows the user to kick an object with all the force and momentum of a rocket! The proportional momentum of the user enhances the Skill! New <ROCKET>-type Skills also produce heat and flame analogous to the user’s technological level and equipment!>
[Skill – Jetfire Jump created!]
<Jetfire Jump — Sudden acceleration from any position! Be careful as this jump can easily injure an inexperienced user! Unlike other jumping Skills, Jetfire Jump has far more personal momentum and force behind the motion and can even be used to propel other objects in the opposite direction if used right!>
[Skill – Unit: Champions of the Brass Dragon obtained!]
<Unit: Champions of the Brass Dragon — A gift for warriors who aid a Dragonlord in battle! Once more, accept the blessing of the Brass Dragons in the form of heavy armor resistant to fire and blades that can sunder mithril! Be warned, this Skill is not always an upgrade, but individuals in a group can refuse the Skill if so-desired. The armor is also proportionally heavier than regular steel. And very shiny.>
 
 
[Flower of Izril, Lady of the Dragon’s Promise Level 58!]
[Skill – Staff: Manufacture Dragonscale Equipment (Brass) obtained!]
<Staff: Manufacture Dragonscale Equipment (Brass) — Create items fit for servants with any Dragon scales you find lying around! Acceptable gear includes outfits fit for <SERVANT> classes such as [Maid], [Butler], and so on! Depending on the role, items such as swords may not be acceptable, but certain cooking utensils may qualify. 
Manufacturing Dragon-based equipment is notoriously difficult, and this Skill economizes both the difficulty involved and the waste of resources to far more acceptable levels. Getting Dragon scales is always difficult, but happily Dragons do shed their scales…assuming they let you keep them.>
 
[General of Will, Wardchild of the Savior Level 47!] <Guardian: Saliss of Lights> <Guardian: Onieva Oliwing.>
[Skill – Army: Patch Up Those Wounds (Cleansing) obtained!]
<Army: Patch Up Those Wounds (Cleansing) — Put some spit on those wounds and keep fighting, soldier! In this case, not even spit will hinder your forces—your battles against noxious foes and your own personal childhood trauma with poisonous enemies means your soldiers will heal and not fear disease nor poison! Within certain limits. 
This Skill will heal the approximate amount of damage equal to 1/16th of the damage each individual [Soldier] can withstand, prioritizing the least-lethal wounds first. Otherwise, you’d be incentivized to charge your forces into the worst danger and use this Skill to mitigate! Keep your lads safe! Tell Spearmaster Gaellis he’s an idiot if he tries to charge alone.>
[Skill – Unit: Massed Attack obtained!]
<Unit: Massed Attack — Attack a single foe from a distance! Designate a target and your entire unit will be allowed to strike and use their Skills as one on the foe! Perfect for slaying gigantic enemies or foes who refuse to come into range! Bear in mind the Skill is not unlimited in range, and the [Massed Attack] Skill does not amplify your unit’s abilities, merely allow them to simultaneously hit the enemy.>
[Ward Skill – Item: Potion of Growth obtained!]
<Item: Potion of Growth — An item straight from your personal hero’s creations! They worked hard on this one, but seldom use it because of reasons. Grow in size until you’re twice your height! Effects last (20) minutes at present, and the vial can be given and imbibed by anyone you wish. Watch out, your enemies can grab this and use it against you! 
The vial is temporary and lasts five minutes until it vanishes; drink the entire potion for full effect. Tastes like raspberries mixed with dungbeetle innards.> 
 
[Golem-Lord of Enduring Dignity Level 49!]
[Skill – Revive Golem (Autonomous) obtained!]
<Revive Golem (Autonomous) — Lose a Golem? No problem! Bring them back! Don’t shed a tear, because your Golem will reassemble around its Golem Heart and be good as new***! 
*Memories of said Golem will not endure past the breaking of their Golem Heart.
**This Skill is only available once per month at your level. It might change at Level 50! Good luck!
***Primera isn’t really a Sentient-class Golem so she applies! She’s called that but she’s an excellent Autonomous-class at best or she’d remember any of her previous owners and have a personality. Which she doesn’t. Standards have fallen these days. Only Domehead has reached Sentience-class since Zelkyr’s era. 
Golems destroyed in the distant past or whose remains are over 51% lost cannot be revived, but everything else in House Terland is free game!>
[Skill Change – Covering Fire → Covering Fire (Piercing Arrows)!]
[Skill – Covering Fire (Piercing Arrows) obtained!]
<Covering Fire (Piercing Arrows) — Now your arrows can pierce steel armor! They have approximately half the piercing effect of a Level 30 [Archer] using [Piercing Shot], but you’ve got a lot of arrows!>
 
[Goblinchampion Level—]
[CLASS CANCELLED.]
 
——
 
As they slept, at various times, four individuals—among many, many more—woke up in states of confusion, dismay, and in one case, sweat-soaked horror.
But mostly great confusion and concern, which was odd because they’d all gotten such helpful explanations about everything! The Grand Design (Second Edition) had worked so hard, too.
It might have gotten a bit over enthusiastic about some of the Skills, but it felt like this was a lot of fun…for the people getting the levels! And the Grand Design (First Edition) was finally coming over to check its work.
It couldn’t wait to show off what it had been doing.
 
——
 
After a while, the Goblin [Student] stopped pinching herself and tried to grab the nearest quill and paper to write all this down.
 
——
 
The [Lady] of House Reinhart resolved to talk to said Dragon about this immediately…though she did wonder what kind of designs her people could come up with. But she was exceptionally concerned.
 
——
 
The [General] lay in her tents, wondering if she’d keep her class long enough to use her new Skills. She wondered what the hell was going on and whether her savior would call this, too, the work of The Wandering Inn, and that was a terrifying thought.
She thought for a long time about why this was happening, what was going on, as everyone who heard that voice did. But then Shirka’s mind focused on something, and she rolled over to rest her chin on one hand.
“…They? Odd grammar.”
The voice of levels had used ‘lads’ because Shirka called her army that. And it had called Gaellis ‘he’.
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen got up, gave crisp orders to have Primera’s pieces found and assembled as soon as possible, then found a bottle of wine and decided to keep drinking.
