She continued, “She never stopped being scared, not really. But she worked through her fear… I don’t know how to do that. Not really.” She added, “I only learned about this two weeks ago. I never knew any of this until the week before the Red Dot. Looking back on it, I’m sure that if her own death wasn’t coming for her, that she could have warned us about the attack. About what it meant. About who was coming, and how they would arrive.” She kept going, “She also told me that you would come calling after she died and that I was to throw away my fear, but it’s all very strange. I don’t think I can do that.” She stopped. She stared off into the distance. She said, “She held on to her fear. But she wants me to ignore mine— Huh. ‘Wants’… Look at me. Talking like she’s still alive.”

A long moment passed. Steam curled into the air from barely sipped mugs.

She asked, “Say something, please.”

Erick tried to find something to say. “I’m sorry for killing your grandmother.” He tried to find his footing; a joke came out, “No wonder she hated me! I’d hate me, too.”

“What? No. That’s wrong.” Ikawa paused. She said, “Sorry. I’m not… I had a small speech prepared because I knew you would show. Grandmother told me you would. But… Grandmother liked you, a lot. She also made sure to tell me— Sorry. I’m doing this all wrong. She didn’t blame you. But you were how she would die. Death comes for everyone, and Grandmother was no exception. She was scared, and she never fully accepted what would happen, but she knew you. She liked you, as a person.” Ikawa found her center, saying, “She liked you too much, in fact. You became the eye of her storm, and she never wanted that. She loved to be the free flowing wind, soaring above it all, only coming down when circumstance demanded. But death comes for us all. Even she couldn’t out fly that inevitability.” She smiled as a tear fell. She wiped it away with a wingtip and chuckled, saying, “But she made so much money working the Farm. She loved that. She loved the work, too. In the end, she decided to find solace in leaving a legacy. So she stayed on the Farm making money, putting away an inheritance.”

Silence filled the room.

Erick said, “I’m glad Krakina had that opportunity. I don’t know what I’d do if I knew I was about to die.”

Ikawa silently sipped her tea.

Erick tried to turn the conversation somewhere nicer, or at least less heavy, “Are you going to follow in her steps? Become Spur’s Weather Witch?”

“Yes. Grandma hoped to be there for my final tests, but she knew that would never happen. She guided me on most of the trials, though.” Ikawa said, “I drove a stormfront across the Crystal Forest last month. I was struck by lightning and survived. The sand storms are due to arrive in a few weeks. Some of them have already begun further up north. That’s the last test; Protect your home from Nature’s Scouring.”

“Is there any way I can help?”

Ikawa spoke with finality, “No.”

A long, silent moment passed.

Erick asked, “Do you want to be involved in the Gardens? I would like to make that happen for you, if you wish.”

Ikawa eventually said, “No. I’m going to be more of a diviner than a farming magnate.” She offered, “But if you want to know the future I might be able to help in a few years.”

“Are you going to be okay, Ikawa?”

She smiled, but it was a put-upon expression. She said, “Not for a while, but eventually. Thank you for coming.” She added, “Truly, I mean that. It means a lot to me.”

Erick took that as his cue to leave.

- - - -

Delia Greentalon, the 16 year-old pinkscale daughter of Valok Greentalon, stood on the sands of the Adventurer’s Guildhouse arena, fighting with a similarly sized blackscale boy. She clutched daggers in her hands, striking where she could, and dodging the boy’s spear when she needed to dodge. The boy tried to strike a decisive blow, but Delia held the spear away with one dagger and struck the boy’s hands, drawing a thin line of blood. The boy yelped, dropping the spear. Delia moved in—

Draz, the incani instructor overseeing the match, called out, “Enough!”

The boy was already on the ground. Delia held her daggers against his throat. She breathed hard. Her eyes were points of pink light that stared into the boy’s black eyes. She pressed—

Draz was suddenly beside the girl with one hand on the back of her neck and the other holding her hand away from the boy. The light in her eyes died. Draz hauled her to her feet. She dropped her daggers; they were wooden things, merely practice tools. The boy, for his part, scrambled backward, across the sand.

Draz let Delia go when the boy was far enough away, saying, “That was uncalled for, Delia.”

Delia put on a strong face. “Sorry.” She turned to the boy, who was already at the edge of the arena with the other young kids. She called out, “Sorry!” She almost said something else, but she saw Erick standing beyond the short wall around the arena. Her eyes went wide. She shouted, “You!”

Everyone turned toward Erick. Most of them focused on Mog, standing beside Erick; Mog was a much more well known person, in this place. She was also a meter taller than Erick. Hardly any of them recognized the archmage that had brought the rains to Spur; most of them were kids, so that didn’t surprise Erick. Draz, though, he recognized Erick. Delia rushed toward Erick—

Draz spoke with authority. “You’re not done here, Delia.”

Delia froze in her tracks. She turned to Draz. “May I please be excused?”

Draz wanted to say no; it was in his eyes and his posture, but as Erick glanced to Mog, he saw Mog nod toward Draz.

Draz said, “Get out of here.” He added, “You’re running punishment laps tomorrow.”

Delia bowed to her instructor and to her training partner, then quickly rushed toward Erick. She vaulted the wall between them, coming to stand a meter from him. She asked in a nice voice, “Can we speak somewhere else?”

Erick had no idea what to make of the young woman. Part of him was deeply concerned at her display, but Delia did not seem to be sad, and Mog had already expected this to happen, so Erick said, “Yes. Guildmaster Mog has been kind enough to provide a meeting room for us to use.”

Mog said, “I’ll leave you to it.”

“Thank you, Mog,” Erick said.

“Thank you, Guildmaster,” Delia added.

Mog gave a guarded look to Erick and a blank look to Delia, before turning and walking away.

- - - -

Erick sat on one side of a short table. Delia sat on the other side.

Delia began, “Thank you for taking the time to see me, archmage.”

Erick was prepared to let Delia keep her mask of emotions hard set, but he needed to know, “Are you okay, Delia?”

Delia did not answer. She just blinked a few times.

Erick continued, “I’m sorry about your father. If there is something I can do to help, please tell me.”

Delia paused for a moment, before saying, “There’s a whole group of us kids— Not kids. I mean. We Matriculated recently. A lot of us went early because we have to step up to the frontlines, wherever those frontlines may be. My birthday isn’t until next month, but the hunters attacked us and we’re on our own. Uh. Some of us have gone to the Church—” She breathed deep. She said, “I would— We would like if you could sponsor us.” She quickly added, “We don’t want money, or teaching, or any secrets. But we’ve seen those enchanted rings you’ve made for Spur’s Army and we want them. Um. Please. It will be a great boon for us moving forward in the world.”

Erick readily agreed, “Done. How many people?”

Delia flinched backward. Her mouth dropped open. She came back to herself as quick as she could, then said, “There are 283 of us.” She added, “Now that number might seem large, considering that only a 103 full time farmers were killed, but there were a fair number of those outside of the farming community that lost their… lost their...” Tears poured, and her voice cracked, but as her pinkscaled face turned red and pained, Delia kept speaking as best she could, “A lot of people don’t have breadwinners… anymore. So I would like… you to help us get… get back on our feet, a little.” She breathed. She calmed. She said, “Some increased Stats would do well for those of us who are planning on joining the time honored tradition of killing monsters.”

Erick said, “I’ll make 600 rings. 75 each of the normal Stats, and 300 other ones that I’m sure you’ll enjoy. Unless you’d prefer some other ratio on the first 300?”

Delia seemed to deflate a little, like she had won a battle she had never known she could win. She said, “Thank you, archmage. That will be a good ratio.”

“Your father did a great deal of good for everyone around him.” He said, “I look forward to you being as strong and as capable as him, but you have many years to get there. If you personally need something, and I can give it, please ask. This isn’t just a one time thing, either. I feel a great deal of responsibility toward what happened—”

“It was NOT your fault,” Delia shouted. She closed her eyes hard, embarrassed or mad for her outburst; Erick couldn’t tell. She said, “It was their fault. Portal’s. And the hunters.” She bared her fangs, saying, “They allowed that wyrm Caradogh into—” She cut herself short. She said, “You tried to do good. You helped my father make something beautiful.” She cried as she said, “We could have had a really good life! Dad loved Spur! He loved the Farm.” Delia sniffled, then said, “He loved it here.” She whispered, “I love it here, too.”

Erick waited for his own emotions to pass.

Erick asked, “What are you going to do, now, Delia? You have some place to stay? Is someone taking care of you? Feeding you dinner? Do you have money for clothes?”

Delia laughed a little. She said, “I’ve been making dinner for Dad and I for…” She paused. She said, “I’ve been making dinner for a while. I have my home, too. I cleaned up the results of the fight, so there’s no worries there. And Dad saved up a lot of money, anyway. I’m good, but I’ll be even better when some of the others get with the program and get back on their feet. I don’t know what the vast majority of everyone is doing, but some of us are becoming adventurers.”

“It’s only been a week. You don’t have to push yourself so hard.”

She smiled. “I’m not pushing myself hard at all, archmage, but thank you for your concern.”

Erick changed tactics. “What sort of adventurer do you think you want to be? Can I help you with that?”

“Poison. And no. Not really. Thank you.” She smiled, adding, “Poison is great against monsters, and it’s easy to avoid direct danger with just a bit of [Cleanse].”

Erick wasn’t sure what he was expecting, but it certainly wasn’t poison. “Okay. Uh. Good luck with that?” He added, “I don’t know any poison magic at all.”

“It’s a good specialization!” She added, “It’s also good for killing bugs without killing plants. It’s not so useful in Spur where this place is the only green land in five [Teleport]s, but anywhere else inside a proper ecosystem? A good poisoner is necessary for a good harvest.”

Erick smiled. “You’re right. I hadn’t considered that angle.” He asked, “How do you make a good poison for killing the right insects? I suppose you wouldn’t want to accidentally kill bees or aphid reapers, either.”

Delia said, “It’s all in the proper use of the Decay aspect of Mana Altering. You gotta be able to do it just right or else you end up with something too harmful to use properly. And then there’s all the Health-cost debilitating magics, like [Blind] and [Deaf] and [Dumb]. If you’re good, you can make those into a poison with Decay, too, but that’ll take me years to get right.”

“That sounds good, Delia.” Erick said, “I’m glad you have a plan.”

“I do.” She stood, saying, “But that’s for later. I gotta pass Instructor Draz’s course, first, before they’ll let me take quests from the guild board. The first thing I’m gonna do is hunt mimics till level 35, then I’m headed to the Hole with some friends.”

Erick stood, saying, “You’re going to hunt mimics with friends, too, right?”

“… Yes.”

“Please be safe out there, Delia.” Erick said, “Get some adventuring friends before you go out after mimics. One of the safest ways I ever killed a mimic was with [Stoneshape] making a great big roller with spikes on it and then rolling over the mimic.”

“I will get some friends before I hunt mimics, archmage. Thank you for looking after me. Thank you for that tip.” She asked, “Could you please deliver those rings to the Church?”

“Of course, Delia.”

Delia bowed, and quickly exited the room. Erick heard Delia cry in the hallway, two tiny sobs, before she breathed easier and kept walking; she never broke her stride.

When he was in control of his own emotions, Erick sent Poi, ‘Should I make the bigger Stat rings for the kids, or smaller Stat rings?’

‘Smaller means less chance of someone recognizing the rings for what they are and trying to take them from the kids, which could be a problem. Larger ones mean that the kids might survive their more dangerous encounters, but once word gets out about that, they will become targets for sure.’ He added, ‘Therefore, I’d suggest the smaller ones.’

Erick nodded, and thought. He sent, ‘Smaller ones for now, with a promise that larger ones are possible if they prove to be reliable adventurers? That’s almost how the Headmaster does it.’

‘A fair compromise.’

