Following this brief interlude, Jorani returned to killing Defiled, though this time he kept his quin moving so not to have a repeat of what just happened. Blood and gore sprayed about as his weapon scythed through the Enemy, but still they pressed on. Nothing short of a killing blow could stop a Defiled Warrior for long, but even these crazed lunatics seemed reluctant to accept a strike from Jorani’s weapon head-on. One warrior thought to grab the rope, but Jorani gave his weapon a light tug and ripped the flesh from the foolish Defiled’s hands, exposing bone and tendons to the morning air. Despite his failure, the now-handless Defiled’s actions had bought his companions a half step closer to Jorani, and the pressure was mounting fast.

In an act of sheer desperation, Jorani brought all his strength to bear and released the full length of rope. Darting out like a slithering snake, Jorani timed his Chi with the exact moment his rope stretched taut and Amplified, and by the Mother’s grace, he actually succeeded. With so much force behind the strike, his weapon no longer curved or slid upon impact and instead cut clean through everything it touched. Bisecting multiple Defiled with each pass, Jorani’s weapon sang as it killed Defiled and sprayed blood and gore about, but he wasn’t done yet. Lifting his arm high, he angled his weapon forward so it tore through the air behind him and over his allies’ heads before dipping down to cut a swathe through the encroaching Defiled. To ensure there wouldn’t be a repeat leaper, he had his quin to dart about, either from side to side or forward and back at random intervals. With every revolution, Jorani put more strength into his weapon and Amplified it once again, each rotation moving faster and faster as there were fewer Defiled left to obstruct him. Soon enough, the nearby Defiled had all but retreated out of range to wait him out, throwing the odd stone or weapon at him in the interim.

Reckless and foolhardy the Defiled might be, they weren’t suicidal.

This was Jorani’s moment. With his strength alone, he held the Defiled back and prevented them from surrounding his comrades. He couldn’t hold out for long, but thankfully, his efforts were noticed and Dastan bellowed orders to disengage, leading his cavalry and Erkin’s scouts away through the opening Jorani created. Off they rode into the darkness to regroup for another charge, but now Jorani was stuck with a tricksy dilemma. If he left now and escaped with Dastan and the others, the Defiled would head straight for camp, but according to the bossman’s game plan, the shift guards would all be out fighting the Defiled. ‘The best defense is a good offense,’ the bossman said, and even though it didn’t make any sense to Jorani, he kept his mouth shut and nodded along.

Whether the bossman was right or not, there was no way the sleeping soldiers were ready to fight, so Jorani’s hands were tied. He had to stay here and keep the Defiled occupied until Dastan and Erkin rejoined the fray, but how long would that take? A minute maybe? Could he last a whole sixty seconds standing here by himself? It didn’t sound like a long time, but every second felt like an eternity as Jorani’s arms grew heavy and his Chi reserves ran low. To keep his weapon rigid and circling required constant Reinforcement and Amplification on every rotation, and if he eased up or shortened the length then the Defiled might decide to eat their losses and charge in headlong against him.

Jorani was only a man, and not even a full man at that. He was a half-rat and a coward, a scout and a sneak-thief, not some peak Expert or hero out of legend...

Enough whinging and whining. One minute. That’s not too long, you can do this. Fifty-five seconds now, probably. Worst comes to worst, you send the quin away, surrender to the Defiled, and pray they kill you slowly. At least that way, you can buy enough time for the camp to wake. This was all that old, rat bastard’s fault, insisting you take this stupid rope just because your nickname was ‘Hangman Jorani’. Why didn’t you ask for a sword or spear or something? Sure, your rope’s unique and powerful, but also a terrible choice for a first Spiritual Weapon. Okay, Lady Tursinai’s Spiritual Weapon is sort of similar and she only has the one, but not only is she a Bekkie genius, her weapon also has a sickle attached to it, which is pretty much a curved short sword.

...

How much longer is this gonna take? Why weren’t you keeping track of time? Fifty seconds? Maybe forty-five if you’re lucky.

…

While inwardly berating himself, Jorani kept a confident sneer pasted across his face, praying the Defiled wouldn’t notice his sweat-soaked tunic or trembling arms. At this rate, he wasn’t going to last the full minute, perhaps not even half. A knot formed in his throat as he desperately considered his options, but no matter how he approached the question, he couldn’t think of a way to escape unscathed without sacrificing his fellow soldiers. In truth, most of the soldiers in camp were more useful and talented than Jorani, whether they be Wang Bao’s Butchers, Ulfsaar’s Cutthroats, the Death Corps, or the Protectorate. Hell, even some of Lang Yi’s peons were strong enough to make Jorani feel threatened, to say nothing of their scary, silent leader himself.

There was no other option. As the bossman would say, this was the play.

Stilling his efforts, Jorani let the rope’s remaining momentum play out. His arm held high, the silver cord coiling around it in one continuous spiral until coming to a stop. Not only did it look somewhat impressive and saved him the effort of coiling it himself, it also bought him a few precious seconds as the Defiled collectively flinched in expectation of an attack. Gratified by their apparent respect for his Martial Prowess, Jorani dismounted, sent the quin away, and took a moment to reflect on his life’s decisions before surrendering to the Enemy.

Despite knowing death was near, Jorani smiled. Truth be told, for a street-rat from Sanshu, he’d done pretty well for himself.

As he opened his mouth to speak, the Defiled collectively roared. Hooting and hollering in their harsh, guttural language, they raised their weapons and stomped their feet in what appeared to be derision. While he didn’t understand the language, Jorani had seen enough angry audiences to know the Defiled were upset at him, though they also seemed oddly delighted at the same time. A handful of them jostled and shoved their way to the front where a brief and mostly bloodless tussle ensued, until eventually one broke free from the rest and stomped towards Jorani.

It was at this point he finally understood what was going on. They didn’t realize he was too tired to keep fighting. They thought he was challenging them to a duel.

Relief flooded through him as he saw a chance to survive, but it lasted only for a brief moment, right up until he took a closer look at his opponent. A hulking beast of a man, the Defiled Champion made Ral look normal-sized in comparison. Hefting a bone club taller than most men, he bared his teeth in an animalistic grin with sharp, blackened teeth. What Jorani first thought was a dirty sash turned out to be a thick, hairless tail, making this not only the first Defiled half-beast Jorani had ever seen, but also a cousin of sorts on account of them both being half-rodents. Yellowed eyes peeked out from beneath the human-skin head-wrap as the Defiled Champion’s Aura erupted outwards, conveying unshakable confidence and an unspoken promise of pain and misery aplenty.

Frozen in place, Jorani couldn’t even utter what would’ve probably been his last words.

A good thing too. It would’ve made for an awkward afterlife if his last statement was ‘Fuck me and the Mother’s crusty cunt’.

Chapter Meme
