It came to a crux whenever Althea learned something rather special. She already had two unique skills, sharpshooter and tinkerer. During this training, she gained her third, Bullet Bender. She would whip her hand, creating a curve in the firing trajectory of her bolts. I learned a skill or two for throwing as well, mainly the Magnus Effect skill. It allowed me to curve my shots with greater precision.

It was hellfire on the other side of our onslaught after learning those skills. Kessiah siphoned more and more of her blood into her mythical skill before she finally relented. With sweat pouring down her face, she walked up before leaning against a wall beside us. She let herself drag down before laying her hands against her knees,

“Good session guys. I can’t keep this up though. Too much bullshit being thrown at me.”

Over the course of the training, Kessiah missed about 1/10th of our shots. In all honesty, it was incredible seeing it. I couldn't have done that shit, that's for sure.

Once she rested for a bit, Kessiah pulled out a gem from her pocket. She surged mana through it, evaporating the dome over us. The white noise of a fall morning and the crowd poured in. Suddenly, a black portal opened beside us.

From it, Torix stepped out. He turned to me, “You know, this is quite the crowd the three of you have collected. Giving them a bit of a push before you and Althea leave would be quite helpful. I believe you would be perfect for just such a task.”

My stomach sank,

“Wait…what? Right now?”

Torix nodded, an awful, evil grin lining his lips. His blue fire eyes blazed with what could only be considered hatred and malice as he lifted his hand. Alright, maybe I was just imagining it that way.

Regardless, with a snap of his fingers, the sound from our group heightened. Torix spread his hands, lifting them up. As he did so, a pillar of ground grew from beneath us. He hadn’t lifted us, instead he expanded the ground underneath us.

Sitting above house level, a group of about two hundred soldiers could see us. I whispered to Torix, "No way. Not happening." His grin evolved into pure treachury. I seethed, "You evil piece of shit, why didn't you tell me?!”

Torix cackled with a bit too much glee in his voice before he glanced around, speaking through the voice enhancing magic, “Hello soldiers. Today, my harbinger and Althea leave towards a rift. Once within, they face the might of monsters and their endless reincarnations. Before then, the Harbinger would like a word with you all. May his words inspire you to work hard in his absence.”

My blood ran cold as Torix gestured towards me, speaking in a low murmur without his voice entering the magic,

“Since you won’t take the initiative to learn the unique skill on your own, I decided to do it for you. Think of it as a little push. Good luck.”

I sighed. I glanced around before speaking out my first word, “We-Eck.“

Within my first word, my voice cracked louder than a whip snapping across my cheek. I sighed.

This was going to be a long and painful next few minutes.
