Rosemarie slowly nodded as she considered the various angles. She knew she’d never have agreed to join a true war on the weaker side, but didn’t argue now that it had happened. Neither did she miss his deliberate avoidance of her final comment about his original pivot.

Thinking about it more, she began to come around. With not only an endless mana font the likes of which she’d never even considered possible, forty four trillion mana every second at Tier 45 was no joke. But the promise Titans liquid mana gems hinted at… Yeah even a bad true war would be worth it.

So long as they won.

Instincts roused, Rosemarie corrected the Tier 50. “I know what you normally mean when you say someone is idealistic and emotional, boss, and I don’t think that is the smartest play here. He’s already a Chosen level threat hiding his abilities. You might want to measure three times before you choose to pull that lever.”

Pausing in his edits, JR finally nodded. “Well reminded. While controllable now, he isn’t actually under my wing or claw. Pity that. I’d have him willing to sell his mana within a century if he jumped ship permanently but little chance of that. The Empire's systems work a little too well, hmm.”

Rosemarie’s mind was still racing when JR waved a wing, dismissing her. “No need to sit around here any longer, go do what you have to do. Start tearing into the businesses. Young Matthew may have been kinder than we intended, but the forty percent remaining is still within our acceptable upper limits. I want fertile grounds ready and prepped for the return of the higher Tier explorers so we can really start to exploit aura enchanting. I already peeked at their treasuries, and if we can get the timing right, we’ll have a strong economy for rest of my tenure and beyond, if my successor doesn’t fuck it up. Then get people to work on the wording for a defensive pact with the Empire following our earlier guidelines, and make sure we negotiate so a portion of all crystals handed over to us are Matt-made crystals. We need to ensure our share before anyone else realizes his value.”

Not wanting to ask, but knowing she needed to with what was at risk, Rosemarie asked the question she’d been holding in since she’d realized how far Titan’s Talent could go. “Are you confident about us winning the true war?”

Finally looking away from a projection of Titan’s body and spirit, JR shivered, sending several feathers flying before replying, “Am I confident? No not particularly, but Emmanuel is. He's certain of victory with or without us.”

“Could the Emperor be bluffing? He has a reputation.”

JR immediately shook his head. “Unlikely. I’m not entirely sure why, but I do know I’d much rather chain our wagon to the Matthew horse now instead of in twenty thousand years after the Empire succeeds and emerges victorious. Can you not see how in retrospect, Emmanuel’s moves in the most recent war make far more sense? He wasn’t foolish in letting the Guilds take their occupied land, reducing his side's war score; he'd already won and wanted the longest treaty possible, and so needed to lower how well he’d done. Ha!”

Laughing with his piercing true laugh, JR cocked his head to the side as he thought out loud. “Emmanuel may have lost the war, but in turn, he got everyone else to pay him for Tiering out two of his three Ascender teams. HA! HA! No, he got the full sweep, considering part of the reasoning for allowing Titan, Legion and Wraith to go along with Light and Shadow delving other rifts was their own partial buyout. If he's been planning this for so long, why wouldn’t I feather myself a perch when offered such a deal? In fact, I’d argue if I said no to this deal, I’d be in violation of the oaths I swore when I became a Tier 50. One of them was to best guide the Corporations in a long term sustainable way, and what is more long term than infinite mana?”

Tapping his foot, JR started bobbing his head in a repeated nod. “Ultimately, our greatest advantage is time and foreknowledge. After the economy settles down, start a few higher Tier initiatives while keeping loyal elements from ascending. Agatha was a little too thorough when it came to purging the higher Tiers, so we'll need to pick up some of the slack when it comes to the highest Tiers battlefields, and we can start now. Start scaling up for higher Tier combat. Use the breach as an excuse if we have to say anything. We want to be better prepared for the next one thanks to a lackluster performance by our higher Tiers or some such nonsense. Spin it however you want, just ensure we are moving in the right direction without tipping our hand. Also, encourage more mercenary work and increase remuneration for outside contracts. Let's try to ensure the other Great Powers stay at war as much as possible in the coming years. I doubt the lower Tiers will matter much, but there is no reason not to hamper them as much as possible.”

Dropping that subject for the time being, seeing how he’d already decided, Rosemarie decided to circle back around to the topic he’d tried to avoid. “So why did you originally decide to pivot and test the kid at all?”

Instead of blowing her off, JR hopped to stand right in front of her. “That decade’s overtime I owe you written off, and I’ll tell you everything.”

“Thats my third largest piece of leverage over you.”

Instead of arguing, the raven smile widened. “That makes the deal all the more exciting.”

Squinting at her boss, she narrowed her eyes and trusted her gut. “No deal. I’d rather not know.”

Stomping his feet, he squawked several times in frustration. “I hate you. Fine, I’ll spill. I sensed something was amiss, but when I saw the gem in Titan’s chest, I knew this will be the item that gives me an inspiration, or something in its creation will lead to the same. I’d have paid for the opportunity, so I trusted my gut. I’d say it worked out, wouldn’t you?”

“Thats the fourth time you’ve said that.”

“This time it's different.”

“Third time.”

“It's different this time.”

“Second time.”

Snorting, JR grew serious. “The gem. I can see you couldn’t feel it, but I could when I originally scanned the duo on their entrance. It's…”

Looking off into space, Rosemarie watched as JR thought before speaking. “Not something that should exist. It's similar to a Tier 50 in a way, but where we are eternal it's temporary. I don’t know how else to describe it, but the energy in the gem makes me want to flee. But it's purely from my connection to the realm as a Tier 50, the same way I can sense people who are high Tier. That reward… shouldn’t exist for more than a moment. Except it's not temporary right now, but we already discussed that, so let me move on. My point is that energy is very uncomfortable to be close to. After interacting with the energy, I believe I might be able to craft an item that will let me unleash my full power without being forced to ascend.”

Rosemarie wasn’t entirely confident her boss wasn’t bluffing for a second time, but she didn’t call him on it. Instead she grabbed her mana gem off the table and slipped it into a pocket, even as she turned away without acknowledging his boasting.

“Oh, do go dip into a rift and let me know if the mana gem doesn’t work in a time accelerated environment for some reason. Yes, yes, we will need to ensure some of our payment comes in these mana stones.”

Hopping back to his table, JR called out right as she was about to reach the door, “That is the lesson we will have to teach Titan while he visits us, even if he doesn't want to learn it. If he doesn't assign value to himself, someone else will, and he might find he doesn't like the price.”

Cackling, JR waved her away as he dived into redesigning Chosen Titan’s armor. Rosemarie knew she’d get more out of talking with the wall now that he was fully absorbed with his work and didn’t bother lingering.

Taking another peak at the blueprint, Rosemarie asked herself if it was all worth it. Remembering the endless stream of mana that had poured itself out of Chosen Titan without a single warble of his spirit, she quickly concluded that yes, it was.

Any price would be cheap when talking about the best mana font the Realm had ever seen.

As she walked away, she tried to push down the knowledge that their enemies would be reaching the same conclusions, lest it cause her composure to break in public. Once in front of JR had been more than enough.
