Before Matt could come up with an appropriate response, JR asked, “Why don’t we hit three humans with a single stone, hmm? We won’t be able to hide your presence while making your armor. You still need to spend a decade or two working with Cosmind to perfect your [AI] enhancement, but that can’t happen at the same time as this, so that won't work. Hmmm… I know! Why don’t we expand the scope and bring your friends. But then we need to have a reason for you all to be here.”

Grinning, JR looked at Matt, but the gaze made his stomach sink to his feet once more. “Why don’t we have you guys open businesses while you are here?”

Caught completely of guard by the answer, Matt could only ask, “What?”

Sighing dramatically in a way that only a bird could, JR said, “Fine, let me paint this picture one color at a time. I need uninterrupted access to you for anywhere from a decade to two. I don’t wish to announce that I am making armor for an enemy Chosen to the rest of the Great Powers until its too late for anyone to complain. That means we need a reason to obscure the truth. And would you look at that, you yourself gave me one earlier, didn’t you Matthew?”

“I did?”

Matt wasn’t sure when he had given JR a reason, but he suddenly felt uneasy.

“Of course. Don’t you remember arguing I should cut deeper into the various companies beneath me?”

Knowing it was futile and that the Tier 50 seemed to have planned everything from the start Matt tried to protest, “You asked me what I thought. I didn't suggest anything. I—”

He failed.

“Why don’t you and your friends— bring as many as you like, I don’t care— come and spend time in the Corporations. I’ll even let you all start your own business, build them up as the economy recovers from what I’m about to do, and leave with the profits. I’ll even allow you to keep operating the business once you leave, so long as they can continue to turn a profit without outside funds.”

Feeling toyed with and played, Matt growled, “You wanted this outcome from the beginning. Why?”

JR’s grin was wicked, but Matt found himself entangled by his own efforts. “Because you are now one of the most important people in the Realm, Chosen Titan. Maybe not yet, given your Tier, but in five more Tiers, that will change, and in ten… Well, that will be quite the sight. Also, I think you have a gross mischaracterization of my Great Power, and the best way to solve that is to let you experience the truth.”

Gesturing down and unable to contain his anger in the sharp move, Matt tried not to growl once more. “And you think forcing me to spend time here will improve my opinion of the Corporations?”

JR paused at Matt’s question before cocking his head in confusion. “Improve your opinion of my Great Power? Hmm, no not really. I simply want to ensure that your opinion is based in reality, rather than your preconceived notions.”

Matt didn’t fully believe the raven, not after being maneuvered into such a position from the beginning— before JR had even known about his Talent— but after designing his armor with the Tier 50, he didn’t have an easy way to back out. He wanted that armor.

Wanting to press, Matt shot back, “What if I want to set up a charity instead of a business?”

The raven, who started staring at a projection of Matt’s armor, turned back around. “Feel free. I won’t stop you.”

Before Matt could ask for clarification about the seeming backtrack, JR finished, “But while I’ll allow you to fund your charity yourself while you are here, I will not allow you to fund it once you leave. So run a charity, but if you want to make a lasting difference, I demand your business be self-sustaining. I’d much prefer it if you just extract resources from our markets. Much less bothersome than charity.”

Matt’s initial reaction was once again to dismiss the words as a way to play a game with him and his desires, but he felt it was deeper than that.

However, the bird refused to give a more concrete answer.

Turning to Manny, Matt got a small shake of the head and a private message. “I have no easy answers, Matt. I said that from the beginning. We can only trust our guts. If you want to back out, I’ll do my best.”

“Is this really our best bet? To work with someone who is doing the exact thing I want to avoid? It feels like drinking poison to quench thirst.”

Manny raised and dropped a single shoulder. “I don’t know, Matt. I wish I did, but I don't. I do believe it's our best bet. None of the other Tier 50s are as willing to work with us as JR and the Corporations are. Then, there is the type of item you want; JR is the only one who can do it. Combined? I genuinely think this is our best bet. I also have no desire to defend the bird, but Icliz was a horrible person, the inverse of you and what you strive for. Bad things happen to good people, but sometimes they happen to bad ones too. This happens to be the latter, not that I agree with the initial decision.”

After a moment of silence, Manny added out loud, “JR being willing to sell you Icliz is a concession. He wasn’t lying when he said he’d rather put the two of you together. He’d risk empowering Icliz to triple your mana output. However, for all his issues, JR isn’t one to renege an agreement. If we make a deal with him, then he’ll keep it.”

Taking a deep breath, Matt met JR’s gaze. “How can I trust you won’t put a back door into this armor, or into me. After all of this, I find it hard to trust you.”

JR looked sullenly to Manny. “I have a Talent that can help, but I doubt you have too much to worry about. I’m no crafter, but an item on this level, while impressive, is still a Tier 30 item. That limits how much even a Tier 50 can do, so while he might try to slip something nefarious into the armor, it will be relatively obvious. Besides, as much as I hate to admit it, JR cares too much about his reputation to sabotage his own work.”

He couldn’t make the other Tier 50 budge and he was worried fully backing out of the deal would ruin the existing treaty.

After wrestling with himself he finally nodded as he reached out to take the proffered wing. “Then fine. I hate myself for it, but I accept.” Pulling his hand back he turned to Manny. “Can we go before I vomit?”

Before they could leave, JR added one last thing making Matt freeze, but he chose not to react.

“Icliz’s greatest failure was that he was too weak, Chosen Titan. His failure doomed him more so than his actions, because as a Tier 50, he would have been one of those eight. However, he didn’t. And as such, he was subject to the whims of the victor. Good bye Chosen Titan. I look forward to seeing you again shortly. Do remember to buy the list I’ll send you shortly. I charge large finder fee’s.”

***

Rosemarie waited until JR fluffed his feathers, indicating they were truly alone once more, before finally asking one of the many questions that had been bubbling up in her since being asked to put on a play for a Tier 30.

“Are you seriously considering joining the Empire in the inevitable true war that will spawn from that boy? Forty four trillion mana a second at Tier 45 is a lot, but is it worth the cost?”

JR shot her a cocky look as he strutted across the table. “I'll note that is just under four quintillion mana a day, but do you think that is the only reason I accepted? The mana?”

Having worked with JR for longer than most, she didn’t hesitate to ask, “Is it not?”

Instead of answering her question, he pivoted, showing just how interested he was. “Any interest in selling that gem? I’ll give you a Tier 47 item from the breach. Your choice.”

Rosemarie snorted, not falling for the raven's distraction. The more valuable the gem, the less likely she’d sell it, but she had no idea why it was so valuable beyond its novelty factor.

“What's so special about it? I won't sell what I don’t understand.”

“Fine, fine be like that. But if you want to know, watch and find out for yourself. Take your time and be thorough. I would have missed it myself if I hadn’t been giving it my full attention and got a little lucky with the timing.”

Thoroughly confused, she moved over to the liquid mana stones, where she brought forth her entire cultivation base and inspected the crystal.

It was impressive, a combination of several techniques that each promised untold depths for those who dived in, but it wasn’t so interesting that JR should have tossed out all of their carefully laid plans after seeing it. He’d originally intended to decline the Empire’s offer until they could learn more about why they felt the need for a defensive pact applicable to a true war, not agree on the spot.

Neither observation caused Rosemarie to grow impatient, rather she calmed herself and prepared for a wait as she observed the liquid mana stone for… something.

Having time to study it, she came to appreciate the effort Chosen Titan had put into making the gem, the elegance was belied by the speed at which he’d created it. It truly was a work of art, with mana coiling and twisting in upon itself endlessly in its smokey depths. It was almost hypnotic in its undulations. However, no matter how pretty it was, Rosemarie didn’t find what JR wanted her to see even after three full days, not that she gave up. He knew how much work she had, and if he felt that her time was best spent watching the mana stone then sh—

Rosemarie flinched.

She hated herself the moment it happened, but couldn’t stop it. The all too pleased look in JR’s gaze assured her that he’d seen and remembered her lapse in composure, but he didn’t immediately comment on it as he looked over at where she stood.

“So you saw it then? Still think I made the wrong choice?”

Not quite able to believe what she’d just seen, Rosemarie spluttered, “That’s impossible. Only a spirit can make mana, but that mana gem just increased the amount of mana that's in it. Sure, it was a minuscule fragment of a full unit of mana, but I watched it. I saw it happen. Did someone absorb mana from the outside? Is the containment not perfect? Did I see wrong? This is impossible.”

JR squawked several times in triumph. “Mana gems that create their own mana. Now you tell me, was that a good deal?”

Hearing his reply, Rosemarie snorted, not quite believing the tricky bird. She’d seen him bluff his way through far larger risks and she didn’t believe that he’d noticed this instantly, given his loss of composure midway through his own original investigation.

After all, it had taken days of observation for her to catch a fraction of a whole unit of mana being created, but she’d seen it. She was far too old to doubt her senses.

“How does it work?”

JR pecked the gem, causing it to wobble. “After three days of thinking, I think it's a three way confluence. First is his Domain, which adds both an endless and concentration effect to the mana in the gem. Normally, post creation, concentration should make the mana collapse in on itself as it condenses down, but because of his subaspect, it isn't. It's the same phenomenon we see with the aura rifts made from his mana.”

Whistling, JR strutted. “The gift that keeps on giving. See if we can foster a few endless Concept users of our own. Don’t force anything, but let it be known we are interested. Anyway, the two interact in a positive manner, making the mana grow more concentrated as time goes on. However, the endless effect seems to be stronger than the concentration effect, meaning it’s a positive upward cycle. You actually missed one other creation that I saw. It’s incredibly subtle if you aren’t looking for it, so don’t feel too bad. So little mana is actually being created it would be hard to notice without a decade or fifty for it to accumulate to a noticeable point. The second and third things are related, however. It's the mana gems and Titan’s Tier 25 Talent. I don’t know how much of that is truly reliant on his Talent to make it possible, but I suspect it's quite a lot. However, the boy was correct in his supposition that these gems are perfect containers, which means the mana that is trying to be generated can’t go anywhere. It has no more room. Except it does, because of the gem’s liquid structure which is in motion. Somehow this comes together in this.”

Rosemarie closed her eyes, catching the critical point in her boss’ attempts at distracting her. “If you already knew this, then why not execute Icliz when Titan pushed? He's worth far less than infinite mana if this can be developed to such a point, which I doubt given the scale. Other Tier 50’s have ‘turned off the aura’ before without too much repercussion. Even in a Tier 45 rift, the current speed of generation is far too slow at this observed rate. Besides, you nearly lost the deal over that, so I don’t buy that you suspected any of this when you had us test him originally.”

JR snorted at her, even as he started dismantling the designs of Titan’s armor, not bothering to look back to her. “And overplay my hand? No, capitulation would have been more unusual and drawn attention. It’s much better to pretend to be as ignorant as they are about the phenomena, and then pretend to notice the anomaly after we’ve worked together for a few years. That will build more trust, which can then be further cemented by eventually allowing him to kill Icliz himself. Even if they figure it out in the meantime, so long as I still bring it up first, we’ll have gained good will from the attempt. Look at everything the child does, he's idealistic and emotional. Treating him honestly is both easier and smarter.”

