Matt hated what he’d read, and knew he’d need to verify everything himself when they left, but he had one final looming question that he couldn’t comprehend.

Turning to Manny, Matt asked, “How did he not start a true war? That's what you and everyone else has said about my Talent. It’s been over and over about a true war, but now I learn the Corporations have their own mana font. I don’t get it.”

However, instead of Manny answering, JR spoke as he fluttered into an open space, making a triangle between the three of them. “That is a good question, but one you’d have picked up on if you’d been paying better attention when your Talent was being described. Maybe a practical demonstration would be better. I had to shift the schedules aggressively for you, Chosen Titan, but the easiest way to lower Icliz’s mana generation is to get people out of his area of influence. And for ease of access, that means rifts. Just so you are aware, I had to send nearly all of our higher Tier mana equalizers away to free up enough of Icliz’s mana generation to run our little test, which is costing me massively in interruption fees. But I should have bought us a two minute window where you can go all-out. That show you promised, if you would be so kind.”

Getting a nod from Manny, Matt didn’t argue with the raven, who was waving a wing impatiently, and emptied out his mana pool. He’d already tried to share once before so there was no reason to hold back now. Standing glaring he produced mana. However, instead of making 1,342,177,280 mana every second, thanks to the doubling from Icliz’s Talent, he made 2,684,354,560 which marked the first time his mana generation was affected upward marking a new moment he couldn’t enjoy.

After a full minute, the raven breathed out a small sigh. “Fascinating, and more than enough proof to continue. Not even a single sign of spiritual strain. I’m thoroughly impressed by your mana generation, Chosen Titan. On an individual level you must know that most Mana Positive Talents– a loose definition to be sure, but such Talents are hard to shove into boxes– have flaws. Most people who have a mana related Talent either don’t generate that much extra mana, or they are incredibly specific in how or when they generate it. Or are very limited in how they can spend it. But maybe we should let the Talent collector speak about this?”

Manny shot a glare at JR before he took up the thread of conversation with a sigh. “JR is correct; I’ve collected enough applicable Talents that I can confirm it. Like with most Talents, the average mana Talent doesn't generate that much extra mana outside of an individual scale, and most don't even push the needle on that metric either. However, there are always exceptions, with some Talents being better than others. Most cause spiritual strain, but that’s less of a side effect of the Talent and more a consequence of a spirit making so much mana. In fact, Icliz has one of the best mana font Talents because it isn’t simply converting other energy like food, essence, or other exotics into mana, like the majority of other mana Talents. Even then, Icliz is limited by two factors your’s isn't.”

“Three.” JR pretended to cough the last words out, but Manny didn’t argue and instead corrected himself.

“Three. First of all, he doesn't make that much mana himself, all things considered, especially minus his Domain. His Talent, as best as I understand without having access to it myself, lets him boost then copy people's mana generation. That means he can’t make extra mana if he's alone. Second, and the largest one by far, is spiritual strain. When he was conscious, Icliz had a plethora of ways to mitigate a lot of the resulting spiritual strain, but even then, he limited how much total mana he made a day. Now that he’s unconscious, they need to limit how much mana he actually makes, lest he either ‘wake up’ or die. Thirdly, Icliz is a monster and has ‘woken up’ twice. Both times, the first thing he does is use his connection to everyone’s mana pools to kill the lower Tiers and expand his personal mana pool. On the other hand, Matt, your Talent…”

Matt shook his head. “But my Talent does have a downside. I can’t even cultivate my mana core, and it was really hard at the early Tiers. How is that without downside? I— wait, I don’t even care about defending how hard I had it. Why not just kill Icliz and be done with it? He’s a monster, but by keeping him locked up, you aren’t much better.”

JR cocked his head as he inspected Matt. “First, I take umbrage with your assertion that your Talent has downsides. Come now, let's not be silly. No mana cultivation? Who cares in comparison oceans of mana you can create. Also, you are projecting quite a lot into a man who doesn't deserve anyone's sympathy.”

“How many other people have been captured under the same justification?”

Instead of responding, JR shared a look with Manny.

Turning back to Matt, JR ignored his previous question. “What your Tier 50 failed to mention was the sheer amount of mana you can make, young Matthew. Icliz… Icliz is fine. Until very recently, I was even quite impressed by him, thoroughly enamored. He still is one of the Corporations’ crown jewels, but here’s the thing,”

Leaning in, the raven whispered, “Icliz can only make a hundred or so quadrillion extra mana a day before he’s tapped out. Sure, that’s a lot of mana, but I can do math, Matthew. I can count! Quite high actually, if you ever feel so inclined as to want to test my numerical capabilities. What does trash like him matter when you can match Icliz’s generation at Tier 39? By Tier 43, you’ll have dwarfed Icliz by an order of magnitude, and things will only grow more out of control as you advance those final few steps.”

Pacing towards him over open air, JR used his words like daggers, “Do you now understand why everyone is so certain you will cause a true war, Matthew? There is exceptional, and then there is too exceptional."

Looking between the floor where Manny earlier glanced at, Matt had no doubt of who the raven meant with each ‘exceptional’.

Balling up his fist, Matt made his stance clear. “But you keep him chained up all the same hiding behind a false grand creation.”

Instead of arguing, JR shrugged a wing. “More like constantly lobotomized to ensure he remains passive. Cheaper and easier than restraints that can actually hold him back. He's got upgraded [Regeneration] running, so we've reached a parity that works for us. As for the Ascendancy Cage, well now that’s a secret you’d have to pay for.”

Hearing that, the rage left Matt, only to be replaced with a frigid iciness as the raven toyed with him.

“Then kill him. I won’t work with you if you have a mana slave. Call it what you want, but it's unacceptable. If he’s as ruthless as you say, then just end him.”

JR started shaking his head even before Matt finished. “I will not destroy one of my greatest assets for no good reason. Especially when you just told me I need to start preparing for a true war.”

Matt didn’t back down drawing his line in the sand. “Then I will not work with you.”

JR seemed unbothered and waved a wing at him. “Settle down. I said I won’t destroy something for no good reason. Like everything else in the Corporations, Icliz is for sale.”

Finally having enough, Matt snapped back, “People aren't for sale! Just because you allow it doesn't make it acceptable.”

The raven barked a laugh right back at Matt, unruffled by his anger. “I’ll note there is a near zero rate of enslavement in the Corporations, whereas the Empire would need to quantify that metric with a percentage over the same time period and definition. Don’t delude yourself, everyone sells themselves, we only draw the line at permanent ownership of other people. Everything else is up for sale. The Empire may dress it up in fancy words and gilded frames, but ultimately, the only thing that anyone in this realm truly owns is themselves. It's up to the individual to decide how to sell. Whether it be their time at a job or their bodies in a rift, it all amounts to the same thing. The only currency we have in this realm is ourselves, and Icliz sealed his fate when he took any future choices away from so many other people. In the Corporations, we have simply removed a veneer of civility that you are used to, but do not fool yourself into thinking the math has changed. If you wish to change something, then become strong enough that I can’t stop you, or pay the price I set and do it yourself.”

Feeling his anger solidify into something hard Matt growled, “It's unacceptable!”

Breathing hard, Matt felt everyone's gaze on him, but he didn’t care.

Making it worse, JR only smiled pleasantly at him. “There are exactly eight people in this Realm who dictate what is and isn’t acceptable, Matthew, and you aren’t one of them, so don’t try that angle. Would you like to try a different one?”

Seeing he couldn’t force the raven, Matt felt an overwhelming surge of helplessness and couldn’t help but glaring at Manny.

“You knew I’d hate this.”

Instead of arguing, Manny nodded right back. “I also know that you’d be angrier if I hadn’t mentioned it, but I swore oaths about mentioning Icliz’s existence on my own. When I said we’d all need to put our cards on the table, I wasn’t lying. I did try to mention it before the armor talk but… Would you like some advice?”

Nodding, Matt sighed out a quiet, “What?”

“We can't change everything. Trying to overreach now might make reaching tomorrow impossible. I know it might feel hollow, but Icliz wasn’t a good person taken advantage of. He's a monster who saw other people as resources, and while JR isn’t willing to kill him, he isn’t lying about being willing to sell him.”

Matt felt sick, but logically, he knew that even if Manny fought JR to a standstill, allowing him to find wherever Icliz was being kept, he couldn’t damage the Tier 46, let alone kill him. That didn’t change the fact that he hated being a part of something so close to him.

Firming his resolve, Matt shook his head. “Then no deal.”

That seemed to shock everyone in the room, including Manny, but Matt didn’t let himself second guess. “I won’t be a part of this. I don’t want my armor made from slave mana. I refuse.”

JR looked around in confusion, even checking under his wings, but eventually looked up to Matt. “You are strange, Chosen Titan, very strange.”

Holding up a wing, he prevented Matt from interrupting. “However, I can agree to what I believe you might consider an acceptable alternative.”

Not quite believing the bird, he asked, “What?”

“I won’t use his mana on your item if you supply it yourself. And if you agree to another deal, I’ll even start the process for phasing Icliz out of the mana supply. He can be completely decoupled in less than… lets say a century if you so desire. How does that sound?”

“Too good to be true.”

JR grinned at Matt, his eyes sparkling in the same way they had when they were designing his armor.

“Never let anyone say you’re stupid, Chosen Titan. However, the cost should be obvious. Replace him.” A bolt of fear shot down Matt's spine, but before he could react, JR continued speaking. “Replace his mana output and what good would I have for him? Though, if I’m being honest, I would much rather try to amplify your Talent off his before you truly outpace him. Wouldn’t that be the best of both worlds? If you can’t really buy him until you’d pop him like a balloon, I can offer a loan if you’d consider keeping him around after?”

Matt worked his jaw, trying not to let the raven’s final words get a rise out of him, before nodding. “I’ll have no part in keeping someone against their will and harvesting their mana. I refuse to fight for my own continued freedom while taking part in abusing another’s. Even if that person is a monster himself.”

There was another long moment before JR proffered a wing.

“Then do we have a deal?”

Instead of reaching out, Matt asked, “What in particular are you referring to?”

“No need to be quite that suspicious. Your armor with no Icliz mana, you staying in the Corporations for a decade or two, the offer to buy Icilz, all for the price Emmanuel and I agreed upon already. He already gave me the downpayment, do you really want to back out now?”

Letting his breath out slowly, Matt glared at the bird. “See, the addition of that last requirement does not engender warm and fuzzy feelings after our recent conversation.”

JR seemed genuinely confused, forcing Matt to spell it out. “You finish one sentence with ‘replace our mana slave’. Then immediately add, ‘spend a few decades here’. You have to see the conflict of interest. At least the conflict with my interests.”

“Relax, Chosen Titan. Your Tier 50 is right there and we are in my lab but reality dictates the facts not our desires. For an armor of this level, I will need direct and constant access to you during the entire process. That means you have to remain in the same star system as me. I can’t go to the Empire, which means you need to come here.”

Unable to stop his mind from conjuring a thousand and one reasons why that would be an awful decision, Matt looked to Manny who nodded, confirming the bird’s words.

