“Liar,” Gerel growled, his face twisted in bestial rage. “I should kill you right now for even insinuating it. Do you know who I am? Do you know what your accusation means for the Bekhai? You ungrateful slave, we should have left you to die where we found you.”

“Gerel,” Yuzhen said, moving to stand beside Rain. “Put the sword down. Please.”

A grave mistake. “So you’re taking his side are you?” His piercing glare sent a cold shiver down her spine, wholly empty of love or affection. “I should’ve expected as much from a faithless wh-”

“Whoa now,” Rain interrupted, drawing Gerel’s ire away. “Let’s not say anything we can’t take back. Focus on my voice Gerel. I know you’re not Defiled. If you were, I wouldn't be able to help you. You can display Purity, I’ve seen you do it, but it isn’t black and white, Defiled or not. Dastan could also display Purity, but he suffered under the Spectres influence, causing a good man to make bad decisions. Just like you, right here, right now. What will killing me prove?”

Shivering from head to toe, Gerel’s cheek twitched erratically, his chest heaving in pants as he struggled for control. “Won’t prove anything but it’ll make me smile, you arrogant little shit.”

“And to think, we used to be such good friends.” Rain’s sarcasm wasn’t helping things, but Yuzhen was too afraid to speak again, the trickle of blood flowing down his neck now a stream, soaking through his robes. “Just dip your head in the water for ten seconds and if you’re not convinced, I’ll let you kill me. How’s that sound?”

Reason and anger warred across Gerel’s face, and after a handful of seconds, anger won out. “I don’t need you to ‘let me kill you’ and I don’t need convincing. I know who I am. While you were still sucking milk from your mother’s teats, I was fighting the Defiled. I’ve -”

Using his distraction, Yuzhen pulled Rain back and intercepted Gerel’s sword with her body. The tip stopped a bare millimetre from her chest, his eyes filled with rage and betrayal. “Please, my love,” she begged, “Calm yourself.”

Her words were more effective than she’d expected, his eyes widening in surprise and... joy? “You mean it?” He blurted, lowering his sword. “You’ve never said you lov-”

With the thrill of battle surging in her veins, Yuzhen couldn’t stop herself in time. An Amplified right hook took him across the jaw as she knocked her lover senseless. Mentally apologizing, she kicked his sword away and snapped, “Grab the water! Do what you must! He won’t be dazed for long.”

Holding Gerel down while Rain bustled about, she focused all of her attention on her foolish lover. Seeing so much anger and vitriol directed at her, it tore her apart from inside, unable to bear the pain of his scorn. She prayed Rain was right and it wasn’t his fault, else she’d never forgive herself for betraying him like this.

After emptying the basin over Gerel, Rain clapped his hands and said, “Done.”

“That’s it?” Despair welled up within her chest as she cursed herself for a fool. A little water to wash away the Father? If only it were so easy.

With a shuddering gasp, Gerel came to, his mouth bloody and eyes unfocused. “Wha- What?” Gone was all his rage and fury, replaced by confusion and... fear? “You- You- You-”

“Yea, me, me, me.” Rain mocked. “Convinced?”

“...Yes. There was so much rage, it felt wrong, but... I can't explain. I could feel them urging me to take your life, demanding it... Were they the reason Yo Ling defeated me so easily?” Weak as a day old kitten, Gerel struggled to sit up. Lifting him into her embrace, Yuzhen held him close, unable to tear her eyes away. Taking her hand, he kissed her fingers and Sent, “Do what you must my love. I won’t fight your decision, but please, spare the boy and my people. The fault lies with me, and Rain is too valuable to risk, you must see this.” Out loud, he asked “How?”

“Told you. Spectres, whispers, yadda yadda.” Washing his hands in the basin, Rain clicked his tongue in annoyance. “Tch. I liked this robe too, one of the few I found that fits. Now it’s all bloody.” Still reeling with disbelief, Yuzhen and Gerel listened as Rain calmly explained how he believed the ‘Spectres’ worked and his ability to cleanse them away with the help of ‘Blobby’.

Carefully going over his explanation, Yuzhen narrowed her eyes in realization. “A thorough and detailed analysis. So detailed, one would think you’ve been Tainted yourself.”

Multi-talented though he might be, Rain wasn’t able to hide his emotions, stiffening in fear before shaking his head in surrender. “Okay. You got me. I heard their whispers and have tasted their power. If not for Blobby, I might have succumbed and become Defiled myself.”

Oh Mother above, he admitted it so readily, Yuzhen wanted to smack him upside the head. Why did he trust her so much? Swallowing her fear, she glanced between Rain and Gerel, but her decision was made long ago. She would keep their secret, no matter the cost. If word spread of this, regardless of Rain’s talents and abilities, it could bring an end to the Bekhai. Change never came quickly to the Empire, and no matter how miraculous he appeared, if word got out that Falling Rain was almost Defiled, that’s all they would remember. “Never repeat that out loud again.” Already her mind worked to spin this to her advantage. “Delay your departure. I’ll need you for two or three days.”

“Er... I was hoping to keep this under wraps. In fact, you advised me not to tell people about Blobby.”

“Yes,” she replied, her confidence growing by the second, “but I need you to look over a few people and tell me if they’re compromised. If necessary, I'll have them drugged so you can... cleanse them without being exposed.” This was madness, but Sanshu was too important. This would be the base of her power, and she couldn’t have it needlessly Purged. “We’ll go over your story with a fine-tooth comb and figure out which parts to keep and what to omit. If it ever comes to the light of day, we can’t leave any room for doubt, understood?”

Obediently nodding even though he didn’t, Rain set out to follow her instructions, leaving her alone with Gerel. Seeing the unasked question in his eyes, she kissed him gently and sighed. “Yes you fool. I meant it.”

His beautiful smile made all the coming hardships worthwhile.

Chapter Meme
