“Anyhow, this is a Late D-grade [Mercurial Sack], so you really shouldn’t put items of higher grade inside. The sack can still accept higher-graded treasures, but the amount of time... Heh. Don’t put any B-grade illusions inside, or the poor formation will be toiling away long after we’re buried and forgotten. During that time, it’ll be fully occupied, making it impossible to convert any other items.”

“I’d have to encounter a B-grade illusion for that to become a problem,” Zac smiled.

“Anything’s possible now that you’re here, so I’m warning you early. We don’t provide spare sacks, just so you know. However, you can trade in your starting sack for higher-graded versions for contribution,” the custodian said while conjuring two new logs. One looked identical to the previous, while the other was an obvious forgery. It felt more like a projection than a real item, lacking the heft of something physical.

“Secondly, not all illusions will work. The second log lacks the basic qualifications to be made real.”

“So it’s like a Cultivation Manual,” Zac surmised. “It can’t be copied or imparted without first understanding the underlying essence.”

“Just so. Even if you somehow manage to trade for a B-grade [Mercurial Sack], you can’t just dream up a B-grade Treasure. You lack the necessary understanding. Even most Celestials—or Autarchs—do.

“There are also differences among illusions reaching the minimum threshold. The more detail that’s missing in the illusion, the more energy and effort is needed for the conversion. The illusions in this chamber are made from perfected molds. That’s why they need so little effort to be brought out. Many of the rewards in the Mercurial Court are the same.”

Zac nodded in understanding, and the custodian led him out the way they came. They may as well have been thieves from how they came and went without leaving a trace or record. Zac could almost hear the wheels turning in Esmeralda’s head. If they could sneak back inside, they could pick up the rest of the treasures since the chamber would just reform them.

“That’s the end of the tour,” the custodian said as they emerged from the administrative building. “Don’t forget to infuse the token with a drop of your blood. Everything else you need to know is recorded in the booklet.”

“Uh, just asking to make sure. The Mercurial Court will know I’ve registered properly?” Zac asked, glancing at the [Mercurial Sack] like it was stolen contraband.

“What more do you want? Should I throw you a banquet?” Old Sixth glared with mock anger. “Truth be told, the Mercurial Court has a hands-off approach to our management. Most of the upper echelons are busy with their research, and we’ve found the best results occur when letting nature take its course.”

“Thank you for your guidance, senior,” Zac said. “Do you have any suggestions for my next step?”

“Hmm… Don’t be too quick to spend your hard-earned Imperial Merit. There are many avenues to explore and many ways to shift the trajectories in your favor,” Old Sixth said. “Alright, have fun. I have to go repair the gates before the next guest appears.”

“Uh, that’s—”

“Don’t apologize. We invited you outsiders for this exact reason. You’re here to disrupt the status quo and open new paths into the future. The more chaos you bring, the better,” Old Sixth said, his words laced with double meaning.

The old custodian was gone before Zac could ask anything else, leaving him alone in the square. Zac slowly turned around to gaze up at the enormous statue.

“Telling you of all people that the more chaos, the better?” Esmeralda snickered from her perch atop Zac's head. “I wonder if the old goat will curse his big mouth before things are over.”

“Let’s go get ourselves settled,” Zac said with a smile. “After we do, I think it’s time for you to explain exactly what we’re after.”
