“You’re off to Matadero again, aren’t you?” Her shoes were already back on, and now her brown hair was going up in a bun to protect it from the wind.

“Yes. I need to be there soon. For something. Can’t delay.”

“Superb! I need to be on the west side of Apex anyway. We’ll have a quick chat, and I’ll just use Whirlybird to get down. You don’t even have to stop flying!”

Alden was weirded out. This was like a teacher climbing through your car’s sunroof on the freeway, wasn’t it?

Is that okay for her to do? I don’t think it’s normal. But we said hello to each other first, and the Nine-edged Son doesn’t have a roof and doors. Maybe it seems more welcoming of passengers than other vehicles?

Trying to figure out if she was being astonishingly rude, or if he was being silly, occupied him so thoroughly that he missed some of what she said next. When he caught up with her words, they were about his relationship with Esh-erdi and the tour Alden and Haoyu had given of Celena North.

“I know the school would prefer I give some warning next time. Principal Saleh told me to call her or—”

“Me! You can always, always call me. First Rabbit in our program! I’m so proud. And an interviewer should take care of her interviewees, shouldn’t she?”

“I thought I was supposed to call the culture advisor if Principal Saleh isn’t available.”

“She’s fine, too,” Colibrí said. “Between you and me, she gets a little bit starstruck around wizards and forgets she’s supposed to be helping Celena North manage its relationship with them instead of pursuing her own interests. She starts geeking out over ancient relics on other planets and forgets to tell them that some of the equipment in our uni Wrightshop is now old enough to qualify as a relic itself!”

She laughed.

Alden upped the nonagon’s speed.

“You know, the Artonans are actually our school’s biggest benefactors when we consider the immeasurable value of the gymnasiums. Oh! That’s right! The generals haven’t toured those yet! If you think they might be interested, we have a maintenance day coming up. It’s scheduled for just after finals, the day after our next combat assessment for incoming students. Will you be staying on campus over the holiday?”

“I—”

“Never mind! That’s your business. But let me make a little suggestion, Alden. If you could swing by on that day, with or without the generals, I know the wizards who do the checks would be excited to have a student around who appreciates their work. Especially one with your language skills! We do like to thank them for their efforts in every way we can. Plus…”

Her tone somehow turned conspiratorial even though she was talking over the wind.

“It’s hours of floor time for anyone who helps them calibrate. I could make sure you have it all to yourself, or you could invite a friend. Your decision. And I’ll be there, so if you’re in the mood for some tutoring or a workout…there you go!”

Hours of extra floor time was something Alden wanted, of course. But the way it was being offered was raising his hackles. “Don’t a lot of people probably need that chance? Especially with the way things might go next term. Wouldn’t it usually be offered to third years prepping for uni entrance or people having a hard time in their—”

“Don’t worry about that. I wouldn’t suggest it if it wasn’t fair, would I? Now, about…”

Soon, Alden was itching to try a barrel roll even more than usual. Colibrí hadn’t run into him accidentally; that he was now sure of. She had way too many Alden-specific suggestions right on the tip of her tongue. Fortunately, she couldn’t come with him to Matadero, and the flight to the coast wasn’t far. She had to Whirlybird down onto a rooftop as promised.

By then, he understood several things he hadn’t been aware he needed to understand. And he was offended on a few different levels.

Did she think I was too dumb to see what she’s hoping I’ll do for them? Or is what she wants me to do such an ordinary thing in her mind that there’s no reason to float the suggestion my way more subtly?

By the end of their one-sided conversation, all she’d technically told him to do was involve her in any future tours he might give to Artonan visitors. She said she had a job title in addition to being an instructor that made her a relevant contact person. Head of Campus Image. Everything else she’d brought up had been more of a suggestion…but they were strong suggestions, with plenty of hints that the school would scratch his back if he scratched theirs.

He zoomed over the ocean, frowning as he thought about how one of the more innocent-sounding requests would play out. Just bring one of the knights on gym maintenance day if you think they’d like a tour, Alden. I’ll be there to chat with them while you practice on the floor.

That was really simple. On the surface. But the ugly layers he could peel off it…

He wondered whether he was being too cynical because she’d reminded him of all the work he’d done to get into a school that had accepted him for reasons unrelated to that work. That still stung. Maybe the affront to his pride was affecting his judgment of the situation.

No. She jumped through my sunroof on the freeway. And Lesedi Saleh headed her off on Thanksgiving when she seemed to want to talk to me. It’s sketchy, and the principal must think it’s sketchy…or at least rude as hell.

How long had Colibrí, and others, been thinking of stuff like this? Had it become a plan when he started flying around on the nonagon, or was it before they even let him into school?

He’d thought they accepted him because they were wary about offending the Artonans. Being a bridge to Artonan pocketbooks was worse. It meant his acceptance wasn’t the end of the matter; it was the beginning.

If he played along with them, they’d have him begging wizards for expensive presents until he graduated. And Colibrí seemed so very confident he wouldn’t object to playing along.

I do object.

Can they use my attendance at the school somehow, anyway? Even if I don’t help at all?

He didn’t like that.

He landed on Matadero and left the nonagon in the hangar.

“System, send a message to Drusi-otta,” he said as he set out with his patched suitcase rolling along behind him and his banana basket swinging from the other hand. He switched to Artonan. “Drusi-otta, if you have time to consider a very small concern of mine on behalf of Hn’tyon Lind-otta and Hn’tyon Esh-erdi, I would appreciate part of your future attention. The matter is not urgent. Thank you.”

Don’t know exactly how I’ll put it when she calls me back, he thought as he headed for an elevator. But I’ll tell her what I’m worried about, and then she can insert herself between any inconveniences and the knights if it’s necessary.

Before he could finish telling himself to put it out of his mind, he reached the teleportation area. Only to stop in the wide entrance, blinking in surprise.

Esh-erdi and Lind-otta lounged in the middle of the main chamber on a low wooden sofa topped with thick cushions. As was often the case, his black hair and her paler brown was styled to match each other’s, today in a five-strand braid down their backs. The coats they usually wore as part of their knight uniforms were absent, leaving them both in simple high-necked shirts. They faced each other, Lind-otta smiling behind a raised wevvi cup while Esh-erdi drank something out of a larger mug.

The beverage was a dark red, as Alden found out almost at once. He hadn’t finished taking in the sight of the two knights before Esh-erdi was on his feet and standing inches away from him in what looked like a single impossible step.

Alden clutched his basket and suitcase handles harder. Behind Esh-erdi, the mug he’d abandoned fell toward the sofa in barely discernible slow motion, a fan of red liquid spilling from its rim.

“Hn’tyon Esh-erdi, what—”

“What is the matter of universal concern?” the knight demanded, his face intent. “This is now <<a shared emergency>>. I will bring all my authority to bear for the cause—”

“No!” Alden gasped. “Did I say something wrong in my message? I’m so sorry! It’s not an emergency! There’s no emer—”

“Your enemies will die before I do, young Avowed, and—”

“Too much, Esh,” Lind-otta said gently.

“My very blood will stain the ground as I chase the—!”

“I said we could tease him a little, not frighten him.”

“What’s going on?” Alden looked from one to the other frantically.

“Hello, Alden Ryeh-b’t,” Lind-otta said from the sofa. “Esh wanted to be funny, but he’s bad at it.”

Her voice and her expression made it impossible to believe she thought anything about Esh-erdi was bad. There were warm vibes in the room so strong they almost felt solid to Alden.

Esh-erdi turned to pout at his partner.

Lind-otta laughed.

Esh-erdi laughed.

The warm vibes laughed with them.

Alden froze, his grip on his luggage suddenly weak compared to his grip on himself.

Those vibes aren’t vibes. They’re a thing going on for real. Near him but not about him, like the echo of someone else’s shout.

He swallowed, feeling exposed even though nothing was interacting with him as far as he could tell. It wasn’t like being targeted by another Avowed or having a spell used on him.

Think. What is this? Is it dangerous to me? To my secrets?

The knights were as happy and relaxed as he’d ever seen them. Out of uniform, having drinks together on a sofa that would have a big red stain on it in a few hours at the rate Esh-erdi’s drink was falling.

They’re making the vibes?

He thought that must be it—something happening between their two existences. Wizard children did the pat-pat control exercises with their learning partners. Zeridee-und’h could let out a distress call. Alis-art’h had surrounded Alden with her authority and kept him from destroying himself at her travel dome. Now there was this.

And I’m noticing because whatever they’re doing is really big. Unless…it’s super basic like the learning partner pat and they’re so powerful it’s making it more epic.

They were clearly in a good mood.

Could this be part of their esvulgivnas and the “breaking selves together” thing?

He was staring at them like a deer in headlights. They were going to think Esh-erdi’s joking had traumatized him if he didn’t say something normal soon. He went with, “Is that the couch from your rooms?”

The teleportation area at Matadero had never had furniture in it before.

“Yes!” Esh-erdi said. “It’s fortunate I asked Drusi to send all of your requests directly to me. With her help and your Contract’s we were able to arrive down here before you without even leaving our seats.”

Alden felt his panic smile easing into a real one as he realized these two weren’t just happy. They were so happy they’d gotten goofy. They’d asked the Earth System to teleport the sofa they were on.

It was only down a few floors into a literal teleportation zone, but still…

“Are you all right, Alden?” Lind-otta asked.

“I am.”

“Come sit with us!” Esh-erdi led the way over to the furniture, where he scooped his mug out of the air and his drink into the mug with a couple of swoops of his arm. “Talk until you are summoned away to whatever brings you here. Healing? A social visit? You have many bananas with you. This cushion is best. Sit on this one.”

This is really going to confuse anyone who teleports in.

He took the cushion Esh-erdi had just left while the knight seated himself in the middle. The vibes that were more solid than vibes were fading.

“I don’t have something important enough to bother either of you with if you’re busy.”

“Minor problems can be as satisfying to solve as large ones,” Lind-otta said.

“And we’re always busy,” Esh-erdi added. “But until sunrise tomorrow, we’ve decided to be busy with what pleases us. Nothing has sunk anywhere on Earth in days! Actually, I’m sure many things have sunk, but nothing has sunk unexpectedly due to the <<spillage>> of magical devices for which we’re responsible.”

That was a good reason to celebrate.

“All right. I was only calling Drusi-otta to tell her…”

Alden didn’t have what he wanted to convey smoothed for presentation yet. But they were waiting, and the invite from Emban would be coming. And if Instructor Colibrí could be so blatant about what the school wanted from Alden, then why shouldn’t he be forthcoming about what he thought of it?

“I think my school has hopes that wizards will give them extra magical equipment and support because I’m a student there. Because of the commendation and other things.”

“Do you lack something necessary for your education?” Lind-otta asked.

“No,” Alden said, brushing off a thought about how much he’d like to have some more video lessons from Instructor Gwen-lor’s class. “Of course there are always things that could be made closer to perfection.”

“An endless pursuit.” Lind-otta nodded.

“But I’m not asking you or any other wizards to give large gifts to Celena North. So if anyone ever says that I am, or if they suggest that I’m having difficulties in a class that can only be fixed with an improvement to our magical buildings or very expensive supplies, they’re…mistaken.” He felt that the word mistaken was a charitable concession on his part. “I’m not sure anyone will actually make that mistake, but if they do, in front of you, now you’ll know they’re incorrect. That was all I wanted to say.”

“What about small gifts?” Esh-erdi was twiddling his fingers against his mug. “Do you want any small gifts for yourself?”

