“You’ve given me a lot. Even if we don’t include you saving my life, and I think we should include that. Also, Olorn-art’h gifted me an earring she made that helps me focus and enjoy instruction. So my education has been improved beyond my expectations already.” Realizing that praise was insufficient, he added, “It’s a wonderful earring.”

“She gave you the work of her own hands! Lind, I told you I wasn’t being <<overwhelming>> by providing him with a few necessities.” He settled deeper into his section of the sofa, looked thoughtfully at his partner, then said, “Alden, where do you go from here?”

“A Here-to-There with Hn’tyon Emban-art’h.”

A thrilled whistle came from Lind-otta. “A Here-to-There! They were so common in my youth that a wizard would occasionally be caught in an <<unchaperoned>> one by accident and gain an unlooked-for task. I haven’t been to one in so long.”

“I’ll be going to help Stu. Emban is bringing two members of her squad. I don’t know much about what’s happening, so I’ll… ” A good word for tag along wasn’t coming to mind. “Be casual and helpful company however I can.”

“Don’t be soft-voiced during the <<challenging>> and the announcing,” Esh-erdi said. “Shout as loud as you can. As loud as your best croak!”

Alden watched the knight sip the red drink, trying to tell by his face if this was a prank attempt or legitimate advice. When he couldn’t be sure, he looked to Lind-otta.

She had a placid, competent way about her when she wasn’t ritually starting off a meal by cracking turkey bones with her jaws.

“Why are you looking at her like that? Lind! Do you see this? The human child doubts my advice!”

“Of course I don’t doubt,” Alden said. “I was just…wondering if she had advice, too.”

Lind-otta laid one of her hands against Esh-erdi’s arm. To Alden, she said, “Be patient with our young siblings <<of circumstance>> if they’re <<moody>> right now. And don’t expect them to be as knowledgable and proper as a fully diplomaed wizard even if they now have many of the privileges of one.”

“I’ll keep that in my thoughts.”

“And I have heard your best croak,” she added, her eyes alight. “That volume will be adequate for the challenging and the announcing.”

Esh-erdi grinned.

“Oh…thank you…he really did share that with you. I’ve been recorded. Good. That’s good.”

“You seem to be better at turning pink than most humans I’ve met.” Esh-erdi spoke in an innocent tone that was definitely fake.

“It’s one of my many talents…and there’s my invitation to the first Rapport! I shouldn’t make Emban-art’h wait.”

The invite actually came from Evul, so he assumed it was really Stuart initiating the teleport through his sister’s tablet again.

“Go,” said Lind-otta. “Thank you for tolerating Esh.”

“What about me must be tolerated?”

Alden stood.

“Don’t worry about us hearing the requests of your elders and thinking they speak in the voice of your own desires,” Esh-erdi said more seriously. “This truly is a small matter, if it happens. And it is neither surprising nor offensive to us, if you worried it would be so.”

“I’m glad. I don’t want to be trouble, and I don’t want other people to cause trouble in my name.” Alden bent to pick up the basket.

“We should talk about how Alis’s commendation is regarded, perhaps. When you’re ready to have that longer conversation with me and deal with the matter of the secrecy contract for this place.”

“Whenever you want,” Alden said. “Whenever is convenient for you.”

“Send me a list of days and nights that are easy for you,” Esh-erdi countered. “And I will choose one. Not immediately after one of your meetings with the healer, though.”

“I’ll send you as many options as I can.”

Alden stepped into one of the smaller alcoves that surrounded the central chamber. Seconds later, he was on Artona I.

******

******

“He’s a sincere person,” Lind-otta said.

They were back in their sitting room, still on the sofa.

“He is.”

“Jeneth’s youngest is also sincere.”

“Yes.” Esh-erdi set his empty mug on the armrest beside him. “I hope they’re mature enough to handle that sincerity. If not, they might rip away each other’s shade leaves without being prepared for all that can be known in harsh light.”
