Questions. They woke him in dreaming. Normally, he dreamed of nothing, not even ambition. The world ended in between the time his eyes closed and opened. Rarely, he had dreams.
In this one, he was chasing something. Fighting through dark waves breaking on an endless beach. Chasing something. An idea.
Something—which, in his dreaming state, he knew was ungraspable. It was like a thought experiment. How could you conceptualize something you had never seen? But via dream logic, he knew that if he saw it, caught it, he would understand all that he could not.
Onwards he ran, though he did not truly run. He wriggled, he dove, his body coiling. He flew, chasing after it, and realized what it was the closer he got. That damned Human, black hair blowing in some storm, hanging onto her glider. Not her. She was carrying something.
He reached for it, trying to swallow her. A vast Wyrm, chasing after…what? A shiny bauble, an orb, like a memory. Something it contained was so very precious. He stared at it and realized it was a people.
His people. Some kingdom he had never fathomed, an empire no mortal species could encompass. Rhisveri Zessoprical realized, remembered—
He had only ever met Wyrms related to him. True Wyrms, that was. The only adult Wyrm he had ever laid eyes on was his mother, and only in death. But that kingdom—
Rhisveri dove and woke up. The Wyrm jerked to wakefulness in the palace of Ailendamus. A rare nap. He uncoiled as he looked around, tensed—then realized he was squeezed around his ‘bed’.
Which, to be clear, was nothing as depraved as a bed of gold and artifacts. You crushed valuables that way; even gold got dirty. No, like his…as Rhisveri had found, he slept easiest when coiled around something.
In this case, one of the support pillars of this section of the palace. It was quite reinforced with his own magic, so even he couldn’t simply pull it out. Rhisveri was actually amid a sea of pillars, huge, towering columns stretching up to the vast ceiling above him.
The rare visitors felt it resembled a maze—and it did—but they had no notion of why you would make something like this. The upkeep in cleaning alone! All this empty space—for what? Encouraging giant spiders?
It was a Wyrm’s home, that was why. Cleaning? That was what magic was for. Idiots. Rhisveri grunted. Normally, he demanded a certain cultural magnificence from any additions to the palace, but this was just lightly crenellated stone in circular pillars of granite. Each one reinforced by magic, yes, and worn smooth in places since no [Masons] were called to maintain them—in a few places they had crumbled downwards and the stone removed.
Why, though? They weren’t even symmetrically placed about, some grouped together, others conspicuously alone. A strange palace.
When I die, if I am not revealed, perhaps some fools will repurpose this like the Dragonthrones. Claim it was some kind of magnificent art-piece, or use it as an actual maze.
The thought amused him. Rhisveri uncoiled from the largest pillar and began navigating his resting place. Why all of it? Well, the answer was clear if you saw him.
Rhisveri snaked left and right, his massive, hundreds-of-feet-long body, taller than any Human by multiple times, zig-zagged along through the pillars. He struck, undulating his body and shooting forwards like lesser snakes, and climbed, twisting himself around the pillars, using friction to maneuver in three dimensions.
Fast. A figure on the ground moving at a full gallop would have been caught off-guard by how fast Rhisveri moved. In fact, there was one now. A shimmering figure that looked like a [Knight], weaving left, right—it recoiled as Rhisveri’s head shot in front of it, blocking its path. Instantly, the illusion cut left—and Rhisveri struck from the side.
Wyrms fought like that. They were far larger than Dragons—at least when they aged to Rhisveri’s size. Although Dragons could shapeshift…Rhisveri hunted more illusions, then dashed through the maze, shooting from pillar to pillar, even diving, dodging imaginary threats.
He was panting after thirty minutes of it. Rhisveri was pushing himself, such that every now and then he smacked into a pillar or misjudged his timing and fell, ungainly, and, often, swearing like a [Sailor].
“Dragons damn it—!”
The whumph of a Wyrm hitting the ground was a minor earthquake, but the floors were proofed too. Rhisveri put another ten minutes in, then stopped.
“I have work to do.”
That was his excuse. Yet the truth was, he did do this at least four times a week. There had been a time when he had not, and he’d paid for it in harsh truths when he stared at a mirror. Keep in shape. There was no one to motivate him but him. After all, you couldn’t tell if a giant Wyrm the length of a skyscraper breathing phosphorus all over your face was a prime example of its species—or severely out of shape.
Rhisveri was in decent shape. Let it be known! Not that he went to anyone for advice. Or made an effort.
Fithea vouched he looked fine, and her half-remembered scale tonics seemed fairly good. Rhisveri puffed along as he went to his customary resting place, closer to where his fake body, the Duke Rhisveri, slept. Maybe he could put in a good hour—two hours every day. Not that he was going to war, but…
Female Wyrms. He could still smell it. That damned—Ryoka was tracking it all over his palace. Rhisveri had profound admiration for this unknown lady—
And a growing suspicion she was some kind of depraved manipulator. Well, that was what Wyrms were allegedly supposed to be. Rhisveri…wouldn’t know. He had read every book in existence, but he wouldn’t know. He had only ever met his family. And they could all tell you that their relationship had always been…well. Wyrm-like.
When he took control of the Duke Rhisveri, the Wyrm himself devoted much of his ‘self’ to the image. Not everything, but he certainly didn’t try to split himself up. After all, you heard stories about the mind-traps you ran into going all-in or too far removed, and Sophridel had all the anecdotes. Human Rhisveri functioned well because he was close to the original body.
Rhisveri’s main body lay there, occasionally moving about to eat or do whatever it pleased…much like someone lying on a metaphorical couch and watching television might pass an entire day without a conscious thought. However! It wasn’t slothfulness!
Not entirely. He had important tasks to fulfill, even if some were beneath him, and so, when Duke Rhisveri strode out of his spartan rooms, undecorated, only so his body didn’t get a crick in the neck, he picked up the first object, scrutinized it, sighed dramatically, and waved his hand.
Fifty-eight done, and more all day. Well, he’d pick the rest up. They flew into his personal bag of holding and he was off.
Thus began Rhisveri’s day. The first thing he did was call to him every report of Ailendamus’ intelligence, war front news, political, economic, and otherwise, and sort through the most pressing ones himself while Wyrm-Rhisveri read the other parts more slowly.
The Wyrm was displeased. Oh, the war was going well in some senses. Calanfer was under threat and Gaiil-Drome with it now they’d pushed up to the pass, and there were three [Princesses] under siege in that nothing-fort too. Excellent.
Tyrion Veltras and Izril? Annoying. Inconvenient! The Pride of the Wellfar ended the naval blockade and was a threat.
But if it comes up close enough, I’ll head out myself with Visophecin, Fithea, and Sophridel’s best mask. The four of us could probably do it alone if they’re sailing without escort.
Imagining a Citadel-class ship in Ailendamus’ armada made him happy. It wouldn’t be easy, but The Pride of the Wellfar, a Dragonship killer, was only lethal when it knew what it was fighting. If they had no idea Rhisveri was there, and if they didn’t activate their best defenses? Free ship.
Honestly, few things actually worried Rhisveri in terms of military consequence; you lost battles, and he hated that. But Ailendamus won wars because of the sheer numbers they brought to bear.
For instance, the ‘glorious, last-minute triumph’ of the Order of Seasons? Well, a third were now on the lam, under pursuit from one of Ailendamus’ Great Knights and the Order of the Hydra, who had split and were harrying the others back towards Pheislant. Well done for surviving one battle with two legions of Hydra [Knights]. How about four more?
Four more were marching towards Pheislant with a fuller army to check any notions of bravery from that side. The same with the Dawn Concordat. They had stalemated Ailendamus’ regular armies for a while while bleeding hard—right until a Great General knocked on their door.
And she…she could probably take Calanfer by herself. Rhisveri nodded as he strode along out of the royal wing, deserted compared to the rest of the palace. No, he didn’t fear the Five Families either—not in terms of overturning this war. Tyrion Veltras was a nuisance.
If I throw his son at him, maybe he’ll leave. He should do that, but—Rhisveri’s brows crossed.
Ah. Yes. His real headache, who had even invaded his dreams. But he put that aside just for a second.
There was…well, there were a few things that did actually rate on his ‘possibly concerning’ scale. The first one was Khelt. The second was anything to do with the Antinium, and the third was the King of Destruction, with an honorary place for A’ctelios Salash.
Three for Chandrar, one for Izril, and that’s partly Rhir. It just went to show which continent had the most old dangers aside from Terandria.
Khelt was…well, a kingdom with a lot of powerful relics, undead armies, and now at least three Revenant powers waking up for no good reason. Enough to halt a modern Terandrian crusade in its tracks without sweating. Rhisveri didn’t like it, but on the other claw, Khelt was far away, and if they did attack, all of Terandria would unite in their face.
Flos Reimarch was more dangerous because he could do what Ailendamus was doing and unite a continent’s worth of power. Fortunately, someone had turned him into a fried salamander and his capital was under siege. Rhisveri grinned savagely.
The Antinium? Not much news burning his ears, so he let it lie. And A’ctelios?
“…Someone should fill the entire thing with acid. Travellers warned to stay away? Who visits to begin with?”
They were acting…off. And that was not a good thing when people who knew the infamous Shield Kingdom said that A’ctelios was giving them bad vibes.
As long as it doesn’t start blinking, we’re fine, and Khelt can arguably deal with it. Yes—that’s a nice idea. Khelt can definitely check A’ctelios.
Well, that was it for modern news. Rhisveri did not care about petty drama. He refused to watch Wistram’s annoying network and let Itorin deal with those matters, which he was eminently capable of doing. His concerns were now towards Ailendamus for the day and her—but he actually had more work besides that.
“Servant!”
Duke Rhisveri barked. And there was one. The Duke was a famous presence in Ailendamus, and so the instant he had emerged, almost like clockwork just past dawn, a few people with [Nerves of Steel] and [Implacable Demeanor] Skills had squared up for one of the least-envied jobs in the palace.
“Your Grace?”
No less than a [Cogwork Bureaucrat] was first in line. A very interesting class…which Rhisveri had cultivated after understanding its benefits. The man looked like most people’s image of a slightly fussy official, and Rhisveri wondered if it was the class.
“You’re the competent one.”
“Yes, Your Grace?”
Rhisveri grunted.
“Good. Get these to the forest up north. The one with all the damned centipedes in the wood. These are the scrolls Fithea has been bothering me about. I’ll give you the rest later.”
He waved a finger and fifty-eight scrolls appeared out of his bag of holding and clattered into a pile at the man’s feet. The [Bureaucrat] saw a few other [Servants] stare at him, wincing, but all he did was bow.
“At once, Your Grace.”
And that was it. He didn’t say ‘what, how?’, or ‘how should I organize this?’, or ‘why me?’. That last question would have gotten him booted out a window.
[Cogwork Bureaucrat]. A class for someone who fit into Ailendamus’ system and kept it running. He knew where the servants to pick things up were. He knew how to look up ‘the forest up north’ that was suffering from a plague of wood-eating centipedes who were driving the half-Elves insane.
And he knew how to contact the [Druids] and adventurers to use the scrolls of [Insect Bane], the officials to organize the extermination with regular militia and [Knights], and get a [Message] out informing them a Courier or fast City Runner was inbound with the scrolls.
He was a handy man, and Rhisveri had done him the great honor of remembering he was one of the competent ones. Presumably, he had a life, a family, ambitions and passions, and he very helpfully did not ever tell Rhisveri what they were or bring these problems up when the Duke needed something.
Rhisveri’s contribution to this internal affair was the scrolls. Normally, he’d make someone else deal with it, but Fithea…and so he was spending his mana pool and time mass-producing [Insect Bane] scrolls. Boring, but about a week faster than if they made an academy or their scroll production facilities do it, and it was trees.
You had to humor the others on things like that. With Fithea, it was trees. Sophridel, his Court of Masks and those damned plays which he wanted so badly. Rhisveri was paying for plays, but not to ship the Players of Celum all the way out here—even if they could be bought!
Culnous, leader of the merfolk, demanded pure water, which was fair since he had to swim in the stuff. Everyone made sure Visophecin and his family got their deliveries on time, since there was nothing like hungry Lucifen for a bad mood. Gilaw, the newest one, got, uh…extra-large feather combs?
The point was that each one mattered, in a way that concerned Rhisveri more than anything else. They were all that mattered, in a sense. Ailendamus’ secret heart. Rhisveri mattered most of all, of course, but that was the trouble. Fithea wanted answers. She was taking Ryoka’s side.
Ah, Ryoka. Now it was time for the annoying part of his day. The Duke looked around.
“Prepare the Thief—the Wind Runner for a conversation with me. At…midday. Knock before entering. That is all. Unless my brother wants me. No? Then go.”
He strode along, on one last errand before he dealt with her. Memories of yesterday flooded in and Rhisveri shook his head.
“Just disgraceful. Mortals. Let me see. Let me see…”
He reached his destination, pulled something out, and raised his voice.
“I have the book. Here it is. Goodbye.”
