“Even now, you surprise me, Ryoka Griffin, thief. You bring temptation. News of another world. A name, a terrible presence contained in a single name. Stories and secrets. You know, I am tempted. I would meet with this lovely Sikeri, or her sisters, I would. I do not want to die, though.”
“I know. I’m sorry. I…”
Rhisveri’s eyes glittered. He was smiling. Ryoka Griffin felt a surge of unease. The Wyrm chuckled.
“I do not want to die. And here we come to the heart of it. But Ryoka—I could go there and surrender myself to the bliss of a lifetime. I could create children and a new kingdom—well, perhaps not in my world. I wouldn’t trust them. Maybe until they were a thousand years old, but after that?”
He reconsidered. Ryoka Griffin looked at him, her suspicions mounting. Rhisveri flicked his tongue up.
“—Regardless. I could do it. You understand? I could mate and die. And come back. Because I have a treasure beyond imagining. Oh yes. The very one you tried to steal. Now we come to it. Now you know.”
He bent low. Ryoka Griffin staggered back, and her back hit the chair. Rhisveri saw her face go white.
“A…a scroll? A scroll that—”
“Yes. A Scroll of Resurrection.”
His body shivered. He writhed with the sheer joy and pleasure of saying it aloud to someone else after so long. The Wind Runner looked up at him.
Somewhere, the fates were laughing. And then she knew how Erin would live again. It was so easy.
It was so…
“You will never claim it.”
Rhisveri broke her out of her reverie. He looked at her, coiling back on himself. He was conversational now, but the radiant exuberance of being able to tell, to brag, was all over him. It made him calm, even friendly.
“You must understand. This is no mere Scroll of Raise Dead, which would work on mortals, at cost. This is a genuine…it’s not even a relic. It’s beyond a relic. I don’t know how my brother found it. I think—in a long-buried tomb of a kingdom. It can revive me if I perish for any reason. So you understand. Why would I part with it?”
“I—I understand. But it’s real?”
“Oh, yes. The power in it? I tested it with all my knowledge. I even showed it to an [Archmage] before he died. It is the real thing. Now I have one last question for you, Ryoka Griffin. Knowing I have this scroll worth more than you could ever offer me, which would tempt even my allies, and send armies marching upon me without end to claim it—why did I tell you? Why do I laugh? Why do I weep?”
Oh. We’re here again. Ryoka Griffin stirred. It was never the same, but it had echoes.
A riddling game. Was that what she’d been playing the entire time? The Wyrm waited. Understand me. She thought about all he had said, how he presented Wyrms. A monster—or so he claimed, writhing in the darkness. Brother-killer. Born of a dead mother. Ruthless…
“I think I know why you laugh, Rhisveri Zessoprical.”
He smiled, with more admiration than he had ever had towards a mortal. Even the [General] he had trained himself, the Great General who marched to bring Calanfer low. He waited. Ryoka Griffin looked at him and her eyes…they pierced his scales with truth. His truth, which he had patiently explained to her over this long conversation.
“The scroll is the most valuable thing in the world. The most valuable. But…it does you no good if you have no one to resurrect. And if you want to be saved—you need someone you can trust. And you trust…”
The Wyrm began to laugh. It grew in him, not a conversational laugh, altogether like a person, but a deep rumbling that grew high in tone. A shriek, a roaring shriek like glass grinding against itself, glaciers of glass breaking. Hysterical laughter.
“No one. Yes, that’s why he laughed, my brother! Even as I killed him! He knew what he had, and he knew no one would bring him back! He would never use it on another. Nor I! We love no one! And we have no one to trust. Do you see?”
She saw. The Wyrm rolled about in his despair and mirth. Then he looked at her, panting.
“If there was one. If there was, I would be safe. But I have none. Who would I love? A mortal?”
“Why not? Is it impossible, Duke Rhisveri? Is there nothing in any of us—in any part of the world that you couldn’t admire or love?”
Rhisveri snorted. He snaked his head down to her.
“Perhaps there is. I admit that you folk have qualities I could find attractive. I could pretend I was a smaller man. But I am not. You cannot understand what I am, and any relationship would be imbalanced. But even then—perhaps I could love someone. Respect them.”
“Then…?”
Ryoka saw Rhisveri shake his head.
“Why would I give my heart away to someone who will die and break it? Even if I resurrected them, if I had a thousand scrolls. No. No, if it is true love, I will not waste it on a mere century. I could only love someone who walks time without age. Who could challenge and push me. I could only love…”
An immortal. And now Ryoka saw a kind of design in the air. She looked at Rhisveri.
“Is that why you made Ailendamus? To find other people, other immortals in hiding? Not Wyrms but…someone you could love? Trust?”
He jerked. The Wyrm whirled his head around and stared at Ryoka. She had seen too much. He blustered.
“Nonsense! Do you think I would trust Visophecin or his lot? I have kept the scroll secret because they would stab me in the back for it, even Fithea. Especially Fithea.”
“So why are you telling me? To mock me? Because you want me to know? I want that scroll, Rhisveri. Does that mean there’s something you want from me in return?”
Ryoka felt it happening again. Now came the [Geas]. Now came the bargain. But Rhisveri just smirked.
“No. No, I told you—you cannot offer me anything. I know its worth. Even useless—a hundred thousand Ryokas could offer nothing close.”
Then why risk it? The Wyrm had a gleeful look in his eyes. Why tell Ryoka if he didn’t intend to let her have it or bargain? Ryoka frowned.
“I must have it. My friend—”
“I know. Don’t you think I know? Everyone wants a scroll like that. Most believe it is a figment, but it is not. I know you will not relent—and you are an emissary. I cannot kill you.”
Rhisveri slithered back and forth. Ryoka felt her stomach sinking. And yet…his tone was sinking ominously. What was going to happen? Mind-erased? A spell?
“I am a friend of the Fair Folk of Avalon, Rhisveri Zessoprical. I have wronged you, but I will do everything I can to defend myself. I remind you of that.”
The Wyrm hissed. His body was coiling inwards, now, no longer giving her space. Closer and closer, walls of scales.
“Oh, I know. You threaten me in my home. You persuade me with every factor, from greed to passion to fear. You want what I am not willing to trade. Not to you. But you are dangerous. You know what hides in Rhir. You have things I want, but you and I both have a point where we will never cross. And I cannot force you…or can I? Go ahead. Try and stop me. I could pull your mind apart. Turn you into a dancing puppet. I could sell you to Roshal or simply kill you. Go ahead. Stop me. Say that name.”
Ryoka was shuddering. But—why was he threatening her? He had not seemed as wrathful at her. She thought they had understood each other, or at least, she him, and he had appreciated it.
“Rhisveri—”
“Say it.”
She refused to. The Wyrm was so close now she felt the coils constricting her. If he so much as sneezed she would be squished. He opened his maw, and venom pooled there. Ryoka waited, tensed—and then Rhisveri uncoiled. He moved his head back and laughed softly.
“You would be far better if you were of our nature. Mortality is wasted on you. Alas, you play too well. Do not flinch, brave Courier. I will still win. Or did you forget? I have a voice, the same as you. So I say it. Oberon.”
Ryoka Griffin recoiled. Her eyes went round. Rhisveri’s tail flicked and something flew through the air. It landed, scattering about, then reforming. She saw broken stones—familiar stone, from the very heart of the palace, rising into the air. Forming…an arch.
“Rhisveri!”
The Wyrm looked at her. His mouth opened wide. Do you see it yet?
“You can offer me nothing. But perhaps…Oberon! I invoke you!”
The stones rose, hovering in the air. The Wyrm raised his head as the Wind Runner shouted. He threw his head back and roared to the heavens.
“OBERON!”
For a moment, nothing happened. Ryoka, even Rhisveri, froze, sweating, hearts pounding in tandem in fear as he said it. Ryoka—nothing would happen, surely? He had never been there. The gateway broke! Nothing would…
She felt something happening. A strange sensation at her side. Ryoka Griffin slapped a hand to something odd. She had never felt that—she looked down and froze.
Her bag of holding was…rattling. And she felt the obols inside of it shaking about. Then the room began shaking. Rhisveri’s eyes flickered in unease, but he smiled. Staring down at…
The portal. Blank air. Nothing but old stone, even a bit moldy, written with ancient words. Nothing but his magic keeping it aloft. Ryoka stared at it, shaking. Then she realized something. She looked up slowly and made a squeaking sound. Rhisveri followed her gaze.
The stone archway collapsed as he let go of the magic. It was just old stone, after all. But that tiny, infinitesimal tear in the fabric of the world? It opened a fraction wider and the Wyrm turned pale.
 
——
 
Who was saying his name? Why was he risking it? The fool! The—
Five figures fled from Terandria as fast as possible. It was a possible opening! A place to invade—they made tracks. It was—they hid in the dark sea. There was just one of him, and they were—
They avoided that gaze and the touch of fall itself. They weren’t afraid! It just wasn’t time. Not yet.
Not yet.
 
——
 
It would be death, this time. The Court of the Fae waited. One of them stood alone, amid fading colors.
The Court of the Summer Fae was over. Fall and winter ruled, and, thusly, they changed. All but he. Like her—like Ivolethe, who now stood among the first in the Winter Court, he refused to change.
Melidore. One of the eldest of the Fae. One of the first of their number. It was not said lightly. He stood by the King of Fae himself, and his expression was thunderous.
Did that girl think this was done lightly? A door was closed and sealed. Sealed and closed—and only one in all of the lands of the fae could do it.
Oberon. Now, he had to reopen it and he did. Why? It was not a monumental task, but it took his strength. Melidore did not know why, but he knew it would be death this time.
If the answer did not suit him, he would violate hospitality itself. Not to go to that damned land and give another weapon to the Enemy’s hands. No.
Rather, he would go among the terrified women standing before the throne. They had been summoned, of course.
Just like last time. They had been called, and the court convened. They were all here again.
Three Kings, young, in his prime, and old, bearing the true blade which echoed across realities.
A bevy of proud folk, escorting a little child who had sold his stick for quite a lot—as he saw it. Their wings furled and unfurled with impatience as they eyed the terrified group of women with a disdain only reserved for family, albeit distant.
A Phoenix, preening his feathers with a handbag around his neck.
Ivolethe, of course, and the younger Fae who had known her.
Nama.
And in the center, facing the throne as the doorway opened—Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui. The Wyrm saw Melidore staring at her, hand on a sword. She avoided his gaze, staring at the opening rift.
Not just her, though. All of the Wyrms had been summoned. All came, despite their arrogance. They quailed before this throne. And Melidore’s wrath.
If the answer displeased him, he would go among them and slaughter them all. No matter the punishment. Enough.
The door opened and there she was. Ivolethe sighed as Ryoka Griffin appeared. But it was not she who had said the name thrice, with intention and daring.
Rhisveri Zessoprical saw the figure on the throne and quailed. But then his eyes spotted the women. They looked like women, Human women, with different shades of skin and hair styles—until you looked at them differently. Ryoka Griffin saw…
Her knees shook.
Wyrm gazed upon Wyrm, and the lone male Wyrm between two worlds raised his head proudly. He bowed it, first to the throne, then to his kin.
“King of the Fae. I am Rhisveri, Ruler of Ailendamus. I thank you for—meeting with me. I have an offer to place before the lands of the Farthest Travellers.”
“You invoke his name lightly, Wyrm. Speak your reasons and be they well. Or you shall die.”
A radiant figure warned him. He quelled his tongue as the Faerie King lifted a palm, but that calm gaze of fall made Ryoka and Rhisveri shake.
Yet the Wyrm spoke. He looked at Ryoka, and, even now, the cunning glance made her search ahead of his words. Understanding…
“I have been offended by your subjects and Ryoka Griffin, who claims friendship with your lands. She attempted to steal something that belonged to me. An object beyond any value I can name. I am minded to forgive her—and that is a petty squabble. But the Wind Runner, Ryoka Griffin, desires that which I cannot use. Which I will not trade for any value she possesses.”
The Fae listened. Rhisveri spoke. And something floated in front of him. A simple scroll, this one long, with a wooden handle. Ryoka shivered as she saw it. It felt…warm in her very soul. She felt alive, and the Faerie King said nothing as Rhisveri lifted it up for all to see.
“I know not if you have the like in your world. Or if it is mundane. I think not. I have one object in my possession. It is called a Scroll of Resurrection, and it can revive any being. Even me.”
The Court of the Fae had been rustling, the Wyrms nervously murmuring, the Dragons—even the Kings three waving to Ryoka. Suddenly—they went silent.
All eyes fixed on the scroll. Disbelieving. Incredulous. Magic, bottled like that? Melidore choked. That was not—
But the rules there. Nama’s grip touched one of the simple healing potions Ryoka had given her. And suddenly—she was staring at the scroll too.
“One life. One life—even your own if you have someone you trust. But if you have none? No one can afford it in this world that I know. Nor would I risk it.”
Rhisveri looked at her and Ryoka knew. You clever bastard. You—
She leapt, the wind rushing behind her, but he lifted a hand and she fell. No. Rhisveri watched as Oberon sat there. And even he looked at the scroll.
“Everyone has someone. Everyone but a Wyrm. I offer it. For a worthy price. If it can be paid, if you will accede to part of the trade—I will exchange it for something of equal value.”
