Chorisa blinked as she took the man’s curious wheelchair—a concept she did not see often—and moved him back along the garden. He was instantly friendly, and, despite herself, she took to his chatty demeanor at once.
“It is rare Visophecin brings visitors. I imagine all of your [Knights] will have to eat and socialize—we will find them. Do not worry about safety. Not here. An army couldn’t take this place normally, and with all of Visophecin’s kin and mine here? They’re all curious to meet this Courier. Affairs of the state, you understand.”
“I—yes, Uzine.”
Somehow, Chorisa found herself in the manor, staring at walls with children’s graffiti ranging from drawings to little inscriptions.
Lord Uzine and Tored were here.
The Agelum waved over a [Housemistress] somewhat urgently.
“Herea. Herea, I have a guest.”
“Lord Uzine! You shouldn’t leave without telling anyone. I was beside myself—thank you, Lady Knight. Do you wish to meet the Courier?”
“Not now. And I won’t need a minder. I will have a chat with Dame Chorisa—but see to it she has something to eat? I am full.”
Herea instantly turned to Chorisa, who bowed slightly.
“I am content, Lord Uzine, Miss…”
“That is what [Knights] say. Herea, there are refreshments out, aren’t there? Chorisa, have some gelato. The delicacy we buy in bulk, given how much the children love it. Or other confections. The sweet stuff isn’t all for me, but we have treats from across the world…”
That was how Chorisa found herself staring at a cone of ice cream, gingerly licking it as she pushed Uzine along, then sat awkwardly in a chair as they talked. She couldn’t gainsay him as he was of the Viscount’s family—and he was pushy!
“Marvelous, isn’t it? Some kind of battered ‘cone’ and ice cream. The children love it. Apparently the Wind Runner suggested it.”
“I—really? When?”
Uzine smiled.
“Fifteen minutes ago. Our [Chef] is one of the best in the region and they had been experimenting—I think she told her the recipe, which will be a savings. A remarkable young woman.”
His eyes flickered left. Chorisa bit her tongue. Who was she? But then…part of her job was not to ask.
There was a split in House Shoel that any visitor could see. Uzine, the wheelchair or even bed-ridden folk with bright smiles, and the stately, reserved group with Visophecin. Cousins?
They were noticeably different. The Lucifen walked past the children, said curt ‘hellos’ to the cheery servants, and only truly interacted with each other—and the Agelum. They were respectful to the Agelum, although now and then Chorisa saw a few expressions slip out.
“Paxere. Come meet Dame Chorisa. Have you seen the ice cream cones? The children love them.”
A young woman in a dark suit stopped, looked at Uzine, and smiled. She nodded to Dame Chorisa.
“Thirsting Veil. Excuse me, Uzine. I must meet the Wind Runner.”
“Do take an ice cream cone. And introduce yourself to the staff—you hardly visit.”
She smiled, but Chorisa saw the faint exasperation in her expression. Resigned, tolerant—she nodded politely and moved on.
Such a curious place. Uzine was no fool, but he smiled, content with the exchange. Then he swivelled one eye to stare at Chorisa.
Only one eye. He had complete control over both. He saw her jump and smiled.
“Forgive me. As you can see, my family was exposed to magic radiation long ago in our bloodlines. We suffer for it. Our cousins, Viscount Visophecin chief among them, take care of us.”
“I see, my lord. I…I’m sorry. Is it…?”
She didn’t see any children, only the adults, all of whom had white or pale hair, regardless of skin tone. Uzine gave her a smile.
“We are the last ones. I don’t believe we’d want to inflict this on children, would you? We’re quite plentiful enough, even so. It’s simply how life is.”
“I see.”
Now there was a conversation-ender if ever she heard one, but Uzine said it straight off, without blinking. It was, and somehow it made things easier to hear it directly.
“It is my delight to spend my days among Shoel’s folk. And, frankly, we keep up with the news and help Ailendamus as best we may. I am glued to that scrying orb, and I was reading newspapers the instant they came out…we also make small recommendations the Viscount passes along.”
Chorisa gulped. There was a reminder that this was an important person. Who wanted her…Uzine gave her a keen look.
“You are in some difficulty at court over yesterday, aren’t you?”
Chorisa turned bright red. She began to bow.
“My lord, I cannot—”
Uzine leaned forwards, searching around for children.
“Well done. A Courier down? I knew a lad who told me he’d bedded a Courier, Named-rank adventurer, and was trying for a [Prince] to complete the set. Even had hopes of running away. Poor fellow. He died in a duel, and I never found out whether he managed it. They used to put Archmages on that list, but it was too hard, so the trinity was those three. But if you add [General], [Grand Magus], and [Captain], that’s six.”
Dame Chorisa stared at Uzine, wondering how close to death the real Chorisa was. Sunburst fever, that was what she had. They were probably preparing her family for the worst.
“Sir…? I don’t take your meaning.”
He laughed.
“I’m sure you do! There’s nothing to be ashamed of. Ah, is it me? I know I’m quite old, but I was young once. I won’t embarrass you further, though I have stories I could tell. I just wanted to tell you that Visophecin will have a word with Duke Rhisveri and smooth things over. If there is trouble, you will come here. Love should not matter in affairs of state or gossip. Let alone be a cause for censure. You are a [Knight] of Ailendamus, and you should be stealing kisses from whomever you please.”
He looked at her. Chorisa felt weak in the knees and was glad she was sitting down. Uzine smiled as she searched for words.
“I know it is unconventional, so I tend not to go to court—as if I could, regularly. But I have never cared, and no one in House Shoel will bother others on that. Or we’ll throw mud at them. Lucifen—that is, Visophecin’s side have their laws. We have ours. You would have done well if you’d grown up here. Many [Knights] have. Eclizza did, and I think she mentioned a Chorisa once. Hence me seeking you out.”
The young woman’s eyes widened. She looked up.
“You know—kn—knew Dame Eclizza?”
Uzine smiled sadly.
“I did. I did not know she passed until recently. The crown has not announced it. A tragedy. She grew up in these walls. Come—we will go and find something.”
A girl had once scrawled on these very walls. Chorisa had already been misty-eyed, but then she did weep to see it—especially that Eclizza had spelled her name wrong. Uzine patted her hand, still smiling.
“Forget this silliness over who was found in whose bed. Go back and romance half your Order, Dame Chorisa. Then—train. Then, live. If you must come here, you will be welcome. And then, you will hunt down the thing that killed her and bring it to justice.”
She looked at him. The Agelum’s eyes were bright.
“The Death of Magic did this, so I am told. Well then, Dame Chorisa. Be it you or any other, Ailendamus shall not forget. Level and live. For its sins—even Death shall die.”
Chorisa sank to one knee. She took his hand, and if he asked her to, she would have sworn herself to his service in a second. He smiled like the sun—no, like a tempest of light. Burn out bright and hot.
 
——
 
The Agelum scared the ever-loving hell out of Ryoka. Even more than the Lucifen, and they scared her to bits.
The idea of a devil, even as a species, was one thing. But the Agelum? She looked at them, from Gadrea to Razia with their vaguely…biblical names. She heard voices as she shook their hands and they teased her.
“How many [Knights] is enough in one bed, eh? Four? To be young again—”
“So you’re the girl who had Visophecin all riled up? Visophecin, tell us again—don’t be so coy! I think we may actually make him blush.”
They were her own voices that whispered to her. But it came out in the first hour of interactions with the Agelum. The Lucifen were reserved; they watched Ryoka like hawks watching an interesting prey, and she thought she understood them.
Predators of people. Humanity’s natural, only counter. Curious and dispassionate, like Visophecin was. Incapable of empathy, but not thoughtless; highly intelligent and moral in their own way.
They certainly bowed and fussed over Fithea, listening to her respectfully and going as far as to fetch things for her themselves.
Nemed and the Merfolk were wary, but jested with a few younger Lucifen who they knew. Interestingly, Menorkel and Gilaw hung back, and the Lucifen were more rival-ish with them, asking how Menorkel’s ‘training’ was going and suggesting they race Gilaw. There were younger members of the Lucifen—none of the Agelum.
Ryoka could see why. The Agelum were weak; not dying—not more than anyone was—but distinctly mortal for some reason. Too weak to stand, though some did to shake her hand before they were forced to rest.
Yet they were far, far scarier to Ryoka. She looked them in their odd eyes, thought of the original forms of Angels in mythology…and heard voices.
Be not afraid. I bring you tidings of great joy.
Given what she knew of…dead things…they were scary as shit. But not just that. If they could but stand, if they were healthier—these were the people Ryoka could see leading an army to war. She even felt it herself. If ever a crusade were to march on hell, the Agelum would lead the charge.
Only, in this version of hell, the Lucifen would probably have already opened the gates and set out tea and snacks for everyone. Ryoka felt dizzy.
“I would have thought both, uh, families wouldn’t get along.”
Her first unguarded comment to Gadrea, Visophecin, Razia, and two polite Lucifen after all the introductions and the ice cream recipe was revealing.
Instantly, the two Lucifen traded a glance. Gadrea raised her eyebrows, and her odd, deep blue veins in her pale skin moved as she raised a hand.
“So you do know of us. You have legends among your people? You are not of this world, so Agelum and Lucifen exist in others, even as ideas. Do we exist? Or are we stories? We were stories, but we’ve erased even those. And we did hate each other, until it became clear neither one of us would survive alone and possibly not together.”
Ryoka’s jaw opened. She’d pulled that from a one-line sentence? Her teeth clamped together and the Viscount gave Gadrea a slow look of warning.
“Gadrea, Ryoka has expressed a desire for secrecy. It is a delicate negotiation.”
One of her eyes swivelled to him; she had a tri-pupil eye and a dual-one.
“Visophecin, you play too many games of subtlety. This is the only time I will get to meet Miss Ryoka, in all likelihood! It may be secret—but surely she will trade answers with me. Have you played ‘Twenty Answers’, Ryoka?”
Oh dead gods. Magnolia Reinhart swam in Ryoka’s mind. First the fist-fights, now this. She bit her tongue.
“It’s…I’m sorry to say that there are things I don’t wish to reveal, Lady Gadrea.”
The Agelum frowned. One of the two Lucifen, who looked like a couple, leaned forwards. She had dark, wavy, red-black hair, a piercing stare, and long fingernails. Visophecin had introduced her as ‘Azemith’.
“Given how interesting she is, and how essential you described this moment for Ailendamus’ future, have you not considered asking more pointedly, Visophecin? We could…break for two hours. I would happily go to a private room and inquire with Miss Griffin, then come back and report.”
She bared her teeth. Ryoka edged over in her seat as the other Lucifen chuckled. Visophecin fixed the two with a flat look.
“Azemith, Igolze. Courier Griffin is a guest of Rhisveri. A prisoner of the crown and emissary from afar. Make it clear to the family—again—that no one is to compromise Ailendamus’ position.”
Azemith replied without looking at Visophecin. She was studying Ryoka, like someone might study a fascinating handbag in the store.
“I could be sweet. Although it’s far swifter to be direct. She has no classes. It would take no time at all.”
Gadrea smiled.
“And I would object, cousin. Let us not come to blows; Ryoka is my guest.”
Azemith pursed her lips and she and Gadrea locked eyes. It had to be said, the Lucifen, for all her imposing power and poise, was always going to lose a staring contest with an Agelum. Visophecin cut the hanging tension like a sword through a noose.
“That is one issue, Azemith. The other is that Courier Griffin is represented by powers. Who she could name. I believe you would regret it if you pushed her to that point.”
The Lucifen both eyed Ryoka, and Azemith’s eyes flickered. She smiled, but drew back a bit.
“Ah. That does make it interesting. Well, I will put the offer forwards. If Miss Griffin wishes it, I would happily make an opening in any day or night.”
Ryoka stared at her. Yeah. Wow.
She was still far more scared of Gadrea than Azemith, but that was something alright. And yet…Ryoka looked at Visophecin.
See, this was the trap she fell into last time with the Viscount. If you run, or don’t slap them in the face, they will go after you. Because they are your predators. So, Ryoka pushed.
“I’m not looking for anything involved after the last incident so soon, Lady Azemith. Also, not you, with respect. We mortals have unpresuming standards, but you might want to change tacks if you ever tried that in the Court of the Winter Fae.”
She was rewarded with a slack-faced expression from Azemith—right before her husband/partner smiled, and Gadrea and Razia started howling with laughter. Azemith’s eyes narrowed, but even Visophecin was amused. She stared at Ryoka, then sat back.
“Well, that’s new.”
Ryoka Griffin was vibrating with nervous energy, but she turned. The thing about mistakes was…the thing about the past and growing was…you tried not to make the same mistakes. So she took a breath, thought fast, and went.
“Let me see. Satan is one. Abbadon, Mephistopheles, Asmodeus, Beelzebub, uh, and, um, Chernabog? Those would all be names of famous Devils—which is what we call the Lucifen. Oh, Lucifer is also a name associated with the Devil, which is how I knew Visophecin in a moment. You may want to reconsider that given how they’re viewed across worlds. Does any of that sound familiar in your history?”
The smiles and laughter stopped. Visophecin sat up. Ryoka Griffin smiled nervously. The shots were fired. Fithea’s head rose from her corner.
