“It is nothing I would expect you to glean from a chance encounter. A mountain filled with Wyrms. Living in…harmony.”
His tone sounded disbelieving. Ryoka sat on the edge of her chair.
“Wh—is that surprising? Why are you concerned with their happiness, if I can ask?”
“Is it not appropriate to care for your kin?”
Rhisveri gave her a huge frown. Ryoka opened her mouth.
“Uh, I’m s—”
She saw his scaled cheeks bulge. Then the Wyrm barked a huge blast of air in her face.
“Hah!”
He snorted. Ryoka caught herself, arms windmilling as the chair nearly toppled over. The Wyrm wheezed a few times as he laughed, writhing about. Then he coughed, and went back to staring at her.
“I was only curious. You see, I cannot imagine Wyrms, even with a vast amount of space, could ever truly co-exist without quarrels. Let alone in a single mountain, no matter how big. This…ruler you once invoked here must keep order.”
She nodded slowly.
“That he does. I don’t think they’d violate the laws of hospitality in his domain.”
“Yet they are guests. You said…refugees. Fleeing from worlds apart.”
“It’s only a guess. But…yes.”
“And all female?”
Once more Ryoka nodded and Rhisveri closed his eyes.
“Yes. They’re probably all female. Yes…”
He sank to the ground. Ryoka saw his eyes close and that sense of oddity struck her once more. She was standing up and peering around on a hunch, calling on the wind, when Rhisveri’s head snapped up.
“And fighting like cats and Wyrms all day and night! Dead gods, but I cannot imagine the petty squabbles and politics. If they can’t kill each other, they must make each other’s lives a living nightmare.”
He shuddered.
“Perish the thought. What an aberration of events for that to occur. The only thing I could imagine is worse in that entire kingdom would be the Dragon colonies. If there are Dragons.”
He looked at Ryoka. She blinked. Rhisveri nodded.
“You saw some?”
“I—yes. A child.”
He swore under his breath.
“Multiple Dragons in a single place. All…a child? But that implies you suspect there were more. And this king, this…that one rules them all? Such that they only fought you or aided you, but not one another?”
Ryoka nodded. She saw Rhisveri shift uneasily.
“I don’t think this is an invading kingdom, Rhisveri. The fae…”
“Of course not! I know the Farthest Travellers. Fithea has told me enough.”
He snapped. But he seemed relieved. Rhisveri coughed, and then went on, more calmly.
“No doubt that child could not even coexist with others of his kin. Wyrms, for all we might fight, can present a unified front. Dragons?”
He spat to the side. Ryoka saw a glob of something hit the floor and sizzle. She and Rhisveri stared at it eating through the floor. He sighed.
“Damn.”
His tail slapped somewhere in the vast room, and the acid bile vanished and the floor began to mend, closing together. Ryoka was almost positive by now what was going on, but she was curious too.
“What do you mean about Dragons? Do they quarrel too?”
“Ah, so you’ve only met them individually. Interesting. Even in this world?”
Ryoka hesitated. Rhisveri looked gleeful, but then waved his tail.
“Hmph. It matters not. You think Wyrms can be petty? Dragons also. We fight with each other, but Dragons—they quibble by color, tribe, rather than individuals.”
He glared at Ryoka as her mouth opened.
“Yes, that’s an oversimplification. They’re all individuals, but my limited observation and understanding from texts was that, while they fought within their groups as any society does, they truly clashed en masse. Frost Dragons versus Earth Dragons. Flame versus Void, and so on.”
Ryoka’s train of thought trying to run ahead of this conversation and play for what she needed suddenly derailed. She leaned forwards.
“Wait, Frost versus Earth? So they are elemental types, aren’t they? Was that just an example or is it usual? Why would ice and earth fight? Would it be, um, Frost Dragons versus Flame Dragons? And would they all have the same scale color? Because I’d expect fire Dragons to be red.”
But Teriarch was brass and he breathed fire. Rhisveri gave Ryoka such a supercilious look that she instantly flushed. He bent lower.
“I can see you haven’t talked to Dragons overlong, or one would have corrected you. Why would they adhere to a simple system like that? Frost hates fire? That’s so…reductionist.”
“What? Isn’t it logical?”
He went pft in her face. Ryoka braced herself against the exhalation of wind. Rhisveri rolled his eyes.
“Spare me. If anything, fire would find frost a rival because the elements oppose each other. A worthy rival or a diametrically opposed point of view. Flame would dominate earth and metallic elements while finding rivals among lightning and other energies—and while they would have an advantage, their greatest allies might be Earth Dragons, as one grows from the other. Of course, under your schema—how would you distinguish a Dragon with crimson scales to one that has, say, bronze scales if both breathe fire? Gold?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“I—would assume that they’re all part of the same fire element, I guess. Or maybe that different scale colors, uh, mean different ranks or perhaps temperaments? Gold is nobility?”
“Gold is nob—are you one of those Humans that ascribes superiority to skin tone?”
“What? No!”
Rhisveri glared at her.
“Well, you seem to have a very jaundiced opinion of how other species are valued by color.”
Ryoka was so appalled she couldn’t respond. Rhisveri grumbled.
“Gold is superior. Hah! I can see you haven’t thought this out. I should have liked you to meet a red-scaled Dragon, vouchsafed your ignorance, and had said Dragon breathe a blood mist all over you. Heh. That would be amusing.”
He chuckled to himself.
“Blood mist. Blood Dragons. It’s red so it must be hot. Hah. Hahahaha…”
The Wyrm’s head rolled over and his entire body slowly began to rotate as he chuckled, laying on his side. Ryoka Griffin stared at Rhisveri, and now she was dead sure. She stood up, incredulous.
“…Are you drunk?”
Rhisveri’s head snapped up. He turned to her, and she caught another whiff of his breath. The fruit scent! Rhisveri hesitated.
“Inebriated. Yes.”
“But—I—this is an audience!”
“So? It’s a pain in my entire being. I had to waste an entire day watching idiots hit balls with sticks, clean up a forest filled with bugs, and had a mortal woman harangue me about your mess. Did you think I’d sweep aside my entire schedule for you? That this is the most important thing I have to do all day?”
He slapped his tail for emphasis. Ryoka saw his expression shift, and his tone grew defensive.
“What kind of immortal creature would not partake of every kind of comfort and luxury available? Yes, I drink. I also bathe, exercise, and enjoy fine literature and the arts. What, should I wallow in my own filth and count gold coins all day like a Dragon?”
Ryoka bit her tongue. Rhisveri eyed her, and his expression grew amused again.
“…Does the Dragon you know do that? That’s so typical.”
He laughed to himself. Ryoka waved a hand. She felt like this conversation was getting away from her.
“Rhisveri. I have come to you on behalf of—I have come bearing coin from a foreign land. I know you think I am a thief, but I honestly wish to make amends and ask—ask if there is anything I can do to purchase or trade for the object I tried to steal. It is something I need. Will you hear my petition, seriously?”
It was like she’d tossed a potion of sobering into his mouth. As soon as she mentioned the artifact, the scroll, Rhisveri grew still. His head rose, and his eyes turned back to her, suddenly sharp again.
“Ah. So the pleasantries end. Just as I thought your company was almost tolerable.”
Ryoka met his gaze.
“I’m sorry to spoil the mood. But I thought…”
The Wyrm looked at her once more and he sighed. He sighed, grew visibly angry, furious.
“Yes, you tried to steal it! You snuck into my treasury, bypassing my guards, all to steal—if you had, do you know what I would have done? I would have destroyed Izril. Destroyed your precious House Veltras, and raised every army against you. Do you know what you tried to steal?”
He rose higher, his voice booming. Rhisveri snarled—looked at her expression—and hesitated.
“You don’t. Do you? Even now, you don’t know. You found out, somehow. How?”
“I…the Fae aided me. It was a kind of prophecy. That was what could help me save my friend. The surest, best way.”
The Wyrm cursed.
“Prophecy. [Oracles]! I have warded every means—except for the Farthest Travellers. No wonder. Well, it is safeguarded a hundred times over. You shall not have it. And before you ask—you could never pay for it. Not you.”
“I have—”
Ryoka spilled some of the stones from her bag of holding as she reached for a handful. Rhisveri snorted.
“Coins. I know their worth. But they are still coins. Do you think what you tried to steal was cheap? You have no idea! You have…”
He caught himself. Ryoka saw his lips quivering. He wanted to tell her. In that, he was like Teriarch, pointing out his own hoard.
“What could be so valuable? At least tell me what it is.”
She tried to coax him. The Wyrm glared.
“Do I look like a half-wit? That object—its value? Why would I tell you its worth? What would that gain me, except more danger, especially if I let you live? Especially if I know you cannot pay for it?”
“Could I pay to know…?”
Ryoka reached for the autograph, the obol. Rhisveri laughed in her face again.
“Everything you own wouldn’t be enough for me to risk telling you!”
Her skin prickled. That…that told her something. Ryoka wasn’t a fool. She had thought long and hard about what could possibly be used to help Erin. She had a few ideas, but they were all ridiculous. Impossible.
Except in a world that followed the rules of a game.
The Wyrm read her expression. Somehow, he grew calmer still.
“Yes. Yes, that’s right. Do you understand? That is the most valuable object in my entire treasury bar none. Somehow, you went for it. Terrifying. Infuriating. It has cost me and Ailendamus the lives of brave—of useful tools. Of a Great Knight. I put that death between us. And you cannot even pay me that cost, even with the strange objects you hold. For I value it higher.”
Ryoka waited, heart sinking. Rhisveri looked at her and thought of the Agelum and Lucifen. His head bowed deeply. He spoke.
“And yet. You will learn of it. For I have a reason. You, who have beheld Wyrms, who have spoken with Dragons…you have come from a world apart. A world I can scarcely imagine. There are worlds out there, aren’t there?”
He looked at the ceiling as if he could see the sky above. Ryoka whispered.
“Yes.”
“I knew it. But only in a vague, vain sense. Fithea told me stories. Never did I dream it would be possible to walk across reality. What a strange thing. How dare you come into my kingdom and make it smaller?”
Another glare, but Rhisveri was settling. His voice grew deeper, so she felt it in the marrow of her bones.
“I will tell you because I have held onto this secret for ages. What good is worth if only I know of it? For my own appreciation? No, no.”
His eyes glittered as the light in the room waned. Rhisveri began to draw into the shadows, but the light caught in the jade of his eyes, those little, swimming flecks, still glowing. He spoke.
“It is worth too much for you to ever have, Human. Mortal. After all—I paid the highest price for it. I fought in a life-and-death struggle for it. Do you know, Ryoka Griffin, that I am the last Wyrm I know? The last, truly, of my kind?”
“I…didn’t know that. Are you sure?”
He grinned at her in the darkness, a bleak smile.
“Perhaps there are others. Just like Dragons, we would be in hiding. It is all too probable, but I am all but certain no more will be born. Dragons might hide their eggs. Wyrms lay no eggs, and there are no female Wyrms left in this world that I know of. I think I would have sensed them, and I have travelled to every land. One laid her musk on you and it will last another twenty years. I have never smelled another, except when I was young.”
“Twenty—”
Rhisveri saw her splutter and then look at him.
“So there might be male Wyrms, then?”
“Perhaps. But I suspect I am the last of them. I know I am the last on Terandria. Because there were two, thousands of years ago. My brother and I. And I? I killed him and ate him.”
The Wyrm bared his teeth and Ryoka felt a chill. His head moved and she lost track of the eyes. He was all over the room but she saw nothing, only heard his voice.
“I slew him in battle and devoured his corpse. You do not react.”
She slowly turned, searching for a sign of him, but it was pitch-black. Ryoka tried to conjure a ball of [Light]. She saw his head for a moment, to the side, then the magic winked out. The air was dead in the room.
“I…don’t know what to say. I assume you had reasons.”
“Yet you don’t react. Is it because I am not Human? If I were, I suspect you would be outraged. Afraid. You would react, then, but I am a Wyrm. A monster. Even a Dragon you would hold to higher standards, but not me.”
His head appeared in a moment. Ryoka saw his eyes staring down at her, inches away.
“Isn’t that so?”
She hesitated. Rhisveri looked at her—then drew back.
“Well, you are right. We did not have to do battle! But we did, for each one of us coveted the other’s treasures. I knew what he owned, and it was the very scroll you sought to steal. Like you, I stole it from him, and to do so I murdered him. Kinslayer. That is what Wyrms are.”
His voice grew, growing louder, fiercer. More triumphant. Ryoka Griffin saw him rising to the top of the room, and part of her wanted to run and hide and quail. But all she did was ask a question.
“Did it have to come to that?”
Her voice was…Rhisveri twitched. He looked at her in the darkness and saw her face. Not blindly sorrowful. Not empathetic for a Wyrm she had never known. He would have raged at her for that. Just…
He uncoiled. The light in the room returned. Rhisveri lay in front of Ryoka, suddenly tired again.
“Perhaps. Perhaps we could have made amends. But he and I were younger. We fought for so many reasons. Primarily, that we knew of each other’s existence, and realized it was a weapon one could use against the other. Would we come to blows? We felt…I think we felt our territories would clash, especially if both of us stayed on this continent. We had our ambitions. Mine was kingdom; his was less grand, but each of us bided our time, gathered resources, strength and acumen. When we fought, it was for everything.”
He looked at Ryoka.
