“One of us could have fled and ceded it all, of course. But the possibility of victory lay between us, and we wanted what the other had so badly…so we fought to the death. No quarter. No mercy. If I had offered it, he would have come back for vengeance or revealed me. Perhaps he would not have. I never gave him the chance.”
The Wyrm stared at a distant memory. He turned his gaze from that to the present.
“Now say your judgement, thief. Ryoka Griffin.”
She spread her hands, slowly.
“You murdered your brother. I can’t hear that and not be appalled. If I look at you like a Wyrm…I can understand it. Because that’s the stuff of stories. Legends. If I look at you like a person…”
She stared at him. Rhisveri smiled.
“But that is the heart of who I am. I am not playing for sympathy, Ryoka Griffin. Nor do I grandstand. I am this. And you are right. As a Wyrm—it is in my nature. My brother was not the first of my siblings I slew. I killed sisters and brothers before. Now, I wage war and I care not for the dead mortals. Only kingdom and desire. That is what a Wyrm is.”
“Is it? Or is it just an excuse?”
Rhisveri Zessoprical hesitated. He could squash her in a second or devour her, melt her away, or cast a spell to eradicate her. He wanted to, because the flash of rage—
But he didn’t, because it wouldn’t destroy the question. Bitterly, Rhisveri spoke.
“An excuse? For what? For doing what all species do? Conquer and kill each other? I am simply not lying, Ryoka Griffin. Or are the other immortals you have met so much more moral than me?”
He pointed his head at her, waiting for a rebuttal that did not come. Rhisveri spoke angrily.
“Dragons love to pretend they are so much better. So I killed my brother. So what? They duelled over incredibly petty matters, burnt cities down for insults, enslaved mortals and each other. Wyrms devour each other as they spawn, if measures are not taken. Dragons do not. So what? We are the same in nature—it is just that my kind does not pretend so long as it pleases us.”
“The Dragon I met did not pretend to be better. He told me he was done interfering. That every side had its reasons.”
Rhisveri looked up.
“Yes. And I am willing to trample others to get my way. Perhaps your Dragon is not. But I will not apologize nor relent. I can be rational. I can think. But I will not be some savior, some high-minded pretender. And I call your Dragon a hypocrite, though I have never met him.”
Rhisveri bared his teeth.
“No one who lives long does it without blood. We are both dead, this Dragon and I. The last members of a dead species that will never return. Not in this world. Yet what terrible irony it is that even if the last Dragon and Wyrm should meet, I think we would do great battle. Even in this fading world of mortal make. No. No, I say it is fitting! Our species have gone proudly to their end. For what should I change who I am? There is no disaster to forfend. Only the last to stand, the last to die. And that is a right I desire. I will never say mercy to mortals, though I could offer it to them. They will serve me, and I will kill them for aught I desire. I have every right to think nothing of them. You were not born when the first crime against me was committed. Nor your mother’s mother’s mother. You did not even come from this world, but I hold a grudge, Ryoka Griffin.”
His voice rose, and Ryoka Griffin saw him staring at something. Now…her skin was prickling.
“Why? Will you tell me? So I am not ignorant, at least?”
Rhisveri looked down at her. His expression was distant. Then, after a long wait, he nodded.
“Yes. To understand Wyrms, understand this: there is a reason I drink and laugh. The first is that Wyrms are dead. And I knew Wyrms were dead in this world until you came. I knew it—because I am the last Wyrm and believe it, hidden kin or not. You see…I knew the last adult female Wyrm. She was my mother. I knew the last female Wyrms; they were my brood sisters and they died by blade and infighting and monster and to me as we aged.”
“What happened?”
The Wyrm spoke, and Ryoka felt the wind blow at her hair. He looked through the walls of the palace, through time.
“Eleven thousand, four hundred and thirty…no, forty one years ago, the last Great Wyrm died. They called her Zessoprica, Sovereign of Sands. She ruled Zeikhal. She fought upon Baleros with Nagas serving under her. Even Zeres paid allegiance in years past, for she was more ancient than I. A legend of old. But they found her in Terandria, with no more allies. No more places to hide or run, and slew her.”
Ryoka Griffin felt cold. She shivered, and a blanket dropped on her as Rhisveri spoke. He never looked at her, but he seemed to recite this for the first time ever to someone else with such ease.
Because he had told this story many times to himself.
“I killed one of my own kind the moment I awoke. That is how Wyrms breed; a clutch of young, live-born. We look like serpents; we are not. Just as Dragons are not truly mammals. When Dragons bear young, they are in eggs and can wait for thousands of years if they must. When Wyrms spawn—we kill each other and the strongest grow. There is a difference in our natures. So I killed and killed in that first hour. Then…one of us spoke.”
His voice changed.
“They will kill us all. Who said it? My brother always claimed it was he. Perhaps it was another, or the message repeated. You see—we were not fools, even newly-born. Dragons are born far less intelligent—we were born cunning. Do you understand what had happened?”
Ryoka thought she did.
“Your mother. They killed her. But you…”
“Yes. We were inside her. So the hunters and celebrating armies had no idea as they began to take her body apart. We heard them. And so we stopped fighting. When those adventurers and soldiers and triumphant fools let down their guard and pierced her side, we came out. Six days. Six days of plotting and growing on her flesh. We died by the score, but an army perished. The very ‘heroes’ who slew my mother returned too late, for we had fled.”
Rhisveri smiled. He looked at Ryoka, at her pale face. Now there was sympathy.
“Do you know what I did next? What would you do, Ryoka Griffin?”
“Seek vengeance.”
“Exactly. I did not.”
She stirred. Rhisveri laughed quietly.
“They killed her. I realized—many of my kin realized—we were no match. So we dug into the loam. We hid. Some decided to flee for the water. Others hid elsewhere, or decided to fight. I think many died, but those that were found gave the rest of us time to hide. I dug deep, with an alliance of my brethren. Deep, so deep they would never find us. And then…we hatched a scheme. We would never live if we went above, not newly-born. But Wyrms are immortal. So do you know what we did next?”
“You bided your time.”
“Yes. So clever. We did exactly that. We tunneled, made lives in the deep, learned how to fight, even cast magic, and stole knowledge where we could. We fought each other, made pacts—we lived down there. I did for a thousand years.”
“A thousand…?”
Rhisveri nodded. He coiled around himself, staring around the vast room with a sudden distaste. He shuddered.
“A thousand years. Do you know how long that is? How long, eating things in the dark? Knowing there was a world above? Many of us went mad and surfaced, or simply turned into animals. A thousand years.”
His voice was shaking.
“I grubbed in the dirt and tunneled like a mole, like an insect for a thousand years. Do you know how it feels, to know I had forever to wait and to spend every hour fighting like an animal, because I feared what lay above? Yet I knew—I knew I had to grow in strength. Time passed so slowly, but it was there I learned patience. I learned fear and caution too, because there were things down there even Wyrms feared. After a thousand years, I surfaced, and then I walked under stars and continued my journey. I lived, and only a handful of my kin lived so long, because we had the will to hide so long.”
Ryoka’s mouth was open. She knew Wyrms were probably subterranean to judge from how Rhisveri’s body moved, but for a sentient being? She looked at him and realized.
It was him. Not Humans. Not people in other stories. Rhisveri was…the blessed child. The one given every gift, but with the world pitted against him. The one who had trained in secret for a thousand years, surviving to claim his birthright.
“After that, I roamed the world. I learned magic—I met others. I fought Dragons and my own kin, and I took wounds and made mistakes. I had great triumphs. By the time my brother and I fought, all my kin were dead and we were great, fed on thousands of years of life. So now you understand—when I say I am the last, I truly am.”
Ryoka’s heart hurt. Rhisveri stared at her and looked away.
“But—I came with—what about Sikeri’s offer?”
No wonder he cared for nothing, was even annoyed by the Lucifen and Agelum and Ryoka’s own relationships. Rhisveri snorted. He looked at Ryoka. By all rights he should have seen it as the last miracle, the greatest temptation ever offered, and Ryoka was, uh, Visophecin: offering him a chance to meet his own kind and sire another generation.
He laughed cruelly.
“You have no idea. You, Visophecin—it isn’t your fault. But oh, it is funny. This Wyrm—I can smell her on you. A beautiful creature from the sea. So intoxicating. She offers me the chance to mate. To repopulate. Do you know what the joke is? Guess. You must be able to guess. Think of all I have said. Understand that a Wyrm is cruel and savage, and guess. What is the catch?”
Why did he laugh like that? Why was he drunk? Ryoka Griffin’s eyes flickered. It was something primal. It wasn’t about personality or will…it went to the very heart of species. Of biology. If he wasn’t like a snake…no.
“No.”
“Yes. Say it.”
He bent low, his expression eager. Wanting her to voice it. Ryoka’s lips rasped together. Instantly, a cup of water appeared. She hesitated, wet her lips. Looked up at Rhisveri and guessed the joke.
“The…when a Wyrm mates with another Wyrm. What…what happens to the male Wyrm?”
A grin. Pleased as could be.
“It will be the most rapturous moment of my life. The last. When two Wyrms meet, the male dies and the female devours him that life will spawn.”
Oh. Ryoka Griffin sat there and Rhisveri giggled, laughed at her.
“Perhaps she thought I wouldn’t know! Or that I would be so tempted. And I am! I have never felt such desire! But I am no beast! I have mastered myself. I want, but I will not fall. It would be a glorious thing. Wyrms beyond counting. You talk of her like she is a legend as great as any Wyrm of this world. And I? I am the mightiest Wyrm, even by old days.”
He preened himself, rubbing his head against his scales. Ryoka saw Rhisveri sigh.
“The more powerful a Wyrm is, the more spawn they create.”
“What? How does that work? That’s not…”
He snorted.
“Oh, what would you know? Do you think Dragons and Wyrms have normal, mortal biologies? You probably have no clue how you make children. You are aware you can’t make any with females, aren’t you? That you contain the seeds of life within—”
“I’m aware I have ovaries, yes! I know I have eggs!”
Rhisveri recoiled. He stared at Ryoka.
“Ah. Other worlds. Well at least one of them has an adequate knowledge of biology…ahem.”
He coughed.
“Dragons and Wyrms do not have what you have. How could we, as old as we become? We match and mingle essences. A female Wyrm can create new life—but she requires a source and energy for it. Where does that come from, the other half of the equation?”
“The male Wyrm. So it’s mandatory.”
Rhisveri smiled bleakly.
“Exactly. With the power I sense from her and my own? It would be…”
His body trembled.
“Beyond counting. Our spawn would be no hundreds of thousands. Millions. Tens of millions.”
Ryoka felt a chill in her bones at the thought. Those were…and if they came from the lands of the fae and got to the gateways?
World-ending numbers. Multiple realities with Wyrms growing, entering through gateways…Rhisveri saw her expression and laughed.
“So you see, it benefits neither you nor me. And you had no idea, believing you had temptation.”
“I…isn’t there another way? Surely Dragons and Wyrms—”
He snorted.
“Experimented? Of course, I would bet they even achieved success. But if so—they did not care to bring countless false or temporary lives into this world, just to watch them die. What parent wishes to watch their children die, again, and again, over countless aeons? That is the flaw in our reproduction. Not that I die—not that alone. Simply because we grow too old.”
He waved his tail.
“Enough. Enough. I am tempted. You bring me fair distractions and I would like to meet this other Wyrm…but not die.”
He paused.
“Not die. I am no altruist. I am selfish, willing to do what I must to survive, and Wyrms are superior to Dragons. We grow without end. They only grow in magic. We populate like grains of sand on the beach and we are born strong and deadly. We even have powers that Dragons must work to match. Perhaps that is why Crelers took so much from us.”
Ryoka jerked.
“Crelers? Crelers are made based on—”
The Wyrm nodded. His expression was filled with distaste.
“I do not know when, but I remember the Creler Wars. I did not believe it at first, but now I know—sometime after my birth, one of my siblings found their way to Rhir. Somehow—their corpse, or perhaps they themselves, became the foundation of Crelers. They are too similar. The way they grow, their numbers and strength—and lastly, the old have my gift.”
“What gift?”
One eye swivelled towards Ryoka and she blinked.
Why, the gift of a mind, of course.
Telepathy. Ryoka Griffin stared at Rhisveri. The Wyrm nodded.
“Something lurks down there. I will purge it, but that is a battle for Ailendamus in the future. Mark me well; I knew Rhir when it was abandoned, and Rhir before the Blighted Kingdom and their nonsense about Demons. I know the truth and I will find what has plagued the world and slay it. That is a battle worthy of me.”
Her lips moved. Ryoka Griffin saw Klbkch in front of her, Xrn, and hesitated. Don’t say—
Don’t say it? She looked Rhisveri in the eye.
“If that day comes when I’m alive, I will do everything in my power to help you. But what’s down there is mightier than even you. Even so. It needs to die.”
His eyes widened. Rhisveri stared at Ryoka.
“You know…?”
He shook himself. Looked at Ryoka and drew back.
