Oddly, that vaguely seemed to please Rhisveri, who snorted in derision when she explained that. He had remained, although he stood near the back, refusing snacks and refusing to participate in the asking. He made one comment.
“It is simply like Dragons to hog attention, even in legends. Only they would be foolish enough to get up to half their antics, anyways.”
“Like…instead of kidnapping [Princesses], kidnapping Couriers is better?”
That snarky comment came from Paxere, who was now Ryoka’s favorite. The Lucifen wore a pointed smile—until Rhisveri turned to stare at her. She met his gaze coolly, before bowing her head.
“No offense meant, Rhisveri.”
He stared at her. And continued to stare as Paxere looked away. The Lucifen played it cool, but after eight more minutes of Ryoka clarifying anecdotal points with Fithea on the existence of satyrs, who were apparently sort of bastards in either world, Rhisveri had not looked away from trying to bore a hole in the side of Paxere’s head.
“I believe we should break. Let us convene amongst the mortals.”
Visophecin announced, glancing at Rhisveri’s dangerous stare. The others grumbled, but the Agelum were quick to have the Lucifen wheel them outside.
“That is not the only thing the Wind Runner brings. You said you knew how to play the other games. Baseball, football—and you know ice cream. Perhaps the [Chef] is done translating the other things you mentioned?”
Rhisveri looked up as Uzine and Gadrea towed Ryoka outside. He looked at Visophecin, and Azemith, some of the other Lucifen, and a few Agelum including Razia all stopped. Fithea hadn’t noticed, swept up in the ‘follow-Ryoka’ crowd, but Menorkel, hanging back to stuff more snacks into his pockets, heard voices.
“She refused to answer how she came here. Which implies that the Farthest Travellers did not bring her here to begin with, Rhisveri.”
The Duke nodded.
“Those two sports. ‘Bicycles’. You remarked it was odd, or—was it Uzine?”
“Uzine did. He said a game with such nuanced rules was odd.”
“…She isn’t alone. That’s what she’s hiding. I will find out what else.”
Menorkel’s heartbeat spiked. He stared, then shuffled off, surprisingly quietly, to tell Gilaw and Nemed.
She wasn’t alone?
 
——
 
Ryoka had known she was going to have to reveal a lot. Once she’d made her pact with Visophecin, she’d sat down and given it a lot of thought. Then she’d hopped into ‘hey, ever done a massage?’ with the Thirsting Veil [Knights], but at least she’d done the real thinking first!
She was getting them on her side. Which, really, seemed like the only move you played with immortals. You never ‘won’ games of tag, fist-fights, or anything else with them.
You never outran the Wild Hunt. You couldn’t out-fight even the minions of an evil Necromancer.
…But you could get the King of Camelot to stall them, and Nama. You could pay off a Phoenix with that handbag Ryoka really wished she had, or knew what it was, to hold them off.
And you could get an angry Dragon to play pingpong with Venitra. So in the battle to sway Rhisveri, Ryoka felt like getting an Agelum and Lucifen on each shoulder might be her best move yet.
Nor was it hard. The Agelum liked her. They liked her story about her idiotic run to the High Passes. The time when she challenged the Assassin’s Guild to save Sammial and Hethon.
“I stood up and applauded, you know. I will have an autograph and frame it—or you can sign a wall, but we have to recoat them every generation. A tragedy—but I sometimes make them replace the walls so I can save them to look at. An autograph lasts longer. That was the stuff of real Couriers, though. Fighting [Assassins]—a Courier should be nothing less!”
Uzine was beaming as Ryoka, incredibly embarrassed, raised her hands.
“It was the stupidest thing I’d ever done. I nearly shattered every bone in my body with the glider.”
“Then you would have done it living larger than most.”
Yes, the Agelum were ride-or-die, 120-percenters. And it seemed the incident with the [Knights] was actually the thing that fully won them over.
The Lucifen, on the other hand, were harder. Visophecin was on Ryoka’s side because it made sense to be. The others?
Ryoka thought she had her way in with them. Which was playing to their vanity.
“So…you must find the Lucifen less than impressive, given your stories of the ruler of all Hell.”
Paxere commented too-casually to Ryoka as the games outside became an impromptu baseball game. Servants and children lined up as someone fetched a ball. Uzine led them, setting himself up as a catcher no less.
“I don’t think you’re anything less than incredible, Lady Paxere.”
Ryoka answered truthfully. The Lucifen searched her up and down, and raised her brows.
“No indeed? But we have much to live up to.”
“Well, the Devils are only the most important moral figures—or nightmare in the Human imagination. Expecting legions of servants and castles and whatnot is too much to ask.”
The Lucifen narrowed her eyes. She looked vexed, and so did a few others in earshot. That was the ticket. They were competitive with their imagined selves. And…they wanted to know more. They had not liked hearing about the land of the fae, because they were self-important and smart enough to realize they’d just been guppies in the pond seeing the sea.
Two sides. Yet Ryoka was also purely fascinated with their abilities. And baseball, ironically, was a good showcase of that.
In that…
The Lucifen were average baseball players. No, really. They were, uh…okay.
Ryoka could take, put them against your average Division 3 college baseball team, and they’d win half their games. However, think about what that meant.
Lucifen, all of whom had never swung a bat in their lives, were fit, coordinated, and fast enough to challenge a level of player who was arguably in a prime most people would never experience, and who played baseball well enough to do it at the college level. But that was a far cry from Division 2 or 1 or the major or minor leagues.
However, if Ryoka had been there when baseball first came to this world, she would have seen a true all-star team. On a grassy patch outside of Celum where adventurers, [Guardsmen], Antinium, Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans swung a bat.
A lot had been worse than the Lucifen. But the Gnolls had been very good. Relc? Typhenous’ magical fastball? What they lacked in skill they could have put on par with the best of Earth…mainly because most batters would probably blink at a hundred-mile fastball on fire or invisible.
Ryoka hadn’t been there. She had been for football, or soccer, or football. But this moment, as children swung bats and ran around, laughing as Agelum cheered them on?
It was meant for there. She watched—and then saw something interesting.
Which was Uzine. The Agelum pushed their reluctant Lucifen counterparts to play baseball, and they did, for exactly one run, often swinging for the fences so they didn’t have to wait at-base. They were quick, adept, and prone to stealing bases.
What they weren’t was superhuman. Fierre was faster and stronger, at least, out of the sunlight. And that was super interesting.
Visophecin didn’t play, so Ryoka didn’t see the true adults trying hard, but she wondered. What was most fascinating, though?
Uzine. He sat in his chair, playing catcher. Which seemed like a bad idea because the pitchers and batters weren’t professional, so he had to do a lot of catching. But here was the thing.
He couldn’t pick up the ball easily if it bounced around the batting cage, which was really just some actual fishing net strung up, so he’d roll over, pick up the ball, and toss it—which was fair because the laughing children would run and scream, and it was just a game.
However, that was only when the ball went terribly wide. When someone threw the ball?
Paxere threw the ball hard against a Lucifen batter—then Nemed. She struck both out. Three strikes, three swings each time, much to their loud complaints. She didn’t have perfect control; sometimes they went up or down or sideways around the strike zone, and the batters swung on everything, forgetting they could walk a base.
Uzine caught everything. They were decently fast balls, too! Ryoka thought she would have fumbled at least one, but he caught each one perfectly. Then, as Paxere was strutting about, he called out.
“Paxere? Throw a ball for me! Nemed, hand me that bat, would you? I’m too invigorated to sit still.”
Instantly, all the older Lucifen, the [Housemistress], and the servants began objecting. But Gadrea and the other Agelum encouraged Uzine. He reached for the bat the reluctant Nemed handed him and stood up, rather fluidly.
“Nonsense. Three swings.”
“Uzine, this is unnecessary.”
Visophecin appeared, as he was wont to do, but the Agelum waved him off with a frown.
“I will happily lie in bed all day, but I feel strong enough. I will compromise—Nemed can run the bases if I hit the ball, agreed?”
Visophecin exhaled, but nodded. He looked at Paxere and she set herself. Ryoka saw him murmur and her nod, though he wasn’t audible at all…
“I think he ordered her to strike Uzine out. So he doesn’t connect and hurt himself.”
Gadrea remarked. They were all sitting together on the grass; Gadrea had left her chair to sit on a blanket. The Agelum smiled brightly as Ryoka looked at her.
“Which is worse, swinging the bat three times or hitting the ball?”
“Oh, either is just tiring. It’s not doing, it’s the effort. But Uzine won’t rest until he’s had a good swing, so Visophecin is right.”
Indeed, Paxere looked resigned as she tossed the ball up—and Ryoka saw it drop faster than gravity should allow. The Lucifen’s body began to accelerate.
“Speed spells?”
Ryoka guessed. She saw someone nod. Fithea. The Dryad was watching, resting in the grass, her illusion being a short Dwarf woman while Gilaw lay with her head in Fithea’s lap; she had refused to play.
So had Menorkel. Both watched as Uzine swung the bat twice, then decided he was ready. Paxere stepped back, and this time she pulled her arm back, going for the pitcher’s throw despite never having practiced. When she let go, the ball flashed across the ground.
A magical pitch. Ryoka didn’t even have time to process it because Uzine swung so fast she only heard the clang—a shout of alarm from Paxere who ducked, too late—
And the sound of a crack as the baseball hit a tree, and promptly exploded. As did part of the tree. Everyone stared at the broken tree as Uzine scratched at his head. Nemed hesitated…was he supposed to run around or what?
The servants, four Thirsting Veil [Knights], and Ryoka all stared at Uzine. The Agelum sat back down in his chair, and with a broad smile, wheeled himself back over to the catcher’s spot.
“Ah, if only I could do that all day. I may have to rest.”
He looked tired but exuberant. Ryoka stared at him, and then at Visophecin’s resigned expression as he regarded all the mortals.
Well…no wonder they’d survived this long. Lucifen with magic and cunning. Agelum?
Dream team baseball players.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin watched the others play baseball. She even joined in, pitching and doing a run around the bases with a lucky hit. Uzine’s phenomenal hit took the top charts until Menorkel was asked to step up. Everyone backed up far for him, but the Titan just sighed.
“Are you sure?”
“Just one hit!”
Nemed pleaded. Menorkel reluctantly swung the bat. The crisp ringing of the metal bat echoed for a long time.
They never found the ball. Gilaw claimed it was ‘there’, but she just pointed at the sky. Menorkel walked around the bases and then shyly retreated in front of the stares.
However, that seemed more in line with him being a ‘half-giant’, and so attracted less attention than Uzine had. Even the Thirsting Veil [Knights] were coaxed into playing, and they were top-tier players. Especially because when Ryoka played second base and saw an armored boot sliding at her at top-speed, she decided it wasn’t worth losing her ankles over and ran for it.
The Agelum had bought the baseball set, incidentally. They had footballs, horseshoes, enchanted playing cards, and every other toy in existence. And…they demanded Ryoka tell them everything that was fun or interesting.
Which she did not. She had to hold onto some capital, but she told them about the most sinful, dangerous thing she could that might well ruin Ailendamus. A recipe which they would one day rue.
“…What is this called again?”
Viscount Visophecin had to have lunch with the others, and he politely stuck his fork into a bite and stared at it. Part of it dripped down, and Ryoka stared at the Lucifen, devils, holding bowls of…
“Um. Mac and cheese. Macaroni and cheese. That’s literally all there is in it, although I think there’s sausage and bread crumbs?”
He looked at Ryoka. Slowly, Visophecin took a bite, smiled, and ate half his bowl.
“A delightful meal. I am sure it will be much enjoyed by all.”
Ryoka thought he could taste the food—he just didn’t need to. The Agelum ate with good humor, seeming to enjoy the expressions on the other’s faces as much as the actual taste. Ryoka exhaled.
There were other foods she could mention, but the [Chef] had asked for something simple yet enjoyable. That was the entire Agelum thing. And she found she was enjoying herself.
“You know, this has been one of the most delightful visits. Menorkel is too shy to speak, and the Waterborn seldom leave. Visophecin, prevail on Ryoka Griffin to stay for us.”
Gadrea announced, and the Agelum agreed. Ryoka smiled; it was tempting despite knowing how much she had to do. Then the Agelum winked at her.
“We can prepare a secluded room for you. With one of the [King]-sized beds? For you and your guards.”
On second thought, I want to leave now. It was like having an Agelum cheering squad for…Ryoka stood up hastily.
“I’m going to get more to eat.”
The Lucifen grinned with wicked humor; this was something they could appreciate from their cousins. As Ryoka was walking with red ears to the buffet table, she saw something.
Amid the laughter and all of it, the immortals looked like they were smiling. Oh, not all on the same levels, not all for the same reasons. Fithea was reserved, and simply chatted with the oldest Lucifen and Agelum, who were deferential to her. Menorkel was shy, but he listened to some children singing, and his face was wistful.
Gilaw? Gilaw ran about with a bunch of younger children, seldom-talking, but sometimes making her odd bird-calls. The Merfolk kept together, but they clearly had friends among the Lucifen like Paxere.
