What a stupid conversation. What a waste of seconds of his life. He was an immortal being, who might live millenia or beyond that into aeons, and he begrudged the three minutes she had stolen from him.
“What idiocy!”
The Wyrm boomed as Rhisveri stopped in the grand, seemingly empty room where his true body lay. Rhisveri was so annoyed he slapped his tail, slithered about.
“Who cares which ones do it? Who cares how many or which places? It doesn’t matter. Do you think Selphids care? Does Sophridel care?”
There were species and people and ways of life out there that Terandrian courts with their high-minded, idiotically close-minded ideals could never dream of. Male. Female. What did Drakes call it? Turnscales?
Rhisveri was furious. Then…he lay there, staring at the hallway he had come through, and was tired.
They had no idea. No notion how ridiculous their mating ways seemed to him. To a Wyrm. If only they knew…
“[Message] to Sophridel. Those four [Knights] guarding Ryoka Griffin are not to be harmed or relieved of their posts. I don’t care if the [Queen] herself tries. Inform me.”
He lay there, angry, furious that he was expending emotion on something so stupid. So…the Wyrm paused, and the Duke’s Human body swivelled around.
A [Servant] was coming.
“Where is the Wind Runner? Move her audience up. Now.”
Duke Rhisveri snapped. The [Servant] froze—it was only the Human Rhisveri she saw, but that was bad enough.
“Duke—I am terribly sorry, but she is not in the palace—”
“She’s escaped? She seduced all four?”
Instantly, Rhisveri went back to raging fury. The [Servant] stared at him, uncomprehending.
“Escaped? No, Duke. I was told—forgive me, it was Viscount Visophecin! I understand he, Lady Fithea, and some others went to his estate andhehadyourapprovalIamterriblysorryIdidnotknow!”
She backed away. Rhisveri stared in dead silence at her. Then the Wyrm-him calmly and carefully disgorged the bile rising in his throat and melted a hundred feet of floor tiles.
 
——
 
Ailendamus was large. House Shoel was far away from the capital’s heart, having been established later into Ailendamus’ admittedly short reign, and granted new lands, which they had managed for what were now multiple generations.
These factors meant that a ‘jaunt’ across the vast nation with a landmass equivalent to the Great Plains of Izril was generally impossible unless you were a Courier, or used the relays of horses and carriages that allowed people to travel at great need. Or you had a pet Griffin or magic on par with Wistram.
Since Viscount Visophecin had all these things, they got there. It was surreal, to ride under a mass [Haste] spell.
Even the horses were freaking out a bit, checking their own legs to make sure they were still attached given how fast they were going. The people?
The Order of the Thirsting Veil’s [Elite Knights] bodyguard was in full freak, with a possible addendum on panic. They were under no illusions on what came next, but they were still under oath, so they rode in a kind of subdued conversation. When they returned…
Ryoka Griffin was ahead of them, riding on a horse next to Viscount Visophecin. The old Ryoka charm struck again—which was simultaneously attracting immortals from the Devil himself to Fithea, Gilaw, Menorkel, and five of the Merfolk awkwardly riding horses—and making other people’s lives worse.
They were going to lose their jobs—possibly worse. Ryoka was petitioning Visophecin for help—which was a risky move given who he was. However, the Viscount just looked blandly amused.
“This would normally be something I would call a favor. However, in lieu of everything else—I do not think Rhisveri would object.”
“You’re sure? The Queen—”
Had cussed them out with language Ryoka hadn’t heard from even Wailant, while shielding her daughter’s curious eyes. Sammial had just given Ryoka a look of mild betrayal. Now, Ryoka felt Visophecin’s eyes on her.
“Rhisveri is a practical being. He dislikes waste, and the Order of the Thirsting Veil are highly valuable warriors. The ones stationed in the capital most of all. If anything, I am curious how you managed that…event. That would normally fall under my purview.”
He smiled, darkly amused. Ryoka was beet red.
“It wasn’t anything graphic!”
“Indeed?”
Nemed tried to ride forwards. The Merfolk young man was exceptionally interested in this conversation, although he sometimes forgot you moved your feet independently of one another and not like a giant flipper, and so fell flat on his face. Visophecin’s head turned and the young man decided to ride in the back.
The only person not on horseback was Menorkel. Even shapechanged, he was too tall, being a half-Giant in appearance. So he was flying ahead on a sulking Griffin, black, silver, and blonde-feathered, the largest Griffin that Ryoka had ever seen.
Gilaw. Visophecin was not impressed, so Ryoka went back to trying to explain in circuitous terms what had happened.
What had happened? Well—exactly what Ryoka had once offered. Which was the fight club. The ‘line up to punch Ryoka for things she’s done or said to you’ free-for-all. She had thought there was a market there and sure enough, when they realized she was serious, Dame Chorisa, Lacres, Indella, and Aine, the four on Ryoka babysitting duty, had agreed to settle things.
Mainly by engaging in a one-on-one fist-fight, no armor, no Skills, not to the death or anyone getting maimed. Still fairly violent, since healing potions would cover most wounds.
Ryoka had gone through some serious deja-vu in regards to getting floored. She hadn’t been under any illusions. Skills or not, they were [Elite Knights] and it had gone about as well as when she challenged Calruz and Yvlon to fist-fights.
Good times. Stupid times. What had possessed her to do it again?
Maybe the sense that they really wanted to hit her. This time? Ryoka didn’t strut about claiming how good she was. She did put them in arm-bars, and gave one a damn good kick—
Until she learned that the art of pugilism was taught by the Order of the Thirsting Veil fairly well. They didn’t grapple much, only knowing how to put someone down and hold them if they were a criminal, but they were tough.
Anyways, four asskickings for Ryoka that didn’t go entirely one way and then they just got to talking as they patched each other up. It was as they’d sat about, asking Ryoka about her ‘odd’ fighting techniques, that her missing fingers came up. And Ryoka asked how Chorisa had a scar down her midriff since they’d taken armor off to fight.
They were warriors. Young or not, they’d fought in wars. Chorisa had even survived running onto a pike in a charge. So they told her their stories and Ryoka told them some of hers. You had to respect that—they only half-believed her tales of the High Passes and escaping the Goblin Lord’s army until she told them the other ones. For her part? Ryoka respected the heck out of someone who took a pike to the chest, then kept fighting with the haft sticking out of her armor.
Mutual admiration. As for how things evolved? Well—Ryoka had a suspicion. She had intimated it, half jokingly, but when she thought about it, was it that strange?
You had the Order of the Thirsting Veil, who were raised from girls throughout puberty while being told that even touching a boy outside of sparring might ruin your ‘knightly virtues’. To both be maidens and warriors and refrain from extraneous affairs that might ruin your dedication to serving the proud nation of Ailendamus.
And if they were like her, they might say, ‘message understood, chief. I get what you’re putting down. The lads will not be a problem. We’ll handle it internally.’
The point was…well, the [Queen], Rhisveri, Sammial, Oesca, and all the others hadn’t seen too much. It hadn’t gotten there. It was just highly suggestive of what was happening next.
Ryoka hung her head. She hadn’t said all of that, but she was rewarded with the most amused look she had ever seen—Visophecin turned his head, but she could have sworn he was holding back a laugh.
“Quite…impressive. Quite entertaining—but improper.”
He caught himself, and Ryoka sighed. This was not the moral compass she needed right now. The Lucifen smiled wickedly.
“That you were discovered is the error. Terandrian customs will complicate matters, but I will prevail upon Rhisveri myself. Perhaps the four may be reassigned. House Shoel requires warriors to manage monsters and keep order.”
“Thank you, Viscount. I—that’s just how I do things. I make a mess.”
The Viscount glanced at Ryoka’s expression thoughtfully. Then he looked ahead.
“Perhaps. But aside from the impropriety of [Knights] guarding you…and they were quite certain you would not escape, having a hold on you in a physical sense.”
His slight smile grew wider as Ryoka turned into a plum. Visophecin went on, his expression smoothing to that curious blankness.
“Terandrian ideals are a matter to challenge and change. Later.”
“You…don’t support their beliefs?”
Ryoka glanced up sharply. The Devil raised his brows.
“It is not ideal for a nation without flaw to bother about such issues. I care not. Among my kin? They care not. But our views are influenced by those such as Sophridel, who is of…varied pasts. Some among our kind have strict views, such as Lady Paterghost. In truth, House Shoel accedes to our fairer kin whose views run entirely contrary to Terandrian values.”
“The…Agelum.”
Ryoka’s skin went into goosebumps at the name and implications. Visophecin noticed it, and he nodded, eyes on her face. The instant she had heard about the others, she had wanted to meet them and had arranged this visit astonishingly fast.
“Yes. I trust you will understand they are different from I. They can be…”
He searched for words.
“…Pushy.”
 
——
 
So this was how it ended. Not with a sword, in a duel, or a lost battle or life, or even an insult to a foreign power, but with a kiss.
Dame Chorisa of the Order of the Thirsting Veil reflected on her failures. Which were that she should have locked all the doors, not just the one to their rooms. Then they should have moved faster once the Duke left, rather than laugh about it.
“I will take full responsibility to the [Knight Commander]. I hope you will keep your postings, although I expect we shall all be moved to the front or borders at worst. I am sorry. It was my responsibility.”
“Dame Chorisa, it was all our…”
Dame Lacres hesitated. Failings? She trailed off.
“I don’t know how I would say it to my mother or family.”
They looked at each other; the party had stopped at House Shoel, that reclusive, famous noble house in Ailendamus. Any other time they would have been agog, to learn of the secrets within. Honored by the company of so many odd and notable figures from Ailendamus, all for the Wind Runner.
Right now? They looked at each other and saw the thing they had dedicated their lives to, all their emotion and sacrifice, vanishing.
For what? It was not fair, and they very deliberately said it without saying it.
“…We are on duty. Assume postings.”
Dame Chorisa said after a moment. The [Knights] nodded. They were, of course, invisible and muffled, since they were bodyguards—ostensibly to make sure Ryoka Griffin didn’t run off, but also to guard Ailendamus’ people.
The manor of House Shoel was nothing like Chorisa’s image of the Viscount, who dressed in dark style. There were colorful reliefs that brightened the mood rather than severe gothic architecture, a veritable sea of flowers and delightful plants in the open garden with the path leading up to the manor, and half the trees about the estate were fruit-bearing, some non-native to Terandria.
The children and servants looked, well, plush. Hale and happy. Chorisa thought it reflected well on the Viscount, but she understood why he might not advertise his family’s home. That stately Viscount did not fit into…
“…Is that a statue of a Sariant Lamb?”
Dame Chorisa’s lips moved silently as she stared up at a noble-looking lamb in what seemed like a cemetery. There were piles of flowers over the grave of…a ‘Ser Tubeliges’. A noble Sariant Lamb who had saved the life of…
Dame Chorisa wondered if this was all a fever dream. She put a hand on her head. Yes, that made sense. The Wind Runner, all the odd things that had happened—yes, that was it. She’d fallen sick and she was raving in her bed and she’d wake up soon.
She was so engrossed by the Sariant Lamb statue, not to mention the carved headstones, one of what looked like a goldfish, emblazoned with the names of beloved pets, that she completely missed Ryoka Griffin meeting House Shoel’s folk.
Half were like Visophecin, stately, reserved people who keenly watched Ryoka. If Chorisa had been able to see past their illusions, she would have noticed grey in their skin tones, horns, and delighted smiles—especially the more uncomfortable she got.
The other half? She jumped as someone spoke.
“Ah, you must be the [Knight] that Visophecin mentioned. Such a shame. Such silly business. I hope you like our cemetery. We have one for people, but the children should have their own place to remember their friends.”
Dame Chorisa whirled about. Who had snuck up on…? She saw an old man with…odd eyes wheeling forwards in a chair. There was a strange air about him, and he was very tall and looked strong—but frail, as if he had wasted away.
He was also clearly bound to the wheelchair, and had the too-healthy palor of someone who was not. Dame Chorisa was startled—firstly, because she wasn’t sure who this was, as he did not resemble Viscount Visophecin at all. Second, because his eyes had two pupils in each, one of which stared sideways at any given time. But they flicked to her, changing which pupil focused on her in the most unsettling way. Yet his smile was welcoming.
And he saw her. He had no apparent rings or amulets, but he looked straight at the invisible Chorisa. She slowly toggled off the invisibility spell and bowed.
“I beg your pardon, milord. I am Dame Chorisa of the Order of the Thirsting Veil, on attached guard duty to Courier Griffin.”
“Ah, yes. Thirsting Veil. I am Uzine. Lord Uzine of House Shoel, though you will not stand on ceremony with me. Viscount Visophecin is introducing Miss Ryoka to the others, but I had the energy to move about today. I am a bit tired…will you help me back inside?”
“Of course, my l…Lord Uzine?”
“Uzine. You sound like many of the new ones who come here. We do not stand on ceremony, Chorisa, and I know all the staff by name.”
