Yet who was missing? Well, Sophridel, Paterghost, and, Ryoka suspected, more immortals she had never met. But…she looked at Visophecin, who sat politely with Uzine, Gadrea, and the others, and he did not seem unhappy. At worst, he tolerated the moment and when she saw him with the Agelum…
You big, fat liar. ‘I can’t understand empathy’ my missing fingers. He might not have understood it in other people, but for his kind, the immortals?
All of them. All of them in some way were here and enjoying themselves. Even the [Knights], who looked almost overwhelmed by the Agelum’s response and support. Even Ryoka.
Except for him.
Duke Rhisveri Zessoprical stood there, watching the festivities, refusing food, in the shade of a tree. He glared at everything and everyone, and when a Sariant Lamb—the flock of whom went around begging to be petted, fed macaroni and cheese, or bathed in their regular soap baths—came over, he leaned down, and said something that sent it running into the manor.
Ryoka saw Rhisveri’s expression. At last, it came to her. Like a revelation from heaven—not anyone else, just heaven—itself. Like a beam of insight from a celestial source.
She knew what to do. She had half-succeeded on the rest. Standing up to him, scaring him with Oberon, tempting him with the obols, earning his respect by flying?
All half-measures. All the wrong thing for Rhisveri the Wyrm. Yet now—Ryoka had been playing against a top-tier opponent. A Level 80 [Wyrm Of No Good Humor] if he had a class. Well, this was her field, and now he was a Level 10 [Party Pooper]. And she?
“Rhisveri. Do you not enjoy this kind of thing?”
“I prefer solitude. Especially over…what are you eating?”
Ryoka Griffin approached with a bowl of macaroni and cheese. She showed it to him and his expression said it all.
“Mortals with stomachs that need to be filled. Is that…they aren’t maggots covered in sauce? I swear that one moved.”
Ryoka stared down at her bowl and wasn’t hungry any more.
“No. Just food. You don’t see anything you want to take part in?”
“Should I lower myself to playing your games? Do you think I’d enjoy that, Ryoka Griffin?”
He dared her to say yes. But Ryoka shook her head.
“Honestly, no. It’s probably why Menorkel doesn’t feel like playing. He’s too good.”
Rhisveri hesitated. He nodded once at the young man, whose true form was hidden behind a half-Giant with a mop of brown hair.
“Precisely. He cannot even unveil his form, even smaller, here. They make concessions for you. Some…enjoy it.”
He looked at the Agelum. Ryoka nodded.
“This can’t challenge you, even if you were in your real form. I understand. Are there any games that…your people play?”
He frowned at her. Rhisveri’s eyes flickered.
“Games? Do you think we…play games for fun of this mundane variety?”
“Surely there are some. I did wonder. There are more than just three…Wyrms in the lands of the Fae. I wondered what they did all day. It must be difficult, being peerless.”
Ryoka watched Rhisveri carefully. His face slowly changed. The Wyrm looked at Ryoka, around House Shoel’s manor, and muttered.
“Pit nations against me. That is…true. Pit nations against my intelligence and drive, because no mortals rise to it. Not in this era. The Deaths of Rhir? Perhaps. But no others. The true rulers of this land are these and perhaps…”
He looked at Visophecin, then Fithea, then…Menorkel.
“I am first of all. First without match. You are right there, Human.”
Then his eyes were tired. For a moment, before he caught himself, glared at Ryoka, and conjured a bowl of the food to sample and then frown at. He did his best, but Ryoka Griffin stood there.
You poor soul. It was no longer his game or battle. He was a mighty Wyrm, but he was a Level 15 [Macaroni Critic] up against a Level 200 [Depression Spreader].
Ryoka Griffin, call if you want to feel sad.
Amidst the Agelum and Lucifen, who treated each other with exasperated, annoyed, sometimes disagreeable affection, Rhisveri looked at Ryoka and hesitated.
“…You shall return to the palace and we shall speak tonight. I do not care how; have Visophecin send you if he awaits you here. Prepare yourself.”
He glared at Ryoka. She nodded. Rhisveri turned, and she felt the magic around him build, a tingle in the wind. He hesitated once, and glanced over his shoulder.
“How many were there?”
“How many Wyrms?”
“Yes.”
She thought.
“I don’t know. I saw…at least eighteen.”
“Eighteen. All of the same size?”
“Some larger, some smaller.”
“And they existed together, communally?”
His tone was beyond disbelieving. Ryoka met his eyes.
“I think they had no choice. They were all refugees, Duke Rhisveri. I think—they had nowhere else to go. They were not all from the same place. They were all female—at least, the four I saw were, and I couldn’t tell the others’, uh, genders.”
He looked at her. And suddenly his eyes were bleak. Rhisveri took a breath.
“That—”
He stood there. Hesitated as children ran over to beg Ryoka to let them fly, saw Rhisveri, and stopped. Rhisveri ignored them. He looked at Ryoka, and his eyes were suddenly far away.
“That makes sense.”
Then he vanished. Ryoka Griffin stood there, uncertain of what that meant. Yet she did not have long to wait. As evening fell and the sun set over the glorious palace of Ailendamus, a Wyrm and Runner met for a long awaited conversation.
 
——
 
When you go to speak with Wyrms and Dragons and immortals’ get, how did you prepare? From experience?
No. It was a mistake to rely on that alone, just as it was a mistake to forget your lessons. Ryoka Griffin did her best. She reluctantly forgot about Dame Chorisa and the others. Visophecin offered her a door to the palace.
She stood in a world of blackness, walked through a place with no air or sound or…the Devil watched her, but Ryoka Griffin held her breath and crossed the void in an instant. He raised his brows, but she never looked back except to thank him.
All of it could come later. She…had to focus.
The times Ryoka had met someone of Rhisveri’s scale, she had always been dying. She had run the High Passes, seen her friend sacrifice herself to slow a horror of undeath…run the lands of the fae.
These things had terrible cost. So she expected it, not least because this was the angriest immortal yet. Ryoka Griffin prepared in several ways. She had the Faeblade, the Windsword as Oesca and Sammial kept calling it, hanging at her side.
She was under no illusions on how well it would do against a Wyrm. Ryoka had pulled out the instructions Jericha had translated and stared at them, but they were still somewhat complex.
Oh, the things I don’t do and instead…no. No, it was better to court the Agelum and Lucifen. Better, somehow, perhaps, to be running around with a Devil chasing you. The ‘being caught in bed’ part she wasn’t sure about, but the truth was this was no battle.
If it was a battle—she was dead. She had seen how fast Rhisveri moved, and he weighed probably as much as an entire skyscraper. He didn’t have to dodge and weave with her; he could roll over and she’d be a goner, wind and alien tech or not.
Her preparations came in other forms. Strange, and, yes, perhaps incredibly stupid. Ryoka had spent an entire hour writing down riddles in the form of slam poetry.
Just in case. She had stretched, and gone to pee five times. She had thought of every lever she could wield.
But the truth was, when she walked through the open doors into that vast chamber beyond and saw the Wyrm sitting there, head raised high to the ceiling, she had no idea what to expect.
He rose upwards, scales shining like green jade running across every variation of color, brightest at his tail and dark with age near his head. His underbelly was pale moonlight from Earth’s moon. His eyes were also green, but had tiny flecks of color within each iris, like distant, swimming fish, glowing.
Vast eyes. The Duke, the Human man, was not here. Only the Wyrm.
And Ryoka Griffin.
She looked at him, legs shaking a bit. How would it go? The Wyrm looked down at her, eyes narrowed. Then his mouth opened. He could have swallowed a truck whole. His fangs dripped with that acidic venom, and his tongue flicked out as his head lowered, so many times Ryoka’s size, one eye fixing her with a long stare.
“Sit down, Ryoka Griffin.”
She blinked. The Wyrm’s eye swivelled and she saw something was placed in front of him. She had missed the simple chair with a backrest and padded cushion. It looked like someone had simply taken it from one of the hallways.
Slowly, Ryoka walked over. She eyed the chair, and then sat down in it. Rhisveri seemed surprised. He slithered out of his coiled position.
He was so long. Ryoka saw his head move around the room, followed by his body, and he blocked the entrance of the room, all four corners, and wound inwards.
Not ominous at all. His head returned to the same place, staring down at her. The Wyrm spoke again.
“No witticisms? No insolence this time? Would you like to give me a nickname?”
Ryoka bit her tongue.
“Not this time, Rhisveri Zessoprical. Thank you for agreeing to an audience. How should I address you?”
The question patently surprised him. He recoiled back a few dozen feet, then narrowed his eyes.
“Rhisveri will do. Etiquette from you would be a painful, tedious thing.”
She nodded. Rhisveri slithered around again, drawing inwards like a slow spiral. There was something…off about him. He was too calm. No…he spoke, slowly.
“I am minded to hear you, as not only His Majesty, Itorin II of Ailendamus, but my personal advisors, from Fithea to Visophecin, think it wise. You are a thief. You have insulted me to my face. Yet…”
He sighed as Ryoka’s heart beat wildly.
“…I have been convinced you should be thought of as an ‘emissary’ as opposed to a mere common criminal. Therefore, I will accord you some politeness. We will come to your theft. We will come to the…item you attempted to steal, and we will have a reckoning.”
Closer still. Now he was so close she could smell his breath. It was—odd. There was definitely a breath quality to it, but not stinking meat. If anything, it was like juniper and elderberries overlaying the fumes of chemicals, and the sheer exhalation of any person. Rhisveri’s snout was now only a dozen feet from Ryoka, and two vast eyes stared down at her.
“But first you will answer a question for me.”
“Which is?”
Ryoka Griffin waited. Rhisveri’s eyes flickered. He blinked sideways, a thin membrane closing over his eyes like a snake, vertically, not horizontally like other people. He hesitated, and Ryoka saw a strange expression come over his face.
It all made sense with a single question.
“The Wyrms. The ones you referred to in the land of the Farthest Travellers. This…Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui.”
He breathed the name and Ryoka heard how he said it. So curiously. So longingly. Rhisveri caught himself and looked at her.
“Tell me about them.”
Oh. She’d known she had done something at the Agelum’s gathering, or they had—but Ryoka still blinked. She hesitated.
“I only met them briefly, Rhisveri. But—from what I remember—Sikeri wore a Human’s guise for most of the party where I met her. The same with the others. When I saw her in truth, she looked like a Wyrm two hundred feet tall. But I think even that was a copy. Her scales were…”
Her mouth worked, and Ryoka was glad she had prepared this.
“…byzantium and onyx. She had a crest and perhaps even fins, running down her body. One on her head, and then along her sides. They were a darker red, like crimson or blood. Her sisters looked slightly different. One of her sisters had that; the others were different. One had six legs, the other had something like fur on her underbelly. The first sister had a yellow—bright yellow scale pattern, like a mushroom, running down to earthy—loamy brown—”
Rhisveri listened like a hungry man staring at a plate of food as Ryoka tried to use adjectives. Sinuous, serpentine—she nearly said ‘Draconic’, but caught herself. How did you describe a Wyrm in a term another Wyrm might like?
Coloration made him interested, but he did a little wiggle when she mentioned the fins, so Ryoka began describing nuance, like the tinted claws on one of the sisters’ legs, like they were made of colored glass, or, now she remembered it, the tips of Sikeri’s teeth being a brighter orange.
She was just getting into trying to encapsulate their vocal range and was trying to figure out how to describe how they moved when Rhisveri broke in.
“Yes, yes. Enough about their appearances.”
Ryoka bit her tongue. Had she bungled it? But Rhisveri didn’t look annoyed as he lay on his claws. He only had two, but they supported his upper torso. He rested his head lower, frowning at Ryoka.
“Beautiful. I am sure your words do them little justice, but I am also sure they were all striking. Enough. I am not a fool. You do not need to describe their sheer…physicality.”
He shuddered again. Ryoka eyed him, and Rhisveri shook his head a few times, left to right. He glared at her as if it were her fault and exhaled again. Once again, that smell hit her. It was faintly familiar. She frowned, but then Rhisveri looked at her.
“That is not what I wished to know. I merely asked because—those Wyrms. The ones you saw, however briefly. Did they seem…happy?”
The Wind Runner stared at Rhisveri. Oh. Oh.
She had done her job very well. He was quite different from the Dragon she had met. Angrier, and, she thought, younger. More active, and far more involved—at least until recently. But that expression.
They all had it. From Fierre to Ivolethe to Rhisveri. That weary melancholy.
The weight of immortality. Ryoka swallowed.
“I…don’t know. They were living together, squabbling, the three I met. Sikeri was after something so she was focused? She ate quite a lot.”
“Hm. You say you met three. Sisters? Tell me again.”
So Ryoka did. She related in brief part of her journey to the lands of the fae as it pertained to the three sisters. Rhisveri snorted.
“So they appeared to be…women? Living in the same home until you saw them differently? Strange rules for a strange place. What was the handbag?”
“I don’t know. They did claim they were kin to Sikeri, but even greater than she.”
“Fascinating. Yet they feared the…the man whose signature you so carelessly show around.”
Rhisveri eyed Ryoka’s bag of holding. She touched it and he spoke.
“Do not show it to me. It—bothers me.”
She nodded. Rhisveri went on.
“So they approached you and made you an offer. That hardly speaks to their happiness.”
“No. I’m sorry.”
He blinked once, in that snake-way, and then flicked his tongue up. Was that a shrug?
