The Duke slapped a book down on a table as he walked into one of the private libraries. He glared at a cool-eyed figure standing there, and backed away. Damned things. He never should have created public libraries.
[Librarians]. It was too much of a bother when they were on you for missing books. Not that they were avenging warriors of death and destruction when you failed to return a book—they just shouted like that. They didn’t have that overwhelmingly powerful Skills, but some were incredibly inconvenient, like the ability to teleport to said book and grab it.
He’d had to squish three over the course of his long life, and felt vaguely bad about it.
Not in Ailendamus, of course. Rhisveri huffed back the way he’d come, still mad about having to return the book in the first place. He just erased their memories and they founded a library in a city somewhere else. But…it was something. He hadn’t actually clashed with that many of his kin, but a few times he’d done great battle over treasures in a hoard with another immortal species.
But [Librarians]? You killed them, then you took their library and felt a bit bad and kept dusting off the books. Depressing.
“Although the one who could cast spells from the spellbooks in his library without being a [Mage] was a threat.”
The [Librarians] of Ailendamus were not there yet, but Rhisveri had high hopes. Classes, that was the thing. The thing he would never have was varied, unique, and interesting. He sighed. Then focused on the problem.
“Your Grace. Your Grace, I require a word.”
Rhisveri was nearly back to his sanctuary from the annoying people when one of them caught him. He turned, ready to bark at them to get lost, but it wasn’t some hanger-on or noble who thought they could befriend him. He hesitated, because this was no less than Queen Oiena of Ailendamus herself.
“Your Majesty. How may I…help you today?”
The Duke grudgingly slowed and even sketched a bow towards her. He had to. She was, in theory, the [Queen].
This had better not take long. He did not particularly like Oiena. Well, it had been a political marriage, and the woman wasn’t some harridan or a fool. She and Itorin seemed well enough to have children who looked vaguely healthy, and that was all Rhisveri wanted.
But she didn’t know who he was, and sometimes it showed. Perhaps she knew something, because she had given up trying to get to know Rhisveri—but she was even smarter then because she didn’t inquire.
She’s no Reinhart, but she has a decent network from Taimaguros and occasionally she makes use of it. [Assassins] and [Spies].
She probably had other power from there, but she hardly needed it most of the time. She was still the [Queen]…so what did she want? Probably to know if he could magically cure wrinkles or mend her daughter’s favorite dress. Dead gods, had he missed a birthday? It was someone else’s job to buy presents and if they’d forgotten, they would be swimming in the palace’s lake!
“I have a matter of great seriousness to speak to you with, Rhisveri, and I believe it falls under your purview. I did not get the chance yesterday…will you walk with me?”
“It would be my exalted honor, Your Majesty.”
Rhisveri was rolling his eyes when Queen Oiena turned and glared at him. Her bodyguard and servants fell back, and the [Queen] and Rhisveri both employed passive safeguards for conversations, but she still lowered her voice.
“Don’t take that Taima-damned tone with me today, Rhisveri. I haven’t forgotten what you and Viscount Visophecin did the other day! But for that—you heard what I told the Viscount? Be told. The same applies to you, special bond with my husband or not!”
The Wyrm stared down at a finger aimed towards his nostrils. He retreated a step, affronted.
“I didn’t do anything. That was entirely Visophecin’s matter—and I believe he’s made amends.”
“Has he? Well, at least he has some composure. I never expected it of him, but it proves one cannot know who to trust! Perhaps it is a misunderstanding and we shall see. I will ask Courier Griffin myself, but the Viscount and you are under my eyes, understand?”
I could teleport her into the stratosphere.
Rhisveri thought it, but he deliberately did nothing, ducking his head after a moment.
“Just as you say, Your Majesty. Was that what you wished to bring up?”
Oiena eyed Rhisveri balefully. He hadn’t known she was so fiery. She was a demure wife with Itorin in the banquets…the times he walked over to talk to Itorin about something important and…wait, that was about it.
He didn’t know her. Two of Ailendamus’ [Queens] before Oiena had come from Taimaguros as well, hence the ‘ancient ties’ between the two kingdoms. This entire conversation was more than Rhisveri had spoken to one of them. She would one day die.
They all would. But for now, he played along since it was the kingdom that mattered. They kept walking. Oiena looked around in silence, then broke it once more.
“I wish to bring up the—incident from yesterday morning. With the Courier and her guards?”
Rhisveri blinked. He had been reflecting on that just now. Well, well, well. He smiled, but internally. It seemed that Oiena had gone from championing the Wind Runner to his position of ‘she was a damned nuisance’. He put on an air of grave concern.
“Ah, yes. Your Majesty, I think we are on the same page. I was just thinking of how to reprimand those [Knights]. Embarking on behavior like that while said prisoner is in their custody.”
Oiena looked slightly flushed, as Humans…Terandrians in general did when discussing matters like that.
“Exactly. I’m glad you understand, Your Grace. You are handling it, then?”
The Duke nodded.
“I intend to make a request of their [Knight Commander] in the capital to replace them at once, reprimand them for unduly conduct, and issue a severe punishment for fraternization with a prisoner.”
“Yes, although the Courier admits she initiated it—but yes. It’s simply unacceptable.”
Rhisveri nodded, warming to his anger. The young boy hadn’t even been much affected, much to his disappointment, but Oiena had kicked up a commendable fuss. He’d happily watched the Wind Runner dashing about, but the Knights of the Thirsting Veil bothered him.
“On duty. I don’t care if she was a [Seductress], they’re [Knights]. It’s a disgrace! They’re one of the three peerless orders of Ailendamus and this is how they behave in the palace!”
Oiena was nodding. Frowning, but nodding.
“Yes, and they’re women. Not that it wouldn’t be bad enough if it had been four men—and they surely cannot guard a female prisoner, but my daughter saw it!”
Duke Rhisveri paused, mid-nod. He felt there was an inconsistency between the things he was complaining about and what she was.
“Er…well, four men in that situation wouldn’t have been that graphic in the same poses. Improper—what’s gender got to do with it?”
Queen Oiena slowed. She eyed Rhisveri and the Wyrm’s puzzled jade green eyes met her brown-yellow ones, topaz mixed with bark.
“Your Grace! It’s one thing for [Knights] to indulge in such acts, but women? I—that is to say—”
She looked at her escort again and moved them back with a flick of the wrist. She stood there and turned a bit red. She eyed Rhisveri, but his blank visage made her curse.
“Oh, Gura-damnit and Taima-damnit. Your Grace, you surely know how outrageous it is?”
Ah. The Duke frowned. Terandrian ideals. He sighed, folding his arms.
“I’m well aware, Your Majesty. My concern is that our elite protectors are compromised—but we are on the same page.”
“Yes! No!”
Rhisveri began to get a second headache. He exploded, but mildly.
“What?”
Queen Oiena looked around again, as if they were discussing having a head of state assassinated.
“I have never brought it up with you, Your Grace, so let me be blunt on the subject. I do not know your feelings on the matter, but—such things? Such…intimacies?”
She stared at Rhisveri, turning redder, and looking outraged that perhaps he wasn’t looking uncomfortable. Which he was, because this conversation had taken a strange turn, but Rhisveri was a master of facial muscles.
“Yes. I understand what you mean, Queen Oiena.”
She smoothed at her dress and if her hair had been braided, maybe she would have given it a damn good tug.
“Well. Well, it’s not to be condoned, naturally. Naturally! But if I were to hear of such things in private from someone in parlance of gossip…? Girls explore things. It is unacceptable if it were to be made public, of course. Much less the things they do in Baleros and Chandrar.”
“…Yes?”
He was at sea in a leaking boat. Rhisveri saw Oiena take a deep breath.
“—But not when revealed. Princess Oesca saw it, and Ivenius, although he thought they were just sparring, somehow. I regret the entire affair—doesn’t she have door locks?”
Rhisveri bit his tongue. But Queen Oiena went on, concluding simply.
“My guards and I have seen it. Young Lord Veltras saw it. So I am glad you are taking matters into your own hands. When will you strip them of their class?”
The Wyrm looked at Her Majesty of Ailendamus.
“Strip them of their class?”
“Their knighthood and membership in the Order of the Thirsting Veil. If you are minded to send them to the front—that would also be necessary, I suppose, but I am not asking for that. Either one, when…?”
Duke Rhisveri looked at Queen Oiena. Instinctively, reflexively, he crossed his arms.
“Never. What are you talking about?”
The two members of the royal family gave each other another look like distant lighthouses just missing each other. Queen Oiena frowned.
“You are minded to punish them?”
“I am. Probably digging ditches in some posting along Noelictus’ border for six months after, I don’t know, a lashing. I actually don’t know the Order of the Thirsting Veil’s methods. Maybe a mudding.”
“A…”
“Where you throw stones at someone? Only, with mudballs? The commonfolk enjoy it. We could allow them to add rocks and sticks. Most don’t, even then.”
The Queen looked at Rhisveri.
“Yes, I agree, that would be acceptable, but I saw them, and my bodyguard, and servants, Duke Rhisveri. If I could have quelled their tongues—I cannot. My daughter knows they are there.”
“So…you want me to take their classes. Strip four [Elite Knights] of Ailendamus of their class, or send them on suicide charges to the front?”
“—I thought we understood the matter, Duke.”
Oiena’s face was not hostile, let alone guilty, just blankly confused. Rhisveri on the other hand…he looked at her.
“No. Do you know how long an Order of the Thirsting Veil [Knight] has to train? We induct them sometimes as young as eight as [Pages], from noble families with strong bloodlines or gifts. It’s a decade from [Page], to [Squire], to [Knight] before they qualify as junior [Knights], unlike the Order of the Hydra, and it pays off. [Elite Knights]? They crop up in less than one out of a hundred regular [Knights] in their training, and we put them through intensive training. Those four hit that class—which is a minimum of Level 25—before they turned twenty five.”
He began counting off figures on his fingers.
“The amount of gold I—I mean, Ailendamus has invested in them? Why would I waste that?”
“Duke Rhisveri, I do not discount their cost—”
“You had no idea how long they trained! Do you think we just pull [Elite Knights] out of a hat?”
“Rhisveri! They have embarrassed the crown. Remove their classes and either exile them or send them to the war front, or I will petition the [Knight Commander] to do so myself!”
Oiena snapped. Rhisveri looked at her. He felt something sinking over him, something that had nothing to do with arguing with a mortal woman, or the [Knights]’ actions with Ryoka—no, all in this reaction. He spoke slowly, enunciating every word.
“—Just so I am clear. The reason they must lose their classes, and be banished until their likely deaths or never to step foot in Ailendamus again, is not because of their impropriety as [Knights]. Nor—nor is it your own personal objection, but because they were discovered, not the act itself.”
Queen Oiena looked at him, gravely.
“I take no pleasure in it, but yes, Rhisveri. If other nations learned of this, the scandal? Now, Courier Griffin is both prisoner and guest, and I shall have words with her. But as you said, it is one thing for her, another for [Knights] serving the crown itself and in the palace…”
Her words didn’t trail off, he just stopped listening. Rhisveri looked at Queen Oiena and a terrible weariness descended over him.
He knew how Terandrian morality played. He knew their customs and secrets, and, oh, there was a lot they said, which they did otherwise behind closed doors. He should have cottoned on to what Oiena meant earlier, but…the Wyrm sighed. He looked Queen Oiena straight in the eye and smiled politely.
“I will do no such thing, Your Majesty. Those four [Knights] will be duly punished, but I do not throw away useful people on a whim.”
She actually recoiled, astonished.
“You—did you not hear what I just said? The consequences—”
“It will not come out. Or if it does, we will simply deploy [Bards] and deny it.”
“My daughter saw it!”
“Then explain to her what you just said to me. Now, I am leaving. I must deal with that nuisance myself and I shall inform Ryoka Griffin just how much she makes the lives of everyone she meets distinctly worse. Good day, Your Majesty—”
He was walking off when Oiena blocked his way.
“Rhisveri! Do not make me go to Itorin! This is ridiculous to quibble over four [Knights] of no repute. If I must, I will tell the [Knight Commander]—”
“You will not. I will overrule that order.”
“You will what? Itorin will hear of this! And when he does—”
Rhisveri had had enough. He spun around. Queen Oiena stopped as he pointed a finger at her. Her [Bodyguard] moved—and bounced into a barrier. Rhisveri snarled as he pointed at Oiena.
“You’ll tell your husband? Go ahead. And I will tell him this is my affair and that will be that. Don’t touch them. Waste four [Knights]? They are mine. This conversation is over!”
She was staring at him, but Queen Oiena of Taimaguros had an instinctual reaction from her homeland, which was to stomp on his foot with a heeled slipper at once. Rhisveri stared down at his foot.
Oiena stared down at his foot. He calmly, and without changing his expression, lifted his foot, shook her heeled shoe off—which had left an imprint in his own shoes and flesh—and turned.
“[Haste]—”
He blurred away. Her Majesty was left staring at his back. What had he just said to her? How dare…? She turned and stormed away, but shaken.
 
——
 
