Let’s dance. Ryoka Griffin was a striking cobra, a weaving reed in the wind. A…okay, that was an exaggeration. But anyone who had ever known her would have to have a lie down. Because the tea?
“Menorkel. Menorkel!”
The Titan looked down. He was rewarded with a wet Lucifen glaring at him. He’d tipped half his cup onto her head.
He began to apologize, but he kept looking at Ryoka as she kept talking. Because she had the immortals by the gonads, assuming they had any. Ryoka Griffin sat, shifting with nervous energy. And this is what she said, for the first time ever in Ryoka-history.
“We have legends of Angels and Devils in my world. Devil, really. Some people think there’s only one, so they’d call a number ‘Demons’, maybe. Heaven and Hell. Good and evil. But they are legends. Mythology. It’s completely different from stories of Griffins or Dryads or even Titans. A different…”
Theology.
“…culture. Different cultures, which I suppose you understand. You have the genuine article. Manticores, Griffins, Hydras. We have stories about them.”
They looked at her, some wide-eyed like the Merfolk, others focused on her like a laser, like Fithea, desperate to know. Menorkel was like that; Gilaw was just curious, scooting closer, wide-eyed.
The Agelum were whispering. Half the Lucifen, Visophecin included, were taking notes on sheets of paper. They were fascinated.
“So we are only legends in your…world?”
Gadrea stumbled over that last bit. Ryoka was glad to see it, because it meant they were just as amazed as she had been. She nodded.
“Yes. As far as I know. Which, now I’m beginning to wonder about. Magic is a myth there, too.”
“Then how does anything function? No magic? You mean, no spellcasting, right, or is the entire place just a void?”
Ryoka Griffin pretended to think. She glanced up.
“Well…we do have legends. So that implies perhaps there’s a truth to them. Maybe they could be there if there’s no magic?”
A withered voice. Fithea, sitting forwards.
“Not in a void. Some creatures—my people do not need it to live, but our great forests would never grow to fruition. Not without something. The trees of ages would produce more, but without a drop…”
“Fithea.”
Visophecin glanced at her, but the Dryad barely blinked. Ryoka memorized that. Yes, she was dancing. Bob and weave and duck.
“So, we are so common as to be known by all of your people?”
Azemith asked, eyes searching Ryoka. The young woman hesitated.
“Not by all peoples—I know Devils and Angels specifically. Which is why I associated Visophecin with danger. I would have thought you two would quarrel. And that you would have your own place. Heaven and Hell—but not Rhir. Unless that’s literal?”
“No. The oldest of us told us that in ancient memory, once—”
Razia broke off. Ryoka exhaled, but kept her face blank. Yes. Yes.
Last time she’d done this, it had been the other way. Magnolia Reinhart vs Ryoka, newly come to this world, and it had been a disaster. Ryoka had been too paranoid to say anything, and what she refused to say might have put Magnolia onto…everything.
This time? She spilled the tea. She said all the words they wanted to hear. She told them the stories of Angels and Demons and their own myths, from Griffins to Rocs, and how people didn’t believe them in a world full of Humans.
What Ryoka gained from this was what they said. So, Agelum and Lucifen had lived somewhere else. And—Ryoka Griffin kept speaking. The next person to press her was Visophecin, and he did it far better than the others.
“Is there evidence of any common link between your world and mine? Does yours have a name? We have many for ours, but they are what each people calls it. Simple names. The land. The world. Firmament. Others have specific names…such as the Drakes. The Fraer-folk. And now I wonder why some have names and others not.”
Ryoka Griffin smiled. That was a loaded question full of careful traps. So she answered.
“I don’t know. Aside from stories? Everything that is a story in my world is real in yours, but different. For instance, I was led to believe when I came here that a Devil stole souls.”
“Well, that sounds just fascinating.”
One of them called out. There was laughter—and Ryoka saw Visophecin quell it with one hand. Clever. The problem was he had an audience and he was realizing that was a mistake. Ryoka went on, blithely.
“—It might honestly be we know something of this world from a common link. After all, the Fae have gateways to both. They have gateways everywhere, so the truth being legend in another world could be just as likely as us having tons of extinct or hiding people.”
“I see. Yet how did—”
Visophecin broke off as Fithea leaned forwards.
“Ah. That land! The Farthest Travellers! So the gateways remain?”
She was so hungry, so desperate, everyone else had to sit back. Ryoka met Fithea’s eyes.
“They exist. But the gateways…they’re broken or closed. I think they can open them from their side. Not us from ours. There may be another way, but I only know one surefire way to cross.”
“And you can open it. What would it take?”
“Fithea. This is a discussion for later.”
Nemed and the Merfolk looked at Fithea, who was vibrating, and Visophecin. They stirred. Some of the other Lucifen sat up, and even the Agelum.
“We’d like to know more! This concerns all of us, Visophecin! The—this other place. There are only Humans in your world, Ryoka, but there are more of us over there?”
Hungry eyes. Ryoka exhaled, for even Visophecin was listening.
“Countless thousands. Perhaps millions or billions.”
She didn’t know. The strange land where the refugees from other dimensions gathered was like that. Ryoka told them earnestly, telling Fithea she hadn’t seen other Dryads—and only one for a moment—but she hadn’t stayed in the forest long, and her description of the trees?
“World trees! Each one! Each one a tree of ages! They must be there! They must—”
And what she was doing was telling them the truth. Fulfilling a desire they didn’t know they had. That they were known. And, at the same time, she dodged. Every question about the voids in her story, that Visophecin and a few others saw.
She said Heaven. She said Hell. She never said ___. What she did…
“Legions from Hell. That’s the story about the end of the world. The final day. Reckoning, where Hell’s demons would battle the armies of Heaven.”
“Hah! What a glorious war! If we were mortal enemies—yes, us on one side, our kin on the other.”
“Needless strife. I don’t see the point.”
Azemith sniffed and some of the Lucifen nodded. Uzine, who had entered to listen, clapped his hands.
“Of course, but the scale of it! It is the old tales!”
He gave Ryoka a hungry look. She smiled at him.
“I didn’t know what to expect, honestly, Uzine. Angels…some people think Angels are, well, rather like you are. Humans with wings.”
“That’s a Garuda. Or a Human with Skills. Although it’s…”
She saw glances between the Agelum who didn’t have wings…as far as she could see. Ryoka went on.
“Some called Angels more, um, abstract. Many eyes, little children—some aren’t even humanoid. Six wings, or a blazing ring of gold with eyes—”
She saw the Agelum looking at each other and her skin tingled. Uzine sat back, glancing at Visophecin.
“And Devils?”
That came from Paxere, one of the younger ones. Ryoka shrugged.
“Some would say they’re Humans with, uh, bat wings.”
“Original.”
Ryoka laughed. She actually laughed and Menorkel snorted. She looked at Paxere.
“Others would say they’re huge, red-skinned monsters with whips of fire and, yes, bat wings. That’s closer to a Demon—gigantic beings who live amidst lava and have dark legions…dark magic, too. Pacts. Secret lairs which they raise armies from…”
She saw most of the Lucifen fail to react, but a few of the younger ones had a tell, which was they gave her too-blank looks. Lost all emotion and became neutral and, when juxtaposed against their more savvy elders…
They hurried off that topic as Uzine and Visophecin both pressed Ryoka about Earth and how she had come to the lands of the Fae. She, in turn, went to the Merfolk and began recounting stories of Atlantis and…Aquaman.
A knock on the door broke Ryoka out of recounting the stories of the Titanomachy and Titans from Greek legend. Every immortal’s eye was on her, but the woman, the [Housemistress], Herea, made them all go silent.
“I am so sorry to interrupt you, lords and ladies…Viscount, you have a guest.”
He rose smoothly, and Ryoka broke off.
“By all means continue, Miss Griffin. I will not be long.”
She had a feeling…it could have been anyone, but she had a feeling. Ryoka went on. Drawing them in.
All she told them were their stories. Menorkel’s face fell when he heard only about the Titans overthrown by ‘the next powers’. Ryoka tried to tell him about Norse mythology, but then she remembered the Frost Giants and such were, uh, not great role models either.
Even so, Fithea kept interrupting, dragging the questions back to the lands of the fae.
“They exist. There are different…systems out there. See?”
That was when Ryoka held out a glowing obol. The Lucifen focused on it like crows staring at a shiny marble. The Agelum murmured.
“How much for one? I will trade you any artifact you wish for.”
Paxere announced instantly. Someone kicked her in the back.
“You idiot, do you know how to bargain?”
A glaring Lucifen young man. Paxere glared back, suddenly looking dangerous, and Ryoka made sure she had a tight grip on the obol as she showed it around.
“I am prepared to negotiate. But, uh—there was an incident with Rhisveri. So I hope we can establish good ties. I can’t promise on behalf of the fair folk, but I can make good-faith offers. I just need to clear my name and I am willing to pay for it. There’s something else I want to negotiate over, but I could tell most…tell all if we reach that point.”
They looked at her, keenly interested. Fascinated, wanting to know everything and more and…Ryoka saw a reflection of herself and luxuriated in the feeling.
For a second. Then Gadrea frowned.
“Ah, that would tie back to the incident bringing you here. Too costly. It goes back to one person though, and the most difficult of all. Rhisveri.”
A sigh ran through the room. The others conferred.
“Perhaps. He is still one of us—”
“He considers himself above mere votes. Yet if every single one were to…not just the Waterbound, not just Shoel, Fithea—”
The old Dryad was nodding fervently, and Ryoka remembered how much she had savored the obol when they had met.
“Sophridel will listen. I assure you. Ryoka Griffin committed an offence, but she is able to pay for it. The only thing else she desires is…”
“What is mine. I am glad that no one is foolish enough to promise that.”
A harsh voice broke into the room of chattering immortals. They fell silent and Ryoka looked up into what was now a familiar pair of vexed green eyes. Rhisveri and Visophecin stopped at the doorway of the room. The Duke looked at Ryoka.
“I did not give you permission to leave the palace, Ryoka Griffin.”
“That was upon my insistence, Rhisveri. We are negotiating—”
“On behalf of Ailendamus? This…this snake is playing you for a fool, Visophecin. You and your family! I am amazed. I thought you of all would handle her better, but it seems I alone appreciate how truly, incredibly inconvenient she is!”
Rhisveri stormed into the room, parting the others like minnows before a shark. He pointed at Ryoka. She was still wondering if the ‘snake’ comment was a compliment or not, given his nature.
“You have not only caused countless incidents in the palace, now you are throwing into jeopardy sworn servants of the realm, simply because you cannot keep your undergarments on your body for five seconds—”
Ryoka turned beet red as Rhisveri jabbed the Finger of Poking at her chest. He stopped dead, or rather, jerked to a stop as someone caught him.
Gadrea.
“Come, Rhisveri. Don’t castigate youth for doing what is natural. We are quite glad you’re here; you can reassure those four [Knights] they will not lose their positions. Which they will not.”
Rhisveri glared down at Gadrea, but he didn’t yank free instantly. He harrumphed.
“This matter has gone before the [Queen], and she is displeased.”
“Then, she will remain so. But this is our guest, and we quite approve. Next time she can record it.”
Half the Agelum laughed. Menorkel turned beet-red, and Gilaw rolled her eyes as the Merfolk were split. Some thought it was a great idea. Ryoka was red and Rhisveri gave Visophecin a pained look.
“…I am going to settle this now. You wished for an audience, Ryoka Griffin? You have it. Now—”
He turned to grab her, and froze. Because Gadrea had a hand on his arm.
“Rhisveri, I must insist we have her lovely company for a while longer.”
She smiled, planting her feet in the ground but never rising from her wheelchair. Rhisveri’s eyes narrowed dangerously. He pulled at his arm.
“I am not going to be gainsaid by—you are dangerously close to—would you let go of me?”
Ryoka’s eyes widened. Was it just her or…? Gadrea had locked the wheelchair with her feet, and she was holding onto Rhisveri’s arm. He was pulling—but she never budged. Ryoka didn’t know how strong his fake body was, but she doubted it was as ‘weak’ as a regular Human.
Gadrea never stopped smiling—until a sudden look of pain crossed her face. Visophecin was there in a moment.
“Gadrea. Unhand Rhisveri.”
She let go, and Rhisveri jerked free. Gadrea lay, a bit limply, but came round after a second. She flexed her hand, and then smiled in amazement.
“I am feeling better. I could go for a run. Barefoot.”
“Spare Ailendamus a plague of foot-mold and dirt.”
Rhisveri growled. However, he looked around, and the Agelum gave him their bright smiles.
“We must insist, Rhisveri. We have already learned quite a lot of fascinating tales about us. Ryoka, surely you have legends about Wyrms?”
Um. Ryoka gulped as Rhisveri glared at her. The truth was?
She did not. Not about Wyrms. Of all the species present, from Merfolk to Devils to even Paterghost and Nube, the mimic and enchanted armor, Ryoka had stories, or at least anecdotes of ‘adventurers’ traumatized by mimics in popular culture.
But Wyrms? There were few parallels in western mythos that weren’t more ‘dragon-like’. In the east…well, there were the Chinese dragons in similar appearance, but they were a bit different. The only ones Ryoka could even associate would be Ouroborous, the eternal serpent which ate itself, and Jomungandr of Norse legend—and even then, they were odd examples.
