Valorie was gone before Eppie could make up her mind. She crawled back from the roof space, replaced the furniture she'd moved, then walked, slow and silent, all the way back to the stairwell before she let her knees fold and sat down hard on the cold concrete step and fought down the acid reflux.

She understood William’s mechanism now, how the fox fed. It wasn’t the sex. The carnality was just the process. It was the seed of self-hate he planted in Valorie each time. It was his joyful harvest of the toxic blooms fueled by her fecund soil.

The [System] was right.

Misery and misalignment. Denigration and abasement.

Gods, how unambivalent the [System] could be!

And him. It had to be Francis Sanders.

She finally understood the significance of Francis’ schedule. What Lafitte had sent her, dating back the last three years and then some, was publicly demonstrative evidence that Valorie had lived, insofar as Eppie could see, in the negative space of her father’s cold shadow, begging for scraps that never came. Her heart was a gaping, bleeding hole.

And that hole—was where William had wormed in like a usurping wasp larvae, simultaneously pumping Valorie full of paralytic venom, while hollowing out her [Causality]. Valorie had begged him for affirmation, for reassurance, but he had said nothing while he made a sport of her sweet body.

Thou fox-eyed fiend! Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog! The slave of nature and the son of hell!

Lord! How she hated the man! By Eppie’s estimates, Mio was his first true victim, a girl whose [Causality] he feasted upon. Next, Euphemia Fontaine jumped from that roof because she was starved of [Causality] to begin with. Simone Goode would have been his next victim, either by suicide or abuse after falling to the seedier side of the Chen’s businesses. Then, finally, even with her immense talent, peerless looks and political prestige, Valorie would find a tall roof, and realise—

And then? Would William, like herself, pupate and remerge as some monstrous thing?

She thought of Kelvin, the [Immature Parasite] and Kellie, bleeding and bruised.She thought of Grein, the [Matured Parasite], and the countless hopeful bodies he had debased and disposed of.

Should she find a flower pot somewhere? [Noblesse Oblige] could be very heavy when properly sourced.

Who’s to say that an accidental stumble won’t send a 90lb [Noblesse Oblige] down four storeys onto an unsuspecting [Usurper]?

Hold your pots. Eppie’s [Script Analysis] hissed. What’s with you and pots? Are you not going to Vaughan’s Kiritani party? Are you not meeting Francis Sanders in person?

“Oh yeah…” Eppie thought to herself, suddenly relieved of the dark weight on her frontal lobe. “I guess there really is more than one way to skin a fox.”
