Erick read the second box and felt a surge of joy for Kiri. He laughed, happy for his apprentice.

Hermetic Shredder, instant, medium range, 1000 mana + Variable

A Variable number of molecular wires stretch through a Variable space, at your command. One wire does a maximum of Variable points of damage before breaking.

“Good job, Kiri,” Erick said, smiling. “This is a good spell.”

“Sunny almost perished.” Kiri said, “I spent almost all of my mana on that spell to tangle both Ophiels and defend against your [Shooting Star]. The severed [Shooting Star] still hurt, but she was able to dodge most of that fast little ball.”

“You have another Hermetic spell, don’t you?” Erick said, “I saw you drill holes in a mimic before… I think?”

Kiri handed over another spell, saying, “Razor and Shredder are more impressive.”

Hermetic Bolts, instant, medium range, 300 Mana

A series of 5 wire-thick bolts launches forward in a small cluster, dealing physical damage.

Erick wondered, for a moment, at his own Particle Mage abilities.

Particle Mage

Spend 100 mana to discover if a Particle spell is possible, greatly reducing the risk of Errors.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Major Mana Shaping applies to all Spells. Altering ongoing Auras is considerably easier.

Double Base Mana

Double Base Mana Regen

Your ability to create new Particle Spells is Greatly Increased.

10% Spell Cost Reduction.

Blood Mana

<empty>

<empty>

More specifically, the ‘witness a Particle Spell’ part. He had seen Kiri use her various Hermetic line of spells more than once, and he certainly knew how they worked, but he had yet to gain them himself. Whatever the reason for this anomaly, it was probably the same reason why he couldn’t recreate spells he had seen that were higher than tier 1. Even though Erick was sure that he could use his [Greater Lightwalk] to recreate a simple spell like [Ice Bolt], like he had done with various Spatial spells, [Ice Bolt] was not a tier 1 spell, and thus, since Erick was not a Copy Mage, he couldn’t create that sort of magic without actually going through the creation process.

It was likely because of a reason similar to the restrictions placed on Copy Magic, that Erick could not gain Kiri’s Hermetic spells without going through the creation process, himself, since those spells were all above Basic Tier.

Kiri brought Erick back to the present, as she said, “I cannot thank you enough for showing me the Hermetic line of spells. For everything you’ve done for me.” She bowed to Erick, saying, “Thank you. Thank you.”

She didn’t need to bow for him! Erick got out of his chair, stepping to her to put a hand on her shoulder and raise her tall, saying, “No need to bow, Kiri. You’ve helped me just as much as I’ve helped you.”

Kiri stood straight. “That’s… That’s just simply untrue.” An uncertain pain filled her eyes, as she said, “Please be careful in Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Erick was taken aback by the anguish in the young girl’s eyes. In that moment, Kiri did not look like the competent young woman he had known for more than half a year. She was in pain, and it was only going to get worse before it got better.

Erick pulled her into a hug, and Kiri gladly went, her head pressed against his left shoulder. He held the young girl in his arms, sad to see her cry, but happy, as well. She was troubled, but she would be okay.

Erick tried to joke around, saying, “I’ll be fiiine! I’m Untouchable, right?”

Kiri broke the hug and wiped a tear away with the back of her taloned finger, saying “Of course. Of course. You’ll be fine.”

“Now why don’t you show me how you came up with your Hermetic spells, and then I’ll try for them, and then I can show you around Candlepoint?” Erick added, “And then, perhaps, some more sparring?”

Kiri spoke with a bit more cheer in her voice, as she repeated, “Of course!”

Jane smiled, saying, “While you all do that, I’ll be out of the house again, today.” She got up from her chair.

“Where are you going?” Erick asked.

Jane stepped to Erick and wrapped him in a warm hug, much tighter than Kiri’s, saying, “Somewhere. Don’t wait for me for dinner.”

“Okay?” Erick held Jane tight for a long moment, saying, “Well be safe, wherever you’re going.”

Jane skipped out of the room, waving as she turned the corner into the hallway. Poi left too, saying to call him back before the two of them got back to dueling with [Familiars].

Kiri and Erick were alone in the library, with a pot of hot chocolate to share between them, and lots of magic to discuss. It didn’t take long before mentor learned from apprentice, and Erick added all three of Kiri’s spells to his own Status.
