“Fifty percent of profit, after taxes.” Arial said, “Half the store dedicated to whatever dessert products you envision. We can push this chocolate. It will be a success.”

Erick considered their deal. ‘Of profit, after taxes’ was the usual manner in which a silent partner entered into an existing business, so that was nothing special. Arial’s quote of 50% was a large one; possibly too large. But they were giving him a fair deal, according to Erick’s admittedly limited knowledge of operating a business in Spur. But he didn’t care about the money aspects of this venture. Erick wanted chocolate to succeed, and if they had a noose around their neck of payment, then that was just another worry Erick did not want either them, or himself, to have. Besides, for him, money wasn’t a concern. For the rest of the world, money was a constant concern.

Erick gave them a lower offer, and while the two ladies gave some platitudes of ‘oh we couldn’t!’ he could tell that they were secretly happy for the lower price.

The three of them got down to talking of money, and plans, and expansions. Erick would need to work his connections to purchase some space in the Garden for a whole grove of cocoa trees, or else he would need to purchase some Human District land and convert it into a cocoa grove. Either idea was fine, but until ‘And Dessert!’ got that space, there would be no chocolate grove in Spur, for anyone. All the Garden was already spoken for, with bitter rivals already clamoring over each other for Spur’s limited farmlands.

Rollo and Calizi formed the two major factions that controlled the Garden space, with Kip’s rice paddies and Missoli’s sugar cactus monopolies being the only major undisputed areas, simply because they refused to participate in any political shenanigans. Erick asked how Silverite could allow a monopoly to exist, to which Ratchet supplied that Silverite had worked behind the scenes to ensure those two monopolies arose, whereupon she mandated the costs of both rice and sugar. Kip and Missoli weren’t living like kings, but they were certainly supplying stability to prices. If the wheat wasn’t close enough in cost to match rice, then people just bought rice. If herbs and spices and all of those expensive, hard to grow items weren’t priced to match sugar, then people just loaded their food with more sugar.

Ratchet said, “It’s a gross simplification, but Silverite’s pricing floors have provided a good base for pricing everything else. There’s room enough to move, but not enough to leave people going without.”

“… And that works?”

Arial said, “Somewhat. It’s made candy cheap enough, which is one of the reasons I chose to open ‘And Dessert!’. I’m sure that the Mayor’d commit some other plan to keep Spur fed for a good price, if you weren’t around, or if she didn’t know and trust both Kip and Missoli.”

Erick didn’t know enough about economics to decry Silverite’s ideas, and he prayed he never would. Thank god for rads and spells big enough to collect them all.

The three of them hammered out ideas for another hour.

By the time Erick was satisfied with a business plan, and Ratchet and Arial were satisfied with Erick’s product ideas and assurances to purchase land for ‘And Dessert!’s use, the sun was already setting beyond the window of the sunroom, beyond Erick’s private garden. Meeting over, Erick sent the two ladies off with fifty kilos of chocolate liquor, which Jane had finally remembered the name of, but which had nothing to do with alcohol. The deep brown syrup was just chocolate that had been processed from bean to nib to liquid, but without any additives; no sugar, no powdered milk, no extra cocoa butter. Ratchet and Arial would report on their experiments with the liquid, on another day. They’d even try the ‘tempering’ Erick spoke of; maybe they’d have better luck than him.

Erick felt great, knowing that his chocolate was in good hands.

Feeling so good, dinner even tasted better than usual.

- - - -

Erick sat down after dinner in the library, with a cup of hot cocoa, filled with marshmallows, or rather, with puffs, taken from Arial’s basket, and a trio of small desserts. The first was a puff puff, because Erick kinda really loved the marshmallows Arial made, and her puff puffs were half mallow. The second was a black-speckled white-shelled tea cake, apparently made with a lot of vanilla, and other spices. The third was a gel candy, lemon flavor. The puff puff was on his plate simply because he wanted it, but the other two were specialties of ‘And Dessert!’, and also made with ingredients Erick had created. He had already eaten a puff puff, but he had yet to try the other two…

The spice cake tasted of a dozen different scents and flavors, all coming together under the umbrella of a solid, white-candy covering that broke under Erick’s teeth. A hard icing, perhaps? The cake was an autumnal blend, of warmth and heat, but not actually spicy at all, as all that flavor gave way to slick vanilla.

Erick smiled. It was good.

The gel candy was basically a gummy bear, or one of those orange slices Erick sometimes bought on impulse; the ones that hung on hooks next to any cash register at any gas station on Earth. It was okay. Sure to be popular, but not nearly as decadent as the spiced cake.

The puff puff was exactly as Erick expected, and desired. It was fantastic.

At that moment, he was content. And then he came back to himself…

Only to go out of body again, to check on Candlepoint. Candlepoint was fine. No fights, no blood on the streets, everyone hard at work, or relaxing with others, or growing food or just living life. Sure, there were people gambling and some smoking up in tall buildings or making alcohol in stills, or getting busy with it in some dark corner—

Erick hurriedly moved Ophiel along.

Finding nothing amiss, he came back, and pulled his enchanting books from the shelves. It was time to read up more on the process known as enchanting. The basic book had only gotten him so far, but much how the study of healing was a lot more than knowing how the body worked, enchanting was a lot more than knowing how to inscribe Ancient Script into metal. That part was just the most basic understanding of a vast, vast field of study. As large as alchemy, and as deep as spell crafting, enchanting required a great deal more of an effort than Erick had given it, if he wanted to get good.

… He wasn’t purposefully ignoring the upcoming Shadow’s Feast like it was a date with an executioner, no sir! He was just being prudent. Nothing would happen at the Feast, and it might be good to know what he was looking at when he went in there. Shades were known for making artifacts and magical items.

Repeating this rationalization a few times in his mind, Erick settled in for more reading.

Tomorrow he’d go out and find some monsters to fight in melee, or something.

… Practice with Kiri was a better idea. He’d do that, instead.

That’d get the blood pumping, and get him ready for the Feast.

… A few hours of brawling wouldn’t get him ready for anything, compared to the years and years that most actual adventurers and people like his daughter put into the practice, but at least it might make him feel better about his ability to defend himself.

- - - -

Sparring sucked.

Erick had forgotten that.

He turned off [Hunter’s Instincts] and slumped onto a conjured chair, dripping with sweat like he had worn his clothes into the shower. His staff fell to the sand at his side, as he groaned out unintelligible words. He should have come out here sooner. Earlier in the day, when the sun wasn’t quite so bright.

Jane stood to the side, safe from the relentless sun under a very large umbrella, smiling wide, as she yelled out, “Get back up, Dad! You can do it! Kick her ass!”

Kiri twirled her own staff as she paced the sand, twenty meters away. She was breathing hard, with tiny flames licking out of her mouth as she centered herself, but she wasn’t exhausted. She wasn’t struggling for breath. As her breathing returned to normal, she said, “I’ve found time to practice every day, but you slacked off, Erick. Perhaps we should go out and find some monsters for you to fight, in person.”

Teressa, standing beside Jane, shouted, “I like that idea!”

Poi grumbled.

“How are you good at this, too, Kiri?!” Erick sat straighter, to stare across the orange sand at his apprentice. “When do you have time to practice this much?”

Kiri shrugged. “It’s just half an hour each day. Go out, find a mimic, kill it in close quarters. Sometimes I ask for a sparring partner from the Army.” She slammed the butt of her staff into the sand, saying, “I’ve done enough to keep myself sharp, and that’s it. You’ve just gotten worse.”

“… Shit.” Breathing deep and feeling like he was staring up at a metaphorical mountain of tasks, he stood up. With a thought, the staff on the ground slapped up into his waiting hand. He looked around himself, at the subtle white sheen in the air. He asked Teressa, “Count?”

Teressa’s eyes glinted grey for a moment. She said, “The [Ward] is at 25%”

Erick had cast an 8000 point [Ward] out here an hour before the sparring began, using his own mana, meaning it would last 24 hours or absorb 53,000 points of damage, whichever came first. His own [Personal Ward] was now worth 27,000 points, and more than strong enough to withstand almost any singular attack from most normal sources. Both [Ward]s regenerated almost 10 points of stability per second, while a hit suffered took stability from both Personal and Area [Ward]s.

Erick and Kiri had been beating on each other for a while now, doing most of their damage to the [Ward]s. Fighting in a [Ward] was like striking an opponent with very solid pillows. It wasn’t great for acclimation to a real fight, but it was good for generalized practice. Some actual damage still got through, but not much. Even pillow fights were still vulnerable to critical strikes. Most of the ‘damage’, though, was from Kiri and Erick’s own expenditure of Health, as they circled and struck and spent Health to fight.

Erick asked, “Ready?”

Kiri breathed deep. A certain flow entered her movements, as she stepped across the sands like a dancer stepping across the stage, gathering energy for her upcoming performance. She breathed out fire, then breathed in air, only to exhale normal air. She was calm. She was ready. She said, “Whenever you are.”

[Hunter’s Instincts] shifted Erick’s sights to see where Kiri would be, what the movement of her shoulders meant, what the cadence of her feet and hips shouted to the world, as she tapped across the sands. He saw what her eyes tracked, as she sought her own end to the coming conflict.

Thirty minutes later, Kiri was standing, breathing gouts of flame, while Erick had been sent flying via an 80-something Strength powered [Strike], for the fifth time. Erick slowly lifted himself out of the sand, while he breathed hard too, his lungs working to pull in as much oxygen as his heavy body could manage.

“You’re as good as any rookie adventurer I’ve seen in Ar’Kendrithyst, Dad.” Jane said, “But Kiri is a lot better.”

Kiri breathed deep, as a green light flickered across her body. [Rejuvenation], no doubt. Mentor and apprentice were of comparable Strength, and comparable Health pools from which to draw physical power, but while Erick’s Health Regen was over 35,000 due to his Blessing from Rozeta, Kiri had [Rejuvenation] to restore her lost Health. In ten seconds, one spell brought her back up to full. Her breathing calmed. The flaming parts of her deep breath vanished.

Jane smiled wide, asking, “I want a go! What do you say, Dad?”

“Absolutely not.” Erick said, “Not fighting you. Ever.”

“Neither of us are here for actual learning, Jane.” Kiri said, “We’d both fight with magic if that were the case.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Exactly right. This is just gearing up for a real fight.”

“Firstly, you could both be actual warriors thanks to those rings on your fingers. I do not agree with your stated reasons for not learning how to actually fight, nor do I agree with how they teach fighting at Oceanside, or anywhere else I’ve seen so far.” Jane emphatically added, “But now, I want to see a real fight.”

Erick sighed, as he dusted sand off of his clothes, but mostly left it there because it was stuck on due to sweat. He looked to Kiri, with a questioning tilt to his head.

Kiri frowned. “… After I take a bath.”

Erick offered, “One [Familiar] representing ourselves, another four giving attacks. I can’t use the full contingent without leaving Candlepoint defenseless… Which reminds me. I need to introduce you to Candlepoint so you and Sunny can take over for me while I’m away.”

Kiri eyed Erick, then said, “Of course.”

- - - -

His wings whistled on the wind, as he flew high in the clear, blue sky. Down below, the land was orange as far as his many eyes could see, with nary an interruption to the landscape, save for a splash of crystal here or there; the usual monsters to inhabit this desert.

Ophiel flowed through the breeze.

The air blipped white around him, in four different spaces, and suddenly, his sight of this land was increased by four more of himself. A mental command from his creator brought him to hold his position, as control of that piece of him was fully assumed by Erick.

Ophiel adjusted his concentration to his other bodies, nearby. The first of his bodies on the scene floated backward, back the way the five of him had come, as more mental commands flowed in, like warm breezes.

Chirps, whistles, and other happy, vibrating sounds, filled their piece of the sky. They were going to play with Sunny! But where was she?

