He made a fist, discarding the thought and thinking of the future. He felt unsure what he wanted to do.

I guess it depends on if they want to stay here or leave. I wouldn’t say no to traveling with them if that’s an option, maybe see Lyrie. I could maybe even check in on Eyra on the way.

With earth and wind, he could always work on his magic, and he didn’t feel a particular rush with any of it, nor with advancing his Path. He would get better in time, and getting better at it would allow him to experiment more, to try new things. And maybe one day, it would allow him to explore more places, like the third layer of the dungeon.

It's really not that complicated, is it?

Veron smiled to himself.

And I haven’t even figured out what my third Harmony is.

But I guess more practically speaking, I should first remake my armor.

He sat up, whistled a tune to himself, and got to work, focusing on the many rocks that someone had generously gathered for him. He started with the chest piece.

Veron got his dinner at the clinic with the others, already nearly done with his first piece of armor. Then he got a bath and finished it before bed. This night, he slept at the inn, having the room to himself.

The next morning, Veron ate breakfast there and continued remaking his armor, visiting the others for lunch. A few days passed like that, and he started mixing in both the grappling and close combat moves that Hayden had shown him, and experimenting with his wind harmony, more so due to his nagging curiosity. He enjoyed working on his armor, getting into a downright obsessive state whenever he molded pieces to it. The combat moves he mostly just practiced because his Focus only lasted him around a minute and a half to shape, once every almost two hours.

On the third day, Veron asked Hayden to join him. Both because he wanted someone he knew to chat to and train with, but just as much because he felt like the others needed some air.

“I should stay with her.”

“I know. But Reka is here, and there are other healers. You’ve been sitting at her bed for three days straight. Also, I’m bored.”

“I agree with him,” Reka said.

“You’re next,” Veron warned.

“I don’t want to spar with you,” she said.

“Then we’re going for a walk, this afternoon.”

She groaned but then sighed. “Yeah, alright. But only if Hayden spars with you now.”

“Great,” Veron said.

The man gave him an annoyed grunt, grabbed his shield and hammer, and left.

“Careful then, he’s angry,” Reka said.

“All the more reason to move,” Veron said with a smile, winking her way before he left after the man. He’d worked through a lot of his emotions in the past days. There was plenty of anger too, and he was looking forward to sparring.
