Both of the Trademasters looked like they wanted to object, but Erick would have none of it, and they recognized that. They had said their piece, and now, they were here. Erick gestured for Zolan to take over, and then he left the room.

As Erick walked down the hallway, away from the meeting, he heard Zolan say something about desperation not being a good look.

This was untrue, for desperation had worked very well for Portal. It had almost worked completely. But Zolan was working them over now with the proper words, and Erick did not go back and countermand his castellan for the man’s little white lie.

Erick was too deep in his own thoughts, anyway. Portal’s ploy had worked too well for them. As Rohi had sat there, being himself, and Sarai had laid down those truths, also being herself, some primal part of Erick wanted to partake of the honest offer. Some part of him wanted to enjoy the life he was making, instead of working all the time.

But, at the same time, Erick loved his work. He was making the world better.

War seemed to loom less and less as days went by, and nothing happened.

… And Portal’s offer had been completely sincere. They were ready to marry either of Sarai or Rohi off to Erick, if Erick had shown the slightest real inclination to accept either offer.

But…

He was worried.

Of assassination? Of giving in to a really good offer? Of what? What, exactly, had caused him to run off so fast back there? The brazen attitude of it all? Maybe a little bit, but there was more to it. A lot of things bothered him about that meeting, actually.

Erick wasn’t quite sure where his thoughts were going, or the nature of his thoughts, but they were all jumbled up and unwilling to be organized. He eventually thanked Tasar for her time, as he sometimes did when the work day was over, and then he opened a [Gate] back to his home on Yggdrasil—

“Wait a moment, Erick,” Tasar said.

Erick paused, the [Gate] hanging open in the air before him.

Tasar continued, “You’re going to receive a lot more offers like that. People are going to start throwing themselves at your feet for what you can do, debasing themselves in any way that might work. I hope you can prepare better for the next time such an event happens.”

“Ah… Yeah. I sort of dropped the ball back there. That was…” Embarrassing that it had been thrilling? Erick said, “I wasn’t expecting that.”

Tasar said, “If you would pardon my unprompted [Telepathy]; you are too tense. You need to do less work and more relaxing so that such an offer doesn’t unbalance you so much in the future. Or, you could accept such offers as simple sex, so that people know how to approach you when they want to debase themselves. If people do not know how to approach you, then they will start to get truly creative. That back there? That was not nearly as creative as those people thought it was.”

Erick’s eyes went a bit wide. “Are you speaking from experience?”

“Oh yes. Very much so.” Tasar said, “Centuries ago, back when the t-station network first got passed around I had some embarrassing experiences with people who were very desperate and similarly willing. Only a few sexual things, thankfully, but when I told people that money and security at the t-station spots was all it took to get one, that cut down the number of incidents by 80%. I still get some sexual advances now and then, but a [Teleport Other] into the nearest body of water is generally enough to reinforce that that avenue of inquiry is unacceptable.”

“Ah. Yes. I could have blipped them into the lake. I had forgotten about that.” Erick said, “Thank you, Tasar. And… I probably should have some more solid Gate Network numbers, shouldn’t I. I shouldn’t allow myself to be bargained.”

“And methodology for getting a Gate; yes.” Tasar added, “But if you do feel like giving in to some of those lewder offers, then be sure that they’re not through politically-motivated people like that. Otherwise? Yes. Give in sometimes. You’re way too tense. It’s just sex… Maybe don’t do the [Reincarnation] thing that they were angling for, though. That would get weird.”

Mirth bubbled up inside of Erick like the dawning sun. To know that Tasar had given in a few times made him feel a lot better about his own near-collision back there. Erick smiled to himself as he walked through the [Gate], saying, “Thank you, Tasar. I’d like to talk more about the possible threats in a negotiation room another day, if you’re willing.”

“When you get those Cooks up and cooking we can share a meal again at a proper restaurant, and I can tell you some of the more embarrassing stories.”

“I’ll hold you to that!” Erick said, already feeling less freaked out about Portal.

As the [Gate] shut, Erick realized that it was still very odd that this was how the meeting with Portal had gone; that this was what the new worry assailing him from the Pearl Kingdom. Hot sailors and hot Trademasters, throwing themselves at him in a bid for power! Weird! Would other people follow in their footsteps? Erick hoped not.

… Mostly, he hoped not.

Poi said, “At least the offer was honest.”

Erick gushed, “It’s still so weird!”

“People get so much weirder than that, Erick. I have seen some shit, believe you me.”

“Multiple things can be true at the same time.”

Poi just laughed.

And Erick did, too.
