The Forest was physically rather nice this time of year. The air was cool. Here, where Erick stood, the sun was simply warm instead of cold or burning hot like it was in other places. The sky was clear and blue, and the rain had ended an hour ago. The Restful River flowed in front of Erick like a deep, dark blue ribbon inlaid across the green and rocky Forest floor. The river ran rather fast here, about 120 kilometers northwest of Treehome. Dark blue waters seemed to zip across the Surface of Veird, only showing their speed in the constant surf at the river’s edge where water crested over fallen logs trapped between the flow and orcol-sized boulders.

“This is a rather average point of the halfway-tamed Restful River. Most of it looks like this,” Syllea said, walking along the rocky beach-like riverbank meters from the actual river. Erick walked at her side, looking all around. Syllea wasn’t looking directly at him, though, she was looking at Yggdrasil’s floating eye atop Erick’s shoulder. Yggdrasil didn’t seem too interested. Syllea tried, “We’ve got a fourth location to check out, if you desire?”

Poi, Tasar, and thankfully, Kromolok, had joined Erick on his trip to Treehome. The first two came because of course they came. Kromolok came because Erick asked for a Font to help him plant Yggdrasil in a new location, here by Treehome, and the Inquisitor of Rozeta decided to personally fulfill that request. Erick was glad for that, for aside from Tasar, Kromolok’s presence gave him some much-needed physical proof of his alliance with the wrought, and with Rozeta.

They had all met with Syllea and Bayth, and two chieftains of Treehome about two hours ago, on what might have become Yggdrasil’s planting spot. Only two chieftains, though, out of 12. Peron Wyrmrest, and Yura O’kabil. They looked exactly as Erick remembered, with Peron being an old man in a green robe dotted with white gems, like stars, while Yura wore silver robes with white fur linings.

Syllea knew Tasar, of course, so that had been a business-as-usual introduction. Peron and Yura knew of her, though, so that was a bit bigger of an event. None of the people from Treehome had ever met Kromolok before, but they certainly knew of the Inquisitors of Rozeta. That particular meeting had been an event that Kromolok handled well.

And then Erick and Treehome got to talking shop.

That conversation was just a repeat and solidification of the groundwork which Syllea had already laid. At that time, Erick had debated bringing up the prognostication battle Teressa had fought against them, but he decided to let it go. Yggdrasil had heard all of the conversation Erick had had with Poi the day before, but when Erick asked the big guy about it, Yggdrasil didn’t really have any thoughts on the matter. So Erick backed away from that topic, too, letting Yggdrasil be a kid for however long that would last.

After the meeting with Syllea, Peron, and Yura, Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye came forward, and so did the [Scry] eyes of the Arbors. Erick had expected them to appear in their avatar forms, but they were obviously greeting Yggdrasil at his own level. The avatar forms would come later.

In a situation that was exactly like a bunch of adults greeting a child, but with a brief moment for the Arbors to pay their respects to Kromolok, Erick introduced every single Arbor to Yggdrasil, through their [Scry] eyes, and through mappings and images. Yggdrasil would know where each Arbor was located, and how to locate them himself, so he could [Scry] them whenever he wanted, and so they could know his [Scry] eye when he came calling.

And now their whole group was here, looking at riverbank sites. The Arbors of Treehome had joined Erick and everyone else, of course, continuing to follow along as [Scry] eyes.

Yggdrasil didn’t like the first planting site, which was 75 kilometers down the river from Treehome. That first spot had been a wide expanse of water where the river bunched up, right before it started running again. It wasn’t deep enough. Yggdrasil could easily turn that shallow lake into a deep lake, though. The Arbors even told him as much. But, no, Yggdrasil wanted to see the other options.

The second site was better, located 95 kilometers downstream, where a tributary that ran across a large swath of the Forest met up with the Restful River. A lot of the rarer monster fish truly started to appear in the depths of those blue waters. It was too well fished, though, with a great big fishery located just upstream of the waterways, and Yggdrasil did not want to disturb the people already there. No one spoke out against his choice, though this was the spot that Treehome had truly hoped that Yggdrasil would pick. With a few strategic dams, this land would make for a great lake.

This third site was located 10 kilometers beyond the real edge of the Forest, where only the powerful or the crazy deigned to tread and some of the tallest trees began to rise a good kilometer into the air. The trees weren’t that large directly near the Restful River, for people did occasionally come down this far to fish and those intrepid fishermen had beaten back the Forest for generations upon generations. If Yggdrasil were to choose this spot then he would be directly competing against the Forest for land space. That didn’t seem to disturb Yggdrasil though, for he had heard stories of the Forest from Erick.

Erick got the impression that Yggdrasil wanted to try living on the edge.

The small stones of the riverbank shifted under Erick’s feet as he walked forward, Yggdrasil’s iridescent white [Scry] eye floating at his side. The big guy would occasionally dart away to see some site, and come back rather quickly after a brief investigation. Erick recognized that behavior as rather normal ‘hiding from the terrors by running to his father’. Yggdrasil was doing that a lot.

But at least he was rushing out there in the first place.

Erick said, “I’ll still be there with you at Candlepoint, Yggdrasil, and I’m going to be around for a long time besides that. Anywhere you pick is a good choice.”

Yggdrasil eyed him a bit, then decided to go back to exploring. Instead of coming right back, though, he continued to explore, rapidly vanishing into the depths of the Forest, out of sight. Erick smiled at that, and he smiled again as the [Scry] eyes of the other Arbors glanced around, wondering when Yggdrasil would be back. When it became apparent that Yggdrasil was not coming right back the Arbors, like a flock of birds disturbed, rapidly disappeared into the Forest to go looking for the kid.

When they were all fully out of sight, Erick thought out loud, “And now it’s just us small people again.” As Ophiel killed a monster just out of sight with a flashing zap of [Fulmination Aura], he added, “And the monsters, I suppose.”

Chieftain Yura said, “I have never had quite this easy of a stroll through the Forest.” She hiked her silver robes of office up as she stepped over a larger rock, saying, “It’s a nice walk this time of year, before winter.”

Peron said, “The last time I went for a walk around here it was more like a fighting retreat. And that was thirty years ago.” Without the slightest hint of displeasure, he sounded rather amazed as he added, “I suppose this is the power of a Wizard.”

“I can certainly do a lot, but Kiri could do this same thing,” Erick said. “Syllea and Tasar could as well, of course.”

Syllea laughed a little. “I would have to level this place to do what you’re doing right now.”

“There is a lot of power in precision.” Tasar said, “Spotting and killing monsters out of sight and out of mind is quite a power.”

Erick shrugged. “It’s just—”

Yggdrasil’s iridescent eye came floating out of the Forest on the other side of the river. He had somehow gotten on the other side without Erick looking, but the other Arbors had followed him, for they came out of that side of the Forest, too.

Yggdrasil sailed across the rushing water, his voice loud and clear, but only to Erick, ‘I want to be here, Father!’

Erick stopped walking. “Here?” He gestured to the otherwise unassuming lands filled with monsters, deep water, and distant, tall trees. “Right here?”

Their whole party stopped, and they rapidly caught on to what was happening. The chieftains grinned, ready to see Yggdrasil grow tall. Erick suspected that the chieftains were ready to leave the Forest, too, for they were currently reliant on others for their safety, and they were walking alongside a known Wizard. Everyone else was actually rather comfortable trudging along in this part of the Forest. Poi trusted Erick enough to not worry about getting left behind, or anything like that, while Tasar, Syllea, and Kromolok were all powers in their own right. To a lesser extent, even Bayth was comfortable in these ‘deep’ woods.

Yggdrasil’s eye bobbed up and down; ‘Yes, here!’

“Okay!” Erick asked, “In the water? On the beach? In the Forest a bit?”

Yggdrasil moved out into the river and Erick had an Ophiel follow. Yggdrasil stopped in the middle of the deep, rushing water, and Erick knew that that was the place.

Erick said, “We’ll relocate a bit and I will plant you here, Yggdrasil.”

A handful of [Teleport]s later, or in Erick’s case a Benevolence step, and the group had repositioned to a rocky prominence five kilometers upstream. The river twisted past the trees to the northwest, vanishing behind a few curves of coastline, but Erick still saw the planting location through Ophiel. Some of the Arbor [Scry] eyes remained there to watch from ground zero, but most reappeared closer to Erick. The eyes of Arbor Holy O’kabil and Wyrmrest repositioned to be by their chieftains.

Yggdrasil did not reposition, though.

In that moment, Erick considered putting up a [Hasted Shelter] and talking to Peron and Yura about the prognostication battle. It had not been the first time he had considered broaching that topic.

But.

No.

Yet again, Erick decided against that.

He turned to Kromolok, asking, “Ready?”

“I’m ready when you are,” Kromolok said, as he placed a hand on Erick’s shoulder to prepare to channel mana. ‘And you don’t have to worry about them and that prognostication battle. I already spoke with them.’

‘Ah… Okay.’

Peron did not look any different; no shame, or remorse, or anything. Erick wondered when, exactly, Kromolok had had a talk with the man, but it had to have been after Erick had invited Kromolok to the meeting. Yura looked similar to Peron, but perhaps there was some remorse there. Whatever the case, this trepidation of Erick’s was unhealthy. It was one thing to worry about a nebulous threat, and another to worry about a specific threat.

Erick wasn’t sure which type of threat he disliked more.

Anyway. He needed to implement some anti-abuse protocols for Benevolence prognostication when he got back to the House. For now, though, he got on with it. Erick reached through Ophiel, targeted a part of the riverbed 5 kilometers away from his own body, and cast.

The Forest rumbled as though a mountain had descended, breaking everything.

Erick had never cast Yggdrasil so close to the land and he briefly wondered if he had fucked up a great deal.

The ground shook, buckling upward and down as mana flowed out of Erick, into some other place, into Yggdrasil. The river crashed upward. Kromolok funneled power into Erick, and that was necessary, for sure, but Erick had gained double the base Mana which he used to have. He was actually able to see Yggdrasil’s eruption without blacking out this time.

White lightning coalesced out of the distant Forest, rising above the green like frost spreading over a lake, seemingly growing fast enough and large enough that one could easily think that the ‘explosion’ would reach all the way here; that Yggdrasil’s growth would encompass the entire world.

One day, the big guy probably would.

Dragon-sized roots crashed to the right of Erick’s party, ripping into the Forest and throwing the land upward mere seconds before the exact same thing happened on the left. Roots danced through the rushing river, winding up and down, briefly reminding Erick of Rozeta twisting through clouds; solid stone and rushing water proved about as effective at impeding Yggdrasil as clouds did to the Dragon Goddess of the Script.

The rocky prominence underfoot began to tilt a little.

Somewhere between one glance and the next, Peron vanished. Erick was pretty sure he had [Teleport]ed away, but then he came right back, only missing his footing a little bit. He did not fall, though. No one fell, even when the rock underfoot tilted even further left.

Peron was probably the only one looking down at the ground, worried about his footing and about falling into the roots all around, but even he looked up when the blue sky turned to white and green, with rainbows all around. Yggdrasil stretched overhead like a cloud of color manifesting, and then solidifying. A minute after Erick cast, Yggdrasil finally stopped pulling at his mana.

Kromolok took his hand away, smiling a little as he looked up, saying, “I think he’s gotten bigger.”

“He is.” Erick said, “Every single day—”

A lightning flash of gold fire ripped through Erick’s chest, echoing through his Benevolence-lightning filled mana veins, crashing back into his core. And then the moment passed. Gold fire settled back into a net across Erick’s core, and Yggdrasil’s maximum number of summons increased from 5, to 6.

Erick breathed a bit.

It hadn’t been that bad this time—

A great big iridescent eye popped into existence just ahead and Yggdrasil’s voice carried on the wind, “Hello, Father! I am here now!”

It was kinda funny to see Peron panic a little, and to see Yura gasp, and to witness all the other small reactions all around.

Erick smiled as he said, “Hello, Yggdrasil. Welcome to Treehome!”

“I have already widened the river! Come see!”

Erick conjured his [Teleporting Platform] and walked onto it, saying, “I suppose I will, then! Anyone else want to come?”

“Of course!” Kromolok said, joining Erick.

Soon, like a bunch of adults going to see what the kid was up to, everyone was on Erick’s Platform. He flew them all toward Yggdrasil’s trunk which rose in the distance like a white pillar-mountain. The sky was a lightning storm of branches wreathed in green clouds of leaves, shining through with rainbow sunlight.

Yggdrasil towered over the kilometer tall trees of the Forest, bathing the world in light.

