The other person in the room was a younger human woman who looked related to the older man, but perhaps distantly. Sarai looked rather suited for her position as the overseer of all magical goods moving through the Pearl Kingdom. Her dress was an immaculate, bright green thing which showed off a heaving bust and ample hips. Sun-bleached strawberry-blonde hair cascaded down her back, which was a brighter color than the red of her lips. Rings adorned her fingers while a bright pearl necklace draped down into her cleavage—

Erick realized something important at that moment. Sarai had come prepared for a war of emotions that she intended to win.

Rohi was much less prepared.

“Welcome to House Benevolence,” Erick said, greeting the people from Portal and successfully not being awkward about it. “Rohi Wavefield. Sarai Masterson.”

The old man, Rohi, stood from his couch, while the young woman at the window, Sarai, regarded Erick. Both of them took a small bow, then rose.

Rohi said, “Thank you for agreeing to speak with us, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick moved in and stood by his couch. He decided to go on the offensive, since these people already had. “I did not get a chance to participate in the former talks after Portal attacked and killed the Farms of Spur. I do hear that Mayor Silverite got some good deals out of that horror show, though. So what sort of deals do you bring me today, to make up for that previous mess?”

“If you feel that we owe you something for the actions of people who have already been punished, then perhaps we were wrong in approaching at this point in time,” Rohi said. “Perhaps we should simply leave.”

Erick smiled, then called the man’s bluff. “Leave, then.”

Sarai stepped forward. “Please excuse my compatriot. We are prepared to make amends in whatever way you wish, for we are here to be granted a set of Gates. Our desire is to do what we’ve already been doing for centuries; connecting the scattered islands of the Letri Ocean and the grand city of Eidolon to the Wasteland Kingdoms, the Crystal Forest, and the Greensoil Republic. Portal is prepared to offer generous terms in exchange for a franchise-type system.”

Erick got right to it, saying, “It’s 1.5 million per Gate —which is two Gates— and I get 15 gold per ton shipped, and 5 gold per person who passes through.” Erick said, “If I gain good cause to believe that you are fucking with me, then I will rescind your franchise network and give you nothing in return. I will, of course, give notice and ample time for you to fix this expected fuckery, but the threat stands.”

Erick had not forgotten about what Portal had done to him and the Farms of Spur, but the fact remained that if he did not let Portal into the Gate Network in some capacity, then Portal would go to war with him. It would not be a war they could win, but it would be a war they would have to wage for reasons of politics, economics, and population.

They could, of course, surprise Erick and not go to war, and decide to do something completely unprecedented. That way led to chaos, though, and Erick was trying to be less chaotic these days. The person he was today was not the person he had been back when he had threatened to cut Portal off from a theoretical Gate Network and caused them to go to war the first time.

The numbers he cited could use some adjustment, though; Erick knew this already.

It was a decent offer, too, at being drastically cheaper than the costs of boats and warriors to keep the waters clear, and all the other assorted costs of plying the ocean.

They’d still keep some of those boats around, though, for ‘last [Teleport] shipping’; Erick had already decided that he would never provide full Gate Network access to the entire world. Only large places would qualify for a Local Area Gate Network. Smaller places would still need to go to ports to get goods.

If Portal accepted this offer, or one similar to it, Portal would transition from being stewards of all ocean shipping across the Letri Ocean, to stewards of the LAGN of the Letri Ocean. It would be a rather large transition, but they could still transition. They’d need a lot of people to oversee the LAGN, too, so not many people would be out of a job if they made efforts to transition. These Local Area Gate Networks did not run themselves, after all.

From Erick’s perspective, this was an absolute no-brainer of an offer.

It was not a truly kind offer, like the one Erick had given Silverite, but Erick expected to be bargained down quite a bit.

Sarai moved to stand with Rohi, saying, “Your starter numbers are large, but they are intriguing. What does a franchise of a Gate Network look like to you?”

Erick sat down.

The two people from Portal sat down, too.

And then Erick said, “A ‘franchise’ is roughly correct, though I have not thought to call it that before now. I’ve been using the term ‘Local Area Gate Network’; LAGN. For the Letri Ocean, for Portal, I envision you setting aside a large stretch of land at Portal, and I will fill up that land with Gates to your major ports. I won’t do last-[Teleport] Gates, meaning you might, at most, get ten Gates, but wherever you wish to put those Gates is up to you. Travel will flow through the hub of Portal. In addition, you will get an embassy here in the Gate District, along Gate Road, with a similar dispensation of the four-Gate system which I have given to Stratagold.” Erick added, “The 15 gold per ton, 5 gold per person, is what I will get for this system. I don’t care what you get; you can charge whatever you want to administer your LAGN.” He finished with, “BUT! My current maximum range for freely creating [Gate]s is about 1,500 kilometers away from Yggdrasil, and Portal is 3200 kilometers away. I’m not sure that the Benevolence will allow such a LAGN for you at this moment in time, because you don’t have Yggdrasil at Portal in order to increase my range, and I am not willing to plant him there.

“In ten months I might be able to make a LAGN for you, at Portal, but for now, the only thing I can offer is an embassy here in the Gate District, and the four Gates that go with it. You are still required to pay the normal rates for transport through those, and then again for all the other Gates you use here in the Gate District.”

Rohi and Sarai sat in contemplation.

Then Sarai asked, “Pardon me, I must converse with my partner.”

Erick nodded.

A [Telepathy] tendril linked the two Trademasters together.

A minute later Sarai broke that connection, then asked, “For the LAGN, is that 10 month timeframe solid?”

“It’s a rough estimate based on current trends. From the various math and calculations others have given me, and depending on several factors well outside of my control, I should be able to freely reach Yoril in a century, but it’ll only take three or four years to freely reach all of Veird. Ten years to reach the moons. But as of right now, Gates from Portal to here can be done as early as tomorrow.”

Sarai breathed in a bit.

Rohi solidified, narrowing his weathered eyes at Erick. “Your rates are too high. 1 gold per ton, 50 silver per person. That’s the normal rate for [Teleport] services.”

Erick smiled a little. “I’m not offering [Teleport] services. I’m offering [Gate] services.” He dropped his smile, and repeated his offer, “15 gold per ton, 5 gold per person.”

“You are skipping over some large details, Rohi.” Sarai sought to strike at Erick’s compassion, saying, “We are amenable to this time table of getting a LAGN for the Letri Ocean, if you agree to follow through with this plan when the time comes that Yggdrasil can reach that far. Before that, though, an embassy in your Gate District would allow us to trade with your city of Candlepoint, and allow your people of Candlepoint to visit Portal, to trade with us as well. If we are to agree with constructing an embassy, we would ask that you agree to, and lock in, some lower prices for your LAGN, both for buy-in and for normal trade use. We can make Candlepoint truly shine, if you agree to some better terms and can truly promise that we will get control of whatever sort of Gate Network, Local or otherwise, you establish around the Letri Ocean.”

“Now that sounds like something I can get behind.” Erick dropped his prices, “A million per paired Gate, 8 gold per ton, 3 gold per person. In ten months I might be able to make Gates out of iron instead of platinum, but I haven’t quite figured out how to keep iron from rusting when magic goes through it. That third generation of Gates will be considerably cheaper.”

Sarai allowed herself a small smile, though it was rather put-upon.

Erick hadn’t really lowered his prices at all.

The Upper Trademaster of Portal was a shrewd woman who used every emotional trick she could to get what she wanted, like playing off of the rather gruff Rohi and wearing that revealing outfit, but she had been reevaluating her stance with Erick ever since they started talking. She had come expecting to woo him, at least a little, but her beauty was not that impressive—

Okay.

Well.

Yes.

She was impressive.

Erick was having something of a hard time not looking. But he wasn’t going to fall for that. Sarai had been veritably throwing herself at him this whole time, what with her sultry voice and all the rest of her, but Erick wasn’t going for it.

Sarai tried one more tactic.

She looked to Rohi, saying, “We can meet him a bit closer. What do you say?”

Rohi seemed to relax a little.

And then he flicked off the top button of his sailor vest, revealing more of his own amply muscled chest and wiry grey hair. He looked Erick in the eyes, and his voice was an easier, slightly happier thing than it had been. “Could we come to something less harsh regarding the Gate District option, and all the ones to follow? How about 250,000 gold per Gate? 1 gold per ton, 1 gold per person?”

Erick froze—

Sarai smirked a little bit, knowing she had finally drawn blood.

Rohi was happy too, but his joy was much more subdued. He was glad that his own, newest and unsaid offer, had actually worked. He was actually very happy with this new situation… Which was an odd turn of events!

—Erick thawed, and started judging.

Sarai shrugged, happily saying, “If he’s not to your liking right now you can always [Reincarnation] him into a more suitable form.”

Erick’s brain briefly shorted, but before he could reboot and complain about all the things wrong with what Sarai had just said—

Rohi said, “I’d marry you in a snap of the sails, if that’s what it takes to get Portal forgiven for the actions of those who are better off dead and forgotten.” He shrugged, adding, “I’d marry you anyway if the option is open. Marrying Portal to Candlepoint, to eternity, is a good move both politically and economically. We’ve been shipping across this world for centuries, after all. We know how it’s done. How to do it right.” He looked at Erick, and that look had a fire to it. “I know how to do you right, too.”

Behind Erick, Tasar sighed a little. Poi acted like nothing was happening.

And to Erick’s side, standing beside the couch, Zolan grinned a little, barely stopping himself from chuckling at Portal’s absolutely brazen attempt to get in good with Erick.

“… Okay. SO! This is wildly inappropriate,” Erick said, even though his cheeks were turning rather red. “If you think this will change my prices, then you are mistaken.”

Erick’s complaint was obviously not strong enough. He realized this after he had already finished.

Sarai knew this, too. She casually said, “And yet you have not rushed off, or declared us unwelcome. Indeed, I think you understand the nature of your position rather well. Archmage— Wizard Flatt. Everyone in the world is after you, as one does with Wizards, but the nature of this particular chase happening in this room is rather different. Perhaps we are merely the first to pursue you in this particular way? From your reaction, I assume we are—”

Sarai stopped talking, for Erick had waved a hand.

Rohi simply flexed a part of his body at Erick, which almost caused Erick to forget what he was saying. Sarai had done the same thing earlier, but Erick had managed to completely ignore that because it could have just been a small, completely normal thing. This time, though, Erick recognized the flexing under the pants for what it was.

It was weaponized sexuality.

Erick tried to move the conversation back to numbers, saying, “I am not sure where you got those 250,000, 1, and 1 numbers—”

“We’re spying, like everyone else,” Sarai admitted.

Rohi said, “If you wanted your meetings here, and with Silverite, to be in private you should put up some [Ward]s.”

“… Your honesty is appreciated.” Erick added, “And I appreciate that you are not scared of me, and that your offers are real.”

Sarai said, “Of course they’re real, and of course we’re not scared of you. We know who you are more than most, Wizard Flatt. Unless a person like Caradogh Pogi comes along to disrupt your life and your goals, you will always be a benevolent man. Since we have divested ourselves of every single person who was like that in the purge of Pogi’s life from our kingdom, we have nothing to fear from you at all.

“Except for you accidentally taking the livelihoods of our people away, as you already almost did.

“But!” Sarai said, “Since we are here, and since I have explained this, and since I see that you understand that you putting up a Gate Network in the Letri Ocean without us, or you cutting us off from such a system, would lead all the people we support to disaster, then there is absolutely no reason for us to be anything less than cooperative with each other. The only terms to work out now is the exact nature of our cooperation with each other, and one of the best ways to ensure cooperation is through political marriages. Thus, we are here.”

Rohi said, “I wouldn’t mind being a woman, if you prefer.”

Sarai added, “And I wouldn’t mind being a man. The wrought change all the time, and I always wondered what it would be like to—”

Erick waved his hand again, and the Trademasters fell silent.

After a moment, Erick collected his thoughts, then said, “Zolan will conduct the rest of this meeting.” He stood.

Rohi stood, opening his mouth—

But Sarai stood faster, saying, “Even if you do not accept these larger offers, we would like to purchase monster kill services and to establish a working relationship between our nations.”

“… Acceptable.” Erick said, “Zolan will still conduct the rest of this meeting.”

