The rest of the meeting went rather smoothly, with Yggdrasil asking questions about how to move the land, and Erick showing him a few tricks with [Stoneshape]. Thanks to the big guy’s size modifiers, the normally Large spell effectively became a Super Large Area manifestation of will, shoving the ground of the Forest down, while simultaneously lifting up (comparatively) smaller trees here and there, breaking them.

This actually led to Yggdrasil freezing and almost crying, for he had never broken something else that he wasn’t trying to break. Erick consoled the big guy for a little while, telling him that he could fix it all with some of his weather control and rain, but not to do that right now. He would have continued to help Yggdrasil sort through that trauma, but he had done enough to dry the big guy’s tears, and he could tell that the other Arbors really, really wanted to step in. They refrained from butting in until after Yggdrasil stopped worrying and Erick stopped talking, though.

And then they began to talk to Yggdrasil about all sorts of things. About how to move around dirt and stone so that no one got hurt. About the various types of stone and what they meant for supporting life, and structures above them. How to manage a watershed and how to control springs in your area so that water only came up where you wanted it to spring forth. About how to join the Arbor [Telepathy] group.

With emotions running brighter, Yggdrasil began to get the hang of [Stoneshape]. Erick was worried that Yggdrasil had forgotten all of their own lessons with that magic, but that worry vanished when Yggdrasil loudly declared that he remembered talking about this with his father, and that he had just forgotten. Erick proudly watched as Yggdrasil’s iridescent white eye flew around, followed or led by 12 other [Scry] eyes of various colors and sizes.

Yggdrasil was in good hands—

Er.

Branches.

Erick sighed a little, then said, “So that’s that, for now. Thank you, Yura, Peron, Syllea. Please let the Arbors know that I am thankful for their instruction, too.”

Yura smiled brightly, saying, “Arbor O’kabil is still thankful for the record player you made for her. Have you had any luck making any new designs?”

“I’ll be making a lot of new, useful things as soon as I can get around to them.” Erick said, “I’ve been rather busy, though.”

Yura smiled, knowing some of the difficulty that came with running a nation. “I can only imagine how difficult it must be to make a nation from scratch. Here at Treehome, we—” She glanced upward.

Holy O’kabil’s [Scry] eye, which was a misty thing wreathed in frost and fur, zipped down from the sky, alongside the vine-trailing [Scry] eye of Arbor Nosier. Both of them were giggling, having just come from Yggdrasil’s own [Scry] eye, still high up there.

A massive swath of the Forest between Erick and Yggdrasil’s trunk simply vanished, revealing a stretch of water that hadn’t been there until now. Before Erick could wonder what had happened—

O’kabil happily said, “Your child is fantastic, Erick! He’s ‘blipping’ around the Forest to carve a space for himself!”

“A wonderful little shorthand; that term ‘blipping’!” Nosier joyfully said. “Thank you, Erick! Thank you for bringing him here.”

Erick felt his heart swell at the bare happiness in their voices. And yet, Erick knew he needed to remain a little bit serious right now, so he said, “I know you’ll treat him right, and show him things I never could. I’m glad I was able to bring him here.”

O’kabil tried to turn a bit serious, too, but she still could not keep the mirth out of her voice. “Please do not hesitate to question us, for I am sure we will be asking questions of Yggdrasil and answering his questions in turn. We’ll take good care of him, as I am sure you will, too.” She added, “I have to say, I was worried about the seal upon him, but this probably is for the best. There is nothing wrong with going slow.”

Erick stood a bit straighter. “Thank you for the trust, O’kabil.”

Nosier spoke a bit seriously, too, as he said, “You might want to think about breaking that seal in the next ten years, though. He will become independent even if you don’t wish him to be.”

Erick had been prepared for that sort of admonishment, so he said, “When the time comes to consider separation, I will.”

It was Nosier’s turn to be surprised. O’kabil’s [Scry] eye simply looked vindicated, though; smug, possibly. Erick wasn’t sure how he could tell as much from a free-floating eyeball, but the smugness was rather evident for all to see.

Nosier turned a bit contrite, saying, “It would probably be a bad idea to break such a seal while we’re still worried about Melemizargo’s sanity, though.”

Erick smiled. “Yes. That is the main concern, there. The Darkness seems to be doing a lot less than he normally does, though, so that has been good for us all.”

“I’m still worried about that soul slime’s Truth.” O’kabil asked, “Have you heard anything about that?”

“I have not.” Erick said, “I’m sure that when Melemizargo wants the world to know what he is doing with that, he will simply show us.”

There was a collective breath across the Platform of varying severity; the only ones who didn’t react were Kromolok and Poi.

Softly, O’kabil said, “Well that’s enough doom and darkness for the day.” She succinctly said, “Yggdrasil is wonderful. We love him already. Please build a house here soon, and drop by the hotel whenever you wish! —Ah. But also please inform us when you wish to drop by, first. I want to treat you to a proper feast. We all do, really— Ah!” Her eye briefly turned toward the sky, and then back. “It was wonderful seeing you again. I must attend to Yggdrasil.”

Erick smiled. “And I must get back to Candlepoint. Busy busy!”

O’kabil and Nosier both nodded then their [Scry] eyes rushed upward, trying to find Yggdrasil again—

Yggdrasil was easy enough to find, for he was like a large, iridescent orb surrounded by a cloud of [Scry] eyes from the other Arbors, flying against the backdrop of a world of green fire and solid white lightning. O’kabil and Nosier raced after him to rejoin the flock. Erick wished them well.

And then Erick turned his attention back to his immediate surroundings.

Peron ceremoniously said, “I wish you well with your kingdom creation.”

Erick responded, “And I wish you well with your expansion of Treehome.”

Peron said, “The lands between Yggdrasil and Treehome will be undergoing a transformation, but Yggdrasil’s lands remain his lands. We will abide by the agreements struck.”

“And so shall I,” Erick answered.

And with that, the planting of Yggdrasil at Treehome was done. There were a few small words afterward, but they were mostly between Erick and Syllea.

“So where’s Tenebrae? Is he still a part of the Enclave, now?” Erick asked.

Syllea smiled, saying, “I don’t know! He’s off doing whatever, right now. He did tell me that if you asked, to tell you that he would be coming by eventually, to thank you properly.”

“Then I look forward to that eventuality.”

A few more words later and Syllea took the chieftains back to Treehome, while Erick [Gate]d Kromolok back to Stratagold. Erick opened up another [Gate] to Candlepoint, and he, Tasar, and Poi, went back to House Benevolence.

- - - -

Erick would have gone on to meet with Aisha, who was inside the Benevolence research center while some of her people were at the new Benevolence dungeon, but Zolan was right there, informing Erick that there were some necessary meetings. Four of them, actually. The first was with the Wayfarer’s Guild, which would be a rehash of previous meetings and more denials of [Gate]s. The next big meeting was with Silverite, from Spur. She was officially asking for a [Gate]. That meeting was potentially the only meeting Erick actually looked forward to. Then there was a meeting with the Cooking Guilds of Nelboor, which might be a pleasant surprise, or utterly terrible. Erick wanted good food for House Benevolence, and some freshly reincarnated 9 star Cooks would be great. Good food brought a community together like few other things could, and House Benevolence did not have any good food yet.

And then there was one more meeting.

Portal.

The Pearl Kingdom had finally come calling, and so, it was time to answer that call. It was probably going to be awful.

A part of Erick wanted to ask Silverite to join him in that meeting for the Mayor of Spur knew everything there was to know regarding the Pearl Kingdom, and their noble houses, but, no. Erick could wade into that cesspool himself. If he couldn’t, then that boded badly for the rest of his plans with House Benevolence.

As Erick walked down the hallway to his meeting with the Wayfarer’s Guild, he glanced through Yggdrasil to see what the big guy was up to. Yggdrasil seemed to be having fun playing in the water and transforming the land, while simultaneously talking to every Arbor of Treehome. Erick barely caught any of those conversations, for he was only partially submerged into Yggdrasil’s consciousness, but Erick knew that if he focused, he could hear what the Arbors were telling his kid. He did not focus. He let it be. Erick brought his attention back to the moment, back to listening to Zolan at his side, and toward the upcoming meeting.

It was odd not having Yggdrasil’s eye on his left shoulder, but it was what it was. Ophiel still twittered happily on Erick’s right shoulder, and that would be enough for now.

Zolan asked, “What are your thoughts on the flat-rate versus value-rate shipping debate? Any changes?”

“Illoya gave me a report on that. One moment.” With a quick benevolent-step of an Ophiel, Erick had that report in his hands. Ten steps and several seconds later, and with a bit of flipping back and forth, Erick had read the report. “Having a flat-rate shipping cost increases the threat of restricted goods flowing through the Network, since there is no need to actually investigate most normal shipments when the price is flat. You don’t even need a proper mana sense capable person to administer those ports of shipping.

“The Underworld chooses the value-rate tax option for this very reason, in order to inspect every single shipment. This increases bureaucracy and time loss at each port, while minimally increasing costs in order to pay for that bureaucracy and personnel. It is not a bad thing to go slower, in some ways, but we’re not about going slow here at this Gate Network.

“True, we would require more mana sense people if we want to keep down the shipment of restricted goods, and the training of mana sense is generally considered a risk; like training people to use magic properly. But we’re going to be doing that anyway. That is one of my goals here; to increase the number of people who know how to do magic properly. We’re going to have a really good magic school here, Zolan.

“But we’re small, for now.

“I don’t want to do the thorough inspections of the Underworld. There will, of course, be spot inspections to weed out things like soul-shipments and slave trades and bombs and such. But it’s not like we need prognostication-level mana sensors at every single Gate, or tearing into the shipments to visually inspect them like they usually do down in the Underworld.

“With all that said, know this: I want to eventually switch to a flat rate everywhere, both in the Underworld and on the Surface, but not without proper security measures in place, first.” Erick digressed, “Of course, the Wayfarer’s already have a lot of mana sense capable people in their employ, so… I’m really just dragging my feet on setting up a smaller network for their exclusive use.”

“Still good to know our strategy going forward.” Zolan asked, “So shall we [Force Wall] the Wayfarer’s? Or acquiesce to a smaller request?”

“… Spur is likely to get a Gate, so…” Erick said, “It’s time. Yes. We can put up some Gates for the Wayfarer’s first, but these gates are currently 1.5 million gold in material costs. If they want to wait till I figure out how to make iron work as well as platinum it might be a while, but that will certainly be cheaper for them. If they choose to go ahead, then we can roll out a Local Area Gate Network for the Wayfarer’s for the Crystal Forest. It’s not many places, anyway. Spur, Vindin, Outpost, Kal’Duresh, Frontier… Hmm. Maybe not Frontier?” Erick changed his mind. “We’ll play it by ear, Zolan. Try to get them not to agree, though. I don’t think we’re actually ready.”

Zolan nodded.

They walked into the Wayfarer’s Guild meeting together, with Tasar and Poi following behind.

- - - -

Erick left the meeting with the Wayfarer’s Guild in high spirits. The Wayfarer’s had decided to wait and see if Erick could ‘turn iron into platinum’. Erick had almost told them that he could probably do that right now, but it seemed like a bad idea to go messing around with transmutation. So he played off their words in the matter it was intended; to make iron work as well as platinum for enchanting purposes.

And now, he was headed into what might be a really good meeting with Silverite.

Erick swung open the door into the seating room and smiled as he spotted Silverite sitting by the window. “Hello again! Welcome to House Benevolence!”

Silverite rose from her seat and returned his smile, saying. “I like Gate Road. Very organized.” She asked, “How much to get me one of those Gates down there?”

Erick fully entered the room. Zolan, Poi, and Tasar filed in behind him. Silverite had brought along her yellowscale secretary, Hera, who stood behind her. They had been talking with one of Zolan’s secretaries, but now it was time for the meeting. Hera stepped away from Silverite to stand by the wall. Zolan’s secretary stepped away to stand by the opposite wall, to stand beside Tasar and Poi.

This room was rather nicely appointed, with the secretary having already handed out tea and cookies for while Silverite waited. The room oversaw the Gate Road, Stratagold’s space, and the Wayfarer’s Guild’s, on the west of the House. It was one of the better meeting rooms, with a clear view of what Erick was trying to build here.

