Erick took a seat at the large couch across from Silverite’s own couch, putting on his negotiating-face as he said, “It’s about 1.5 million gold for a Gate, for material costs. Stratagold is subsidizing a few locations, which will eventually include Songli and other places on Gate Road, but Local Area Gate Networks will not qualify for Stratagold’s largesse. You will, of course, have to pay the usual rates, which we’re pretty sure is going to be a flat-rate situation; per tonnage, or per person. We’ve just decided that, actually.” He added, “Unless House Benevolence’s partners in the Underworld give us sufficient reason to go for a value-rate shipping cost, I doubt we will be doing that.”

Zolan set down some paperwork onto the table in front of Erick, where Silverite could easily reach and read them, then he stood to the side, waiting for orders, or to assist.

“I’m glad to see you’re back to your usual negotiating self, Erick.” Silverite donned her own negotiating-mask as she sat down across from Erick. “I feel that Spur has given you a lot already. We should get one of these Gates for free, as well as a year without taxes; flat-rate or cost-rate, or any other rate you can think of. Maybe even two Gates for free.”

Erick tried not to smile, as he said, “The price for a ‘Gate’ is for two of them; one at each side. And I have to support my own town now, Silverite. My money is already being used up so I can’t buy the Gate materials for you. If I did that for too many people I might be broke inside a year.” He added, “If, however, you want to wait until I can figure out how to make iron runic webs that don’t rust and are as good as platinum, then the initial costs will go down quite a lot. The flat-rate costs for shipments will remain in either scenario, though.”

Silverite asked, “And what happens if we buy a pair of Gates out of platinum and you start making them out of iron? Do we get a refund?”

“It’s the same thing that happens whenever anyone buys magical items and those items break; that money is simply gone.” Erick said, “No refunds.”

Silverite narrowed her eyes. “We’ll keep the Gates we purchased and the raw materials that went into making them.”

“The Gates will be proprietary information; they are mine, even if you do buy them.”

She asked after rates. Erick answered.

They bargained.

Half an hour later, Silverite and Erick parted ways amicably, and with plans made for the future.

Spur would be getting a Gate between Spur and the Financial District, which was a to-be-planned part of the Gate District. Their pair of Gates would cost them 250,000 gold and come with a flat rate fee of 1 gold per ton, and 1 gold per person. Spur could add on whatever other rates they wanted on top of those use-prices, but those use-prices were what Erick would get from travel through those Gates.

Those rates were rather experimental, but they were an order of magnitude smaller than the going rates for [Teleport] services on the Surface, and much lower than Erick’s initial pitch to Silverite. There was a lot of math involved in those rates, which Erick had been reading about for the last month, but most recently in Iloya’s report.

Candlepoint was 4 [Teleport]s away from Spur, and the cheapest going rate for [Teleport]s was 1 gold per blip, for just the caster to move once, in addition to 50 silver per ton or per extra person; half a gold. Blipping across the Crystal Forest was more expensive, because this land was not tamed, and it was therefore a danger to blip out in the open.

But still, the cheapest average cost of one blip was therefore 1.5 gold, at minimum, for carrying anything. A trip from Candlepoint to Spur, with a cargo of ten tons, came out to be 66 gold, since Candlepoint was 4 blips away from Spur.

Such a trip would cost the caster 5,500 mana with an un{Favored} [Teleport], or 2,750 mana for a {Favored} [Teleport], not to mention all the other spells they would have to be running in order to touch and transport all those goods. [Teleport] had a restriction of how many <hands> a person had, after all, so a normal mage would need to be running some sort of Elemental Body or, more realistically, a [Teleporting Platform] in order to move so many goods. Elemental Bodies and [Teleport Platform]s required a great deal of initial investment in the caster, and therefore the costs went up.

Wayfarers, though, were a Class and an organization of the same name with special options to make [Teleport] easier to use, and to go further.

Assuming a normal Wayfarer caster with Scion of Willpower (normal) for 4x Mana, and a Class that gave them a few more Abilities on top of that for even more resources, this meant that they would have around 12,000 Mana, and probably something like 15% mana costs for stuff like [Teleport]. They’d probably only have around 25 Focus, though, which would translate into 1,500 Mana Regen while at Rest.

Such a theoretical shipper would be able to move 10 tons of goods (and themselves) between Spur and Candlepoint about 12 times before they would need to Rest (8 for a non-Wayfarer with most of the same capabilities). And then they could do it again the next day. That’d be about 120 tons of goods shipped total, per day, and that’s not even getting into the nuances of only shipping goods in one direction, or having a route where goods got shipped between a dozen places in a ‘traveling salesman’ type of scenario.

120 tons might seem like a lot for one porter to ship, but it really wasn’t when considering cities of hundreds of thousands of people, each with their own needs and schedules. 120 tons shipped per day, per Wayfarer, was just the maximum capacity. The average amount was less than that.

But back to the math: Those 12 trips, each of which were 4 blips of 10 tons per blip at .5 gold per ton, plus 1 gold per blip per Wayfarer, came out to a shipper cost of 288 gold to move their goods across the Surface between Spur and Candlepoint.

Erick’s Gate between Spur and Candlepoint was a game changer.

At Erick’s Gate costs of 1 gold per ton and 1 gold per person, 120 tons of goods meant a cost of 120 gold, plus the cost of whoever came through the Gate with the goods.

And! If Spur wanted to move goods between them and Stratagold?

Now those were some savings. That sort of transaction would include traveling rates for the Spur Gate, as well as rates for the Stratagold Gate, but even still, it was much, much cheaper than literally any other shipping path on the planet. Such a savings would happen between Spur and every other city here in the Gate District. Erick wasn’t even really putting the Wayfarer’s out of jobs, either, because ‘last-[Teleport] services’ were still very necessary, even in a world with a Gate Network.

Therefore, the rates Erick proposed were quite reasonable even if the Gate cost itself, of 250,000 gold, was inflated, because Erick would be [Duplicate]ing the platinum for that runic web and it would cost him nothing.

Oh well. The lie of him not having [Duplicate] would have to stand for many, many centuries, Erick suspected.

At the end of the meeting Erick wondered how large of a reaction he would get from Portal if he offered them the same thing…

But he wouldn’t do that. Portal would get something much less generous. Erick wasn’t quite sure how much worse it would be, so he pulled Zolan and a few others of the Castellan office aside and had a small talk about numbers and rates. There was time. Eventually, though, that discussion ended as the next appointment loomed.

Zolan was excited.

Erick was too, actually.

- - - -

The Cooking Guilds of Nelboor were a strictly enforced guild system that primarily took place in Nelboor, as their name suggested, but they were more of an international organization in a lot of ways. They were no Wayfarer’s Guild, for sure. They were a lot smaller than the Big Two of the Adventurer’s Guild and the Mage Guild. But they did well. Erick thought of these next people sort of like he thought of the Michelin Guide system from Earth.

The Cooking Guilds of Nelboor might have started off as an Adventurer’s Guild guide on the best places to eat in all of Nelboor, if you can get in without starting a war, but they had transitioned into their own thing. They still kept the star ranking system, though, but instead of using it to rank threats, they used it to rank what sort of war could start if the ranked cooking location and its people would be destroyed.

“The ranking system is rather inflated these days,” said Hoga Kikaku, one of the Cooking Guilds representatives. He was an older human man in his 70s, but still solid for any age. He was from the Northern Provinces part of the Guilds and he wore a sharp red and black robe. “We have had a few war scares with a newly-baked 10 Star Cook here and there in the last fifty years, but that’s why we have the Lists. It’s why we ensure that every real Cook gets an assignment before they leave our schools, to prevent the other way in which wars have started; over a promising new Cook.”

“And that’s the crux of the issue, Wizard Flatt,” said Yotaro Tamon, the other representative from the Cooking Guilds. He was a rather plump demi man who wore yellow and orange robes. He was from the Songli Region of the Guilds. “This land is untamed and untested, and you are a known Wizard. We cannot grant you a place on the lists for these reasons.”

Erick decided to cut through days of negotiations, getting right to the heart of the matter; directly to what Hoga and Yotaro wanted to hear. “I’ll take some retired Cooks, give them [Reincarnation]s, and take their oath of service for 10 years. They will be paid the normal going rates and granted housing here in the House, or wherever else they wish to live in Candlepoint.”

Hoga and Yotaro both went a little still, both of them trying not to show too much emotion. They were like open books, anyway. Happy, excited, mad that they had been seen through this easily. Both of them were ready to jump at the opportunity themselves but they both pulled back for any number of reasons. Propriety, probably. The two Cooks from Nelboor shared a small, furtive glance, then they looked to Erick. They had prepared for this, but they did not expect it to come about so easily, or with so many benefits.

When neither of the men spoke, Erick continued, “My goal is twofold. I want anyone to be able to go into a restaurant here in the House, or even in Candlepoint, and have world class food, of any kind they wish to order. On a smaller scale, I might desire a personal Cook, though that will be a more rigorous interview than this one here. And just so you know, all fees regarding Gate travel will be waived for anyone who works here. A Cook who works here will be able to get ingredients from literally the entire world; as easy as stepping through a Gate and finding a local market. I also plan on power leveling anyone who chooses this option, though my Enforcement branch will be the people who actually do that; I will not be doing that myself.”

The deal just got better and better for them.

When Erick stopped talking, Hoga instantly began, “We have a small list of Cooks who desire such an offer—”

“With more of them reaching out each day!” Yotaro added, breaking decorum with his obvious enthusiasm.

Yotaro briefly realized he had fucked up in some way, showing their cards. Erick didn’t care about that, though. Hoga nodded slowly, trying to regain control of the situation, while Yotaro tried not to recoil too much.

Hoga continued, “We have lists of Cooks who desire your offer, and lists of Cooks who we suspect will appreciate your offer, but who have not contacted us yet. Let us go over the first list, of those who desire an arrangement to be made for a cast of [Reincarnation]?”

Erick gestured to Zolan, who stood at his side, “Zolan is my Castellan, who will be dealing the most with whoever comes from your Guild. Therefore, he will join this talk now.”

Zolan sat down and grinned a little. “It’s good to see you again, Hoga. Yotaro.”

“Greetings, Zolan,” Hoga said, finally able to talk to Zolan. The two of them knew each other from previous dealings at Oceanside, but that had happened decades ago. Hoga was still glad to finally be able to acknowledge Zolan, though. “You are looking rather different these days.”

“Perk of the job.” Zolan got right into it, asking, “Is Atalle on that list?”

Yotaro gave a little sigh, though it was more of relief than anything else. “Good to see you haven’t changed.”

Yotaro had known of Zolan, too, but their professional relationship had been less than wonderful; Erick could tell.

“Atalle Slipstream is on the list.” Hoga said, “Along with others.”

Zolan said to Erick, “Atalle retired from cooking professionally on Oceanside fifteen years ago and has been [Force Platform]ing around in the classroom, trying to teach others how to cook as well as she could cook. Her apprentices are great, but she’s the real deal; a 10 star Cook.”

“Then we’re taking Atalle,” Erick said, and then he let Zolan take over.

Zolan did so, smiling as he said, “Continue with the list.”

The conversation took less than an hour. In the following week, Erick would gain 11 world class Cooks between star 7 and 9, along with the 10 star Cook Atalle Slipstream. All of them had various focuses, from breakfast foods to general foods, to cooking in the Nelboor style, to the Greensoil way, and so on and so forth. Erick expected the House to gain many different eatery options in the coming month.

Food was great for a sense of community, and Erick was certainly building a community here.

After the meeting Zolan was through-the-roof excited, talking about various dishes that he hadn’t been able to eat in decades. His excitement was infectious, for sure.

Erick was glad.

And then it was time to have the meeting with Portal.

- - - -

Erick entered the room with Zolan at his side and Poi and Tasar behind him.

Two people waited for them inside the room. Lower Trademaster Rohi Wavefield, and Upper Trademaster Sarai Masterson.

Rohi was an older human man with grey hair and beard, with weathered skin like he had spent his whole life out on the ocean. He wore loose pants and a loose vest that showed off his wiry grey chest hair and his aged, yet muscular body. Erick thought of him as a sailor who had been forced to gussy up and still didn’t know how to do it very well. The guy seemed new to his job. This made sense, since Rohi had been the one to replace Caradogh Pogi as the Lower Trademaster of Portal just last year. Rohi was the new organizer of non-magical goods which flowed through the Pearl Kingdom.

