Vanya turned to him. Their simple shared look dispelled most of her reasserted frown, and then a certain heat returned to her face, and probably to Soltic’s, too. And then Vanya looked away, as though she was somehow shy. Soltic knew she was not shy at all, but she was very good at pretending. She probably just wanted to think more on the current situation, though, instead of anything else they could be doing.

After a moment, Vanya said, “This place is fucked up. I had heard stories and done some investigation before I came here, but it’s worse than I thought.”

Soltic lay back on the bed and put his arms behind his head. “Assuming that she wants it to change, then this is going to either take a reveal, or some subterfuge, or something else to disturb this place and make it how I know you want to make it.”

“It could be so much better!” Vanya blurted. More calmly, she said, “With Everbless controlling the mana all around the island and shoving monsters along corridors… I don’t really agree with how they’re doing this, but it works over at Dungeon Island, and they don’t have an Everbless over there to make it work this well.” She turned and faced Soltic. “You know those dungeons are cramped on the other sides of those portals.”

“You’d know more about that than I would.”

Vanya went, “Bah! You know how this all works just as well as I do.”

“Now that’s where you’re wrong,” Soltic said, grinning under his beard, which he was just now realizing hid his smile rather well. Maybe he didn’t have to pretend to be such a dour guy after all. He could allow himself to smile more, and if people saw, then that was fine. “I theoretically know how they operate, but you’re the one with dungeon creation experience.”

“… How would you ‘theoretically’ go about changing what you see?”

Soltic gazed at Vanya, and easily said, “I would delegate the job to you.”

Vanya slapped him with a pillow.

Soltic laughed.

And Vanya gave an easy smile. “You’re a lot more relaxed about this trip than I thought you would be.”

“Oh, don’t mistake the facade for relaxation. I’m freaking out internally, but I’m also letting go of expectations.” Soltic asked, “You want to delve the dungeons at midnight, or something?”

Vanya thought for a moment, then she got up and out of bed, saying, “Nope. Let’s go have dinner. Or whatever passes for dinner around here.”

- - - -

The beer flowed like water down at the guild bar and restaurant. Soltic and Vanya ran into Barda and Nero again, and though dinner was priced in gold or rads, it was good food, almost worthy of the price. Seared local fish, thick and flaky and brilliant white, rice imported from Alaralti in the Songli Highlands, which was rather cheap thanks to the Gate Network, and fried banana-like things taken from one island over that added a perfect sweetness to the meal.

Spearing a fried banana slice with her fork, Barda said, “I’ve been to a hundred dungeons so far, but Nero and I keep coming back to this place because he’s a local and we can get in easily, and it’s a good life. Soon as we get enough savings and innate mana generation, we’re thinking of relocating to some place like Dungeon Island, or maybe…” She looked to Nero, and tried out the word, “Candlepoint.”

Nero almost spat out his beer. “You want to go there?!”

Obviously Candlepoint was a point of contention amongst them.

Pretty normal, really.

Barda shrugged. “I hear they have good dungeons.”

Vanya easily said, “They’re good, but they’re busy. Much busier than here. The Archlich’s Grand Dungeon is for high-veteran delvers only, but you can get to anywhere through Candlepoint, so a lot of people make Candlepoint their base, wait for a turn at the Grand Dungeon, but delve elsewhere the world over. The Highlands have a lot of good mid-level dungeons, if you want another step before taking on the Grand Dungeons.”

Nero looked at her. “I thought this was your first trip to the Surface?”

“We’ve been…” Vanya glanced to Soltic.

Soltic gave her a look and a shrug, which was what she wanted him to do.

And then Vanya said to Nero, “We’ve been looking to relocate in any number of different areas, actually. Candlepoint is on the list.”

Barda focused. “So you’ve been to the Grand Dungeon?”

“A few times.” Vanya said, “It’s dangerous. You’re going to die at least once in there. I know I did.”

Soltic nodded, adding his silent weight to the conversation.

Nero scowled. It was the first negative emotion Soltic had seen on the guy. “I would prefer not to die at all.” He looked at Barda, saying, “I came close three times, and that’s when I decided not to do the dangerous dungeons anymore. That’s why we're here, back at my homeland.”

Barda took a moment, holding back her words, before blurting, “It’s not a big deal, right? To die?”

Nero looked ready to explode in anger—

But Vanya instantly said, “You’re wrong, Barda. Death is a horror, each and every time. The pain of having your head ripped off by a giant crab. Feeling your insides slip away to be gorged on by rats closing in on all sides. Burning alive. Even the lesser deaths of blood loss in a warm ocean, dying before the sharks could close in… They’re all horrible. Some people become numb to the pain, or they learn how to heal themselves exceedingly quickly. But sometimes people get sensitized to the pain, and they can’t ever go into a dungeon ever again.”

A few people at the nearby tables stopped what they were doing. They listened.

Barda and Nero were already absolutely focused on Vanya’s words.

Vanya continued, “I learned to heal fast, so that’s me, but others have different experiences. Those places with those dangerous dungeons have therapists ready to talk, but besides that, there are plenty of other people who have gone through the same things in those places, so you can always find someone in a bar or otherwise who might have gone through what you went through. Death is not something to normalize, but the Grand Dungeons can and do bring people back from death as a matter of routine.” She added, “The real danger is how it makes you feel, to go through death like it’s a normal thing. Like: ‘if healing is so easy, then what’s the point of being careful?’ That sort of thinking is the real danger.”

Erick loved to hear Quilatalap, the teacher, so it was kinda nice to know that ‘Vanya’ shared at least that part of his real personality. And the topic was pretty interesting, too. But ‘Soltic’ wouldn’t engage with this sort of conversation; he was more dour than that, unfortunately…

But maybe he could be less dour around friends? Sure. Why not.

It didn’t look like Barda or Nero were ready to talk, anyway.

Soltic said, “I try not to die in the first place; it’s worked out mostly, but I’ve had a lot of close shaves. Scares the shit out of you, every time.”

Barda and Nero went wide-eyed.

And then Barda decided that was enough talk of dour things, and said, “I never got to cleave a real wyrm in half back when wyrm season was a thing in Glaquin, but I managed the feat not two months ago in the Pit!” She smiled. “Sheared it right from nose to ass, I did! Now that was some scary shit!”

Nero smiled softly, then said to Vanya and Soltic, “You heard the full Pit-dungeon layout, yet? It’s not too scary at all, except for that final boss.”

“I’ve gotten much better about cleaving wyrms in half,” Barda said, smiling.

“I don’t know much about the dungeon, but I assume there’s a wyrm involved,” Vanya said, “I don’t need to know more, though. I’d prefer to go in blind.”

Barda and Nero went a little wide-eyed at that, but Barda was impressed, while Nero was vaguely judgemental and trying not to be.

Vanya changed the subject, “It’s just you two that go in yourselves, right? I assume warrior and mage?”

Barda smiled. “Nero here has gotten a lot better magery through practical learning than he could get through an Arcanaeum. I think the whole arcanaeum shit is on the outs, soon enough.”

Nero said, “I dabble in whatever passes for magic these days. Hard to know, with every dungeon system out there being different from each other. I do have an aura, though.”

Vanya said, “Soltic and I got our auras a while ago. Whatever the dungeons can throw at you, they can’t really restrict basic magics.”

“You two are big-city delvers, aren’t you?” Nero asked.

“Something like that,” Vanya said. “Storm’s Edge should be a big city delver location, too. You got the people, and the manasphere control thanks to Everbless. There really should be a Grand Dungeon here, but it’s all normal, small dungeons, that break all the time. Why is that?”

“Politics,” Barda said, scowling.

Nero explained, “The Church of Sininindi has their World Tree move the mana around, so they’re the first hurdle to overcome when it comes to changing the way this place works… or maybe they’re not. Not like Everbless would cause dungeons to spawn inside the city; his mommy is raising that ‘kid’ right, far as any locals can tell. The Regency is the real problem; they try to control everything.”

“Everyone is worried about the shifting world,” Barda said, “They want things to stay the same, but it can’t.”

Nero said, “It’s the problem of obsolescence. Monsters don’t assail the walls, or climb up from the depths of the sewers, or swim in from the ocean; not anymore. People don’t [Teleport] attack anymore; not even for burglary or smaller thefts. This means that life is better than ever, but it also means everything is so much easier to control, but a lot of us grew up listening to stories about how it used to be, and we want that freedom. Sininindi is all about freedom of movement, too. But the Regency wants to keep the dungeons small and useless except for money, and in doing so, they gradually weaken the power of those growing up in this new age. This is what they want to happen. They want to make us obsolescent. I’m not even level 50… Not that it would do me much good in a dungeon, anyway.

“Like, I’m only 26 years old. I wasn’t even matriculated back when the Exoduses happened. My father and grandfather, though, talk about so many things that I’ll never do, and that’s what drove me to become a delver; it’s the only way to live that sort of life.” With a finality, Nero said, “I’m not going to settle down like some baker, or accountant. That’s just not me. I doubt my kids would want that sort of life, either.”

“And we’ve gotta be ready for the dungeon breaks,” Barda added.

“And that!” Nero said, excitedly. “The danger is never going away. The monsters are not gone. They’ve just been corralled into dark holes in the world for a little while. I think the Regency is cutting off a hand to [Cleanse] the slime. If they don’t put in better dungeons, then when some dungeon in another part of the Archipelago breaks, how are we going to defend ourselves from the real ‘Trials of the Dark’?”

For a moment, their part of the eatery was quiet.

Soltic asked, “Is that a common sentiment around here, among the locals?”

“Ehhh…” Barda waffled. She wasn’t sure how to deal with Soltic asking the question, for he had kept quiet most of the night except for here, where actual conflict might arise. Soltic and Vanya had agreed on the general shape of their roles days before coming here, and one of those shapes was that Vanya would be the talker, since she would be directly involved with whatever was to come, while Soltic would only get involved if something looked to go dangerous. And so, he had gotten involved here. After a moment, Barda decided to say, “Nero’s view is rather common, but no one talks about it because it’s bordering on Cultism.”

Soltic leaned back in his chair a little. “Ahhh.”

Nero turned a little red. “I’m not a— One of those.”

Vanya chuckled, saying, “Cultists aren’t so bad, though a lot of them go way too hard on the anti-Pantheon rhetoric.”

Barda smirked a little, while Nero paled. Barda said, “Now that’s bordering on Cultism, for sure.”

Vanya easily defended herself, “The Cult has always been about personal preparation for danger, and learning true magic to combat that danger. It’s not an inherently wrong idea, but that’s how they get you. They make you think that since they’re reasonable in one way, that all the rest of their ideas are reasonable, too. And they’re not.”

Like a light had gone off behind his eyes, Nero said, “Yes! That. I’m going to steal that phrase there, if you don’t mind.”

“Not a problem,” Vanya said, smiling, “Steal away.”

Soltic said, “They have a lot of anti-Cult things happening around here?”

“Yes. Automatically banned from almost everything,” Nero said. “If you stick around with the dungeons then you’ll get a visit from the Regency soon enough and you’ll have to defend your desire to enter the dungeons. Vacationers are usually exempt, though.”

Barda smiled. “Now that’s a better topic! What sort of vacation have you two planned?”

Vanya said, “Wherever the storm and seas blow us, we’ll be there. Might even stick around for a while; not sure. Actual settling locations might be Candlepoint, or Alaralti in the Highlands, or maybe Dungeon Island, but probably not that last one.”

Soltic simply nodded.

Nero and Barda grinned, both of them seeming to relax. The beer helped.

Mostly, though, they were glad that their light interrogation had gone well. Soltic didn’t think Barda or Nero were actually an organized part of the various spy networks situated around the space, but they certainly knew what they were doing with their small questions. Perhaps they were being spied on as well, and making a more secure cover for themselves? Hard to tell. Maybe they were just friendly, and they knew that if newcomers came in, looking suspicious, that those newcomers would get driven out.

… or something.

Hopefully the spies sitting around the guildhouse had gotten enough information out of Soltic and Vanya to prevent an actual confrontation until they were ready for that confrontation. The teller over at the counter, burning the near-midnight oil, was the same guy pretending to read a book whom Soltic and Vanya had dealt with earlier. He seemed to dismiss them again, just like he had before.

