Another guy was not so dismissive at all. That other man sat behind a desk in a building about 250 meters away, well outside of the range of most every normal person’s mana sense, watching them with his mana sense and taking general notes. He had not dismissed Soltic and Vanya nearly as easily as the teller. Not only had he marked down everything that the two of them had said, he was marking down new information in a thick file he already had on Barda and Nero.

He also had a bunch of magic all around him that had hidden him from view. Or at least he did, until Erick sent a covert Ophiel over there to stick his wing inside the protected space. Erick had seen the space well before now and had decided to ignore it. But here at dinner, he could not; not when Barda and Nero were doing such a polite interrogation, and certainly not once he got the impression that he was actively being spied upon. Checking out that otherwise-hidden space was, perhaps, a violation of Erick’s personal decision not to do too much, and to absolutely not do anything that would out him as a spy, or a plant, or whatever.

But when people spied on others in a routine, business-sort-of-way, simply collecting information on everyone who was present in a public location, it felt like a violation.

Of course, the people spying were from the Regency, and this was their nation, and this type of spying wasn’t abnormal at all when those things were considered, so…

Erick did what he had to do to make himself feel a little safer.

Eventually, their little group was the last little group in the restaurant.

As the four of them walked away to the hotel side of the guildhouse, Barda said, “With any luck at all you should get a dungeon slot tomorrow. Show up at noon; only the soldiers actually wake up early around here.”

“Then that is what we’ll do,” Vanya said, then she wished them good night.

Soltic crashed into bed and got to work trying to fall asleep, because he was full, and safe, and he needed to have a dream-talk with Sininindi. Vanya followed Soltic into bed, and soon they were laying together, warm against one another, and drifting off to elsewhere.

- - - -

Erick stood upon the surface of a stormy ocean. Mountainous waves undulated across the world, coming Erick’s way, while the depths of a True Abyss held below his wet feet. The sky was a riot of black and endless rain and brilliant, shattering lightning, with hurricane gusts that tore at his clothes and mangled his hair.

But it was a dream. All of it certainly felt real, but Erick had been through enough of these things to know the difference. And then, just like that, Erick was a calm point in the storm. The wind did not touch him, and the mountainous waves did not crash upon him; it all went still.

The storm still raged, but it was a quiet thing, made even more quieter as a sudden voice filled the sky, “Ah! Finally. Thought you’d never fall asleep.”

The storm rained and the ocean went flat as a distant cloud tumbled into the shape of a tree’s canopy, and lightning became a crown. Everbless was much larger in the dream, yet he was still so very far away.

Sininindi stepped onto the ocean’s surface next to Erick, matching him for height. She looked as she usually did. Her sail-cloth dress wrapped around her strong body, and aside from having an ephemeral, divine-gold look to her edges, she seemed as normal as any other shipwreck survivor might look.

Gone were the days of antagonism between her and Erick; more than a decade gone, actually. She smiled upon seeing him up close, her stormy eyes filling with joy.

“I’m so glad you have a good cover. I was worried about that, but obviously I should not have been. I asked for subterfuge and I got it.” Sininindi said, “And you’re already on the task. It’s wonderful.”

Her joy was infectious.

Erick couldn’t help but grin, as he asked, “Got any specifics you desire?”

“Yes! It’s all rather simple, and you’re well positioned to do it, too. ‘Soltic’ and ‘Vanya’ can stick around as long as necessary for Vanya to be allowed to create a Grand Dungeon, and then Vanya makes that Grand Dungeon. Ideally no one finds out about either of you two, ever, but I know that once the Grand Dungeon gets up and running, that someone is going to figure out something, and then they’ll probably attack the Grand Dungeon. By that time it will be too late to usurp Quilatalap’s control. If Quilatalap serves as I desire, then everyone gets what they want. If not, then I expect you to come in and annihilate his dangerous dungeon. I doubt that caveat is necessary to say, but I am saying it anyway.” Sininindi said, “Furthermore: I appreciate that you have taken my warning not to get involved with Everbless to heart, but I need more assurances, so as soon as the Grand Dungeon reaches a tipping point and it will be created, you need to leave.

“Quilatalap must stay for 5 years to ensure it remains steady. But you need to leave, and then not come back. No direct contact, either. For 5 years. The longer you’re around Storm’s Edge the more chances my baby has to see you, and Everbless is too young to get confused about his parentage right now. Soon as Storm’s Edge is on its way to getting a Grand Dungeon made by the Archlich, Quilatalap gets a pass from me for his various crimes over the years, and I will remove my part of Yggdrasil’s seal.”

Sininindi stood in front of Erick, knowing what she had said, and what it all meant.

Erick stood stunned.

Suddenly, he hated Sininindi all over again.

He wasn’t sure where to start.

Sininindi knew this would happen though, which is probably why she repeated a few facts in her spiel and then stared him down like she was preparing to be punched in the face.

Erick very nearly did punch her in the face. She was close enough. His fist could reach. If she tried to run, then he would chase her down and punch her anyway. He was a fucking Wizard and he would punch a god if they deserved it, and right now, Sininindi deserved a good punch!

And then Erick had a second thought. He needed to understand… He needed to know if he was understanding her correctly. Maybe she had misspoke?

“… You want me to abandon Quilatalap to you?”

“Essentially, yes. I would prefer no-contact at all, and for your and his presence here to never be remarked upon at all, but [Telepathy] is acceptable.”

Erick rapidly complained, “[Telepathy] doesn’t work that well when a recipient is inside a dungeon. Quilatalap will be inside the dungeon, almost all the time.”

“I am aware.”

Erick put away his fury.

He became the Apparent King.

“… This is an unenviable position you have put me into, Sininindi.”

“I am aware of that, too. But it’s only 5 years.”

Erick had a lot of rejoinders to that. Everything from ‘that’s 5 years I will never get back’ to ‘what the fuck is wrong with you’. But he rapidly realized that 5 years was nothing to Quilatalap, and that the Archlich of Necromancy Itself would take this deal.

Though most of the Pantheon hated Quilatalap, Koyabez vouched for him, and to a certain extent, so did Rozeta. Having another vote for him among the Pantheon meant that he might be able to walk around openly. The Pantheon was different from the Relevant Entities, though, of whom Quilatalap likely had no chance of ever being forgiven, since those forces included the Angels and the Demons. But the Pantheon was a start, and Quilatalap could deal with angels and demons easily enough. Priests and otherwise were harder to deal with, by far.

Atunir, Goddess of Field and Fertility still absolutely hated the man for very, very old wounds caused by the Rage Wars at the start of the Script. The spread of necromancy was also something that Atunir abhorred, but not for any real reason, except for personal reasons.

Aloethag, Goddess of Beauty and Brutality, and to a lesser extent blood, had a tenuous relationship with Quilatalap, but that was mostly due to pre-Sundering problems. Back when Aloethag was Aloeth, Goddess of Elves and Blood, the elves were among the largest warmongers of the Old Cosmology, and in direct opposition/competition with many orcs, like Quilatalap. Quilatalap didn’t like Aloethag for a bunch of very personal reasons that basically did not exist here on Veird anymore. Aloethag didn’t really care about Quilatalap at all, but sometimes other orcols did, and so Aloethag sent priests after him sometimes, for whatever sorts of reasons there happened to be. One time, Quilatalap had spat on an effigy of Aloethag, and then Aloethag had sprayed blood on him, and then it was a whole thing; petty, to look back on, but at the time it was serious.

And then there was war. Sumtir, God of Righteous War, who had been ‘God of War’ before the Sundering, similarly hated Quilatalap, or at least the remnant ‘Church of True War’ hated him. The current incarnation of the God of War still sent people after Quilatalap occasionally, but only when Quilatalap remained in a known, vulnerable location for a while, and usually only because Sumtir’s clergy got tons of requests from other people to track down and kill Quilatalap, or to thieve from him whatever they could get.

Lotta people tried to steal from him all the time.

If someone neutral-ish like Sininindi stepped onto Quilatalap’s side…

Erick had no choice but to accept what was happening here, for Quilatalap would take this offer; no doubt. With a heavy voice, Erick asked, “Will you support him, when he chooses to accept this task? Keep him as safe as I have? And if his cover should fail, will you bring him back to me, safely?”

“Yes,” Sininindi said, without hesitation.

Erick breathed. “Okay.”

And then he woke up.

- - - -

Erick woke up on the bed, in the body of Soltic.

Quilatalap sat on a chair on the other side of the room, looking distraught yet solid, in the body of Vanya.

Erick sat up.

Quilatalap said, “I’m taking the offer.”

“… It’s the smart thing to do, so of course you are. I would have called you a fool if you had passed it up, and you’re no fool at all.” With a heavy heart, Erick said, “I’ll miss you.”

“I’ll miss you, too. Since she wants no-contact, though… Do you want to talk about us?”

Erick had known that that was coming, too, but he had hoped…

He had hoped for a lot of things.

Erick said, “I don’t want to do no-contact.”

“I am willing to do a lot for this opportunity.”

“… Let’s talk tomorrow. After the dungeon run tomorrow, if we can get one. But for now… Know that when it gets to be too much, and when it’s time for action, I am here for you.”

“Thank you.”

Soltic asked, “Come back to bed?”

Vanya got back in bed.
