Rocks shifted under Soltic’s shoes as he walked along the coast, with Vanya at his side. They had left the Blue Temple and Sailor Asmus behind five minutes ago and now they were on a mostly empty stretch of harbor beach, south of Everbless. The beach was rocky and absent of almost all people, though a painter stood further inland, alone upon a hill, painting Everbless to the north.

The air was breezy and laden with moisture, and the sun was somewhere far beyond the stacked clouds overhead. It would have been a dreary setting, except the sun shone upon every horizon, beyond the clouds, except where the clouds touched the inland mountains and rainforests. Up ahead, the edge of the crescent harbor stretched out north, curving all the way around to the other side of Everbless, before the rocky crescent dove under the Letri Ocean.

Erick had almost reached his senses out through Ophiel to check on everything he had heard about from Sailor Asmus, but Soltic refrained. Instead, Soltic allowed himself to get lost in the simple joy of walking along the beach, and using only the senses he personally had to go over everything he had heard back there, in the Blue Temple.

Vanya seemed to be having a lot of thoughts, too, because she wasn’t speaking, either.

Soltic said, “It seems we both decided that walking to the dungeon road was what we’re going to do, but it appears we don’t have to do that right away. We could go back and check out the Storm Priests. We could go to the Regency public offices. Check out the Adventurer’s Guild in town, and find out where the Dungeon Guild offices are.”

Vanya thought as Soltic spoke, and then she said, “I want to go see the lay of the land. I want to see the dungeons first. Where do you want to go first?”

Erick’s eyes turned toward Everbless. “A tour?”

“… Better not.” Quilatalap said, “We’re here for a mission and I would like it if we stick to that mission.”

Erick felt the weight of responsibility press upon him. Sininindi had specifically told him years and years ago that he was not to have any contact with Everbless; that Everbless was not his son, and that Everbless was wholly and fully Sininindi’s joy.

Erick had needed to remind himself of that several times today. He would likely need to remind himself that fact several dozen more times before he was done here, at Storm’s Edge.

“I really want to see him closer, though,” Erick said, “I feel like I should. That I need to.”

“We’ve had this talk before.” Quilatalap asked, “Do you actually need? Or do you want?”

“… I’m not sure.” Erick frowned. “All I really know is that I expected some sort of direct contact back there at the Blue Temple… Some sort of actual word and actual instruction, and not that vaguery.” Erick retreated, and Soltic came out. “Less mystery, more doing.”

Vanya smiled a little. She shrugged. “I think it’s fine. We’ve got lots and lots of time, Soltic. Lots of time.”

Soltic felt his heart skip a beat. “… Yeah. I suppose we do.” He smiled, plucking Sailor Asmus’s words and using them as his own, as he said, “Especially if ‘That Damned Wizard’ keeps up his [Reincarnation]s going for the next 40 years.” He held up an arm, showing off a big bicep and shoulder, playfully asking, “I could go for some more mass, ya think?”

Vanya laughed. “What! You’d have to be an orcol to get bigger.”

“I could do that. Would you be an orcol with me?”

Vanya shook her head. “No way. That sort of pretty is too pretty. I like normal people's looks, thank-you-very-much.”

“You’d make a beautiful orcol.”

Vanya chuckled, her small, happy sounds carrying away in the wind.

With a dejected air, Soltic sarcastically bemoaned, “I suppose you’re good enough as a human woman. SIGH.”

Vanya laughed louder.

Soltic couldn’t help himself; he grabbed Vanya and lifted her up, spinning her around, smiling as he listened to the beautiful sounds of happy laughter that only increased as she giggled under his grip. He set her back down and kissed her deeply.

Vanya pulled away all too quickly, smiling brightly, a tease in her eyes as she hopped forward, and then took off at a little jog, calling out, “Catch me if you can!”

For a brief moment, Erick marveled at his life. Two days ago he had been swamped with last-day work, turning a single day into over a week of final preparations. And now he was here, in a body of his own making that was not his original Form, on a beach with Quilatalap while he wore a body that was not his original, too. It was a working vacation, but all they had to solve was one problem. Sure, it had all turned into a mess of intrigue well before they actually got to the dungeons, and Sininindi wasn’t speaking to them, but then again, Erick hadn’t called out to the Goddess of Storm and Sea yet, and it was still just one problem.

Last week, Erick had solved a thousand problems in a single day. Of course, he barely remembered all those problems (a lie told to himself; he remembered them all) so being on the ground, here at the area that needed help, with Quilatalap at his side and all his worries delayed by months…

It was nice.

Soltic smiled as he gave a halfhearted chase, easily catching up to Vanya and taking her hand into his. They walked together till it was hard to walk on the rocky beach side by side, and then Vanya led the way, over boulder-strewn hills, and onto cliffside paths.

Soltic asked, “Do you think the goddess will give us actual instruction?”

“Only if we’re fucking up,” Vanya easily added, “Or maybe in our dreams. Probably your dreams; not mine.”

- - - -

The ‘monster highway’ had signage posted kilometers before they could actually see the highway. All Soltic could really see was more cliffside paths ahead of them, the ocean to the north, and dense rainforest to the south, where the trees fully covered the mountains. Mana sensing was a different story, though.

All along the paths, Soltic had been sensing the flow of the unseen world. The world was twisted near Everbless, in some sort of funneling that made the mana near Storm’s Edge rather calm and boring, but swirling and denser near Yggdrasil’s little brother. Here, closer to the monster road, that flow had become a true current.

The manasphere flowed eastward, unnaturally, tainted by Elemental Rain, and Storm, and even a bit of Lightning. Elemental Cloud was the only one truly visible to the naked eye, though, for the clouds flowed from Everbless, to here, and then further on.

Eventually Soltic and Vanya reached a final warning sign, set to the edge of the disused cliffside path.

- -

ATTENTION: MONSTERS AHEAD

You have been warned

- -

Beyond that sign lay another cliff.

All this way, Soltic and Vanya had been steadily climbing, neither of them wanting to speed up the process with spellwork, for both of them were likely going to be [Witness]ed eventually. And so, they had been going along as mundanely as possible, leaving behind the ocean and the sounds of surf far below, both of them sweating a little as they crested the path.

The mountain dropped away in a hard slope, a few hundred meters down and away and secured in stonework to ensure the cliff remained strong in the face of disaster. A few kilometers away, further east, the cliffside came back up, almost all the way to the level which Soltic and Vanya stood upon.

Between those two worked-stone cliffs lay a long stretch of beach, far below, that stretched out to the north by another kilometer and a half. That beach continued inland by several kilometers, the two cliffs forming walls, with nothing but sands between them.

Sands, and monsters.

It was a highway of death.

Currently, that death was four flying whales, strewn out across the lands, looking like they had been fleeing, or fighting, but they had lost, for a whole school of longscale toothers had taken down the whales. Those long, barracuda-like fish feasted on the corpses, flying through the air and through the blubbery bodies to get at the organs inside.

There were lots of flying fish on Veird, but the monstrous ones flew most of all.

Vanya said, “Looks like we missed the action by a few minutes.”

“They can’t have been dead long,” Soltic agreed. “Lotta skeletons in those sands, too.”

Vanya took a moment to look at the path leading down into the monster highway, and then across to the other side of the place. “I’m [Scry]ing the other side. There’s a watchtower on the other side. Looks like a lot of people.” She turned back to Soltic. “I’m pretty sure the Dungeon Guild is down the monster road, near the dungeons, but that place over there looks happening.”

“Let’s go to the dungeons; we don’t need to talk to the people at the watchtower.” Soltic looked south, to where the monster road led deep into a canyon that had been carved between the mountains, while the mountains themselves had been altered in what had to have been some truly massive landshaping. And then he looked up and around, at the mana in the air, and how it flowed in the sky, and then down the monster road. It turned thick down there. Almost as thick as from a [Cleanse]. Soltic gave himself a little [Cleanse]. A bit of sweat and dirt turned into thick air and rapidly flowed down into the artificial valley. “That is some well controlled mana flow.”

Vanya began heading south, alongside the cliff of the monster road, saying, “Everbless does a good job of controlling the flow. I wonder if that’s a new development, or was he doing that ten years ago? Back when he was still a baby tree?”

Soltic followed Vanya, saying. “No idea.”

- - - -

An hour later, and several kilometers further inland, Erick finally felt safe enough to speak, in code, of what they had seen back there, and more importantly, what they had not seen. Quilatalap had mentioned that Everbless must be the one controlling the flow, but was that the full story? Probably not. He had surely seen what Erick had seen.

For floating above the artificial canyon, back there at the coast, had been something untoward.

Something made of a thousand tendrils and even more eyes. Ophiel had almost come out of his hiding when he saw that, for the thing sitting high in the air, above where water met land, had almost touched Erick and Quilatalap. Its tendrils had been kilometers long, and it certainly could have touched them, if it wanted to. But it had not. It had certainly looked at them, and gotten near them, its tendrils floating around both Erick and Quilatalap as though it was checking them out, testing and tasting without doing either of those actions at all. It was just there, hanging out, thinking itself invisible and intangible, and yet to the Wizard and the Archlich, it had been none of that at all.

“So the mana flows back there were pretty well done,” Erick started. “But the mana flows here seem more wild.” And that was true. Here, deeper in the valley, the mana flows were almost natural, but thick air still flowed across the sandy ground in the canyon down below, collecting on boulders or inside craters. “The thick air isn’t actually going into the ground like it should, though.”

Quilatalap nodded, saying, “I think Everbless’s roots are much larger than his upper body. He probably has magic hidden everywhere around here.”

“… I guess that could explain it?”

Quilatalap shrugged.

Erick saw that Quilatalap wasn’t really worried…

So Soltic wasn’t worried, either.

- - - -

It was an empty, desert-like canyon, tens of kilometers across, with low stonework divisions and canals that acted as funneling systems for the mana, and for the monsters. Within seven nodes of the canyon— six all around and one in the center— lay the open, black-ringed portals that were the dungeons.

The dungeons were far away from every inhabited part of the island.

Beyond the canyon, two more monster roads led in from the south, and the east, though the northern route they had just come in on and the southern route were both angled closer to northwest, and south-southwest, than straight cardinal directions. The northern route had wound back and forth in the mountains, too, to account for varied geography.

All of the construction was purposefully made to avoid the majority of civilization on the western edge of the island.

It was, perhaps…

“It’s just the oddest damned way to do this, isn’t it?” Vanya asked, rhetorically. “This monster funneling.”

She knew a lot more about this dungeon stuff than Soltic, but only because she had been making these things work all across the world for the last 11 years, and hands-on experience was worth a lot more than ‘read it in a book’ or ‘watched it happened’ experience. Vanya was up to 27 dungeons at the moment.

Soltic and Vanya stood upon the crest of a hill, overlooking ‘dungeon valley’, according to the sign posted at the edge of the walking road they had taken to get here. They were technically outside of the monster-traveling zones, but Soltic imagined that that would change, soon enough.

Vanya stood beside him, surveying the land ahead just like he was, adding, “It’s what they do over at Dungeon Island.” It was not a satisfied sort of statement, or really an explanation. It was more of an ‘It’s not wrong, but not what I would do.’ “We should be seeing people walk toward those dungeons.” Vanya frowned. “I see monsters down there… But no people entering or leaving the dungeons?”

“There’s a few people further away.” Soltic offered, “Maybe they have set schedules? No people lining up outside, waiting to be let in? They might line up elsewhere, too.”

“… I suppose they could also have people just entering and exiting as they are wont, but the number of people going in and out might simply be low...” Vanya’s frown remained strong. “Something weird is happening here. This is not what I expected to find at all.”

“Should we go and check out a dungeon? Flight spells and armor? Or—” Soltic gestured across the land, pointing toward the southern edge of the artificial canyon, where sparse greenery turned into denser greenery, and the mountains turned natural and rainforested again. “I think I see buildings in that mountain forest.”

Vanya huffed, and started walking along the edge of the canyon, headed around toward the southern side. “Let’s go see the guildhouse. We’ll fly once we’re not over the dungeon canyon itself.”

And so they did.

Along the way they spotted two more of those eldritch, invisible, intangible tentacle monsters, flying in the sky, directing the mana. Both monsters were too far away to interact with them at all, and Soltic and Vanya didn’t really look at them too much, lest they draw the monsters’ attentions.

