And they were monsters. They were not [Familiar]s. Soltic could tell that much. They had real biology in them, though that biology was rather arcane in nature, it did exist.

Ophiel was a little freaked out the whole time, though, so Erick sent a lot of good thoughts Ophiel’s way; the little guy was being exceedingly good about hiding even though he did not want to hide in the face of oddities.

- - - -

The path leading into the guildhouse was a lot more apparent by the time Soltic and Vanya flew over the separating monster road, and stepped foot at the edge of the forested mountain.

Here and there, stone towers stood at the edge of the land, offering good views over the dungeon canyon down below. People populated those towers; either adventurers or delvers, or simple guards paid by the city to watch over the lands below, and to report if the flow of monsters changed. Probably the latter.

… Separating out what Soltic would gain from a casual overview of a situation, versus what Erick would gain from the same look, was a lot harder than Erick thought it would be. He knew those people were guards, solidly, based on several small factors, but some of them were dressed in civilian clothes, and looked almost like civilians. Or delvers.

Whatever was going on here was a situation that Soltic would handle one way, and Erick would handle very differently.

Which was probably why Sininindi had wanted ‘not-Erick’ and ‘not-Quilatalap’ to do this task.

As they walked into the edge of the sparse forest, Soltic and Vanya finally saw other people who truly weren’t guards. As Soltic and Vanya went deeper, following a stone path, they passed people going the other direction, out toward the dungeon canyon. Those people didn’t speak at all, and Soltic and Vanya didn’t break that silence. Those others looked ready for war, though, with their [Conjure Armor] and other magic clinging to them, fully kitted out with rings and wands at their belts, and with potions in their bags. They did not look excited about their upcoming task, either, which was either because it was rote work, or because… who knew! They were certainly adventurers or delvers, though.

Most of those people had feet in both circles these days, though there was a distinct difference developing between the two organizations. The Dungeon Guild was rather new, and it was an offshoot of the Adventurer’s Guild, so one had to be an adventurer before they allowed you to be a delver in the Dungeon Guild. Most delvers were veterans in the Adventurer’s Guild, so they knew what they were doing, but that wasn’t always the case.

All Soltic had right now were educated guesses. He’d have to see more to make better guesses, which would happen soon enough.

Here, under the cover of trees and all up the mountainside, was a small city of scattered buildings. People went about their lives, hidden in the shadows, so that the various monsters that might fly in or look this way from the bottom of the dungeon canyon could not see them. Soltic and Vanya had had no difficulty with the monsters in the dungeon canyon looking their way and charging up at them, though, so Soltic thought the whole ‘hidden city under the canopy’ was rather more protection than they needed.

And it was also not much protection at all.

There was a wall, but it was a short thing, easily hoppable, and without any guard stations.

The protections must have been magical, though, because passing through the gap in that wall was like stepping into a land of sudden noise, because it was; they had passed a silencing [Ward].

People spoke loudly at a commissary to the right, while blacksmith hammers struck iron and other metals further in, and laughter drifted out from what appeared to be barracks on the left. Soltic easily estimated that, if what he was seeing in the barracks and other nearby buildings was correct, that there were maybe a thousand people in this under-canopy town. As they walked into the city, and got a few odd looks from the other people but were mostly ignored, Soltic guessed that 75% of those present were warriors of some sort, if their builds were anything to go by. 10% were mages, based on their active [Personal Ward]s. The rest were civilians, or paper shapers. No children; this was a land of war. His mana sense didn’t reach the entire land, but Soltic felt his guesses were correct.

Probably 75% of them were soldiers of the state, though, but you couldn’t tell that just by looking. This was a land fully under control of the Regency of Storm’s Edge.

… Nothing untoward with that, though, because Soltic rapidly realized that this was an army town. They catered to delvers only as much as they needed to.

Vanya led the way to what was a paired Adventurer’s/Dungeon Guildhouse. It was a rather standard 2-story affair that opted to go wide rather than tall, since they had more than enough space for it. The front doors were open, and though they got a few more looks their way, the other people in the grand entranceway went back to playing Wizard’s Towers or other card games.

To the left was a large blackboard with time slots and dungeon appointments.

“I guessed right.” Soltic said, “Looks like they have schedules instead of lines.”

Vanya’s frown deepened. All the way here, everything she saw only made her slightly more miffed. The dungeon scheduling board cemented that frown. With a quiet tone, she almost spat, “That means that the dungeons are set, with expected rates for completion and times. It’s… It’s not right.”

Soltic smiled a little bit, adopting a nicer tone to try and make Vanya happier, “I think we’ve found our goal, then.”

Vanya put her hands on her hips, breathed, then said, “I suppose we need to sign up for a slot.”

And then she walked over to a bored teller.

The guy was a human wearing a black-trimmed, brown uniform, sitting behind a counter and reading a book, his eyes rapidly darting back and forth. He was fully engrossed in… Soltic read the cover. ‘A Tale of Two Wizards, Volume 4’. Soltic maintained his facade.

Erick, though, cringed, and then he couldn’t help himself but read a little bit of the book… And yup. It was about Wizards, and one of them was an Erick-analogue.

Vanya stood there, on the customer side of the counter, waiting for the man to recognize her presence.

He did not.

Vanya said, “Hello. I’d like a slot in the dungeons.”

Without looking up the man picked up a slip of paper and set it on the counter, but he held onto that paper as he continued to read his book— He suddenly smiled wide, and then he set down the book, and looked at Vanya and Soltic. His eyes went wide as he let go of the paper. “Oh! Sorry about that.” He said, “I thought you were a regular and I… sort of got carried away with the book.”

Vanya was already reading over the paper, but she came to the same rapid conclusion that Soltic had, based on the paper, and the sign-up board over there, and a few other facts around the room. With an almost-angry tone, she asked, “No delving past 4 pm?”

It was nearly that already.

Soltic said, “That team we passed coming in must have been the last team of the day.”

The teller put on a professional, attempting-to-disarm smile, saying, “Apologies, but while the dungeons are public, the public hours are set. Since we use natural monsters here, we risk depopulating the dungeons otherwise.”

Soltic asked about a different part of the paperwork, “What’s this I see about ‘80% of resources gained are to be turned over to Storm’s Edge’? The common rate is 10%.”

A few locals were watching Soltic and Vanya, and had been ever since Vanya spoke of wanting a slot in the dungeons. It was obvious that Soltic and Vanya were new, and the onlookers took no small amount of joy in watching as Soltic spoke of common rates, and then—

The teller’s response was obviously something he said a hundred times already, “Due to the nature of the cultivated dungeons of Storm’s Edge, and the fact that a delver will always get something if they delve here, what you harvest was only harvestable because of us, and so we will take what we are owed for our services as dungeon masters.”

Vanya took that personally. “Are they public dungeons, or not?”

“I advise you not to try to circumvent our rules,” the teller said, without any anger or threatening tone, and not directly answering Vanya’s question at all. “People found in violation of curfew will be tried as trespassers and fined a thousand gold. Inability to pay means conscription into guard duty or exile from the dungeons of Storm’s Edge, along with demerits against your Adventurer’s or Dungeon Guild badge number. Much heavier fines are levied against those who try to break any of our dungeons, and those who kill a dungeon in some misguided attempt to harm us and our rules are severely prosecuted. We have agreements with House Benevolence to enforce our rules across the Gate Network, and we will see them enforced.”

Vanya relented, “Fine. When is the next available slot?”

“For residents of Storm’s Edge, the dungeons are available on a first come first served basis, every morning. For non-residents, you have to check in at noon to see if there are any slots left. Most people wait around here in the guildhouse to see if there are any no-shows, for there are often no slots left by noon.”

Vanya scowled—

Soltic laughed, a deep booming thing that turned into a menacing chuckle soon enough, and then he sighed. “You guys got a fucked up system here.”

In a calm, practiced way, the teller said, “We understand that our system is not for everyone. Please delve elsewhere if you don’t like the guaranteed income of our cultivated dungeons. The Gate Network can take you anywhere you want, for cheap. May I suggest the new dungeons of the Freelands? They’re quite popular.”

Vanya almost said something angry, and Soltic almost spoke about breaking the curfew openly and in direct defiance of the local laws—

But a burly woman spoke up from where she and her skinny male friend were drinking at a table by the guild bar, “Shit-heel Daron’s just giving you trouble! Out-of-towners often get a spot, so sign up for whatever and let me buy you two some drinks.”

She seemed like good people.

Soltic said to Vanya, “Let’s do that.”

Vanya rapidly filled out the paperwork with a precise application of aura control and then shoved it across the desk at the teller, and then she stepped away, toward the drinkers. Soltic happily followed.

“I’m Barda and this is my partner, Nero,” said the strong-looking woman, who had already gotten two more beers out of the barkeep and handed them over, smiling. “Welcome to the Pit, where we delvers do all the work and Storm’s Edge takes all the money.”

A few other bar-goers must have felt the same, for they raised a toast at Barda’s proclamation.

Vanya took her beer and waterfalled it, much to the widening, happy eyes of Barda and Nero, and a few other patrons. She finished with a delightful sigh, then said, “Looks like I’m gonna need a lot more of those.”

Barda laughed loud, then said, “Another round for my new friend here!”

Vanya said, “Vanya,” then she pointed to Soltic. “Soltic. A pleasure to meet you, Barda. Nero.”

Soltic nodded, and sipped his beer, as the barkeep handed another beer over to Vanya.

It was a pretty good evening, all things considered. They didn’t get a chance to actually go into the dungeons, but they did get pretty damned drunk, which was rather great. Soltic couldn’t remember the last time he had gotten drunk in a bar with new friends… Well that was untrue. It was six years ago, and he had needed to [Return] ten minutes earlier halfway through the night, ruining the evening, just so he could have that little bit of extra time to solve a crisis of assassination over in the Freelands.

So far Poi hadn’t called him in any sort of emergency, though, so…

The House was probably fine.

… Erick checked. The House was mostly fine. People were running around and worrying about stuff, and Erick ended up solving a few problems that Kiri wasn’t acting on quite fast enough—

Which earned him a message from Poi, ‘I thought you were on sabbatical.’

‘Okay okay!’ Erick relented, pulling Ophiels back from all over the world. ‘I’m stepping back.’

With mirth in his voice, Poi simply said, ‘Have fun,’ and then he cut their connection.

Meanwhile, Soltic listened to exactly how poorly Storm’s Edge was managing their dungeons.

Barda met Vanya beer for beer, and now they were both halfway taken by the wind, as Barda sloshed her half-full mug, saying, “And another thing! They’re all the same damned dungeon! Every one a copy of the others, and nothing is allowed to change! To grow properly.”

Nero sipped his beer politely, smiling as he said, “You said that already, shield-of-my-life.”

Barda gasped as she looked at her boyfriend. And then she got close to him, saying, “You always talk so good when you’re drunk.”

Nero giggled.

Barda looked off to the windows, where the night was coming on strong and daylight fled from the world. They were inside a deep canyon, so perhaps it wasn’t actually that late at all, but it was getting a little late. Soltic was getting hungry, but Barda was looking at Nero and those two clearly weren’t going to stick around for dinner.

Barda took her boyfriend’s hand, and told Vanya, “Great to meet you but we’re done being in public for a while. Enjoy your vacation, Vanya. Maybe we’ll see you in the dining room for dinner later!” She added with a nod, “Soltic.”

As they departed, Soltic watched them giggle at each other…

Soltic turned to Vanya, “Time for us to find a room, too?”

For a moment, Quilatalap was on the exact same wavelength as Erick.

And then Vanya leveled a glare at him, full of airs. She deigned to say, “I suppose I will allow it,” in the most princess-voice she could muster, even though her eyes continued to tell a very different emotion.

They got a room. The room was overpriced, for sure, just like the beers had been, but the entire economy around ‘The Pit’ was based around Storm’s Edge getting all the money they could out of the place, without regard for the people running the dungeons. Or at least that’s what Barda had said, and neither Soltic nor Vanya had seen anything to disprove this assertion.

After a bit of sweaty fun in their own rooms, Vanya lay beside Soltic in bed, her gaze fixed on the ceiling, her mind rapidly turning over every problem she had seen and then trying to figure out how to make it all better.

Soltic watched her as she thought, a smile upon his face, hidden behind his thick beard except for where it showed in his eyes.

