Fact number two? Unfortunately, the Second Gardener’s barrier was a bit too far removed. Wilovan whirled and saw a Drake screaming.
“Kill them! Kill those bastards!”
He was missing all the scales from his face, arms, and front, though. Literally ripped off his body by the pull. He was grabbing for a healing potion. And while he was backing away, the Gentlemen Callers’ hats were off.
 
——
 
You know, it was hard. A man did his best. He kept a hold of his temper. He acted as he should be.
A gentleman. Even when he wasn’t. The hats weren’t just fashion or a symbol. They were a reminder. A heavy one.
When they came off, it was a relief. A terrible relief. That was why the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were tolerated. Even by the other Gangs, who laughed at them. Never to their faces. Izril’s south learned the same lesson the north had learned.
Violence. Sheer violence. Not battle nor glory nor even fury. A Gnoll raised his club and hit someone so hard their skull shattered and their brains moved.
A [Thief]. A [Thief] was not a combat class. Yet he stole lives. He grabbed a dagger out of someone’s claws and buried it back in her eye. They never hesitated. They never spoke. As if even the acts of speaking, shouting, were wasted. All of it was channeled into one thing.
A [Thug] with a club. He performed no tricks. He had no flash. He swung and swung and men and women died. Aim for the joints. Aim for shoulders. Anywhere a blow like a hammer would do the most damage. A cluster of five tangled around a table and realized there was no blocking it when he struck down a swordsman’s guard and left the sword buried in the screaming Gnoll’s chest. No dodging—one cartwheeled left and a Drake appeared and slashed six times. The two tore around another table, scattering the others like wheat.
“Kill them! Kill…”
A choked voice. The two were headed for the side of the room, because they had failed. The Second Gardener was alive. Secured behind more protections and a wall of blades. It was probably today, but the Earthtenders would pay the toll.
Not for anyone Level 20. Not for Level 30—Wilovan snarled and ducked a [Dagger Art]. A wide-eyed Drake passed by him, caught in the Skill, and he swung his club once.
But it was two and four. Two and three, since one was incapacitated. A Face…
The air turned to fire. Wilovan inhaled flames and bellowed, the first sound he’d made. Ratici tore out of the flames and saw the Drake named Ecleeif standing there, pointing a finger. No spell. The [Sorcerer] just pointed and the air turned to flame. He backed up, cursing, shooting a spell in his off-hand with a wand as Ratici dove at him.
A hound leapt. It covered thirty feet like a bullet of flesh and weight. Ratici performed an [Aerial Dodge], just in time for Neverwhine to come from the other side, with, of all things, a shield and whip. It cracked, the tip exploding in the air with a shower of deadly ‘sparks’. Flechette shrapnel. Ratici felt one sting his arm for the first time.
Wilovan was on fire, but he barrelled out of the flames, as the [Sorcerer] tried to suck the air out of the world. The Gnoll came face-to-face with a shorter Gnoll. But his paws were armed with the signature weapon prized by Gnolls of the south in Gangs.
Claws. They slashed, light, fast. None even close to a killing blow, aiming for Wilovan’s arms, chest. He struck, but the other figure blurred into dodges, burning Skills, slashing Wilovan six times. The Gnoll barely felt it as Zanzeil backed up, grinning.
Then he felt the burning pain. An agony so specific, Wilovan had it in a moment.
“Creler poison.”
The claws. They were made of…Wilovan registered them as Ratici spun, dodging two biting heads.
Curved legs. Fangs, attached to a crude band of metal. Zanzeil went for Ratici. Wilovan snarled, abandoning the potion. He charged and the claw-wielding expert backed up in alarm.
“Keep them away from me!”
None of them wanted to die. They threw underlings at the Gentlemen Callers and they died. Ratici tossed a vial into a group of six and it exploded, sending screaming Drakes and Gnolls crashing down. Not because it was any alchemical substance or poison. It was all-natural…magma.
“Wilovan! There! There!”
The Second Gardener turned. Poruniv saw a staggering, burnt Gnoll turn, and those eyes fixed on his. The [Thief] drew his daggers and three Faces hesitated.
If it was today, we’ll take you with us. And the thing about the gangs was that they were pragmatists. They really didn’t want to die.
“Hey! Over here! Over here!”
A shout. Wilovan almost missed it, but it was familiar. And so was his hat. It sat on a head as Rickel waved. The Human shouted and Poruniv’s head turned.
“You?”
The Gentlemen Callers hesitated, but it was close, and if they—they looked at each other. Ahead was certain death, but a repayment of dues.
Was it…today?
They turned and ran on a single hunch. It could have been a trap. But the young man ran, and they surged down a hallway.
“If you let them get away, you’re all dead, you hear me? Dead!”
The others ran, although Elceeif stayed back, letting Zanzeil and the roaring hound, led by Neverwhine, with a group of the most deadly underlings surge forward first. They pounded after the Gentlemen Callers. One was poisoned! The other had taken a few shrapnel hits and they were outnumbered. All they had to do…
They charged down the corridor, turned, cursing, and headed right. Where were they? Rickel? Wilovan? Ratici? They must be fast, but…wait a second.
…Where were they?
“This way, this way!”
In the exact opposite direction, Rickel urged Wilovan on. Ratici was jabbing something into Wilovan’s shoulder.
“Antidote. If that bastard cut it with something else…”
“It will do. Give me my hat.”
Wilovan snatched the hat out of Rickel’s hands. Ratici was turning, priming a weapon, but no one was coming after them. They were going…the wrong way.
“We have a minute. They think we went that way. Come on!”
The two traded glances. Oteslia’s best gang…? But Rickel was running, and he could run.
Some people were sprinters. Other people were marathoners. Rickel belonged to the hundred meter—get-out-of-trouble specialists. He dodged around a screaming [Waitress], vaulted a cart—Ratici was already next to him. Wilovan just charged through everything but the Human, who he tipped his hat to.
“Terribly sorry, Miss—”
Rickel pointed, and Wilovan crashed through a door into a yard around The Dragon’s Horde. There was a wall. And…a ladder?
“I should have put it up, but I wasn’t sure I’d have time.”
Ratici blinked, stowing a grappling hook. Wilovan looked at Rickel.
“It was a risky bet to gamble on. If your Skill didn’t work…”
Rickel shook his head, grinning desperately.
“What kind of idiot bets on life-or-death stuff? I’m not a high-level [Gambler]. Shit, they’re coming…”
The ladder, strategically placed, was being wrestled into position, but the fastest members of the gang had come right after them. They poured out the door—and into Wilovan’s club.
Thump. Thump. Thump. A heavy sound emerged in quick succession, puzzling the Human at first. His heart was pounding out of his chest. He had never done this, risked his life like this, but—what was that sound?
One, two, three, four, five-six, seven—Rickel heard the sounds and turned as Ratici swarmed up the ladder. He turned, and stopped for a second.
Seven bodies and a [Thief] halted before exiting into that deadly kill-zone. A Gnoll stepped back, and stormed to the ladder.
“Up, up!”
Ratici grabbed Wilovan and he tumbled over the wall. Rickel leapt and landed hard, swearing. Ratici nimbly dove and landed like a cat—but he tossed down one last object before he did.
The whumph and smoke and screams echoed in the background as the three ran for it. Rickel kept pace until he had to slow, clutching at his side. Ratici and Wilovan just towed him on.
“Well, that’s torn it. We need either the Watch or to get Miss Lyonette to safety. If they’ll continue.”
“Might not. The Watch will never get them, Wilovan. They’re right in the open. Either they’re twisted to sideways, or something’s up.”
The two Gentlemen Callers caught their breath. They looked at their hats, put them on their head—and they were alive. Alive, thanks to the Human, grinning, shaking with adrenaline.
“I’m…I’m going to pee. And then puke. I’ve never done that—we nearly died.”
Rickel gasped, holding his heart. Wilovan clapped him on the shoulder.
“We didn’t, thanks to you, sir.”
“I know…you’ve got to go!”
“What about you?”
Rickel had run so hard he tasted iron. He tried to speak, coughing.
“—catch up. You have to go. You’re with the Human with the Faerie Flowers, right? She’s going to be assassinated! Poruniv’s sending a huge group. In the open.”
Wilovan and Ratici tensed.
“You’re sure?”
“I heard him and double-checked. I’ll—”
They were already going, but Ratici held for a second to hear Rickel’s voice. Wilovan was pounding down the pavement—where was she now? Rickel gasped. He had saved them in a moment when even they thought they’d die. But why? Who was he? Part of the answer was in Rickel’s next words.
A question.
“Ask her. Is she…? Are we from the same place? If she is—”
He grinned. At last. At last!
“We’re on the same side.”
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart stood with her famous carriage behind her. She walked down across a gloriously long carpet, past lines of servants holding treasures. In that moment, she looked like a fitting guest of Oteslia.
The scion of the Five Families. The Deadly Flower of the North. A foe, perhaps. To be trusted? How could they trust her?
What did she want, really? Some dearly wanted it to be something genuine, like Navine. Others saw her as inherently untrustworthy, the great manipulator in some game they could barely see.
Ilvriss studied the [Lady] as she passed him by. Lyonette looked at Magnolia, hands clenched in her dress, disturbed by their conversation of yesterday. Waiting. All of them.
“Drakes and Gnolls of Izril. Or is it ladies and gentlemen?”
Magnolia’s lips quirked. No one spoke, nor did they chuckle. She looked around, eyes alight.
“I know I have put on something of a show. We have engaged with my visit in delightful ways. And, I will admit, less delightful and somewhat tedious little gatherings. I suppose it is to be expected; we are nominally enemies, after all.”
That alone drew a chuckle. Drakes nodded; at least she wasn’t going to lie about the truth. Magnolia nodded as well.
“Yet we could dance forever, and while some of us dance quite well…I did not pack my dancing shoes, among the many things I thought to bring. Some of them gifts. And I do mean that quite sincerely: gifts. None of this is meant to impel you to a decision. In the coming moments, I will lay out a proposal. It is my sincere hope you will ask questions, think on it, and reply in earnest. I hope, naturally, that some of you choose to agree, to participate. But I will not force you.”
Her eyes lit on Lyonette.
“I will not lie, or obfuscate the truth. Which is quite difficult for me—”
More titters of amusement. Magnolia glanced about, breaking the look.
“—but it must be this way. Without further ado: Ressa. Please distribute copies of my proposal.”
“And what would that be, Lady Reinhart?”
A Drake called out, one who hadn’t lost a monocle and was Wall Lord of Manus. Rafaema frowned at him; he wasn’t of the High Council. Hunt Commander Makhir’s ears twitched.
“Why, Wall Lord Aldonss, exactly what I claimed and said from the beginning. This is a gathering, put on by the First Gardener, to assemble like-minded Drakes—or anyone willing to listen—to propose a simple thing. Peace. Between Human and Drakes. As I have said from the start.”
The Wall Lord looked at Magnolia. He began to snort…but then stilled.
“You mean, you were serious?”
She sighed. But it was not an uncommon reaction. Peace? It was too simple. Too…straightforwards for a woman rumored to walk in zig-zags and squiggles. Yet it was true. She had come here, to try and make peace. That was what she did. That it took them by surprise said something about plans and schemes.
Ressa and six other [Maids] and two [Butlers], including Reynold, had simple stacks of scrolls in their arms. They passed them out, and Drakes gathered around, reading over each other’s shoulders, snatching more to inspect. It was a contract—a copy of the one Magnolia Reinhart presented to the First Gardener.
Ilvriss read one with Nerul and the [Diplomat] began swearing before he was halfway down the page. He recognized a legally-binding magical contract when he saw one, but it was what it contained that made his mind race. Navine held it up for her mother, eyes incredulous. Rafaema read her copy with Cire peeking at her.
“Is she serious?”
Rafaema scoffed. But Cire just blinked.
“Wait…is it bad? It’s not…”
“This is ridiculous.”
One Gnoll from Zeres tore her copy up before she was halfway through. Her companion, rather than join her friend, gave her a steady look.
“Why don’t we read it first before shredding it entirely? Excuse me, Miss Human? Another copy, please.”
“But the contents…is this serious? It’s nothing!”
“On the contrary. It’s everything. It may be less ambitious than you expect of me—but I think it is eminently acceptable. Or do you disagree, First Gardener?”
Lyonette had her own copy, proffered to her by Reynold. She read the same thing she had looked at yesterday. It was indeed simple. Iron-tight, such that even Nerul doubted Mister Superior and all his best teammates could find a loophole. But simple.
“Uncle. I think I have it all set out; it’s the most straightforward contract I’ve read. But can you make sure we have it right?”
Osthia was staring at it and blinking. Nerul cleared his throat and Navine and Helessia drifted over.
“Of course, nephew. Family. It’s…well. It is a straightforward, three-part contract. Three clauses, no open ways to rephrase or add anything. Firstly, a commitment to the project known as the ‘Wall of South and North’—that bit’s a placeholder. Second? A mutual defense clause. If the signatories underlined therein come under attack, their counterparts are obligated to come to their aid only if the following groups should attack. From the north: Terandria. From the south? Antinium.”
Makhir was blinking at the contract. A mutual defensive pact against two specific enemies. Not Baleros, or the King of Destruction. But the Antinium? Rafaema wanted to know what Manus would make of that.
“That’s…and the last bit?”
