The [Thug] hesitated. He stared at the Drake. It wasn’t Saliss of Lights; you tended to notice nudity fast. Nor Ilvriss. Nor anyone he personally knew. The Drake was, if anything, just some random Drake. A [Trader]?
“Yeah.”
“Oh, good.”
The Drake backed up. Then he produced a vase, for some reason—because he was a [Pottery Trader], but that was unnecessary background detail—and crashed it into the [Thug]’s face. The Drake went down and figures turned.
“What the hell?”
A [Thief] raised a dagger uncertainly as the [Trader] gulped. He stabbed, but an armored hand grabbed it. The [Thief] looked up into two burning…lenses? An armored face. An armored body, ruby-red.
“Rubirel Guard! To the aid of the walls!”
A Drake with a halberd decapitated the [Thief]. The crowd of criminals whirled. They saw three bodyguards crash into the mob.
“Reinforcements! Get—”
“Attack! Attack! In the name of Salazsar!”
Something bounced off Zanziel’s head. The Face saw a furious…little…Drake woman throw more items from her purse. Suddenly, he realized more figures were emerging, literally running forwards and hurling objects, drawing blades.
“Salazsar!”
Another object bounced off his face. He looked around.
“What the…”
Then more figures broke forwards. Even Oteslia’s [Guards], some of them. But mostly travellers, people who had moved, but anyone who…belonged. Allies, citizens. Summoned by the ring.
Salazsar’s last defenders.
 
——
 
Lyonette saw a mob sweep into the side of the small group of killers. Drakes, Gnolls, civilians, aside from a few of them with actual armor and weapons. The criminals turned, caught off-guard and already nervous. A few began to attack back, like at the old Drake lady waving a cane.
Wilovan snarled, but saw Zanzeil, the Face, slash someone across the arm before they could slash the little figure.
“Retreat! Get out of here! That damned ring—”
More figures were sprinting towards them. And this time—a blurring shape came up the street. Zanzeil took one look at Saliss of Lights, followed by Mivifa of Feathers shooting out of the skies, and ran for it.
Poruniv stared as his attack failed. He stared at that damned ring—then at Cire. Mivifa was flying towards him, and she had seen the Second Gardener.
“Damn.”
He twisted a ring and a spear jabbed, but he distorted out of reality before he was touched. Mivifa landed, as Saliss of Lights threw an orb at the retreating criminals running for bolt-holes, many boxed in and surrendering.
Rafaema was still howling, though. She was shuddering, striking the paws holding her. She was enraged. No—burning—
“Rafaema of Manus. Enough. You are hurting your people.”
Only when the voice spoke did she come to her senses. She looked around, and saw Magnolia Reinhart standing there. The [Lady] was a bit winded, but watched Ilvriss and the sons and daughters of Salazsar charging into the city—as well as their allies. Anyone who truly had ever made an oath to defend Salazsar. She’d heard of the rings; more ornamental than useful. Never seen one used.
But it was to Rafaema that Magnolia turned now. The Drake was panting, wild-eyed.
“Let go of—”
Then and only then she saw the bloody-faced Gnoll, still holding onto her. Ferris? Rafaema lowered her arms. Makhir was bleeding, but not nearly as badly wounded.
“What am—I didn’t—”
Her head had gone white. She’d been ready to fight, but they had held her back and she had thought she was going to die like when that Drake, Onieva, got her. But she’d been ready to fight.
“Ferris?”
Rafaema reached for him, and then doubled over. She nearly fell, and this time Makhir was holding onto her.
“Wall Lady Rafaema? Wall Lady! Are you well? Lady Reinhart, back up—get a [Battlefield Healer]!”
Makhir snapped at Manus’ [Soldiers]. Ferris tried to rise, and Rafaema was clutching at her chest. It hurt. What was—? She felt like she was going to explode, all of a sudden.
“Oh, be quiet, Hunt Commander. What a mess. Rafaema. Rafaema, do you hear me?”
A voice. It was so knowing, so pervasive, it even fought through the Lightning Dragon’s confusion. She shuddered, unable to do more than listen. Something terrible was trying to emerge. She fought now, to keep the lightning from exiting her lungs.
“Listen to me. Do not let it out, here. Fly. Do you hear me? Fly as high as you can. Go! Fly!”
How did she know? How did—
Rafaema was in the air before she could think. Her wings strained, but the magic carried her up. Makhir, held back from Magnolia by Ressa, saw his charge fly straight up. Her eyes were glowing. Her mouth was opening and—
Something burst out of Rafaema. A sudden change in her. Near-death, Magnolia’s speech, something—many things, a confluence of it. An awakening.
Makhir and Ferris saw it. The First Gardener, hurrying towards Cire, Manus itself, watching the events on the scrying orb, suddenly focused on a figure streaking up, high over Oteslia. So high even the great tree receded. No one noticed at first.
They did when the sky split in half and a bolt of lightning pierced the heavens. A strike so thunderous every cloud discharged all the rain within it.
Gigantic leaves fell from Oteslia’s tree. Every animal in a thousand miles screamed—and then hid. Makhir stared up as Rafaema lurched in the air, then discharged a second, smaller blast. How did that woman…?
“Stress. My word. You would think Manus of all places knows how to rear Oldbloods.”
Magnolia winked at Makhir, then lost her smile. She pinched the bridge of her nose. Oh dear.
“Ressa. Tell me I’m not seeing what I’m seeing?”
“You are blind and deaf and stupid, Lady Reinhart.”
“Wonderful.”
She had a nosebleed. Ressa offered a handkerchief to Magnolia as the [Lady] wiped at her nose. And stared at the…scene.
The ionized air filled Oteslia. Outside, an army of Drakes was in disarray. No less than the Admiral of Supply himself came to a halt, too late to save…
Well, the Human. The young woman with fiery, just, striking red hair, a certain complexion of the features, blue eyes, standing with two weary men with hats by her side like bodyguards. Or [Knights] of the street.
Which took nothing away from the actual [Knights], battered, dirty, yes, who had come to a halt and thrown themselves into kneeling postures before her. Just to complete the moment? The high tension in the air, the crowd of Salazsar’s Drakes, multiple famous individuals all here to see, the ringing in your ears after lightning split the world in half and the rain pattering down, revealing gold on the armor, and that shining ring on her finger?
Well, there was Wall Lord Ilvriss, curiously missing his ring himself. Wall Lady Navine and Helessia, shielded from the rain by a kindly [Combat Butler], both looked at the Human. The ring. The [Knights].
All that was missing was a scrying orb. Fortunately, Ressa had slapped and deactivated every one she could see. But here it was.
Oteslia. City of Growth. Rickel laughed until he nearly fell off the rooftop he was watching from. He sipped a cup of coffee and laughed in delight.
You loved to see it.
