They had to think they were genuine. He cast a glance down at the two figures watching the center table as they ate. One was picking at a fried tomato, the other flirting with the [Waitress]. Yet they had a kind of edge to the way they sat.
“Good fellows.”
“Are you going to play or not?”
At last, one of the other players demanded. The watcher jumped. In doing so, he knocked over his stack of silver coins.
“Oops! Sorry—I—drat—”
 
——
 
A commotion made Wilovan look up. The Drake in the center was looking their way, signalling one of the [Waitresses]. However, a shout at a table made everyone’s heads turn.
A figure was scrambling after some coins rolling all over. The other [Gamblers] at the card table were on their feet, shielding their cards. Wilovan raised his brows.
A young Human man was scrambling to pick up the coins, some of which had scattered so far by him turning and spraying them they’d actually bounced off a table. And into someone’s soup.
“My soup!”
“Ancestors damn it, Rickel!”
One of the Drakes roared. The young man hurried over.
“I am so sorry—I have no idea how they got this far.”
“I’ve been looking forwards to eating all day, sir!”
The Human was a gambler, clearly. A bad one, and flustered as he tried to apologize to a couple breaking from their gambling or watching the scrying orb. He reached for a coin pouch, a small one.
“I uh—I’ll pay for it.”
“And the damage to my dress!”
The Drake insisted. Rickel bit his lip.
“I…of course. How’s…this?”
He offered them a gold coin. To Wilovan’s eye, even if you factored in the soup and the dress—not exactly the most expensive one, it wasn’t bad. The Drakes hesitated. The Human stared at their faces.
“Wait, is that not enough? Um…how’s this?”
He added another gold coin. Bit his lip, and added a third.
“That’s all I can afford. Is it enough?”
Did he not know how much he was offering? Ratici snorted in disbelief, but the young man didn’t look rich, especially if three gold coins was a setback. He was gambling at the silver-tables, not gold.
“It—well, it’ll have to do. Go on, now.”
The Drake shooed Rickel away and scooped up the gold coins. His partner even fished out the silver coin out of her soup.
“You fertilizer-head. Don’t you know how much a gold coin is worth?”
Rickel went back, flustered, to his table, apologizing to the other diners who seemed to know him and were clearly amused. The Human rubbed at his head.
“Uh—sometimes I’m off. Sorry. I think I’m out. Especially if I’m paying for the food.”
He looked at his much-depleted money pouch and his face fell. The other [Gamblers] laughed at his misfortune, but the Drake in the center raised a claw and boomed.
“I’ll cover it.”
“Boss, why do you like that idiot?”
Rickel actually threw a salute with a grin, and the Drake addressed the whining Drake counting coins.
“Because he’s funny, and he has good ideas now and then. He’s harmless. Come back tomorrow, Rickel! And next time, don’t put all your coins where you can toss them into soup!”
Laughter. Red-faced, the Human hurried down the tables, heading for the restroom. He tripped halfway across. On a silver coin.
“Oh sh—”
He crashed into a table and the Drake in the center of the room laughed so hard he nearly fell out of his huge chair. Rickel got up, flustered.
“I am so sorry—”
“Not at all, sir. Don’t you worry.”
Wilovan helped him up; Ratici had saved all the dishes and drinks. It didn’t escape the center group’s attention and they fixed on Ratici. Not Rickel. The Human glanced at Wilovan as the Gnoll picked him up and dusted him off.
“Thanks. Feel free to laugh. I’ve made a mess of myself.”
He grinned, cheeks still red. He had an inviting smile, which was probably why the others tolerated him, despite messing up their game. A young [Gambler]. Wilovan shook his head, remembering his hat was gone.
“A fellow doesn’t laugh at another fellow’s misfortune. I hope some good luck comes your way, sir.”
Rickel’s lips twitched.
“I love the way you said that. Now there’s a bit of style.”
“Thank you, sir. I’m pleased you noticed.”
Ratici glanced up. Rickel looked at the two of them.
“You’re not from here, are you? You have…amazing style. I’m Rickel, by the way.”
“Mister Rickel, that puts a stride in my step, so it does. You’re not half badly done yourself, if I may say so.”
Indeed, the young man had a quite nice set of clothes on himself. Nothing in the vein of either the Gentleman Caller’s style, or the current one, or the suit and fashion on display in the center of the room. He had a kind of jacketed hoodie on, able to be buttoned up, comfortable green pants with a slash of white down each side, and a complementary undershirt with Oteslia’s own regalia on it.
Throw on a hat and he’d not be too bad. He grinned at Wilovan, fashion recognizing fashion of its own. His was not at all popular or in vogue…but he wore it as if it was.
“You’ve got to have style, right? Well, I have to go—but you know this is a trap, don’t you?”
Wilovan’s smile never changed. Ratici glanced up. The young man kept smiling.
“That’s a fairly odd thing for a fellow to say. Dangerous, even.”
Wilovan remarked calmly. Rickel nodded. He glanced at the two of them.
“It is. But I like you two. You walk in here, cool as cucumbers, and sit down. Why?”
Ratici raised his brows.
“Are cucumbers cool, Wilovan? I never looked into how cool any were.”
“It may be they’re fairly pleasant in that regard, Ratici. I have never eaten a warm one.”
The Human laughed. He laughed, throwing his head back, and looked at them, even more amused. Even more happily.
“I like you two! You’re not afraid? At all?”
Now the figure in the center was waiting, staring at Rickel with clear annoyance; he was getting in the way. Wilovan glanced over the young man’s shoulder.
“Sir. I’d advise you to stay in the restroom a good spell. Or have a wander in the city. As to your question? Sometimes a man does what he does. He’ll pay the cost of it. Tomorrow. Or today. We’ll find out, won’t we, Ratici?”
“That we will, Wilovan.”
Rickel was lost for words for a moment. He stood there, then looked at the two. He shook his head, and flipped a coin.
“[Bet: Luck].”
The coin flipped around and around in the air. Wilovan looked up. The coin fell, glittering, bounced off Rickel’s thumb—and straight into his eye.
He swore, stumbling away, as the silver coin bounced off and someone picked it up. Wilovan shook his head, and Ratici adjusted his belt.
“Well, more to you.”
Rickel called out after their backs. He walked off, sighing, hands in his pockets, as the two Gentlemen Callers walked on. They’d forgotten all about him already.
“So here’s the two foreigners who think they can plant seeds wherever they want.”
The Drake in the center was the gardener. He was the head. He was the boss.
And this was a Gang. Idioms aside, Wilovan knew what this was. Oteslia’s largest Gang was here. He raised a paw to his head, realized his hat was gone a third time, and nodded.
“Good evening to you, sir. My name’s Wilovan. My companion here is Ratici. We were hoping to have a word, as it were, if you weren’t too busy. A pressing matter.”
“Good evening. Do you hear how they talk?”
One of the others at the table wheezed with laughter. The Drake in the center looked over, picked up a fork, and tossed it at the Drake.
It was the thin fellow who counted gold in the open. He dodged, cursing, but just. The tines of the fork buried into the couch cushion.
He nearly hurt that fellow. Wilovan frowned. Ratici just shook his head.
The others fell silent as the Drake glared. Then he shifted his eyes to the two.
“So who’re you? The Gentlemen Callers?”
“Some call us that.”
Ratici murmured. The Drake snorted.
“Well. They call me the boss. Or the gardener, if we’re out in the open. Poruniv, Oteslia’s Second Gardener.”
As names went, there was significance in it. Wilovan tipped his head, and Ratici did the same.
“Well, sir. If we could have a word regarding a certain bit of unpleasantness, that would be a gracious thing.”
“Hah. You northern lot are funny. I never thought I’d see a Drake and Gnoll instead of Humans. Just goes to show.”
Poruniv’s eyes narrowed.
“You’ve got a lot of guts, strolling in here. You think I want to hear you out? Ecleeif, Zanzeil, Neverwhine. Get up.”
Three figures rose. The Gnoll with odd fur patches, hands suddenly in his pockets as the rest of the table scattered wide of him. The scowling Ecleeif, stopping to shove all the gold into his bag of holding, bare-clawed. And Neverwhine, and the giant dog, which rose.
A huge rumble from the two maws. Wilovan and Ratici never looked sideways.
“This is my place. The Dragon’s Horde. You want to come here, to the Second Gardener’s Gang? The Earthtenders? Other gangs in Walled Cities would know better, but that’s the north for you. I’ll tell you what: if you tell me what I want to hear, you might walk out. You think you two are the only Faces in Oteslia? You’re looking at four of them.”
The Second Gardener stared down at Wilovan and Ratici. The Gentlemen Callers never blinked. Wilovan calmly reached into his jacket. The three next to Poruniv tensed, but he held up a claw. Wilovan slowly pulled out a club.
Just a polished, wooden club. He raised it, as the rest of the room stared, and placed it down on the table in front of the Second Gardener.
“I’m terribly sorry, Mister Poruniv, sir. We may be a rather bit uncouth, but we have a question to put to you. Will you stop harassing a certain lady under our care? We consider it rather unmannerly, sir. We hope you’ll say yes. Because we don’t intend to take no for an answer.”
The Second Gardener’s eyes bulged. Then he laughed. He pointed at the little club; not even a long one. Even the other faces snickered—two of them. Ecleeif was just scowling.
“Poruniv—it’s a waste of time to get hurt, even if there’s only two. What if we…?”
“Shut up, Ecleeif!”
The Second Gardener whirled on him. Classic. Unprofessional. Wilovan’s nose wrinkled. The smaller Drake backed up and back Poruniv’s head turned.
“You two are annoying me, you know that? Let the ‘lady’ go? You mean that Human who’s taken all the Faerie Flowers out of circulation? Who hired you two to take them? Tell her we can deal or she’ll find a dagger in—”
“No, sir.”
The Second Gardener stopped. Wilovan calmly squared his shoulders.
“It’s unmannerly to involve civilians in this. And since I find this entire business distasteful, sir, and how you’ve done things, I don’t care to prolong it. I am Wilovan of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Wilovan of the Gentlemen Callers.”
“And Ratici, of both.”
The two nodded once. Poruniv stared as Wilovan picked up the club. He pointed it at the leader of Oteslia’s biggest gang.
“I challenge you, sir. To an ungentlemanly bout. To the death. Here and now. Let’s have it done.”
Dead silence reigned. It was an open challenge. Wilovan would have done it differently, more eloquently, in the ways of the north. But sometimes you had to state your case plain, rude and boorish though it was.
And frankly, he did not care for Poruniv’s place, his attitude, his gang, or what he had done. Wilovan’s eyes were calm. The Drake?
He laughed.
“Now I know you’re both idiots. Why would I take up a challenge from two idiots?”
“Two Faces. Does the south not count Faces, or do you not have enough to remember how it’s done?”
Wilovan nudged Ratici as the Drake snapped at last. Poruniv’s eyes narrowed. He glared at the [Thief].
“I’ve killed more Faces than you’ve ever seen. I don’t need to throw down with every foreigner who comes to my city.”
Wilovan saw the pronouncement run through the group in two ways. The Gnoll with the paws in his pockets nodded. Neverwhine frowned a bit, and Ecleeif looked done with it all. None objected, and the others standing behind Poruniv were careful not to let him see their reactions.
They wouldn’t protest, at any rate. And now Wilovan saw more guests who were smart heading for the doors. The idiots just watched, but more figures were coming out and blocking the exits.
Well, it was going as badly as the two had thought it might. Wilovan sighed, and turned to Ratici.
“Looks like it’s today, Ratici. A crying shame.”
He reached out, and Ratici shook his paw, solemnly. The Drake nodded.
“A shame. We came here, asked a question, and you can’t say we didn’t try. It’s just a shame when a fellow doesn’t have dig-nity.”
He said that last word oddly. The criminals of Izril’s south saw the two shake their heads. Rather like an audience watching fascinating actors in a bit.
“A fellow expects it, but without dig-nity, what can you do? Indeed, Ratici.”
Poruniv refused to rise to the bait, although he was smiling through gritted teeth. It was the way they said it.
Dig-nity. Stretching the word out with that little pause in between. So much of a word that it was two, the way they said it. Ratici nodded, sighing.
“Are you two done? Because if I lose my temper, there’s no last chances. And I don’t think you’re that stupid. No duels.”
Wilovan turned to face the Second Gardener. He shook his head.
“No, sir. You’ve made that rather clear. A fellow states his mind, and we take him at his word. Eh, Ratici?”
“That’s right.”
“Well then, shut up and—”
All three Faces shouted at the same time. The Gnoll tried to cut at it with something, then dove away. Neverwhine grabbed his hound and blurred to the side. Ecleeif just ran for it.
Poruniv held still as Ratici threw the object he’d retrieved with lightning speed. He saw it coming; perhaps his reactions were slower than the other three, or some of the [Thieves] who’d seen the blur, but he held himself still.
The magical barrier around him caught the strange, runic cube in midair and blasted it. Wilovan and Ratici were already throwing themselves backwards, but the Second Gardener laughed.
“You Ancestors-damned id—”
Then the cube opened as the magic tried to disintegrate it, and the world imploded.
Negative space. A sucking vortex. Wilovan saw magic, the air, and the Second Gardener all rush towards the hole in the world.
As he rolled to his feet, club in hand, and struck a head so hard it would never rise again, Wilovan felt the pull at his back. Even from a ways away.
A few facts. Firstly, most gang leaders had something like that. Protections from assassinations from fellow gangs or even within their group. But most fools kept their magical barriers just past their skin layer. Which helped…but not if something literally sucked out magic as well as your body.
