“But. Is this truly it? Do you have a future design, or is this the whole of what you propose? I would take further revelations poorly, you understand.”
She clasped her hands together, and spoke sincerely. But oh, even when she was, she was bad at it, Lyonette thought.
“It is, Wall Lord. The whole of it, I swear on truth stone and Skill and House Reinhart. I could not lie to you. Not if I wanted sincere allies. And I must have that. I did not come to trick you, or force you to agree. I hope each Walled City will hear this and deliberate. Negotiate, although it is a straightforward contract I have no intention of changing. I hope at least one Walled City will sign, and other Drake cities as well.”
Her eyes lingered on the First Gardener, but it was a troubled reply she got. Aldonss sighed.
“This will not lead to peace, though. Even if we create this in our lifetimes, the gates might close for decades. It will not, I fear, do more than end some of the hostilities at the Bloodfields. Yet I imagine it will continue, and distrust…it cannot be said that this is the cure for Drake and Humans’ bad blood. Not after so long.”
Everyone nodded, then. Even Magnolia Reinhart. And here it was. Lyonette saw her take a breath.
“I know. You know, Wall Lord Aldonss, I feel like that is almost a poor argument. Because, yes, it cannot fix the history of war and injustices we have done against each other. It is only a step, and a small one at that. But it would be a step, the first taken in millenia. A step, for another step in the future. This is not enough? If you say this—I would be very upset, because even coming to this one step has taken me half my life, Wall Lord. And it would be my greatest triumph if I could realize it.”
She turned her head, and regarded her plan. Magnolia chuckled softly. Lyonette felt like the next words were aimed at her. But then—Ilvriss and Navine and many others thought the same thing.
“I know some of you expected a genius proposal from me. I do hope this meets your standards. Yes, it is not quick. But change never is. And…I must tell you something. True change never is. If, by some miracle, each Walled City agreed to trade and make peace with their enemies, the Humans, tomorrow, I doubt it would change a thing. Because that is not how the people would see it. Those are but words.”
Rafaema found herself nodding. Yes. Yes…she locked onto Magnolia and listened more intently. The [Lady]’s head turned.
“I can force those present, persuade them into doing things my way. But that does not change the citizens of your cities. It will not change their children. This might. Seeing Humans coming through a safe passage, cities where our kinds mingle? It is a good first step. You see—there is a way of looking at things like this. It is like…to use an analogy fit for Oteslia, a tree. A hope. We plant it, and water it, and do things to the soil I suspect.”
She waved her hands, impatiently, as one of the actual [Gardeners] snorted.
“We let it grow. Over years. Decades. Until it is mighty. A beautiful tree, fit for shade, sometimes for fruit, sometimes just to be. And then some fool takes an axe and in an hour, undoes decades of work. That is inevitable, I am afraid. If not a fool, then a lightning bolt in a storm. A wildfire. Bugs. Dreadful things. You cannot prevent it all.”
She tsked, as those experienced in the art of horticulture winced at memories. Magnolia Reinhart went on, looking ahead.
“…But that is why you plant hundreds of trees. Entire forests, in case one falls. Multiple forests, you see? Some will inevitably die. Others, though, will live. However. It is a fact that you will not see the results in your lifetimes. You will see the first trees. Not those that reproduce and come after. Yet what you are doing—is making the world better. Just not for you. That is what I would like to do, if you will help me.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss had never met Magnolia Reinhart before. This was not the woman he expected. He envisioned what she was imagining. How…difficult that was. How against everything he had been raised to think it was. Forests. Nothing immediate.
Good for the future. Hard work with no reward. Yet—when statues faded, there trees would be. They would not bear your name. They would not be the same ones you planted, but descendants that survived if you worked hard.
Who would do such a thing? Who could appreciate it? Not you. Not your children. But…
Ressa stood there, behind the woman she had chosen to follow on her lonely quest. And she knew the answer.
You would never benefit yourself. No one would thank you in your lifetime, or see the full scale of what you had done. But perhaps. Perhaps someone with eternity ahead and behind him would. He could see it, and see what she had done across the ages he slept and woke.
A girl’s answer to a weary Dragon’s despair. Even now—what a young, idealistic idiot. Ressa closed her eyes as Magnolia Reinhart spoke.
The First Gardener, Shaerrha Brasswing, did not know what Ressa saw. But at the same time…she saw. She looked at the image and idea Magnolia was talking about. Not as it was. Everything was so blurry. But her eyes roamed, looking for the Earth Dragon, listening to Magnolia with an uncharacteristically solemn look on his face. A gentle, slightly wild child. Her son.
As he had always been, for them all. She clutched at her heart and had to sit. Mivifa helped her down. She saw it too.
Wall Lord Ilvriss shook his head. Magnolia Reinhart stood there.
“I will have peace, as honestly as I can contrive it. I am not your enemy, ladies and gentlemen. Believe me. Whenever a threat should arise, be it [Witch] or Antinium, Necromancer, or plague, that is what I must fight. I stopped my cousin from making war at Liscor. Because that is our role. Let us allow Izril to change, and fight only what we must.”
There she stood, a watch-woman, holding a torch, looking at him. At him. He nodded to her. So that was what she was trying to be.
“Terribly difficult.”
He murmured. Yet not a second passed that he thought she was wrong. Only saw what it had cost. Was that what Zel Shivertail had seen? Why had Ilvriss not gone with him? How the future might have changed if he was the him that could go back.
“I should have been me, back when I was him.”
He saluted Magnolia Reinhart with one claw, and she dipped her head at him and walked on.
They admired her. Even Cire, who stared at an image she had conjured.
“That would be nice. I like trees.”
…But she disagreed. Lyonette du Marquin shook her head. And she spoke, though that was not arranged, though she knew it was unwise to attract attention to herself.
“It’s too long, Lady Reinhart. We can do more. You say we will be allies—that is to say, north and south for only the most dire enemies. You give these species a chance to change over time. But I have been to a place where bonds just as great can be forged far faster. Why not ask for more? Let those who sign that contract be allies in all wars. In all battles.”
Drakes shook their heads at her, and Ilvriss fixed Lyonette with a gaze, but her hands were clenched. She had seen it.
“When there is danger, we will be there. That is a promise between true friends. I know there are those who could make such a promise, now. Perhaps not all. Not by one contract. But…”
And her head turned to Wall Lord Ilvriss. Magnolia Reinhart shook her head. She smiled at Lyonette, sadly.
“I am sure it would endure, Miss…Solstice. I do not doubt the strength of your words. Or individual friendships. However, even if we could agree to that—and we do not trust each other enough—”
She looked around, and met rueful smiles with her own.
“—such promises would only last as long as we lived, no matter how hard we tried to keep to them. The problem with such fiery pacts, you see? Inevitably, they are broken. Because they must be. Because something changes. Something slow. We will not see it, friends. But we may live proudly, if we keep ourselves moving to that goal.”
The First Gardener nodded. A [Druid] in the back let his tears dribble down into his beard. And that was why he followed her. The [Druids] of Oteslia nodded.
Such gentle persuasion Magnolia Reinhart used. Lyonette wanted her to inspire. Lead by example! Do more than hold out a hand—grasp mine. She could not love Magnolia’s idea, not alone.
Nor—the shaking figure. Makhir felt a nudge. He looked over at Ferris and the [Infiltrator] directed his attention left.
“Rafaema? Is something…?”
The Lightning Dragon stared at Magnolia. She was shaking. Shaking her head, backing up a few steps, her discipline shattered. She saw what Magnolia was talking about. She saw the scale, taken in mortal lifetimes. But unlike Cire—Rafaema was horrified.
“No. No. It’s too long. It’s too much. I can’t—”
Her breath came in gasps. As if something heavy were on her chest. Panic welled in her, and she could not explain why. Only that she saw herself. Over those long ages. Was that what it took? Alone?
“Raf?”
Cire touched her claw. Rafaema turned. She tore away from Cire and stumbled away. Magnolia Reinhart glanced at her, as she stood in the center of it all.
Some would never agree. Drakes and Gnolls left to tell their allies exactly what the Human wanted and conspired to oppose it. But more than she could have hoped at this weary point stayed. Not a single quill touched the contract. Not yet.
A tiny step, that she had to write in ink by the time this ended.
 
——
 
The debate was in full force, and Magnolia Reinhart occupied the center circle, talking candidly about the cost—which Drevish had tried to marry to speed and quality. It was said you could only get ‘cheap’, ‘quick’, or ‘good’, on a project, and not all three. It was a truism Drevish had laughed at. For lesser people, perhaps. While he had died, his work had not.
It was at this moment, as Lyonette hung back, offended to her core, without being able to fully denounce Magnolia—only that she was doing the right thing the wrong way—and as Ilvriss was thoughtfully heading over to introduce himself to a stiff [Butler]—that someone came rushing up the steps.
“First Gardener—a minor issue.”
Shaerrha glanced up. She listened, then approached Magnolia.
“Lady Reinhart. Do you have any…Human allies in the area?”
People listened in, and the First Gardener let them as Magnolia Reinhart raised her brows.
“Many allies, but none directly here.”
“Ah. Well, there is an emerging situation. It may become…unpleasant. I am told Liscor’s army is there, and they are pragmatists. But the Admiralty and Zeres’ army also hold the area. And while I am told Admiral Asale and the Admiral of the Land are reasonable—the current Sharkcaptain is not. There are four Humans trying to reach Oteslia. They have passports and I do not know how they got this far unhindered. But they are [Knights] and Zeres seems prepared to capture them.”
Lyonette’s head turned. Magnolia raised her brows. She took a deep sip of tea.
“And who might they be?”
“Thronebearers of Calanfer. If their golden plate is anything t—”
Magnolia Reinhart was too much of a [Lady] to do a proper spit-take. She didn’t even so much as purse her lips. Lyonette du Marquin, on the other hand, was quite capable of expectorating all over Nerul. The [Diplomat] stared down at his vest.
“I have never seen such a splendid execution. The old Winebreath Blaster. Classic diplomatic trick. You, young lady, are a credit to your home. Natural talent. Indeed.”
Ruefully he walked away. Lyonette didn’t even hear—she turned.
Oh no. Not them. How had they…? Mrsha had written to her about four idiots, but not…
“Dear me. By provoke, do you mean…?”
Magnolia Reinhart glanced towards the double doors. Shaerrha bit her lip.
 
——
 
“Oteslia is just ahead! Ride! Ride, damn you!”
Dalimont roared. The three Thronebearers surged after him, terrified. A sea of Drakes were hot on their heels.
“We have passports! We h—”
An arrow grazed Ser Lormel’s head and he ducked. To be fair, it was a practice arrow, but the idiot didn’t have his helmet on and he was trying to put it on as they rode. Which was an exercise in futility and he lost track of it. It went rolling and two Drakes tripped over it, which was something.
Lormel nearly went back to get it, but Zeres’ army, loosing arrows without arrowheads, daring them to take a swing, was cutting off their exit.
“Do not draw your blades. Even if they attack.”
Dalimont growled at the others. They had their hands on their hilts, but they could see the Drakes wanted them to spill blood. Then they died.
It had all gone so well. The Liscorian army had been very reasonable, especially when they saw the passports originated out of Liscor! However, Zeres?
“They’d violate the rules of war just to kill us?”
“I believe they would, Dame Ushar. Listen to me. One of us has to make it to Oteslia.”
“The gates are closed!”
“Then do nothing. If they beat or torture us, tell them only the truth. Listen—”
Hands were grabbing for Dalimont. Warily, he knocked them down with his glove, but he dared not strike at the jeering Drakes. He saw the Admiralty, including a thunderously powerful Drake with an aura that sent barbs into Dalimont even from afar. Arguing with two leaders.
Was this where they failed? After going so far to reach the 6th Princess? As someone grabbed his leg and he jerked, Dalimont feared it was so. His horse reared, and if a flying hoof struck—
Exactly that happened. A Drake cried out and the others shouted.
“They’re attacking! Get them!”
“No, damn you! The Eternal Throne—”
Blades came out. Dalimont went down, cursing. Not now! Not after all! He was thrashing as someone ripped off his helm and put a spear to his throat when he heard a sound.
…At first, he thought it was a horn, from one of the Singer’s songs.
“Cara?”
But it wasn’t her songs, as he had heard in desperate hours. It was just a horn. First one, then two—musical, in a sense, but a single, crescendoing note.
They came from the walls. The fighting slowed. Someone shouted.
“1st Marines, about face! Formation! Formation!”
It was a worried tone. Dalimont, still on the ground, didn’t dare move. The other three Thronebearers rose, armor muddied. Scarcely believing it. Yet in the distance…
Oteslia’s gates were swinging open.
Both Zeres and Liscor’s forces reacted with calm alarm. There was no chance Oteslia’s 1st Army would sally forth. That would be silly.
…But just in case. [Archers] and [Mages] trained their arrows on the gates. The Sharkcaptain crowed and pointed to Asale.
“See? Wait for it—that damned coach is coming!”
