Disappearing from her side in the blink of an eye, Rain sent his opponent’s head flying through the air. Only then did Yan see the sword in his hand, Peace reforged through some miracle of Heaven which not even Akanai or Teacher Du could understand. More to the point, Tranquility was also strapped to his wrist, and Unity driven into the ground a few metres away, his body, mind, and weapons all back in working condition as he slaughtered the half-demon Warriors as easily as turning a hand, carving through most before they even noticed he was there. Yan blinked and almost missed it all, a dozen of those fearsome foes falling victim to Peace as it sliced through them without effort, some working of Concealment hiding his presence with frightening effectiveness. Tranquility scored a kill or two as well, though how, Yan failed to see, and before long, the half-demon Warriors had all withdrawn leaving the formidable monk on his lonesome.

Again, Rain disappeared only to reappear in front of Yuanyin, but this time, Peace missed its intended target. Having moved thirty or more metres in less time than it took to blink, the bookish Defiled stood behind a taller, older monk, this one with long, silken eyebrows that stretched past his chin. A Peak Expert at the minimum, one who fought Commander General Shuai Jiao to a standstill in single combat, and Yan’s heart skipped a beat as she glanced frantically about for Rain’s protectors.

Not Rain though. Fool that he was, he charged headlong into the fray, and Yan only pieced together what happened after the fact.

Rather than thrust with his sword, Rain threw it instead, forcing the older monk to dodge not once, but twice as Rain summoned his weapon back to hand. At the same time, he drove Tranquility towards the monk’s abdomen, while summoning Unity to hand as well, which he used to thrust at Yuanyin as if intent on killing the man. The Eyebrowed Monk parried Tranquility and forcibly stopped Unity by grabbing the cross-guard, movements Rain apparently anticipated and prepared for by driving his boot into the monk’s stomach and unleashing a Mountain Collapsing Stomp, one which sent the formidable Peak Expert hurtling back into the corridor from whence he came.

“Tch.” Before Yan could even process what just happened, Rain was already back at her side, his arm wrapping around her waist so naturally it was as if it’d always belonged there. “He got away, but I’ll get that shitty baldy next time, and that stupid Eyebrows too.” Turning his attention to her once more, Yan felt his emotions swell as love and affection threatened to overwhelm him where he stood, but he reined himself in while promising to unleash it all again later, a promise she intended to hold him to. “No one bullies my wife and gets away with it, not for long.” Flashing his charming smile which made her weak in legs once again, he added, “But first, let’s put an end to this battle, shall we?”

Put an end to the battle, as if it were just that easy. A part of Yan wanted to scoff and check if he had his head on right, but there was something about his relaxed confidence and dependable demeanour that made her trust him completely. “Okay,” she said, before switching to Sending. “And then you and I will find a nice, quiet room to make up for lost time.”

“Gladly,” came the reply, the Sending accompanied by a burst of lust so intoxicating Yan almost ripped his pants off then and there. “But first...” The last was said out loud as he turned his attentions skyward, and before she knew it, Yan was soaring through the air and landing softly on the Central balcony. “This is Legate Falling Rain,” he began, projecting his voice for all to hear, and by some miracle of Heaven, all fighting in the Bulwark came to a stop. “Offering an invitation to Bai Qi so that we might discuss terms of surrender.”

...Well, that took the wind out of Yan’s amorous sails, or at least it did for a bit, until Rain scrunched his face and added, “Err... terms of your surrender. Not mine. Ours? Just to be clear.”

In the ensuing silence, Yan was sure the entire Citadel could hear her giggling into his chest, and more than a few could see her shoulders shaking and figure it out as well, but she didn’t care one whit. Her sweet fool of a husband was finally back, dumb as always and stronger than ever, so if this wasn’t enough reason to be happy, then nothing else would ever suffice.

Well, maybe if she finally got her harem of handsome husbands, but that would have to wait...

Chapter Meme
