With nothing left to do except fight, Yan stood her ground and waited for the Enemy to arrive. It didn’t take long before a throng of tribesmen came into sight, waving their crudely made or salvaged weapons as they ran headlong through the passageways towards their imminent demise. Crossbows were nice, but heavy stones thrown from on high were every bit as effective at killing unarmoured Defiled, and Yan’s soldiers had more than enough to spare. A hail of bricks and masonry rained down on their enemies from above as they marched through the tightly packed paths, and while some sought to take cover and retreat, there was nowhere for them to hide as the Defiled behind them pressed forward in ignorance, unable to see the battle at the crossroads due to a sharp turn in the bend. That was the beauty of the Bulwark’s design, meant to herd crazed, murderous Defiled to their untimely demise in small, manageable chunks.

The most amusing part of it all was that if the Defiled stopped charging forward and made an effort to leap over the walls instead, they might actually fare better against the thin line of troops defending the battlements, but packed as they were inside those crowded courtyards and corridors, there was no room to do anything besides follow the crowd, unless one cared to be trampled underfoot.

The Chosen of Heaven were slightly more clever, but not by much, marching in disciplined lockstep down a second corridor to find the tribesmen already assaulting the gates. With nothing to do besides twiddle their thumbs, they stood perfectly still across the courtyard, which made them excellent targets for the eight oversized ballistas mounted over the gatehouse, ones which loosed five spear-length bolts at a time. They weren’t the most accurate of weapons, but considering the bolts barely had to travel more than fifty metres before reaching the tightly packed crowd of Chosen, they flew true enough most of the time. Even though the Chosen’s Runic armour prevented the oversized bolts from piercing their flesh, the sheer weight and velocity of each projectile was enough to shatter bones and crush organs with even a glancing hit, a sight which was both gruesome and wonderful to behold.

The Enemy died in droves as Yan’s soldiers set to work, but matters did not progress without complications. Eventually, the tribesmen cut their way through the steel gate, the concrete barriers, and the ornate, decorative wooden doors as well, at which point they learned firsthand how Ryo Da’in dominated her entire generation so thoroughly everyone else was left scrambling for second place. Her trio of swords slaughtered every enemy who stepped foot into the gatehouse, a whirlwind of death and fury which cut a swathe through the Defiled and left them reeling in place, unsure how to approach this human storm of blades and unable to slow their advance because of the press of ignorant bodies behind them. How many Da’in killed within the confines of the gatehouse, perhaps not even she could say, but with Kyung, Fung, and Seoyoon there to support her and soldiers throwing rocks down from the second level, not a single Defiled made it through the other side of the gates.

Eventually, the Chosen grew weary of dodging ballista bolts with minimal success and pressed forward into the fray, and not a moment too soon either. Having long since taken the measure of Da’in’s endurance, Yan ordered her god-sister to fall back and jumped down to take her place, but rather than head into the gatehouse to fight in extreme close quarters, Yan gathered her elites in a semi-circle along the inner courtyard instead. Standing at the centre of the concave line, she gently waved her Battle-Fan left to right and back again, gathering the air to her beck and call while Honing it along the edge of her blade. At the same time, she twirled her weapon about, slowly at first, then increasing her speed as momentum built up and overcame resistance, like the blades of a windmill catching the breeze, and slowly but surely gaining in power over time.

When Rain likened the Mountain Collapsing Stomp to gradually building up a wave, Yan struggled to make sense of it, but then she realized it was merely a matter of perspective. The same general principles were at work here, or at least similar ones in theory, similar enough to allow her to create her own variant of the Mountain Collapsing Stomp after months of intense trial and error.

Or, as she liked to call it, the Forest Clearing Gale, which she unleashed the moment the first Chosen of Heaven stepped through the gates.

Her attack was nothing like Grandpa Du’s massive Wind Blades, a singular Honed edge that swept through his foes with impunity. Instead, Yan’s attack arrived in the form of a coiling, swirling twister, a rotating column air attached to her spinning battle-fan which she sent hurtling deep into Enemy lines to spit out hundreds of finger-length Honed Wind blades with every rotation. There was more to it than she understood, something about alternating pressure as well as hot and cold fronts, but she knew it well enough to replicate, and that was good enough. Though the windstorm lasted for all of a single second, it travelled fast and far enough to pierce through the entire column of Chosen, leaving a trail of dead and wounded Defiled in its wake. So surprised by the efficiency of her attack, Yan stood with mouth agape before shutting her jaw with an audible click, one that echoed off the walls of the now silent courtyard as ally and enemy alike stared at her in visible awe.

Someone must have said it first, but Yan had no idea who, for the next thing she knew, every Imperial present was chanting, “The Sanguine Whirlwind! The Sanguine Whirlwind!”

Flattering as it was to be compared to Grandpa, Yan’s work was far from over. Although her attack required a tremendous amount of Chi, her Core had swelled greatly in the last year or so, especially in the last few months, to the point where she had more Chi than she knew what to do with most days. The lack of a Natal Palace was no longer so crippling once she had vast reserves of Chi to practice with in the waking world, but more importantly, she’d experienced a series of Insights whilst meditating in Taduk’s grove that showed her how to make more efficient use of her Wind Chi. All in all, her Forest Clearing Gale took almost a quarter of her Chi reserves, which was incredible considering that not too long ago, she could barely manage a few dozen Wind Blades without collapsing on her feet.

Which meant the Enemy did not expect her to have a second Forest Clearing Gale in her to give, much less a third, a fact Yan used to lure two more groups of Chosen to their unsightly death over the next thirty minutes.

Of course, she wasn’t idle during the time in between, and soon she truly had almost nothing left to give, the Energy of the Heavens surging into her Core as quickly as it could, yet barely amounting to more than a single handful of water for a woman dying of thirst. Lungs burning and head throbbing, Yan fought with battle-fan and shield in hand, and out of hand more often than not. Throwing her shield took surprising little Chi so long as she angled it right, and while it failed to measure up to the destructive power of her Forest Clearing Gale, with the gatehouse walls to ricochet off of, the balanced shield did admirably in its own right and allowed her to hold the Enemy at bay for a little while longer.

Until a young, mousy scholar of monk with narrow, pointed eyes and a lanky frame appeared alongside two-dozen Half-demon Warriors.

“Be grateful harlot,” he hissed, smashing her shield aside mid-air as he appeared without warning. His sword slashed at Yan’s abdomen and she avoided it mostly with luck and good timing, as she’d already been moving to intercept her returning shield. “For soon, you will learn the taste of a real man. Falling Rain took my father away from me, so I, Yuanyin, will take something of his.” The senseless statement was delivered amidst a flurry of deadly attacks, and Yan barely registered the words much less the meaning behind them, nor did she recognize the name or know who his father was. Frantically fighting to stay alive, she let her mind relax and focused without focusing, seeking nothing and finding every detail available to her, details which helped her stay ahead of her formidable foe. This Yuanyin was stronger than her, but not faster, nor was he all that coordinated, moving like a gangly teen who had yet to acclimate to his latest growth spurt. Even then, his awkward strikes came close to crippling Yan more than once as she dodged, weaved, blocked, and Deflected for all she was worth. Sutah tried to come to her rescue, brave man that he was, bringing his giant sabre about in a sweeping, overhead strike, but the monk blocked Sutah’s best attack without even trying and the riposte tore open the southerner from hip to hip. The attack would’ve hacked him into two pieces if it wasn’t for Da’in’s interference, pulling Sutah back to relative safety while driving her sword at the monk’s throat, but against all expectations, Da’in’s attack missed, slipping past the monk’s throat and missing its intended target by the barest of margins.

But not without leaving an opening for Yan to press the attack.

Punching with the edge of her shield, she slammed it home against the monk’s shoulder, only to find no purchase against his clothes or flesh. A powerful Deflection then, one so innate it seemed as if her foe had no need to even concentrate to utilize it. Having over-committed to what she thought would be a fatal attack, Yan paid the price for her haste as the monk reared his head back and slammed his forehead into her nose, a move she was not in the habit of being on the receiving end. Bone crunched and the world spun until she landed softly in someone’s arms, a strong and familiar presence who carried her away from the fight as Kyung took her place, giving Yan time to Heal her broken nose and get her thoughts in order again.

Only to discover that her soldiers were being slaughtered by the half-demon Warriors.

Fung did his best to hold them off, but he alone was far from enough as the monstrous beings rampaged through the Imperial lines. The Amber-Eyed Warrior wasn’t here, nor was the Mataram Patriarch, but even these lesser half-demon Warriors were too much for her troops to handle. A single second passed as she watched dozens of her people slaughtered with ease, their best efforts far from enough to preserve their precious lives. Though these half-demon Warriors were not quite Peak Experts, their raw power, speed, and unholy armour more than made up for their deficiencies, meaning even Kyung might struggle to defeat one in single combat.

And here, in the courtyard Yan had been ordered to defend, two dozen of the inhuman killing machines were making short work of her troops.

A second of hesitation was one second too many, and Yan cursed her stupidity even as she pushed her rescuer aside to charge back into the fray, only to curse herself again as her legs refused to listen. A concussion, one she hadn’t noticed in her state of shock, hardly surprising considering she was... well, concussed. Stumbling on two legs that threatened to collapse under her weight, Yan teetered unevenly towards her intended target and watched with bated breath as the half-demon Warrior haphazardly launched the blow that would kill her. Time slowed as death approached, but Yan was wholly at peace with herself, not exactly ready to die, but not dreading death either. Strange how she felt so indifferent to her fate, as if she were somehow entirely uninvolved with her own life or death, because...

Because she finally realized whose familiar arms she’d fallen into.

Looking more handsome than she remembered him, his strong hands held her up as his piercing amber eyes regarded her with love and concern, all while fending off the offending half-demon Warrior with laughable ease. “Hello, beloved wife,” Rain whispered, radiating warm affection and blazing hot anger in alternating pulses, combined with a tangle of jumbled emotions Yan could not pick out, but she knew he loved her dearly and that was enough. “Take it easy,” he continued, as a warm rush of Chi surged through her and took away all her pain, her concussion cleared and nose unbroken in an instant. The coagulating blood dripping down her nose and chin was the only proof she’d been injured at all, and she found she was not surprised to learn that he’d Healed her, only proud that he’d come so far.

Of course it was just Yan’s luck to be a sweaty, bloody, unsightly mess the first time her husband laid eyes on her in weeks. Even then, she could sense the love and lust in his gaze as he helped her to her feet, before he turned aside out of shame and need, shame because he wanted to kiss her here on the battlefield, and need because good soldiers were dying as he delayed. “You’ve got some nerve,” he said, fixating on the half-demon Warrior that almost killed her, “Attacking my wife like that!”

A part of Yan knew she should be somewhat upset, because she was a strong, independent person with her own dreams and aspirations, ones that were entirely separate from Rain. She was his wife, but the way he said it made it sound like she belonged to him, a possession to be closely guarded or flaunted on occasion. Logically, that was how she should feel, but when she heard the tone he used to say it and the surge of outrage that came along with it, she couldn’t help but swoon on her feet in a way that had nothing to do with her recent concussion.

The things she would do to him once this battle was over...

