Having borne witness to what might well have been most phenomenal display of tactical command the Empire had ever seen, Yan prayed no one would ever ask her to recount her experience, because the truth was far from ideal.

After dismissing his entire command cadre, Brigadier Hongji seated himself in his office chair and stared off into nothingness for several hours in complete silence and stillness. That was all Yan saw, and for the first few minutes, she worried that the good Brigadier had succumbed to despair and given up the good fight, an outcome that left her reeling with dismay and disappointment. Usually, the office would be a bustling hub filled with junior officers and aides rattling off status reports received through Sending and the Brigadier narrating his commands to be passed along in his stead, either through Sending again or sealed and written orders to be delivered by readied and waiting messengers. None of that was present here today, with only Yan and her elites acting as guards for the good Brigadier as he sat motionless in his chair, but the constant sounds of fighting off in the distance told her the army was still resisting and the absence of Defiled knocking at the Bulwark gates meant they were doing a passable job of it.

Yan was a hair’s breadth away from going over Hongji’s head to report his ‘dereliction’ of duty, but Kyung assured her the good Brigadier was still actively Sending orders out in a flurry of unseen activity. It wasn’t until some hours later after Brigadier Hongji recalled his command cadre and ordered her to stand down and await further orders that Yan learned what the good commander had accomplished over the last half day, somehow single-handedly coordinating a shockingly effective Citadel-wide defence without any need for support. Logically, this shouldn’t have been possible given how one man could only focus on so many events at once, which was why commanders kept a cadre on hand to help sort through all the Sendings and give perspective of the overall tactical situation. However, according to Da’in, who Yan ran into while checking on Auntie Jeong and Geom-Chi, Brigadier Hongji had not only taken complete control of the battlefield all by his lonesome, he’d somehow found the ability to micromanage each and every unit out in the field to astonishing effect. Having fought in the streets herself for hours with minimal rest, Da’in expressed her heartfelt admiration for the Brigadier’s abilities and told a tale of how he personally guided her to not only ambush and slaughter multiple unsuspecting Defiled patrols, but also gave her step by step instructions on how to escape unharmed and avoid Enemy reprisal.

“It was amazing,” Da’in sighed, discarding her damp facecloth now covered in blood while taking her sleeping brother’s hand. “As if he were there standing with me, cloaked in Concealment and relaying every move the Enemy made. Each time they turned away or let down their guard, we hit them hard and faded away, sometimes mere seconds before Enemy reinforcements arrived. It wasn’t just my retinue either; I linked up with allies several times over the course of the afternoon who told me similar tales, and we worked together to hit bigger and stronger targets. We never emerged unscathed, but we made the Enemy bleed, Yan.” Eyes flashing with anger and enmity, Da’in whispered, “And we are not done yet. They still have much to pay for, a debt I intend to collect with interest.”

Reaching over to take the poor girl’s other hand, Yan gave Kyung a sideways glance, signalling him to come comfort Da’in who’d just lost her father, but the mule-headed fool ignored her well-meaning advice and stood by the door like a lowly guard. What Da’in saw in him, Yan would never know, but when the Sword Princess of Central confessed her attraction to Yan’s idiot brother, he had the gall to reject her. “It would not be proper,” was his answer, and when Yan asked about it, Kyung merely repeated the sentiment, adding, “I would be a toad lusting after swan’s flesh, and she a flower planted in dog-shit. A pairing between us would only bring her scorn and dishonour, as it rightly should.”

Idiot. Yan knew Da’in didn’t care about such petty things, but Kyung would not budge on the matter. While she could have gone to Grandpa for help, she didn’t because she worried he would see things the same way. Much as he loved Kyung and Yan both, Grandpa knew how cruel the people of Central could be, especially to half-beasts like his beloved grandchildren. The fact that Kyung was technically an Oath-bound slave didn’t help matters one whit, and Yan could already hear the insults that would be hurled his way if word slipped out that Central’s much sought-after Sword Princess had taken a half-cat slave as her lover, with talk of toads and dog-shit being considered polite.

Never mind how men bedded slaves and prostitutes all the time and were celebrated for their masculinity, a double standard Yan sorely resented. Even Rain, her beloved fool of a husband whom she loved dearly and was more broadminded than anyone she knew, saw no issue with taking multiple wives, yet always made that same conflicted, unhappy face whenever Yan subtly brought up the possibility of one day finding a boy-toy to idle her time away with while he was busy with his other wives. Unfair is what it was, but there was nothing she could do except keep her complaints to herself, lest Grandpa, Sarnai, Akanai, or worst of all, Alsantset find out about Yan’s secret desire for a harem of handsome boy-toys to keep her company once Rain got a little too old and slow to keep up.

It was only prudent to look after her needs after all...

Having cleaned up from his battle atop the outer walls, Grandpa arrived with brow furrowed and eyes moist as he sought to comfort Da’in, all contrite and apologetic as she burst into tears inside his warm embrace. Shooting a glance at Kyung telling him in no uncertain terms that this should have been his job, Yan’s heart ached for poor Da’in who until this very moment had appeared so strong and unyielding. It was a part she played, the cunning, calculating, fox-eyed Sword Princess who dominated her foes with an iron fist, when in truth Da’in was a free spirit similar to Yan, except she didn’t have the good fortune to have someone like Rain on her side, someone who encouraged her to find her own way instead of merely doing what was expected of her. Before her father rose to prominence as the Sword King of Central, the Ryo family ranked among the lowest of nobility, still better off than a peasant family but borderline destitute from keeping up appearances, a fate which was all too common in the cutthroat politics of Central. The appearance of poverty and weakness was worse than actually being poor and weak, because at least then others would be expected to give the appearance of face. For this reason alone, much of the Ryo family’s fate rested on Da’in’s broad shoulders, as anything less than excellence would have been grounds for her family’s enemies to disparage their lineage as a one generation wonder and treat them as the temporary powerhouse they appeared to be.

Had she been anything less than the Number One Talent of her generation, Da’in would have been criticized to no end as a sparrow daughter to a hawk father, but even then, her strength was not respected as it should have been. Instead, the other families saw her as a prize to be won and sought to have her marry into their families instead, which was why the beautiful flower of Central was going on thirty years a virgin. Such a lamentable fate for a woman as loyal and unconstrained as Da’in, and Yan even once subtly suggested Da’in might find happiness alongside her as one of Rain’s wives, but the proud woman would have none of it, as she wanted a husband all to herself, one who would marry into the Ryo Family.

And now, all of Da’in’s filial efforts might have been for naught, for her father, the Sword King Ryo Dae Jung, had fallen in battle, slain in single combat by the traitorous Mataram Patriarch.

Thankfully, Auntie Jeong survived thanks to Eccentric Gam’s efforts, and Fung and Seoyoon had managed to rescue poor Geom-Chi from Hideo’s Defiled clutches, but they were both grievously injured and would have no further part in the battle any longer, not unless the Enemy held off for another few days. Having displayed skills comparable to her dragon of a husband, Auntie Jeong should’ve received the finest care from the Healers to ensure she got back into the fight as soon as possible, but there was something insidious about the wounds she’d taken at the hands of the Amber-Eyed demon Warrior, some malignant force that prevented the Healers from restoring her to full health. There was no threat to her life, but it would take time and multiple Healing sessions to mend her wounds, time they did not have. As for Geom-Chi, the sad truth of the matter was that his strength did not warrant the attentions of a Healer, whose efforts were a limited resource to be closely guarded. At least his life was no longer in any danger, but he would be weeks, if not months in the mending without the help of a Healer, assuming he survived to see the next day.

A fate Yan might well share, if matters continued along their current course.

No, this defeatist thinking would do her no good, so Yan rallied her spirits and focused on the positives, like Grandpa Du’s staggering accomplishments in the battle thus far. Not twenty four hours past, the entire Citadel had chanted his name as he raised the Sanguine Tempest atop the secondary walls, and Yan could not have been any prouder. When he returned, he was a man changed, no longer slouching or limping out of habit but instead standing tall and walking proud like a true hero of the Empire should. Even in the twilight of his life, Du Min Gyu was still a force to be reckoned with, especially in large scale engagements where his true skills could shine, a fact he reaffirmed a second time while fighting on the eastern walls to keep the Defiled cavalry at bay. After a full day of fighting and slaughtering untold numbers of Defiled and Demons, the worst injury Grandpa suffered on the battlefield was a blow to his pride, for it was clear he blamed himself for Ryo Dae Jung’s death.

Which was hardly fair. Grandpa’s strength did not lie in single combat, so it’s not as if he could have done anything to save the Sword King from the monstrous Mataram Patriarch. Even Da’in said as much, and though Grandpa stopped trying to apologize in so many words, his actions and attitude showed he had yet to relent, and was only easing back on the apologies so Da’in could grieve without guilt. The half-demon Warriors were an alarming new weapon in the Enemy’s vast and seemingly endless arsenal, and as far as Yan could tell, they were some sort of fiendish amalgamation of man and ‘organic’ armour-shaped Demons, human flesh intertwined with demon tissues the same way Gen had fused with his Runic armour on the fields of Sinuji.

The sight of these half-demon Warriors filled Yan with dread and trepidation for many reasons. Their baleful Aura for one, their vast numbers for two, and their iron discipline for three, as well as how formidable the end result had proved to be. With her own two eyes, she’d seen Ryo Dae Jung unleash a series of devastating attacks against the Mataram Patriarch, only for the cuts and furrows left behind in the dark, writhing armour to leak Ichor before resealing themselves in a matter of seconds. Then there was the presence of an Amber-Eyed demon Warrior, a trait Yan had never seen in anyone apart from the People, a fact which Rain’s political enemies might use against him. None of this scared Yan more than seeing hundreds of demon Warriors however, ones bearing antlered horns so similar to her own, protruding straight up from their foreheads to end in two, wicked points.

Meaning that Yan’s Sire, the Ancestral Beast who fathered her, was likely fighting on the side of the Defiled.

There was no way she’d been the only one to notice it, but thus far, not a single person had made any sort of comment about it. Not Grandpa, Kyung, Da’in, or even Yan’s close-mouthed yet brutally honest second, Sutah, no one mentioned her connection to the Enemy, nor had she caught any strangers, enemies, or even passing rank-and-file soldiers looking at her strangely, but Yan was devastated when she saw so many older half-siblings appear on the battlefield clad in Demonized armour. How did this happen? How did she escape the same fate? There were so many questions she wanted to ask, but no one to give her any answers. For so many years, she wondered if there would come a day when she might meet her birth mother, father, or half-blooded siblings, but never in her wildest dreams did she imagine it would be under these dire circumstance. Despite having found a happy family to call her own, she felt robbed of the chance to truly confront her birth parents and say, “I did just fine without you.”

Not that an Ancestral Beast would care, especially not a Defiled one...

