Reminding herself again that this was not the time for these forlorn thoughts, Yan struggled to push her intrusive questions aside and keep a level head. It helped being here with Grandpa, Kyung, Da’in, and Auntie Jeong, none of whom were related to Yan by blood but treated her like family nonetheless. Over the last few weeks, Auntie Jeong had taken Yan under her wing and treated her like a daughter, not with the warm, comforting love Yan once associated with a Mother, but with a stern, steely determination to see her succeed. At first, the nonstop lessons in politics, decorum, tactics, and combat had grated on Yan’s nerves, but Auntie Jeong never showed any sign of anger or impatience, only limitless compassion and emphatic support through these trying times.

“While your husband is away,” Auntie Jeong said, “It falls to you to uphold his honour as his wife and partner. Commander General Shuai Jiao has taken away Falling Rain’s authority, but whether he is able to keep hold of it is a matter of contention, so you must do what you can to support your husband, even if that simply means doing your duty without fail.”

And so, with Auntie Jeong’s help, Yan recruited enough soldiers to fill her five-thousand strong retinue and then some, without needing to rely on Luo-Luo for anything more than financial assistance. Truth be told, the beautiful and diligent Imperial Consort could have found five-thousand Experts to fill Yan’s ranks with ease, drawing them from the People, the Stormguard, the Aspirants, and other clandestine sources, but Yan wanted her retinue to hail from Central and Central alone. She was Rain’s connection to this most political of provinces, tenuous as it might be, which was all the more reason to strengthen her ties here and trade on her twin statuses as grand-daughter of Du Min Gyu and Knight of the Hwarang.

Barely a half-hour had passed since Grandpa’s return when someone came to fetch him again, one of Commander General Shuai Jiao’s runners here to make sure the Sanguine Tempest still had some breath left in him yet. Looking older and more tired than ever, Grandpa rose to the occasion with a glint in his eye, one that spoke volumes to his bold determination. No doubt he meant to seek out the Mataram Patriarch to try and avenge Ryo Dae Jung, but Yan knew it would be the death of him if he did. Perhaps Grandpa knew as well, which was why he took a precious moment to say goodbye to Yan and Kyung both, not in so many words exactly, but with a warm smile and comforting hug that neither of them would ever forget. “Look after one another,” he said, patting their cheeks in turn, and Yan’s tears threatened to spill out as he did. “That is all I ask of you, my sweet, beloved grandchildren.”

“Take care of yourself too, Grandpa,” Yan said, choking back a sob and the urge to beg him to stay away from the Mataram Patriarch and leave him for someone else, but there was no one else to fight him. Ryo Dae Jung was not the only Peak Expert of Central to fall today, and there were precious few top talents left to contend with the Enemy. Aside from Commander General Shuai Jiao, Grandpa might well be the strongest Warrior still standing in the Central Citadel, meaning he had no choice but to try and contain the Mataram Patriarch on the battlefield, even at the cost of his life.

Soon after Grandpa stepped out, another messenger came for Yan, someone she recognized well. Looking delicious adorned in golden Imperial Armour with his hair in a bejewelled man-bun, Yong-Jin entered the room without knocking, as befitting of the Commander General’s one and only Disciple. “Your presence is required,” he said, after uttering the requisite condolences with a startling lack of emotion and sincerity, especially considering how his summons was not just for Yan, but Da’in, Seoyoon, and Fung as well. “The Enemy are readying to attack, and the Commander General would like to go over a few points of strategy before-hand.”

Though Yan wanted to try and spare Da’in and Seoyoon, the Ryo Family’s youngest daughter was no wilting violet. “Lead the way,” she said, leaving her brother’s side for the first time in hours, a dutiful younger sister so unlike how the rumours painted her. True, she was a bit frigid and matter-of-fact, but she was still a young, sheltered girl who knew little of the hardships of life, so seeing her father killed and her mother and brother injured must have shaken her so, but she rallied admirably in the short time since. Mostly due to Fung’s support no doubt, a calm and dependable pillar to rely on. If only Kyung would take notes from him on how to behave, though only in this particular scenario, as Yan wouldn’t want her block-headed brother spouting poetry whilst gallivanting from one whorehouse to the next.

Then again, it’d been some time since she heard tale of Fung’s sordid adventures, so it was possible Seoyoon had truly tamed the wayward young magistrate, though politically, their pairing made no sense. Shen Huo was too far for either family to support one another in times of need, and the Ryo family would need staunch allies in the years to come if they wanted to survive long enough for Da’in to become a Peak Expert. Sometimes love just wasn’t enough, and Yan counted herself blessed for having found love with her sweet, stupid husband.

Commander General Shuai Jiao’s speech was given from the Bulwark’s central balcony, a basic, rousing appeal to their courage, loyalty, filial piety, and nationalism so that they might stand firm before the Defiled hordes. Try as she might, Yan could not bring herself to believe him when he claimed they still had a chance, that they only needed to hold out for a ‘short’ time before victory was theirs, but these were things he had to say in order to keep morale up. It wasn’t as if he could say, “Look, the Enemy outnumber us, have more Peak Experts than us, and have us outmatched at the highest echelons of Martial Strength, but somehow, we just need to find some way to survive for half a day until our allies arrive to pull our asses out of the fire.”

Truth be told, Yan could imagine Rain giving a speech like that, only to end it with some stupid, sarcastic statement like, “How hard could it be?” Sometimes, it felt like her fool of a husband did so love to tempt fate, but Yan loved him all the same.

As one of the few units who had yet to fight all day, Yan’s retinue was stationed at a pivotal location, along an inner gatehouse which sat at a four-way crossroads and blocked the only route deeper into the Bulwark along the entire western front. One of many choke-points built into the heart of the Citadel, but considering it was the outermost choke-point and closest to the Enemy army, it meant she would see more than her fair share of action in the coming battle. No matter though, for she was well-rested and well-prepared to play her part, especially with the battered remnants of the Ryo Family retinues attached to her’s. Da’in, Seoyoon, and Geom-Chi’s second were all placed under Yan’s command, even though Da’in technically outranked her given her seniority. No one offered any argument though, least of all Da’in herself, but Yan still quietly made sure her proud god-sister was alright with this arrangement.

“Of course I am,” Da’in replied, giving Yan a look of silent reproach. “Honestly sister, where has all your confidence gone? You are the superior commander, this much is clear, and my efforts will be better spent with swords in hand.” Implying she was still stronger than Yan, and by no small margin either, just the sort of blunt statement one should expect from Ryo Da’in.

With just shy of ten-thousand troops in place, Yan stood atop the battlements to watch and wait, wondering just what the Enemy would do next. As expected, the traitor general emerged to give a speech of his own, one meant to lower morale and break their spirits before the fighting could start anew. Cloud-Stepping up to land lightly atop a raised pole overlooking the entire Bulwark, Bai Qi stood with empty hands folded behind his back as if out for a leisurely stroll. His yellow and black brigantine shone with a polished gleam that paled in comparison to the nauseating lustre of his half-demon allies, proving his armour was of the standard Runic variety and his strength was all his own. This was a man who clearly needed no help from the Father to ascend to such lofty heights, which made his betrayal sting just that much more.

“Men and women of Central,” he began, speaking in the slow, slurred drawl commonly shared by Westerners. “This Prince be Gongsun Qi, Commander General of the Chosen of Heaven.” In JiangHu, he’d introduced himself as a Colonel General and commander of the first army, meaning he’d moved up in the world since then, if only in title. A slim, handsome man with honeyed skin and well-defined features, Bai Qi did not look like a ‘Prince of Barbarity’, but he more than earned the name given his cruel and domineering actions, so Yan reminded herself not to be swayed by the strong, handsome foreigner and his charming accent.

It’d been far too long since she had a chance to... vent her frustrations with Rain, and it was really starting to take a toll on her psyche.

Gazing upon the gathered defenders, Bai Qi offered the barest hint of a sneer. “Know this for true; the Citadel will soon fall. This Prince’s army will march out and slaughter all who stand in our path, leaving naught but death and destruction in our wake. So this shall be, and though you be resolved to defend these walls with your lives, it is a price this Prince will ultimately collect.” Extending a single hand in offer, Bai Qi gestured his audience to come closer and Yan almost stepped forward to obey, so drawn in by his commanding presence and overwhelming charisma. “But it need not end like this. Join this Prince,” Bai Qi continued, his tone taking on the timbre of confident conviction, “For he admires your courage and honour, yet laments to see warriors fight for one without. No, not your commendable Commander General Shuai Jiao, but the dog-Emperor himself, a man who cannot even be bothered to send his lackeys to help in the midst of a calamity such as this.” Spreading his hands in question, he asked, “Where is your Legate? Your Imperial Scions? This Prince sees a scant few-hundred Royal Guardians present, a pittance compared to the armies at the Emperor’s beck and call. Is that all your lives are worth? You think his armies will march once Central falls? No, he will do what he did to my home and my people, close his borders to you and yours, leaving all at the mercy of those without. He cares not for your lives, only for your taxes, so why fight for an Emperor who demands loyalty and offers nothing in return? This Prince means to overthrow the dog Emperor and deliver peace to the Empire, but you stand in his path, leaving only but two options before you: surrender or die. There is nothing left for you besides these two choices, and this Prince cautions you to choose wisely.”

“You offered me the same choice back in JiangHu.” Booming out from the heart of the Bulwark, Brigadier Hongji’s voice echoed across the entire Citadel with a resounding roar. “And I will once again choose the third option, to stand and fight until the cowardly traitors of the Empire turn tail and flee.”

A weak cheer rose from the Imperial ranks in response to the good Brigadier’s rejoinder, but Yan could tell their hearts weren’t in it. Not that she could blame them, as it was one thing to fight when your life was on the line, but another altogether to commit to fighting when offered a chance to leave unscathed. Though the Bulwark walls hid much of the Enemy army from the soldiers on the ground, there were many troops stationed atop the battlements who could see the Defiled numbers stretching out towards the horizon, a seemingly endless horde of feral tribesmen, disciplined Chosen, grotesque Demons, and fearsome demon Warriors, all led by the most ruthless Colonel General alive. “You have made your choice, Brigadier,” Bai Qi replied, not at all put off by the reminder of his defeat. “What of your soldiers then? All men must choose their own fate, and this Prince will graciously afford them three minutes to decide.”

“No need.” Despite his stalwart reputation and formidable strength, Shuai Jiao’s greatest flaw had always been his lacking charisma, or at least that’s what Grandpa Du claimed. Honour and duty stood above all else in Shuai Jiao’s eyes, and he expected the same from those under his command, to behave as he did without need for praise or reward, and such men were rare beasts indeed. So while he might have been the most popular Colonel General of Central when taking the opinion of the common people into account, Shuai Jiao actually had the least amount of support where it counted, among the nobles, merchants, and Martial Warriors, and not without good reason. Without appearing to address his foe, Shuai Jiao uttered, “The soldiers of Central will uphold their duty, no more, and no less. We will live, and you will die, no other outcome is acceptable.”

What followed was a volley of crossbow bolts delivered towards the Defiled army, ending all discussion and initiating hostilities in a manner that left no room for negotiation. Three minutes didn’t seem like much, but with almost twelve hours to go before reinforcements were slated to arrive, every last second was precious indeed. Alas, it appeared as if the Commander General was concerned his soldiers would take up Bai Qi’s offer and further weaken the Imperial position, a fear not without foundation, but his actions showed just how little faith he had in the Warriors of Central.

