For the moment, I aimed all my attention at the arcane bolts. With subtle shifts in my position, I edged between the rain of arcane destruction. Many struck me despite my dodging. The flock of energy attacks was too thick. It was like trying to dodge the rain during a thunderstorm.

The electricity stung like a mix of poison and fire. Chunks of my health fell down as I raced for a counteractive plan. I created semi-permanent gravity wells around me, saturating the areas with mana. With those keeping me afloat, I shifted to The Rise of Eden.

I created growing chunks of dirt in front of me. These blocked many of the arcane bolts. Between volleys of arcane magic, I shifted to Event Horizon, wailing on the forcefield with abandon. They changed tactics after half a minute of this dance.

They alternated to a steady stream of arcane strikes, attempting to wear me down. This made switching my mana types far more difficult. On the other hand, I dodging a couple bolts at once was doable. We kept changing our strategies back and forth, each us attempting to stay one step ahead of the other.

With a portion of my focus aimed at this tactical dance, a wave of psionic energy slammed into my mind. Distracted and preoccupied, it hit me like a truck. Oddly enough, a truck of mental force wasn't so bad.

Their psionic abilities didn't cripple me like the last group had. Several reasons explained that. I wasn't an utter novice anymore, and either of my Dimensional Wakes resisted psionics as well. Event Horizon fizzled the mental assaults before they reached me. The Rise of Eden just gave me the raw stats to buffer my lack of experience.

Without the cutting edge of the last psionic onslaught, I kept sharp and on point. The enemy forces rallied more troops, more mind mages joining their ranks. My iron-clad hold over the situation turned brittle over time. Cracks formed in my mental defenses. Attacks I'd otherwise dodge landed on me verbatim.

Despite this offensive, I maintained a steady stream of attacks on the forcefield. This wasn't my first fight, and amidst the chaos, I carved out a stable center of calm. They were dipping into my regeneration, but I held my own. Getting through this shield would change the battle, so I kept focused.

As a few minutes passed, they attempted using complex runic formations in battle. They used their grimoires for these inscriptions. It was ridiculous. Distracted or not, I wasn't about to let these guys spend more than a few seconds on their spells.

One booklet at a time, I ignited their tomes with bursts of thermal energy. I aimed these ignitions during the apex of the mage's ritual. This created severe magical blowback. Mage after mage lost years of work in seconds, and several even lost their lives as their bodies burned to cinders.

Still, juggling all these parts proved difficult over time. Many minds worked against me, my control over fine motor functions dwindling. My offensive crumpled over time. Arcane shots shot into my gut, and their absolute damage was a thorn in my side. Though slight, the rain of bullets and bolts proved distracting. The mental angle of their attack expanded over time as well.

The other dreadnought pincered me in, attempting to block off my escape. My regeneration kept me alive, but my health danced up and down now. The forcefield thinned, the pale force pushed to its absolute limit. As they threatened to overwhelm me, Krog flew up from below.

He let out a roar towards the dreadnought's crew. A dazzling display of lights, sounds, and other illusions engulfed the crew members. For several seconds, the hail of bullets, storm of psionics, and tornado of spells ceased.

It was all I needed.

I reared my fist back and shot a devasting hook into the forcefield. I smashed a tiny hole through the barrier. With a desperate jolt, I slipped into the field as it reformed behind me. The crew members gained an understanding of their surroundings moments later as the illusions faded.

They saw me, no field between us. The battle changed. The psionic assault ceased, and the rain of bullets and spells ended. I stared at the crowd of crew members. Beads of cold sweat formed on a few of the mage's exposed faces. Even the fighter jets ceased coming at me.

A few of the members stared around, gaging their allies reactions. An intercom radiated inside the ship. It was a deep voice like a whale was speaking,

"Hello, warrior. We are willing to negotiate-"

I pointed at one of the nearby individuals. I flooded his system with raw origin mana. As I lowered my hand, the guy's body bulged under his power armor. As it did, the glass panel covering his face shattered. His eyes fell out with a mixture of blood, guts, and grit. This sandy concoction poured from every joint and opening.

Those near him stared in abject horror as the body thudded against the ship's deck. Those at a distance trembled. I roared,

"I'm not here to negotiate. Lower your weapons and shutdown your shield. Surrender immediately."

The intercom radiated out,

"We just need some time to discuss terms that we can agree-"

Krog sent a message,

Krog Borom, the Harbinger's General(lvl 13,000 | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - They are buying time so that Lehesion and others may join this battle. We must end this quickly. There isn't time for this.

I took a deep breath, resolving myself for what had to be done. I dashed forward, towards the crowd. They unloaded the same assault as before. It was too late. As Event Horizon reached them, a symphony of screams erupted. After that, carnage cascaded out in an endless torrent.

Blood. Guts. Pain. Bones. Metal. They blended together into a single vision. I let the ascendant mana take me over, my urge to devour overpowering all else. My enemies crumbled. I indulged, ripping and tearing and ripping and tearing.

Minutes passed, the onslaught turning into an utter bloodbath. I was a living weapon, a creature of complete carnage. In my wake, I left piles of corpses. In my path, I was the forerunner of devastation. I was an omen of their downfall and a nightmare given life, a horror given form.

With carcasses spread across the deck of the dreadnought, I held up a robed mage. I squeezed my hand. Like a neck caught in a garage door, the mage's head decapitated from the blunt force. I dropped the body, the remains around me disintegrating.

I turned back to the ship, sprinting towards a wall of metal. I smashed through it, finding myself inside a storage room. I continued my run forward, the standard crew falling to Event Horizon as I passed. A minute of running through the lower portion of the ship and I fell into a large holding room.

Lining the bottom of the dreadnought, the dim room held the echoes of dying gialgathens. I sent a torrent of thermal energy into the ceiling, the glowing metal washing the area with a subtle, orange light. It was beyond anything I imagined. Groups of Hybrids paced around the metallic warehouse, dragging the gialgathens. They either piled them up into holding areas or hung them onto meat hooks across the ceiling.

Once on the meathooks, several masked individuals walked across metal walkways. They implanted tubes that pumped their bodies full of the orange muck that filled the Hybrids. The gialgathens bulged, wires forming in their body as they were processed.

Once finished, a group of Hybrids ripped them from the hook and placed them onto the back wall. A group of quarantined scientists injected them with some sort of clear fluid. This liquid evoked convulsing and squirming in the victims, the hybridizing gialgathens clanking against the hull.

They then placed the creatures into suspension fluid to finish the transformation. Those at Elderfire were right. They were turning the gialgathens into Hybrids.

A wave of nausea, deja vu, and fear raced through me. After holding back the urge to vomit, I was repulsed that people did this. These people and their motivations...they were incomprehensible. Yawm destroyed my city to protect himself. He deformed people into abominations not out of hatred but out of necessity; Springfield was caught up in the aftermath. We weren't targeted. We were unlucky.

This was nothing like that. This was the systematic destruction of a species. Flashes of the holocaust and images from years ago in school filled my vision. These people didn't see the gialgathens as something with a mind or a soul. No, they were animals to be slaughtered and used.

As for the fear, calling it that wasn't quite right. The horror of the situation wasn't lost on me. This was hard to watch. Something simmered under this lining of terror, however. Perhaps calling it an emotion wasn't precise.

It was far too cold and too calculating for that. It was a rationalization of the situation, and it was the only logical response to this. This deserved reconciliation of the same kind and caliber. With my two hands, I swore to wrench the Adair family from their roots.

The reason was simple - they were insane. I've seen and lived with insanity before. It corrupts and bends the individual to perform the most abyssal acts. We were already their enemy. If they aimed this kind of insanity at us, then there was no predicting the outcome. Well, outside of it being bad. I knew that much.

The only way to stop this was to put them down. Perhaps they would attempt to sway me with words. Maybe they would give me their motivations for rebelling against Schema. They would speak in sweet words, saying the ends justified the means. No matter what they said, I wouldn't forget that their good intentions paved the way to this hellhole right here.

No matter their justifications, they would find no forgiveness in me. As I stared at this slaughterhouse for a sentient species, I carved its image into my mind. This would not be forgotten. I would remember what they were capable of.

And they would remember what I was capable of too.

Knowing all I needed too, I dashed down. I shot across the factory floor. Event Horizon would kill the gialgathens. Using the Rise of Eden, I sliced, gored, and pulped every Hybrid, person, and scientist here. One by one, member by member, they fell.

It was a strange scene. These madmen were calm seconds ago as they butchered the gialgathens. Now that someone did it to them, it was suddenly something horrifying. Their hypocrisy wasn't lost on me. On the other hand, their cries, screams, and howls fell on deaf ears.

I killed everyone. I chomped through bone, squashed skulls in my hands, and caved torsos with my feet. I tore off limbs, ripped out organs, and splayed the walls in their blood. Once dead, they evaporated with a momentary passing of Event Horizon. I left nothing behind, cleansing this place of these monsters. They were no different than eldritch. They would be treated as such.

After slaughtering these psychopaths, I sent a quick message to Krog explaining the situation. I kept the details to myself, not wanting Krog to be stricken with horror. With him being informed, I pulled the gialgathens from the hooks and holding cells. I piled them into one corner of the room. The gialgathens inside the tubes...I killed them. They were too far gone, the Hybridization all but complete.

That sadness in Helios at killing Rivaria, I empathized now. Executing the defenseless...It was a hard thing to do.

I numbed myself as I did all of that. It was necessary. Many would call it running away. Maybe I was. I didn't know for sure. What I did know was that I had to keep going. If I let my emotions overwhelm me, no one would be saved. They would all die.

So I took on the persona of the unfeeling Harbinger. More machine than man, I tore through the shuttle, the walls sturdy as cardboard. I learned a bit of the ship's design as I did. The top part of the hull was where the fighting members stayed. Killing them with Event Horizon was simple.

The middle of the ship harbored crew members along with crucial ship functions. The radioactive cores and plasma vats sat here in the center of the battle station, protected by walls of steel and more. Hybridized fluids also gave them stores of mana to use, several semi-Hybridized creatures used as mana batteries.

It was the fate Torix warned me about.

I tore through them, and I emptied the guts of the ship like an internal hemorrhage. The bottom of the ship contained the gialgathens and their Hybridization operation. It acted as the belly of the beast. Armed with that knowledge, I slaughtered every living ship member I could find there.

Some members offered resistance, but environment favored me. I could move through the metal walls with ease. I sensed were they were long before they knew my position. It was simple in the end.

Minutes later, the flaming dreadnought was falling apart. I eradicated vital functions for the vessel, mainly the radioactive cores. With the ship tumbling down to Polydra, I readied the rescue operation. I coordinated with Krog. He and my guildsmen would act as decoys while I pulled out the victims here. Otherwise, the other dreadnought would fire at the refugees I rescued.

With that in mind, I shattered a wall of the holding cell. The open sky filled my field of view as I glanced at the other dreadnought. Krog and the others unleashed an inferno against the other destroyer as I launched myself out. I pulled a massive clump of several dozen gialgathens out with me, a gravity well pulling them along.

As I leaped out, the downed dreadnought crashed atop the shattered city of Polydra. A vast shockwave of kinetic energy and flames erupted, decimating blocks of the town. Hybrids vaporized near the point of impact. Entire buildings collapsed outwards.

Krog pulled away from the other gialgathens, shouting out telepathic orders. They kept distracting the other dreadnought as Krog and I grouped up, passing portions of the city. As we did, Krog led me down to a cluster of buildings that still stood.

