He turned to me, "The tunnels under Polydra aren't large enough to move the gialgathens in that manner."

I found three clean but unconscious gialgathens in a pile and threw them to Krog. He caught them between his wings. Switching to the Rise of Eden, I placed fifteen more of the gialgathens into my dimensional storage. The rest I split up into three different clusters. Instead of bending gravity to hold them, I created an actual gravitational force to suspend them.

It strained me, my brow furrowing. Krog nodded at me,

"That will do. Come."

Krog used his tail to smash a hole to the sewers. We jumped into the labyrinth beneath Polydra. As we skulked buy, we met dozens of footsoldiers roaming the tunnels with Hybrids. We killed them all, Krog sending them into disarray before I tore them apart.

Once we carved our way into the depths, we reached a dead end. A few spell casts and a bit of gialgathen blood later, Krog revealed an illusory flooring. A cylindrical tunnel leading beneath the city showed beneath us. Krog and I dove down.

A few seconds later and we landed. Without a gravitational web beneath me, I smashed three feet into a stone. That was after reinforcing it with quintessence. As I pulled my feet from the floor, Krog paced to a doorway littered with the cipher.

He interacted with the doorway, his eyes closed. I pointed at it, "You know how to read that?"

The cipher sheened black, the blue mana lamps near us dimming. Krog shook his head as the stone doors ground open,

"No. I know this how to work this, uhm...interface I suppose? I don't know what to call it. It's similar to one of the status screens of Schema, however."

I inspected the intricate cipher work as we walked past. After committing the image to memory, we entered the hiding place for Polydra's gialgathens. It mirrored a hollowed-out mountain; someone carved the room out of the rock that filled the peak. The maker of this prison created walkways at the edges of the expanse.

Beyond these walkways, room-wide stairs left the rest of the room several feet lower. Marble pillars jutted out of the elevated walkways, supporting the miles of rock above. Cipher inscriptions rippled with the mana of Giess here. My guess, the cipher runes did all the heavy-lifting here. From my experience, marble was actually quite soft for rock.

The entire room carried little in the way of weathering or erosion either. Whoever built this place built it to last. The leviathan's prison was well preserved. In the center of the room, ten raised seats for gialgathens encircled a podium of sorts.

A gialgathen was seated on all of these seats, and they all maintained a meditative state. A hooded figure stood at the center, scars covering an espen face. He opened his eyes before turning to us. The grizzled and gray espen sighed, viewing the gialgathens behind me.

He winced, his voice ancient,

"I see those left on the surface have been treated unkindly. I'm sorry for your loss."

Krog blinked, "It...we've done what we can."

Around the old espen, dozens of glowing lights hovered near him. They carried images of waterfalls, submerged caverns, and aquatic lairs. In some of these orbs, war-torn and wounded gialgathens swam in primordial pools. I turned to Krog,

"I have to try and clear these guys of the tech in them before they turn. As I do, explain how this place works."

The weathered espen turned to Krog, "I see you've allied yourself with a rather arrogant dirtwalker. What will we do Borom?"

Krog grumbled, "Listen to my commander for one. Don't use the word dirtwalker again for another."

The old espen's eyes widened, "Oh...excuse me. I didn't realize that."

I snapped, "Doesn't matter." I set the three clusters of gialgathens down behind me. About twenty plopped against the stone floor. They wriggled for some sort of release from their torment as I walked over to them. Pulling several gialgathens form my dimensional storage, I shifted to Event Horizon. Otherwise, I would exceed my carrying capacity for my pocket dimension.

Digging my hands into the worst looking member of the bunch, I siphoned the life force and metals from the Hybrid embedded into the gialgathen's body. The old espen glanced at Krog as I drilled tendrils of metal through its body. The old guy spoke,

"Are you certain he's here to help?"

The gialgathen I was working on wriggled against me. I forced it down with a panel of gravity, stopping its struggle. It let out hoarse howls as Krog growled, "Obey him and do not question us anymore. We don't have time for your curiosity." Krog turned to me,

"This place is known as Solis, the prison of the ancients. Long ago, it was created by an individual who's name was lost to time. Since then, it has been used to hold enemies who've fought against us in the past."

I bit into a Hybridized portion of the gialgathen's leg, tearing it off and swallowing it. Krog sent out a telepathic wave,

"This old espen is Kaios, a loyal member of the espen race. He's over a century of age, ancient by espen standards. When the espens were freed, he chose to continue serving us."

Kaios bowed, "It is only right."

I finished draining the Hybrid from the gialgathen, the many wounds on its body opening up. Blood poured out of the creature before I turned to Krog, "I need Kessiah here. Where is she?"

Krog turned to Kaios. The old espen turned to the glowing spheres, taking a deep breath. A portal opened at the bottom of the raised platform, a spiral of blue energy maintaining the tear in dimensions. Krog growled, "We need you, Healer of Rivaria."

Kessiah jumped out, landing onto the ground with a bit of stumble. As she got her bearings, she glanced around, finding me. Kessiah ran over, her face pale. She wiped some sweat from her brow while opening her dimensional storage. She pulled out three bags of blood along with some of Torix's rations.

In a very Daniel-esque way, she snapped the bag open over her face with her mouth open. She gulped as much as she could, most of the rest of it soaking into her skin. A bit of color returned to her face before she ripped open a bag of her blood.

The sanguine fluid poured down before Kessiah caught it in her palm. It spiraled into a horizontal circle before Kessiah sat down in front of the injured gialgathen. Kessiah looked like a different person, her purpose and intent obvious - save some lives.

Her patient let out a low groan before Kessiah's bloodshot eyes widened. She snapped like a whip,

"Shut the fuck up. I'm focusing."

Some things never changed.

She channeled the blood into crucial areas, healing the torn arteries, veins, and nerve tissue. After that, she stood and pulled the wounds together. Fusing the skin with a bit of blood, she worked her way to the skull. She snapped her fingers in front of the gialgathen's face while shouting,

"Can you fuckin hear me? Hello?"

The gialgathen's eyes twitched a bit before she threw its head onto its leg while pacing over to me,

"He'll be just fine."

I cleansed the next worst off gialgathens as she worked, but it was kind of mesmerizing. She did her work with diligence and a professional demeanor. A few months ago, I wouldn't have even considered Kessiah and the word 'professional' in the same sentence. Now she was a different person.

I mouthed, "Woah...I'm impressed."

She met my eye, an obvious irritation showing, "Yeah, that's great and all, but would you mind hurrying up? Not all of us can make a river of blood. Working with anemia is a pain in the ass."

She pulled out another three blood bags, and my eyes widened. This was why she looked so tired at Elderfire. It wasn't because she was exhausted with just healing. She drained her blood over the last few weeks for this, giving her a massive stockpile for this situation. She suffered anemia during that entire timeframe.

Maybe she wasn't fighting on the frontlines, but she fought hard in her own way. It gave me a newfound respect for her. With that in mind, we worked through the Hybrid victims while Krog read his status and spoke with us,

"Taking Polydra is going better than expected so far. Daniel, you destroyed most of their aerial forces in your initial assault. The ground troops and those squirming spires must be dealt with for our escape, however. Staying here for much longer risks Lehesion showing as well, and we can't afford to face him head-on yet."

I nodded, "Did our guildsmen make it out?"

Krog clanked his teeth together before murmuring, "We've lost two members so far."

I kept working, "That's expected. We've saved a lot more than two gialgathens. They will be remembered."

Krog shook off a bit of grief as he nodded, "You're right. We have to remember the goal. After cleansing these gialgathens, can you return to the surface and destroy the spires? That will give us much more mobility in the air and on the ground. Cleaning up their ground forces shouldn't be impossible for us then."

"What about the dreadnought?"

Krog shook his head, "Though you did well, it required far too much time for you to decimate the first one. More gialgathens are stored within those spires than the hulls of those ships. We have to rescue as many as we can before they fully...change."

Krog glanced down and to the side, his heart racing with a bit of panic. He silenced those dissenting voices as he took a deep breath,

"Otherwise their forces will overwhelm us here."

"Noted." I finished the last gialgathen present before pulling out the rest of the gialgathens from my dimensional storage. Krog glanced up, "We won't be able to keep them at bay for much longer."

Dust and a few pebbles fell from the ceiling, the ground above us rumbling. Kaios frowned, "Yes, it won't be much longer before Polydra is but ash. I can feel it in my bones. The mountain is about to unravel entirely."

Krog turned to him, "You mean the eruption?"

"Yes. The sea of magma beneath this place is not far from its detonation."

My eyes narrowed as I thought about the Hybrid's covering the surface of the city. Killing them all before Lehesion arrived was impossible on my own. Borrowing a bit from mother nature could bridge that gap though.

I gave the nod as I turned to them,

"I have an idea. One of my attacks was mistaken for an eruption once. Why stop there?"

Krog tilted his head at me along with Kaios. I cackled a bit before Krog's eyes widened. The red and orange general leaned back,

"No, no, no. We can't throw your life away like that. We need you for further assaults."

I stood, my hands embedded into the gialgathen. My armor grinned as I finished clearing the Hybrid from my patient. Reforming my limbs back into forearms and fists, I glanced at them,

"Who said anything about throwing my life away? I'm just finding my limits."

I rubbed my hands together,

"After all, nothing ventured, nothing gained."
