Erick frowned a little at the viciousness of suffocating someone with a spell. But this was life on Veird, wasn’t it?

And yet… There was still something distasteful about denying something the ability to breathe. Sure, Erick had killed monsters by ripping out all their water, or frying them, or blasting them, but to make them suffocate? To make them suffer?

No.

Or maybe… He could at least try it out on some monsters, right?

And that gave him another idea.

“What about poison that puts things to sleep?”

“Alchemy can do this…” Syllea said, “I don’t do alchemy. Or much Decay magic, for that matter. Those two go hand-in-hand quite often. Here’s your problem with a [Sleepy Cloud]— It wouldn’t be called that, since you aren’t using the [Sleep] spell, for without using the [Sleep] spell, you’d have to make a different magic for different people. There’s flowers in Nelboor, Wild Calm Roses, that puts orcols to sleep, but does nothing against anyone else. There’s calming tea made from Townhouse Tree roots that knocks out humans, but does nothing to anyone else. This is the problem with weaponizing sleeping poison; it might not work on the person you’re using it against.”

Erick considered generalized anesthesia, and filed that idea away under ‘possible Particle Magic’. Syllea wasn’t well versed in alchemy, so maybe she just didn’t know? That was possible. It was also possible that anesthesia just didn’t work on Veird how he thought it could work.

… He could still try to make Diethyl Ether, anyway.

What was that again? Ah! Right! (C2 H5)2 O.

Ohh. Intelligence was kinda scary. When did he even read about that? Huh.

Syllea raised an eyebrow at Erick’s trailing words. “Are you thinking of manually putting the brain into a sleep-state?”

Well now he was. “I am.” But where to even begin? There was the hypothalamus and the pineal gland that controlled melatonin… Which was another thing Erick could see about recreating with Particle Magic. But as for controlling the brain directly? Erick decided, “I don’t know enough to mess with that and I’m not willing to experiment.”

Syllea smiled. “I would have been surprised if you did. I’ve read old books about people committing atrocities in order to create spells like [Induce Rest] to get around the Mind Mage control over [Sleep]. But in the end, almost all of those people have just found out how to make [Sleep], and then the Mind Mages move in and that knowledge is taken from them.”

Erick almost asked her if she had a problem with Mind Mages, but he left that door closed, as he asked, “Got any suggestions for keeping a low profile? I feel I am likely missing some rather obvious things.”

“You are,” Syllea said, with a smirk. “You should look into some permanent alchemical or Blood Magic options to change the color of your eyes to something less white-white-black. Maybe change your hair, too. Don’t do any temporary spells; those just light up for anyone with a Sight to see. Your eyes are one of the most noticeable things about you, so fix that and you should be good. That, and your clothes, I suppose. Those are definitely the robes of a well-off man. Put on some shabbier shoes. I have a whole room for outfits for undercover work and that’s usually enough, as long as I don’t draw the attention of anyone who would know me for me. I hardly ever use the eye dyes, but they’re decent.” She added, “You also need to find or think of a way to hide Ophiel, but you already knew that. Other than those few things, you should be good for walking anonymously through most human towns.” She shrugged. “Or you could try your hand at what sort of Polymorph you might have? Do you feel like you’d rather be some other race than human? If so, and since you’ve lived in Spur for a while, perhaps you have a different form just sitting there, waiting to be found.”

“I’ll go with the alchemical dyes.” He glanced to Poi. “I can probably find someone to sell me that stuff back home.”

Poi nodded.

Erick turned back to Syllea, saying, “Thank you for this. I still haven’t gotten around to making any buff spells, but I might need to make some of those, too.”

“Don’t go wandering back home, yet.” Syllea said, “We still haven’t gotten the basics of what we just talked about, and you shouldn’t try to make a buff in your condition, or any difficult spells. But if you make some less-than-ideal mid-range spells, then I’ll at least know you know what you’re doing.” She rapidly added, “Not that I don’t think you don’t know what you’re doing! Ah. That came out wrong.”

Erick smiled at Syllea’s unexpected, small contrition. “I’ve only been at this for a year. I’m completely sure that I only have the barest idea that I know what I’m doing.”

“You do seem to be doing alright for yourself, but there’s always more.” With a conspiratorial eye, Syllea asked, “Have you ever experimented with Elemental Destruction?”

Erick paused. “I have. It’s useful for creating specific counterspells. I was warned away from using it in actual spells, though.”

“Oh, drat. Here I was hoping to let you in on a big secret.” Syllea added, “And yeah. You don’t want to make actual Destruction spells. On the spectrum between Order and Chaos, Destruction is wildly chaotic. I lost limbs and otherwise on five separate occasions before I finally decided that I was done with Destruction.”

Erick smiled, and asked, “Have you tried experimenting with [Healing Word]?”

“Bah. That damn thing.” Syllea asked, “You talking about the [Quick Spell]?”

“Yes!” Delighted, but tempered by Syllea’s reaction, Erick asked, “But it seems you dislike it?”

“The problem with [Quick Spell] is that it naturally decreases the power of the resulting spell by a factor between 10 to 5, while multiplying costs to somewhere between the original spell’s cost, to three times the original cost.” Syllea said, “[Quick Spell] is a very hard spell to get right. How good is yours?”

Erick showed her, asking, “About that good?”

Syllea dismissed the spell box, saying, “Not a good way to judge. Did you make a spell from it?”

Erick showed her [Quick Wall], saying, “A tenth as good as the original.”

“Rip it up and try again.” She added, “Working magic with a damaged soul is difficult. Maybe wait on that one, too.”

While Erick mourned his failure to correctly make [Quick Spell], he was glad to finally get confirmation that he had screwed up. With a mental tug he ripped [Quick Spell] apart, feeling something shift in his soul…

Two things shifted.

Erick winced, as [Quick Wall] broke, too. A cascading failure. That was new. Erick had heard of what would happen if he ever tore apart a ‘building block’ spell, and now he finally got to experience it for himself. It wasn’t as bad as creating new magic, though, and it certainly wasn’t as bad as an Error.

Syllea still noticed. She asked, “Did you make a lot of magic with that one?”

“Just [Quick Wall].”

Syllea hummed. She said, “Maybe… Maybe you should try for an Air Element spell, so that I can see that you’ve got it, and then we stop here. A mage doesn’t normally get cascading Deletion Fatigue like that unless they destroy the basis of a large branch of their magic. Ten spells or more.”

“That’s…” Erick felt something like heartburn in his chest, and then it was gone. “We can stop after another spell. That sounds like a good idea.”

Syllea held out her hand, channeling an airy [Force Bolt], saying, “Here. This is [Air Bolt].”

Erick listened, but Ophiel teased out the sound of ‘air’ better than he could at the moment. With a concentrated Mana Altering and a mixing of possibility, Erick cast at the summoned crystal, five meters away. A bolt of swirling white air struck the crystal with a blast of wind, and a blue box appeared.

Air Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana.

A bolt of air inexorably strikes a target for 15 + WIL. May cause suffocation.

Erick flashed the box toward Syllea, saying, “I know I messed that up a little, but it’s close enough. Thank you.” He winced.

Syllea looked down at Erick, and frowned. “Yeah… We’re stopping here. When you’re feeling better, Alter for Air, then Shape as needed, as with all Esoteric Elements. The specific Element Shape spells, like [Airshape], work better than the generalized Mana Shaping, but working with the more Esoteric Elements, like Lightning, requires specialized Element Shaping that you need to make yourself. You could probably make a very good [Lightning Shape] if you tried. But you don’t need those specific Shapings quite yet, and you probably shouldn’t try too hard for them, either.”

“Heard and understood.” Erick felt another odd thing flex inside of himself, and also not. “Ow— Okay. That was a weird stitch in my side.”

With kindness, Syllea asked, “What did you do to yourself?”

“Oh… A lot of things.” Erick stood up straight and tried to stand strong, but a triplicate stitch ran up his right side. He bent over as nausea rolled through his chest. The nausea vanished, quick as it came. He stood up; a bit less straight this time, but more or less okay. “I’m fine.” He breathed hard, then said, “Okay! Yes. We can cut this early. I think I need a nap again.”

“How about some tea?” Syllea said, “Have you tried Soul Palm Balm tea? I have some. It should help your soul better than sleep. It’s pretty rare, but I know some people.”

That was the stuff Jane got in the Headmaster’s hospital. She only got a few doses of it to get her out of the worst of her Dragon Essence sickness, for Soul Palm Balm was supposed to be incredibly expensive. Erick said, “No thank you, I couldn’t possibly impose more than I already have—”

“You aren’t imposing!” Syllea said, with perhaps a bit too much fervor. She paused. She looked away and walked toward her house, saying, “They take the sap of the tree and pack it into little cubes. You have to do a special preparation, which I can show you, and then you can take a decagram with you.” She stopped and turned around at the doorway, saying, “I insist.”

“… That would be great.” Erick decided, “I would appreciate that.”

He followed her into her house, while Bayth and Poi followed him.

Within a minute, Erick had a nice little paper package of cubed tree sap, with each cube glowing with faint flickering embers. It reminded him of the broken Shroud around his own soul.

Syllea sent him off, saying, “I’m going to get you some better blueweed, too. Someone will deliver it to your room.” She added, “Get some rest, Erick.”

Erick felt a warmth of kindness bloom in his chest. He said, “Thank you, Syllea. I will.”
