“Uncle?”
The Drake was dozing, or just daydreaming absentmindedly. He looked up, startled, and then smiled.
“Selys! I was wondering when I’d see my favorite niece.”
“Your favorite one? What about all the other ones you have?”
Selys Shivertail smiled a bit as she walked over to the table, passing by a white Gnoll cub lying on the floor and snoozing. He pulled a chair out for her, as she eyed the cup and pitcher the Drake was drinking from.
“Drinking alone? Or am I interrupting?”
He chuckled as she sat.
“Hardly. But don’t drink from the pitcher—it’ll knock you off your tail. I’m always glad for company—I was just sitting and reminiscing.”
“Sounds good to me. And yeah, Erin makes weird drinks. You should have seen this blue fruit drink she used to make.”
Selys sat at the table. It was quiet in the inn, the only sound being the low buzz of Mrsha’s snores. Zel Shivertail looked at Selys with a smile. She smiled, a bit awkwardly.
“It’s been a long time, Uncle Zel. When was the last time you visited? Four years ago?”
“Could be. I’d visit more, but you know how it is. Duties and so on.”
“You mean, fighting a war between the Trisstral Alliance and Salazsar?”
“Ah. You heard about that?”
Selys rolled her eyes, and her tail curled slightly in mock annoyance.
“Uncle, you picked a fight with a Walled City! Of course everyone was talking about it!”
“It was more of a trade dispute. Salazsar was trying to enforce its claim over its gemstone monopoly, and I was asked, so…I won the dispute, as you may recall.”
“And then the Goblin Lord showed up, and you followed him here. You stay pretty busy, don’t you?”
“If I said I came here to visit you and your aunt, would that win me any points?”
The young Drake laughed. Zel grinned as he eyed her from head to tail. She hadn’t changed much. Selys was a young Drake in her prime, just past twenty years of age. She didn’t look all that different from other city Drakes her age.
She was dressed stylishly, despite the winter chill—contrasting colors were in—and she was a hard worker, stubborn at times, opinionated at others. But a far cry from Zel, who was older, a [General], who still wore his armor in the inn out of sheer habit. But they were family, however distant.
“Favorite niece. I thought you were just humoring me whenever you visited when I was young, but Tekshia told me you’d like me to say hi.”
The younger Drake looked thoughtfully at her Uncle. He shrugged, a bit awkwardly.
“Don’t tell anyone I said that, or it’ll cause some kind of incident. But I do mean it. Of all the Drakes claiming to be related to me, you’re the only one who doesn’t treat me like a hero or a symbol.”
Selys frowned.
“Really? There’s got to be one…”
Zel smiled.
“That would be you.”
“Huh.”
The two sat at the table for a little bit in silence. It wasn’t a bad silence; for all they were part strangers, they had known each other too long to be uncomfortable with each other.
“That’s not good. If I’m your favorite niece, how’s the rest of the family? You see me once every year at most.”
He grimaced and turned his face. Selys still saw it. He replied as casually as he could.
“Intimacy leads to strife. At least, among the Drakes. There’s not a single older member of my family who I’ve had a half-decent conversation with. Well, except for a few distant relatives. Your Aunt Tekshia is one of them, I’m glad to say.”
“That’s good.”
“Indeed.”
“…Did you see her? She said she’d talked to you.”
Zel nodded. He traced a pattern on the grain of the table’s surface with one claw.
“I visited her on the second day I arrived at Liscor. She kept asking me whether I’ll have grandchildren. Aside from that, it was cordial.”
Selys paused. An unspoken secret floated between the two. Zel knew that Selys knew, but Selys avoided the topic as adroitly as any [Receptionist].
“Grandmother is like that. I hope you had a good time otherwise. She likes hearing war stories, you know.”
“I did entertain her with a few tales. She liked me talking about knocking out Wall Lord Ilvriss. He’s in the city, you know.”
“I heard. Why’s he in Liscor? Didn’t he lose his entire army to the Goblin Lord? Is he coming north for revenge, too?”
Zel hesitated. Selys didn’t need to hear about his mysterious meeting with Ryoka Griffin or the dark news she had imparted to him. She was a [Receptionist], not an adventurer. Ancestors, a [Receptionist]. It was such a mundane job. And he had known her parents…
The [General] caught himself glancing at Selys, only to realize she was staring at him from the side. She looked away, blushing, her tail twitching. Zel eyed her and then sighed.
“Ask.”
“I didn’t say anything!”
“No, but you were thinking it. I won’t be offended. Believe me, I’ve met Drakes with far less tact than you’re showing, and that was my father. What’s on your mind?”
He waited as Selys mustered her thoughts. He expected any one of a hundred questions for her to ask. He hoped it was nothing that would open a rift between them, but she had been younger when he’d seen her last. And too afraid then to ask. So he waited.
When Selys did come up with a question, it surprised Zel.
“Are you…lonely?”
Zel blinked at her. Selys looked back at him. He wavered.
“What do you mean?”
“You don’t have anyone in your life. And you keep moving from city to city. Everyone always talks about you like a hero—unless you’re telling the Walled Cities how stupid they are for fighting and not dealing with the Antinium, that is. But is it lonely? You don’t have subordinates. You used to teach other [Generals] like Garusa Weatherfur. But now…”
Selys trailed off. Zel looked at her and felt old. What a question. Four years ago, Selys was a junior [Receptionist] in the Adventurer’s Guild, still arguing with her grandmother. Now, she was an adult. He blinked and realized she was waiting for his answer. Zel coughed and replied after a moment’s hesitation.
“I’m a soldier, Selys. A [General]. I don’t have time for personal relationships most of the time, and I’m not inclined to cause a stir.”
“I know. But if—no, never mind. Why are you staying at Erin’s inn, anyways? She said you liked it here because of her cooking. But is that really it? You could stay at any inn in Liscor you wanted.”
Selys’ tail twitched as she smiled at her uncle. She wanted to ask him more, he could tell. But maybe she wasn’t ready. Selys turned the conversation away, and Zel felt a pang. Maybe in two more years he could talk to her about—well, it wasn’t as if he needed someone’s shoulder to lean on, especially not his niece. But he smiled as he replied.
“I like it here. It’s peaceful.”
Selys half-turned in her chair to eye Mrsha.
“That’s true. But only half the time. Erin’s inn always has something weird going on, Uncle. Have you seen her do anything crazy?”
He laughed.
“Occasionally. But I still appreciate staying here. Despite her mistakes, Miss Solstice is quite caring, and her staff works hard. The little Gnoll also keeps me on my toes. I…well, it’s better, being here.”
“So you’ll stay here longer? Or are you going? No one asked you to fight the Goblin Lord, you know.”
“No. But it’s my duty.”
Selys’ forehead wrinkled. It reminded Zel of her growing up, making the same expression when she was vexed.
“Don’t you get a break? You’re a hero of two Antinium Wars! Don’t you wish you could tell everyone to leave you alone for a while?”
Zel paused. He’d taken a sip of the drink in his cup, and the inn pressed down on him for a moment. He lowered the cup and sat quietly for a moment.
“Sometimes, Selys. Sometimes. But whatever I want doesn’t matter. I have to be the shield of the Drakes—I am that symbol, for however much I’m ignored politically. Drakes are a curious people. We fight, we squabble and tear each other down, but we sacrifice for each other, too.”
She looked at him, ready to be angry. But that anger drained away as she looked at her uncle’s face. Zel shrugged self-consciously.
“Sorry about the philosophy. I suppose I’m just nostalgic. Miss Erin served me what she calls her ‘Faerie Flower drink’, and it’s quite something.”
“Oh, that? Don’t drink that!”
Selys reached over and pushed the cup away from Zel. She rolled her eyes.
“Honestly! I told Erin that’s not a drink you give—are you okay, Uncle?”
“Never better. And I’m quite alright, Selys. Don’t worry about it—it was an interesting experience.”
Zel sat up in his chair as Selys regarded the pitcher with a disgusted look. He smiled.
“Enough about me. I’m sure you’ve heard all the stories—most of them untrue, I’ll wager. What about you, Selys? Tell me about your job. Are you still working in the Adventurer’s Guild?”
“Yes. And there’s nothing interesting about it, Uncle. It’s just a job.”
“Tekshia tells me you work hard.”
“Hah! She never says that to my face! Look, I get paid and then I have fun. It’s nothing, Uncle. I’m not a child anymore.”
“So you’ve given up on being a dashing adventurer?”
Selys’ scales reddened, standing out on her green complexion.
“That was when I was twelve, Uncle!”
“I still remember you practicing with a sword and begging me to teach you how to claw fight.”
“Ancestors, please don’t bring that up!”
The young Drake woman covered her face in embarrassment. Zel laughed and relented.
“Very well. Your job is satisfyingly boring, then?”
Selys nodded in relief.
“The most excitement I have is coming here. Did you know I met Erin the first week she arrived here? She walked into the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“Really? Tell me about that.”
“If you insist. Okay, I was working at the desk when she just walked in and asked if this place was a smithy! She didn’t read the sign or anything. Which, if you know Erin, is typical of her…”
Selys scooted her chair closer to the table. Zel smiled as he abandoned his drink and his quiet mood. He let Selys talk about meeting Erin, her job, her attempts at dating, the fights she’d had with her grandmother, and then they ate dinner together. They were more friends than uncle and niece, and when Selys said goodbye, it was fondly, with a kiss on the cheek.
“Next time, you can visit me. Just not when I’m at work, okay, Uncle? If you walk into the Adventurer’s Guild, every Drake and Gnoll will want to shake your claw or kiss your feet or something.”
“I’ll remember that.”
Zel smiled as Selys bade him goodbye. Three days later, he left for the north. Selys heard of his alliance with Magnolia Reinhart two days after that. She never talked to him again. But sometimes she remembered what her grandmother had told her. And she wondered—
 
—-
 
“Selys?”
She jerked and sat up. Selys Shivertail looked around as memory was upstaged by reality. She saw Erin looking at her and realized half the adventurers in the room were looking at her. Guiltily, Selys sat up.
“Sorry, what’d I miss?”
“We were getting to the monster—or thing these Goblins found in the dungeon.”
Typhenous stroked his beard as he stood with his team around the table. Selys, sitting at another table Erin had pulled closer, glanced at the five Goblins sitting in the center of an audience of people. Five adventuring teams filled the inn—the Silver Swords, the Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, the Horns of Hammerad, and the team of Vuliel Drae. Added to them was Olesm and Selys, both of whom had been summoned at the news of what had transpired in the dungeon.
It was a headache, and Selys was already wondering how her grandmother would take the news. Probably by telling Vuliel Drae to go right back in the dungeon and get eaten. She glanced at Olesm, wondering how the [Strategist] was taking the news. Then she realized the Goblins were talking.
Well, sort of talking. Between the five of them, they’d said very little. Their ‘speaker’, the Goblin that Erin said was named Numbtongue, was reticent, and the others preferred to gesture with their hands and bodies. They’d plotted a course through the dungeon, pausing to answer questions from the adventurers of what they’d seen. It was the mundane descriptions and pausing to ask ‘what does that mean?’ that had made Selys trail off.
Now however, the adventurers were focused, listening to the description of Face Collector, the monster that the Goblins had met. The name was what Erin had dubbed him, and it bothered Selys that his description was so close to Skinner’s. It bothered the other adventurers too.
“Tell us again what you saw. And one of you answer in words. I’m sick of sign language.”
Revi glared at the other Goblins. They glanced at each other, and four of them poked Numbtongue. He glared, but answered.
“Head. Sticking out from around corner. Watching us. Like this.”
Headscratcher got up and hurried over to the inn’s door. He opened it, stared at the rain pounding down, and then hurried into the kitchen instead. All of the adventurers watched as Headscratcher’s head poked out, wide and staring. Selys grimaced as she imagined that following her down a dark tunnel.
Erin shuddered.
“That’s creepy! You said there was a head staring at you? Just like that?”
All four Goblins nodded. Halrac looked at Jelaqua.
“Ring a bell?”
The Selphid shook her head.
“Nothing. And I’ve seen freaks in Baleros who collect all kinds of things. But that’s [Soldiers] and [Bounty Hunters]. Not a monster. Ylawes, you run into something like this?”
“Not us. And that paralysis effect—”
“What did the heads look like?”
Yvlon interrupted the Gold-rank adventurers. She stared hard at Numbtongue. He hesitated.
“Bald. Man. Older. Beard.”
He looked at the others and they nodded. Yvlon turned to Selys. The blonde woman was grim.
“Does that match any of the descriptions of the missing adventurers?”
All eyes turned to Selys. She hesitated as she flipped through her notes. Adventurers came and went, but she had a few written descriptions of some of the adventuring teams who’d gone into the dungeon and never come back.
“Uh—bald? Human? It could be one of two adventurers that went missing in the dungeon. Oh wait—one of those is female. Probably this guy, then.”
She nodded at the others. The adventurers listened as she read a description out, and the Redfang Goblins confirmed it. Selys saw two of the members of Vuliel Drae look at each other in horror. It was a grim meeting, for all the Goblins had emerged from the dungeon with treasure.
