Treasure! Selys would have been shocked at the latest developments, but today she couldn’t find the energy. She was…occupied. So much so that the continuing discussion was just wearying to her, rather than important.
“Raskghar ambushes, some kind of guardian monster with a paralysis effect—and an excessively punitive magical trap. Think this dungeon’s anything but a vengeance dungeon, Jelaqua?”
Seborn looked up as he sat at a table, cleaning one of his daggers. Jelaqua sighed.
“It’s got treasure, Seborn.”
“I know. But we might be in over our heads.”
Falene cleared her throat politely.
“Let’s focus on what we know before we worry about the dangers. These Goblins acquired the treasures Vuliel Drae noticed—”
“Right! Which means they should belong to us!”
The short Dwarf woman burst out angrily. Everyone turned to stare at her. Anith, the Jackal Beastkin, covered his face.
“Dasha, please don’t embarrass us.”
“What, don’t we get a cut?”
Ylawes looked at his team members.
“That is a fair point.”
“Right. How about we give money to the idiots who didn’t tell us they caused the attack on Liscor?”
Revi looked like she could spit iron. Typhenous sighed.
“Revi, please let it go for the moment.”
“No! Honest adventurers come clean about their mistakes! What do you think would happen if we lied about a disaster like that?”
Ylawes glared at her.
“That doesn’t mean they don’t have rights to compensation for information, Miss Revi.”
“Up yours, Byres!”
The adventurers broke out into loud arguments, punctuated by angry flashes of magic crackling through the air. Halrac breathed out slowly, irritation written all over his face.
“Hey.”
Selys felt a tug at her arm. She turned and saw Erin gesturing towards her kitchen. Grateful for a reprieve, Selys followed her friend into the kitchen as the argument got louder. Selys sighed in relief.
“Thanks Erin, I could use a break.”
Erin looked at her friend.
“You alright, Selys? You were spacing out.”
“Spacing…out?”
Selys frowned. Erin corrected herself.
“Going like this.”
She gave Selys a vacant, unfocused look. Her Drake friend looked dismayed. Erin grinned.
“It wasn’t that obvious. But you seem distracted. Something wrong?”
“Oh. It’s…well, it’s a bit of bad news, Erin. Sorry, I know I should be invested. This is my job, after all. But it’s just that—well—”
The [Receptionist] grappled with how to tell Erin. The [Innkeeper] waited patiently, occupying herself by finding a keg she’d stored in one corner of her kitchen.
“Look, it’s—”
“Hey Erin! Revi’s about to pick a fight! Can you do something—oh.”
A Drake edged into the kitchen, looking nervous. It was Olesm. The [Strategist] saw Selys and Erin and broke off. Selys bit her lip, and her tail twitched in agitation. Erin sighed.
“Darn it! And I was just about to bring out my secret weapon. Hey Drassi! Help me lift this!”
Another Drake hurried into the kitchen. She waved at Selys, and Selys waved back. Drassi was one of her good friends, but the [Barmaid] was working, so she headed back out of the kitchen at once with Erin to calm the fight with a stiff drink for everyone. It worked on Revi because, according to Erin, she was nicer drunk than she was sober.
“Sorry. I didn’t mean to interrupt.”
Olesm looked somewhat awkward. He and Selys weren’t friends except through Erin. She shrugged. Selys had a bad feeling in her chest, like a cold lump.
“Forget about it. I was just telling Erin about what’s happening tomorrow. You know, right?”
“Tomorrow? Oh—”
Olesm paused. He looked at Selys.
“You know about that? I got a classified report, but how do you know?”
She glared at him. For a [Strategist], Olesm was an idiot.
“What’s my last name, scales-for-brains?”
“Um. Oh—I’m so—”
He turned red and stammered. Selys shook her head.
“Forget about it. I guess it’s just as well that I had to come here—on my day off—to deal with this. It’s not like my week can get any worse.”
“I’m sorry about that. It’s my day off, too. But this is a matter for the city, and you are the best [Receptionist] in the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“How wonderful for me.”
Selys’ mood was dark, and she really just wanted Olesm to follow Erin out so she could have a minute to herself. The last thing she wanted was to talk. Unfortunately, Olesm’s sense of tact was horrible.
“I know this is a bad time, but, uh, did you get a chance to bring up my proposal? The paperwork’s all done, but I haven’t gotten back a reply from the Adventurer’s Guild. I sent two follow-up requests via Street Runner—”
She couldn’t deal with this right now. Selys flared at Olesm.
“I’m working on it, Olesm! It’s not my call to make! You can recommend your idea as much as you want, but since it involves an adventurer and monsters, my grandmother has to sign off on it. And you know she’s not going to.”
“But the proposal—”
“Take it up with her, Olesm!”
Selys stalked out of the kitchen, her tail lashing so hard it nearly smacked into Lyonette. The [Barmaid] stopped as she held Mrsha.
“Sorry.”
“It’s nothing. I was just taking Mrsha out of the line of fire if there’s another fight. Mrsha, here’s Selys! Say hi!”
The Gnoll blinked at Selys. She’d been running about excitedly ever since the adventurers had come back smelling of blood and adrenaline. Now she was exhausted. She waved at Selys, and the Drake found the energy to smile at her.
“Hi Mrsha. Are you sleepy?”
“I think she’ll have a nap upstairs. Excuse us.”
Lyonette hurried off as Selys reappeared back in the room. Everyone was drinking, and the flames of anger had reduced to dim embers, so to speak. Selys noticed Pisces hovering next to the three artifacts that had been collected. A bundle of cloth, a bell, and a necklace. No one had dared to unwrap the artifacts, but he was having a go at trying to discern what they did.
“Okay, okay. Let’s agree that the artifacts are the Goblins’. I guess. Dead gods, that’s insane to say! But what if we paid for them?”
“Up to them.”
“Oh, come on! You can’t be—”
“That’s the law, Revi.”
“They’re Goblins.”
Jelaqua stirred as Revi dragged her fingers through her hair.
“Excuse me, but our team had a Goblin in it. Not a good example, I know. But the Halfseekers have had this argument before. What applies to Goblins gets tossed at Selphids and Drowned Men more than you’d think.”
The Stitch-Woman colored.
“I didn’t mean your team! This is different!”
“What is different? Species? Gender? If you make an exception for those you call monster, how soon until that label applies to us?”
Moore raised his head as he spoke slowly. No one had a reply to that. Revi looked like she wanted to stitch her mouth closed in embarrassment. Selys was wondering whether she should ask what was happening to Vuliel Drae when the door to Liscor swung open.
“Watch Captain!”
Olesm looked surprised as Zevara entered the room. She nodded to him and halted as she eyed the Goblins. And Vuliel Drae. She didn’t comment on either though, and instead made a beeline towards Erin.
“Miss Solstice, I hate to interrupt, but I need a word. Excuse us.”
The adventurers let Erin walk away with Zevara, into the kitchen again. Knowing what this was about, Selys followed. She saw Zevara talking with Erin.
“No, your Goblins aren’t in trouble as far as I know, Miss Solstice. Ancestors, there’s no law forbidding Goblins from raiding a dungeon! And no, I’m not discussing Vuliel Drae either. This is—incredibly—another matter that involves your inn.”
“Really? What?”
“We need to reserve your magic doorway. All day tomorrow and probably the day after that. We’ll have people coming through. We’ll pay you for the time, and we’ll work out the mana costs, but I’m telling you now. I know it’s sudden, but—”
“Why? Is something big happening?”
Zevara looked surprised. The Watch Captain glanced at Selys.
“Miss Shivertail didn’t tell you?”
Erin turned to look at Selys, who avoided meeting her gaze.
“No…”
The Watch Captain paused. She glanced at Selys, as if asking whether she’d prefer to say. Selys shrugged, so Zevara went on after a lengthy pause.
“I don’t know if you’d heard. But General Shivertail’s body was recovered from the battlefield, by the Humans, after the Goblin Lord retreated. Magnolia Reinhart took charge of preserving and transporting it. It took a while due to the situation in the north, but a carriage is due to arrive in Celum tomorrow. We will be requesting the use of your door to transport the…remains here.”
Selys felt a jolt in her stomach. She pressed her sheaf of parchment to her chest and closed her eyes. She heard nothing from Erin and then a faint voice.
“Oh.”
There was a sudden noise that made all three women look up. Upstairs, Mrsha suddenly began howling. Selys closed her eyes.
It was hard to be alive today.
 
—-
 
Selys couldn’t stay. Not after all that. Mrsha had heard Zevara’s comment despite being upstairs, and the ensuing commotion had caused chaos at Erin’s inn. Not least because there were five Goblins in her inn. She was still—she couldn’t believe that Erin—she knew that—
Her head was a mess. The [Receptionist] left through Erin’s door to Liscor and stomped through the wet streets. Her wet cloak was being used to shield her notes from the rain, so Selys got drenched on the way back to the Adventurer’s Guild. It was raining. It always rained in the spring. Selys had no idea why, but something about the spring, and the fact that Liscor was surrounded by mountains, caused the intense rainfall each year. Or maybe it was a magical effect. All she knew was that it made her mood worse, as if the skies reflected her feelings.
The storm drains leading into Liscor’s sewers were overflowing in parts, and Selys had to splash through backlogs of filthy sewer water and rain. Something was clogging the drains—dead moth corpses, probably. It was a nightmare because, without those drains, Liscor would flood, surrounded as it was by water on all sides.
And that was a problem that took top priority in Watch Captain Zevara’s books. So she’d given Selys an order to follow up on Olesm’s request to the Adventurer’s Guild, which had, incredibly, made Selys feel even worse.
“Damn Watch Captain, giving me orders. Stupid tail-wagging idiot. I’d like to see her try and reason with—”
Selys kicked into the Adventurer’s Guild, letting the door rebound off a wall and slam shut behind her. She saw a few heads look up. No one wanted to be in the guild on a night like this. There was a [Receptionist] at the desk and a few Bronze-rank adventurers trying to claim bounties on Quillfish. Selys would have happily stabbed them all to death if it meant having an hour’s peace.
Sadly, that was not to be. The [Receptionist] behind the desk was a younger Drake with pale pink scales named Nolsca. She opened her mouth to either comment about Selys dripping onto the floor, which she’d have to clean up, or ask for help with the desk. She met Selys’ gaze and shut up.
“Is the Guildmistress still here?”
“Yes, Selys.”
“Good, I’ve got to see her.”
Selys stomped up the stairs to the second floor, wishing a pox on the idiot who’d decided to put a four copper coin bounty on Quillfish. Drakes were supposed to be filial towards their elders, but Selys didn’t care. A pox probably wouldn’t even slow Tekshia Shivertail down.
The elderly Drake was sitting in her office when Selys kicked the door open. Her grandmother was sitting in her chair, going over reports—and holding a spear in one hand. Selys paused as Tekshia lowered the spear that had been poised to be throw at her granddaughter’s chest.
“Selys, what have I told you about knocking? I could have thrown this!”
The old Drake scowled at Selys. Selys, whose heart was slowly coming down out of her mouth, spluttered.
“Thrown it? Who did you expect was coming in here?”
“Anyone. [Assassins], a hired thug, some kind of monster—you don’t get to be as old as I do without being prepared! What have I told you about knocking? And why are you wet? Didn’t you bring a cloak?”
Selys ground her teeth together.
“I did. The cloak was used covering all the documents you made me take with me.”
“You should have put them in a carrying case! Honestly Selys…here.”
Tekshia tsked as she got up from her chair and fished around her desk. She had a hand towel, for some reason, and offered it to Selys. Grumpily, Selys accepted the towel and began to dry herself. Tekshia sat back down and eyed Selys disapprovingly.
“Well, how bad is it? Do I have to send a [Gravedigger] out?”
“No.”
“Not enough pieces? An [Undertaker] to record the names, then?”
“No, Grandmother. No one’s dead!”
“You mean they haven’t killed that Vuliel Drae team? What kind of soft adventurers do they let into Gold-rank these days?”
“They’re not murderers, Grandma!”
Selys was mildly horrified at what Tekshia was implying. Her only response was a snort from the old Drake. Tekshia had shrunk with age, so she was shorter than Selys, and her appearance was deceptively frail at first glance. She still had far too much muscle for someone her age, and her faded and patchy scales were the only real sign of her age. Tekshia had been a beauty in her youth, and she liked to say that she was still a match for Selys, much to her granddaughter’s horror.
She was far different from Selys in many respects, not least of which were her old-fashioned views. She had grown up in a time when everything was tougher and Drakes took matters into their own claws, according to her. Selys didn’t doubt it. The younger Drake sighed as she tossed her dry notes onto Tekshia’s table.
“I don’t see what everyone’s so mad about. Yeah, Vuliel Drae caused a disaster, but why are they getting treated worse than the adventurers who survived Liscor’s crypt? We nearly lost the city that time, too! What’s the difference?”
Tekshia’s brows shot together. She picked up one of the scrolls of parchment Selys had written on and tossed it to one side before glaring at her granddaughter.
“The difference, Selys, is that the Horns of Hammerad and the other teams went out fighting. They retreated and immediately tried to hail the city—after all but one team had fallen fighting the undead. They took responsibility for what they did. As you’ll recall, they forfeited all their possessions to the city. This team hid from the moths they provoked and then lied to everyone after they escaped the dungeon. There is a difference.”
“Okay, but…killing them? Really?”
