“Okay, I think I get it. But Olesm wasn’t so bad! And it was really funny.”
Selys just looked at her friend.
“Erin, you tried for five minutes. Did you get a French fry? Even one?”
Erin opened her mouth. Then she stood up.
“Hey Olesm! Give me a fry!”
“No!”
Olesm practically shoved the rest of his food into his mouth. He ran out of the inn as Erin tried to get the food. Selys watched Erin try to tackle him, and sighed.
“And that’s Olesm. There’s a reason why Drakes have wills, and it’s to stop blood feuds over inheritance.”
Lyonette looked at her sympathetically, and Mrsha raised her head. Selys sighed.
“Do you think it’ll be important, you being there?”
“No. I’m just a distant relative. But Drake law says that we should be present or at least told, so…”
Selys shook her head. She got up as Erin tried to pin Olesm to the ground to steal one of his French fries. He punched her and then apologized. Erin rubbed her cheek and decked him.
All in all, it was a fitting start to the day. And it was still raining.
 
—-
 
Somehow, for some reason, Selys still had to work at her desk for the morning. Tekshia Shivertail had given her the rest of the day off, but Selys had to cover the first shift. It made her angry. So what if the guild was busy? Her uncle’s body was coming today! Why couldn’t her grandmother give her a day off? Just one?
It was a miserable day, filled with wet adventurers complaining about monsters and petty problems. There was something about the smell of wet Gnoll that Selys couldn’t ignore, no matter how long she stood at the desk. If there was one mercy, and it was a small one, it was that no one mentioned her uncle to her. They complained to her face, loudly, like any other [Receptionist].
No one had ever really connected Selys’ name to the great General Shivertail, the Tidebreaker, hero of the Drakes. It wasn’t as if she’d gone around telling people her last name, anyways. Selys lived in Liscor, far from the city where Zel Shivertail had first risen to fame defending against the onslaught of the Antinium. And Tekshia Shivertail was a known figure, a former adventurer who’d retired and run the Adventurer’s Guild for over three decades now.
So no one knew or cared. And they were rude and annoying, so Selys could vent some of her anger on them as well. She glared at a Human woman who was protesting how she’d been refused service by a Drake [Shopkeeper].
“And then he called me a smelly Human! I told the Watch, and they didn’t do anything!”
Selys rolled her eyes.
“So what?”
“So what? I’m a Silver-rank adventurer! That Drake should open his shop to me! What if it was an emergency?”
“Was it?”
“No, but—”
Selys sighed. Loudly.
“Right, well you can file a complaint. Or drop it. And let me tell you that if you file a complaint, no one will care.”
She watched the Human’s face go red.
“This is outrageous! In Celum—”
Again, Selys took a bit of satisfaction in cutting the Human off.
“This isn’t a Human city, Miss. Adventurers don’t get special treatment, and [Shopkeepers] can choose who they sell to. If you want your potions so badly, try Krshia. She’s a Gnoll—has a lot of good potions for a low price. You can find her on Market Street, every day, running her stall.”
“And that’s it?”
“Yeah. Did you want something else?”
It was like watching one of the fish in the waters around here gape. Selys watched the mouth open and close, and then leaned around the woman.
“Next!”
For a second she thought there might be trouble. But the female adventurer just stalked off after making a sound like a dying Razorbeak. Selys waved to the next adventurer impatiently.
This was her life. It wasn’t glamorous or fun. It was just a job, and Selys took a minimal amount of pride in it. She wasn’t an insane [Innkeeper] like Erin, who could reach Level 30 in half a year. Neither was she an adventurer.
Selys had learned to use a sword and bow at her aunt’s insistence, and she had completed her mandatory training course and earned her Level 1 [Soldier] class, as all Liscor’s citizens were obligated to do. But she wasn’t about to join the army. She was a [Receptionist], Level 18, thanks. Higher than average, but she hadn’t leveled in…Ancestors, was it eight months, now? She just worked with no expectation of anything, really. She was a normal person.
Or she had been, right up until her uncle had come to Liscor. Right up until she’d met a girl named Erin Solstice. Selys closed her eyes. Now she was running about, and the Adventurer’s Guild was suddenly flooded with people.
All this new responsibility was bothering her, too. Her grandmother was giving her a lot of work. She wasn’t letting Selys give any orders for now, but…she was old. Selys knew her bones hurt in the morning. She wasn’t young. If what was happening was what Selys thought was happening…
She was just a normal Drake. Why did she have to do more than she already did? Selys’ life used to be simple. Work, get off work, go to parties, flirt, have fun. That was all she wanted out of life. When monsters attacked, Selys did her part and hoped that the City Watch or adventurers could handle things.
She wasn’t special. She had a special, unique friend. But her? All her life Selys had known only one claim to fame. A secret she was proud of. She had an uncle who was a hero. A living legend who sometimes visited her, and told her stories, and gave her money for treats.
And now he was dead. Selys looked at the Gnoll in front of her.
“What do you want?”
 
—-
 
Work passed by slowly. As Selys noted the position of the sun, she grew more and more impatient. By the time she’d signed out of work and had met her grandmother by the door, she was trembling slightly.
“Steady.”
Tekshia’s voice was soft as she led Selys through the rainy streets. Both Drakes kept their cloaks over their heads, and they headed towards the city council’s administrative building. Watch Captain Zevara was waiting there to meet them with a small escort of [Guardsmen]. Selys looked for a…a coffin or shroud and saw nothing.
“It’s already inside. I haven’t touched the bindings. I…will have to be present, but I’ve insisted that no one else be in the room.”
“Thank you, Watch Captain.”
Tekshia Shivertail kept her back straight as she walked into the building. Selys followed her, conscious of the [Guardsmen]’s eyes on her. They had to know what they’d carried. There was an eerie silence to the building. It was never that busy—Liscor ran itself a lot of the time. And it was in the conference room, on the meeting table that they saw—
Selys gasped when she saw the casket. It was black wood, not furnished with any decorations. But the wood was expensive, and it seemed to take up the room. Zevara cleared her throat several times as the Drakes stood around the room in silence. A [Guardsman] closed the door behind them.
“This is—I believe it came from Magnolia Reinhart. She was the one who sent the coach.”
“Kind of her.”
Tekshia’s voice was without emotion. She hesitated as her claws touched the lid.
“Did that woman say anything about what…the condition of my nephew’s body is in?”
“She warned us not to touch it. Apparently there were complications with retrieving the corpse. And…no, nothing more. But he died in battle. Miss Shivertail—Miss Selys, that is. Are you sure you want to see this?”
Selys had had that same question. She hesitated, then nodded.
“I want to see. I have to see.”
“Very well, then. I’ll open the casket.”
“I’ll take this end.”
Zevara and Tekshia reached for the lid. Selys couldn’t breathe. She saw a flash of light as the two women lifted the lid—the preservation runes to keep the body from decomposing. She heard a sound as Tekshia lifted her end of the lid and an oath from Zevara.
Then silence. Selys stared into the casket. She was too far back. She saw a leg. A leg she recognized. Then a flash of—gold? Trembling, she stepped closer. Her breath, her heart, everything—stopped.
“Uncle.”
Zel Shivertail lay in the casket, his arms folded, his face staring up towards the sky. What remained of it. Half of his head was gone. His body was—damaged. There was no other word for it. His arms and legs looked torn, and his scales had changed color from their regular greenish hue. As if they had been bruised or he had suffered some kind of internal damage before dying.
His body was ravaged. And yet from his neck down to his waist, there was only a single, unbroken piece of armor. A chest plate. It glowed in the dark room, shining gold and red with magic. It was beautiful. But Selys only had eyes for her uncle.
“What happened?”
Selys had seen the dead. She had seen injuries. She had never seen so many wounds on a single body. Zel Shivertail looked like he had been burned, cut, battered, and attacked from every angle. But it was his head that Selys couldn’t stop staring at. That had been the blow that ended his life. How had it happened? Who had—
Selys didn’t realize she was standing at the casket’s edge until she was there. She stood over Zel’s body, too afraid to touch him. His face. His head! What had happened?
Tekshia’s face was pale. The old Drake stared down at her nephew, and her voice shook, the first time Selys could remember ever hearing such a thing.
“A Goblin Lord did this? Goblins?”
“Ancestors.”
Zevara was just staring. Tekshia’s claws clenched. She stared at Zel’s closed eyes. He almost looked like he was smiling. It was just half a smile. Regret? Relief? Selys couldn’t tell. Her heart hurt.
Drakes were talking. She heard two female voices as she stared at her uncle. If she ignored the missing part of his head, he almost looked—
“Watch Captain, I want every Walled City to form a strike force. I don’t care what the Humans do. Drakes must answer this ourselves.”
“Guildmistress Tekshia, I’m sure they’ll listen, but that armor—”
“The armor?”
Selys blinked and looked away from Zel. For the second time she looked at the armor and finally took it in. Her eyes widened. Tekshia frowned at the metal.
“Zel never had an artifact so powerful. And this is no common breastplate. What in the name of Izril is—”
She breathed in sharply and backed up. Zevara and Selys looked at her. Tekshia’s voice was a whisper.
“That scheming Human woman had it. This is it! The Heartflame Breastplate!”
Both Drakes gaped at her. Zevara stared at the fiery metal, her eyes round.
“That can’t be! It was lost centuries ago! You’re telling me the Reinharts had it? And she gave it to General Shivertail? Why didn’t she take it back?”
“I don’t know. But it must be. Look at the metal. It’s unscratched! She gave this relic to him. And still—”
Tekshia’s voice broke.
“She left it with him. Why? To honor him?”
“To apologize, maybe.”
Selys’ voice was soft. Both Drake women looked at her. Zevara shook her head, her wonder broken by the reality of the moment.
“If she did—I’m sorry Misses Shivertail, but this has to be reported. An artifact like this—it was General Shivertail’s, but I don’t know what will happen to it after his death.”
“Nothing simpler. It will go to his heirs. His home city, perhaps. Or maybe he left it to a Walled City? Another [General]?”
Tekshia’s voice turned bitter. She flicked her claws at the armor, staring again at Zel’s face.
“It doesn’t matter. It is a pretty gesture. That’s all, Watch Captain.”
They stood in silence again. Selys didn’t know how long. She just stared at Zel’s body. Part of her wished she could imagine him getting up. But she couldn’t. He was dead. And the reality of that was smell and sight and…what was she supposed to do?
Zevara was the first to speak.
“I’ll have someone remove the—the armor before the funeral.”
She sounded guilty, as if ashamed to say it. Selys and Tekshia nodded absently. Taking armor and the possessions of the dead was standard practice. Few people were buried with their artifacts, and those that were tended to construct entire dungeons to protect their treasures. Grave robbers would loot any corpse for the smallest of treasures, and this armor would see every graveyard in Liscor dug up within the week. Selys knew that, but she hated imagining someone touching Zel’s body.
“I…suppose we should attend to the next matter. We’ve taken a while as it is. Guildmistress Tekshia, Miss Selys. With your permission I’d like to activate the scrying orb and…let General Shivertail’s family observe.”
“What? Oh.”
Selys started, remembering what Tekshia had said. Her grandmother nodded.
“We might as well. Activate your orb, Watch Captain. And may the Ancestors give them the decency to speak well of Zel.”
That was a curious thing to say. Zevara paused before she lifted the palm-sized scrying orb. Selys didn’t see what she did or said—she was too busy staring. Again. It felt wrong to look at her uncle. She wanted to cover the casket, as if he was naked. She shouldn’t have looked at him. She shouldn’t have been here.
“—Watch Captain. Tekshia. And is that your daughter?”
“My granddaughter.”
A voice made Selys look up. She stared into the scrying orb. An older Drake, perhaps ten years younger than Tekshia, was standing at the head of a crowd of Drakes, all with green or some variation of green scales. The most distinct colorations Selys saw were a pale yellow and a light blue.
The Shivertail family. They stood awkwardly, not one cohesive whole. But Selys recognized some of them anyways. If not by name, by the way they stood. Some were dressed richly, others in common clothes. One wore armor, another looked like he was a [Soldier] off-duty. They stared into the scrying orb, crammed too tightly together owing to the constraints of the artifact Zevara held.
“Ah yes. Your granddaughter. I forgot she was living with you.”
The old male Drake nodded at Tekshia. She nodded back without any real love in her eyes. A Drake woman, younger than the male speaker, raised her voice impatiently.
“We didn’t come to exchange pleasantries. We came here to read my brother’s will.”
“And see his body.”
The old Drake looked at her with a scathing glance. She returned it. They were both dressed finely. Was the female Drake Uncle Zel’s sister? Then who was the…?
Zevara cleared her throat uncomfortably.
“The casket has been opened, and we have identified General Shivertail. I should warn you, though, Mister Shivertail. Your son’s body is—”
“Show me.”
