The old Drake shrugged as she played with her spear. It was a normal spear as far as Selys knew. Barbed, a wicked weapon, but not the worst thing Tekshia had owned. She used to use an enchanted glaive—but she’d switched weapons for fear of her prized artifact being stolen. Selys couldn’t imagine anyone stealing from Tekshia and living to tell the tale.
“There was a saying back when I was an adventurer, Selys. ‘The weak grow strong. Cowards are fine. The only hero is a dead one. But traitors and liars die first.’”
“Okay, but that was then. Are you really saying Vuliel Drae lying about what happened is the worst thing they did?”
Tekshia shook her head.
“Running away is acceptable—Named Adventurers will flee just like Bronze-rank ones. Even incompetence can be understood. Disasters happen. But failing to take responsibility for your actions? Lying to your fellow adventurers and your Guild? That is the one sin we do not tolerate.”
Selys gave up and threw her claws in the air.
“Fine. If it’s such a bad crime, you can figure out what their punishment is. They’ve confessed to everything—I have Olesm’s statement, and his signature, and witnesses from three Gold-team leaders like you wanted. And the Goblins got a bunch of treasures, by the way. Just thought I’d let you know.”
“I don’t care about them. If they found out more about the dungeon, write up a report, and I’ll decide who should know what. But those Goblins are not adventurers.”
Tekshia looked pointedly at Selys as she said that. The younger Drake flushed. She had gotten into so much trouble when she’d tried to spring Erin’s crazy proposal on her grandmother.
“They went into a dungeon, Grandma. And got treasure. Three artifacts! Why not let them be a team?”
“I will not have a band of monsters roaming around as a sanctioned adventuring team. This was your Human friend’s insane idea, and I don’t have to listen to it.”
“Come on, Grandma! Please?”
Selys didn’t know why she was arguing on Erin’s behalf. That was friendship for you. She could see why Erin wanted it for the Goblins—they’d be allowed to take requests and collect bounties on monster parts. A Goblin team? That would make them…halfway respectable. But Tekshia was more stubborn than a Gnoll with a bone.
“Give me some assurance, Selys. Just one and I’ll agree to it.”
“How am I supposed to do that?”
“Figure out a way. Now, was there anything else? It’s late, and you should be in bed.”
Tekshia eyed her granddaughter sternly. Selys tried not to scream. It was unfair. Tekshia still treated her like a child, despite Selys being the most experienced [Receptionist] in the Guild! Not that that was saying much—it was hard to work for Tekshia, and the Adventurer’s Guild had been a quiet place with little opportunity to advance one’s class until now. But for all she’d worked hard, Selys’ opinions never seemed to matter to Tekshia. She could argue as long as she wanted, but Tekshia never agreed to try out any of Selys’ proposals.
Aggravating. But at least Selys had one card left to play. She smiled angrily at her grandmother.
“Just one thing, Grandma. Watch Captain Zevara and Olesm want me to get you to sign the proposal letting Pisces put undead in Liscor’s sewers.”
“No.”
The reply came back instantly. Tekshia didn’t so much as blink. Selys groaned.
“Come on, Grandmother! The sewers are flooding! I walked through two streets filled with water! There are rat corpses clogging the tunnels, more of those damn moths—none of the adventurers are going to do it!”
“I don’t trust necromancers. Neither should you. This Pisces is a former criminal. If his creations go rogue—”
“They won’t.”
“How do you know? What happened to that skeleton the [Necromancer] made? The one that has an open bounty on it?”
Selys bit her tongue. Why did the facts have to get in the way of every argument?
“That was different! This is a small undead…thing. He’ll let it work, and it’ll be under his control. He’ll check on it regularly, that’s what the report says!”
The old Drake leaned over her desk.
“Really? Do you trust him? Will you take responsibility if things go wrong, Selys? Because it is my job to do just that. And I do not know, nor do I care to know, this necromancer.”
Selys met her Grandmother’s gaze for as long as she could. It was impossible to stare her down. At last, Selys had to look away.
“I don’t know him, but he says—”
“That’s what I thought. Until you’re willing to give me something, you can tell the Watch Captain what I told you.”
The young [Receptionist] was about ready to punch her Grandmother, family or not. She resisted the impulse, not because violence against the elderly was abhorrent to her, but because she knew that if she took a swing, Tekshia would probably knock her senseless and spank her. There had been an…incident when Selys was eighteen.
Instead of physical confrontation, Selys resorted to words.
“Watch Captain Zevara says she’ll authorize it if you don’t. With or without the Guild’s permission, it’s going to happen, Grandma.”
“Did she now?”
Tekshia’s eyes narrowed. Selys knew her Grandmother was trapped and took bitter satisfaction in this small victory. The Adventurer’s Guild had a say in the city’s affairs, but the Watch Captain could overrule them. It was messy politics, but having a proposal go over Tekshia’s head wasn’t good for her influence. The [Guildmistress] of Liscor’s Adventuring Guild muttered several extremely vulgar insults about Zevara’s tail and other body parts, and then looked up.
“Fine. But you’re supervising him the entire time he and his creation are down there.”
“Me?”
Selys had been all ready to gloat. She felt as though someone had placed a rug under her feet and yanked it out from under her. Tekshia believed in hardwood floors. Easier to clean, and they didn’t stain. She gaped at her grandmother.
“Why do I have to follow Pisces into the sewers? Wait, why does he have to go into the sewers? The entire point is so that none of us have to be down there!”
“I want you to make sure his creation is doing its job. Watch it work for an hour. Or two.”
“An hour—”
“Tomorrow, I think.”
“But that’s—”
“Watch him. That’s an order, Selys.”
Tekshia didn’t give her granddaughter a chance to shout, scream, or throw a fit. She had a Skill she employed in moments like this—[Implacable Order]. When she said something would happen, it would happen, and Selys could only obey or try to refuse, not argue about it. For a moment Selys considered refusing. Then a minute. Tekshia looked over Selys’ notes, grunting at the mention of the Face Collector as Selys fought internally. At last, she heard her granddaughter sigh.
“I hate you.”
“Thank you, my dear. What’s this about a monster that collects heads? Face Collector? Why not call it Head Collector instead?”
“It doesn’t sound as good? I didn’t come up with the name.”
“Pah. First this Skinner creation, now this. It makes me wonder what insane group built the dungeon. This fixation with flesh and body parts…it speaks to a disturbing trend. See if you can find any mention of an older Drake nation that focused on necromancy and the like. Or have that [Strategist] do it. I’ll write him a note. Or you can ask this [Necromancer] you like so much.”
“I don’t like him, Grandma. He’s an arrogant snob. Although…”
Selys smiled wickedly as she remembered something that would get under Tekshia’s scales.
“…he is a good kisser.”
The elderly Drake looked up sharply. Selys looked innocent. Tekshia breathed out slowly, and then her mood changed. She glanced out her window at the rain pelting the streets below and shook her head.
“Tomorrow at midday will be the time when Zel’s body arrives. Selys, I want you to come, but only if you’re willing.”
Selys froze. She’d nearly been able to forget about that for a moment. She looked at Tekshia and gulped.
“Come? For what? To see…”
“Only if you want to. But I meant after that.”
There was a painfully kind look in her grandmother’s eyes. She got up slowly, her bones creaking, and walked towards the window.
“His…condition will be a matter for Watch Captain Zevara and I. You don’t have to see that.”
“I want to see.”
“Very well.”
Tekshia’s shoulders were stiff. She paused and went on.
“What I meant was afterwards. Wall Lord Ilvriss has agreed to lend us his scrying orb, so we’ll be in touch with the rest of the family.”
“The rest of—oh.”
There were only two Shivertails living in Liscor. There had once been four—Selys’ father and her mother, who had married into the family. They’d settled in Liscor, but there was a large extended family that Selys had never met. There had been nothing particularly special about any of them until Zel Shivertail had made their name famous. Now they were considered lesser nobility in some respects, Selys understood. She had never so much as exchanged a [Message] or letter with one of them. And she knew her grandmother didn’t speak to her relatives that much either.
“What will they—what do they want?”
“Aside from seeing him? Legal matters. They’ve moved quickly. Too quickly, the greedy idiots. Couldn’t they have waited…? You’ll need to be present while it’s read to us by the [Mage] they hired.”
“Read what?”
Tekshia looked at Selys, irritated until she saw the honest confusion.
“His will. It’s a matter of deep interest to your relatives.”
Selys closed her eyes. The dull nausea flooded her chest again.
“Of course it is.”
 
—-
 
“A will? I didn’t know you had those.”
The next day, Selys was eating breakfast at Erin’s inn, a rare occasion. She had the afternoon off, but Selys really didn’t feel like eating in her small apartment, or having a meal with her Drake and Gnoll friends. So she’d come to Erin’s.
In retrospect, it was just as bad as hanging out with her friends and eating alone. Erin was helpful, solicitous and she made an amazing omelette, but she didn’t understand Drake culture, and Selys had to explain it to her.
Maybe that was better, though. Talking to someone helped. There was also Mrsha to consider. The Gnoll was lying on Selys’ lap, her head being stroked gently by Lyonette. Her eyes were still puffy from crying, but not red—Gnolls didn’t have whites, so the difference was harder to spot. But sadness? Sadness was easy.
Selys shifted and offered Mrsha a bite of her cheesy omelette. The Gnoll just curled up, though Selys could hear her belly rumbling. Lyonette shook her head, and Selys guiltily ate another bite.
“Of course we have wills, Erin. What do you think we are, savages?”
“Hey, I don’t know what—you don’t have lawyers, well you do, but they aren’t called—look, I thought it was new—although we probably had them in the Middle Ages, so…”
Erin grumbled to herself. Selys waited until she started making sense.
“So you have wills. Got it. And that’s really important in Drake society?”
“Everyone over the age of thirty has one, Erin. Everyone with anything to give away has one. I don’t have one, but that’s because I barely have more than a few gold coins saved up. I should probably make one.”
“Wow. That’s so dark.”
“Dark?”
“Yeah? Why are you thinking about all that? Is it important to Drakes?”
“Of course it is! Erin, how have you lived near Drakes and Gnolls for so long without understanding this?”
Erin looked bewildered. She glanced at Lyonette who was nodding.
“Okay. Someone explain this to me. Why do wills matter so much?”
Selys smiled ruefully. Trust Erin not to get it. She was so observant—and yet, she didn’t like to believe the bad in people either.
“Erin, we’re possessive. Haven’t you noticed?”
Erin blinked.
“Well, yeah. Sometimes I hear about Drakes being greedy and fighting over stuff. But that’s normal, right? Humans do it too.”
“Not like Drakes.”
“Sort of like Drakes.”
“Erin—whatever Humans do, however greedy you get, I don’t think you understand how bad Drakes can be. Remember how I said we have wars between cities all the time? And how we’re descended from Dragons?”
“Okay, so you’re greedy. But is it really…?”
Lyonette was nodding. The young woman cleared her throat.
“Someone once said that if the world was destroyed and there was only dust left, Drakes would fight over who had the most dust.”
“Yeah, that sounds about right. Erin, you’ve only really hung around Relc, me, Drassi, and Olesm, haven’t you? And there’s not much to fight over in your inn. Sorry, but there isn’t.”
“‘S cool. I know I don’t have much. Wait, so what do you fight over?”
“Things that are ours. That’s why it’s not bad in your inn. But let’s say I was living in an apartment with my grandmother. Which I used to. We’d fight over pillows, cups, chairs—and since it was all Grandma’s to start with, she’d kick my tail if I tried to keep it!”
Selys’ own tail lashed angrily at the memories. Erin winced.
“Okay, you fight over stuff. But I mean, that happens…”
“I think we need an example.”
Lyonette leaned over to Selys. The Drake nodded. She and Lyonette barely knew each other, but the Erin education team was a group effort. She cast around and saw a Drake eating breakfast by himself.
“There.”
She pointed at Olesm. Erin frowned.
“Olesm? But he’s nice! He never gets greedy. At all.”
Selys smirked.
“Oh really? Olesm’s not nearly as bad as most. But he does it too. He doesn’t share his food, have you noticed?”
Erin opened her mouth to object, and then closed it. Selys could see her running through all the times when Olesm had been eating here. Slowly, she got up and walked over to his table. Olesm looked up and smiled at her.
“Hey Erin, thanks for the meal! This burger and fries thing is really good for when I’m in a hurry.”
She smiled at him.
“No problem, Olesm! Hey, I’m a bit hungry. Mind if I have a fry?”
She reached for a fry. Olesm gently covered his plate.
“Sorry Erin, but I’ve got to eat and run. Captain Zevara wants me on duty, and, uh, they’re my fries.”
“I know, but it’s just one, right? Let me have a bite from your plate, come on.”
“Ah…”
The Drake hunched over his plate as Erin edged around him. Erin looked perplexed.
“Just one? I made them.”
“No, come on, Erin…”
Selys and Lyonette watched Erin try to sneak around Olesm and him gently protest while shielding his plate. He was as sociable as ever, but no matter how Erin tried, she couldn’t get him to part with a fry, and Olesm was gobbling them faster and faster. Eventually she gave up and returned to Lyonette and Selys.
