The word was a command. Zevara hesitated and then slowly walked over to the open casket. She tilted the orb, and Selys heard a gasp of shock from the assembled Drakes. One stumbled back, laughing nervously. Selys heard a scream and saw two Drake children staring at the body, pale-faced. The girl hid behind her mother. The other Drakes closed their eyes or turned away.
But Zel’s father, if that was who he was, made no such reaction.
“Ah.”
The oldest Drake stared at his son for a second. The sound he made was a bit surprised, but nothing more. Selys waited, but the Drake just looked lost as he gazed into the casket. He looked around blankly at the other distraught Drakes, and a flame seemed to ignite in him.
“Stand up. Don’t turn away!”
The other Drakes obeyed him, straightening, forcing their heads back to grimace at the sight in the coffin. Some of them had never seen a dead body, Selys realized. It was something she had seen, however rarely, but these Drakes lived in a place where that was an alien concept.
Until now. Zel’s father stared into the casket while the rest of his family fidgeted or looked away. Only the military Drakes could watch. Selys saw tears in the eyes of the one wearing armor. She envied him. All of hers had gone far away.
“That’s enough. Close the casket, Watch Captain. I’ve seen—my son is dead.”
The elder Shivertail’s voice rasped hoarsely. Zevara nodded to Tekshia and put the scrying orb down for a moment. The lid closed. Selys stared at the black wood, remembering what was inside.
“What was he wearing?”
That came from Zel’s sister. She fanned at her lips with a handkerchief, looking pale. Watch Captain Zevara hesitated.
“That was the armor General Shivertail was wearing when he fell, Miss Shivertail. It was a gift to him by Magnolia Reinhart, I believe.”
“A powerful artifact?”
“Yes, ma’am. Guildmistress Tekshia believes it may be…the Heartflame Breastplate.”
Selys heard a gasp. She saw several Drakes lean forwards, and one stared at the casket.
“Can you remove the lid so we can take another look?”
“You greedy hoarder!”
Another Drake exclaimed in disgust. Zel’s sister fanned her face.
“Why didn’t Magnolia Reinhart take the artifact back?”
“I believe she meant it as a sign of goodwill. It was the possession of the Drakes’.”
“And it was lost to war. We forfeited the claim to it as per the rules surrounding artifacts. If my brother died with it on, does that mean it was his?”
Zevara exchanged a look with Tekshia.
“Perhaps, Miss Shivertail. But we really can’t decide—”
“That’s a matter for the will.”
Zel’s father cut in harshly, looking at his daughter. Was she his daughter? There was no lost love in the glance she shot back at him.
“Ah, yes, the will. That is the reason why we’ve all gathered here. Well, let’s open it. We have a [Mage] and my brother’s last written will.”
She gestured to one side, and Selys saw a Drake in [Mage]’s robes come forwards. He looked nervous to be at the center of attention.
“My lord Shivertail, my ladies Shivertail…Watch Captain. May I take it that you are the—the witness for the reading of General Shivertail’s last will as to the distribution of his possessions and wealth?”
“I am.”
Zevara nodded, looking pale but standing straight. The [Mage] nodded. He pulled out a sealed bit of paper and showed everyone the magical wax seal on the top.
“This will has not been opened or tampered with in any way. A Wistram [Mage] has certified this fact, as have I. With all members of his immediate family present, I will read the will’s contents.”
“He didn’t leave anything to anyone else?”
Selys blurted the words out. Everyone stared at her. The Drake [Mage] shook his head.
“No others were listed in General Shivertail’s will.”
“To whom else would he have given his possessions?”
Zel’s father stared hard at Selys. She opened her mouth to reply. His friends? Then her throat closed. Her uncle had never mentioned his friends. He was a [General]. He had allies. But he was always busy. After a moment, the elder Shivertail looked away from Selys.
“Continue. Please.”
“Very well, I will read the will from start to finish. This was personally dictated by Zel Shivertail…eight years ago, I believe. A long time, but the will is still quite valid. Ah, please save your questions until after I’ve completed the reading. Everything I read is certifiable by truth stone. And I shall begin.”
The Drake cleared his throat a few times and read in a slightly trembling voice. Selys wondered if he was afraid of getting something wrong, or just conscious of whose will he was reading. His voice was a drone, though, monotonous despite the moment.
“‘I, Zel Shivertail, do record this will freely, of my own will and choice, that my last wishes be recorded and executed to the best of the ability of those individuals who should take possession of my remains…’”
The [Mage] ran through a lengthy and complicated opening to the will, specifying Zel Shivertail’s assets be used to pay for any debts he might have incurred, and that his property be distributed to the best of his ability. Selys had heard the same clauses a thousand times in other Drake wills. Of all the laws in Drake society, wills were treated as the most ironclad. When a Drake gave away their possessions, few laws in any city could challenge that right.
At last, the [Mage] came to the first real line of Zel’s will. He read it slowly as all the Drakes listened closely.
“‘To my family who have gathered here, I know not how I passed away or how I died. I trust I have died in service to Drakes, and wish for only the protection of my people in the times to come. I—’”
The [Mage] choked on his words, and Selys saw his eyes glistening. A few of the Drakes behind him looked moved—some did not. That was worst of all, seeing the impatience on some faces, the greed.
How dare they? Selys felt a bit of anger, the first real emotion in her chest since seeing her uncle’s death. Slowly, the [Mage] collected himself and went on.
“‘I have but one request that I hope you will honor. Bury me with my—’”
He paused. This time, some of the Drakes made audible sounds of impatience.
“What?”
“I’m sorry. The will states: ‘I hope you will honor…bury me with my…’”
Now all the Drakes were staring at him. The [Mage] read and reread the line in silence, and his face went pale. He looked around. Zel’s father stared at him.
“Read it.”
Slowly, the Drake read the rest of the message. There was a perfect moment of shock after he’d finished. Selys’ heart skipped a beat. But that was nothing to the uproar on the other end of the scrying orb.
“He said what?”
“Does he mean—”
“That can’t be right! That has to be a mistake! He doesn’t—”
“Unacceptable.”
Zel’s father stared hard at the [Mage], who was shaking. He snatched the will and read it himself, then looked away.
“That is what the will says. It is a request, not a condition. It doesn’t have to be fulfilled.”
The [Mage] hurried to assure everyone. Selys stared at him. He had to know. Or to guess by everyone’s reactions what Zel’s final request meant. The rest of the Shivertails were outraged.
“Well, it may be a request, but it’s in poor taste to add to his will!”
“It’s his will, Aunt! Where else should he put it?”
“We can’t honor it. There is no way. The scandal it would cause.”
“You’d think he wouldn’t cause trouble in his death. But no!”
“Be quiet!”
“Why should I? When we have a, a Turnscale—”
“Silence!”
Selys saw the elder Drake whirl, heard a dull thump, and saw another young Drake stagger. The older Drake was furious. He raised his hand, and the young male Drake retreated.
“Speak such slander at my son’s funeral—over his body again, and I will cut you down. Any of you!”
He whirled, his angry eyes looking through the scrying orb at Tekshia, Zevara, and Selys. Zel’s father looked around, and his voice was iron.
“This will is sealed. No one is to breathe a word of it, understand me? My son’s possessions will be divided up according to his wishes—this line was never written.”
No one said a word. Zel’s father stared at the blank casket.
“We will remember him as what he was. A hero. Nothing less.”
There wasn’t anything Selys could say. Zel’s line burned in her mind. So. Tekshia had told her the truth. She didn’t know what to think. After a while, the [Mage] went on.
“‘To my father, I leave what lands I have been granted, as well as a portion of my estates.’”
There was a mutter from Zel’s sister. The other Drakes seemed to sigh. Selys relaxed slightly. The reading was taking place. No doubt these rich Drakes wanted to see what they’d get. Zel had already made them rich, but who would get the rest? He was a [General], and one of the wealthiest Drakes in all of Izril. This is what most had come here for, hoping for a small bit of his legacy.
“‘The division of my monetary wealth, held in the respective cities I have placed my earnings with, is to be as follows. To my father, I give…’”
It was a lot of money. Zel didn’t name numbers, except in the case of a few Drakes whom he gave a certain amount of gold to, or an artifact, but the sums involved made Selys’ head spin. One Drake alone—and who wasn’t even his father or immediate family—would walk away with at least six hundred gold pieces. And from the disappointed look on his face, he’d been hoping for more.
Tekshia wasn’t named in Zel’s will as the [Mage] divided his money up, and his lands. Nor was Selys. They were distant relatives, and it would have been strange indeed for Zel to leave them more than a few tokens. Selys didn’t want anything. But as she looked at the smiling sister—or as Zel had named her, sister-in-law—she felt strongly that no one should have anything else either. If Zel could see this, what would he say?
Would he care? Or just be disappointed? Selys shifted from foot to foot, her tail curling around her leg with her desire to leave until the [Mage] reached the last few lines of the will. It was a simple statement from Zel.
“‘To my Aunt Tekshia, I give her the spears in my armory along with any of my monetary investments, holdings, or other wealth placed in Liscor.’”
“Not much, I fear. We’ll send the spears to you, if you wish.”
Zel’s sister-in-law looked triumphantly at Tekshia. The old Drake just stared back, looking fed-up. The [Mage] coughed and went on.
“‘Any other properties not accounted for in my will shall be turned over to my father, or my sister-in-law, or nearest relative in order of relation. However, I give whatever personal effects were on my corpse to my niece, Selys Shivertail, in hopes she will one day become an adventurer—’”
Selys heard a gasp. She stared, uncomprehending, as the [Mage] paused. Every eye turned to her.
“‘—or to use as she desires. If said artifacts are lost due to war or the circumstances of my death, I give Selys a blade of her choosing from my personal armory and a sum of coins to equal—’”
“Ancestors.”
Someone breathed the word, interrupting the [Mage] again. Selys just felt blank. An adventurer? He’d actually remembered her. She looked at the casket and then heard a shriek.
“He did what? That can’t be!”
Selys stared at the sister-in-law. She was pointing at Selys, her eyes bulging and rolling in her head. Why?
“Selys.”
Tekshia, Zevara, everyone was staring at her. Selys didn’t understand. Her mind felt too slow, as if she were underwater. She looked at Watch Captain Zevara.
“What? What’s so important?”
The Watch Captain stared at her. Slowly, Zevara raised a hand and ruffled the dark purple spines at the back of her neck. Her pale blue scales seemed almost ghostly as she looked at Selys. She spoke, her lips pale, her voice shaking.
“Miss Selys. If General Shivertail left you the possessions on his body…that means you are the inheritor of the Heartflame Breastplate and any other artifacts he owned.”
Selys heard the words. She didn’t understand them. She looked at the casket as the Drakes in the scrying orb shouted. She remembered the burning armor. She remembered her uncle’s smiling face. She knew it was important, but she was just empty. She looked around.
“Me?”
