Akilah hesitated for a long moment. "Yes, and I know what you will ask next: Most paths are smoothed out with the first class and Gift evolution, but I cannot promise anything. The System offers classes best fit for you. Combat healer is extraordinarily difficult to strive toward, much less follow."

"I've never chosen the easy path," Thomas lied like the lying liar he was.

Of course he liked easy. That's why he enjoyed loot drops. He also really loved the discoveries and power from skills, mana, and items. If he was going for riches, why not have the power to heal himself and his friends along the way? They say you can't buy good health. Thomas begged to disagree.

Plus, no one would look for a loot power in a healer. From the sound of it, most enemies with the exception of dark classes would hesitate to even attack him. What was the word Zach had used back at the coven? Sacrosanct?

Thomas was warming up to this idea.

Akilah looked quietly exasperated, as if seeing a promising PhD candidate tell him he was taking up a career as a skydiving instructor. "Think about all I've said," he intoned, "and if you do ever choose rescission, I will walk you through it. Or, of course, you may do so in private. No one here would think badly of you."

Thomas grew serious again. "I understand."

With a nod, Akilah rose. "Your teammates should be awake within a few hours. You will be summoned to speak with the Council of Elders after that time."

Now that Akilah was standing in his true form and Thomas could get the full length of him, he saw that his bodily proportions were off from human-normal too. The shoulders were a touch wide, the arms long enough that the tips of his fingers could touch his knees. He was definitely alien, yet not as unsettling as he'd been when trying to pass himself off as human.

The elder healer walked out. No, he did not have a tail.

Despite everything that had been said, Thomas chuckled a little darkly. The guy really did not like the idea of combat healers, yet they did exist.

He'd felt some kind of way about his healing mana for a while. Now that he'd gotten the full story, though, he paradoxically felt more at ease, not less. He had a name for the empathy. It was not a moral failing, and he wasn't weak.

He also didn't think that his Burden was strong enough to stop him. He never liked what industrial farm animals went through, but he ate still meat from grocery stores. Now he knew for certain what killing someone would do to his soul, he'd avoid that... but he was no pacifist. And yeah, he'd lied to Zach that one time because he absolutely had shed a--tiny!--tear at those gut-wrenching humane society commercials, but... c'mon. They had Arms of an Angel playing in the background. He wasn't made of stone.

Sure, he'd have to figure out some workarounds, but he could handle that.

And if it ever became too much... now he knew there was an out.

Rising, he checked on Jo, who was sleeping deeply, and on Zach, who was doing the same. His multicolored IVs were only half-drained.

Thomas took a seat nearby so he could keep an eye on both. He was completely awake thanks to the chouk and wouldn't want to go to sleep anyway. They were in unfamiliar territory, and someone should stay up to keep watch.

Thomas began planning for the future.

****

Zach started shifting around and blinked open his eyes about two hours later.

He looked around the old-style library living space with a woozy expression, and his gaze fell on Thomas, who was sitting nearby. "Bro, am I in a gentleman's club?"

"Home Tree, I think," Thomas replied.

"What?"

Thomas snorted and got up to check the IV. He only had a little left, but he may as well use it all. It was free mana. "How do you feel?"

"Like I've been hit by a truck," he muttered. "Seriously, where are we? Is Jo okay?"

"You saved us with the teleport," Thomas assured him. "We're okay. As for where we are... have you heard of Dark Elves?"

Zach stilled. "Hold on, run that back?"
