To this end, this Sovereign crafted a Dharmic Icon of his own, the character ‘Death (死)’ written and infused with the energies of death itself. None too subtle, but the direct approach was often easiest and this Sovereign’s patience was at an end. The dark inked character of Death crackled with murky luminescence as it shot out towards the boy, growing larger and denser as it approached him so that he would recognize its significance. The character engulfed him in its necrotic energies which annulled what life energy was left to him, and while the boy’s soul was eternal, his memories and personality were constructs of his mind and thus contingent on the energy of Life to sustain themselves. Valuable though those memories might be, there was still much to be gleaned from the boy’s soul itself, for it represented the raw Energies of the Heavens for anyone to use freely. What’s more, another half of the boy’s soul was still residing within his body for this Sovereign to seize in hand, allowing him to have the best of both worlds as it were. Having learned from his mistakes this first time around, he would be prepared the next time he targeted the boy’s body to draw out what was left of his soul, a feat which was only possible because there were multiple minor Natal Souls still residing within that could substitute for the boy’s eternal soul.

Except just as the character of Death was about to erase all that was left of the boy here in the Void aside from his eternal soul, his figure erupted into a puff of smoke that obscured all senses. From it emerged a pale, freckled, red-headed man, one who swung his arms and shook his hips to a blaring tune that shocked the Uniter to his core. The music was pleasant enough, but it filled him with such exasperation and indignation aplenty as well as bitter regret and personal dissatisfaction for having seen this once again, having been beguiled into attacking an all too obvious decoy. No, not again, nor all that obvious, as this was the first time he’d ever laid eyes on this fire-haired man, but the boy had seen him countless times before to form this impression, one that went hand in hand with the dance and music.

“So you have chosen… death.” Uttered with a ponderous gravitas that should have been beyond the reach of one Falling Rain, the boy’s words filled this Sovereign with chilling tension and hostile suspense, words which sounded from behind him. Three or four Dharmic Icons was already more than the boy should possess, yet he continued to reveal them without a care in the world, with each one seemingly more powerful than the last. As this Sovereign turned to face his foe, an aged and powerful being stood to meet him, one with hair of snow and a piercing stare that guaranteed delivery of that which was promised. A most formidable opponent indeed, and for the briefest of moments, this Sovereign forgot that his foe was merely a boy rather than the grizzled veteran of a thousand battles depicted here before him. It wasn’t just his appearance which shook this Sovereign so, for this was a gentleman who embodied tenacity and lethality in spades, one who commanded respect by virtue of demeanour alone.

Two staves appeared in his hands as his countenance took on a ghastly complexion, and the world shook beneath this Sovereign’s feet as he was sent tumbling out through the Void. “I gave you the chance of aiding me willingly,” the formidable veteran began, every word dripping with cold fury and bitter contempt as he advanced with staves pointed. “But you… have elected, the way of… PAIN!” Agony lanced through this Sovereign as reality came unhinged, leaving him unable to tell up from down, left from right, and pain continued to wrack him for long seconds before he was able to rein his emotions back in check. Breathless and shaken by this ordeal, he found himself beset by fear and anxiety for the first time in recent memory, his courage sapped and conviction shaken as he tried to make sense of his foe’s implausible strength. Only now did he realize that he had not moved a single centimetre, and that all his pain and disorientation had been imparted upon him, a sense of weakness and incapacity forced upon him by yet another set of Dharmic Icons. This time, they didn’t merely impart their significance upon this Sovereign, but drew him in to experience a humiliating defeat first-hand, a truly intricate and elaborate working which could not have come from Falling Rain.

No, this was the work of someone far older and wiser, someone whose understanding of the Dao of Artistic Expression touched upon the realm of True Divinity itself.

Taking a moment to rally his thoughts and raise his defenses, this Sovereign drew himself up to full height until he stood towering above his diminutive foe, yet Falling Rain seemed none too bothered by their difference in size. Practice no doubt, for the boy stood head and shoulders beneath most Martial Warriors and was not so easily intimidated. Nor was this Sovereign able to utilize the Spectres to threaten Falling Rain in any way, shape, or form either, for it would be akin to using a fish to threaten a wildcat and likely to have the reverse effect. All this Sovereign could do was draw upon the death energies still coursing through him, for death was antithetical to life and thus repugnant to all living creatures on a base, instinctive level, yet he sensed none of this from Falling Rain. The opposite in fact, for the boy almost seemed drawn towards this Sovereign as he unleashed the energies of death, transfixed in place and mesmerized by the darky, swirling actualization of the antithesis of life.

A strange one, this Falling Rain, but at least now, this Sovereign better understood what he was dealing with.

“You are no mere child, but an old soul birthed anew,” he accused, his tone clipped and terse so as to hide his fear and trepidation, for the boy’s reaction proved this to be true. Surprise and alarm, followed by an effort to appear calm and confused, but this Sovereign knew it all for false. This was most alarming, for he only knew one other person in existence who knew how to transfer his eternal soul to a new body, but now there was a second, else this Sovereign would have recognized Falling Rain’s soul at first glance. This was the only feasible explanation possible for the boy’s incomprehensible mastery of the Dao, to say nothing of how he kept one step ahead of this Sovereign for the last two years without eliciting any suspicion whatsoever. A masterstroke of genius, playing the part of bumbling buffoon who inexplicably stumbled his way to success time and time again. The sheer amount of calculation required to pull off such a deception was staggering to even consider, but this Sovereign had been fooled every step along the way. “Who are you?”

“Heh.” Relief and amusement flashed across the boy’s face, but only for an instant. “Don’t you know who I am?” he asked, transforming into a hulking figure with an iron open-faced helmet and armour that left his muscled arms and rippled mid-section completely bare. “I’m the juggernaut, bitch!” The armoured form crashed into this Sovereign with enough force to rattle his thoughts, but he rallied in an instant and struck back with a spear of Death Energy that sent his foe reeling in pain. Were Falling Rain here in full strength, then this Sovereign would have no choice but to flee for his life, but here and now, they were at worst equally matched, though he suspected he held the upper hand. If not for Falling Rain’s seemingly unending supply of Dharmic Icons, then this Sovereign would have long since won this battle of Wills, for he wielded the power of death itself, but the boy had nothing save for the Energy of the Heavens. Powerful though he might be if facing another False Divinity, this Sovereign had surpassed the limits of the Mortal Dao to touch upon the Immortal Dao, which afforded him no small amount of protection against the Heavens who rejected him. As such, even though he was unable to consciously manipulate this unfathomable Immortal Energy, coming into contact with it alone had raised the quality of his body, mind, and soul to a level mere mortals could only dream of.

Meaning this Sovereign could afford to trade blows with his opponent and achieve victory through attrition.

Materializing an entire armoury of weapons to wield against his foe, this Sovereign infused every last one of them with the power of death before delivering them unto his foe. A crude offensive, but one written in the language Falling Rain was most familiar with, and therefore most effective. The boy responded by dodging and weaving about, seeking to avoid these attacks without realizing that they were driven by Will and Intent rather than force and momentum. Not that this Sovereign minded much, for this gave him a chance to calm his nerves and rethink his prior conclusions to realize that he’d been gravely mistaken at best. If Falling Rain was truly the puppet of some old, powerful soul, then it made no sense for him to be so weak. The boy’s own Path had provided this Sovereign the answers he needed to soar to such great heights, so why was Falling Rain lagging behind? There were only two possible explanations. Either he was chasing a more complete Path and not yet ready to advance, or he was utterly incapable of doing so for some reason or another, and this Sovereign suspected the latter.

The boy made too many fundamental mistakes for it to be anything else, because an older and wiser Cultivator would have long since realized that Will and Heavenly Energy alone were not enough. The boy even had the tools needed to injure this Sovereign, namely the Sword Intent he’d incorporated into his corporeal attacks, yet here in the Void, he relied on countless Dharmic Icons to attack and defend, like a child flailing about with hands and legs instead of reaching for the dagger at his belt. Impressive though it might be to see him conjure so many different and powerful Icons without need for thought or effort, no amount of unbreakable, patriotic shields, oversized rapid-fire rifles, or handsome dancing fools could save him now. It was merely a matter of quality, in that Death Energy was of a higher quality than the Energy of the Heavens, for even Creation and Destruction were beholden to death.

All this and more proved that Falling Rain was not an old soul inhabiting a new body then, but more likely a youngster who’d been provided some answers by an outside source. The Elemental Spirit perhaps? That was the point at which the boy became a thorn in this Sovereign’s side, though he knew not how an inhuman Spirit could bestow knowledge or memories to another. A matter worth studying, though he would first need to secure an Elemental Spirit in hand, a feat even the Emperor himself was unable to accomplish with all the resources of the Imperial Clan. Even if this Sovereign were to capture Falling Rain, he had no intention of trying to secure the Elemental Spirit as well, for he lacked the means to contain or even threaten it. A lamentable loss, but one this Sovereign had long since come to terms with, and now that his anger and frustrations had been thoroughly vented, it was time to move on before it was too late.

Despite suffering several hundred blows laced with Death Energy, the boy’s Will was still strong and unyielding. This wasn’t to say he’d escaped unscathed, for the caustic energies were eating away at his soul and would bring him low in time, but this Sovereign had underestimated the boy’s resolve. What’s more, he had yet to truly understand just how outmatched he really was, so this Sovereign set into motion a plan to show Falling Rain the true depths of despair. “Foolish little worm,” he intoned, still directing his weapons to chase the boy about as he flew through the Void atop an obese, oddly-shaped cat spewing rainbows out its rear end, rainbows which eroded even the Death Energy of this Sovereign’s attacks. “In possession of so much knowledge yet lacking the wit to use it.” A risk to imply the boy had the tools he needed in hand, but belittling his achievements was a tried-and-true method of weakening his will. There were other options available as well, but time moved differently here in the Void as opposed to out in the material world, where this Sovereign’s gaze was still locked with the boy’s as they stood across from one another on the battlefield of Shi Bei. Not even a second had passed, and the boy’s physical self had yet to move, save to blink in confusion and sniff the air twice. Odd that, but this Sovereign gave it no thought as he materialized a Scrying pool within the Void so that the boy could watch what transpired next.

“Ours is a battle that will be long and arduous indeed,” this Sovereign continued, even as he acted in the material world and launched an attack at the Old Wolf Calamity, a scene he reflected in the scrying pool with copious artistic liberties. “But even in the unlikely event that you escape this Sovereign’s clutches, little worm will return to find naught but blood and sand to greet him in Shi Bei.”

