Impossible. Inconceivable. Unimaginable and unthinkable.

And yet still this came to pass.

Such were this Sovereign’s thoughts as he recovered from his initial shock and struggled to comprehend this stunning reversal of fortunes. The plan had been so simple it could even be described as perfection. Forcibly draw the boy’s soul into the Void where he would be left dazed, confused and separated from his Elemental Spirit, and thus vulnerable to illusion and manipulation. Here in the Void, strength of Will reigned supreme, an area in which this Sovereign should hold the upper hand against a tribal boy of only twenty years, even one as exceptional as Falling Rain. What the boy faced in Meng Sha had been but a fraction of this Sovereign’s true strength, for he was not fool enough to risk sending his eternal soul so far away from his body. No, the ‘Zhen Shi’ in Meng Sha had been but a mere Natal Soul, a puppet powered by the Death Energy harnessed during the slaughters carried out in the harbour and anchored in place by the Bloody Confessor’s Transcendent. Here in Shi Bei was this Sovereign’s true body, mind, and soul, with the full weight of his Will bearing down upon Falling Rain, yet rather than succumbing as expected, the boy shook off his initial confusion in the blink of an eye while wholly oblivious to the carefully crafted illusion that should have driven him to despair.

Except how was it possible for the boy’s true soul to be so strong? The power Falling Rain’s Natal Soul displayed in Meng Sha was due to his unification with the Elemental Spirit, but the boy’s true soul had yet to do the same. What’s more, this Sovereign’s Ascension had done more than bolster the strength of his physical form, but his mind and soul as well, a change which allowed him to sense the disparate entities hiding within Falling Rain’s Natal Palace. There were five minor Natal Souls buried deep within, feeble and anemic entities that would crumble within an instant if let loose in the Void, as well as one Natal Soul almost as powerful as the boy’s true soul itself. The minor Natal Souls were being used to control his weapons and oversee the battlefield, but this Sovereign had been unable to determine what the major Natal Soul’s purpose might be, though he’d sensed its presence before in Pan Si Xing. This powerful Natal Soul was likely something akin to this Sovereign’s puppet in Meng Sha, a tool to affect matters far away from the boy’s physical location without risking his eternal soul, but that did not explain why it was still operational. A fool’s gambit, placing so much power and trust into a disassociated entity which could easily seize control of the Natal Throne in a moment of weakness, but this division of power was the only reason this Sovereign was able to forcibly seize the boy’s true soul in hand.

Half a soul should be weaker than a whole soul, especially one which had been Refined with the Death Energy of countless Spectres and corpses, yet even then, this Sovereign found himself at an impasse with his foe. A miscalculation, for despite dividing his soul in two and severing so much of it already, the boy’s soul was more powerful than most. The work of the Elemental Spirit no doubt, which combined with the boy’s innate talent of Devouring allowed him to mend and nurture his eternal soul to levels previously unimaginable by a mere mortal. The boy’s Will was also stronger than expected, but more than that, it was nonsensical and absurd as well, projecting baseless images here in the Void that struck this Sovereign with the weight of a thousand mountains and left him reeling with confusion.

An angry, dark skinned-man with the most ridiculous hair and moustache while shouting vulgarities in an over-exaggerated manner, followed by a pale, faceless commoner wearing gloves fashioned to look like bear arms while proclaiming the right to carry them, two meaningless images lacking sense and significance in this Sovereign’s eyes and mind, yet to the boy, they were so compelling and meaningful that their connotation was made clear upon first glance despite their farfetched absurdity and baffling delivery. The first was a call for reckoning and retribution, heralding a justified punishment brought on by one’s own actions, while the latter was a pun of some sort that was beyond this Sovereign’s understanding, one which filled the boy with unmitigated glee and delight.

The interpretation of these images had not been left to this Sovereign’s own devices, but forcibly impressed upon him by the boy. This was akin to crafting a Rune with the power of his mind alone, for what was a Rune but a means to convey Intent to the Heavens Above? A technique older than the Empire itself known as crafting a Dharmic Icon, one the boy used with an ease and familiarity even this Sovereign could not match. Materializing two abstract and intricate concepts in an instant without preparation was impressive enough, yet these Dharmic Icons were enough to not only affect this Sovereign’s thoughts, but overpower and supplant them. Were he ignorant of their significance, then the power of these Dharmic Icons would affect only the boy and nothing else, yet seeing them for only an instant was enough to forcibly impart their significance to this Sovereign and cause him to be affected by their power as well. This was a battle of Wills, and his Will was being influenced by the Icons and their ingrained significance, leading him to accept that the boy’s retribution and right to bear arms was wholly fair and just.

These were not the tools of a boy with barely two-decades of life, for such compelling and iconic imagery required years of emotional and intellectual investment to develop, and the conviction behind it was so powerful it bordered on the religious. This was the very reason why the Emperor had turned against the Brotherhood, for there was a time in which a monk wearing full ceremonial regalia drew more respect and veneration than even the Grand Marshal or Prime Minister. This sort of blind faith in the Brotherhood’s trappings gave them power over the masses, not just the power to sway hearts and minds, but power in a more personal sense as well. External though this power might be, to see faith in others was to reinforce faith in oneself, meaning that to an ordained monk of the Brotherhood who’d Developed their Domain, any ceremonial robes might as well be Runic Robes, and every spade a Spiritual Weapon. The same could be said of their rosary beads and wooden fish drums, and so armed with the tools of their faith, they were able to relay their Intent to the Heavens themselves to draw upon its Energy without risking its Wrath, to say nothing of their droning chants that served much the same purpose except in audible form.

Even all this was not enough to threaten the Imperial Clan, for every Runic Craftsman was able to do the same, but there were other benefits to be had from faith, namely the reverence of the masses. In their hearts, the Emperor should stand above all else, yet the commoners of the Imperial Clan found it difficult to venerate an absent figure as opposed to the monks who were always happy to lend a hand. And so the Brotherhood was banished, and in less than half a century, their place in the hearts of commoners had slipped until they were little more than farce.

And now, Falling Rain, a boy of twenty-one years, somehow possessed the foresight to craft these images for his own use, ones so fixed in mind that he could convey their significance through presentation alone. This was a Dao akin to Music, Poetry, Dance, and more, a Dao of Artistic Expression that spoke to the soul itself. Such mastery was unthinkable in one so young, for how could one convincingly convey the vicissitudes of the human spirit without experiencing it firsthand? The boy not only had the ability to do this, he’d also prepared for this battle beforehand, and not just in the last few hours either. It would have taken weeks to secure one image in mind and fix upon it the intended symbolism, and even longer still to resonate so strongly with it that it could impart that symbolism to others. It wasn’t as simple as saying, “The Dragon and Phoenix Seal symbolizes the Emperor’s Authority”, for you yourself and others must wholeheartedly believe it, respect it, fear it, and even venerate it before it can become a true Dharmic Icon, one capable of moving even the Heavens themselves.

This was the level of faith and conviction Falling Rain had in his baseless imagery, nonsensical likenesses of random individuals whose origins even the boy himself was unaware of. There was no adoration or reverence instilled within the Dharmic Icons, only a sense of frivolous ridicule that he found amusing for no discernable reason at all, yet this did nothing to detract from the effectiveness of the Icons, because amusement was the boy’s sole reason for crafting them. All this and more was conveyed to this Sovereign alongside the rest of those images’ significance, and he marvelled at how anyone could place so much meaning into so insignificant an Icon. Nor were these the only two Icons the boy possessed, as this Sovereign discovered to his chagrin as the boy appeared behind him without warning. Clad from head to toe in black, stylized clothing unlike anything he'd ever seen before, he had his hand atop his head which sported a broad-brimmed hat worn with a rakish tilt which made him look like even more of a fool, and yet everything about his carefully crafted attire held significance and meaning in spades. “Nothing Personnel Kid,” the boy uttered, while driving a single-edged longsword clean through this Sovereign’s soul, a weapon wholly unlike the boy’s Spiritual Sword yet possessing the same level of personal significance. The misspoken word seemed wholly intentional as well, and while this Sovereign was unable to make heads or tails of why that might be, it made perfect sense to Falling Rain as he inflicted untold damage upon this Sovereign’s soul.

This was far from a fatal blow, for the soul was a single undying entity unlike the body or mind, but this Sovereign’s circumstances were unique and unprecedented. His body, mind, and soul were linked in harmonious Balance through the corrosive death energies gathered by his Spectres and Transcendents, meaning damage done to his soul would manifest itself in reality as well. Not only this, but damage to his soul might well affect his hold over his Spectres and Transcendents, for his Natal Palace was no longer fixed in existence and the souls of his prisoners no longer trapped within the Dharmic Icon which was his robes to keep them under control. Now, the struggle for domination was far more active and dynamic than before, requiring a bare pittance of effort to keep them in check, but a pittance he might soon be unable to spare if the boy should continue his rampage here in the Void.

Gathering his wits about him, this Sovereign faced his foe and let loose with a roar of defiance that sent the boy hurtling away through the darkness of the Void. “You think yourself capable of resistance?” The words struck home with the force of a thunderclap, and the boy flinched as this Sovereign’s Will pressed him from all sides and a hundred swords crafted from Death Energy pierced through his torso. “You are but a worm, an insignificant child flailing about in ignorance, and this Sovereign shall derive great pleasure in tearing your soul asunder, for – ”

“Don’t care didn’t ask plus you’re bald.”

The sheer contempt, disregard, and absurdity of this dismissal caught him by complete surprise as the boy rallied behind yet another carefully crafted Dharmic Icon, this one of a pale, bald man in unhealthy lighting and odd eye coverings with two middle fingers extended upwards. Much like with his other icons, the overt derision and disdain was overlaid atop a foundation of frivolous amusement, and this Sovereign was at a loss as to explain why. He wasn’t even truly bald, only hairless by choice for the moment since expending his reserves of Heavenly Energy to grow hair would have been a waste given how it would naturally grow in time. This single moment of confusion and distraction was all that was needed for Falling Rain to escape from his plight, not through outright superior strength of Will, but canny intellect and incomprehensible tactics. Appearing before this Sovereign once more, the boy turned into a moustached man with curly hair that came down to his shoulders. “My name is Inigo Montoya,” he declared, which was almost as surprising as his visual transformation, and while it felt as if he was about to launch into a lengthy speech, he promptly concluded, “Prepare to die.”

A piercing thrust delivered lancing pain as the boy’s blade took this Sovereign through the throat even before the message was finished, but Falling Rain’s greatest weakness was his unfamiliarity with how a clash of Wills should play out. Attacking with swords and spears was not as effective as one might think, for it was the Intent and energy behind the attack that delivered the bulk of the damage. So long as this Sovereign held firm to his conviction that his soul was unaffected by this representation of a physical attack, then its effect would be minimal at best. This was doubly true given Falling Rain’s conviction of how such attacks should work, too focused on causing ‘bodily’ harm to truly convey the most effective Intent. What’s more, with so much Death Energy at his disposal, this Sovereign was far better equipped to damage the boy’s soul, for this was a power which went beyond even the Energy of the Heavens, for there was no known force in the cosmos capable of avoiding death.

