There it was, the first sign of the boy’s wavering Will as his odd cat dissipated into nothingness, for he was panicked and desperate to return to his corporeal form, but how could this Sovereign allow him to run off so easily? He’d long since secured this section of the Void with his Domain, and the boy was readily trapped within, flying about in circles without ever touching the outer edges as he frantically sought to escape. Such a simple illusion, yet he gave himself wholly over to it in his haste, fooled into thinking he was making progress by breaking barrier after barrier when all he was doing was wasting his strength. To think, this Sovereign had been wary of this foolish, emotional child, one who possessed power aplenty, but no knowledge as to how to properly utilize it. All the while, this Sovereign manipulated his Scrying pool to show an illusion of the Old Wolf dying in a single blow. A bloody and barbaric affair, as the image of this Sovereign drove his fist through the Old Wolf’s chest, but this was what the boy would expect in a battle between Divinities. If this Sovereign crafted a scene using skills too complex and incomprehensible for the boy to understand, then he might spend too much time puzzling out the details and either see through the illusion or benefit from it.

For the best lies were those built around a kernel of truth, as this Sovereign readied to do battle against Old Wolf Calamity out in the material world.

The boy continued to flee with all haste, and this Sovereign manipulated his perceptions to make it appear as if he and the Scrying pool was always just in sight as they chased the boy down from behind. It mattered not how fast the boy moved, for here in the Void, distance was not measured and fixed, but shifting and ever changing. This Sovereign could easily have placed the boy upon a looping track and watched as he ran circles in place, but that might well have given away the illusion, so a more active approach was needed. All the while, he continued to attack the boy with weapons infused with Death Energy, whittling away at his strength and resolve by inflicting pain and suffering aplenty.

In reality, not even a single second had passed, time enough only for this Sovereign to trade a single blow with the Old Wolf, yet the boy might well have experienced an eternity of running in that same instant as time stretched itself just short of infinity.

Focusing on his efforts in the material world, this Sovereign growled with frustration as his foe proved hardier than expected. The Old Wolf was finished testing the waters and unleashing his full might with every attack, and hardy though this Sovereign’s Ascendent form might be, he could not easily disregard the Old Wolf’s attacks. There was a hint of a higher power at work in his strikes, a wisp of what might well be a burgeoning Intent, that of Fist, Fang, Claw, or something else altogether, though what, this Sovereign was unable to say. Were he still a beast beholden to his instincts and cunning, then the Old Wolf might well be strong enough to contend against this Sovereign, for Spiritual Beasts were formidable in their own right, even if they were far from approaching the realm of a Divinity.

Eager to end things quickly, he utilized Death Energy in his next strike against the Old Wolf, and the results were surprising indeed. Rather than commit to the attack, the Old Wolf retreated with all haste before this Sovereign’s attack, or more accurately, away from the Death Energy gathered in the palm of his hand. A moment of thought was all he gave it, but then he could spare no more as his lapsed attention caused the gathered Death Energy to escape his control and turn his hand into a withered husk. Discharging the errant Energy at some hapless fool upon the battlements, this Sovereign refocused his efforts and drew Life Energy into his desiccated hand. Easier said than done, for he possessed no ability to directly control Life Energy save to direct where it could not go with Death Energy. Roundabout though this method might be, it was enough to restore his hand in appearance, if not bring it back to full function and strength, and he made a note to be more careful about Death Energy and avoid exposing his true body to it until he was more proficient with its use.

Unfortunately, this lapse in judgement and focus had allowed Falling Rain to see through this Sovereign’s illusions, and he was no longer making any effort to escape. Instead, he was immersed in quiet study of this Sovereign’s soul and readying yet another attack. With sword in hand, he formed up in a familiar stance, readying himself for the charge, only to launch himself forward without warning as he executed Balance on Windy Leaf and Pierce the Horizon in tandem. Akanai’s Ground Shrinking Strike, a most formidable melding of movements, but even here in the Void, the boy had yet to reach the same level of mastery as his Grand Mentor.

Which only affected his speed, and not the lethality of his thrust, for the boy had finally thought to put his Sword Intent to good use.

An attack easily avoided, but in doing so, this Sovereign confirmed the boy’s suspicions that his Sword Intent was deadly even in a battle of Wills. A sword was a tool for killing, and Sword Intent comparable to Death Energy in many ways, while the same could be said of various other Weapon Intents. Death Energy was merely the foundation upon which most Weapon Intents were built, but even this alone was not enough to cause this Sovereign alarm. The problem was that the boy’s Sword Intent was not pure, or better to say it was not solely Sword Intent, and try as he might, this Sovereign was unable to identify the blended Energy within the boy’s Sword Intent and had no desire to find out first-hand.

“Tch,” the boy began, sucking his teeth in annoyance as they faced off once again, as if he viewed this clash beneath him. “Another illusion.” Even without looking, this Sovereign knew that the Scrying pool was showing himself decapitating another Divinity, and he realized the error he’d made. The battle was too one-sided, but also too neat and orderly, with his foes being dispatched one by one instead of three or five at a time. Even the Refined body, mind, and soul of one bordering on Immortality was unable to keep up with the demand of carrying out so many actions at once, and he had to look away from the boy for a moment to deal with the Old Wolf. A mistake to do battle on two planes at once, but he was committed to both fronts now without room for retreat, not unless he was willing to give up the prize he’d worked so hard to claim.

Radiating Death Energy from one hand in the material world, this Sovereign warded off the Old Wolf’s aggression and reset the battlefield to match the impasse within the Void. Much as he yearned to strike a Divinity with this power, they were too fast and guarded against him, so he could only unleash it upon another unsuspecting mortal, an utter waste of effort considering most Peak Experts were either fleeing or Concealed. Hardly a barrier to this Sovereign should he desire to hunt them down, but with Death Energy in hand, he lacked the luxury of time to do so. Focusing once more on the true goal at hand, he towered over the boy within the Void and wielded his innate superiority over him. Most in the boy’s place would quail and waver, or at least entertain their doubts and anxieties, but he barely paid this Sovereign any mind and instead glanced about the empty Void in quiet study.

“Is this your Natal Palace?” he asked, and though this Sovereign would not have answered, the boy shook his head as he discovered the truth for himself. “No, you’re not the type to float around in just your robes. Even if you don’t care for luxury or ostentation, you’d use it as a weapon against me, to make me feel inferior and beneath you.” Aggravating how accurately the boy had acquired this Sovereign’s measure, even claiming how many of his most useful stratagems were ‘right out of the abuser’s playbook”. A document this Sovereign was most eager to read for himself, but thus far, he’d been unable to find any mention of such a treatise, but he would have all the answers in hand soon enough. “You’re also distracted,” the boy continued, which came as something of a surprise, since this Sovereign expected the boy would have attacked if he’d noticed. “The fight out in the real world not going as smoothly as you’d like, yea?”

It wasn’t, especially with the Cloud Divinity stepping in to attack this Sovereign from afar, taking over for the Old Wolf who had set his sights upon the Mammoth Divinity. That could not stand, for the foreign musclebound fool would be slaughtered within an instant unless he utilized power beyond what the Heavens would allow. The Treaty was still necessary for now until this Sovereign was able to familiarize with his newfangled strength, and even better if it could remain in place until he uncovered the secrets of Immortal Energy. Keeping half a mind on the boy, this Sovereign rearranged matters on the battlefield in an effort to keep the battle from getting too out of hand, which was easier said than done while being battered about by a Divinity Blessed by Air and Water.

“So if this isn’t your Natal Palace,” the boy continued, wholly unaware of this Sovereign’s struggles in reality, “Then that means you’re either a Natal Soul like what I saw in Meng Sha, or a real soul set loose in the Void. Either way, I assume you gotta be tethered to your real body in some way, considering a body without a soul tends to die and you’re the type of control freak that wouldn’t let a Natal Soul run around free.” All meaningless musing to this Sovereign who had his hands full keeping the Old Wolf from tearing the Ancestral Mammoth’s head off while imparting in no uncertain terms that the latter was to abide by the Treaty no matter what.

“I wonder then,” the boy uttered, readying his sword in hand, “Is it possible to sever the connection between a soul and body? Probably, right? Only one way to find out.” This seemingly innocent question sent chills down this Sovereign’s spine as he watched the boy materialize thousands upon thousands of glowing blue swords within the Void, a tremendous effort of Will which he accomplished as easily as turning a hand. “I am the bone of my sword,” he chanted, and his swords sang in harmony with his words as he revealed yet another Dharmic Icon he had in hand. “Steel is my body, and fire my blood.” The Energy of the Heavens surged in tempo with his uttered cadence, a Sutra of his own devising which instilled his conjured weapons with Sword Intent aplenty. “So as I pray, Unlimited Blade Works.”

Impending doom. That was what this Sovereign saw as the azure blades shot forth, some driving directly towards him while most sought to sever the Void itself and anything in between. The boy knew not the danger of his actions, ignorant of what lurked within the cracks and crevices of the Void, creatures from a higher plane of existence whose mere attention alone might be enough to bring doom to their reality. In his ignorance, the boy almost brought death to them both, and even at the speed of thought, this Sovereign suffered no less than nineteen blows as he retreated from the Void and returned to reality, where he found his physical form pierced and bloodied by the immaterial swords of Falling Rain. The boy himself returned to his body a moment later, more familiar with traversing the Void than this Sovereign gave him credit for, and as their eyes met once again from across the battlefield, this Sovereign knew not how to respond to his smug and mocking sneer.

“Fine then,” this Sovereign uttered, thoroughly infuriated by the boy’s actions as he discovered how slow his wounds were Healing. “If you will not submit, then you will be made to submit.”

A declaration made in error, for these were words spoken in the heat of anger when cold logic dictated he cut his losses here and withdraw. Alas, his orders had already been given alongside his spoken declaration, and he’d hesitated too long to withdraw them. Surging forward as one, his Ascended Transcendents roared as they closed in to do battle, a handful of whom carried express orders to target Falling Rain’s friends and family. Let this Sovereign see how smug and calm the boy could be after watching all his loved ones die before him.

And if even this much was not enough to secure his prize in hand, then this Sovereign would leave Shi Bei in smoking ruins as a warning to all who would dare defy him.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
