The Gnomes didn't like people not using their designated road. They didn't like it at all. Even the Lemming, nature's idiot that will follow its fellows unto death for no reason, will fight tooth and nail when cornered. The Gnomes saw an army of Adventurers cross into their lands without so much as an 'excuse me', and they felt extremely cornered and responded accordingly.

Gnomes were almost completely magical beings, so when they responded, they did it with panache.

With their own army.

Instantly.

Everywhere an intruder had stepped onto their land, they were there. When they attacked, it was a complete surprise, and completely devastating. Sleep spells covered the front of the mass of Adventurers and 20% of them were knocked out. Normally that wasn't too bad, except the sleep spells were followed by Acid and Poison Clouds. Most of the sleeping Adventurers died after only a few moments, despite healers trying to save them. Those healers were hit with hundreds of Fireballs and Ball Lightning spells, which decimated them and took out another 20% of the Adventurers.

Some of the Adventurers near the back of the group knew they were in deep trouble and tried to run, and magical pit traps opened up and they fell inside. Some died as they were impaled on the poison spikes, others were lucky and were only poisoned. At least, they thought they were lucky, until the pit traps closed and cut off their air and only means of escape. That was another 5% of their number lost.

Dozens of summoning portals opened and Hell Hounds poured out and mauled the Adventurers unlucky enough not to block the first attack, then the sky became dark when a large group of Gnomes pooled their Mana and managed to cast Rainstorm and expanded it to cover the entire mass of Adventurers that were left. The Adventurer's ability to see dropped to almost nothing as the deluge of rain blocked pretty much everything barely a foot away from their faces.

That's when the Gnomes fired their enchanted crossbows.

Adventurers yelled and died by the dozens as they were hit with multiple crossbow bolts and were poisoned. With that attack out of the way, several hundred gnomes knelt and prayed to the Deity of Lightning. One of the Adventurers who were strong enough to handle pretty much everything so far, heard the chanting and realized what was going to happen.

“Oh, shit! Retreat! Run! Goddammit, RUN! RUUUUN!” He yelled at the top of his lungs and ran. A lot of the others saw and heard him, and decided that was a good idea. Most of the Adventurers hadn't heard him through the thick rain, and then a huge portal opened up and a 40 foot tall Greater Lightning Elemental stepped out. It was made of Chains of Ball Lightning, with a huge Ball of Lightning for a head, just like the one Ren had encountered while visiting Aimus' homestead. It reached out and pointed at the cloud making the Rainstorm over the Adventurers, then half of its body flowed out and shot into the cloud.

The Adventurers didn't see the Rainstorm be converted into a Lightning Storm, then the thousands of raindrops hitting them suddenly changed and became thousands of Lightning Bolts instead. The Adventurers that had survived the onslaught, about 20% of the amount that had entered the Gnome's lands, were amazed that they were still alive, then the dark cloud broke apart to reveal what they were facing.

“We are so boned.” One of them said in defeat as the Greater Lightning Elemental stepped forward into them and started to scoop them up, both the living and the dead, to consume the offering that the Gnomes had offered it. The remaining Adventurers fought valiantly, albeit pointlessly, and the Greater Lightning Elemental finished them off and turned to the Gnomes that had prayed for its appearance. Half of them stood up and held hands out to it, and it scooped them up and consumed them as well, then stepped back through the portal.
