THE WARDENFEL ESTATE

Angeline's short-heeled shoes clacked on the polished hardwood floor, resonating in the wide, sombre corridor. Night-coloured curtains kept much of the sun at bay, bathing the interior in the simile of dusk.

Living at her husband's mansion was quite a novel experience, if she had to be honest. Her father's home wasn't much smaller than this place, and yet everything seemed bigger, grander. Exactly how nobles liked feeling.

No wonder their homes were arranged to reflect their august egos.

She couldn't deny the effect, though; everything she did felt more important. Not that it wasn't true; the task she and her dear Isaac had been set upon was important.

It just felt even more so, and it could get addictive if she didn't watch herself. She'd have to get Isaac to agree to spend at least a season each year at the All Brew compound.

She smirked. He'd probably bluster a bit, and then just go along with whatever she wanted, and secretly love not being in charge.

One of her steps faltered as a shiver gripped the base of her neck. Saints, she was not normal. She thought she was, and for the longest time, but ever since marrying Isaac and exploring each other's... personal quirks, she had to come to the conclusion that being in control did things for her.

How fortunate that her very good boy Isaac very much felt the same about being controlled.

That shiver again. She shook her head in annoyance. Now wasn't the time. Those impulses were to be constrained to the bedroom, as they had discussed. Outside of it, they were a normal, loving couple, equals in all.

And they'd sworn to act the part, whether it was true or not.

She arrived at their shared study, the lone guard outside the door straightening as a salute. He remained motionless while she knocked three times, waited the same number of seconds, and turned the handle when no answer came.

She smiled at the guard. “Thank you, Cedric,” said she, smiling as she noticed the flicker of eyes in her direction.

It seemed he remembered that she knew he was having an affair with one of the kitchen staff. She'd never even tried holding it against him, only having subtly let it slip in an off-hand remark to watch his reaction. He was a grown-up man. If he wanted to jeopardize his marriage, that was up to him.

Not that it would, since his wife knew about the affair, and for some reason actually enjoyed it, only being annoyed that he didn't tell her so she could stand in and watch.

She snorted as lady-like as she could. Maybe she and Isaac weren't that bad, all things considered.

The door opened inward, and she stepped in, closing it behind her. Ahead, Isaac, her husband, was sitting at his desk, reading reports. He looked up to meet her gaze and welcomed her with a soft, kind smile.

She just wanted to go sit on his lap, ruffle his hair, and suffocate him with a kiss. He would love it.

But, no. Bottle up that energy, girl. Let it compress, for it to better explode later tonight.

She smiled back. “Good afternoon, my love.”

“G-good afternoon, beloved.” He stuttered, with just the tiniest of blush.

He hadn't gotten used to honeyed words, so of course she used them whenever she could.

She made her way to his desk, depositing a pair of letters on it before going to sit at her own station, which was right beside his.

Unlike his “proper” high-backed cushioned chair, she had insisted on one with wheels so she could coddle up next to him, resting her head on his shoulder, and let her hand run up and down his thigh.

He picked up the letters, inspecting them. “How were your manipulation and control lessons with Annabelle?” He asked offhandedly.

“They are advanced etiquette lessons, and they went very well. Annabelle is an incredibly smart and attentive child. Her other mentors are deluded.” She argued, opening her lectern and retrieving writing supplies.

He leaned back and looked her way. “That's because Annabelle has been using your advanced etiquette to get extra pastries and permissions from the house staff. You're turning her into a little you.”

“Nonsense! I am giving her tools. She decides how to use them, nothing more.” She countered with a lopsided smile.

He stared, eventually accepting yet another defeat with a sigh, and turned his attention to the letters. “More testimonies?”

“Indeed, from Lord Carniere and Lady Sochelle.” She said as she began writing a letter of her own, the tip of her fountain quill scratching at the thick paper.

He slunk into his chair. “When I heard we were going to investigate the kingdom's rebel network, I didn't think it to mean that they would be delivering their admissions of guilt by signed letter.”

The quill stopped as she looked at him through her cascading hair. “My dear Isaac, you know these are just the pawns, the first victim of the opening salvo.”

He flopped a hand in her direction. “I know, just the ones that are scared enough to want to trade what they know for their lives once the entire scheme is dismantled.”

“You sound as if you would have preferred we march upon their resistance with a full regiment and trample down their doors.”

He quirked a brow at her.

She giggled. “I know how much you like walking around in a suit of powered armour, dear.” Her voice lowered. “I promise, Isaac, you'll get to come crashing through a few doors before this is all over.” She said before returning to her letter.

“Besides, I wouldn't be able to do this if you weren't so good at finding their unending corruption and embezzlement.”

He let out a puff of air. “The densest of self-taught accountants could do it if only they had the sense to triple-check and cross-reference the various books. You cannot hide missing funds, yet they keep trying, the greedy fools!”

“Hmm-hmm, are you saying you couldn't hide funds?”

He narrowed his eyes. “No, well, I could make it difficult to find, but there is no way to actually hide it, not if you look far and wide enough.”

She gently shook her head. “And that, my dear, is why I fell for you, and keep falling for you; an upstanding, honourable, dedicated man. A rare treasure.”

The quill continued scratching words into the letter. She could feel his gaze on the side of her head. She could only smile when he coughed and silently returned to reading the reports.

Yes, her precious, dear Isaac was her treasure. She was certain that she would never have to fear another woman digging her claws into him; he was entirely too loyal for any such frivolities.

The quill's tip pressed down on the paper, Angeline's hand crisping around it.

That doesn't mean I'll let anyone who tries go unscathed.

As a new member of the nobility, and especially a family so closely related to the Crown, Angeline was in a position to influence the kingdom, hopefully for the better. The current social policies and inclinations of the Amberfall dynasty aligned with what she considered growth and stability conducive, and thus, she wanted to keep things pointed that way.

There were three paths toward that goal that she could see:

One, to add her hand to the tiller and guide history in the correct direction.

Two, to maintain order, to keep people safe and healthy, so they may grow the kingdom.

Three, to find the rot draining the kingdom's lifeblood, trim it down to a manageable level, and control it.

On the third possibility, many would have called for such rot to be eradicated, but she considered that a mistake. The presence of traitor, rebel, and discontent groups within a country, according to Angeline, was not a sign that things were bad for those in power. Things were bad when those in power didn't know about those groups.

If you went around and took the heads of everyone who wanted to depose you, only two results were certain: you would never learn how to do things better, and they would learn how to better hide themselves.

Both awful outlooks.

Thus, the correct path forward was infiltration and control.

This is what she had advised when Jacob, as the Wardenfel Patriarch, had tasked her and Isaac to lead a new round of investigation into such groups within the Kingdom.

Apparently, over the last few years, an influx of external influence had fanned and funded the flames of said groups. The source wasn't very hard to guess; the Sonnel Empire, long-term rivals of the Kingdom.

The reason why they had increased their efforts was open to speculation. The prevailing theory was that they wanted Amberfall kept occupied with internal strife, while Sonnel dealt with the Pakag clans to the south of their border.

Amberfall was, obviously, helping fund the clans with weapons and supplies through independent state traders. The hope was that the conquest would prove too costly and Sonnel would give up. Realistically, they were only prolonging the conflict.

The alternative, to do nothing, was seen as foolish given that a stronger Sonnel meant a higher chance they would turn their expansionist eyes toward the Kingdom.

And if, at that time, Amberfall found itself embroiled in civil conflict, then they might as well put up an invitation for being invaded.

That was why Angeline and Isaac were working on mapping the extent of these groups now. They were still in their preliminary investigation, only looking for points of entry.

However, between Angeline's preternatural understanding of the balance of power and influences within the Kingdom, and Isaac's ruthless ability to find the best hidden logistical or financial corruption, their hand of cards was filling up quickly.

Perhaps too much, as evidenced by the constant stream of confession letters bloating up Isaac's desk.

Angeline knew that people talked, even those who were supposedly making a deal to switch sides. If the ring leaders learned of the amount of evidence she and Isaac were collecting, they would most certainly get spooked and go to ground.

However...

If said information was being collected by a competing group of dissenters...

Let's say, a group secretly led by a manipulative woman who had recently managed to wed her way to a position of power...

And who was looking to use that position to amass co-conspirators to her banner, to later lead a revolution to take over the throne...

A wide, expectant smile drew across her lips. The best lie was the one that people wanted to believe. Nobles, being the power-hungry weasels that they are, would take one whiff at this possibility and bite down hard.

In fact, she would be surprised if there weren't already rumours along those lines floating around since her marriage to Isaac. All she had to do was pluck at those strings and play them louder.

Easy.

JACOB WARDENFEL

Jacob was doing his best at preparing his son to take over the role of Patriarch when the time came. At this, he had nearly a decade of errors to correct. Mostly his own.

Isaac had taken over most of the Patriarch's duties while Jacob was sick, and while he had shown an admirable dedication to the task, the conclusion was that he wasn't ready for it.

The Patriarch would have berated the young man for his failures. To err is to be underprepared and too prideful to ask for the help you require, a lack of critical judgment.

Jacob, however, understood that part of the blame lay on himself; he had always taught his son that a Wardenfel fought at the front, no matter the battlefield. That they should surround themselves with the support they needed had always been secondary to that notion.

And thus, Isaac had gone to the front line alone and came out battered.

He had taken steps to try and remedy this, by example, if not by words; publicly asking Agatha and his advisors for their thoughts and inputs, admitting that he would need time to come to a decision, and so on.

It felt like stabbing himself in the guts every time, at least at first. It was becoming easier, but his anxiety still spiked; he still scanned the room for signs that someone would take advantage of his apparent weakness.

So far, nothing catastrophic had happened. If anything, people were more willing to offer him advice or subtly let him know when they thought he was wrong. Even if he had to beat back the urge to have them removed from the chamber each time.

It was with this new approach that he had assigned his son and new daughter-in-law to the investigation into rebel groups forming in the kingdom.

It was meant to be a bit of a test, to see how well they worked together, and if they were ready to chart their own course through the political landscape.

They weren't the only ones that had been allocated to this investigation, which made it an ideal situation to compare and assess their work.

The problem is that Isaac and Angeline's results were so far outside the norm that he had no way to compare.

How in the bloody pits were they getting so many confession letters? Uncovering corruption schemes that had been in place for decades, if not generations? Finding hidden links between the nobility and foreign merchants?

Each report they gave him was another part of a tapestry of rivers, where the water was money, and the lakes were strongholds of dissent.

And he knew for a fact that Angeline had not been using her Scourer contacts for this, or at least not beyond the list of names she already had.

He was of a mind to tell the Crown's spymaster to remove everyone else assigned to the task, so that their actions wouldn't meddle with his own progeny's.

He knew full well that this wasn't the work of Isaac, either. His boy had a steady heart and a mind for numbers that had few equals, but those were tools, not a guiding hand.

No, the hand at play here was his daughter-in-law, Angeline. She was using Isaac with the utmost precision and efficiency, pointing him at the cracks that her victims thought hidden, but which she seemingly always had knowledge of.

It was both incredible and frightful to witness.

And he couldn't wait to see what they were going to achieve together.