Caden shook his head irritably. He and Bertram had retreated to the library cafe once again and were now under a bubble of privacy. More accurately, Caden had retreated, and Bertram had followed like a second shadow, pestering him every step of the way. Caden had managed to dodge Henry, who had become quite unctuous, and was rather relieved that he hadn't needed to evade the twins, who had actually helped him to get Henry off his back. The rest of the students were too intimidated to approach

But Bertram...

"Was it a frameshift? It has to be a frameshift, because nothing in the glyphs deals with speed, and usually how fast a sequence takes effect is just about arcanic flow. But then how do you increase the flow so dramatically without just making the whole thing explode? What frameshift handles that?"

"Why don't you ask Reeves, since he's your patron professor?" Caden asked through gritted teeth.

"So the Demiurge supplied you with that frameshift? But that doesn't track, because you'd probably have been able to manage the healing the first time around." Bertram stopped, then frowned in confusion. "But then Ward did imply that whatever you did was only possible because of something you might have learned from the Demiurge..."

"You know what? I'm just going to designate this as 'personal information', so that means it doesn't fall under the umbrella of what we've agreed to share," Caden said firmly.

Bertram was about to voice his objection, but after a visible struggle he stopped himself and let out a long sigh. "I'd say that wasn't done in good faith, but fine. I've got my secrets, and you've got yours."

"Right. Now do you mind leaving me alone? I need to think," Caden said.

"Hey, the bubble's mine," Bertram replied indignantly. "If you want privacy, you can go find another spot and set up your own bubble."

Caden got to his feet and left Bertram sitting there. Going by the look of surprise on his face, he hadn't expect Caden to seriously take up that suggestion. Before Bertram could recover and catch up, Caden darted into the Lower Library and made enough sharp turns to ensure that no one had managed to stay on his tail. When was sure he was alone, he went all the way down into the Vault.

As soon as he stepped over the threshold, the wysana made its presence known. 'The Demiurge has a message. There will be no further evening sessions this week because he is otherwise engaged. The sessions will resume on the weekend. If necessary, you can get in touch with him by calling upon me, but only if absolutely required.'

As usual, it did not wait for any acknowledgement, and was gone before Caden could verbalise his thanks. Caden dithered there for a moment, then decided that staying in the Vault for some privacy was actually a pretty good idea.

It was quiet, but that wasn't much help. There was plenty of noise in Caden's head as he ran over all that he had thought of during Ward's lesson, and the little he ha managed to piece together despite Bertram's chattering. In fact, all that speculation from an arcanist more skilled in the technical terms had actually helped Caden get a handle on some things, and it was a little sobering to realise that even though he had possibly just stumbled into a monumental revelation, there were still many other perspectives he hadn't even conceived of.

The study materials the Demiurge had left for Caden were still there, so he crossed over to the table and started throwing down his thoughts in order to better organise them later. It wasn't even possible for him to properly capture things in prose, so he started sketching glyphs and writing notations around them, and the very act of attempting to notate segments of the glyphs was helping him to crystallise some concepts.

There was something he could do — or rather, someone he could ask — but he wanted to be very sure he had it right before he made he attempt. When he was reasonably sure he had captured the essential details of what he had conceived of, he sat back and read his notes over once more, then steeled himself.

'Woven-shackled-stream', he intoned.

'Caden,' the augera replied instantly, sounding eager. 'Is it time for a compact?'

'No,' he answered firmly. 'Not yet. Earlier, you told me glyphs, especially the Special Set, are shadows of your light. But glyphs... they're not... they're not arcana itself. Right?'

'No difference,' the augera answered hesitantly. 'Once, perhaps, but not now. Not here.'

That threw a wrench into Caden's theoretical framework. 'Not now?' he repeated. 'Then in the past, it was? And what do you mean by 'not here'? Do you mean the Empire?'

'Caden, your questions are vast.' A tone of warning and mild panic had crept into the augera's response, and it seemed to lean in more closely, its voice become a mere whisper. 'You know to think softly. But your questions cannot be asked softly, and the asking of such questions soars. They drift, now, like clouds in the wind. The Fateweavers can see, if they are watching. Do not ask us until you can veil the skies.'

And abruptly, the augera withdrew from Caden, leaving him in sudden silence and with even more questions than he had to begin with. The thought of trying to look for the Demiurge crossed his mind, but he felt suddenly weary from all the deep contemplation, and he didn't think he had the energy to deal with the Demiurge at the moment. In resignation, Caden tidied his notes and made his way back to the dorm.

Despite Caden's worry that the twins would end up badgering him in their dorm, the rest of his day passed in relative peace. Kevan did ask, very respectfully, if Caden would mind shedding some light on what had happened, and when Caden had provided a polite refusal, Kevan didn't pursue the matter any further, and even went so far as to cuff Lynus over the head when his twin started making passive-aggressive comments about being afraid of competition. Caden found himself being highly impressed with this new-and-improved Kevan, though he was a little saddened by Lynus' descent into asshole-ery. The one person who didn't bother Caden at all was Emilia. When she turned up later to hang out, she greeted him shortly, and then proceeded to sit by Kevan and read quietly.

There was no avoiding the topic completely, though. Apparently word had spread around the campus that a first-year student had utterly trounced the entire class when it came to healing capabilities (though Caden had no idea how the original story had morphed into such a terrible misrepresentation of events), and as Devon prepared their meal, he launched into a detailed account of all the rumours he had heard over the last few hours. Some were highly amusing and fantastical, featuring runaway sequences that had caused serious-but-funny injuries that the first-year student had then managed to heal, albeit with unintended side-effects. The more off-colour stories involved an unnamed third-year student (who was recognisably Henry, going by the contextual clues) losing 'treasured organs' and having them replaced or patched over with 'more interesting features'. Caden wondered if Bertram had had a hand in spreading those particular rumours. It certainly sounded like the kind of thing he'd get up to, not out of spite, but purely for the mischief of it. The rest at the table joined in the general hilarity, even the twins, which surprised Caden a little since he had the impression that those two were in Henry's camp.

"But seriously, Caden," Devon said, once they had all settled down around the table. "Whatever you did apparently spooked Professor Ward and impressed him at the same time. What really happened?"

Caden raised an eyebrow and shot a look at the twins. "They were there. You can ask them."

Lynus snorted. "We saw what was left. We still don't know what happened."

"It happened too quickly," Kevan clarified, throwing his brother an irritated look. "Ward called out, and then most of us realised something was up, and by the time we looked, the puppet was already changed. It was all covered in little threads, like veins, but which formed a sort of cloud around it."

The others were looking at him expectantly. Ambrose in particular, who usually wasn't very expressive, seemed very intent. Caden felt the weight of their scrutiny, made all the heavier because of the unspoken social pressure they were exerting on him now even if they didn't know it. They probably thought they were waiting in polite silence, but Caden couldn't shake the viscerl feeling that his friends were waiting for him to share something with them. It took a great deal of effort to bear in mind the fact that they no longer knew who he was, and were not relating to him as a good friend. Even Devon.

But keeping secrets was utterly exhausting, and Caden hadn't decided to come back to the dorm only to become a reclusive hermit. At some point, he would have to let go a little.

"Here it comes," Lynus remarked, grinning a little.

"What?" Caden asked, a little thrown off.

"Don't interrupt," Jerric said a little wearily. "Let him talk."

"He's gonna know eventually about the Proph—" Lynus began, but Kevan elbowed him sharply.

Caden stood slowly, and everyone stopped eating to watch him. Emilia was impassive. Devon had a look of naked fear on his face. Jerric and Kevan looked wary, while Lynus tensed, apparently ready for a fight. Ambrose's lips tightened ever-so-slightly, but he didn't make any move and his expression remained largely unchanged — one of deep curiosity and expectation.

"The Prophecy," Caden said quietly. He glanced at Devon, wondering if his once-friend had revealed anything about their conversations. He hadn't sworn Devon to secrecy, of course, and it made sense for him to share everything with the rest. He was, after all, one of the Six-Chained-Foundations. But Devon seemed to read the unspoken question and gave a tiny, frightened jerk of his head, as if to indicate that he hadn't said anything.

"The Prophecy led me here," Caden continued, "and you're expecting that it'll exert pressure on me to share information with you all, because that's one of the things it has been doing all of the previous term. It's bound you all together as a group of friends, and you expect it to work on me, too."

The silence was deafening. Ambrose was now regarding Caden with undisguised fascination.

"Do you really want to know what happened?" Caden asked, looking around at all of them before meeting Ambrose's eyes.

The silence stretched as everyone seemed to be waiting on Ambrose's reply, even though Caden had directed that question to the group at large. Caden sensed Ambrose gently sliding into oblivion, so he followed. Ambrose acknowledged his presence, but otherwise ignored him as he moved. The Chosen-Blinded-Jailer's appendages shivered, then untethered themselves from where they had been moored in other times and locations. They moved now with nauseating speed and uncanny precision, all of them coming to fix themselves in the present moment, firmly focusing on the immediate surroundings. The prophetic threads hung thick and heavy, but Ambrose was not weaving. He was reading, frantically reading, and the more he read it seemed the less he understood. After what seemed like an eternity, he slipped back into the physical world, and once again Caden followed without comment.

"No," Ambrose said quietly, his mouth suddenly softening into a smile. "No, I don't want to know, if you don't want to tell. Do you?"

Ambrose's answer surprised Caden a little. What had Ambrose read in the threads? Come to think of it, Caden wasn't sure whether Ambrose was now resigned to following along with the Prophecy as the Fateweavers' pawn and eventual successor, or if he still harboured that seed of doubt that had led him to once team up with Caden to try and subvert the Prophecy or steer it to their own purposes. Ambrose was an almost complete unknown factor now, moreso than the rest. It was something Caden had to gather more information on for his future plans.

For now, Caden was about to answer "no", but he realised that wasn't really true. He did want to tell them. They were his friends, even if they didn't remember it. And he cared for them. Well, some of them. But now was not the time nor place to do so. It was for their own good.

"Not yet," he answered heavily. "Maybe one day, when I can trust all of you."

"Trust us?" Lynus asked indignantly. "What the hell? You can't just drop a pronouncement like that and then not give an explanation! What do you know about the Prophecy? How do you know it's got something to do with us?"

"With a big mouth like yours, you expect me to trust you?" Caden asked acidly.

"You just pretending to know stuff. Or someone else here leaked some information, because it sure as hell wasn't me!" Lynus retorted.

"It's been a whole term," Caden said, sitting back down to continue eating. He fell back on the fabrication he had used on Devon. "Anyone who's paying attention can spot the observable phenomena that marks the influence of a prophecy, especially a Major Prophecy. It's pretty obvious one of you is the Chosen One."

"Oh yeah? If you're so clever, does that mean you've figured out who it is?" Lynus challenged.

"Definitely not you," Caden replied archly. "You don't have the temperament."

Lynus was obviously stung by the remark, though he tried to hide it. "You don't know who it is. Guess you're not that clever after all."

Caden could see the trap a mile off. He smiled thinly at Lynus and simply kept eating. Lynus was about to challenge Caden again when Emilia spoke for the first time.

"Don't make enemies with someone if you're not sure you can win," she remarked, looking at Lynus. But then she glanced at Caden and raised an eyebrow, obviously to indicate that she was addressing him as well, though no one else caught that brief look.

Kevan chuckled and nudged his brother good-naturedly. "Basically, Emilia thinks you're not good enough to beat the new guy. Tough, bro."

"I didn't say that," Emilia frowned.

"You implied it, and even if you didn't mean it, you should mean it," Kevan said, grinning.

"But you're both roughly at the same skill level, so if that is what I really implied, then it also follows that I think you're not good enough to win against Caden," Emilia pointed out seriously.

There was a little chortling from the rest, even Lynus, as Kevan turned to her in mock indignation. "Is that really what follows? Is that what you really think?"

"Only if I really meant what you claim I implied," Emilia said evenly, meeting Kevan's eyes and smiling ever-so-slightly. "Perhaps you shouldn't presume to speak for me. But I suppose that I do like that complete self-assurance, and how you think you know everything. It's attractive, sometimes."

Lynus gagged and Jerric let out a long, weary sigh. Devon looked a little embarrassed on Kevan's behalf and was resolutely focusing on his plate.

