Caden's mind was buzzing with the possibilities that came with the idea of using the glyph of corporeal substance in various ways, but he couldn't think more deeply about it because when Ward passed by and found him and Bertram already done with the task at hand, he posed them additional questions and variations on the original task.

Thus far the cuts and abrasions had been relatively uniform or simple, so Ward took up the knife and worked on both arms of the puppet, creating new patterns of wounds for them to deal with. There were cuts that ran across each other, each differing in depth, though they still stopped short of the muscles beneath; abrasions that had a gradation across a wider swathe of skin, going from a gentle scuff to an almost-shredded mess; simple cuts layered on top of patches of lightly abraded skin; and finally a mixture of all these varieties.

"Progress must be met with challenge, not stagnation," Ward said, his jowls quivering as he grinned at them, before turning away to monitor the others.

Caden moved to one of the arms and considered the wounds carefully while Bertram worked opposite him on the other arm. After some deliberation, Caden decided that there wasn't anything he needed to change about the sequence itself. From what he understood about the principles of how the sequence worked, the Special Set glyphs would 'read' his intent, so all he needed to do was focus carefully upon the damaged sites and simply will for the wounds to be smoothly covered while holding the sequence in place. Still, it was best to proceed cautiously. Instead of using the sequence with the full flow of arcana at the moment of activation, he fed it gradually, watching carefully to see what the effect would be.

His caution was warranted after all. The wounds did not heal cleanly. The abrasions were the cleanest as they slowly healed, but even then there were leftover flakes of skin that protruded from the surface, forming a sort of fuzz. The deeper cuts were smoothed over for only a moment before breaking open again, exacerbating the injury. He hastily cut off the flow of arcana before the sequence could ruin the puppet any further.

Bertram was facing some difficulty too. He managed to erase the abrasions without any issue, but the deeper cuts split open just like Caden's.

"I thought you knew this stuff," Caden remarked, a little surprised by Bertram's failure.

"Not well enough, apparently," Bertram murmured to himself. He had suddenly become deeply contemplative, the cavalier attitude falling off like a mask as he brought his focus to bear on the problem. The third-year's auric-ambient-flare had been pretty telling when Caden had taken a good look earlier — the clever-potent-needle. But now Caden could see how Bertram had managed to hold on to the Top Scorer spot across all three years while running a smuggling business. Beneath that easygoing manner that he used as a social lubricant there was a prodigious intellect, and a burning will that applied it with ruthless efficiency.

Quietly, Caden stepped onto the edge of oblivion to see if he could follow the tenor of Bertram's thoughts.

Bertram had formed the sequence once again and was holding it in his mind where it waited, poised, ready to activate. However, instead of channelling arcana through it, he seemed to stretch the sequence out within his auric-ambient-flare, which itself suddenly shifted in its configuration. He was still the clever-potent-needle, but it was now an identity that had twisted in on itself so that some portions were in greater prominence, and it was those segments that now touched and manipulated the sequence. This, Caden realised, was probably what Bertram had meant when he had talked about 'stances'.

Caden couldn't really gain access to the exact details of Bertram's thoughts without making direct contact, so he simply continued observing in silence. A segment of Bertram's auric-ambient-flare was now wrapping around the sequence like some bizarre amoeba, focusing on the Special Set glyphs at its heart. And, amazingly, the glyphs seemed to be responding, appearing to shift through various configurations themselves, acting out Bertram's stances in miniature, even as they retained their general sense.

This went on for another minute or so before Bertram finally relaxed, allowing his auric-ambient-flare to flow back into its previous shape. Then, without preamble, he activated the sequence. This time, the wounds were erased cleanly, leaving the puppet's arm completely unblemished.

"What I wouldn't give to know how you do it," Bertram said, shaking his head as he addressed Caden.

"Eh?" Caden brought his awareness back to the physical world and shot a quizzical look at Bertram. "That's my line. How did you just manage to heal those wounds?"

Bertram snorted softly. "I'd say that's nowhere near as complex as whatever it is you're doing. You were watching me somehow, weren't you? You have this look on your face when you're doing whatever it is you do to analyse sequences or observe things in the arcana. But in the upper reaches, your auric-ambient-flare isn't stanced at all. You're just there, apparently passive and inert."

"Well, you've got two weeks to figure it out, as per our arrangement," Caden answered as nonchalantly as he could.

"Yeah, I'll be trying my best to crack this. And if it's humanly possible to learn something like that in two weeks, you can bet that I'll get it done," Bertram said, with almost a hint of menace in his tone. Caden was left with no doubt about Bertram's utter conviction and the confidence he had in his own abilities. That glimpse of Bertram's process, figuring out the workings of an advanced arcanophanic healing sequence in such a short time, made it clear that he had a firm grasp of the principles of arcanophany, and that he wasn't just mindlessly going through a checklist and blindly trying different iterations of things.

"Well," Bertram raised an eyebrow at Caden as he gestured at the puppet's other wounded arm, slipping back into his more relaxed manner, "your turn, freshie. Let's see you crack this one."

Caden sighed and slipped into the arcanic sea, and he saw Bertram's auric-ambient-flare adopting another stance, becoming somehow more diffuse around the edges. Bertram clearly wasn't about to pass up this opportunity to watch Caden up close. It was tempting to just sit there in the arcanic sea and try to figure out more about Bertram's 'stances', but Caden thought it wiser to focus on the task at hand and give Bertram a genuine opportunity to observe him at work. He didn't want to exhaust Bertram's goodwill or be the first to act in bad faith in their tenuous partnership.

It occurred to Caden that perhaps Ward had set a task that was impossible for him to complete without any help, at least at this point in time. After all, if not for Bertram telling him about the glyphs of pattern replication and corporeal substance, Caden wouldn't have been able to break down the functions of the sequence. Still, he was determined to try and figure out whatever he could. At the very least, he might learn something from the process.

Taking his cue from what he had seen Bertram doing with the stances, Caden focused his attention on the Special Set glyphs of pattern replication and corporeal substance. Professor Ward had already explained the sequence worked in two segments, and Caden guessed that these two glyphs were the most foundational to how the healing itself worked, and that the others he did not yet recognise were aimed at fortifying the body. That gave him a bit of hope, because it meant that he probably already knew all he needed to know in order to get the sequence to heal these complicated patterns of wounds.

By a simple process of elimination, Caden decided that he ought to look more deeply at the glyph of pattern replication. The name explained its function at a superficial level, but Caden didn't know how it actually worked.

In the arcanic sea, the glyph was a dense knot, radiating purpose and significance in a way that those of the Basic Set did not. It was nowhere near as inscrutable as the nameless glyphs that Caden had once seen in oblivion which had been used to trap Emilia, so he could parse a little of its intent just by drawing closer to it and watching closely. He fell into quiet contemplation, watching how the arcana drifted through the glyph itself, and reading its eddies and swirls.

Bertram had manipulated his own auric-ambient-flare in what he called a 'stance', and that had somehow helped the glyph work differently. Special Set glyphs interacted with the user and changed to fit their intention, but apparently the transference of intent wasn't perfect, so that meant getting the glyph to work differently came down to a communication issue. It seemed silly to think of 'communicating' with these abstractions of meaning, but Caden understood from the augera that it wasn't really about speaking with glyphs. 'Shadows of our light', the augera had said, referring to the glyphs. The very nature of the glyphs was tied to the essence of the augera. And Caden had spent all this time exposed to the raw stuff of their thoughts, so he understood that the augera were not like mortals — they did not think or feel in the same way. Their experience of reality itself was almost entirely alien, and it was only supreme condescension on the augeras' part that allowed Caden to understand them so easily. Did that mean the glyphs only worked at that slender intersection between human understanding, and the augeras' understanding of human understanding? Perhaps that was why 'precision is important'. How could he bridge the gap, and help them understand him more precisely?

And it clicked. A memory surfaced — Caden had been in a clearing with Emilia, but that clearing was not a real space, simply a construct of their minds to deal with the raw material of oblivion. They had spoken then about the shape of their thoughts, about the malleability of their own concepts and how they understood reality. A pose for the mind. A stance. Even Emilia had only understood that in limited terms at the time, because she was working with the familiar portions of her auric-ambient-flare in the arcanic sea. That was as far as people like Bertram could go. But Caden and Emilia had learned back then that the auric-ambient-flare extended into oblivion, interacting with the world on deeper, more fundamental levels that were beyond the ordinary comprehension of humans.

Which meant... which meant that everyone used glyphs by moulding their auric-ambient-flare to deliver meaning in a way that was comprehensible to the augera, and the augera in turn made use of the arcana on their behalf, and the glyphs were the medium of communication for people to give instructions to the augera. But it was imperfect, because it was a language not native to either of them, and both sides were locked in a perpetual struggle of pointing at the same referent and trying to build consensus. The problem was made worse by the fact that only one side was aware of the other, because whether by accident or by design, most people did not even know about the existence of the augera. So they muddled around in the shallow end of mutual comprehension, working with only a small segment of their auric-ambient-flares and mucking around with vague 'poses'. To the augera, it must have been like trying to communicate with someone who was using only their eyes, and who was ignoring anything you said or did if you didn't signal back with only your eyes too.

Caden sat down, staggered by the scope of what he had just realised. He wasn't sure, of course, because it was still mostly speculation at this point. But with the whole theoretical framework in his head now, he realised it was possible for him to make rapid progress with some experimentation and practice. Suddenly, suddenly, the monumental task of subjugating a Major Prophecy, or even tearing it apart, didn't seem impossible or inconceivable anymore.

But Caden didn't have time to really think about this. Bertram, who had been watching him all this while with a look of intense concentration, suddenly got to his feet and gave him a sharp jab in the ribs. The whole edifice of possibility in Caden's head came crashing down as his mind was returned firmly to the present.

"What the hell is wrong with you?" Caden snapped.

"What the hell is wrong with you?" Bertram hissed, throwing the words right back, just as Professor Ward's voice also rang out in alarm.

"What's happened?" Professor Ward asked, pushing firmly past some of the other people in order to cross the room.

There was quite a bit of whispering at first, but it gave way to an uncomfortable silence as Ward came to stand before the two of them. Caden followed everyone's gaze and finally realised what had happened to his puppet.

It wasn't really a humanoid puppet any more. Its form was obscured by the changes that had been wrought, but they were not cancerous tumours or growths. There were vein-like structures expanding outwards from the skin, twisting into slender and fantastical shapes that somehow managed to hold their integrity even though they appeared no more substantial than wisps in some areas. If an auric-ambient-flare could be seen with the naked eye then this, Caden imagined, was what a part of it probably looked like.

"Who did this?" Ward asked, sounding more intrigued than alarmed now.

Bertram gestured at Caden with a dramatic flourish.

"And it was almost instantaneous?" Ward glanced at Bertram. When he nodded in confirmation, Ward started muttering to himself as he looked down at the puppet. "Yes, felt that way. Marvellous. Not the intended use, but certainly within parameters, which begs the question..."

Ward shuffled a little closer to Caden and regarded him with piercing eyes. He addressed the class while still staring at Caden. "I think we are done for today. Leave your puppets, and I will review what progress you have made. For our next class, I want everyone to read ahead and learn the sequence to address bruises."

In the general noise of dismissal and excited speculation, Ward spoke to Caden in low tones, though he also pitched it loud enough for Bertram to hear. "Be careful, young Dundale. Despite his pretensions to safety, the Demiurge is sometimes overzealous in his desire to teach, and may goad you into running well before you are able to walk."

"Come on, just ONE hint?"

