Kevan himself was blushing a little, though he also seemed a bit offended. "Are you insulting me or complimenting me?"

"Yes," Emilia answered, with a definite impish twist to her lips now as she returned her attention to her plate.

"Fates, this is awkward," Jerric muttered to his own food. "Can someone say something please. Anything else."

"How did everyone do on the Thaumaturgy session?" Ambrose supplied.

Jerric seized gratefully on the topic and the talk turned to the events of the morning. Ambrose had been in a separate group with none of the dormmates, while Devon and Jerric were in the same group, but evidently everyone had been under Kant. They swapped stories about the tactics they had employed, and observations of what other people in the various groups had done. Caden decided that this was rather harmless and shared about what it was like to work with Bertram, though he kept the details of Bertram's side-business a secret.

"You know, he and Henry have this huge thing going on," Kevan said, "like rivalry on a whole other level. Ly and I tried to get on Bertram's good side early on when we were looking for seniors to learn from, but he was pretty closed up, so we fell in with Henry."

"He didn't want the two of you hanging around him? How shocking. I can't imagine why. It can't be because you're both so friendly," Jerric said dryly.

"Hah," Kevan rolled his eyes. "Nah, Bertram's all about business. He's pretty clear-headed, focused. Knows what he wants. It's just bad luck for us that we don't have anything he wants."

"What does he want?" Devon asked, interested.

"Connections, usually," Kevan answered, shrugging. Then he cast a sidelong glance at Caden. "Which makes you pretty interesting. But we already know that."

"Connections?" Devon looked at Caden with an appraising eye, frowning deeply. Caden knew he had to be thinking about whether or not he might have failed to properly place Caden as the son of some dignitary or influential businessman.

"Or talent," Kevan conceded with a heavy sigh. "One of the two. I heard that he's got something going on with the second-year Top Scorer too."

"So Bertram thinks Caden has more talent than either of you?" Devon asked, with a little too much delight in his voice than was decent.

"Or he's just forming a Top-Scorer club," Kevan replied testily.

Caden blinked at Kevan. He seemed remarkably well-informed. "How do you know he's got links with Leyla?"

Lynus suddenly sat up straight. "Hoooold on. Leyla? Did we mention her name, Kev? I don't think we did."

Caden flushed, but rallied. "I know who the Top Scorers are. That's common knowledge."

"Uh-huh. Sure. So when you went out early today, you're gonna tell us it wasn't to meet Leyla?" Lynus pressed.

"C'mon, he could've been meeting any number of other girls, that's a stretch even for—" Kevan began, but when he saw Caden struggling to reply, he stopped and gaped.

"You see?" Lynus crowed, then tapped his nose. "Gotta trust me, I have a way of sniffing these things out."

"That is probably the least-attractive aspect of you," Emilia said, not looking up from a book that she had pulled out and was now reading as they ate.

Lynus ignored her and turned to Caden. "Okay, so you're clever enough to figure out Prophecy stuff. How are you in the girlfriend department? What's the deal with you and Leyla? How long have you been together?"

"I'm not comfortable with this line of questioning," Caden muttered, looking away.

"Well, tough!" Lynus banged his fork on the table in irritation and half-rose from his seat, leaning across the table towards Caden. "You've got to give us something!"

Kevan was shaking his head and trying not to laugh. It was clear he wasn't going to rein his brother in on this. Caden cast around in desperation, but Jerric was smirking into his own plate while Devon, even Devon was watching, looking back at him with rapt attention. Ambrose returned a pained smile. Emilia seemed to be ignoring all of them and was reading while she chewed.

Caden let out an exasperated sigh. "I just met her. We exchanged study notes this morning," he answered shortly.

"So she's available?" Lynus asked.

"No, she's not!" Caden said hotly.

"You're saying she's already taken by somebody else?"

"No, but—"

"Does this in fact mean that you are laying prior claim to her?"

"She's not a possession!" Caden shot back, just as Emilia closed her book with a snap and said exactly the same thing.

Lynus sat back down, raising his hands in a placatory manner. "I'm just asking, not trying to say that I'm up to anything," he said sheepishly.

Emilia pointed her fork threateningly at Lynus. "If you bother Leyla, you will regret it."

"Didn't you say you shouldn't make enemies with someone if you're not sure you can win?" Lynus raised an eyebrow at her. "And now you're making threats to me?"

"Precisely." She got to her feet. "Need I spell it out?"

"Alright, can we not fight over the food that I've lovingly cooked?" Devon asked plaintively, with a dramatic sigh. "Why can't we all just eat, drink, and be merry?"

That defused the tension a little, and Caden seized the opportunity to address Emilia. "Do you know her? Leyla?"

Emilia sat back down a little heavily, looking a little flustered by her own outburst. "Not really. She supplied me with good materials for further reading when I was in the library once. She was passing, and happened to see what I was reading, and then stopped to make recommendations and to talk a little."

"She sounds nice," Jerric remarked. "Definitely too nice for someone like Lynus."

"You just threatened me to 'protect' someone you've only spoken with once before," Lynus pointed out, sounding wounded.

"I haven't even met her and I think I'd do the same," Jerric said, grinning.

Lynus snorted, then turned to Caden. "So, since I'm clearly out of the equation, you get a free shot. Are you gonna take it?"

"I'm not an expert in that department, but I imagine that it makes more sense to be friends first instead of trying to force something out of all this," Caden said, fighting to keep the exasperation from his voice.

"What? But she's right there for the taking! Take the shot, man!" Lynus said.

"And that's why you're still single, Ly," Kevan said, laughing.

"Oh, shut up. Your pick-up line was 'I like the way you fight' or something lame like that," Lynus retorted.

"You have to hear this story," Devon cut in, and started regaling the whole group with the account of how Kevan and Emilia had ended up together. The others joined in and supplied embellishments and remarks, and Caden tried his best to sit there and smile, pretending that this was the first time he was hearing it.

And every now and then, Ambrose would look at him, watching, weighing, evaluating.

After dinner and the subsequent cleanup, the group lounged in the common area. There was a general effort to study the glyphs of the Special Set, with some occasional lapses into casual conversation. Emilia and the twins were on the couch while Ambrose took the single cushioned seat. That left Jerric, Devon and Caden at the dining table. It felt familiar, and Caden allowed himself to relax into the routine of study. It actually felt nice to have others around, even if he wasn't yet ready to get into the really deep discussions of arcanophanic principles for fear of revealing too much. Fortunately for him, they were still only on simple memory work since they had only just been formally introduced to the Special Set.

During a self-imposed break, Caden shot a surreptitious look at Ambrose. He was comfortably cross-legged, and the reference book for the glyphs was open on his lap while he stared, glassy-eyed, at the symbols. Did he actually need to study this?

Caden casually dipped into oblivion just to get a quick sense of what was happening in the vicinity. It was becoming a habit, as natural as glancing at one's surroundings. He stiffened a little when he realised that Ambrose was there, too, looming in a very spider-like manner.

'Hi,' Ambrose remarked, conveying a little surprise himself.

Caden arranged himself more comfortably in the physical world so he could relax and pay less attention there and not draw too much attention to himself, then focused on Ambrose again.

'Not up to something, are you?' Caden asked, indicating the Fateweaverish appendages. They were once again anchored in some other distant time and place.

'Not actively.' Ambrose hesitated, then continued. 'It's more of a passive thing. You could say I'm... just taking things in. Feeling the vibrations of Prophecy itself, being tuned to how it moves.'

Ambrose was being less guarded now, to the point where Caden could actually pick up on the shades of emotion and meaning behind the words. It was a far cry from their first encounter in oblivion on Caden's first night back in the dorm.

'Yes.' The Chosen-Blinded-Jailer seemed to stretch itself (himself? No, 'itself') out, like someone spreading their palms and declaring innocence. 'I'm being open. Because I think I can trust you. I think I did trust you once. And then something happened. I'm still trying to read it, and it's not making sense. If there was once any sort of trust between us... then do you think you trust me enough now to help me fill in the gaps?'

Caden spent a long time thinking it over, and he allowed Ambrose to glimpse the storm of indecision. It felt fair to at lesst reveal that much instead of making himself an inscrutable sphere.

'I'm sorry, Ambrose, but the situation is too complicated for me to give you a quick and easy answer. We may come to trust each other again, but right now, there's too much at stake.'

'Too much at stake,' Ambrose repeated heavily. 'Yes, an entire Empire, and the future of the Fateweavers themselves, by the looks of it. I hope we end up friends, Caden. It's not something I can read... and it's a bit odd for me to be so uncertain about something... but I just have a feeling that it'd be better for the both of us, whatever happens, if we were on the same side.'

Caden found himself as a loss for words. The Chosen-Blinded-Jailer seemed to bob a little in acknowledgement before pointedly sliding its consciousness out of oblivion and back into the physical world. Caden could still see the whole auric-ambient-flare there, alien in its configuration, poised like a metaphysical spider, but Ambrose was firmly focused on the physical world and had left Caden to brood here in silence. It was obvious now that the book had been only for show and that Ambrose hadn't actually been memorising the Special Set glyphs. His departure was, in some strange way, kind of like a thoughtful gesture that amounted to giving Caden a little privacy.

And it was indeed oddly comforting to simply be there, a disembodied mote of consciousness in oblivion. Without Ambrose actively watching, Caden could relax even though the Chosen-Blinded-Jailer was right there. It wasn't exactly quiet, but Caden could filter out the impressions from all the arcana from the sequences in and around the dorm, and look inward so he wasn't hearing the spillage from everyone else nearby.

So here he was, almost at the end of one full day back in classes with the dormies, just drifting alone in oblivion and soaking in the quiet, while everyone else was back in the physical world, studying together.

Was this what Ambrose's life was like? A part, but always apart? In the last term, even before he shared about his discovery of oblivion, had he always been operating on a higher plane during these casual study sessions, quietly prodding at the edges of reality while the rest of them were poring over books?

In the relative peace of oblivion, it was easier to feel less burdened by the concerns of the day. His irritation with Bertram now seemed like a distant memory, and even the fears and anxieties he harboured over his present complicated situation seemed less intractable.

He stayed there until a distant stirring told him that Ambrose was sliding a part of attention back into oblivion. The Chosen-Blinded-Jailer's appendages shifted ever-so-slightly, but to Caden it felt like the world itself was tilting a little. Ambrose sent a general note of apology. 'The study session is breaking up. You, uh, wanna shower first, or shall I?'

Caden was completely nonplussed. Then the absurdity of the situation sent bubbles of mirth skittering across his auric-ambient-flare. The Chosen One himself was speaking with him on a plane that transcended the physical world, and was asking him about who wanted to use the shower first.

Ambrose echoed Caden's mirth, acknowledging the hilarity of the moment. 'I'll go first,' he decided. 'You relax here a little longer.'

His presence retreated, leaving Caden in comfortable silence again.

Maybe Ambrose is right, Caden found himself thinking, though he kept this notion buried deep within his auric-ambient-flare where no one could hear it being expressed. Maybe we should be friends.

It would be such a balm to have a peer to connect with. Caden's world had been completely destabilised since his return to the Academy, particularly after the revelations he had been given in the Vault. At least in his first term in the Academy, he had the support of the dormies as they all grappled together with the strangeness of the Prophecy and of Ambrose's Chosen One status. And even when they had met up in Devon's home and been exposed to even more danger, not to mention the mind-shattering experience of rescuing Emilia from oblivion and also actually brushing minds with a wellspring-ocean-core, Caden knew he wasn't going through all that alone.

But he had already been burned by the attempt to reconnect with Devon. And the one thing that kept Caden from allowing himself to start reforging his friendship with Ambrose and the others was the fact that they were all still bound by the Major Prophecy. The Fateweavers were almost certainly using them in some way, and Caden understood perfectly that his once-friends could be used as channels of influence to divert or control him, even if the Fateweavers couldn't touch him with prophetic links.

Yet there was the possibility, however faint, that Caden could someday learn to use that against the Fateweavers.

Wouldn't it be so wonderfully poetic if Caden ended up turning Ambrose himself against the whole edifice the Fateweavers had built?
