“Wake up.” A heavy boot prodded Gen in the ribs, waking him from his stupor. Leaping to his feet, teeth bared and ready to fight, Gen blinked the sleep out of his eyes as he faced his attacker. Laughing Dragon stood before him with a cocksure grin, arms crossed and covered in blood and gore. Looking him up and down, the bandit leader tilted his head. “Don't you look like a tuckered toddler, had fun didn't ye? Nothin' like cutting loose for the first time, familiarizing yerself with true freedom. Liberation sure is sweet, ain't she?”

Glancing down at his body, he noted the crusted remains of the dead plastered across his skin, a dark, delicious looking red. His memories were a haze, but he remembered enjoying himself immensely, the mere thought enough to send a shiver of pleasure through his body. The heat surged through his veins as he released all his pent-up rage and frustrations, the heady, euphoric rush afterwards, it was all so incredible and exhilarating, how did he ever live without it? Hands shaking as he moved, he paced about the tiny hut, searching for another victim to play with, but they were all dead, not a single breathing soul in sight.

Besides Laughing Dragon.

Seeing the glint in his eyes, the bandit leader's gaze hardened, his smile darkening as he spread his arms in welcome. “Wooo, ambitious one, aren't ye? It's good to have dreams, but you should listen to yer gut.” Leaning forward, his smile grew wider, teeth bared like a threat. “What's it sayin' to ye now?”

Gen warred with the urges insisting he stay his hand, wanting nothing more than to tear into the bandit leader's flesh and cover himself in the warm, sticky blood beneath. A chorus rose in his mind and bade him stop, his instincts given voice, overpowering him and demanding he calm and rein in his desires. The adversary is too strong, too ready. We must be patient, we must be smart. We are the hunter, the killer, the predator.

Our time will come.

Exhaling slowly, Gen straightened his back and unclenched his fists, glaring darkly at Laughing Dragon, surrender without submission. A weapon, that's what he needed, an item of power to better let him channel the worldly energies infusing him. The others had them, Laughing Dragon's fiendish sabre one of many, a crude creation unworthy of Gen. His instincts would guide him to a suitable one given time, patience his only weapon for now.

“Good. I'd hate to put ye down, we don't get many walk-ins.” Indicating he should follow, the bandit leader strode out of the room, presenting his back without hesitation. Gen listened to his instincts, a test, the crafty bandit ready to defend himself should Gen attack. Too easy to spot the hand on his weapon, the measured paces, the ready posture. “Not every Liberated soul learns to control their urges, especially those who come into it on their own. Most go stark-raving mad and lose themselves to the power, bunch of bastards making things difficult for the rest of us.” Pointing out the surrounding sheep, hard at work stacking bodies for burning, he added, “Makes it difficult to recruit unless we take careful measures, bring them into the light slowly, step by step. Tiresome shit, which makes it all the better when new blood prances on in by its lonesome.”

Acting on a hunch, Gen stepped forward and grabbed a sheep by the throat, a young man of similar age and similar build. In spite of this, Gen easily held the bandit steady with one hand, the little lamb struggling helplessly in his steely grasp. Yes, this was power, the path laid out before him in blood and revelry, strength bestowed upon him by the heavens. More sacrifices would be needed, more indulgences desired, more lives consumed. To do that, more wolves needed to be reared, and this little lamb would do nicely.

The natural energies of the world spewed forth from Gen to baptize the little lamb, invisible and formless to the natural eye, but a grey, swirling mass in Gen's vision, beautiful and fearsome to behold as it merged with the energy within the little lamb. Choking slowly, his face turned purple as he struggled for air, ruminating on the answers he searched for so desperately the night before, and in the blink of an eye, the sheep died.

In its place rose a wolf, eager and ravenous for violence.

Releasing his new brethren, Gen studied the others, able to see the pitiful and meagre energy within them. Guiding them would be pointless for now, the expenditure wasted like it'd been wasted on Kash. A deluge of images flooded his mind at the thought. Kash's smiling face as he brought Gen to his hidden perch by the river, the two boys looking out at the bathing women. Kash puffing up as he carried a ten-point buck, his greatest catch yet, proudly displaying his prowess before the village. Kash pleading at Gen, his eye hanging out of the broken socket as his mouth moved wordlessly.

Kash, his friend, his brother, his prey.

Stumbling back, Gen collapsed to the ground, weakened by emotion. Helping his new comrade drained him, else these thoughts would never have surfaced. With time, his strength would grow, these errant thoughts fading away. Courage and resilience would be rewarded in time, he only needed patience. A boisterous laugh broke the silence, Laughing Dragon clapping slowly at the display, weapon in hand. “Well ain't you just slicker'n dog shit, liberating another comrade all by yer lonesome. Almost cut yer damn throat, thought ye were killing one of my precious little students. Can you do the same for the others?”

Gen shook his head, wiping away his sweat. “This one was ready to accept the truth, I merely helped him along. They're not yet ready.” With more strength, he wouldn't need to wait for these sheep, he could force them to see the light, but not yet. Soon. Patience.

“A damn shame the others ain't up to snuff. Well, c'mon then, still plenty to do before the day's through.” Gesturing for Gen to lead, Laughing Dragon walked at his side, no longer comfortable leaving him out of sight. A compliment, in a strange way, acknowledging that Gen was more dangerous than expected, worthy of caution, and Gen held his head high at the unspoken praise.

They soon reached the river where the others like them were washing off, and Laughing Dragon promptly jumped in, one sheep rushing to pick up his discarded bloody clothes. Gen followed in after, delighted at having someone pick up after him, a servant of sorts. Yes, he should find someone specifically for his own use, he was a man of importance now, a powerful warrior. He couldn't be bothered with trivial matters, he deserved an army of slaves and concubines to care for his needs.

Scraping a blade across his chin, Laughing Dragon shaved and groomed himself meticulously, earning Gen's scorn. A dandy, caring so much for his appearance, the bandit leader preening as he glanced at his own reflection in the water. Despicable. Catching Gen's eye, Laughing Dragon grinned once more, an irksome smile. “Amazing what a little soap and a nice shirt will do for ye. People see a well-dressed, well-groomed band of warriors and immediately think 'soldier' or 'mercenary', dropping their guard. Can't tell you the number of times we've been invited in without a second thought, before we've even said a word. So delightful, the hardest part is not laughing too much at their naivete. Scrub yer hair nice and thorough, ye got plenty to wash out.”

Exiting from the cold waters, another sheep greeted Gen with clean clothes, a uniform of sorts. A simple farmer's outfit, a drab long-shirt and loose trousers, held up by a wide cloth belt. The sheep helped him dress, wrapping his hands and tying a scarf around his neck, arranging it to naturally cover his face without seeming to hide. Add a wide-brimmed woven-reed hat, a leather vest, and a hatchet tucked into his belt, Gen looked the part of a warrior, the little village hunter nowhere to be seen.

Patting him on the shoulder, Laughing Dragon guided him back to the village. “The clothes make the man and we Firebrands like to look the part. You look like a sack of gold, all dressed and fancy.”

Gen snorted derisively. “Hmph. Why bother with the deception? There is no need to fear the Emperor's soldiers, we are warriors, enlightened to truth. We should spread the news to all who will hear!”

The hand on his shoulder tightened as Laughing Dragon spun him about, looking him face-to-face. “Now, now, don't be doing anything foolish. You keep yer mouth shut about yer 'enlightenment'. Fool boy, ye looking to tell the world about us? We'd be hunted down without rest, no fun to be had at all.”

“The warrior families of the Empire seek to keep the truth from the common people, how despicable. If we tell everyone the truth, the commoners would rise to our cause and together, we can sweep aside any who stand against us, even the Dog Emperor himself!”

“Haha, I like you boy, you dreams big. Rallying the people to our side, that's a real laugh. Keep yer mouth shut all the same.” Resuming their walk, Laughing Dragon draped an arm around Gen's shoulder, like they were the best of friends. “Anyway, serious business now, this village we hittin', tell me about it. Yer old home?”

Gen answered the questions while studying the bandit leader. He played his part well, a handsome, amicable ruffian who rose to prominence from a common background. If not for Gen's heightened intuition, he would think Laughing Dragon nothing more than a mere bandit, albeit an infamous one. The tales of his benevolence and righteous ways were commonly told around the dinner table, with wine and food in hand, taking delights in their exploits and escapades. Only robbing the Council and their ilk, leaving guards and drivers alive unless facing staunch resistance, Laughing Dragon was almost a hero to the people, his comrades in arms who marking themselves with heated irons. Honourable thieves who never betrayed their own, they often appeared in smaller villages, paying for food and wine and spreading good cheer. A romantic fiction, Gen disliked the need to take such drastic measures, hiding who they truly were.

Soon, there would come a time when they need not hide, and could freely embrace the death and destruction. A glorious age when the truth could be freely spoken, the ways of the world laid bare for all to see, righting the imbalance of this rotten world. Gen would be the first of many, leading the way to salvation for all, the dawn of a new age of equality and prosperity for all who survive. Such would be the way of the world once he was through.

Lighting a torch, he stared into the flame, dancing about as it reached for the skies, seeking to consume what it can, yearning for true freedom. Much like he'd been, these little flames were constrained and restricted, unable to reach their true potential. Turning to the pile of bodies, he waited with a smile as the others gathered pitch and tinder, setting the stage for a dazzling display, efficient and well-practiced at this craft. Once everything was ready, Laughing Dragon nodded at him and Gen giggled before tossing the torched in a lazy arc, the tiny light hanging in the air for a breathtaking second.

Igniting in a brilliant orange and yellow tempest, the flames consumed all within its path, calling to him. The others fled the heat as he took in the sights, feeling a kinship with the flames, the raging inferno not bothering him one bit. Reaching out, he grasped a wisp in the palm of his hand, feeding it with the roiling grey mists within and for a moment, the flame flared up into the skies in radiant splendour before blinking out of existence, exhausting all he had given it.

Understanding dawned on him, as if a veil lifted from his eyes. He was the fire and the flame, devouring all which lay before him, fuelling him to new heights, empowering him until none could stand against him. So long as he continued to feed, he would become unstoppable, a volatile destroyer of man and beast alike. His time had come, the father of a new era.

But first, he had to return home and see his family. How wonderful it would be to turn his hometown into a scene like this, sharing a loving reunion amidst the flames and carnage, the mere thought had him salivating in anticipation. Striding untouched through the fire, he imagined their surprised and fearful visages would be much like what he saw in the eyes of the bandits gaping before him, Laughing Dragon awed by his power. The lives of his parents and friends would become a tribute to the heavens, their deaths setting him free and fanning his flames, granting him unrestrained power.

Humming a little ditty, he set out at an easy run, leading his new friends back home to meet his family. His parents would be so proud of him once they learned their son would usher in a time of prosperity and bloodshed.

How wonderful.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Peering down the length of his arrow, Baledagh hesitated for a moment, and the opportunity was lost. Something spooked the fat rabbit, its nose twitching adorably at the air before scampering away with a hop and a skip. Pursing his lips and shaking his head, he set out in search of other prey, hoping to fill his belly with a hot meal. Why did he hesitate? That rabbit would have been delicious, a sumptuous feast to begin their journey. Maybe he could set snares at night and check them in the morning, there were plenty of rabbit trails to be found.

