They looked so fluffy, it reminded him of his hare, feeling a pang in his chest as he thought of hugging the soft creature. Maybe it was time Baledagh found a pet to call his own, instead of always sharing with brother. A rabbit and wife for Baledagh, that was all he wanted, no need to be greedy. Brother did the lion's share of the work, so brother should have more, but why shouldn't Baledagh have something to call his own? Brother would understand, but with no signs of improvement as he slept in the void, who knew when that might be? Baledagh had slept for years before waking again, perhaps the same would happen to brother.

Truth be told, he didn't need to be out here hunting, but Qing-Qing was a mess, alternating between long, emotionless staring and bouts of hysterical sobbing. Although he tried to console her, there was only so much he could handle, excusing himself to travel ahead and 'clear the way'. Lovely, sweet Qing-Qing, the journey was hard on her, not even an hour into their travels and already a wreck, although somehow through the tears, she'd braided her horse's mane in a lovely pattern. Yes, she loved animals as much as he, a pet rabbit would be good for her too, something to care for now that he was better. She would make a magnificent mother someday.

With the lake to the east and the sun shining through the trees, Baledagh enjoyed the travels in silence, killing five wild birds for lunch. Small things, more feather and bones than meat, he kept his eyes open for a nice succulent duck or goose. The hours slipped by and he continued to hunt, gathering more than enough for the next two days, but he was still loath to return. Following a set of day-old bear tracks, he deviated away from the path, thinking to give Qing-Qing more time to herself. Seeing her so dispirited only made his chest throb with pain, unable to help. Besides, she seemed to prefer solitude, always on her guard around him.

A rustle in the bushes confirmed his prey was near, and Baledagh readied his bow and spear. He didn't expect to find a bear, but better cautious than dead or injured. The shame might kill him should he be forced back to the village so soon, especially if Qing-Qing had to save him once more. Patiently waiting, he backed away slowly, searching for a better angle to approach.

Bursting out of the undergrowth, a knee-high bear cub charged towards him with a happy cry, scenting the meat he carried. Alarm pulsed through his body and Baledagh readied himself for the mama bear's charge, never far from her cubs. A second cub joined its litter mate, both stopping several arm-lengths away, fearful to approach, but he ignored them, still waiting for the mama bear. Long minutes passed as he clenched his bow, sweat drenching the shirt Qing-Qing sewed for him, the cubs mewling piteously at him, pawing the ground and gingerly stepping back and forth.

Making a move, Baledagh darted towards the cubs, feigning an attack and ready to flee. Still no mama bear emerged, and he lowered his bow in confusion, looking down at the terrified animals, frozen in fear. Scrawny and dirty, they were skinny little beasts, dark-furred with a patch of white on each chest. Too small, were these runts abandoned by their mother? Tossing two birds at them, he wandered the area while they ate, carefully searching for recent bear tracks, but aside from the cubs, all the tracks he found were days old.

Returning to the cubs, he pursed his lips and sighed as he stared at the wretched animals, their meal finished and staring expectantly at him, hoping for more. While he'd been hoping for a pet, bears were a little too much, even for brother. At full size, one of these creatures could easily eat more than Aurie and his siblings combined. Hell, they might even eat Aurie. Leaving them here was out of the question, it would be cruel to let them starve to death, so there was only one option left.

Reaching for his knife, he stepped forward and steeled himself, ready to grant them mercy. Standing on its hind legs, the little cub cried once more, reaching for Baledagh's belt and the birds fastened there, trusting him with its little life. Sighing once more, he tossed another four birds to the cubs, crouching down to watch them eat. Reaching out, he cautiously pet one, the little animal ignoring his touch as they devoured their meal, likely the first in days. Their fur was delightfully soft and dense, their little faces scrunched in satisfaction, cute and charming. He idly wondered if these were the cubs of the bear that killed Gen.

The thought put a smile on his face and he decided to keep them, as thanks for ridding the world of a nuisance. Worst case scenario, he could leave them in the woods once they grew to adolescence. Few wild creatures would risk tangling with a bear, their sheer size enough to intimidate most foes. Picking one up, it gnawed briefly on his arm before yawning, a full belly lulling it to sleep, exhausted from all the worrying. Grabbing the other, he carried one in each arm like a child, the creatures nuzzled against him, trusting in his care. Simple-minded animals, but it made things easier for him.

Coming to a clearing, he noticed thick clouds of black smoke rising in the north, a day's ride away. A forest fire in the middle of summer was not uncommon, but to have it set in his path was worrisome. With Qing-Qing and the cubs, getting caught by the flames would spell death for everyone but himself. Perhaps he should delay their journey to track the fire's spread, moving forward once any danger had passed.

Cuddling his two pets, he hummed a nonsense song he often heard Tali sing, a spring in his step as he searched for Qing-Qing. He couldn't wait to see her expression when he brought the adorable little animals to her, the extra effort to feed them well worth it if she would smile again.

One wife and two bears for Baledagh, that wasn't too much to ask for.

Right?

Chapter Meme
