He felt the wind flicker and a chill pass, and then he opened his eyes… And he wasn’t much further from where he started. Hmm. So. Maybe he needed to travel for longer? Eldawae had said that sometimes it took a great deal of blind flying before the world shifted, if you had a great deal of distance to go to get where you wanted to be. Erick was rather certain that ‘where he wanted to be’ was ‘wherever Moonarcher and Darkcaller and Crystalmaster were’.

Maybe he needed to lower his scope, though.

Just pick one of them.

Well… Shadow hadn’t known that Crystalmaster was here, and that was on purpose from Crystalmaster, so he’d be the hardest to find, but Erick kinda really wanted to talk to that ancient Wizard from the Painted Cosmology. Later, though.

Orin Darkcaller was probably busy ‘connecting worlds through darkness’. Whatever that meant, it was yet another thing that Erick was truly interested in investigating. But later.

Astrologer Moonarcher was the 6-winged astraelif who everyone went to see because she was some great oracle…

Erick focused on Moonarcher. If anyone was ready to receive him, it would probably be her. She had been right there in the center of that formation of powers when Erick had appeared last time. She might even have messages waiting for him, should he show.

Erick flew high into the sky and focused on Moonarcher, and then he closed his eyes and—

- - - -

—opened his eyes.

The world was different below and above.

Erick was no longer surrounded by a random assortment of crystal mountains filled with people, and valleys filled with the same sorts of people, but less technologically advanced. The valleys below were distant things, but there were castles and markets and people working magics here and there. The mountains all around were relatively empty.

Erick flew above a kilometers-wide bridge, set between two massive crystal mountains that barely had any people in them at all. There were the guards who were probably not guards at all, but paladins, and then there were people in robes.

A giant gate held far behind Erick, while ahead of him, in front of the largest crystal mountain he had seen, was a bigger gate. This right here was where Yggdrasil had set him down that first time, where he had met Crystalmaster, Moonarcher, and Darkcaller that first time, and Crystalmaster had sent him seeking Wraithborne instead, so that the paladins they had arrayed around them didn’t auto-sunder from Wraithborne Contracts.

Erick was a dragon this time, so walking to that big gate went a lot faster. Within a minute he stood before the gate, and this time there was no greeting from those in the towers beyond. Erick shrunk down to person-sized, his glowthread clothes reforming around his body like living light made into ephemeral, professional softness. He really did like his clothes when they did that.

Erick spoke, “Hello! I come seeking an audience with the forces of Good in this land.”

Every single nearby person winced, even though they were all behind heavy wards and doors and walls.

… Erick hadn’t spoken that loud—

A door opened to the side of the big gate and a paladin stepped out. He wore gleaming silver armor and his helmet at his side, hooked to his belt, showing off a strong chin and a human appearance. With an unexpected weight to his gaze, and yet a lightness in his voice, he spoke as though from a script that he didn’t realize he was following, “Pardon, good sir, but a more precise desire would be easier to fulfill. What do you want, exactly?”

Erick took a moment because everything seemed surreal, and then he said, “I want to untangle the Contracts from Wraithborne that have flooded this land and make some allies to take with me back home.”

The man nodded, then he took out a small black book from his back pockets and handed it over, grinning lightly as he said, “I’m supposed to give this to you now.”

“… Okay?” Erick could not see the book in his mana senses, but that wasn’t that unusual what with all the different powers he had seen here and there. Erick took the book— He paused as he read the cover. And then he looked up at the paladin. “A list of souls from the Waiting Room?”

“Yes, sir.” The paladin spoke softly, yet strongly, saying, “Sometimes some of our people are Contracted too steeply to ever allow themselves back into the world, and so they choose to stay in the Waiting Room after death. Some of them have been in there for a few thousand years or more. A good explanation of all of those people and more are there in that book, gifted to me by some force I didn’t understand, asking me for something I did not want to give, but which now I do, wholly and fully. It was an honor serving the forces of Good. Please don’t speak to anyone else here, good sir.”

And then the guy exploded into ribbons of light, as though he had been holding everything back as much as he could, and he simply could not pull back from the precipice any more.

He had been sundered via Wraithborne Contract.

Erick had a few different thoughts. Firstly, he wondered how good a Contract Sundering was, because normal Sunderings were able to be recovered from through Time Magic, but Nothanganathor’s Sundering of Debby was impossible to reverse.

And then Erick rewound time.

Stepping back to where he had stepped, Erick watched as the paladin in silver stepped out of the side of the gate.

The Contract Sundering wasn’t one of the stronger ones. Good!

“Pardon, good sir, but a more precise desire would be easier to fulfill. What do you want, exactly?”

Erick said the same line again, “I want to untangle the Contracts from Wraithborne that have flooded this land and make some allies to take with me back home.”

The man nodded, then handed over the black book, saying, “I’m supposed to give this to you now.”

Erick took the book and looked the man in the eyes, saying, “Agree to a reincarnation. I can target the person who you’re linked to, as well.”

The man smiled, and asked, “Do you really need permission? How many times have we gone through this conversation?”

And then he allowed himself to explode into mana and power and possibilities of all kinds that were not mana at all.

Erick rewound time further than before.

He stood as a dragon on the road to the big gate and rapidly thought through the problem. Many paladins of the Celestial Observatory were under direct soul-sundering Contracts from Wraithborne in order to never act against Wraithborne interests. Eldawae had spoken about this sort of thing at length, for these sorts of Contracts were rather well-established. They were, one and all, broad limiters-of-action for the Contracted, with a great many loopholes to be exploited now and again, but once a certain level of Contract breaking had been achieved the final clause was always triggered. The Contracts given to Good people were a lot more restrictive than the ones given to allies of Wraithborne, too, which served to compound the problem of the proliferation of Evil in Margleknot.

‘Just don’t be Good, and your Contract is lesser! Please sign here now for benefits A through Z!’

Erick had seen one of the Contracts in Da’luwe. They were pretty terrible in how easily Erick could see someone signing them. A Good person could do whatever they wanted and benefit from automagic resurrections from the Waiting Room, for instance, but as soon as they saw a potential enemy wield the Sign of the Wraithborne Tower, then they were to back off or suffer the consequences. This, too, served to drive people to Wraithborne, because being of Wraithborne meant protection from a lot of forces out there.

How to free these people without actually interacting with these people?

Erick already knew how, actually.

Erick infused his body with Time, speeding up everything until the world turned into a tableau of unmoving clouds and frozen paladins and watchers, wondering what the hell the big black dragon was doing out there on the bridge. It was a [Time Stop] effect. And then he turned to light, zipped forward, stole the book from the paladin in the front guard station, and then zipped back to where he had been standing. He had done it fast enough that no one could have seen him except those with the power to see very well, and the paladins and the guards did not qualify in that way.

Time resumed.

And no one sundered.

Erick sat down and waited.

The paladin in the front, the one waiting for Erick to come forward to fulfill the mission he had been given by some unknown person, checked his back pocket. He found it empty. He said, “Ah.” And then he closed his eyes and waited for death.

But nothing happened.

The paladin winked open one eye. He opened both eyes and looked around. He frowned, then patted himself, and then he frowned some more. He paused and did nothing for a long moment, before whispering to himself, “Well that’s nice.”

And nothing continued to happen.

Erick watched the paladin’s soul for a little while longer, though he pretended to be looking elsewhere.

Nothing happened.

Which was great.

Erick couldn’t free these people right now but he could eventually, after he learned true Propagation magic. He already knew enough of that stuff right now to make such a spell that could do individual [Reincarnation]s on a grand scale and then move on to the next magically-closest person, and never stop propagating… Or at least he thought he did.

It would be some sort of [Familiar] magic, and [Gate] magic, and it would probably start with a few thousand people all linked to a central mana source through Mana Siphons. Then it would roll on from there, gradually increasing in power and speed as it both [Reincarnation]ed people, and then locked on to them for continual mana donations in order to continue operating on more and more people…

Maybe Erick could just use his Margleknot Benevolence Sun for the fuel source, and just kick start it that way. Once it gained past a certain level of power, then it would continue without the need of that original source. Maybe it could even make copies of itself, so that it wasn’t just one [Reincarnation Familiar]…

Yeah. That’d do it.

Nothanganathor learned of his Propagation Magic for the Sundering through corruption, but Erick had an understanding of Propagation Magic through having the Script very clearly outline, through many bloody spell creations, exactly what was not allowed because it was toeing that Propagation Ban line.

Erick didn’t trust himself to make such a spell right now, though.

Erick turned back into a small person. He spoke to the air, “I’ll take that portal home, Yggdrasil.”

A portal of gold and green swirled open behind Erick, leading to his house in the Old Dragon District, and Erick walked through. He might not have gotten to make any allies here today, but he’d be making more allies later. He had a whole book full of them to bring back from the dead.

… But first he checked out the absolute galaxy of messages waiting for him all around the front of his house.

- - - -

Erick sat down with Lionshard on the balcony of Erick’s house, overlooking the lake. There were more fish in there than before. A lot more biodiversity.

Lionshard ate another tri-berry tart, grinning as he did so, saying, “These little things are delicious.”

“I’m glad I got some seeds from Da’luwe.” Erick said, “I like them, too.”

“To me, the lazulibob and perinom flavors are well-trod paths, but this cupberry is something that truly brings them both together, and which I had forgotten about.”

“I taste strawberry, purpleberry, and blackberry,” Erick said.

“They’re mildly addictive, you know, causing you to be more easily influenced. That’s how these sorts of memory-foods work.”

Erick chuckled. “I had not known that, but it makes sense why Eldawae only offered them that one time, and then when I proved my power they stopped being on offer.” He added, “Sorry about that. I did not know.”

Lionshard smiled. “No worries. When you get as strong as we are then you can enjoy the dangerous things in life. And speaking of dangerous things… Are you truly going to tackle Wraithborne?”

“… Well. Not directly.” Erick said, “I don’t want to get into that war. When I made Benevolence I spoke of the ‘good of all and every individual’, but I certainly didn’t mean ‘good’ as in ‘Good’. The whole concept of Good and Evil as physical things that you can measure and account for is… Disheartening, to say the least. I do not like it, and I would rather offer a different approach to power. My hope is that I can build an extension of my organization on Veird up here; a House Benevolence. An organization that can more easily bring Benevolence to the masses.” Erick gestured to the stars still gathered around the front gate of his property. “I went through a thousand of those before I found your friendly letter, and invited you over. They all want a lot more help than what I can give them, and there are a lot of people out there who want me to bring fire and lightning against all Evil in Margleknot. And I can’t do that.”

“Why not?” Lionshard asked, prompting the question that Erick had been thinking about a lot. “The fire and lightning, that is.”

“Because even if I killed Morbion and his Primes and all of that then Wraithborne would simply fall inward, collapsing hard, which would lead to the deaths of trillions.”

“Ah,” Lionshard said, “But we have the Waiting Room, and it is doubtful you could kill Morbion in a satisfactory way. Even reincarnating him into a better form would simply allow that Evil to be free in Margleknot, and I highly doubt he doesn’t have specific protections against you by now.”

“I think I could still kill him if I needed to… Maybe.” Erick said, “But I don’t want to. I want him to come to the decision that being Not-Evil is better than being Evil… but then we come to the problem of Evil, and that’s the sticking point. Can Elemental Evil ever be not-Evil?” Erick looked to him. “I’d like to have that conversation now, if you’re willing.”

Lionshard nodded, and then he began, “Good and Evil are large topics, with many wide-ranging problems. But to summarize the issue of having literal good and evil in the universe, we begin at the base.

“Where does Evil start? It starts with thinking of everyone as another thing to be used.

“Where does Good start? It starts with thinking of everyone as someone.

“Evil excels at using people to one’s own positive ends. It is theft and murder and all acts of taking.

“Good excels at using yourself to the positive ends of others. It is gifts and creation and all acts of giving that empower others.

