“Neither Good nor Evil are capable of existing on their own. Evil ends up with the world empty and the user upon a throne of dust and nothing. Good ends up in a world where everyone is mediocre without any real goals of their own except to make others happy.

“This is what is meant by the Balance. This is why Good and Evil fuel each other, for there is not a single thriving civilization out there that is not Balanced in some way. The only reason Wraithborne is so successful is because it is a lesser Great Evil.

“Margleknot is not currently Balanced.

“This is why the Celestial Observatory is how it is. It is a land of Good that is no longer able to be Good how it was meant to be, and yet, it is better than how it was before. You saw the place. You saw how there are mountaintops with people living decent lives and valleys where people live in the mud and stone. The Celestial Observatory has not always been like that; a land of plenty and a land of nothing. Many would say it is better how it is today.” Lionshard asked, “Did you go down below the clouds?”

“… I really, really wanted to. If I would have seen something horrendous I might have.”

Lionshard nodded. “The odds of you seeing something horrendous are very large in that land, but it is a good thing you did not go below the clouds. You might have come back above the clouds and a week or a year could have passed.”

“I think I could have handled a week.” Erick said, “But the people in the mountains send people down into those lands below all the time, don’t they? Those lands below certainly didn’t look like they were that far away, time-wise. How does that work?”

“Distance is time, and the Observatory does a lot of Fate Magic to figure out which places they’re looking at that need help the most, and the timetables required to help those places, but the help they give is no longer absolutely needed, like it used to be.” Lionshard said, “It’s all very complicated, and it’s a lot less fervent today than it used to be. Used to be you had ascetic monks in the mountains, divining truth and time in what they saw below, and then intervening right at the right times to avert great Evils, or establish great Goods. Now you have a lot larger of a civilization, looking over a whole lot more lands.

“This increase in population is the direct result of Wraithborne’s influence. It is more Balanced these days, with a lot less Good, and so the people in the mountains don’t need to give as much, and so they have more.

“But since the Observatory is Balanced, there is no great counter to Wraithborne’s expansive, grand Evils.

“For Wraithborne is Evil at its core. But it is a softer Evil. One that spreads and infects and draws back to the source and tries to limit its own growth and depravity. It has accepted some basic Goods into its existence, like the idea that if other people are allowed to be selfish, then they can grow powerful, and other, similarly powerful Evils make decent allies-of-convenience against the masses and individuals.” Lionshard stopped explaining as he asked, “Now tell me: Where do you think Benevolence fits into such a strategy of Good versus Evil?”

Erick didn’t have to think for very long. “Benevolence is about having the power to help other people.” He added, “It’s longer than that, but you’ve already read the specific words in my dossier. I once heard a god call it ‘Elemental Altruism, but more self-empowering in order to give any excess power to others, instead of self-effacing’.” Erick asked, “I would have thought Elemental Good wasn’t so much like Elemental Altruism, though. Surely it’s not ‘Good’ to give away every part of oneself to others?”

Lionshard nodded, then said, “Altruism is rather more of a ‘pure’ sort of Good.” Lionshard asked, “But tell me this, now: You’re the strongest person on your world. Would you be okay with someone else being just as strong? Or stronger?”

Erick chuckled. “Sure. I’m fine with that? How is that a question?”

“Just feeling you out. Because yes, I have read your full dossier, Erick, and you have often said that no one should have the sort of power you wield. So my question is a valid one. You don’t believe people should be stronger than you, because you believe that you have the right to choose what happens to others, and that is where Benevolence leads you.” Lionshard said, “That is where you have led yourself.”

Erick frowned a little. “… I can see that point, but at the same time I do make good decisions for the prosperity of all and every individual, so this is a power I am fine with wielding, and I am fine with other Benevolent powers out there.”

Lionshard smiled a little. “Good. I doubted that you would be broken by a little bit of logical fallacy talk, but these things are important to discuss when going up against the big problems of the universe that have clear parallels with your own existence. You are clearly Good, but in some ways you are selfish, and as long as you acknowledge that, then you can stay out of the Good and Evil war.” Lionshard said, “Just like how Nothanganathor stayed out of that war with Malevolence, for Malevolence is very ‘good’ at killing corruption, and therefore Malevolence is in great use across much of Margleknot. If you thread that same needle then you can stay out of that war with Benevolence, too, and likely right some of the Balance back to Good through indirect means.”

Erick looked at Lionshard. “I thought Malevolence was on the side of Evil?”

“Not directly. It is similar to how Benevolence is not directly on the side of Good.”

Erick had to stop and think about that for a moment. “… Huh.” He asked, “Do you think my idea of Wraithborne turning not-Evil has merit? That they might actually do such a thing?”

“There are as many paths to power as there are drops of infinity in this fractal universe.” Lionshard said, “Evil might turn less-Evil if given enough incentive. Just as the Enclave has asked you to prove your power to prove your worth to them, in order to bring Balance, there are Evil lands out there which are looking to escape the Balance through you and yours, which is another way to make the Enclave happy. Not every Evil wants to remain Evil, especially if the alternative is a vast amount of power and a life that is easier to live, without paladins and otherwise crashing down doors now and again.” Lionshard said, “I think that is where you will be making the most headway with your goals; offer power and redemption in the same gift, and see your influence multiply.”

Erick really needed to reestablish House Benevolence up here in Margleknot—

“Ask the question I know you have wanted to ask me for a long time.” Lionshard said, “Now is the time for it, Erick.”

Erick felt a weight of a large moment upon his shoulders, for yes, now was a good time to bring up a question that Erick had held in his back pocket for a while. Erick asked, “Would you like to become a member of House Benevolence?”

“Nope! But I will be an ally you can count upon.” Lionshard rapidly added, “That you can count upon. No others. I’m not meeting anyone else but you.”

Erick paused. And then he laughed. “I’ll take it!”

“Now let us discuss how you can access the Waiting Room so you can find some true members of your House expansion.”

Erick smiled. “I would like that. Thank you.”

Lionshard smiled, then began, “To access the Waiting Room…”

Accessing the Waiting Room to find souls to bring back to life was both easy, and tough.

There were two main ways to do it, and then one more third way which was more dangerous.

The most dangerous way involved killing yourself and then finding the Waiting Room while still having enough personal power in your Margleknot Bank account to resurrect yourself and others. This was the most dangerous way because it involved one’s own death, and then ‘physically’ inhabiting the absolute madhouse of the Waiting Room.

The more normal way to access the Waiting Room involved either:

A) Projecting one’s living soul into the Waiting Room and trying to see through the cacophony of souls to find the ones you were looking for, and then spending either the resons to bring them back, or using your own spellwork to do the same. A variation on this method is what Wraithborne did. They used a trio of people to search the Waiting Room for souls; a diver, an anchor up above holding the diver secure, and a contractor who would facilitate the resurrection of the found soul. Wraithborne’s method almost 100% guaranteed that the person projecting into the Waiting Room wouldn’t die themselves. Trying this method on one’s own usually ended up in a suicide.

Or B) Asking a god to do all the parts of diver, anchor, and dealer for you, with you in the driver’s seat.

After thanking Lionshard and sending him away, Erick brought out the little black book he had ‘received’ from the paladin in the Celestial Observatory.

First, it was a primer on how to reach the Waiting Room and then came a whole bunch of stuff about how to find the souls you wanted to find. After that primer came the names and small dossiers of the 87 people who were Erick’s targets for reincarnation. Or they were the targets the book wanted him to bring back.

The black book was rather suspect, but from what Erick was seeing, it was a good list, and the small instructions in the book for how to bring them all back matched the instructions that Lionshard had given him in a general sort of way. And so, Erick put the book away in his house, and made plans for what came next.

Erick chose to go for option B, to enlist the help of a god to access the Waiting Room, because he needed to check out some gods anyway.

This resulted in a trip to the Mortal Lands of Margleknot and a change of attire from the truly nice-looking glowthread, to something more subdued and made of cotton. Erick missed his glowthread already.
