Mila felt refreshed after her bath. It was a little lonely, with no one to help wash her back. Baths were normally a happy affair, chatting and laughing with friends as they soaked in the springs. The city was nice, but the village was truly home.   She had dressed into some city clothes, given to her by Lin. Red silk long pants, and a long shirt, with golden trim and gilded buttons. Unfeminine, but comfortable and practical. The high collar and long sleeves had its own sort of elegance, and her hair had been done by some of the servants, a simple brushing doing wonders. A small clip kept her hair back, a wood carved lotus flower she bought from Charok. She walked out, hungry for lunch.   Rain walked out from the room next to hers, almost the same time. He was dressed in the same type of clothes, with lovely pearl buttons on a black shirt. A wide belt around his waist held his sword, worn in the small of his back. His hair cropped short and unadorned, he was slack faced and contented.   “Hello. I like your hair clip. It's very lovely.” Rain smiled and commented offhand. He walked off, following a servant. That idiot, just throwing out compliments, as if that would make her happy. She had kept close watch on him after his fearsome performance with the bandits, but he seemed like the same idiot as always. A bigger idiot than she thought, in fact. He sported several bites, from when he tried to hug his quin. The idiot never learned, was too impatient with Zabu. Mila didn't hate that about him, though. He loved quins, always feeding them and petting them. Some of the more docile quin's would even approach him for hugs, having learned he would always give treats in exchange. It was ... endearing.   She followed on his heels, making her way to the dining hall, where they were seated at the head table with Lin, a small, round 6-person table out on the veranda overlooking the lake. The entire group of visiting villagers and guards were filtering into the room, in small groups. Taduk always fed everyone when they came to visit, a gracious host. Mother and Papa were already there, sitting together, chatting with Taduk.   “You look so handsome Rainy.” Lin held her hands together in front of her face, adoring him. “You look pretty as well, Mi-Mi.” She grinned that toothy smile of hers. Sumila grinned back at her best friend. So cheerful and happy, always a delight to be with.   “Thank you for the clothes Teacher, they're very beautiful.” Rain bows to Taduk, who waves it off. “Thank you as well. You look very adorable, Mei Lin.” He sat down between Lin and Taduk, and began conversing with Taduk and Father. An odd person, Rain is. He rarely converses with people his own age, but seems so comfortable around adults. He only ever spoke to her if he had questions, never to simply chat. She sat down between Lin and Mama, chatting with Lin about things that happened in their separation.   Lunch was delicious, all sorts of roasted meats and steamed vegetables, along with deliciously crisp rice. It was served with a fish broth, milky and peppery, a wonderful meal. Mila ate ravenously, as did everyone else. Travel food grows boring quickly, although Rain had cooked surprisingly delicious meals. Wine was poured for the adults, and Rain as well, who drank like a fish. Towards the end of the meal, he was laughing uproariously at Papa's jokes, red-faced and telling terribly lurid jokes of his own.   Lin poked Mila in the cheek, and whispered, “You're staring at Rainy.” She grinned at her, all teeth and impish eyes. “I told you, he's the best, ya?”   Mila's face heated up. “I'm not staring. He's just laughing like an idiot, it's impossible not to notice.” She took a sip of her tea. Lin let it go with a smile, and started asking about the village instead. Mila was happy for the change in conversation, telling Lin about the gossip she had missed.   When lunch was over, Lin dragged Rain and herself away by the hand. “Rainy is going to take us shopping, okay?” She hurried forward without waiting for a reply.   “Why do we need this idiot? We can just go shopping together, leave him behind”, Mila protested. She had already spent twelve days with him riding beside their wagon. She didn't need to go shopping with him as well.   Lin ignored her, as well as Rain's attempts to beg off. They exited the manor and took a rickshaw, Rain sitting in the middle, Lin hanging on his arm, pointing out landmarks and areas of interest. Mila sat as far as possible, sulking. Her best friend was too focused on Rain. She had looked forward to spending time with her, and he was ruining it.   After arriving, they wandered through the market area. Rain would always praise Lin when his opinion was asked, causing her to smile so widely, her eyes would almost disappear. He spent his time otherwise looking around, not like a village yokel, but as if he were taking in the sights, something he simply did everyday. He fit in, in the city, the lifestyle. Perhaps he would come live here all the time, once he came of age. Many of the villagers chose to leave for the city, an easier and more settled life. She absently felt some cloth, mind elsewhere, pretending to browse.   “Ah, is that a sash and veil? I'm sure it would look lovely on you.” His stupid voice broke through her musings. She glanced at him, lips pursed. Such a natural womanizer, always throwing out compliments, how her clip was nice, or how smart she was. She turned back to the article she was touching, truly looking at it for the first time.   Her hand darting back, she turned and punched Rain in the face. His head flew back, nose bleeding. “You.. You... You pervert!” She stormed off to find Lin. A lech, a degenerate, a pervert of the highest order. That's what Rain was, and she had to protect Lin from him.

