My head is spinning a little. I just got sucker punched in the face, so it's understandable. Sumila can throw a punch, wow. I take out a cloth to wipe my face, keeping my body back so blood doesn't drip on my new clothes. A short minute of concentration, and my nose stops bleeding, and I wipe my face clean. The shopkeeper hands me a bowl of water to rinse my face with, and I nod in thanks.   “What was that about? I just told her it would look nice on her.” I vent, to no one in particular. Crazy girl, like mother like daughter. “It's a nice jeweled sash and veil.”   The shopkeeper chuckles, a lovely tanned woman, in a headscarf and tunic. “Young lord, the item the young lady was admiring is no sash. It is a shawl. The veil and shawl are worn as a set, and southern women like myself will wear them to dance.”   “Ah, I'm not a lord. I don't see how that makes me a pervert. It's a lovely shawl.”   She grins. “The dance is for their husbands. The shawl and veil are all that is worn when dancing.”   Oh. Ohhhh.   ...Nice.   I flirt a little with the shopkeeper, chatting a bit. I'd like to see her dance in one of those shawls. I end up buying an embroidered scarf for Alsantset, a lovely little piece of stitching. I plan to get souvenirs for everyone, but I don't really have that much money. The scarf was half a silver piece, and I'm not sure if that's expensive or not. 100 copper pieces to a silver, 10 silver pieces to a gold. I have 10 silver pieces from Alsantset, so it shouldn't be too bad. It should technically feed a family for a year? I don't know how well they would eat though. I really should earn my own money somehow. I hear the prices of food, and it's much lower, 3 to 5 coppers for snacks, like skewers or dumplings. So I spent 10 skewers worth on a scarf. Is that good?   Looking around, I try to spot Sumila and Lin, but they are nowhere to be seen. I guess I done goofed, with the stripper outfit. How was I supposed to know? Besides, Sumila is way too young to be wearing something like that. Akanai wearing that though... I cough. No. That woman is the devil.   Why was Sumila even looking at it? Maybe she has a sweetheart in the village. 15 is old enough to be fooling around with people your age. I guess without the fear of pregnancy, kids can be more adventurous.   I wander around the Bazaar. It's a chaotic and colorful place, with stalls and wagons, carts and towels, all displaying a variety of wares. They have everything, from services and lessons, to fruits and food. There's even a guy selling exotic animals, like furry birds. I kinda want them, but the price is several golds. I can't afford that. Bucket list. When I'm rich, I'll get an aviary. Or should it be menagerie? Both? Start a terror bird farm, spice the meat with 11 different herbs and spices and deep fry it. I'll be rich. Business idea, right there. Love this story? Find the genuine version on the author's preferred platform and support their work!  I pick out a few more small gifts, a tea set for Baatar, a jade comb for Sarnai, a nice cap for Charok, and some toys for the twins. I only spent 6 silvers in total, and most of that is the tea set. He may have sold me off to Akanai, but he is still my Mentor. I need to keep looking, trying to find something for Taduk.   I buy a drink at a stall, a jug of delicious rice wine, for 35 coppers. The wine was infused with some sort of fruit, white and fleshy, the drink sweet and smooth. Not as good as Taduk's plum wine though, that was exquisite. I'd finally had some alcohol, and it was as wonderful as I sort of remembered and/or imagined. I can't get enough. I continue to wander around, looking at knick knacks and assorted merchandise while drinking my wine. It's a nice city, beautiful, once you get past the slums. Sad thing, those slums. Especially so close to so much beauty.   Someone pushes me aside roughly, and my jar of wine tumbles out of my hands, wine spilling out of the broken container. What the fuck. “Hey!” I call out to the idiot. “Be a bit more careful, friend. A word would have been enough.”   A bald muscle idiot stares venomously at me. “You be more careful. To dare stand in the way of my young master, you've got guts.” He grabs me by my new shirt. “You should be thankful I don't beat you like a dog.” He lifts me into the air.   He's stretching my new clothes. What an asshole. And an idiot. If you're going to grab someone, don't leave your thumb sticking out. It's like a little lever for your entire arm. Grabbing his thumb in one hand, I twist it hard. “I don't like being touched, baldy. A simple word, and I would have stepped aside. No need to be rude.”   “Release me now, or I'll – Arh ah ah stop stop.”   Baldy is bad at learning. I continue twisting his arm, forcing baldy down to his knees.   “I – Ah – apologize young hero, I did not – Urghhh – know. My most humble and sincere apologiesssss.” Baldy's back is in an arch, trying to relieve the pressure on his shoulder. He's probably had enough. It was just a small thing. No need to go too far. I release him, and he darts away, hiding behind his young master, I presume. Shit he has like 2 more guards. Didn't notice that. O well. Time to leave.   “Hmph. To be strong armed by a child. Disgraceful.” A slender youth, with black hair and pale skin stood, an open fan in his hand. A nice shirt, embroidered with a crane and trees. The clothes here are all so pretty. I wonder where I can get a shirt like that. How much will it cost? He snaps his fan closed and points at me. “You have guts, to dare disrespect me. You think you can just walk away from that? Kowtow thrice before me, and I may let you off lightly.”   Are you serious? He wants me to beg him? Worthless fancy pants idiot. I look around for another stall selling wine. I didn't even get to eat all the fruits in mine. It was so good. I should also get some skewers. A bit of snacks to go with the alcohol.   “Insolence. I gave you fair warning. Take this.” The young master is throwing a punch. I slap it aside. Not too bad, but not that great either. His face goes red in anger, like he can't believe it. Just a simple parry, guy. Calm down.   Tucking his ridiculous fan into his belt, he claps his hands and takes a stance, both fists forward. So theatrical. He throws a flurry of punches, but he doesn't hit that hard nor is he very fast. Killing him is no good, but how much am I allowed to hurt him? Blocking and dodging, I wait for the guards to step in, but no one comes. In fact, people are starting to gather and watch. This is bothersome. I'll just give him a couple bruises. Lowering my guard, I go on the offensive, trading punch for punch, all of mine landing on his forearms and biceps. After a few minutes of trading, his arms are dangling at his sides, too bruised for him to even lift. Ha, do you even lift, bro? He keeps spouting more bullshit, but I ignore him mostly, wondering at what to do next.   Did I go too far? He's a young guy, maybe 18. I might have hurt his pride. He stands there, glaring at me, out of breath, defiant even though he's beaten. I like that, some real guff. I smile at him and clasp my hands. I should class up my speech a bit. “Let us end our spar here, call it a draw. No need for us to continue with this interruption. Just remember, don't judge a book by its cover. A lesson to be learned, young master. Courtesy costs nothing, but discourtesy can cost you everything.” I burp. Dammit. Ruined my exit. Turning to leave, I saunter away, feeling proud of how I handled that.   “Young Hero, beware!”   I quickly duck and step back, throwing my elbow back. It connects in the chest of one of Young Masters guards. A crack resounds, and the guard falls to his knees, bleeding and unable to stand. The second guard grabs me from behind, pinning my arms. A reverse headbutt loosens his grip, and an elbow to the head sends him to the ground as well. He should find better guards. I laugh. Maybe he's hiring. I could use a job.   Young Master looks murderous. And also ridiculous, with his arms hanging there. Just heal yourself, idiot.   Another young master type steps out, slim with dark brown hair, around the same age. He applauds slowly, a big smile on his face. “Excellent. Good speech, Good fight.” He looks at the other young master. “DuGu Ren, it seems you've kicked a metal board this time. You should leave.” I recognize the voice, he's the one who warned me. What a nice guy.   Young Master glares at the new guy and yells, “This is no concern of yours, Tong Da Fung. Scram.”   These damn names are hard to remember. Tong Da Fung smiles, a fake one that doesn't reach his eyes. “I was concerned about you, little Ren. But if you do not wish my help, then I wash my hands of this.” He steps back and nods his head at me. I nod back, and turn to 'little Ren'.   “Do you know who I am?” Ren is backing away. “Do you know what will happen if you continue your assault?”   “Nope. Don't care either. The question is,” I ask while smiling at him, “Do you know who I am?”   Ren's eyes widen, as he racks his brain. “W-Who are you?” Haha, idiot.   “Perfect.” I punch him twice, not too hard. Just enough to give him two swollen eyes, puffing up as I watch. “Remember the lesson. This could have all been avoided, with just a bit of courtesy. You can go now.” I wave dismissively, trying to look dignified, while Ren stumbles away. His guards are still on the ground though. I may have killed them. Leaning over, a few pokes confirms that they are both still breathing.   Actually, now that I think about it, I'm pretty sure I went too far. I didn't need to hit him that much. I feel kinda bad about it. The poor little guy was defenseless. I guess I'm a mean drunk. That's no good. I should reflect on this later. For now, more wine. Damn, I should have made him pay me for my drink!   Fung steps forward and clasps his hands at me. “Young Hero, my name is Tong Da Fung, Son of Tong Da Hai, the Magistrate of Shenhuo.” He's young, maybe one or two years older than me. So his dad is a judge eh? That's probably a pretty good job too. Fung is dressed even fancier than Ren.   “My name is Rain.” I clasp my hands and give him a nod. I need a better moniker, a title or something. Rain, Sect Leader. Rain, Dragon Slayer. Rain, Sexy Beast. O damn, I shouldn't have given my name. I just ruined my anonymity.   “Profound words, Young Hero Rain. Courtesy costs nothing, but discourtesy can cost you everything.” He grins. “You seem to have trouble following your own advice.”   Shrugging, I give him a grin. “I have an excuse. I'm young and drunk.”   He laughs, and says, “Come, Young Hero Rain, let me replace your drink for you. I would also like to speak more with you, get to know this Young Hero. Such insightful words, simple yet profound.” He smiles and prattles on. He puts his arm around my shoulder, talking about proverbs and idioms and what not. He doesn't seem like a bad guy. Plus he did try to warn me.   Whatever, I want another drink, and it's no fun drinking alone.   And everything is better when the drinks are free.
