Rags shook her head. She looked at the fire and her sword. She glanced up. Something. There had to be something. She thought of her memory of Velan. And like that, she had a plan. Another plan. Rags sat up, her eyes widening. But then she sagged.
It was a bad plan. Or rather, it wouldn’t change things. It might make things worse, actually. But it was all she had. They could keep running or they could fight. Those were their only options. She didn’t know which would be better. Running meant they’d slowly die. But she’d fought before. She’d burned the Humans’ lands, killed them, broken an army. And it had been for nothing.
“Pyrite.”
The Hob looked up. Rags stared at him.
“What?”
“Have a plan.”
His ears perked up.
“Really?”
Rags smiled wearily.
“I am your Chieftain. I always have plan.”
“Will it save tribe? Get rid of Humans?”
The Goblin hesitated and then shook her head.
“No. Not enough. Hurt them. Make them mad. Should do? Or…keep running?”
Pyrite hesitated. He fell silent and stared into the fire. When he looked up, he shrugged.
“Don’t know, Chieftain. Could make things worse. Could make things better. Don’t know. But trust you to do right thing.”
“What? Why?”
Rags scowled at Pyrite. All her plans had backfired! She’d gotten her tribe killed! Pyrite looked at Rags calmly.
“Because Chieftain is smart. Tribe still follows. So Chieftain think and decide. And we follow. For better or worse, Chieftain Rags. Show us smart thing. Show us hope.”
“Hope? What hope? There is no hope!”
Rags leapt up. She grabbed at her head as Pyrite looked at her, raising her voice despite the late hour.
“Goblins die! Tribe is running! Humans chase us! We run—and die—and run and die! Again and again! Ever since I lead!”
“But we are here. Because of you. Because you had ideas. Because you didn’t give up.”
“I only did stupid things!”
“But no one else did them.”
Pyrite pointed at Rags. He stood slowly, grunting with effort. He looked down at Rags. And when he spoke, his voice was measured. Calm.
“When I was alone, I did not know how to lead the tribe. When you woke, I was relieved. You had the plan that beat the Humans. You defeated the [Emperor]. And when the other Humans came, when they cheated, you were the one who led us away.”
He pointed at Rags.
“You, Chieftain. We could not do it. Quietstab could not. Poisonbite could not. Noears could not. Redscar could not. I could not. But you did. You keep trying. You have plans where we do not. That is why we follow. For hope. Because you see what we can’t. Show us it again. Show us something that will surprise everyone.”
He stared down at Rags. The small Goblin blinked up at him, stunned. Pyrite bowed his head. Then he sat. He lay on his back. He went to sleep there and then as Rags stood, paralyzed by a strange feeling in her chest. She stared at Pyrite as the Hob began to snore.
Pyrite trusted her. Even now. Even after—
Rags looked at her hands. Her fingers like claws. Dirty, small. But hers. She closed them slowly. Then Rags looked around her camp.
Hundreds, thousands of small campfires burned low. Goblins lay around them, silent shapes, occasionally moving. Thousands. Months ago, Rags could have never dreamed of so many Goblins, let alone so many under her command. But they had become hers. They followed her. Trusted her. Rags looked around.
“Not a good plan. But…”
Show us hope. Rags’ tired shoulders rose. Her back straightened. She probably couldn’t defeat so many Humans even if she pulled off her plan perfectly. Maybe, but the odds were small everything would work out that well. But she thought of the young Human riding back triumphantly with blood on his sword. Her hand clenched into a fist. She could hurt them, though.
Oh yes. She could hurt them. Rags turned and looked at the fire. It burned bright as she lay down. She was so tired. But as she slept, she felt better. Not because she was rested. The ground was hard and rocky. And not because she was fed. The soup really was bad despite what Pyrite said. No, she felt better. Because she had to be. She was a Chieftain. And at last, Rags thought she understood what that meant.
 
[Chieftain Level 25!]
 
——
 
Day 4
 
Pyrite was sleeping when the horn blew. He leapt to his feet before he was even awake. After four days, the need to move was already conditioned into his body. He saw other Goblins scrambling to their feet. Wearily, Pyrite rubbed his eyes. He felt exhausted despite his sleep. He looked around.
“Move! Humans coming!”
The Hob’s voice made the other Goblins look up. They shook other Goblins awake, kicking or slapping them to get the tired Goblins up. The camp roused itself, but Pyrite could sense the weariness in the air. He stumbled as he tried to make his mind work. Food? No, they had to go now. They could dish out food on the wagons. But it was so early. They had to get the small Goblins on wagons and on the back of Carn Wolves, rouse the animals—
Pyrite’s legs buckled a bit as he tried to move forwards. He stared at them, shocked. He was tired. But he couldn’t fall. If he fell, the tribe would all see it. And their wavering morale would vanish. He had to stay strong. But he was so tired. Pyrite yawned as he looked around. Where was Rags? Did she have orders? Where was—
The weary Goblins of the Flooded Waters tribe were so tired that they didn’t notice the small shape standing on the back of one of the wagons. It was only when they heard the voice that they looked up. They saw a small Goblin standing there. She was holding something. A shortsword. It blazed with fire. The Goblins stared. Rags held the blazing sword aloft. She shouted.
“Goblins!”
The Goblins and Hobs turned to look at her. Rags ignored the horns blaring. She had eyes only for her tribe. And they had eyes only for her. Rags was tired. Her body was sore. But she stood tall. She pointed her sword ahead.
“We move! I am Chieftain! I have a plan! Follow it! Follow me! Redfangs to me! Hobs, to me! Pikes! Get crossbows! We move!”
She pointed ahead with her sword. It was probably the wrong direction. But the Goblins stared at her, and their weary bodies grew lighter. They moved faster, shedding sleep.
It wasn’t a Skill. Rags hadn’t taken their fatigue away. But she’d replaced it with something. As Rags leapt from the back of the wagon and onto her waiting Carn Wolf, she saw the Goblins staring at her. She sat on the back of her mount, tall as possible. She had to be there. She had to be seen. The Goblins watched her. Their Chieftain. And Rags raised her sword.
It burned. A useless flaming spell. But the fire caught the eye. It was no good for fighting. But it was good for other things. As Rags saw Redfang Goblins hurrying towards her and Quietstab leading Hobs her way, she smiled. A Chieftain had to be strong. Had to be smart. But most of all, they had to lead.
“Come. We have big plan.”
“What plan, Chieftain?”
Quietstab grinned up at her. Rags smiled back.
“Big plan. But first we run. Redscar, send riders ahead! I want forest.”
The Redfang Goblins raced ahead as the tribe began to move. Rags kicked her wolf in the sides, and it loped forwards. She could hear the Goblins beginning to chatter, wondering why she wanted a forest. They sounded hopeful. They trusted her to do something that would hurt the Humans. And Rags knew her plan would work. It was just—
Well, it felt familiar. It reminded her of what Velan had done. Rags’ smile slipped a bit as she rode ahead. Kill the Humans. And they would kill her people for this. As Goblins do.
As Goblins always did. But what other choice did she have?
“They started it.”
Rags whispered the words and tried to figure out why they sounded wrong.
 
——
 
Lord Pellmia was tired. He rode his warhorse in the center of his command of riders, yawning and cursing the early hour. Sunlight was beginning to shine down on the earth, and it was too damn bright for his tastes. Pellmia glanced around, for once resenting the way the sunlight bounced off of the polished helmets and breastplates of the soldiers riding next to him.
He was leading the vanguard of the forces Lord Tyrion had entrusted to him. Around him, he could see men and women surging up and down on their mounts as they rode after the Goblins. They’d had a later start than the tribe, but they still had to be up quick so they could follow.
It was a necessity. Yes, Pellmia could send smaller detachments of riders ahead to ‘guide’ the Goblins in the direction he needed them to go, but the threat only worked if he could back it up. If he only sent his scouts ahead and tarried just an hour, the Goblins could easily overwhelm the smaller groups of riders and make a break for it. And that would be unacceptable. Pellmia had promised Tyrion he’d be at the meeting spot by the sixth day, and he’d be damned if he broke that promise.
The problem was that he was tired. So were his men. Three days of pursuing the Goblins was hard on anyone, and even mounted, it was hard to keep both horse and riders rested.
“Those damn Goblins.”
Pellmia muttered as he scratched at the stubble on his chin. Moving them wasn’t the same as herding sheep. Not that Lord Pellmia had ever done that. But this was a trick and a half. The Goblins kept moving ahead of the Humans, and they ran from his soldiers and when his [Mages] lobbed spells at them, but they were always changing directions slightly. Leading his forces through terrain that was unfavorable for horses, making things difficult to keep the encirclement of them.
Pellmia had to keep his [Scouts] moving ahead constantly to make sure they weren’t headed towards something that would allow them to lose him. Twice already, they’d tried to hide in caves or summit rocky hills. Both times, he’d had to force them to move by sending his forces in. He had to get them to move at the speed he required, but also keep them alive.
That was the tricky bit. It was one thing to run a quarry to death. But Tyrion wanted live Goblins, and they were incapable of keeping up a breakneck pace forever. They needed water, food, rest. Pellmia had tried to give them the bare minimums of all three so they didn’t get any ideas. He’d been proud of the way he moved them along, which was why he’d been so incensed to hear about Gilam’s skirmish with the Hobs yesterday.
“You were supposed to keep him away from the Goblins, Kilmet.”
Pellmia snapped irritably at his personal retainer and old friend. Kilmet had been a village boy when Pellmia had been a lad. The two had decades of friendship between them, to the point that Pellmia sometimes joked that Kilmet was his second wife. But they were still master and servant when all was said and done. Kilmet, drinking a weak stamina potion to wake up, bowed his head.
“I’m sorry, Pellmia. But the boy’s hotheaded and eager for a fight. I can’t order him to stay back.”
That was true. But Pellmia was grumpy and didn’t want to hear it. His bones hurt, and the thrill of being on campaign had left him after the second day.
“You should have. He’s only Level 20! A pair of Hobs could dice him up, armor or not. And he’s not had any practice in battle. One Hob nearly did for him already! When I was his age…”
“You could wrestle a Hob with one hand and drink two flagons of ale with the other, all before breakfast. Yes, sire. But Gilam’s been in your shadow for years. He wants to prove himself.”
Pellmia grimaced. That was true too.
“He can do that without risking his neck. Or going behind my back! I have to maintain discipline. I can’t do that if my flesh and blood is defying my orders!”
Kilmet sighed through his nose.
“What do you want me to do? I can’t stop him, Pellmia. I couldn’t stop you, and your son’s not going to take me giving him orders.”
“He should. You’re my right hand!”
Lord Pellmia growled angrily. Kilmet smiled. He had grey streaks in his hair, and his face was wrinkled. He still had a scar down one arm from where he’d saved Pellmia from a rampaging Corusdeer on a hunt gone wrong.
“Right hand or not, your son’s chafing at the bit, Pellmia. He needs freedom. Perhaps it would have been better to let him ride with the other nobles as escort.”
“And have him pick fights with those hotheads? The last thing I need is for him to get hurt or kill someone in a duel. Young [Lords] and [Ladies] can’t be left alone unsupervised.”
“Funny. That’s not what I heard you saying when we were that age. I distinctly recall you ordering me to help you lose your father’s guards so you could have a nighttime rendezvous with a certain Lady Eskaria—”
Pellmia coughed, coloring. Kilmet smiled, and the [Lord] laughed after a while.
“True! Ah, Kilmet! Why couldn’t you have had a son so Gilam could have what I had in you? Instead—”
Kilmet’s smile vanished. He stared ahead as the [Riders] and [Knights] in front turned left, following a road.
“It’s just fate, Pell. Your son—he’ll be a good lord. He just needs time.”
“He needs to listen to you.”
Pellmia moved his stallion closer. He didn’t bring up Kilmet’s child again. He shouldn’t have, [Lord] or not. He’d helped Kilmet bury the poor thing. Overcome by guilt, Pellmia looked around.
“Where is he now? I’ll scorch his ears off and tell him you’re in command.”
Kilmet coughed.
“He’s with the scouts. Ahead. Too restless to stay with the vanguard. I gave them strict orders not to let him get close to the Goblins, and there’s a pair of [Knights] in that group. They won’t let him do anything untoward.”
The old [Lord] nodded, relieved.
“Maybe that’s the solution. Put him with the [Knights]. They won’t tolerate him ordering them about, and they’re solid. Where are the Goblins now?”
“Passing through a forest.”
The old [Manservant] pointed ahead. Pellmia frowned and blinked his eyes. He rubbed at them angrily.
“Damn. Couldn’t we have forced them to go around?”
“We’d lose an hour or two doing that. It’s not a large forest, but it’s wide. Our riders won’t lose them, Pell.”
“They’d better not. We’re two days away from the meeting spot, and I can’t imagine Veltras will be late. He offered me three casks of his personal stock if I made it there on time.”
Kilmet whistled.
“He wants those Goblins there badly, then. Did he say why he’s driving them with such a fury?”
“No, but anyone with a brain can tell where we’re going. Straight south. The real question is why he spared so much effort for this group. The Goblin Lord I can see, but a tribe of less than ten thousand? This group is tricky, but what was the point? Unless he was more concerned about that [Emperor] fellow than—”
Pellmia was interrupted by a bout of coughing from Kilmet. The [Lord] frowned.
“You alright, Kilmet?”
