Wetness. The fire burned around him, but the [Lord] was weeping. He stared at his son. He knew what Rags would do. And he couldn’t stop her. His hand was raised. His son was weeping too. Rags stared at him. She saw the whole of her history with Humans in the flickering of the fire between them.
Kill. Flee. Ambush. Retreat. Revenge. Run. Attack. Defend. It had happened when Velan lived. And it was happening now. Again and again, since she had been born. And it would go on—
Forever. Rags stared at Pellmia. Then she looked down at Gilam. He was silent. He’d given up or passed out. Rags hesitated. Her trigger-finger itched to pull. But—
She raised her crossbow silently. Her warriors looked at her. Rags glanced around. Poisonbite was staring. Pellmia had frozen. Rags turned.
“Retreat!”
She turned her Carn Wolf. Poisonbite wavered, but Rags pointed. And the fire was growing more intense. Rags raced her wolf through the fire, sensing its fur begin to burn. The Goblins hesitated, but Pellmia kicked his mount forwards, racing towards his son. They turned and ran after Rags.
 
——
 
He had to be dead. Pellmia tumbled from his saddle, landing hard on the burning floor. Even the dirt seemed to be burning. He knelt by his son, lifted the limp head. He had to be dead. That was why the Goblin hadn’t shot him.
“Gilam. Gilam?”
Gilam’s face was pale. Sweat poured down his face, and his eyes were rolled back in his head. But he was breathing. Pellmia’s breath caught. He touched Gilam’s face with a trembling hand and saw his son react. Only then did the world start moving again. Pellmia looked up and heard the urgent voices at last.
“Pellmia! Lord Pellmia!”
“Here!”
The man cried out hoarsely. He stood up and looked around.
“Here! Dead gods, get over here!”
He saw riders surging towards him in the flames. He heard Kilmet’s voice ordering the mages to douse the flames. Pellmia looked around. The fire was intense. He could see a few shapes running in the distance. Goblins, fleeing the fire they’d created.
Pellmia stood over his son. He was alone as his cohort fought to get close to him. He was breathing hard, his armor scorched, his mount burned. He watched as the Goblins ran out of the forest. The last group ran to the edge and paused there. The Goblins looked at him. A small Goblin on the back of a Carn Wolf turned. Rags met Pellmia’s eyes. He stared at her. Then he saw the Goblins standing behind her.
Hobs. Goblins riding Carn Wolves. Crossbow Goblins. Others armed with deadly pikes, standing at the forest’s edge. Hundreds of red, glowing eyes found Pellmia. The Goblins stood at the back of their Chieftain.
In the moment before his escort reached him, Pellmia stood alone, over his son. The Goblins stared at him. They could have turned back through the fire. They could have killed the two Humans. But they did not. They turned and ran after Rags through the smoke as the fire engulfed the forest. Pellmia stood behind as someone screamed a word and water splashed on the ground around him, instantly becoming steam. He stood and then bent and cradled his son in his arms.
“My boy.”
 
——
 
Later that day, Pellmia stood in the temporary camp that had been erected just outside the burning forest. He held still as the [Healer] gently applied a healing poultice to his skin.
“The burns are bad, Lord Pellmia. A healing potion won’t cure all the damage correctly. Something about burns—I’ll apply as much as I can, but you’ll need me to reapply this twice daily for several days.”
“That’s fine.”
Pellmia ignored the pain. He’d taken worse. He looked at Kilmet. The scar on the man’s arm stood out as Kilmet coughed. He’d ridden after Pellmia, helped him get Gilam out of the fire.
“Not as bad as that burn you got from the Corusdeer, eh, Kilmet? Now I know what it’s like.”
“You could have just asked, sire.”
Kilmet looked up wearily. His grey hair was blackened with soot. The two older men laughed, and the healer shook his head.
“You’re lucky your armor saved you from the worst of the fire, Lord Pellmia. Or there’d be little to laugh about. If you’ll excuse me, I must see to the others. And your warhorse. He won’t be fit to ride for days yet.”
Lord Pellmia stopped laughing and nodded soberly.
“Yes, thank you. Is my son well?”
“Up and about. Shall I send him in?”
“Do so.”
The [Healer] left through the flaps of the tent. Pellmia was wincing as he put his doublet on when Gilam stormed through the tent flaps. He was already bandaged and poulticed, and his face was crimson with fury.
“Father!”
“Gilam.”
Pellmia turned. He tried to embrace his son, but Gilam stepped back.
“Father, the Goblins stole Olli! And my gear!”
“Did they indeed?”
Lord Pellmia blinked at his son. Gilam nodded. He clenched his hands into fists.
“That damn Hob and that little Chieftain ambushed me! He rode off on Olli’s back! My bag of holding was on her and all the rest of my gear! Father, give me a hundred [Knights]. I’ll ride into their camp and retrieve her. And cut down their numbers so they’ll not dare try something like this again!”
Pellmia blinked at Gilam. He looked at Kilmet, who sighed and didn’t meet his eyes. Pellmia nodded slowly.
“I see. So you survived the fire and you want to get your own back, is that it?”
“Yes! All I need are a few men—”
“No.”
Gilam paused. His face reddened further. The fire had scorched part of his hair off, and what hadn’t been burned was reddened. He looked like one of those water bugs that were so highly sought-after. What were they called? Lobsters, that was it.
“But father, the Goblins attacked us! They nearly killed me!”
“But they didn’t. They let you go. They could have killed you, but they didn’t.”
“Only because they knew what would happen to them if they did!”
“Most likely.”
Pellmia nodded. He thought of the small Goblin who’d met his eyes. His hand closed slowly and then unclenched. Pellmia stared down at his burnt palm. He shook his head.
“They spared you. She did. And I don’t know why. Perhaps it was mercy. Perhaps it was pragmatism. Either way—”
“Father, Olli—”
Pellmia turned. He looked at his son, and Gilam went silent. It had been a long time since Pellmia had looked at his son like that. Not as his boy, but as a man looked at another man and gauged his worth. He shook his head.
“Kilmet?”
“Yes, Lord Pellmia?”
Kilmet straightened expectantly. Pellmia glanced at him.
“Have my son find another horse. He’ll ride with the vanguard tonight. Under your authority.”
“But father—”
“And if he gainsays you in any way, spank him as you would your own boy. I have a job to do.”
Gilam made a strangled noise. Kilmet covered a smile as he bowed slightly.
“The Goblins, Lord Pellmia?”
“Yes. We have a duty, and I’ve promised Veltras they’d be there. This changes nothing.”
Pellmia strode out of the tent. He left Gilam behind. Pellmia stared past the rows of burnt riders towards the forest. It was ash now, ash and smoke. He mumbled to himself.
“This changes not one thing.”
And yet it did. Pellmia bowed his head and then called for his horse. He mounted it, ready to hunt the Goblins down. He still had a duty. The little Goblin Chieftain had not won her freedom. But for the first time, Pellmia thought of her. How small she was. Was that normal? Or was she someone’s daughter? Did they have mothers? Fathers?
Pellmia had lived for over sixty years. He had survived both Antinium Wars, fought the Goblins on his land. He had not seen the Goblin King’s death, but he had celebrated it. He had known the world with the certainty of a man his age could have. Now the world began to crumble under his feet. But he had a duty. He was just no longer certain it was the right one.
 
——
 
Rags sat in her camp, tending to her Carn Wolf. She hadn’t named it like Redscar had with his. Names were a silly thing to give to an animal that would probably die in battle. It was bad to get attached. But she still applied the healing potion gently to its burns.
The Carn Wolf wasn’t happy. It nipped her slightly, expressing its discontent at the pain. Rags let it, but bonked it on the nose when it tried again. She turned as a Goblin poked her in the side.
Poisonbite had missed one of her burns, but only just. The other Goblin frowned at Rags. She still didn’t understand why Rags had let the two Humans live. Still, her exuberance over the battle in the forest outweighed her personal issues with Rags.
“Chieftain, have special things. Magic weapons sorted. Also, bag.”
“Bag?”
Rags looked up. She glanced at her Carn Wolf and pointed. Another Goblin took over tending to it. Rags got up and followed Poisonbite. She found Quietstab, Noears, and Redscar sorting through the loot they’d captured from the Humans. A lot of it was just quality steel weapons. There was a weakly enchanted shield, a hatchet with a throwing enchantment on it…and a bag of holding. Rags’ eyes widened when she saw Noears drop a large rock into it and pull it out.
“Good bag. Lots of items can fit.”
“What was in?”
“Food. Gold. Letter. Shared food, tossed gold and letter.”
Noears dismissively pointed to a pile of gold coins. A few Goblin children were having fun throwing the gold coins around. Pyrite was reading the letter. Rags walked over to him.
“What say?”
The Hob shrugged.
“‘Lady Cimeca, your face is as radiant as a pear in the full moonlight. I yearn to stroke it and speak to you of high matters such as romance and a possible union between our houses. You know my father and yours are close friends, and I am most struck by your wit and humors and loveliness. Please give me some token to which I may use for remembrance…’”
Rags tilted her head back and forth, frowning. She cut Pyrite off when it seemed that the letter began to repeat itself, only this time comparing this Cimeca’s legs to swans’ necks or something.
“What it mean?”
Pyrite considered the letter and shrugged.
“Want to have sex.”
“Oh.”
The Hob crumpled the letter up and tossed it away. Rags went back to the bag of holding. She stared at it.
“Can use. Put heavy things inside.”
“Yes, Chieftain. What about horses?”
Noears pointed. Rags stared at the restless horses. Of all the things they’d looted from the Humans, that was perhaps the most valuable. She eyed the snow-white stallion that was pacing back and forth restlessly and shrugged.
“Put on wagons. Good food and goes fast.”
“Yes, Chieftain.”
Noears smacked his lips happily. Redscar came over, flipping a sword up and catching it by the hilt.
“Chieftain, what now? Go this way? Hills. Hard for Humans to follow. Can lose. Or fight.”
He pointed westwards. Rags looked the way he was pointing and saw a distant set of hills. She hesitated and then shook her head.
“No. We rest. Humans coming.”
“Not run?”
Redscar looked crestfallen. Rags nodded.
“Not run. Can’t.”
The Redfang leader grumbled, but he nodded. The Goblins lay about, just resting, looking at the burnt forest. Rags sat with Pyrite. After a while, she looked at him.
“Didn’t kill Human.”
“Hmm. Why?”
“Other Humans kill us.”
“They do that anyways.”
Rags nodded.
“Yes. But maybe they don’t kill as many this way. Maybe they stop. Maybe—”
A horn blew. Rags looked up. She waited and saw a line of riders circle around the forest. Pyrite looked up as well. The Goblins groaned and got to their feet.
“Maybe, Chieftain?”
“Maybe I’m wrong.”
Rags grumbled as she got up. Her body hurt. And she had burns now. But as she prepared to give the order to run, she saw the riders pause. They formed a line a few hundred meters away. Rags stared at them. She saw a familiar shape in front. Lord Pellmia stared towards the Goblins. He did not give the order to attack. Nor did his [Mages] send the customary rain of fireballs to get the Goblins moving. The horn blew again, but the Humans didn’t advance.
“Get moving! Humans moving!”
Pyrite called out loudly. The Goblins began packing up. Still, the Humans didn’t advance. Rags stared at the distant riders. They were giving the Goblins time. Only a few minutes. After about five had passed, the Humans began moving forwards at a trot. But that was enough. The Goblins began moving, and the Humans followed. The warhorses tethered to wagons snorted, but pulled the Goblins ahead. And Rags saw the Humans following. They didn’t press the Goblins like last time. They just followed.
The two Goblins stood together as the Goblins moved past them. They were tired, but they moved at a good pace nonetheless. The Goblins stared as they moved. At the little Goblin standing next to the fat Hob. She had not crushed the Humans. But she had hurt them. She had even spared some for some reason. She had set a forest ablaze. And she had shown them something. A plan. Hope.
Rags stood with Pyrite. She turned. She and Pyrite began jogging. He looked down at her.
“Maybe, Rags?”
“Maybe. Something will change. Or not. Humans still chasing. We still probably dying. But this is different.”
“What?”
The little Goblin reached up and touched her chest. She looked at Pyrite and smiled wearily.
“Us.”
