“Fine, sire. It’s just a bit of smoke.”
“Smoke?”
Lord Pellmia stared ahead. And then he saw it. A dark plume of smoke rising ahead of them. From the forest. He frowned. Then he saw someone galloping back towards him.
“Lord Pellmia! The Goblins are in the forest! They’ve set part of it aflame!”
“Damn!”
Pellmia cursed, and Kilmet signaled the column of riders to swerve out of the path of the smoke. The [Lord] growled, feeling the stinging in his eyes worsen despite the fresher air.
“Of course they would do that. That damn little Goblin’s their Chieftain. Veltras warned me about her. They’re trying to slow us down. It won’t work. Have five of our [Mages] with water spells ride ahead and douse the flames. And tell the scouts to move the Goblins faster! We’ll catch up.”
“Yes, Lord Pellmia!”
The rider turned her mount and rode ahead faster. Pellmia looked at Kilmet.
“Looks like Gilam will have a bit of excitement. Come on, I don’t want the Goblins to have time to set more fires. I can’t imagine how they found the time to set these ones. Do they have spellcasters among them? I only saw the lightning mage.”
“He probably did the fire setting. Lightning can do that.”
“Yes, but—”
Pellmia paused as he saw the rider galloping back.
“What now?”
“Lord Pellmia! There are more fires starting!”
“Well, put them out—”
“We can’t! There are hundreds! The entire forest is going up! Lord Pellmia, the Goblins—”
Pellmia saw a black haze coming towards him; he turned his head, spluttering and coughing as the horses whinnied. The riders slowed. When Pellmia could see again, he froze.
“Dead gods.”
The single smoke trail had multiplied. Now, dozens of areas were bleeding smoke. As Pellmia watched, he saw a red glow begin to spread between the trees. Kilmet stared, a wet handkerchief over his mouth.
“Fire. How did they—”
A roar made all the Humans jump. Pellmia saw a shower of sparks fly up from deeper inside the tree line. The red glow intensified. Now, the forest blazed from a hundred different spots. Smoke was rising everywhere. Lord Pellmia stared around in horror. How had the Goblins done it? They hadn’t time to start a fire, let alone gather enough fuel for this!
Then he saw a Goblin amid the trees. It was riding away from them, holding its blade aloft. The blade was steel, but it burned. One of the [Mages] cried out.
“Enchantment! The Goblins have enchanted blades! That’s [Burning Blade]!”
Several mounted [Archers] raised their bows, but the Goblin disappeared before they could loose. Pellmia turned to the [Mages].
“Stop the fire! Summon some rain!”
“We can’t! We’re not [Weather Mages]!”
“Then douse the fire with water!”
The [Mage] raised her hands.
“From where? We can’t conjure enough! The forest is burning! We have to go around!”
Pellmia nearly tore his mustache off.
“Those Goblins will have nearly an hour’s head start on us! Damn, damn—fine, turn the column! We have to catch them!”
He whirled his mount, about to use one of his Skills. But Kilmet’s voice stopped him.
“Pell!”
“What?”
The [Lord] looked back, harried. Kilmet’s face was pale as he stared into the burning forest.
“Gilam was with the scouts! He hasn’t returned! He must be inside the forest!”
Lord Pellmia felt the blood drain from his face. He stared into the forest.
“No, he rode out. Didn’t he?”
Kilmet looked at the [Scout]. The woman hesitated and then shook her head.
“I’ve not seen any of the riders. They would have exited the forest the instant they realized it was on fire, but—”
Pellmia didn’t listen to anything else. He charged his warhorse forwards, ignoring the cries from the others. He rode towards the forest, coughing, staring into the inferno. Now, fire was licking from the treetops. It had yet to reach the outermost layer, but Pellmia could hear a terrible crackling and snapping from within.
“Gilam!”
“Pell!”
Kilmet caught his friend before Pellmia could charge into the blaze. Pellmia swung his fist, and Kilmet staggered but held on. The Lord was shouting as the others caught up.
“Gilam! Where is he?”
“I’m sending a [Message] spell!”
The [Mage] had a finger to her temple. She stared into the fire and then pointed.
“There! East! They’re inside, trying to get out!”
She galloped her mount to the left. Pellmia followed her, heart pounding wildly in his chest. He saw her draw rein and back up her mount. The heat was making the horses shy away from the forest. But then she pointed.
“There! Someone give me a hand! [Wind Blast]!”
She pointed. Another mage cast the same spell, and the rush of air cleared the smoke and fire for a second. Pellmia spotted a distant group of shapes on horseback racing through the flames.
“Gilam! Clear a path for him!”
The [Mages] looked at each other, but then they began casting water spells. Pellmia stood up in his stirrups. He and the other riders began shouting, trying to attract the attention of the scouts. Pellmia could see their heads turning. He saw the riders turn towards them. And then—
And then they appeared. Dark shapes moved in the burning forest. The riders halted and then began to ride the other way. Pellmia stared. Then he saw them more clearly. Bounding shapes. Goblins on wolfback. And running behind them, Hobs and smaller Goblins armed with pikes.
The Goblins were moving. They charged through the burning forest, following the riders. Following Gilam.
“He killed a Hob yesterday.”
Kilmet’s voice was quiet. He was staring into the blaze. A burning branch fell from one tree, sending sparks flying upwards. The forest was turning into an inferno that not even magic could put out. Pellmia saw the riders fleeing. But the Goblins were surrounding them. He pointed with a shaking hand.
“Forwards! Don’t let them—”
“No! It’s a trap! Don’t let Lord Pellmia enter the forest! Stop him!”
Someone grabbed him as he tried to kick his warhorse forwards. Pellmia fought the hands. He screamed as true terror flooded his chest. His boy was in there. He drew his sword, and the hands fell back.
“Gilam! Stop! Don’t touch him! Gilam! Gilam!”
 
——
 
Rags stood at the edge of the forest. Her lungs hurt. The smoke half-blinded her, but the wind was blowing north. Away from her. Behind Rags, her tribe was moving far away from the burning forest. Goblins clutching burning weapons and sticks put them out and turned to stare at their handiwork.
They were impressed. So was Rags. Her [Burning Blades] spell had worked even better than she’d thought. Yes, it was terrible for use in battle, but free fire was free fire. And this—
This was a lot of fire. The forest roared as if it were alive. The fire sounded like a distant wind, but the burning and breaking trees sounded like thunder. Rags stared into the orange glow. It looked like death in there.
Good. At least two groups of Humans were caught in the blaze. They’d followed the Goblins into the forest, tried to stop them from setting fires. Now they were trapped. Rags could see them fleeing. She’d sent some of her Redfangs and Hobs in. They’d trapped the Humans. They couldn’t stay long—the fire would kill everything inside. But the Humans might still get away. And he was in there. That young Human.
“Chieftain?”
Pyrite stood by her side. Rags looked at him. She nodded.
“Hurt them.”
The Hob nodded. He eyed the fire and looked around.
“Can fight for five minutes. Then probably have burning death.”
Rags nodded.
“Five minutes good. Healing potions ready. Small group goes in. You stay back in case Humans attack.”
“Yes, Chieftain.”
Rags nodded at Pyrite. Then she looked around. The burning light of the forest was reflected in the eyes of her warriors. Redscar grinned as he leaned on the back of Thunderfur. Poisonbite and Quietstab were standing ready. Rags pointed.
“Hobs behind! Redfangs with me! We ride!”
She charged into the forest. Her Carn Wolf howled in fear as Rags crashed through the flames, but Rags had chosen a spot of the forest that had yet to be engulfed. She urged her wolf forwards. She had minutes. But the Humans were in sight. A group of them fought desperately, keeping back from the flames while the Goblins she’d sent in encircled them.
“Fall back!”
Rags screamed at the Goblins. They looked up and ran as her warriors streamed past them. The burnt Hobs and Redfangs gave way as more of their comrades charged the Humans. Rags stared around. There were thirty-odd riders here. But the one she was looking for—
There. She saw a flash of armor and a panicked figure striking around him. The Humans had their backs to a wall of fire, and the only way out was through the Goblins.
“They’re turning!”
Redscar snarled as he raced past Rags. She nodded. The Humans had no choice. They formed a clumsy line and then kicked their mounts forwards. Rags pointed.
“Forwards!”
Her Goblins screamed as they charged the Humans cut off by flames. Carn Wolves leapt at horses, making the already frightened animals rear and throw their riders off. Hobs filled the gaps, dismounting riders, cutting them down on the ground. Others grabbed the horses, dragging them towards safety. Rags watched the Goblins and Humans mixing in the confusion. But she only had eyes for one person. She waited as she saw him spur his mare past a group of fighting Hobs. Then she pointed.
“There!”
Her Carn Wolf leapt forwards. The young man lashed out, cutting another Redfang across the chest. He flinched as the Goblin’s sword skated off his breastplate. He turned—and saw Rags.
The fool had a helmet, but he’d forgotten to lower the visor. Rags saw a frightened young man’s face between the wrought metal. He was older than her. But he looked scared, like a child. He flailed at her with his enchanted sword as she charged him, crossbow in one hand, sword in the other. Rags drew her Carn Wolf out of range. Gilam tried to follow her, but his mount reared. A Hob was right in front of it. Quietstab swung a huge stave, and the [Lord] screamed and choked as the cudgel knocked him from the saddle.
He landed hard on the forest floor. He was alive—his armor had blocked the blow, but now he was on the ground. Quietstab ignored the young man—he yanked the white mare down as it tried to rear. Quick as a flash, he mounted it and kicked it into motion.
“Stop—”
Gilam croaked as the Hob took off with his horse. He got up clumsily and looked up as Rags rode towards him. Gilam’s face went pale. He fumbled for his sword. But he’d dropped it. He backed up as Rags stared down at him.
“You—you—”
Rags ignored his quavering voice. She aimed the crossbow right between Gilam’s eyes. He turned to run. Her Carn Wolf snarled and leapt. The impact threw Gilam to the ground. He rolled over weakly, and Rags stuck the crossbow’s tip into his helmet. Yes. Rags remembered Twofeather’s death. This was the moment. She wondered if she should say something. This felt so easy. So…she could hear Gilam panting loudly. It sounded like weeping.
“Gilam!”
Rags looked up. She heard a desperate shout. Someone was riding through the sea of flames. A man on horseback. Her eyes widened. Lord Pellmia himself was riding towards them, heedless of the fire that was making his horse scream. She looked down at Gilam and put the pieces together. This was his son!
Good. Rags saw the man casting about. Her Goblins were in full retreat. They had what they came for. The Humans were burning or dead. The Goblins had their horses and some of their gear. Staying any longer in the forest would be death. Rags had to follow them. Her finger tightened on the trigger.
“Father!”
Gilam flailed wildly. Rags’ Carn Wolf stomped on his chest, and he gasped. Somehow, Pellmia heard it. He turned, and Rags saw his form freeze.
“Stop!”
She saw the [Lord] riding at them, ignoring the flames that raged around him. She heard him scream. She had heard that scream before. Desperate. Helpless. She had heard Goblins weeping and screaming over their friends, their parents. She had heard Humans screaming the same as she burned their lands and homes.
Rags held very still. She could see Pellmia stop as he saw what was going on. The tip of her crossbolt was aimed straight at Gilam’s forehead. Her finger was on the trigger. Rags met the [Lord]’s eyes. He would see his son die. That seemed fitting. She’d watched him cut down families when his forces assaulted the city. This was justice.
“Stop.”
Pellmia’s voice rasped as he held out a hand. Rags didn’t move. Her Carn Wolf snarled in fear and anger as the fire closed in. Rags felt the tension in her crossbow’s trigger. One pull and Gilam died. And Pellmia would be broken.
As she’d broken when she’d seen Relc cutting the heads off her family. He’d hummed a song as he did it. This was vengeance for that moment. For Laken Godart. For Tyrion. For all of it. Only, it wasn’t enough. Pellmia would come for her after she killed his son. Rags would have to evade him.
The small Goblin held still as she considered it. Yes, he’d follow her—or stay with his son. Either way, he’d probably die. But if he followed her, she’d have to lure him back to Pyrite. He was probably good at fighting. And if she killed him, would the Humans stop or follow? She could hear them in the forest now, calling his name in desperation.
Loyalty. They’d come after her tribe. But they’d be leaderless. Could she beat them? Or would it be better to run and hide? Rags hesitated. She could hear sobbing now. She glanced down in irritation. The young [Lord] couldn’t even die quietly.
It was hot. Rags stared at Pellmia. His face was white. He stood in the forest as it turned to embers around him.
“Chieftain!”
A voice. Rags turned. Poisonbite was waiting. She had a group of Goblins armed with crossbows. They were taking aim at Pellmia. She pointed.
“Hurry and kill! We go! Forest burning! Burning pain death!”
Yes. Rags saw it clearly now. Shoot Gilam. Keep Pellmia back. Aim for his horse. Her finger tightened on the string. The crossbow’s trigger shifted. Kill him. And kill the Humans that came after him. Slaughter them. They’d kill her people otherwise. She had to kill them. Or run.
As Goblins did.
Rags saw a burning farmhouse. She saw a blind man declaring war. She saw a city burning as her Hobs streamed through the gates. She saw a Human army fleeing as she cut them down. She saw the Humans cutting down her tribe from behind. And the pieces fit together. She looked at Pellmia and saw something strange.
