Ulvama was doing the same calculations as Erin. But the end result didn’t make her feel any better, or the fact that the leader of the Cottontail Raiders was female. Age really didn’t matter when it came to committing horrific acts. Goblins didn’t live long at all, and Tremborag’s Goblins learned fast…
The raiders kept peering at her, excited and whispering. One asked her name. Ulvama kept her mouth shut and backed up against a wall, moving into a corner. They had to grab the aphid, which was now panicking, and the trio who’d unbound her dragged a chair and table into what looked like a storeroom full of pilfered goods.
No windows she could escape from. Just one door, and the walls seemed to be…clay? Ulvama tried to put a shaking hand on the wall as she eyed the teensy windows in the ceiling. Could she break out? Not right now.
—And she had no time. The door opened, and the leader of this group of young Fraerlings came striding in. She had a mask that resembled a dragonfly’s face, and two other subordinates flanked her. When she pulled the mask off, Ulvama saw a face somewhat like Zinni’s.
She had reddish-black hair, an impertinent, cocky grin, and swaggered around in a riding outfit adapted for the aphids. She carried no blade that Ulvama could see, and she had no scars on her face. When she saw Ulvama squeezed into a corner, her face grew confused, and she beckoned.
“Hey, you can sit in a chair, y’know. Did those idiots give you a rough time? I told ‘em to be careful. You’re our prisoner now. Do you know who we are?”
She waited. Ulvama weighed a response against silence.
Better to say something rather than make them angry. She spoke.
“The raiders who raid the villages.”
“That’s right! Cottontail Raiders! And you’re looking at Matha, the leader herself! We’re the outlaws who can steal even from rabbits! See that jacket? Made from a hare’s tail!”
One of the two young women flanking Matha burst out, indicating the jacket that Matha half-flexed with a cocky smile. Ulvama’s stare…intensified.
Stealing cotton from the tail of a rabbit. She supposed that was the kind of thing only a Fraerling would boast of, or a very weird [Thief]. The Hobgoblin said nothing, though.
Something was—off. Ulvama had been captured before. By Humans, other Goblins—she had told Erin that, in the cages of Roshal’s ship, which felt like they were around her now. She wasn’t even bound with manacles, but she was shaking—
Something…Matha glanced at her, then whispered to a subordinate.
“Hey, get her a blanket. I think she’s cold.”
“In this weather?”
“Shut up and do it. Hey, you can sit in a chair Miss…Goblin. You are a Goblin, yeah?”
“Yes. A Hobgoblin.”
“Cool.”
Matha breathed the word, eyes lighting up. She hesitated, then came over and squatted a bit, at a distance. Ulvama stared at her as the other two Fraerlings peered at her face.
“She’s got red eyes, just like the stories.”
“Shut up. Don’t stare. You’re bothering her.”
—Ulvama realized a bunch of faces were peering through the doorway, even the windows. They backed up when Matha glared at them. Then Matha sat back on her haunches. She hesitated, then cleared her throat.
“So, I bet you’re wondering why we kidnapped you and all.”
No. Ulvama said nothing, but her puzzlement grew as Matha glanced at her subordinates. They were nudging her, then whispering. She hesitated, coughed, then slicked back her hair, which she’d cut very short. She adjusted her jacket again, then gave Ulvama a huge, cocksure grin.
“So, uh, what’s your name? I’m Matha, and this lot’s the only Fraerlings who aren’t cat-stupid with laws and regulations. We’re a lot more interesting than anyone in the villages. Sorry about kidnapping you. D’you—fancy a drink? Because I’ll buy you one. We have money and drinks.”
Her voice cracked on the drink question. Then she held out a gloved hand and blushed faintly. Ulvama stared at her. Then at the other ‘raiders’. The one who’d gotten a blanket held it out; she had spiked blue hair and tried to elbow her leader aside.
“I’m Lantis. A [Raider Rider]. I’m the second-in-command over here. You want something to drink? Or just—hang out and talk? Your arm-paints are ice cool. Do you do them yourself?”
Then they were all fighting to introduce themselves and assure Ulvama she wasn’t a captive—just a guest they wanted to get to know. Ulvama—after the terrible, terrible fear in her heart abated enough for her to breathe—realized her mistake.
And theirs. She finally moved out of the corner as Matha offered her a hand up.
“Sorry if we scared you. I told them not to freak you out, but they’re all idiots, and Zemmy and Mera are dangerous. So…what’s an attractive Goblin like you doing in the most boring part of Baleros?”
She tried to lean on one of her friends, and Ulvama opened her mouth.
No words came out right away. Just general incredulity. She watched as several other Cottontail Raiders tried to flirt with her, and then her mental stupefaction gave way to fear and concern again.
Because she’d realized she wasn’t in danger, at least, not immediately.
…But Erin didn’t know that.
 
——
 
People liked to pretend Erin was a mystery, and she in many ways was—Ulvama didn’t pretend to know all of what went on in her head. She was a very original, fascinating person, and not just because she liked Goblins.
The surface read of Erin’s silly, bubbly personality was obviously false; Ulvama had seen through that the moment they’d met. She hid what she really thought, much like Ulvama herself. Of course, the parts she let leak out were revealing—and who she had become was also revealing.
A Woman of Fire or, as the old [Witches] and [Shamans] would have called her, eh…Vizikashónu? It meant something, but Ulvama had forgotten some of the old stories she’d learned as a child. Women who’d taken on the power of flames, much like the People of Metal.
A firebringer, like Maviola El. A [Witch]. And—Erin had remained an [Innkeeper]. The other two things weren’t actually as strange as the latter. Flaming [Witches] were common. Just look at Anazurhe and her entire aesthetic. Or your average [Witch] when a mob found them.
It was when someone didn’t immediately grab at glory or power that Ulvama was surprised. Everyone was a Tremborag, deep down. They just didn’t have the power he had wielded. But Erin was like…
Pyrite. Another Goblin who’d annoyed and fascinated a younger Ulvama, and who had caught the attention of that other mystery. Greydath of Blades. It was hard for Ulvama to guess what any of them were thinking, but that wasn’t to say Erin was unreadable.
For instance, as Ulvama sat in her ‘guest quarters’ in the Cottontail Raiders’ base, picking at the aphid wool blanket they’d given her, she had a very concrete idea of what Erin was thinking and what she was going to do.
Namely: Ulvama has been kidnapped, might be being assaulted now. Therefore, I should murder everything in a straight line from me to her.
The [Shaman] appreciated that line of thinking, generally speaking, but it was abundantly clear to her now that her terrifying captors were less of the Bloodfeast Raiders’ type, and more…she glanced up.
“Idiot children.”
A few of the peeking Fraerlings ducked away from the door. One waved, grinning cheerily as Ulvama balefully eyed the waving Fraerling with a bow made out of carved wood.
That’s the biggest longbow I’ve ever seen in my life. It was half again as tall as the Fraerling. Ulvama wasn’t even sure how you were supposed to fire it, but she supposed the strength of a Fraerling meant it was somewhat feasible.
However, its wielder was a girl who looked no more than seventeen, still had acne, and for all her swagger, had that awkward quality about her, such as banging into the doors as she kept forgetting she had the bow on her back. She had green hair cut short in the style of her leader, Matha, and insect mandibles made into a crown around her head. She bounced around like one of those little dogs Drakes kept, all energy and excitement and not a hint of menace in her.
Clearly, she thought this was a big game and the raiders kidnapping Ulvama was a great way to make friends. Her face fell as Ulvama glowered and pulled at the strands of aphid wool on the blanket.
“Is she still mad? She keeps glaring at us.”
“I bet she’s mad Suvvie and the others kidnapped her. Did they jostle her about?”
“Maybe she’s hungry? Hey, miss, are you hungry? We’ve got—what do we have?”
“Acorn oatmeal?”
“Yuck, don’t give her that. She’s our guest. Do we have any fried spidersac eggs? They’re really nummy.”
Yep. Kids. Ulvama closed her eyes. Her panic and terror over what she’d thought was about to happen was fading slowly, leaving her mad and upset, but no matter how she looked at it—these idiot children playing at runaways weren’t evil. Just stupid.
If Erin kills or hurts them, she won’t forgive herself. So Ulvama had to deescalate the situation and get word to Erin before someone got stabbed. So, she stood up as she finished working on the blanket. She felt at her pockets and the belt pouch that Veerni had given her as a present, then spoke.
“I want to leave. Or send a message. Where’s your leader?”
She strode out the door of the storage room, and the gaggle of Fraerlings followed her.
“You can’t leave! You just got here! Matha’s breaking in the new aphid.”
“Then I want to send a message. Can anyone here cast [Message]? Or take a letter from me to…Wyewesshi? Is that closest?”
It was the longbow Fraerling who waved a hand.
“Yep! We’re only thirty minutes away from—”
Everyone kicked her instantly.
“Aithe! Shut up! Do you have eggs in your brain? She’s our captive! She’ll tell Zemmy and Mera where we are! Or worse—Eurise!”
“You’re so stupid, Aithe. This is why no one likes you.”
“I’m sorry! She asked, and I just said—”
Ulvama focused on Aithe, picking her out as someone she could probably get answers from. Or manipulate.
Every group has the silly one. The one who’s kinder or softer, or thinks she is. If they had me locked up and were worse, she’s the one I’d beg for help. I can probably trick her into helping me…
No, I’m too new. They’ll notice. If I had time, I could use her; right now, it’s best to just get information.
She sidled over and, following a hunch, grabbed the girl’s arm.
“I’m Ulvama. And you’re Aithe? Can you take a message for me?”
She smiled, showing the Fraerling her teeth, and Aithe went round-eyed. She stuttered.
“I—uh—I can’t! I mean, not right now. Wyewesshi’s searching for us since we stole Zinni’s best aphid. But once a day or two passes, we’ll tell them you’re our prisoner! Don’t worry, we’re really nice. And Matha’ll probably let you go.”
Someone muttered from the side.
“Yeah, right. Not so long as she thinks she’s got a chance.”
Ulvama’s eyes narrowed. She leaned over, and Aithe gulped. The Fraerling glanced down at Ulvama’s chest, then back up at her and went bright red.
Yep, she’s interested in my body. Easier.
“What about a [Message] spell? I really have to tell my friend I’m okay.”
“A what?”
Ulvama’s hopes were dashed as she recalled Fraerlings might have advanced magic, but they lacked some things. Like [Message] spells. Aithe glanced around, and someone pushed past the others. One of Matha’s top lieutenants, who had a wand and the look of a [Mage]. She was shorter and had spectacles and a self-important expression.
“Hi, Miss Ulvama. I’m Qole, Matha’s left hand. We don’t have [Message] spells in Fraerling villages. That’s Tallfolk magic, and everyone can trace it. I reckon I could learn it, but the spellbooks that teach it are off limits. But if you need magic, I’m your [Sorcerer]! I can cast Tier 4 magic.”
She stuck out a gloved hand, and Ulvama blinked. Another kid. She was older than Aithe, but Tier 4 at Qole’s age…
Damn Fraerlings. I was a genius for casting Tier 3 magic at her age. Ulvama glowered.
“Well, I need someone to send a message to Dretonamis, then. Saying I’m fine. I’ll write it myself.”
“No can-do, Miss Ulvama. They’ll just try to capture us since they’re probably searching for you. Relax! No one’s going to hurt you.”
“I’m not worried about my wellbeing. My friend—Erin—she’s going to come after me. She’s worried about me.”
Qole exchanged a glance with the others, which was excited rather than nervous.
“The Human? That’s great! We wanted to meet her too.”
“No, not great. She’s going to try and rescue me.”
“Right, so we’ll capture her. Even if Zemmy and Mera come around, we’ve beaten them and we’ll do it again.”
That statement got less enthusiasm from the group, but Aithe nodded along confidently, and Ulvama took a breath. She didn’t miss the way Qole, and several other Fraerlings of both genders, were eying her.
Which was interesting, in a vague way. Ulvama knew Drake and Human cultures, and what they called Turnscales were hated and outcast, but Goblin tribes varied. Tremborag’s Mountain City tribe had copied their views from Humans, mostly, but Molten Stone—where Ulvama had grown up—hadn’t cared who you loved.
Well, Ulvama didn’t really feel like being flirted with now, but she was a [Shaman], and influence was influence. It also explained why half the raiders were fascinated by her—outside of the Goblin thing. Again, she had a thought.
Easy to make them fight. Sleep with one and the others get jealous. Or just flirt.
…No. Not now, not needed, and not enough time. Bad idea, but I could do it.
I don’t have to do it. Erin’s coming. She reminded herself of that. Normally, there was no one.
“Erin isn’t going to be kidnapped, Qole. She’s dangerous. She’s over Level 50.”
Qole’s eyes widened with excitement rather than alarm.
“She is? Even better! We can handle anything she does, don’t worry. We raid old Zinni all the time, and even Eurise can’t catch us!”
I bet Zinni doesn’t want to actually go after her granddaughter, and Eurise described you as harmless pests. Ulvama’s teeth were grinding together as she tried to work through the others’ confidence. Then she had another thought.
It’s been, what, forty minutes? If I were Erin, the first thing I’d do is use the [Pavilion of Secrets] to make sure I was well. I can tell her I’m okay. So…why hasn’t she contacted me?
