Erin described the effect of the [Pavilion of Secrets] like a split in time. You went in, had a conversation, and while time passed for you, the person on the other end would nap or experience the interaction in the blink of an eye once it was done. A part of them would be talking to you, but it didn’t stop them from living their lives.
But Ulvama hadn’t been summoned, which implied a few things.
Either Erin was panicking so much she wasn’t using it, or the Skill was still malfunctioning, or…Ulvama recalled Erin talking about people she hadn’t been able to talk to, like Nereshal of the Blighted Kingdom. She narrowed her eyes.
“Okay, another question. Am I being warded by magic?”
This question provoked a sparkle of excitement from Qole, who puffed out her chest.
“Noticed, did you? That’s right, not even the olds in the villages can figure out where we are! I made a wardstone myself; it’s why no one’s ever found our base.”
Everyone nodded as Ulvama glanced around and saw a hanging stone. Now that she looked around, the Cottontail Raiders’ base turned out to be a literal treehouse; it was built into the side of a branch, somewhat ramshackle wood buildings propped up on struts of wood hammered into the tree. It seemed very fragile, but Ulvama supposed everything was lightweight.
A stone inscribed with glowing runes was hanging from a little net above the biggest building, and Ulvama had to admit it was pretty powerful. She eyed it as Aithe piped up cheerfully.
“That’s right! No one can find us! Except that time Zemmy did. And the time we stole old Gollesume’s spellbook and we had to change bases again. Or the fire when—”
Qole flicked fire at Aithe, and the bow-wielding Fraerling leapt back with a shout of alarm. The [Sorcerer] glared, then turned back to Ulvama.
“So no messages, sorry. No one is going out of the base either, unless Matha says so. We already had one of our own caught.”
“Aren’t you worried she’ll tell them where we are?”
Qole waved this off.
“What? Fenmi? We’ll break her out in a day. Old Zinni never managed to get anyone to squeal.”
“Uh huh. Well, I can see you think everything is going to go fine. Are you the smart person in the camp?”
“I’m the brains, yep.”
Ulvama peered at the other raiders, who might not have been on-board with her attitude, but weren’t going to fight her on it.
“I suppose, by comparison, you are.”
Qole’s confident smile turned into slightly narrowed eyes. She eyed Ulvama up and down again, then stepped forwards.
“Just because we’re hospitable raiders doesn’t mean we’re gonna tolerate rudeness, Miss Goblin. I thought you’d be more interesting and like us. Aren’t you bored out of your mind after a month with the olds in Dretonamis? We’re more fun here. Want us to show you around?”
Her eyes sparkled with anticipation. Ulvama gave her a straight-faced look. Yep. Idiots who thought they lived boring lives. She sighed, then took Qole’s hand. The [Sorcerer] started, then watched as Ulvama lifted the hem of the tunic Zinni had forced her to wear.
She put Qole’s hand up the front of her tunic, and the [Sorcerer] went bright red as her hand touched Ulvama’s breasts. She yanked her hand back as if she’d been scalded.
“What was that for?”
Ulvama’s smile was slightly sinister. It was the smile she gave people she was considering biting the ears off of. Aithe stared at her open-mouthed as the [Shaman] leaned forwards.
“I want to speak to your leader. Very prettily please?”
Qole hesitated, and then her eyes slid towards Aithe. The other Cottontail Raiders gazed at each other. Kidnapping this Goblin?
A great idea.
 
——
 
Matha was bouncing around from branch to branch, breaking in the aphid she’d stolen much like someone broke in a horse. It was certainly fast; even the other aphids seemed smaller and slower by comparison.
But she stopped when Qole hurried over to call out to her. Ulvama waited, arms folded. Aithe kept peering at her and fidgeting. So did a lot of the other Fraerlings.
Everyone wanted the same things in the end. Right now, Ulvama needed to get word to Erin that she was okay. So the straightest route to someone like Matha was simple. Men and women were alike across species. Not the same, but they both had ways you could use them.
Of course, I don’t have to. If I do it wrong, it gets—bad. Have to be careful. But without charming one, all of them can be bad.
It’s not like that this time. Probably. I have to see. They always show what they want if they can get it. All it takes is one and they stop being nice. Careful—be very careful now—
She watched Matha’s reactions like a hawk, but without showing it. Planning the next part carefully. It would all depend on Matha, and thus far, she reacted like how Ulvama expected.
Matha listened as Qole dashed over, and whatever the [Sorcerer] said, it wasn’t what someone else blurted out. Matha’s head spun around, and then she began to argue with Qole and hurriedly got off the aphid.
Seems like I don’t even need to use magic or anything else. Ulvama hid a dark smile. Then she turned to Aithe.
“Do you share rooms or does Matha have her own house?”
“Um. That’s hers.”
The Fraerling archer had lost her eager smile. She pointed to the biggest hut, and Ulvama began to walk towards it. The green-haired girl followed her, hopping along because her bow was so big even walking normally was hard.
“Um—um—Miss Ulvama?”
“Call me Ulvama. What?”
She gave Aithe a less-toothy smile, and the Fraerling hopped from foot to foot.
“I’m, uh—Matha’s acting tough and cool, and so is Qole, because they think you’re the coolest thing that’s ever come to the villages. She really likes you.”
“I can tell.”
“R-right. But you don’t, um—you don’t have to—we kidnapped you, but we’re gonna let you go. Okay?”
The girl appeared nervous and turned a shade redder as Ulvama pulled the door to Matha’s house open. The [Shaman] turned and gave the Fraerling a second, longer look. Then she took a step back and rubbed the Fraerling girl’s hair.
Yep, dyed. Ulvama found some of what seemed like a green pollen on her hands. She sniffed it, then smiled at Aithe.
“Don’t worry. I’m in control.”
Aithe opened her mouth, confused, and then Ulvama slipped inside Matha’s rooms. She pulled something out of her belt pouch and waited.
Whatever Matha expected when she entered her own rooms, finding Ulvama in it, sitting on her bed, threw the raiders’ leader. She hesitated, then made a show of striding in.
“Hey there, Qole says you want to get a message to your friend and that she’s gonna be mad. Relax! I’ll get word to Wyewesshi—tonight. Some of the girls are gonna scout it out to try and free Fenmi.”
Ulvama smiled at Matha as the Fraerling hesitated, then awkwardly pulled up a chair.
“Uh—like my place?”
It was a room furnished with hand-made furniture, lower-quality than Dretonamis, probably all made by the raiders. A few pieces seemed stolen, and there were trophies of insects and animals on the walls that Matha had probably slain herself. Ulvama patted the bed.
“It’s very comfy.”
“Uh—glad you like it. I’ve never had any complaints!”
Matha’s cheeks were slightly red. She stared at Ulvama’s chest, and the [Shaman] leaned forwards.
“I don’t like being kidnapped. Erin’s very worried about me. Qole told you she’s level 50? She needs to be told I’m well, understand?”
Matha bristled at Ulvama’s tone slightly and spread her hands.
“Hey, I’m sorry if we scared you, but no harm, no foul, right? I’ll send word tonight. We’ll shoot an arrow with a letter—”
“Not tonight. Send someone now. Do it as a favor to me and I’ll like being here a lot more. Can you do that?”
Matha hesitated, then shook her head.
“Listen, we just hit Wyewesshi, and I bet Zinni’s pissed. I could send someone to Dretonamis; it’s only an hour if they hop fast. But they’re probably on the lookout too, and dodging the olds—the old folk—is hard. Your friend will worry for a few hours, that’s all.”
“She’s not going to worry. She’s going to try and kill you.”
This time, Matha blinked, and her face went slack. Then she grinned.
“Well, once we straighten the situation out, I bet we’ll get along. That’s why you and she are interesting.”
Ulvama sighed.
“I think you don’t understand the words I’m speaking. I don’t mean, ‘she’s going to try to kill you’ like…punching you or being angry. She is going to try and stab you to death or burn you alive. I’ve seen her kill people before. She stabbed a [Prince] through the heart for a friend of hers. She’s going to do the same thing for me.”
Matha’s eyes went round, confirming that she hadn’t ever done the same. Innocent, innocent…Ulvama saw her hesitate and hoped—but then Matha burst out excitedly.
“A [Prince]? An actual [Prince]? This is when you were Tallfolk, right? Who? How? So you’re [Warriors]? She is? They said she was an [Innkeeper]?”
Dead gods. Ulvama closed her eyes a second. She actually hadn’t ever run into this…this…innocence. For all Fraerlings fought every day against huge creatures, there wasn’t the same awareness of darkness that Ulvama knew. No murderers. No crime on the level a city got.
Okay. She decided to move onto Plan B. Ulvama sighed and got off the bed.
“She is an [Innkeeper] who’s very good at fighting. I’m a [Shaman]. From Izril. I come from a Goblin tribe. Erin has an inn.”
“Right. I knew that. We hear things from the villages. We would’ve come sooner to pick you two up, but it’s hard to get anyone in Dretonamis. We knew you’d probably visit Wyewesshi, so we were waiting. [Shaman]. That’s neat. Qole will want to ask you about magic. I’m an [Insect Raidrider]. I’ve killed a few big monsters myself. I even had to take out a viper once, solo.”
She puffed out her chest before realizing that might not mean much to a Tallfolk. She eyed Ulvama’s magical paint.
“Nice, um, paints. Do you make them yourself?”
“Yep. I help people. Enchant them. If you’re going to keep me here, maybe I’ll do some of the others.”
Matha twisted around as Ulvama walked past her, glancing around the room.
“That’d be cool. Everyone really wants to get to know you. Listen—I know you’re upset, but let us make it up to you. We’ll get a letter to your friend, and we can, uh, talk. Qole said you, uh—is there anything you need? Because if you’re down to hang out, I’d definitely like to get to know you, but no pressure.”
She gave Ulvama a winning smile, and the [Shaman] peered at her as she raised her brows. She wore a slight smile.
“Maybe. I just wanted to make sure I explained why I was very concerned. Is that armor enchanted?”
She poked at it, and Matha self-consciously removed a piece of the armor that was much like the clothing from her village.
“What? Oh, yeah. Qole can enchant stuff. Not long, but it’s all wind resistance and stuff. Well, anti-resistance so we can hop faster. And toughness. Can’t forget it…uh, want to see? Like I said, I know the kidnapping wasn’t cool, but we’re outlaws. Zemmy and Mera are just idiots who’ll fight us on sight. So, um. Sorry.”
Ulvama nodded as she turned the pauldron over. She saw Matha turning to peer up at her and then glanced down.
“I was very scared.”
“I, uh—sorry. I told them to be careful.”
Ulvama handed the pauldron back to Matha, and the Fraerling fumbled with it. She stepped to Matha’s other side.
“They were, I suppose, but I was terrified. I thought I would be in very great danger. And that’s why Erin has to know. Do you understand? Erin and I just escaped Roshal. Do you know…who they are?”
“Roshal? Never heard of ‘em. We know some of the big nations and stuff. Y’know, the Iron Vanguard, Jungle Tails, Stormhooves, and on Izril it’d be…Tribe Plainshowl? And Lesegoth and, uh…Mershi?”
Matha was clearly distracted, fumbling for history and throwing names out there. Ulvama shook her head. She laced her claws together.
“Roshal are [Slavers]. They were going to make us slaves. Erin saved us both. But they had us in one of their ships. Do you know what [Slavers] are?”
“I…”
So surprising. Matha hesitated, and Ulvama smiled sweetly as she leaned forwards and put her hands on the [Raidrider]’s shoulders.
“It’s the same as what you’d do to someone you captured, like a Goblin. You put a collar on them, and then you can beat them or kill them or have sex with them because you own them. That’s what Roshal is. That’s what we escaped. Do you understand? When you kidnapped me, I thought you were going to rape me.”
That sunk home. Matha jerked as Ulvama put her hands together. She opened her mouth.
“What? I’d never—”
The strand of aphid wool that Ulvama had pulled free of the blanket they’d given her was surprisingly tough, especially if you twined it properly. But you only ever needed a bit of fabric anyways. The Hobgoblin had hidden it in her hands, and she pulled the improvised garrote across Matha’s neck.
The young Fraerling woman had good reactions. She tried to grab the piece of cord reflexively, then reached for her side; Ulvama spoke.
“[Weaken Muscles].”
She held the garrote with one hand as she flicked the dagger away. The [Raidrider]’s feet kicked as she tried to push herself away, but Ulvama just knocked both of them out of the chair and knelt on Matha’s back. She was choking, spit dribbling from her mouth, and the [Shaman] could feel the Fraerling’s heart racing.
Terror. Matha was staring ahead, trying to dig her fingers into the noose around her neck, and even if she was high-level, she still had to breathe. Her lips were moving, and her face was red—
Ulvama waited until Matha’s fingers were scrabbling desperately, and then she let go. Almost—she almost had the urge to just strangle the girl until she passed out, go outside, and take her chances stealing an aphid or breaking the stone.
Instead, she let her grip slacken and heard the half-scream of breath, then the choking and sobbing wheezing, coughing as Matha tore the garotte away and lay there. Ulvama sat back on the bed and waited.
When Matha came up, it was on all fours, and she appeared ready to attack, but Ulvama gave her a full Goblin’s smile.
“When you’re someone’s prisoner or all tied up, they can do anything they want to you. I could have done that to you. You couldn’t have stopped me. No one would have known you were screaming. That’s what a [Slave] is.”
“You almost killed—we didn’t hurt you!”
Matha was gasping for breath, backing away from Ulvama.
“How was I supposed to know that? How is Erin? Do you know what it’s like to be held down and attacked? I do.”
