Erin tried to refocus this on the person who’d really suffered, the dead girl, but Mrsha’s nose was running, and she held up a card.
No, you dummy! You’re the one who got locked up in chains!
“I didn’t die and—and outrun Kasigna. You died, Mrsha! You—and I wasn’t there—”
Erin’s voice was shaking as it hit her again. Really hit her, and she saw Mrsha sitting there and realized why the Gnoll had flinched every time she saw the door. The girl’s eyes were wide, and she opened her mouth in a silent shout.
Even when I was driving away from the Goblin King, I wasn’t as afraid as I was when you were gone. Even then—even when I was waiting for her to catch up, I was just sad I messed it up. But you…they were going to do horrible things to you. I saw futures where you got captured. I wish I’d saved those Erins. I wish I’d saved just one more person.
Now she was crying too hard to write, and Erin felt her eyes truly burning. She tried to hold Mrsha, and her voice broke.
“I’m—I tried to, Mrsha. Seve’s dead. Embraim. I led them straight into their deaths. Altestiel. Even Kevin. Even if he’s—it hurts. It hurts so much that I can’t bear it. Ulvama. If it weren’t for her, I think I would burn up. I have to protect her. She saved me there, and I’m—Mrsha.”
She was weeping again, and the little girl backed up. Erin knew the flames were running down her eyes, knew she was scaring the girl, but she couldn’t help it. The flames weren’t a memory. They were her emotions, a roaring fire that burned out of her eyes, above her head, and across her back. She saw Mrsha’s eyes go wide as she held the wand out. The firelight reflected off her fur, that turquoise glow…
…Not black?
[The Wandering Innkeeper] felt at her cheeks and then peered down at the flames burning on her hands. What met her eyes wasn’t the twisting, invisible flame of hatred or anger distorting the air by its presence—it was something familiar, but different.
Turquoise flame, not quite blue, but bright. Bright. The most vibrant flame that Erin had ever seen. Unlike the flame of fear, this was incandescent and lit up the gazebo brighter than the sun, it felt like.
“Wh—what flame is this?”
It was all over her. Radiating upwards and forming her hat, streaking down her face, but it…it was burning her, yet the tears that ran from her eyes felt genuine. Erin drew a breath that turned into a sob, and Mrsha gazed up. Her own eyes were wide with tears, and she wrote a single word out of what she saw.
It was obvious, to the Gnoll girl, in every twisting flicker of the fire, the depths of the self-loathing, the grief mixed with pieces of honor and failed dreams. The weeping [Innkeeper] who had knelt in her inn as it fell to pieces as a skeleton died. The woman who had fought Skinner, who lay on the raft counting the dead—a true flame that defined the [Witch of Remorse].
Guilt.
The piercing light radiated outwards, condensing into a single flame that Erin held in her palm, so vivid that neither one could look into its heart. It had so many layers and so many depths, Mrsha thought she could fall into a sea of fire.
“It hurts. Just like it should. It does hurt, and it only hurts less when I’m so numb I don’t feel it.”
The [Innkeeper] whispered. She yanked the fire back as Mrsha reached for it, but the girl was fearless. She stuck her paw out.
I’m an [Emberbearer], or I was. I carried your last flame. Let me touch it, Erin. Please. It’s my fire too. I just can’t make it.
Erin gazed into Mrsha’s eyes, and because it was true, she gently held out the flame, and Mrsha let the flames dance onto her fur. They grew, as if feeding off her emotions, and then the two of them held the fire.
“Mrsha. I’m…I’m not sure if I can say I’m proud of you. Not for dying. Not for this. I don’t want you to ever do something like that again. I’m not proud. I don’t think I should be. But I do think…I think you were a heroine of your own story. I wish it had ended better for you, but you tried. You did your best, and I’m glad I can talk to you. I’m so glad.”
The girl was crying, nodding, until she fumbled her wand and wrote.
And I want you to get better. And come back so I can hug you and Ulvama and we can sit and watch movies and eat popcorn and never get in trouble again. Please come back safely.
“I’ll try. I will.”
The [Innkeeper] whispered. She wiped at her eyes and realized—she wasn’t burning anymore. The flame in her hand burned so bright, but it was absorbing all her guilt. A beacon of it, but so long as Erin held it…
She felt so many things, but one small part of it was wonder. And as if it had lifted a pall from her mind—Erin whispered.
“Kevin’s alive? Truly?”
A burning flame flickered in her eyes, so brief, so faint, that only Mrsha saw it. The Gnoll held her breath and nodded.
Yes. And others. But Kevin made it back.
“Oh.”
Erin had to sit back down again. Mrsha dropped her flame and climbed into the [Innkeeper]’s lap and had to explain more. And then she saw it, just for a second.
A wondering smile. When she saw that, Mrsha too felt like she could smile again.
 
——
 
They parted ways a bit after that. The conversation grew a bit lighter, by which Mrsha meant that she was telling Erin about the reactions everyone had had to the Goblin King, and Erin was asking about the Crossroads that Mrsha had seen.
“I feel like I remember conversations with the Grand Design. Sometimes. I definitely had at least one, but I think it’s sort of a weird character.”
It’s definitely a bit of a poop. The Second Edition was cool. You would have liked it.
Erin smiled and laughed again at that. Not a great laugh, more like a wet chuckle, but she did laugh. She seemed a bit younger, suddenly, and she glanced up.
“I’ll ask you about it later. Right now, I’m leaving Ulvama behind, and I have a mess—can I call you back?”
Sure. Just don’t do it when I’m asleep or I might pee myself if I see the door at night. Thanks. I’ll, um, I’ll see you later and tell Mom you’re okay.
“Sure. I’ll talk to you soon as I can. I promise. Are you sure you don’t want to ask anything else?”
Mrsha tilted her head.
How many people did you stab? Actually, I don’t think I want to know. Um…I was gonna ask if Ulvama was good, but we covered that. Tell her I’m concerned about her since she can’t eat all the snacks anymore. And I guess that’s it. I’ll be here, Erin. I’m not doing anything right now, I promise. I just eat food and read books. It’s great.
She spread her arms, trying to show Erin how great and normal and un-disasterly it all was. Erin sat there.
“I wish I could give you something to help with the attention or—can I talk to anyone pressuring the inn? I might help. Or hinder.”
She bit her lip, and Mrsha held up a finger.
Mom’s got that. Leave the inn to us! Just focus on you getting big again. Or I’ll put you in Visma’s dollhouse when you get back. And besides. You did give me something.
“…Words of wisdom? Reassurance?”
Mrsha rolled her eyes.
No, dumbass—sorry. This.
She held up a paw, and Erin blinked as that turquoise flame appeared. The fire of guilt burned in Mrsha’s paw, and the girl grinned.
“But how—? You can’t do that!”
Both of them jumped as Pavilion-Erin appeared. She pointed, and Mrsha hid the flame behind her back. It was Erin’s turn to grin.
“She is an [Emberbearer]. It’s memory, not fire.”
“That’s not—this has never occurred in the history of the [Pavilion of Secrets]. I’m checking this.”
Pavilion-Erin vanished, and Erin nudged Mrsha.
“Better get out of here before she does something.”
Yeah, like murder me again.
“What?”
Long story, talk to you later!
The door opened, and Mrsha walked through, holding the fire in her paw proudly. Erin glanced over her shoulder as the door slammed shut.
“You did what?”
“Another version of me, doubtless. I asked.”
“And?”
Erin waited. The [Pavilion of Secrets] glowered.
“No objections were raised.”
The [Innkeeper] blinked, then laughed. She turned on her heel and then walked back to her own door. When she reached it, she felt better.
Truly.
 
——
 
If Ulvama had been putting money down on who could help Erin in her current state, she would have put all her money on ‘probably not Mrsha’.
No, she would have probably won a few silver in a tiny side bet. When she saw the [Innkeeper] reappear, Ulvama could tell something was better. But the Hobgoblin didn’t break off her job to talk just yet.
She was doing what she could.
Telling stories. It was the first and only time Erin had ever seen Ulvama performing a traditional role of [Shamans], and the Hobgoblin had sort of forgotten how to do it herself. But she had gone back to her roots because it was needed.
“—And then, as they were snarling and preparing to devour the little white Gnoll girl, a door opened. Deep in the dungeon where no light existed, and the Cave Goblins fled and watched as a bright light shone from the city of Liscor.”
The [Shaman] was declaiming to her audience, and she held up one hand that seemed at first bloody and red, a pulsing heart held in a furred hand. Then Erin blinked and saw Ulvama was holding up a miniature red piece of strawberry, and the prowling fur of a Raskghar was just an illusion.
But it worked. She flicked her fingers, and light shone as she traced a door in the air. Erin knew this story—it was when she’d ambushed the Raskghar to save Mrsha and the others with the adventurers.
However, the audience didn’t. Children sat there in their parents’ arms, but the Fraerling parents didn’t tell Ulvama this was too gorey or dark a story—they just sat forwards, fascinated or enthralled as Ulvama picked up a sword.
(It was a stick.) But she whirled it around in a passable imitation of adventurers fighting the Raskghar in the dark, driving them away. When she was done, there was applause. Even cheering, and Erin blinked.
“What the heck…how do you know that story, why are you telling it, and—no, just those two questions, please.”
Ulvama gave Erin a slightly smug look as several people begged to hear another one. She eyed Erin.
“Good talk? Who…”
“It’s a long story. But technically Mrsha, but she, uh—got better.”
Ulvama’s eyes grew wide with alarm, but Erin reassured her. The [Shaman] opened her mouth.
“You tell me everything later. I’m telling them the stories so they know why you went crazy. Duh. And I know the story because I’m a [Shaman]. I asked all the Cave Goblins how they got free. In Riverfarm and the stupid cage wagons.”
“Oh. Makes sense. But it’s so—embarrassing. You made me out like a heroine. Zevara was the one with the sword. Actually, Lyonette fought.”
Ulvama waved this off as artistic license. She turned Erin’s attention to the Fraerlings, who had a bunch of questions for her.
“Excuse me. Did all that actually happen?”
Macnest and Gollesume were sitting together, sharing a bowl of popcorn Erin had transferred using her Skill—a single kernel was enough for the two of them, though they kept fighting over it. Erin demurred instantly.
“I mean, sort of, but Ulvama was exaggerating. It was really the Redfang Five. The Hobs—”
“Oh, you know so much more than me? I’m the [Shaman]. You lie about what you do.”
Ulvama poked Erin, and the [Innkeeper] swatted at her.
“I was there!”
“Okay, then you tell. Go on.”
Without even realizing it, Erin was thrust onto the little stage and instantly got, well, stage fright. She didn’t have Ulvama’s performing instincts, but when Ulvama tried to play up Erin’s role at the Meeting of Tribes, Erin managed to interject.
“I was dead! I didn’t do squat!”
Everyone laughed, and Gollesume waved a hand.
“Seriously, is this a joke? Because this is great, but you have to prove some of that.”
“Uh—”
Erin stuttered, and Ulvama leapt in to talk about the New Lands, and once again, Erin had to correct her and point out it wasn’t her doing, but Archmage Kishkeria, which did make Vrilla drop her popcorn kernel.
“Archmage Kishkeria? Okay, either there’s something there or they know their history because I know her, but how would non-Gnoll Tallfolk? Name another ghost, go on!”
That was how it went. Ulvama gave explanations and the story, and Erin played the role of the straight woman, objecting, clarifying, and protesting the exaggerations. She didn’t do it that well, but she realized the audience, for all their objectionable skepticism, was watching her and Ulvama.
They didn’t get to Roshal that night…but it hung over the story of Erin Solstice, and that, perhaps, was enough. Especially because Ulvama issued a statement that with enough snacks and drinks for proper lubrication, she would give a longer account of more tales of The Wandering Inn.
Inntales.
Erintales?
Stories of The Wandering Inn. That made Erin sigh and realize she was smiling ruefully. She blinked as Ulvama turned and felt at Erin’s face.
Oh.
Her smile had come back. Just for a bit.
 
——
 
On the second night of stories from The Wandering Inn, Zinni appeared in the crowd that had Fraerlings from Wyewesshi. Including Cottontail Raiders, appearing quite subdued.
Erin wanted to go over and apologize at once, but Ulvama told her to do the show first. Which was a show, and the Hobgoblin seemed to relish the attention. She did a grossly exaggerated…okay, maybe accurate retelling of how Erin had first come to Liscor and fought off Skinner that she’d gotten out of Erin last night, and Erin added a few anecdotes, but that was all.
She noticed Zinni watching her, and when they locked eyes, the [Rancher] jerked a thumb at a mobile wagon of sorts that had let the Fraerlings move from village to village in relative protection.
After the show, Erin went to it. She found Zinni sitting and drinking some kind of root tea.
“I hear you are leaving sooner rather than later, which makes it easier to apologize for my part in all this. And my granddaughter’s. No offense, but there’s a reason only one protector lives in each village. We don’t usually get along, and the younger, the more clashes.”
“We are going soon. Eurise thinks he can take us to get a cure for the height thing in a Fraerling city. And I’m sorry—about everything I did. I really am. I panicked, and I went crazy.”
Zinni nodded slightly and passed Erin some of the tea and roasted aphid eggs, which Erin declined on the grounds of she didn’t want to eat them. The [Rancher] commented softly.
“Those are far away. Eurise leaving even for that amount of time is risky, but I can watch both villages for a while.”
“Fantim doesn’t want him to go. Zemmy and Mera volunteered—”
“Mm. They want to see the world. If they’re going, I’ll tell him to let Eurise go.”
