It surprised Erin that Zinni would let her grandniece go with the two strangers who’d slit Matha’s throat, but Zinni just shrugged.
“They were always going to leave someday. They have those itching feet. I’d rather they had a chance at surviving a trip. Even Level 40 [Brawlers] wouldn’t live long if they had bad luck.”
That made more sense, so Erin nodded. She hesitated. She’d missed her chance to really apologize, and Zinni’s hadn’t been great. The [Rancher] eyed her, and Erin thought she seemed a lot more tired than the first time they’d met. Perhaps it was because she wasn’t moving about and working.
“I’m sure Eurise feels like a fool after all that. He went to apologize to me before I could work up the decency to do the same. You…scared me. I imagine you hear that a lot.”
“What? No. I mean…sort of? Now and then.”
Zinni blinked at Erin and put the cup aside.
“Eurise said you were new to Level 50. Was all that strength and fire recent?”
“Sort of, yeah?”
“Mmm. Then maybe it was your first time being the most dangerous thing in the room. Watch yourself. The responsibility of being like that—look at him and me. We’re three times your age, or I am, and it slips constantly.”
Erin accepted that because it was true, and she nodded. Awkwardly, she shuffled her feet.
“I really am sorry—”
“Yes, yes. Matha will live, and we didn’t kill each other. We won’t be friends before you go, so let’s not try.”
For some reason, that blunt comment made Erin feel a bit better, and she relaxed. They really didn’t have to be more than cordial. Zinni gave her a wry smile.
“See? You can smile. Is Ulvama well? I gave Matha an earful about scaring her.”
Erin floundered a second because she really didn’t know. Ulvama said things, but Erin knew how she lied.
“She’s fine. She says she is, and I think she’s gonna be okay. She was just—scared. I mean, she’s tough, and she’s survived a lot, but she thought—”
“Yes. But you are taking care of her? No nightmares or…?”
“I’m doing my best. I mean, I don’t have many Skills or—yeah, I’m trying. I am.”
Erin hung her head, aware that she was responsible for a lot of Ulvama’s burdens, including right now. But Zinni sighed, and some of her reserve faded as she put her feet on a rocking chair and offered Erin the aphid eggs again.
“Well, that makes some sense. You truly do care about her—more fool Matha.”
“What? Of course. She saved me from the ship, and—she’s one of my best friends.”
Erin realized that was true. Ulvama really had made it there. Was she part of the inn’s family? Sort of—but regardless, she wasn’t just a regular guest. Zinni peered at Erin for a second and opened her mouth. Then she shrugged, seeming vaguely amused.
“So I can see.”
For some reason, she didn’t elaborate, and Erin wasn’t sure how to follow up the non-sequitur, so she cleared her throat after a moment.
“How’s—um. How’s Matha?”
This time, the [Rancher]’s face wore a genuine expression of discontent.
“Humbled. The Cottontails are done, I think. They’ve learned a lesson, and most—most—are settled down enough. Matha, on the other hand…she’s volunteered to ride with you as far as Eurise lets her.”
“What?”
Erin was incredulous, and she nearly spat out her tea. Zinni rolled her eyes skywards as she folded her arms.
“She thinks she needs to perform a penance. That’s what she told me. And she thinks she can charm her way into your bed.”
This time, Erin’s tea actually did come out her nose. Zinni laughed and then handed Erin something to wipe her face with. Erin choked and gasped and then…she didn’t know what to say. She stared at Zinni, who was waiting with clear amusement, and hesitated.
“Wh—so that means—um. Uh, she’s, uh, gay?”
Zinni frowned.
“Certainly not now, and not very in general. She’s far more insecure than she lets on.”
Erin had no idea how to process that, and it only occurred to her later that the etymology of the word might have made an error between the two. She sat there.
“Well, I’ll keep her as safe as I can.”
“Good. If you need it, my best aphids can carry you, though that beetle might be a better bet. One last thing, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] glanced up, wary, and Zinni offered her a truly remorseful, guilty expression.
“I am sorry I couldn’t offer you Wyewesshi’s hospitality. I’ve brought some food for you to try.”
Erin hesitated, then picked up an aphid egg and nibbled at it. And she found that the gift mattered to her as much as the apology.
 
——
 
That night, Fraerlings encouraged Ulvama to keep sharing stories with the time she had left, and she began the final tale.
The tale of a beach, but also an army at sea, a brave [Innkeeper], and in it all…a Hobgoblin. For you see, Erin wasn’t the only one who could make little of herself to tell the story about someone else’s exploits.
Dretonamis was fascinated by the tales and the state of the world. Moreso than even having the two strangers, really. Which wasn’t to say that either woman was being taken at face value. Indeed, all of the fun was going to be corroborating how much of this was true based on their own records, especially since Erin had a lot of names of ghosts.
It’d keep the Fraerlings of that bent of mind occupied for years, no doubt. But at least one Fraerling believed Ulvama. Not entirely, but believed her in that way you believed someone who said they’d run into a horror at night.
They’d seen something. Bowom believed in lying, of course. He did it all the time, especially when he said ‘good morning’. But he mostly believed in trauma and horror, and they had enough of that to convince him they were telling truths.
He knew something about darkness, you see. Not that he was the kind of person that Fantim worried about in the same breath as Zinni and Eurise. If one of them went off the map, their villages would suffer. They were needed, essential.
Bowom was replaceable. True, he was a good sawbones when it came to sewing limbs back on, but Fraerlings had made do without him before. He was like Macnest, Roja, or Vrilla—useful, but also not the greatest threat. You didn’t need someone who was Level 50 to stop him.
Well, most of the time. He was usually on his best behavior, but it was in his class.
[Mad Doctor]. Sometimes, he felt the urge to remind people why it wasn’t just [Doctor]. But Bowom dealt with that day by day. All this to say that he could relate when he saw Erin leaving Zinni’s wagon and standing in the darkness, staring at the shattered green moon.
“Good chat with Zinni?”
She started when she saw him, then nodded.
“I think so. We apologized and patched things up. It’s good I’m leaving.”
Bowom raised his wild eyebrows and wondered if he could develop an eyebrow you could sew on. For all kinds of quirky expressions. You’d need a skin graft and just some good hair, but how would you keep the hair from drying out? Good moisturizing conditioner, he supposed. Everyone assumed insane medicine was all about cutting and stitching, but you had to master alchemy, physiology, mathematics, and even fashion if you wanted to do it right.
That’s what he thought. What he said was—
“I’m sure that’s how Zinni framed it. She likes her problems to be easy to deal with like that. If there’s a Fraerling who doesn’t get along with her, she can be fully pleasant to them—just not in her village. Eurise and Zinni usually get along, but they’d kill each other if they had to share space for any period of time.”
Erin nodded slowly. She was distracted and clearly upset on many levels. Bowom kept smiling as she rubbed at her forehead and glanced over her shoulder.
“Oh, I get it. I knew this guy back home…back in my…world. He was like that. He was my chess teacher when I was a kid, and he was super nice. Until I ran up against him in a tournament, and he thought I had a chance at beating him or just making him look bad. Then he was awful. I think my dad nearly punched him.”
Bowom’s mind lit up with happy little sparks, but his tone was level. Erin glanced sidelong at him, scuffing a foot on the ground, and he nodded.
“Zinni’s old. She favors Matha, she meddles in anyone’s affairs she thinks she can boss around, she didn’t see your distress, and she’s not as good at cooking as she thinks she is. But she’s also defended Wyewesshi longer than Matha’s been alive. She’s the reason we’re not all wearing Vrilla’s plant clothing and hunting for hemp or processing the damn stuff or killing animals for hide all the time. You heard her. She’s lived through five villages.”
“Yeah…”
The [Mad Doctor] made encouraging gestures as he waited for Erin’s brain to work. The [Innkeeper] frowned.
“There are only three around here, though. So she’s from further off?”
“Good guess! Nope! Both died.”
“Oh.”
“Yes, tragic stuff. It happens. Making a place that can last, let alone generations, takes a lot of hard work. There’s all kinds of magic and work that went into making these places livable. Clearing out monster dens for miles, manipulating the terrain—all that’s just context, though. How are you doing? Doctor checking in, since I failed to do my job and all.”
He grinned at her, and Erin gave him a guilty look.
“I, uh—we’re just skipping past the comment about my world?”
“Yep. No distractions, but nice try!”
“Hah. Um. I—I feel terrible about what I did. Ulvama didn’t say it in as many words, but she keeps having to clean up for my messes. Even now.”
They watched the Hobgoblin performing on her stage, and Bowom nodded.
“Anything else?”
“I tortured Fenmi. I cut off her fingers. I haven’t seen her—Zinni said she doesn’t want to see me. I can’t blame her.”
Silence. Bowom inspected his fingers and began to tug the eleventh one off since it wasn’t really that useful. Erin murmured after a moment.
“I—I’m trying to feel as bad as I should about it, Bowom. But it’s hard. I know what I did, and if I’d known, I’d never have…but I was wondering if I’d do it again.”
“And your conclusion?”
The [Innkeeper] swallowed.
“If it were someone I truly hated? If it were someone from the ship or I thought Ulvama was in actual danger? I’m not certain…no, I think I know the answer, and it should scare me. But it doesn’t surprise me. I don’t remember when I got like this. But I’ve thought like this before.”
“How about an example?”
The [Innkeeper] gazed up, and her eyes found the moon again.
“The Raskghar. Ulvama told that story, but she never said…I was thinking of what I’d do if they killed Mrsha. I never found out. This time, I did. I think it’s best I leave here after all.”
She gave Bowom an ashamed glance, as if she thought she were growing horns or something. Or if he’d care. His voice was cheerful.
“Well, you know yourself. We all have our dark deeds, Erin Solstice. Believe me. The real question is: do you want to change?”
That flummoxed her. The [Innkeeper] turned to Bowom, then to Ulvama, and shook her head.
“My parents didn’t raise me to be like that.”
“That means nothing, but go on.”
“—Ulvama told me she doesn’t need a monster. I agree. I want to help her, protect her, and make up for the things I keep putting her through. I don’t want to be someone who tortures people or loses it.”
“Sounds like you’ve made a decision.”
She sounded surprised as she nodded, as if it weren’t so simple.
“I guess I have. Thanks, Bowom. I—just wish I could do something for her now, though.”
They went back to watching Ulvama on stage, and Bowom smiled.
“I’m not an expert on relationships. That’s one of the things I can’t stitch back together. Just ask Vrilla. But if you want to help her, go ahead.”
“How?”
“I have no clue. Nor can I give you a hand, just another one of these.”
Erin glowered at Bowom, and he tossed a finger at her. She blanched and tossed it back, and he laughed.
“It’s not about how to do it perfectly, it’s about intent. Go on, shoo. I have something to do, anyways.”
She put her hands in her pockets, but then she nodded and strode towards the stage, thinking hard. Bowom continued on his way, tucking the finger into his pocket for later. He thought it was just another sign Erin Solstice had come to the right place.
Dretonamis might not have had real [Raiders], but it did have people who could understand Erin’s regrets. Zinni, Bowom, Eurise—easier to name an adult who wouldn’t relate to her, somehow. Which made it all the more sad—and his task the more pressing.
 
——
 
No one was about this section of the village at night. Bowom checked anyways, but everyone had left their homes for Ulvama’s event or were holed up about their own affairs. So he reached the domed, half-buried entrance he sought without notice.
He stole into the building quickly, intending to be back to hear the really dark parts of Ulvama and Erin’s story he’d been half-told already. He crept down the corridors—not because he was in some illegal place, but more because it was boring to just walk into the library like he had every right to be there.
He was after the book at the far end. The tome that held all those who had ever left Dretonamis. It took Bowom a few minutes to find his section, even though he’d put a bookmark there; the damn thing had slipped into the old pages.
“Where…aha. Hm.”
He re-read the section he’d found with a bit of relish. It was good writing—nothing like Erin had assumed you’d get.
Fraerlings back in the day had known how to write. Nothing stupid like trying an impartial historical narrative. There was juicy gossip here. Somewhat embellished accounts—all the best stories lied. When he was done, Bowom nodded.
Silvenia Ettertree. The section on the one Tallfolk to have ever reached Dretonamis was long and had many accounts of how she had come here, deliberations about helping her, her abilities, and even the nature of Demons and the Blighted Kingdom from her mouth and attempts to verify her claims. Bowom licked a quill as he turned to the current page and wrote, muttering out loud.
“Erin Solstice and Ulvama. Human, Goblin…I’ll get them to add their levels later if they’re comfortable with it. Let me see. ‘I, Bowom, [Mad Doctor], have noted a number of their deeds below. Or I assume someone else will fill this in if I forget. My notes are in my laboratory, just below the brain jar. I have re-read the passage on Silvenia, the Death of Magic, and it is with great delight I note the departures of these two individuals.’”
He paused, sucking on the quill, and chose his next words carefully.
