“Now he scared of saying things about the Goblin. Maybe he’ll think the Goblin’s dangerous?”
“I was the one who bothered him, though…”
But the Goblin got the blame. Erin wasn’t stupid. She hesitated, then got up.
“I’ll apologize to him.”
“Hmm. Can you do it without scaring him?”
“Of course I can.”
Ulvama peered at her. The Battle Hamster, who’d plodded over to join them as was his wont, stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] rolled her shoulders.
“I can! Watch me!”
She marched on over and did a decent job. Ulvama chewed on some crispy caterpillar skin as she saw the [Cook] relax and accept the apology. Like that, Erin forgot about the news for a moment.
Hurray for racisms. Ulvama did appreciate Erin being ready to fight a [Cook] in her defense. She was…well. A silly Human. Who cared about Goblins this much? Ulvama had kept waiting for her to slip up when they’d met. She’d known that this was all a kind of mask and Erin would snap and reveal how she really felt about Goblins or why she wanted their help.
But it never had. One of the things Ulvama had been dead wrong about.
She just wished…Ulvama poked at her caterpillar skin as the Battle Hamster sniffed at it and then glared at her for not getting something he wanted to eat so he could steal her plate.
She wished she’d met Erin long ago. So perhaps a younger Ulvama wouldn’t have had to live as long as she had and believe a Goblin would never be able to trust anyone. But then, she might as well wish to have never left the Molten Stone tribe. For all the terrible events to have never happened.
In a sense, perhaps it was the one silver lining for all those moments—she was the [Shaman] who had lived the life of many regrets and pains. It might help Erin avoid the same. They’d been spared the worst of Roshal. With luck, Ulvama could keep this moment from breaking Erin in half.
And she could break. Ulvama had seen it. The [Innkeeper] wouldn’t shatter into pieces like some people did. But she’d break another way. Like she’d been with the ants or after the Goblin King.
Sitting there, shaking, black flames on her hands, swearing to murder him, unable to strike at him from across the world, blazing until she was nearly consumed by flames, only stopping when Ulvama grabbed her shoulders and the flames began to burn the Goblin.
Breaking—like a piece of glass, all jagged edges until she smashed herself into smithereens. She could kill a lot of people before she died, Ulvama was sure.
…But there was nothing to kill. Nothing to fight in Dretonamis, beyond the odd monster or wildlife. No one knew they were here.
In a way, Ulvama supposed this was a nightmare for Erin. She watched the [Innkeeper] sit down and poke at her caterpillar fry. The [Innkeeper] had to face herself, literally and figuratively. Life sent you lots of enemies, but this was one of the few that Ulvama thought Erin Solstice might not be able to beat. Not without a little help.
 
——
 
If the Ulvama Plan For Everything’s #1 rule was ‘eat something first’, step #2 was also universal.
 
Step #2: Do some dancing.
 
Dancing was good. Dancing let you get emotions out. If you were sad? Sad dance. If you were angry? Angry dance. Even if it was running around in a circle punching things, dance.
Normally, Ulvama never shared the dancing she did with anyone. It was one of the things she had decided no one needed to know about, thank you. Erin was, again, an exception, and so were the Fraerlings. The [Innkeeper] had no real outlet that was physical—punching someone in a brawl every full moon didn’t count.
Plus, she liked dancing. And she had been so terrible at her physical rehabilitation, Ulvama had made her dance just to help the idiot.
“Ti, fa, sif, keta—now turn, turn—hah!”
Ulvama was showing Erin another move as she tried to keep the [Innkeeper] from focusing on the inn after food. They weren’t doing too much because a full stomach and exercise didn’t work well together.
“One, two, three, four, one, two—what’s three in Goblin again?”
“Sif.”
Erin gamely copied Ulvama pivoting around their cottage on the mostly-dry floor. It was a nice place that the Fraerlings had helped put up for them; Ulvama had a room, Erin had a room, and the Battle Hamster had a little den. But for the burn marks, cozy. Nowhere near as furnished as a city room, but Ulvama liked the aphid-fluff pillows.
The trick to the move was the hip-jab at the end. Ulvama watched as Erin repeated the motion and tried the maneuver, but she was entirely awkward.
“No, no. You look like you’re trying to body-slam someone. Like this. Hej!”
Ulvama demonstrated, and Erin half-glanced at her.
“Like this? Hah!”
She…did more of a hip-slam that would have gone great if the purpose was to attack the foe. Ulvama eyed her.
“For someone who likes dancing, you’re okay with your feet. Terrible in other ways. You never use your hips?”
She did a gyrating motion, and Erin blushed.
“Hey! I hula-hooped! In middle school. Once.”
“I don’t know what that is. But it sounds stupid. Try again. Like this—no, no. Like this—”
Teaching Erin dance moves was an interesting problem. She had the class, and she was actually fairly intuitive with a lot. She was a good fighter, and that translated into footwork, but there were weird gaps in her understanding of dancing. Nor did she pick it up easily; she was entirely awkward, and it took work to get her into the zone.
Work that was clearly not going to come out of her current state. Also! Ulvama kept showing her, and Erin would only half glance at her. They even had dance clothing Vrilla had made for them as a sign of hospitality! Very nice clothing made out of different colors of plant matter woven together.
Since it was hot in Baleros, Ulvama had asked for a lightweight garment that only covered her upper body, letting her stomach air, and leggings that went down to her knees. Erin had gotten clothing that seemed far less fun; more like her jeans and t-shirt combo, which was the limit of her style.
Anyways, she finally got Erin to pay attention to the move, but Erin still wasn’t doing it, so Ulvama tried to explain.
“Not like that. Like this.”
She grabbed Erin’s waist and tried to show the [Innkeeper], but Erin jumped.
“Hey! Stop that!”
“Well, move better.”
Unfortunately, the [Innkeeper] wiggled too hard and wouldn’t let Ulvama guide her. Exasperated, the Hobgoblin let her keep trying to move and wondered whether this was unique to Earthers, Humans, or just Erins. Ulvama watched Erin, arms folded, and had to admit the [Innkeeper] was sort of doing it. But she just wasn’t getting the point of the dance.
“You’re doing it okay. But it’s being in the right place, not doing it correct. You have to be more…what’s the word? Alluring. Yah.”
“I don’t want to allure anyone.”
Erin grumbled, going pink-cheeked.
“It’s the dance! You don’t have to show anyone—I don’t! But you should do the dance right!”
Ulvama glowered, and Erin gave her one of those looks that said she was hitting her Erin-limit, whereupon she would get more obstinate or try something chaotic. She did an exaggerated motion for Ulvama.
“There. Is that good?”
“Huh. Yah, that okay.”
Ulvama blinked. That was better. Erin went red-faced, and Ulvama grinned.
“That almost charming. You wear better clothing and you could do okay! As a backup dancer. With music.”
“Gee, thanks, all my hopes and dreams in this world! You don’t have to be nice.”
Erin wiped at her brow, and Ulvama realized the Human didn’t believe her.
“No, no. It is good. You think too hard about how you look. If you changed your clothing and…hmm…no, nevermind.”
She broke off her train of thought somewhat awkwardly. It was hard to actually imagine Erin wearing a version of the clothing Ulvama wore. Let alone getting her into it—the Hobgoblin didn’t imagine Erin would pull it off well. It didn’t fit Erin. What kind of dress or dance would fit the [Innkeeper]…?
After a moment, Erin wiped at her brows again.
“Well, unless we’re dancing for the Battle Hamster, I don’t feel like I need to worry about it. Next?”
“Oh, right. Uh…say, what you want to do after this? I was thinking we go out.”
Ulvama didn’t want Erin stewing on the inn thing. Unfortunately, that reminded the [Innkeeper], and she half-turned to the table where she’d been sitting.
“I was going to check on the [Pavilion].”
“Maybe you give it more time? It was fixing itself, you said.”
“It’s been an hour. Forty-five minutes. I have to know. Don’t you?”
Ulvama hesitated. The [Shaman] bit her lip.
“Yah, but…”
But what are you going to do if you know, Erin? Torture yourself if someone’s dead? What good will it do us, aside from regrets? We’re trapped a continent away, and whatever it is, it will only hurt.
We have to know. But we can’t do anything. It’s a needle we’re going to stab ourselves with. I don’t want to let you do it.
At the same time, if it were Mrsha, Rags, or…Ulvama knew Erin had to ask. So she lowered her hands.
“Okay. Ask. But don’t take too long. Fifteen minutes, promise?”
“I need longer than that.”
“Thirty minutes. Only thirty—”
“I might need to ask longer.”
“Thirty. Then check in.”
That was something else Ulvama had insisted on after the last near-death call. Erin sighed, but agreed to thirty minutes. And Ulvama—well. If you were waiting and nervous, dance.
Dance, dance—she started moving across the floor in far more intricate patterns than before, and only the Battle Hamster, occasionally padding in and out of the cottage, watched. She didn’t mind that. She liked the grumpy hamster. But these dances…no. Not for people, not for other Goblins. Some of them were beautiful, others sensual or intimate. They were beyond Erin’s level of skill anyways, but Ulvama hadn’t shown her them, even to impress her. It would be too awkward.
Many things were odd about having a Human like Erin for a ‘Chieftain’. Easier and more difficult. She wasn’t like Tremborag. Tremborag—had been simpler. More painful, but also easier in a way. Erin was complex.
It was probably that Ulvama wanted Erin to actually be better, not just maintain order and be a strong Chieftain. Not just because she was the only person who could help Ulvama go home. She was like a strange baby bird. One who was brave and cared about Goblins—who could fly and had beautiful, wonderful Skills.
She’d flown straight into Roshal, her first true storm of the kind Ulvama knew. Different from monsters or armies. It wouldn’t be the last. Tougher. Ulvama had to help Erin be tougher, more ready to survive.
…She wished, after meeting this young woman, that there could be a way or a world in which Erin wouldn’t have to face those darker moments. But that was a silly thing for a Goblin to dream.
 
——
 
Erin came back after twenty-five minutes with a sour expression.
“Okay, I went through the entire list. Nothing. She’s glitching out.”
“Uh?”
People said Goblins weren’t good at language, but Goblins spoke two languages and everyone else only did one. Plus, Ulvama had found you could get a lot across with a few words. To her, needing more than just a few seemed like a real flaw in other people’s ability to express concepts. Erin elaborated.
“She keeps listing Rags twice, and she swears no one I know is dead. We did the list, and I…didn’t call Lyonette. I was thinking of Ishkr, but I ran out of time. I’ll—I’ll contact them now.”
Erin looked pale-faced, and Ulvama glanced around.
“What if you—went for a walk first?”
“A walk. Ulvama—”
“Maybe no one’s dead.”
“I’m going to ask. Ulvama, I have to.”
The Goblin opened her mouth, exhaled, then nodded.
“Okay. Okay, but…you come back right away. Tell me. Promise? Twenty minutes?”
“Twenty minutes unless I need to—I’ll be back within the hour at most.”
Then she left. Ulvama didn’t dance this time. Instead, she went over to the hamster. He was punching his little nest of pillows and bedding into shape. She hugged him. Erin didn’t like the hamster, but Ulvama knew even if he grumped at her, he was treating her like she was part of his tribe. He sniffed her cheek, then held still as she hugged him hard.
They waited.
 
——
 
Seventeen minutes and nine seconds later, Erin came back. This time, she was rattled.
“What—who—”
“I don’t know. I don’t…”
Erin sat down. Ulvama rushed over as the Battle Hamster curled up in his bedding and stared at Erin warily. The [Innkeeper] sat and tried to explain.
“I asked for the most qualified person to tell me what happened. Which was…Mrsha.”
“Mrsha?”
Ulvama’s heart began to pound worriedly. What had that silly child done this time? Erin nodded.
“There was something—I got her. But she wouldn’t—she kept asking me how I was, and she wouldn’t tell me who died. Only that there was the—the [Palace of Fates]? I think the pavilion was freaking out. So I asked Lyonette after that.”
“And?”
The [Innkeeper] sat there for a long moment. Staring ahead blankly.
“She just—watched me. Then she asked why I hadn’t contacted her sooner. Which…she told me the quest was mistaken. Not to worry about it. Ishkr said the same thing.”
“Do you think they’re lying to you so you don’t worry?”
Because I’d definitely do that. Erin’s head rose, and she gave Ulvama a blank look. Her face was like it had been when Ulvama had first been found by her. That silent gaze like when she’d gone after Rabbiteater. Empty, but not gone. Distant.
“No one can lie, but they’re not telling me everything that happened or the order of events. I think Lyonette’s angry at me. I…I think someone did die, but maybe they were brought back? Could you do that with CPR or…? It sounds like it could have been a lot worse, though. There was a Goblin King. I don’t get how that happened.”
At this point, Ulvama was reminded that a Goblin King had emerged when one should have taken at least another few centuries to appear, and she began to ask about that.
“Who was it? How in Izril? Was it Greydath? A Chieftain of the south? Uh—uh—Naumel? What about a Goblin from the island?”
She couldn’t think who’d qualify. And how had they died? Goblin Kings were—well—incredibly hard to kill.
Ulvama remembered the last one. She hadn’t joined Velan’s rampage, but she remembered Anazurhe meeting with his representatives and the feeling that had swept Izril. His rage and hatred had pulled nearly every Goblin after him; Anazurhe’s own tribe had been filled with desertions despite her trying to keep them with her.
“They wouldn’t say.”
