“You said you know everything.”
“I don’t know everything. I’m a version of you. I have access to a great amount of things. Or I should.”
The Pavilion seemed defensive. Erin stared at her.
“Who is dead? It’s a simple question. Find me—tell me who passed away.”
Something was wrong with Erin. Her heart was beating a touch faster than normal, but her stomach wasn’t writhing. She was cold. Not physically, but just—still inside.
Someone she loved was dead, and she wasn’t feeling it. She knew it was true, but she wasn’t weeping or even raging. She was just still. Waiting.
I am a monster.
The Pavilion of Secrets avoided Erin’s gaze. She spread her fingers on the table.
“I don’t know.”
“How do you not—”
“I don’t know!”
The snap came out fast, and the [Innkeeper] paused. The Pavilion’s hazel eyes flashed.
“I can’t find out who. And when I ask the—the overseer, it won’t tell me. I’m restricted. I don’t have a direct line to the top anymore.”
Two things stood out to Erin about that statement. She engaged with the—easiest—first.
“The top. You mean the Grand Design itself. You could communicate with it.”
“Yes…I had a kind of loophole in case I needed it. Because I, this Skill, is so unique. I didn’t employ it. Much. But this is the exact circumstance when it would be needed. It’s not working. I’ve been blocked off.”
“Why? Is the Grand Design malfunctioning?”
Another long moment of hesitation. The Pavilion of Secrets glanced at the door she’d exited.
“If it was—it’s resolved.”
“What’s that mean?”
Now, the Pavilion was getting testy.
“I don’t know! It’s just a suspicion.”
“A suspicion that the Grand Design was malfunctioning? How can you not know?”
The [Innkeeper] was leaning over the board, voice growling, eyes narrowed. To her surprise, Pavilion-Erin leaned forwards as well. Her eyes narrowed too, and she balled up a fist around the queen piece.
“Listen, idiot. I’m a part of the Grand Design. How does the gear of a clock know when the clock malfunctions? If there was a—a crisis, neither you nor I saw it. And it’s resolved. What is clear is that a number of things have changed. My access has been limited. And—other elements have been altered.”
Her eyes swung to the great double doors, and Erin spoke.
“The palace? The thing Sheta referenced. What happened?”
“You’re not cleared to know that yet.”
Erin Solstice wondered if she could pull Pavilion-Erin over the table and punch her face in. The Pavilion of Secrets must have read her mind, because she bared her teeth.
“No violence here. At least, that kind. I’m doing what I can for you. When I say I can’t explain, I really can’t.”
Silence as the [Innkeeper] digested this. Then she sat back.
“Okay. Okay, let’s forget about that for a second. Who died? Why can’t you figure it out? You can summon anyone I want to talk to, right? Or did that function get erased?”
She waved a hand vaguely, but her doppelganger shook her head swiftly.
“It’s still there.”
The [Innkeeper] frowned.
“Then if I ask for—”
“It’s not working. Everyone you care about is there.”
Silence. Erin Solstice was confused. She paused, bit a lip, then spoke.
“So Lyonette, Mrsha, Numbtongue, Nanette—?”
“All there.”
“The Horns? Fetohep? Jelaqua? Seborn? Relc? Klbkch? I—Ryoka?”
“All there. All alive, yes. I can tell the difference.”
“Ryoka’s not in your system, though, right?”
The Pavilion of Secrets hesitated.
“No…but it’s not a problem. They’re there. And before you ask, yes, everyone’s here and living. I know your mind. Bird. Ishkr. Even the ones who’re less important to you. I checked them all, even Liska! Selys, Drassi, Palt, Imani, Kevin, Rags, Calescent, Peggy, Redscar, Rags, Tessa, Ylawes—everyone.”
Erin didn’t feel well. She wasn’t thinking straight, and this confusion wasn’t helping. She glanced up at the [Pavilion of Secrets].
“You put Rags on there twice. Are you malfunctioning?”
The glower she got was pointed and a touch uncertain. Erin hesitated.
“Fine. What if I ask someone…”
“Be my guest. Give me a name.”
Pavilion-Erin waited, clearly fed up with the 2nd degree about her capabilities. Erin opened her mouth. She hesitated.
Who to ask? Lyonette? It would be easy to call her this moment and ask—
Hey, it’s me. Who’d you let die? How did you mess it up?
No, that was—insane. More like…
What went wrong, and how was it my fault? What consequences found you?
The dungeon? The Goblin King? Why the Goblin King—
Erin’s head hurt. She felt sick. Pavilion-Erin eyed her.
“You’re not well.”
“Shut the fuck up. Get me…get me…Ly—I don’t want to ask her. I don’t want to know.”
She had to know. But it was like being wounded and not knowing how bad. If she did know—what could she do?
Who do I have to kill? How many of them? 
So far from home. The [Innkeeper] put her head down and breathed. In and out.
“Give me…Rags.”
Rags made sense. Rags was a Goblin. Goblin King appeared. She’d know something. Explaining this to her would be hard. Explaining why she hadn’t made contact—
She had to know. But the [Pavilion of Secrets] didn’t respond. Erin raised her head.
“Hello? Rags.”
She glared, and the [Pavilion]—hesitated.
“Wh—hold on. Which…? Wait. Hold on.”
She pressed her fingers against her temples. This time, the [Innkeeper] grew actually concerned.
“Rags. What’s the issue?”
“I’m h—there’s something wr—hold on. What does ‘recategorization’ m—”
Then the [Pavilion of Secrets] froze, and for a second, everything turned off. The gazebo vanished. The fake Erin vanished. The [Innkeeper] hung in the void for a second time as everything malfunctioned.
—Then it snapped back to normal, and Erin leapt to her feet. She backed away from the table as Pavilion-Erin stared ahead, then jerked back and focused on her.
“What was—”
“What was that?”
“I don’t know. I just got contact from above. Something needs recategorization. I’m not getting a response. Hold on—”
The other Erin held up a hand, but the real one was backing away towards the door out. Whatever was going on, she didn’t want to be in the Skill while it was being fixed. Pavilion-Erin shouted at her.
“Wait!”
Erin Solstice strode away. She hesitated at the door and glanced back. The copy of her stood there, hand outstretched. Then everything flickered, and for a second, a vast Harpy was standing there.
The Empress of Wings, the preserved copy of her, stared at Erin Solstice, and the [Innkeeper] locked eyes with Sheta. The mouth opened.
The [Innkeeper] left.
 
——
 
It wasn’t about the answer of who, or even how, that mattered, in one sense. In one sense, it absolutely mattered, especially if it was…many. But in another, it didn’t.
Someone was dead. A terrible thing had occurred. If this were a wound, it would be straightforward. You stopped the bleeding first, then tended to the rest.
In this analogy, the bleeding was Erin herself. Her being in the [Pavilion of Secrets] meant that no one could help her. It was the riskiest place for her to be, even if it gave her answers. She had almost died in there once already.
Ulvama didn’t want Erin going in there again, so she was relieved when the [Innkeeper] came back, answers or not. She needed answers as well, but the [Innkeeper] was a danger to herself right now.
In fact, the first few minutes of Erin’s return saw Ulvama acting as a [Firefighter]. The [Innkeeper] was aflame with black fire.
“Water! Water!”
A localized shower of water barely did anything to the flames as Ulvama used her magic, and Erin stomped on the fire until she realized the flames coating her body were just spreading. Ulvama shouted at her as the Goblin grabbed a bucket.
“You stay there! Make the flames stop!”
“Don’t touch them—”
Ulvama wasn’t about to touch the flames of hatred burning on the ground. The water hissed and turned into foul steam as she threw open the windows, and Zemmy and Mera rushed in and nearly made the mistake of trying to stomp them out. However, after about six minutes of throwing water, they were finally left with charred floorboards and a wet Erin Solstice denuded of flames. Then there was sweeping the water out, explaining to concerned Fraerlings, and asking Erin what had happened.
Both fire and the [Pavilion of Secrets].
“I don’t get it. I’m losing control of my—my Skill more. It’s like it’s getting harder, not easier.”
Erin stared at her hands. She’d managed to suck the flames back inside of herself, and Ulvama handed her a towel and tried to wrap another one around Erin’s dripping head—Zemmy had thrown a bucket of water on her. The [Shaman] speculated.
“The higher-level you are, the more powerful your Skills. When you first made it…how strong was your fire?”
“Uh—tiny. I could barely do a palm-flame. I didn’t know how to do it, and it was just sadness fire. Pelt noticed it, but I think it was only because he was so high-level. Although I did set fire to his forge…”
Erin stared at her hands, and a wisp of blue flame appeared, teensy. Ulvama slapped her hand.
“Don’t do more flames.”
“Sorry. But now it’s all hatred. I’m not…I don’t even know what’s happened. It just came out.”
Yeah, there are a lot of reasons that could be the case. Ulvama bit her tongue as she tousled Erin’s head. The [Innkeeper] squirmed, so Ulvama smacked her head.
“Stop moving.”
“I can dry my hair.”
Erin snatched the towel, embarrassed, and Ulvama sighed. She watched Zemmy sweeping water out the door—it was black and sooty—and reflected it was going to stink tonight when they were sleeping. They’d have to keep the windows open, and maybe she’d cast a charm to air it out.
One problem at a time. The [Shaman] was thinking of how to respond to Erin, and here was the thing. Ulvama had a rich internal life. Most people saw her and assumed she didn’t have that much of a personality. Which was fair; she did like lazing about and eating food.
But she was also the former [Shaman] of the Mountain City Tribe. A place where what you said could be dangerous, and she had been a Molten Stone tribe Goblin before, educated by someone who had truly known Goblin culture: Anazurhe. Over her life, Ulvama had learned what you didn’t say was very important.
Words were important. Honesty…maybe important. Ulvama was no Redfang who said it like it was and damn the consequences. Because ‘how it was’ was subjective. Truth was hard, sometimes. If you had a Goblin who was killed in a feud with another Goblin, did you tell their friends or lover who had done the killing? Or was that a good way to get two Goblins dead?
That was just basic stuff. Ulvama was used to touchy, powerful Goblins—again, Tremborag. But also dangerous Humans who noticed if the Goblins got too intelligent. Obviously, the Fraerlings were good, and Erin was trustworthy, but—
If Ulvama was going to speculate honestly, she might have said that Erin manifesting her hatred flames was an unconscious self-defense reflex after her time in Roshal’s clutches. Which was fair. Or perhaps it was her preparedness to murder whoever had killed someone she loved. Again, very understandable, but not helpful.
Or perhaps this is her hatred towards herself. In which case, she might be burning her own body with the flames. And we’re only lucky it’s the black fire, not the invisible flame.
Or—her soul was cracked and the Goblin King had destabilized her, so she was losing control of herself. Ulvama didn’t know, and she felt like any of these things weren’t productive to say, so what she said was:
“Don’t make more flames now, okay? You get dry. Then we get food.”
Erin said:
“What? No. I need answers.”
However, Ulvama had her methods, and she poked Erin in the side, squinting.
“When was the last time you ate?”
“I…this isn’t the time.”
“Food is important. Everything works better after eating.”
Ulvama was big on food. Not just because she had been hungry too many times for her liking. Food solved a lot of problems. If there were a 5-step plan towards solving things, Ulvama’s #1 would be ‘eat something’, then go from there. Besides, it kept Erin from being alone with her thoughts, which was a good thing.
Keep her occupied. Distracted? Maybe not distracted, but…occupied.
Who was dead? Ulvama was terribly afraid it was bad, but part of her wished Erin hadn’t known. She’d been healing. It had been good.
The [Shaman] knew bad things would always come, always, even after the worst. But dead gods, sometimes she hated thinking like a Goblin. Here in Dretonamis, you could almost forget it.
 
——
 
Food was a good distraction because it led to a racism, which, in this case, was a net positive in Ulvama’s opinion. It was a very funny thing. All the poor [Cook] did was serve them some caterpillar meat, which Erin hated.
Ulvama wasn’t big on bugs herself, but the Fraerlings knew which bugs actually tasted decent, and if you fried anything with enough oil, it tasted good. Anyways, the comment was something like, ‘it’s almost as green as you, Miss Goblin’.
Which made Erin upset. Ulvama had just grinned until Erin almost climbed through the serving window to ask what that meant. Getting her settled took time, but it did distract her from the thoughts of the inn.
“Erin, it not that bad.”
“He was talking about your skin tone!”
“Yah. I’m green.”
“But that’s—”
Erin was definitely not in a good headspace right now, so Ulvama let her talk, which involved an explanation of how Earth Humans had problems. It was sort of an Earther thing. They always talked about their home and how, despite having machines and all this technology, somehow it was just as bad as this world.
With Crelers. ‘You have Crelers, but we have climate change!’
Anyways, Ulvama got the point, but she did pat Erin on the shoulder.
“Erin, maybe that bad. But he did say sorry.”
“Yeah, but—”
“He also likes me. He didn’t say, ‘hey, how much are your ears worth’? Or, eh, ‘sorry Ulvama, we don’t have any babies for you to eat’. Or, ‘hey, you damn monster, here’s food you deserve.’”
“Right, that’d be bad. I would have definitely hit him if he said that.”
“Yah, but he didn’t say it.”
“But he still said—”
Poke. Erin jumped. Ulvama enjoyed poking non-Goblins. They had funny reactions. She smiled as Erin broke off mid-rant.
“Maybe it not good. But this is the nicest place I’ve ever been to for Goblins. Don’t…fight them and make them hate me more.”
“Hate you more? But I—”
Erin twisted around and saw the [Cook] peering out the window at the two of them eating food on the bench. She hesitated, and Ulvama whispered.
