Others ran into a local breed of Venus flytrap and were eaten. Because Baleros fought back. Against everything; even the plants took out insects, like the vast dripping bulbs of one plant that were so porous that insects would land, be trapped in the nectar, and sink into the plant where they were slowly consumed.
…Mostly, though, there were flowers and cuter bugs. Not that Erin had a thing about bugs, it was just that they didn’t look pretty up close. And it was actually very pleasant, because even with a few of the larger and more dangerous predators that might take a bite out of a Fraerling—the presence of the Corumdon Beetle, terror of ecosystems, meant that a large spider or centipede decided to make tracks when they saw it lumbering around.
That was one reason Wyewesshi was more populated: all these flowers meant an abundance of food and resources from the insects and plants. Nectar and pollen were edible, depending on the plant, and if you could stomach dining on insects, you had a feast.
The second factor that made Wyewesshi a place to live was just Zinni herself. The protector of the village raised bugs; she was a [Rancher], but Erin and Ulvama hadn’t gotten what that meant. Because, you see…they didn’t know how big aphids were supposed to be.
Aphids were usually so small they’d be a speck on a finger, tiny even for a Fraerling at six inches high. However, the aphids that Erin and Ulvama had seen could get up to four inches in height, big enough for a Fraerling to ride.
That was a truly gigantic aphid. Mind you, most here were one inch to three inches tall at most, but their profusion and the other creatures that Zinni raised allowed Wyewesshi’s population to live both in comfort and protection.
They were everywhere. Flocks of bounding aphids raced up flowers, or the other creatures that Zinni raised, like pillbugs (again, overly large), were herded towards grazing sites. Or processed for food and parts.
“Aphids! Who knew they were so useful? What can you do with them?”
Erin and Ulvama were besieged the moment they drew within range of the village as children ran out to see the giant beetle, who clacked his mandibles uncertainly at the crowd and big insect population. Far more young people than Dretonamis. Mera hollered back.
“Everything! You can milk ‘em, get their wool, eat them, ride them—and they grow like gnats! Some of ‘em are even born pregnant. Grandaunt Zinni says they’re dumber than rocks, though, and she hates wild ones. They get into her flocks and ruin the breeds.”
“What? That sounds—so they’re like cows?”
“I dunno what a cow is, but sure! Hey, clear a path, you lot!”
Dretonamis was a far different village to Wyewesshi. The Fraerlings there were much more inclined to give each other privacy and pursue their own lifestyles, hence their houses. This village lived closer-knit and had younger Fraerlings. You might even move here if you were raising a family and wanted the security; in time, you’d then move out to Dretonamis or Ellecmia, the third village nearby.
Ellecmia lived underground and had mushroom farms. Zemmy had told Erin and Ulvama that of the two villages, Wyewesshi was the better choice.
—However, the Human and Goblin hadn’t been prepared to be celebrities after Dretonamis! Part of that was because they’d earned the trust of the Fraerlings for helping fight off the monster attack and their month of dwelling amongst the Fraerlings. The other half was down to personality, the quirks of Wyewesshi—and the fact that Erin could exchange Fraerling food for Tallfolk food.
Certainly, they were a striking quartet with the tame Battle Hammie, the Corumdon Beetle, and, well, Ulvama. Erin was more plain, even if she had interesting quirks of her own, but Ulvama was green, a Goblin, and…fascinating.
A few covert watchers noticed her and pointed her out as they slowly made their way into the village to meet Zinni, who shooed people and little beasties out of the way to say hello.
It was a good distraction. Erin was so engrossed with staring around, gingerly petting aphids on the head, and trying to refuse some of the gnarlier bug-based foods being served her she didn’t have time to think about the inn except in brief moments, and Ulvama was all too keen to rush her around with Zemmy and Mera’s help.
The most interesting part of Wyewesshi was probably Zinni, when you got down to it. A Fraerling village changed with its protector, and she was the oldest of the three by far.
 
——
 
Erin had never seen Ulvama get flustered before, but it was a fascinating thing and only happened when Zinni gave Ulvama what was, for lack of a better word, a grandmotherly treatment.
Probably because the Hobgoblin had never had a grandmother taking care of her before. The first thing Zinni did was give the two a brisk embrace, shoo people away from them, including the [Mayor], and tow them with one arm each.
“I’ve got a guest room set up. Have you two eaten? And how are you doing for clothing? Eurise didn’t mention a thing to me, which means he’s forgotten. And are you wearing enough, young woman?”
She poked Ulvama in the stomach; the Hobgoblin still had her dancing outfit on, which she claimed was fine given the weather. Ulvama blinked.
“What, this? This is good clothing.”
“Your stomach’s bare. Which I’ll grant you might enjoy, but you won’t if a prickler midge gets burs stuck in that stomach of yours! Not to mention you’ll burn; we’ve got more shade than Dretonamis, but we’ll be outdoors, not shaded by the foliage. There’s a gel at least. What’s this skin paint? And what’s your name again, young woman? Has anyone been giving you trouble?”
“Uh. I—I’m Ulvama. [Shaman] of the Flooded Waters tribe. It’s my magical paint.”
Ulvama seemed like she wanted to cover up out of embarrassment, but Zinni gave her a warm smile.
“And it is splendid. How do you make it? A [Shaman]? We haven’t had one of those since I was a girl. A nice fellow; he got us all out and about, very organized. I imagine you’re very lonely without your tribe.”
“Uh—uh, I’m fine.”
“Mhm. I’m sure you are, and you’ve been quite brave to make it here. Now, what do you enjoy eating…?”
Defeated by Zinni’s hospitality, Ulvama and Erin quickly found themselves being given spare sets of Wyewesshi-style outfits, which, to Erin’s mild disappointment, weren’t farmer-style at all, at least how she imagined them.
Overalls, plaid, and boots? Try something more like molded ‘hard’ clothing, rather like armor, with spiked work gloves and similarly spiked shoes.
Which was a bit confusing until Erin saw Fraerlings scaling the flowers as easily as could be; their gloves and shoes let them climb like bugs, and the padding on their armor saved them from encounters with bugs or just falls. They were happy to leap to the ground and light enough it didn’t hurt, but after several times of an aphid leaping into you you’d be glad of a bit of protection.
“They’re my life’s work. Giant wooly aphids. Regular ones look soft, but it’s not nearly as useful. Mine can be used for cloth, rope, anything.”
Erin was fascinated to realize that these aphids really were the product of one woman. She had to ask—
“Why aphids, Miss Zinni? Mera said you have problems with wild ones?”
Zinni’s face screwed up instantly with the wrath of someone only too happy to explain.
“Wild aphids get born with wings sometimes, and they’ll jump over the fences and then ruin the entire stock. Little bastards. They’re dumb as can be—I didn’t breed ‘em for intelligence. As for getting more interesting breeds, getting actual, usable fluff out of them took ages. Getting my second breed working, Leaphids you can ride? Another ten years!”
Erin and Ulvama felt like they were talking to an obsessed person, rather like Pisces ranting about undead. Ulvama made a hmming sound of confusion.
“Why not just raise other bugs?”
Zinni calmed down somewhat and gave the Hobgoblin an approving smile.
“Well, because I specialized in aphids when I was younger, and all my Skills kept me there. Besides, even if they’ve got flaws, they’re not temperamental, and they’re good at breeding and fairly loyal. I could have done weevils. They’ve got hair. But—hah! You ever tried to tame weevils? They’re little bastards. I’ve got some other insects, like flying stink beetles, but they’re more guardians. Don’t pet them. They spit.”
The temperament of aphids mattered, it seemed. Not that Erin had ever considered taming either, but Zinni was only too happy to show them around the ranches and point out different aphid breeds.
“Don’t try giving them orders. They only understand me and the higher-level [Ranchhands]. The Leaphids are clever enough; they’ll carry you about fast. I got their breed down the last half of this decade. I might have enough for each village before I die. As for the regular stock, well—they’re friendly, but they jump.”
And those hops could cannon one into you at enough force to bruise if it happened too many times. Still, the hoppy, green creatures were the cutest bugs Erin had ever seen, which made Zinni snort.
“Oh, cute? I suppose that’s a different perspective for you. Tallfolk really eat no bugs? I can’t imagine you’d keep them from your food…”
“We don’t like to think we’re eating bugs. It, uh—I like yours!”
The [Rancher] wasn’t fooled by that and swiftly altered the meal plans for the night to more plants and vegetables, which made Erin embarrassed. But Zinni was brisk, and as she’d said to Erin at the festival—
“You’re guests, and even if you weren’t, you’re a Tallfolk and like me. An [Innkeeper], an [Explorer], a [Rancher], and a [Druid]. Though Seidmorre’s the least pleasant of us lot. He lives underground and won’t go about, even for a festival.”
She meant Level 50+. Erin’s ears perked up.
“What’s he like? I mean, what does he do?”
“Tends to fungi. If you visit, you’ll find walking mushrooms everywhere. It’s a local pact with nature. I can’t stand them myself. They’re touchy and odd. It’s why Zemmy always came here to play with little Mera. My herds make sense. I care for them, but they’re still animals.”
That was also the difference between her and a [Beast Tamer], Erin realized. There was no Apista-level intelligence in Zinni’s creatures. They were livestock, and she corralled them and the town with clear authority.
“Aw, great aunt! It’s not playing, it’s a pact—”
“Yes, yes. Your hitting-each-other rule. I’m sorry, Mera. Now, why don’t you show these two around? I’ll be about, but I have to tend to the flocks. There’s an aggressive bird that’s been hunting near here, and I want to keep an eye on it.”
Which implied Zinni was usually on the watch for threats when not tending to her many creatures. So, Erin and Ulvama found themselves being shown how you milked an aphid. Within moments, they were sipping aphid nectar. Too sweet for Erin, but she pretended to like it. Don’t ask where it came from.
“…This is so crazy.”
Erin forgot about The Wandering Inn for a bit as she felt at a wooly aphid’s side. Unlike the other breeds, it had fur covering it; you could pull it out since Zinni had raised hers to be extra-wooly. In her lifespan, she had done what generations of breeders had managed with species on Earth: the wooly aphids shed their coats and lived off of plant sap. Like cows, they were an ideal animal to raise.
“She’s so incredible.”
“She’s a bit bossy is what she is.”
Mera lowered her voice, and Zemmy nodded, but neither [Brawler] would badmouth Zinni in front of her. Ulvama still seemed a bit shell-shocked by her treatment. Erin hid a smile as Ulvama poked at her stomach-covering shirt.
“She, uh, she’s very motherly. Does she have kids?”
“Great grandkids. Tons of ‘em. She’s had a few partners over the years. Never married any of ‘em, and most’ve her kids are helping with the ranch. Except for a few idiots. Like Mera.”
“Hey!”
She punched Zemmy, and he swore and threw a haymaker back; used to the brawling of the duo by now, Ulvama and Erin took it in stride.
The Battle Hamster was the least happy to be here, incidentally. The Corumdon Beetle seemed as amiable as ever, wandering off to sample the local plants with some Fraerlings, but the Battle Hamster had hissed at Zinni, then hid behind Ulvama when the [Rancher] told it to behave. He had curled up into a ball and was ignoring the children’s attempts to entice him out with treats.
“I like Dretonamis more myself. I grew up here, and it’s all too close. But fun, I guess. We’ll climb a few flowers and taste pollen; that’s good for a day or two. Oh, and we can go riding the Leaphids!”
That did sound like fun. Erin smiled—and then thought of the inn. Her smile vanished, and she walked along, staring at the cup of aphid nectar. She sipped it because she was thirsty, and it was tasty.
But the motivation to enjoy it was gone.
“Just come back to us first. Tell me how to help you, and I will. But don’t worry about us, Erin. I wish you’d summoned me before this. But when you wish to talk, I will be here.”
That’s what Lyonette had said. And that look in her eyes had been so dreadful. Erin had apologized, but she hadn’t said who—
“Erin? Erin, do you want to ride a Leaphid?”
“Hm? Oh, sure.”
Erin came back to reality, and Zemmy hesitated, but Ulvama turned to Erin and nodded.
“Yah, let’s do it. Come on, Erin.”
She took Erin by the arm and pulled her to the big aphids with even saddles. Erin got into one; it wasn’t like there was the same danger as a horse given their relative sizes, but she wasn’t feeling it. She knew Ulvama was trying to distract her, but—
“Yeehaw. This is so—whoa.”
Erin mumbled as they began to bound across the ground. It was not like a horse at all. Leaphids leapt like grasshoppers, and that meant you had a dizzying moment of acceleration, then you’d soar towards your destination until gravity took you down.
It was…sort of relaxing. One big jump, then you flew. Erin had no control over her aphid, but Zemmy and Mera did. Ulvama was almost as hapless and looked slightly panicked.
“H-how do you make it stop?”
“Just dig in your legs like this or—whoops!”
Ulvama screamed as she bounced higher, and Erin grinned despite herself at Ulvama’s face.
“It’s Fraerling rodeo, Ulvama! Giddyup! Whoa—”
She found herself flying and caught up with Ulvama, who shouted back.
“What does that mean?”
“Oh, those are just, uh, horse things. Yeehaw, giddyup. It’s silly.”
The [Innkeeper] grew instantly embarrassed at the southernisms she was spouting, but Ulvama just gave her a sidelong look, then bared her sharp teeth.
“Yeehaw?”
