The fury of the Fraerling wasn’t a match for the cold stare Ulvama was giving her. She tried.
“I’m—we’re not like that. I’m not even a guy!”
The Hobgoblin’s smile turned contemptuous.
“That doesn’t matter. Do you think it would? I could show you exactly how unpleasant it is. I don’t think I’m having fun being kidnapped. The only reason I didn’t kill you is because I think you don’t understand what you did.”
And because Zinni’s your grandmother. Ulvama didn’t say that out loud, then decided it was a decent Ulvama thought to voice for once.
“And because Zinni’s your grandmother and I’m more afraid of making her mad than your entire raiding group. You call yourself the Cottontail Raiders.”
“Y—so?”
“The last time Erin met raiders, they burnt a friend of hers alive. What do you think she feels like?”
It was rather like beating up a child at some point. Matha was furious, afraid, unsettled, and guilty—and Ulvama didn’t stop, because she was an expert at bullying children. Her flat stare forced Matha’s eyes away.
“I need you to send a letter from me to Erin. Right now. Or she will do far worse than me strangling you. If you do that, I’ll start forgiving you.”
“And if I—”
There was at least something more to Matha than met the eye. She stopped herself, then coughed, wiped at her face, and felt at her throat.
“Fine. But not to Wyewesshi. No one will make it there and back. Zinni’ll just control their aphids. Dretonamis. I’ll send the fastest person I’ve got right away. Deal?”
Ulvama supposed it was as good as she’d get. She nodded.
“I need paper and ink so she knows it’s me.”
“I’ll—Qole has some. I’ll get it. One sec.”
Matha cast around, then tried to wipe her face on her covers. Ulvama grabbed her by the arm and pulled her to the door.
“Hey, wait—”
Ulvama shoved the Fraerling out the door and stomped out after her. A number of the Cottontails who happened to be loitering at the door saw the two exit. Whatever they expected, it probably wasn’t Matha’s disheveled state—in actual disheveledness, her face red from burst blood vessels—or the line across her neck. Ulvama glanced around, then clapped her hands.
“You! Ink and paper!”
She pointed at Aithe, and Matha called out for Qole, coughing. The Cottontails stared at the [Shaman] as she sighed and rubbed at her shoulders.
She hated children.
 
——
 
“They’re all idiots and dumb as the aphids they ride, Erin. Ulvama’s fine. Don’t worry.”
Ulvama’s fine. Ulvama was going to be fine. She was kidnapped, but they weren’t like the Bloodfeast Raiders. Or Roshal. She was fine.
Zemmy and Mera said it again and again to Erin, increasingly frequently and in worried tones. They were concerned about her.
Something on my face, probably. Erin sat. She had been moving around, demanding answers, asking who these Cottontail Raiders were, what the plan was, if there were [Trackers] or someone who could scry Ulvama.
Now she sat. Time was a bastard. It was doing that thing it always did when there was a crisis, skipping ahead as she tried to make it slow, a merry, dancing man with a grin waving at her to hurry up. Her friends were dying. Ulvama was a captive.
An hour was a long time. A long time where anything could happen. How much time was in transit? Where were they?
Why am I not panicking? 
She wasn’t, Erin realized. She was…thinking. Her chest felt empty. So damned empty. She’d been like this all morning, ever since the Goblin King and knowing someone was dead.
Dead gods, I’m cold. Someone was dead, someone she loved, that was how the quest worked. They were dead, and no one had told her, but she wasn’t weeping. She was just waiting. She cared. She did—but Erin felt the same way about Ulvama.
The emotions she should feel, that she thought should be in any decent person, were gone. Panic for Ulvama, worry, fear, sadness, even anger was muted. Her head was foggy. She was trying to think.
There were obstacles in her way. The first was that Ulvama was warded. The [Pavilion of Secrets] wasn’t working.
 
——
 
“Sorry. No can do.”
Pavilion Erin sat there, not unconcerned, but just impassive. Another bastard, eyes pitiless, glowing hazel stars in the void. Erin Solstice spoke.
“Get me Eurise.”
 
——
 
He paid attention. The Fraerling seemed to snap into alertness the moment he saw her expression, and when she told him what had happened, he swore for half a minute before she cut him off.
“Can you find them?”
“I don’t know where they are. I’ll get a group to search, but they’re fast, and they have a wardstone. Listen, Erin. They won’t hurt Ulvama.”
“Even if she’s a Goblin?”
She watched as Eurise’s eyes flickered, and he leaned forwards and grabbed her arm.
“No. They’re not like the sort you and I know. You said you got one of them? Tell Zinni this’s important. No jokes, no light hands or coddlin’. I’ll begin hunting. You stay with Zemmy and Mera, got it?”
“Got it.”
Erin stood, and he did likewise. Eurise was watching her, head slightly tilted. Voice wary.
“Erin, she’ll be fine. I’ve never known anyone to be hurt by Matha’s lot, except by absolute chance. We have a prisoner. Did you get anything out of her?”
“Zinni’s trying.”
She saw his eyes flicker.
“Well, we’ll find her one way or another. They’ve crossed the line this time.”
She nodded. Eurise studied Erin and then spat.
“This is my fault. I should’ve not put you on Zinni and come myself. Stay calm, Erin.”
That was the irony of it all. She gave him a bleak smile.
“I am.”
Despite being in the [Pavilion of Secrets], he clearly didn’t believe her.
 
——
 
But she was calm. Calmly stressed, but calm enough. She wasn’t on fire. She’d checked. Erin didn’t know what to do. She saw problems.
“She’s not talking?”
Zemmy and Mera had locked up their prisoner in one of the barns. Mera answered for Erin.
“Zinni’s talking with her. But, uh, I doubt she’ll get anything out of Fenmi.”
“Why?”
The question went towards Zemmy, and he squirmed.
“Zinni’s a bit soft on Matha and her lot, Erin. We chase them off, but she doesn’t want—”
He broke off, and Erin saw the doors to the barn open. Zinni strode out, white-haired, wrinkles and freckles on her tanned arms and shoulders, but fit. The [Rancher]’s face was grave, and annoyed, but it felt to Erin like she didn’t take this as seriously as Zemmy and Mera were.
“Fenmi’s a stubborn girl. Let’s see if not eating gets it out of her. She’s gotten as lippy as Qole. Your friend’s fine, Erin. They only wanted to meet her. And you. We’ll tell Dretonamis and have a group ride out. Once they realize how much trouble they’re in, they’ll give her back, I have no doubt.”
She eyed Erin as the [Innkeeper] glanced at the door. She heard shouting from within, which sounded like ‘up your ass, Zinni’. Erin spoke.
“Go without dinner? Ulvama’s been kidnapped, Miss Zinni. She’s going to be terrified.”
Zinni exhaled as she patted her hands on her apron. She spoke to Zemmy sidelong as she addressed Erin.
“Zemmy, she’s got a nosebleed from being kicked onto the ground. Get a towel for her, would you? And some water. Erin, my granddaughter’s a hothead and a rebel. She causes trouble and runs her gang around nonstop. She’s like me when I was younger. She’s not going to harm a hair on that Goblin girl’s head. Talk her ear off? I can’t promise that.”
She gave Erin a brisk smile and moved to go past her.
“I’ll get both cities to put out a party—”
Erin grabbed her arm, and Zinni halted, an affronted expression crossing her face.
“How sure are you?”
“Sure? Of Matha? Your friend is fine, Erin.”
“Ulvama will be terrified. She’s been kidnapped before. By Roshal.”
A blank expression passed over Zinni’s face a moment before she patted Erin’s arm.
“In that case, I expect Matha will see the error of her ways. And I will make sure this doesn’t go unpunished. My prized aphid and our guest!”
She pulled again, then stopped. Her eyes focused on Erin’s own, and the [Innkeeper] tried to breathe normally.
“I’m going to speak to this Fenmi. And then go searching.”
This time, Zinni put a hand on Erin’s arm. She pulled—Erin let go, and Zinni spoke as she glanced down.
“No. It will be dusk soon, and you don’t know this area. It’ll be dangerous enough if Eurise wants to search, but I don’t trust Fenmi not to send you to a spider’s nest just to spite you.”
“Don’t you have truth stones?”
The [Rancher] raised her brows, actually nonplussed.
“Goodness me. You think we have something that expensive lying about?”
Erin faltered.
“No—truth stones. A [Detect Truth] spell?”
This time, Zinni frowned and turned to Mera.
“Do we have something that convenient? Go and ask one of the [Mages], will you? Ah, but no going after Fenmi, Miss Erin.”
She caught Erin this time, and a few aphids blocked the way as if she had commanded them telepathically. Erin stopped.
“Why not?”
“Because I think you’d press her ungently. That I will not have. This is my village, and we will do it my way. On my word, your friend will be fine. I’ll try and convince the aphid that Fenmi was riding to tell me where the Cottontails are. But Matha makes sure they’re stubborn…”
And that was that, apparently. Erin had to step back as Zemmy went back to guarding the barn, and then she turned.
Truth spells?
 
——
 
“I see. [Detect Truth] is in my spellbooks. Fascinating, fascinating. Tier 2.”
One of the local Fraerling [Scholars] in Wyewesshi was only too happy to answer Mera’s question and Erin’s, and he seemed to get her urgency. He pointed it out to Erin, and she squinted her eyes at the magical wording she could half-read.
“So why don’t you know it?”
The Fraerling raised two bushy eyebrows at her and slapped the spellbook shut.
“Well, because it’s useless. Even aside from the philosophical question of ‘what is truth?’, it’s a Tier 2 spell. I could probably sneeze and bypass it.”
Erin wanted to object, but she had an image of Regrika Blackpaw and all the other times she’d realized that the spell that so many people relied on was useless. The Fraerlings seemed to know that. The [Scholar] apologetically gestured around his private library.
“Truth stones that I’d trust are hard to make. We don’t really have a reason for one. As for wardstones like I believe Qole made…”
He diverged into a spiel about wardstones being very helpful, portable objects that negated most hostile magics, before trying to ask Erin about anti-scrying spells and the use of [Message] spells in the Tallfolk’s world. She thanked him for his help.
Wasting time. The [Mayor] of Wyewesshi had brought together a scouting group who said they’d go as far as they could before nightfall, but they weren’t going to stay out overnight. And Mera was going to show them where the raiders had been spotted last.
“Do you think you can find their base?”
One of the [Ranchhands] pulled a face when Erin asked him.
“The trick is, the aphids jump. It’s hard to track that, even if we had enough Skills. Plus, the Cottontails might be far out on their aphids. Zinni bred them to go far and fast. But don’t worry! We’ll keep searching, and I’m sure Zinni’ll get the aphid to lead us to their base.”
If anything, the group seemed to take Erin’s expression as a sign to try harder, so they set out at a good clip. Erin sat down again, trying to think.
The only people who were concerned were Zemmy, Mera, the Corumdon Beetle, and the Battle Hamster. The hamster was not happy when he realized Ulvama was gone. He was prowling around, making ominous rumbling sounds at any Fraerling nearby. He kept staring at Erin, as if expecting her to do something.
“I don’t know where she is. I don’t suppose you can smell her scent and track her?”
The hamster blankly sniffed the ground a few times, and Erin guessed he wasn’t actually close enough to a dog to do that. She opened and closed one hand.
She could wait. Eurise was going to search, and he was an [Explorer]. He’d have the Skills to find Ulvama, and everyone said this ‘Matha’ wasn’t dangerous. Not like the Bloodfeast Raiders.
And if they’re wrong? If Ulvama panics and fights back? If she does, then what? Or what if she got free and she’s lost?
That quiet voice was asking, and Erin replied softly, in her own head.
If I let her down as well as the others, I will…never forgive myself. Or Zinni. Or these raiders. I’ll kill all of them. But that won’t bring Ulvama back if she’s hurt.
What would they do to a Goblin? What did people do to Goblins?
There was an image in Erin’s head. She tried to banish it, but it was made of the sound of chains, the rocking of the ship. She stood up.
“If they find her—I need weapons. In case of monsters, too.”
Rocks. She began hunting for stones and draining them of color, putting together the Densecore stones. Just three. Then, Erin stopped.
“She’s fine.”
She went back to sitting. Even if she ran out there, she’d never find Ulvama. She had no direction-sense in the wilds, and there weren’t enough explorer-types like Roja and Eurise. Wyewesshi was too reliant on the ranch.
Who’s dead? Who died, and why won’t they tell…they’re afraid of what I’ll do. I don’t feel sad about them or Ulvama. Once I know, I’ll know. Then I’ll feel it, I hope.
She was pacing around in a circle, thoughts likewise. So helpless. It was like this all the time. Erin had no tracking Skills. She wasn’t enough of a warrior. She couldn’t cast magic, couldn’t run fast…helpless, despite her levels.
She was right there, and I let them take her away. She was screaming. If they have a base, could I use my authority Skill on it? I don’t…sense it out there.
Her eyes were closed when someone touched her shoulder. Erin whirled.
“Ah! Apologies. I just teleported in, and after the mandatory vomiting, I came right away. How’s my patient doing?”
“Bowom?”
Erin blinked. The [Mad Doctor] brushed at a slightly stained lab coat and gave her a grin. He rubbed at his roach leg as he gestured to himself.
“Eurise told me the children kidnapped Ulvama. Which is what they are. Excitable, not older than twenty-three, I think. Have you eaten anything?”
“No. I’ve been trying to figure out how to get to her, but Zinni won’t let me talk to the one they captured. And I don’t think she’s trying hard.”
“Ah, well. Matha’s her granddaughter, and she sees a lot of herself in that brat. Why don’t I talk to her?”
Erin nodded gratefully, and Bowom squared his shoulders. He marched off, then came back after a second.
“Do you know where she is?”
 
——
 
