She came at them as Lantis staggered away, clutching at her pierced stomach. Erin’s eyes were wide, and she didn’t care that Matha’s spear was there. Qole lit her up with a reduced [Lightning Bolt] spell; Matha swore she saw Erin’s skeleton, but the [Innkeeper] leapt on her.
The blade glanced off Matha’s chitin-covered armor again and again, trying to find purchase. Matha tried to kick Erin off, but then received a punch that rocked her and made her head ring.
“Lantis—help—”
She was evenly matched in strength—with an [Innkeeper]! And the knife was slashing, trying to go for Matha’s throat. The [Raidrider] knocked the arm away with her spear, and the Human bit for her throat! Matha pushed her away with a shout of real horror, then saw her spin and go for Qole, who froze up, wide-eyed, as Erin ran at her with the knife.
“Qole—!”
When Matha leapt for her friend, the [Innkeeper] turned around, as if she’d been waiting for just that moment. She slashed across Matha’s throat, then drove the knife tip-first through her chest. The blade shattered, leaving only the tip embedded in Matha’s flesh, going through the armor. Matha tried to grab her throat as Erin seized Qole’s head and began to twist—
Matha couldn’t move or breathe. She was choking on blood and only one thought kept repeating itself:
Ulvama was right.
 
——
 
The moment she heard the crack of wood splintering and felt the base breaking, Ulvama knew she’d been too late. But she didn’t find Erin in time.
She ran for the Corumdon Beetle first because she could see it. Which was her mistake, thinking Erin had come down with it. The roaring beetle was slashing at the aphids, which were attacking mostly without their riders.
“Stop, stop!”
When it saw her, it tried to pick her up with its mandibles, but she shrieked at it.
“Don’t attack them! Fly away! Fly down! Now!”
The beetle was confused, but her Skills got the message across. It leapt into the air and buzzed away—Ulvama whirled.
“Erin? Erin, don’t hurt them! They haven’t done anything to me!”
She cursed in two languages as she ran, then heard Aithe screaming.
“I think she’s killed them! There! There! Matha! Help!”
Oh no. Ulvama ran towards the edge of the base as she saw yellow flames igniting a house. New flames? But someone else got in the way.
The Battle Hamster landed, an arrow in its fur, hissing and snarling, and tried to grab her. She shouted at it.
“No!”
A trio of the Cottontails were pursuing it. Ulvama screamed at them and the hamster.
“Stop fighting! Get everyone to safety! I have to stop Erin!”
Everything slowed her down. The Cottontails hesitated, but the Battle Hamster stopped attacking them, and Ulvama charged down the street. She saw Aithe, scrambling to get away from the yellow flames roaring after her as fast as someone could jog, and the archer pointed.
“Matha’s—”
When Ulvama got there, she saw Erin cut Matha’s throat. The [Innkeeper] grabbed Qole’s head and began to twist it, and Ulvama saw the panicked terror on the [Sorcerer]’s face. That dreadful intensity on Erin’s.
Just like the Bloodtear Pirates. She thinks it’s the same.
The [Shaman]’s charge carried her into Erin, and the [Innkeeper] turned. Ulvama saw those blank hazel eyes widen, and Erin breathed.
“Ulv—”
The Hobgoblin’s elbow went around Erin’s throat as she grabbed Erin from the front in a headlock. She put all of her strength into the choke-hold as Erin’s hands went up, trying to break her grip. At first, Erin pushed, then her fingers dug into Ulvama’s arm.
Grimly, the [Shaman] hung on, panting.
“Cover her throat. Cover it!”
Qole was frozen, staring at Lantis, who was holding her stomach, and Matha, who was bleeding from the throat, trying to hold her life’s blood in. The [Sorcerer] didn’t react. Shock. Ulvama shouted at her.
“Stop her bleeding or she’ll die, idiot! Put your hand—”
She couldn’t let go of Erin. She was about to, even if it meant the [Innkeeper] got free, when she heard a buzzing sound and hysterical laughter. Then—Bowom slammed into the ground shoulder-first.
“Too late! Damn wings—[Flesh Patch]!”
He dove on Matha like a Creler, needle, thread, in a blur, and Ulvama breathed. Then she focused on Erin, because the [Innkeeper] was trying to get free.
Erin might not have ever experienced a headlock like this before, but she was, as many people had learned, a very good fighter by instinct. She was trying to brace one leg against Ulvama’s body to push free or wrench out of the grip. Ulvama held on, keeping the pressure on her windpipe.
How long could Erin hold her breath with inn-Skills? It felt like she was growing desperate. Ulvama felt hands on her arm, then one reaching up for her throat and face. The Goblin jerked her head back.
That—would be a good way to break a headlock. Poke someone’s eyes out and they might let go, or get their throat. She waited as Erin’s hands found her arms again, and the [Innkeeper]’s fingers dug in slightly.
Erin could breathe fire and conjure it. Or use a [Minotaur Punch]. If she wanted to, she could injure Ulvama very badly. Even—kill her.
Ulvama held her grip, sweat rolling down her forehead.
“Erin. It’s me. I’m fine. Stop. You have to stop.”
The [Innkeeper] was running out of air. Her hands wrapped around Ulvama’s encircling arm, and she could have hurt Ulvama or made the Hobgoblin break the grip. But then her hands let go.
She sagged, but Ulvama kept the pressure up until Erin went actually slack. Only then did the Hobgoblin let go and check to make sure she was okay. Erin was breathing, and her [Aspect of the Inn] had saved Ulvama from bruising her windpipe. She was fine.
She was fine. The Hobgoblin peered around the Cottontails’ base. It must have been less than five minutes since Erin landed. Ulvama rubbed at her face as she sat down, then pushed herself up.
“More people are hurt.”
Bowom got up from Lantis and cast around. Yellow flames were consuming the base, and it was tilting more as the anchoring ropes began to give. He glanced down at Matha and shook his head.
“This is going to be trouble.”
At first, Ulvama thought he meant the reaction of the Cottontails, the villages, and families of the stunned raiders. But then, when Eurise came running, she realized Bowom didn’t mean any group of Fraerlings.
He meant Zinni.
 
——
 
Eurise arrived minutes after the Cottontails’ base finally collapsed. The houses fell off the platform, crashing downwards to land—well, softly. Ulvama saw the small frames of the buildings more or less survive the fall because they weighed so much less, but everything inside most certainly was tossed around or broken.
Some of the raiders watching made a soft sound, and Aithe sobbed, but that was all. The Corumdon Beetle fanned its wings as if only now wondering if it had done a bad thing.
A kid’s fortress, like little Goblins used to make in the Mountain City tribe. Silly, imperfect, but theirs—broken in the wake of the [Innkeeper]’s wrath. The yellow flames had vanished thanks to a mild rain spell that Ulvama had conjured, but the noxious smell lingered.
Bowom was checking injuries. No one had died, but all the Fraerlings who’d run into Erin were badly hurt, Matha most of all. Several aphids were dead, and more than one of the Cottontails was crying over them, like Redfangs mourned Carn Wolves.
As far as Ulvama was concerned, this was one of the better outcomes. Which was to say still disastrous. The moment Erin had reached the base, though, it had been a disaster, a fact Bowom seemed well aware of.
“Gollesume, I need teleportation to Dretonamis for three. Tell Veerni I have a full-body burn victim, a slashed throat, and a stomach wound. It’s the stomach I’m most concerned about. Yes, Dretonamis. Not Wyewesshi. I don’t care how much mana it costs—teleport them and I’ll catch up then.”
He stopped shouting into some kind of speaking stone and then gazed at Ulvama. She was watching a figure leaping towards them in huge bounds, like a grasshopper. Eurise. She couldn’t tell if he was angry or…
“He’ll be fine. Just upset at himself. It’s Zinni we have to worry about. Good thing our friend didn’t kill anyone. If we’re lucky, we’ll get them patched up before word reaches her.”
“Because of Matha?”
Ulvama half-turned to the leader of the Cottontails, who was lying down per Bowom’s order. She kept feeling at the patch of skin on her throat. She was pale—but alive. Bowom’s shrug made his sewn wings fall off.
“Oops. There they go. Matha, yes, but everyone. The Cottontails are a problem for all three villages, but they’re her problem, if that makes sense. She’s Wyewesshi’s protector.”
There was a nuance to this conversation Ulvama was picking up on. She turned back as Eurise landed in front of her.
The grizzled explorer seemed like he’d come ready for a fight. Sweat was glistening on his skin, and his spider silk jacket and bared arms were covered in scars. One glance at the base and the raiders and he lowered his hands.
“Anyone…?”
“Nope! Miss Ulvama took down Erin. A very neat chokehold, and I made sure she was fine. A few wounded, like Matha, but I was getting everyone back to Dretonamis.”
Eurise took a breath.
“That would be best. Zinni—Mera said that all of Wyewesshi’s in uproar. Something about one of the raiders…?”
“Just a bit of light torture. Zinni has no one to blame but herself and the Raiders. And us, I suppose, for not realizing what Miss Erin would do. A few aphids are dead, and the base is destroyed. We’ll have to march everyone back on foot.”
Eurise nodded and glanced at Ulvama. She ducked her head.
“I’m sorry.”
“I’d have done the same thing if I thought my people were in danger. Zinni can’t see this, though.”
Eurise caught sight of Matha and grimaced. He strode over to her, and she croaked.
“Oh, cats. It’s Eurise—”
Qole stood up as if to protect Matha, but Eurise just brushed past her and squatted down. He checked her and Lantis and seemed surprised.
“Is that the worst of it?”
“Someone else got burned, but not badly. The poor kid’s over there.”
Bowom pointed, and Eurise frowned.
“She only cut a throat and stabbed someone in the stomach?”
“Only?”
Lantis had a high-pitched shrill to her voice. Matha stared up at Eurise, and he sat on his haunches. He didn’t even have Bowom’s friendly veneer. He nodded down at her.
“I think it’s the first time we’ve met since you started your raiders. Matha, right? Zinni’s favorite grandchild.”
“Yeah. We fight Zemmy and Mera all the time, though. She—that Human cut my throat! And she nearly snapped Qole’s neck!”
They weren’t prepared for Eurise’s quick smile. He covered it with one hand after a second.
“Hm? Yeah, I remember them complaining about you two. Erin didn’t manage to get Qole?”
He glanced around, and Matha rasped.
“Ulvama stopped her.”
“Ah. Makes sense. Why didn’t she manage to kill anyone?”
That seemed to be Eurise’s main concern, actually. Ulvama had an answer for that.
“Her knife snapped. She used to have one so sharp it could cut through armor.”
Bowom rubbed his hands together excitedly.
“Ah, that makes sense! Fascinating! I did think the knife I pulled out of that other young lady hadn’t gone in too deep. I rather expected better.”
“Mm. Very lucky. So, Matha of the Cottontails, looks like we finally meet the lot who’ve stolen from Dretonamis. Is she in good enough condition, Bowom? Not going to die?”
The [Mad Doctor] waved a hand.
“Fine. Just a bit anemic.”
“Great.”
So saying, Eurise made a fist and punched Matha’s head. Not hard, certainly not hard as Ulvama suspected he could strike, but she swore, and the other raiders recoiled.
“What was that f—”
Eurise smacked Qole’s head, then Lantis’, and then every one of the Cottontails he could reach. He wore a patient expression that suggested he actually didn’t have much.
“What? Were you expecting me to give you all soup and a blanket? I’m not Zinni. The only reason I didn’t break your base in half two years ago is because you were her problem. You kidnapped my guests and started this mess. I should bury you all upside down up to your ankles, but instead, Bowom and I are going to march you back to Dretonamis. Then you’ll pay for your crimes. If any of you object, raise a hand.”
None of them were stupid enough to do that, and Ulvama saw Eurise sigh. He rubbed at his stubbled chin, then turned to her.
“Are you alright?”
“Yah. Just—sorry. She thought I was in danger.”
Ulvama gestured towards a comatose figure lying on the ground. Eurise glanced at Erin and then put his hands in his pockets.
“It’s what I’d have done too. Good thing she didn’t kill anyone. I guess we’d better get everyone moving. Can we ride those aphids? I reckon the beetle can carry the rest. Hey! Get mounted up! If anyone tries to run, I will grab them.”
He stood there, relaxed, confident they couldn’t escape or best him. Ulvama saw Matha’s expression and remembered her comments about being able to ‘take’ Erin. It seemed to dawn on the Cottontails that the reason Eurise had never come after them was because he had never wanted to.
As for Zinni—well, Ulvama had a good idea of how hard she’d tried.
“But what about our home? Our things?”
Eurise opened his mouth.
“I said mount up and—”
He stopped when Ulvama touched his arm and gave her a grudging raise of his eyebrows. She murmured.
“Maybe some of it’s useful? They need to sleep somewhere, and they had blankets. Food.”
That made the [Retired Explorer] sigh.
“Fine. Okay, you have twenty minutes. Strip everything valuable and load it up. Move!”
He clapped his hands, and they lurched into action, Qole running to find the wardstone she claimed was so valuable. Ulvama stayed there with Erin.
“I’m ready to teleport. Eurise, do you need help with this lot? Gollesume could send Roja…”
“I can get them all back to Dretonamis. Ulvama, do you need transport for Erin…?”
“We’ll take the beetle, so long as there’s space.”
Eurise nodded distractedly, and Ulvama watched him stride after the raiders. Within eighteen minutes, they were loaded up, and a pile of valuables had been lashed to the Corumdon Beetle’s back. Some of the young Fraerlings were crying as he shepherded them to Dretonamis.
Ulvama wondered what would happen to them. If she guessed right, it’d be some kind of community service under supervision, whereupon they’d go back to working. Perhaps they’d run off again, but she thought the drive to rebel and live apart from everyone else was gone.
“Too bad.”
