She tried the sound out, and Erin laughed.
“Well, close. But you’d need a big hat, and then you wave it and shout—you don’t actually do that in real life. I’m almost positive.”
“I’ll get a hat and try it. Mera, Zemmy! What do you say when you ride aphids?”
“Not that! We say tons of cooler things. Like wyda-haiiii!”
Mera stood up in her saddle and waved her arms as she took off. Zemmy turned to Ulvama and Erin.
“I think it sounds stupid, but they do say that. And they love racing these buggers. I like running more.”
“Racing them? How fast do aphids go?”
Conversation on aphid was hard. You alternated between yelling at each other and holding on while the aphid was jumping to avoid biting your tongue. So you talked in bursts. Zemmy grinned.
“If you think this is fast—see the gatherers over there? They leap from flower to flower—you can go a lot faster, but it’s hard as shit—and look down there! You gotta be careful of flying bugs or birds, but we’re pretty safe here—hey, Mera, how fast can you go on these buggers?”
She shouted back as they caught up to her.
“Racing ‘round here or in general? They’re not the best for long-distance. Zinni’s working on that, but you can zip across this place like a bolt ‘a lightning. See, the trick is you bounce from stalk to stalk. ‘S really complex, though, but then you never touch the ground. Zinni can do it pretty far, but one of her granddaughters is a master [Rider], the catbitch.”
“Uh. Sounds like you don’t like her. Isn’t Zinni your aunt, Mera?”
“Sure, but lots of Zinni’s kids suck. No one’s supposed to have favorites in Wyewesshi, even if you are the protector’s family, but everyone knows she’s sweet on us. If it weren’t for her favoring Matha, I’d have punched her face in already.”
Erin exchanged a glance with Ulvama as Zemmy nodded along, scowling. The two [Brawlers] were normally quite amiable for all they fought. Anyone they didn’t like must be a character.
Erin could see how Dretonamis appealed to Zemmy and Mera. It allowed a bit more independence, and she suspected Zinni’s overbearing personality might get on her nerves. Then again, she might just be hospitable.
Erin…wasn’t in a good state of mind to really be enjoying herself. The [Innkeeper] turned back to Ulvama to say as much and saw the Hobgoblin was watching her.
“You want to go back, Erin? We don’t have to ride.”
She was really trying to help. Erin forced a smile and changed her mind.
“I—no. Lyonette said they were really busy, even if I could talk to them with the pavilion. Not ready to talk yet. I’ll—give them time. Zemmy, Mera, I can ride a bit. Is there anything cool around here?”
The two gazed at each other and chorused.
“Bee raiding. Want to beat up some bees?”
“…Huh?”
 
——
 
Technically, it was more ‘flying insect raiding’. Since you could raid wasp nests too. And—Erin hadn’t known this—most bees didn’t produce honey. Only a few varieties did. Nor did they have nests as big as honeybees, not by far.
However, insects in this world did have qualities unique to them, such as a proclivity for gathering bits of magical stone or magical plants. So a job for people like Zemmy and Mera was to find nests and, well, beat up the insects while stealing their stuff.
“So you’re thugs.”
“What? No! We leave them alive, mostly. We just beat them down, steal their shit, and wait for them to get more.”
“…That’s a [Thug], Mera.”
The Fraerling was astounded by this, possibly because the villages didn’t have crime that organized. It certainly explained why they liked the Battle Hamster so much; their job was pretty much the same as its was.
At any rate, they were showing Ulvama and Erin some nests they raided when a gaggle of younger [Riders] caught up, begging to come along. Then they became a hopping herd as they badgered Erin and Ulvama with questions and to show off their Skills.
That wasn’t actually so bad. Erin showed them her hat and a few Skills and promised to trade some food that night. She was more worried Ulvama would get overwhelmed, but she seemed to enjoy the attention—and the questions about her skin paint.
“You think it’s nice?”
“It’s so different! Can you show us how to make it? We’ve got tons of nectars and ingredients!”
Ulvama got interested, then, and nodded. She addressed a very excited Fraerling girl of maybe… fourteen? Nanette’s age, Erin thought.
Was Nanette okay? She’d ask tonight. The [Innkeeper] grew pensive, but listened with a half-smile.
“I can put some on you if you want. Tonight? If you let me use some of your ingredients…”
That reminded Erin about her Skills [Infuse Color] and [Drain Color]. This was a bright place. She wondered if the flowers might be very useful.
“Zemmy, Mera, are there any really vibrant flowers I could experiment on? I might use my Skill on them if it’s fine for me to, uh, kill a few.”
“Flowers? Sure, we’ve got lots! Plenty of colors! What kind you want?”
Ulvama’s head snapped around, and the Fraerlings began shouting about the prettiest flowers they knew of. Erin wondered if they could combine that with pollen tasting. Maybe not. Experimenting with edible food was probably not the first move she should make, but then maybe…
“If you can make something cool out of colors, why not some blue? There’s a bunch of ‘em over yonder, and some blue spider bastards. We always find a few chunks of magicore in their webs. Let’s head over!”
Zemmy pointed excitedly, and Erin began to think what blue could be good for. Blue water? What would that do? Blue…stone? Blue sand? She realized the materials needed to be better too.
“What would combine well with blue, Ulvama? What do [Alchemists] or [Shamans] use?”
“Eh. Pollen maybe? Depends.”
The Fraerling girl waved a hand excitedly.
“What about aphid wool? We have lots!”
“Now that’s interesting. Can I make a garment out of wool if I give it color?”
It might help if we have to leave here. Because now Erin was thinking of it—they had to go.
Right?
She didn’t…want to bring it up, especially since Ulvama seemed so happy. But the inn. She had to find Ryoka, Rabbiteater, and Nerry for that matter.
They’d taken too much time. Ulvama was smiling and glancing at the children who wanted to learn her techniques, but she kept glancing back at Erin. As if she could read Erin’s mind, she began asking the kids to show her how to ride. Then to Erin’s horror, she asked for a hat—which wasn’t like a cowboy hat at all—and she reared back in the saddle.
“Let’s ride faster! Yeehaaaaaw!”
Erin covered her face as the Fraerlings copied her. She saw Ulvama’s aphid do a series of mini-hops forwards, then one big leap that took her above the height of the flowers.
“Go, Ulvama! Come on!”
Mera shouted, waving Zemmy and Erin to come on. Erin tried to kick her aphid in the side. She swore it farted, and Zemmy grumbled as the Fraerlings shouted and whooped. They took off ahead of him.
“They like bugs too much here.”
Erin sort of agreed with him, but she listened to the ‘yeehaws’ and the other cries in the air. What was it?
Wyda-hai! It actually worked if you shouted it right. Erin heard a chorus of the shouts from above her and then voices. Then—
A scream. Erin’s head snapped up, and then there was another, not of excitement. Zemmy turned his head as an aphid fell, and the girl who’d wanted Ulvama’s magical paint screamed.
“It’s them! Zemmy!”
“What? Who?”
“The Cottontails! They’re coming—”
Then Erin realized the shouting wasn’t just from her group, but coming from the side. Her head rose as she saw shadows flitting over the ground. Not many—a dozen?
The Cottontail Raiders. It was such a stupid name. Zemmy began swearing as Erin’s heart began to beat faster.
“Ulvama!”
She shouted upwards, but Erin didn’t know where the Goblin had gone. She’d jumped high, and Fraerlings were landing, some leaping off their aphids to dive down. They were shouting for Zemmy and Mera.
“Those idiots! They’re raiding now? Erin, stay down. Mera!”
Zemmy urged his mount upwards, and Erin saw the Cottontails now, bounding from stalk to stalk like Mera had described. They were riding practically horizontally to the ground, and moving far, far faster than Erin had expected. She reached for her side, for…
Her knife. She didn’t have it. Erin had no weapons at her belt. No knife, no Densecore stone—
She’d forgotten to stay armed here. She cast around, then made a fist. Fire. She could conjure it. But where was—
“Ulvama!”
That was Mera’s voice. Erin instantly tried to get her aphid to leap towards the sound of the shouting, swearing [Brawler]. The aphid was nervous, though, and only did small hops.
“Ulvama?”
Then Erin heard the Hobgoblin shouting in a panic. Someone fell from above, swearing and punching. Mera hit the ground, leapt back up, knocked from her aphid. She pointed up.
“Erin! They’re going after—”
Oh no. No, she felt like she was in slow motion. Erin heard Ulvama’s voice, then, shouting.
“Erin! Erin—!”
They were going after her. Why? Erin grabbed the aphid’s reins.
“Up! Come on, up!”
It bounded upwards, but too low to clear the flower canopy. Erin saw a shape blur past her. A figure riding one of the Leaphids on a custom saddle. They had a mask over their face, Erin realized. A crude, painted clay one, like an insect—
Erin kicked out, but she was way too far and the figure moving too fast. They were leaping upwards, and Ulvama—
A bloom of light. Magic. Erin shouted as she landed and tried to get the aphid to jump.
“Ulvama! Jump down!”
Was she panicking? It wouldn’t hurt her, but—Zemmy was up there, shouting.
“Get off her! Ulvama, cut the ropes! Cut the—”
Ropes? Erin dug her knees into the aphid’s side, and it leapt. She went up and saw Ulvama for just a second. The [Raiders] had something—spiderwebs—all over her and her aphid, and they were trying to jump away in a cluster, six of them.
“Ulvama!”
Erin saw the Hobgoblin shouting, trying to get free, eyes wide in terror. Erin inhaled, and the flames burned her lungs. Then she hesitated. Ulvama was there—
Her aphid was falling. Erin shouted as the group jumped. She tried to make the aphid move, but it tried to toss her. She landed on her back as it leapt away, afraid of her, and then got up.
“Stop!”
Her [Loud Voice] Skill shook the flowers, and everything bounded away from her. The raiders whirled, then continued to leap away. They were laughing, Erin realized. Laughing—until one shouted and there was a triumphant cry.
Zemmy kicked one of the figures out of the saddle, and they fell towards the ground. They landed—not hard, and they were scrambling up when Mera charged into them. There was a shout, a female voice crying out as Mera twisted one arm up, and Erin saw Zemmy trying to chase the others, but far too slow compared to their speed. Erin was standing then, and Ulvama—was gone.
A single Cottontail Raider lay on the ground, swearing.
“Let go, let go, Mera! Matha will beat you and Zemmy into the ground if you don’t let go—let go or I’ll tell Zinni on you!”
“You idiot, your gang’s crossed the line!”
Mera was shouting as Erin strode over. Zemmy landed, swearing, and Erin Solstice gazed down at the young woman struggling as her broken pottery mask lay in front of her.
She couldn’t have been more than eighteen.
Cottontail Raiders. Not a threat, Eurise had said. Erin put the pieces together.
Kids. Teenagers.
Zinni’s granddaughter.
It didn’t matter. They had Ulvama. Erin saw the raider staring up at her, eyes alight with curiosity, not fear.
“Is that the Human? Hah! Matha’s gonna be mad we missed her!”
Erin felt at her belt. Ulvama.
She needed a knife.
 
——
 
The moment she realized they’d grabbed her and she couldn’t get free, Ulvama feared the worst. No matter how fast Erin got here, and she would…
Stupid. You let your guard down and it happened. Even here. Stupid!
She was shaking as they leapt with her and the panicking aphid from place to place. They were fast, efficient, and chattering excitedly. Ulvama got pieces of their conversation; the webs she was in were insulating her from sound pretty well.
 
“—ot her! Did you see the other—?
“I think Zemmy got someone. Do we go back and—?”
“Mera. Let’s tell Matha—”
“Look like? She’s green! —lin?”
 
So they’d grabbed her because she was a Goblin. Ulvama tried to think of a way out of the net, but she was webbed up, and she had no knife. No knife, no tools.
Stupid. All her magical paints were configured to keep her cool or for protection. She could cast an offensive spell, but she’d risk hitting herself, and if she hurt them…
Wait. Survive. Surviving was so difficult.
She felt like she was aboard the ship again. She had to breathe. Just wait for Erin to get here. Wait—
It was safe to say that Ulvama’s fears only kept mounting throughout the relatively short ride. They were moving fast, so she couldn’t have said how far it was. For a Tallfolk, not far at all. She suspected they were just out of the flower field, if that. Thirty minutes later, they stopped, and she heard voices shouting.
“Matha! They got Fenmi! It was Zemmy and Mera!”
“Didya get more Leaphids?”
There were more shouts, and the voices—young, Ulvama thought—were shouted down by a female voice, annoyed and triumphant.
“I got Great Grandma’s best one yet. You should see it jump! I told you to stay away from those idiots! Now we’ve gotta grab Fenmi—did you get both of them?”
“Just the Goblin.”
“What?”
More arguing and voices. Ulvama was jostled as they put her down, and she tried to think. Was it possible they wanted her as a ransom? That was unexpected, but preferable to anything else. But she didn’t like the next line.
“Take her to the spare rooms. I want to talk to her.”
Shoving and being jostled about. They didn’t unweb her, just rolled her and the aphid into what seemed to be a storehouse, then cut her loose. Ulvama didn’t fight as they pulled her out; the poor aphid was terrified, and they worked with surprising gentleness to avoid breaking its slender legs.
They were all—kids, Ulvama realized. At their base, they took off their masks, and they ranged from barely older than the girl Ulvama had been talking to to their early twenties at most. She held still and waited as they told her not to run.
How long until Erin got here? Could she find her? Could Zinni? But that name—Matha.
