—The mystery grows deeper. Now Ulvama was equally confused. Keeping the death from Erin was one thing, but the nature of the Goblin King? She began asking questions, and Erin gave Ulvama a cut-down version of what she’d gotten.
This [Palace of Fates]. Faerie Flower roots. Alternate…timelines? Erin was having an easier time wrapping her head around what was going on, but it was clear she was shaken.
“Why do you think they won’t tell us who it was?”
And again. Ulvama thought it was a sign Erin was in distress and still healing, because the [Shaman]’s brain gave her a very simple answer.
Because it was someone we know, Erin. But I don’t see how. Even Numbtongue is far too low-level, even if he hit Level 40. But it was someone we know.
She didn’t say that. Instead, she forced a smile onto her face.
“Okay, maybe you ask again in a bit. They were busy, right?”
“What? Yeah. They were all dealing with the aftermath…”
“Then we give them one day. If they say no one died, maybe it’s true? You and I will, uh—let’s wait. Let’s go out!”
“I’m really not in the mood to go out.”
“Well, you’re not sitting here and doing nothing. Come on. Maybe we go sit in hammocks or something.”
Almost everyone in Dretonamis had hammocks. A brilliant cultural phenomena that Erin, of course, claimed Earth had. Ulvama doubted that. She hadn’t seen any hammocks in The Wandering Inn; the first time she had seen Erin in a hammock was when she had made one for transporting Erin. All this suggested to Ulvama that Erin was either lying or had no taste.
Either one could be true.
 
——
 
Hammocks were a bad idea. After five minutes of watching Erin stare blankly into the distance, Ulvama decided they needed to occupy the [Innkeeper]’s brain. So she turned to one of the few people she thought she could, well, trust, even in this friendly Fraerling village.
“Eurise!”
The [Retired Explorer] was Dretonamis’ guardian and a Level 50+ person, making him exceptional no matter the species. It was apparently a rule that if you had a village, you had to have someone above Level 50 to guard it at all times.
…Which really went to show you that Fraerlings had levels beyond other species. Even if he was tiny, Ulvama had seen him take out a giant monster by himself. But she trusted him because, well, he’d helped save Erin.
He was having lunch, and she wrapped her arms around him and grinned as he jumped. He twisted as she whispered.
“We need help with Erin.”
She waved at Erin, who had turned her head as Eurise frowned.
“I heard she set fire to her house…? What’s the word about the Goblin King?”
“He dead. Bad news from home, though. Maybe not bad news? Can you think of something to distract her? Otherwise, she just looks like that.”
Well, Erin wasn’t staring at a wall right now, and Eurise scratched at his head. He was going grey, but he was wiry. Ulvama patted his arms and shoulders, fascinated by a Level 50 [Warrior]’s body. He shoved at her, laughing.
“Stop that. You’re worse than Zemmy and Mera.”
“You have a weird body. Is fun.”
It was a sign she liked him; Ulvama was very careful about not giving other species—or her own—signs of flirtation unless it was because she was doing it on purpose. But Eurise was interesting. His class was interesting, and he was relatively unaffected by her charms. Which made it fun to try.
He thought out loud as he scratched at his chin.
“She could try a nali-stick. Roja dug one out, and all the kids’re all over it. Rare treat. We’d plant them, but it’s not worth the effort fighting things that want to eat them.”
“Eh, she’s had one.”
“Damn you Tallfolk. I forgot. Eh…everyone’s talking about the moon. There’s a Thinker’s Talk happening soon, but it’s just not that interesting in Dretonamis, usually.”
He meant for Fraerlings. Ulvama considered most things they did interesting, but she waited. They needed something to really get Erin’s mind off the inn. Eurise snapped his fingers.
“Roasted cats, why not just make it someone else’s problem? Ever since the festival and the monster, we’ve had an invite to show you around the other villages. Wyewesshi’s closest. Remember Zinni?”
Ulvama recalled the old grandmotherly woman.
“The [Rancher]? The Level 50+ one.”
“That’s her. She’s got a massive aphid ranch, and Wyewesshi’s in the middle of a flower meadow, not the forest like us. It’ll be a sight. There’s lots of bugs around too, so you might want to take Zemmy and Mera. They’re always having to fight off bees or some local pests.”
Ulvama was interested at once, both as a distraction and because she had really wanted to see the other Fraerling villages. But of course, there were risks.
“How dangerous is it?”
“Trek or village? The trek isn’t that bad. It’ll take you three hours if you can run like Zemmy or Mera, but you’ve got the beetle. Slap a speed spell on it and you’ll get there, and I doubt most critters will tangle with it. As for the village…there’s always bees buzzing around and ants, so it’s a place where you have to scrap a bit more than Dretonamis. But it’s probably safer with all of Zinni’s herds around. I’m only where I can be; she can protect a lot more.”
Interesting. Zinni was a [Rancher], but Eurise trusted her village more? Ulvama wanted to know what that looked like.
“You sure we can go now?”
“Sure. Actually, we should tell Fantim. He’s touchy about that kind of thing.”
Eurise heaved a sigh, and Ulvama sighed too. If you had to count Fraerlings who didn’t like Ulvama and Erin—well, Fantim, who was pretty much the mayor of this village, was the one person.
 
——
 
“I don’t like it. She’s unstable after the Goblin King ripped her chest open or something, isn’t she? Bowom, did you clear this medically? Don’t cause trouble for our neighbors.”
Fantim had one of those expressions that suggested that no matter what, he’d never be happy with the state of the world. It could just be he only wore it when he was around Erin, Ulvama, or Eurise, though.
“She’s fine. I mean, she is partly her inn, so when you get down to it, is there a problem with her being ripped in half? Put a few nails in her and she’s good as new. I actually wanted to know if she’d survive having her heart removed. Ah, well, I can only dream.”
—Then again, when you had people like Bowom the [Mad Doctor] around, perhaps you did get stressed as the leader of Dretonamis. Everyone glared at the Fraerling, who folded his hands together innocently. He had a cockroach leg instead of his Fraerling right one.
“What? Maybe in ten levels. I’m telling you, architectural immune systems are fascinating. Here I am with a marvel of medicine in front of me and she doesn’t have the courtesy to be dead. So I have to practice ‘ethics’.”
He made air-quotes with his fingers. He was…probably joking and playing up his class.
Probably.
The [Mayor]’s scowl only intensified. Fantim pointed at Erin, then Eurise.
“As far as I’m concerned, Wyewesshi’s invitation wasn’t an open ‘come-as-you-please’. They’ve got troubles up there. I don’t want to add to them or bring them here.”
“Aw, c’mon, Fantim. They send Zemmy and Mera here all the time. ‘S only fair we send them some shit now and then too.”
“Hey!”
Zemmy and Mera chorused as Eurise drawled, and Fantim rolled his eyes.
“Those nuisances aren’t the same as Tallfolk, even shrunken ones. I want to hear from their [Mayor], Whihena, that she’s on board, and Zinni.”
“Argh. Fine. I’ll send Zemmy with a note.”
“Aw, I have to run there and back?”
“Shut it.”
Eurise went to cuff Zemmy, who ducked, and Fantim grumbled.
“Ask them if they have trouble with the damn raiders. It’s been…how long since they bothered us? Eight weeks?”
“Closer to nine, but sure. I heard they stole some aphids. Zemmy, Mera, what’s going on?”
The two [Brawlers] stopped arguing who’d do the run there, and Ulvama’s ears perked up. Raiders? She recalled something about that, but it was fascinating to her now that she’d lived in Dretonamis a month.
Crime amongst Fraerlings? Erin herself had been distracted since the idea was proposed, not that interested, but ‘raiders’ got her to pay attention.
“They stole about four dozen of Zinni’s best aphids. She’s kicked up a real fuss, but that was the big one, Eurise. Mostly, it’s just theft. They were trying to shake people down until we jumped them once, but they got away.”
Zemmy rubbed at a scar as Mera nodded and spat.
“Bastards.”
Since they were in Fantim’s house, that earned her a glare from him. Erin raised a hand.
“How bad are these raiders?”
To Ulvama’s surprise, all the Fraerlings waved this off, even Fantim. Eurise answered her with a grimace.
“Not bad. Nothing like what you Tallfolk get.”
“But they’re raiders…so they raid?”
Mera pursed her lips and nearly spat again.
“Yep. They steal aphids, things, and cause trouble. They’ve got a base, but no one’s figured out where they are. Zemmy and I keep searching for it so we can beat them all down, but, eh. Most’re Level 30 at best, so they wouldn’t put up a fight.”
Eurise nodded at the two [Brawlers].
“They’re problems for Zemmy and Mera, not me or Zinni. If they were real problems, they wouldn’t exist.”
That had a note of finality to it, and Ulvama shivered a bit. She imagined that if it were anything like the Bloodfeast Raiders, Eurise would end them as fast as he’d gone after other monsters.
But that begged the question…why suffer these raiders? Well, Fantim grumbled, but he eventually gave his assent, conditional on agreement from Whihena. And Zinni.
“She’s the equivalent of Eurise, so don’t get on her bad side. Especially you.”
He poked Erin a few times in her shoulder, which neither Erin nor Ulvama appreciated. She brushed his finger aside.
“Why do you think I’ll cause trouble? I’ve met her. She was nice!”
“It’s my job to worry about people like you and Eurise. You, Ulvama, keep her in line.”
Fantim pointed at the [Shaman], who found herself in the surreal modality of being trusted to be the responsible party for the first time…ever. By a non-Goblin, at least. She saw Eurise heave a huge sigh, but he didn’t actually argue with Fantim much. Which was surprising given their clear disparity in levels and reputations, but it was how Fraerlings operated.
She liked it. For all the Fraerling was a grump, his role and hers felt a bit similar. Then Ulvama had a thought.
“How long we going for?”
“Might as well do a few days. Take in the sights. Get some aphid fluff for us, and eh, you should bring some of that iron we dug up.”
Fantim nodded at once.
“That’s right. Someone run and tell Macnest to produce all he can while Zemmy and Mera run the request over. You should take his works, some of the nali-stick, the dragonfly jelly…”
Ulvama and Erin exchanged glances as they realized this was becoming more of a chore than they thought. But it was busy-work. Ulvama began involving herself in the process, trying to drag Erin into helping.
“Erin? You want to do this?”
She was willing to call it off if Erin really needed time, but the [Innkeeper] just stood there.
“They didn’t want to tell me because Mrsha said she was afraid of what I’d do. But I should at least know, Ulvama.”
She sounded hurt as she stared at her wrists, massaging the skin. Ulvama bit her tongue.
The last time you heard about someone in trouble, you fought the entire Bloodtear Pirates’ armada and killed a [Prince]. She patted Erin’s shoulders.
“If everything’s actually well, maybe let it be for a little bit?”
Erin didn’t move. She kept staring at her hands.
“Something happened, Ulvama. Something big and momentous and terrible, I think.”
“I know, but you have to heal.”
Erin kept staring at her hands.
“It messed up even the [Pavilion of Secrets]. How? I think it might have…destroyed the [Palace of Fates]. Can I trust the pavilion again?”
Ulvama hoped so and said it. If they lacked that, they truly were without intelligence.
“What makes you think it’s breaking?”
Erin gazed up, and her eyes were so hurt that Ulvama decided they needed a distraction or she’d sink back into the same moment she’d been in since the raft. A month at sea of torturing herself and living off of Ashfire Bee honey…this month of rest hadn’t been enough to begin to heal all that or what had come before. Erin whispered.
“She said Kevin when she was listing the people alive to me. Kevin’s dead.”
And to that—Ulvama said nothing at all. She just hugged Erin briefly, and that seemed to distract the [Innkeeper] enough. They made plans to go to Wyewesshi, and Zemmy and Mera raced off, competing to see who would sprint there and back faster. The Battle Hamster went with them and apparently beat both.
Three hours later, Erin and Ulvama left with a loaded wagon pulled by the Corumdon Beetle.
 
——
 
The appearance of Ulvama and Erin in Wyewesshi caused a stir unlike anything Dretonamis had experienced. Partly because—and Ulvama and Erin had not known this—Wyewesshi’s population was younger than Dretonamis’ by far, and larger.
If the two had asked Zemmy and Mera, it would have been obvious as one of those things that ‘everyone knew’, but clearly, the two visitors would not.
Wyewesshi existed in a literal meadow of flowers, the compact buildings nestling up invisibly among the blooming forest around them. Again unlike Dretonamis, the village was constructed of dense plant matter that was still alive; they were grown into each other and interwoven until the resulting plant-houses were tough and resilient, forming semi-irregular apartments that mixed with larger buildings, like Zinni’s range encircling the entire village.
It was, in fact, exceptionally beautiful to ride towards the village Mera called home; Ulvama and Erin saw a field of flowers fighting skywards. It wasn’t as dense and oppressive as the true jungle could be; there was a profusion of flowers, but because of the size of some of the quasi-sunflowers or other widespread leaves, it meant that plants below would be starved of sunlight and led to that forest-like feel from the Fraerling perspective. Slender stems of flowers reaching upwards and providing shade even in the hotter mornings.
Oh—and it meant bugs.
Lots of bugs.
Springtime meant they were all out. Tiny bee varieties, flies, dragonflies, fruit flies, midges, beetles, and bugs for which Erin had no names. Some clung to the stalks of plants sucking nectar, others buzzed around pollinating the profusion of blooms.
