“I suppose so. But why did you say that about Pawn?”
“I assumed you knew. Everyone else did.”
Erin pushed at her brows and almost laughed. She shook her head and then spoke.
“Yes, I did, but I never wanted to talk about it. I’m sorry too, Lyonette. I think I’m just a bit insane. I don’t think I’m well, and I don’t—”
Her voice broke.
“—I don’t think I should come back home. Perhaps not ever. It feels like all I do is murder my friends. I think I wanted to die and not put anyone else in danger. But I couldn’t because Ulvama needed me. But this—I’m just hurting people. I don’t remember how to stop.”
Erin’s hands were shaking again, so badly that Lyonette’s brief moment of humor left her, and she strode over to seize Erin’s hands. Then feel at her wrists.
“Your scars. I barely noticed before. Did—is it from the ship?”
“I had chains on.”
The scars around her neck. Suddenly, Lyonette regretted every bit of her passive aggressive comments from yesterday. She combed at Erin’s hair with her fingers and then would have lifted Erin’s hands up, but she couldn’t do it.
Different rules here. I must not be able to harm her or affect her without her consent. Good?
“You—don’t think like that, Erin. Is there a [Healer] in the village? We all want you b—dead gods damn it, everyone in the inn except for possibly Numbtongue wants you back.”
Erin was trying to smile, but her lips were trembling. Lyonette saw her head rising, but her hands were shaking worse in the [Princess]’ grip. Lyonette had once seen Shardele suffering withdrawal from Dreamleaf, and she’d been shaking less than this.
“Numbtongue? I guess I left him behind and really hurt him, huh?”
“He’s an idiot, and I think he just regrets not being there with you. He needs to see you, Erin. We all do. Not like this. In person. And…and I never really hated you. I was just upset. You sailed off to fight [Pirates] when I wanted you to turn around and be safe.”
“I had to. I had to save the Goblin just once. I wish no one had come after me.”
The [Innkeeper] was shivering now, and Lyonette pressed a hand against her forehead.
“Are you sick?”
“No. I’m just afraid. Lyonette—who died? What happened?”
Erin’s eyes were shimmering as she watched Lyonette, and there it was. The thing the [Princess] had wanted to see, however horrible the thought was. Fear. Grief and pain, so vivid and so awful on the injured woman that Lyonette instantly wanted to take it back.
But it mirrored what Lyonette felt. So the [Princess] fiercely hugged Erin.
“Everyone we know is alive. There—there was good that came of it, Erin, I swear. The only—people died. But we didn’t know them. We did know them, but—it’s done, and it could have been worse. It could have been far worse.”
Tears came to her own eyes as she rocked Erin, almost like a child, and the [Innkeeper] peered up.
“Just tell me. Please.”
The [Princess] hesitated, then stepped back and shook her head.
“It’s not my story to tell. There’s someone you need to call here. I can prep her if you want, but you should ask her.”
Erin didn’t understand. She gave Lyonette a questioning look, and the [Princess] half-bowed.
“I’m just the weak, foolish mother who was too late. I feel like—is this how you’ve felt after every disaster? I was too slow to understand what was going on. I did the wrong things, and I paid—I wish I paid the price for it.”
Now it was Lyonette’s turn to have her voice wobble and to try and suppress the sob and Erin’s to half-rise. She took Lyonette’s arm gently and got her to sit. Erin cast around for a handkerchief, then conjured one out of thin air for the [Princess]. Lyonette pulled out her own handkerchief instead.
“Yes. That’s always how it feels. I wish I could say it’ll hurt, and you’ll always remember it, but it fades. It fades…and you forget more and more, even if it never goes away and comes back sometimes. Then—then it’ll come back the next time around. All the memories. All of them.”
The [Princess]’ tears slowed, and she gazed up at Erin’s pained smile and reached up.
“Your hair. Your scars, Erin.”
“They never touched Ulvama. Or me. I’m f…we lived. Lyonette, I’m sorry, but if you won’t tell me, then who? I have to ask, and they’re waiting for me. I messed things up here as well.”
The [Princess] rose and smoothed at her jeans as if they were skirts. But she wore pants these days because a dress was too damn inconvenient in the inn. And she regarded Erin.
“Mrsha. Ask Mrsha. But before you send me away—”
She hugged Erin tightly.
“Tell Ulvama we’re all concerned about you and her. Tell us what’s going on? At least once a week, please.”
“I will. Just keep us secret. I don’t want anyone to know. Not Roshal. Not—I’m going to keep her safe. I have to, Lyonette.”
“Okay. Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] was breathing hard, controlling herself—or trying to—drying her eyes as the [Princess] smiled at her. Cracks in the armor. Breaks in the fortress walls. Lyonette knew she should step back, not say it, but she couldn’t help it. It slipped out as she added a burden to the woman who looked like she’d carried them until they’d ripped the flesh from her bones.
“Erin? What should I have done?”
Then the [Princess] broke down in Erin’s arms, weeping in a place where no one but the [Innkeeper] could see and hear her, and Erin just held her friend tightly. Until Lyonette stepped back, wiping her eyes, and awoke, the memory of tears upon her face. She wiped at her eyelashes, then turned.
“Ushar? Get me Mrsha when she wakes up.”
“Ser Dalimont is watching her right now, Your Highness—”
“I know that. I’m not worried. She’ll need a hug.”
 
——
 
Then Mrsha stood before the door and trembled, fear stealing over her; she was terrified. The door opened, and she waited for it to slam—
Until she realized, again, this wasn’t the nightmare, but just Erin.
Oh.
Okay.
The [Innkeeper] was different as she sat at the plain table in her room with Mrsha. She tried a smile and managed to conjure the idea of it.
“Mrsha? I’m sorry. I—I just spoke with Lyonette. I haven’t been right. Mentally. I…she told me to ask you about what happened. About who died.”
The girl walked forwards slowly and saw what had made her mother change her mind. She gazed up at the young woman who had been so tough and cool and impassive last time they’d talked. Who had made Mrsha feel like she’d break like glass if you hit her hard enough.
The girl began to pull out a chair, then stopped. She looked up, as her eyes grew misty, and held out her arms. The [Innkeeper] blinked, as if the idea had never occurred to her, and then bent down. She put Mrsha on her lap.
“Oof. You’re heavy. I knew I could touch people, but this is different from how I thought this Skill worked. I guess—well, I’m not having Fetohep sit on my lap.”
Mrsha giggled a bit at that, and her heart eased slightly, even though it was heavy. But she gazed up and saw Erin’s frightened expression, those hazel eyes concealing it well, but terror and pain.
Ah, I see. I have to tell this Erin. She patted the chair and then wrote with her wand.
Forsooth, this table and venue sucks, Erin. Can we go to the old one? I think this will take a bit of time.
She closed her eyes, and when she opened them, they sat in that gazebo filled with emptiness…only now, there was a second Erin sitting across from them.
“Mind if I listen in?”
Pavilion-Erin spoke, and Mrsha nearly leapt out of Erin’s arms at the sight of an alternate world Erin who’d lived—
No, no, again, it was different. She knew this being, though it made her feel less good because the [Pavilion of Secrets] had killed one version of her before. However, this time, she had Erin. The [Innkeeper] lost her smile.
“Get lost.”
She stared until the other Erin vanished, and Mrsha clung to her, demanding answers. Erin tried to explain, and then the Gnoll girl gazed up bleakly. Erin Solstice sat, and the Gnoll girl spread her arms.
Guess who died, Erin? She smiled proudly, sadly, painfully—and Erin didn’t get the joke at first. When she did—it broke her a tiny bit.
The [Witch] wept, and her tears were trails of flames.
 
——
 
A lady of fire. That was what she looked like now, and Mrsha said it to fill the void as Erin’s tears slowed. They were burning trails down her face. Black flames of hatred…for herself?
Mrsha hated it.
You’re like Maviola, but bad. Can’t someone help you?
“Maviola but bad? I have her Skill, Mrsha. I’m—I’m not trying to set myself on fire, honest. But I don’t have many flames right now. Just hatred. How am I Maviola but bad?”
Erin was hugging Mrsha as the girl wrote for the [Innkeeper] to read. The child tried to figure out how to say it. It was just a hunch, for an [Emberbearer], but she tried to articulate it.
Maviola was cool, even though she was always spicy and burning. Cool like…fun. Not cold. Archmage.
“Right. Am I not cool?”
The [Innkeeper] touched the black flames running down her cheeks, and the Gnoll girl tilted her head.
That’s sort of awesome, but more like how Gothica likes things. Maviola wasn’t like that. I mean, I didn’t actually know her that well. But do you remember? She actually didn’t do much burning. She got mad, but she never burst into flame.
It was a novel thought. Erin Solstice blinked, and she considered what Mrsha had said. But Maviola was a hothead. She’d stolen Bethal’s horse and…
No, she hadn’t really done much with her [Like Fire, Memory] Skill, had she? She’d thrown a few [Fireballs], but she’d been—
“Restrained. I guess she was. She was an old woman, even if Saliss’ potions made her young. Maybe that’s it. Her flame was ending?”
Mrsha scratched one ear dubiously.
I dunno about that. Otherwise, what about Gresaria Wellfar? She was riding a chariot and swinging a spear around right up till the end.
“…Good point. I guess—I guess she must have gone through what I have, if she mastered her own flames. She said I had so few when we met. Maybe she burned too much and had to pull herself back. I think my Skill’s taking me over a bit.”
The girl eyed Erin.
Maybe a teensy bit. You might get a crimson Skill if you’re not careful.
“Oh, and you’re some expert on Skills, are you?”
More than you, yes. I saw a lot of bad stuff in the [Palace of Fates].
Well, there went teasing her. Now Erin was reminded of the—the truth, she just sat there, inspecting Mrsha. She didn’t seem like two Gnoll souls conjoined and combined into one. She looked like Mrsha, but older. Different, subtly. Aged.
“Mrsha. I wish you’d never found that door. This was too much for you.”
I just did what I thought you’d do.
Erin closed her eyes.
“That’s worse. You said I—told you how to do that? That’s wrong. Mrsha—”
She wasn’t going to immediately cry again, but her heart was twisting in her chest. The girl held up a paw, eyes steady.
It was my decision, Erin. I sacrificed so much. Too many lives. But I brought back Kevin and…Rags and—and others. It’s not enough, but I did it. Please don’t torture yourself. Not you. I thought you’d understand why I had to try.
She appeared hurt, then afraid, and Erin didn’t know what to say. She knew what Lyonette might say—that Mrsha should have left it to the [Princess], and she knew what she should say. Something about Mrsha doing her best, but…
The words wouldn’t come out. Perhaps they were lies or Erin didn’t believe them. So the [Innkeeper] whispered the truth instead.
“Yes. Of course. If I had that door, I would have brought them all back. In a heartbeat. I would have thrown the doors open and invited them all to our world. I wouldn’t have even been cautious.”
Even if they weren’t the ones we knew? They are and aren’t, and—I was selfish.
The [Witch of Remorse]’s eyes were burning as Mrsha gazed up at them. A terrible light.
“Oh, yes. I’m afraid, Mrsha, that if it were me, I would have taken them all—even if they weren’t the ones I loved. If I’d known that, I would have called for armies. Sserys and Marquin and the Great Witches of old. Armies. I would have tried to destroy Roshal and then the dead gods. So maybe it’s for the best you found it. Because I think if I were in the wrong headspace…I would have called for armies of people I didn’t have to care for. Just like House Shoel.”
The twisting flames of her hatred were burning through her eyes, a staring young woman in a glass mirror filled with scars, sailing into a storm. She terrified Mrsha, but the girl would never be afraid of Erin hurting her.
Was this the closure Mrsha sought? Was this the grief that Erin had braced herself for? No and no. Mrsha reached up to the flaming tears of hatred and snatched her paw back.
Erin. Can I be super honest with you? Both Mrshas?
“Of course.”
Your new flame sucks. It’s stupid and scary, and I don’t like it. I miss your old flames.
Erin Solstice blinked, and the tears stopped. She raised her hands self-consciously and laughed.
“I’m sorry, Mrsha. I can’t control them. I think I’m a bit…broken. All I’ve got in here is hatred. At me, at people like…I know I look horrible. I guess I am. I’ll try to fix it, I swear. Ulvama’s with me—and I need to go to her. I can let you go if it’s that bad.”
She smiled ruefully and wanted to put Mrsha down, but the girl clung to her like an octopus.
No! I don’t want you to go! Not like that! You’re like the Erin who fought Belavierr! You’re burning away. I saw it.
“Whoa. I fought Belavierr? One-on-one? Mrsha, it’s not that b— ”
She couldn’t lie. Mrsha had no problems because she was mostly an honest child who could tell the truth, but it was really hard for Erin when she was trying to be a suckass adult. She bit her lip, and Mrsha peered up at her. Her brown eyes were filled with tears.
I want you to be better. I’m sorry I lied to you, but I didn’t want you to get hurt even more. You have scars. I cried myself to sleep, and so did Ishkr and Lyonette when they thought I wasn’t watching. Bird didn’t cry, but only because she said she was making an arrow for Roshal first. If they could see you, Grimalkin and Pryde or Montressa or Relc—they’d all cry. You think we’re mad at you for being alive? I’m gonna cry again, but if you burn yourself, I’ll just be afraid. You have to talk to Ser Normen or someone to stop this fire! Please! Please!
“Mrsha, I—I’m sorry. I shouldn’t have shown you this. I’m—don’t cry. I’ll try to stop it, I promise. You’re the dead one. I should cry for you!”
