He came out of the village, shoving people aside, disheveled, running in his pajamas straight into the ranks of insects with teeth without a moment of hesitation. Ulvama’s head turned as a familiar voice rose.
“Stop! Stop! No fighting between protectors of the villages! I forbid it!”
Mayor Fantim, stout-chested, barefoot, pushing past slathering aphids biting at his fingers, threw himself between Eurise, Erin, and Zinni. He had all the strength of two aphids, maybe three—he was panting, wide-eyed, and Ulvama saw his arms shaking.
But when he raised his hands, Eurise slowed, and Zinni raised a hand. Erin Solstice hesitated, and the [Mayor] shouted again.
“Eurise, get back! Zinni, call your herds off! No one is fighting! You—Erin, get back inside that cottage now!”
He was puffed up with rage and indignation, and his voice had all the authority of his class, [Mayor]. All the force of…
Of…
Shouting. Ulvama stared in horror.
There was no authority in Fantim’s voice aside from the actual concept. No aura he was using to bowl the others over; in fact, Erin’s own was making his feet slide backwards in the mud slightly. He didn’t have an enforcement Skill like Zevara.
And the other three knew it. Zinni’s eyes flicked to Erin and narrowed, and a wave of beetles scuttled forwards. Eurise raised a fist, and Fantim threw himself forwards again.
“I said back away! I am the [Mayor] of Dretonamis, and I forbid fighting between protectors! Zinni, you’ll see your granddaughter! Eurise, Gnomes laugh at you, get back!”
He shoved the [Retired Explorer], or tried to, and Eurise glanced at him.
“Zinni came here and attacked—”
“Matha’s throat was cut by that one! Where is she?”
Zinni shouted back, and Erin lifted the Densecore stone. As if sensing the threat, the herd of aphids swirled around her, then crouched, ready to leap—
Fantim moved himself between Erin and the aphids, arms outstretched. Zinni’s raised hand stopped the aphids from leaping, and his voice was loud and suddenly very calm.
“[Attack Me First]. No one is fighting here. Not you—not you—and not you! Not you three, not here or anywhere. Do you not remember the rules?”
He shoved Erin back, then strode forwards so he was between the three of them again. Now, Ulvama saw the Fraerling man was reddening with rage.
“I—”
He bellowed over Eurise, stabbing a finger into the [Retired Explorer]’s chest, then marched up to Zinni, who wore a surprised and suddenly ashamed expression much like the other Fraerling.
“You are the protectors of Wyewesshi and Dretonamis! I am the [Mayor] of this village. I am civilization. Kill me and damn the villages! End it all, but you’ll go through me first. Is that what you want, Zinni? Is that worth all this? You, Eurise?”
He spun, and the [Explorer] lowered his hands at last. Fantim turned back, and the entire herd backed up.
“Have you lost your senses? I would have expected this of our guests, but you, Zinni?”
“I just—”
Her herd was fully pulling back now, and Fantim pointed a finger at her.
“You could have come here and asked! You came here to teach the [Innkeeper] a lesson? To scare her? Take your herd back to Wyewesshi right now. I’ll bring Matha out—as for you, Eurise, go and get a damn drink or punch a tree. Understand? Back! Back!”
He advanced until Zinni was walking backwards, and Eurise lifted his hands and retreated as well. He wore the same shamefaced look as Zinni. As for Erin, she caught one glance from Fantim and stepped back towards her cottage. His glare made her jog, and Ulvama saw Erin stride into the cottage and peek out a window.
The [Shaman] had rarely ever been more impressed. She gave Fantim a nod as he swept his eyes across her. He was panting, sweating, and she bet he felt like throwing up, but the [Mayor] just tried to adjust clothing he wasn’t wearing. He nodded back, cast around, and then threw up his hands.
“Children!”
 
——
 
That was how they continued so long, the Fraerling villages. It was a Eurise, yes, a high-level protector of each village whose job it was to protect everything they could. But also—a Fantim.
There was a rule that kept Fraerling Protectors from fighting each other because of how dire the costs were. The injunctions against drinking, all the laws that the [Mayor] enforced to no one’s happiness—now, Erin and Ulvama saw why Eurise didn’t actually argue with Fantim.
The [Innkeeper] had to admit, she slightly admired the outraged Fraerling who took charge as the sun rose and got Matha and her fellow raiders out of their beds to meet with Zinni and reassure her they were all alive.
His approach—once he’d put on pants—was to shout and lecture everyone involved, which included her, but mostly was reserved for Eurise and Zinni, who got an earful. When both tried to protest they had good reasons, he just shouted louder.
“He’s sorta cool.”
“Mm. He’s a [Shaman] for them. Just without the magic. No wonder he doesn’t have any enforcement Skills. He doesn’t need them.”
That struck Erin as somewhat insane, but she supposed it made sense. If Fantim thought Eurise was actually going to attack someone or break the laws, no amount of Skills would stop the [Retired Explorer]. All Fantim needed was, well, his position.
“Still, that guy’s got a lot of guts. Or balls. Brass? I think that’s the thing you say. Zevara would like him. He’s really impressive.”
“Yep. He’s like you used to be.”
“Me?”
Erin was astounded as Ulvama gave her the side-eye. The [Shaman] shrugged.
“You did that with a white flag and shouted at people before you had the levels. He’s like you.”
Erin wasn’t sure how to take that, and to her surprise, she blushed at the compliment. Then she just sat and…well.
It dawned on Erin that she really had stabbed a bunch of kids and threatened to cut all the fingers off another one. She rubbed her face and rested her head on the table they were breakfasting at.
“I’m an idiot.”
“Mhm. But so are Eurise and Zinni. Level 50s are all stupid.”
“You’re supposed to say something nice, Ulvama.”
“No.”
 
——
 
The next day, Erin had a unique experience. She and Ulvama walked around Dretonamis, talking to people, apologizing—and that was normal. She had often been the problem or a factor in big events.
—But never the monster. The high-level monster who could destroy a base of [Raiders] in a single day. It was the reserve people treated her with, or the way Fantim checked on her twice.
Just like she’d check on Grimalkin or someone who was powerful, but who could also be a dangerous enemy, she realized. She didn’t like it.
She felt guilty, and she—well, once again, she felt like there was a mountain of things she had to sort through in her head. Problems she had been running away from.
“I guess this is it for our time in Dretonamis.”
That was her comment to Ulvama as they walked towards the ovenhouse. Someone overheard her and laughed.
“What? Who’s kicking you out? The Wyewesshers might want to, but unless Fantim was saying so, I haven’t heard anyone calling for that. And if he says so, I think Eurise will tell him to stuff it!”
Roja slung an arm around Erin’s and Ulvama’s shoulders, and the [Innkeeper] started.
“But I destroyed the Cottontails’ base and Fenmi—”
“Yep. However, they were a nuisance. You think anyone liked having them steal a bunch of Macnest’s tools or robbing spellbooks and food? The only reason we didn’t do more was because of Zinni. As for Fenmi, that’s why we have Bowom. You ever seen someone chop their own foot off cutting wood?”
Ulvama had and shuddered; Erin had not. Roja looked side-long at the [Innkeeper].
“Besides, sending someone out usually means they die. No one wants that, but everyone’s curious about why you went that far. Thank Zemmy and Mera; they were explaining why it was so personal. I think if you two went around and talked, it’d clear a lot of brows.”
That…was something Erin could do, but she apologized to Roja.
“I might need some time.”
“Of course. Breakfast first, then talk. Always easier.”
“Er—no. I have to do something, but I will explain. I promise. I want to ask Bowom if everyone’s okay. Then I need to talk to someone.”
Roja nodded understandingly.
“Don’t worry about Matha. Zinni dragged her back to their village, and she was the worst-off. Go do your thing.”
Ulvama gave Erin a side-long look as the [Innkeeper] sat down at a table, and someone brought over a trio of bowls. The Battle Hamster sniffed at a pinenut soup and began to slurp it as Ulvama spoke.
“The [Pavilion of Secrets]?”
“I won’t be long. I think. I just have to…”
“Ask?”
Erin half-nodded, and she glanced up. Then she spread her hands and gazed down at the scars again. She touched her hair, her face, and looked up at Ulvama.
“I think I have to be honest with them. Ulvama?”
The [Innkeeper] was breathing harder than when she’d jumped off the Corumdon Beetle and fought her way through the Cottontails’ base. Her hands were trembling so hard she made the soup spill from the bowl, and her eyes were doing that thing again.
That damn stinging and blurriness. Erin missed the cold and empty feeling, but this was so much more of a relief and far scarier. Ulvama gazed at Erin.
“Yeah?”
“I—I was really scared when they kidnapped you. I was terrified, so I overreacted. I—that’s all. I’m glad you’re okay.”
The Hobgoblin blinked, her crimson eyes widening, and then she smiled.
“Thank you, Erin.”
She reached across the table, and Erin vanished before Ulvama touched her hand.
 
——
 
It was not the same as last time, but the feeling was. It felt, to the red-haired [Princess], like she had been dozing in the [World’s Eye Theatre] at the little desk she’d set up to do all the talking. She raised her head, and there was a door.
A new door. Always a new damn door, only this one was made of simple oak wood. Cheap wood, really. A plywood composite which gave the impression of a rich oak, but was some cheaper synthesized material, which described most of what Earth was to Lyonette du Marquin.
It had a chess piece on the door: a queen. The [Princess] stood and walked through it as it swung open. That was not optional.
The room beyond was, again, familiar. It was Erin’s room this time, not the gazebo in the void. The [Princess] halted and experimentally opened and closed her mouth.
“Everything I say in here is a kind of truth.”
Her mouth twisted wryly, and then she sat, wishing she had one of her mother’s puffer sticks to smoke. She rather felt like Ielane today. Her eyes rose sardonically, challengingly, even, but also hungrily to the young woman sitting opposite her.
Erin Solstice. Something about her was different from yesterday. The intensity was gone along with that distant expression. She seemed more…here, and Lyonette’s guard lowered just a fraction.
“Erin? Did something happen?”
“I…hello, Lyonette. Sorry for summoning you so soon. If you’re busy, I can let you go.”
“I’m free. It’s not stopping me from doing whatever I’m doing in the real world. I didn’t realize you could change venues.”
Erin was sitting with her back to her desk, the chess pieces arranged behind her. Lyonette made a mental note to check if they’d actually shifted in real life. She doubted that, but maybe this room summoned a picture of reality? Fascinating either way…she waited as the [Innkeeper] brushed at her hair.
“Yes. Something happened. I—Ulvama got kidnapped.”
Lyonette’s gripes with Erin vanished in a moment, and she sat forward.
“By who—by whom?”
“Some Fraerling kids. They—they’re just kids. I brought her back. After stabbing a bunch of them. None of them died.”
Lyonette’s mouth opened. She croaked—saw Erin’s hands shaking before the [Innkeeper] hid them under the table, and then she spoke very slowly.
“Fraerlings?”
Erin blinked, and her mouth opened as the [Princess] put two and two together and got a tiny four. She gasped.
“Then you’re—”
“I’m in a village with them. I—it’s a secret where they are, and I’ve promised not to tell. I don’t know.”
“You’re a Fraerling as well and you didn’t tell me?”
Lyonette leapt upright, outraged, and Erin lifted a hand.
“I’m sorry. I—I’ve been—”
She took a deep breath.
“I’ve been avoiding you, Lyonette. And everyone else. I’m ashamed, and until the quest, I was afraid of—of saying anything. I only learned I could do this a month ago. Then I just…delayed.”
This was in the same vein as their last conversation—albeit a lot less confrontational, and Erin was leading with the truth. So Lyonette sat back down.
“I also regret how I spoke last time. I was snappish. I was hurt you turned to Ishkr first. Um. Did you say you stabbed children?”
“Yes.”
“Ah. Oh. D—w—raiders?”
“Yeah. They were…well, teenagers or a bit older. Our age, actually, but they’re kids.”
Lyonette breathed out.
“Ah, adolescents. I understand. Er, well, I am glad Ulvama is safe.”
“Yes. I was worried about her. I…I lost my head. I’ve been doing that a lot. I’m not okay, Lyonette. I—”
Erin glanced away from the [Princess], and Lyonette du Marquin reminded herself everything in here was true. The [Innkeeper] struggled for words.
“I know you were not telling me because you wanted to keep me from doing something crazy. But I have to know what happened in this [Palace of Fates] thing. The entire event. Please, Lyonette. I think it’s tearing me up inside. But I don’t feel it. It feels like my fault. I don’t know if I can handle it, but I have to know or I’ll go insane. Please.”
The [Princess] gazed at Erin, then closed her eyes and thought. She spoke, cracking one eye open.
“I have engaged in intercourse with Pawn under your roof. I’ve definitely—hm, that doesn’t work.”
Erin’s head rose, and she gaped at Lyonette. The [Princess] raised one eyebrow.
“I’m checking.”
She stood up and fussed about the room, making Erin’s messy bed, adjusting the objects on the desk as Erin sat there. Lyonette spoke with her back turned.
“I…was also being unhelpful on purpose yesterday, Erin. I was trying to punish you. Not for not bein—no. I suppose it was for not being there, but that’s unfair of me.”
She tilted her head up and stared at the ceiling.
“Yes. A part of me blamed you for not being there, even though, this time, it truly wasn’t your fault. I was hurt you didn’t tell me you were alive. Angry. I…these last few days were the hardest in my life. So, I am sorry.”
She turned and gave Erin a shamefaced smile and a curtsy. Almost relieved, Lyonette nodded.
“And at least we know it’s true, don’t we?”
The [Innkeeper] sat there, then spoke.
