The feeling you got on a dark night, say, when you were working in the basement on a project you knew would blow up in your face, metaphorically—which was far worse than literally—and you felt your skin crawling.
The moment when you wanted to take back the laughter, to burn it all to the ground, but you were there, the deed was done, and the blood was black.
He was, after all, a [Mad Doctor]. He waited with his mind ticking over possibilities and coming to a conclusion as Zemmy regarded him and Zinni.
“I heard you two were fighting. Zinni, I can get Mera if—”
Bowom started running. His roach’s leg wasn’t just for show, but it carried him across the ground in an uneven gait, his damn other leg too slow. Zemmy might not have had the same mental instincts, but he was still a Level 40 [Brawler]. He caught up—saw the barn door and no Erin, and realized what Bowom did.
The [Innkeeper] walked out the barn doors, sheathing a knife before either one got there. Zinni, in the distance, was still shouting at them to ask what was going on. Erin looked up, and Bowom fought the urge to burst into maniacal laughter.
Hazard of the class. She spoke.
“I’m going to get Ulvama. Beetle, I need you to fly. I know where to go. You coming?”
The Battle Hamster was peeking into the barn, and there was a voice now, screaming for help. The hamster peered at Erin, and Bowom thought it hesitated, then leapt up. The beetle fanned its wings, clacking its mandibles.
“Erin! Stop!”
Bowom roared, and she eyed him as she went up. The beetle’s wings drowned out the din of the village, and everyone gaped up as it took off into the dusky sky.
Mera, on her way back, came running as Bowom cursed and leapt for a leg; he missed. He rolled into Zemmy’s leg. The [Brawler] was at the door to the barn, staring inside. Bowom got up slowly. His head rose, and he saw Fenmi’s dead white face as she screamed at him. Blood running from her leg—
Zinni was standing like a sentinel in the distance, just staring their way. Bowom glanced at her, then at Zemmy, then grunted.
“Not as bad as it could have been.”
Zemmy just gaped at him—and then Mera. Bowom strode into the barn. He picked up a finger and reached into a pocket for a needle and thread. Not unkindly, he bent over the yelling girl.
“Oh, shut up. You’ve still got nine, and this one will go on just fine. Didn’t you listen to any of the stories about Tallfolk?”
He took forty seconds on the finger. Which was fifteen seconds longer than he wanted, but he had to double-check it was actually reattached. Then Bowom strode outside. Zemmy and Mera were still frozen. Eurise’s disciples or not, they were young. Bowom slapped their shoulders, and turned to him.
“Tell Eurise to put a location spell on me. Erin’s warded. I’m going after her. He needs to get to us right now. This is going to get bad.”
“I’ll go—”
Mera began, and Bowom grabbed her shoulder and lowered his voice. Fraerlings were coming, running due to the screams.
“Stay with Zinni and keep her here. Do you understand? No matter what, keep her here. That is the most important thing you can do.”
Then he took three steps back, reached for his bag of holding, and grunted. Erin was already past the flower-cover and out of sight; he was only lucky the Corumdon Beetle was so damn large and audible.
“[Temporary Surgery: Dragonfly Wings]! Aaaah, that smarts!”
He’d forgotten to take the coat off. Well, nevermind that! Bowom leapt into the air and nearly crashed; flying sucked. He buzzed up, shooting after the sound of the beetle’s wings droning. Bowom could still hear that sound as he flew, wondering if he could stop a Level 50 [Innkeeper].
That mad, insane laughter in his head. A full-throated guffaw at the world that turned into hysterical screeching, wheezing with delight and horror and joy at what was playing out.
Oh, wait. Nevermind.
He was laughing out loud.
 
——
 
Erin clung to the beetle’s antennae as they flew, and the hamster did likewise on the other side. She had a single plan, which was why she kept urging the beetle up. Up.
[Raiders] would see her coming on foot, even if she could move fast enough to get there on time. But she doubted they had the eyesight to pick out the beetle from other birds through the foliage if they went high enough.
The fastest way to close in on Ulvama’s position was from height. Probably why marines used helicopters and there had been paratroopers in war. Erin had never been a big war person on Earth. She wished she’d watched a video on how people freed captives in a situation like this.
Fenmi had been specific enough in her directions on how to get to the Cottontails’ base. Erin believed her. Not because she thought torture worked. On the contrary. But if you told Fenmi to answer truthfully in the [Pavilion of Secrets] because you were holding a knife to her hand in real life—
That worked. Erin wiped her hands on her tunic. Her hands weren’t shaking, and she didn’t feel sick. It was hard to do that. Not impossible. The second finger would have been easier.
Ulvama. Erin stared down at the field of flowers, navigating them based on Fenmi’s description of the route you took. Until you reached that stone…there…and then you turn along the right face…so there…
She knew she was going in the right direction when she sensed something below her. Not Ulvama, but just the faintest feeling that made Erin gaze down and adjust the beetle’s heading slightly left.
“Their base is below us. We’re dropping on top of them.”
That was all she said to the Battle Hamster. It seemed ready for a fight. It gave her a long look, then peered down at the trees which obscured everything. It couldn’t see anything, but she sensed it.
A building. It was like a…presence down there, like how Laken had described his [Emperor] senses. He said it was like echolocation, or how Erin imagined it. Shapes of people and buildings, defined, without color.
It was like that for her too. She made out the outline of some kind of base that she felt must be on a branch—but unlike Laken, she got something else from below. A kind of…emotion?
Erin shook her head. She steered the beetle in a circle, then shouted.
“Fly down after us and pick up Ulvama if you see her! Get her out of here! Hamster, find Ulvama and protect her! Do that before anything else! Kill anyone trying to hurt her.”
Another stare she couldn’t read. If it understood, it understood. The beetle was clacking its mandibles agitatedly. She doubted it got what she was about to do. Erin’s stomach lurched as she stared down. She was terrified of heights too.
She wavered half a second, then jumped.
 
——
 
It was a longer and slower fall than she thought. The wind nearly blew her off course twice; Erin blew black flames and managed to more or less move back where she wanted. She saw the hamster curl up into a ball as it plummeted with her, and the sensation grew stronger and stronger.
She realized what it was halfway towards the Cottontails’ base. Of course.
She was a [Witch]. She could sense emotions, but why…why was she sensing this one?
As they drew closer, she could pick out the faint emotions and presences of people below. But only insofar as she guessed that it was the Cottontails. The ability to finely read how someone felt was a talent Erin had yet to master. Most [Witches] had decades of practice to hone that skill. But Erin was also an [Innkeeper], and she sensed…it was so foreign a feeling, but she thought she sensed their base.
It wasn’t a living thing, more like a frozen idea. It felt…frenetic. Fast, quick to expand or break apart, but also like safety. An adventure, a refuge, a hideaway, a literal tree fort filled with friends and comfort and daring.
It felt good and positive. Erin wished she didn’t know how the building felt. But it helped her find Ulvama.
The tree canopy was a second problem. Erin hit a leaf and, instead of going through it, bounced off. She was fine as she crashed from leaf to leaf, but she gazed up and had a thought.
Fraerlings are light enough to survive a fall like this. I don’t think hamsters survive being dropped—
The Battle Hamster uncurled as it saw the tree canopy approaching. It met Erin’s eyes with its scarred one, then seemed to get she was concerned it was gonna die. She swore she saw it sneer at her.
The Battle Hamster twisted in that strange fighting style it had mastered, and then Erin saw it plummeting towards a branch. She didn’t see what it did. Was it a punch, a kick, or—?
The shockwave punched her downwards, and she swore she saw the hamster’s fall stop and it roll down the branch casually. Erin wondered if Orjin could pull that off. That was her last thought before she saw the base.
Ulvama.
An [Immortal Moment] enveloped Erin as she descended. From above, it was clear the base was built on top of and out of a single branch low on the tree’s base. She counted maybe twenty structures altogether on top of a wooden platform. Ropes of twine also added support to the base, but there were foundational struts that were the main anchor between base and branch.
She didn’t know how many raiders there were—Fenmi had said they had about thirty to forty in their gang and that Matha was the highest-leveled, followed by Qole and Lantis, who was another fighter. Qole struck Erin as the most dangerous as a [Sorcerer].
Thirty [Raiders]. Their base might have defenses. Erin saw a solution, but she hesitated. Then she reconsidered.
“Ulvama’s a Fraerling. She’ll live.”
The first Densecore stone flew from Erin’s hand, unerring and true. The outer layer of weak sand dissolved, and the insanely heavy stone found its target. It punched through one of the logs holding the base together with the branch. The second hit the same section like a cannonball, shredding wood, and the crack made the few figures Erin saw below whirl.
She felt the base’s structure begin to give, and it was not a person, but a kind of shriek like a stone breaking filled her head. They saw her as she came down towards them. Erin wasn’t heavy enough to land with more than a soft thump.
The Battle Hamster’s shockwave impact and the beetle cracked the base and sent it downwards at an angle. Erin Solstice got up, and now—
Now, she was terrified. For Ulvama, that she was too late, that she might be captured and—
She drew a knife as she lifted the Densecore stone. Someone was blowing on a horn, and she saw Fraerlings leaping back and shouting.
“What’s going on?”
“It’s a Battle Hammie and a beetle! A big one! Matha! Get the aphids! Matha—”
The Corumdon Beetle roared and clacked its mandibles together, then began swiping at something attacking it. Bounding shapes which slammed into the far bigger beetle—the aphids. Erin saw it moving to bite at them before something hit it and actually sent it reeling.
An arrow? There was an [Archer], then. Erin shouted at the Battle Hamster.
“Find Ulvama!”
She took off running towards the nearest door and slammed into it. She saw a jumble of bunk beds, a Fraerling kid whirling around, staring at her—Erin closed the door. Next?
“Someone’s attacking the base! They were here—”
Erin turned from the third door as a trio of the Cottontails appeared. Two had spears, one had a sword. One of the two spear-wielders was mounted on an aphid. Erin raised her knife and hesitated.
I might need a hostage if they have Ulvama captive.
She changed from chest to stomach and threw. The sword-holder gaped down and grabbed at the knife sticking out of her stomach.
“Casta!”
One of the spear-wielders gasped. The other began to charge at Erin. The [Innkeeper] threw the Densecore stone straight through the aphid.
It hit the ground, dead, as a hole appeared in its body. Erin grabbed the Fraerling hopping off his mount and headbutted him. Then she punched him.
[Minotaur Punch]. He tried to stab her, once, but her [Reinforced Structure] skill made the metal blade glance off her skin. Erin saw the other Fraerling coming at her, so she let go and kicked.
The Fraerling she’d kicked flew off the side of the base, and she drew her second knife as she blocked a stab to her chest with her hand. This time the blow hurt, and pierced her skin—she guessed it was some kind of sharpness Skill. Erin guarded her face.
“Help! Matha! The other one’s here! She’s—”
The spear-wielding Fraerling was watching her hand, so Erin opened a gap in her fingers and exhaled.
[Body: Firebreath].
She’d been intending to use her black flames to end the fight in a moment, but that wasn’t what came out. Instead, the twisting knot of fear and apprehension caught in her throat—and came out of her mouth.
A sickly yellow flame engulfed the Fraerling girl, who screamed and then shouted. Erin blinked as the Fraerling caught ablaze in seconds—the fire raced over her, onto the ground, and began to spread.
It was—fast. The fastest-burning flame that Erin had ever conjured. It didn’t look well. It was as putrid as the feeling in Erin’s stomach, and it consumed and burned as fast as the thundering of her heart. It didn’t burn deep or long.
Flashfire. The Fraerling girl was trying to roll even as the flames finished burning and smoke rose. She was actually not badly burnt. 1st degree burns? She was trying to get up when Erin punched her head into the ground and strode on through the base.
She could feel the base, now, trying to keep itself together. Erin tried to ask it where Ulvama was, but she was an enemy, and this place was made for safety.
“(Sanctuary ends. Tell me where Ulvama is. Break. Break into pieces.)”
She thought at it, but it was resisting her attempt to get it to just collapse. Erin’s head swivelled left and right as she came to the center of the base. She heard shouting now, saw the beetle taking wing, shedding aphids attacking it—the Battle Hamster bounded off a roof, being pursued by a duo on aphids.
“S-stop!”
Someone fired an arrow into the ground at Erin’s feet. The [Innkeeper] leapt back and saw an archer on a roof with a gigantic bow. Her eyes were wide. She aimed the arrow at Erin.
“I’ll shoot you! Don’t—”
The [Innkeeper] breathed more yellow flames up, and Aithe leapt clear with a scream. When she landed, Erin was running at her, knife raised.
Matha, Qole, and Lantis struck Erin at the same time. Matha and Lantis had spears capped with some kind of tooth; Qole had a hand that delivered a pure jolt of electricity to Erin that lit up her entire body before the other two tried to stab her through the legs.
Matha’s spear went halfway through one of Erin’s legs; Lantis’ glanced off Erin’s thigh. The [Innkeeper] stabbed Lantis twice as she whirled, and she nearly took Qole’s head off with a slash.
“Gnomes—”
