Bowom didn’t manage to convince Zinni, but he did manage to get her to raise her voice. Erin heard half their argument as she re-appeared from trying to use the [Pavilion of Secrets] on Ulvama again. No good.
She’d tried it on Fenmi, the prisoner, too.
 
——
 
The Fraerling was staring around the gazebo and asking a hundred questions until the [Innkeeper] cut her off.
“Where’s your base? What are you doing with Ulvama?”
Then she remembered the rules. The raven-haired Fraerling with a nosebleed, Fenmi, wiped at her nose, grinned, and shut her mouth.
The rules for any visitor entering the [Pavilion of Secrets] were the same, as Fetohep had described them to Erin: secrets for secrets. Only truth could be spoken here.
She had the advantage, because this was her place, but the [Innkeeper] didn’t have time. She leaned over the table.
“Tell me where she is and I’ll get Zinni to release you.”
“She’ll let me go, anyways. Or my gang will pick me up in a day—ah!”
Fenmi smirked, then caught herself, and Erin’s eyes narrowed. She tried to control her breathing, but she was panting for air.
“You doing good, Miss Human? The boss wanted to meet you as well, but Zemmy and Mera were with you, so we couldn’t grab you. Don’t I get a secret-thing?”
“Sure. Answer my question and I’ll tell you what you want.”
The Fraerling leaned forwards a second with great interest, but then her eyes grew wary, and she sat back and folded her arms, miming sewing up her mouth.
“Nothing doing. I’m a Cottontail, and I’ll never sell out my mates. Ask something else. I’ve got questions! Are you seeing anyone?”
She smirked, and Erin refused to be riled up by the stupid question. Her voice was level.
“No.”
“Ooh. Then—are you really from another continent? And Tallfolk who got shrunken down?”
“Yes. And yes. The Death of Magic did it to us, and we’re both from Izril, Ulvama and I. Now tell me where your base is.”
Fenmi hesitated as Erin waited for the rules of the [Pavilion of Secrets] to take hold of her. She frowned, like someone trying to pronounce a difficult word, then shook her head again.
“Nope! I don’t havfta.”
What? Erin stared at her, gripping the edge of the table hard from the bottom so Fenmi couldn’t see her white fingers. But the rules were—
“Eurise is looking for you. So’s the entire village. We’ll find your base. Tell me, and I’ll let you go, and we can sort this out peacefully. Just give me back Ulvama, unharmed, and I won’t have to kill everyone in your base.”
This time Fenmi’s eyes flickered, and her lips quivered, but she held her tongue. Erin waited, wishing she could see if the effects of the secrets she’d shared were working.
After two minutes, it became clear whatever pressure the answers Erin had given weren’t enough for the secret. She remembered Visophecin’s own room, and the [Innkeeper] bit her tongue.
Not enough from me.
“I’m an [Innkeeper] from Liscor. My name is Erin Solstice, and I survived being kidnapped by Roshal and killed Prince Iradoren of Erribathe, apparently. I’ve met a Dragon…his name is Teriarch. I’m chess partners with Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros.”
She began speaking, first with basic truths, then ramping up—and Fenmi’s eyes shone with interest and delight, but the pressure on her tongue didn’t seem to intensify. Even with the last two—she spoke.
“I dunno who the Titan of Baleros is, but cool. Go on, ask me something else. I want to know your favorite food, and, uh—yeah, where you’re ticklish.”
She was enjoying this. Erin’s fingers were digging at the stone, and she took a deep breath.
Control yourself. She was running out of time doing this. There were other ways—Erin tried one last time.
“Okay. Okay. Why did this…Matha kidnap Ulvama?”
If she knew that at least—Fenmi thought about the question and opened her mouth.
“She only w—huh. We all want to m—well that’s sorta true. Argh, fine!”
She laughed in Erin’s face, relaxed, then gave her a slightly embarrassed grin.
“Matha wants to have sex with her. There. Now, how did—?”
Erin was on her feet so fast Fenmi blinked. The [Innkeeper] heard nothing for a moment, though Fenmi’s mouth was moving. The ringing began as Erin reached for the door.
Ulvama.
 
——
 
No good using the [Pavilion of Secrets] it turned out. If someone didn’t want to talk, they could just sit there in silence. Or answer another question.
She hadn’t been able to sit there, so Erin left Fenmi for the real world in hopes of making more progress there.
Erin had hoped Bowom would talk Zinni into helping more, but they were dashed as soon as she reappeared.
“—and Fantim. Eurise and Fantim. This isn’t a game. Erin is very concerned, and we’re sending search parties into the night, Zinni. I thought you’d take this more seriously.”
Bowom’s voice was calmer, if slightly needling, but Zinni was scowling. She was holding onto an aphid clearly trying to bolt while she snapped at him.
“I told Erin this was overblown. Matha is not going to harm her.”
Bowom felt at his hair with a hand that had six fingers on it. He must have added one recently; Erin saw the stitch-marks. She wondered if she should share what Fenmi had claimed. But then she’d have to explain the [Pavilion of Secrets]—
They’re not going to touch her right away. I think. Listen to Zinni.
Are you sure?
Bowom clearly had his own doubts, and he held out his hands placatingly to Zinni.
“Yes…but that’s not how our guests see it. They had a very traumatic experience before reaching us, Zinni. I realize my class doesn’t often talk about trauma, but I do believe in it. It would be best if we recovered Ulvama now.”
“Fenmi’s not talking. She’ll loosen her lips after not having any food, or her friends will show up. Ulvama will be back within two days at most.”
Zinni glowered and glanced at Erin. Bowom exhaled.
“Two days is too long. Zinni, why don’t we have a chat? I don’t think you quite get what I meant when I said trauma. Do you have a dictionary? You don’t know, Zinni, what people do to each other.”
He gave her a level look, and her tone grew icy.
“I’ve lived in five villages, Bowom. Don’t tell me I don’t understand—”
“All I meant is that you can’t coddle her. Zinni, Erin is upset. Zinni, don’t walk away from me. Zinni—”
Okay. Bowom went after her, and Erin had no more answers. Or to be precise, there were few remaining options for her.
But Ulvama was kidnapped, and the odds were she was safe.
The odds. How willing was she to take those odds? Erin paced around in a circle. She could rest, sleep, and not know. Or she could do something…more drastic.
She didn’t want to do it. She had an idea in mind, but it would cause trouble, and Ulvama had had words with her after the last time.
Ulvama was gone. Someone Erin loved was dead.
If it meant the difference between her being alive or dead, could you do nothing? If you do nothing and you could have made the difference, can you sit here?
“No.”
No. So, Erin stopped pacing around in a circle and moved.
 
——
 
“Ah, our guest! Sorry about all this fuss. Those Cottontails…if Zinni were a bit sterner with them, we wouldn’t have this mess. Do young Tallfolk do the same where you come from?”
The [Cook] for the village of Wyewesshi was making a storm of food, though not the feast they’d had planned, and was distracted as Erin paid him a visit in the dedicated kitchens. Unlike the Oven, this was a full-time job for him, and she watched him prepare several dead aphids with a cutting Skill that worked on multiple boards at once.
“Sometimes. Sorry to bother you—”
“Not at all, not at all. Can I get you something, or that hammie or beetle? You must not have eaten lunch.”
He turned, ready to prepare her a plate, but Erin was peering around.
“I’m actually looking for a replacement kitchen knife. Do you have one I could take?”
“Kitchen knife? Ah, I heard you were an [Innkeeper]. We just got Macnest’s latest utensils, so by all means. Which one do you need?”
He had cleavers, thin and long blades—Erin described what she wanted with her fingers.
“Just a triangle. Pointy tip, this long?”
“Let me see…”
He fussed around his supplies until he pulled out one that was more or less good enough. Erin picked that up and then found a longer-handled knife. She flipped it up and down.
“Thank you.”
“Are you sure you don’t need more?”
He pressed her before turning to his oven and hurriedly pulling out the meal. Erin shook her head.
“Two will do.”
The [Cook] sighed as he poked a slightly dry cut of meat. He began to shuffle it among the good stuff so someone wouldn’t have a totally unpleasant meal of it.
“Well, there’s a free section there. Let me know what you’d like to make, though I’m happy to cook whatever you want. Miss Solstice? …Miss Solstice?”
After he got no response, he turned his head. The young woman was gone with the knives. The [Cook] stopped preparing another tray and hesitated. Six minutes later, he found out where she went.
 
——
 
Everyone in Wyewesshi was eating or talking about the brazen Cottontail attack. Lots of people wanted to talk to Erin to reassure her or just get to know the guest, but they found themselves…not finding the chance to talk to her as she walked across the village. Like how you couldn’t find a moment to interject in a conversation—that kind of feeling.
Her [Crowd Control] Skill worked on everyone but the Battle Hamster, who followed her with the upset Corumdon Beetle, who had realized, belatedly, that Ulvama was gone and this was a bad thing. It clacked its mandibles as they followed Erin towards one of the outer barns where Zemmy was sitting on his haunches, clearly restless.
“You two stay here.”
Erin stopped the beetle at the door, and the Battle Hamster glanced at her sharply. Its one good eye fixed on Erin and the two knives she’d put on her belt. There were some of the Densecore stones too, slotted into custom holsters like Poké Balls.
Silly thoughts like that even in moments like these. Erin walked towards the door as Zemmy sat up.
“Mera not back yet? I thought I saw Bowom around here.”
“He was talking to Zinni. They need you, I think. Bowom was ready to fight her.”
“Uh oh. Who sent Bowom to talk to Zinni? I’ll try to talk them down.”
Zemmy leapt up with a groan, then hesitated.
“Wait, Fenmi’s in there, and she’s likely to wriggle out if no one’s watching her. The Cottontails have friends in the village too—”
“I’ll watch the door. You go on.”
Zemmy hesitated, then nodded and briskly jogged across the village. Erin checked the sky. Dusk was falling. She wasn’t sure how many hours.
Ulvama was a survivor. She’d be alive. Just—Erin took a deep breath as she put her hand on the door. Then another. She wavered.
I don’t want to do this. Not, ‘I can’t’, but I don’t want to. 
She might be hurt. She could be terrified or in danger. Each second could matter.
“Right.”
Erin opened the door and strode on through. She shut it behind her after a second and saw Fenmi was sitting, tied to a chair in a very standard scenario. Although someone had given her a waterflask that was stuffed into the crook of one arm, and they’d put a firefly lantern made out of one’s abdomen near her for comfort. Another chair was there, probably where Zinni had been sitting.
The moment she saw Erin, Fenmi, who looked like a rough-and-tumble young adventurer, grinned.
“Hey! That was your Skill, wasn’t it? I knew it wasn’t a hallucination! Well, too bad! I’m not selling out the Cottontails, even to you! Mind you, if you want to visit—let me out of here and I’ll take you. Just you, though, not Zemmy or Mera.”
She wiggled energetically, and Erin halted. It was indeed the same Fraerling she’d just met in the [Pavilion of Secrets].
“I don’t trust you not to lead me into a trap. I want to know where Ulvama is now.”
“Well—tough. Don’t worry, Matha’s probably looking after her right now. Heh.”
Fenmi’s grin said a lot of things Erin read into, and in a way, it made her decision easier. And the urgency more pressing.
Erin nodded to herself. Then she pulled out her knife.
“Ooh. Are you threatening me with that?”
The young Fraerling [Raider] grinned as Erin stepped forwards. The [Innkeeper] squatted down and stared at Fenmi’s bound wrists. Then she spoke.
“You don’t have many healing potions here. I guess Eir Gel’s as hard to come by for Fraerlings as the rest of the world. But you do have poultices.”
Fenmi eyed Erin as the [Innkeeper] poked at her leg. The Fraerling squirmed slightly as she glanced down. The young woman had discolored hair that was white and patchy with different colors, even green in places. It wasn’t attractive in a style sense and more seemed like something had happened to her.
Same with the scar on her neck…and wrists. Her face was very blank, but her eyes seemed to glow in the dark barn. Fenmi would have said that made her as interesting as Matha had said she was, but Erin was making her uncomfortable. The Fraerling licked her lips nervously.
“Uh. Hey, I’m really not into the threats thing. And we both know Zinni’s not going to go after Matha, so why don’t we just talk?”
Erin gazed up.
“Tell me where your base is.”
“How about we introduce ours—”
Erin raised her arm and drove the knife tip-first into Fenmi’s thigh. She put a hand over the Fraerling’s mouth just in time.
The cry of agony was muffled, but Erin glanced at the door anyways. Then she glanced down.
Missed the artery. Good. She left the knife there and drew the other one. Then she took her hand away from Fenmi’s mouth.
“Where’s the base?”
“Help! H—”
Erin covered the mouth as Fenmi began to scream, and the Fraerling tried to bite her fingers. Erin raised the knife, and Fenmi stopped.
“I don’t have time to do this, Fenmi. And I don’t have healing potions, so this will be fast. Tell me where she is. This village might not have strong healers, but it does have Bowom. But he can’t put a finger back on if it’s turned to ash.”
Erin glanced down at Fenmi’s left hand. The fingers clenched up, and Erin bent down. She pulled a finger free.
“Tell me.”
The Fraerling made a sound like a squeak.
“D-don’t—”
Erin blew flames onto Fenmi’s hand. Then she pressed the knife’s edge against it until they both felt it cutting into the skin.
“Where is she?”
 
——
 
The moment Bowom saw Zemmy stroll up, he had one of those feelings. It was the same feeling he’d had, well, the moment he heard the Cottontail Raiders had kidnapped Ulvama.
