“‘It is my belief that Erin Solstice is, much like the half-Elf who came before her, extraordinary in the narrative of the world, not just because of her levels. I think she will be remembered in the same vein as Silvenia the half-Elf, and perhaps, someday, Dretonamis will know what stories and deeds she brought to life after she came across us. Sadly…I will not have the time to know if my supposition is true.’ ”
He put a hand over his heart and sighed, leaning against the old tome. Bowom closed his eyes, then wrote.
“‘At this point, I have put my hand over my heart and uttered an ominous sigh as if I have some terminal disease or aging issue. Please record your reactions below if I got you. I won’t be here to know what comes next. Please see the next entry: Bowom, [Mad Doctor]. My epitaph: I got too bored of waiting to know what came next.’”
His eyes danced. His feet did too, and he did a merry jig for generations thereafter, and then he laughed. He cackled like the madness of science and the daring to do anything he damn well pleased. Then he put down the quill and went to listen to the stories Ulvama was telling.
Oh my, what terrible visitors had come to Dretonamis. They’d lure away Fraerlings to go into that deathly world beyond by scores. Worst monsters Dretonamis had seen in ages.
Bowom laughed and felt his class rustling in his head.
“Time, once more, to level again.”
 
——
 
Ulvama was midway through telling the battle at sea when she ran into an issue, and that was someone objecting. Politely, but Gollesume the Great had been a bit of a heckler in the story already.
He was invested, but he made comments and sometimes detracted from the moment, and when she described the Dragon strafing the Iron Vanguard, he stood up.
“Excuse me, I have to call foul on that one. A Dragon, really?”
She glared at him, panting as sweat beaded on her skin and a few fireflies blazed about the lights she was conjuring, illusions of storms and ships so alien to the Fraerlings gathered here. Matha was in the front row, watching with some of her Cottontails like Aithe and Qole, and Eurise rolled his eyes.
“Let her tell the story, Gollesume.”
“I’m just saying, if it’s fictional—”
“There was a Dragon. His scales were the color of brass, and he had one eye that was…bright, light blue, and the other was vibrant purple! Erin knows him!”
Ulvama protested, and here was the issue: Gollesume wasn’t actually that antagonistic, just—annoyingly knowledgeable.
“A Brass Dragon at sea? That’s one of the few species that don’t float, and they’re rare. Second, they have a historical enmity with Dullahans. Seems like a bad move. Third—a Dragon helping a mortal without cost or benefit? Hard to believe as well.”
Macnest was elbowing Gollesume, hugely embarrassed, and others were throwing things at him to get him to hush up. He fell silent, but it had thrown Ulvama off-kilter, and here was the main problem: she wanted to say something to convince her now-skeptical audience of how glorious it had been, how dark the night, and how—incredible the moment.
She’d seen skeptical expressions when she described a hundred thousand Draugr rising at once, Humans and Drakes fighting side-by-side, or even Erin doing half the things with her inn that she had. Normally, Ulvama had no problem with this kind of issue, but that was because…
Normally, I’d say, ‘shut up, I’m the [Shaman]’ or ‘I’m higher-level than you’. But I’m not. What do I say? I have no proof.
She had no authority here over the Fraerlings, no advantage of being older, wiser, or more powerful. The Hobgoblin felt her stomach fluttering and her eyes crinkled up at the corners. She tried to salvage the moment, mind a flurry, when someone spoke up from above her.
“But he was there. Just like Ulvama said. She’s a [Shaman]; she’d remember. He was larger than anything. And he looked—like—this!”
Erin Solstice was sitting on the top of the stage. She stood up and winked down at the [Shaman] as Ulvama turned. Then she took a breath, aimed her head up, and breathed fire.
Flames roared upwards as the Fraerlings, especially the Cottontails, ducked, but it wasn’t the black flame Ulvama feared. Instead, the pink flame of glory twisted upwards, spreading out until it took a form that Ulvama recognized: a roaring Dragon, wings spread, glowing with righteous flame in the dark night.
A hero captured in memory. The flame was real. The Fraerlings gasped as the Dragon soared higher, roaring, and then there was silence, except for Erin coughing slightly into one hand. Every head turned back to Gollesume, and the [Wizard] opened his mouth and closed it.
“Well—the anatomy appears right. But you have to admit, it’s an incredible story, Miss Erin. What about the Draugr? It seems incredible anyone would survive—a hundred thousand of them?”
She laughed as she swung herself down and landed next to Ulvama. Erin gave her a quizzical glance, but the [Shaman] smiled gratefully. So, Erin produced something and raised it upwards.
“We were there. I don’t know how we lived, but not everyone survived. A brave lieutenant from a city of cheese charged a dozen of them by himself. His name was Gershal of Vaunt, and I gave him a sword and summoned him to his death.”
A second color of fire rose from her hands, and this time, Matha sat forwards, staring at the blue flame that seemed to dance like the figure of a man. Then—a green flame blazed in her hand, reflecting a [Knight]’s glowing eyes. Honor and sadness combining into the flash of a green blade.
Then pink glory again and the grey mercy in the color of Visophecin’s face. Erin tossed the flames up into the sky one after another. Yellow panic, flickering into horrific monsters, a ship made of black fire—
Proof in burning memories for the [Shaman]’s tale. Ulvama saw the flames drifting upwards, like comets, before drifting down, and Erin spread her hands.
“We were there. She was there.”
The [Innkeeper] pointed at Ulvama, and the [Shaman] stood a bit straighter. Her magical paints glowed as every eye fell on her wonderingly. A smile crossed Erin’s face, then the [Innkeeper] glanced up and shouted.
“Wait, I can’t juggle! Get out of the way, Ulvama!”
She tried to push Ulvama out of the way of the falling flames, and the Hobgoblin laughed. She blocked Erin’s head, then reached up.
The flame of glory landed in her palm, a burning orb of pink, and she tossed it back up—then caught the flame of sadness, which was heavier—but she lofted it, then mercy, hatred, even fear, and juggled them.
It was actually a lot easier than regular stones, because they were so light and drifted down slowly, but Ulvama grinned at the gasps from her audience. Erin gaped up at her stupidly, and Ulvama caught one flame and blew on it, then swept it across her illusions.
When the dazzling fire faded, a single figure stood, wreathed in [Shaman]’s magic and pink flame, burning from the lantern he held.
Embraim, the Knight of Glory’s Fire. Erin’s eyes filled with tears, and Ulvama raised her voice. For it was her job to remember—and Erin? The [Innkeeper] sat, watching Ulvama, as the Hobgoblin spoke.
It was the [Innkeeper]’s job to make you believe the stories. So they worked together to tell that terrible story filled with darkness and the defiant flames of how they’d got there. Then, Ulvama found herself grinning with delight and saw Erin’s fascinated smile, and they realized at last they were smiling together.
The first time since the Goblin King. That was good enough.
 
[Shaman of the Old Ways Level 39!]
[Skill – Shaman’s Tools: Pieces of a Story obtained!]
