There was no one around to hear Ulvama, except the Battle Hamster, who was cleaning his arrow wound. He looked at her quizzically, and she sat down.
“They made a home. Maybe it was with help and stealing. Maybe. But Goblin tribes can’t always do that. It’s hard to live as a Fraerling. Too bad—this was almost like a fourth village.”
In time, perhaps, it could have been. Or maybe they would have just kept being nuisances until Eurise or another Fraerling lost their temper. Ulvama gazed at the smoldering village.
“It was silly, and they were silly, but they didn’t hurt me. I don’t think some of them even would have known how. Very funny. They could fight like warriors, but they acted like innocent people. Did you torture one of them, Erin?”
Out of the corner of her eye, she saw the ‘sleeping’ Erin sit up. The [Innkeeper] sat cross-legged, head bowed, and her voice rasped as she stared down at her bloody hands.
“Yes.”
Ulvama stood there, and Erin wiped at her face.
“I dreamt I killed them all. I was hunting them down and burning their homes, looking for you. How…none of them are dead, right?”
“Just aphids.”
The [Innkeeper] said nothing. Ulvama wasn’t sure what was going on behind those downcast eyes, and her hair, hiding her face, but she just waited. She had a lot of feelings, but Erin…the weight of emotions broke the [Innkeeper]’s reserve far before Ulvama.
“I’m sorry.”
“Why?”
Erin blinked up at her.
“For nearly killing them. They’re kids. I—they told me, but I was afraid. One of them said they might be…but that’s not an excuse.”
“Eurise said he’d do the same thing in your boots. Are you sorry that you made a mistake or that it was just the wrong group? If it were the Bloodfeast Raiders…”
“I wouldn’t feel bad. I just—I’ve done it again, haven’t I? Caused a huge problem for you and everyone.”
The [Innkeeper] got to her feet, and Ulvama leaned against the ball of fur that was the Battle Hamster. Erin hesitantly walked over, but stood there, facing Ulvama from the side. The [Shaman] didn’t glance at her.
“I was happy you came after me. But you said it: you’re still on the ship. You nearly killed children. Big children, but children. What happens if we reach other towns and this happens again?”
“I know. I get it. I—I need help. I need to talk to someone. Therapy.”
Ulvama didn’t quite know what Erin was referring to, but she nodded.
“Bad thoughts? That’s my job, in tribes. I am the one who speaks and listens. But you and I both need a bigger [Shaman] for us. I was so afraid. When I was kidnapped, and then when I realized you were going to come for me.”
Afraid of what she’d do. Erin hung her head and didn’t respond. Ulvama tried to untangle some dirt out of the Battle Hamster’s fur.
“What do I say, Erin? ‘This is bad, never do it again?’ No, that’s silly. Next time, if someone kidnaps me or Battle Hammie—”
She patted the hamster’s head, and it nipped at one finger.
“—then you should do that. But you nearly killed silly girls.”
“I know. I’m…I understand. I panicked. I just thought—”
“Yep. I’d think the same thing too.”
If Ulvama didn’t know Erin was okay, and even if someone told her Erin was safe, she’d think of Roshal or…the [Innkeeper] was clenching and unclenching her jaw.
“So how do I get over this? Change or—not let this happen again. Eurise said this was what he’d do, and you said the same thing. But that doesn’t make this right, does it?”
“Nope. Just sucks.”
The [Innkeeper] waited, but that was the Goblin’s only conclusion. Sometimes, it just sucked. No happy silver lining or whatever Mrsha’s books supposedly had. Morals. Lessons.
The [Shaman] turned at last and saw the [Innkeeper] looked worse again. Not in the sense of her taking any meaningful wounds, but she was haggard. Dark patches had reappeared under her eyes, and she was coughing after exhaling fire. Once again, she wore the appearance of a killer.
Ulvama wished they’d never visited Wyewesshi. She wished she could have captured the Erin who’d begun to smile and preserved that one—but that Erin wasn’t the one who’d survive their journey back home.
“Come on. Let’s go face consequences.”
She put an arm around Erin’s shoulder and pulled her towards the beetle. The [Innkeeper] followed her. They sat in silence as the beetle began following the trail Eurise had left with a few glowing specks of stone every hundred paces.
About an hour of utter silence as the insects chirped around them by night, and Ulvama spoke.
“You know I don’t need a killing warrior, right? That’s just Tremborag.”
Erin flinched.
“I know.”
“Good. Then thank you for coming after me.”
 
——
 
Bowom’s and Eurise’s reactions were the most understanding. The rest of the Fraerlings in Dretonamis reacted differently, ranging from grim acceptance to mild horror. But not complete shock. They were survivors used to monster attacks, so the crowd that Erin and Ulvama ran into was busy finding spaces for the Cottontails to sleep, tending to cuts, or sorting the Cottontails’ belongings when the two arrived.
Erin got off the beetle silently, and Ulvama checked the crowd. She was prepared to back away if they were openly hostile, but they just seemed dismayed. Some gave Erin a long look, but Eurise was taking charge.
“—and tell Wyewesshi, again, everyone’s safe. They can send a group to pick up whomever they want to deal with tomorrow. Got it? Gollesume, what’re they saying over there? Gollesume?”
The [Wizard] who’d been so instrumental in teleporting people around was scarfing down food. He glowered, then snapped.
“We don’t have communication spells like Tallfolk! I only enchanted that speaking stone for Bowom because it was an emergency. Anything else and Tallfolk might notice the spells! Send a runner!”
“Fine. Where’re Mera and Zemmy?”
Eurise turned, but the two [Brawlers] weren’t there. His glower intensified, and Roja sighed.
“I’ll run the note over.”
“Good, check on Zinni.”
That seemed to be a common refrain. Ulvama glanced at Eurise, and he spotted Erin.
“You two—”
She waited, and Erin opened her mouth, but Eurise just waved them off.
“Get some sleep. We’ve got this sorted.”
“We could help—”
“No thanks.”
A Fraerling pushed past the two of them, politely but firmly beginning to unload the Corumdon Beetle. Ulvama regarded Erin. The [Innkeeper] began walking towards the cottage without a word.
 
——
 
Ulvama wasn’t actually tired enough to go to sleep right away, so she stayed up, persuading the Battle Hamster to let her clean his wound and giving him a bit of a poultice Bowom had gotten for her. The [Mad Doctor] had also assured her that everyone would be okay.
“The average giant centipede attack is worse. Mind you, I think most people are surprised how fast Erin took the Cottontails apart. They were a menace. But I supposed they thought Tallfolk Level 50 meant something different from Level 50 for us.”
He was very understanding, and when Ulvama thanked him again, he waved it off and tapped the side of his nose.
“I knew the moment she lost her anchor it was going to go cats up.”
She smiled at the creative use of ‘cats’, probably as Bowom intended. Then Ulvama had to correct him.
“I’m not her anchor. I’m just—a friend. She has more, but I’m the only one here.”
The [Mad Doctor] waved a bloody hand.
“Sure, sure. Temporary or whatever you want to call it. Everyone needs an anchor. Most don’t have one. In my class, my profession, having one is very important.”
“…As a [Doctor]?”
His eyes flashed under the moonlight, and he gave her a wide smile.
“No. [Madman]. Well, get some sleep. Eurise gets it, and so does Fantim. That’s why he wasn’t chewing you out.”
Ulvama nodded as she took the medicine, then she turned.
“What’s Eurise’s anchor, then? Zinni’s?”
“I guess Zinni’s is her ranch and her village. Eurise likes training Mera and Zemmy.”
“Is that an anchor?”
“Nope. I imagine he just tries to hold himself in place. Good night!”
 
——
 
When she got back to the cottage, Ulvama heard a voice. She stopped and then checked Erin’s room. The [Innkeeper] was asleep, but she was dreaming.
She wasn’t doing anything as convenient as making intelligible words, but Ulvama thought she might have heard something like her name in Erin’s mumbling. The [Innkeeper]’s fists were clenched on her sheets, and she was—twitching.
Violence was in every line of her body, and she was baring her teeth. Ulvama saw Erin biting a lip hard—the Goblin saw a glimmering around Erin’s head.
A hat of black fire. The Hobgoblin watched Erin writhe and nodded to herself. She stepped forwards, bent down, and gently slapped Erin on the forehead.
Ulvama had ducked, wisely—Erin’s full swing missed, and she made an inarticulate sound as she sat up.
“Wh—”
“Nightmare. I heard you screaming.”
“Oh. Thanks.”
“Mm.”
Ulvama got up and went back to her rooms. She lay in bed, staring up at the ceiling, but she drifted off after a few minutes. When she woke up twice in the night, once to pee, she didn’t hear any more muttering from Erin’s room.
 
——
 
Zinni arrived before dawn. It was still dark when Ulvama heard someone ringing a bell. She sat up, and her blood began to race the moment she woke up.
It was the thrumming. She dashed out of her room in her nightclothes, and Erin stumbled out of the room, holding a yellow flame.
“Ulvama, my [Dangersense]—”
“Zinni.”
The very thing that Bowom and Eurise had been concerned about had come. Ulvama didn’t see her as she stepped out of the cottage. What she did see in the darkness lit up by several [Light] spells was far more ominous.
Aphids. Giant aphids, wooly and regular ones, some four inches tall, but most small—the size of big dogs in some cases. A few were far bigger, proportionally as big as cows to Fraerlings.
Thousands of them. They were swarming towards the village, and that wouldn’t have concerned Ulvama, except for two factors.
One—they were making that ominous thrumming sound, rubbing their hindlegs against their bodies, and two—their little buggy eyes were glowing.
Predictably, red. It was always red. They were coming straight at the village. Straight for—Erin.
“Zinni must have heard what happened. Or just saw Fenmi. Ulvama, get inside.”
Erin’s voice sounded grim. Ulvama grabbed her and almost put her in a headlock, but thought better this time.
“No fighting! Get inside—”
She was going to say ‘they’re just aphids’ until she remembered Zinni didn’t just raise aphids. Ulvama gazed up, cursed, and dragged Erin inside as the Battle Hamster poked his head out.
A cloud of beetles roared down like thunder from the sky, and then Ulvama heard and saw Zinni, clinging to one of them.
“Erin Solstice!”
The two were inside the cottage when the first aphid hit the side like a battering ram. Ulvama had traced a rune on one door, but she saw it flicker as dozens of impacts began—then the wall bowed in.
“They’re going to collapse the wall!”
Erin’s response was to yank open the door, draw her breath, and exhale. Black flames roared outside, and the thrumming died down. Erin swept left and right, coating the area around the house with flames.
“Zinni! Back off or I’ll burn your herds to ash!”
She shouted up at the night sky, and Ulvama tensed. Even the Corumdon Beetle would be swarmed in an instant by all the bugs that Zinni had brought with her. Zinni’s reply to Erin’s shout was a voice that was steady and thunderous.
“My granddaughter’s throat? She’s a child!”
More aphids bounded around them, daring the flames Erin spat at them. The [Innkeeper] was draining color from a piece of stone at her feet, forming a Densecore stone. Ulvama shouted up.
“Zinni, stop! Matha’s alive!”
The answer she got was one of the beetles spitting at her—the [Shaman] leapt back indoors. It was either acid or just bile, and she didn’t want to know which. Fortunately, the hail of beetle vomit cut off before it did more than rattle the roof; there was a voice louder than even the chittering of insects.
“ZINNI. THIS IS MY VILLAGE.”
Eurise. Ulvama relaxed a moment too soon. She saw a figure leap up—and then saw a massive arm appear.
[Scarstrike]—Eurise summoned what looked like a bear’s paw, and the swarm of beetles broke apart as he hit it as hard as he could.
That wasn’t the kind of de-escalation that Ulvama had been hoping for. Eurise landed as the swarm of insects jumped on him—then he scattered them like rain. He crushed an aphid underfoot as he strode at Zinni.
The old [Rancher] was trembling with fury. She pointed at Erin.
“Where is she?”
“Away, Zinni. Touch them and I’ll crush this entire swarm.”
Erin walked out of the doorway of the cottage, and Ulvama shouted.
“Erin! No! You idiots!”
She would have run after Erin, but the aphids were leaping at her and Eurise, and the two were tough—Ulvama didn’t know if the aphids would hit hard enough to crack Erin’s ribs. The Battle Hamster kicked an aphid back as Zinni’s voice rose.
“You want to do this, Eurise? Fine. [Herd of Horrors: They Grew Teeth].”
Uh oh. Ulvama saw the duo of Erin and Eurise whirl—and then the nearest aphid doubled in size. The relatively cute bug with its green exoskeleton and rotund body rose upwards, its chitinous body developing spikes. Then—it opened its mouth, revealing teeth.
Whatever assumptions Ulvama had about Zinni’s ability to throw down with Erin and Eurise quickly reversed themselves. She saw a wave of them moving around Erin and Eurise. Undeterred, both were making for Zinni, who pointed a finger at Erin.
Disastrous. Eurise was winding up for another attack, and Ulvama saw what was going to happen next. A Level 50 [Warrior] vs a Level 50 [Rancher] and her entire horde—no one in Dretonamis dared get close, not even the other high-level Fraerlings. Erin was ready to fight, but she, armed with her flames and her body of an inn, wasn’t ready for this.
Ulvama was seizing the Battle Hamster’s fur, prepared to beg it to help fight through the insects to drag Erin away, searching for the Corumdon Beetle. Anything to stop this nightmare.
She’d never seen so many high-level people quarreling like this. Garen and Tremborag had been one thing, but they’d both been a rank below Erin, Eurise, and Zinni. This was like…Named-rank adventurers fighting. The King of Destruction’s Seven brawling. Ulvama didn’t know how to stop it. But she wasn’t the heroine of the hour.
