A flash of insight followed. She views herself as a gardener of some kind, then. No, as an architect. She builds boundaries for her story because, true to her earlier words, she is a picky reader but still wants enough variety that the characters themselves can surprise her.

The Seeker fought the urge to sigh. I hate that I'm thinking this, but I almost miss the Stranger’s Garden. At least he's just greedy and evil. And the other Outsiders are simple in their own right.

And within her being, she felt something rouse. Behind her eyes, in the Dreamtaker's dimension, there was a thrum of eldritch magics. Yet, as she reached out for her first Eldritch patron, she got no response. The Dreamtaker had been unreasonably quiet for far too long. Ever since Uva's sojourn through the Stranger's Garden and the metamorphosis she underwent, the Dreamtaker had been in a stupor, communicating with Uva in transmissions of nonsense and flickering images before fading. With everything that had been going on, she didn't have any interest in investigating the Dreamtaker’s condition. But something was happening now. A feeling of foreboding began to build within Uva, and with it came a series of notifications.

The change spreads…

The Narrative Flames leak…

But even in tales do the characters dream…

And where one flame spreads, another will catch within…

Well, that's wonderfully ominous, System. I do thank you for this useful information, Uva thought dryly.

“Were you truly serious about the authenticity of the slaves?” Evanescia suddenly asked. There was a hint of insecurity in her question.

“Of course. It was bad enough that I wondered if there were actually slaves at all in the first place. Clean teeth. Odorless rags. They struck me as prisoners of war initially, and then I wondered if they were simply pretending to be slaves. If you're trying to sell this to me as a story, then you need to fit my context, not just yours.”

And Uva stumbled upon a new approach. The way the Usurper-Narrator viewed and wanted to shape the world was weird, but not incomprehensible. She needed to be approached like an insecure author, despite what she said about being a reader.

“You might be the Narrator, and you might think of me as a character in your story, but I'm also a reader,” Uva continued. “I have to participate, and I have to see what the others are doing as well, don't I? You won't want me to be taken out of the narrative by a feeling of dissonance, would you?”

A long silence dragged on right after. The old man lowered his head. “No, no, I wouldn't. I… can't believe it. I really was selfish, wasn't I? I wasn't thinking about your experience that much at all. I was just trying to appeal to that feeling of triumph and heroism. The themes. They got a hold of me. But it’s all in the details… Missed that. Again. She would be ashamed of me. Ah. I would like to apologize. You’re right. I was just… You know how it feels when you put a lot of work into something, and then it's just not enough?”

Uva nodded. “Yes. And if you are truly sorry, would you consider reuniting me with the others?”

The Usurper-Narrator let out a pitched laugh. “Yeah, no, not in Act One. Way too early, and I also know what you're doing. But what I can do is I can reset the loop and—”

“No, no,” Uva cut her off. “Just pay more attention to the details. Remember, this story isn't just for you alone. Don't be selfish. The rest of us can become readers too. The book is better enjoyed with company than alone. Wouldn't you agree?”

For once, Uva followed her gut rather than her mind when speaking with the potential enemy, and it worked. It was a strange, natural insight she felt when it came to Evanescia, and that left her feeling more than a bit displeased.

“Yeah,” Evanescia said quietly. “Another reader to be… Not many people put it to me that way, you know? Thanks, Uva. Can I call you Uva?”

An interesting bit of politeness compared to how she imprinted herself over my soul. “I care little what you refer to me as,” she replied flatly.

“Oh. Still the cool Operative. I like it. Don’t worry. We’ll get to Uva yet.” Evanescia giggled. “And, well, I don’t need to reset the entire loop to enhance your experience, so… You’re welcome.”

“Wait, what are you—”

The world fluttered. Two pages crashed backward, and Uva suddenly found herself walking down the stairs into the dungeon. This time, the right smells were added. All of them. All at the same time. She barely caught herself by the wall while she coughed and gagged as what felt like a lungful of shit and piss worked its way down her throat.

“Yes… that’s the wonderful authenticity I was looking for. Great suggestion, Uva. So fucking smart of you. What a Shiv-thing to do…”
