“Please, please…” A miserable, aged man peered out at Uva from between metal bars. He reached for her. His fingers were skeletally thin, and his nails were caked with filth, but again, it wasn't the right kind of filth. It looked like he'd been digging in the dirt, but there was no dirt in this dungeon. There was dust, perhaps, but nothing to dig in. It just didn’t fit. His damn teeth were too white and intact as well, and his eyes were two different colors. In any other place, she would have had questions about this specific prisoner, if he'd made a deal with the wardens or was a spy left among the enslaved to serve as a watchguard.

Not here, though. Not in the Fairwoods.

And because she was in the Fairwoods, that inspired her to do something else. She wasn't sure if it would work, but she would never know if she didn't try.

“I have a criticism,” Uva said casually.

Silence. At first.

Some of the slaves looked at her in confusion, but she ignored them, sweeping her eyes across every single misbegotten soul in the cages. She tried to guess which of them housed her soul, but she couldn’t tell. Not for the first time, she wished for Adam’s Awareness.

Nothing for it. “This isn't how slaves are supposed to be,” Uva continued. “You've made them too neat and tidy to uphold my immersion. There are problems with your story.”

The shift in the atmosphere was immediate. Though Uva saw nothing, she felt it, a concentration of unseen mana, like a ripple cast by a distant leviathan washing around her, passing through the realm. There came a sudden flicker as a silhouetted outline folded over the old man reaching out for her. His expression went slack for a beat, and then a new look took hold, one that was bordering on the verge of annoyance, but mostly seemed fascinated.

“If this is a new strategy you've spent all your time developing to lure me out and hunt me down, then consider me extremely irritated, but also utterly amused. And to think I considered your personality too flat to be interesting compared to the other two. You're quickly outstripping them as the central object of my fascination. I would consider you a wonderful character study, Uva Mettabon. Such subtle and quiet growth.”

Uva had to keep her lip from twitching. Speaking with Evanescia was a dehumanizing experience. Though she was never unpleasant in the usual sense, her regard for those she spoke to as something less than human was subconsciously offensive, perhaps because of how it seemed ingrained in her as common sense. Worse, it wasn't an easy arrogance to exploit either.

“I really don't care what you think of me,” Uva hissed. “But I have some feedback for you regardless, something that can enhance both our experiences.” She gestured at the prison around her. “They're too clean, and they're too clean in a specific way. There's blood, yes. But no piss. No feces. No rot. Not even sweat. They're neat victims. Slaves are never neat, and they are almost never presentable until after they leave their pens.”

“I see you're speaking from experience, of course. You've had multiple engagements with the First Blood. What a sordid affair.” The Usurper-Narrator actually shuddered, and something about her body language spoke of honesty rather than mockery. “I must apologize. The First Blood, though they make for unique and rather loathsome villains, are a little too strong of taste, at least in my opinion. Call me romantic, but I like stories rich in meaning and themes, with the darker details left to subtext, if that.”

Uva was speechless for a second. A very Shiv-like laugh of genuine disbelief escaped her. “You are genuinely that ridiculous, aren't you? You don't want them to be that filthy because it offends your sensibilities.”

“Not my sensibilities, my tastes,” Evanescia corrected. “A story needs to appeal to the reader, you see. I've seen some very foul and deeply disturbing stories play out when I allowed them to, and though there are times where I do yearn to explore the macabre again, I fear it all too often devolves into splatter and other sorts of absurdity. It's just shock value with little substance.”

“Shock value.” Uva's voice was thin with derision. She regarded the slaves present and gathered her thoughts. “And what is this? Some kind of artistic exploration of suffering and the woes of being a slave? No. That, the gore, the blood, the smell, that is what it truly means to be crammed into a narrow space by people who don't care about you, who don't regard you as a person. It is proper expression, one you're avoiding. I thought you were interested in stories. Now I see you're just a picky reader—someone who won't go outside their preferred genre.”

Cold Reader 88 > 90

Evanescia coughed and looked down. The old man she was controlling ran an absentminded finger up and down the metal bar in front of him. “I want to be mad at you right now, but I suspect a part of me deserved that.”

Uva was about to respond, but then the Usurper-Narrator suddenly threw herself at the bars of her cage. “Yes, I am a picky reader!” she moaned in lament. “I was more open to exploration at the start, but I yearn for comfort now. It's been a hard few million seasons, and after so long, Silence's Watchtower is finally mostly intact, thanks to you and your fellow favored. I want to celebrate and enjoy you all as characters, not push you through nightmares.”

The Seeker sucked in a breath. “You don't think this is nightmarish enough? Being a prisoner trapped in your book. Seized by your will whenever you desire, used as a vessel to hurt my own friend.”

Evanescia rolled the old man’s eyes. “Well, that's a right hypocritical thing for you to be offended by. Isn't your power all about stealing someone else's control and wielding them as a weapon? Let's not lie to ourselves. You hear the screams of your victims when you trap them with your magic. I'm not so different, and I daresay our morals are mostly aligned.”

Uva just glared. She didn't even need words to verbalize her disagreement.

“We are,” Evanescia reiterated. “We only insert ourselves into someone else's mind or over someone else's soul when we need to push things back on track. We're not hurting them mentally or spiritually for pleasure. I got very little enjoyment from self-inserting myself into you. Adam and that orc of his caught me by surprise. Impressive, but also very disconcerting. On top of that, I only used you as much as I needed to. I didn't make you torture his mind. I had him disabled; I pulled his consciousness apart, yes, but I could have made it far worse. You have done far worse in the past. Neither of us desires cruelty; we want outcomes. And to be honest, you are the more domineering author between us. I released you the moment I could.” The old man crossed his arms and looked down his nose at the Umbral glaring at him from outside his cage. “The same cannot be said for you.”

“I do not have an entire dimension of people trapped as slaves and used as characters for my amusement!” Uva hissed.

“Well, that's just because you're not as powerful as I am. If you had my power, if your Psychomancy was truly that grand, you can't tell me you wouldn't have subjugated the Court of the First Blood in its entirety, and you wouldn't have destroyed them either. You would have disbanded all the slaves, emancipated them, and welcomed them into the Composer’s embrace. You would have secured the vampires' territory and further brought glory to your people. And you would have punished the Bloodsuckers. After they were resolved at least physically, you would have taken what was theirs for your own because you are a pragmatist, or at least that's what you tell yourself. You do not exploit your repurposing of necessary materials, delicate, sparse resources, for there are three other Faiths you must contend with, with at least one of them being as much of a threat as the Court.”

“The First Blood have done enough to deserve such a fate a thousand times over!” Uva snarled.

Evanescia held up her hands. “And I don't disagree. It's part of what makes you such a compelling character. Watching you decide to take a more gentle approach with the ogres and the gnomes and the prisoners has been a wonderful thing. I really enjoy this bit of character development. Truly!” Evanescia's voice was rife with warmth. “There's a reason why I picked this specific story for you: It's historical. It has a lot of cultural connotations for you, and I think it can be even cathartic. What I didn't expect was for you to take on a more pacifistic edge, at least when it comes to how you use your Psychomancy. I suspect it will make things harder, but a hero with a code is a wonderful thing to see.”

“I am a Hero in Skill-Tier alone,” Uva replied coolly. “I have little interest in pretending to be a saintess. And what I do now comes from what you have done to me. Without your self-insertion, I wouldn't have had the personalized perspective to understand.”

The Usurper-Narrator grinned, the old man's teeth still pearly-white. “Well, I'm flattered to hear that I gave you such enlightenment.”

“This wasn't a compliment, Evanescia. And as for your other point, the main difference between us is that I don't keep people prisoners out of amusement or for my own pleasure. If my enemy is beaten, I will simply harvest the information from their mind and move on. I do things for duty.”

Yet, as Uva said those words, an ill sensation began welling inside of her.

The slave-trading bureaucrats of Compact had to die. The First Blood needed to be punished. The Dragon-Knights were formidable adversaries. I can't hold anything back if I want to survive.

In her mental space, Harkness waved her hand in a spiral motion, bidding her to get to the “but.”

But some of the things I did to them… They were about more than just duty. It was… about power. Having power over someone feels good. And even when I was connected to their emotions, I didn't need to regard them as a person, because a person to me is… powerful. Or someone I care about.

Before her, Evanescia shrugged. “I don't think your argument is very good, and I fundamentally disagree with the premise. The Fairwoods aren't a prison. You are not slaves. Not really. You are being kept alive in these loops, and you are being granted the adventures of lifetimes without the threat of permanent death. Among you, only the Deathless was granted that privilege before, but now, thanks to my ability to reset the narrative any time I so desire, you can try again and again. You can spend eons discovering who you are or all you could be and doing things you couldn't have ever imagined yourself doing!” The Usurper-Narrator’s voice grew more and more animated as she spoke, and the old man stood up and pressed his face between the bars as he grinned broadly at Uva.

“You're not here as a slave. You're here because I like you. You're here because I treasure you. I treasure practically everyone, even the Wanderer, and I would love to keep you all here, in the ever-expanding expanse that is the Fairwoods, for all of eternity as the Watchtower's beacon spreads wider and consumes every bit of Integration. Can you imagine that? A grand and never-ending story! Everyone learning new things about themselves and everyone else! An eternal adventure!”

“Do you even care if we want that?” Uva whispered. “What choice do we have in the matter?”

Evanescia scoffed, like listening to a child try to formulate an argument but lacking the mental faculties to do so. “You didn't have any choice about being born. You didn't have any choice about what the System threw at you. I guess maybe there's a bit of tyranny involved here, but if I have to be a tyrant to preserve my favorite characters, then so be it. I'll do that. I'm just letting you know right now, I'm not going to insert myself when you're having an intimate moment with your lover. It would be weird, with how well we've come to know each other." The Usurper-Narrator grimaced, as if the very thought was beneath her. “But I might watch. I want to watch, actually. I love to see how people form relationships. I love to see how everyone comes to love or hate or just coexist with everyone else. This place, it is a wonder, and it is my given duty to be the best warden I can be for it. And it is my pleasure to be as well.”

“You truly think you're doing the right thing for all of us,” Uva muttered, taking in all Evanescia was telling Uva about herself.

Evanescia nodded. “I am, beyond a doubt. Without me, you will be forever stuck in the System's nihilistic, pointless, strife-ruled world. Strife is still here, but that comes second to a good story. Tension. Narrative tension. That is what defines this place. There's a lot more expression of narrative and tension than just people trying to kill each other, especially when those deaths are not permanent and the seasons will simply start over again.”

“So, what is your end goal? To see everyone and everything utterly consumed by your Fairwoods? Everyone to be a character in your story? For you to be the greatest author of all reality?”

Evanescia clicked her tongue. She shook her head disapprovingly. “It's like you're not listening sometimes. You're really, really sharp about a few things, and then you miss a bunch of others. I am the Usurper-Narrator, not the Usurper-Author. I don't really decide how these stories go. I simply prime them. I put people in place, and I give them a sort of notion of a goal, and after that, everything they do is up to them. You are the characters, but you are also the authors of your own stories in my book, and the pages are performed as an interplay between all your actions. I'm just here to keep the plot on rails, so to speak.”

