“Thann, I... It’s… barely been a week. I’ve been reunited with my son for less than a week, and you’re saying he’s lost somewhere again? In the Fairwoods, of all places? Why didn’t he tell me he was bound for that miserable place…”

“He likely did not wish to worry you. You had a great many burdens residing upon your shoulders: your recovery, the Starhawk's desire to reach the Deep Abyss, the great funerary rites you had to perform for all those lost during the siege.”

“And keeping me unaware was supposed to help me? My stress has doubled, no, tripled! It's beyond control now, since my only living child is lost in a realm of madness and nonsense!”

“Whimsical.”

“What?”

“I would rather describe the Fairwoods as a whimsical place. Madness and nonsense are more the purview of the Outside. There are many rules that govern the Fairwoods, they are simply not the rules we are familiar with, instead being more like venturing through the pages of a storybook. Regardless, I think you should have more faith in Adam and his companions. They have already survived a great many trials. Trials that would have tested even the greatest Pathbearers.”

“Trials they shouldn't be enduring in the first place! This is supposed to be our responsibility. We were supposed to look after them, and you were supposed to—”

“Our wants are nothing before the System's needs. I have shadowed Adam, Uva, and Shiv as closely as I could, eradicated dangers I knew they could not have overcome on their own, but there is always something that we cannot anticipate. You suffer, Roland, because you yearn for a perfection that simply cannot be. I know it is an impossible thing to ask, but you cannot hold on so tightly. It will not serve you; it will not serve Adam. After a point, they must be allowed to defy and thrive of their own accord. You will not always be here. You weren't always here, and I myself was broken. And they made it through regardless.”

“Well, I am here now, and I am done with this waiting. I am done with all other things until I can find a way to reach my son. I have failed as a Town Lord. I have embarrassed my God, my faith, and my nation as an Avatar and a representative of the Yellowstone Republic. I will not fail as husband and father. Not this time.”

“…I think I spoke those words to my son near-verbatim the day I lost my beloved. Come with me then, Roland. We will find a way into the Fairwoods. We will recover the young ones. But I tell you this now: You will fight through whatever reactionary emotions you have. Because what you want is not what will manifest. Your power only decides so much. The rest of existence will have its say.”

—Roland Arrow and Valor Thann

333

Sympathy as a Dagger [I]

By the time Uva and her little convoy reached the Bell-Hold, things had dissolved into despair-induced chaos. The gnomes there clutched themselves. Those possessed of any morality at all were clawing at themselves, slamming their heads against walls, while some were huddled into balls on the ground, muttering incantations of forgiveness and regret. This left most deterrents unmanned and the parapets in disparate disarray. No spotters were functional. The few who were psychotic enough or simply calloused of heart to not be impacted by Uva's injections of empathic pain managed to keep their sanity. But though appeals to emotion were not a blade that could touch them, they were still overwhelmed by material means. They struggled to resist, to re-establish a chain of command, to figure out what to do, and to understand why all their comrades were engulfed by a fugue of sorrow-ridden madness.

They didn't get to wonder for long.

Living shrapnel, shaped from eldritch geometries, melted smooth gaps through the walls without any sign of heat. They merged and slipped from finger-wide wounds in the walls before blossoming as messy, buzzsaw-like constellations. The insides of the Bell-Hold turned into an impromptu slaughterhouse. Those who didn't succumb to the weight of their misdeeds were judged differently. Their armor was shredded, their flesh was parted, and their insides were given as decorations to the ground.

A good contingent of the armored ogres shared a fate with the calloused gnomes. The brutes that enjoyed their atrocities or simply were too stupid to understand what they did was wrong were given quick deaths: thin slices along the neck, heads rolling from bodies. The ones who could still be reached through empathy or simple manipulation were spared. For now. They were gathered in the courtyard of the Bell-Hold, made to lower the drawbridge across the moat that was filled with nightmarish, horse-sized centipedes. Their postures belied their shame; they held their clubs low, and their heads hung like pendulums on their necks.

It wasn't so much that the ogres saw the slaves whose feelings Uva had forced into them as equals, but more that their fear of being eaten aligned with the ogres' fear of being cannibalized.

“It seems like there is a universal fault point between beings capable of thought, even beings as dull and stupid as these ogres.” Harkness huffed in dry condescension. “The slightest similarity recognized between us and another can see our minds spiraling, conjuring up all sorts of delusions. ‘What if they're like me? What if they suffer as I suffer? What if I'm not so special?’”

“You aren't,” Uva confirmed, cutting her psionic passenger down to size. “If you were, our positions would be reversed at the very least.”

“Looks like somethin's happenin’ inside da Hold,” Squinty muttered. He lived up to his name as he narrowed his one good eye, trying to figure out what was happening within the small subterranean fortress. He stood at the front of the group while Uva trailed close behind him. She hadn't assumed an out-and-open leadership role yet, choosing to further manipulate him by sending faint impulses into his mind.

He should bring the prisoners back. He should let them out of the cages. It was awfully cramped in there, and Squinty didn't much like cramped spaces either. Fresh food should have fresh space to stretch their legs out in. And maybe it was best to stop thinking of them as food. They don't look so delicious. Some of them were downright bony, and bony things don't deserve to be eaten by a smart, clever, and tasteful ogre such as Squinty.

Certain thoughts didn't register in the ogre's mind. He had a hard time understanding specific emotions too, but through trial and error, Uva managed to create a suggestive leash to drag him along and use him as her ignorant agent. It was easier than directly controlling his mind, anyway.

The rest of the prisoners lurked a few meters behind her. They were still gripped by fear, and some of them had recently emptied their almost barren stomachs in reaction to what Squinty had done to Fingers. The pulped corpse of the murdered ogre was left for the bugs and vermin on the spiral path behind them. The cage-carrying ogre had said something about wanting to secure Fingers' body, if only to repurpose it as food. After three failed attempts, Uva managed to appeal to the carrier's laziness and thus put an end to that pointless struggle.

A mess of faint, folding lines scintillated above—twelve Aberrant Fractals forming an aerial perimeter below the ceiling of the dim cavern and around the stone fortress that was the Bell-Hold, serving the role of overwatch. Each one held an instance of Uva’s consciousness, and they watched the surroundings for her, making sure that no unexpected guests would chance upon the little revolution she was brewing. Studying the whole surroundings using her summons, she saw an enormous tunnel that ran even deeper underground. The width of the manufactured chasm was great enough that it could swallow a small city. And, always announced by a cacophony of chiming bells as loud as a crumbling mountain, that entire space would be filled by a colossal creature that served as a wandering nation in its own right: the Deepdiver, the Gnomish Council's greatest war beast and last refuge from the Fey Courts.

As Uva and the rest of the prisoners were led across the drawbridge, she directed Squinty to gather up the other ogres while she psionically compelled the surviving gnomes to assemble in the courtyard. Her influence proved uncanny. Gnomes who had been trying to bash their heads open against the walls, or had been whimpering as inconsolable piles on the ground, suddenly shot up as they discovered new purposes. It wasn't mind control, not fully, but it still felt wrong.

Though she might not have been bending them directly with her will anymore, she was exploiting them emotionally and psychologically. But in her defense, this was something they chose to do. Uva didn't plant the seeds of their shame. She simply watered them.

“All of you, stay here. I will be back with the others.” That was all she said to her fellow prisoners as she entered the hold proper. She heard a few of them call out to her, asking her what was happening, if she was a mage, but she ignored them. It would be easier to explain everything to everyone at the same time rather than repeating herself over and over again. Or at least that was how she justified things to herself. Ultimately, she didn't like giving speeches, motivating people, or trying to manage the logistics of an army. She possessed these capabilities, of course, but she was no Adam—and strange as it was to realize, she was no Shiv when it came to interacting with people. Her brute would have probably been able to talk the ogres into killing each other without the need for any Psychomancy at all.

Uva, on her part, found people too emotional and irrational for her tastes. Such was why she was a good Psychomancer. She viewed people at a distance. She could pick apart their emotions and still understand them analytically. She just didn’t empathize with them in most cases.

What waited for her in the bowels of the Hold was not most cases.

Uva had liberated slaves and prisoners of war before. There was a difference between the two, with the latter usually kept in a mostly clean place if possible, and eventually ransomed back to their people. As such, there was an incentive to keep prisoners in reasonable shape. Not everyone adhered to such rules, especially the First Blood, but overall, as a prisoner of war of some worth, especially if you were a high-tier Pathbearer, you could expect to be spared the grisliest of fates and even receive medical treatment along with a decent meal sometimes.

The same couldn't be said for slaves.

Slaves had no one to go back to. Slaves were a resource like cattle, or rather, less. They were to be used, spent, trained for specific tasks if needed, and then discarded. Fighting the First Blood had taught Uva much about slavery. How to maximize the number of people you could cram into a filthy pen. Which slave would better serve as a laborer, a maid, or just as an easy source of sustenance, since they weren’t good for anything else. There was even a vile art to how they separated their slaves and pitted them against each other.

It happened early on, with certain slaves given a more favored status. A vampire would bite them on the back of the neck, thereby marking them, deeming them a thrall. From there, they would be given weapons and armour and tasked with managing the other slaves. Such a duty was beneath the First Blood, after all, even the Thin Bloods of the newest generations.

All that experience made Uva a secondhand veteran in the art. Which was why she found slavery within the Fairwoods completely nonsensical.

Not the fact that there was slavery at all, but rather how they did it. The first thing about encountering slaves in the Abyss was the smell. You would smell a hundred people packed into a squalid cell barely large enough for a family of five and with no access to toilets, water, or medication from further away than just about anything else.

You could smell the vomit, the sweat, wounds filled with decay and maggots, the very sickness in the air, the fetid stench of rot coming from those who'd been too late for. All that foulness came together as a cocktail of pure disgust, a sensation burned into her memory that she attributed to the First Blood more than anyone else.

But here, as she descended the long stairs into the slave pens, the air remained cold and devoid of flavor. If anything, she would describe the taste as barren, beside a slight stench of iron.

And that was a deliberate choice. It had to be. Slaves always reeked.

The absurdity continued as she beheld the slaves themselves. Most of them were packed inside iron cages that slotted into the walls of the dungeon.

Expensive iron cages, filling an expansive dungeon. One that was a bit too well-lit, with spectacular ventilation, a high ceiling, and people hanging from dangling iron maidens, of all things. The sound of pained moans accompanied the dripping of blood, but no urine or feces. The captives here sobbed, grimaced, and kept their eyes down. Their faces were marred by hardship. Their eyes were sunken and hollow. They wore dirty rags. All that fit.

But none of those rags smelled. Furthermore, there were never more than eight prisoners inside a single cage, and they'd each been given a particularly large bowl of slop—far more than what would have been granted to an unclaimed blood bag.

The sheer dissonance made Uva's brow crease. She wasn't an avid reader of fiction, but even she could taste an author's heavy hand pressing on the world around her.

The Usurper-Narrator wanted blood, despair, and misery, but never disgust. All that bodily waste and foulness that existed in reality made people seem too much like cattle instead of people with their own stories, perhaps, or it just didn't fit the aesthetic Evanescia desired.

