“I mean, finish it off. Kill it. Put it out of its misery. You already gave the poor bastard a soul abortion. Cut its head off or stop its heart or something. Step on it.”

“It is… for the best, Shiv,” Valor said. At least he sounded like he felt a bit bad for Shiv. “Sometimes, terrible things happen during our journey toward enlightenment.”

Jessica snorted with amusement. “Huh. Type of shit Maiden says too.”

“And it is the duty of a just and proper Pathbearer to resolve their mistakes,” Valor added with haste.

“Shit. Godsdammit. Alright. Let’s…” Wincing internally, Shiv extended one of his mana hydra’s heads and took hold of his clone. “Okay, okay. Hey, little guy… uh… pain's gonna go away in just a bit.”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: I got nothing. This is extremely dark. Why do things like this keep happening?

A Glimpse of Perspective: Please, I beg thee, just get to the cooking.

Somehow, the clone managed to muster up enough strength to turn its bloodshot and hateful eyes on Shiv. “Fuuu—Fuuugg… youuuu…”

“Yeah, okay, I deserve that. I deserve that. Sorry. Sorry.” There was something deeply disturbing about murdering himself. Well, it wasn't himself anymore, really. It was a clone. He couldn't have known this was going to happen. Shiv didn't want to do this. It was just… Well, he still had to take responsibility. “Sorry,” Shiv squeaked out a final time, and then he halted the clone's heart. It shuddered and finally let out a blissful exhalation before it stopped straining. Its already ruined body stopped functioning a moment after.

“Holy shit!” Shiv said, using his remaining physical body. He felt slightly nauseous. All that was—

“Can someone explain to me what's happening here?”

A lightning bolt of alarm cleaved through Shiv as he suddenly noticed Uva standing in the doorway. She stood almost two heads taller than Jessica, even from a few steps back, and so she saw everything: Shiv’s physical and very nude body; the shriveled corpse nearby; the silhouetted Severed Shadow; Valor, Jessica, Five, Gone, and Candles.

Uva held a slightly confused expression and reached up to pinch her cheek. After a few seconds, she frowned. “Well, this doesn't feel like a dream, though I might have had a few that went in this direction.”

Shiv let out a nervous laugh. “Uva! I… The corpse is… We're doing research. I’m… I got a skill evolution!”

Jessica sneered. “And he's using it to commit atrocities on his own exiled bodies. Shit, kid. I guess this makes you the first person to be an absentee parent to literally themselves in a weird fucked up way.”

The responses that greeted Uva inspired her to change her expression several times over. At first, she seemed tired, then slightly resigned, and finally, a look of inspiration took hold.

“Shiv,” Uva said, “do you know where we might be able to find some wine on this leviathan? I think we’ll need a bit of help to get through whatever horrors we’re about to witness. And partake in, I suppose.”

“Oh, actually, yeah,” Shiv replied, walking over to her using his physical vessel. “I got a whole bunch of different vintages from this place called Monster Mystery Meat back at the Capitol. Long story there too. It—”

Uva held up a single hand, stopping Shiv from going on any further, as she pointed down using one of her Psychomantic strands. “I've been trying to ignore this as well, but why are you naked?”

“My resurrections don't provide clothing anymore,” Shiv said with a sigh. “My armor’s bound to my shadow.”

“Your shadow?” she said slowly, not understanding.

Shiv made his Severed Shadow solidify, and Uva's eyes twitched as she took in his newest evolution.

“Ah,” she breathed. That was all she said for a moment. “You know what? You can catch me up on the details while we get some wine.”

Shiv found her request most agreeable and prepared to lead her toward where the wine cellar was embedded within Courtney.

He barely managed a single step before a dimensional rift opened up before him, and Adam came speeding across. “Uva, Shiv, I need to speak… to…”

Adam trailed off, his words slurring into incoherence as he did a double take at the naked Deathless standing before him.

Behind, Uva let out a tired scoff. “Whatever is happening here is likely sillier and more confusing than you can imagine. So it seems to me thus far.”

Adam's mouth opened and closed several times. He made eye contact with Jessica, then Valor, then Gone, then saw the shriveled creature on the floor. The Gate Lord reached up and pinched himself too, and he did it so hard that blood welled up between his fingers. “I swear I've had a few nightmares that started this way.”

“Alright, let’s all stop talking until after we get some felling booze,” Jessica suggested. “In fact, let’s give this godsdamned soul-magic shitshow a rest and make some food instead. I’ll go get my beans ready, kid. You go fry some of those dead orcs—”

“What?” Adam’s eyes grew even wider. “Fry what?”

Everyone ignored him, though a disturbed look overtook Uva as well.

“I like that suggestion,” Shiv said. “I like it quite a lot.”

“What are we cooking?” Adam asked. “Shiv? Shiv?”
