Valor raised a hand and rubbed at his goatee. “Strange, very strange. The Ritual of the Dichotomous Soul allows someone to part their skills into different vessels, but the soul is still technically shared. You are still bound to yourself, even when your many bodies wander afar. I thought that my son had done something similar with you, that this skill merely allows you to bypass the difficulties and risks of the ritual. But it seems like this is something else altogether. Your skills, they're not parted from you. Your Severed Shadow possesses all your abilities when it fully solidifies, yes?”

“Yeah. Why?”

“Because my Animancy has detected no skills within these physical bodies. They are a void; rather, they are like a distortion or an opening in existence. They shouldn't exist.”

“They shouldn't exist?” Shiv replied, not fully comprehending the implications behind Valor's words.

“They shouldn't,” the ancient Pathbearer insisted. “They are like gaps to something else, a wound left behind. Not really bodies spiritually, but exits, connections to you. If I were forced to choose something simple to compare them to, it would be… stab wounds.”

Shiv finally managed to make things click together in his mind. He realized there was a reason why his physical bodies had that hollow gap at the bone lining their chests. He understood why his Severed Shadow possessed that pale blade when he switched places. He was thrusting across, and all these bodies were his instruments.

“Maybe my revenant form isn't the Severed Shadow,” Shiv said. “Maybe the Severed Shadows are my actual bodies. Or at least my organic bodies.”

“Use your Vitaemancy,” Valor commanded. “Reach into them. See if you can find any of your skills inside of them.”

Shiv did just that. But as he tried to channel his vital mana at his physical form, it bent inward, splashing through his gleaming blade and merging from inside the organic body instead. That earned a gasp of delight from Shiv. Not only could he easily switch places, but he could access the soul of one of his physical forms, no matter where they were. He was always connected to them. Always. Because they were a part of him. A branch reaching out across existence, bound to his soul.

The moment he spilled into his physical body, he felt his Vitae splash down from somewhere on top. It was hard to explain. It was like he was in a different dimension of his soul.

And when his magic finally came to a rest, he realized he was pressing down atop the stacks lining his skills. And he gained intuitive guesses as to what these stacks were.

“I think these physical bodies are the stacks,” Shiv said.

To confirm his suspicions, he triggered another resurrection.

Things got hard to manage now, but he could still function with two organic forms laden on top of his Severed Shadow. He had to focus, however; he used his Bifurcated Processing to gather his thoughts and to blunt all sensory inputs coming in from his superfluous bodies. Then he reached across into his other body and quickly discovered another stack placed upon his first. His skills were being built up. Something was weighing upon them, something extending forth from them. The skills themselves weren't changed, but they were being projected. They were being extended.

But if that's the case, why don't my physical bodies have any magical skills? Why can't they possess any attuned mana?

Shiv searched for the answer by seeking out one of his magical skills, and an explanation came quickly. The skill didn't have a stack that went upward. Instead, it seemed to have a flat cap that expanded horizontally, shrouding all his other skills. It, along with all his other magical skills, was stretched flat, wrapping over his unattuned skills like a protective layering.

Shiv explained everything he discovered to Valor, who let out a breath.

“I see. Of course your cutting aura is a danger to you. Your soul evolved, and when you didn't suppress it, you managed to tear into yourself. Without a series of spells quarantining it, or at least serving as insulation, your cutting aura would be projected inward as well, and you would shred yourself from within immediately. Constantly.”

The very thought made Shiv quiver. Even accidentally directing some of his cutting aura inward came with a deep lance of pain. “So, does this mean my physical body can't do magic anymore?”

“Have you tried implanting them with an Animated Skill Infusion skill yet?” Valor asked in response.

Instead of replying, Shiv got to the task. His Vitae sank down to the very depths of his Biomancy, and from there he obtained a perfect copy of the spell. It cost him some of his vitality to shape it into a stable construct, but he brought it across and placed it within his first organic body. To his delight, he felt something harden on top of the Biomancy skill within his soul. A stack had formed, and just then, a complete mana hydra manifested around the first physical body. In his excitement, he inadvertently let the aegis surrounding his Severed Shadow clash against his physical body—the strain he sustained thereafter was doubled.

A burst of red mana covered the room, and Shiv let out a hiss. "It's the same field," he replied. "At least it feels the same. It's like ramming my knuckles together. No, wait, it's weirder than that. It's like some kind of weird inversion portal that opened up. And I managed to punch my hand using the same hand. I don't know, Valor. The soul stuff is weird. Am I making any sense?”

“Quite a bit, actually,” Valor answered. “All magic is born of your soul, and since your soul is still singular but your bodies are many, this is simply a projection. You are not dividing your mana. You are allowing it to cross over. But for all of your magical skills, you likely need to apply an infusion for them to exist within those bodies. There is no easy way for them to manifest naturally, especially with your magic protecting them from being ripped apart. Without the layering made possible by your attuned mana, I fear that your resurrected bodies would come out in pieces instead.”

“But why does it work like that? Is it something to do with the attuned mana?”

“That'd be my guess,” Jessica said, enraptured by all she'd seen. “Attuned mana can be just projected out from your body, but it also can be made into spells. It allows you to do things and change things. I've heard some people describe it as the ‘Living Mana’—things you can shape. Like having a limb compared to the organs that are our unattuned mana.”

Valor smiled lightly at her offering of knowledge. “And though quite simplistic, Legend Hawgrave’s words ring true. Attuned magic is shaped by external laws, by our understanding of what it might be able to do relating to a certain element or concept. That makes its mana transformative, and thus grants it the ability to project a field. I think it is the collective fields that are keeping your cutting aura sheathed. A remarkable feat, especially since I believe it was adapted to be this way. It is like the System is rebuilding you with every evolution—its hand forced by Udraal’s machinations. This is quite an extreme modification for all your attuned skills to undergo.”

As Valor spoke, Shiv's mind turned to other possibilities. If he could extract a piece of his magical skill and imbue that in his physical body to create a stack, then what would happen if he burst through the stack? Would that tear one of his physical bodies apart?

Maybe, Shiv thought to himself. But right now, I have two stacks for most of my unattuned mana skills. Two stacks, two physical bodies. If I burst through the layering that separates all my skills from the stacks on top of them, then I probably will just end up absolutely destroying those bodies. But what if I cut along the stacks? What if I slip through, slice part of the magical field that forms the layering? Will that let me release one of my physical bodies?

Shiv acted on impulse. He used his cutting aura and began making an incision, as if his soul were wielding a scalpel. The pain was deep and true, but not nearly unbearable. Slowly, he carved bits of his mana field away, slicing through the protective substance provided by his attuned skills. There was little difficulty ripping through his own being. Comparatively, punching through the Culturist felt like driving a blade through a plate of armor.

The gap was likely the sheer number of Legendary Skills and accumulated levels; it took a skill 500 levels before it could undergo a Delve, and the Culturist had to have undergone at least six to eight Delves. Perhaps far more. Surviving just one had been an ordeal for Shiv. And that gave the Deathless all the perspective he needed. The sheer mana density difference between them was night and day. Shiv might have become a Legend, but he had only taken his first step into the realm of true monsters. And that wasn't even considering the realms above theirs, dimensions beyond Integrated Earth. There were countless Pathbearers in existence, other monsters, other creatures that loomed higher and higher still.

And if the Incursion were to take place? No, he corrected himself. It wasn't a matter of if. It was a question of when. When the incursion happened, and Earth's Ambient Mana Threshold was raised to a whole new level, Shiv would likely find himself clashing with adversaries that stood a Tier above even the greatest Legends of Integrated Earth.

A sudden jolt made Shiv shiver, and his Vitae flared bright. Something had been cut away from him. A weight had been relieved from his body. Then came that sudden surge of vitality. He had fully removed a set of stacks connected to his second physical body from himself. In an instant, he lost all connection with the body. It was as if death had suddenly taken that body from him, but it still stood before Shiv, even if he had severed it from his soul.

As he observed the vacancy behind the body's eyes, other changes followed. The exiled body's muscles shriveled away, shrinking in an instant and dissolving until its form was utterly emaciated. The red-gold shimmer of orichalcum across its form faded as well, and the bones turned brittle, cracking under the weight of gravity. Then the head of the second body began to shrink, especially around the skull. It was like the brain inside was withering away, and the bone that encased it followed thereafter. In the end, what used to be another organic body for Shiv now resembled an emaciated, withered, and dying homunculus. It was barely larger than an infant, its arms and legs thin strips draped along the ground like shedded snakeskins.

As if decrying the injustice of the separation, the body let out a pained cry and tried to say something, but its words were incoherent, for it barely retained the mental capabilities of speech. “S-Shivent! Shivent!”

The sudden de-evolution of Shiv's second physical form caught everyone off guard.

Valor stared, wordless.

Jessica took a step back. Rusty was in her hands again, but her stance was off. She was too weirded out to commit to a cut while also too nervous to drop her guard.

“Well, this is an unspeakably disturbing sight,” Five commented. The wolf-man's words were smooth and refined, but his emotional core couldn't be hidden from Shiv. It was dense with miasmic chaos. He was more anxious than anyone else in the room.

Only two here were utterly calm. The blissful Candles, who had burned enough orcs that he didn't have a care about anything in the world, he simply giggled at the strange thing on the floor, behaving more like a milk-drunk infant than a coherent person. The second was Gone. She studied the ruined body that had once been a Shiv and regarded it with little more than morbid curiosity. Through it all, she said nothing. She was prepared to run but was mostly enchanted by the strange happenings unfolding before her. Shiv had the feeling that she might be thinking about poking the horrific homunculus with a claw, but was barely restraining herself from acting on the invasive thought.

“Shiv,” Valor said softly. “What did you do?”

The Deathless swallowed. “I tried to cut a series of stacks away from me. Thought those stacks were connected to the second body I resurrected.” He paused as he listened to the brutally withered body moan in pain and misery.

“Shvv, Shvvv,” the body repeated. It sounded like it was trying to say its own name, his name, but it didn't quite recall how it went.

“Yeah, so, I guess I kind of succeeded. I separated the body from my soul. I think I got a refund of vitality, but all the skills that were connected to it? Yeah, it lost all those skills.”

“I…” Valor's voice trailed off as the withered Shiv began to sob and gurgle. “I must admit, this feels deeply wrong and twisted.”

“Yeah, I'm kind of regretting this,” Shiv said. “I expected the body to just die, not turn into… whatever this is.”

“I think you created a clone in an extremely awkward and roundabout way,” Valor offered. “I didn't think it would be relevant for our experimentation, but the System does not appreciate clones very much. It does not allow them to retain any skills from the original. And so, all that you have accumulated is…”

“Guhrr… Kill… me…”

The clone's despairing whimpers silenced everyone once more.

“Kid,” Jessica breathed. “I'm not going to lie, this is the kind of shit I would run into in a Republic-run Rubix Well. You just pulled a Maiden.”

Those words filled Shiv with unbearable shame. “Fuuuuck…”

“Yeah, fuuuuck is right,” Jessica said. She made a nonchalant popping noise with her lips. “Alright, go finish it off.”

“What do you mean, finish it off?” Shiv asked, petrified.

