Far too many of my fellow Undying are blind, ego-driven fools when it comes to the utilization of their vessels. Too often, after they manage to split their soul into fragments, they bind them into forms that please their aesthetic desires or allow them to fulfill some manner of pride-driven fantasy. It's practically a pattern beyond parody by this point. Far too common. A new Undying will adopt a body that has none of their previous defects. It will be muscular to the extreme, bearing the most ridiculous of masculine traits, or the most alluring and exaggerated feminine traits, or some other expression of pure primal foolishness. We are meant to step beyond death, but also to step beyond our prior limitations. This means that you can use your new vessels for better functionality rather than this… limited indulgence of vanity.

You can still choose to make yourself gorgeous. You can choose to gorge yourself on the delusion that others will find you wonderful and powerful, when they saw you as withered and wilted before. But this is just that, a delusion, and it matters little what others think besides. With the appropriate skills, you could have bent them to your will anyway. This is just you trying to avoid putting in work. And that will be your inevitable downfall.

There is exactly one thing that a vessel should be for you: a specification that serves your objectives. This is why, if seduction and manipulation are your goal, you should have a vessel that appeals to the specific target’s eye, not yours. Aesthetics change. What I found spectacular and inspirational even a year before is not something I would even look at twice now. This must be tailored to the environment as well as the person.

Something that so many other so-called great Pathbearers tend to forget is that even Legends can be fools. You know of whom I speak.

Sullain, the serpent you've chosen to embody is a colossal waste of metal and has all the subtlety of a meteor impact. You are no warrior. You will never have the attitude of a warrior. Shaping yourself into a titanic monster will grant you fear and reverence from the unwashed and feeble, but if you are still addicted to yearning for their love even now, then I suggest you mourn yourself in advance, for your heart will slay you before a cunning foe ever truly outplays your mind.

And on the topic of waste, your new vessels should be something else: replaceable. For to live is to war, and war, despite what many might think, is not about fighting. Not truly.

War is about the combined resources you've accumulated over time being pitted against that which the System takes from you with every passing crisis. If every vessel you choose comes at an immense cost to you in terms of time and material, then it is a waste! A waste!

And yes, I am chastising myself here. I was a damned fool to try to wear the animated bones of that Void Dragon—a fool! That plan took me years to enact, and I lost the vessel immediately, failing to capture that Mythic world. You are no better than the lustful dogs who cannot let go of their carnal urges among your lesser kin, Udraal! No better!

-Udraal Thann’s Recovered Notes

300

The Sky-Swallowing Carp [III]

Try though Shiv might, he could not make a Vitae golem—not like before. Every time he attempted to forge a construct, he triggered a new resurrection. By the time he had four bodies, even his deliberate focus was found wanting. Every bit of him was overloaded by a flood of new details. It was like wrangling a dozen more limbs and countless more senses. While his Severed Shadow was simply discombobulated, barely able to form words or respond to anyone speaking to him, his organic bodies started undergoing catastrophic collapses.

The human brain controlled a great many processes; even a novice Biomancer like Shiv knew that. The first thing to fail was his heat regulation system. Shiv's natural bodies turned into furnaces, boiling from within. Their brains started cooking, and then their immune system failed, followed by general nervous collapse, causing their limbs to spasm out and their muscles to lock up. Eventually, his digestive tract and organs all ceased functioning one after another. Death came in quick succession, and wheezing rattles filled the room as four sets of lungs breathed out for the last time.

It took Shiv some time to recompose himself, even after his four physical bodies perished. His mind was a turbulent sea. His thoughts were spread thin, and his psyche was stretched in all directions. He lacked the concentration to form a coherent thought and found himself hovering in a semi-aware delirium in which part of him was staring out through a narrow pinhole, realizing that he still existed but unable to do anything greater, unable to trigger the greater functions of his cognition.

The world seemed grayer than ever before, the sounds around him more muted. He was drowning, drowning in himself, until he wasn't—until the seas of his consciousness finally stabilized. And with that, he was welcomed back to the world with the concerned voice of his mentor and a chain of notifications he had ignored for far too long.

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 159 > 164

Bifurcated Processing 84 > 86

Memorization 26 > 29

Non-Sequitur 136 > 139

Pillar of Orichalcum 287 > 292

Vitality Drain 130 > 138

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 508 > 509

“Shiv? Are you alright? Shiv?” Valor stood right in front of Shiv, his emotional core filled with a dense, swirling substance—worry, as Shiv had come to know it.

“I'm fine,” Shiv replied resolutely. He pushed himself to his feet with a flick of his wrists, shaking his head to clear out the last remnants of the haze in his mind. “Four bodies were just a bit too much. Must have stretched my mind apart briefly. And I didn't manage to create any Vitae golems, as you can see. Every time I tried, it was just another resurrection.”

Valor hummed thoughtfully. “It is well. I expected something like this to occur. But we have a lot more things left to test. Start by resurrecting again if you have enough vitality.”

Shiv almost replied that vitality wasn't a problem when he suddenly felt something different. Before, the cruel chill of nothingness was a piercing sensation, like a wind of winter washing through a faint and dying flame. Now his vitality felt like a fortress, a condensed nexus that was far too difficult to penetrate. It felt like he was losing bits of himself instead, his outer layer eroded by that creeping sensation of entropy while his insides burned hot.

As Shiv triggered another resurrection, he felt like an onion being peeled down to half its original thickness. As a new body stepped free from his shadow's brightening blade, his awareness branched out in a novel direction as well. He was now two vessels governed by a single, overwhelmed mind.

With the conclusion of this new resurrection, he also felt something else. The more solidified his Severed Shadow was, the faster he drank in the System's own vitality. His cutting aura was always slicing through the System's flesh, bleeding existence for all the life force that sustained it. If he stopped holding back altogether, Shiv was sure he could utterly unravel the fabric of Integration, at least in a certain patch of the world. From there, mana storms would follow, and general instability would cascade into cataclysms. That was its own benefit, but it also came with its own set of risks.

Meanwhile, when he was but a Revenant, he was like a thorn lodged in the System’s skin. He remained close enough to the world that he still held a presence but could inflict no tangible harm—not without his mana fields.

If he had to guess, it would take half a day for him to reach peak vitality again after spending so much of himself. However, if he decided to be vulgar and simply shred the System for its lifeblood, he might be able to cut that down significantly. Such was how he realized the magnifying benefits this new skill evolution provided Vitality Drain. It seemed like anything that had to do with vitality or Vitae had been changed or adjusted somewhat with the incredible spiritual transformation he had undergone.

Even so, it's still better if I drain from people. I can't sap the System very fast. When I was cutting through the Culturist, it was like I was devouring him from within. If I can just cleave through more enemies, I'll be able to absorb their vitality and probably even carve their skills out of them. It just feels right. It feels proper for my cutting aura to rip into someone's soul and tear their inner legend apart.

“Have you experienced another epiphany, Shiv?” Valor asked. “You've been silent for a while.”

Behind the ancient Undying, Jessica and the other Pathbearers stood gathered, watching on with equal measures of fascination and wariness—except for Candles, who seemed only half awake as Five held him up by the neck.

Shiv told Valor his theories and discoveries, and his mentor hummed with interest. “You are not only growing resilient against the cost that death might inflict upon you, but you also damage the System's stability. Very much my son's handiwork, indeed. Fine, then. If you cannot create golems as you could before, then let's do something else. Can you still transplant an Animantic skill infusion from one body to another?”

“I don't know,” Shiv replied. “Let's find out.”

He reached into himself—and immediately let out a psionic snarl of pain.

Valor stepped forward in alarm. “Shiv, are you alright?”

“I'm fine,” Shiv replied, holding back a rush of self-directed anger. “Just kinda forgot to suppress my cutting aura again. I ended up ripping into myself.”

“Ah, I see,” Valor replied with a hint of relief. “Wait, check yourself. Has your soul sustained a wound?”

To Shiv's surprise, he hadn't sustained any kind of injury whatsoever. But the pain had been real. His soul had suffered damage. He knew that agony well from how many necromantic attacks he suffered and survived. But it was like the substance of his soul had changed. He'd been more gaseous than before, vaporous. Constantly changing and transforming, circulating through himself rather than being a condensed membrane of some kind. Before, for his soul-stuff to bind and stay damaged, he'd had to cycle Vitae in and out of himself to transfer spiritual wounds to another being's body if he wanted an easy cure.

That wasn't necessary anymore. He fully manifested his Severed Shadow and examined his solidified body in detail. There was nothing, no hint of indentation or even a scratch lining his scab-like torso. But he had lost just a bit of his vitality, chipped away by his own carelessness.

Once more, Shiv delved into himself. He used his Bifurcated Processing and kept his cutting aura suppressed this time. As his Vitae mana moved and swirled, his body began to turn fluid. Blood-red rivers ran across his body toward the pristine whiteness that was the blade at his core. And there he fell into himself, groping blindly until he felt his various skills.

His movements slowly grew still as he realized all his skills had changed.

The general texture and sensations he got from sinking into them weren't so different from before, yet now it was like there was an additional layering stacked on top of them, a coating of sorts that made the skills feel elongated compared to before.

“There’s like a… stack of something on top of my skills,” Shiv told Valor. “It makes the skills feel longer and bigger somehow. Like they're being deliberately extended. I don't know. It's just kind of a feeling I get.”

“And your new skill, have you found it?”

Shiv continued searching, but remembered that his new skill evolution incorporated his Vitaemancy. “No,” he finally replied. “I think it might be integrated into all my other skills, or it might be hidden. I couldn't find my Vitaemancy before either, so it's probably the same deal there.”

Valor fell silent, and he waved a hand, summoning a series of Animantic rings. They materialized above Shiv's physical body, and they plunged, sweeping up and down several times before they slid back together, sliding into a strange series of patterns. Valor drew the Animantic spell back to himself and began shifting the pieces that he obtained from this magical scan. Shiv couldn't make out anything, despite being much better at recognizing spell shapes compared to a few weeks ago.

Animancy looked like a nightmarish lore to learn. At the start, Shiv thought it was just a lot of faint blue mana being thrown around, but now he saw it: so many tiny micro-spells, so many diminutive shapes that were barely larger than grains. All of them were connected. All of them were tied to another spell by circuits and veins. If everything was a small expression of Valor's intent, Shiv had no idea how the ancient Pathbearer managed to cast the working at all. The sheer complexity was beyond overwhelming.

For now, Shiv reminded himself. He thought back to when he first faced a mage, when the Adept-Tier high vampire casually obliterated him over and over again. Even the weakest of magics had seemed a wonder to Shiv back then. Impossible, unreachable. But he'd learned, he'd developed, and he'd grown. If all those micro-spells were just small steps he had to take, then he would enjoy that long walk.

In fact, after all the high-intensity combat situations the System kept throwing at him, Shiv was looking forward to a longer walk, something that allowed him to sharpen a true skill across the span of ages.

