Time passes, and the collection of memories lay open all around me, from all of the most intense breakthroughs, epiphanies, and energy consolidation moments from my own life and many other monsters.

I relive them over and over, and the coiling tendrils of corruption keep getting closer to me in reality outside.

Abby and Seraphel land two devastating blows on the Demonic Wyvern they face, and Maria's spectate feed through her eyes is live in my mind as well.

It makes me inwardly smile, her greater angelic form is beautiful... and the dominance she's exuding on the Realm around her is quite astonishing. I can't feel everything she's feeling, nor comprehend where this ability is coming from; but an aura of near unlimited power is coming from the black void in her chest.

Everything around her, for over 2 million kilometers, is frozen under her control, and the divine energy has been siphoned into her body.

She's moments away from killing a High Noble Demon over three times her level, with tens of thousands of years' worth of experience.

The crystalline sword she carries pushes rainbow Source Resin through her energy form as well, strengthening it, and mutating it in ways I don't understand.

All I do know is, in this moment, it looks like she might even be surpassing me in raw power and potential...

The Soul Bond between Abby and Seraphel is unexpected as well, as their rise in power is impressive; and the Celestial Energy running through their bodies and invigorating each other pushes them to a new extreme to take on a peak-tier High Noble as well.

Though, it's different. Looking at their bond, I feel concrete limits to their power and potential.

Staring into the slow-motion energy of the angelic ice goddess, I can't calculate, or even properly speculate how far she can push this awakening.

–

While all of these events happen in real time, in slow motion, there is nothing I can do about them but use what I see as even more study material.

While I cannot logically understand Maria's new powers, and I can't fully perceive the Celestial Energy activation taking place in Abby and Seraphel's greater forms; I still have a close-up view with large amounts of emotional and physical data to add to my subconscious.

At least, this is what I tell myself as I fall into a state of total relaxation, watching my generals slowly move, while my most extreme memories repeat over and over, and the tornados of deadly black corruption come my way.

The inevitable outcome arrives.

I'm struck by 6 more corruption attacks.

It happens so slowly, that I don't even feel pain.

The remaining layers of armor made from Citadel mass, and my own aura, defensive true core skills, and energy layering are torn through like multiple metal bats through wet paper mache.

The cold Royal Vibrations are so absurdly strong, that they suppress everything that comes in contact with them, and the black corrosive corruption liquid being empowered by these vibrations seeps into whatever it touches, disintegrating it, consuming it, and adding it to its black oily mass.

Even the sparkling Celestial Energy in these tendrils is too strong for me to fathom, holding it all together with glue tighter than anything I can summon as a defense.

Four of the tendrils hit my limbs directly, another lands straight into my face, while the last crosses over to push the coil that already struck me through my chest and abdomen to create an X pattern.

My Astral Form, greater form, entire being... it's crushed and shattered.

The brutal attacks are reflected onto my real body, as these energy forms are manifestations of my soul.

My entire body is torn to shreds, shattered, absorbed, and the cold sinking feeling of my flesh being destroyed and devoured slowly sinks into my consciousness.

My instincts all push the ether, soul energy, divine threads, and High Noble Vibrations to sink toward the center of this attack. It surrounds my three cores: a dense red and white Soul Energy Core, a shimmering white and green divine energy core, and a dark black and purple Demon Lord's core.

A divine purple ring artifact acts on its own, swimming through my energy pathways to create a protective barrier around these three cores; but even this only protects against physical attacks.

Vibrations and pure ether attacks can still push through it.

Yet, the force of the destruction, and focus of energy is enough to keep me from instantaneously dying.

The weak purple threads physically hold my cores together, but dark black cracks form through all of them, and all of my flesh is obliterated with horrific force.

The shockwave breaks off an even larger chunk of the Citadel, making the massive floating Orb in the sky shatter into pieces, and plunges what's left of me downward into the green clouds.

The last thing I see before my vision is covered in darkness, is hundreds more of these coiling tendrils falling down toward me to finish what this brutal attack started.

In slow motion, it's hard to totally conceptualize everything that is happening outside, but the low tone that slowly shifts, blaring in my energy senses, seems to be Miriel's laugh still echoing through the Citadel.

–

Despite the destruction of my body, I am still sat in a calm state on the pristine Noble Throne within my mind palace.

I already predicted this exact outcome, and came to terms with it hours ago.

The dinging sounds, system notifications, and spectate feeds of my generals are far more of my focus.

Raven has slipped fully into her stealth dimension again, and moved onto the next Berserker, while Arie's arrow managed to blast through the berserker he shot earlier, and kill another behind it.

The linked worlds has even risen to 289,605,334.

While falling through the fragments of a massive Citadel, toward the violent battle of two massive dragons at the bottom of the Realm, and a Demon hundreds of times stronger than me following me downward; this looks like certain doom, but my mind is still calm.

The Royal Vibrations that seep into my cores through the dark cracks also seep into my mind.

Above me, around me, even through the floors of the massive pristine library I watch over, there are dark red, black, and purple cracks forming.

The room itself is shaking, and the bookcases all seem much further away than they were before I was hit.

Yet, the books I collected, and continue to sift through, glow brighter and brighter, and become far more profound the more times I look through the memories stored in them.

The level ups that slowly surge into me make the books glow brighter, and even the new worlds that give me more power to borrow bring me closer and closer to a strange sensation. It feels like an inevitable breakthrough, just out of reach...

The mind palace around me shaking and even a few bookcases falling over, fades from my perception as I focus even deeper.

–

In this moment, at the forefront of all of the generals' minds, they feel the Rising Emperor's soul pulse with horrific pain. The compacted information of all of the memories being consumed over and over within the mind palace is impossible to transmit in a digestible fashion.

So, instead it's sent through the system as extremely hot compacted white energy, that becomes denser and hotter with every passing fraction of a millisecond.

Not only that, but visuals of what is happening, and a live view of the vital stats are fluctuating on mental feeds. To add to the chaos, the unsealing of a Royal Grade Bloodline has caused the entire green zone of the Upper Realm to shudder.

A domineering cold aura can be felt blasting out from the sides and bottom of the Grand Citadel, traveling tens of millions of kilometers instantaneously.

It adds even more fuel to the flames of battle.

Everyone knows the next few moments are vital for the outcome of this entire war.

The Rising Emperor's cores are blasted downward into the endless green clouds of the Upper Realm below the Citadel, and the generals make their final moves.

The surge of hot energy being transmitted from the Rising Emperor's mental breakthroughs invigorates Raven first.

Even behind her veil in a stealth dimension, a hot white shimmering light glistens in her eyes. It flows through her mind, and into her limbs, and makes her steps forward even faster.

A glistening trail of strange hot energy is left behind as she starts slashing through Scarlet Berserker Giants in single hits.

Aerie feels the same energy start to ripple through his mind and body.

He was already feeling his soul energy control become easier to manipulate with all of these rising levels, but the energy that flows through him now is like an added layer of maturity to his energy output.

It's like he's grown multiple times stronger without doing anything extra, intuitively comprehending the energy running through his veins with far more efficiency.

His next arrow shot breaks through multiple Obsidian Clan berserker cores, and flies through the battlefield without breaking apart. A hot glistening white-grey energy forms around his black vibrations on his arrow.

Ava's upward swing of her hammer becomes covered in this sharp hot energy too, and the Noble Demon above her watches with wide eyes as its soul weapon is shattered to pieces by an attack that was basically even with it moments ago.

Out of fear, a cyan-colored M on its middle horn starts to glow, and a webbing of threads begins to form around its body.

–

When the white energy floods out from Maria's eyes, instead of empowering her, the Source Resin that already floods through her body devours it and grows stronger.

Abby on the other hand, feels the warm white energy flood into her Immortal Body, and allows it to increase the Celestial energy stores already sparkling in her greater form.

Seraphel grows stronger in this moment too, as the white energy floods through him through Abby.

Both of their Celestial Bodies explode with increased power.

Abby raises her staff higher in the air, and summons thousands more of the earth spears, and finishes what she started.

The Demonic Wyvern's head is torn completely from its neck, and then exploded into millions of pieces. Its demented roar echoes out until the final spike makes contact.

Seraphel's high-powered pillar of water magic glows whiter and hotter and tears a massive hole right through the Demonic Wyvern's chest.

Not only are his cores cracked from the first attack, but this time, they are completely and totally obliterated.

A horrific shockwave of lightning, water, and earth magic fills the skies above the Sea of Corruption.

Down below them, hundreds more red and black bombs explode as the entirety of the Dark Army's forces are obliterated.

–

More and more notifications for level ups ring in my mind, first pushing me past level 80,000, then past 90,000, but it is getting harder and harder to focus on my system. It dims and flickers. Checking it takes up too much mental energy.

The cracks in the ceiling of my palace are getting wider, darker, and more intense with True Royal Vibrations rippling through.

More bookcases have fallen over, and even some full rows have books fallen out all over the floor.

Some of the white glowing memories fall into the fissures in the ground, as the palace is torn apart from the inside.

It constantly shakes and a loud ominous buzzing noise echoes through the mental construct.

Yet, I still sit on the pristine throne that does not have a scratch on it.

All of the books I've brought to the center of my mind now float around me slowly, and they glow with extremely bright, intense, white, Celestial Energy.
