sisted and held up her staff which wasn't Yattina's style at all."Your goddess is of the truth? Ah I see, 'waving in one's face'. I delight in the symbology," she praised and Kemy tilted her helmeted head. Expressions were hard to read but the body was telling."Why don't you like gods? Do you not... believe?" Kemy asked and despite her best efforts, her tone still held incredulity."Oh no. I very much do believe, but I can believe in kings, emperors, and lords too, doesn't mean I will bend to them on some expected idea of service. I find gods have inadvertently altered a lot of our natural laws and it's aggravating to shift through what is artificial and what is natural," she explained."Like what?" Gentle asked as Yattina stood up."Magic users as a whole. There is a recorded time when people as a whole didn't have magic then suddenly they did. It was different from their natural gifts or vast strength. Turns out a god was involved," Yattina explained."I learned that sometimes gods bring technology advances to their followers, creating technology schisms from village to village. Sometimes their power could influence people and change them. Some would allow them to breathe under water or become able to see in the dark. Sometimes, I think I've found a trail of scientific marvel only to trace it so far back and it turns out 'a god did it'," Yattina continued as she collected a few things for this sudden journey.Between a dungeon trip and paperwork, she'd take the trip."So you don't like gods 'cause they ruin your fun?" Gentle said and Yattina gave him a look."That's what I just said," she said with a huff."Oh... that's oddly both better and stranger," Kemy admitted softly."I can't go into the dungeon. I have shift duty," Gentle said quickly and took the helmet off."Deo or Grim can have this one," he offered but Yattina nodded her head to the nearby closet."There's another suit in there. Wear it to be safe. It's not yet dyed and the material is a little glossy so you'll blend in with the Fairplay aesthetic," she joked."Can I take the suit off?" Kemy asked politely."No, you'll leak god cooties all over my office," Yattina said quickly, not wanting her newest subject to escape her experiment."That's a lie," Kemy said firmly. Yattina tried not to twitch.Kemy was going to get 'liar liar pants on holy fire' stitched on her suit before long.
