The Dynamo is the key. Now there is a man whose mind I’d like to examine.

She was having difficulty connecting Lavarro’s memories of Rain to her own impressions of the man, and there were other irregularities besides. He didn’t seem dangerous, only odd. Very, very odd. She put it out of her mind. She’d seen stranger things before, after all. Being an imprint, she didn’t have access to any of her mental powers, other than the total domination of her host; thus, she wouldn’t be able to easily satisfy her idle curiosity. It wasn’t worth worrying about, given that she needed to remain focused on the current situation.

Given what I’ve learned, it is likely that Rain will return control of the city to the Watch. I put it at a chance of eight in ten. I just need to prevent the Citizen from contesting it or trying to claim it as her own. I don’t know that I’ll be able to defeat her in this body without collateral damage. Above all, I cannot allow them to lower the barrier completely. If Fecht gets this city, he’ll have the whole continent.

She returned to pacing.

How does the artifact work? Can I get Rain to explain it to Lavarro? Hmm. Not likely, given their history. I’ll need someone else. Can he let someone through that he doesn’t know? Guardian Dunwich would be perfect, and he’ll be standing by in Jarro on my orders. If he gains control of the barrier, we’ll have won.

She glanced at the damaged mindcaster. It wouldn’t be that difficult to repair, but Lavarro wouldn’t do that, let alone know how. Her hands were tied if she wanted to maintain her cover. She’d need someone else to send the message for her. Fortunately, there was one person she could trust. Turton was loyal. He wouldn’t willingly reveal her control of the exGuilder, and by using her command phrases, she could work through him to take control of the local Watch and get access to their mindcaster.

She would transfer Turton to Vigilance once this was over, of course. Loyalty didn’t mean that he was incapable of revealing the secret unknowingly. It was vital that she kept her puppetry of Lavarro concealed. The woman’s body would be a powerful tool for the future. Often, the Watch needed to get their hands dirty in the name of the greater good, but there were some things that they simply couldn’t do. An insane exGuilder, on the other hand, could do anything.

It was a dangerous game that she was playing, but she was tired of watching the world suffer. If she really wanted to keep the secret, the smart thing would have been to Imprint Turton as well, but that was a line that she would not cross. Lavarro was a criminal of the highest order. Turton was not.

She stopped again, taking a moment to pound on the barrier angrily before leaning against it. She looked down, shaking her head, then spoke to her host.

You are already dead, condemned by your own actions. Your body is nothing more than a tool that I will use to offset some of the wrongs that you have committed. Once I return to Vigilance, if you ask, I will obliterate your mind so you do not have to suffer. I am not without mercy.

The Warden stumbled as the force pressing against her back vanished. She recovered almost instantly, catching herself with a pillar of force. Lavarro’s body turned and rushed toward the city, off to see her daughter, but the Warden was still in control. Always.

Wearily, Rain hauled himself up the wooden barricade, wishing for his cloak. It was cold outside the dome, but he didn’t want to use Immolate. As odd as it sounded, the cold felt somehow right, and using magic to push it away would have ruined that feeling.

Tallheart’s head turned minutely as he reached the top, but the antlered smith didn’t otherwise acknowledge him. As he did, a half-felt sensation flickered across Rain’s awareness, then vanished.

Rain ignored it. Linksight wasn’t behaving properly out here in the real world. There’d be plenty of time to work on it later. He walked over to Tallheart, then sat with his legs dangling over the side, joining his friend in looking out at the frozen wasteland to the south. The mushrooms weren’t growing out here, thanks to the cold. Fires burned on the ground below the wall, having been built there to prevent monsters from spawning in the shadow of the Lee. Past that, the river flowed in an ever-deepening channel, forming something of a moat, even partially iced-over as it was. A Stumper moved in the distance, visible through the lightly falling snow.

The pair sat like this for quite some time, watching the snow fall in silence. Rain didn’t feel the need to say anything. Being out here was enough. Night would fall in a few hours, and he and Tallheart were likely the only two people for hundreds of kilometers, other than those back in the city. The air inside was filled with the chaos of evacuation and the hot stench of unwashed bodies. Out here, it was crisp and cool.

Rain had spent most of the day typing names, of course, a painful and tedious process that didn’t even benefit from time acceleration anymore. Now that he had constructed an interface for the obelisk to use, it no longer banished him to the shadow realm when touched. Instead, his terminal and keyboard merely appeared, robbing him of his opportunity to take advantage of the time-dilating properties of soulspace.

Not that he would have. He’d been alone for long enough.

Tallheart shifted, and Rain bit off his question about why he was out here. He knew why. There were too many people in the city. Too many humans. Instead, he looked back out at the snow and sighed. “I missed you, Tallheart.”

“Mmm,” the smith rumbled.

“What will you do?” Rain asked. It didn’t seem likely that Tallheart would want to live in the DKE.

Finally, Tallheart looked at him. “I do not know.”

Rain nodded. “Yeah.” He didn’t want to go to the DKE either.

“Does the teleporter work?” Tallheart asked, staring in the direction of the Stumper.

“Yes, as of around two hours ago. Bartum gave me a drawing of a guardian by the name of Dunwich. That was enough for me to let him through the barrier, and then I gave him control of it. It’s better that way.” It doesn’t even look like it hurts him when he uses it. I wonder what kind of interface he sees.

“Mmm.”

Rain sighed, lying back to stare up at the stone of the Lee. A line of light bulbs dangled there, glowing unsteadily. He tilted his head to look at Tallheart. “How does one become strong?”

The silence stretched as Tallheart considered this. Finally, he spoke in a soft voice. “Will.”

“That’s not enough,” Rain said.

Tallheart looked away. Suddenly, Rain found himself having to fight against the heat of tears. He’d almost broken down in front of Ameliah several times, but there had always been other people around, and they’d both been so busy with the evacuation that he’d been able to hide his condition from her. He’d thrown himself into the work to avoid confronting the feelings, but now they were welling up again.

The world isn’t fair. Will… Ha. As if. The Shift killed thousands of innocent people. The will to survive won’t save you from a Razorspine.

He shook his head, pushing the thoughts away from the pain, but his mind only jumped to an even darker memory. He cursed his Clarity as he found himself confronted with the crystal-clear image of Melka’s face, her dead, lifeless eyes staring up at him. It hurt, and it wasn’t a pain that the barrier stone’s torture had numbed him to. It was a different kind of agony. Also, there was the knowledge that Velika was going to get away with it. That had been her condition for the Watch: a pardon in exchange for a peaceful handover of Fel Sadanis. She was already gone, not back to the DKE, but off on her own to who knows where. A rogue Citizen, the first that there had ever been. To Rain, she was just the woman who had murdered his friend. And there’s not a damn thing I can do about it.

The tears broke free, and it was a long time before they stopped. His mind kept spinning, jumping from face to face. Melka. The other members of the Watch. His parents. Tallheart remained motionless, letting him cry. Somehow, this was the right thing.

When it was finally over, Rain took a ragged breath, too tired to even open his eyes. “Sorry, Tallheart,” he murmured. “Sorry…”

“Persistence, caution, and time,” Tallheart said.

The oddness of this statement dragged Rain out of his misery, forcing him to open his eyes. He sniffed, looking at Tallheart. “Huh?”

“The way to become strong,” Tallheart said. “You are right. Will is not enough, but it is the beginning.” Finally, he turned to look at him. “We were driven by our past, set upon the destruction of the Empire, but we learned quickly that recklessness would only lead to our deaths.” He paused, tilting his head. “Will it help you to hear this?”

Rain nodded, pushing himself back up to a sitting position. He didn’t need to ask who Tallheart was talking about. He’s lost just as much as I have. No. He’s lost more… His wife… His parents… His entire people…

“It takes great will to walk away,” Tallheart said, shaking his head slowly. “To pass up an opportunity in favor of the slow and steady course. Snowlilly died because she forgot that. She died because I allowed her to convince me that the risk was acceptable.”

Tallheart looked back out at the snow. “We traveled for years through untamed lands. Around Bellost at first, then, once we came to this continent, in the Badlands to the south of here. When we outgrew them, we moved on. Below this world, lies another, and it is vast beyond imagining. There are places deep beneath the ground where no human nor cervidian has ever trod.”

Tallheart turned to look at him. “In such places, opportunity lies for those with the will to endure. In the depths, there is no safety. There are no cities, no sanctuaries, no allies to turn to for help. You have to go deep. Far from the boundary where others have already claimed the easy prey.”

“That…” Rain sat up fully. “Tallheart, that doesn’t sound like avoiding risk.”

Tallheart’s mouth quirked. “That is because it is not.” He held up an open hand, then closed his fist. “You would call it…calculated…risk.” He tapped the fist lightly against his breastplate. “We did not do it overnight. Lilly and I moved like specters in the dark. She would scout, remaining unseen thanks to her skills until she found a target we could kill. Then, she would return to me, and we would prepare. I would build us the equipment we would need—tailor it to the task of defeating one singular monster. Often, it would take weeks. Strike. Retreat. Recover. Strike again. Blue by blue, we wormed our way down, one layer at a time. Eventually, we would reach the bottom, and then we would return to the surface to find another cave. Hopefully, a deeper one. Again and again, we did this.”

He paused, looking down at his knees.

“Each time, we descended slowly and with great caution. There is nothing harder than walking away from a foe that you know you can defeat. And yet, we did it over and over again whenever there was even a chance that something could go wrong. Then, one day, we decided to take a break. To experience the life that we had been missing below the earth. A month turned into a year, and then a year turned into two. Two years that made us forget our caution. When we resumed our descent, Snowlilly had grown…impatient. Our progress was no longer fast enough.”

Rain watched silently as Tallheart took a deep breath.

“I told you before of the lair that we found. It was above our level, but we thought we could defeat it. The monsters inside were weaker than they should have been. Still, we were careful. We studied them. Learned their strengths and their weaknesses as we delved deeper each day. And then the dragon descended upon us. Two people…are not enough. Not for a dragon.”

Tallheart lapsed into silence. At a loss for what to say, Rain reached out awkwardly, patting him on the shoulder. Tallheart looked down at his hand and snorted, the barest flicker of amusement on his face. He wrapped an arm around Rain’s shoulder, then pulled him in a bone-crushing hug.

Rain squeezed back as hard as he could, feeling like he was grappling with a rock.

Suddenly, there was a click of snapping metal. Tallheart snorted and released him, then bent to examine the gash in the side of the breastplate. It had torn open again from the pressure.

“You have not been taking care of your armor,” Tallheart said flatly.

Rain smiled. “The armor saved my life.”

“Will you tell me the story?”

Rain nodded. “Yes, but in return, you have to tell me how you made those.” He pointed to the string of light bulbs hanging from the stone above them.

Tallheart rumbled ambivalently. “That was Jamus and Staavo. Ameliah and I merely helped.”

Rain smiled. “Yeah, Staavo already cornered me. He didn’t want to answer my questions, though, just to ask his own. I ditched him with Myth and Reason. Myth’s an alchemist, and Reason’s a chemist. Staavo’s got them working on coated wire.”

Tallheart snorted. “The old man is worse than you when it comes to endless questions. I did not think it was possible.”

“Hey,” Rain said. “Ouch.”

“You are getting better,” Tallheart said. “Now, tell me the story.”

“Hold on,” Rain said, looking back at the city. Now that he had macros, he’d set Detection to automatically ping for entities every thirty seconds, and his latest scan had revealed a group headed in their direction. As they passed through the barrier, their voices became audible.

“There you are, Rain!” Jamus called. He was towing a bedraggled-looking Carten behind him, and Val and Ameliah were not far behind. “I need you to tell Carten to stop moping. He got out of it alive, so he should be happy. I still can’t believe that he was dating a Citizen.”

“—an idiot,” Ameliah finished saying as she passed through the barrier, looking at Val. “You seriously tried to solo a lair? Did you not listen to a single thing that I said?”

“I am aware that I am an idiot, yes, thank you,” Val said loudly. “Rain has already made that abundantly clear in addition to saving me from myself several times.” He turned away from her and waved in Rain’s direction. “Hey Rain, I got you something. Catch!” He hurled a dark bundle that he was carrying in Rain’s direction, then cursed when it failed to make it even halfway. The twine holding it together had snapped in mid-air, sending the bundle of black cloth flapping to the ground. A cloak?

