“Calen found it in the remains of the shattered condenser. Why is it worth a fortune?” While the synthetic stone was incredibly useful for its property of storing mana, and even converting affinities to the type it could store – the entire reason Ali had wanted to experiment with it – she remembered it being quite plentiful. Whenever she had needed some for her practical examinations, all it took was a request form submitted to the school supplies office, and they gave her as much as she wanted. She hadn’t even needed to return it.

“Because it’s so rare, and every artificer needs more than they can get,” Malika said, her eyes still wide and glued to the green crystal.

“Why don’t they just make more?” Ali asked.

“Make more?” Malika stared at her as if she had just said that mana didn’t exist. “Ali, artificers and scholars have been searching for a way to make it for centuries. Most people believe it’s impossible.”

“Where do they get it from, then?” Ali asked. “The Novaspark Academy had a mana battery powering the teleportation locus – that must be made with Arcanite. And they were selling wands and other magical items that have to be using shards of magicite to power their effects.”

“Artificers cannibalize it from found artifacts or recycle it from items that are no longer needed,” Malika explained.

“Occasionally, high-level adventurer teams retrieve a sliver from some dungeon,” Calen added. “But it always makes the news because it’s so rare.”

“They forgot how to make it?” Ali asked, incredulously. It made some sort of sense. Dal’mohra had existed more than three thousand years ago – more than enough time for many esoteric skills and techniques to fall from wider knowledge and become forgotten, barely remembered legends. Still, having to recycle magicite meant an enormously restricted supply. She looked at the glowing chunk still emitting green mist on the ground in front of her.

“I guess so,” Calen admitted. “I didn’t even know it could be made.”

“Well, that’s not going to work for me,” Ali said. “I want to experiment a lot.” She had recovered enough samples that she could attempt to learn it. But this was where she was grateful for her studies – she recalled the safety procedures for working with magicite. Destroying charged magicite would release all the mana stored in it.

And this one is oversaturated. She summoned a barrier in front of her before she deconstructed the rock. As soon as her spell finished, there was a loud bang, spraying bits of moss and dirt in all directions. The golden wall of her barrier protected her body and her friends in the campsite from the explosive concussion – which might not have hurt so much, but it would definitely have ruined dinner.

“Hey, warn us next time you blow something up,” Mato chided, clicking his tongue disapprovingly as he waved a ladle in her direction. “I might spoil your dinner, you know.”

“You destroyed it…” Malika looked a little green, and Ali suddenly realized that her friend must have thought that was the only piece she had.

“It was the mana stored in it – it gets released all at once,” Ali explained, retrieving another, larger piece, inwardly grinning at the sight of Malika’s eyes widening even further in surprise.

“How much of that do you have?” Malika asked.

“Enough to learn it, and a few more pieces for you to sell.”

“You can learn it?” Malika seemed incredulous.

“I’m pretty sure I can. It’s just a rock with a crystalline lattice mana structure,” she said. Sure enough, after destroying four samples – and warning her friends this time – her Grimoire responded.

Variant: Magicite (Nature) added to Imprint: Stone.

To test it, she immediately summoned a bunch of magicite, using her Domain Mastery to mold it into shape. When she was done, she had made a perfectly cubic semi-translucent gray rock. The edges were smooth, as if polished.

Magicite (Nature)

“Why is it gray?” Malika asked, after a couple of failed attempts to speak.

“It hasn’t absorbed any mana yet. If we leave it around, it should absorb ambient mana, charging it up. When it’s full it should glow noticeably – but not nearly as bright as the ones I recovered. Those are dangerously overfull.” Ali retrieved the rest of the magicite, dumping it on the ground beside the one she had just made, enjoying the effect it was having on Malika.

“If we leave these overnight, they should leak enough mana into the environment that they will be safe to take to town and sell.” Ali made a few more uncharged pieces and nestled them in among the others, knowing they would charge faster in the presence of so much leaked mana.

“Nature isn’t the most valuable type,” Malika said, finally recovering. “But they’re still worth a fortune. Ali, with that and the lake, you could quite easily break the economy of the whole town. No, the entire kingdom.”

“If we sell it through Weldin, the town should get its taxes, right? Isn’t that the purpose of having a guild merchant?” Malika was right, probably the most valuable magicite affinity would be arcane – Arcanite – but she had no idea how to find some of that. But she might be able to recover some light affinity magicite from the condenser up on the second city ring.

“Yes, that’s the theory. But with something so rare and sought-after like magicite, if we dump a lot on the market, people will go crazy. We should probably sell one or two pieces and wait a bit,” Malika said, her surprise giving way to a more thoughtful expression.

“Maybe you can use Weldin to help you with that? He probably has a decent idea of what the market could support,” Calen suggested.

“That’s a good idea, I’ll talk to him tomorrow,” Malika answered.

While the economy was a concern, Ali didn’t mind much. Magicite was a fascinating substance, and she was quite interested in studying it now that she was armed with Arcane Insight and Sage of Learning. It wasn’t the Grand Library Arcana, but she wanted to check to see if Ryn had any books on the subject or knew where to find them. And if Malika was right, she could now afford to buy them.

“Yes, it’s near Myrin’s Keep.” Alexander studied Roderik’s expression carefully. He seemed excited, which nearly always meant someone was dead or dying – or he was anticipating inflicting pain on some unfortunate soul. He just wished the man wasn’t so… impulsive and thoughtless. It was too bad he ranked higher in the Shadow Council and was technically Alexander’s superior. Not for long.

“I think it’s in Myrin’s Keep,” Roderik replied, his eyes betraying a restless energy.

Lirasia had been moving in a remarkably straight line across the countryside since he had released her, and she was heading right for the border town, following the banks of the Myrin River. Alexander had figured the dungeon had to be nestled in the mountains nearby – a spot he could simply discover with his spectral wolves and enter, capturing it before the town was any the wiser.

“How do you know?” Alexander asked. He was certain the town already knew about his presence from the wake of blight and the new undead he had left behind him. If they didn’t, it wouldn’t take long – but he had been planning on using the distraction he had been required to create for his purposes, too. If the dungeon was within the town, though, that would be remarkably inconvenient. Myrin’s Keep was no Lyton – it had a garrison and several high-level combat classes. People that even he would need to be wary of.

“One of the newest members in the fucking Adventurers Guild supposedly has a shrine,” Roderik declared. “A real dungeon shrine, not one of those Elvish knockoffs.”

“Impossible!” Alexander’s eyes snapped back to Roderik in surprise. A shrine? It was a preposterous claim, but Roderik was not one for subterfuge and deception. His mind was uncomplicated and straightforward, but the presence of a shrine in the town lent a lot of credibility to his crazy claims.

“Come, Alexander, let’s not waste time. I found someone who got their class from that shrine, I want you to ask them,” Roderik announced. Unleashing his restless energy, the noble retrieved a corpse from storage, dumping it on the ground. It was a young man, obviously new to their class, dressed like a merchant, with a characteristic set of holes in his body where Roderik’s lances of ice had since melted. He waved a ring-encrusted hand at it vaguely, “Do your thing.”

Alexander stared at the corpse briefly and then looked back at Roderik. So, he actually can think. Bringing an eyewitness demonstrated remarkable thinking for a man who enjoyed indiscriminately killing people for sport – without any plan or foresight.

“Arise,” Alexander intoned, invoking his mana to raise the man as a specter. It was not cheap, but he wouldn’t be keeping this one for very long.

“Tell us everything you know about this shrine and the dungeon,” he commanded.

“Yes master,” came the sepulchral voice, a whisper on the wind that touched his mind and soul in that familiar way. “Her name is Aliandra Amariel…”
