“Mmm…I’d give it a 50/50 chance. Kibby really wanted to talk to you. But Knight Alis-art’h wants to bury you. So, I think it depends on which one of them wins the battle of wills.”

Joe’s tattooed face suddenly appeared in front of Alden’s eyes. He was so startled he missed the ball.

“My high score!”

“What do you mean ‘Knight Alis-art’h wants to bury you’?” the professor said, looking alarmed. “What did I do to offend her?”

“She seems to be under the impression that you’re one of those bad wizards who takes advantage of innocent young Avowed. I don’t know why she’d think that.”

Joe looked like a man who’d just seen the executioner stalking towards him.

“Uh…” said Alden. “I’m teasing. At least a little. I told her I knew the mission to Moon Thegund was dangerous. And that I didn’t feel like you’d treated me unfairly. ”

“You did?” He sounded startled.

“I did…”

“Why are you hesitating?”

“It’s just that I told her that while we thought I was dying. And I was sitting there with your contract tattoo on my chest being forced to talk about berry picking when we both knew it was lies. And even though I was clear on the fact that I don’t blame you for anything, I think it probably didn’t go very far with her.”

“I see.” He closed his eyes. “How many things do you think can go wrong in one man’s life over the course of just a couple of years?”

“Don’t know,” said Alden, starting up another game. “It’s all been ryeh-b’ts and rainbows for me lately.”

Joe looked at him. In the image provided by the System, he didn’t have on his smart monocle. He didn’t seem quite right without it.

“I didn’t know you’d been injured that badly,” he said. “Well..naturally I assumed you were dead after the first few weeks. And then I heard you’d been rescued along with Kivb-ee, shortly after the lab exploded. I haven’t had more information than that.”

“It was demons,” Alden said promptly. “That was what destroyed the lab. We saw a big one, so we ran away. It must have gotten into some of your sciency stuff and…boom.”

“…you know everyone thinks I blew it up,” Joe said in a dry tone. “Which is really quite a serious matter, since it looks like I arranged it all ages ago in order to murder the team working for the new owners when they took residence.”

“I will swear on my life before the Grand Senate that it was a demon, Joe,” Alden said.

“That’s noble of you.”

“A big demon.”

“Oh, she’s not that big.”

“I didn’t know demons could be female, but sure. If you say so.”

Joe sighed. “I didn’t expect you to call.”

Alden stared at the blinking lights on the machine. “I don’t think you made a bad gamble. If just a few things had gone a little bit differently, we could have gotten them all out. I don’t really know how Artonans weigh it…one Avowed vs. however many regular people. But I think you’d have been stupid not to ask me to go. The corruption event could have broken the System a month later than it did. Or a day. Or a minute. I was that close to teleporting back to the university with Kibby and her sister. Sometimes everything just goes wrong.”

“Indeed,” Joe said quietly. He cleared his throat. “I take it you’re well, then? Since you seem to be moving around and making lots of strange noises.”

“It’s a pinball machine.”

“I have no clue what that is.”

“Human magic. I’m fine now. I just almost blew my affixation.”

Joe shuddered.

Funny, thought Alden. I might not have had any idea why he was doing that if I was normal.

“Knight Alis-art’h took care of me for a while, and then I guess Artona I must have patched me up.”

“You guess?”

“Well it’s not like I can feel much of a difference,” he lied. “But I’m still here, aren’t I?”

“That would be a good indicator that you’d been patched up.”

“On a less serious note,” said Alden, “your lab coat was the freaking best. It took demon grasshopper strikes like it was designed for it. Why didn’t you put that feature in the advertisement?”

“As someone once told me, no Rabbit wants a coat designed for work in a bomb lab. I doubt a coat designed for a chaos-research lab would sound more appealing.”

“I’m probably going to buy another one. When I’m off leave in a few months. For sentimental reasons.”

“Please do. As one of the designers, I get a small commission. I could really use the funds right now.”

Alden grinned.

Then his smile dropped as he remembered something. “I was supposed to give you a message. From Thenn-ar. She helped me so much when everything first went wrong. We probably wouldn’t even have survived without her advice.”

Joe went still.

“I wish I could remember the words for you,” Alden said. “And for her. But it was in Artonan. The System was already down, and I wasn’t in the best frame of mind. I couldn’t hold the syllables in my head, and I can’t remember the sound of them now no matter how hard I try.”

“Ah well,” Joe said in a rough voice. “That is understandable.”

“Whatever she said sounded very caring,” Alden offered. “She called you Ro. And she was smiling.”

“She…was a very caring person. Thank you, Alden. Passing on the sentiment was enough.”

He hung up suddenly.

Alden thought about it for just a second longer and then added him to the priority contacts.

He glanced down the short list of names.

Stu-art’h would know how to call his aunt.

It was a little more awkward there. After some reflection, Alden felt uncomfortable about the fact that he’d gone to visit the Primary’s son because she had suggested that he should. And even offered a bribe.

It wasn’t the only reason. He could have gotten the reward just by dealing with anyone in the house. But still…

Stuart had been very different and much lonelier than he’d ever expected. He’d gone out of his way to mourn Alden’s death even though they’d only spoken a few words to each other. And he had even helped him leave the house without agreeing to the family privacy contract, after confessing that he’d had hallucinations as a child.

That seemed like exactly the sort of damaging and deeply personal information such a contract should cover.

Alden didn’t think the Artonan boy was a pushover who would say yes to any request he made. He couldn’t be, or some of those snakes at LeafSong would have eaten him alive by now.

But he was still disinclined to make a request of any kind until their new acquaintanceship felt more balanced.

“Well, I’ll just balance it then.”

Stuart had said he wanted to learn about human culture. Since Alden was an insomniac now, he would spend part of his sleepless hours finding interesting human things and sharing them. Wholesome interesting things. Ones that wouldn’t make Stuart think Earth was a horrible place that needed to be destroyed. Because he seemed to be aiming for the kind of position that might give him some say in matters like that.

When Jeremy called to say good morning half an hour later, Alden was browsing the internet through his System interface and drinking a coconut milk latte. It turned out he could figure out how to work a coffee machine if he just had his aunt around to help him.

“If you were going to share human internet stuff with a smart, nice, but socially awkward Artonan guy who might one day be powerful enough to smite our species, what would you choose?”

Jeremy paused in the act of stuffing a textbook into his backpack. “You know, our conversation topics have expanded in some strange directions since you became an Avowed.”

“Right?”

“Videos of marching bands,” said Jeremy. “They’re cool. You can’t smite a planet that has so many kickass marching bands on it.”

“Oh, that’s right. Your sister’s a band geek. Good job. I’ll add it to the list. Between hang gliders and pandas.”
