Queen took the drink, saying, “Thanks,” and then she turned back to Erick, to continue, “There’s usually a lot of trapping and poisoning at this sort of event, but I’m thankful that most are keeping that to a minimum.” She spoke a bit louder, for some of the other Shades were obviously watching, and listening. “I have found two traps that were not removed, though.” She gave the sweetest, yet most diabolical grin. “I’ve got provisional leeway to kill those two Shades, so don’t worry about getting dead, Erick. Even if you suffer that indignity for a short while, we’ll bring you back and then you can help us collectively kill the murderer. So have fun!” She gestured to Farix, but continued to speak to Erick, saying, “He’s a great lay, just so you know. If only he could be a bit more proper in public, but like that really matters, am I right?”

Erick stared at nothing in particular for a long moment, then his brain kicked back on. He said, “Okay!” He turned to Farix, saying, “I’ll take a Slippery Slope, for some truly fun times, as you have so helpfully suggested.”

Queen smiled, then said, “That has some mild psychedelics, just so you know, just in case Farix wasn’t going to tell you. Nothing too ostentatious, but it makes the auroras above really, really pretty. If it gets bad, just [Cleanse] yourself.”

Farix mocked offense, “I would never compromise Erick’s position or alter his state without telling him!” He quickly gathered the Slippery Slope ingredients again, and said to Erick, “But if you wish for a compromised position, someone else can man the bar for an hour or two.”

Queen looked Farix up and down, and the man noticed. He casually stretched while he was making Erick’s drink, giving Queen as much of a look as she desired. She just giggled, then turned away, drink in hand, to go greet other guests.

In ten more seconds, Erick had his own Slippery Slope, expertly poured by a wonderful bit of eye candy. It was a pink drink, finished off with a slice of some fruit Erick had never seen before. He sipped it, while Quilatalap and Farix watched him drink. The archlich, probably to gauge if he had to rescue Erick from death, the naked Shade probably just because he wanted to watch. The drink tasted good. Really good. Farix smiled.

Quilatalap told the man, “I’ll take a Vivid Gloom.”

Erick suddenly had to ask, “Why did they name a drink after my spell? That threw me for a loop when I visited Candlepoint, too. What’s in it, anyway?”

Quilatalap shrugged. “To mess with you, and I’m not sure.” He turned to Farix, “What’s you say it was? Arafruit, farrowroot, cream, rums, and liquid shadows?”

Farix began constructing the Vivid Gloom by starting with assorted fruits, three bottles of various shades of brown and clear, and some white stuff in another bottle, while a bit of controlled shadow stuck a toothpick into a tiny jar and came out with a drop of what looked like velvet darkness. As the fruits and such went into a mixer, he said, “A Vivid Gloom is frozen, crushed arafruit, farrowroot, some cream liquor, three different rums, mostly clear, and a drip of liquid shadows distilled into an exterior coating.” He shook the mixer as he took the toothpick of darkness and ran it around the inside of a glass. When he poured the drink into the class, the contents flowed like white pearl and shimmering darkness. He handed the drink to Quilatalap, and said, “The liquid ‘darkness’ is actually just shadow essence that’s had almost all the light sucked out of it, but it’s still shadow essence.”

Quilatalap took the drink and happily said to Farix, “Dark Essence is too poisonous, anyway.” He asked, “What other projects are you working on?”

“Tryna fuck Erick.”

Erick laughed.

Farix smirked, then momentarily spoke like a professional, “There’s no projects right now, since we’re all facing down a restructuring. The school is off for break and this year’s break might be longer than usual. But some of my students are looking for private tutors to fill the gap. Would you be interested in holding a class, or teaching some students for a month?”

“Not this time.” Quilatalap said, “I’m not sure what the future holds either, and I might be going rather introductory with my lessons in the near future. Your students wouldn’t want to sit through that.”

“And if they are willing to sit through that?” Farix calmly stressed, “Some of them would be interested in whatever you felt like giving.”

“Eh.” Quilatalap asked Erick, “You want to have some fellow students for your own lessons?”

Erick almost spat up his Slippery Slope. “Uh. Did we agree to lessons?”

Quilatalap said to Farix, “It’s like this, then.”

“Understood.” Farix said, “I’ll have some disappointed students, but they’ll get over it.”

Erick was quite interested in whatever was going on with Quilatalap and Farix, and he almost asked about ‘What lessons?’, but then two new Shades were approaching. One was a goldscale woman, the other, a whitescale man. Both wore rather normal attire. Erick had forgotten the woman’s name, but she had definitely been part of Killzone’s briefing; it was hard to miss a goldscale in a crowd, for they usually gleamed like liquid sunlight, and this one was no exception.

But the whitescale was Welodio, the Shade of Flames, and he drew all of Erick’s attention as soon as Erick noticed him. Erick was supposed to run away from him, no matter the circumstance. Ah. Shit. Did that apply here, too? The male dragonkin’s eyes were bright white, while flickers of shadow danced across his scaled eyebrows, as he drew nearer. Goldenscale was much calmer, by comparison.

And then they had moved their five meters of space, to stand next to Erick, and he couldn’t realistically get away anymore.

Welodio smiled as he said, “Hello, Erick. Do you know of me?”

Erick honestly, and perhaps stupidly, said, “I’ve been told to run away from you if I see you.”

The flames on his eyebrow ridges got thicker, as he said, “Oh?” He added, “Good advice. You should have taken it.” Welodio snickered, as flames reached for Erick—

Erick had not dismissed either his [Lodestar], or his [Greater Lightwalk]; the two spells had just been left to sit under his skin, and under his clothes. But now, he flashed his sunform into a barrier. It barely held as flames consumed his world. Someone cried out, “Not the booze!” Another cried out about the food. And then the flames died, as fast as they had come. They had never gotten through Erick’s sunform. As the flames vanished, Erick saw they hadn’t gotten very far at all. Barely past Welodio, actually. Or what was left of him, anyway.

Welodio’s body slumped to the ground, but his head remained in the air. A thick sword, like a shelf, held the head on its flat surface. Goldscale’s dainty fist held the sword’s grip. There was no strain, there; holding that sword and its resident head was easy for goldscale. With a smile toward Erick, and a flick of her hand, she hefted the sword, jostling Welodio’s head into the air. With another heft of her weapon, and as though she was hitting a ball with a baseball bat, she knocked the dead whitescale’s head into the air—

Where a maw opened up in the sky, like Melemizargo’s own, but different. More wild and less real than the maw of the Darkness. The head went in, and with a chomp, the maw closed, and the head was gone. The jaws vanished right after. When Erick looked back to the goldscale, her sword was gone.

The casual talk all around, at the whole party, had only briefly paused, and only while Erick was actively being attacked. Some people went right back to their conversations.

Queen appeared, somehow. She stared down the goldscale, and with only the barest amount of seriousness in her voice, said, “Are you going to clean that up?” She gestured to Welodio’s body.

“I’m getting to it!” Goldscale turned to Erick, saying, “Hi. Erick. Nice to meet you. Sorry it was in such a messy way, but Welodio there was already planning on jumping you the second he could. I got wind of it, and I decided to be here, instead of elsewhere. He was one of those worthless people who joined us in order to cause destruction, so don’t feel too bad about how it went down. I’ve been looking into you and you might feel that way, but maybe don’t? Anywho! Take care! I’ll be watching your back for you.”

“Goldie.” Queen’s voice was harder than usual. “You could have warned me.”

“No time.” Goldie looked around, saying, “And nothing was damaged. This was a rather contained assassination. I’m good like that.”

“… I suppose you are.” Queen turned slightly toward Erick, saying, “Erick. Meet Goldie, the Shade of Assassination.”

Goldie beamed at her designation.

Erick firmly remained in his sunform, and tried to shore up every possible chink in his armor he could imagine. There wasn’t much firming-up left to do, though. Erick was already at ‘as good as it gets’ with his sunform. And wasn’t that a sobering thought.

He needed more Slippery Slopes.

Queen continued, “And what she hasn’t mentioned was that she joined the Clergy in order to kill people, too. Just like Welodio.”

“Uhh!” In a voice like a sorority-girl best known for her ability to mix and mingle and make friends anywhere, Goldie exclaimed, “Of course I did! It’s why I knew what Welodio was planning.”

“She’s been trying to kill Welodio for years.” Queen frowned at the goldscale, asking, “Did he finally think that your ‘banter’ was just friendly banter?”

Goldie smiled wider, revealing sharp, sharp fangs, unlike Erick had ever seen in a dragonkin. “He thought that for a long time!” She turned to Erick, saying, “I’ll be watching your back, for as long as Melemizargo demands it~”

Erick tried a joke. “Hopefully not in the bathroom.”

Goldie didn’t appreciate the joke, but her pleasant voice didn’t waiver, “I kill more heads-of-state in the bathroom than in any other location. You should bring your Ophiels into your bathroom more.” She added, “And this lightform of yours is good, but it won’t stop the stronger kinds of physical/ethereal damage out there. You should work on that. The Headmaster has a similar style. You should bother him about all of that.”

“… Well okay then,” Erick said. Then he dropped his sunform and sipped his drink.

Queen regarded Welodio’s body. “So when did this get sanctioned?”

Goldie said, “Two hours ago.”

Queen gestured to the body. “Erick, if you’d do the honors of disposal?”

Erick almost laughed and told Queen off, but instead, he had an Ophiel throw a [Cleansing Flame] over the corpse. Welodio lit up like old tissue paper; white fire burning fast through a thoroughly corrupted corpse. Whoosh! And then it was gone. Erick blanked, as he took in the sight of nothing; there was nothing left.

Goldie said, “Whoo! That one went up fast.” She said to Erick, “I expect a few more bodies before the day is through.” She pointed out at the crowd, at two Shades in particular.

The entire party stopped.

All eyes at the party turned to regard who Goldie pointed at. One was an orcol woman, wearing black dress armor that was much thinner than the armor Erick had seen Quilatalap wearing, but of the same general shape. The other was a harpy woman who was nude, but you couldn’t tell through all the feathers.

Goldie’s voice was low, and serious, but everyone heard, as she said, “Torika, Shade of Ashes. This orcol morphs her body in order to pose as various military personnel who fit into various military command structures around the world. She then plays along with her current side in those wars, bringing them victory after victory, but when everything looks to be going well, she turns and kills the commanders on ‘her side’. Her actions have set the continent of Nelboor to wars that would otherwise not have happened. Her current personal death count is just below a thousand, but if you count the battles she won, she’s up to half a million, easy.

“And then there’s the harpy: Binjara Farwit, Shade of Desolation. This harpy likes to kill farms and farmers. She’s particularly active in the Greensoil Republic. Her actions have also caused the deaths of tens of thousands of people. Maybe more.” Goldie stared at the two offenders, speaking to them, but also everyone else, as she said, “We’re watching you.” And then she smiled again. A mean smile. An awful smile. She cheerfully added, “But we know you can’t help yourself; you just want to see this world burn.”

Torika, the orcol, stepped forward. “This world deserves to burn.” She stared at Erick, as she spoke to everyone. “He is an aberration. In a hundred years, when his existence as a Fire is proven as a falsehood, Melemizargo will kill all of you who helped him rise to prominence. I’ll still be here, though. I’ll still be holding the line, giving this world the death by a million cuts it deserves.”

Binjara stepped forward. The naked harpy briefly fluffed her feathers, saying, “Erick has empowered the church of Atunir by giving her access to his silver rain! For that reason alone, he should be killed. All of our enemies are empowered by access to this miracle! But besides that! He spoke true when he was in the Spire: Everything now has nothing to do with him. We can safely remove this piece from the board without impacting any of Melemizargo’s possible plans.” She added, “We should kill him as a simple matter of removing unknowns from the board! We should kill him because he has the capability to be incredibly destructive to our plans if he is allowed to live!”

