Erick stood to the side of the singers and the orchestra, where a few Shades had gathered to listen more closely. The musicians were all rather well dressed, and only a few of them were shadelings. They sang a song of uplifting news, and traveling the world. It was a good song.

- - - -

Goldie, the Shade of Assassination, held a bar of dark chocolate in one hand, and a hot cocoa in the other. The cocoa had rum in it, or some other liquor, for sure, because Goldie slurred her words, saying, “Now— owh. I mean. Now here’s da shting. Mana reneration is rate and wall. Ut. But! But. You can get furror with soul shundering. Dere are doe many chriminalse, ERICK! Youse can make yoursh Wishardly corhe ow evvar you whant! Jhust kill shome chriminales in dah futuer! Theysh don’t need thar lifes! Eashy!”

Erick nodded, and left Goldie to her own devices. As the party wore on, he caught sight of her more and more, sitting around corners, peering through crowds, looking over the edge of her glass, staring at him, but never approaching.

- - - -

“Do you know any Wizards?” Erick asked the group in front of him.

“None living,” said a woman, who walked away.

“Nope,” said a man who followed the woman.

The third just walked away, silently averting their glowing white eyes from Erick.

This interaction repeated itself a few times. Erick didn’t always ask the same question, but the result was always the same. The Shades walked away from him. Why did he even approach these Shades for a talk? Well. He was on a slippery slope, for sure. Might as well fully experience the ride, to ensure that his decision to kill them all was the right one.

Erick didn’t know whether to be happy, or—

Erick was happy; he decided. This was a good outcome.

Let them flee from him in terror of their own mortality! Bwa ha ha ha!

… He looked to the drink in his hands. He needed another.

- - - -

“There you are!” Erick said to Quilatalap, after he eventually got another drink and found the man up another level, past the music level.

The orcol sat in a quiet stone amphitheater, by himself, sipping on an empty drink. This place was probably a place for private concerts; it was not a large area. Quilatalap said, “Hey, there.”

Erick held forward a Well Laid Plan, and offered, “Want a copy of my own drink? I switched to a Well Laid Plan when the walls started melting.”

“Sure.” Quilatalap smiled as Erick handed him a Well Laid Plan. “Got tired of being shunned?”

Erick’s eyes went wide, as he laughed, and said, “Never! That was awesome. They—” He stopped himself; he was still sober enough to have that much self control. Best not to say that he would never get tired of scaring Shades into hiding. Saying that out loud would risk those Shades trying to prove him wrong. Instead, he sat down next to Quilatalap, and asked, “Know any Wizards?”

“I have. Many, many. You looking to make that mana generating spell, or something?” He sipped his drink.

Erick gave no answer for that, instead, he said, “I’m thinking about it, but now I’m also thinking of the rad-around-the-heart problem.”

Quilatalap said, “Oh. Well. That’s not a large problem. If you take certain precautions. How much do you know about dragons?”

“Not nearly enough?” Erick lost all train of thought for one surreal moment. He asked, “How the heck are dragons related to this?”

“Have you ever wondered why there’s a ‘wyrm season’?”

“Sort of? Not really.” Erick said, “You’re going to have to explain that one.”

“Okay. So. This is a multilayered problem that started with the rise of the Script, and the necessity of levels to gaining power. What I’m about to tell you is an open secret of their particular society, and if you thought Shades were bad, then you haven’t seen nothing. So maybe keep this to yourself. Anyway.” Quilatalap said, “Dragons are monsters, technically, and monsters gain power by absorbing rads and mana into their bodies. Shadelings are also capable of cycling their mana and drawing the mana of the world into their core in order to easily gain levels. But for shadelings, this possibility only goes to level 55ish.

“Dragons can get much, much higher than that, because they can utilize grand rads larger than most, and even multiple grand rads if they have that capability. Dragons can get into the 90s with this method. It’s exceedingly rare for that to happen, but it does happen.

“But here’s the trick: When they’re done with the cycling and the easy gaining of levels, they can discard their built up grand rads, and return to being not-monster.” He stressed, “Only if they’ve managed to keep their soul out of the rad, though. This is key. This gets wildly difficult when they are forced to cycle billions of mana per second in order to reach those high, high levels in any sort of useful time table. But they’re immortal, so they have time.

“Those that are capable of this feat have time. The rest? Not so much.

“Anyway! The dragons have something resembling a society, but it’s difficult when they’re all poised to kill each other when they’re not related by blood. The Draconic Blood Curse, you see.” Quilatalap said, “So their society is rather fractured, but within their families, it is not. They still have ancestral homes in the forests north of the Wyrmridge. They’re hidden, but they’re out there, and a lot of them are inside the Old Dragonkin lands.

“Anyway! Every year at the end of Water Season, when they’re all good and rested and fat and poised for advancement, the younger ones are taken in by their elders in those ancestral homes, and they have a graduating ceremony, where the elders help the youngsters learn how to cycle billions of mana per second without falling to monsterfication.

“Doesn’t always work, but it works well enough. Some survive the process and go on into the world to make their marks, or other dragons, or to kill other dragons. Most youngsters do not survive this process. They become wyrms. Those fallen children are released out into the world, discarded as failures.”

Erick listened intently to the horrors of dragon life.

“And I’ve gotten a bit away from myself.” Quilatalap said, “Condensing a rad and maintaining your own soul in the process is key to draconic power. This fact has not changed since the Old Cosmology. Dragons have been doing this literally forever. But in this New Cosmology, they do not have control over themselves if they fail to keep part of their souls outside of the grand rads they form.

“Shades don’t have this problem. They get their grand rad and keep themselves from that final fall, but you need Melemizargo’s help for that. In the case of the shadelings and the Shades, they don’t discard their rads at all; they become their rads, completely, and because of Melemizargo’s power, they keep their minds.”

Erick looked to his drink, then to Quilatalap. “You’re gonna need to explain that to me, again, but slower, and more elaborate.” He said, “That feels like… Like big information.”

Quilatalap smiled. “Are you going to become my student?”

“I guess I am.” Erick added, “As long as you don’t have too many skeletons in your closet.”

“First lesson: don’t keep your skeletons in the closet.” Quilatalap joked, “They go in the morgue.”

Erick smiled as he sipped his drink, and the archlich spoke of rads and monsters, souls and mana, and levels.
