And that was the worst thing about the orc: he was honest. Roland could hear the desperation to repay Adam deep in the Culturist's voice. But it was ultimately because of him that Adam was in his current state to begin with. Now, what if his closeness to Adam would incur more of the Challenger's wrath? What if, somehow, the Culturist wasn't freed after all? What if… What if…

“Roland,” Uva said, placing a hand on the Town Lord’s forearm. His eyes snapped up to meet hers. Of all those in the room, she was the one he admired the most, for in his time of ruin and need, she assumed his mantle as Avatar, and nearly saw herself reduced to cinders by the burden. Without her, he would have died, and there would have been nothing of Blackedge left to save. “I know. But decide. If he could have struck, he would. Do not let fear decide for you. Face the truth, and proceed. It is all we can do.”

And that was all she needed to say to leave him drowning in his own shame. She walked past him but left Shiv with a final glance and a single Psychomancy thread embedded in his mind. It wasn't that she didn't care, but the duties facing her were many, and the Gate needed to continue running, no matter what. Shiv’s state bothered her, but she had faith.

Roland had faith too, but it was a broken, wounded faith, for the god that had guided and shaped his life for so long was absent—and refused to return even when called. Roland Arrow was alone, and he had to face his own choices, and the potential consequences that followed.

But while he hesitated, Adam suffered.

A pained rasp left Roland as he dragged himself through a mire of indecision. “What… what can you do for him?”

“I’m not sure,” the Culturist admitted, sounding more furious and sorrowful than even Roland. “The Challenger is vile, but he is nothing if not powerful and intelligent. He has his designs on people, and rarely does he fail to see them through. But I might be able to take on a portion of Adam’s burden through our connection. Perhaps I can partially endure the itch for him.”

“Partially?” Roland asked.

“I have always failed,” the Culturist whispered, his confidence wilting. “No matter how much I tried. I never beat it. I couldn’t. Not for long. And if Adam wakes, I do not think he will be able to endure it without bloodshed either.”

Roland scowled at the orc. “You do not know my son, then.”

The weariness behind the Culturist’s eyes only grew. “Do you think your nobility endures even when you are starved and dehydrated, even when all you yearn for is relief more than pleasure? It’s not the desire that breaks you. It’s the deprivation.”

Upon hearing that, Roland felt something inside him succumb. But what broke him wasn't a deprivation of hope, but the desperation for it. In the form of the Culturist, even if that hope was dim or potentially false, Roland had to take a chance, because the alternative was to continue letting Adam languish in his unjust fate alone. “With me, then. But you do nothing without my knowledge.”

“Your will, my service,” the Culturist intoned.

“And keep me informed about Shiv as well,” Roland added. He paused. “Actually, we should—”

“No,” Valor interrupted. “He remains. Best not to risk moving him to the Perch. If something should happen, it would be wiser to cast him back across into the Fairwoods than risk his true elimination. This is the root of his soul we bear. To lose any other body is but a trifle; to lose this is the end of his immortality—ah.”

“What?” Roland asked. “What is it?”

The Undying was quiet for a long moment, as if he was trying to process something. “I have forgotten how cruel the System’s test could be,” he finally answered, sounding more than sour.

***

“End the encounter!” Shiv screamed. “End the encounter! Come on! FUCKING END IT!”

But the System refused. The Uvas just kept coming and coming and coming. The hallway was flooding with blood. The gore was up to Shiv's knees, and constant attacks kept going. He didn't know if it had been close to an hour or mere minutes, and the torture he endured made it even harder to discern. His broken Harbinger turned his emotional anguish into physical agony, and pain became his every cell, his very thoughts.

But pain didn't rule Shiv; discomfort didn't rule Shiv. Shiv ruled Shiv, and he imposed his will against all that sought to hold him at bay. They weren't her, even if they felt like they were, and he exerted his mind over his heart. For that was what it took to see this Delve done. But as another wave of Uvas came, their blades not even leaving marks upon his pillar anymore, a dark thought besieged him from within. He wondered if the System forced him to choose between the ones he loved, between all that he treasured, which would he pick above the other?

Would he kill Adam to guard Uva? Would he stand against her in actuality if it meant saving him?

We'll find another way, he told himself. We'll find another way. But then he remembered this desperation when he promised to save Georges. And look what came of that. Nothing at all.

The System's will was of pain and violence. It was war, all facets of it. The Red Rider's Hand laughed in the back of Shiv's mind, taunting him even as it was far away beyond him, unusable for this Quest.

But there was something else. Another presence. A strange sensation. Someone who believed in Shiv. Someone beyond himself. Someone trying to reach him but unable to navigate the chaotic currents of his soul. Whoever it was, Shiv found himself grateful, for any emotion beyond grim resolve was a welcome respite.

And then, out of nowhere, the long-sought notification came, and the hallway suddenly cleared of blood, bodies, and fractals.

Encounter Complete (1/5)

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

Shiv blinked, and a surreal feeling came over him. One moment, he'd stood a bulwark against an endless tide of hollow-souled adversaries, sculpted in the shape of his lover. In the next, they were all missing. The blood was gone. The doors were closed. The carpet was back. Shiv was mended of flesh, ready for the second round. And he found himself more grateful it was over than anything else.

A long, shaking breath left Shiv, but he felt his spirit soar with pride. He faced that moment. He survived. He didn’t break, and he didn’t let any of them come close to Adam. “More of a mental toughness test than a physical one, huh?”

Adam just twitched and choked on his own blood behind him.

Shiv waved him off. “Oh, what do you know about pain? You got a little cut on your head and ended up bedridden. Wah. I lost my head a bunch, and I’m still here. You’re a real soft-skin sometimes, Adam, you know that?” The Paragon let out a whimper. Shiv forced the mocking smirk to remain on his face. “Yeah. That’s right. Keep whining. Keep… Look, whine and cry as much as you want. I’ll make fun of you, but only if you get better, alright? Only if you get better. Let’s make a deal: I won’t let them touch you here, and you get better out there… Oh, what the hells am I doing. System! Send the next, you shit!”

Initiating Encounter (2/5)

Wave 1 activated.

Wave 2 activated.

Once more, the doors along the halls snapped open. More Uvas spilled out into the hall. Shiv gritted his teeth and steeled himself for the ugliness to follow—but his eyes widened as the massive gate at the end of the hallway came alive, and a wall of towering bruisers stepped forth. From so far away, they looked to be the same size and height as Shiv, and for a moment, he thought he was going to be fighting the Culturist or some other orcs. But then he saw the head tentacles and the singular eyeballs.

“Urri?” Shiv breathed.

“URRI!” The first of the Legendary Vulteg Vanguards roared.

Another followed right behind. “I AM URRI TOO!”

“URRI!”

“URRI!”

“URRI!”

And soon, there was a horde of them charging at Shiv alongside the Uvas—smashing the clones of his girlfriend flat against the walls in a destructive stampede.

Things were escalating a bit faster than Shiv had expected; he began hardening his Toughness as fast as he could while bracing with his Shapeless Tides. “Shitshitshit—”

“URRIIIIII!” The Vultegs roared in a deafening chorus. And then the first of them was upon Shiv, rearing his huge tentacled head back to deliver the mother of all headbutts.

I need more time to increase my—

Urri’s head came crashing hard against Shiv’s pillar. Its surface dented. Shiv’s sternum fractured. He winced, but he planted his feet as another Urri slid low and threw an air-combusting hook in the direction of Shiv’s liver. Once more, Shiv felt something crack—but his improved Toughness proved so potent that even a beast of raw strength like Urri couldn't break him without devoted effort.

As Uva’s thrusts bounced off his sides and dotted his face with welts, Shiv just laughed while the Urris recoiled. “Yeah, I got stronger, you big, ugly—”

A swarm of other Urris came barreling into Shiv, recoiling and smashing into him one after another. The first of Shiv’s ribs broke; each subsequent hit set off explosions of pain inside his body. It was still more preferable than facing the Uvas.

“LORD SCORN!” Urri bellowed. “WE HAVE COME TO FILL ADAM ARROW’S CORPSE WITH OUR PISS AND SHIT AS YOU COMMAND!”

Knowing Urri, the Vultegs meant that literally—and the System would make Shiv watch that depravity if he lost just to hurt him more. “The fuck you will,” he snarled back. He struck at Urri using his Biomancy—but his mana hydra bounced off as if they were being dashed against stone. Still, the Urris flinched beneath his lashing field. The hallway wasn’t big enough to fit more than three of them at a time, but they kept coming, shouldering past and jumping over each other to slam haymakers and knees against the Deathless.

A splash of hollow flame was conjured by Shiv, breaking and clinging to the forms of the huge Vultegs—but it was like launching firecrackers at a bear.

“These creatures are absolute idiots,” the Nihilist declared. But still it kindled—if only barely. “I would scarcely call what they have thoughts, let alone a foundation for perspective or philosophy.”

But despite the Unique Skill’s complaints, it burned bright, its spread fast, and soon Shiv was boiling away at the Urris with a devastating firestorm that cooked the walls, turning the orichalcum edible in seconds, and all the lesser Uvas… into something Shiv didn’t want to think about.

Despite this, the Vultegs kept charging, and Shiv felt himself get driven back. The ground beneath him screeched. Shiv flung himself forward on a rush of tides. He slammed into the Urris and drove a few of them back, but there were so many of them, and the Urris' Toughness and Magical Resistance were Legendary already, and so Shiv’s attacks—

Wave 3 activated.

Shiv’s eyes widened. “What?”

And suddenly, a new foe entered the fray—one that blinked into existence between the Urris—and struck Shiv with a resonant palm that flowed through the pillar and his skin alike.

The Urris staggered aside as the Culturist entered the fray—a diminished, shrunken Culturist, devoid of his owl-cowl and barren of any magic, but still the Culturist nonetheless.

Shiv felt his heart stop beating, felt his muscles tense and lock, his nerves ignite and scream. He tried to hit the orc back, but his body refused to obey his mind.

And then the bastard orc smirked, and he twisted his hand slightly before striking Shiv across a chain of meridians in a slow, deliberate show. “Sorry, Deathless, but crude density is not enough.”

With a final tap of his finger, Shiv felt his skeleton unlatch from his flesh while his organs exploded out from his pelvic floor. His eyes were dragged down as his optical cords receded into caverns of his skull before compressing into a mesh of organs that got tighter and tighter and tighter…

Through it all, Shiv remained too tough to die. His mana fields kept working. He struck blind with all his magics, unleashing his Nihilist in a supernova—desperate to incinerate all he could.

But without him serving as a bulwark in the doorway, the only real person he managed to cook was the one he was supposed to protect. He learned that as a notification blinked into place before him like a taunt delivered to him by the system.

Encounter Failed

Resetting Delve

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

Initializing Unconfirmed Legendary Skill Evolution: The Brittle Unbreakable
