The original concept behind an Endhound’s Toughness was based on its ability to adapt and become utterly immune to innumerable variations of physical trauma instead of wasting mana in an inefficient arms race to become resistant to every form of possible damage at once. The inclusion of a High-Tier Regeneration Skill further facilitates this effectiveness. For what doesn't kill the Tarrasque is soon rendered a non-factor.

With this philosophy in mind, the first Farwalkers created The Brittle Unbreakable—a Legendary Skill that allows the Tarrasque to become immune to any damage variant that it initially survives. The immense difficulty in creating such a potent scale and keeping its mana scope within Legendary-Tier aside, the Skill became one of the few Tarrasque Skills that immediately lived up to the promise of its initial concept rather than requiring a series of revisions. (For an in-field demonstration and download of this Skill’s full capabilities, please focus on the sigil at the end of this sentence to be Psi-Streamed into your Ex-Egg.)

Where the first Endhounds found themselves stymied due to lacking self-enforceable leverage skills without magic due to their Physicality being focused more on raw and overwhelming force, their magic deficient due to their aggression affecting their cognition and collapsing higher sequence spells due to a devastatingly short attention span, their Toughness ensured that these issues could be patched in-field rather than with additional deployments as they adapted to every form of physical harm unleashed upon them.

Against LowTech dimensions supplied with crude metallurgy and brute force, the Tarrasque’s shell simply grew dense and layered—drawing on little of their total mana capacity. For SystemTech post-singular dimensions that field quant-type weapons or focused deconstructor swarms, the Tarrasque proved equally durable as their shells became wavelength-jammed anti-foglets that allowed them to survive even the most subtle and invasive molecular destabilization skills and weapons. This allowed them to be deployed en masse and operate in almost any theater for extended durations, finally achieving the ideal of a low-logistic but high-functioning asset that had been sought to supplement the overwhelming backlog of System Enforcement Quests.

However, though The Brittle Unbreakable is a remarkable and reliable skill, it is not a perfect skill—for with adaptability also comes the cost of potential and exploitable vulnerability. Since The Brittle Unbreakable is built toward immunity, the total mana required for high complexity adaptations is immense, even for a Legendary Skill, and can see the Endhound shattered at the soul if stressed for too long a period (Avg. 2 months to a year under sustained fire).

What is more likely to cause an Endhound’s demise is being structured by a post-adaptation vulnerability, which, in the case of Endhounds who assume an adaptation of [wavelength-jammed anti-foglets], is concentrated glassing—namely, the kind delivered by a high-power fusion lance or star-cannon.

The old rule always applies: The more complicated and flexible or extreme the skill, the more severe the cost and pointed the vulnerability.

As such, it might not be best to always implanted the same dormant Skill Evolution within an Endhound. Sometimes, it may be best to consider a more calculated option…

—Beasts of the End, First Edition — Farwalker Endhound Deployment Manual

389

The Broken But Unbreakable [I]

Environment finalized.

Simulating critical encounters…

Initializing Skill-Shaping

Delve Quest Gained: Endure the onslaught and protect Adam from harm for one hour.

Success: Finalized Legendary Skill Evolution

Failure: The simulation is reloaded.

There were no clouds to fall through this time. No sky of deepest blue or Blackedge waiting for Shiv below. Instead, he returned to his flesh with his face pressed deep against the smooth fabric of a silk carpet. The notifications greeted him the moment he opened his eyes, and he shot to his feet with a groan of frustration. “Godsdamn it, Shiv, you really did it to yourself this time…”

He wasn't supposed to Delve. The battle with the felling Supplicant was supposed to evolve his Stealth and Intimidation, not his Toughness. The Stranger's Avatar was the perfect sparring partner because its attacks were mainly esoteric and temporal, not physical, so even if he died, it would mainly be his Leviathan that gained levels instead of his Pillar. But then, of course, he had to go and test that evolved Blessing. Of course he had to try it without asking Valor or anyone else. What's the worst that could have happened? Death?

What he didn't expect was that every bit of suffering he endured over the course of the last week, and all that he'd inflicted upon the Supplicant's middle finger, was amplified to such an extent that both of them suffered a spontaneous obliteration.

“I never learn!” Shiv snarled at himself. “I never, goddamn learn! I could have asked. I could have asked anyone for a bit of advice, but no. But no, I just listened to the girl without thinking. I just tested things out without worrying about the consequences. What are the consequences to me? Just another death? Yeah, what was another death? Another death that saw you take all the damage you suffered over the course of the last week at the same time, so your Toughness spiked twenty levels! I’m an idio—”

His self-flagellation came to an end as a very real wound burst open on his chest. His skin fractured like glass at first, then blood followed, welling between the cracks. An enkindled shadow clung to Shiv, strangling him, wrapping its arms around his throat and compressing his neck until he could practically feel his vertebrae creak and crack.

That discomfort lasted but for an instant as a suit of shattered gold formed around him. Fragments of the Harbinger came together, assembling the Pre-Legendary skill and dispelling the emotional anguish made manifest, weighing Shiv down. However, the Harbinger was still fractured, damaged from how much turmoil it had to absorb. It helped Shiv survive the worst effects of the Red Rider's hand, but it was diminished, so diminished that even this action on its part saw it flickering in and out of existence. “What use is self-blame? What use is pointless regret? Learn from the lesson: intelligence is not earned from shame. Wisdom is not a scar, but the understanding of how to avoid one. Learn! Do not cling to the feeling. Do not…”

And as sudden as it came, the Harbinger faded, its pieces scattering, its presence vanishing. Shiv was alone, his most potent social skill going dormant as it rested and recovered.

Meanwhile, the wound he left on his own chest continued to bleed freely, a mark that served as a reminder: his thoughts and judgment carried the weight of violence, and when wielded poorly, he would bleed himself before anyone else.

As he examined himself, he realized he wasn't wearing his armor anymore. Instead, he was dressed in an ensemble of cotton clothes and leather shoes, which offered no additional benefits to his Toughness or any of his other skills. His Last Morsel and cape were missing too, leaving him entirely deprived of equipment.

With what Shiv knew about Delves, this was deliberate. The Quest wanted to test his Toughness skill on its own, without any outside assistance or alterations. No boosts or reductions offered by his armor, and no food that could see his flesh transformed into something more malleable or intangible.

As Shiv read the details of his Delve Quest, his heart skipped a beat as he understood his duties. “Adam?” A gust of wind brushed past Shiv, beckoning him to turn his head. Behind him, within a small but pleasant chamber, lay Adam, bleeding from his scalp, struggling and writhing upon sheets soaked red with blood. He was as Shiv remembered: deep in the throes of suffering and vulnerable to any and all enemies. The simulation only made his condition worse. He didn't have a dimensional garden to keep his Haunting Omniscience in check, and so he was back to running a full gauntlet of suffering.

Then there was the gap leading into Adam's chamber. It was perfectly sized for Shiv's baseline proportions: no wider, no taller. The room lacked a door—a deliberate decision on the System's part. What was more peculiar was how the surrounding walls were made from orichalcum. In fact, aside from the corpse that rested at Shiv's feet, every other bit of infrastructure was a blazing red and gold. He could feel the overwhelming structural integrity radiating from his surroundings, and guessed that it was to ensure this place didn’t come crashing down when the fighting began.

“This place…” Shiv frowned. “One of the hallways in the Rubix Well. Or at least something similar. That’s probably the memory this Delve is drawing from.” Examining the surroundings further, he made a few other connections and deduced how the following Quest was going to go. Adam's sanctuary was located at the end of a long and expansive hallway. The further it went, the wider it became. Until, finally, Shiv found himself staring at a colossal gate, large enough to fit a dragon through, or perhaps something even bigger. What he could eliminate was a Tarrasque, or the Supplicant, but a large monster was definitely workable—if a bit tight.

Aside from the grand gate, Shiv also noticed an assortment of doors flanking him on both sides. After a few moments, there came monsters pouring through the gate. Rushing forward to meet them before they could ever get close to Adam would probably result in one of the doors behind him opening for a single individual to slip into Adam's chamber and murder him where he slept.

Shiv scoffed as he grasped the design of this Quest. Going on the offensive would see him punished. He would leave his rear open, and there was no one else present to protect Adam. His Atlas also failed to highlight any biological signatures behind those doorways, leaving him with no insight into what enemies were coming or when. Likely, they didn't exist until they crossed over, thus preventing him from gaining an edge using his Awareness. This left him with one option: to plant himself in front of Adam's doorway and hold the spot.

“For an hour,” Shiv grunted with displeasure. An hour didn't feel long if judged by a day-to-day basis, but in active battle, an hour could feel like an eternity, and a single slip during one of those seconds would see the simulation reset. But that was the lesser punishment. The System knew how to hurt Shiv. That was the entire point of this Quest. Adam was the penalty: watching him die, reminding Shiv of the guilt of his failure, keeping his mind distracted and his heart shaken. The System sought to exploit his strife for its maximum pleasure, and that was enough to fill Shiv's gut with unbridled rage. “Fuck you, System. Fuck you today, fuck you tomorrow, and fuck you every day after that.”

Initiating Encounter (1/5)

Wave 1 activated.

Shiv scoffed and called his Pillar of Orichalcum into existence. The manifestation of his Toughness served as spire and anchor at the same time. The roof of the translucent pillar slammed against the ceiling of the doorway, while its base burrowed deep against the orichalcum floor, grinding the plush carpet into frayed tatters. Legion of Self allowed him to cultivate tides and build up his speed as well. Shiv's right eye twitched in annoyance as he realized all the Shapeless Tides he had been accumulating over the week did not carry over into his Delve. He suspected the Quest would see them return when he woke, or so he hoped. The System wanted him to start with nothing, at a baseline, and defend Adam with only what he had. Depriving him of all the tides he'd built up seemed a step too far for some reason—something that would diminish him in his coming duel with Roland.

“Come on,” Shiv growled. “Come and get me. Let’s get this over with.”

Shiv heard the nearest door creak, and he clenched his fist in anticipation of the first adversary to come. He wondered who it would be. His mind whirled with guesses. Since these were smaller, individual-sized doors, it could be anyone, but going by his previous delving experience, it had to be someone he had faced before, and it started at a low Tier before the threat level spiked.

But it’s different this time; I have to protect Adam for an hour instead of defeating specific monsters. Maybe the threats will be weaker, but keep coming. Maybe—

His assumptions died and his mouth fell open as Uva stepped out onto the floor. She stared at him, her expression blank, but her eyes glowing with Outsider energies. Instead of unleashing her Psychomancy, she held up a pointed blade made from dancing fractals and shot toward him as a blurring missile.

Shiv's breath caught in his throat and then was driven out from his lips as the tip of her geometric rapier painted a gash across the surface of his pillar. There was a distortion at the tip—her thrust unleashed an injection of magnified force that sent her somersaulting against the ceiling, whereupon she launched herself back down to deliver a second blow.

