The dumb animal inside Shiv screamed for him to reason with her, to ask her to stop. The Pathbearer knew the rules. This wasn't actually Uva. It was simply a collection of her capabilities distilled into her form to cause him further discomfort, to cause him further distress, and scatter his focus so that he would fail this delve. The System seemed to be getting real personal this time. Extra cruel. It felt like it was engaging in psychological warfare against him, trying to get his ego and emotions to crumble so that it could deal a fatal blow inside his Delve, but Shiv refused to succumb. He forced his will to take hold and drove away all doubt, all worry, all anxiety. This wasn't her; this was just a shadow made to look like her, possessed of a few of her skills. This wasn't her.

But even as Shiv tried to convince himself of that, knowing something intellectually didn't mean feeling it emotionally, and that imbalance caused part of his spine to creak and grow brittle. Her second stab fared worse than the first, barely blemishing his pillar. Whatever skill her rapier possessed, it wasn't enough to pierce through his Toughness, but even so, he felt tendrils of pain glide across his skin. At least the System was decent enough to deprive her of Psychomancy. No way I could protect Adam if she had that.

Shiv struggled against himself. His body felt like stone, his limbs and mind reluctant to move. It should have been easy for him to reach out and tear her apart, or at least hold her in place to stop her from continuing the onslaught. Still, he hesitated, and with every moment that dragged on, the fractures lining his body grew until he was bleeding from a series of spider webs disfiguring the expanse of his flesh.

Godsdamn it, Shiv, it's not her. Get your shit together. Come on! It took more willpower than Shiv thought he had to strike at her. He didn't even use his hand. He extended his Biomancy, swept through her flesh, and stopped her heart. He didn't want to see her body splatter. He didn't want to reduce her from a beloved form to little more than a bag of broken viscera and jutting bone. He gave her a pristine death, this effigy of her at least, and even then, it filled him with nausea as he watched her collapse onto her knees while her eyes went blank and the fractals she wielded vanish from her like petals to the wind.

Blood fell from Shiv's mouth. He was being torn open on the inside as well, and the enkindled flames he wielded were now pressed against him like an avalanche that constantly built with more and more mass. He sustained the weight. He endured. He was the Deathless, and this wouldn't be the worst of his torment, but it was torment nonetheless.

Shiv thought about apologizing to Uva's shadow, but he held himself back. It wasn't her. It wasn't her, and the more he made it feel like her, the worse this would be. Toughness was more than physical resilience here. He had to be stronger, within and without, if he wanted to get through this Delve.

“Do worse,” Shiv seethed, forcing himself to look at Uva’s body. “Do worse. You don’t have it. You can hurt me. You can kill me. But you can’t stop me. You won’t keep me here.”

But the System’s wordless brutality continued as practically every door along the kilometer-long hall burst open, allowing hundreds of Uvas to step through. All of them had their gazes locked on Shiv, but their eyes stared through him, and he knew they had only one thing in mind: Adam. They came forth in a tide of bodies, and a ragged sigh escaped Shiv as he resigned himself to what needed to be done.

The Uvas came bearing fractal blades capable of piercing through steel as if it were butter, which endured even as they speared divots into his pillar and inflicted bruises upon his flesh. They inflicted flesh wounds on his body. He reaped death by the dozen every fraction of a second. The twelve heads of his mana hydra swept through the Uvas, pulping their organs, bursting vessels in their brains. They fell like puppets with their strings cut, their faces blank but their eyes determined, set upon claiming Adam's life.

Even in death, the System played its hand, vulgarly, cruelly, and viciously. It never stopped reminding Shiv what it intended for his group: to pit each of them against each other, to use them as weapons to slay one another. Adam against Shiv, Uva against Adam, Shiv against her.

And the subsequent notification never arrived. The encounter never ended. The hallway was filling with bodies, piled upon each other meters high, and even more Uvas tread upon each other, their footsteps falling hard upon her own corpses. Their Eldritch bodies glowed bright, causing the colors from the Dreamtaker's realm to spill through, distorting all that Shiv could see. Despite this, her Unique Skill was diminished, and her nature was kept as a thing of organic tissue, making it easier for Shiv to kill, making it easier for him to suffer her death over and over again.

As minutes passed, Shiv broke and bled, breaking more from internal anguish rather than external injury. And blood became the truest bond between him, Adam, and Uva. Adam spilling red in his bed. The same crimson pooling at Shiv's feet. The same gore leaking from Uva's ruined remains.

At some point, Shiv stopped thinking, closed his eyes, and just started splattering all he could see with his Atlas. But with his vision seeing all biology, that left him with nothing but the glistening ichor they shared. Red on Shiv. Red deep enough to reach his ankles. Red dripping from the ceilings and walls.

Aegis of Assimilation 154 > 157

“They're not her,” Shiv kept repeating to himself, even as more Uvas came forth from the open doors. “They're not her! They're not!”

***

“Is he Delving?” Roland’s voice was choked with surprise and incredulity as he looked upon Shiv's glowing form. A supernova of silvery brilliance pierced through the dense alloys and countless wards layered over the tutorial bunker to form a second dawn inside Gate Piety. The sudden flaring was so bright that it blinded even Roland, let alone the lesser Pathbearers.

The Descenders were already hurrying for the bunker when Roland arrived. He told them to stay back, that he would ascertain the situation. Shiv had informed him of the grudge between Sir Marikos and Valor. Right now, the last thing they needed was a death match between two Legendary Pathbearers. More importantly, however, Roland didn't want the Descenders Union to gain too much insight into whatever was happening with Shiv.

And this was most definitely his doing, for drama and cataclysm were practically his birthright, even more than they were for Roland himself.

I just hope he isn't dead, Roland thought at the time, only partially lying. A small bit of him yearned still to see Shiv resolved. A small dark piece of him that could never let go of what happened that night, of the great betrayal and the enduring trauma that followed. The rest of him was ashamed for even having such a thought. Shiv tried. It wasn't his fault, and Roland should have been stronger, but never was, and he forced the child of his enemies to languish. His enemies, whom he once considered brother and sister, this child who deserved none of it.

Roland couldn't change the past. He couldn't make right what he did wrong, but he could choose now. He went forth, descending into the bowels of the bunker, prepared for anything. Part of him was worried that the God of Strife had come seeking retribution and to reclaim the hand Shiv had stolen from him. The truth, ultimately, was far less severe but no less surprising.

Gathered before the Dread Horizon was a room full of Legends and Heroes. Uva was half-knelt over Shiv's brilliant form. She poured a flood of Psychomantic tendrils into his mind, trying to find where he was. Valor knelt just behind Shiv, cradling his head while channeling a faint blue glow into it.

Then there were the vampires, the man who called himself the Sculptor, and the one who could control the tumors. Jessica stood nearby, her blade raised high, on guard. Her expression was conflicted, but also more than a little annoyed. Her eyes met Roland's and narrowed slightly, but then she turned back to give her attention to Shiv as he tensed and shuddered.

“Ah, Master Arrow!” a nervous, stammering voice sounded from behind Roland. He turned and found himself faced with Enchanter Merrielmel. The bald elf's tasseled robes fluttered to and fro, and his drones darted about, carrying the anxious energy of their creator. Between his broken statements and gasping, stuttering, Roland made out something about Shiv going into the Stranger's Garden to use the eldritch god as a sparring partner for the coming duel—while also using that as a potential opportunity to find and retrieve what remained of the Enchanter's brother.

Roland felt a node of pressure begin to build in the back of his head. For anyone else, it would be utter insanity to willingly go into the Outside. For Shiv, well, of course it would be great training. What could the Avatar of the Stranger inflict upon him? Death? That meant nothing. That just constituted an easy way to gain more levels, and there were few ways to improve as a Pathbearer that were quite as intense as true life-or-death battles, for even the slightest fault in decision will see you cut down.

Then there was the Culturist. He loomed over Shiv, his shadow great and his expression one of consternation and genuine annoyance. He seemed disappointed in the Deathless somehow, like Shiv had done something wrong.

“It’s his Toughness,” the Culturist said smoothly, informing Roland of a few things at once.

“Of course it’s his Toughness; you all have been savaging him like a pack of wolves.” Roland bit his lip in frustration. “Him tumbling over the edge, I understand—he’s still just a boy—but you are all actual Legends. You should know better. You should have seen this coming!”

“Hey, Roland: how about you fuck off back up to your Perch and leave this to us?” Jessica snarled in annoyance as she pointed her sword at him. Roland took a half-step back—which was a mistake, as something in Jessica's eyes shifted in a predatory rousing. But before the tension could build further, the Culturist stopped between them.

“None of that,” the orc chided. “But I must agree with the Giantsbane—though for non-emotional reasons. You are to be the Deathless’ opponent, Master Arrow. It is improper for you to be here.”

“It's improper to Delve before a promised duel as well,” Roland shot back. “Ascendants… It’s more than the stupid duel—we need him stable right now. We need him here in the Gate. We can't have him down too. The Descenders are only here because of him. The Brokers are fascinated by and willing to play with him.” A rush of discomfort passed through Roland as he pushed out his following admission. “And his social instincts are necessary right now, even more than his Skills. This is not the time to be incapacitated. I would have postponed if I had known he was going to do this.”

Roland drew in a breath. “The dragons are outside right now. Sir Marikos is demanding to see Shiv—and he does not strike me as the patient type.”

“He is not,” Valor confirmed calmly. A pulse of Animancy washed out from him and folded Roland’s body. “But he is easily distracted, and we need more time.”

“Time we never had to begin with,” Roland said, shaking his head. “This could take months. Preparations are supposed to be made far in advance—security and safety. Affairs handled ahead of time. We have a Gate Quest that must be completed in a matter of weeks. My son is still incapacitated. Delegations from the Abyss and the surface are arriving en masse.” He caught himself before his stress could continue gushing out. Complaining wasn’t helping him, and it wasn’t helping the situation. “Are you with him, Legend Valor?”

“Not yet,” Valor answered, distracted by his own efforts. “My Animancy is vastly diminished from what it was, and my memories and experiences are missing critical components.”

“But Shiv may not need that at all,” Uva answered. She rose, pulling her threads away from Shiv as a look of resignation came over her. “He completed his last Delve in the span of a day in the Rubix Well. He will see this resolved—one way or another.”

“I don’t doubt that,” Roland said, “but how long will it take?”

“However long it must,” Uva answered simply, not looking at Roland. Her Psychomancy field spread out once more, and Roland caught glimpses of her multiplicative consciousness in the imprint of her mana. “I will address the Descenders—and all other guests for that matter.”

The Culturist hummed. “I will take my leave for now as well. There is little I can provide the Deathless that he cannot manage himself. Besides, there is another I must see. Master Arrow, might you bring me to where my savior resides?”

His request rendered Roland’s mind blank, his hand twitching to hold a bow in a desperate urge to commit violence. In the Culturist’s place, Roland briefly glimpsed the Challenger, and the orc seemed to sense that.

“I intend to help him,” the Culturist said somberly. “However I can. And I ask your permission out of respect and decency—not an inability to reach him. I am still bound to his Awareness Skill, and I feel the burden it imposes on him. Please. He gave me back my personhood. Let me do what I can for him—and if you do not trust me still, then I bid my soul and every skill it contains to your mercy, for you to indulge your wrath.”

