With my white Spatial magic portal slowly spinning next to the light blue humming exit portal of the dungeon, I answer Ember's question.

"I... guess I have."

Thinking about it further, the process wasn't the same, and the rewards were different too; but this soul bond does feel very similar to the one Ember and I made back when he first hatched from his egg.

I continue again. "Is there any problem with being soul bonded to more than one entity? It's not like I can talk to the monster physically, we bonded through a soul stone."

A grin forms across Ember's face. "Oh, you bonded through a stone... That makes much more sense, the aura I felt link with your main body was a familiar one, who was it-"

The Black Scaled dragon looks up into the sky, trying to remember something, but I reply before he can come to the conclusion on his own. "It was a Red Hydra, I only bonded with 1 of the 7 stones."

A loud laugh erupts from Ember through our link. I've never heard him speak so loudly or show this much emotion about anything. It was not the expected reaction, the surprised and confused look on my face shows this clearly.

After a moment, Ember responds between chuckles. "That old beast really went and got himself killed, didn't he. Well, I have to say, he was one of the strongest back in my era. What ability does the bond grant? I'm curious, It has to be a good one."

Again, this isn't the reaction I was expecting either. "It's a stat-boosting ability. While active, all of my movements and mana-based attacks are aided by a red aura. It's called the Red Hydra's Rage... but what do you mean by the beast was killed? Back in your era? Could you explain what exactly this soul bond is."

Ember's laughs finally cease, but a toothy grin is still present as he goes into detail. "There are two types of soul bonds that can be made with certain monsters that have made it to level 1000 or higher once in their lives. Once a creature reaches this stage, another rank-up process happens and often strong monsters become Immortal Labyrinth Guardians on the 40th, 60th, or final floor. Even after death, most are reborn or reincarnated once their energy is completely gone."

I nod, piecing together his words. "So, just like you? You were reborn as a level 1, still holding all your memories... Does that mean there are tons of immortal monsters roaming the Labyrinths?!"

"No, no... Only a select few are chosen by the King after the second rank-up process. New members are only chosen after incredible feats. Last time I was alive there were only 9 of us, I doubt many changes have been made in just 50 years."

I interject. "So... I'm bonded with you and now the Red Hydra. What's the difference between a living bond and a dead one."

"There are many differences between every bond, living or dead. Some grant buffs, some give instant level experience, some share attributes. It's impossible to predict, as every Immortal has slightly different powers and knowledge after each rebirth. The fact that the Hydra was split into 7 parts is definitely a unique trait, he was strong enough to do so. Therefore I'd assume there's even more to the ability once all of the stones are bonded. The only difference between a living bond and a dead bond is that the creature being bonded cannot be reborn until their soul energy is fully dispersed and free."

Ember laughs again, continuing. "So that means I can keep that old beast dead for as long as I'm alive."

I assume there's a rivalry between these two, but it's not one I care to pry about now. Ember seems to be having fun boasting about it to himself.

I speak up again, pointing toward the portal and my spatial magic. "This all makes sense, but we have a much more time-sensitive matter on our hands. Let's at least get in the sky before continuing this talk."

Ember lets out a final chuckle before jumping into my item storage.

I step out of the dungeon, making my way through the cave system beneath the desert from the start of our mission in the Dark Continent. It would have been much easier to Dungeon Walk into one of the dungeons in Solara, but for some reason the one we used earlier is not showing up in my mind's eye.

The only logical explanation I have is that my body doubles are able to teleport to points where my main body has been, but my main body is not capable of teleporting to a point where a deceased double has marked.

Whatever the case may be, I make it out of the cave system unnoticed and let Ember out free for us to soar high up in the sky.

For the first time ever, I use my [Rising Emperor's Domain] hidden ability buff on Ember once we get high enough in the air.

A blue text box fills my vision.

[Use Rising Emperor's Domain]

Range: 13.2 Meters

Skill: [Stealth]

[YES][NO]

I click yes, and Ember is able to conceal his entire body, making him invisible while soaring through the blue sky above the desert. I'm surprised at how seamlessly it works. Now every time I look in Ember's status [Stealth] shows up like it was always there.

In his newly ranked-up form, our flight speed is even faster. We should make it to the city in no time, a few hours at most. Much quicker than our flight from here to the Labyrinth break previously.

This reminds me of one last question I had. "Hey Ember, is it possible to wield Demonic Energy and Mana at the same time?"

The memory of switching back and forth between states followed by the violent sparks fills my mind. This reaction has happened two times now, as well as with every enemy I defeat through the ability.

Demonic energy is incredibly powerful, but dangerous and volatile at the same time. It's one of my much-needed trump cards against opponents stronger than myself, but I can't keep putting my body and life at risk just for 1 simple attack.

Ember responds. "Of course, now that you have a body double ability to test it out with, I'd be glad to train you once you're ready. It won't be easy..."

Ember starts to fill me in on the details, but says it's better for us to go in-depth once we're in a secluded dungeon and able to train. There are so many new abilities for me to try out soon, I'm excited to test them all.

Time passes in the air, and the beginning of another sunset can be seen as the City of Solara finally comes into view. We made it here just before dusk.

We touch down just outside Chester's home, and the eerie silence that fills the air along with a lack of people on my enemy detection radar inside the home are not the signs I was hoping for. Ember gets into my spatial magic portal before we get too close.

Even with a ton of questions spinning through my mind, the presence of a familiar briefcase with a slowly leaking containment field can be sensed inside.

It's not in my item storage, so my only guess is that it fell from my body double with all the other real physical gear upon my death.

This means someone must have brought it back...

I knock on the front door a few times, then decide to turn the handle once there's no response.

*Click*

It's already unlocked...

The house is in much different condition than when I was here last. Most of the magic items, paintings, and valuables are all stripped from the walls.

The curtains are closed, and the smell of Chester's cooking no longer fills the air.

All I see in front of me is a long wooden table with a paper note and pen.

It's in Maria's handwriting, so I begin reading.

____________________

Dear Jay,

We're all safe, and we saved Lydia. If you're reading this, come meet us in Valor City.

There's a lot we didn't know about the-

____________________

Before I can finish reading, a slight whistling sound becomes louder and louder in my right ear. Out of instinct, I put up a pink mana barrier. The clang of a thin silver needle shattering into tiny pieces can be heard as an attack is blocked right before it hits my neck.
