But her emotions had escaped their box and refused to go back in. Within her raged a war far more intense than the one without; a clash between her identity, emotions, and the terrifying truth of what she had learned.

I am a dungeon.

She was the most horrific kind of monster – the kind that made people gleeful about hunting her down, torturing her, and gloating about how they would kill her. The kind of monster that would instantly turn her friends against her. The kind of monster that consumed everything in its path, spewing out dungeon-breaks and decimating cities.

It was no surprise that Roderik had come for her. She deserved it. She had even signed up to become an adventurer herself, joining the guild and learning how to fight and defend against dungeons. When she thought of Malika and the story of her pain, Ali knew she would be the first person to try and put her down.

Perhaps I should let her kill me.

She fought for what felt like days, the battle in the jungle raging on unabated, mirrored by the one in her heart. Relentlessly, she threw herself into the fight with pure focus, seeking respite in the blissful void and yielding to her instincts, but every time she returned with a jolt of pain and anguish, unable to shed the truth.

Eventually, her body rebelled against the unrelenting intensity with which she fought. She stumbled, falling on her face in the dirt. Getting up in a daze, she turned, and without much awareness of where she was going, she returned to the great stone doors of the distant library. She barely noticed the great distance her aggressive expansion into the jungle had taken her, falling back into her mental void, walking, stumbling, and eventually crawling her halting way back to the relative safety of the ancient library.

She dragged herself across the threshold and into a corner, collapsing unconscious on the stone floor with the sounds of battle still raging in the distance, not even aware that her original Forest Guardian had followed her and now stood guard over her insensible body.

For the first time in days, she knew the blissful peace of unconsciousness, freed from the crushing despair and loneliness that clawed at her heart.
