The wind was cold and he shivered slightly, though he knew that without his Path, he would be freezing. He closed his eyes and focused, just connecting to and listening to the wind as it brushed past him, past the roof of the healer station, through the alleys of Anvakar, and out into the northern lands. He breathed deep, time and time again, all the way until his Focus was used up.

Veron felt calmer, more present, when he opened his eyes again.

Then he lay down on his back. Even he was getting cold now. He would have to go back inside soon.

Things were working out so well when we started. One group of beasts and everything goes south.

“And we even get robbed. What the fuck was even that?”

What would’ve happened if Reka didn’t have that relic to help her kill the ants? What would’ve happened if we talked back more? If we had refused to give them anything. Would they really have attacked us?

In the end, I think we handled it pretty well. And we got Silvie out, got ourselves out.

Veron felt conflicted, different emotions pulling in different directions. He let them all be.

He was angry that there wasn’t more security here to prevent what had happened but at the same time, he felt grateful that the Guild seemed to care about keeping their adventurers alive at least. Even now that it was clear that Silvie would no longer be capable of fighting with the same capability. Maybe she could try with one arm at some point in the future, but he knew that was a stretch. She had her magic still at least.

It just seemed so strange that one attack from one monster would change her life so much.

You know that’s how things are.

I guess I hoped that healing magic would change that.

Veron raised his hand and looked at it, then touched his neck. Right where the Cayaralan above had struck him. He wouldn’t have made it out without extracting its essence, and without Hayden’s healing.

Veron found that he didn’t feel a ton of worry. He couldn’t control if the surgery went well, but knowing Silvie, and having seen that doctor, or healer, or whatever she called herself, he felt confident she would make it. Most of their coin would be gone, but he could repair some houses if needed. He supposed his next weeks would depend on what the Silver Wolves wanted to do. And he was fine with that. He owed them a lot, and he cared about them.

I did hope I could bring back less depressing tales to Ian. Though I suppose telling him about the Gutter itself should be exciting. And about the Crypts and those Silver adventurers.

Veron smiled to himself. I suppose there could be more, depending on how things go.

He sighed and focused on the now. On today.

Reka returned less than two hours later, with new packs, their things, and a Blood potion that would help Silvie power through the healing magic of the surgery.

They waited and had dinner together in the small room.

An assistant came in the evening, letting them know they would start in half an hour.

Silvie was moved with a stretcher and they waited in front of a closed surgery room until it was done.

Devana stepped out a little over an hour later, taking off the cloth covering her mouth and nose. “She pushed through. That was a nasty wound, worse than it looked. You did good work, Hayden. She’ll be brought back to her room and will be transferred tomorrow morning. An assistant will talk to you about that.”

“How did it go?” Hayden asked.

“She will recover a lot better now, but I won’t pretend it will be easy. Keep an eye on the wound and if you can, use your healing for at least a few weeks, and keep it clean. I’ve ordered a few doses of Jivera Flower, at least for the first few days. They’ll be given to you later.”

Hayden sighed, his shoulders dropping. “That’s a relief.”

“Thank you for the work, Devana,” Reka said.

Devana nodded. “Stay safe out there, and give her time. It’s not an easy adjustment.”

“I can’t wait for her stupid jokes,” Reka said, bursting out into tears.

This time, Hayden hugged her close.
