This marked the first deviation from Fifth Brother’s theories, and yet, this Sovereign could find no fault in Falling Rain’s words because it explained away why the cultivators who Formed their Inner Cores using information gleaned from this Sovereign’s success were either unable to succeed, or created False Cores which were so flawed they would eventually prove more hindrance than boon. “What is One with the Self? How do you achieve it?”

It wasn’t until after the fact that this Sovereign realized he’d voiced the question out loud and revealed the depths of his ignorance, but Falling Rain simply answered without gloating. “How can you expect the world to accept you if you cannot accept yourself? This is where you erred along your Path, for you are no longer the Ying Zheng who reached Core Formation shortly after uniting the Empire, yet you have made no effort to acknowledge this change, and even outright deny it.” Again, there was no heat or condemnation in his tone, but this Sovereign burned with shame all the same, for he could hear the unmistakable ring of truth within Falling Rain’s declaration, but he was not yet done. “Even then, you could have found your Path again had you not buried your heart and humanity both, but at least you re-discovered a part of it here today.”

Following Falling Rain’s gaze, this Sovereign turned to see the souls of his sworn brothers standing at attention behind him, four empty shells and a fifth so spent it might as well be empty too. For a long moment, he could not understand the meaning behind Falling Rain’s words until he remembered all the fond memories he shared with his sworn brothers, and why he’d been willing to stand guard over their empty shells right up until his final moment of bitter defeat. “Earlier today, I asked you why you seek strength,” Falling Rain reminded, and this Sovereign remembered the heavy blows he’d suffered following that seemingly innocent question, blows which would have been light as a feather had this Sovereign not strayed from his Path. “You fought for fame and wealth, then for vengeance and escape, fighting for the sake of fighting because you knew no other way to live.”

“Until I met them,” this Sovereign continued, unable to tear his eyes away from his five sworn brothers and wishing he could go back to those early days. “I defeated First Brother Wushen when we crossed paths in the state of Qiong, winning by the narrowest of margins after three days and three nights. Had he not admitted defeat when he did, I might well have in the next breath, and he knew it too. Though enemies on the battlefield, we knew we’d found a kindred spirit in one another, and we swore brotherhood then and there.” He met Second Brother in a winehouse, playing moving melodies for spare coins which were few and far between, for the cost of constant war was staggering indeed. There, they drank themselves deep into their cups and discovered that they shared a hatred for the established norms and a wistful hope for a better future. Third and Fourth Brothers were soldiers in the employ of respective warlords, and this Sovereign won them over with his words and his deeds. Together, they embarked on a quest in their war-torn world to bring peace to the lands once more, so theirs was a bond forged in conflict and quenched in camaraderie unmatched.

Aside from Fifth Brother Di Zi, of course, but they all liked him at first glance, because he possessed an exuberant gaiety and merry outlook on life which few could match.

“Fifth Brother was the best of us all,” this Sovereign continued, narrating all of this out loud for no reason than to share his reminiscence. “A brilliant man, but what made him stand out was his generosity and compassion, willing to spare no expense to help others even complete strangers he’d just met. He had a way of seeing things that made the complex seem simple, and he always knew just what to say to help me see things clearly too. He was more than a friend, more than a brother, but a guide, a mentor, and a counselor of conscience, one whose motives were always in favour of everyone involved, especially for those without a voice. Perhaps things would have turned out differently if we’d not fallen out, if I’d not let my pride, my rage, and my fear consume me.”

Such was life, but it was far too late for regrets. Finished with his narration, this Sovereign made no effort to defend himself as Falling Rain took his sword in hand and raised it up high, glowing with a light that transcended the limits of mortality and touched upon the powers of Immortals in truth. “I do not know how to kill you without consigning your soul to oblivion,” he began, unapologetic to the end, but this Sovereign cared not to explain the method of his own death, nor did he particularly mind this unenviable fate, a harvest reaped for the sins he’d sown.

Never one to stand on ceremony, Falling Rain struck without warning and this Sovereign welcomed the bitter end, only to discover that he was not yet dead. Turning an inquisitive glance upon his foe, this Sovereign’s heart skipped a beat as he heard a familiar sigh, one he hadn’t heard in long millennia. “I told you, did I not,” Fifth Brother Di Zi began, his tone so full of regret as he plunged his hand into this Sovereign’s back and unravelled the ties keeping his soul anchored to Liang Wu Sheng’s body. “To cultivate is to nurture the truth, the Truth of the Heavens, the Truth of the World, and the Truth of the Self. You have long since lost your Truth of Self, big brother, which is why we turned against you, but I pray that you hold fast to it in your next life.”

“Fifth Brother,” Ying Zheng gasped, feeling like a child who’d been caught sneaking sweets by mother once again. “I understand now. I’m sorry. For everything.”

“I know. I too am sorry, for I wish there was another way.”

And as the darkness stole away all awareness, his last thought was one of pleasant comfort as he slipped into the warmth of the Mother’s embrace, one which he had denied for far too long.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
