Arie and Raven focus on their own careful preparation processes, as hundreds of divine-grade craftsmanship windows float around them. Alveron is very intrigued by this next part, as the slug does not know much about either of these two classifications.

"It's said here Amplifiers are the rarest kind of Soul Weapons, as True Amplifiers are only created once for every race. To bond with one properly, you must have a certainty about your will, and it must align with the prior soul's desires. The writer of this research says they've never come in contact with one themselves but has detailed notes about first hand accounts from a few sources. Though, it is stated many times that the accuracy of these additional notes cannot be proven. Many times he has run into Soul Weapon users with extremely powerful Relic Class artifacts that have claimed to be Amplifiers, yet they never truly are. Though, for some reason he is certain they exist."

Bri keeps reading, and her eyebrows raise.

"—And yes, the Destroyer Class Soul Weapons. This writer of these notes says he's never seen one of these either, and they may just be myths. However, in theory, they are possible. It is when a wielder harnesses the soul of something that should not be captured. Like a planet, or a star..."

Bri's eyes squint, and she shrugs.

"That's it... well, other than the hundreds of thousands of craft results recorded for Basic and Relic Class weapons. There are many different types, but I won't bore you with the affinities and possible evolution paths certain weapons can take. There are common paths that certain races follow, but it seems to be very personal, just like Ranked-Up buffs or True Core abilities..."

Alveron asks to look at the list of crafts, but Arie and Raven aren't very interested.

So, she wishes the generals good luck as they have everything they need and cuts them out of the ongoing telepathy chat to have some peace and quiet while turning to the Silver Knight in the surveillance room.

She has a very familiar gleam in her eyes that lusts for profits as she replies to the slug's request.

"Sure, I've given you a free taste of what I can offer. What specifics are you looking for? I'm sure we can come to a few reasonable agreements."

–

In the Upper Realm, flying high above the green clouds, the Ellipsia Citadel gets smaller and smaller behind a Wyvern and the silhouette of a fake Demon. The Blue Wyvern sends a telepathic message back to the Rising Emperor as they both exit the last translucent layer of an ether security bubble surrounding the Citadel.

"Kelfar? How do you know the name of my home world?"
