Pallass requires report as a matter of security due to Liscor connection. The Assembly of Crafts will send formal request to Liscor’s Council momentarily. Stand by to receive.
Fissival. Pallass has no claim on the treasure. Stop being greedy little hatchlings.
Zeres. Fissival, please conform to sending protocol.
Manus is sending. Other cities, please refrain from petty disputes. Liscor, please confirm dungeon status. Reports indicate inner city. Confirm?
Liscor confirms. Dungeon is still classified as ‘active’ and ‘hostile’. Gold-rank danger rating remains unchanged despite reduction of Raskghar threat. Preliminary reports—see summary of Adventurer B’s attached interview—report ‘infested’ monsters possibly derived from ancient Drakes as well as at least one more boss-class guardian monster and possibility of major unique enemy known as ‘Mother of Graves’, classification pending. Further details will be reported as they occur.
Oteslia. Ancestors. Does Liscor have enough adventurers to deal with dungeon? More should be sent north at once.
Zeres. Oteslia, please conform to sending protocol.
Pallass. Claim to portion of Liscor’s treasure being sent. Liscor, please note involvement of Pallass’ adventuring population in aid of Liscor. Pallass will require report within the next hour, subject to immediate action by Pallass.
Salazsar objects to Pallass’ claim.
Oteslia objects to Pallass’ claim.
Fissival objects to Pallass’ claim.
Manus requests list of artifacts recovered—possibility of trade for artifacts with goods or coin?
Zeres thinks Pallass is a bunch of greedy cowards. But we’ll also trade for artifacts received.
Liscor. Wall Lord Ilvriss has sealed the contents of acquired artifacts. They’ll be distributed among contributing adventurers and factions. It’s out of my claws.
Pallass. Stand by for response.
Salazsar. Leave Liscor’s [Strategist] alone. Congratulations, by the way, Liscor.
Liscor. Thank you!
Oteslia congratulates Liscor.
Zeres. Please conform to sending protocol. No personal asides, Oteslia, Salazsar.
Oteslia. Damnit, Zeres, stop being petty. Is that you, Kissi?
Teibault. Liscor, can you send a more detailed analysis of Raskghar with adventurer analysis?
Liscor will comply as soon as possible. Estimated one day delay due to adventurer fatigue.
Pallass. Lesser cities will refrain from sending [Message] spells into this discussion. Liscor’s situation is priority, not for casual interruption.
Teibault. Go eat your tail, Pallass. We have a right to ask questions.
Fissival. Hah!
Zeres supports Teibault. Who’s the idiot sending from Pallass?
Pallass to Zeres. Please lodge formal inquiry and complaint into Zeres [Strategist]’s conduct.
Zeres. Go boil yourself.
Ssilvem. Sorry, can we get a resend of our report? Our [Mage] forgot to write down the report. What’s this about Goblins?
 
Olesm groaned and covered his face as he scribbled down a request for Laskaillia to resend the report to Ssilvem. He looked at the paper and shook his head. It was a mess, and in that sense, typical of most joint conversations between the cities. Olesm sighed as the cities started bickering with each other. Laskaillia’s brows twitched as she stopped writing and looked at him.
“It’s all chaos. They’re just insulting each other now. Should we send any more [Messages]?”
“No, I think the report’s out there. They can make what they want of it. If they hail you, please tell them I’m off duty. Or dead. Thank you so much, Miss Laskaillia.”
“Of course.”
She smiled and glanced at something behind Olesm. The [Strategist] sighed and put away his reports for filing. No doubt he’d have to answer more questions, but there was no sense waiting now. He turned—and nearly had a heart attack. Wing Commander Embria was standing right behind him, peering at the conversation between the cities.
He hadn’t noticed her behind him at all! She’d appeared in silence—despite the armor she wore! The Wing Commander noticed Olesm jump and coughed. She stepped back quickly.
“Apologies, Strategist Olesm. I didn’t mean to startle you.”
“Uh—that’s quite alright, Wing Commander.”
“Embria, please. You’ve sent the report to the other cities I see. May I have a copy to send to our High Command?”
“Oh—of course! I’m so sorry. I’ll transcribe one right away!”
Olesm flushed as he stood. He kept forgetting that he should send copies to Liscor’s army! It wasn’t something he normally did—usually, Liscor would send a batch of all the news to the army in one lump every month, but with Embria here…
The Wing Commander smiled at Olesm. She was around his height and around his age too, come to that. But where Olesm was thin, if fairly fit, Embria was athletic and strong. Her bright red scales were striking, and Olesm had to keep from admiring them.
“Don’t worry about copying the report. If I could prevail on your [Mage] to send it via [Message] spell?”
“Yes, at once. Who’s the [Strategist] in charge of the army again? Uh—Zweiltan?”
“That’s correct.”
Olesm sighed with relief and wrote down a note, indicating how Laskaillia could contact him. The [Mage] nodded and lifted a claw to her temple. Olesm and Embria stood around awkwardly. He coughed.
“So…how are your men after the battle, Wing Commander Embria? And, uh, how are you doing? I heard you took an injury during the fight.”
Embria smiled at Olesm.
“Barely a scratch. I got cut here—right above the shoulder. But there’s not even a scar as you can tell. I lost two [Soldiers], but the boys are taking it well. As for High Command, I just reported my version of events to them.”
“Ah. And their response?”
The Wing Commander hesitated. She took a seat, and Olesm did too.
“Mixed. But generally positive. They objected to some aspects of the operation, but they’re glad that Liscor is safe and that 4th Company participated in the battle. They send their congratulations to you as well, Olesm. For making [Strategist].”
“Thank you. I, uh, appreciate it.”
The two Drakes sat in silence until Laskaillia looked up.
“I’ve sent the report, and it has been received. Will that be all?”
Olesm started. He nodded as he stood.
“Yes, thank you so much. I should be going. I have to file these and, uh, then I’m off duty.”
He swept up the reports. Embria cleared her throat. She didn’t quite look at Olesm when he glanced at her.
“Hey, Olesm…I quite admired your conduct in the battle. You were a good fighter. Do you want to get a drink later? Because, uh—I’m pretty thirsty and you’re a fine glass of water.”
She pointed with both fingers at Olesm and gave him an uneasy smile. Olesm stared at Embria with his mouth open. He only managed to close it when he heard Laskaillia snort. He looked over and saw she was trying not to guffaw.
“I, uh—I—well, that’s very kind of you, Embria. But I, uh, have an appointment with Watch Captain Zevara, and I’d hate to keep her—”
Embria’s red cheeks flamed brighter. She waved a claw hurriedly.
“Of course. Forget I said anything.”
“Right. Well, I’ll be going. I’ll, uh, see you around. And we could have a drink. At another time.”
“Sounds good. Um. Thanks.”
Olesm edged out of the room as fast as he could. Embria kept smiling until she heard him rapidly moving away and then she buried her face in her claws.
“Damn it, Dad! Why do I ever listen to your advice?”
She sat like that for a moment. Then Laskaillia, forgotten, spoke up.
“That young Olesm is quite an attractive Drake. Not that I think he’ll be falling for your lines anytime soon, Miss Wing Commander.”
Embria started. She looked up at Laskaillia and flushed even further. She stood up hastily and made to exit.
“Thank you for your help, Magus Laskaillia. I must be going. To work.”
She was nearly out the door when Laskaillia called after her.
“You flirt as well as your father, my dear. I think he tried a line like that on me, once. Of course, whether it worked or not is another matter entirely…”
All the color drained from Embria’s face. She stared at Laskaillia, who gave her a serpentine smile, turned to the door, staggered, and then rushed out to get herself as drunk as possible.
Laskaillia cackled to herself as she sat back in her chair. Relc had never flirted with her, but she knew the Gecko of Liscor by reputation. She cleaned her claws, smiling to herself. Laskaillia had only a few vices in life at her age, but one of them was tormenting the youth. And as insults went, that one had been a good one.
 
——
 
Silly things. Happy things. It was because the Raskghar were gone that they could happen and be laughed at. The City Hall in Liscor felt lighter to the young woman who slipped inside. She watched Olesm practically run out of the doors and Embria depart as well. Neither Drake noticed her in their embarrassment, which was unusual—or not, given that she was hiding behind a door jamb and peeking out. She had a feeling she wasn’t supposed to be here.
Still, the few Drakes at work in the building didn’t slow her, and the two Drakes standing next to the door didn’t stop her from entering. Wall Lord Ilvriss looked up from the enchanted bow made of some kind of ivory and sighed loudly as Erin Solstice entered the room.
“You are aware, Human, that Liscor’s city hall is off limits to members of the general public? And I am a Wall Lord. How did you get in here?”
“They let me in. I told them I wanted to speak with you. And I bribed them with cookies. Sorry about that.”
Erin smiled unapologetically. As she shut the door, Ilvriss caught both of his guards eating cookies. They looked guilty as he narrowed his eyes at them. Erin shut the door and then stared around.
“Wow. There’s an entire armory in here. Hey, is that—”
“Don’t touch that.”
Erin snatched her hand back before she could touch a suit of armor that looked as though it was made of blue metal and bronze. She stared at Ilvriss. He sighed and took his eyeglass off.
“What do you want, Solstice?”
“Nothing…I was just checking on you. And Olesm. It’s been a while. You’re good, right?”
Ilvriss sat back in his chair and folded his arms. Erin gave him a big smile. She reached for a bag at her side.
“Wanna cookie?”
“Is it sugary?”
“Yes?”
“Then my answer is no. Why are you here?”
“Can’t I be here to give everyone good cheer?”
Ilvriss slowly raised one of his brows. He had no eyebrows, but the effect was largely the same. Erin put her hands behind her back and studied the room, taking in the parchment, Ilvriss, and the gold sitting in the bags next to him.
“You’re busy, I get that. I bet you have a lot of paperwork, and I’m sorry for bothering you. But…I dunno, it feels like we should all be giving thanks for defeating the Raskghar, don’t you think? And I dunno, celebrating the teamwork? The joint effort? Goodwill towards Humans and Drakes? And Goblins?”
The Wall Lord waited. Erin indicated the gold in the bags meaningfully.
“Hint, hint.”
They stared at each other for a few more seconds. At last, Erin gave in.
“Can I have some money?”
“Is that all you came here for?”
“Yes! No! Okay, yes. I really could use some gold.”
Ilvriss glanced at Erin as he leaned back in his chair. His tail curled around his chair leg.
“Is your inn doing that poorly? I was under the impression that your plays had resumed and that Liscor’s citizenry were frequenting your inn quite often. The Hubris of the Raskghar is the name of the play, is it not?”
“What? Oh, that. Yeah, we’re filling the inn each night! I’m making tons of coin! Uh…but I could use more? I did help with the Raskghar, remember?”
“I recall. Why is the need for coin so pressing?”
Erin scuffed at the carpet with one foot.
“Well…I’ve got expenses. The Goblins, you know? They’re sort of an additional expense. I’ve been trying to feed them at least one meal per day, but, uh, buying that much food is expensive. I can handle it! But I heard you were giving out money so…”
“The lottery and division of the coin and artifacts will happen later.”
“Oh. Right.”
The young Human woman stared at Ilvriss. She looked around the room and seemed to be deciding whether to leave or not. Ilvriss stared at her and then leaned forwards.
“The Goblins are still connected to your inn via that magical door, are they not?”
“Yup.”
“Something will have to be done about them soon. You are aware of that, aren’t you?”
“Like what?”
The Wall Lord narrowed his eyes.
“Liscor cannot have a few hundred Goblins nesting close to the city. It is a security risk, and it will kill trade. The Goblin Lord may be on the run, but until the Humans destroy his army, the Goblins are a legitimate threat.”
Erin sighed. She took a seat across from Ilvriss without being asked.
“I know that. But these Goblins helped us. They saved the Gnolls. Without them, everyone would be dead. You remember that, right?”
“I haven’t forgotten. But that changes none of the facts. The…Hobs under your command were one thing. But three hundred Goblins—how many of them are in that cave, incidentally?”
“Dunno.”
“You have no idea? Surely you’ve counted.”
“Well, there are a lot of them, but I didn’t sit and count them one by one. Why would anyone do that? There’s Goblins. Y’know?”
Erin gave Ilvriss a round-eyed stare. Normally, that would be enough to make Ilvriss snort and dismiss her. However, this time it didn’t work. The Wall Lord glanced suspiciously at Erin, drumming his claws on the table.
“And you have no idea what their plans are either, I suspect.”
“Nope. I just feed them. That’s my job. Hey, did you know they really like fish?”
The Drake looked up suspiciously at Erin. She smiled at him.
“Fish with sauce. Have you tried my fish flakes? They’re a big hit. Takes a lot of oil and eggs and flour, though. Oh, and sauce. Which is why I came here. For the money.”
“I had gathered.”
Erin had an amazing talent to distract from the conversation at hand. It was incredible, really. And aggravating. Ilvriss pinched the scales around his temples with one claw. He would have dearly loved to see what would happen if he let Erin sit in on one of Salazsar’s meetings between the Wall Lords and Ladies. Then again…
He closed his eyes for a second. Erin took that moment to breathe a sigh of relief. Her diversionary tactics had worked. She sat up and gave Ilvriss a broad smile as he looked up.
“They will have to be dealt with. I am not ungrateful. But Goblins are monsters.”
He looked seriously at Erin. And her smile faded. She sat up in her chair and then put one elbow on the table. She leaned forwards, losing her smile for a second.
