“Right—there’s overheads we need to watch out for. The exchange rate on sapphires isn’t so good, but if we bank it and wait—”
“How do we split it? Thirds to each of us? What about Erin?”
Ceria knelt amid a pile of treasure. She looked up at Erin. The young woman backed up as the adventurers stared feverishly at her.
“I’m, uh, good. I got paid. You can have the treasure.”
“You mean it? You can’t change your mind!”
Revi stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] hesitated and looked at Lyonette. Mrsha was staring wide-eyed at the treasure.
“I’m…sure. I didn’t fight in the dungeon.”
“Right. Right. That’s true. We can give you a bit. But all of this? This is for us.”
Revi went back to the gold, standing over it almost protectively. Erin looked around. The Hobs were watching with interest. But there was something almost…scary about the way the adventurers were acting. Erin wanted no part of it. The three teams sorted the treasure nonstop for an hour, trying to calculate how much they’d earned. In the end, they had a rough count.
“It could be off—the fluctuating market is always an issue. But assuming we could average the prices for each item—”
Pisces scrubbed a hand through his messy hair, ignoring the grime on his hands. Typhenous mumbled as he stared at the parchment with the figures scrawled on it. Ceria bounced on her feet.
“Well? How much? How much?”
Pisces looked up and gulped.
“A hundred and ten thousand gold pieces? Give or take thirty thousand as a margin for error.”
“A hundred and ten—”
“Give or take? How much could we get?”
Jelaqua tried to add it up on shaking fingers.
“Per group? That’s….close to forty thousand for each team! Thirty-five thousand pieces!”
“And that’s assuming we don’t get more for the gems and whatnot. If we get a good price—”
The adventurers went quiet. They looked at each other. Then Revi laughed shakily.
“We’re rich. This is—this is a haul.”
The other adventurers nodded. Ceria sat on the ground as filthy gold coins spilled around her. Ksmvr stared at the treasure.
“So, does this mean our teams have achieved lucrative success, Captain Ceria? Have we struck it rich?”
“Very rich, Ksmvr.”
Ceria nodded at once. But it was Jelaqua who raised a trembling hand.
“Hold on. This is good, but it’s not everything.”
“What do you mean?”
Ceria stared at the Selphid. Jelaqua took a few deep breaths.
“Okay. It’s great. If it was one team we’d be…well, thirty-five thousand is a huge amount any way you cut it. But for a Gold-rank team? It’s good. It’s what we came here for. But if we can get more—”
She looked at Griffon Hunt. Halrac nodded.
“It’s what we came here for.”
“Right. We could do with eighty thousand gold pieces. Now that would be a real haul even for a Gold-rank team.”
Revi muttered to herself. She raised her hands as she got a dozen glares.
“What? This is great, don’t get me wrong! It puts our team back on the map. After what happened—”
She looked at Typhenous and Halrac. The [Scout] nodded. He sat on the bed, then reached down and pulled a topaz away with a grimace.
“After all our setbacks, this will…it’ll fund us for a long time. Get us better equipment if we need it. Help us get more adventurers.”
“Us too. We’ve had a few thousand gold coins in the bank, but nothing we could really rub together. This? This is security.”
Jelaqua stared at the mountain of coin. She looked up sharply.
“And we can use this in the lottery.”
The others looked at her in surprise. Halrac sat up and nodded.
“That’s true. We can cede all the money we’ll get and ask just for an artifact. And then—”
“—and then we have gold and an artifact. Dead gods. Dead gods.”
Jelaqua rubbed her hands together. Ceria blinked at Halrac.
“You want more? After this?”
She’d hit the limit of all the avarice in her body. But Halrac and the other Gold-ranks clearly hadn’t. The [Veteran Scout] nodded.
“I want that bow. Before, we were trying to get at least a few thousand gold pieces to cover the costs of all we’ve spent. But with this, we can aim just for the artifacts.”
“It’s a miracle. A miracle!”
Revi laughed and lay in a pool of treasure. Seborn had necklaces and bracelets draped over his arms. He grinned, the light of the gems flashing across his body. Erin smiled around, caught up in the genuine excitement this time.
“You did it.”
Yvlon paused. She held a gold coin up and stared at it.
“We did.”
The adventurers quieted. They looked at each other. The Halfseekers, the Horns, and Griffon Hunt. The elation that had filled them drained away for a moment. They remembered.
Ulrien. The original Horns of Hammerad. The Silver Spears. All the others. Ceria stared down at the treasure she held, slightly sick suddenly. It felt like so long. And she’d done it. She held a fortune, the fortune her team had dreamed of. And she felt…a bit empty.
“What now?”
Pisces looked at her.
“Now? I suppose we attempt to arm ourselves better for next time.”
“What next time?”
Revi looked at him, puzzled. Pisces frowned.
“The next foray into the dungeon, of course.”
“Why?”
The question stumped the [Necromancer]. Revi looked around. The Stitch-Girl looked calmer now. She gazed from face to face, ending on Halrac and Typhenous.
“Why do we have to go back into the dungeon? It’s dangerous. It nearly killed us more times than I can count. Besides…we did it. This is what we came here for. Not to conquer the dungeon. For this.”
She gestured at the treasure.
“We did it. A wise adventurer doesn’t keep going in. They take the treasure and go. We did it, everyone. And as for me? I’m done with the dungeon.”
Everyone stared at her in shock. Then Jelaqua stood up.
“So are we. We got our gold. We don’t have to go back in. We’re going to have a holiday. We’re going to—we could go anywhere with this. We don’t have to go back.”
“We don’t?”
Ceria sat still, trying to imagine that. They could just walk away? But the dungeon—
Would be there. And other teams would try to claim its secrets and treasures. But they didn’t have to deal with it. Ceria looked at the treasure. She tried to imagine what twenty-five thousand gold pieces could buy. Could it buy help for an insane Minotaur? A gravestone for the Horns? New robes? Spellbooks? Could it buy—
She looked up and saw Pisces staring at her. Yvlon and Ksmvr stood together, waiting. They were looking at Ceria. So were the Halfseekers. And Griffon Hunt and Erin and Lyonette and Mrsha. Ceria looked around. She stood up. She felt dizzy. Elated. Almost sick. But then she remembered.
A group of adventurers standing around in the inn. Ceria, Sostrom, Gerial, Calruz, Hunt…the Horns. A toast. For honor. Ceria blinked—
And she stood in the room filled with treasure. Different faces gazed at her, worrying, expectant, curious. Ceria looked around. She took a few deep breaths.
“I think—for now—at least until we’re ready—”
They waited for it. Ceria smiled. Her heart was beating fast. The world opened up. The dungeon would stay here, but now—
“We’re done with the dungeon!”
The others burst into wild cheers. Jelaqua hugged Pisces, and Revi danced about Moore as the half-Giant high-fived all three of Ksmvr’s hands. Halrac shook Yvlon’s hands as Seborn and Typhenous slapped each other on the back. The adventurers laughed and danced and cried.
“We’re done with the dungeon! Done with the dungeon!”
And the Goblins watched it all, amused and confused and happy. And when Erin had seen enough, she left the room and watched the Hobs file back to their little cave, nudging each other. Satisfied. They’d given away a fortune, but they stood straight. Happy.
That was the thing about Goblins. They cared not for gold or glory or gods for that matter. But they cared about what mattered. Warm food, a place to sleep, a shiny axe, and each other. Erin looked back at the room full of celebrating adventurers and at the Goblins. She saw things to love about each side. So she stood on the stairs and called down at the Hobs.
“Hey!”
They looked back up at her. Erin smiled and beckoned.
“Come on. You deserve at least one cake for all that.”
They brightened up. It was the best gift Erin could have given them.
 
——
 
Happy days. Presents that mattered more to different people. The Drakes were grateful for peace. The Gnolls rejoiced in victory over their ancient foe. The adventurers looked to the glitter of their wealth. And the Goblins? The Goblins shared three cakes in their cave and were happy. Which group was the most happy?
It was the Goblins. They lay about in a sugar-induced coma, the Cave Goblins experiencing the joy of frosting for the first time in their lives, smacking their lips. For once, they weren’t hungry. The Hobs slept on beds imported from Erin’s inn, warm and comfortable. And one more thing happened that night.
A Goblin wearing a cape tossed and turned in his bed. His cape was magical. Sometimes it was water or mud or, in one bad case, pee. But usually, it was blood. He’d finally figured out how to make it stick, and the blood cape looked coolest.
Goblins slept around him. They crowded his bed, although none actually intruded on the warm cotton sheets. But they clustered around this Hob more than any other.
Not because he was stronger than the rest like Headscratcher or an expert shot like Badarrow. He wasn’t nearly as masterful with weapons as Shorthilt, and he couldn’t sing or speak like Numbtongue. In fact, the other Hobs would have called Rabbiteater slightly unremarkable. So would he.
But that wasn’t what the Cave Goblins saw. That wasn’t what they remembered. They all remembered a figure standing in the darkness.
A Goblin unsheathed his sword as the Raskghar stirred in their camps. The Cave Goblins looked up and saw a toothy grin, and a Goblin wearing a red cape. Rabbiteater pointed at the Raskghar, his crimson cloak swirling around him. He charged, and the Hobs followed, bringing salvation and hope into the darkness of the dungeon.
They had seen him leading the charge. And he was always smiling, always kind. The other Hobs were grumpy or bad tempered or, in Headscratcher’s case, cried too much. But Rabbiteater was nice. And he was learning to cook from Erin. In their minds, he was clearly the leader. More than a leader.
He was a hero. And hundreds…thousands…of Cave Goblins slept that night and believed it. And because they believed, it was true. Only, it was impossible for Rabbiteater to become a [Hero]. He was missing one thing. So he got the closest thing to it.
 
[Level 20 Warrior!]
[Warrior → Champion class!]
[Skill – Champion’s Gear obtained!]
[Skill – Grand Slash obtained!]
[Skill – Valor of Champions obtained!]
 
Rabbiteater sat up. He blinked and looked down at his body. He stared at his worn chainmail shirt and slightly dented sword as they began to glow. Rabbiteater saw the chainmail straighten, shed the rust, and take on a smooth, almost silky sheen. He drew his sword and saw it glow as the blade became straight, the edge razor-sharp. He looked around and waved his arms. All the other Goblins were asleep. So Rabbiteater took a deep breath and shouted.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was sleeping in her bed. In the kitchen. On the floor. She was used to it now, and it was comfy. She was sound asleep, but she woke up when she heard the shouting.
It was coming from the magic door. Erin stumbled over to it and saw the red mana stone was glowing. Someone had opened the door from the other side by accident. She stumbled over and heard loud shouts. She cautiously peeked through the door and saw chaos.
The five Redfang Warriors were running about, shouting. The Cave Goblins were just as excited. But—wait. Erin tried to make sense of it all.
“Champion! [Champion]!”
Rabbiteater crowed as he ran about, arms raised. His cape fluttered behind him as the Goblins cheered. But the Hobs weren’t happy. They were chasing the Cave Goblins about, shouting. They didn’t use words—well, except for Numbtongue, but Erin got what they were saying.
Why him? The Redfang Warriors were upset. They were happy, well, sort of, but they were indignant. Why Rabbiteater? After all, Headscratcher was stronger. Shorthilt was better with a sword! Badarrow never missed a target! And Numbtongue had a guitar! They argued with the Cave Goblins, slapping their chests and flexing their muscles. But the Cave Goblins stared at Rabbiteater, who was posing with the cloak on his back.
Their hero. And as the other four Hobs lay back, crestfallen, Erin smiled. She looked at Rabbiteater, who was smiling from ear to pointed ear. She whispered quietly to herself.
“And Hufflepuff takes the lead.”
Then she closed the door and went to sleep.
