“Not all of them. You and I know that. It’s just how they’re seen. But the five Hobs at my inn—Pebblesnatch—they went into the dungeon and saved lives. They owed us nothing. They could have run. But they didn’t. They risked their lives, and no one’s given them more than passing thanks. Don’t forget that.”
Startled, the Wall Lord met Erin’s eyes. She didn’t use her aura, but for a second, just a second, he felt the intensity in her stare. Then Erin sat back, and the mood lightened as if nothing had happened. After a second, Ilvriss spoke.
“I do not forget. And while it is not expedient for Liscor to acknowledge the Goblins, I honor my vows. I had intended to send this to you, but since you insist on interrupting me—here.”
He reached for the bags of coin at his side. He inspected the gold and then pushed two of the bags across the table. Erin wavered.
“What’s that?”
“Your share of the bounty. One thousand two hundred and eleven gold coins. A small sum, but it was decided that would be the reward for the use of your magic door. And payment for stamina potions and food provided afterwards. I’ll require the bags of holding back, by the way.”
“Buh—all this is mine?”
Erin’s eyes went round with genuine shock this time as she stared at the two bags heaped with gold coins. They were lesser bags of holding so they had a larger depth than their size indicated. Erin poured several gold coins onto the table. Ilvriss nodded. Then he looked up at the ceiling and sighed.
“Young Olesm and Watch Captain Zevara have done many calculations. I oversaw them and agree with the distribution of wealth. Many of the Gold-rank teams are eligible for one of the magical artifacts—perhaps even two. The other teams may combine claims or accept a monetary payout. However, there is an aberration.”
“The…Redfang Goblin team saved quite a large portion of Gnolls. Each one earns them a reward of two thousand gold coins. They saved thirty-three before the final raid on the dungeon.”
“Thirty-three. Then that means—”
Erin’s eyes went wide in genuine shock this time. Ilvriss nodded. He stood up.
“Normally, I would award the coin in full. Or rather, issue a letter of credit if possible since providing all that coin up front would be tedious. However, that will not occur. Because the Goblins are not an adventuring team.”
The young woman froze as she placed gold coins back in her bag.
“What do you mean? They’re totally adventurers! Selys did the paperwork and everything!”
Ilvriss nodded. He took a deep breath and looked at the table.
“They are. But as a new team, their paperwork was being processed during the dungeon attacks. And—sadly—it will appear that they were not registered until several days after the Raskghar were defeated. Thus, invalidating their claim for the gold.”
Ilvriss said the last of that in a rush. He waited, staring at his claws for a second, and then looked up. He saw Erin’s open mouth slowly close. The young woman stood up slowly. Her face was pale.
“That’s a lie.”
“It is not.”
Erin leaned over the table, putting both hands on the glossy wooden surface.
“That’s a lie. Selys filed the paperwork! Is this—is this some kind of joke?”
“Absolutely not.”
The Drake met her eyes. Erin stared at him, disbelieving, and then slowly looked around the room.
“Paperwork? That shouldn’t matter. This is—you don’t want to pay the Goblins, do you? They saved thirty-three Gnolls! You’d have to give them sixty-six thousand gold coins, and you don’t want to! Well—okay, I understand that! But give them something—”
“As a matter of fact, I will be paying the full amount I promised to the pool the adventurers and Liscor may claim from. Money is not an issue.”
Ilvriss’ voice was steely. Erin stared at him.
“Then why—is it because they’re Goblins? Is that it?”
The Wall Lord nodded slightly.
“It would be politically disastrous for a Lord of the Wall to pay Goblins any kind of sum. Moreover, if their contributions were recognized, the other adventurers would surely riot. The Goblins have the greatest claim to the treasure and gold of any group. Thus…well, it is a regrettable accident, but their status as a Bronze-rank team will be certified by Liscor’s guild on the morrow.”
For a few seconds, Erin couldn’t do anything but stare at Ilvriss. Her vision went red. She clenched her hands into fists.
“That’s so—I can’t believe—how could you? How dare you? They saved the Gnolls! They helped fight the Raskghar! They nearly died!”
“I know.”
Ilvriss looked at her calmly. Erin was at a loss for words. She struck the table and then tried to flip it, but it was a huge table and she couldn’t budge it. Erin stormed around it.
“This isn’t right! This isn’t fair! You can’t just take away everything they deserve!”
The Drake didn’t flinch back as Erin shouted in his face. He folded his claws together.
“It’s done, Solstice. The decision was not mine alone. Liscor’s Council voted on the measure. And Olesm and Watch Captain Zevara helped…clarify the issue legally.”
“Olesm did?”
Erin stared at Ilvriss. She stepped back and looked around. Then she stormed over to the two bags of gold. Ilvriss saw her lift it up and braced himself. Erin hefted the bag of gold and then hesitated. She stared at it.
“A thousand gold pieces. That’s a lot of money. Yeah. But it’s nothing compared to what they deserve. And this—”
She glanced up at Ilvriss, her eyes narrowed.
“My door helped a lot, but I bet it’s not worth a thousand gold. Is it? Is this your way of giving me money for the Goblins? A thousand pieces instead of sixty thousand? Is this right?”
He didn’t answer her. Ilvriss’ tail was curled up. Erin lifted the bag as if to throw it and then slowly lowered it.
“I’ll take the money. But this isn’t right. And you know it! I thought you were—I thought you were better than this! More honorable!”
“Human.”
Ilvriss looked steadily at Erin. She turned angrily and stomped to the door, the bags of money in her hand. Ilvriss raised his voice.
“Human.”
“Don’t—”
Erin whirled, face ready. She was ready to pop. But she paused as Ilvriss reached down and pulled something up.
The golden axe with the green edge. Ilvriss put it on the table and pushed it towards her. Erin stared at the axe.
“What’s that for?”
Ilvriss gave Erin a blank look to match her own.
“That’s an axe.”
She opened her mouth and then glared and hefted the bag of gold like a shot put. Ilvriss sighed.
“It’s a potent magical artifact recovered from the Minotaur. Calruz, I believe his name is. Unfortunately…I seem to have misplaced it.”
Erin stared at the axe and then at Ilvriss. Slowly, she lowered the bag. Her arm was getting tired anyways.
“Really? That’s awfully careless of you.”
Ilvriss bristled a bit.
“Well, I wasn’t the one to lose it. I was inventorying the artifacts recovered and found a discrepancy. And, naturally, I searched quite diligently for the artifact, but it was nowhere to be found. I naturally suspected a [Thief], but what high-level rogue would stop at stealing only one magical artifact? Perhaps it was lost in the recovery process from Liscor. It may well have sunk into the lake or remained in the Raskghar camp by accident.”
He stared pointedly at the axe. So did Erin.
“That would suck.”
“Indeed. Unfortunately, the weapon was marked as lost. Not to be found again. And the record of it was—erased.”
Ilvriss carefully picked up a piece of parchment. As Erin watched, he tore it up. She stared at the axe.
“So this axe—”
“What axe? No weapon that has a magic jade edge which can enlarge itself into an enchanted blade was ever recovered from the dungeon. The records show that quite explicitly. This? This is a paperweight. And I don’t have time for distractions. I have artifacts to sort out. Human, your kind often deals in trash. Take this out for me as you go, will you? Toss it away somewhere. Or give it to the Goblins. They enjoy trash, or so I’ve heard.”
Ilvriss pushed the axe across the table to Erin. She stared at it. Then, slowly, she picked it up.
“Oof.”
The Drake coughed.
“You can put it in the bag of holding. Which I’ll need back, as I said.”
“Aw, I can’t have it?”
“No.”
Erin opened the bag and clumsily tried to put the axe in. To her surprise, the haft of the axe sank into the bag until only the head was visible. She popped it into the bag and stared at the plain leather sack.
“That’s a cool magic trick.”
“Indeed. Now, as to the Goblins. It’s regrettable, but they’ll have no compensation. As is only right. I will brook no objections, Human.”
Ilvriss folded his arms. Erin started and then stared at him. She looked at the bag of holding and then Ilvriss. He waited for her to do…something. But Erin just stared. She grew still, and Ilvriss began to feel uncomfortable as she looked him up and down.
At last, Erin made a sound like a laugh. She shook her head.
“I don’t know if that was nice or not. I think you’re a good person, Ilvriss, somewhere in there. But there’s still being fair and—well, bending the rules to do the right thing. There’s a difference.”
She looked at Ilvriss. He felt a spark of anger in his chest, surprising him.
“I do what I have to do for my people. Law and custom can’t be so easily ignored, Human.”
“No. I guess they can’t. But this? I don’t know if this is fair or just trying to make you feel better about doing wrong things. It’s not right. I know that. And I think you do too.”
Erin turned away. Ilvriss half-rose, stung. Then, slowly, he sat. He watched Erin walk over to the door. She paused there and looked back.
“Still. I guess you did do something. So—here.”
She turned and reached for a small sack at her side. She pulled something out of it and tossed it at Ilvriss. He caught the object reflexively. He stared down at it as Erin pulled the door open.
“Human—”
“Bye, Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
Erin smiled at Ilvriss. Then she closed the door. The Drake stared down at what was in his claw. A round, sweet-smelling disc of hardened dough winked up at him. It was a little cookie, burnt slightly around one edge. Ilvriss gazed at it. Then he looked at the open door. Erin was gone.
For a while, Ilvriss sat in his chair. He looked around at the room, full of treasures, and at the place where the bags of gold had sat. Then he looked at the cookie. He slowly bit into it.
“Bleh. Too sugary.”
Ilvriss put the cookie aside. He stared up at the ceiling, and his tail uncurled a bit. He didn’t feel good. But he didn’t feel terrible. He felt—
“Wall Lord?”
One of the guards poked his head into the room. Ilvriss glanced up.
“What?”
The Drake ducked his head.
“Apologies, sir. She did attempt to bribe us with those, uh—”
“Cookies. I am aware. You did well pretending to be bribed. Keep letting her in.”
Ilvriss nodded to the Drake. The guards looked relieved and closed the door. Ilvriss sat back in his chair. What Erin had said repeated in his head.
“Not fair. But what should I do? The rules are there for a reason. Someday they’ll change. But today and tomorrow—”
He shook himself. Ilvriss leaned forwards again and pulled the parchment over to himself. He went back to the bow, muttering.
“Someday, surely. But for now, fair must be just that. Just a small thing. Just…”
His eyes wandered back to the cookie. It wasn’t what he wanted. And it wasn’t that important, obviously. It was a snack. But he didn’t have to have it. And someone had given it to him. A moment of kindness. Ilvriss closed his eyes. He thought of Periss. What would she have done? The same as him, probably. No, she’d have kicked Erin out. But maybe—
The rain pattered down softly. Ilvriss forgot the magical items in front of him. He leaned back, the cookie in his claws. He didn’t like cookies. But Periss loved sweet things.
Ilvriss didn’t hum. He wasn’t happily humming anymore. The room was silent as he sat by himself. But the silence was good. And after a while, Ilvriss moved. The quiet of the room was broken by a single sound.
Crunch. Ilvriss chewed and swallowed. After a moment, he spoke to himself.
“You know, this might be quite passable with a bit of milk.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice walked out of Liscor’s City Hall and looked back at it. She stared at the rainy façade and then at the two bulging bags at her side. She patted them gingerly and then looked around.
“Huh.”
She felt…odd. Not good. Not happy—not after hearing what Liscor had decided to do. But not entirely bad either. She should have expected that would happen, honestly. But she hadn’t predicted Ilvriss being—well, not a jerk. Erin started walking as the rain soaked the cloak on her back.
The sky was grey. The rain fell down. All these things were negative. But Liscor felt better. Truly, it did. Despite the rain, Drakes and Gnolls walked the street. And though they looked up and grumbled at the sky, they sometimes smiled.
The nightmare was over. The Raskghar were defeated. The exhilaration and palpable relief was gone from the city, the celebrations had passed Erin by. So what was left wasn’t joy, and it wasn’t fear. It was…
Melancholy, perhaps. Not everyone smiled. Because Liscor had not survived without wounds. Drakes had died. Gnolls had been sacrificed. The Watch and Embria’s soldiers had died during the battle, as had Antinium. Adventurers had fallen.
There was grief there. Grief, relief…Erin walked down the streets, looking from face to face. And the Drakes and Gnolls looked back at her. So much had happened. So much death and violence. So much sadness.
But there had been happy moments too. Erin closed her eyes as she walked. What could you say after all of it? The bags of money weighed down her sides. But that was just gold. She thought of Mrsha, of Ceria. Of the Goblins. Things had changed. Was it better now? Surely it must be. The Raskghar had been defeated. The Goblins saved. There were scars, and yet—
“Excuse me? Miss?”
Erin turned her head. She stopped as a pair of Gnolls came up to her. They were both female, both young. Teens, in fact. They were taller than Erin, but they looked far too young compared to Krshia and far too old compared to Mrsha. Erin smiled. She’d never seen Gnoll teenagers before. The two looked down at Erin. One had dark black fur, the other greyish.
“Hi there. Can I help you?”
The two teens sniffed Erin. The black-furred one looked uncertain, but then her friend spoke up.
“You’re…Erin Solstice, yes? The [Innkeeper]?”
“That’s me.”
The two exchanged a look.
“Good. We wanted to thank you. Humans shake hands, don’t they? Here.”
