“Bugger that. As Dawil would say. Come on, if they’re coming back I need a drink to wash the poverty off my tongue. Look, let’s all sit down and figure out who gets what once and for all.”
“I want that bow. You’re not talking me out of it, Revi.”
Halrac walked past her. Erin looked at Lyonette, who shrugged and stared at the gold coins.
“They took the bags. We’ll have to haul this up by hand.”
“Ooh. Yeah. Well, maybe let’s leave it until they come back.”
The group went downstairs. Erin smiled as she walked into her common room. It was bustling, but for once, she didn’t have much to do. Gnolls and Drakes circulated the tables, led by Ishkr and Drassi. They served food and drink, and Erin could sit with Lyonette, Mrsha, and the adventurers as they argued.
Erin poured herself a cup of juice and sat with the others. She tried defusing the arguments that began to spring up. She was glad none of the other teams were here. They were probably cooling off. Last night had seen Keldrass and Jelaqua nearly come to blows. Even good-natured adventurers like Bevussa and Dawil had gotten annoyed by the arguing.
“All this over artifacts. I’m glad I don’t have a horse in this race.”
Lyonette nodded absently. She was bouncing Mrsha up and down as the Gnoll hugged her. The two looked happy, content just to sit around.
“I think it’s the bad weather that makes them angrier. This would probably go a lot more civilly if we had them sit in the sun.”
She glanced at Erin, and the young woman remembered that Lyonette was a [Princess]. She probably knew about negotiations.
“Why not? We can always rig up a door to the field. And Krshia said she wants to bring some Gnolls through. Let’s do that if things go south.”
“Or if you see any other teams walk in.”
The two nodded at each other. Erin turned her attention back to the arguing adventurers. She was just trying to explain to Ksmvr why challenging other teams to duels over the artifacts wasn’t a good idea—and the other adventurers were floating it as a legitimate option—when the door opened.
“The Hobgoblins are back! No one panic!”
Drassi shouted as the Redfang Warriors appeared again. They’d been gone for a good two hours, much to Erin’s surprise. They also looked slightly dirty and sweaty. Headscratcher waved to Erin and pointed upstairs. She rose.
“I think he wants us to go upstairs. Hey you guys, can you come too?”
“Fine! It beats arguing about dividing loot!”
Revi threw up her hands and stalked upstairs. Jelaqua and Seborn joined her, both looking upset while Moore tried to calm them down. Typhenous, Halrac, Yvlon, and Ksmvr followed them. Erin stared at their backs.
“They’re really upset.”
“It’s hard to negotiate. I don’t think we’ve got much of a claim, but even we’re tearing our hair out over what we want.”
Ceria paused, looking sympathetically at the Gold-rank adventurers. Pisces nodded, stroking his chin thoughtfully.
“This process does seem designed to involve the most amount of strife possible. The lottery is designed such that everyone may have a claim regardless of how small, which will create a great deal of uncertainty, even for a team with a larger claim like the Halfseekers or Griffon Hunt. Everyone may obtain what they want—but the odds are that at least one party will exit quite unhappy. As one might expect of the Drakeish way of dividing spoils.”
Ceria paused as she began to climb the stairs.
“So what you really mean is, it’s a mess, Pisces.”
“Succinctly? Yes.”
“Just say that next time.”
He sniffed. Erin grinned and followed them up the stairs. She found the Hobs had placed both bags of holding on the table. They also had two large, bulging sacks next to the table. Erin stared at them. She didn’t know where the rough hide bags had come from, but they looked positively filthy. She glanced at the adventurers, who were looking annoyed.
“Um, Numbtongue, what’s this? What are the other two bags for?”
“Stuff. For adventurers. Bags of holding too small. Here.”
Numbtongue handed one of the bags of holding to Erin. She stared at it and then gingerly opened the bag. She peered inside.
“Huh.”
She looked up from the bag and put it on the table quite calmly. The other adventurers stared at Erin as she went over to the window.
“’Scuse me, Seborn. Hey Moore, come in and shut the door, will you?”
The half-Giant obliged her. Revi complained as he squeezed himself into the room. Erin was fumbling with the window.
“Come on! It’ll be cramped in here, no offense, Moore. And what are you doing, Erin—”
She yelped as Erin opened the window. Rain blew in. Mrsha raced out of the way as a shower blasted Erin and Seborn and Ceria, who were closest to the window. Ceria ran for cover, and the other adventurers edged back.
“What the hell, Erin!”
“Just one second. I have something in my eyes.”
Erin let the rain blow into her face. Then she shut the window. She looked around as water dripped from her face. The others stared at her. Then Erin walked over to the bag of holding. She opened it again. She glanced into it.
“Huh.”
She looked up at Numbtongue. The Hob was staring at her, mainly because of the water dripping from Erin’s body. She blinked some out of her eyes.
“Hey Numbtongue, is this real?”
He nodded.
“Where’d you get it?”
“A room below. Cave Goblins showed us where it was. Big collection spot.”
“Oh. So the Raskghar had a spot where they put all this stuff?”
“What stuff?”
Jelaqua frowned. She tried to see the bag, but Erin was blocking it. Numbtongue nodded.
“Separate room. Too hard to carry everywhere.”
“Right, right. That makes sense. You wouldn’t bring this around. Huh. So…huh. Wow.”
The other adventurers looked at each other. Now, they sensed what Erin was feeling. Pisces stood up straighter. Moore leaned over. Ceria stood on her tiptoes.
“What’s in the bag, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] started. She looked around at the curious faces. She looked at the bag—and then turned it over and emptied it onto the table.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker had heard many sounds in her life. Insects crawling all over each other, the quiet of the forests, the sound of trees rustling. Her friends screaming as they died. Raskghar howling. The voice of her master as she bade Ceria goodbye. The sound of laughter. A song in an inn.
Happy sounds, sad sounds. Moments that Ceria would never be able to unhear, both joyous and terrible. But the sound she heard now was glorious. It was a high, lofty sound that indicated the shifting of fates, but an earthly sound. A familiar sound.
It was the chink, the cling and high pitched ringing sound of metal on metal. The half-Elf saw coins pour out of Erin’s bag of holding in an unending stream. Coins, some golden, others faded. Many covered in filth or lichen. But the gold, oh, the gold shone through. Not just gold too. There was silver and bronze and other colors of metal, bright and seductive.
And those were only the coins. Other things tumbled from the sack. Bright gemstones, goblets made of gold, figurines of Drakes, some cracked and damaged. Necklaces of fine silver strung with pearls, large rings with embedded gemstones, a scepter made of brass but inset with a ring of diamonds around the top—
The treasure poured from the bag of holding and onto the table. The gold and jewels and other riches rolled off the table and clattered onto the floor. The adventurers shouted and stared. Mrsha blocked a rolling emerald the size of her paw with her leg. Erin held the bag up as the treasures poured forth. At last, the flow stopped. She stared down at the table heaped with treasures and looked around. Riches lay on the ground, rolling to a stop. She looked around, shaking slightly. Everyone else stared at her with bug eyes.
All except for the Goblins. They grumbled as they kicked aside the gold and jewels. Rabbiteater stepped on a sharp little Drake statuette made of bright silver and rubies and cursed. He kicked it aside. Numbtongue complained to Erin.
“This is hard to pick up! We’re not doing it this time.”
She turned to stare at him.
“This was in the dungeon?”
He nodded.
“In a special room. Raskghar told Cave Goblins to put it there. They collect lots of it from other rooms in the dungeon. For some reason.”
He shrugged and kicked a pile of gold apart. Erin stared at the coins. Some of them were filthy, probably from sitting in the dungeon for so long. Other coins were bloodstained. Mrsha wrinkled her nose as she sniffed a goblet with a bit of blood on one side.
“And you have another bag of holding filled with this? And—”
She looked at the other two sacks. Rabbiteater nodded. He flexed his arms to show Erin how hard it had been to carry the non-magical bags.
“Heavy. Glittery stuff heavy.”
“I’d imagine so. This isn’t just gold coins like we use. Some of this—some of this is pure gold.”
Revi’s hands trembled as she picked up a coin. She scored the soft gold with a knife, peeling up a sliver of gold. She showed it to Halrac. The [Scout]’s eyes were wide as he held it up.
“Oh dead gods. Someone tell me I’m not dreaming.”
Jelaqua looked at the treasure on the floor, blinking. She looked around. The other adventurers looked too stunned for words. She stared at the jewels lying at her feet.
“This can’t be real. Pinch me, someone.”
Moore did, pinching Jelaqua’s arm. The Selphid paused.
“I didn’t feel that.”
“You’re a Selphid. Of course you didn’t.”
Seborn stepped forwards. He bent and picked up a pair of tongs, which were made of silver and ivory. He opened and closed them.
“This is a treasure haul. I’ve seen something like this only once. And that was—storms and salt. This is what the Raskghar had?”
“Of course. Of course they had it. We just didn’t notice it because we attacked their camp.”
Ceria felt lightheaded. She spoke, feeling something like mirth bubbling up inside her. She looked at the others, a crazy smile tugging at her face.
“We were so busy attacking the camp that we never thought to—and Calruz never said—”
Yvlon shook her head.
“He probably didn’t know. The Raskghar might have kept it hidden. And the Goblins…”
She glanced at the Hobs, who were scratching themselves and looking pleased at the reaction they’d elicited.
“…they don’t care about treasure.”
“We care about artifacts. Not shiny things. They’re too shiny. Too heavy. Not useful. Good for adventurer traps, maybe.”
Numbtongue corrected Yvlon. The woman nodded and then stared at the treasure. Ksmvr glanced around.
“Am I to take it that this is all treasure for us?”
“No, it’s the Goblins’—”
Erin turned to the Redfangs. They shook their heads.
“Not for us. You take.”
Headscratcher pointed at Erin. She opened her mouth to protest. Pisces cut her off.
“It’s no good to them, Erin. But in our hands, it can be, ah, delicately spent. I think this is a gift.”
“Mhm.”
The Hobs nodded. Numbtongue pointed at the adventuring teams, who stared at him, faces all as pale as Jelaqua’s.
“For fighting in the dungeon. For killing Raskghar. You did it. We don’t need it. So it’s yours. You have it. An adventurer’s treasure.”
The other three teams looked at Numbtongue, shocked. Typhenous was bending down, touching the treasure. He looked up. Revi had a circlet in her hands.
“For us? Just for us? You’re serious?”
Numbtongue nodded. Jelaqua shook her head.
“We should share it. This is—we should tell the others.”
The others looked at her. Yvlon half-nodded. Pisces frowned. No one else nodded. Revi looked at Jelaqua.
“I have an alternative idea: no. This is ours. There’s no way I’ll split this. Can I change your mind?”
The Selphid hesitated. She looked back at Revi and then nodded.
“Yeah. That was a terrible idea. Thanks for talking me out of it.”
“Anytime.”
The others went back to staring at the treasure. Erin felt a bit lightheaded. She looked at the other bags.
“So that’s all the treasure?”
The Hobs nodded. Numbtongue kicked one bag.
“All of it. There was a big pile in the room. No artifacts. Raskghar used those. We took all of it. You take it from us. Only your teams.”
He looked at the others. Revi was nodding repeatedly, as were Typhenous and Pisces. Halrac frowned.
“Why our teams?”
He looked directly at Badarrow as he said it. The [Sniper] glanced at him and grinned.
“Helped Goblins. Sometimes.”
That shut Halrac up. Erin looked at the treasure and then at Headscratcher.
“They did do a lot. But—why not the Silver Swords? They fought too.”
Numbtongue looked at his companions. He shrugged.
“We don’t like them.”
“Oh.”
After that came more standing around. The Hobs took a seat as the adventurers picked up the relics and gold pieces and tried to pile them on the table. They were almost afraid to open the other bags. Ceria kept pinching herself, and Moore had to sit and breathe slowly with Mrsha in his arms. They were shocked more than exhilarated.
For the first ten minutes. And then a craze seemed to sweep over them. Jelaqua opened the second bag of holding, dumped it onto the ground, and began sorting the coins and jewels and other objects apart. Typhenous knelt with her, muttering about the cuts of gems and weight. Pisces began arguing with Seborn about the price of gold. Yvlon and Halrac tried to appraise the statues and so on, and Ksmvr dutifully began adding it all up. In minutes, all the adventurers were on their knees, counting.
“We need parchment! Something to write this down!”
Pisces feverishly sorted through the gemstones, his face flushed. Ceria nodded.
“Put—put all the gems on the bed! We’ll count the coins and shove them into this corner—”
The Hobs watched as the adventurers scrambled to sort the treasure. It was getting hot in the room, so Rabbiteater opened a door. Immediately, he was nearly tackled by Seborn and Typhenous.
“Don’t open the door!”
Instantly, the ecstatic mood changed to paranoia. Moore was instantly assigned to watch the door, and Lyonette and Erin were sent downstairs to get parchment and a quill and ink and to come right back upstairs. Under no circumstances was anyone else allowed on the same floor. Typhenous and Pisces began frantically casting ward spells.
“We’ll need to store all this before we can deposit it! The Merchant’s Guild can hold it—but we’ll need to watch it day and night. If a [Thief] were to get wind of what we have—”
Revi was summoning her Stitch-Warriors to help sort the treasure. Halrac nodded.
“We can’t just deposit it in any guild, though. We need the best deal. I know someone in Invrisil who can change all the gemstones.”
