The two held out their hands. Erin stared at them and then awkwardly took both hands at once. The Gnolls shook her hands.
“I’m flattered. But why are you thanking me?”
The two looked surprised. The black-furred one shook herself slightly, spraying Erin with a few drops.
“Because you saved our friends! You helped defeat the Raskghar! We heard all about it. We—all the Gnolls—owe you a debt.”
“Liscor does.”
Her friend nodded. Erin turned red as she realized why they were looking at her so intently.
“Hold on, I didn’t do much! I just helped.”
“But you came up with the plan, yes?”
“No, well, yeah, but—I didn’t do much fighting!”
“But you did convince the Goblins to betray the Raskghar, right? We heard all about that.”
The two Gnolls nodded. Erin stammered.
“W-well…”
“I didn’t know Humans were that smart.”
“I didn’t know they were that brave. I heard you were just a troublemaker who kept dangerous monsters at her inn. People called you ‘that crazy Human’.”
“They did? I mean—who did?”
The two Gnolls looked at each other.
“Um…people. The point is, we’re really grateful. One of our friends was one of the people you saved. So, thank you. Really.”
“Yes, really. We work at a [Butcher]’s. It isn’t fun.”
The black-furred Gnoll nodded in agreement with her friend.
“Not at all. But come by and we’ll give you good meat. Cheap! Our boss wants to meet you too. He’s our father.”
“Yeah. Come by. Thank you again. Do we shake hands when we leave?”
The two Gnolls chatted with Erin a bit longer and then left. She waved at them, bemused, and then looked around. Some of the other Drakes and Gnolls had paused to stare at Erin. A few waved. Some pointed. Erin blushed.
This wasn’t the first time she’d been stopped on the street. Somehow, she’d become a minor celebrity in Liscor. Or rather, she suspected Drassi had something to do with it. It wasn’t the first time Erin had been involved in something big, but this was the first time people came up and thanked her for doing something. She kept telling them she hadn’t done much, but—
It was embarrassing. But it felt good. Erin walked through the street, keeping her hood raised. She was still stopped twice more, once by a Gnoll and then by a Drake. Trying to keep hidden was no good when you had neither fur nor scales and no tail. You tended to stand out.
Erin arrived at her destination as she talked with the Drake, a [Tailor] who walked along with her to Market Street. She was talking with him as she stopped to wait in front of a stand with a few customers.
“It was really the Goblins. Really.”
“But the adventurers did all the work. The Goblins helped the Raskghar.”
The Drake frowned impatiently. Erin nodded.
“Yeah, but the Goblins helped find the Raskghar camp. And they saved a lot of the Gnolls.”
“But the Goblins are monsters.”
The Drake pointed that out as if he was saying the sky was raining. It was a fact. Erin paused.
“Maybe. But they’re not all bad.”
“What about the Goblin Lord? You do realize that the last Antinium War featured the Goblin King? He nearly destroyed the continent!”
The Drake looked expectantly at Erin. She nodded.
“That’s true. And there are bad Goblins out there. I’m just saying that there are good Goblins too, you know?”
“Good Goblins.”
The Drake savored the words as if they were new. He shook his head.
“If you say so, then I guess I’ll believe it. Look, I really just wanted to shake your hand. I knew one of the [Guardsmen] who got killed and—I’m glad you helped kill those Raskghar bastards. Your inn’s pretty popular, you know.”
“Really?”
“Well, yeah. It’s like this attraction. Everyone knows about the crazy Hum—I mean, The Wandering Inn. Yeah. Ahem.”
He coughed as Erin gave him a flat look. The [Tailor] looked around.
“I’ll have to visit it sometime. Goblins or…well, I’ll visit. Thanks.”
He waved at Erin and trotted off. Bemused, she turned back to the stall. The customers in front of her had done their business. A female Gnoll leaned over the counter and grinned at Erin.
“It seems you’re quite well liked, yes, Erin?”
Erin made a face at Krshia. The Gnoll laughed and beckoned her closer so Erin could step beneath the stall’s awning.
“People keep coming up to thank me! Or tell me how they know about my inn. I think it’s my new, uh, trait. I really do, Krshia.”
“Hrm. [Local Landmark]. I have heard that buildings can acquire such traits—or titles, yes? But it is the first time I have known someone with such a thing. Gnolls do not have many structures, so it is rare for us, yes?”
Krshia tidied up her counter, wiping away water with a cloth. Erin nodded.
“It’s so weird. But good! I really think I’m making a name for myself. And—well, guess what, Krshia? I went to see Ilvriss, and you’ll never believe what happened!”
“He gave you money, yes?”
Erin wavered.
“Well—okay, you might believe it. But listen—”
She began to tell Krshia what had happened in a hushed voice. Erin grew more indignant as she relayed the conversation about the Goblins. Krshia nodded as she wiped her counter and then wrung her cloth out. When Erin had finished, she snorted and then began to laugh.
“And you insulted him? A Wall Lord? You told him he was not fair? To his face?”
“Yeah.”
Erin watched as Krshia threw back her head to guffaw. She scowled at the Gnoll.
“Well, he wasn’t being fair! The Goblins deserve more than a crummy axe!”
Krshia shook her head.
“Erin. You are an amusing friend to have, yes? But also, I think, somewhat foolish.”
She flicked Erin’s hair with a claw. The Human bristled.
“Hey! What is that supposed to mean?”
Krshia fixed Erin with one large brown eye.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss, he told you why he did what he did, yes? The Goblins cannot be paid. For a Wall Lord of Salazsar to do the paying? It would be embarrassing! It would admit that monsters did more work than any adventurer.”
“But that’s true!”
The [Shopkeeper] shrugged.
“True or not, I would not pay the Goblins a single coin. He is right, yes? It may not be fair, but he did give you an axe. A magical weapon of great power, is it not?”
“Yes, but—it’s still not fair. The Goblins probably deserve two artifacts! Or three!”
Krshia nodded reasonably.
“And if they had them, the other adventurers would riot. Is that better?”
Erin hesitated.
“No, but—”
“But? Will you say that they should not be upset, so it should be done anyways? Goblins would get nothing if it were not for you, I think. That they were given anything—a magical weapon no less—is incredible.”
“Yeah. But it’s still not fair.”
Krshia shook her head.
“Fair? Fair is never something that happens. Erin Solstice, you complain of the Goblins being rewarded. Will you complain that they were not given a parade? Or praised by all? Look at things less from how they should be and look at them how they are. Is this not better?”
She waited as Erin bit her lip and mulled this over.
“A little better. Yeah, I guess that’s true. But it could be better.”
She looked down at the bags of money and felt Krshia flick her hair again. The Gnoll sniffed dismissively.
“But, but, but. You Humans are full of buts and ifs. Look at what you have. Gold. And treasure. Look around. People come to you and thank you. They listen to you when you say ‘Goblins are good’! We are grateful. You should be too.”
She looked at Erin seriously. The young woman wavered and then realized she was complaining a lot.
“You think I’m being grouchy, don’t you? Or silly.”
“Mm. Perhaps just a bit. But I understand you. And if you understand me—it is better. Erin. Is today not better than before?”
Erin looked at Krshia. The [Shopkeeper] spread her arms wide. Her stall was smaller than before. It was wet. But…Erin smiled.
“It is. You’re right, Krshia.”
The Gnoll smiled approvingly. And she and Erin stood together in the rain, and the issue of the Goblins passed from Erin’s mind. She stood and chatted with Krshia as they had done once. Just as before. Everything was the same and different. Krshia smiled as she and Erin leaned on the counter.
“How is Mrsha?”
“Better. She doesn’t have nightmares every night. Lyonette’s giving her a tiny bit of Faerie Flower nectar with her before-bed milk.”
“Mm. That is good. I know Elirr and the others have suffered. Perhaps I could buy some of the nectar for them? Do you have enough to sell?”
“Oh! That’s a great idea! I’ve got enough. I used to have only a few flowers, but they’ve really been growing of late. I can get a small bottle together—you don’t need more than a drop, really. No charge for the others.”
“You are kind. But I think I will pay you a bit so I might charge others. Not the ones who were rescued, but it would be nice to sell. How is the inn?”
“Busy. We’re putting on The Hubris of the Raskghar every night, and I think we’ll do The Glass Menagerie next. I’m, uh, running out of plays to give the actors.”
“Mm. Well, I suppose they must make up more stories, then. Is that not how it goes?”
“Yeah, but there are classics.”
“I see. And the Goblins? They do not cause trouble? You feed them?”
“Pretty much. The Redfangs are in charge, and the Cave Goblins…they’re doing Goblin things. I check in on them, but I’m really busy, so I haven’t seen much. The Redfangs are teaching them a bunch of stuff. Like how to fish. Speaking of which, I want to buy a lot of food from you. To feed them. I mean, they can feed themselves, but they really love salt and oil. And since I have all of this…can you get me a boat of food? I could get some from Celum, but—”
Krshia practically pulled Erin into her stall. The [Shopkeeper] shook her head rapidly.
“Celum? Why bother? We have enough food here, yes? And I can have as many boats visit your inn as needed. How much food did you say you wanted? I can have it within the hour. Meats, grains, drink, whatever is needed.”
“Oh. Well, in that case…”
Erin started placing gold coins on the table as she told Krshia what she wanted. The Gnoll’s tail wagged as she counted the shiny gold pieces. She promised Erin she’d have the goods as soon as could be and waved Erin away.
The young woman smiled as she walked down the street, her bag a bit lighter. She walked back towards the western gate where a little door had been placed incongruously against the far wall. A pair of Drakes and three Gnolls and a Human adventurer were waiting outside it. Erin sidled over and waited in line.
After a few minutes, the door opened, and Drassi waved the waiting guests through. Erin smiled as Drassi grinned at her and stepped into her inn. The air was warm and the inn was cozy despite the common room being three times as large as it should be. People sat at the tables, eating and chatting. A little white Gnoll sat with a [Princess] at a table as a bee flew around their heads. Groups of adventurers looked up, and a half-Elf waved at Erin. The young woman walked into her inn, smiling.
She was home.
 
——
 
“Dead gods.”
Ceria stared at the pile of gold on one of Erin’s tables. She looked up at Pisces. The [Necromancer]’s eyes were raised as he levitated coins into a small tower. He inspected the magical axe lying on the table, then glanced to his left. Jelaqua touched the axe head and whistled.
“That’s enchanted alright. I can feel it in my claws. Look—you can feel the hum.”
“True.”
Halrac touched the axe’s edge with one finger as well. He glanced at Revi, who snorted. The Stitch-Girl poked the axe with a finger.
“Warriors. There’s better ways of testing the magic than how it feels. Typhenous, tell them.”
The [Mage] looked up. He’d been muttering spells.
“I can’t tell how powerful it is, but it’s certainly worthy of Gold-rank.”
“At least.”
Ceria muttered. She stared at the axe, remembering Calruz swinging it and cutting down infested. She reached for the handle and hesitated. She looked up at Erin.
“And he gave you that?”
“Yup. In exchange for not paying the Goblins.”
The adventurers looked at each other. They were crowded around in one of Erin’s rooms. On the third floor, in fact. Erin had decided against showing what she’d gotten from Ilvriss to everyone. He did have a point. So she’d called the adventurers up. The Halfseekers, Horns of Hammerad, and Griffon Hunt were the only teams she really trusted with this kind of information. The Silver Swords…well, they weren’t in the inn, so it was a moot point anyways. Erin glanced around.
The room was packed with all the adventurers plus Lyonette and Mrsha. Moore had to sit outside, but he was glancing in. Mrsha peered over the table at the enchanted axe. She reached out with one paw and hesitated.
“No touching, Mrsha. It’s very sharp.”
Lyonette gently scolded Mrsha. She was mildly overprotective of the Gnoll now, but Mrsha bore with it well. She picked up a gold coin instead.
“A thousand gold. That’s…a lot.”
Pisces frowned.
“For an [Innkeeper] of Erin’s level? It’s not unheard of. I’ll wager that the Level 30 Drake in Liscor—Peslas, I believe—has at least that much on hand at any given time.”
“You think so, Pisces?”
“It’s not that large a sum. Consider how much Miss Solstice would usually pay just to renovate her inn without the Antinium assisting her. And given her contributions—I’d say it is less than she deserves.”
“Well, she only gets credit for her door, not the plan.”
Jelaqua remarked reasonably as she walked a gold coin over her claws. Seborn nodded. He was leaning against one window, letting everyone else crowd around the axe.
“It’s as good as they’ll give her. I’m surprised they gave the Goblins anything. This isn’t worth sixty-six thousand gold coins, but they were never going to get that.”
“I guess.”
Erin made a face. Seborn shrugged.
“That’s politics. They wouldn’t get anything in the north either. Besides, they probably got lucky getting one artifact guaranteed. Splitting the treasure never goes fairly no matter how it’s done. Believe me. I knew [Pirates].”
Jelaqua rolled her eyes as Erin turned and gave Seborn a deeply interested look.
“Everyone knows that, Seborn. Don’t bore us with another story. Hey, Erin. Did Ilvriss tell you who’s getting what?”
All the adventurers looked sharply at Erin. She hesitated.
“Well, he said they’d decide in a few days. But nothing’s settled, I think.”
“Damn.”
Halrac cursed. Lyonette glared at him. The [Scout] looked away.
“We haven’t settled anything. Every team wants the best artifacts. I want that bow—”
“And we want the staff! Come on, Halrac. I could use that wind-blasting staff. Or one of the wands!”
