Below us, a blue star flared. It carried violet tendrils of energy, solar flares stretching out into the infinity of space. Around us, swarms of astral creatures flew through the vastness of the great void. They shifted coloration as they moved, each of them waving through different light spectrums.

What stunned me most was the new color they had. It was impossible to describe, but I can try. Imagine staring at something bright, full of life. This color carried that kind of impression. It reminded me of staring at a more powerful light on the electromagnetic spectrum. To me, it's what I envisioned radiation might look like if it was an actual color.

Regardless of our reactions, the Emperor seemed taken aback, his glance carrying the weight and distance of nostalgia. He walked forward, touching one of the creatures. A moment later, he turned to us, his feet standing on space,

"Would you like to touch them as well?"

I turned to Torix. His jaw was slack, the lich's senses overwhelmed. I shook off the feeling of disbelief as I walked forward. Reaching out, I touched the living painting. I blinked as I could actually feel it as if it where there. I turned to Torix,

"Torix. You can actually touch the thing. I don't know how the fuck he's doing it, but you can actually touch it."

Like a warm grandfather, Obolis gestured to the spectral creature,

"Come Torix, if you would."

Torix fumbled over before reaching out. As he touched the creature, he stuttered, "How is this possible?"

Obolis grinned,

"It's not a simple illusion, I can guarantee you that. I'd heard of these creatures during my travels. They're called by many names, though I prefer referring to them as cometelias, the flowers of comets."

Several of the cometelias flew around Obolis as he reached out his hand to them. He closed his eyes, staring upward,

"This is a physical manifestation of one of my memories. I picked one of the more visually tremendous recollections."

Staring around me, the detail of the memory was stunning. Nothing about it was foggy, even in the slightest. It was clearer than crystals in its clarity, like viewing HD footage. No, it was more than that. This experience carried other senses other than sight and sound. The entire experience rushed in.

The endless space, the deep cold of the void, even the waves of shifting heat, they wrapped over me as if I was there. I might as well have been. Staring in awe, I murmured, "This is incredible."

Obolis grinned, "Isn't it? It was well worth the trip. The magical incantations necessary to survive the journey were well worth the investment, though you wouldn't require the same protection. Chaining together these kinds of experiences is what I live for. I'm glad to share them with each of you."

The Emperor turned to me, "Though a proper greeting is in order."

I turned to the Emperor, kind of blown away at this point,

"I'm Daniel."

He smiled with the wisdom of ages past in his eyes,

"It's good to meet you, Harbinger. I am Obolis, the Finder of Secrets."
