Talia nodded. Then she grew more sober as she leaned against the railing. Rabbiteater couldn’t help but look at her, through his visor. They had been training every day. He was now a [Knight] in truth. Stronger. He had learned from the Order of Seasons, and was even trying this aura stuff. It sounded cool.
But Talia…Rabbiteater had mixed feelings. Well, a few definite ones, but he wondered how far his armor and fake identity would take him. Part of him didn’t care. He wanted to find out.
Like Talia, he was tired of being so weak.
“I’m grateful for your presence, Ser Solstice. Even if it’s one more blade—war is brewing with Ailendamus.”
“Mm. So? It’s always war.”
She chuckled, ruefully, and shook her head.
“You Izrilians. We should take lessons from you. But in Terandria, we do not have an enemy like the Drakes…or Humans?”
She cast him a sideways glance. This was one of the few times she tried to figure Rabbiteater out and he shrugged. Talia went on after a second.
“We will need every blade if Pheislant goes to war. Even if not—I believe the Grandmaster will order some of us to war. Ailendamus grows too large. First the conflicts with Noelictus last year, now this. If you would turn around, Ser Solstice…no one would begrudge you.”
Rabbiteater looked ahead. And he shook his head, slowly.
“Nothing is left for me.”
He hesitated. And clenched his hands inside of their gauntlets as he amended his statement.
“Nothing I can protect. Not yet.”
The [Summer Knight] smiled. And she looked forwards, shining in the evening light.
“Well said. Then, to Terandria! You will be a guest at House Kallinad! I only regret we could not pick up my younger brother. But he is in Zeres. And by the time we get there—well, hopefully you shall master your aura, Ser Slayer.”
“I would like that.”
It was a journey he doubted he’d return from. But that was fine. Rabbiteater began plucking the Quillfish. He’d try cooking it, or ask the [Cook] to do so for some of the meat. And when he ate in his quarters, he would remember home.
