Now. 
The isle was known as Feru’s Paradise for reasons completely unrelated to the present. At some point, it had possibly been a verdant ecosystem, the kind your budding [Biologist]-[Naturalist] and evolutionary theorist would have given their eyeteeth for.
However, that was in the past. And at some point, the owner of the isle had decided what it really needed was some lovely flowers and grass. They had destroyed the local habitat to make it a lovely vacation isle.
Subsequently, the rats had taken over. As rats did, they had ravaged the ecosystem. These rats were particularly small; half the size of regular rats, and green. That was to say, they blended with the grass and were the most invasive of species.
None of this mattered to the Runner who arrived on the island. They had chartered a small boat to take them out here; one of the small sailing crafts that [Fishers] used. Now, they watched it disappearing.
“And I paid gold for the trip.”
The Runner scuffed one foot into the ground and saw the camouflaged rats scuttling away. In fairness, the [Fisher] had warned them, as the locals liked to do, not to visit the cursed isle. Oh yes, they knew an Archmage lived here. And as far as they were concerned, the people on the coast of Feru’s Paradise hoped she never came out from her mansion.
Most people assumed she was dead. She hadn’t been seen in over a decade. Nor were they impressed with her title of ‘Archmage’. She was just another eccentric mage, holed up on her private island.
And everyone knew this island was certain death. So did the Runner. They’d been warned. So, very cautiously, they made their way to the one landmark on the small isle.
That was the mansion. It had taken the Runner a long while to get here. Feru’s Paradise wasn’t exactly an easy location to get to, even if you could move fast. They were…disappointed to see it looked just like a normal mansion. Incongruously well-kept among the overrun isle.
Still, looks were deceiving. The Runner touched the charm on their neck. Then, they drew a deep breath and shouted.
“Archmage Valeterisa! I bear a message from Lady Ieka Imarris! Will you allow my entrance?”
No response, although they had shouted commendably loud, enough to be heard from the mansion. But if it was that easy…the Runner tried again, amplifying their voice with a spell.
“Archmage Valeterisa! Can you hear me?”
Nothing. The Runner eyed the mansion. Then—they eyed the barren ground in about a two hundred foot radius around the mansion. There was no grass there; the ground looked like it had been disturbed. And most tellingly—no rats were foraging around.
“Right. Absolutely not stepping on that. Hm…”
They hunted around on the ground, and found a rock. The Runner hefted it and threw it into the middle of the barren ground. They braced—
And nothing happened. The Runner scratched their head. They took a few cautious steps forwards, swore, and leapt back.
The ground exploded. Dirt rained down and the rats scurried away almost as fast as the Runner. They caught their breath several dozen feet away from the detonation site.
“Life-sensing spells? Okay. We’re doing this the hard way.”
The Runner bit their lip and looked around. They had options…but an easy one came to mind, and one the designer of this death-trap might not have thought of.
“…I wonder if I can use rats?”
The Runner bent down, grimacing, and the green rats, as if sensing the intentions of the Human, fled en masse. Cursing, the Runner was chasing after one of the nimble rodents when they saw a flash. They turned their heads.
“Oh hell.”
The first arcing magical arrow hit the ground and nearly blew them to bits. The Runner hit the ground, looked up, and ran.
The mansion was lobbing huge bolts of magic at them! The sensor spell in the ground had targeted them; now they were being hunted by artillery spells.
“Damnit, damnit, damnit—”
The Runner looked around. But there was no help for it. More spells were coming. So—the Runner gritted their teeth, grabbed a potion, and downed it.
“Here we go.”
Magic enhanced their steps. The potion enhanced their reflexes. The Runner turned, sprinted at the mansion—
The ground began to explode. The Runner weaved, outrunning the magic hitting the ground behind them. The rats hopefully watched, wondering if they were going to get snacks. To their disappointment, the Runner was fast.
They reached the door of the mansion, sprinted up the steps, and hammered on the door.
“Archmage!”
They tried the door’s handle. To their surprise, it was unlocked! The Runner sagged in relief. They heard a hum of magic from above—twisted the knob—
It was a mark of their understanding of the devious cruelty of the mortal condition that saved the Runner’s life. They had yanked the door open as they leapt off the porch and so the blast of fire didn’t cook them along with everything on the steps. The Runner staggered upright, peeked over—and saw dirt through the open doorway.
“What the…”
There was nothing behind the door. Not flooring; just dirt. The mansion was…
Slowly, the Runner stood up. They twisted a ring on their finger and touched the amulet again. This time, close up, the Amulet of Detect Magic and their veil-piercing ring functioned. They saw the mansion glow—and the Runner groaned.
“This isn’t even the real mansion, is it?”
The illusion vanished and they saw the real mansion, invisible, quietly waiting on the cliff away from the death-trapped minefield. The illusion spells had fooled the market-grade artifacts.
The Runner looked around. Now, they were in the lee of the fake mansion’s shadow, surrounded by magical mines, and targeted by the homing magical spells. The real, coast side mansion, a huge, sprawling compound, waited.
The Runner had to take a few seconds.
“I. Hate. [Mages].”
 
—-
 
Then.
The Unmarked Coach was the counterpart to Magnolia Reinhart’s famous pink carriage. It wasn’t as fast—but it was still damn fast. More importantly—it was unremarked upon. Hence the name. It was a special transport. You had to know about it to request it. And even knowing about it was reserved for people with the right connections. Even then—getting on the good list took a bit of doing.
But once you were on the list? Well, the Unmarked Coach took you where you wanted to go securely, swiftly, and without anyone knowing.
Two details about the coach that always changed were the driver, and the coach itself. They were always different. Sometimes the driver was male, a Gnoll, or a Drake, a Dullahan, or female, a Selphid…
The coach took all colors and all forms as well. It could be a rather posh, but visibly old carriage like the one that trundled down the road now, or a sleek new model, a barely-functioning converted cart with holes in it…you could never tell.
Two details about the coach that never changed were the driver and coach itself. They were always the same. They just happened to look different. The coach was always the same on the inside. Plush, a match for Magnolia’s carriage and then some because while Magnolia’s carriage was a smaller transport, the Unmarked Coach could take sixteen people all without needing to rub elbows once.
And the driver was always the same person. Just with a different face. They—she—was a Djinni. A spirit, a member of a species from Chandrar famous in at least two worlds. Now, she steered the coach down the road.
Today, she had a top hat on, dark clothes, including a scarf that covered her pale skin. She was a large woman, irritable, and driving in the rain which never seemed to actually soak her. A few other vehicles were on the road, but only one of the people the driver ever passed called out to her.
“Is that Karsy? Hey there!”
“Go to hell, Termin!”
The Djinni shouted back as she pretended to shake off rain. It was all an act, of course. She wasn’t wet. But she was in a bad mood. Her…being…was still vibrating from the magic she’d caught the back-end of.
Unfortunately, as she hadn’t been the intended recipient of the spell, she couldn’t execute one of her duties—which was to kill anything that attacked the Unmarked Coach, be it passenger, [Bandit], or monster. And now—she sensed the eyes on her.
“Break my chains, but I hate this job.”
The Djinni grumbled. She drove onwards, and the fake horses pretended to plod down the road. After a while, the silent staring and whispering got to be too much. The woman turned in her seat.
“What do you want?”
Ryoka and Fierre jumped. They had been peeking at the driver through the little speaking panel that connected the interior of the coach to the front.
“Er…nothing! Nothing! It’s just that if you’d like to chat…”
Ryoka Griffin hurriedly raised her hands. The Djinni reached back and slid the speaking panel closed. She had blissful peace for six minutes. Then she felt it covertly being edged open a crack.
“What. Do. You. Want?”
Fierre jumped. The Vampire had been as silent as a feather landing in the snow, but somehow the Djinni had sensed her opening the panel.
“I…we’re sorry, Miss Driver, if we broke the rules.”
“If you broke the rules, you would be dead.”
The driver replied without turning her head. She scowled.
“But puke in my carriage again and I will kill you so surely dead as even the blood of monarchs will not bring you back, Vampire.”
The Djinni spoke with an accent, a rolling, deep voice. Fierre stared at her. The driver heard frantic whispering and then the Vampire girl grinned weakly at her. She had sharp teeth.
“I’m not a Vampire. Er, I mean, what? Vampires? You—you must be—”
“I see all things, Vampire. Nothing is hidden from mine eyes. Nor, if I lacked but the magic of my nature and the power to change reality, would I still miss your fangs, pale skin, red eyes, aversion to light, and the way you drink blood.”
Fierre gulped.
“That’s—that’s—a secret. Tell anyone and…”
“You’d do what? Kill me? Hah. Even if you’ve the strength of your blood, you’re a mewling baby. No secrets leave my lips. All who ride the Unmarked Coach I am bound to tell nothing of.”
“Oh. Very good.”
Fierre faintly stared at the Djinni for a second. Then she closed the panel and sat back down.
Inside the carriage, Ryoka stared at her friend. Fierre looked pale. Ryoka’s head still hurt, and this was an hour after they had begun their long journey.
To recap: Fierre had just taken Teriarch’s cure. The panacea had made her vomit into her bag of holding for about five minutes. That was a lot of puke. Also, the driver had unintentionally revealed she was a Djinni.
Oh, and Ryoka was on her way to the Archmage of Izril’s mansion to deliver Lady Ieka’s message so she could convene a meeting of the Fae at the Summer’s Solstice, but who was counting the weird things in her life? Ryoka saw Fierre fidget.
In the dim coach, her eyes shone crimson. Ryoka had noticed Fierre’s red irises from the start. But now, they had a luminescence. And as Fierre twisted, glancing at the front of the carriage and then at Ryoka again, the Human girl saw it.
A fluidity of movement. A certainness about Fierre. She had always been fast and inhumanly strong. But now, the Vampire girl made Ryoka feel like she was slow.
She was cured. Fierre opened her mouth, grinned weakly at Ryoka. Even her canines seemed…sharper. Although that could just be Ryoka’s imagination. She looked at Ryoka. Or rather, her friend’s neck, and then away.
“Don’t worry. I’m not that hungry anymore.”
Fierre muttered. Ryoka jumped, blushed.
“I didn’t—”
“I wouldn’t do it anyways. Ryoka, I owe you. This feels amazing.”
“You’ve said.”
The Vampire girl grinned and stretched. Beside her sat, oh, about eight empty bottles of blood. Animal’s blood, from her home. She’d been ravenous after throwing up, but fortunately she hadn’t gone for Ryoka.
“It tasted awful, by the way. I guess I really was cured. But—I’m fine.”
She said that while grinning teasingly at Ryoka. But it was true; Fierre didn’t look that tempted. On the other hand…Ryoka felt electricity running down her back.
“This is—Fierre, this is—”
The City Runner looked at her friend. And she had to say it.
“This is so cool.”
The other young woman grinned hugely. It was! Fierre clenched one fist.
“I feel like I could break a boulder in half! When we stop—I have to try sparring! Or running! I bet I could outrun a horse! And then throw it! I’m cured, Ryoka! I’m invincible!”
Both young women heard a snort from the front. Fierre’s grin slipped. Ryoka eyed the bottles of blood next to Fierre. They were covered with a bit of black…bile.
“Uh, those are starting to smell. Maybe.”
“Oh. Right.”
Brought back to reality, Fierre tossed them into the bag of holding she carried. The bag of holding now containing several pounds of black bile. The Vampire girl grimaced.
“I should have thrown up anywhere but here! It’s on all of my stuff!”
“Can you clean it off…?”
“Not without emptying the entire bag of holding—”
“Not in my coach, Vampire.”
The muffled voice came from the front of the Unmarked Coach. Ryoka and Fierre jumped. Fierre mouthed to Ryoka, without even speaking.
She has good ears!
Ryoka nodded. Again, the voice sounded, annoyed.
“Better than yours, Vampire!”
This time, Ryoka had to respond.
“Excuse me. But if we’ve offended you, Miss Driver—er—can I ask your name?”
“You may ask me my name. But do not expect me to enjoy answering, Human girl.”
She sounded really annoyed with them. To be fair, a puking Vampire probably wasn’t fun for anyone to deal with. Ryoka opened the sliding panel again and this time—the downpour ceased for a second. A beam of weak sunlight entered the coach.
“Argh!”
Fierre shouted in pain. Ryoka spun.
“Fierre?”
The Vampire girl had recoiled so fast she was a blur. Now, she clutched at her face.
“Ryoka! The light! Close the panel! Close the—”
Ryoka did. She saw Fierre lower her shaking hands. And Ryoka saw—
“Dead gods. Your face, Fierre! It’s—”
It was burned. Like a lobster sunburn, almost comically red. Fierre tried to feel at her face since Ryoka’s mirror was a stupid idea. Vampires had no reflections. But then she blinked. The sunburn faded even as Ryoka stared.
“What the—that never used to happen! It took you minutes to burn!”
“It must be because I’m cured.”
The Vampire breathed. Both stared at the sliding panel. That had been weak sunlight, through the clouds.
“If you were in the actual sun—do you think you’d catch on fire?”
“I—Bamer told us stories about that. But I—I didn’t think it was actually—”
Fierre laughed nervously. And again, Ryoka heard a snort from the front of the coach.
