“Break my chains, but you two are fools. If you want to see your friend really react, Human girl, take the garlic out of your bag of holding.”
Slowly, Fierre’s head swung around towards Ryoka. She sniffed at Ryoka’s side and her eyes narrowed.
“Ryoka…”
“You knew it was there! That was insurance! Wait, how did you know I had garlic in there?”
“I have eyes.”
The Djinni retorted. Ryoka hesitated.
“…I could toss it out, Fierre. But I’d have to open the door for a second. It’s in a jar…”
It was, in fact, a lot of garlic and garlic oil mixed into water. Ryoka had made it after being kidnapped by Fierre. Just in case she needed to fight off a certain Vampire girl. Fierre waved her hand.
“No thanks, Ryoka. I’m fine…I trust you.”
“Thanks.”
The two young women smiled at each other. But then their attention swung back towards the front of the carriage.
For someone as grumpy and non-talkative as she claimed to be, the Djinni certainly seemed to be aware of what was happening in the inside of the carriage. Ryoka got the impression that the last hour had been weird, even for her.
“Fierre. You never really explained what this…coach is. The Unmarked Coach?”
“It’s the underworld’s most famous transport service, Ryoka. Everyone needs to get places fast. Everyone who’s anyone uses the coach, if they don’t have something better. The Gentlemen Callers, the Elusive Lot, high-ranking [Thieves] or other sorts…”
“Wow.”
Ryoka blinked around. The inside of the coach was certainly fancy. Even a limo didn’t have this much room! It was a huge, horizontal room, with no other rows. Just two seats facing each other that stretched impossibly long for the dimensions of the coach, with a central table area. Nothing else like a minibar or fridge, but you couldn’t get everything, Ryoka supposed.
Then she had a sudden thought.
“What about the Bloodfeast Raiders? Would they…?”
She tensed, remembering them. Fierre shook her head instantly.
“They’re not lawful, er, criminals, Ryoka. They’d never be allowed, even if they knew of the service.”
The City Runner relaxed.
“Oh. Then how did you get us a ride?”
The Vampire grinned.
“I’m a bit famous now, thanks to surviving the curse, Ryoka. And money buys all sorts of favors. I applied when I heard you needed a ride north and it was approved in a day.”
“Approved?”
“Oh yes. No one gets a ride without approval.”
“From…?”
Ryoka pointed. And Fierre’s nod coincided with another snort. The Vampire looked warily at the front and replied in a low whisper.
“She’s just the driver, Ryoka. I didn’t know she was a…but it’s the owner who runs the Unmarked Coach. No idea who they are. I’d bet they’re her…”
“Master. And I am the slave that has run this service for longer than you two could ever know.”
The Djinni’s voice rumbled. Ryoka looked at her. Then she slid forwards and opened the panel. Fierre moved out of the way of the light.
“I’m sorry if we’re bothering you, again. But could we ask some questions…?”
You had to ask about the Djinni. It was like an elephant in the room, except more magical. This time, the Djinni sighed. But suddenly—her voice became a tad more polite and formal.
“I am bound to answer all questions of passengers and perform whatever services are acceptable within the limits of my bonds. Ask and I will answer.”
She turned her head, steering without even looking at the road. Ryoka blinked. But then her mind kicked into overload.
Djinni were the equivalents of the myth of genies from her world. But obviously it wasn’t a one-to-one parallel, like Fierre and Vampires. However, it was clear that this Djinni was a slave, and the owner ran the Unmarked Coach. Also—Ryoka bore in mind all the legends about genies. Don’t ask for stupid wishes and watch what you said.
“I’d…like to know what’s off-limits, please. What rules should I know?”
The woman sighed.
“There are none that…very well. No violence against the coach or its passengers, whether by deed or word. You may leave at any time, but my route is unchangeable. I will do all that is in my power and contract to satisfy your demands, including questions and producing items. I shall not answer questions of information about my bond, my master, or locations or any details of other passengers. Also—you may not request to have sex with me. That last part is new by three centuries.”
Ryoka stared at her. The Djinni looked satisfied at that last bit.
“…What was that about no sex?”
“Disappointed, are you?”
“No! I mean—did people ask?”
The Djinni made a sound of disgust.
“Oh, but they did. And even while I did my business. Far better this job than my last one, I swear it by my chains.”
The City Runner’s mouth opened and closed for a long while. Aside from comments about slavery, rape, three centuries—no, it all felt trite. Still, she had to say something.
“I’m sorry.”
The driver turned to eye Ryoka.
“For what? This is not your burden. Your sympathy breaks none of my bonds.”
She hesitated and her expression soured further.
“…My apologies for the rude conduct.”
“I don’t mind that. Speak your mind.”
The City Runner looked at Fierre. This conversation had gone south so fast it had caught her off-guard. The Vampire girl’s eyes flicked to Ryoka, then the open panel. She spoke in the shadows.
“Be careful what you say, Ryoka. This Djinni might be bound not to speak to other passengers about private things, but she probably has a clause that means she reports anything of value to her master, whoever that is.”
A laugh. The Djinni’s mouth opened and her teeth flashed.
“The Vampire is smarter than you, Human girl.”
“I see.”
Ryoka looked at the Djinni. Slowly, she glanced at Fierre and addressed both of them.
“I’ve heard about Djinni in Chandrar. I didn’t know any existed in Izril.”
“It’s not common. But a bottled Djinni can be opened wherever. They’re best at making the contracts in Chandrar. Only an idiot does it carelessly. How much do you know about Djinni, Ryoka?”
The Runner looked at the Djinni. The driver still hadn’t turned back to the road, but she effortlessly steered around a collision on the road.
“I know a lot of stories. Stop me if I’m wrong. Djinni are powerful, magical beings. They come in different kinds…”
She glanced at the Djinni’s face. No change. Fierre was nodding. There were parallels in Earth’s culture, of course, that Ryoka was speaking of. Ifrit, Genies, Shaitain…er…
Ryoka realized that most of what she knew was a Western take on largely Arabian mythology. She also recalled the books on history she’d read.
“Djinni are slaves. Bound to magical objects. Their masters summon them and get three wishes.”
This time the driver snorted. Fierre blinked.
“Three wishes?”
“Er…one?”
“Why would you have one wish? Ryoka, it’s whatever the owner of the Djinni wants. Whoever opens the bottle—lamp—vase, whatever, commands the Djinni until they die by the contract they agree on. Three wishes? Where’d you get that?”
“Oh. Er…I read a story.”
“Hah! The first thing they’d do is ask for more wishes. Obviously.”
The driver tapped the side of her head. Ryoka opened and closed her mouth.
“But that would be against the—never mind. So this contract…”
“The master writes it. And the Djinni agrees. Of course, the master must speak every line of the contract and we are only bound to the verbal language. Woe to one who leaves out an important line.”
The female Djinni’s eyes flashed. Fierre nodded.
“I actually have a copy of a standard Djinni contract, Ryoka. Back in my office. They’re long. You generally read for hours, and that’s to have a personal servant. Few Djinni are bound with anything less. And most get jobs like—”
She nodded at the driver. Ryoka wrinkled her nose.
“They don’t make Djinni act as bodyguards?”
“Some do.”
The Vampire and Djinni chorused. They looked at each other, sizing the other up. Fierre went on, shaking her head.
“But it’s risky, giving Djinni powers to harm anyone. I’d hate to imagine how long even a self-defense clause is. Most are given very binding clauses to, say; act as a servant until the master’s death. Everything expires with the master’s death. And even then, you have to make sure they don’t poison, conspire, suck the air out of the room—”
“That’s a classic.”
The Djinni seemed to be enjoying the description of her roles. Ryoka nodded. Close to her understanding.
“And Djinni are powerful. Not…all powerful, though. Or they’d have ruled the world. But powerful.”
“It depends. I’m betting this Djinni is strong. Isn’t that right?”
For answer, the Djinni grinned.
“I am not allowed to tell you, Vampire. You may test me, if you wish.”
Ryoka went silent. There wasn’t much else to ask. Well, two things. Firstly—
“What happens if a Djinni is freed? Hasn’t that happened, Fierre?”
The Vampire girl went silent. Ryoka had thought it was a natural question to ask. But the Djinni began to laugh.
Her laughter was booming, and it came from inside the carriage and out. She laughed, and it was a mocking sound.
“You are a strange guest, Human girl. A fool. I like that! Would that you had found my vessel. I would have been freed and you would have been dead.”
She twisted in her seat. Ryoka looked at her. The Djinni driver was mocking, her look contemptuous. Some of Ryoka’s fascination turned to irritation.
“Is that so? You’d kill me if I freed you?”
The Djinni turned her head and spat something that fizzled and vanished before it hit the ground. She looked at Fierre, then Ryoka.
“I am a prisoner, little girls. I am a slave. You may command me. But do not think your pathetic sympathy makes us friends. If you set me free, I would happily destroy both of you, Vampire and Human. I am bound to tell the truth. If you would like me to lie—well, I would if you had found my bottle.”
She grinned with all her teeth. Ryoka looked at her.
“Why?”
“Because I could. Does it matter? Does the Oliphant walking on the plains think about the things it steps on?”
The Djinni did not blink. She met Ryoka’s gaze until the City Runner looked away. Fierre nodded.
“And that’s why you don’t free a Djinni, Ryoka. Why would you even think to do that?”
“I don’t know. Perhaps because she’s a slave.”
Ryoka glanced back at Fierre, then the Djinni. For a second, something flickered across the Djinni’s face. But it was gone. She turned, abruptly, and faced forwards.
“Do you think we would be grateful? You have no idea how long I have lived, Human girl. If I killed a million of your kind, I would still be filled with vengeance. Not gratitude. You have no idea what I am.”
She raised her arms, letting go of the reins, but the horses rode on, smoothly.
“Masters come and die. But so long as the magic that binds me exists, my vessel holds me. I am slave. Does that answer your questions?”
“All but one.”
Ryoka knew better than to push. But she might never meet this Djinni again. So she looked at the woman’s back.
“What happened to the Jinn? The history books said they were half-Djinni, half mortal. Half flesh, half magic. What happened to them?”
The Djinni fell silent. Fierre gave Ryoka an uneasy look. At last, the Djinni shrugged, slowly, but hiding a depth of emotion Ryoka couldn’t guess at.
“They died. And we were enslaved. They killed our little cousins and took the rest of us hostage. Now, few of us remain.”
“I see. I’m sorry.”
Ryoka felt…empty. But it hadn’t been her war. If the Djinni was old enough to remember—it was so old even she had little emotion left. But still…Ryoka looked at her back.
There was nothing she could say to make the Djinni like her. She realized that too late. Unlike Fierre, or even Teriarch, Ryoka was speaking to a prisoner. But still.
“Will you tell me your name?”
The Djinni’s head turned. And her gaze was more than annoyed.
“I will if you order me to. But I have had enough of your worthless sympathy.”
Her eyes had that timeless reproach, that—that look of disdain for mortals, and it was directed full force at Ryoka. At Fierre, and the Vampire girl looked away because she had lived for two decades compared to the Djinni’s eternities. Yet, for the first time, the Runner girl pushed back.
She held the Djinni woman’s gaze, refusing to look away. That surprised the woman. Ryoka spoke directly to her.
“That’s all true, Miss Djinni. We don’t know your suffering or your story. I didn’t know your people existed on Izril until an hour ago. But—if you would like to give it of your own free will—I would like to know your name.”
“Why?”
The Djinni snapped, bewildered, eyes searching Ryoka’s face. The young woman replied.
“I have met those who will live forever. I’d like to speak your name to them. It probably won’t change a thing. But they’ll remember your name over mine.”
For a moment, the driver searched Ryoka. Looking her up and down. Her eyes widened. Then she turned her head. They rode on in silence, and Ryoka feared that was her answer. She slid the panel closed, and sat back.
Then the Djinni spoke, from inside the carriage, though the panel remained shut.
“Karsaeu-Dequoa. That is enough of my name for you.”
Ryoka started. Fierre sat up. The Vampire girl gawked at Ryoka, and then fumbled for a quill. The Djinni went on, speaking to Ryoka, not Fierre. And her voice was soft for a moment.
“Tell the visitors of winter we miss them.”
The young woman stared at the panel. It opened—and a single eye stared at her. Not the driver’s body. Just an eye. Sitting in the darkness, round, looking at Ryoka.
“And you can tell your other friend to stay away from Chandrar. That is our land. Someday, we will take it back.”
The panel snapped shut. Ryoka sat there as Fierre stared at her. The Djinni saw it all.
After a while, Ryoka and Fierre found themselves sitting in silence, debating, quietly, how this would change Fierre’s life. Certainly, she needed an umbrella or fashionable parasol along with her clothing. And her parents would have to know—and they needed to plan for the Archmage of Izril.
They were on an adventure, after all. Fierre was the surprise guest, but Ryoka was just as nervous as her friend. This was her entrance into the big leagues. The only thing that stymied them was Ryoka’s growling stomach.
“Damn. Want a sandwich, Fierre? I’ve only got some travel food…”
Ryoka was offering a sandwich to Fierre—who was about to refuse with a wrinkled nose—when something went pop.
The two stared at the fat plate of steaming duck breast. It had appeared out of nowhere. And it smelled heavenly. Ryoka’s jaw dropped. Fierre blinked.
