“Don’t bully the new riders. Say—does anyone know if there’s someone selling Empah’s Pollen about?”
The [Gang Leader] backed up as half the coach, including Fierre, gave him a dark look.
“I’m not using it or selling it! It’s for a friend.”
“Well, I know a guy. Talk to me. Hey, you, barefoot—explain how the rules work again?”
It was a strange, oddly fun ride. Ryoka played hands, won some gold before she lost it all to the Sister of Chell, but she found herself liking the odd riders. She dozed off, next to Fierre, fairly certain that theft wasn’t allowed on the Unmarked Coach either. She saw Fierre licking her lips in her sleep quite a lot, but no one had made any comment.
Ryoka slept, somewhat uneasily given the other riders in the night as the two [Gang Leaders] left for their rendezvous—right up until the Sister of Chell came back into the carriage after a stop with some garlic chips.
 
—-
 
They were a precursor to actual fast-food in that someone had made the chips and then applied butter and garlic and a few other herbs for taste. None of that mattered however, because the Sister of Chell had bought the food for a snack.
And Fierre woke up screaming as soon as they came into the coach. She shouted, eyes and nose streaming, as the [Nightstalker], the [Assassin], and the Brother all jerked into combat-mode.
They had their weapons out in a second. A blade coated with dark liquid, a pair of brass knuckles, and a length of wire. Ryoka caught the whiff of garlic as Fierre writhed.
“It hurts! It hurts!”
Ryoka had seen a demonstration of people using pepper spray before. She had considered—once—getting sprayed to see what it felt like, but even at her most reckless, she hadn’t really wanted to try that.
It looked to her like Fierre had gotten a dose of that—from just the presence of the garlic. For a second, she was frozen, then she pointed.
“Get rid of that!”
“What? What?”
The Sister of Chell was confused. She stared at Fierre with clearly no idea what was happening. The [Assassin] on the other hand—he looked at Fierre, and reached for the bag.
The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings was faster. He yanked the bag out of the Sister’s hand, opened the door, and hurled the chips out.
Fierre stopped shouting. She dragged herself up, a face full of snot and tears. Ryoka looked at her, and then at the other people in the coach. Karsaeu was mad.
“She uh—she’s really allergic.”
That was the best Ryoka could come up with.
 
—-
 
“I’m really sorry, really. Here. Have another chip. This garlic don’t bother you?”
A while later, the Sister of Chell was offering Fierre another garlic chip. It was a copy of the food she’d brought in—only made by Karsaeu. Fierre took a nibble, shook her head.
“No. Garlic is great! I wish I could eat it—”
“It’s magical food. Not real. I have shellfish all the time I’m in here. I swell up something terrible if I eat the real thing.”
The [Nightstalker] had been properly apologetic and accepted Fierre’s explanation at face value. She waved at the coach.
“Lovely thing, Djinni, aren’t they?”
The Brother and [Assassin] were getting ready for their stop, which was actually the same place. Ryoka glanced at the Sister.
“You know about that?”
“’Course. I want a Djinni myself, but they cost the earth. Even them weak ones.”
The Sister had a nice grin. She waved at the carriage.
“One who can make an entire place like this and make food appear out of her magic, well, that’s something. Don’t eat too many chips now, or she slows down. Takes too much of her.”
Fierre stopped gobbling the garlic-flavored dishes, which she had hither-to never experienced in any fun capacity.
“Takes too much magic?”
“Well, magic, her…”
The Sister of Chell saw the blank looks.
“Djinni are like magic, right? No real bodies. Everything is them. If they makes lightning, it’s out of themselves when they throw it. This is that female Djinni. Tastes alright, doesn’t it?”
Ryoka choked on her food. Fierre tried to swallow and regurgitate at the same time. The [Assassin] grimaced.
“Please stop bullying the new riders.”
It wasn’t really Karsaeu in the same way it was her flesh and blood. But it was real enough to put Ryoka off her feed the rest of the ride. Fierre too. It didn’t feel right, even if the Djinni made her own magic and this was just her power; creating material out of magic. That was how Djinnis fought and the base of their power. Theirs was creation.
It also explained why the Brother had refused to order or eat anything. Ryoka now copied his example, much to the Sister of Chell’s amusement. This was, apparently, a form of twisted affection; she kept trying to trick the two of them into saying where they were from and where they were bound.
People came and went. And the Unmarked Coach travelled on. It stopped at one spot, on its winding journey to Ryoka and Fierre’s destination—one of the last stops because it was so remote.
The Brother and [Trapmaster Assassin] stopped at the same destination, or close enough that they were lumped together. The [Thug] tipped his hat to the [Assassin] as the coach rolled off.
“Best of luck sir, if your target happens to be one as deserves it. If it’s an innocent sort, or a child or so on and so forth, I hope you won’t mind if I wish blasted damnation and failure on you.”
“Not at all. Best of travels to you as well.”
The older [Assassin] saw the Brother off with a nod. The two parted ways, the [Thug] heading for the city. The [Assassin] walked off towards the forest. He vanished out of sight and out of mind moments after leaving the coach.
He found two others among the trees. They had already set up camp. Two Faces of the Assassin’s Guild. Not full-timers like he was. But just as good.
“Evening, Mire. How are the kids?”
“Good. Well, I say good, but my eldest is having trouble in his woodworking business.”
“Oh. I’m sorry to hear that.”
One of the [Assassins] was working with her alchemy draughts, keeping the smoke away from the other hooded figure with glittering eyes and a long blade. He just nodded at the [Trapmaster].
“Unmarked Coach?”
“That’s right. I don’t know how you two could stand to go on foot.”
The man with the long blade, whom the other two [Assassins] sat far away from, grunted. They were on the same side, but standing in his range still made them instinctually nervous.
“That Djinni makes me uneasy. Can’t sleep.”
“Too expensive for me. I have to save up. Overhead is what it is, and the kids and pets need funding…well, looks like we have time to wait for the others. Anyone see the duel?”
“That [Duelist]-[King] wasn’t bad. But I could have done better.”
The [Assassin] with the sword made the older [Trapmaster] sigh. There really were just universal gossip topics that everyone from the underworld to the monarchy liked talking about. But before he got into the discussion, he had to bring something up.
“Hey Mire, guess what I met on my ride here?”
“…A Named Adventurer? I don’t know.”
“Nope. A Vampire.”
“Really?”
The other two [Assassins] looked up. Mire corked a bubbling concoction.
“Now that’s interesting. Related to one of our own?”
“Nope. New. She had a strong reaction to even a bit of garlic.”
“Fascinating. You meet all kinds, don’t you?”
The [Assassin] settled back, stretching out to wait. There was no fire, but he was warm enough. He had a target, he knew the score. All that was left was waiting. He looked at the others.
“Yup. So what are we having for dinner? Fancy playing cards to see who buys from the city? I learned a new game.”
“Sure. Why not?”
“Not shellfish. I’m allergic to shellfish.”
 
—-
 
Now.
The Runner did better than projected. Statistically, most failed during the soporific gas corridor, the shadow familiars got them, or they lost to the Runemark Golems. But this Runner did well, despite losing their objects.
They ran. Fighting, cursing—but their end was what got almost all of the intruders. Only five had ever made it past the Chamber of Insanity, based on an Albezian trap style. And without artifacts, this Runner’s mental charm broke in front of the repeated glyphs.
The shadow familiars carried them, babbling, into one of the holding cells for the Archmage of Izril to investigate. And that was a death sentence because she hadn’t investigated for oh, six years.
She sat there, and one of her fractured mental processes abandoned tracking the intruder. It rejoined the rest, allowing her to think at a lightly improved rate. She didn’t ‘think’ about the fate of the Human Courier with a touch of Lizardfolk blood in him.
Salamani the Mage Runner lay in the cell. Defeated by the mansion. He had prepared well. He had high levels, experience—even then, he should have known better.
But Lady Ieka Imarris had offered such a high reward for getting to the Archmage before the young City Runner could. She’d massively inflated her previous reward to entice Salamani to accept. After all, she couldn’t have Miss Griffin dying on a suicide mission. And if the Courier couldn’t do it…what hope had Ryoka?
So time passed by. Seconds, turned to minutes, as the spell wore off and Salamani found himself captured, with no food, no way out…the supplies for the shadow familiars had long run out so the Mage Runner saw the other cells, filled with people who had tried to ‘wake’ the Archmage of Izril and failed. Those were just the ones who had been captured as well. Many left nothing to put into a cell.
And Salamani languished. Minutes became hours. Hours became days—
Well, a day.
 
—-
 
Later.
Ryoka Griffin disembarked from the little boat. Fierre was lying on the beach, oblivious to the rats nibbling at her cloak.
She wasn’t…dead. Or rather, she was still the same Vampire. But not only had she been sunburned beyond belief despite it being evening and her carrying both parasol and heavy clothing, she had crossed the ocean.
It wasn’t technically a river, and thus moving water which might pose a barrier to her. It turned out that Fierre just got really seasick.
“You are the worst Vampire I’ve ever met.”
“Shut up or I’ll suck your blood.”
The two stared off towards the mansion in the distance. Ryoka took a few deep breaths. They’d spent three days in the Unmarked Coach, which had taken them here. Now, it was time to do this. Ryoka Griffin looked at Fierre.
“You ready?”
The Vampire girl made a sound. Fierre dragged herself upright, and her eyes glowed as the sun set. She had only gained in strength over the last three days; she’d had to buy a lot of bloody meat to even feed herself. Now—she crouched, baring her fangs. She looked at Ryoka.
“Let’s go wake the Archmage of Izril.”
The two made their way towards the mansion set amid the overturned soil. Ryoka saw Fierre tossing something to one side. She hesitated.
“Fierre…are you…?”
“What? I’m hungry.”
 
—-
 
The ocean was vast. If you didn’t know this, it was, in fact, vaster than your average lake. But there were lakes you couldn’t even see across.
But an ocean…was vaster still. And if some people thought all bodies of water were the same, they had clearly never seen a large ocean or lake.
Some people couldn’t even swim. Imagine that. Swimming was as easy as flapping your arms about, only it actually did something in the water.
Swimming in armor now…that was harder. Very difficult, and depended on the type of armor you wore. But you could do it.
Even so, it took a special kind of crazy to do it with a helmet on. Yet, Ser Solstice was, to Talia Kallinad, all kinds of crazy.
He was a [Knight]. And he had sworn an oath never to reveal his face, along with his crusade against the Goblins. She respected that. There were crazier oaths to swear. For instance, she had participated in an ancient magical ritual that had sent her across the world to fight for a Knight of Summer who had given his life to try and slay the Spider of Terandria.
He had failed. And the failure still weighed on Talia. She was not strong enough. All of her levels, her fast growth despite her age that she was praised for—felt hollow.
But here was a [Knight] to look up to. He never stopped training. Now, the [Knight] climbed up the rope tossed to him over the side of the ship. He came over the railing, to the applause from the [Sailors].
“Ser Solstice. Did you have to do that?”
The [Knight] was holding a large, dead fish. A Quillfish—one of the flocking fish of the sea, only grown so large it’s barbed projectiles had been like arrows.
“I was hungry.”
Rabbiteater couldn’t have explained what made him dive into the water after the Quillfish himself. Perhaps—just a memory.
Erin Solstice had once served him the fish. When the waters rose, he remembered eating one. Killing this one, even in armor and the water, hadn’t been hard.
“Well, you are a mystery, Ser Solstice. Won’t you join us for another duel? I’m eager to repay you for my loss.”
“Sure.”
The Hobgoblin was lost. Metaphorically, emotionally, spiritually…and geographically. He had wandered off, leaving his people behind after the battle.
All well and good. He had helped save Goblins. Even better. And he’d even found a group of [Knights] he liked, who actually supported his ‘oath of privacy’. But at some point, he’d lost track of himself.
Again, in more of geographical terms. The Goblin [Champion]-[Knight] stared over the bow of the ship. Yep. Water. All around.
He had no idea where he was. It had been so easy to go along with Talia.
‘Ser Solstice, let’s go slay that Stone Golem!’
‘Prithee, Ser Solstice, would you like to hunt [Bandits]?’
‘Ser Solstice! Let’s get on this ship!’
In retrospect, that last one should have tipped him off. The Hobgoblin looked at Talia.
“…Where are we going, again?”
“Pheislant, Ser Solstice! Once again, thank you for agreeing to go with us!”
Alcohol was a terrible thing. Rabbiteater regretted being introduced to it. He nodded slowly, grateful for the helmet. As he understood it, the [Knights] were returning home.
“Am I…welcome?”
She laughed at him. It was so…good…to see a Human face doing that, not twisted with rage or hatred. That was why he hadn’t been able to go.
“I think our Grandmaster would love to meet such a valiant [Knight], Ser! And even if you stay with your order—we are honored by your company. Goblins plague the world over, of course.”
“Right. They do. Can’t get rid of them.”
