“I heard the Unmarked Coach had food. But—”
“Excuse me. Do we get food?”
“If you want it.”
The Djinni grumbled. Ryoka and Fierre looked at each other. Fierre hesitated.
“Can you do blood?”
“None that you’d like, Vampire. Mine food tastes and nourishes little. But ask. Ask, and I serve.”
She sighed. Because she knew what was coming next. Fierre raised a hand.
“I’ll have a wine—”
Ryoka was more hesitant, but she had to ask.
“Can you do a—a lemonade?”
Fierre and the Djinni looked at her. Ryoka hesitated. She just really missed…lemonade. She would have killed someone for a soft drink.
It rolled on, the Unmarked Coach, as the two riders discovered the perks of riding. They could even ask for pillows, blankets…the grumbling Djinni had to slow the fast pace of the coach to deal with her rider’s demands.
And then the Unmarked Coach stopped. Ryoka barely noticed as she and Fierre, laughing, toasted each other. She heard a voice, a reply, and then—
The door to the coach opened. The grey-cloaked [Assassin] stepped into the carriage, saw the visitors, and walked over to a far seat and sat down.
Ryoka and Fierre stared, mid-toast. The [Assassin] checked himself, put down his longsword next to him, pulled down the covering on his face and sighed.
“I’ll have a fruit juice. Surprise me.”
The dark blue drink appeared in front of him. He took it, sat back, nodded to them, and the coach moved on. The two new riders had forgotten one important thing:
It wasn’t a private shuttle.
 
—-
 
Now.
The Runner opened the real door to the Archmage of Izril’s mansion after nearly half an hour of checking it for traps. And there weren’t any. On the front door. It was just exceptionally magically reinforced such that a [Siege Fireball] would have bounced off. Literally.
Oh, and one more thing. The Runner would have loved to know this, but the door had no doorknob on the other side. That wasn’t magical, so they couldn’t tell from looking.
The door swung shut behind them. The Runner cursed. But then they were in the Archmage’s abode. Close to the Archmage of Izril—but oh, so far.
They had done…average…so far. Average in that they survived the fake out mansion, which wasn’t even the real test. Now, the real traps began.
Of course, the Runner knew they existed. But they were locked inside the exceptionally reinforced doorway and they had no choice but to continue. There were some traps that didn’t lose their effectiveness even if you knew they existed.
And the Runner was good. They were quick-witted, resourceful, and had bought magical items to prepare for this challenge.
They survived the Room of Similarity because they had those items. The Runner fought, desperately, bashing their opponents to pieces by virtue of the small advantages they’d brought. Even so—they stumbled out of the room, bleeding, healing themselves, exhausted more mentally than anything else.
They inhaled three lungfuls of the soporific gas enchantment before they realized something was wrong. They had a countermeasure. But that was when the shadow familiars attacked. The Runner lost their belt and bag of holding in the sudden assault, just as planned. Now they were in trouble.
Average, so far…
 
—-
 
Then.
Ryoka and Fierre sat at the far end of the coach, staring. It was rude to stare. And also—rude to judge people by their appearance.
But in fairness—that was an [Assassin]. He looked like it. You know, that…concealing clothing thing? Also, the way one looked around, as if seeing people dead. A certain coldness of the expression?
Also, the multiple weapons he was carrying was a big clue. Ryoka knew he was an assassin. She had met Theofore. Although that was like comparing an ant to an Antinium.
This guy made her nervous. Fierre too. But also—
Fierre stared at the [Assassin]. And she bit the edge of her cup. She looked…hungry. In a way she hadn’t been for Ryoka or the driver.
“Er…so, F—Fanni. How long do you think we’ll be to our destination?”
The Vampire girl jumped. She gave Ryoka a look, and then smiled, hiding her teeth.
“Oh, just a while longer…actually, a day or two.”
“A day or t—”
Ryoka yelped. Fierre glared at her.
“We’re going far, R—my friend. Even the fastest carriages take time. And this is almost nonstop.”
“Oh. I guess…”
Ryoka was too used to Magnolia’s carriage. And she had no sense of how fast the carriage was moving. She gingerly cracked open one of the shades and Fierre slapped her hand down.
“Sorry!”
The two young women were so studiously ignoring the [Assassin] in the corner that when he spoke, they nearly screamed.
“First time on the Unmarked Coach?”
He had taken the grey scarf around his mouth down. Ryoka spun.
“Er—yes! I mean—”
“Nice to meet you.”
He walked over, held out a hand. Ryoka and Fierre stared. The man smiled.
He had grey hair. He was actually in his late fifties! He was very spry, however, and he was very affable.
“I’m an [Assassin]. Assassin’s Guild—on business.”
“Oh. Um—I’m Alelle. Alelle—”
The [Assassin]’s lips moved in a smile. He cut Ryoka off.
“We don’t use names here. If that was yours, I’d keep it to yourself. And don’t worry. This is neutral ground.”
“Oh.”
Ryoka relaxed, but only by a bit. The [Assassin] nodded at Fierre.
“Pleasure to meet you too, Miss.”
“Er, charmed. We’re sorry, this is our first time and we didn’t know other people rode here.”
The two found themselves sitting with the old [Assassin] and soon, Ryoka was chewing on grapes, provided by the Djinni who was completely silent with this new guest. The [Assassin] was only too happy to give the two new riders the lowdown.
“Usually we keep to ourselves. Depends on the personality and group. Sometimes there are…rivals. But no one fights. No names are given. Myself, I introduce myself to anyone I don’t know.”
“Even us?”
He smiled.
“Especially you two. Anyone under thirty who can ride the Unmarked Coach might hire me. If you go through the Assassin’s Guild, you can mention me by appearance—or that I know you.”
“Oh. Well—I’m not into hiring [Assassins]…”
“Of course not. Just bear me in mind.”
The man’s tone was polite. Ryoka wondered how many people had said that to him that ended up…
He was disarming because he was so casual. They didn’t talk names, but when Ryoka mentioned being surprised at the Unmarked Coach’s existence, the [Assassin] sighed.
“It’s the kind of luxury anyone who’s made it out of the Ranks longs for. My apologies. The Ranks are the expendable [Assassins] in our guild. Myself, I stopped riding around and using other vehicles the moment I became one of the Faces.”
“Oh. So you’re…er…good? At your job?”
“I specialize in—wires. Let’s put it at that. If you have a problem with anyone moving around fast…”
He gave Ryoka’s bare feet a pointed look. The [Assassin] sat back as Ryoka gulped and smiled as he sipped from his goblet.
“I won’t talk business. Say, did you catch the latest battle between the King of Destruction and the King of Duels?”
“What?”
The two were caught off-guard again. But the [Assassin] wanted to gossip about…well, the scrying orb stuff.
“You saw the battle at Daquin? That was my introduction to this television business. Fascinating. I won fifty gold on that little Lizardgirl—not that I bet on her, but I bet it was going to be stealth, not force that beat Tulm the Mithril.”
Fierre grinned. And so did Ryoka, after a moment. The man recommended they ask for dates from Chandrar, and he was very acquainted with the Unmarked Coach’s capabilities.
“Pillows make life easier. There used to be a bigger space, but they changed it. Too many people kept napping and missing their destinations. Some incentive for them to get out, you know. But ask for ice in your drinks…”
Ryoka didn’t get drunk, precisely, on the magic wine, but maybe the tiniest bit tipsy. It really didn’t fill you up much, but there was some sense that she was putting something into her. It made it great for feasting and even Fierre got in on the action.
…Which was when the man with the hat and the two rough-looking [Gang Leaders] joined the [Trapmaster Assassin] in the coach.
Ryoka stared at the man with the hat, who doffed his cap to her and Fierre at once. He opened the door for one of the [Gang Leaders]; she snorted and pushed her way into the wagon.
“Ale.”
She spoke loudly and it appeared. The other [Gang Leader] sat opposite her and ordered a Gorgon’s Stare, which took a few seconds longer to appear. The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings had nothing at all.
“Good evening to you.”
The [Assassin] nodded. The Brother tipped his hat again, but kept it on as he produced a flask and poured it into a cup—both of which he’d brought. He ate and drank nothing, while the two [Gang Leaders] had food.
“Dead gods, but I’m starving.”
“Well, this won’t fill you up.”
The other [Gang Leader] was cautioning his compatriot. She glared at him.
“I know that. But if we’re rumbling with—”
They cast their glances sideways at the other riders. The female [Gang Leader] savagely bit into her fillet.
“—I want to be moving fast.”
“Of course.”
“Just have a bit of actual food, or you’ll run out of energy. Happened to me once. Ate and drank for three days straight and fell on my face when I got to my target.”
That came from the [Assassin]. The female criminal nearly laughed her food out of her mouth. The [Assassin] introduced himself, but the others seemed to know who he was.
“On a mission?”
“Can’t say, won’t say.”
The others nodded. Fierre was explaining who the others were; she didn’t know the [Gang Leaders], but they were probably the leaders of the city or town they occupied, perhaps from the same one if there were competing or allied factions. The man with the hat fascinated Ryoka when Fierre told her about him.
“He’s a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings. They’re a powerful group. All-male, don’t do kidnapping, racketeering—they have a code of honor. If they take off their hats, run.”
Her voice was a bit too loud, and the Brother tipped his hat. Both young women froze, but he just smiled.
“And we try to keep everything respectful, ladies. Not that we’re above mugging folks, but we keep it to those that have enough to spare.”
“First time on the Unmarked Coach?”
Even the two [Gang Leaders] were cordial. It was surreal, but this really was a neutral ground. Ryoka nodded.
“Did you see the battle between the King of Destruction and…?”
It seemed like people stayed on safe topics here. Soon, everyone was discussing the battle. The [Trapmaster Assassin] was sighing.
“Poison would have done it. High-level warriors like that—if he had an antidote, it might have saved him, but either way, poison your blades.”
“It’s the rapiers that do it. Nice, puncture hole in the heart? Too easy to fix. See, this is why I have this kind of weapon. Goes in and…”
The female [Gang Leader] showed around a serrated, long dagger. Ryoka shuddered, but the [Assassin] admired the work.
“Where did you get that? And how much?”
“Separate enchantment. You know the fellow in Invrisil? The bastard with the missing tooth that replaced it with the blue one?”
“Oh, him. Sapphire tooth?”
“Right. Well, I got this blade via a contact in Pallass. Some master-[Smith] works once in a blue moon and made this; I bought it off a fellow who always puts in orders on the off-chance they get made.”
It was a small world. Ryoka wondered if talking about the doorway in Invrisil was incredibly stupid, or just stupid. But—that was when the male criminal spoke up.
“That’s why we’re here, actually. Heard about them doors in Invrisil? We’re thinking of uprooting and just going to Invrisil, even if there’s those damned Reinhart servants. We’re ‘negotiating’ with some other gangs.”
“Best of luck. If you’d like to wait a few days, my services are for offer…”
“Hah! We can handle it. Thanks, though. What’s your specialty?”
“Wires.”
“Ooh. Very nice. What, do you use mithril? I hear you can make a wire out of that that’s so fine…”
“Tricks of the trade, sorry. But if you’re looking for wires, I can put you in touch with a good, non-Guild artificer…”
It was a strange ride. But Ryoka found the male [Gang Leader] was actually a card player and he was introducing her to the world of magical cards. You actually said command words to activate some cards; there were more physical games that involved things like grabbing cards or money off the table than Earth’s version.
And some interesting cards that even did things like swap with a card in someone else’s hand. Ryoka didn’t see the same numbering system; it went up to thirteen. And there were a lot more face-cards, but she had to play a few rounds. Once she had gotten her practice in, she suggested they play a game far more familiar to her, with some of the magical cards.
Texas Holdem was in full play with everyone but the female [Gang Leader]—who didn’t gamble, ironically—when the door opened.
A woman in a very revealing dress walked in. She shook the mud off her feet, looked around, spotted the Brother of Serendipitous Meetings, and glared.
“Fuck you.”
Then she sat down and demanded a high-quality wine. That was a Sister of Chell.
“They operate [Prostitutes], [Nightwalkers]—and a lot of racketeering. Don’t mess with them if you’re male. They’ll cut your balls off. Lots of them are former escorts with combat classes.”
The [Nightstalker] peered at Ryoka and Fierre. She watched as Ryoka won a round by using the teleporting card combined with a card that made the backs of Fierre’s hand turn transparent to give herself three 2’s.
“What’s that game?”
“New one. Where’s it from?”
The [Gang Leader] turned to Ryoka. The City Runner sighed. She always did this. But this time she had a good, ready response.
“Wistram.”
“Even their fucking cards are new. Hey, deal me in. More wine! You two’re young. New?”
Everyone could tell. Ryoka and Fierre introduced themselves. To their surprise, the Sister of Chell herself was friendly—to a point. She had an edge and she did not like the Brother, who simply tipped his cap to her.
“If you two are in the right fields, give us a call. Say that ‘Deara’ sent you if you do. We can always use new talent. We’ll look after you and it’s no place for young girls alone, especially with all the bastards about.”
To their surprise, she looked at the [Assassin] instead of the Brother, and the [Trapmaster Assassin] just raised his hands. Ryoka and Fierre didn’t know what to say to that.
