Ren only got to sleep for a couple of hours before he had to get up for breakfast and therapy. “Ugh.” He grunted as Elise tried to shake him awake. “Need sleep.” He said and buried his face in her chest and tried to hold on.

“Ren, I know you've only been asleep for...”

“I need more than a couple hours of sleep.” Ren said and looked at her face. “So, I'm issuing my very first executive order.”

Elise chuckled. “Your what?”

“I am ordering that my day isn't going to officially start for 3 more hours.” Ren said and buried his face in her cleavage again. “I am going to wallow in this warm and pillow-like softness to get some much needed rest, and the entire world is going to have to wait until I'm done.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elise laughed and jiggled her chest as she put her arms back around him to hold him gently.

“It's a good thing breakfast is only cereal today.” Stella said, and Ren lifted his head to look at her. “I'd say good morning, but apparently that hasn't happened yet.”

“Thanks, Stella!” Ren said and put his head back down on Elise. “Let Donald know, will you?”

“I'll even use the same words, if that makes you feel any better about blowing off his first lesson.” Stella said.

“I'm not skipping it.” Ren said and yawned loudly and closed his eyes. “Only... only delaying.”

Stella and Elise watched as Ren went to sleep almost immediately, and exchanged glances.

Elise shrugged slightly. “He really didn't get much sleep.” She whispered, and Stella nodded.

They waved at each other, then Stella left the room with the food tray and went back downstairs. She met Donald in the kitchen and told him what Ren had said. Donald completely understood Ren's reasoning, and didn't even complain about the executive order thing.

“You're taking this delay a lot better than I thought you would.” Stella said, and Donald laughed.

“He's taking command of his life, and that's a good thing.” Donald said and took a drink of his coffee. “He has his priorities straight, since I know trying to do a good workout without enough sleep makes you both sloppy and careless.”

“I agree.” Barbara said and kissed her husband. “I guess that means we have 3 more hours of personal time.”

“You should be getting to bed, too.” Donald said and started to smile. “Staying up all night and watching television must have been hard on you.”

Barbara smacked his shoulder playfully. “I am not that...” She stopped talking to yawn almost as loudly as Ren had. Stella and Donald chuckled at the sight, and Barbara shook her head.

“All right, fine.” Barbara said and kissed her husband again. “See you this afternoon.”

“Not if I see you first.” Donald said and tried to grab her butt as she walked away. Barbara deftly avoided getting groped and waved to Stella before she left through the kitchen door to go to the guest house.

“Having you both so close has been great.” Stella said. “I don't think I've ever seen Barbara this relaxed.”

“You mean playful.” Donald said and took another drink of his coffee.

“I think her whole demeanor has changed the last little while.” Stella said and poured her own coffee. “She's... well, to put a simple term to it... she's happy.”

Donald chuckled. “Yes, even I have to admit that.” He said and took another drink of coffee. “It's all thanks to our little benefactor.”

Stella nodded. “All of our lives have changed to fit into his life.” She said and took a sip of coffee. “All for the better, too.”

Donald nodded and glanced at the clock. “It looks like I have enough time to get my workout in before he gets up.” He said and stood up, walked over to the sink and rinsed out the mug he had used, and put it in the dishwasher. He left the kitchen without another word and went to the exercise room to work out.
