Wyin nodded.“It’s a play on the word ‘infallible’ where-” she began and Delta waved her hands with a slight cry.“No! You can’t explain it or it isn’t funny anymore!” she protested. Wyin frowned and Delta did some quick thinking.“Imagine the sheer torture by not sharing the joke!” she encouraged and Wyin perked up like Delta has given her a gift.“Oh yes… I can imagine that. Very well, I shall practise more cutting remarks and to add salt to the wound… puns. I shall suffer them so my foes will die from them!” she cackled and her branches all erupted into thorns.She saw Delta’s flat expression and cleared her throat.“I mean, how they will groan in traumatic pain for years to come… alive. Un-maimed,” she said weakly.Delta guessed that was the best she was getting for a while. Maybe after a few real fights, Wyin would cool off and take up knitting sheaths for swords or quivers for arrows or something.Delta could only hope.“Let me talk to Maestro first since this affects both of you,” she said.The few mushrooms scattered about the room twitched.“I was listening to this lovely gaggle of gals. I, the amazing and fabulous Maestro, agree to the upgrade. A chance for more of my fans to see my glorious self in person! Honey, put the pen away, I already signed the ‘yes’ box with a kiss!”“Excellent, the mushroom and the tree are in agreement. We want to be upgraded,” Wyin gestured with one lone willowy branch as if to encourage Delta to hurry. Rolling her eyes at her needy houseplants, she brought up the menu and purchased the hefty 200 DP upgrade for them.The Dungeon was quiet for a moment, then Wyin’s bark began to crack and deep light flowed from within.The mushrooms were pulsing and shaking as Maestro’s sing-song voice began to tremble with surprise.“By the sweet mercy of Momma! This feeeeels intense!” he said, voice shaking as if he was vibrating.Wyin exploded, like a caterpillar escaping its cocoon using a heavy dose of C4 and dynamite. Wood chips were sent flying and a storm of leaves made Wyin into the eye of the storm.Before, her brownish bark looked a shade lighter but now it had tiny pulsing green veins that were slowly turning orange. Her face, which had only been shaped somewhat like a woman, was now perfectly detailed, as if it were sculpted by an artist. Her lips pursed as ivy and thin moss made waves of hair that cascaded down to the tree’s navel, which even had a new belly button.She stretched, feeling out out her new form, and Delta covered her eyes.“Wyin, you’re really detailed all the way down!” she yelled, face going red. Wyin’s legs still merged and fused into the roots of the tree, but her body–which looked smooth yet natural, with leaves and mushroom caps as decorative accessories–as her arms still split into dozens of branches.“Hm… yes I see that I have rather supple thighs now!” Wyin said pleased.That was not what was concerning Delta.She peeked to see Wyin shaking her head out as flower buds grew in the vines and exploded into bloom with vivid red and white blossoms. As if the flowers had been stained with red.“I’m just teasing… see?” Wyin’s soft purr of a voice tempted Delta to look once more and she sighed with relief as the tree now had a thin veil of leaves that acted like a thin cloak or towel.Her shoulders were bare and the attempt at decency didn’t seem to be a very good one, as when Wyin moved the leaves parted to tease a show at any given time.Still, Delta respected her monster’s choices in the long run. If Wyin wanted to be… natural in her own time, it was only fair to respect that. But if she was going to be fighting young men and women then she had to respect them too!“Do you want to taste my sweet fruit? It’s bursting with juice and one nibble could make it leak,” Wyin offered, leaning down. Delta gaped and the tree blinked confused before her words seemed to catch up to her.Instead of shame or embarrassment, Wyin seemed amused.Her arms lowered to show an orange peach-like fruit. Delta eyed them.“Why are they peaches-” she began and Wyin cut her off.“Because they look like butts and I like making you flustered,” she grinned. Delta pointed a finger at her with a scandalized look.“I saved you from Seth and his wandering… words! To think you were just as bad!” she accused. Wyin merely hid her smile behind a branch.“I am naught but a childe of Delta. I am innocent but delicious. Bite me gently, sir or madam,” she cooed and Delta covered her ears.“Lalalala, I can’t hear this!” she yelled. Wyin’s clear, bell-like tinkling, laugh sounded out. It wasn’t a cackle or even a mean sound but something rare.General amusement and affection.“You are too sweet for this world, how I worry for you,” Wyin smiled.“I didn’t sign up for a seductive murder tree…” Delta grumbled. Wyin leaned down and wrapped her branches around the space where Delta stood.“We can’t often choose the people we consider family but we simply have to do our best, mhm? Now I suggest you go check on the drama king. He is being far too quiet for my liking,” Wyin suggested.Delta had to agree but she narrowed her eyes at Wyin.“We could have kids coming to the Dungeon and one kinda sweet girl. You are to be on your best behavior!” she commanded. Wyin blinked three times.“Oh lovely creator. The Wyin tree is about love, didn’t you know?” she giggled and stretched to her full length. Delta was beginning to think this upgrade had given Wyin something to make her feel good.Either that or Wyin was getting her torture jollies from somewhere Delta had no idea about.---Yggy, as Beta often called him, was feeling ragged. Not only had his very soul been singed so bad that it hurt to be… hurt to think. And his attempts to track that ‘Delta’ back to her source had been met with…Something… he couldn’t quite remember. He had fleeting images of a round sphere of screens. Of a Girl… and her furious expression.Then the parts he had made for invading areas had simply ceased to be. Gone and lost. His memory somehow also cut loose as if the girl wanted no stone unturned in her attack.Yggy was furious as he retreated to lick his wounds as it were.But what was worse was the damn feeling of… others. He was the World Tree! There was power in that title for Yggy to play with but he sensed two others now.Two new potential World Beings. So tiny… so pathetic, but still growing.And one of them was semi-aware of him! It radiated mockery and cruelty at his fury. It seemed to grow and sigh as his own rage built. He was the World Tree and this tick had taken his power! In the mockery came a name that made Yggy feel both cold and curious.Wyin.That was… not possible.But there was another that just seemed content to sing and damned if most of the tunes weren’t stuck in Yggy’s head.He sulked… healed… and plotted.---Delta eyed Wyin as her mood only seemed to get brighter.Odd tree… very odd.Delta decided to get to the root of her other issue and left Wyin to start her own branch of bad jokes. All this excitement was gonna get to Wyin eventually, she was going to need to lay down soon for… rest.Delta had to stop in the middle of the jungle as fits of giggles tried to escape her.Yes. I can see it now. You truly were meant to be the deadliest dungeon that ever existed.Nu’s words were as sweet as ever and Delta couldn’t help but flutter her eyelashes at him.“I Nu you’d understand,” she grinned.Nu’s glare was powerful despite having no eyes. Delta took off flying, her laughter making the jungle come to life with echoes of joy and noise.She couldn’t wait to see Maestro.---
