“But we never agreed to be called Konstantly Awesome,” Lexi muttered.

“I’ll change the team name for you when you win.”

“You all heard him say that,” Lexi said.

“I heard it,” said Ignacio.

“Me too,” said Alden.

“And I’ll change it to the best ever team name if you earn us a second run.”

“What’s the best ever?”

“Win and find out, Haoyu. Win and find out.”

“Nobody needs to worry about my entruster thing,” Alden said. “If it’s a pain. I didn’t mean to be confusing right before the race.”

Kon stood and passed him his stuffed backpack. “It’s not that confusing. Focus on conquering the island like we planned, of course. But when the girls start attacking, it’ll all turn into a mess anyway. Good luck, all of you.”

He texted them as they headed to the starting line.

[Kon: And remember. Our instructor is probably a six-year-old. So don’t be boring.]

The rules were scrolling in front of their eyes. They’d be starting on the side of the course they’d toured at the beginning of class, and Lexi would be out front, hopefully demolishing the pincushion alley with Writher. Alden would be guarding against anything he missed with a plastic tablecloth that could provide coverage for everyone if they stuck together.

“It’s good you think of how to practice for how it can really be.”

Alden looked to his left. Ignacio stood there flipping one of his Meister knives while they waited for the start signal. Vandy and Kon had immediately agreed to each other’s supply lists, so there was a massive rope of ivy waving over the top of the tunnel, like Jupiter was saying hello.

“Someday something will happen,” Ignacio continued. “I try to think like that, too.”

Alden recalled what Kon had said about Ignacio’s beliefs when they were flying on the nonagon together on Christmas. That Earth’s bill has never been paid and Avowed our age are going to see it come due. He’s such an ordinary guy, but that’s going on in his head.

He knew he was being loose with his definition of ordinary there. Ignacio was a third generation Avowed who spoke at least three languages, had his pick of Apex schools, and was training himself to kill with swarms of knives. But he was a regular guy, too. He was bummed Febri, who he’d been making friends with, was gone. He was a little hesitant about his English despite making good progress with it. He had a sister a couple of years younger than him he’d mentioned once or twice.

“I think about chaos more than most people must,” said Alden. “Because of what happened. But also…for someday.”

Ignacio sent the knife as high as he could without hitting the barrier above them that formed the ceiling of the course’s first level. He smiled at Alden and caught it without looking at it. “You and I won’t be surprised.”

Alden nodded.

“An entruster should trust you a lot,” Ignacio said. “Maybe?”

“I think that must be part of the ideal. I just haven’t found many chances to do it the right way in class.”

Ignacio looked at him thoughtfully, but he didn’t say anything more.

A minute later, they were running.

******

******

I think I can’t get that frog out of my head because I’ve left him stuck at the beginning. Just trying and trying. To be heard, to carry a burden, and to find a friend who cares about his struggle upwards and the wonderful ball.

Leaving him there feels bad.

People who are trying hard like that shouldn’t be left alone in the dark

Sometimes, that’s reality, but…

******

******

Ash had called them the weakest team.

They were all pissed off about it even though they’d tried to encourage the others to keep cool heads. They could laugh about the plan that had earned them this run and, at the same time, be angry about how much effort they’d put into doing this class right without being recognized.

Alden imagined they had matching fires in them. He thought that must be helping them flow through the course in a way he hadn’t known they could.

Watching other teams run it for an hour hadn’t hurt, but there was more to it than simply knowing what was coming. From the first step he took into the alley, Lexi was locked in on his task, and all but two of the spikes shooting out of the wall met a twisting, burning chain whip that lived up to its name. The two he missed hit Alden’s tablecloth and burst into harmless splashes of light.

“Discard that tablecloth,” Kon’s voice said in everyone’s ear as they reached the end. “Good job getting through the alley. Alden, I entrust you with your jacket. Tell me if you need something else. Mehdi, out front. You’ll slow down the next blue car.”

He sounded calm even though he was speaking quickly. Alden’s impression of the whole course was the same.

Quick. Calm.

It was partially Vandy’s fault, even though she wasn’t out here. Teams were allowed to have sound from the audience blocked by request, and she’d requested it. They’d heard a couple of shouts from the girls’ pincushion alley, but that was all.

They entered the traffic tunnel with no sign of the other team.

Air rushing around the magically formed “cars” was the loudest thing. The interior of the tunnel was the same green as the exterior. Light came from a glowing strip along the ceiling. Traffic moved at about sixty miles per hour, and the distance between the vehicles and the walls couldn’t possibly be legal in any reasonable society. A block shaped like a semi-trailer came through about once per minute, and Alden was sure none of the members of his team were skinny enough to survive its passage by flattening themselves between it and the wall.

But there was also a poky blue sedan that held up the other cars, and if someone ran in front of it correctly, the nonexistent driver had time to slow things down even more without causing any collisions. Mehdi pulled off the initial slow-down, and the rest of them dashed through as his efforts made all the traffic in that lane turn more manageable.

It wasn’t the only way, and slowing traffic meant the other team was more likely to risk fighting them here in the course’s only free attack area because it might not lead to a wreck. But they had already made it to the lift at the end of the tunnel by the time the girls arrived. Alden and Haoyu stepped onto it first and shot up toward the second level. They ran toward the jungle gym.

We’re way out in front. They can catch up, but we’re so far ahead.

Alden wasn’t even breathing hard yet. He pulled himself up onto a metal pole that had been dented by the passage of a rougher contestant and then squeezed between two pieces of bamboo.

“Ignacio, do you think you could safely kill my girlfriend before you leave the tunnel?” Kon’s voice said.

“Eighty percent yes.” Ignacio’s reply came so quickly that he must have already been thinking about the question.

Alden wanted to tell them not to risk it, but he wasn’t looking at the traffic like they were. Killing Everly without wrecking cars or dying themselves at this point in the run would basically win the game. She couldn’t get through pincushion alley by herself. One of the Shapers would have to go back and take the hits for her with dirt or life matter bags.

On the other hand, messing it up would be the end of the game for us.

“Let’s not,” Kon decided after a beat. “Get up to the second floor now. Alden and Haoyu, you know what to do to set up our amazing island plan.”

“We’ll do it,” said Haoyu.

It’s a strange feeling to be having such an easy time here.

The jungle gym would be worse if the other team was out in front, with the right to attack they could earn by putting someone over the finish line. This was a deceptively easy obstacle that forced people to slow down so that they could be picked off.

“You’re doing all right?” Haoyu asked him.

“I am. You?”

“I’m good.”

Alden could hear Lexi, Mehdi, and Ignacio on the frame behind him. Just hands and feet ringing on poles. He didn’t look back. He needed to be through this as fast as he could. There was no approach to the next obstacle without him.

He saw an opening to chuck the backpack ahead of him into the clear area out ahead of the jungle gym and did so. He followed it moments later, his feet hitting the barrier that formed the floor at the same time as Haoyu’s and a few seconds before Mehdi’s.

Haoyu wore both of Ignacio’s large knife rolls on his shoulders.

“I’ll pass our Strength Rabbit to you now, Haoyu,” Kon said.

Alden targeted Haoyu.

“Tuyet’s running ahead of her team,” Kon went on in a conversational tone. “She’ll be with you soon. There’s no point in worrying about it since we can’t do anything to stop her.”

“I want to be thrown by my shirt,” Haoyu said to Alden. “It felt the most stable the other day. So I entrust you with my shirt.”

He crossed his arms over his chest.

“This is so weird,” said Mehdi, looking around them. “We’re on the course, and there’s nothing to do.”

Alden ignored him and grabbed the back of Haoyu’s shirt. “It’s higher, so I’m going to throw you really hard. Okay?”

“Okay.”

“Don’t lose the knives,” said Mehdi.

Alden looked up at the island.

I hope this whole plan works.

“Maybe you should throw me,” Mehdi suggested. “I’d definitely grab on if you don’t miss.”

“Shhh,” said Haoyu. “He’s not going to miss.”

“On three,” said Alden.

They were still flowing. Even the counting felt smooth.

One, two, three.

And then Haoyu was in the air.

He didn’t yell with excitement like he had in the park. It was an effective throw, but not a perfect one. He did his part to turn it into a landing, both hands digging into the floating island near the bottom, his body swinging once before he pulled himself easily up.

Alden let out a breath, and bursts of noise suddenly came from multiple directions.

Mehdi shouted, “Yes!” in his ear. Ignacio was congratulating him as he landed on the floor, having finished his own traversal of the jungle gym. Jeffy, who’d been fairly quiet while he watched, was telling Haoyu he had sky moves through comms.

Haoyu was the only one not saying anything. He was working as fast as he could to plunge Ignacio’s knife collection, one or two at a time, into the dense barrier magic that the gym had made the island from. They thought it was supposed to represent something like hard-packed ground, since people could jam things into it but not with great ease.

Haoyu moved like a machine, driving some of the knives in deeper with Boxing Gloves.

“Awesome throw, Alden!” Kon was enthusing. “Way to land, Haoyu! First try!!”

I did it, thought Alden. No mistakes. We’re really doing this.

“Now,” said Kon, “the annoying thing is that with Haoyu up there we could win in more effective ways. But we have to win with Alden throwing one person and using no rope because that was the show we promised. Tuyet’s going to reach you any second.”

Alden looked behind him. Tuyet was slithering through the climbing frame like she’d been born to do it. Jupiter and Heloísa had just come up the lift from the traffic tunnel.

“I don’t know why she ran ahead. They might have just wanted a better look at what we’re doing, and she’s the obvious scout. That’s unfortunate,” Kon said. “If only the island wasn’t a shared obstacle…”

“Ready!” Haoyu yelled from up above. They all looked up to see him plunging the final knife into one of the island’s little hilltops.

That knife wasn’t like the others. It was one of Ignacio’s Meister weapons.

Haoyu looked down below to see them, then nodded and jumped to reach the monkey bars above the island. He started crossing.

“He’s going for the finish in case we need him there,” said Alden.

There was a three or four second pause during which Tuyet landed a few yards away from their group. Her gaze flicked from Haoyu to the island and then back down to their team. The dart in her hand looked ready to fly. She couldn’t use it on them here unless they did put Haoyu over the finish line and attack her. A brief retaliation period was allowed if she didn’t die.

It’s bad that she’s here because she’ll take advantage of our efforts, Alden thought. But there’s no helping it. It only gets worse as more of her teammates arrive.

“We have to go,” he said.

“Let’s move.” Lexi spoke before he’d even finished.

“What are you hesitating for?” asked Mehdi.

<<I’m not hesitating,>> said Ignacio, one hand extended above him. <<Look.>>

Tuyet gasped. It was a gratifyingly loud sound in all this quiet.

“Vandy!” she said, as she saw their handiwork. “The island!”

Alden hoped Vandy had a great view from where she sat on the bleachers, because what was happening up above wasn’t boring at all.

An orange light gleamed, but it was hard to see as it plunged deeper into the island.

Ignacio’s Leading Knife skill was active. And he’d called his weapon back to his hand.

“The island is falling!” Tuyet said.

No. This is better. It’s being dragged down by the lead knife and the flock that’s trying to follow it.

He’d let Tuyet and Vandy figure it out on their own. The island was coming faster. If nothing went wrong in the next seconds, there was a chance for them to win this.

He got ready to jump.

******
