293

******

“…and I will travel a future road with a patience that hastens the journey of another. So we walk together for a short way and meet without meeting.”

Alden stood in the empty locker room as the Artonan words echoed away, paying attention to how his body felt as the wordchain settled on him. This was a small enhancement to his speed, and it was easy to think of it as instantly gaining a few foundation points in the stat of the same name. But System-affixed points felt more natural and intuitive. The chain’s effect made him temporarily unsure of his movements. He jogged forward and backward, trying to settle into it.

My Body Becomes My Assistant is so good for making this more manageable, he thought as he jumped over a bench.

He’d used that one first. When he didn’t, adjusting took twice as long.

I wonder if adding Peace of Mind to the mix would give me an edge for things like obstacle courses. Right now, he wasn’t curious enough to try it, and he didn’t want to pay for it anyway.

Since nobody was in the locker room to see him, he spun on one foot, tried some rapid side steps, and even waved his arms around in front of himself to make sure he was in control of everything before he decided he was good to go.

His interface was active, displaying the run order of all the teams that currently had permission to race. The two teams competing immediately before his own had just started their run, so it would most likely be a few more minutes of waiting. Their team would be running against Vandy’s. The girls hadn’t selected their five runners yet. When they did, the names would automatically appear since Kon had already finalized their five.

He’d left himself and Jeffy to sit out.

Alden wished all of them could run together. They all deserved the opportunity, and there was discomfort in being one of the runners when it seemed like an embarrassing performance in front of Ash might ruin Kon and Jeffy’s chances of ever getting to do anything in this class.

They’ll get to go next time, he told himself. We just have to avoid the crime of being uninspiring.

He hurried back into the gym, taking some pleasure in the fact that his hurry was a faster one than usual.

He’d left his teammates with permission to go through his duffel bag while he went to take care of the wordchains. And they’d definitely gone through it. Kon was arranging a bunch of miscellaneous supplies in rows on the floor beside the bag, so tidily that it looked like he planned to impress someone with the display. The others had put on the junk clothing items Alden had brought if they weren’t already wearing something of their own.

Now they look nice and portable.

If someone broke both legs, he could just carry them around using whatever they had on.

Mehdi was holding up a football jersey as Alden approached him from behind. “Do you think he used to go to this team’s games a lot? The internet says they’re in Kansas. I wonder what Kansas is like. I wonder if he played for his school. Do you think he was popular?”

“You’ll have better luck asking me those things than Kon,” said Alden. It was funny to hear someone speculating about such random aspects of his life instead of the more major features.

Mehdi turned to face him, still holding the jersey up in front of the middle school science fair T-shirt he’d brought to wear over his own suit.

“I’ve never been to Kansas or seen that team,” Alden told him. “I wasn’t a football player at my old school. I wasn’t popular. I almost always spent my time with a couple of close friends.”

“Then why do you have this? Didn’t you ever want to see Kansas?”

Alden shrugged. “I landed on Anesidora without the usual packing opportunities. One of the first things I did when I made it to intake was order a mix of clothes. I just let the errand runner pick them, and he sent that with everything else. Most of what he got me was good, but I think that jersey can die gloriously in a superhuman fight without being missed.”

Mehdi opened his mouth.

“You’re going to say something about the important run we’re about to have, aren’t you?” Lexi said. “Instead of being too interested in the history of Alden’s unwanted clothing.”

Mehdi looked offended. “I was going to ask him if his wordchains are working. I think it looks like they’re working, but that’s critical information for the team to have.”

“They’re working,” Alden said. “Throw me the jersey if none of the rest of you are going to wear it.”

Mehdi tossed it to him, and Alden put it on.

“Shouldn’t you wear something with long sleeves? And maybe a hood to protect your skull… ” The faint note of hesitancy in Kon’s voice caught Alden’s attention more than the question itself did.

“I was going to have a couple of layers,” he answered, looking down at Kon and his rows of supplies. “I might as well in case one rips, right? I’ll do this, and then over it, I’ll wear that black rain jacket that folds up into its own pouch.”

He bent and grabbed the jacket from inside his bag. “It’s got a hood. We’ll take the backpack I used in Combat I and put whatever you guys want in it, too. Since Ash has assigned us to go against the girls, we don’t have to worry about them complaining about dumb things like how many clothes we’re allowed to put on or if a backpack is too powerful. They’re not petty like that.”

“That’s right!” Kon said. “They aren’t. And since they aren’t, we were thinking…it might be fine for us to take all of this. Just in case you need any of it.”

He was pointing at the stuff they’d laid out. It was so much that there was no way Alden could use it all during a single run. Fifteen hundred feet of paracord, three rolls of duct tape, five temper spheres, two slings he’d made, a knife, a box cutter, two bottles of water, three disposable ponchos, zip ties, an umbrella, plastic wrap, gloves, the box he kept small pre-made shield objects in just in case he wanted to try out something on the spur of the moment…

Realistically, I’m going to end up using just two or three things. If he had the clothes and a shield with wide coverage in his hand to start, there was a good chance they wouldn’t have time or opportunity for the rest of it. But if they want to go the over-prepared route, I don’t mind.

“Sure. We can take it all. Load it into the backpack. Or if anyone thinks it’s particularly likely I’ll need a certain thing when I’m backing you up, put it somewhere easier to grab.”

“Really?” Kon looked relieved. “We thought you’d say it was excessive.”

They did? Alden shook out the rain jacket and put it on. It was very oversized and hung almost down to his knees. “I told you all I’d be willing to use whatever worked for this class, right? Anything the other teams won’t object to. It’s not like Combat class.”

“Thank you for your team spirit! I’ll try to think of good ideas while you’re all busy out there, and these supplies will expand our options.” Kon started tucking most of the assortment into Alden’s backpack and distributing bits of it to the others. During coursing competitions, team members who weren’t running could only observe, but in this class they were allowed to communicate with runners and make suggestions. Kon was planning to do some directing from the sidelines.

Alden didn’t like that they’d thought he wouldn’t agree to all the supplies they’d chosen. Yeah, it’s a lot, but none of it’s heavy and only the temper spheres are really expensive. If they worried I’d complain about them wanting me to take rolls of tape, I must not have gotten my intentions for this class across well.

He’d definitely said more than a couple of times that he would be willing to try preserving anything they wanted him to, and he’d described himself as the team’s support person.

I knew I went a little subtle with it, though. It just never felt like the right moment to have a more in-depth talk about it, and I didn’t want to be misunderstood.

Did I hope they’d naturally start acting like they have a role to play as my entrusters without me ever having to tell them I’d like for them to think that way?

He had.

Even Haoyu, who was his most frequent entruster in class, wasn’t accustomed to thinking of Alden’s skill as something he had any say in the use of. He was just doing Alden an easy favor by giving him the permission he needed to satisfy the funny rule his skill came with.

I want them to use me more selfishly so that I can practice serving my entruster’s goals for real instead of treating the relationship like a technicality.

But I didn’t want to say it like that.

He grimaced.

I said nothing, and now we’re about to run. They’re not going to behave differently unless I speak up.

Working with entrustment, not trying to get around it, and appreciating that it’s part of the magic I can do.

I want it, but then I neglect it like this? I don’t even have the tattoo holding me back.

Stuart and I don’t have all the time in the world for me to figure this out.

“Hey, so…about my skill,” he said, trying to catch six different pairs of eyes at once. “It’s obvious that it’s meant to be helpful to a second person. There wouldn’t be an entruster involved if what the entruster wants and needs isn’t an important part of how I work as an Avowed, right? This doesn’t come up in our other classes because we’re usually working individually, and there’s more than enough for me to improve as it is. But a class that’s all about teamwork is a great chance for me to learn more about how different entrustment situations affect me.”

They’d all stopped talking among themselves to hear him out, but they didn’t look like they were getting much from what he’d just said.

Yeah, because I should’ve set expectations two weeks ago.

“I mean that when we’re out on the course, I’d like for my entruster to feel free to ask me for whatever they think would be good without worrying much about my plans. Or my ego. I’ll tell you if I think it’s a bad idea, and I’ll try to guess correctly about whether or not what you’re asking for is going to knock out my skill. But in this class, it’s actually fine with me if you impose on me way more than you ever would in our Combat course.”

Most of them nodded. Lexi looked like he’d been given a puzzle he didn’t particularly want.

I expected questions. But I guess they understand?

“We’re starting out with Kon as my entruster, and we have a plan we have to do if we don’t want to disappoint Ash,” said Alden. “But after we’ve tried the plan, if Kon suddenly wants to make me fight Jupiter in the traffic tunnel with a duct tape sword…he can ask me to do that, and I’ll actually take the request seriously instead of immediately telling him no like I would normally. That kind of thing.”

Kon snorted. “More duct tape then!”

“So everyone understands I’m willing to practice the entrustment part of my skill more like that? That I want to, actually.” Alden put the gloves in his jacket pocket. “Sorry I didn’t bring it up sooner.”

“You’re just saying you’ll be a team player and carry as much junk around the course for us as we want,” said Kon. “I don’t think any of us mind that.”

“I don’t think that’s quite what he meant, Kon.” Lexi was studying Alden.

“We all feel free to entrust you with things if it’s important,” Haoyu said. He was wearing a shirt and shorts with so many rips that they’d have been indecent without the unitard under them. “We know you don’t mind.”

“I thought he was saying we should boss him around in this class, like wizards who’ve summoned him to be our Rabbit. Because that might help him do his skill better.”

“Jeffy!” Haoyu exclaimed. “That’s not what he meant.”

“It’s not what I meant…” Alden said. “But I was trying to say it would be good if my entrusters think of me and my skill as a tool they’re supposed to call on. Maybe it’s best to imagine I’m your own personal battlefield support when you’re the entruster? None of you would expect me, your classmate, to blow all my magic protecting you from one of Tuyet’s darts so that you could accomplish something you had in mind. But you might be right to expect that from me if this was really a serious situation, and I’d agreed to follow your lead. Then you might say, ‘Alden, block that,’ and I’d do it because we had that kind of understanding.”

<<What?>> Ignacio was blinking.

“My skill requires a partner. So I need lots of practice being a good partner. Please worry less about asking me to use my magic for you in this class. It’s cool if you want to be more demanding.”

“I want to be his entruster,” Mehdi said much too quickly.

“Am I making sense now?” Alden asked.

“You’re making sense, but you should have explained what you were thinking days ago,” Lexi said, exasperated.

“Sorry. I was trying to hint at it.”

“When?”

“Why were you hinting instead of just telling us?” asked Haoyu.

“I was trying to say it without it sounding like what Jeffy just said. Or something. I don’t know. It doesn’t have to change much for this run.”

He felt like he still hadn’t conveyed it. I’m going to get death by Tuyet and no proper entrustment, aren’t I?

Vandy’s team list suddenly appeared on their interfaces. The names of both teams’ runners were revealed.

“Finally. That took them forever,” said Kon. “Were they trying to hide who was going until the last second, or could they really not decide?”

Alden read the names. Jupiter, Tuyet, Maricel, Everly, and Heloísa.

“We can beat them,” Kon said firmly. “You men have trained for this day.”

