“I'm tempted to fire you, just because that's what I did to the others.” Edward said.

“I didn't kill him, sir.”

“You tried to, and you wanted to.” Edward said. “That's reason enough; but, since you didn't succeed, I can't use that as a reason.” He looked at Charles. “Now, I want you to tell me why you thought it was a good idea to do what you did.”

“I... well, to be honest... he's been messing things up a lot in the game.” Charles said. “The High Elves scenario has been rewritten 3 times already because of him.”

“Why?” Edward asked.

“What?”

“Why did it have to be rewritten?”

“Um, he unlocked the High Elves expansion 6 months before they were set to be released.”

“How did he do that?”

“He... um...”

“He played the game.” Edward said. “Did you know that he's logged in more hours in the game than any other player?” He smiled. “Actually, if you do up the stats...” He lifted up another sheet and showed it to Charles. “...and if we had a leaderboard for the amount of time spent in the game... he'd have been on the top of it after the first month he started playing it.”

“Wh-what?”

Edward chuckled. “You don't even know who he is, do you?”

“I... I'm not sure what you mean.”

Edward turned around the monitor on his desk, and hit the button to play the video. Ren's show started playing, and Charles' eyes widened.

“He's our walking, talking advertisement for the game, you idiot.” Edward said. “I'm sorry, I shouldn't have called you an idiot.” He said. “Flipping blasted idiot is more along the lines of what I was thinking; only with more curses and yelling.”

“Sir...”

“He's got a hit television show, a store that every single player buys things from, and he's the kindest person you'd ever want to meet.” Edward said. “Look, here's the numbers from the pilot episode.” He said and slid a piece of paper over to Charles, who picked it up and stared at the numbers.

“This... this can't be real!”

Edward laughed. “Flip it over.”

Charles flipped it over and stared at the numbers for the second episode. They were even higher than the first.

“That's not possible.” Charles said. “No show has ever had more viewers for the second week it's been on!”

“Look at the viewer breakdown.” Edward said.

Charles looked at it, and sighed. It was highest with women between the ages of 18 to 34. Everyone knew that was the main demographic that a television station wanted to appeal to.

“The television studio knew they had a hit on their hands.” Edward said. “They knew it was going to be such a big hit that they put it in the prime time lineup in the 7 p.m. time slot on Friday night.”

“WHAT?!?” Charles yelled.

Edward chuckled. “I think you're getting it now.” He said. “Ren Haddon isn't just 'some kid'. He's a sensation that everyone wants to get their hands on.”

“I... I'm sorry.”

“I think you might actually mean that; but, I think you're really going to be sorry.”

“Why?” Charles asked automatically, despite the fact that he didn't want to know.

“You're being shunted from the manager position of the Giant Kingdom update, to just quality control on it.” Edward said. “It comes with a small pay cut; but, at least you can keep the same desk.”

“But... but sir!” Charles begged. “I worked for three months on the coding for it!”

“I know you did.” Edward said and tapped the pile of papers. “I keep an eye on everything that goes on in this company.” He sighed. “My secretary knows, too... and she still wanted you gone for what you tried to do.”

“What? Why?” Charles asked. “I didn't do anything to her!”

Edward looked at him like he had two heads. “I'm sure you heard about what happened after the last time the tech department dealt with Ren.”

Charles nodded.

“Ms. Stanford only knew of him and his case at the time.” Edward said. “She took the attack on him personally, however; and over-reacted.”

“I did hear the story.” Charles said. “But unlike them, I didn't succeed or use their method. She shouldn't be mad at me for what I did.”

“Mr. Haddon has been through a lot the last little while; and thankfully, she's been there for him when he needed her help.” Edward said. “She over-reacted back then, and she barely knew him.” He smiled. “Now? She's dating him.”

“She's WHAT?”

Edward chuckled. “I don't know how it happened either.” He said. “They sure didn't start off on the right foot.” He smiled when he remembered that incident in front of the Library in the game, and then taking her in later to apologize to Ren. “As it stands, she's been seeing him regularly for a couple of weeks now.”

“Well, damn.” Charles said. “I guess that would explain her reactions.”

“Among other things.” Edward said. “I can't justify losing you over something like this, though. We need all the help we can get. Despite your mistakes, you work hard and fast. We need a lot of that right now.”

“You're pushing the Giant update ahead, aren't you?”

Edward nodded. “Max told me Ren distributed his book about the giants.” He said. “We have no choice but to move forward.”

“Most of it has to be changed now.” Charles said. “I assume the giant attack failed.”

“Oh, it's much better than that.” Edward said, and moved the game footage ahead. “Look.”

Charles looked at the screen, and watched as Ren negotiated with the giants, and stopped the invasion completely.

“What... what... how?”

Edward chuckled. “Ren was right, you know.” He said. “Leaving access in the update files, and letting the giants make random attacks on the dwarf Garrison wasn't a good choice.”

“I realize that now.” Charles said. “In my defense, I was also right.” He said confidently. “Ren has completely destroyed both storylines.”

“Yes, he has.” Edward said. “Thanks to you.”

“Wh-what?”

Edward typed a few things, and the video went away. A list of Ren's achievements appeared on the monitor instead.

“What is that?” Charles asked and leaned forward.

“This is the result of your 'SPECIAL' bonus.”

“WHAT?!?”

Edward sighed. “You completely wrecked his character building profile, that I worked so hard to make for him.”

“But... but...”

“He's supposed to work hard, and earn a lot of regular stat points doing other things, and then eventually go up a level.” Edward said. “Thanks to your bonus, and the giant battle, it gave him all of this and took away the next year of him leveling up normally.”

“That's not possible.” Charles said. “How did the battle get him all of that?”

“It didn't.” Edward said. “The little genius made a quest for the dwarves and his party members, so that they would get it all. He didn't get anything from the battle itself.”

“I thought you said...”

“I said it was thanks to your bonus and the battle.” Edward said. “He trained every skill he could think of before the battle, and raised almost everything practical to Intermediate.” He shook his head. “I've never in my life thought someone would grind a skill called 'Hold Breath' in the game.” He laughed. “He held his breath underwater while he enchanted things; crushed them, then repaired them.”

“Wow.”

“It's a sight, let me tell you.” Edward said. “He was a grinding machine... and then after the battle was over, he gained normal bonuses.”

“He gained... oh, no.”

Edward nodded. “The system decided that he did so well, he had to be rewarded; mainly because he lost out on... what was it...” He moved several papers aside and picked one up. “Ah, here it is.” He said. “If he hadn't made the quest and just fought normally, and with the SPECIAL bonus... he'd have made somewhere around 2,500,000 XP.” He dropped the paper to the desk. “That's with his Fame bonus included.”

“I'm glad he made the quest, then.” Charles said. “That much would have put him on top of the leaderboards.”

Edward laughed. “Who said he wasn't?”

“What?”

Edward typed a few things, and the leaderboard popped up on the screen.

“1,240,000 XP!” Charles nearly yelled. “He got that from normal rewards after the battle?”

Edward nodded. “Anything that he did that didn't impact the course of the battle.” He said. “He didn't get anything for leading the dwarves, even though he was leading them. He didn't get anything for inspiring them and keeping morale high, he didn't...” Edward laughed. “If he knew how much XP he could have gotten for killing a giant with one blow...”

“Sir, I'm sorry.” Charles said. “I greatly misjudged his character.”

“I want that in writing, and addressed to Ren Haddon.” Edward said, all traces of laughter gone from his face. “I've already sent him an apology myself.”

“I'll get right on it, sir.”

“Good.” Edward said. “If you keep your nose clean, you'll be back to update manager in a month.”

“I... thank you, sir.” Charles said.

“I hope I never see you for anything like this again, or it will be the last time I see you.”

“Understood.” Charles said and stood up. “I'll have the quality report on your desk by this afternoon.”

Edward nodded, and Charles left the office. He stopped beside Elise's desk, but he didn't have the nerve to look at her.

“I'd like to apologize to you for my behavior.” Charles said. “It was rude and uncalled for.”

“Yes, it was.” Elise said in a cold voice.

Charles felt a shiver go down his spine. “I'd also like to apologize for what I did in the game.” He said. “I'll bring back a written apology for Mr. Haddon when I bring the quality report this afternoon.”

“I eagerly await to see what it says.” Elise said.

Charles nodded and walked out of the reception area and back to the tech department. True to his word, he was back that afternoon with both the quality report on the giant update, and an apology for Ren.

Both were better than what Edward and Elise had expected.
