How had he known? Ever since the Defiled first made themselves known outside the walls of the city, no one had been able to Send word beyond the besieging army. Even a Divinity like Lao Lang had been unable to leave, for the Enemy Divinities and Half-Step Divinities had set up a blockade and were quick to converge around anyone trying to Cloud-Step away. Though they had yet to come to blows, Akanai and many others were well aware that the Enemy possessed a weapon they had yet to unleash, the caustic black goo little Rain had taken to calling Anathema. Gang Shu had been quick to tell anyone and everyone that Anathema was what tipped the scales in the Enemy’s favour during their restrained exchange, one which ended in the death of Guan Suo and debilitation of the Abbot. Though they were able to kill the crazed Mole-Rat Divinity in return without breaking the Treaty, Gang Shu claimed this was only possible for two reasons. One, the Mole-Rat had been too overconfident after inflicting Guan Suo with Anathema, and two because the surly Ancestral Red Panda possessed far more control than anyone ever suspected. In terms of applicable strength, Gang Shu claimed Guan Suo might well have been second to none, but as far as Akanai understood it, the Ancestral Steel Rat was young as Divinities go, and wholly unaware of Lao Lang, Hua Lie, or Taduk’s true strength.

Not that Akanai herself understood it either, but considering Taduk had the ability to call forth a rainstorm powerful enough to send an entire army of Defiled fleeing, and had done so multiple times without exposing his true status, she presumed that the hare-brained Divinity was a powerhouse to be reckoned with. Had he been present here in Shi Bei from the start of the siege, he might well have been able to outrun the blockade without succumbing to Anathema, but none of the present Divinities were confident enough in their speed to try, though to be fair, Akanai wouldn’t have risked it either. By even attempting to kill a Divinity, even while acting within the constraints of the Treaty, the Enemy had shown that they were willing to risk an escalation of hostilities. What use was there in adhering to the Treaty if the cost was your life? When death approached, it was only natural to struggle to the last breath, and Divinities were nothing if not in tune with their natures.

Taking a deep breath to soothe her frayed nerves and settle her anxious thoughts, Akanai stroked Mila’s cheek and Li-Li’s hair. “What happened with the boy?” she asked through Sending, though what she really wanted to ask was why the Enemy Divinities had yet to retaliate in kind, but she didn’t want to incite a panic in case her daughters had yet to realize the implications behind little Rain’s actions. Eyes going wide with excitement, sweet Mila’s adoring gaze turned towards her beloved husband as she narrated the events of Meng Sha through Sending, which was only to be expected. More concerning was the fact that Li-Li’s gaze also fell upon little Rain, with what Akanai could only describe as fondness and admiration. She’d only included Li-Li in the Sending so she would not feel left out of the conversation, but this was yet another bittersweet reminder that Akanai had likely lost both her daughters to the same scoundrel.

Her son too, all puffed up like a peacock as he stood behind little Rain and listened while she relayed Mila’s tale to him and the various allied Divinities lurking nearby. Oh how Akanai’s heart soared to see his tail waggling about, to the point where he had to make an effort not to wiggle his hips as well, but while there’d been little reason for joy these past fifteen days, it was only right he take pride in his son’s accomplishments. Even though little Mila only possessed a general understanding of what transpired, it was enough to convey several important details. First, that little Rain claimed he was not a Divinity, and was only marginally faster and stronger than he was when she last saw him, summoning giant waves notwithstanding. Then again, the way Mila explained how Rain explained it seemed to imply that he believed he’d always had the ability to control this deluge of Water Chi, except the exertion of doing so would have left him comatose for weeks, if not killed him outright. Now, he only looked tired enough to fall asleep on his feet, which was far from optimal but still a marked improvement, though Akanai would’ve preferred if he hadn’t just wasted all his Water Chi on a showy and dangerous entrance. In short, little Rain was now capable of logic-defying feats, but still more or less the same young man as before, one who was weaker than even a Peak Expert in some ways, yet simultaneously more powerful than a Divinity in others.

Which he proved by cutting down a Divinity in one swing, an attack Mila described as ‘so profound in how ordinary it appeared’. Whatever that meant. The boy was good and well on his own Path now, one which bore only a passing similarity to the Martial Path, and Akanai prayed that the Mother Above knew what She was doing when She bestowed such power onto one Falling Rain.

The second matter of the utmost importance was the boy’s ability to… not negate a Divinity’s attack, but prevent it from breaking the world, which was, in a word, terrifying. Not because he could do it, but that it was possible at all, meaning that so long as he was present, Divinities were free to take part in battle without violating the Treaty. It wasn’t as simple as asking Lao Lang to devastate the Enemy army however, because the Defiled had their own Divinities lurking about, and as far as anyone could tell, the Imperials were outnumbered in this regard. Even with Taduk, Hua Lie, Gang Shu, and Niu MoWang joining them here, the Imperials only had eleven total Divinities in Shi Bei. Lao Lang, Machali, Da Hui, Wu Kong, and Ling Lu had all come along to support Akanai and her Sentinels, but aside from them, there was only Matriarch Gam the Ancestral Snow Fox and Su Ma Tan, the Ancestral Rhino and Territory Lord of the Southern Province here as representatives of Central and South respectively. Supposedly, little Rain had an Imperial Dharma protector by the name of Xing Yong Wei, but no one had seen hide nor hair of him in months. Orders to other Imperial Divinities had continued to arrive through Imperial Heralds, but aside from assigning patrol routes and schedules, the Imperial Clan had adopted a hands-off approach to little Rain’s crusade to retake the West.

A move which was perhaps not entirely without reason now that Akanai had seen the costly butcher’s bill, and only the fact that the Enemy’s bill was so much higher kept her from writing this whole offensive off as a mistake.

As for the Enemy Divinities, less than a handful of those present in Shi Bei had been identified thus far. Among them were Shih Yah the Ancestral Badger, Zhu Chanzui the Ancestral Bristleboar, and a yet to be named Ancestral ungulate of some sort, a horned fellow who looked too much like little Yan for it to be a coincidence. According to Lao Lang, there were at least nine more lurking about under the cover of Concealment, individuals who were either traitor Imperials or neutrals who’d turned coat and had yet to reveal their true allegiance. Add to this the Defiled Ancestral Mammoth and the Mataram Ancestor YuKon who only just arrived, and the Imperial Divinities were outnumbered eleven to fourteen or more. Technically, there were two more Imperial Divinities if Akanai included the Abbot and his fellow skeletal monk, but she didn’t because they had both sworn to do no harm. Not as an Oath to the Heavens, but one given to themselves, meaning to do violence ran counter to the core precepts of their Dao. Even if they were willing to abandon their oaths and fight, committing to an action so antithetical to their nature was akin to running while carrying a heavy weight. It wasn’t enough to stop them entirely, but it was detrimental to their ability to do so unless they were able to resolve their inner conflict and free themselves from the shackles they’d placed upon themselves.

Of course, numbers were not the only metric by which battles were won and lost, but Akanai was not so foolish as to believe this battle could be settled by Divinities alone. What’s more, there were most certainly limits to little Rain’s ability to prevent wide-spread destruction during a battle between Divinities, one that hinged upon the range of his Domain most likely. Even allowing for the possibility that the boy’s Domain could cover all of Shi Bei, how much further could it possibly extend? What was to keep Divinities from accidentally stepping foot outside of the boy’s range whilst locked in deadly combat? How could the boy even guarantee he was capable of containing the rampant Energies conjured up by a clash on this scale, with over two dozen Divinities trading blows?

All this and more was precisely why neither side could afford to let matters devolve into a battle between Divinities, which meant taking the boy in hand and keeping him in check. Not a simple thing to do by any means, perhaps even impossible now that he possessed the ability to control the twinned powers of Creation and Destruction both. That being said, Akanai had to at least try, so once she finished questioning Mila about what took place in Meng Sha earlier today, she bade her daughters and husband farewell before approaching the boy from behind. The pup noticed her immediately and shot her an all-too-ecstatic grin, one that never wavered in spite of her disapproving frown. The pup had an image to maintain after all, but then again, he was not subject to the same prejudices she’d experienced in her own time in the military. What’s more, he was a man grown and Mentor to the youngest Divinity in history, so it was perhaps time she stopped treating him like the surly teen she’d taken in under her wing all those years ago.

Resisting the urge to sigh and mope about how quickly the years passed by, Akanai turned her attention to the boy instead, only to discover he had yet to notice her arrival. Hearing the pup inhale as if about to speak, she held up her hand to silence him so she could gather her thoughts and study little Rain before he knew she was watching. He was always on his best behaviour in her presence, but it rarely lasted long once she was out of sight, so this was the perfect opportunity to observe his behaviour and see what all these changes had wrought. For a moment, she felt as if she’d travelled back in time and was watching him wander through the forests all alone, getting into all sorts of trouble but ultimately behaving like the good-natured child he’d always been.

As previously noted, the boy looked as if he could use a long nap despite having only just awakened from weeks spent comatose, though it was understandable considering what he’d accomplished in the last few hours. Mila didn’t know much regarding how he summoned so enormous a wave, as he’d been too focused on controlling his power to explain. A good thing too, because if the boy was capable of carrying on a conversation while propagating a massive wall of Water Chi two-hundred and fifty kilometres inland, then monstrous would not even begin to describe it. Apparently Taduk had been on hand to supply some helpful hints, no doubt also satisfying some of his boundless curiosity in the process. Finally, little Rain could have a taste of what it was like to be inundated with questions, but then again the boy loved discussing matters beyond his comprehension almost as much as he loved asking questions. They truly were a matched pair, Taduk and little Rain both, which made Akanai wonder just where the hare-brained Healer had gotten himself off to, since she could see neither hide nor hair of him in Shi Bei.

As for the boy, he seemed no different from before, peering out at the gathering Defiled while nodding along to what Akanai assumed was Hongji’s report. Perhaps it was the fatigue, but there appeared to be a melancholic air about him as he took in the sights with fists and jaw clenched tight. Mourning the losses no doubt, for he was a soft-hearted boy, but there was little room for empathy amidst the rigours of war. Odd for someone so compassionate to come up with the downright harrowing weapons of war which were his Runic Cannons, but she supposed it was merely his way of distancing himself from the bloodshed and death. Given a choice, she would much rather die to an arrow to the neck or a sword to the heart rather than have a cannonball land somewhere in her general vicinity, whereupon the shockwave might well turn her inner organs to pulp, or worse, be hit clean on and die without even leaving a complete corpse.

A boy full of contradictions, little Rain was, but at least he was consistent about it…

A distant look came upon him, and Akanai felt the Energy of the Heavens surge around him, not in an extraordinary manner like the spectacle which took place during his last coma after he fixed his shattered Core, but as if a talented young man were demonstrating Purity at an impressive yet wholly reasonable degree. The boy was Scrying, this much she could tell, for his eyes were scanning something other than what lay before him, and the display of Purity had been unintended and incidental to the process. A glimpse into his power and lack of control, though upon further inspection, she realized her conclusion was counter-intuitive. Little Rain claimed he was no Divinity, yet possessed the ability to use the Energy of the Heavens without causing it to go rampant and out of control, meaning this display of Purity was not a testament to his lacking authority, but rather to how eagerly the Energy of the Heavens responded to his Will.

