Perhaps she’d been too quick to judge the boy for his dynamic entrance. Rather than a waste of effort and blatant violation of the Treaty, it was a proof of concept of his control and skill, showing the world what he could do while maintaining control the entire time. A bit more of the shock and awe he always mentioned when speaking of his cannons, and having seen the scale of destruction they wrought upon the Enemy this last week and a half, Akanai finally understood what he meant. Even the craziest of Defiled couldn’t help but balk every time they heard the cannons roar, and Lord of Thunder Lei Gong’s antics had them all quivering in their boots now that they knew the cannons of Shi Bei would sound once more. Better if the fool had waited before unleashing death from afar so that they could have launched a more devastating coordinated strike, but the man had spent too many years as a bandit and had long since lost the discipline of a soldier. What a waste of talent and potential, but Akanai lacked the patience to reform a drunken layabout like Lei Gong.

After watching the boy for another minute, she decided she’d seen enough, for though he often set the Energy of the Heavens to churning all around him, he rarely showed any sign of struggle or exertion. How this was even possible was a matter for another day, but she had more pressing matters to attend to. “Boy,” she began, waiting until she was right behind him to speak, a cruel test perhaps given how jumpy he could be, but she had to know. Though startled by her close proximity, his reaction was muted and minor at best as he turned to greet her with a warm smile before hugging her without warning, and after a moment’s hesitation, she hugged him back, patting his head and smoothing out the lines of his hair. “It warms my heart to see you in good health,” she continued, which was not what she’d intended to say, but it slipped out all the same as she looked into his clear, bright eyes, and saw only love, concern, and relief. “We should speak about our next steps.”

“It’s good to see you too, Grand-Mentor.” The boy’s wry tone was meant to convey his good-natured dissatisfaction at her businesslike greeting, and it was good to see he was still able to make light of the situation. “From what I’ve gathered, none of you have had it easy lately, but you’ve done better than anyone could’ve expected.” Pulling back, the boy squinted and studied her closely, only to open his mouth then shut it with a scowl as someone warned him against speaking. Curious that, and Akanai was burning to know what he’d been about to say and who stopped him, but there were more pressing matters to attend to.

Though she understood his desire to make small talk and relax, time was not on their side, for even now, the Defiled were falling in all around Shi Bei and making ready to renew their assault on the walls once more. Unwilling to waste the Chi to put up a Sound Barrier, she instead switched to Sending and asked, “I hear you had Lin-Lin contact Luo-Luo, which is how she was able to bring reinforcements to Meng Sha. When will they arrive here in Shi Bei? Were you able to contact Shuai Jiao as well? What excuses has he given for abandoning us here?”

The transformation was startling to behold as the boy turned his gaze east, no longer tired and happy but focused and irate as he fixated on something Akanai could not see. A rumbling growl slipped out from his chest as he snarled in palpable fury, and he set up a Sound Barrier to enclose Hongji, the pup, and herself so they could discuss this out loud. “Mom should have already arrived with the bulk of the North’s forces,” the boy began, and Akanai’s stomach sank at his unspoken implication. “I wanted Han BoHai to lead the reinforcements here, but he sent Mom instead because his movements were being monitored too closely even for a Divinity’s Concealment to help him escape notice while travelling overland. Shuai Jiao seems worried that the North will turn against him, so he remains guarded against its generals, but they figured Mom might’ve been able to slip by undetected.” The Energy of the Heavens coursed through and around him as his anger surged and peaked, his mood reminiscent of a flood-bank ready to burst. “Guess they were wrong. If he’s harmed even a single hair on her head…”

“Watch your tongue boy,” the pup uttered, showing that at least one of them had sense enough not to threaten a Colonel General out loud. “Your mother can look after herself, and if there is a reckoning to be had, you will have to wait your turn.”

Or perhaps not. A century ago, Akanai would have blamed herself for failing to teach them properly, but after raising Mila from a young age, she learned that while parents were ultimately responsible for shaping their children, there were some flaws which were impossible to smooth out. “What of the soldiers of Meng Sha then?” Eyeing the newly carved and fast-receding river upon which they arrived, Akanai held out some hope that it would last for a few more hours yet and possibly leave the soldiers stranded a day’s march out, possibly less. “How far behind you were they?”

“Uhh…” From the boy’s tone, she knew she would not like his answer, and time soon proved her correct. “They’re not coming. We took a big mauling from the Mataram Clan and Major General BoHai only brought a small contingent of elites to reinforce Meng Sha, alongside the Death Corps guarding Luo-Luo. They’re all here, but the majority of my honour guard and Royal Guardians were absent from Meng Sha, and no one really noticed until after I woke up.”

The downside of growing accustomed to having so many silent and unobtrusive strangers lurking about, as little Mila and the others had likely grown too used to ignoring the Death Corps to notice they were seeing the same faces day in and day out. A dire portent of things to come, if the Imperial Clan was openly abandoning little Rain, but matters might take a turn for the better once they learned of his newfangled status. Enough to make Shen ZhenWu back the boy over Shuai Jiao? Difficult to say, for Akanai at least, as she was no politician, only a Warrior first and foremost who lamented the absence of so many well-trained, well-disciplined, and well-equipped soldiers.

However, since there was nothing she could do about it, she moved on to the next topic at hand, only to discover there was really nothing else to discuss. “So despite knowing Shi Bei was under heavy siege,” she began, trying not to sound too judgemental and failing horrendously, “You brought my daughters and husband into the city with only a contingent of Peak Experts and consignment of cannonballs?”

“Um… I brought the pets too. They’re with Guard Leader, Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo somewhere, getting settled in before the fighting begins.” At least he had the good sense to be ashamed of his stupidity, but she would have much preferred if he’d kept everyone back in Meng Sha, or better yet, retreated to the safety of the Northern Citadel and perhaps even set a course back home north.

It was too late for regrets now however, so she merely patted the boy’s cheek and wondered how he could be so intelligent yet so idiotic at the same time. “The cannonballs will be enough,” she said, not believing the statement in the least, but it would be enough to keep the walls from being overrun immediately, which was better than nothing. “No more tidal waves from you,” she continued, resisting the urge to pinch his cheek right here and now, but she could hardly impugn the Legate’s dignity in public, especially now that he was comparable to a Divinity. “It was all well and good that you and Taduk killed the Demonic Divinity without bringing calamity down upon Meng Sha, but we cannot afford to risk doing the same here in Shi Bei. Best if you sit tight and oversee the battle from here on out, acting as a deterrent against further escalation. There are too many Divinities here to account for, and I would rather not test the limits of your abilities so soon after your ascension, especially not after you wasted all that effort sailing here on a ship instead of Cloud Stepping your way past the blockade like a normal…” she’d intended to say Divinity, but that didn’t fit, nor did Peak Expert, so all she was left with was, “…person.”

Having expected at least a small smile, it was disconcerting to watch as his eyes lost focus and turned towards the Enemy army. “I wanted to,” he said, which made no sense, until she realized he’d picked up on her subconscious emotions. No wonder he greeted her so warmly despite being caught by surprise, because he could sense how proud and relieved she was to see him again. How troublesome. “Could have done it so easily too,” he continued, gesturing at the Defiled forming up along the wet sand. “Just send the wave crashing through their ranks and crush them under its weight. Probably would have killed a good half of the Defiled standing out there right now, maybe even Cleansed a good number of Demons too to make this a much easier fight to win.” A soft sigh slipped out and he shook his head while looking away, ashamed of what he’d done. “I should have done it, but I couldn’t. It took so much effort to stop the wave, even more than it took to get it started, but I couldn’t kill them all, not like that. It just seemed wrong, you know? To slaughter them in droves without even giving them a chance to run. It’s so stupid. Mercy to one’s enemies is cruelty to one’s self. How many Imperials will die because I couldn’t do what needed to be done? How many of those Defiled will die regardless? I should have killed them all with the wave, but I couldn’t, because it seemed so wrong to use the power of Creation and Destruction in so brutal a fashion. Except now, I’m more than willing to take up sword and glaive to cut them down regardless, so what difference does it make?”

Not a Divinity? Perhaps, but Akanai suspected he was closer than he thought, for he was already being restricted by his nature. This was part and parcel of being a Divinity, though why, no one could really say, only that it was required to both wield the Energy of the Heavens and also keep it from running amok on a whim.

That being said, Akanai was unsure how to comfort the boy for adhering to his nature, but the pup was a far more experienced father than she was a mother. “A world of difference, son,” he said, pulling the boy into his embrace. There, the pup held him tight with the same silly smile still etched across his face, cradling the boy close so none could see his tears. “You are a man in love with death, but not one in love with slaughter. You fight when necessary, kill when necessary, but you take no joy in the process. Any soldier can tell you that it is easy to kill a foe who holds a blade to your throat, but a different thing altogether to drive a spear through a man’s back, even when that man previously came at you with ill-intent. In abandoning your intent to slaughter, you stayed true to yourself, because you knew the cost was not something you are able to bear, to say nothing of what might have happened if your ill-intent caused you to lose control of the Energy of the Heavens.” Clapping the boy on the shoulders, the pup grinned and said, “You might claim you have no understanding of Balance, but your actions prove otherwise, because though you spurn faith in the Heavens above, you hold the Energy of the Heavens in high esteem all the same. Something to consider for tomorrow perhaps, but it shames me to say that I have long since been unqualified to be your Mentor.”

“You did a better job than anyone else ever could,” the boy replied, and even Akanai was inclined to agree. Had the boy been her Disciple, she might have pushed him too hard, but the pup was always there to shelter little Rain from the harshest of her lessons, while his protective sister and mother sheltered him from the harshest of the pup’s. The perfect balance for little Rain, a combination of tough lessons and tender affection that helped set him on the Path he’d found himself on today, one which might well also end today as the Defiled horns sounded to signal the charge and the massed ranks of Defiled surged headlong towards the wall.

Only to come to a crashing halt as storm clouds converged overhead in the blink of an eye and unloading a deluge of rainfall down upon them.

The cool, refreshing downpour washed away the blood and grit and she could feel the moisture seeping into her dry, cracked skin, revitalizing her in a manner that was more than just merely refreshing. For a moment, she thought this was Rain’s unconscious working and a sign that perhaps he was not entirely in control of his power after all, but then Taduk appeared before them with Lin-Lin in his arms and Blackjack on his head, looking mighty satisfied as he stared up at his handiwork. “You were right, Rain my boy,” he declared, doing a little dance of glee on the battlements. “Not only was I able to work with the Water Chi you dispersed, but the cost was near negligible indeed, as it was all too eager to continue to be used in a similar manner. A fascinating theory you’ve come up with, this metaphysical weight you speak of, though I’m not sure weight is the right word. Inertia might be better perhaps, though not solely limited to kinetic motion, and…”

