“He’s…he was…stupid. Didn’t care about enough, including himself. That’s why he died. You want to die?”
The Ulvama of now bowed her head. She sat there, trembling, and then looked up.
“No. But I’m tired of having no one I trust at all. You know everything that has happened to me. What would you do?”
The Hobgoblin in the prime of her life eyed her older self, then gazed down at her hands. And she spoke with a sudden flash of honesty.
“I am unhappy. Bitterly unhappy. I will never trust again, I say. I will never love again, I say. I will never be happy again. I will never know true innocence or joy again. I will never feel safe again. Has…any of that changed?”
She peered at her current self longingly, and Ulvama stared back through her own memories.
“Today…I feel safe. I am not always. I am in danger again, sometimes. I cannot trust everyone. Nor am I always happy. But I saw lanterns flying in a festival, and I have friends. I—I am afraid of the future.”
“So don’t go.”
Another simple answer, but now, the Ulvama of the present was crying again. She wiped at her crimson eyes as the Mountain City [Shaman] watched her.
“I am afraid that if I don’t try, if I sit here forever, then I will never be happy. I could stay, but then I will be right here again.”
Sitting in the Mountain City tribe. The younger [Shaman] nodded slowly. She inspected her older self, then closed her eyes. When she stood, she was in the memory again, and Pyrite grunted as she helped him up.
“I’ll go with you. I cannot stay here either. I would rather leave than spend forever here.”
That was what the younger Hobgoblin said. She glanced back once and raised a hand. And her other self, surrounded by the fog of memory, wept.
Wept for a door that would never open. A time that never was.
When she opened her eyes—she was calm.
 
——
 
“Ulvama? Did you find what you needed?”
“Maybe.”
She smiled at Bowom, and that was the last time he ever saw her.
…For the evening, that was. Because she put the carved mask on her face, adjusted it, then had a [Woodworker] help her adjust and contour the mask. Changed the look of some of the paint, then exclaimed over the armor.
They had found a bunch of raw materials for Ulvama, but rather to everyone’s surprise, she didn’t ask for a more…revealing set of armor like some expected and, perhaps, hoped for.
Instead, the spider chitin set was, while lightweight, completely covering her skin, spiderweb clinging to the armpits and joints for padding. When Ulvama added on her magical paints to the armor, as if it were her skin, she resembled some wild creature herself, a spider with fantastical markings.
In fact—she even demonstrated a very creepy spider-scuttle while crouched over. She poked her head around a corner, peeking at the bemused Bowom. Then did a zig-zag dash after the [Summoner] who, it turned out, was arachnophobic.
“Gaaaah! What, did you unlock your previous life as a spider?”
“No. Just Molten Stone moves. Argh! My back!”
Ulvama held her lower back, which, it turned out, could not keep up with a Goblin a third of her age in terms of flexibility or energy. She needed to get back to her daily dancing and stretching. Bowom grinned as he came over.
“So that’s the battle armor you want to wear for tonight?”
The woman peered at herself in the mirror and saw a completely-covered Hobgoblin, who showed not an inch of flesh, wearing a mask from which only two crimson eyes shone. Hiding her.
She smiled at herself.
“Yah. This is what I want to wear.”
“What a tragedy for everyday life, then. You must have been entirely uncomfortable until now.”
His casual remark made all the Fraerlings turn to Bowom, then Ulvama. She lifted her mask up slightly so he could see her bared teeth.
“Maybe I was. But I trust you all, so I don’t need to look so good. Is…do you think Erin will be at the concert? Or is she still mad?”
Bowom glanced at the [Costumer], who was vibrating with the desire to speak, but three Fraerlings had a hand over her mouth. He casually flipped a scalpel in one hand.
“I think we’ll find a moment for you two.”
“Thanks, Bowom.”
She hugged him, and the [Mad Doctor] swept an arm out.
“Well, on with the show! Everyone used the bathroom? I don’t want any interruptions!”
“Oh! Good idea!”
Ulvama scrambled towards an unroofed bathroom, then pressed her gloves to the wall and climbed over it like, well, a spider. There was a scream from inside, and Bowom beamed as he palmed a delayed-action sleeping tonic into a bowl of punch. He began pouring everyone glasses.
“This should be good. To disaster or triumph tonight. Cheers!”
