He had only one day. Plenty of time to write a book containing all the love and things Antinium needed. Garry turned the scrying orb off and scratched his chin while the other one arranged the paper and the quill-holding hand poised to write. He was really hoping his fourth hand returned soon; kneading one-handed was tough.
He was able to read. Surely, writing was possible. He wrote lists all the time. How hard could this be?
Garry stared at the parchment. After a moment, he began drawing straight lines, so he could write his words very neatly whenever they came to him. Then he reached for a book.
“Inspiration is often imitation. How could I make pasta before I ate Erin’s pasta, which she sometimes forgot to even butter? Let’s see how this one starts…ah, ‘the default nature of monarchy is headlessness. The states whereby they exist unto this moment are transitory, an inevitable procession unto their final form. Monarchy is not a system that succeeds or fails on its own merits, but a delayed conclusion before the axe falls’.”
He paused, then turned the book over.
“Ah, this one is written by Queen Merindue. Perhaps a lighter book.”
 
——
 
Fifty minutes later, Garry was staring at a bunch of books the Painted Antinium had in their barracks and a few more he’d had Runel and Pisca run out to purchase. He tried to write.
‘There once was a cute, fluffy, and extremely lovable dog.’
It was easy to write that. He made the ‘T’ at the start curly like they did in the book and tried to project the warmth and emotion that he could feel in some stories into the text. The excitement, the passion.
He could feel Merindue’s contempt, her seething rage at the world in her words. He could remember Erin Solstice’s embrace, recall the first moment he had seen the sky. He stared at the sentence he’d written.
After a moment, Garry wrote on.
 
‘There once was a cute, fluffy, and extremely lovable dog. It ran around and barked. Yip-yip, went the little dog! It would roll around, and it had a huge spot on its nose it would lick sometimes, because it thought the spot was edible. When the dog ate, it would wag its tail, and it was the most happy animal in the world.
One day, the little dog found a friend. A cat. She had huge orange stripes and long whiskers, and she rubbed her head against the little dog’s head, and they were best friends. Then they went to play in the park, and I wish to curl up into a ball, what is going on?’
 
It took him ages to come up with the two paragraphs he’d labored over, and when he did—they were bad. He could feel the badness oozing off the page, but he’d added all the things Antinium liked.
Dogs. Cats. Love. The ingredients were there, but when Garry took his story around to other Antinium, the results confirmed his suspicions.
 
——
 
There were plenty of Antinium who were willing to read his story. None of them liked it.
“I do not like this dog.”
“Why not? You love dogs.”
“I cannot hold him. Also, what is his name, please?”
Garry had to read out the story to some Workers, but even this receptive crowd—who were holding and petting a dog at this moment—were critics. Another Worker raised his hand.
“Spot on its nose? Excuse me, but how would a dog know if it had a spot on its nose?”
“…Because it has one?”
“How could it see the spot on its nose? Does it have a mirror? This story makes no sense. Also, yipping is not a good sound for dogs to make. It sounds like it’s in pain.”
The other Antinium concurred, nodding wisely. Garry wasn’t a dog-expert, and he’d written doggrel that any animal-lover could tear apart. But perhaps the most cutting critique came from a Soldier, who Mrsha-signed at him simply:
“[Book says cute thing. I feel nothing. Book lies.]”
That—actually hurt a bit. Garry wandered away from the others, burned his writings, and then came back with some bread to thank them for their time. He sat, staring down at a piece of paper in the Painted Antinium’s barracks, trying to search for inspiration, when someone walked over.
“Hello, Baker Garry. Is there any free bread?”
“No, go ask Pawn, please.”
“Pawn has left. There is less free bread, though some [Priests] can make it. It is not as good as your bread.”
The Worker cheerfully sat down, and he was a Painted Antinium. One of the originals, or close to it; his paint was a bit frayed, and he had a full personality. Garry pointedly indicated his quill.
“I’m writing.”
“Okay. Why are you here, then?”
“I’m searching for inspiration.”
“Do you need help?”
“Unless you know how to write, no thank you.”
Garry snapped. He felt bad about being so rude, but the Worker didn’t seem to mind. He scratched at his antennae.
“I wrote a book once, you know. The others said you were writing horrible things about puppies, so they called me since everyone else is gone.”
“Excuse me? You wrote a book?”
Garry stared at the Painted Antinium, incredulous. The Worker nodded.
“The Book of Carnal Intercourse, a How-To and Explainative Manual. Volume 1. Remember that? Anand? Belgrade? Yellow Splatters? You were there too, but you didn’t contribute to the actual writing of it.”
The [Baker] stared at the Worker. He did remember—after a moment, Garry put his head in his hands.
“Ah, this would be what is known as ‘crippling embarrassment’. Yes, I recall.”
The Worker, who it transpired was known as Lewdquill, nodded wisely. He sat next to Garry, folding his arms.
“I’m a [Scribe]. I write things down for the Hive. Got the class while copying the book 86 times.”
“Dead gods. Eighty-six copies?”
“Most are still around. We had four different volumes, you know. With corrections, addendums. And illustrations. I had to do those by hand. You know, it’s not really that accurate.”
“I’m…aware, yes. It was an amusing mistake made by all the original Individuals when we were young.”
Lewdquill stared at the blank piece of parchment, then spoke.
“I don’t know about that. It was certainly lots of wrong things, but some Antinium tried it out.”
“They what?”
“Why wouldn’t they? It taught them things, and they made mistakes. Hilarious mistakes. It’s an inaccurate book, and the illustrations look really funny because I had to re-copy them, and I didn’t know what the source material looked like for a long time. It’s considered a collector’s item by non-Antinium, you know.”
“…What?”
This time, Garry’s head rose with actual interest, and Lewdquill nodded.
“They love it. Because it’s wrong, it’s funny to them. And Antinium love it because it explains what other species do, even if they’re wrong. It’s a good book. I helped write it. You want to know how to write?”
Now, Garry was looking at the Worker who helpfully sat there and grew embarrassed, because he’d dismissed the Worker out of hand. And he’d never thought there was an expert in the Antinium Hive; he’d thought he was the first. Well, he’d just not counted the book of intercourse or Pawn’s book of the sky. He’d sort of thought neither one was real writing, and that made him more embarrassed. Elitism? He wasn’t an elitist [Chef], but here he was doing it to stories.
“I…yes. Thank you. I’m sorry I was rude, Lewdquill.”
“No problem! I like my job. I’m not a [Writer]; I just copy down the book and make adjustments, but it has lots of perks. Like lots of ladies showing me what things actually look like. Males don’t want to that much.”
Garry’s mandibles opened, and he decided he’d better stop asking questions here. He’d heard about Pawn and Lyonette. He indicated the paper.
“Tell me, what do you think makes a good story, Lewdquill?”
The Worker thought about it for a second, then answered seriously.
“I think it’s writing something you know about. And passion. I read books sometimes, for fun. Copy them for the Hive. All the good ones are written with passion. Like Krsysl Wordsmith.”
“The Free Queen thinks his writing is highly inaccurate.”
“Ah, but it’s passionately inaccurate. And it’s what he knows about.”
“But he’s wrong about so many things.”
“Yep! But he knows it well. Does that make sense? We did tons of research for our book when we wrote it. That’s why there are all kinds of details, even if it was wrong. If you’re going to write, write something you know well.”
“…I don’t want to write a cookbook. I want to write something that makes Antinium happy.”
The Worker was nodding along to the [Baker]’s statements as Garry glared at the page. Then he inspected Garry sidelong and spoke.
“You know what made me happy? Proud to be an Antinium?”
“What?”
“It was when you delivered that bread. Despite all the Drakes trying to kill you. I thought, ‘that’s an Antinium like me!’ Only, you’re not. But I could believe it for a moment. And visiting the inn. The first time I went there, as a little Painted Worker, and had my first bowl of soup? That’s real. Put that into your story. Then have me make copies!”
He smiled, and Garry saw him stand. Then regard him again.
“At least, I thought you were a Worker like me. Anyone tell you that you’re big?”
“What are you talking about? I’m—”
Garry stood up, then stopped. His mandibles opened, and the two Workers eyed each other. They were Workers, made from the same exact blueprint in the Free Hive. Indistinguishable. And yet…Garry realized that Lewdquill’s mandibles were lower than his own. The eyes of the other Antinium weren’t exactly facing his. He hadn’t noticed it because he’d been so busy, but he was bigger.
Maybe…an inch bigger? Not that noticeable, and not on the level of a Soldier, but to the identical Antinium, Garry stood out instantly. And he swore his arms were a bit bigger too.
“No wonder they couldn’t kill you! You’re huge! A giant! Well, I don’t want to keep you from writing. Just hire me when you need work! Here’s my card.”
Lewdquill handed Garry a card. It said:
 
Lewdquill, Level 22 [Scandalous Scribe], Scribe’s Guild. 
I print anything.
 
The Worker walked off, and after a moment of staring at his back, Garry muttered.
“Antinium are getting weirder and weirder these days.”
The pot looked around at all the kettles and then strode off to think.
 
——
 
A story that he knew. Garry the Baker sat there and realized…he had treated writing poorly. Because he had made the assumption he could just sit down and write a book.
A good book, no less. But if he extended writing the same grace as cooking, then this was a ludicrous, nay, offensively arrogant take.
Assume that writing was analogous to cooking. Then how many hours had he put into his craft?
Had he mastered it? Would he dare to walk into a kitchen without having done more than cook a handful of meals and say he could run it during a lunch hour rush?
Yet…he had to try. Because despite realizing the scope of what he wanted, and his humbling, part of Garry believed in his conclusion.
“I have nothing to give so many of my people. Food runs out. I cannot feed them. But it was that [Innkeeper] who gave me chess. Chess did not save my life. I’m ambivalent on chess, but it led to everything else. A story is the only thing I can bring into these dark Hives.”
He touched his chest. All he had to do was bring that conviction that had carried him out of his own abyss. Put that onto the page.
The burning fury at the state of the world. The righteous helplessness. But how to convey it? Garry began to write, and the first candle he lit burned down, and another, but he had all night to do this if he must.
The light of a little piece of Scaethen Bread he nibbled on, the scritching of his pen nib, and occasionally, the clank of metal on metal or chopping as he went to cook to sort out his thoughts. And the smells…
Okay, the smells kept every single member of the Flying Antinium awake down the hall, and eventually the Free Queen shouted.
“Garry! You must cease cooking or share some with us! What are you making?”
“Offerings to the other Queens, my Queen.”
Garry got up and gave them a huge roasting spit’s worth of lamb meat that he had been carving as an offering. The stacked meat he’d been rotating over a flame dripped with fat and seasonings and got all over a page. Garry crumpled up the first page and offered it to Runel, who chomped it down. Then he got a new piece of parchment out and went back to work.
This is what he wrote, his second attempt.
 
The world is unfair. People starve, and this should not be so. But this concept, this simple concept that every single person who has ever starved knows, is somehow objectionable, wrong.
We exist in this world for brief moments. I have seen death coming in chance moments, without rightness or sense, and I am tired of wasting it. What value have coins when I am dead?
 
Then he stopped. Not because the words were wrong; he agreed with them implicitly. And nor from a sense that they were ill-formed. He knew they could be better, but the attempt would be worth it if…
“Something is wrong. This isn’t a story. It is philosophy. And this would not move me.”
Not the Garry who had no name, the lonely Worker who had clung to chess and marvelled at the sky. Then, Garry understood.
“I am writing to myself. But the myself I am writing to is the one who exists now. And I have forgotten, perhaps, the being I was. To that Antinium, I must write. The assumption I make now is that I am the better Antinium. The bigger Worker. That I care more. He cared just as much, perhaps more, but all he wanted was…to live.”
His hand trembled, and he eyed it. Then Garry stared up at the ceiling, and his antennae waved for a moment. When he began the third time, he wrote the only thing he really did know. His quill meandered on the page, hunting for something.
 
There is a…bug.
There is a bug. He has no His name is Calby.
 
Garry stopped and sat for a long while until [Kitchen Timer] went off and he checked on his boiling pots. Then he came back to the desk. Calby the Bug. Like him, but not. What did he know? What did the Unnamed Worker who would become Garry know? What spoke to him?
The quill’s tip moved in the silence. Truth.
 
Calby was a beetle with a big round shell, four arms, and he lived in his Hive the ground. 
“I am alone,” cried Calby the Beetle, and it was true. Loneliness was a deep and dark hole. He could see in the dark, but not through despair, and it enshrouded him. There was no future. No hope. 
He could stand in a crowd of a million, and he would still be alone.
 
Ding! [Sense Temperature] told him that the pasta needed straining now. Garry got up, then came back to his words. Stared at them.
“…This may not be what I intended.”
