Garry – Opening
Here was a lesson for you that he had never forgotten: one person changed everything. Not ‘one person could change everything’…a person always did.
Sometimes it was small, a family or household, but by their presence, each and every person had an impact. But sometimes, all it took was a single young woman to take an Antinium’s hand and breathe life into a lonely, despairing Hive.
Now, approaching two years later, look at the city she had changed. Unintentionally and not always for the better, you had to admit. But she had never been the only person. She had just precipitated an avalanche of lives, and he?
He was a single snowball rolling down the hill after her, and he knew he would not be the last. But Garry the Baker didn’t stop. When he awoke the day after his grand delivery that had set the world to talking, the Antinium Worker sat up, full of aches, pains, healing, grey gel smeared on his body, in a city where everyone knew his name and stared at him, with that same expression they had once given a certain [Innkeeper].
He continued, which surprised them all. But he had never said this was the end of his plans. He just needed new ones. Bigger ones.
He was formulating them the moment he started rolling bread just before dawn. With safety gloves; his fingers still had cracks in them.
 
——
 
They told Garry that there had been a door, a palace that led into the future. He’d missed that too, but he was sort of glad; he didn’t know what his future looked like.
Besides—this was the future to him. The Antinium [Baker] remembered the time before Erin Solstice, and there were Antinium and Liscorian citizens who didn’t. He recalled when Antinium Workers walked only in the shadows, never straying into the light of a city where they had no names.
These days? A Worker strode into the [Bakery] with a little object on his head. It was a crocheted puppy designed to hang off the antennae and rest on their forehead. A very cute design.
“Trendshell, what is that?”
A Gnoll working the morning shift grinned when he saw it, and the other Antinium went still. One of them, a Soldier with scars on her body, glanced at Trendshell.
“It is a Head Puppy. Stitchfingers made it, and I have obtained the first batch.”
Trendshell informed the others, and instantly, several Workers spoke.
“I must have one. Where does Stitchfingers sell it?”
“I must petition a [Knitter] for one.”
“I like cats.”
Garry just smiled as Trendshell did a spin, showing off their newest Antinium-fad, and he was rolling dough so quietly that the other [Bakers] jumped when they finished donning their clothing and hats and found him already working.
“Head Baker, you’re here? But I thought—after yesterday—aren’t you healing?”
One of the Gnolls, Herill, was dismayed as he saw Garry’s still-mending wounds, but the [Baker] replied calmly.
“I am just making up for lost time. Do not mind me.”
He was kneading some regular bread and Scaethen Dough, and the [Bakers] got to work, but were distracted by him. After a moment, one had to ask.
“Did you really fall down a cliff, Head Baker?”
“Yes.”
They waited, and Garry added.
“It was quite unpleasant.”
“But you climbed out? Or did that [Knight] rescue you?”
“Ser Solton? No, I had to climb.”
“You climbed out of that chasm with your bare hands?”
His fingers were cracked a bit, and Garry massaged the dough as everyone gazed at him. He smiled, the ordinary [Baker] they had known yesterday. Only…perhaps he wouldn’t be again, even if he tried to look normal. He had always been the same Garry, but now the one they knew was different.
“It was far less pleasant than kneading dough. Let us begin work, everyone. We must not be late.”
They jumped and, reminded of their work, rushed about, but one would ask another question, and Garry would have to reply that yes, he’d run back. Or no, he hadn’t asked the Flying Antinium to help him, and yes, they could fly…
In the end, he stopped work after an hour because he was distracting them. But more than one [Baker] came up to him as he tried to go. One of them was his day-manager, Lief.
“Listen, Garry…I just wanted to say that the entire kitchen was barely working the entire time you were being attacked. Which I know would have made you upset, but think of how we’d feel, huh? All those cities attacking you and none of them believing you were just delivering bread, our bread…well, I wrote a letter to my aunt and uncle down south because they sent me a [Message] asking if you were selling poison. I don’t know if it changed their minds, but…”
Lief was a Drake, and he gazed down at the ground as Garry saw a huge queue out of the bakery. People standing on their tiptoes to see him. Lief glanced up.
“It’s not all of us that’re crazy. And I was proud to be working here. Sorry, I just wanted to say that on behalf of everyone.”
The other [Bakers] nodded, and Garry smiled. He placed a hand on Lief’s shoulder.
“I do not doubt that, Lief. I think the bakery will be very busy today. And I will be back to check on it, but please, do not think I assume all Drakes are cowards who destroy good bread and kill innocent horses. Just like not all Antinium are as good as Liscorian-Antinium.”
He flicked one antennae in a wink, and Lief grinned. Then there was clapping as the [Bakers] applauded him. Garry found that a bit embarrassing and silly, but he waved to them.
“Should we put some bread aside, Head Baker? For next time?”
“I’m sorry, I don’t know what you mean, Herill. All bread is meant for Liscorians only. Stealing from the bakery would be theft.”
And probably a bit harder next time. They just grinned at him, and Garry exited his bakery and was surprised when more people clapped or cheered for him.
The clapping was highly unnecessary. Garry actually got so uncomfortable that he removed his hat and pulled his apron and clothing off, becoming a regular Worker.
Only…today, the average Liscorian citizen picked him out of the crowd with surprising ease, even for people who knew Antinium. Garry had no idea why at first, then realized he did have injuries.
There was another reason too, but he didn’t figure that out for a bit. But mostly, what Garry decided to do was…take it easy. Just for a bit. He had worked hard, and while he was formulating new plans, he had things to work on himself.
 
——
 
Garry the Baker. Bird the Hunter. Pawn the Priest—though he wasn’t as ‘famous’ publicly as the other two, ironically. Add Belgrade the Strategist and…well, you had Antinium who were changing perception of them. Shaping their Hive. Enemy combatants approaching Gold, or even Named-rank, threats.
That was how Grimalkin should have thought of it. Last year, he’d have been submitting dossiers filled with contingency-plans on how to take out Garry if they entered a state of war with the Antinium. And he would have been part of High Command’s strategy meetings as an expert on Liscor. But these days, he spent as much time in Liscor as Pallass.
So, he supposed that some other bright and loyal son of Pallass might be drawing up contingency plans for him, and he thought that was…well, pointless. Just like he’d viewed the entire attack on Garry’s wagon as a fruitless endeavor.
Well, the bread was probably wheat-based, but the point stood. Garry mattered, but he did not fit in the military ‘us or them’ framing. If Grimalkin could just convince someone of that…well, it was why he had spent this morning seeking out a particular individual and why he was working out with a unique guest to his gymnasium.
General Shirka wasn’t actually that much of a ‘gym rat’, a term that came from Earthers. She was strong enough and could figure out proper form after being shown once, but their conversation was the main focus for her, not the exercise.
Too bad, but the plus side was that she took every officer and [Soldier] stationed with her in 2nd Army for training and rebuilding as well. Over two hundred hit Grimalkin’s gymnasium and actually crowded him out; he let his students teach the soldiers how to exercise and nodded at Lady Pryde. She lifted a too-heavy weight-bar off one of the [Soldiers], shouting.
“No one lifts without a spotter, fools! You want to see what happens when someone’s ribs get compressed by three hundred pounds in a second? Grimalkin, you, me, lunch. Bring the [General] along then if you’re still talking.”
He liked her approach to scheduling. Grimalkin had been all too willing to take the time to discuss every facet of his life with Lady Pryde Ulta, but it turned out that she disliked niceties and asking where she wanted to eat. Be there, 12 o’clock sharp. He respected that. Though he had, privately, noted that the when was very important. Missing a meal by an hour meant Pryde got…testy.
Grimalkin nodded, casting a spell to add it to his schedule, then halted at the doors and coughed.
“Uh, Pryde? We have an engagement already. Lunch is already accounted for, but meet at 10 o’clock?”
The hemp bag on Lady Pryde’s head turned, and she paused.
“We do? Ah, yes, of course. Ten, then. You there, stop lifting like that!”
He left her to it. Grimalkin gestured as General Shirka walked next to him.
“There’s another place we can exercise, General. And talk more privately.”
She grunted.
“I’ll hear you out on the Antinium, and I’m receptive to not thinking every Humans is a foe, Sinew Magus, but you’re not exactly making inroads with the right person if you want political clout. You’d be better-served finding a [Senator] or another [General].”
“I have a running spreadsheet of powerful players in Pallass, General Shirka. However, I would like to state that the most expedient choice is not the best when it comes to determining the City of Invention’s future.”
She smiled thinly as they strode along.
“I’ll take that as a compliment.”
 
——
 
Grimalkin had a private gymnasium he ran, of course, and Pallass had built a second one with a third on the way, but for privacy, there was really only one place to go.
Liscor, or rather, The Wandering Inn. Another public gymnasium was up in the city proper, but the private one in the inn was relatively unused. You’d get the Thronebearers, a few of the Goblins, and Relc or Bezale in there, but most of the guests weren’t [Lifters].
Plus, the inn was virtually impossible to find unless you were a friend. Even Grimalkin had to concentrate in the portal room for a second.
“Right. This way.”
He covertly motioned Shirka to the door and led her into the ‘invisible’ inn. They were talking as he pushed the door into the weights room open and halted.
“I just don’t see the potential for any alliance, Sinew Magus. No matter what, they’re just independents, never allies. Pallass will never accept an Antinium, even as auxiliaries. And the odds of them helping us? I—huh.”
Shirka stopped in the open doorway. Grimalkin observed, in the calm portion of his mind, that this was a record.
He had never, actually, seen an Antinium in his gymnasiums. They didn’t…work out. A few might have lifted weights for the novelty of it, but they didn’t seem to need it to build muscle. But—well—he saw the Antinium in question stop deadlifting a bar.
The weights on the bar told him the bar was currently at four hundred and forty pounds. Which was…Grimalkin coughed as Shirka’s eyes swung to him.
“Is this an eponymous Solstice Moment, Sinew Magus?”
“Possibly just coincidence. Er, good morning, Baker. You have excellent form.”
Garry turned his head.
“Do I? I am glad, Sinew Magus. I was uncertain about it, but I have read through your instruction manuals and reviewed all the poses. Though for Antinium, they are somewhat complex.”
Yes, they didn’t have the same body structure! What a blunder! Only—an Antinium lifting weights? Grimalkin kept staring as Garry executed another squat and realized Garry was right.
Due to his back-shell, his ability to flex his posterior was almost nonexistent. Actually, the deadlift worried Grimalkin.
“I’m not certain how effective that is, Baker. You’re bearing the weight amazingly well, though.”
“Oh? If you can suggest a better form—”
Shirka stood back, watching as Grimalkin paced around. Instantly, the Sinew Magus made a few suggestions and began taking notes in a journal. He composed his first Antinium-form guide within minutes of walking Garry through safe lifting techniques, but stayed there for nearly half an hour.
Merely to…well, note down the weights that the [Baker] was lifting. He’d compare them against his own datasets later, but General Shirka herself went to try the bench press after Garry was done and grunted.
She glanced sideways at Grimalkin.
“Not a threat, you said? That’s the largest damn Worker I’ve ever seen in my life.”
“I believe the term is ‘swolest’, though I object to the term myself. Earther-slang.”
“Another headache I don’t really want to be part of.”
She grimaced, and Grimalkin eyed her as they watched Garry wipe down the equipment he’d been using. He didn’t actually sweat, but he’d done a thorough workout. Then the [Baker] turned.
“Sinew Magus, as it is still objectionably wet in the city, I would prefer to run elsewhere, but other locations are apparently an issue. What would you consider appropriate distances for running?”
“Er, for an amateur? I would start at a mere mile or less; anything is better than nothing. For you? Four laps of the city, depending on your available time.”
Garry nodded.
“My legs find this idea objectionable, but I suppose this is considered ‘healthy’. It appears most healthy things are unpleasant.”
“Do you—like lifting those weights, Baker?”
Shirka addressed Garry for the first time, awkwardly stiff, but polite enough. Garry glanced at her.
“I do not, General. But it appears to me that it would be good to be more in shape.”
“In case you have to climb another cliff?”
“Yes, that did occur to me. Thank you, Sinew Magus, and good day to you, General Shirka.”
He walked past the two. The two Drakes stared after him, and then Grimalkin blinked.
“General Shirka, he knew who you were.”
“Yes. And your point about him not being a threat was…”
She turned to him, and Grimalkin scratched at his chin, then shrugged.
“I believe, General, that my point is actually further demonstrated by the preceding encounter. Would you want him as an actual foe?”
“Hm. Fair point.”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was an excellent place to get a lot of what Garry needed. Of course, even here, everyone wanted to talk about his delivery.
