“Yes, but it’s just a body. And okay, let’s say you do the groundwork. Get a body, pump it full of Galas-muscle, make sure each part is connected. Then you’ve got, what? A Draugr-equivalent when some absolute toad-licking [Necromancer] finds a pile of corpses and gets one in three days with minimal effort.”
“Hmm. But your patient is living.”
“Not living their best life!”
Bowom slammed a fist on the metal table, and the leg twitched. He grinned up at her as his glasses slipped askew.
“Besides, that’s so mundane. So banal! Fraerlings, Humans—we don’t have the best bodies. But what if you gave them the best qualities of other species? The speed of a cockroach. Wings! Bones that won’t break, or the spine of—the problem is that the mind can’t use it.”
He tapped his head.
“The brain is our weak spot. It can’t…process a lot of the new limbs. Oh, it can adapt. Wonderful things, brains. But to make it sync up, much less to a rush job, I had to…”
“No.”
Ulvama’s heart sank. Bowom was giggling, but he stopped. Went silent.
“I was careful. I figured out where everything went. Motor skills do link up in one section of the brain, mostly. I couldn’t have made what I called the ‘impeller-brain’ without Skills. Just pieces spliced together from each creature. But that’s the thing about brains. They adapt. They grow, even if you give them the wrong pieces. Give her a regular body and it won’t work again. Worse…I was too good at my job.”
He peered around aimlessly.
“Are there any—? No, I didn’t come back here. There are some wonderful, amazing images of her mind that they showed me. Her brain’s overgrown the new segment. If I cut it out, I’m pretty sure I take something else with it. Amazing she lived, really. She shouldn’t have. I gave her three hours tops. She counterlevelled. I never account for that. Madness. I shouldn’t have given her part of a Creler’s brain.”
“You what?”
“I washed it! Entire thing’s poisonous. But I cleared it, and it was the only way. They’ve got strong psychic…it’s the only brain that can adjust to malleable limbs like that. Turns out it did its job too well. No way back for Mieve.”
Bowom finished his explanations and sat back. Limbs hanging on the walls, experimental digits, eyes—and Ulvama thought it was scary.
Scary, and yet, if he had been in any Goblin tribe, how many wounded warriors would have lined up for a limb he could give them? She stood here, and despite him trying to scare her, she didn’t think she was in danger.
A monster didn’t stop or ask if he was wrong.
He was no Tremborag.
“So that’s why you left?”
Bowom gestured around vaguely as he finished stitching the leg up and began closing the skin. The smell of preservatives and dead flesh hung around him as his fingers moved as beautifully as Honored Deskie at her work.
“No mirrors in here. I packed it up, went somewhere I could think, and I was so miserable I was going mad. I figured I’d find another way or go back to it and not feel guilty again. Instead, I came back before my metamorphosis was completed. But enough about me! Tell me how awful Erin is!”
He swivelled around, resting his arms on the chair’s back and giving her his most twinkle-eyed look of attention. Ulvama found a chair and sat down. When she spoke, it was to her hands. She’d painted her fingernails, and she inspected them before meeting his eyes.
“I’m sorry, Bowom. Erin is…complex. She’s the only person from home. I have to help her, but she hurts herself. Again and again. What am I supposed to do?”
He closed his eyes as he sat back in his chair.
“Eurise was much the same in his day. He was asleep when she got here, and there’s nothing wrong with that. But now? What to do with Erin? If I were you, my class says: put her back together. Again and again. Better and better. Until death itself stands at my mercy. What does yours say?”
No one had ever asked her that. She shivered, then closed her eyes. Ulvama listened, then shook her head, despairing.
“A [Shaman] needs a tribe. She needs a [Chieftain]—but Erin doesn’t want to be one. Rags doesn’t need or want me. I am strong in some ways, but she passes me. She has lived for almost two years in this world. And she is past my levels. She will continue. When she is Level 60? I will only be useful as the voice in her ear, and that’s if I even know what to say.”
She paused, then gazed at her feet. Her toes wiggled in their sandals, and she gave Bowom the saddest smile he’d ever seen a Goblin wear.
“But that’s okay. Because she’s a kind person. The trick is, you find a kind person. So even when they realize you’re useless, they don’t get rid of you. She’ll forgive me. And I’ll have a place at her inn, if she lives.”
The [Mad Doctor] was hunting around for something on his workbenches.
“Hold on, I’ve got…no, there’s no paper fans here. Someone taught me how to make them. Here, this’ll do.”
He brought down the metal tray on Ulvama’s head with a rather loud bang, and she screeched and swung at him. Bowom dodged and sat back in his chair.
“That’s not what I asked, Ulvama. This is all larger than your fight.”
She sat up and puffed out her cheeks.
“No, it’s not! It’s the Garry problem! It’s what she does—”
“I distinctly recall armpits being part of that.”
Ulvama hesitated, then turned her head, blushing.
“That’s just her being stubborn and prudish.”
“Uh huh.”
“She’s thoughtless.”
“More than not, when it comes to you. Strange for such a perceptive young woman. Did you know she once told me that she can read everyone except Eurise and Zinni like books? But you’re closed to her?”
The Hobgoblin’s head rose, and her eyes widened.
“She can’t? But I thought—sometimes she can.”
“Not anything but the big things, she claims.”
“Oh. Then maybe she didn’t know. And she got the children because—”
Bowom sneezed into a handkerchief.
“Damn dust. It’s still an incredibly crass move to have children shaming someone like that.”
“Yes, but she doesn’t know her aura.”
“Is that an excuse? If I go around swinging a Skill and hurt someone, that’s still a crime.”
“True…”
Wait, why was she defending Erin? The Hobgoblin got angry again, but Bowom was staring up at the ceiling.
“I’m going to get some tools here, and I need to put together some old files. But after this, Ulvama…”
“I’ll talk to Erin.”
He shook his head absently.
“No. I don’t really fancy doing this on the road or the next city we come to. I’m not hearing you confront the real thing at the heart of this. I’m honestly not sure if Eurise or Roja will bring it up; it’s not really their forte. He can barely hold down a relationship with his hair these days. Too high-level. Seen too much. Roja thought she could keep up with Eurise, but they broke it off after four months. Nearly killed her.”
Ulvama had gone still. She breathed in, coughed on the dust.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“Oh, absolutely. And I suppose I’m busy here for another week.”
The Hobgoblin’s cheeks were heating up.
“I—what am I supposed to do? She doesn’t know anything! She’s an idiot!”
“Well, if you don’t know what you want from her, then you’re both blind. I could replace your eyeballs, but I don’t know if I can improve on your looks. Crimson eyes and that wonderful hazel stare…that’s a hard admission for me, you know. I’m great with eyeballs.”
The [Mad Doctor] waited as Ulvama sat there, flushed to the tips of her ears in his dark laboratory. There was a reason he’d chosen Ulvama. He wasn’t actually that empathetic a fellow. With her, all he had to do was point it out and hope.
Did she have an answer? After a while, Ulvama looked at something she’d been given before leaving her training session.
The smoking pipe. She played with it in her hands.
“Erin had a pipe like this. I forgot…she played with it all the time.”
“Didn’t you say she hated smoking? Or was it that pretentious thing you do where you never light it? Because I will start disliking her if that’s the case. Say it isn’t so.”
Ulvama ducked her head, grinning toothily.
“No. She blew bubbles.”
“Hah!”
Bowom laughed in genuine surprise, and Ulvama raised the pipe to her lips. She blew a single bubble of magic into the air and watched it fall.
“Oh…maybe it is me. I think I know what I have to do, Bowom. I have to ask…me…what I want. I didn’t want to, but maybe—”
The [Shaman]’s eyes lifted, and her gaze shone with magic as she recalled the last of her powers that she had to her, even isolated from her tribe in Izril. Bowom smiled encouragingly.
“Good. But can you give me thirty, no, forty minutes? And I really could use some hands finding all the stuff I need.”
She glared at him, and he raised his hands.
“What? You didn’t think this was all heartfelt self-revelations? Please. No one else would come with me, and I’m fairly sure Mera and Zemmy can barely read.”
She got up, and suddenly, they were in a hurry. Bowom began listing things they needed, and Ulvama protested.
“I need things too! We need to go back to my friends. I need more supplies.”
“Like what? There’s that big Battle of the Bands tonight. Good time?”
“So soon? Eh—maybe! But first, I need, um, Dreamleaf!”
He twisted around, and Ulvama protested.
“No, seriously! It’s useful! I promise! This isn’t a joke! I’m not Palt!”
He just rolled his eyes as he went back to hunting for supplies.
“[Shamans].”
Such a silly class.
 
——
 
As Ulvama prepared for legitimate shamanic magic, Erin Solstice sat, staring into blue flames in the guest house. She didn’t look up even when the snowflakes started to fall.
Bowom was doing his best. What, exactly, that meant was only something he knew. But other people were making an attempt as well.
Not Mera and Zemmy, though they were watching through a window uneasily. Instead, a Fraerling caught a snowflake on his hand, and it melted as Eurise sat down.
“Even now, sometimes you envy other classes. All I can do is put a hole in things. Not mend them. Not make fire.”
She jerked and peered up at him. The blue fire went out, and Erin glanced around.
“I’m hurting the house. Sorry. It’ll get mildewy.”
“Eh. Mind if I sit?”
She nodded, and Eurise sat down. Awkwardly. He glanced over his shoulder, and he was a direct man. Someone she trusted. But—he crossed one leg, cleared his throat, then came out with it. A [Scarred Wyldbeast] going for the kill. He had a past longer than even Bowom’s, and it was reflected in his cautious expression.
But she had lived a life as stressful as his, and they respected that about each other because they saw it. So Eurise spoke.
“Listen. I don’t know much about relationships or love, but if you wanted to talk it out…”
She glanced up at him, genuine surprise written on her features.
“Love? I thought you were talking about Ulvama. Or—is this about Matha? I’m sorry I kicked her, I am. And she’s not bothering me anymore.”
The white-haired Fraerling [Explorer] stared directly into Erin’s eyes. She blinked quizzically, and he slapped his knees and stood up.
“Right, I’m out. Your turn.”
He walked towards the door, yanked Roja out of hiding, and shut it as she cursed at him. The other [Explorer] threw up her hands.
“Eurise—!”
She saw Erin frowning at her and stomped over.
“Okay, let’s go for a walk.”
Erin got up willingly enough, and Roja clomped down the street as she glared at Mera and Zemmy; Eurise had just leapt onto the roof of the house where he was watching them from afar. Roja chewed over what to say.
“Listen, you and Ulvama need to make up. I don’t really get the entire situation, Erin, and I don’t need to. You two are great friends, and you’ve been through a lot. This? This is silly.”
Mera and Zemmy nodded along with Erin as the two [Brawlers] shadowed the two.
“Absolutely. A lot of it’s my fault.”
“Great. Good you understand it! This entire thing with, uh, armpits?”
“That was Matha. I didn’t like it, and I shamed Ulvama. Which was wrong.”
“Matha. I knew she had something to do with—and it’s complicated by your friend. You can hash it out with her. Go on a walk or something, and just air your feelings. Then we can get on the road. Maybe it takes a few hours of serious talking, but you two are grown women. Tonight, after the concert? That work out?”
Roja was hopeful, and Erin stared ahead.
“…I don’t know, Roja. She and I disagreed about Garry. On something bigger than just—the armpits thing was bad. But it made me realize that what Ulvama wants, what she thinks I am, isn’t what I do. She thinks I’m like a Chieftain. Like my inn is a tribe. I think…I think I can’t just ask for forgiveness and move on. She’s wrong. I think she’s wrong, at least, and until one of us says the right thing, we’re stuck. I just—don’t know. I don’t think I’m wrong.”
And that was terrible, because she knew she was. Just not which part. But not Garry’s decision. Never that. Roja scowled. She put a hand on Erin’s shoulder.
“Listen, Erin. Like I said, I don’t know about this Garry, uh, Antinium, but I heard enough. Just say she had a point. Give a bit, and—”
“No. She was wrong on that, Roja. What she told me was wrong.”
“Then what you accused her of. Something about a Trem—Tremborat…?”
“Tremborag. It was cruel of me, but we needed to talk about it. We need to talk about it. That’s not it. It’s something else.”
She kept reaching for it, but it kept…and there were always distractions. Like Ulvama flirting with Matha. Which Erin knew was to annoy her, but she couldn’t think.
Something—this time, Roja was the one who swung Erin around.
“Now you’re being unreasonable. Listen, we’ve been cooling our heels here for a week. Just compromise, Erin. This isn’t about you—”
“Roja, I appreciate the pep talk, but I’m serious. Neither of those things is wrong. I’ll explain it as best I can, but I’m not budging on those. Not Garry. Not Tremborag.”
Roja might have been the wrong person after all. Zemmy and Mera had been getting encouraged, but now they saw Roja do what Roja did when she got lip from a younger [Explorer]. She put one arm around Erin’s shoulder and began to drag her back to the guest house.
“Okay, I am going to have you sit for a second. You’ve been taking your temper out on Zemmy and Mera. But you’re as stubborn as one of Zinni’s aphid bulls.”
Erin’s face went blank.
“Hey, Roja? I am stubborn. But you’re not helping, buddy. I think I can figure this out if someone leaves me alone for two seconds. Or I talk to Garry, maybe.”
