Lyonette, in particular, was incensed, but unable to scold him fully, which Garry was relieved by. In fact, they just pointed him at the gymnasium, and when he emerged after an encounter with Grimalkin, he was barely able to procure a breakfast.
“Here, Garry. Very sorry, but is a busy day, eh?”
Calescent shoved some egg salad onto a tray with a fried fish. Garry didn’t mind the food, and he noted the [Chef] was scarfing down a red bowl of peppered pasta with someone else.
Elia Arcsinger was wiping sweat out of her eyes but refused to stop gulping down food. As they ate, a Goblin was shoving neatly-wrapped boxes into a hamper bin.
“Sixteen, seventeen, eighteen…how many is we got, Boss Peggy?”
Asgra complained, and Peggy counted.
“Eh, Grimalkin and Pryde coming too. So add two more.”
“Damn. Oh, hey, it Garry! You didn’t hear that! I’m very good. Very good Goblin. Am I on the good list?”
Asgra brightened up and clapped a claw over her mouth. Garry tilted his head as he saw more of the staff rushing about. They seemed to be preparing for something. Mrsha and Nanette were importantly marching to-and-fro.
“Okay, Calming Tonics, check! Octavia’s going to have the rest brewed, and we’re waiting on some of our initial strikeforce. Late, as usual.”
Nanette had on military boots and a quasi-military uniform, and even Mrsha wore a sash and kilt. Lyonette was in the midst of it all. Garry addressed Asgra.
“What list would this be, Asgra?”
“The nice list! Does I get presents now? Or only in the winter?”
“Oh. Only in the winter.”
“Bread?”
“Are you starving, Asgra?”
She thought about it and patted her stomach.
“Eh…no. Damn. I mean shit. You forget you heard that. I a very good girl…for a Goblin. Okay, we going soon. Garry Christmas!”
“Er…thank you?”
She waved at him with a huge smile, and Garry backed up a step as Ser Dalimont and Lyonette found him.
“Garry! I’m so sorry we can’t give you more of a welcome—sit, please! Anything you want, on the house. We have Xinthe minding the shop while we’re gone, but Calescent will be out, and so will I. Er, Garry Christmas!”
“Is that a saying now, Miss Lyonette?”
She hesitated.
“I heard all the children shouting it. Is it not something you’d say? You are Santa now.”
“I suppose I am. You realize that was an artful ruse, though?”
She chuckled as she adjusted a very impressive dress. Ser Dalimont’s armor was polished, and the door opened to admit more friends of the inn. Colfa swept in, followed by—
“Hey, there the Baker is! Chieftain, Chieftain. Can I get autograph or bread?”
A Hobgoblin, a Redfang warrior, that Garry didn’t know shouted right before someone booted him in the butt. Chieftain Rags marched forwards.
“Out of the way, idiots. Don’t bother him too much. Lyonette, we’re here.”
She and Lyonette met as the [Princess] thanked her for coming; Garry had no idea what was going on and saw Ser Dalimont greeting the Goblins.
“Redscar, thank you for coming. How many Wyverns…?”
The [Blademaster] grinned.
“Two. Don’t mind Chieftain; she just grumpy because certain cute [Student] gone. Also, she argue for two hours with Naumel about him coming. You glad he not coming; he’d actually fight.”
“Very perceptive as always.”
“Yah. Hey, you Garry, right? You got any bread?”
Garry did not, in fact, have any bread. The disappointed Goblins contented themselves with greeting the other members of staff, fist-bumping Nanette and Mrsha, and grinning. Garry had to ask.
“Excuse me, what is going on today?”
Mrsha turned and held up a card, surprised.
Don’t worry, Garry, it’s going to be low-key. Off the scrying orbs, if we can help it. Valeterisa will see to that. We’re just going to beat up a loudmouth and a [Healer].
Garry thought about that for a second.
“Oh, of course. The Healer of Tenbault. I find it hard to keep up with happenings. Is it dangerous?”
“Yah, for her.”
One of the Goblins grinned, and Garry estimated the relative levels of Rags, Lyonette, her various guardians—he could see Elia, Elosaith, Vaulont, all preparing—not to mention Redscar.
He concurred.
“I hope you have an uneventful time.”
The inn’s family nodded at him as Bird came buzzing down the stairs with Apista.
“I slept in! Are we rescuing Tessa yet? I will have unborn birds for breakfast! Oh, Garry. I am going to hit you because you made me worried.”
“Ow, ow, ow. Bird, that hurts.”
Mrsha and Nanette dragged Bird away from Garry as they prepared for an important mission of mercy of their own. And Garry? He sat and ate his breakfast and swatted Bird away when she tried to eat his egg salad.
It wasn’t his battle. Also, frankly—he felt like they didn’t need him. After Relc and Valeterisa came downstairs, Garry wondered if Lyonette wasn’t engaging in overkill a bit. Ah, well.
It’d distract from him being all over the news. And that wasn’t a bad thing.
 
——
 
Garry hated running. Especially on Liscor’s slippery, wet streets, but if it helped, then he’d do it. He was slowed by foot traffic and the new lights on streets as well as people recognizing him.
Mostly children, who shouted ‘Garry Christmas’ and assured him they were being good. Many wanted to try his bread, and he directed them to the bakery. But, thankfully, the Liscorians seemed to be focused on the two Wyverns they’d seen flying across the Floodplains, and his disguise of not wearing any clothing but his loincloth kept him relatively anonymous.
He was finishing his third lap and grumbling about how this was going to cut into his time for anything else but running when Garry came across Visma and Ekirra. Well, a gang of children, really.
Kenva, Rittane, Rinni, Mrsha’s former school bully, Visma, and Ekirra, were playing with forty-some kids from across Liscor.
Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, all of whom were listening to Visma shouting. Garry slowed as he jogged by the park where they were occupying one of the enchanted playgrounds and the sand.
“The Wandering Inn is under attack! It’s five Adult Crelers and—Ancestors, an Elder Creler is coming out of the ground! Fight! Fight! Goblins, hold it back! Where’s our reinforcements?”
“The Silverfangs are coming! We’re coming!”
Ekirra led a howling group of Gnolls against the ‘Crelers’, which were wet, soaking contraptions of wood that the children attacked with swords. The fierce battle of shouting was like any other group of children playing, but again—it was a reminder.
A reminder that Erin and Garry weren’t the only people who shaped Liscor. Even Mrsha had made things change. So, as the Antinium [Baker] and several onlookers watched, they saw the children fighting the advancing ‘Crelers’ and then do something strange.
Normally, in such fights, you’d expect children to be the Gold or Named-rank heroes saving the day, perhaps a few [Princesses]. Beating up the unlucky side who got to be the bad-guys. Certainly, there were a lot of beatings involved for the hypothetical Crelers. But by the time the Elder Creler was being killed by ‘Archmage Amerys’, played by Visma, two Named-rank heroes, including an almost-naked Human boy in his underpants as Saliss of Lights, and over two-thirds of the children were lying on the ground in the rain.
Dead. Visma turned as the Elder Creler toppled over, and looked around. Then Rittane, who had on a [Witch]’s hat, lowered a frying pan and cried out.
“Oh no. They’re all dead. They’re all…the Silverfangs. My friends. Dead.”
She gazed around with such a stricken face that several of the adults glanced at each other. Then Rittane buried her face in her hands and began to sob. All the children began crying, and several of the ‘dead’ children began sobbing too.
“Dead gods.”
A horrified mother wanted to take her children away from the captivating scene. Garry just watched until the sobbing stopped and Ekirra sat up.
“Okay! That was good! Let’s do the Meeting of Tribes next!”
“Hm. I am sure this is not entirely healthy. But what is?”
The children raced off to play more ‘Wandering Inn’ as more converts followed. Garry continued jogging, thinking.
 
——
 
There was something…crass about it. Speaking as a Worker who had been there, fighting Skinner, Garry did not like the way they played at death, but then again—they’d seen the inn attacked.
Children, he understood, emulated what they saw. He certainly had in Erin’s chess club when it had been all he’d known. So he could not hold it against them entirely.
Moreover…they’d lost people they loved, surely. Children were drawn to true things. There was little truer than that grief; they just displayed it in ways that were mildly offensive. So let them play?
“It’s not my problem.”
That was the [Baker]’s swift conclusion. There was a lot in the world Garry would do, if he lived. Amending children’s playtime? Not on that list.
It was eight o’clock by the time Garry finished his new routine he’d been working on. Morning bakery, of course, exercise—he could optimize it down to an hour, probably—then he got to work. Garry checked the news and was pleased to see the villages he had listed were being fed. It was, in fact, the morning news, and no one was paying attention to him.
There were Drakes on Sir Relz’s show loudly speaking.
“—could have blown up that bridge himself, you know.”
“Really? Himself?”
Sir Relz was entertaining the caller, but had one brow raised as the Drake blustered.
“Well, why not? You didn’t see who cast the spells, didja? Could be the Antinium did it to make us look bad! Or Humans!”
“It’s true we didn’t see who cast the spells, but—oh, I think another delivery has just reached Imec. And we’re getting more callers who want to talk about their situations. Caller, hold one second, let’s go to a camera and see—”
Garry sat and thought about it for a second. Food being delivered? Excellent. There was no such thing as ‘too much food’ in the cases of the villages and settlements he’d listed.
“But certainly, I have missed some. This will work. For a day, a week. They will get bored.”
It did not diminish the success, of course, merely indicated a window in which further deliveries of bread were suboptimal. Plus—Garry was investigating his pantries while he worked—
“…I’m out of bread.”
Months of stockpiled bread delivered in the span of a week. Time to build it up again. Sadly, Garry hadn’t received any Skills that multiplied the quantity of bread made. But he had a number of unique loafs he could now bake.
[Bread Mastery] might mean the quality of his personal baking was higher. He’d investigate. If the [Loaf of Luck], for instance, had some commercial viability, maybe he could sell it for gold?
Research. Exercise. And oh, yes. Garry heard a ping as a [Message] scroll the Mage’s Guild had given him this morning lit up.
“Ah, time for my meeting.”
The point of the delivery was to deliver bread, as he’d told Erin. But as she’d recognized, it was never just one thing. It was the television, it was the attention. If he lived—it was what came after.
He’d learned from the master, after all.
 
——
 
Perhaps the man in the scrying orb was a monster. Perhaps he was simply powerful, and the two were one and the same. Garry hadn’t worked that out yet in his head; philosophy was hard, the books on it esoteric.
But the Mage’s Guild certainly jumped when this man spoke. Garry sat in a private room for this meeting, and the fact that the suspicious, great Archmage of Memories had time for him was because Garry had been on the news.
He would have ignored Garry completely otherwise. And yes, Garry knew that he was an enemy of someone. Perhaps Ryoka, perhaps Erin, perhaps more…but that did not preclude Garry from talking to Eldavin. He needed the half-Elf’s help, so Garry smiled at the half-Elf. Eldavin did not smile back, but merely puffed on a pipe.
“I note the smile. Let me summarize for the sake of expediency. You want me to enable further crimes—”
“That is a hostile way of reframing your actions, Archmage. I only want a small donation, please.”
“The Drakes won’t see it that way. Let’s say I make this vehicle. Of which you have numerous demands—”
Eldavin glanced at a sketch Garry had made and snorted.
“—But which is within my abilities, naturally. I would incur the wrath of the Walled Cities and Drake antipathy why?”
Garry smiled even brighter.
“I wonder what the rest of the world will see, Archmage? I have seen your splendid magical carriages, though the ones around Liscor cannot run on water, which would also be wonderful advertising.”
Eldavin frowned and flicked one finger.
“They don’t? Damn, that’s purely obvious. Valeterisa should have…too busy ‘rediscovering’ autocasting. What other cities…? Sandstorm proofing, light spells for use in dark areas like Noelictus—Teura? I need a list of cities with unique geography—”
He called to a half-Elf, who wrote industriously, then turned back.
“Perspecarious of you.”
“Thank you, though I am sure you would have thought of it if you had the moment, Archmage.”
The half-Elf paused, seemingly surprised that Garry knew the word and, perhaps, by the flattery. He went on after a beat.
“All of this may advertise Wistram’s carriages, you have a point. But I should give you, you specifically, one because?”
“Because it is for a good cause—feeding the hungry—Archmage. When such news spreads, your name will be the one people speak of. And Wistram’s. I am sure you will do this.”
The half-Elf’s cerulean eye gleamed in the smoke.
“Aha. The threat being that if we did not, you would go to another magical institution or make it known we refused?”
He sat like a coiled cat waiting for the trap. And Garry? Garry tilted his head.
“Threat? I would not threaten you, Archmage. I am merely confident because you are a good person. The Archmage of Memory has already led Wistram in solving the crisis of farming in the New Lands. You have given magic to the magicless. You would not let the hungry starve.”
The Archmage of Memories glanced past Garry and grimaced. He shuffled the papers on his desk, cleared his throat a few times, and coughed.
“Ahem. Well—expedience is a virtue unto itself with great institutions and nations. If Wistram does perform charity, it is because magic is often free. Just add mana. It costs us nothing to—I’ll consider your request. Thank you. Have a nice day. Teura? Make a—”
He vanished from the scrying orb, and Garry kept smiling as he stood up, on the vague hunch that Eldavin could see through the scrying orbs even after they seemed to turn off. He walked from the room after thanking the [Mage] who hurried in after him.
