Garry was like an ace in the hole. But you still had to have a good hand of cards before you pulled him.
She was walking through Lemoste, thinking. For two reasons, really. The first was that she had an appointment she couldn’t miss for the Battle of the Bands. She’d let people down if she didn’t at least show her face, and she was tired of that.
The second reason was that Roja had come storming back after half-an-hour, and Erin had sensed her coming and was avoiding her.
It was easy. Roja was hunting for Erin, but the [Innkeeper] knew where she was thanks to her inn-senses. She just walked in the opposite direction Roja was storming. That didn’t take up her mind, so she really had no excuse. But her head just felt blank.
Ulvama’s angry at me for stupid stuff I did. I hurt her, and we fought. I brought up Tremborag’s mountain and what they did to non-Goblin women. And men, I think. She doesn’t want me to self-destruct. All these things are fair, important things, but this isn’t why we’re fighting.
I know that. I wish I could read her mind. I wish I could see exactly what she’s feeling.
“But what a boring life that would be. Too close to divine, and I have to believe they’re miserable people.”
But I want it. Just for her.
Ah, there was something there, but when Erin tried to focus on it, it slipped away. Like how it was sometimes hard to think of the deadlands and the ghosts and their quests or her parents and home.
Something too big, too painful or scary for her to want to live with. Erin tried to find it, but by the time her feet led her to the large warehouse that had a huge garage door open and was letting out the clatter of objects and the thunder of drums, the screech of a guitar solo, and so many voices—she didn’t have anything else.
Then someone spotted her.
“Miss Erin! We’re gonna take Battle of the Bands this time! No matter what my parents do!”
The Fraerling girl, Elohi, a [Rock Bassist], was all dressed up in raggedy clothing like some kind of post-apocalyptic survivor. She even had temporary tattoos and what Erin hoped were fake piercings. Her entire band were kitted out the same.
“Hey, Elohi, you look great. How’re you feeling? The Deranged Cats going to kill it?”
“Yeah! We’ve been practicing three songs, and they’re really good. Way better than the Fallin’ Gnomes or Acoustic Devils!”
The Fallin’ Gnomes were her parents’ band. They were dressed up in clothing that Erin felt like her parents would have called similar to Kiss from Earth: white facepaint, black hair, and a mix between bodysuits and just not wearing shirts at all.
They were waving, but the glaring younger Fraerlings were flipping them off and booing—it looked like Battle of the Bands 4 was going to be the olds versus the youngs.
Erin wasn’t sure which side she was on, or should take, so she settled for encouragement.
“Hey, knock ‘em dead. Sorry Matha’s still under the weather and I’m, uh, busy.”
“You’re going to be there, right?”
“Absolutely. But I’m not taking sides!”
Erin lied, and Elohi leapt up and punched the air before landing as she struck a chord on her guitar. The ground trembled a bit.
“Great! Then we’re going to knock the new walls down! Just wait ‘till you see our Combined Skill!”
“Your what now? You got one of…”
Erin was left with questions as Elohi raced off to shout at some fans who were lining up for the concert. The [Innkeeper] didn’t have any Combined Skills! She was about to go over to the other bands when someone exited a washroom, adjusting her outfit.
“I think I’m okay, guys. It only sprays one in four t—oh, hey Erin.”
…And there was Matha. Erin sighed, but she didn’t have the same animosity towards Matha right now with the Ulvama fighting. Plus, she felt a bit bad that Matha still had, uh, toiletry problems after all this time.
Plus—Matha was being very cautious. She raised her hands, and Erin noted that Ulvama’s makeup was still on her face, and Matha had on a costume that would have done a rock n’roller from the height of sequins and sparkles proud.
A long one-piece suit in off-gold with a v-neck and decorated with multi-colored streamers cut in wavy lines. Like flames. Erin was going to say Matha looked ridiculous, but closed her mouth on the insult.
“Hey, that’s not bad. It’s either corny or cool.”
Truth. Matha’s hair had glitter in it, and she brushed at it, glancing at Erin.
“Thanks. Costumes are amazing. Some [Artisans] are sponsoring the Battle of the Bands, and they have tons of amazing stuff. Song crystals, oh, and you have to see these!”
She had leather jackets. Erin’s lips twitched as she saw there were a load of blank ones, ready to be stitched with your favorite bands’ logos.
“This is very cool.”
If this were in her world, in her city, and someone was giving out free jackets for your favorite band or putting this much effort into something that was free…? She wished she could enjoy it.
Matha was glancing at Erin.
“So, um, thanks for coming, Erin. It means a lot to all the bands. They know about, um—Ulvama.”
Oh, the fighting. That explained why Elohi’s parents weren’t racing over to get her to do an intro song. Erin shrugged.
“At least no one’s coming to tell me off about how stupid I am.”
“Eh, half of ‘em are on your side. Fraerlings, I mean. Everyone here knows you’re great. I keep telling them it’ll turn out alright. So—if I’m bothering you, just say the word. You can probably leave after, like, twenty more minutes.”
She really was trying. Erin squinted at Matha, then glanced about.
“I’ll hang around for a second. I’m not doing much good. Frankly, I thought I’d be needed to stop actual fights or sabotage. Remember the last Battle of the Bands?”
Someone had put a baby earwig in the drumsets, and someone else had rigged a stage light to fall. Which wasn’t fatal given the relative toughness of Fraerlings and the weight of the lights, but—the two age groups were sniping at each other.
Maybe it was a metaphor. On one side, you had the kids, who loved and embraced the music and resented the older Fraerlings who said things needed structure, who obeyed (mostly) rules about when you could make sound and made things less cool.
On the other hand, though—kids were jerks. Erin had heard Elohi tell her parents they didn’t ‘get’ the new music and they were too old to play anything or have good taste. Which was a hell of a thing to say to two forty-year-old Fraerlings.
Never make an enemy of a Fraerling grandpa in his eighties. He was flashing hand gestures at a pair of teens that were avoiding him. His name was Alack, and he’d told Erin that it had genuinely made him want to stay away when the kids had told him that. She’d encouraged him to get someone to make a saxophone and blow them away.
Neither side was right, and neither side was entirely wrong, especially since they wanted to just enjoy this thing, and the other side could be controlling or judgey or annoying.
“Someone should break both sides’ legs and toss them down a well.”
“Uh…no, no need for that Erin! They’re being good, really!”
Erin glanced at Matha and hesitated.
“No, that wasn’t—I was just joking.”
Matha gave her a nervous smile, and Erin scratched at her head.
“But I thought there’d be some fighting. Some of these guys are wild.”
“Oh, that’s me. I used a few Skills. The only ones I’ve got. [No Infighting]!”
Matha puffed out her chest, and Erin blinked at her. The [Raider Leader]…oh, of course. She had to have a few Skills to keep her Cottontails in line.
“Huh. Well…good work. But that won’t work on anyone higher-level than you or if they get really mad.”
“Right.”
“So the key isn’t watching the kids. It’s the high-level Fraerlings. Like…hey!”
Erin dragged Matha to an older Fraerling about to enchant a bunch of guitar strings to snap. She was after a particularly annoying band, but Erin caught the woman’s arm.
“Save it for the performances. Beat them with music, okay? Don’t go tarnishing the Battle of the B—oh dead gods, I’m a B-grade movie character.”
Erin glanced around, and all they needed now was for the main character and the love interest to appear and start making out under the stands. She rubbed at her head as Matha glared.
“Yeah, back in your spot, and if I catch you, I’m disqualifying your entire band! What was that other bit, Erin?”
“I literally have no way to explain it.”
Ulvama would have gotten it or found it amusing. She’d probably be here applying makeup and making her own jacket if they weren’t fighting.
Erin was tired, all of a sudden, and went to raid the refreshments. Matha came over after a while and found Erin gulping some dewdrop water. She gestured hesitantly.
“Want to sit somewhere backstage, Erin? There’s a clothing storage room.”
“Yeah. That might be a good place to think.”
 
——
 
Somewhere in the city, Ulvama was with Bowom, preparing for her encounter with Erin—mostly by packing incense burners full of Dreamleaf. And Bowom was up to something too.
Erin could feel it. Perhaps it wasn’t even a Skill, but a sixth sense after doing this so long. Today would be a conclusion to their fighting. Whether it was a confrontation or resolution…
Still, she had no clue what to do as she sat on a costume box. She had no Bowom, only a Roja and a Eurise.
Matha fidgeted, hopping from foot to foot and glancing around, but no one else was here. And she knew Bowom was going to talk to Ulvama, so she took a huge breath.
The worst thing that can happen is she dunks me in the toilet or kills me. Wait, that’s bad.
Nevertheless, she had to do it.
“S-so, Erin. I was thinking, for the big concert, um, Ulvama’s going to be there. She loves free food and stuff.”
“She’ll be there, yes.”
Erin was staring at her hands, and she didn’t look at Matha. Not for the first time, the [Raider] had the vague impression that Erin would have been happier if she could push Matha’s head through a wall and leave her there. Which Matha deserved, but—!
“I was thinking. It’s a fun night. She’ll love the food we’re putting out since the city’s stopped rationing. The Architects said it was as good as a public holiday now that there are two walls up—um, it’d be a great time to talk to her.”
“If I had anything worth saying, I’d actually agree, Matha.”
“Right. Right. But what if—you, uh, got ready for it?”
“What a thought. It’s almost like I’ve been trying that all day.”
She was like when Zinni was mad. Lots of flat tones and sarcasm. Matha squirmed, but she was in this deep and she wasn’t dead.
“What I mean is you could dress up a bit, Erin. Impress Ulvama.”
Erin’s head snapped up, and she gave Matha a flat gaze.
“Why would that matter?”
Matha’s heart stopped, and she spluttered out the truth.
“She likes it when people do that kind of thing.”
“That’s stupid. No she d…”
The [Innkeeper]’s glower cut off, and she hesitated, then crossed her arms. Erin scowled, then glanced down at her clothing.
“What’s wrong with what I’m wearing?”
Erin was wearing a blue t-shirt and pants made out of a semi-rough cloth of some kind that had a bit of white mixed in. It was definitely a style…she’d worn the same type of clothing all week now that Ulvama had stopped bothering her about what she wore.
Matha hesitated, but not even her fear of offending the [Innkeeper] could keep her from making a few remarks.
“Nothing. It’s just that it’s the same thing you always wear. And Ulvama likes fashion and stuff. She never eats the same meal twice if she can help it.”
This was also true and another source of strife even prior to the big fight. Erin was happy to make something and eat it as leftovers for breakfast, but Ulvama insisted on something being different, even about leftovers. The [Innkeeper] glowered as she tried to find a flaw in Matha’s arguments on the grounds they came from Matha, but then she jerked her head.
“Feh. Fine. I guess this is the room for it. I’ll put something else on, I guess.”
She hopped off the box of costumes, and Matha ran around to find things that Erin could try on. When she rushed back with a huge sample of clothing, Erin had found something she liked.
“Hey, this could work.”
She had found…black pants. With worn holes around the knees. Erin held them up as Matha’s face fell.
“These are like those pre-worn pants that were trendy, uh, sometime. And how’s this?”
She’d found another t-shirt. Matha stared at the clothing.
“Oh, come on. It’s so boring.”
She snapped at Erin as if she were a fellow Cottontail, and Erin’s eyes flashed. Matha flinched.
“Sorry! It’s great, it’s just—”
“What’s wrong with jeans?”
“Is that what they’re called? Nothing’s wrong, Erin. It’s just—you wear them all the time. Unless Ulvama makes you wear something else, it’s the exact same kind of outfit every single day. Same with the shirts.”
“No I haven…hmm. Well, so what? I like jeans.”
“What about this?”
Matha gingerly held up a long, flowing dress she sort of wanted to see Erin in. It was definitely not Erin’s style, and she took one look at it and shook her head.
“No. I’m not a dress-person. I haven’t worn those since I entered middle school.”
Matha had no idea what a middle school was. What, was there a left school and a right school too? A top school? Bottom school?
She would have loved to ask, but Erin was a closed book and she was getting annoyed, so Matha tossed the dresses.
“What about, uh—”
If you took out dresses and anything even vaguely skirt-related, you could see how Erin got to where she was. Erin started shooting down clothing Matha held up. After twenty straight ‘no’s without a moment of hesitation, Matha drooped.
Erin—noticed.
 
——
 
Matha was genuinely a bit upset, but she was trying to project upbeat energy. The fact that she was hiding it and not filled with…lust, attraction, or silly excitement made Erin feel a tad bit guilty.
She’s trying to help me. Strange. I thought she’d be flirting with Ulvama. But she actually wants the Battle of the Bands to go well. I’m being stubborn.
Erin reluctantly glanced at a onepiece, trying to give it another chance, and decided that one was genuinely way too skintight, regardless of any goodwill. She spread her hands as she turned to Matha, who was hunting for something that would pass the muster.
“Listen, Matha. I appreciate you trying, but I’m not going to wear anything well. I don’t have any style. Plenty of people have tried to get me to look good in clothing, and it just doesn’t work.”
