“Splendid idea, Ulvama. We’ll be off in the city, then! Zemmy, Mera, see you this evening?”
He waved, and the two [Brawlers] hesitated.
“Wait, Bowom, we’ll go with—”
“No, no. I wouldn’t want to take you from your time here. I insist. Also, we’re going around my old place I used to keep, a library, and people who speak in words longer than four syllables. Absolutely unsuited for you two.”
“Hey.”
He and Ulvama strode off as Erin stared at the Hobgoblin, and Ulvama waved and managed to include everyone but Erin. After a moment, Erin turned away, and Ulvama’s arm tightened on Bowom’s shoulder—then she tickled him.
He didn’t laugh.
“Sorry, replacement skin. Didn’t connect it to the nerve endings.”
Ulvama stared at Bowom for a moment, but he was smiling. There was something hilarious about all this. You just had to see it.
 
——
 
Zemmy and Mera saw Erin turn back to them, and Mera lifted her hands. She had faint cut-lines on her skin, but Erin hadn’t done more than that. She was just…unnerving.
“Uh—good fight, Erin! But why don’t we just talk?”
“Yeah. And, uh, clean up? I bet the dishes are dry.”
Erin gazed at them, then twisted to look after Ulvama and Bowom. Then she sheathed her blades and exhaled.
“Fine.”
One glance at the two’s dishes and Erin instantly put them back in the sink. She began to clean, and Zemmy awkwardly dried. After the third time he tossed a dish onto the rack, trying to flip it, Erin stared at him, and he desisted.
Mera was reading from a little notecard as Zemmy shot her imploring looks in the long silence. They were trying to figure out a way into this conversation, much like someone trying to throw a punch past an impenetrable guard and not finding one.
It was Matha, damn Matha—whose fault this all was, obviously!—who came running into the house.
“Hey, Erin, there you are. Uh—like the makeup? Ulvama did it for me.”
You idiot! Mera swatted at Matha, who evaded nimbly, and glared back at her. Erin twisted her head.
“I saw. Magic?”
“Yes. Um…so. Big concert tonight.”
Fourth Battle of the Bands in a week meant it wasn’t that special, but Lemoste was in its honeymoon phase with the music, especially since the ant queens had been hunted down or were driven out of the area. Erin nodded.
“Did you want help? With the practice.”
“No, no, I’ve got this! You take time off. But, um…want to come by? We’ve got merch, and everyone wants to see you. No pressure.”
Matha scuffed a foot on the floor, and Erin paused, staring at a plate.
“Sure. I don’t have anything else to do.”
It seemed to Mera and Zemmy that the invitation was stupid and Matha shouldn’t have made it, but Matha just smiled and gave Erin two thumbs up.
“Great.”
Well, she was no help. Mera rolled her eyes and showed Zemmy the notecard. He edged over and shot Matha a ‘go away, dumbass’ glare. Then he addressed Erin.
“So, Erin. Nice fight. Uh, great moves with the knives. Where did that come from?”
“Dancing.”
They waited. Erin washed a dish, put it on the towel.
“Dead people. You can make a battle dance out of anything. It just takes refinement. Mastery.”
“Nice, so that’s like a combat attack?”
“No. If it were a magical dance, you’d know. Just scary.”
“Super scary. Mera nearly crapped herself.”
“You idiot, you’re the one with stains on your trousers—”
The two began to punch each other until they remembered the note. Zemmy glanced down, cleared his throat again.
“So, uh, Erin. ‘Would you like to talk about what’s going on between you and Ulvama?’ Like…how you two are fighting?”
Matha slapped her face with a hand. Mera hid the note behind her back as Erin’s head turned. Her voice was flat.
“We’ll talk it out, Zemmy. When she wants to. She doesn’t want to, yet. Garry’s alive, and that’s what was important, then. He levelled, he saved lives. No matter what she thinks—”
Clack. She put the plates together, then began to dry them. Mera hesitated, glanced at Zemmy.
“So, um…but if you two made up, that’d be great. Or you could beat each other up.”
“She’s not a [Brawler], Mera.”
“Hey, I heard she choked Matha out! She could probably throw a good punch with her magic.”
“No.”
Mera swallowed and glanced down at her note.
“Well…it’s sort of awkward with you two. So, um, if you two could talk, that’d be awesome. If we can help, let us know.”
“She doesn’t want to talk.”
Erin began putting the dried dishes away. Mera coughed.
“Well, yeah, but…maybe we can smooth it over? ‘Do you want to talk about anything you did wrong’?”
This time, Erin caught Mera reading the notecard. She walked sideways, one step, and then the side-kick caught Mera in the chest. The [Brawler] was dodging reflexively, but it still tossed her across the room.
Somehow, the door opened, and Mera went tumbling out and down the steps, cursing. Zemmy hesitated. Erin flipped a butter knife up, twirling it, and caught it by the knife’s dull blade. Which was less cool, but the look she gave Zemmy made him back up.
“Okay, maybe not. I’ll, uh—”
He hurried out of the room. Matha hesitated until Erin glanced at her.
“What’re you doing?”
“Oh—just taking the makeup off. I mean, it’s great. But…”
“Don’t do that. Ulvama worked hard on it.”
The [Innkeeper] caught Matha’s arm before she could scrub with the handtowel, and the Fraerling hesitated. She licked her unpainted lips, and Erin stared at them, then let go.
“I’ll see you at the band headquarters later.”
“Got it. Sorry.”
“For what?”
 
——
 
Matha exited the guest house as Mera and Zemmy squatted together. Mera was shaking her head.
“She’s so unreasonable. Did you see that?”
“Nice kick, though. She’s learning.”
“Yeah, I didn’t see it coming—”
They glanced up as Matha exited the building, and Mera shook a fist.
“Nice going, Matha. We’re trying to help, and you’re just fanning the flames.”
“Me? You? Help?”
Matha pointed at her chest, and Mera and Zemmy glared at her. The [Raider] threw up her hands.
“Great. I’d rather have the hamster on my side than you two!”
“Hey! We’re just trying to get Erin and Ulvama back to being best friends! You want to go, Matha? We’ll kick your butt without Zinni’s aphids!”
The two [Brawlers] got up, and Matha stared at them. Then back at Erin.
“Friends. They’re not—have you two ever fought like that?”
“What? Where we don’t talk to each other? I mean, we were feuding for a few months because Zemmy broke my front tooth one time, and we’ve had big fights, but they’re just being silly. But we always patched it up after we trashed each other. That’s the simplest way. Throw them in a ring and see who wins; both of ‘em will be right as rain afterwards.”
Mera wrinkled up her nose, and Matha eyed her.
“I…don’t think Erin and Ulvama brawling is going to fix things, Mera. If this gets bad, they might not be friends again. Maybe—and maybe that’s okay.”
They stared at her, genuinely aghast. Matha had done a lot of things, but this was like finding out she killed baby aphids. Zemmy blustered.
“You really are a bad person. Your class making you stupid, Matha?”
“No. I just think that whatever they’ve got won’t last forever.”
Now, both [Brawlers] were outraged.
“They’re the best! Like us! They fought through a war at sea together and made it here from the beach!”
Matha stared down at her feet and scrubbed at Ulvama’s paint again.
“Yeah. Like I said, I think it was doomed to fall apart. I just feel bad for doing my part. But I don’t think you get to put it back together. They tried that. I don’t know if even Bowom can stitch together this thing if it goes bad. But you guys keep doing whatever you were doing.”
For some reason…Mera and Zemmy felt uncomfortable at this. They shifted, eyed each other, and were uneasy. Mera glared.
“They’re going to get back to normal, you’ll see. It’s going to be just fine. That kind of relationship lasts forever.”
Zemmy nodded. Then he and Mera glanced at each other and away. They folded their arms in sync. The two famous [Brawlers] from their villages, Eurise’s disciples…and childhood friends who’d grown up next to each other.
For them, this was personal. They’d fallen in thick as thieves with Erin and Ulvama, but they weren’t [Thieves]. They didn’t get why the two were fighting and it bothered them, because…
Sometimes, Matha felt older than Zemmy and Mera, which was incredible to think because she was young and never wanted to be old. But they were just idiot kids. She grunted.
“This relationship lasts the exact opposite of forever.”
There it was again. She gave the two [Brawlers] the same look that older Fraerlings sometimes did, of amused curiosity. As if asking—how long will you keep lying to yourselves?
They weren’t used to that from their old arch-rival. So they chose violence. Mera made a grab for Matha’s shirt, growling.
“You’re talking awfully tall for someone who’s only here because she’s a nuisance to the villages, Matha. What do you know about any of this? It’s all your fault!”
Matha backed up a step, shaking her head.
“I messed up, yeah, but this wasn’t me. What do I know? I led the Cottontails for years. I’ve seen this before.”
I’ve…seen this before. She had to go after Erin. But now the two idiots were blocking her off. Zemmy sneered.
“The Cottontails? That’s just a bunch of idiot misfits living together and raiding real, hardworking Fraerlings.”
“Yep. Just a bunch of kids living together and growing up. Having to live together and fight together or the first big predator eats us without any Eurise to bail our group out. No knowledge whatsoever. Don’t mind me. I’ve gotta get ready for tonight, you guys.”
Matha walked off. Zemmy was searching around for a pebble to throw at Matha. He hucked it—not too hard, just enough to give her a bruise, but Eurise plucked it out of the air moments after it had left his hand. Mera jerked; Roja was standing right behind her.
“Hey, I thought you two were going hunting—”
Roja smacked the back of their heads.
“You idiots. Our turn, Eurise.”
She sighed as the [Explorer] folded his arms and stared up at the skies. Zemmy and Mera watched as they played rock-shield-wand to see who went in first. Suddenly and unaccountably nervous for Erin and Ulvama.
 
——
 
Ulvama kept flirting with Bowom as they walked through the city. And other Fraerlings too, but carefully. Not blatantly blowing kisses everywhere; she made sure they were single. It was subtler: a touch on the arm, a smile in the right place.
Someone who knew how it was done. Adults flirting rather than teens doing it for the first time. Sometimes, it was as obvious as it needed to be, but it stopped when they got to their destination.
Mostly because magic left little time for anything but concentration.
“Hup…hmm…aha! [Water Snake]!”
Ulvama managed to cast the shamanic magic after only eighteen minutes of working on it, which impressed Bowom. For a [Mage], that would have been the act of pure genius, to copy a spell she didn’t know.
But the little group of [Druids], [Mages], [Wild Mages], and yes, a single [Shaman] of their own informed him this was impressive, but not insane. They were willing to mince words with him despite his reputation because most weren’t actually locals, but had come from villages to assist with rebuilding and defending Lemoste. Plus, they liked Ulvama.
“[Shaman] magic isn’t all memorization and formulas like [Mage] magic, Mad Doctor.”
“I prefer ‘Madman’, Shaman Yiric. I didn’t know we had any [Shamans] around.”
The Fraerling [Shaman] shrugged; he had on a cloak of legs. Grasshopper legs, artfully stitched together. Some might call it creepy, but the legs seemed to give him the bounding power of a grasshopper; they flexed whenever he lowered his body.
“I just took it up when reading about it—you know how it goes. Only, I stuck with it. I had, what, fourteen friends who got the class? When I left to found Euc’s Rising, it was useful. Community-based Skills and magic. I’m not at her level, though.”
He indicated Ulvama, who was using the snake to attack a series of fire-based creatures from one of the [Summoners]. Said Fraerling woman was encouraging Ulvama.
“Now give it more power, Ulvama!”
“Trying…”
The Hobgoblin was sweating, and the simple snake made of flowing water rose higher as she called more liquid from a pool nearby. It developed green, banded stripes on its body, like a real snake’s, only made out of water, and the Fraerlings murmured in approval.
They were teaching Ulvama magic. Given they were staying here, it was one of the things Lemoste could offer of great use, even if their books on shamanic magic were few and far between. Hence the conclave of magic-users willing to share tricks with Ulvama.
Bowom was here purely to spectate, but that didn’t mean he was bored. It was the commentary he liked, and after nearly a week of practice, one of the [Alchimagi] commented softly.
“My, but she is quite talented, though. I heard Tallfolk weren’t much good with spellcasting, but Miss Ulvama has done tremendously despite the lack of spellbooks.”
Bowom knew Ulvama’s spellcasting abilities and raised his brows.
“Not to be the cat in the room here, but how is she talented, Alchimagus? I was neighbors with a [Wizard] who could cast spells two tiers higher than her, and he’s good, but not extraordinary among us.”
“Who? Gollesume? Is he still fighting with the [Armorer]?”
“Hasn’t stopped.”
They liked to gossip about Fraerlings they knew. After a few moments of chatting, the Alchimagus clarified his statement.
“What I mean is, she’s casting magic.”
“Right.”
“As a [Shaman].”
“Following your words and your meaning not at all, Alchimagus.”
“Doctor, she’s casting magic as a [Shaman] without a tribe. That’s the source of her powers!”
“Ahh.”
Now, it made sense to Bowom. The [Summoner] trooped back into the room as Ulvama rested, her enhanced Tier 4 snake circling her as she stared at it, eyes aglow with delight.
“Okay, next!”
A [Druid] traded off; their main advantage was that some of their spells overlapped with Ulvama’s. Finding out what spells Ulvama was allowed to cast as a [Shaman] so they could teach them to her was their goal. Bowom glanced at the others.
“How’s she casting if she’s got no tribe?”
Shaman Yiric scratched at one of the limbs in his leg-cloak.
