“Well, she claims she’s got residual magic, but as far as we can tell? She’s using her mana reserves. A lot of her spellcasting is due to her magical training as a [Mage] and [Witch]. It’s very impressive. Someone gave her a thorough grounding in spellcraft.”
That was interesting, especially if it held up to Fraerling expectations. When Ulvama paused after trying to learn a new [Druid] spell, they brought it up to her, and she explained. A touch shyly, but she was safe here.
“Oh, that? I was part of the…Molten Stone tribe. You don’t know them. They’re very secret and in Izril.”
“Good magic-users?”
She nodded vigorously, face lighting up and then falling.
“The best. A Great Witch, Anazurhe, teaches them. She…she taught me, though I wasn’t finished with my training when I left. But I remembered and practiced. This is good practice. With all the tools, I can cast big magic again. Thank you.”
She patted her belt, and the Fraerlings nodded at her, but the [Summoner] waggled a wand at Ulvama.
“It’s the least we can do for a guest, young lady. But we don’t want to leave you merely ‘competent’. Competent gets you killed the first time a big animal decides it’s hungry enough. I’d rather keep you here until you can cast a Tier 6 spell within three seconds, but—ah, well. Is there anything we can do to prep you more?”
“Aside from more magic?”
“Tools? Catalysts? Spellcasting aids? I know you don’t need any, and you’d have to construct your own staff for maximum effect since we don’t have any artifacts made for [Shamans], here. What other magic did you learn in your tribe? I’d expect multiple disciplines, unless you only got to magical paint?”
Ulvama fidgeted, turning red, then realizing no one was judging her. So, shyly, she shook her head.
“I brew a bit. And I know medicines, some alchemy…um…oh! I used to train with pipes.”
Bowom’s first thought was music, but the [Mages] just eyed each other, and one of the [Grand Mages] fished around in a bag of holding, then handed Ulvama a pipe.
A smoking pipe. Bowom stared as Ulvama hunted around, and he offered her some tobacco leaves. She packed them in there, added a magical coal, and then blew out a stream of smoke.
“Er…I trained with pipes too, if anyone wants to give me one. I’ll take something fun.”
Bowom raised a hand and realized they were serious when one of the Fraerlings smirked at him. He blinked, and Ulvama muttered.
“Should be a longer pipe. But you do this, and then—aha!”
She blew a stream of smoke downwards, then twirled the pipe in her fingers. Instantly, the smoke began to revolve around the pipe, which cleared a space in the air. She halted the pipe, flicked the pointed end in her fingers, and the smoke whirled towards one of the [Mages]. The [Summoner] put up a barrier spell and coughed.
“Hak—argh! Smoke in my eyes!”
“Sorry.”
Ulvama lowered the pipe and nearly fumbled it, and the [Summoner] laughed.
“Not bad! Should we get you a long pipe, then? And a few magical things?”
“How long a pipe are we talking here? Yay big? Or down to one’s knees?”
The [Grand Mage] was measuring out an inch with his hands, and Ulvama grinned.
“Only a foot, maybe? Sorry, I mean inch? I once saw someone training with a super-long one, but it seemed stupid.”
“Stupid, but dead gods, imagine the looks if someone sees you lighting one up! Conversation-starter, that. I may just have one made as long as I am. Add in a little counterweight and featherweight spell and I’ve got my costume for the midsummer gala!”
Bowom kept waving his hand as the Fraerlings talked happily, and Ulvama turned to him, smiling genuinely for the first time this morning, he thought.
“Seriously? Pipe magic?”
She shrugged.
“Shamans learn all kinds. It’s [Mages] who have boring, straightforward magic. I used to train in this—a little bit. Everyone wanted to be Witch Anazurhe. But with a bit of smoke, you can make illusions…!”
Then her face fell. She stopped puffing excitedly on the pipe and lowered it.
“Eh, no. It won’t work.”
“Why not? Magic’s magic, and it seems like you know a few moves.”
The [Druid] kept coughing as she waved a hand in front of her face, but even she was supportive in the name of self-defense. Ulvama just handed the pipe back to the [Grand Mage] and stared at her shoes, excitement gone.
“Erin hates smoking.”
“That’s the young woman who’s been so objectionable? Phooey on what she thinks!”
But Ulvama’s interest was gone. Bowom decided their time was up for the day, so he thanked everyone—they were going off to get smoking pipes commissioned anyways. He jerked a thumb at the door, and they walked off.
 
——
 
“Where to now?”
“My old workshop. It’s condemned, and they used to promise to lock me away if I ever got near, but I bet they’ve stopped following me around. Everything’s preserved unless someone dispelled it all.”
Ulvama brightened up a bit when Bowom told her that. She followed him as they strolled down the streets.
“I didn’t know you lived here long.”
“Oh, I’ve got places in a lot of cities. Most are probably gone, but Lemoste used to like me. Emphasis on ‘used to’.”
“Until your patient, Mieve.”
“Yes. So, how are you doing with Erin? Going to stay in Lemoste forever? They’d let you, you know. It’s probably the safest place in the world for a Goblin.”
She froze up, and he strolled on until she ran after him and began poking him.
“Don’t joke.”
“Who says I am? If you want to—”
Ulvama raised her voice.
“I’m not staying! Even if—even if it’d be nice. Erin won’t stay in Lemoste. So, I have to leave, too. We’ll make up. Sometime. She’s—she’s focused on Garry. Stupid Garry. Brave, courageous, charitable Antinium. Just like always. And armpits.”
The Hobgoblin stomped on, and Bowom supposed he was her best friend, because she was venting to him. He felt so bad for her about that he held his tongue as she glared; she was in a very respectable camisole that maintained the dreaded proximity to bared armpits, but who cared?
Ulvama’s ears twitched.
“She doesn’t even understand how mean she was. She never thinks.”
“Mhm.”
“And she hurts herself. Maybe not herself, this time, but through Garry, she still puts her heart in front of a wagon.”
“Nasty, that. Crushing injuries are so much worse than cutting ones.”
“She made all the children yell at me. She has power. She can speak and, if she wanted, an entire city would take her side. Just like they love music. She’s the scary one, and she doesn’t think. If Erin ever…she could find me anywhere in the world. She says she can see her connection to people, even. Like pieces of string. If she wasn’t…Erin…she’d be terrifying. She could find you no matter where you hid and make everyone around you take her side.”
It was not cold, but the Hobgoblin shivered as if a wind were passing over her, and Bowom considered the idea.
“Anyone over Level 50 is so dangerous, though.”
“Yes. I know it, but she pretends she’s just Level 30 or Level 20. Until she gets mad. Like at Zemmy and Mera. It’s always Erin’s way or she’ll run you over and beat you down. Even when it’s nothing you’ve done wrong.”
Like armpits. If Bowom were a caring friend, he’d follow the through-line and add that. The unspoken words lingered until Ulvama sniffed.
“She spent an entire day in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. With him. If he died, she’d watch him die. That’s her madness. That’s why it’s hard, Bowom.”
They were walking through storage districts where Fraerlings were less abundant, and Bowom stared at the familiar streets untouched by the ant attacks given how far into the city they were. He nodded.
“That’s terrible you two are fighting over all of this and she doesn’t see it. Is any of it your fault?”
Ulvama halted, and her glare didn’t affect Bowom. He kept walking. She raised a finger to poke, and he raised a scalpel. The [Doctor]’s smile was that same one he’d worn this morning.
“Oh, wait. Am I supposed to be supportive? Let me try.”
He rubbed at where his spleen used to be, then pinched his skin and shrugged.
“No, wait. I’m out of supportive juice. Removed that organ.”
She stomped after him, clearly weighing the odds of kicking him in the rear, but she calculated correctly and, after a moment, rejoined him. Bowom pointed.
“Just to the left there. See that storehouse with the stairs going up?”
“Huh. Made of metal?”
“Well, I wasn’t going to get one made of wood. It rots. And stains. Hold on while I get the key. It’s under the mat.”
He lifted up the front doormat, and a key was stuck in the fibers of the rug. Ulvama snorted incredulously as Bowom stepped to one side and clicked it in the lock.
Instantly, a part of the metal door shot outwards directly at groin-height. Ulvama nearly leapt down the stairs. Bowom grinned.
“Now, the trick is…”
There was a little groove on the piece of punishing metal which he removed; it was virtually impossible to see. Bowom inserted the second key into a piece of the door and exposed a second keyhole, then replaced the little piece of metal. Instead of turning it, though, he pulled the first key out and clicked it into place there.
Ulvama’s eyes narrowed as she heard several clicks. Then she pointed.
“What happens if you take the second key and turn it by mistake?”
Bowom gave her an innocent look.
“Nothing. Well, except if you walk through the door. Looks like no one’s tried, if they even knew where the lab was, though.”
“How can you tell?”
He swung the door open, and they coughed as dust assailed them, but Bowom pointed at the floor.
“No soot marks. Home sweet home!”
He strode in, doing a twirl, and Ulvama’s red eyes glowed in the darkness as Bowom laughed. She halted in the doorway, because the [Mad Doctor] halted abruptly—and the racks of still objects swayed slightly in the sudden gust of air. He smiled at her.
“I am a [Mad Doctor], Ulvama. Sometimes, I go quite, quite mad. You saw what I did to my patient. I had every right. She gave me her consent. We were being hunted down and eaten, and the Tallguard were dead. Because she cut a hole through every part of the carnivorous locust swarm, sixty-three Fraerlings lived. But the Architects who ruled on my case in this city said that right did not morality make. I agreed. But I never apologized. I don’t think I ever will.”
 
——
 
A storage warehouse in the least-populated district in Lemoste. A hidden, magically trapped laboratory where no one knew where they’d gone.
Perhaps it had just occurred to Ulvama that if you wanted to take someone somewhere where no one would find you, or hear you crying out for help, it would be here.
She did not step through the door at first as Bowom smiled. The racks swung, and what they held was very clear. He knew the Hobgoblin could see it.
Bodies. Cadavars, if you wanted to get technical. Each one was carefully preserved with both spell and science, and they were, well…justifiable.
If Geneva Scala had seen Bowom’s laboratory, it would not have given her great pause, which in and of itself, might be concerning. But it was just…research.
After all, how could you know a body without seeing it? That was why the cadavers hung, flesh and organs dyed so you could see how tendons and veins were supposed to flow. Same with the brains. They had to be cross-sectioned, and Bowom had forgotten to stack them up properly.
The other organs were just spares, floating in liquids that kept them stable and from drying out. He had eyes of multiple species. Not just Fraerlings in here.
Sliding glass displays of a torso. Skeletons—you had to have a skeleton hanging up, didn’t you? Erin would have said that. Only, what would she say to an actual skeleton? Geneva might have said that this resembled a classroom from her world, where they did the same thing for medical students.
But Bowom had come up with this on his own. When he smiled and the light coming in from the one-way windows caught him just so, standing there with his roach leg amidst the bodies of his own people…well.
He wasn’t laughing. And he was slightly disappointed when Ulvama closed the door and walked inside. The [Mad Doctor] scuffed a foot on the ground.
“Damn. Have I lost it?”
“No. You’re very scary. Eh…these bodies all from dead patients? Or did you steal them? I don’t think Fraerlings would give you bodies.”
“Ah, you’d be surprised! You get to talking to some folks and they’re quite happy to leave you their bodies. But yes, a few gravediggings—not many patients. I do try to keep them alive, you know. I haven’t been here since Mieve. Hah. Look at that. I wasn’t even finished with this leg upgrade for the one I’ve got. Still preserved. That’s quality work right there. I should endorse the [Enchanter] who did it for me.”
Ulvama glanced down at the insect leg that looked more grasshopper-ish than roach. Bowom had sliced it open, and a strand of too-bright muscle was being sutured in. She raised her brows.
“Galas muscle?”
Bowom sat down and absently ran his fingers over the leg. Picked up a needle, began stitching, then stopped. He smiled up at her, face alight with passion. And guilt.
“Hard as heck to get, even in the cities. Mind you, I kept a travel-bag of parts with me, so Mieve…I put everything I had into her. Fantastic work. Beautiful. She killed the locusts faster than I could dream. I just—didn’t think she’d make it. I can’t give her body back.”
Ulvama sat down at the table, and she realized something.
Oh. Bowom. She’d been fighting with Erin so long she’d neglected him. His encounter with Mieve…she stared down at her fingers, embarrassed.
“Why not, Bowom? It, eh, it’s not as easy as putting a head on another body, I know—”
“What? No, it is that easy. First thing I ever did. [Necromancers] do it all the time, those hacks. Not that they need to do more than get it mostly right and let the death magic work.”
She opened her mouth, and Bowom gestured.
“The fiddly bits are the spine and nerves. Get one thing wrong without a corrective Skill or treatment and there’s glitches. But I didn’t do that for Mieve. Putting a head on another body is just a [Sawbones]’s job, or a [Stitch Doctor]. Dead gods, Stitch-folk can do it. It’s risky, hard, but that’s the realm of Level 30, Level 20 if you’re actually good at what you do. But what is that in the end?”
“…New body? Sounds nice.”
Ulvama was trying to keep up, focusing on Bowom because Erin hurt her heart. The [Mad Doctor] prattled on for a bit.
