Roja’s grip tightened as Erin tried to break free, and the [Innkeeper] was weaker, despite the level differences.
“I think leaving you alone is what everyone’s been doing when you need someone to be honest with you. You had everyone worried, and Ulvama was in a panic that day you vanished. That’s not considerate.”
The [Innkeeper] flinched, a true expression of shame and regret—and cold necessity. That was what took the two [Brawlers]’ breaths away. What Eurise saw. Roja was just staring at the house and didn’t see Erin glance up.
“I know. But, pal? I don’t think you get who Garry is to me. If Ulvama and I cannot resolve this, and he is part of it—perhaps she should stay here.”
Roja halted, and Erin went on.
“I’ve heard you talking about it. She likes this place.”
“You don’t mean that. Stop speaking like a child.”
The older Fraerling woman buffeted Erin’s arm, hard, then grabbed her. Erin was standing her ground now, feet dragging on the street. Tearing up cobblestones.
“I do. It hurts to think about, but if she treats me like a Chieftain—sometimes, things break, Roja. She’s a friend. My best friend, but something is wrong, and sometimes…I would rather her stay here and not see her again then have her be like Numbtongue. Numbtongue. Why did I think of him?”
Zemmy and Mera halted in horror. No, Mera wore that look of horror, of abstract dread. Zemmy’s eyes were on his friend, and—their hearts were beating faster. Something terrifying was following Erin, and it was not her aura. They saw it, and Erin caught a glimpse of the idea circling her head too.
There it was just for a second. It flickered, and then Roja put Erin in a headlock.
“That’s it. Get inside and sit your ass down.”
“Hey, guy. Gal. I really think you should let go.”
At last, the Fraerling woman halted and frowned down at the [Innkeeper] whose head was locked under one armpit.
“What’s with the naming trick? Listen, Erin, you are going to sit and—”
Erin was struggling to get free of Roja’s headlock, but the [Explorer] had both height and more experience and strength. So Erin’s reddening face didn’t actually get free until Roja shouted and let go.
“Eagh! What the—”
She rubbed at her armpit, and Erin spat and wiped her tongue on her arm.
“Bleh. Gross. Matha’s insane.”
“Stop kidding around and—”
Erin threw a punch.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
“[Deflect Blow]. Don’t do this, Erin. Because I will—”
Roja shoved the Skill aside, reaching for Erin, and the [Innkeeper]’s feet shifted. She stepped, gracefully, in a pattern to the right and spoke.
“[Rhythm Combo]. [Minotaur Punch].”
One, two, three, four, five, six—Roja dodged the fast swings, swearing, eyes wide. Mera’s jaw dropped. Erin could throw six—?
The last hit Roja’s crossed arms, and the woman skidded across the ground. Stumbling. Erin saw her tense to leap. She reached up, and her witch’s hat flared.
“[Playful Radiant Fishies].”
Roja’s leap took her off her feet, but the [Explorer] was distracted from Erin, slashing at the attacking, glowing fishes. She cursed.
“[Explorer’s Art: Barrier of Cuts]!”
The attacking swarm of spells vanished as she created a whirling dome of blades that cut the attack magic down. Then she swirled and hesitated. She stabbed Erin’s arm, but she didn’t even cut the [Innkeeper]’s [Reinforced Structure]. Erin rushed Roja towards the guardrail as the [Explorer] kicked at her, but Erin didn’t let go until the drop. Then, as Roja tensed, Erin spoke.
“[Apista’s Jetflame].”
“[Aerial Backf—] huh?”
Mera and Zemmy saw a green flash. Then they heard Roja screaming. Eurise tilted his head back as a Fraerling woman flew past his head. Roja spun through the air, and Fraerlings looked up as the woman soared across the city of Lemoste.
Erin dusted her hands after shading her eyes to watch Roja hit the far wall of Lemoste then furiously begin swimming out of the water barrier. She’d thought Fraerlings were probably pretty easy to toss like that. She spat and rubbed her tongue on her arm again, then glanced up at Eurise.
“I just need a few hours to think. And maybe to talk to Garry, okay?”
He nodded. Erin went back to thinking. Mera and Zemmy eyed each other. They peered at the door to the guest house as Erin opened it and went inside. Then, after some whispering, they ran off to find Roja.
And Erin wondered what Garry was doing as she tried to focus.
 
 
Garry – Book
That evening, Garry begged the Free Queen for a favor. Which was to not send him to the Hivelands right away.
“One day, Free Queen. One day for me to work on offerings for each Queen.”
She peered at him from her Throne of Fluff as she wrote notes on a huge pad of paper. The smells of toxic alchemy clung to her, and he knew she was creating new life.
Perhaps killing it if she could not create what she deemed important. Mostly, ways to improve her Antinium without needing to kill them or make new batches.
She had given Soldiers voices, and so she was changing. Gone were the days when he was the scared little [Cook] making her food and she was the unknowable giant.
But perhaps he had made a mistake. For she granted his request with the wave of one of her feelers.
“You have a day. The Grand Queen shall not object if the tunnel to the Hivelands needs reclearing after a monster breach.”
She paused, then added.
“…Or she should not, if she were reasonable. You have your day, regardless.”
He bowed.
“Thank you, my Queen.”
He had much to do. The other Antinium…he had nothing to give them. Not even bread; he was out. Garry was striding away when the Free Queen added slyly.
“You did not ask me what the other Queens enjoy, Garry. Strange. You must have mastered the Unitasis Network.”
The [Baker] stopped and turned.
“Ah—I—”
“Go. It seems to me that your levels are a result of your freedom, Garry the Baker. You shall ask me when you need something from me. The highest-levelled Antinium in the Free Hive is one to learn from, not curtail.”
He bowed, startled, and the Free Queen sat alone after that, except for maybe a happy buzzing sound. That came from Pisca and Runel, her dedicated [Cooks]. The Free Queen added to herself.
“This, perhaps, is rulership. But the Grand Queen is a fool if she thinks she learns it from other species. The Queens of Rhir deferred to Centenium and their Prognugators. Pisca! I require food!”
She clapped her feelers together and waited. Like an indulgent [King] waiting for a worthy subject to entertain him. Sometimes, all one had to do was wait to see splendor and know when to applaud. Plus, Xevccha added in her head—she had her own wellbeing to think of.
If she and Garry came to odds, Pisca and Runel would stop making her delicious things to eat.
 
——
 
Mind you, it was all very well for the Free Queen to send Garry off to work more of his giving wonders. She didn’t have to come up with said wonders.
Garry strode back to his kitchens and stared at his pantries. He had…fourteen cartons full of eggnog from his magical pantry Skill today.
“What.”
He normally did not question his powerful Skills that let him give out free, magical presents or delivered him with ingredients, but eggnog? Garry tasted some.
“…Pumpkin?”
It was the most useless ingredient he’d ever been given. Oh, sure, it was tasty, and it’d be a hit with everyone. He’d give it out to all his regular clients, trade Imani a carton for some of her Earth-only ingredients, or he could swap it with Calescent, again, for more food.
But it was not going to feed a million Antinium in the Hivelands. Garry shoved the eggnog onto the counter and rang a bell.
“Runel. Give the Free Queen her cut, then swap this for something useful.”
The Flying Antinium took the eggnog happily as he sorted through his pantry. Sometimes, it had themed foods! Or something nice. He just needed inspiration. What could you feed that many Antinium with?
Nothing but water. Not even flour. Not even if I did mini-pancakes and gave one each. Flavored water? Behind a bag of Ashwheat Flour, he found…
Fifty-six candy canes. Garry stared at the candy canes.
This time, Runel had to do a flying leap to save them from being hucked at a wall. She spoke.
“What iz wrong, Garry?”
“I don’t have anything to give the Antinium. My people. Our people, Runel.”
Garry sat with his head in his hands.
“What a fool I’ve been. For all I spoke of how other species literally starved and how we had been fed—there are so many who are like we were. Alone. Lightless. Now, I am going there with nothing.”
She shuffled closer, patting him on the back with one of her claws.
“Not nothingz, Garry. You can bring stories. Give cooking to them.”
“I can never feed a Hive. Not even my own.”
Bitterly, Garry thought of the Workers and Soldiers who were not [Crusaders], Painted Antinium, or anything else. No wonder they would volunteer to fight and die in Liscor’s wars.
That, at least, was preferable to living in the Hive. A system which encouraged people to become soldiers because it was more pleasant than living…
Ah, there is my philosophy. But I cannot fix it yet. But I must. Garry felt a soft object resting on his shoulders; Runel’s wing. He turned to her.
“What can I give them, Runel?”
“You gave uz homes. Not being dizzected. Food. Love iz enough.”
Garry laughed and patted her on the head.
“If only I could share that like bread, Runel. If only…”
His head was roaming the kitchen and home he had built, searching for inspiration, when his own words seemed to echo back to him. Garry’s eyes alit on something few Antinium, even here, possessed.
“Wait. That’s it. There’s something I can make that is cheaper than water and Antinium may need. Something I can create.”
He leapt up as the idea hit him. Runel stared around the kitchen.
“Of courze. Air. Flavored air.”
Garry spun and pointed at her.
“Y—wait, no. Er, no.”
“Oh. What iz?”
He was striding around, grabbing objects off the shelves, stacking them up. And Garry remembered an [Innkeeper] whose song had saved a hurt Antinium.
“Ideas, Runel. Music. I need you to buy song crystals for me, all you can find. But not just that. This.”
He shook it at her and spoke. Again, becoming the first Antinium of his kind.
“Books. Stories.”
Runel’s mandibles opened as she realized what he meant.
“Right. There iz hundredz of pages in each book. Plenty to eat.”
The [Baker] stared at her and thought he might have more of a problem than he thought.
 
——
 
Antinium couldn’t read.
Or to be more precise, Workers could read Drake script in Liscor just well enough to get around. And that was more pattern recognition of certain streets than anything else.
But reading, as in solid sit-down-and-read reading? Now that Garry thought about it, he wasn’t sure how many Antinium could read in the entire Hive. Antinium got basic words imprinted on their minds at creation and could thus talk if they were Workers or newer Soldiers and read basic things, but not read and understand advanced concepts. They had to teach themselves that.
Pawn could read, because he was writing his Book of the Sky or whatever he called it. Belgrade and Anand had needed to in order to take over the Hive’s duties and act as [Strategists]. But as Garry conducted a quick census—
“Excuse me, have you ever read a book?”
An Antinium with flowers on her shell turned to the person who’d asked. She stared up at Garry.
“No. You’re tall.”
Garry walked over to a [Templar] trying to play billiards with some off-duty [Crusaders]. Another tap on the shoulder.
“You, do you read books?”
“I would like free bread. Also, no.”
“I see. Excuse me, sir. Do you read?”
A city-Ant with a tophat and coat was jingling a bag of copper coins at a table where he was gambling. He whirled and glared at Garry.
“Who’s asking? Do you read? What business of it is yours, buddy? Whoa, don’t come at me just because you’re big!”
—Most Antinium didn’t read, even if they could. And those were Painted Antinium he’d asked. So, Garry’s problem encountered a hitch, but only a minor one. He knew the Painted Antinium had picture books, and a few admitted that, yes, they’d taught themselves or just read the books for the pictures.
“A picture book, then. Something that can be printed and spread around the Hive. And…an Antinium who can read could read it to others.”
It was all about scalability. Nothing was so transmissible as an idea, and books could contain a story and be reasonably copied and spread. That was how Garry knew he had to write a book.
You see, he didn’t come at the idea from the desire to write a fascinating tale, but from the need to give the Antinium, who had nothing, something. It was certainly a good motivation to gather the supplies he needed in a rush of energy.
Quill? Check. Inkpot? Check. Parchment and paper? The kind people at the Scribe’s Guild had given it to him for free. Check! Also, send them some nice bread…
That evening, Garry was sitting at a desk he normally reserved for accounting or writing ingredient lists. He had a scrying orb on, just to check the news, and he wetted the quill, ready to bring a book to life.
The scrying orb had switched from more broadcasts of food being delivered to some evening news. At the moment, it was of Archmage Valeterisa wearing her most commercial smile.
“Hello. I would like to announce a new service being rolled out by select [Mages]. For a long time, the [Restoration] spell has been considered lost magic. However, I am pleased—so pleased, smile here—to announce that I have rediscovered and taught others the spell. Apprentice, please stab yourself with a knife.”
“You can’t do this! You—you—”
The Healer of Tenbault was screaming in the background. Garry watched, craning his neck to see any Goblins, but they appeared to be out-of-frame as Drassi excitedly commentated.
“How wonderful. Ah. Tessa does not appear to be looking well.”
He wondered if the Scaethen Bread would help with her drug addiction. Probably not; he still wasn’t clear what the rules were. After a few minutes of watching Archmage Valeterisa try to get a volunteer to be stabbed with a knife, Garry jerked.
“Right. Writing.”
He turned back to the page. Lifted his quill. Then he turned his head.
“Oh, so that’s Crowdcaller Merdon. Didn’t I hear he could fly or something?”
Compared to Elia Arcsinger, he seemed quite…nervous. Then again, anyone faced up against Lyonette might be. Garry kept watching and then shook himself.
“I have to write this.”
