She was a plain person, without the kind of style that Ulvama or even Numbtongue or Lyonette had. Dead gods, even Mrsha could wear a Scottish kilt and make it her own.
Erin’s simple style was objectionable here, though. And Matha poked her head out of a rack of coats.
“C’mon, Erin. We want to just impress Ulvama a bit, right?”
Neither one questioned that it was Ulvama they were trying to win over, and Erin stuck her hands in her pockets.
“Yeah, but I’m not dressing up like a clown. No dresses.”
“Can I at least ask why? Some dresses are really cool.”
Oh, well, that was easy. Erin elaborated, realizing that she had never given her treatise on jeans to, well, anyone in this world. But it was very simple.
“Dresses don’t have pockets. I have to have pockets in whatever I wear. I know it’s not trendy or fashionable, but jeans are comfy, and I don’t have to worry about what I’m going to wear like everyone else. I found what I liked in, like, middle school, and I never changed it.”
“When is middle school?”
“Nearly a decade ago.”
“…And you never wore anything else? No dresses? Not once?”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged again, uncomfortable without being able to say why.
“They’re just too conventionally girly. I never liked ‘em. And again, pockets! It’s one of the things that guys always get with their clothing and girls don’t. It’s a huge pain.”
She didn’t know how you could live if you had to carry around a handbag or clutch or use coat pockets or something. Matha peered at Erin above a rack of clothing. She pulled up a dress at random, then spoke.
“Um. Erin? All these dresses have pockets.”
“…Huh?”
It turned out that every single Fraerling article of clothing had pockets, even the form-fitting ones which had interior pouches. Erin blinked, then reddened slightly and blustered.
“Well—back home they don’t! At least, they didn’t when I was in middle school. Because of the patriarchy or something.”
“What’s that?”
“Too hard to explain. I’m not down on dresses because I think they don’t fit, anyways. I—here, let me search around. All I’ve got to do is shake up my regular style, right?”
Matha let Erin take over poking around the rather varied costumes that Fraerlings had made to indulge this other world’s musical stylings. She sat on a box, cross-legged, as Erin muttered to herself.
“Look, some people have style, some people don’t. You’ve got style, a bit, Matha. You can get into wearing this kind of stuff. I can’t. Your costume’s okay. I’d have called it tacky a while ago, but I see how you can wear it.”
“Thanks. Like the flames on the sides?”
“Yeah. It works.”
“Ulvama came up with the idea. Like how she wanted to wear that dress because it had your magic on it.”
Erin fumbled a set of underwear and turned. Matha flinched as the hazel eyes flashed, but then Erin just peered at the ground. Bent to pick up the clothing and dust it off.
“Great. Another thing I didn’t notice and did wrong. I’m surprised you stick around. I know you can tell I’ve been mean to you.”
“Oh, like when you’re really mad and I feel like a [Dangersense] is going off? Yeah, that’s not fun, but I stick around because—well, I feel bad. I didn’t know what I was doing, and a lot of the Cottontails got hurt.”
“Because I destroyed your base and started cutting throats.”
Erin’s head bent further, and Matha bit her lip.
“Everyone survived, and Bowom put on the, uh—fingers—”
Dead silence. Matha changed subjects desperately.
“Anyways, don’t think I’m doing this just because I’m guilty. If I didn’t follow you and Eurise, I’d have run off or started the Cottontails again after, like, a month. I’d never stay in Wyewesshi.”
That brought Erin back to being annoyed with Matha again. She turned, but Matha saw the twist of her lips, even when Erin thought she was hiding it. The [Innkeeper]’s voice had a touch of scorn.
“Too boring to settle down in and work a regular job?”
That hurt Matha’s feelings, but she put on a determined smile.
“Kinda. It’s mostly Great Grandma.”
“Zinni?”
“Yeah. In Wyewesshi, everything she says goes. Everything ends up how Grandma Zinni wants. Even if you say no, you end up doing more or less what she wants.”
Erin stopped running her hand over a fuzzy coat and turned back to Matha.
“Huh. That sounds annoying. Sounds like someone should stand up to her.”
“People have tried. They just move out. She likes me; she says I remind her of her at that age. But I bet she’s picked out a job for me for once I’ve ‘settled down’.”
“Ergh. I hate controlling people.”
Erin made a face, then stared at a full-length mirror that someone had put up, as if struck by a truly unpleasant thought. Matha chattered into the void, venting a bit.
“Yeah, well, I tried.”
Erin turned to her.
“How?”
“The Cottontail Raiders? Raiding Grandma’s herds? Doing all kinds of stuff that annoyed her? I thought we’d maybe make a village someday and prove we didn’t need her. But…we still needed help now and then, and I guess we weren’t that good if one person could take us all out.”
Matha kicked her legs, glancing away from Erin. Her treasured base with her friends…that still hurt. Erin averted her gaze.
“I was wrong about you all. I’m glad Ulvama stopped me. Zinni…Zinni cares about you.”
“Yeah. I know. I just wish she cared enough to let me be me instead of a younger her, or whoever she thinks I am.”
Matha gazed at her boots and remembered Zinni gifting them to her special. She loved her grandma, but Zinni made it hard. Erin was lost in silence again until she unhooked a uniform like the Fallin’ Gnomes were wearing. The black, skintight suit embroidered with crow-feathers like fur was a look, and Matha’s heart beat faster at the idea of Erin trying it on. But the [Innkeeper] just laughed.
“You know what, Matha? I could almost see myself trying this on. This is crazy. I’d call myself stupid for just thinking about it a few months ago. But a few months ago, I was dead.”
“What? Like dead-dead or…?”
Erin nodded, and Matha had so many questions and realized Erin hadn’t told many people about her past, except for maybe Bowom and Eurise. But the [Innkeeper] kept murmuring.
“I thought I knew what I liked. I thought I knew who I was, but look at me now. Rocking out on stage is fun. I didn’t think I could perform for a crowd. I mean, I did it once but not like a real concert, something I wanted to put on. I didn’t think I could dance, either. But I learned I liked dancing, and—everything new, I like. Or most things, at least. I hate eating sugar. I’m down with salads. Who am I? I didn’t think I was supposed to change.”
She gazed at her hands.
“I was proud of knowing who I was. Now, the world’s topsy-turvey. I used to be an [Innkeeper]. Then I died, almost by accident. When I woke up again, I was a girl with a quest. A mission to save the world. I didn’t realize how much that sucked until I had to do it.”
Save the…? Matha’s mouth opened, but then she just waited, because Erin was talking on, walking through the lines of clothing, touching articles, pulling them out as if even the most outlandish thing might fit her.
“I survived that battle at sea and the depths of The Naga’s Den, but I am not the same. I will never be again, and I’m afraid of who might have emerged if things hadn’t gone the way they had. But for Ulvama…and here we are fighting over such small things. Small things that matter.”
Matha nodded. Just like what she’d said to Zemmy and Mera—it felt like this was bigger. She fidgeted, trying to think of something to ask.
“D-did, um, you want to change before this?”
Erin turned, surprised, and met Matha’s eyes.
“No. Never. I was always the [Innkeeper] trying to save that little Goblin. I was in the Floodplains of Liscor, waving that flag…and I would never do it otherwise. How could I betray their memories like that?”
More things Matha didn’t get, but now Erin was shaking her head.
“But no—that’s not true either, is it? There was once. A few times, when I saw something and I wished I was stronger. Cooler. Maybe I wanted to change, but I was afraid that if I did, I’d let go of everything I…huh. Fashion. Do I have to wear only one costume?”
“No, go ahead! Anything that looks good, be my guest! You could go out in your underwear and I wouldn’t complain.”
“Yeah, I bet.”
Erin shot Matha a sardonic glance, but then she was wandering around. Searching for something.
“I need a pole. Oh, here’s a mop. Now, I need a white…there.”
She found a white shirt, tore it up, and began to sew with a kit left in a corner for just that purpose. Matha didn’t understand what Erin was doing, but when the [Innkeeper] attached the white fabric to the pole she’d taken from the mop…it meant something.
She planted it, the white flag, on the ground and stared at it, and Matha watched, not knowing why her heart beat faster. Only that for a second, Erin captured that thing she claimed she didn’t have.
Style. Memory. She murmured as she hefted the flag up.
“There was just one moment when I could have been someone different. I didn’t want to, but it tempted me. It brought it up again when I hit Level 50. I could have been a [Bannerlady]. I don’t want death or fighting, but I think…hmm. What else should I wear?”
She put the banner down, and Matha cast around.
“I, uh, dunno. What do you think looks cool? Anything you’ve ever wanted to wear?”
“No. I n…hmm.”
Once more, Erin seemed to catch the lie and went pacing through the room. This time, she was hunting for something. She spoke to herself and her audience of one.
“There was just one time. I have had so many guests in my inn. From Dragons to undead monsters. Heroes and villains. Each one has fascinated me, but I was sure I would see them again, even when they left on their adventures. There was only one that I knew I would never understand. They only came into my inn a moment for a war I was too late to join. Their name was Theillige. A member of the Wild Hunt, from another world.”
“What did they wear?”
Erin was staring at a figure hoisting a tankard in her inn before they drew that terrible blade to duel a goddess. Her lips whispered as her eyes stung.
“They walked into my inn with a thousand thousand lives. A [Knight] of the winter. A grim reaper of frost. A…wait. Where are those jackets for the band merch?”
She went outside and came back with the leather jacket. Stared at it, then glanced around.
“They had a helmet on in each life. In one, they dressed like someone from my world. As if the Wild Hunt were a biker gang. A motorcycle helmet. Hah. There’s no way—”
“We’ve got all kinds of people who’re helping the bands! We could make it or make it look like what you want, no sweat!”
Matha leapt up, and bemused, Erin tried to describe what she was thinking of. It was ridiculous, of course. Way too cool for Erin, but when one of the [Costumers] heard about the shape of the bicycle helmet…
“[Customer’s Image]. Oh, that’s so much better than your sketch! So shiny! I can do that! Just get some wood, polish it up after some paint with the right reflectiveness…I’ll have it within an hour. Matha, you’ll need leggings like this.”
The excited, very passionate Fraerling woman sketched out the outfit, and Matha snatched it and sighed.
“Oh, you’ve got to wear this.”
“Er—”
That was how Erin found herself assembling a biker’s outfit despite not actually biking, let alone motorbiking. But in fairness? Leather jacket and pants were pretty close to her standard outfit.
But the vibe was very different. Erin held up the jacket as Matha raced to give it suitable accoutrements. She was holding up metal studs.
“Hey, Erin, what if we gave them armguards on one shoulder like the sketch? Can I? Please? Please try it on?”
A number of Fraerlings wanted Erin to try the new look, actually. The [Innkeeper] was about to object, to say this was a bad idea, when she hesitated.
“One second.”
Matha’s face fell, but Erin vanished into the costume room and came back with the flag a second later. She held it over one shoulder as she tried on the jacket. The shiny black leather…she sat, lacing up some boots, and Matha glanced at some other helpers.
More color, more little details, but—then Erin twisted around.
“My back’s too bare.”
“We can put a logo on it. Or a band—”
“Can you put something else? A chess piece? A queen?”
Erin had to show them what she wanted, just a standard queen piece, and she was vaguely surprised when they ran to get one cut out. By the time a prototype helmet had come back to put on, she was finding some gloves and this?
It was silly. It wasn’t her, but maybe it was something she liked. Did you dress to…become someone you wanted to be? To channel who you were?
“That’s silly. It can’t be that.”
“Can’t be what?”
Erin glanced over at Matha.
“I was just thinking that you don’t dress up to try to be something different, even if you’re not. Because if that were why you wore fancy clothing, it’d mean I wasted twenty years of my life because I didn’t get it.”
Solemnly, Alack the [Saxophone Player] clapped Erin on the shoulder.
“No time like the present to change it up. You want to do something with that hair?”
He indicated Erin’s hair, which was regrowing, even the side that had been mostly burnt away. This time, Erin didn’t even say ‘no’. She just tilted her head.
“Normally, I have the same hairstyle. It’s way too uneven on this side to do much with, though. Sorta scraggly.”
She brushed at the short hair that hadn’t had enough weeks to do anything with it. Matha cast around.
“There’s a [Barber] who cut my hair a few days ago. You could buzzcut it short. Real short.”
“Then I’ll be unsymmetrical! What, do I comb over the rest?”
“Yeah.”
“Well…it can’t be worse than now. And I bet they can regrow my hair if it’s really bad. Plus, it’s all discolored. Okay.”
The Fraerlings were running off again, and Erin smiled despite herself. Then she realized she hadn’t come to any conclusions about the big conversation this was all for. But she thought…this was helping.
A quiet realization was dawning over her that she didn’t need some grand theology to comprehend. She just needed to be in the right mood. To be the right person.
 
——
 
When Matha ran back, the [Barber] had Erin sitting in a chair in moments, and the [Innkeeper] was grimacing, possibly with nerves, as she watched her hair falling down.
Matha was not uncertain; this was going to be amazing, and she was getting tingly as the costume came together. She wanted to know what Ulvama would think.
Ulvama.
