Plans indeed. Garry was not above daggering an Archmage in the morality-kidneys if it helped a single person. He was a good deal below it, in fact. He was an Antinium.
 
——
 
Liscor’s Council wanted a word with him at 1 PM, probably about his actions. Garry calculated that this Council would be sympathetic to him, especially Lism. If another one was elected, well…he’d figure that out.
But like The Wandering Inn, it was not his concern. In a very deliberate sense; tying his actions to the inn would have meant probably being shot by the Bloodfeast Raiders or something on his delivery.
He had to be separate. Garry was scratching his head as he tried to make his first Loaf of Luck; unlike Erin, he believed in using all of his Skills.
“Four-leaf clovers? Alas, I must have them grown, I suppose.”
He scribbled a note to the Antinium [Farmers]. Easy enough to grow more…he hoped. In the meantime, he had his first piece of Kraken Biscuit sitting next to a Shadowloaf he’d always wanted to make.
The Shadowloaf was wonderfully dark and dimmed the light in the room. The Kraken Biscuit? After a few attempts with a knife, Garry knocked it against the side of his kitchen counter and took a divot out of the hardwood.
“Hm. I suspect I may have overbaked this. Or perhaps I need to figure out how it’s eaten.”
Seborn would have probably known. He’d have to inquire with Drowned Folk. Maybe it could make for good armor? If only he had access to Pallass’ libraries, Garry could look up some of this bread.
Oh well; he placed it on a tray filled with treats and rolled it into the Free Queen’s chambers.
“My Queen? I apologize for my absence and unannounced trips. I have some treats for you as a result of my levelups.”
His attempted bribe for the Free Queen did not go as he hoped. Instead of snatching the food and calling Deferred Sustenance, her pet Rock Crab, the Free Queen just regarded him on her comfy Throne of Fluff, which she’d had made when she realized it was softer on her nether regions.
“Garry. You have caused a disturbance in Drake cities as well as the Antinium Hives. Your actions have alarmed them and thrust my leadership into question.”
He hesitated, then bowed his head.
“I am sorry, my Queen. I did this in furtherance of my levels.
She paused, and Xevccha bent forwards. Her tone was serious, but not dark.
“You lie well, my [Baker]. If you are mine. It occurs to me, belatedly, that the strength of our Autonomous Antinium project was always built upon the fact that they rebelled from us. Klbkchhezeim and myself. Pawn. You. Belgrade. Bird most of all—none of you are truly mine, are you? Anand might have been, but I think he was Klbkchhezeim’s.”
Garry peeked up at her as Deferred Sustenance scuttled forwards, took the Kraken Biscuit, and tried to break it with its little claws. Well, little relative to the Free Queen. He wondered if he should lie or use the lack of a statue he’d seen in the garden to deflect the conversation. He opted for truth.
“I…respect you as the Free Queen, my Queen. Without you, the Hive will not function.”
“But your deliveries were a surprise to me. You have your own plan. As do the other Antinium. I am the Queen of the Free Antinium. However, the irony of this name did not occur to me until now.”
The Queen sat back in her throne of pillows, and Garry waited. She spoke softly.
“We are changing, Garry. Klbkchhezeim is perhaps the last of us to change. I have seen shifts in him, but not fully. He is upon his grand journey, and we shall see what he chooses. But you and I? We truly are new Antinium of Izril. I merely clung to my old shell because I had no way forwards.”
Garry bowed lower, sincere.
“If I have endangered the Free Hive, I do regret it, Free Queen. What does the Grand Queen will?”
He knew from his overheard conversations and the Free Queen’s complaining that Xevccha did not care for the leader of all Izril’s Antinium. The Free Queen waved a feeler.
“She damned you to the Drakes. Despite your levels. In the wake of your survival, she has humiliated herself. A common occurrence. She can do little to my Hive that has not been done already. Withhold resources? We produce enough that that is no longer a salient threat. No, two elements concern me. She has insisted I will soon receive a supply of some new…auxillary units to the Free Hive. [Slaves].”
Garry’s head rose.
“[Slaves], Free Queen?”
“From Roshal. I do not like the idea of them. They are a foreign power’s tools. I have studied these Slavers of Roshal, and I do not trust them—but the Grand Queen wills it. It may be against Liscor’s laws as well. Even if we do not need to respect them in the Hive, I…wish to honor them as well as we are able. I shall see what becomes of these [Slaves], but before that—she is greatly displeased by your actions, Garry.”
“I…see.”
He did not know [Slaves] well, either, and wished he knew more. A library would do. Or was this something Erin knew much of? Kevin had gone with Lyonette, and so had Joseph…Imani. Garry could bring her his new loafs and share the recipes. After the Council meeting. Had Erin not been upon Roshal’s ships?
The Free Queen’s next comment brought Garry’s working mind to stillness, though. She spoke as she bent forwards again.
“The Grand Queen demands your presence, Garry. You will go to the Hivelands via our tunnel. Tonight. I will send Free Antinium in case of monsters and to represent the Hive…I cannot find Pawn at this moment. Take supplies. Ensure she is impressed with your cooking.”
Garry stared up at the Free Queen, and she flicked an antennae at him.
“She is rather partial to foods herself. Do not worry, the other Queens will merely wish to meet you as well. You will have to do a lot of cooking. Try to avoid the Twisted Queen.”
Like that—Garry suddenly had a huge problem on his hands. Not the Grand Queen. Nor what the Free Queen thought would be his concern, for she did not truly understand him. But they respected each other.
No…Garry’s crisis was suddenly straightforwards and hit him like a Tier 8 spell when it manifested in his head.
The Antinium. I never even considered my people.
They, too, were hungry. But he didn’t think his bread could feed them, even if he had enough. Not the deep hunger in their souls.
He was suddenly in desperate need of advice. A certain [Innkeeper] to send the door for him again. But she did not. Erin Solstice was a bit distracted with her fight with Ulvama.
 
——
 
Erin and Ulvama – Intro
Lemoste-Under-Cliffs had finished its first layer of walls, magicore mortar and enchanted bricks worked into natural vines and plants, a living barrier, after the passage of another week. And the second, inner layer of wall was already mostly done, because it was a wall of water. The real trick was pumping all of it from a stream; it was only a few feet thick, but embedded cryomancy spells would freeze anything coming through it—if they made it this far.
The third wall would just be mithril, but sourcing a vein and mining and forging the plates would take time. The first two walls going up had restored some semblance of safety to the Fraerlings, and the city life had returned, even if there were still mandatory volunteer hours.
It was a lovely, brave Fraerling city. Not the strongest. Not the most advanced, but Lemoste’s crafting and artisanal districts were among the top five on Bowom’s lists, and its proximity and good connections to Fraerling villages like Dretonamis meant it had a lot more ‘natural’ resources unlike a more traditionalist city that was all metal and magic. Lemoste, rebuilding, mourning, thriving, beautiful, and spirited and for so many, home.
Bowom hated it here. He couldn’t wait to leave. The problem was—they’d been here long past when Eurise had wanted to go, and it seemed like they’d be here longer.
Certainly, the Fraerling [Explorer] wasn’t happy; he didn’t like big cities much either, and without any more ants to kill and Lemoste restabilizing their food supplies, he was bored. So he was hounded by all kinds of Fraerlings, from Tallguard to civilians, who wanted to either trade stories with Eurise the Explorer or test his mettle. His scowl grew day by day, but over breakfast, he just asked one question.
“How’s it looking, Bowom? Ready to go?”
“Uh—I could use a day or two in the city. You know, visiting my patient? Reflatibulating the adreconsoid valves? Can’t do that without a hebribrolator, and where am I going to get that?”
The [Explorer] nodded shortly, then pushed himself up.
“I’m going hunting. Roja, you coming?”
“Er…sure.”
“We’re going too!”
The rather silent breakfast table saw Zemmy and Mera shoot to their feet. Instantly, Eurise and Roja glared.
“You’re staying here. Help rebuild or something.”
Roja pointed, and the two [Brawlers] glanced at each other, then sat back down, visibly reluctant. Bowom peeked at a Hobgoblin picking at her food and an [Innkeeper] looking anywhere but at Ulvama. Then at the annoyed hamster who was punching Erin.
“Ow. Ow. Stop it.”
Matha tried to separate the two, and Eurise eyed Bowom. It was a sign of the times that no one even asked Bowom what a ‘hebribrolator’ was. He had no idea; he’d just thrown it out there.
“Take your time, Bowom.”
His time. The [Mad Doctor] smiled and flicked his eyes towards Erin and Ulvama. Eurise shrugged. Roja waved her fingers at Mera and Zemmy and then, when Zemmy protested, mimed slamming his and Mera’s heads together.
Cowards. Well, there was a rule in Fraerling villages that two high-level people shouldn’t quarrel, but Bowom sighed gustily. He glanced at Erin, who eventually got up to eat breakfast outside. Ulvama began chatting noisily the moment Erin got up.
“The magical wall is very pretty. Why don’t we see it later, Matha?”
“I dunno, Ulvama—”
“C’mon, we go. And Bowom, you coming?”
“Maybe.”
Bowom experimentally cut a slice out of the air and put some on his toast. He chewed for a bit. He was getting into this bread stuff. It really went well with all the tension. He put his feet up on the table and glanced right as Ulvama left the table as well.
“What?”
The Battle Hamster had stopped glaring at Erin, and Zemmy and Mera were peering at Bowom. Mera hesitated and pointed at his toast.
“Bowom, what the heck did you just cut and put on your toast?”
“An idiom.”
“Huh?”
Zemmy slapped Mera’s shoulder.
“He’s calling you an idiot, idiot!”
“No, just the both of you. I’ll take Ulvama—you go out with Erin and try to be useful?”
The two [Brawlers] glared at him as Bowom stretched and brightly smiled around at the world. One week and the two were still fighting. He wondered if slitting his throat at the table and bleeding over breakfast would work—probably not. But he was rapidly looking into it as an option.
Ah, well. The tension could not last forever. Bowom had his own moment to wait for. He hummed to himself before swinging himself out of his seat.
“Putting it off too long really is true madness. Important conversations to have. Important moments, really. You can’t argue with that.”
Zemmy and Mera gazed at him as if he were crazy because he didn’t bother with context and they didn’t ever search for any. Plus…well, it was his class. What, did they think [Mad Doctor] was a joke? Now, a [Sane Doctor], that was scary.
Bowom sharpened his scalpel as he sighed and got to work.
 
——
 
As Bowom understood things, somewhere in the world was an Antinium who, contrary to the name, looked more like a beetle-person with four arms. His name was Garry. He made food, and his technical class was [Chef], but he was famous for being a [Baker]. He had delivered bread to starving people, and this was objectionable, horrible, and wrong—to some sensibilities.
Because he had delivered bread, many things had happened. People had not starved. He had made enemies, galvanized people to be charitable because, again, funnily, they had needed a reason to feed hungry people—
And it was why Erin and Ulvama were fighting.
There was more context to it than that, but it was an amusing way to write his report back to Dretonamis. The Hobgoblin and [Innkeeper] had quarrelled over Garry’s actions and amplified an existing fight over armpits. Another thing that really required explanations.
Vrilla had sent Bowom three letters demanding explanations on behalf of everyone, and he’d happily failed to give any satisfactory ones. That was all well and funny, but the truth was that the fighting was past amusing, if it had ever been that, and into annoying.
So long as the duo were at odds, the expedition wasn’t going anywhere. Hence Eurise acceding to Bowom’s stupid requests. Only Erin and Ulvama seemed to buy it wasn’t about them. Though that was probably willful ignorance. Neither one was an idiot.
Correction: they were all stupid, and this was their particular hangup. Bowom was caught in the middle of the fighting, and because Eurise was hands-off, Roja had appointed him as the peacemaker.
Him. Pure madness, but she’d framed it as it being a medical problem, and in fairness…Bowom did know what was going on the best.
He just didn’t have answers because resolving social matters was not his expertise, but who else did they have?
Mera and Zemmy punched and kicked their feelings out. Eurise was a Level 50+ [Explorer]. Roja? Same problems, lower levels. She was trying with Erin, but…
Of the Fraerlings who really knew Erin and Ulvama, that left only Matha, who probably was doing the best out of the lot, and also the Hamster and Beetle. So yes, it was Bowom’s job, and if he had his druthers, he’d have taken the Corumdon Beetle everywhere with him as backup, but the darned insect couldn’t fit into buildings.
Here was his prognosis: the two were fighting not about armpits or Garry, but about deeper issues that were coming to a head here. Not just because it had been bubbling over for a while, but because it was Lemoste. Safe.
You couldn’t have these kinds of fights on the road. Bowom had heard of groups of Fraerlings working together as Tallguard or [Explorers] serving together for years in the rough, then getting back and breaking bones on the first night they were in a village. He’d done some of the patching up too. Not socially, again, but physically. Lots of splints or, sometimes, sewing a limb on. Sometimes a genital, and that was always fiddly.
So all this to say that no one was taking this lightly, except maybe Zemmy and Mera, and only because those two were idiots. They were grousing as they cleaned up the table.
“I don’t get why we’ve gotta do all the talking, Mera. Plus, we’ve gotta do dishes. How do you clean them?”
“Scrub, idiot.”
“With what? Damn, broke another one.”
