[Brawlers]. They lived with friends at their age, and Bowom watched as Zemmy tossed a dish across the kitchen and into the washbasin, which had splendid plumbing. He shattered the dish and winced. The fact that it was both Fraerling-made and enchanted was offset by how hard Zemmy had hucked the dish.
“You idiot! Do it like this!”
Mera lifted the table, and all the utensils and plates slid onto the floor. She then scooped it all up with the tablecloth and dumped it in the washbasin.
“Nice.”
What ensued was the two of them picking at the dishes, pouring water and too much soap over them, and grousing. Bowom didn’t help. He just listened, practicing some fine stitching on the skin of his right arm. Exact, evenly-spaced stitching, the kind you could suture a Fraerling heart’s vein with. And he listened.
“I don’t get why Eurise isn’t helping. He should take Erin aside and, I dunno, tell her to make up or punch Ulvama a good one. Always works with us.”
“Yeah! And why’s Matha so important? We’re the ones who made friends with Erin and Ulvama first. But now it’s Matha this, Matha that—she was leading the Cottontail Raiders! What about us? They’re always pulling her aside.”
The two [Brawlers] placed the still-sudsey dishes on racks, and Bowom counted how many had food particles attached. Then counted how many didn’t, then gave up.
You had to admit, they were entertaining in the same way that a carpentry incident was. Bowom didn’t mind that sort of thing; you could put almost anything back on with enough thread, and if not? Replacements made for a wonderful change of limb.
Zemmy glared out the window.
“Let’s do this thing or Roja’ll shout at us. Who should we talk to first?”
“Erin? We said we’d spar with her.”
“Sure.”
They exited the guest house, and Bowom strode over to the window. He didn’t clean the dishes as they dried, just watched from the kitchen window as Erin sat on a little bench, staring at the ground.
Fun facts about the fight. Erin Solstice was banned from exploring the city by Vision Tiregal. She was confined to this sector—because her aura and Skills were bumming everyone out. Well, she wasn’t always gloomy, but she alternated between that and…
“Hey, Erin! Wanna spar?”
Zemmy and Mera were actually too late to challenge Erin; a certain Battle Hamster was vying for a brawl. He was glaring, literally hopping mad, and clearly on Team Ulvama.
Now, you might ask why the Battle Hamster had chosen sides. Was it because Ulvama fed him? His own prescient understanding of events and moral deliberations on Erin? His dislike of the [Innkeeper]?
Possibly, possibly. But Bowom rather suspected that the reason the Battle Hamster was so mad was because he hadn’t been combed or pampered for the last several days. A certain Ulvama hadn’t done it, mad as she was, and the Battle Hamster, now used to being taken care of, was upset. And the [Shaman] had indicated where his anger should lie.
Wasn’t that interesting? Bowom had liked Erin and Ulvama from the start. They were new, fascinating, arguably insane, and that had captivated Dretonamis. But inevitably, he’d gotten to know them, and you know what happened when you got to know someone?
Well, to use a completely unrelated example, it was like dating. First, it was all honeymoon love (or just surface-level attraction, couldn’t rule that out) and positive vibes. Completely glandular on some levels. We like each other, we appreciate a new person, etcetera, etcetera. But then, inevitably, you saw the cracks.
They got on your nerves. You realized a certain [Druid] didn’t mind having filth in her home and excused it as ‘all-natural’ instead of just forgetting to pick things up. She claimed you couldn’t have a serious, heartfelt conversation. Then you fought or it worked out, but you saw a person’s faults and foibles.
Lots of people couldn’t handle that moment. They drifted from relationship to relationship, seeking the honeymoon period before the cracks showed, never quite understanding that what they were chasing was an illusion. ‘Everyone must be crazy, petty, gross, and stupid. It’s not me aiming for a perfect mannequin who doesn’t exist.’ Then they got so mad when you offered to make them said mannequin, even if it was 100% recycled parts.
…The point was this: Bowom rather liked seeing the cracks show. He enjoyed the moment when someone let him down, showed him the flaw behind the smile. Not because he liked being disappointed, but because it was real. It appealed to him in the same way truth did. Be it so unpleasant, he preferred it to the lie.
Ulvama’s flaws were that she was, at her very core, a [Shaman]. A social being, but differently social to Erin, if that made sense. Because they were fighting, the Battle Hamster was challenging Erin to a fight. Because they were fighting, half the Fraerlings in the city knew Erin was an armpit-shaming madwoman, and sometimes, people came to the concerts where she played to heckle and boo her.
Fascinating tactics. Erin, by contrast, wasn’t gossiping or cheery. She was what she was: visibly annoyed, depressed, and she shoved the Battle Hamster back when it went to jab her in the side.
“I said go away, Hamster. Zemmy, Mera, I don’t know if fighting is a good idea.”
“C’mon, we haven’t done it all week! Let’s, uh, just throw a few punches.”
Zemmy raised his scarred fists, and Mera nodded. [Brawlers] without a single social Skill. Bowom watched as they cajoled Erin into a fight. The second lovely thing about Zemmy and Mera, aside from their lack of domestic talents, was this: they were good fighters.
“[Wild Uppercut]!”
The first punch from Zemmy hit Erin completely off-guard after her slow swing. Bowom watched Erin go up…and then come down as the Battle Hamster glared from the side. Erin rolled over to the Corumdon Beetle. He kicked her in the back. She got up.
“Ow. Zemmy, I really don’t—”
“Coming at ya, Erin! Get ready or get hit!”
Flying knee from Mera. The [Innkeeper]’s head ground into the beetle’s side, and she twisted as Mera threw her sideways, and then Zemmy axe-kicked her on the shoulder. They began fighting for a second, and Erin stared at the sky.
“Ow.”
She sat up slowly, and the two [Brawlers] grinned. Mera made a beckoning gesture.
“We’ve been fighting magic ants with Eurise while you sat around and sang. Plus, we both levelled! Give us your best shot!”
“I like singing and dancing. You sure?”
They seemed to have forgotten what happened the last time Erin got mad, or perhaps they thought that was as mad as she got. Bowom chewed on more tension-toast as he checked his stitching. He’d done eighteen rows on his arm; not bad, but he could be faster. He undid the threads and pulled them out as Erin smiled.
“Okay. Didn’t I hear you two got toughness Skills?”
Zemmy flexed one arm with new scars.
“For the stupid ant-bites, yeah. You want to use weapons?”
Erin had pulled out a pair of kitchen knives. When he saw that, the Battle Hamster stopped edging around her for a sneak-attack. Zemmy and Mera didn’t flinch; they just grinned.
“Unless it’s enchanted, it’s not going to scratch us! Zemmy’s got [Rhino Beetle Skin], and I’ve got [Resistance: Piercing]. Let’s go.”
They beckoned, and the [Innkeeper] smiled again. Then she reached down to her belt and touched something.
“Almost ready. Hey, did you know there’s a bunch of new merch from the bands? Cool stuff. Your people can make anything. Even song crystals.”
Music began playing as the two [Brawlers] rolled their eyes and scoffed. Mera sneered.
“C’mon, Erin. That’s fun, but not action. Weird song, though. Aren’t most of yours more upbeat?”
As a matter of fact, for no particular reason, Erin had been teaching the bands more hard rock, and even what metalcore songs she knew—though it was mostly still close to pop-rock. Not that she knew much about music, but her [Perfect Recall] had let her dredge up songs she’d only heard once. Accordingly, there was a bit more black on some of the band’s makeup and in their hair.
This was still a fast enough beat, if slightly—ominous? The [Innkeeper] held the kitchen knives out as Zemmy and Mera circled her. Then she stared down at the ground and began hopping. Feet together, head slightly tilted.
What the heck? Zemmy nearly went in for a kick until he realized Erin was watching him out of the corner of her eyes. The music kept playing as her head rolled right, and Mera hesitated.
“C’mon, Erin. Take this seriously—”
The music was getting louder. Bowom saw the [Innkeeper]’s hopping continue with the beat, and her head was twisting around. She resembled a weirdly menacing scarecrow, actually. Bowom kept watching, then turned a light on inside. It was morning, but…
He watched as the hair on the Battle Hamster stood up until the rodent resembled a puffball, and it lowered its fists and began scampering away. The hopping [Innkeeper] was advancing on Zemmy. Smiling.
“Must be a magical dance.”
Bowom had never seen one of them used in combat before. Vrilla knew a few, mostly ritual-dances for [Druids]. He watched the [Innkeeper]’s limbs jerking as the song intensified. Then Zemmy croaked.
“H-hey, Erin. Uh—”
The [Brawler] had top-tier instincts for fighting. Erin shouldn’t have been able to get the drop on him even when she knew he was coming, but he only knew how to punch. He didn’t understand fear. It seemed to Bowom that Erin’s neck was twisting slightly further than her skeleton should have moved, but he could put that on a trick of light, along with her jumbled arms and the knives.
The low-light conditions she was generating meant that when she leapt at him, Zemmy was caught off-guard. He screamed, and Mera jumped in.
“Hey! I’ve got your back—gyaaaaaaaaaah!”
Erin’s head twisted around, and she changed targets. It wasn’t even a 180-degree twist. It probably just looked like that.
Bowom applauded inside the kitchen and watched for a few more seconds, but she wasn’t trying to gouge the [Brawler]’s eyes, and they did have defensive Skills. So he went to find Ulvama.
 
——
 
Erin was hard to talk to, which Eurise probably sensed.
Ulvama was easy to talk to. Having a conversation was just as hard. She hadn’t gone that far from Erin, actually. They were within eyeline of each other if either glanced over; Ulvama was sitting where a new park was being constructed—again, replacing this destroyed district. She was on a bench, and Matha was squirming.
“C’mon, Ulvama. Please…”
“Hush, you. Big performance tonight, right?”
“The Fourth Battle of the Bands, yeah, but—I’m not playing for any one band, I’m just MC-ing. They don’t need me and Erin anymore, and we’re letting her have the night off.”
“Even more important, then! The one who presents others must look best of all. The first thing they see should set expectations. You wanted me to show you my talents, didn’t you?”
“But—”
Matha was squirming, but Ulvama had a grip on her head, and she was painting bright colors onto the young [Raider]’s face, where her eyes met at the corners. And the corners of her cheeks…a little decorative tear was already running down Matha’s cheek, shimmering blue highlighted by a traced black outline.
It was certainly eye-catching. Ulvama would study different colors, then wipe it away and add some shading, adjust the color palette. Add that to the eyeshadow and other makeup she’d applied and Matha’s face sprang out at you.
Not garishly; Bowom was no expert, but it was quite impressive. He also noted the magic on the paint. Ulvama had restored much of her craft in Lemoste from Fraerling dyes, and the magical skin-paint was shimmering. When Matha spoke—
“Ulvama, I don’t need—whoa.”
Her voice took on a feeling of authority. Presence—a subtle reverb to her tone. Bowom wondered if it was approximate to a Level 15 [Aura of Command] or something similar. He had the distinct desire to boot Matha in the rear-end, but that was just his class running against the effect.
“Mm. Not bad. But maybe charm better? Or beauty. Hold on.”
The [Shaman] ignored the fighting and Zemmy and Mera shouting at Erin to ‘hold on’ and ‘stop biting’, then produced a little tin filled with carmine. Which came from lovely red beetles, but that didn’t stop anyone. She dabbed some on a finger and went to apply it to Matha’s lips.
This time, the Fraerling did get up.
“Ulvama, why don’t you help Erin with her makeup or something?”
“Erin? She’s fine.”
Ulvama glanced over and then tossed her head. She smiled as Matha fidgeted.
“Come on. I put this on and no Fraerling girls or boys will resist you.”
“I don’t need boys coming after me, and I’m great with flirting!”
“Oh, really?”
“Sure! These lips have kissed a lot of things. Tons of stuff they probably shouldn’t.”
Bowom snorted, and the two glanced at him. There it was, just for a second. Zinni’s granddaughter was no idiot, and she squirmed away, but Ulvama leaned over.
“Maybe you show me sometime? I’m good at kissing.”
The [Raider]-[Punk] went stiff as she gazed at Ulvama’s own lips. The Hobgoblin was smiling with all the mysterious allure she had, and as the only Goblin to ever visit Lemoste, at least Fraerling-sized…
Bowom waited with one of those happy smiles on his face that were like placeholders. Matha leaned forwards—then jerked back.
“I, uh—we have to get merch ready!”
She leapt off the bench, ran past Bowom, and glanced back over her shoulder. Three times—then she nearly fell over the guardrail and into the sewers again and was running off. Ulvama stared at Matha’s back, perplexed.
“Huh. I didn’t expect that.”
“Really?”
She jumped, saw Bowom watching her, then gave him a round-eyed expression of confusion. He gave her another smile that weirded her out, and then there was a scream.
A shriek. It sounded like a swamp-thing from nightmares, and the crescendoing music and the shouts of Zemmy and Mera coincided with Erin’s own scream. Ulvama flinched, and Bowom admired the cadences. For a second, Ulvama twisted around and stared back with a wretched expression at the angry, painful tone—then her features set. She leapt up as Zemmy and Mera surrendered, and Erin came to a halt, panting. The [Innkeeper]’s head turned their way.
“Bowom! Let’s go into the city! You promised we’d do something interesting! More studying? What this about your workshop?”
Ulvama glomped onto Bowom’s arm, and he beamed at her. He was most definitely a breasts man. And a butts-man. Whatever you could get in the most shapely form, really. He’d always thought two sets were fetching, but everyone he spoke to said the back pain wasn’t worth it.
