But his quill seemed possessed by that truth that had written Calby into being. It went on as the [Baker] who believed in goodness watched, horrified, a captive to his own words.
 
Somedays, the lonely bug wished the world would swallow him, for then he could rest. You may think that this is too harsh and there were good things in Calby’s life.
You would be wrong. He had nothing to hope for. If there was pleasantness in Calby’s life, it was an absence of cruel things. 
He was alone, and the voice that came from Calby was a shout though he dared not scream out loud. Every day, and every moment, he was crying for something, anything, and he had no idea what. 
But nothing came for him, and the voice grew louder and louder from Calby’s mouth until he thought that cry would consume him. He continued, day by day. Crying out without the words to know what he needed.
“Help me, please. Oh, please help. I’m stuck down here in this hell hole.”
 
Now was the moment when the story went uplifting, Garry felt. It had to be, but this was the despair of Antinium given words. He waited, and the quill dripped ink onto the page.
Then he realized—he was supposed to be giving them hope and froze.
 
Yet no one heard him. No one ever did.
“Won’t someone help me,” Calby continued, pleading. 
“Anyone.”
Yet there was no one down in the hole.
 
No one but Erin. And could he write her in? The Antinium hesitated. But there was no Erin. Now, his quill was possessed by an evil power. It moved, and he stared at his hand.
 
There was no answer. Not for Calby. Perhaps other bugs found hope, a hand reaching down to lift them up.
But not Calby.
“Help! Help! I shall die of this loneliness inside, then out. Help!”
And there was no one there.
“Liar! I can see you writing up there! Help me!”
Who, me?
“Yes, you! Help me! You can see me!”
 
Garry lifted the piece of paper. Peered at his own words. Turned it over.
“What the fudge?”
He placed it down and then—
 
The narrator wasn’t sure what to say. Calby’s situation was objectively impossible. A beetle trapped at the bottom of a hole had no friends. No one knew him. 
“But you can see me!”
This was true, but what did Calby expect they would do?
“Well, I don’t know, but you’re there. This is a terribly cruel pit I’ve been placed in. I am dying of loneliness. Surely you can do something?”
At this point, the narrator had to go off and have a long think while he added butter to pasta. Upon sitting back down, he analyzed the situation.
Calby the Beetle was stuck. There was no handy rope present.
“Just get me out of here!”
The narrator was working on that, but what did Calby expect when he left?
“I hope…to not be alone. But I don’t know what that’s like. And I do not wish for miracles, because I have never had some,” Calby’s voice trembled. Then he continued, rasping. “But despite that, I hope for it, because this current state of affairs is intolerable.”
Now, the narrator was also a relatively helpless figure in the grand scheme of things. But after some deliberate thought, they had an idea. If Calby was down there.
Maybe…
they could write
in a clever way
such that
Calby could get up?
“You did it!”
Calby cheered as he ran up the text like a staircase. He stopped at the top of the hole, then turned.
“Thank you. Surely, things will be better. All I needed was for someone to help me. Just once.”
This is all very well and good, Calby. But what do you expect to find outside of your hole? 
For answer, Calby looked up, and there it was:
The sky.
Perhaps, dear audience, you are like Calby. Stuck at the bottom of your hole. Perhaps we all are, and there are beautiful things in the darkness. But no matter what direction it is, no matter what form it takes, there is always the sky.
It is like nothing you’ve ever dreamed of. To those of us who live in holes, it is impossible to conceive, because the dirt has limits.
The sky has none. Calby stared into the great beyond that some called the sky, and he could see into forever. Colors where there had been none. The whispering grass, the smells of flowers blooming, but the sky—
There is wind up there. Not merely air, but a rushing like your heart being filled. That is the sky. When you see it, it will not be painless.
I daresay it is painful. For infinity, where there was a roof to your world, is terrifying. Frightening. It may break a piece of you, and nothing will be the same.
The terrifying thing about the sky is that it changes you. And perhaps, then, you should never look up lest your soul fall higher. And you are allowed to do these things. But if, like Calby, you are lonely, then you should climb.
“It’s beautiful,” Calby said. He sat at the edge of the hole that had been his world, and he knew that he could not go back. Not as the same Calby. He stretched his arms out wide and wondered—
What came next?
 
——
 
Once upon a time, in a meadow by a huge, dark, desolate pit, there lived a Beetle named Calby. He lived under a huge willow tree, and he was not lonely.
Because he had a friend.
An [Innkeeper]. No, not her.
There were a bunch of friends around his meadow. On a hill blooming with flowers lived another bug named Bird.
 
“Wait, why Bird?”
 
Bird sang many songs that drifted down to Calby, and he liked them all. They were always silly songs, for Bird was a silly bug. Even if she was Bird the Hunter.
“La, la, I am me! I am Bird, and I am free as can be!”
Calby envied Bird’s ability to sing. But she did not often come down from her hill of flowers, and he had many other friends.
Such as…
 
“Um…”
It was late. He didn’t know what to write, so his quill went on automatic, grabbing the only things he had in his head.
 
Such as Jexishe, the (one and only) Friendly Creler! She lived in a thicket of thorns and often warned Calby not to come close.
“I’m often toxic, and I’m always poisonous! I’m vicious and mean!”
She’d scurry out and bite everyone in sight, or spit venom, but then she’d go back into her den and add—
“But I’m working on being better.”
Since that was something Calby could get behind, they were best friends. They would often go out picking berries, which were Calby’s favorite snack. Only, he didn’t know which ones were which!
Red berries, green berries, purple berries, Calby would eat them all and sometimes get dreadfully sick.
“Calby! You should think more carefully about what you eat!”
Jexishe scolded him, and Calby would groan.
“But I thought they all looked good until I ate them.”
 
Garry checked a timepiece on the wall.
“What time is it? I should be asleep.”
 
Another of Calby’s friends lived next to the meadow in a big, big fort made of snow. Her name was Recia the Snow Squirrel. She loved playing pranks, but she loved pranks a bit too much, and she’d make other people unhappy.
There was also Mrrga, the chattiest Gnoll in the world, who sometimes did not know when to be quiet, and Nalete, the hairiest Human in the world, who lived under a huge redwood tree. Last of all of Calby’s friends living in this strange meadow was Gar the Goblin, who was always unhappy and suspicious.
“Everyone hates Goblins like me.”
Since Calby knew Gar was a Goblin, he did not disagree. But one day, he and Jexishe decided to pick Gar a huge basket of flowers. 
“One, two, three! Gar will be happy as can be when he sees these flowers,” Jexishe sang! 
(Calby wondered if he’d really be happy as all that.)
They were filling a basket when Bird the Hunter buzzed down and demanded to know why they were stealing her flowers.
“Oh, excuse me, Miss Bird,” Calby said. “I did not realize they were your flowers.”
“Of course they’re mine, silly! I demand a bird for all these lovely flowers! Or something bird-like. Anything will do. I am a silly Bird, so…toodle-loo! Don’t come back without a bird!”
Jexishe offered to kill a bird, but Calby did not want to kill an innocent bird, so they wandered away, hoping to find something bird-like to satisfy Bird. Upon the way, they ran into Recia the Snow Squirrel, who grew excited when she learned of Calby and Jexishe’s job.
“A bird? Why don’t we give Bird a snowball and trick her into thinking it’s a snow bird’s egg?”
Lying did not seem to be very nice to Calby, but since it was to give Gar flowers, he thought maybe it was worth a try? So they gathered up some snow and…
 
At this point, Garry nearly fell asleep onto his page of paper. Unsteadily, he got up and retreated to his sleeping corner, where he sat down and muttered.
“This is crazy.”
But then he got up twice to finish the story of Calby and Jexishe, who learned that lying was not a good way to do something good and that even if Gar the Goblin didn’t care for flowers, he thought they were quite good since they were edible.
Then Bird made a snow-bird hatch from the snowball, and they all had snow bird for dinner together—
He thought that the story might not have saved the Worker who had become Garry. But maybe it would make him dream of the sky.
Certainly, someone else agreed that Garry was onto something.
 
[Writer Class Obtained!]
[Writer Level 3!]
[Skill – Basic Penmans—]
 
Garry sat up blearily.
“I don’t think I’m a [Writer], though.”
 
[Level Ups Cancelled!]
 
——
 
The next day, a rather sleep-deprived Garry set out with some Painted Antinium towards the Hivelands. He gave all of them free bread, of course, but he barely spoke.
Instead, he rode on a little wagon they carried, and as payment, he cooked them breakfast, lunch, and dinner and read out his ongoing story of Calby the Bug to them.
They liked it. Oh, they had notes, like Garry needing to explain more about everyone, and they all wanted Calby to eat nicer things, so Garry found himself adding descriptions of wonderful soups and food that Calby got to eat.
Rather to his surprise, though, he ended up cranking out fourteen more pages filled with cramped handwriting and even a few images of ‘Calby’, though he was very rudimentary. He didn’t even realize the day was passing until it was time to camp, and when he curled up again—
 
[Scribe Class Obtained!]
[Scribe Level 6!]
[Sk—]
 
Garry sat up again.
“Nope.”
It would get in the way of his [Baker] class, and that was over Level 40. A few writing Skills? No.
 
[…Level Ups Cancelled!]
 
He settled back down and then heard—
 
[Storyteller Class Obtained!]
[Storyteller Level 7!]
[Skill – Captivating—]
 
Garry put a pillow over his head.
 
[Level Ups Cancelled.]
 
Somewhere, perhaps unseen, an invisible presence was getting slightly annoyed. C’mon, work with me here, buddy. After a few calculations, it went with—
 
[Philanthropist Class Obtained!]
[Philanthropist Level 2!]
[Skill – A Touch of Morality Obtained!]
[Skill – Designate Charitable Work Obtained!]
[Skill – Charity: Satisfied Pride Obtained!]
 
A bleary [Baker] sat up.
“…Huh.”
He didn’t object to the class and instead just fell asleep sitting, much to the other Painted Antinium’s relief; they’d been trying to get some shuteye, and no one was levelling them up.
 
——
 
The next day, Garry awoke and did some reading in the wagon for a bit before jogging with the Painted Antinium. He had a book he intended to trial in the Hives, plenty of food to appease the Grand Queen and other Queens, and a new class.
…Wait.
Garry paused after a bathroom break to address the sky. He clasped his hands together while the other two wiped, in the vague sense that it was fitting. In front of him sat one of the books he’d brought. Not the one he was writing, but good reading material for bathrooms: a dictionary.
“Excuse me. I believe there has been a mistake. While it is true that I accepted the [Philanthropist] class last night, I have done some research today and it appears I misapprehended the meaning of the word.”
He opened the book to the right page and pointed.
“According to this, a philanthropist is someone who seeks to improve the wellbeing of others, but primarily through the ‘donation of money’ to others. This goes against my beliefs, as I do not believe that the wellbeing of others through a fiscal system of coins is a necessary step. Also, I take issue with [Philanthropist] as a class because of the wording. ‘Seeks to’ implies there is a choice, as if this is some charitable decision, not a cause.”
He paused, and there was no response. Garry concluded his prayer and his bathroom break simply.
“I would appreciate rectification of this issue as I believe my main class encapsulates my desires, and any sub-class goes against my additional goals of leveling as swiftly as possible. I may even view my [Strategist of Sympathy] class in the same vein as strategy is purely rendered in service of baking. Everything is in furtherance of feeding others. Including writing.”
Again, there was no response, so Garry got up and continued walking. Well, riding. One of the Antinium in his company had [Unit: Match Speed], which was why they were keeping up with his wagon and the two mules who were moving so fast they were leaving a slipstream in the tunnel. The mules seemed to enjoy it, though.
Garry missed the horses. One had been named Freud. He’d let them down.
 
——
 
The Grand Queen welcomed Garry into her Hive that evening when he arrived after the long journey into the Hivelands. He stared up at the unnecessary marble pillars and paved stone, at hanging golden lamps fueled by, well, fuel, and at the hall where Workers and Soldiers ate below her.
She assured him she had [Cooks] of her own before a procession of people of various species wearing collars served him and his company food.
Garry smiled at the Grand Queen before offering her the largest shawarma ever created in this world’s history. She took one huge bite and chewed for fourteen seconds before ordering him to cook the rest of the night’s dinner and expressing her patent relief that he survived his deliveries of bread for ‘charity’, whatever that was.
Thus, the [Baker] found himself in the Grand Hive as a welcomed guest and noted they even had kitchens of their own. And [Slaves]. He lay down, thinking mightily, and before he drifted off, he heard a voice speak in his head with distinct annoyance.
 
[Philanthropist Class Removed.]
[Skills Removed.]
 
Garry smiled to himself. Then he wondered how Erin was doing. It had been a while since she’d called him. She hadn’t actually told him much about what was going on in her life.
He had a feeling there was something going on with her too.
 
 
Erin and Ulvama – Costumes
 
Erin wanted to talk to Garry. But she knew that would be running away. If she wanted a resolution to this situation, she had to find it for herself.
