“—And now we’re fighting. I came here and performed the ritual because…because there’s no one else to talk to who knows me. I came to you for wisdom.”
Clearly a mistake. The younger Goblin was rolling around Ulvama while cross-legged, too impatient to sit still. She rolled onto her back and stared at Ulvama, upside-down, seriously.
“You wise because I wise, old-me. I am young [Shaman], but I give wisdom! I think you should make up with weird scary awesome Human. There. Now tell me about cute hamster again.”
Ulvama slapped her face with a claw.
“I’m being serious, idiot!”
“Is am me too! You make up, all better.”
“It’s not that…easy. She said hurtful things. And I hurt her too. I’m afraid she’s going to kill herself.”
The little Goblin smiled at Ulvama.
“But she is best friend, yes?”
“Yes. I don’t know if that’s enough, though.”
“So? Who cares? You have Human friend! That amazing! Why you so sad? Why…what make you so sad?”
The young [Shaman] grew confused, then, genuinely. And Ulvama closed her eyes, and the Dreamleaf hanging around them like fog rippled.
“Thank you for your wisdom, myself. And…what changed? I suppose she would know.”
She called the second of her lives to her. This one she feared even more than the little Goblin whose beautiful innocence was a scar on her memory.
Only, the second Ulvama, Ulvama of the Mountain City tribe, did not appear before the older [Shaman] at once. Instead, a different memory played itself.
 
——
 
A Hobgoblin with an aura like war itself walked into the Mountain City tribe a week after the Goblin King died. He bore only a single blade on his back—a greatsword—and despite their numbers, despite their bravado and youth—not a single Goblin could meet his eyes.
Greydath of Blades made the [Shaman] hiding behind Tremborag shiver as the Great Chieftain rose. Tremborag feared Greydath, but there was also, the older Ulvama realized, a true and genuine distrust there. A contempt for what he thought the Goblin Lord was.
“So. You live, Goblin Lord of Blades.”
“Yes. I do not come here for succor, Tremborag. Merely to rest a day.”
The two spoke in Goblin, but Greydath’s voice contained eloquence far beyond even Anazurhe’s tribe. Tremborag glared as he sat himself, heavyset, unable to maintain his Fomirelin form.
“You live while the Goblin King and every single Goblin Lord with him dies. Why?”
“They would not run. They were drawn in by his madness or loyalty to Velan. Someone must wait for the next King.”
“Again and again. You’ve killed enough for other species to hunt us for a century. Leave quickly, Greydath of Blades.”
The two clashed with words, but Tremborag was no match for Greydath; even with his aura suppressed, Goblins were fainting. It sounded like he had brought the war with him. As if the beating of drums were his heart. His footfalls the march of legions.
He rested a day and left and only went to one [Shaman]’s abode to seek her magic. It was flattering, but mostly terrifying to Ulvama, the newly-inducted [Shaman].
Ulvama, watching Greydath now, saw how tired he looked. How much of his aura was a façade to scare the other Goblins. She remembered this. What he said next—
“Do you have a tonic to grow hair?”
“H-hair? Yes, I have…you, eh, you need it?”
Ulvama of the Mountain City Tribe had stared at Greydath’s hairline and had wondered if the mightiest Goblin Lord in the way of the sword was going bald. Not all Goblins had hair on their heads, though they had pubic and other hair just like Humans or other humanoid species. She’d thought she’d acquired some secret about him. When in reality…
“Ah. So that’s why you did it.”
The older Ulvama saw Greydath pocket the hair tonic and leave. Then the memory fast-forwarded to show her an old, senile Goblin with a grey beard laughing and dicing among the Goblins.
He looked half Greydath’s height and scrawny, and he was so jovially pathetic that Tremborag never glanced at him. Nor did the [Shaman].
So that was when Greydath had lain in wait in the likeliest tribe to bring word of a new, rising Goblin. Ulvama would have called it embarrassing, but the transformation was too good. No one would have thought Greydath an actor of that level.
She was about to break out of the memory when the [Shaman] strutting along with a bevy of her followers turned and walked out of her own memory.
Mountain City Ulvama was not the innocent, cheerful Goblin. She had power. Control. Experience—but she was like an open wound, guarded, suspicious. Even here.
“I have something else to show you.”
So saying, she took Ulvama’s hand and—
 
——
 
He was always the same Goblin too. But he’d not always been so round. In fact, the first time they’d met, the young Hob had been rather fit.
Ulvama, a fourteen year-old Goblin acting as a [Shaman] for the Dirtdagger tribe, had no real standing. Neither did he. Goblin tribes had been meeting to share resources and threats, and he had squatted down to watch her mixing paint as Anazurhe had once taught her.
After thirty minutes of watching, she’d snapped at him to either go away or bring her something useful. Whereupon he’d left for an hour and come back with some chalk.
That was how she met Pyrite. Even then, he was curious. And she was arrogant.
“I am [Shaman] of the Molten Stone tribe! You show me respect! You a no-name Goblin, yes?”
He nodded agreeably even though the truth was that she’d wandered too far from her home, run afoul of some Humans, and fallen in with a local Goblin tribe to survive. She still had the idea of going back to Anazurhe’s tribe to impress the Great Witch with a promising new tribe and get more training and equipment—but the Molten Stone tribe was far away, and she was needed here. Most Goblins had no idea of, well, anything. They lived and died like mayflies.
Pyrite was just one more of them, but he scratched at his stomach and grunted.
“No name Goblin. But I practice. Not very good, but I practice.”
“Practice. What you do that important?”
“Kill Gold-rank adventurer. Chieftain say I second-in-command.”
She paused, open-mouthed. 
“You practice and do that? How?”
He shrugged.
“Saw old Goblin swing a sword. Copy. Not very good, but it work sort of. Not very. Not very smart.”
He tapped his head, then asked her how magic was done and seemed disappointed to know how much magic was required instead of knowhow. That was the first time he saw her.
In the two years after that, Ulvama saw Pyrite several times and, once, in the company of an old Goblin, some wanderer who’d been showing him how to swing that sword. Encouraging him to start his own tribe.
“Even then, he had his eyes on Pyrite. But Pyrite didn’t think he was important.”
The [Shaman] in the memories nodded. Her face scrunched up with pain as they both knew what was coming next.
“Watch.”
 
——
 
The Humans were drunk again. Coming back from the fields, and she knew what that meant. The Goblin had been hiding in a corner of the basement, trying to saw at the iron chains on her legs. She kept staring at the tiny, tiny hole in the ceiling.
Too small for her to wiggle out of, even if she weren’t a Hobgoblin. She waited as the voices grew louder, and the little bit of magic she had left went to a single word that she wrote in the air and sent out of the basement they were keeping her in.
‘Help.’
Help hadn’t come. But if she believed it might, she could survive another day. Until they got tired of her or thought she was bearing a child. That’s when they’d kill a Goblin. She wasn’t sure if she was waiting for that.
The older Ulvama couldn’t look, but the younger one, re-living her memories, just raised her head.
“It wasn’t him.”
When the laughter and creak of floorboards turned to shouts of alarm, then cries of fear—hatred—and then pain, the Goblin woman sat up. If it was a monster—
Then she felt it. A wrathful flame blooming overhead, and she screamed for help. Screamed until the very foundations gave way and the massive Goblin, covered in the blood of her captors, crashed downwards.
His eyes were crimson, and steam was rising from his body as he grinned. For a moment, she thought it was the Goblin King himself. 
That was how she met Tremborag of the mountains. He tore the chains loose, and his tribe ransacked the farming village as she watched, numb. Not sure if she was alive.
“Join my tribe. Hurt them back. See?”
He pointed a finger and showed her how it should be done, and she heard Humans screaming as Goblins captured them. There was still a part of Ulvama who shuddered, who wanted to…
She followed the Goblin Chieftain to his mountain.
Ulvama was shaking. She looked away, but that was not what the memory was trying to show her. The naked [Shaman] turned.
“Look.”
 
——
 
When the new [Shaman] ran into one of Tremborag’s officers who’d survived a bloody brawl and come to her for treatment, she screamed and then hugged him. Which only made Pyrite’s bleeding worse. He grunted as she fished for a healing potion and poultice.
“What happened, stupid? How you get hurt?”
“Fight.”
He was heavier, with both muscle and fat, and poked in dismay at his belly wound.
“Need more fat. All muscle gets too hungry. Not enough armor.”
“Or get actual armor, dummy. What you doing here?”
He shrugged.
“Goblins get hunted after Goblin King dies. Have to hide.”
“Oh. My tribe died, and I—they capture me. But I get free.”
She looked away from him, then stood straighter, trying to smile. More than one of the Mountain City Goblins had been rescued like that. She was important, the 2nd-best [Shaman], and she was making allies. Tremborag liked her more than the old, male Goblin who was the chief [Shaman]. Soon—
Pyrite didn’t make a sound as she stitched up the wound she’d daubed the healing mixture onto.
“I know. Your tribe—we looked for you. Couldn’t find you. Sorry.”
“Oh.”
How much had he searched, she wondered? He had more scars. A lot more. But he hadn’t found her. Tremborag had. But for that…
The two sat in silence until Pyrite smiled.
“I meet funny Goblin here. Old man. Greybeard.”
“Eh. Same old Goblin teaching you sword? When he get beard? You not need him. Talk to Goblins I know. Very important. Must know right Goblins.”
“I do know right Goblin. He old.”
Pyrite protested in that contrary way of his as she scolded him and began to tell him how things worked. And perhaps, even then, he had known who Greydath was. But refused to answer the Goblin Lord’s demands. Perhaps he hadn’t thought he was worthy or ready.
Or maybe—the [Shaman] in the memories stumbled, and they shared a thought.
Perhaps it was what came next.
 
——
 
The last time Ulvama ever cleaned Pyrite’s wounds, it was after whispering in the ear of the two big Hobs clad in plate armor. She slipped into the jail cell, and he lowered the manacles on his wrists.
“Idiot!”
She rushed over; Pyrite’s nose was broken and a number of bones. He was a mess. She began to set what she could as he muttered.
“Not good. He’ll notice.”
“I’m his best [Shaman]. I’m fine. You’re the fool. You should never have challenged him.”
She spoke like a Human in the Mountain City tribe that aspired to humanity in all of its worst ways. Especially the worst. Pyrite grunted as she snapped a bone into place.
“Had to.”
Tremborag had never lost a challenge for his seat as Great Chieftain. Pyrite…he just lay there as she tended to him.
“I’m leaving, Ulvama.”
“Yah, you are. Those two idiots will fall asleep soon. You get out. No one sees you. And if they see you, they don’t see you or they get cursed.”
He glanced at her, surprised.
“Can you put the guards to sleep in the cells?”
“Are you mad?”
He exhaled and shook his head.
“Too much attention. I shouldn’t have mentioned them.”
He wanted to free the prisoners. Ulvama slapped his arm and glared at him, but Pyrite was just staring ahead.
“I’m leaving, Ulvama. I cannot be here. Cannot stop it. So—leaving. Starting my own tribe.”
“And doing what?”
“Don’t know. Mining, maybe. I like shiny rocks.”
“You idiot. You were important here.”
“Hurts heart too much. You come with me?”
He turned to her, and she hesitated, drew back, affronted.
“Me? Go with you to stupid new tribe? This is the biggest tribe in the north! Why…why would I leave?”
“Because you want to.”
Ulvama whispered as she watched her younger self hesitate, and a grimace of regret stole over her memory’s face. But Pyrite didn’t push. He never did.
She wished he had. If he had said ‘I need you’, just once…but he didn’t think like that. She was more important than he was, a nobody Goblin.
So he left. The next time they saw each other, they were at odds. And he had a new, young Goblin genius he was following, and she was angry and jealous and…
They never had that final conversation. Just two weary Goblins marching to escape Lord Tyrion’s army, trading glances, hoping their tribes survived.
That was how the second Ulvama walked forwards and stood in front of her. Ulvama of the Mountain City Tribe pointed at the silent Goblin rising from his cell.
“He was the only one who knew both my lives. I have made many mistakes. A Human? I used to want to meet them. Am I a fool?”
To that, Ulvama could only say:
“I don’t know.”
 
——
 
This time, she showed her past self the ship. The moment when she had chosen to go after Erin. And the Mountain City Ulvama was silent.
“She’s Human. You can’t trust her.”
“I didn’t trust Mountain City Goblins either. I didn’t trust anyone—but I couldn’t trust them. Tremborag took his revenge, and he made us just like our captors.”
The younger Ulvama turned her head away. The current Ulvama called out.
“I am guilty. It weighs on me more than anything else.”
“…Doesn’t matter.”
“It does! It does, or why did you never take part? Why did Pyrite care if it didn’t matter?”
Mountain City Ulvama hunched over and then sat, re-painting her arms. Tying her hair back, flaunting the beauty and every trick she had. Not like the young [Shaman] who ran around happily unserious. She eyed her older self critically.
“Soft.”
“That’s what younger-me said. I’m higher-level than you. I know more tricks.”
Mountain City Ulvama pointed, accusatory.
“No. I mean soft in being safe. You trust her too much. That woman is another Tremborag. When she gets tired of you, bring her back. Entice her. Be careful or she’ll take everything.”
“That’s not Erin.”
“That’s everyone.”
“Not Pyrite.”
Mountain City Ulvama turned her head away, crossing her arms.
“…He’s different.”
“How?”
