Matha hesitated as Erin sat there, and the rift between the two was weighing on Erin’s mind. But she just smiled at Matha.
“Thanks for helping, Matha. I know I’ve been mean to you, and perhaps you deserved some of it.”
“Maybe a bit, even the sewer thing.”
Matha flushed, and Erin shrugged. Then she went on as the [Barber] scolded her.
“But I appreciate you doing this. I know you’ve been trying to help, and I just…didn’t like you. For a lot of reasons. However, pushing me to dress up a bit, push my limits? That’s good. Not many people do that. Well, Lyonette, Magnolia, Ryoka, Selys, plenty of people have tried. I’m a bit stubborn.”
No kidding? Matha held her tongue on that one, and Erin rubbed at her chin again.
“I haven’t dressed up like this since…the last time I went on a date, I guess.”
“When was that?”
Erin’s face grew shadowed.
“Oh, at least…four years? Hard to count given how long it’s been. It wasn’t great. I used to date, back home. I gave it up. I had exactly one boyfriend and one online person who turned out to be a girl—but the boyfriend just didn’t work out. Actually, he wanted me to wear a dress.”
“Boys, yuck. Who needs ‘em?”
Matha’s opinion was unnuanced, but it made Erin smile and go on after a pause. She stared ahead, as the [Costumer], [Barber], and everyone else listened with a long ear.
“Yeah. He wasn’t great, but I probably wasn’t either. It just wasn’t anything special. It was tedious, nervewracking, uncomfortable—nothing like it was supposed to be. But I wanted to try because…I was lonely, I guess. All I wanted was someone who saw what I saw. Does that make sense?”
“Um…see what?”
Erin lifted a hand, and flames of every color danced across her hand.
“Everyone sees the world differently. Sometimes, I think I’m speaking a different language than other people, even when I say the exact same words, Matha. Take Goblins for example. Plenty of people say, ‘who cares about Goblins? They’re monsters. There’s no point defending them’. And I look at them and wonder if they’re blind. Can they not see a Goblin cry? Does it mean nothing?”
Her face was bitter then, but she went on.
“—Not just Goblins. Everything. I wanted, all I wanted, was to find someone who saw my world. And chess? Chess was not the way to find those people. All they were was good at chess and usually so different from me that it wasn’t even something I thought about. But for a while, I hoped…nah.”
She shook her head sadly.
“I’ve found plenty of people I respect, who I love. Lyonette is so utterly unlike me in so many ways. Same with Ryoka, Pisces, or…but I guess it’s still lonely. I don’t feel lonely when my inn is full, of course, but I never found that person. Some people see sides of me. Like Niers.”
“…As in Niers Astoragon, the Titan? Do you kn—”
Someone kicked the [Costumer] to shut her up, and Matha interrupted.
“What about Ulvama?”
“What? Ulvama? She doesn’t see the world the way I do.”
“Oh.”
Erin paused and inspected her reflection in the hand mirror the [Barber] was working off of. She brushed at her lopsided haircut, then her hazel eyes shone clearly at Matha.
“She can’t see my thoughts. But she understands me. And I realized that’s what I really want. I don’t need someone who thinks the way I do, just someone I can talk to who gets me. But I suppose that’s also the problem.”
Erin touched her chest as Matha’s heart hurt. Because this, too, was painful, but she stomped down on the emotions. This was too captivating. The [Innkeeper] blew on her fingers as the [Barber] stepped back, and a flaming hat appeared on her head, her half-cut hair swept over the buzzed side. Her features were hesitant as she stood and inspected the long pants, the biker’s jacket emblazoned with the chess piece that the [Costumer] held up, and leaned on the white flag.
“This looks good. It really does. I’m just worried, I guess, that if I ever met someone special that…it’s all surface-deep. I’m afraid there’s nothing but a monster or emptiness if you really looked into my soul. Nothing worth anything deep down.”
She turned, leaning the flag across one shoulder like a woman marching to war, and she didn’t understand. That silly [Innkeeper] saw half her audience burst into tears and blinked at them. But—then—
She was almost ready. She took Matha’s shoulder.
“I have to talk to someone. A dear friend. But I promise I’ll be there for the concert. Thanks, Matha.”
The [Raider] wanted to say something. She gazed up at Erin and blurted out.
“If—um—no matter what happens, I think it’ll be okay. And if it doesn’t, I’ll listen to anything you want to say.”
Erin touched Matha’s shoulder and squeezed once with a grin. Then she stepped back as a door opened in her chest.
“Thanks. But I don’t know how you put up with me.”
Then—she was gone.
Matha thought she had done everything, everything she could. If this failed, it would not be because the [Innkeeper] wasn’t ready. And the Goblin?
It turned out that the Goblin had the same idea.
 
——
 
She was in the company of Bowom the Slicer, one of Lemoste’s most infamous figures. But the people who flocked to the Hobgoblin were on her side. Not necessarily against Erin, either, but just for Ulvama.
The [Shopkeeper], Thist. Miss Eitine, the [Enchanter] that Ulvama had met. Even the healer, [Restorer] Ginthe, was watching with arms folded because this was technically a risky procedure.
“That’s a lot of Dreamleaf. These other substances will produce a hallucinogenic effect.”
One of the [High Magi] was nodding.
“I think someone should be in the room with Miss Ulvama, to test the effects. I volunteer.”
“No, I think we need multiple volunteers—”
Bowom ignored the happy spellcasters. Ulvama had a charm about her unlike Erin. She was much like a woman who’d been hurt, abused, and who had learned not to trust the world slowly opening up and finding people who would do anything to help her or see her smile.
Exactly like that. He was bad with analogies. If that wasn’t enough to make you want to spend time on the Hobgoblin, well, she was also a Goblin. She had a magic not even Fraerlings understood.
Speaking of which…the [Summoner] tapped Ulvama on the shoulder.
“Gift for ya, Ulvama. In case you have to kick that [Innkeeper] around a bit.”
“I can’t beat Erin in anything. Maybe magic, but she’s too…oh.”
Ulvama stared at the long-stemmed pipe and held it in her hands. It was newly-carved and varnished; Fraerlings worked incredibly fast when they wanted to. But they weren’t prepared for tears to leak from her eyes.
Instantly, everyone rounded on Bowom. Not because it was his fault, but because he was the bastard who could stride over.
“Hmm, well, I’m not tearing up myself, but that’s smokeless tobacco for you. Insidious. It’s not even enchanted. I’d shed half a tear and move on with a firm handshake and ‘thank you’.”
The [Summoner] kicked at him, but Ulvama stopped sniffing and turned.
“Thank you. It—I’m not sad because—it just reminds me of being small. Being home. I lost everything from my first tribe.”
Which, of course, begged the question—what had she lost?
The [Summoner] cleared her throat tactfully. There was a Battle of the Bands tonight, after all. Plenty of time to dress up.
“And you’re leaving the city. With respect to fashion, that clothing isn’t going to stand up to any hits. Don’t you have any armor?”
Bowom had seen the rather revealing clothing that exposed almost all the skin Ulvama had. Practical if you dealt in magical paint. He was going to mention that when Ulvama blinked and looked down at the pipe in her hands.
“Normally, I just uncover since magical paint is better. But…but…when I was in the Molten Stone tribe, I had a mask. It broke the month I left the tribe. And armor. I remember they had armor you could put paint on. Made of natural materials.”
“Ah, you’re speaking my language. No metal, yes?”
The [Druid] knew what she was talking about, and Ulvama glanced around hesitantly.
“Yes. Maybe I could make some if I’m here? I can pay…”
She was surrounded by high-level spellcasters who assured her this was not a thing they cared about. So Ulvama laid out a concept with flicks of her fingers that conjured illusions, and Bowom blinked.
“Oh my.”
“Fascinating. I know this [Costumer] who does wonderful work—she’s sewing for the musicians. I could nip down and bug her. Hey, you know, I think there’s some spiders that would do really well with this armor.”
Ulvama didn’t even blink at the suggestion of spider-based armor. As for the mask, two [Wizards] were already arguing with an [Enchanter] over where to find the right wood or bark to make it happen.
“Don’t forget to make a few for us! I want to decorate one myself!”
Like that, the Hobgoblin found a costume of her own being put together, but she walked back to the center of the little ritual space she’d set up. It was just a few incense burners and a simple pentagram without any magic involved.
It confuzzled the magicians as Ulvama sat cross-legged.
“Some kind of ritual magic, Miss Ulvama? If you need boosting or linking to enhance the effects…”
She smiled at the polite [Alchimagus] and shook her head.
“This is only for Goblins, [Alchimagus]. It…it’s not even magic, really. Just the power of [Shamans].”
So saying, she lit the burners and inhaled the Dreamleaf and other substances she’d mixed together. It wasn’t a powerful high, and nor were the hallucinogenics strong, much to the disappointment of the [High Mage].
The power of Dreamleaf was to soothe and, of course, to enhance dreams. Both waking and slumbering. Ulvama had known of this power since she was a girl along with so many things Anazurhe and her teachers had taught her. But…she had never done this once in her life.
She’d been too afraid to. Yet now, as she met Bowom’s eyes, she knew that she had to do it.
Unlike Erin, she had no [Pavilion of Secrets]. No one to talk to who understood Ulvama. Even if she had gotten Erin to lend her the Skill—who could she talk to? Another Goblin? Rags, Calescent, the living Goblins had so few connections to her.
There were only two Goblins who had known her previous lives well.
Tremborag of the Mountain City tribe, and Pyrite, who had always been a tribe of his own.
They were dead. She was no [Soul Summoning Shaman], and that would be a painful conversation. So, Ulvama closed her eyes as the Dreamleaf swept around her and used the power innate to all Goblins, but gifted to [Shamans]:
Memory. The ability to peer back in time. For information, techniques, bravery. But she used it in a way that Rags had never dreamed of.
The mortal world vanished, and Ulvama closed her eyes. When she opened them…
 
——
 
…a little Goblin wearing a mask with huge spider fangs in purple was tilting her head at Ulvama. The [Shaman] nearly jumped back, but the Goblin just crabbed forwards, nimble, sure of herself, and spoke.
“You is fat. What happen? Fat is slow. Why I get big fat Hob? Tall not worth it.”
She spoke in a chattering, fast dialect native to the tribes around the Molten Stone’s volcano without any of the deliberate diction or nuanced vocabulary Anazurhe kept trying to teach her. Ulvama stared, and her heart…oh, it hurt terribly.
“Hello, me.”
A ten year-old Ulvama scuttled around her older self as Ulvama’s eyes stung. She wiped at them, then yelped as a little clawed finger poked her hard, then retreated.
“Now you cry. Is waste of good water. You bad.”
“A lot’s happened. I…I wanted to speak to you. For wisdom. Because I’m having trouble.”
“Oh? With what? Big monster? You leading huge tribe?”
The younger Ulvama sat up, excited, and the older one stared at her. Yes, life had been so simple back then. She shook her head.
“No. A…a friend. A Human one. We were fighting.”
The young Ulvama stopped bouncing up and down. She lifted her mask slightly, exposing a smaller face, sharp teeth, and a ‘huh’ expression written all over her face. She was ten, which was old for a Goblin by many tribes’ standards. But not if they were allowed to have childhoods.
“…You ask me for advice with Ritual of Memory’s Self because you have fight with Human friend?”
“Yes, her name’s Erin and—bweh!”
Ulvama ate a rolling axe-kick from young-Ulvama. Straight to the nose. It hurt. She’d had no idea that your memory-selves could inflict damage! But she was talking to a [Shaman]!
“You stupid! You weak! You fat! Is this get old? I waking up and not being a [Shaman]! I being a [Witch] or [Warrior]! This the wrong future! Glad I found out!”
Young Ulvama hammered on the older Ulvama, punching and biting as the older one tried to get her off. It hurt! She started getting angry and hoped this damage wasn’t actually being inflicted on her body. Then the little monster bit her on the arm!
 
——
 
Bowom had been disappointed when they didn’t see anything happening and none of the [Mages] could find out what Ulvama was seeing.
He’d been about to start annoying the healer or the others when Ulvama began shouting and flailing in the middle of the ritual circle. Bowom beamed.
“They never let me down. Popcorn, anyone? Let’s see that armor, by the way. And I could use a mask! Something culturally insensitive.”
“What’s culturally insensitive to a Goblin?”
“Um…a Human’s face?”
“Ooh, I like that.”
 
——
 
Ulvama finally grabbed her little self by the leg. She still kept getting hit; the young [Shaman]-in-training was a whirlwind of martial arts blows and techniques she was being taught. All talent. All potential. Thinking she was the greatest thing in the world and that her tribe was the best in Izril.
The Hobgoblin wished she could go back so badly it hurt. But she snarled at Young-Ulvama.
“Listen, you brat. I’ll beat you like a bloated rat if you keep hitting me. Make me really mad and I’ll hit you so hard I develop a scar.”
The little demon stopped fighting her and hung there until Ulvama let her drop, then she sat, slightly respectful.
“That a good threat. Why you talk with non-Goblin words?”
“I’m…not around Goblins that much. I lost my tribe. My only friend is…Erin. Well, I have lots, but she’s the only one from Izril.”
“Oh, you left Izril! It fun?”
“Not…really? Some of it. The Fraerlings—”
“Eeeeeeeeeeee! You met Fraerlings!”
Then the little Goblin was agog with questions, asking all kinds of things, and Ulvama had to tell her a story. Exasperated after forty minutes, she realized she was getting nowhere.
What had she come here for? Just the pain of seeing the Young Ulvama smiling? Ulvama snapped.
