“Get a healer in here.” Commander Byron shouted from somewhere far, far away.

“Piety, can you hear me?” Mother Talitha asked.

Piety didn’t try to nod. Holding her head still seemed the only way to avoid the pain. Instead, she focused on the room in her mind. Once there, the pain drained and she took a relieved breath. From her mindspace, she could feel her power, like a warm blanket, but the warmth had dimmed—she’d nearly exhausted herself. She let her power ease to her head and heal the cut she’d acquired falling to the floor. She didn’t drain herself completely, but she was done using her powers for a while.

With Mother Talitha’s assistance, Piety got to her feet.

Commander Byron looked at her, frowning, though from worry or irritation, she couldn’t tell.

“They were ambushed,” Piety said. “Lieutenant Taft is dead.”

Commander Byron nodded. He walked back to his big table with the big map and plucked a lone purple cube from its surface.

• • •

Father Christoph took one look at Piety and ordered her to bed with a strong dose of some foul-tasting medicine that not even strong tea and two spoons of sugar could mitigate. Temperance mixed the medicine herself and insisted on the spoons of sugar, even though sugar was a precious and rationed commodity. Father Christoph further ordered her to take two days leave to recuperate.

Piety had wanted to argue. There was a part of her that said she was still needed in the healing ward or the war room or somewhere, but Temperance forced her into bed with fierce glare, and Piety went. The medicine dragged her into unconsciousness and when she awoke, the room was lightless and she could hear Temperance breathing gently in the bunk above hers.

She felt a moment of panic as her sense of needing to do something took hold before she remembered Father Christoph had ordered her rest. With the knowledge that she was freed of responsibility for a while, she took a breath and her back popped in three places.

Piety sat up on her bed. The room she shared with Temperance at Pinefort was small, smaller even then the room they’d shared at Sacred Heart, with just enough room for a bunk bed and a small trunk for their possessions. The room had a stone floor and a single stone wall and was otherwise separated from the rest of the larger room by curtains.

It was warm in the room, despite its size. Piety could hear the quiet voices of others who had small sectioned off rooms in what had once been the great hall of Pinefort’s keep. She wondered what time it was but decided it didn’t matter. She was too warm and too awake to go back to bed. She took a clean dress from the trunk and slipped it on over her nightdress, sat to tie on a pair of worn slippers, and quietly left the curtained off room.

Navigating the haphazard hallways of curtains would have been disorienting had Piety not done it dozens of times before. Soon she was in the courtyard between the great hall and the front door, relishing the cool summer night’s air and staring at a waning gibbous moon. The courtyard was empty but for her, and Piety appreciated the moment of solitude. Her thoughts flitted from Lieutenant Taft to faceless wounded to the nature of auras. Still restless, she walked without destination, wandering the halls, nodding to night guards, her slipper-shod feet barely whispering on the smooth stone floors.

In a darkened side hall that wasn’t deemed important enough to warrant one of the carefully rationed oil lamps, a broom rested in a corner. Piety almost didn’t see it. But when it caught her eye, she took it up automatically. It felt familiar.

The halls of Pinefort were well maintained but there was always a bit of debris that had gone unnoticed during the day, scraps of paper and bandages, mud tracked in from the field, and the dust that couldn’t help but accumulate in corners. Piety found solace in carefully gathering the bits of debris into small piles and dispensing with the piles at convenient doors and windows.

Hours later, Piety swept the smooth stones at the entrance to Pinefort. She paused to lean on her broom and watch the sunrise. Around her, the township sloped away from her, roofs of red tile appearing only as shadow in the early morning, the streets vacant of villagers, the windows dark while the people behind them slept fitfully.

The black sky became grey became deep blue. A few wisps of cloud drifted about the horizon to catch the light of the sun decorating the sky with orange and pink. The morning summer air was cool with the hint of fair weather, stark contrast to the work Piety knew awaited her.

But not today, she reminded herself.

The scrape of a footstep pulled her attention away from the rising sun to a man in the rough and stained clothes of a traveler. His hair was pure white now, like hers, and longer, also like hers. His face seemed more haggard, more lined than she remembered. But his eyes were bright and sharp as ever, his smile just as she remembered.

“It seems to me we’ve done this before,” he said.

The broom clattered on the stone. Piety embraced him and did not let go until her cheeks were dry.
