Rain sighed. “I’ll do my best, but she might not like some of what I have to say. It needs to be said, though. Don’t spread this around, but the city’s only got six weeks of food left. We need to get her to lower the barrier before people start dying. If she kills me, well…” He sighed. “Let’s hope it doesn’t come to that.”

“Nice knowin’ ye, Rain,” Kettel said with a grin, clapping him on the shoulder again.

“Thanks, Kettel,” Rain said, then slid his visor closed and walked into the courtyard toward the keep.

As he passed the tower, he noticed something strange. He diverted his course, coming to a stop in front of the door to the tower. It was made out of metal, not wood, and there was a line of runes carved into it around the edge. They weren’t glowing, but that didn’t mean anything. He recognized one or two of them, though he had no idea what they meant. The symbols that runecrafters used were still a bit of a mystery. They were fascinating from a mechanical standpoint, but information on them was scarce, perhaps even scarcer than runecrafters themselves.

It was on his list of things to look into if he ever got the time. If he could tame a slime without the system calling him a tamer, then runecraft might be possible for him too. Chemistry worked, he knew. Reason had said as much, and Meloni had proven it by showing him a potion that she’d made all on her own. She had even offered to show him how she’d done it, but again, the lack of time issue had reared its head. There just weren’t enough hours in the day.

Rain frowned and looked away from the door. This wasn’t the time to get distracted.

A sudden flash of light halted him in his tracks only moments after he’d started moving away. In the corner of his eye, he caught a flicker on the bar that displayed his armor’s mana saturation. A few hundred points of magic damage had been absorbed. Someone had attacked him.

Rain whirled in a circle, searching the courtyard with his eyes as he activated Force Ward. He saw no one other than Breggeh and Kettel, who were both looking away from him. Just as his saturation bar drained back to empty, the flash came again, and it shot back up. Rain cursed. Where the hell is it coming from, and what the hell is it? It is magic, clearly, but I can’t see the projectile. It’s like Val’s spell, but Val wouldn’t attack me like this…

The flash struck him a third time. Rain narrowed his eyes and dropped Force Ward. If the attacker was going to stick to magic, then they’d need stronger stuff than this to get through his armor. The mana dispersion rate of the Dark Steel was simply too high. He activated Detection instead, searching for entities. There were signals all around him, he was in the city, after all, but the one that caught his attention was directly above him.

He looked up just in time to catch another blast of magic straight in the face. His visor blocked the spell entirely, the magic drawn into the metal with none of it making through the eye slit. It was still bright, though.

Rain cursed. Damn it, always remember to look up.

He blinked, clearing his eyes, then his eyebrows rose behind his visor as he saw the face of his attacker leaning over the parapet of the tower. What the? It actually is Val! What the hell is he doing?

Seeing that he’d attracted Rain’s attention, Val quickly raised a finger to his lips in a shushing gesture.

“What you doing?” Rain signed at him clumsily in hand code, but Val only shrugged. He replied with a single sign, the one that indicated a question.

Shit, he doesn’t understand. He probably only knows the few signs that people use in combat.

Rain flipped up his visor and opened his mouth to yell at him, but Val quickly made the sign for ‘stop.’ He pointed at Kettel and Breggeh, then made the sign for ‘sentry.’

Rain sighed. “Are you…trap?” he signed, pointing at the tower as he looked up at Val.

Val spread his arms helplessly.

Rain shook his head. Damn. I don’t know the sign for prison, but there’s no way he would either. I knew Velika had him locked up somewhere, but I figured she’d have him in a dungeon, not the top of a tower. What is he, a princess?

Val caught Rain’s attention with another sign. “Mana?”

“What?” Rain signed back.

“You, mana?” Val signed.

“Yes?” Rain signed, making it a question. He’s asking if I have mana? Does he want me to give him some?

“Yes. Defend. Force,” Val signed.

Then, he jumped off the tower.

Rain gasped in shock, activating Force Ward as Val fell. The tower was taller than Staavo’s, at least six stories high. Rain barely had time to process what had happened before Val hit the ground, absorbing the impact with his legs and several hundred of Rain’s mana.

“What the fu—” Rain began, but Val cut him off with a hiss.

“Shh. Keep your voice down,” Val said.

“What were you thinking?” Rain hissed back. “If I hadn’t been fast enough, you’d be a pancake!”

“I’d have been fine,” Val whispered, “My legs wouldn’t have broken. Probably. I’d have jumped ages ago, but I didn’t want to take the risk.”

Rain goggled at him. “Val, you can’t just— What were you thinking?”

Val grinned. “Nice to see you too, Rain. I like the beard. Also, thanks for saving me again. Not from that damn tower, though that too. I mean from the snake. Scaly bastard got me good.”

“Val—”

“Sorry Rain, gotta go,” Val whispered urgently. “If the guards see me, they’ll tell Velika, and then she’ll rip my arms off and shove them up my ass.”

“That’s…disturbingly specific,” Rain said, still scrambling to catch up.

“Don’t tell anyone that I’m not up there anymore.” Val pointed at the tower. “Not even Carten. He’s on her side, the damn lovesick idiot. I’ll come find you later.”

Before Rain could reply, Val vanished. Literally. He was there, and then he wasn’t. Rain’s jaw dropped, then he activated Detection. Val’s signal came back as clear as day, hurrying toward the gate. Rain could hear his rapid footsteps, but he couldn’t see him at all.

Invisibility?

Val’s signal slowed as he reached the gate. Once he was past Kettel and Breggeh, he sped up again, vanishing as he passed outside of Detection’s range.

Rain closed his mouth with a click, letting the spell drop. What the hell, Val? Since when can you become invisible? There’s not even a skill for that!

After a minute to process, Rain sighed, then closed his visor again. Well, I know how he got into the lair now. I’ll have to ask Velika what she was planning to do with him. I need to know how dead he’s going to be when she finds out he’s gone. I also need to talk to him about Lightbreaker. It’s just too much of a damn coincidence.

He shook his head, trying to put Val out of his mind. He resumed his march toward the keep and entered through the large wooden doors, activating Force Ward as he did so. ‘Sparsely decorated’ didn’t even begin to describe the entry hall. That would have required it to be decorated in the first place. The walls and floor were bare stone, and there were no windows. The only light to be had was spilling out from one of the doorways leading off the hall, the second one on the left.

Well, I see why Kettel said I couldn’t miss it. It looks as if Halgrave decorated his house like he decorated his office, if you can even call this a house. It’s more like a haunted ruin. Maybe he got a good deal from his realtor. Rain narrowed his eyes, then headed for the lit doorway. He was careful to stay away from the stairway that was cut into the floor on the right side of the hallway across from the door. The steps plunged down into unknown depths without so much as a railing for safety, a blatant code violation if he’d ever seen one.

The door to the lit room was ajar, and Rain knocked on it politely.

“That you, Rain?” Carten’s voice said tiredly from inside. Rain pushed the door open and saw the big man sitting behind a desk that was piled with papers. The light was coming from an oil lamp sitting on the desk, dangerously close to one of the stacks of paper. Carten wasn’t wearing his armor, just a roughspun shirt and plain pants. He was holding a feather pen and staring at a sheet of paper in the dim light from the lamp.

Rain blinked. “Hi Carten.”

Is Carten doing…paperwork? What?

Carten sighed and looked up from the sheet of paper, setting down his pen. “I told ya not ta come ‘til she sent for ya.”

“Carten, are you okay?” Rain asked, entering the room. As he did, he noticed that it was noticeably cooler inside than it had been in the hall. There was a metal plate hanging on one wall covered with runes glowing with a faint blue light.

“No, I’m not okay,” Carten said, then chuckled, the familiar grin returning to his black-bearded face as he got to his feet. “It’s good ta’ see ya, Little Mouse. I’m glad ya ain’t dead.”

Rain smiled. “Thanks, Carten.”

“C’mon,” Carten said, picking up the lamp. “Let’s go fer a walk. Lord Whatsit an’ that Enforcer bloke’ll be here soon. I don’t particularly want ta talk to ‘em. I’m fine makin’ em wait fer me.”

“Enforcer Sannin?” Rain said, raising an eyebrow. Belatedly, he remembered his visor was closed, but he didn’t open it. He didn’t know where Velika was. “From the Bank? Who’s Lord Whatsit’?”

Carten laughed, wrapping a meaty arm around Rain’s shoulder and giving him a friendly shake before letting him go as the pair of them walked out into the hallway. “If anyone ever asks ya ta check the books, Rain, just tell em ta piss off. Actually, no, you’d probably like doin’ all that math. Bloody hells, I hate multiplyin’.”

“Carten,” Rain said as the big man led him down the hallway deeper into the keep. “Why are you doing the Citizen’s taxes? Doesn’t she have someone else to do that for her?”

Carten sighed. “No, and it ain’t taxes. That money’s already gone. I tell ya, Rain, I thought I was bad with crystal, but Velika…” He shook his head. “As fer why I’m doin’ this, well, there’s no one else. Lord Whatsit said it weren’t lordly work, and I don’ trust ‘em furthern’ I can kick ‘em neither. Sannin’s a cold-eyed snake, Rain. The man’s got no fear. Velika borrowed money, and he jus’ won’t shut up about it. She’d probably kill ‘em if I let ‘em talk ta her.”

“Well, he is a banker,” Rain said. “That’s what bankers do. How much money?”

“Few thousand Tel,” Carten said with a shrug. “She needed jus’ a bit extra fer enchanted equipment fer her guard an’ such. Now, we’re in trouble. Most of ‘em have run off with what she gave ‘em, but I don’t have a list of who’s who, so I can’t exactly go an’ get it back. Lord Whatsit says he’s workin’ on it.”

“Who’s lord Whatsit?” Rain asked again.

“Skinny, pasty guy,” Carten said. “Wears a stupid hat. His name’s Wagarar…agar… somethin’.”

“Lord Wagarardrogrum?”

“Yeah, that’s him,” Carten said, nodding.

Rain smiled. “Yeah, Lord Whatsit is better.”

Carten laughed, then pointed to a staircase leading up. “Velika’s on the third floor.”

Rain nodded. “You don’t call her Citizen Sadanis?”

“No,” Carten said. “Not anymore. You shouldn’t either if ya know what’s good for ya. In fact, don’t say the word ‘Citizen’ at all.”

“Why not?”

Carten shrugged. “I’ve asked. She won’t explain. Threw me down the stairs instead.”

“Carten—”

“Listen, Rain, Vel’s not feelin’ so good. Not like she was before.”

“Carten, why are you still with her? I mean, seriously, you’ve only known her for like a week. Don’t tell me you—”

Carten stopped him with a hand on his shoulder, then turned to face him, a serious expression looking incongruous on his bearded face.

“She’s a good person, Rain. What the Watch did ta her weren’t right. They tried ta kill her, and for nothin’! Almost succeeded, too. Her leg’s still not healed, and her hair…” Carten shook his head. “She had ta kill em back. She didn’t have no choice, Rain. Now, I know how ya feel about killin’, but ya can’t go judgin’ her on it. It’s weighin’ on her, too, Rain. She jus’ wanted ta be free, and now…” he shook his head. “She’s trapped like us.” Carten winced after a second, realizing what he’d said. “Shit. Don’t tell no one about that.”

Damn, he really is in love with her, isn’t he? How is that even possible?

“It’s okay, Carten, I already know about the situation,” Rain said as Carten released his shoulder and continued leading him down the hallway. “That’s why I need to talk to her.”

Carten shook his head, then sighed. “Okay. Just watch what ya say an’ how ya say it. She ain’t in a good place, like I said. All she gets excited about is eatin’, fuckin’, and terrorizin’ the servants. Rest ‘o the time, she’s…well. You’ll see.”

“Carten…” Rain said, at a loss for what to say.

“It’ll all be okay, Rain. She’s gettin’ better. It’s just gonna take time. She’ll know what to do, once she’s back ta normal. She’ll convince that Westbridge fucker ta come let us out. I know she can.” Carten trailed off, coming to a halt. He pointed down the hall. “She’s down there, in her room. The door at the end. Ya better go alone. She’s mad at me right now, and I really do gotta go deal with that banker bastard.”

“Carten,” Rain said, looking at him. “Hang in there, okay? I’m going to talk to her. We’ll get this sorted out, one way or another.”

Carten nodded, then hit his head with his hand. “Damn, I only brought one light.”

“I’ve got a candle,” Rain said, digging around in one of his pouches. He retrieved it, then lit it from Carten’s lamp. Then, he offered the big man his hand.

Carten grabbed it and squeezed, shaking firmly. Even through his gauntlet, Rain could tell that the man’s grip was like a vice. Rain smiled slightly behind his visor, then squeezed back, hard. Carten’s eyes widened, then his old grin broke out across his face as he strengthened his grip to match.

“Haha, Little Mouse! Now that’s more like it!” Carten said. He gave Rain’s hand another hard squeeze, then let go and clapped him on the back. The serious expression returned to his face. “Good luck, Rain.”

