“You too, Carten,” Rain said, watching as the big man retreated down the hallway and disappeared around a corner. I’ll talk to him about his relationship later. I need to see how bad it is first. She threw him down a flight of stairs? I mean, sure, Carten would just bounce, but that doesn’t make it okay. He might love her, as preposterous as that is, but she probably just thinks of him like some disposable bed warmer. Rain shook his head and turned to face the door.

After taking a deep breath, he walked the rest of the distance down the hallway and knocked. There was no response after a few seconds, so he knocked again.

This time, a mumbled reply came through the door. “Go away.”

Rain shook his head. He wasn’t going to play this game. The doorknob turned easily when he tried it, the door swinging open and flooding the hallway with light. He didn’t have a chance to take in anything else before something hit him in the face.

The projectile, whatever it was, flew straight through the slit in his visor with a metallic clink and stabbed him directly in the eye. Rain had been running Force Ward from the moment he had entered the front door of the building, which was the only thing that saved him. The actual damage from the strike was minimal, completely blocked by his magic, but he still reacted as anyone would upon having a foreign object flung at their face.

“Ah!” he gasped as he stumbled backward, hands rising to protect himself.

“Oh,” said Velika’s weary voice. “It’s you.”

Rain pulled the object free of his visor with some difficulty, then stared at it with disbelief as he realized what it was.

Who throws a spoon?

He looked up from the innocuous piece of cutlery to see Velika staring at him, an annoyed expression on her face. A few other details of the scene hit him harder than the spoon had. For one, she was naked from the waist up.

“Shit,” he said, looking away. “Sorry, I didn’t know you weren’t dressed.”

Velika snorted. “Like I care. Give me my damn spoon back.”

Rain blinked. That wasn’t the reaction he’d expected, but then again, the nudity taboo wasn’t nearly as strong in this society as it was in his own. Warily, he entered the room, returning his gaze to the Citizen as he passed her the improvised projectile.

She snatched it roughly from his hand and turned back to the bowl of soup that she had clearly been eating before he’d barged in. Rain couldn’t help but notice the way her bare breasts shifted with the motion. No matter his feelings about her, Velika was physically attractive, though at the moment, she looked like a complete mess.

The hair on one side of her head had been hacked away unevenly, and what remained was a tangled, matted mess. Mercifully for Rain’s composure, she was wearing linen briefs, though they were a far cry from pants. Her left leg was tightly wrapped in bandages, though the right was bare, her dark skin smooth and unblemished.

“Take off that stupid helmet,” Velika said, slurping up a spoonful of soup. “If you’re going to ogle me, at least do it right. Get a proper leer or two in.”

Rain shook his head, looking away. The room was a disaster, and it reeked with the odor of sex and stale sweat. The huge bed was a mess of tangled sheets, and there were crumpled clothes and discarded dirty dishes everywhere.

“I said, take it off,” Velika said.

“I’d rather not,” Rain said. “Someone just threw a spoon at my eye.”

Velika laughed. “It was a good shot, wasn’t it? I wasn’t even looking. Take it off, coward.”

Rain sighed and reluctantly raised his visor. This seemed to satisfy the Citizen, as she stopped glaring at him and returned her attention to her soup.

“Why are you here?” she asked.

“I needed to talk to you,” Rain said, carefully looking anywhere but at the Citizen. A bead of sweat rolled down his forehead. “I can come back in a little bit if you—”

“Stop that,” Velika interrupted, setting down her spoon and standing to face him.

“Stop what?”

“Looking at the wall when you’re talking to me. What are you, a fucking prude or something? Raised in an Ellish monastery?”

“No,” Rain said, looking back at her. “It’s just really awkward being fully dressed and talking to someone who isn’t.”

“Better,” she said, with a snort of amusement. She pointed vaguely in the direction of the bed. “Two ways to fix that. Either you get out of that armor and we have some fun, or you get me a shirt.”

Rain moved hurriedly to get her a shirt. There was no way in hell he was going to even entertain her first suggestion, whether she’d been serious or not.

Velika sniffed as he handed her the garment, setting down her spoon and standing up. “Your loss,” she said, pulling it on. Rain belatedly realized that the shirt he’d given her was stained.

“Do you mind if I use Purify?” Rain asked, trying not to think about what kinds of liquids might have caused the stain in question.

“Do what you want,” Velika said, abandoning her half-finished bowl of soup and letting herself fall face-first onto the bed. The heat had faded from her tone, to be replaced with resignation. “It’s not like it matters,” she said, her voice muffled by the bedding.

What the hell is wrong with her? I was expecting a lot of yelling and maybe having to run for my life, not…this. Rain activated Purify, banishing the foul odors from the air and purging the remains of food from the dishes lying scattered about the floor. He knew depression, but he’d never let his apartment get to anything even approaching this level of squalor. Something was seriously wrong. He switched to Refrigerate and cooled the hot and humid air, stopping when fog started to form, not wanting to make everything damp. It was still warm, but significantly better than it had been.

Velika turned her head to peer at him with one eye. “I forgot how handy you were.”

Rain walked over to the chair Velika had been sitting in before and sat down, noting that the soup hadn’t disappeared from the bowl. Purify must have still considered it to be food. It was steaming, slightly, the liquid still warm despite his use of magic.

“Where’d the soup come from?” he asked, looking at her. A nice, innocuous question seemed like a good place to start the conversation. “I didn’t see any servants or anything.”

“They’re around,” Velika said with a sigh. “Carten made the soup, though. He said it was an apology. You better not have evaporated it with your spell. I wasn’t finished.”

“Carten made soup?” Rain said, raising an eyebrow.

“Soup fixes everything,” Velika said, blowing a puff of air out of her nose. She closed her eyes and sighed. “As if.”

Rain blinked. Soup fixes everything? That’s Jamus’s line.

Rain took a deep breath and prepared himself. There was no point waiting any longer. “Velika, we need to talk about the barrier.”

“Fuck the barrier,” Velika said, not looking at him. “If that’s what you’re here for, you’re wasting your time.”

“We need to lower it,” Rain said. “Can you talk to Westbridge, or—”

Velika’s eyes snapped open, and she pushed herself up to a sitting position, glaring at him. “No. I can’t fucking talk to Westbridge.”

“Why not?” Rain said. “I thought the Citizens were linked? If not Westbridge, then one of the oth—”

“No,” Velika said. “The barrier blocks it, you idiot. Fucking Westbridge…” She shook her head. “He was the only one I could contact.”

Rain blinked. “Wait a second, what do you mean, ‘was’?”

“He’s fucking DEAD!” Velika screamed. Rain launched himself to his feet at her sudden outburst, then blinked when he saw that she had dropped her head into her hands. “And so are all of us,” she mumbled.

A sense of dread gripped at Rain as he fought to process what she meant by that, sinking back into the chair. Westbridge is dead? And so are we?

“You don’t get it, do you?” snapped Velika, raising her head to stare at him. “Westbridge told me how the barrier works, Rain. It’s got a list of people it will let through, and that list has exactly one name on it. The name of a dead man.” She tapped her breastbone. “The link told me when he died. I could feel him get cut away. It’s not like it is with the others. I can still feel them, even now. They’re all there, but out of reach. He’s not fucking coming back to let us out. No one is.”

“Fuck,” Rain said. “I mean, I suspected something might have changed, but—”

“The barrier stone won’t work either,” Velika said. “I tried it. Wormed myself down there and spent days fighting with the thing. It’s incomprehensible. I still get a headache just thinking about the things I saw when I touched it. Couldn’t break it either. It’s fucking indestructible Majistraal bullshit.” She sighed. “Westbridge was some kind of genius with that stuff. Old bastard had one foot in the grave and was a giant pain in the ass, but he knew what he was doing when it came to magic.”

“Maybe someone else—” Rain started.

Velika laughed. “Who? One of your shitty bronzeplate mages? One of the nobles? You?” She snorted in amusement.

Rain opened his mouth to reply, but she cut him off.

“This is all the fucking Watch’s fault. If they hadn’t attacked me, then maybe…” She shook her head. “No mage in here is going to be able to do what Westbridge could. Do you have any idea how ridiculous that man was? He was getting weak in his old age, and he still could have killed me like that!” She snapped her fingers.

Rain shook his head. “I’d like to try the barrier stone. Even if that doesn’t work, we can’t just give up. There’s got to be a way to lower it.”

“Oh, there’s a way,” Velika said, her mouth twisting into a sardonic grin.

“How?” Rain asked, leaning forward, scarcely daring to hope.

Velika cackled with a brief bout of manic laughter, then let herself fall back onto the bed to stare up at the ceiling.

“The barrier runs on mana, Rain,” she said softly, raising her hand above her face to stare at her fingers. “People make mana. If there’s no people, then there’s no barrier.” She slashed her hand down faster than Rain could follow, a boom like a gunshot resounding from the wake of its passage. Velika spoke softly in the silence that followed, but not so softly that Rain couldn’t hear her over the ringing of his ears.

“All I need to do is kill every last one of you.”
