Eventually, Khurt managed to get the mug away from Uman and passed it across the table to Rain. “Sorry, it’s not hot anymore. I could warm it for you, but I don't think a fireball would work very well in this closet you’ve got us crammed into.”

Rain smiled, accepting the mug. The middle-aged woman sitting next to the Guild barman sniffed. This was Lady Par, the owner of several of the larger warehouses in the city. “A proper coffee mug should be enchanted to maintain the temperature.” She looked over at Rain and nodded to him. “Good day, Lord Rain. Coffee is a luxury that I had not expected an adventurer such as yourself to value, and I am most pleased that you had your servant provide us with some. I must say, you have a most distinguished palate. You must tell me where you found a supply of the beans. The only person I have found selling them is charging an outrageous price.” She sniffed again. “Infuriating man. I ought to shave that mustache right off of his face.”

Rain smiled, taking a sip of his lukewarm coffee. “Vanna isn’t my servant, but you’re welcome. I paid more for the beans than they were worth, too. I’m happy to share, and I’m glad that you all enjoyed it.”

He knew exactly who Lady Par was talking about, of course. Mlem had bought up a lot of luxuries, such as coffee, and was making a killing selling them to the city’s nobles, gouging them horribly on the prices. Rain would have gotten mad at him for this, but the nobles could afford it. Mlem wasn’t an asshole like the few holdouts that were refusing to lower their prices on food. The man even had a pair of rules to cover the situation: ‘Rule 19: Only a fool extorts the poor,’ and ‘Rule 20: Make the rich pay richly.’ Rain had traded Mlem all of the books he’d purchased back to him, just for a small bag of coffee beans. It was a deal that benefited both sides, though Rain had elected not to mention that he’d memorized the contents of the books and that they were basically paperweights to him.

“Can we start?” asked Vanna, sounding slightly annoyed. She didn’t get along with the others very well, particularly Lady Par.

Rain nodded to her apologetically. “You’re right, Vanna, I made you wait. I’ve got no excuse, and I’m sorry. Why don’t you go first?”

“Don’t worry about it,” Vanna said. “Honestly, you’re a bit weird when it comes to time, Rain. We were the ones who were late yesterday. I didn’t think you meant exactly ninth bell.”

“No, it’s not fine,” Rain said, shaking his head. “It won’t happen again. Now, please, go ahead. How are things going?”

“Well enough,” Vanna said. “We’re up to fifty workers now, and we’re all set on barrels for once. Your deposit idea is working well. People have started bringing them back or just bringing their own containers.”

Rain nodded, motioning her to continue.

“We’ve had a few incidents with people trying to cut the line, but no real trouble. Lord Tett stopped by again, wanted to talk to you about a business partnership. We sent him away.”

“Good,” Rain said.

“You really should hear what the man has to say,” said Lady Par. “Tett might be a greedy bastard, but he is rich. He knows how to handle money.”

Rain shook his head. He wanted nothing to do with Tett. He was one of the ones who’d been hoarding water. While Rain was now charging for barrels, water was still free as long as you brought your own container. Tett had been demanding fifty copper per full barrel. That was a week’s wages for a laborer, a fact of which Rain was well aware. The fifty people working for him equated to 2,500 copper a week. At fourteen copper to the Tel, and eight days in a week, that was 22.3 Tel per day.

“How are the lines?” Rain asked, looking at Vanna.

“Getting longer,” Vanna said. “We still can’t keep up.”

Rain cursed. “Fine, tell Tarny he can recruit another fifty workers. I’ll figure out how to pay them somehow.”

Vanna nodded. “He’ll be elated.”

Rain groaned. 44.6 Tel a day…. I’ve got 113 Tel left. Damn it. Less than three days, and that doesn’t even include other expenses. I shouldn’t have commissioned that damn bodysuit. Is it too late to tell Mlem to give me my money back? Probably. He’ll have already bought the Force Crysts.

“That’s all, Rain,” Vanna said as the silence began to stretch on. “We’re doing okay in terms of organization. I don’t want to bother you with all of the little details.”

“Thank you, Vanna,” Rain said with a sigh. I’ll go hunt slimes, I guess. I might be able to get 50 Tel in a day if I really hustle. It’s a shame more people don’t need their equipment charged. He shook his head and looked over at Khurt. “Khurt, how are things going on your end?”

“Not well,” Khurt said. “You know the Guild. Rankin is making a real fuss, taking down my postings as soon as I put them up. I’ve got two low-level water mages, a brother and sister, who’ve agreed to help, but everyone else is refusing. ‘Adventurers don’t work for free.’ You know how it goes.”

Rain frowned. I did offer to pay them in mana. I guess that wasn’t enough. “What about Mahria?”

“Oh, she’s working. Using that Froststorm spell of hers for any noble who pays her.” Khurt held up his hands. “Now, now, I know you don’t approve, but she and the other few ice mages we’ve got are the only reason the city isn’t boiling right now.”

Rain sighed. “No, I get it. Charging for a service is fine; believe me, I’ve been all over that argument. Just ask Wallace.” Rain mentally ran over his finances again and shook his head. Charging for water would solve so many issues, but he refused to do it. He looked up at Khurt. “It’s just, poor people need help too, you know? Chilling down nobles’ houses is all well and good, but it’s not going to save any lives. I’ve done the math. She’s not going to make even a dent on cooling the whole dome.”

Khurt nodded. “So you say, but you haven’t seen her use Froststorm. She’s an aberrant, Rain, just like you. The spell’s twice as big as it should be when she uses it, and I’ve got no idea how. Oh, and she laughed when I told her about your offer of mana. The nobles are practically drowning her in potions and Tel, to hear her tell it.”

“Fine,” Rain said, rubbing at his temples. Maybe I could get in on that action. It might be faster than hunting slimes, depending on how much they’re paying. Mahria will be pissed if I undercut her, but she can deal with it. I don’t care about her feelings if she’s not going to work with me. He looked back at Khurt. “The water mages, the brother and sister? How powerful are we talking here, and which trees did they take? Do they know Internal Reservoir? Blinding Fog? Pressure Jet?”

“Not sure,” Khurt said. “I’ve never seen them fight.”

“Please find out. If they can use Blinding Fog and Reservoir, have them tank up on cold water and walk around the residential district, making as much fog as they can. We need to cool people down. If it’s just Hydrodirection and Condense, so be it. Send them to Vanna and have them help fill barrels. I’ll pay in mana, as I said.”

Khurt nodded.

“And the other two things I asked you to look into, any leads?”

“No, sorry,” Khurt said, running a hand over his bald head. “Nothing new there. I still haven’t found anyone who knows how to enter their soul or anyone who’s got a depth gauge.”

“Don’t worry, Rain,” Uman said. “If it happens, all us dulls are dead.” He punctuated this statement by wiggling his hand in the sign for fate. “Not like we could stop it, even if we knew. Beats starving to death.”

“Pardon, what are we talking about?” said Lady Par casually. “The dulls dying, I mean, not the soul thing. Oh,” she said, stopping suddenly. “You asked me to look into that too, didn’t you? I’ve got no real leads, I’m afraid. None of my friends knew, though Lady Ceft did say her cousin’s granddaughter once ran into a hermit who lived in a cave behind a waterfall. She didn’t say where, though. Not in Fel Sadanis, certainly, but isn’t that the kind of thing you said to look for, Lord Rain?”

“I wasn’t serious about that,” Rain said, looking at her in disbelief. “It was just a random thought.”

“Ah, my mistake,” said Lady Par. “Anyway, back to my original question. What is Uman talking about? And what’s a depth gauge?”

“It’s a piece of adventurer kit,” Khurt said. “Not very common. It tells you the rank of an area.”

“Ah,” said Lady Par. “Of course. I knew that.”

“Sure you did,” said Vanna sarcastically, giving the noble a look.

“I simply misremembered the name,” Lady Par said with a sniff, not even looking at Vanna. She instead directed her gaze to Rain. “Why do you want one?”

“Rain thinks a rank shift is coming,” Uman said before Rain could answer.

“Preposterous,” said Lady Par. “Fel Sadanis is stable and rankless. My family has been digging for years, and all we’ve hit are slimes. There aren’t even any caves around here.”

Rain shook his head. “You saw the storm yesterday. You tell me that lightning snow every few days is normal, and I’ll believe you. If you can’t, then, well, something is going on. Maybe not rank shift, but something.”

“That’s the Empire,” Lady Par said. “You mark my words, it is their doing.”

“Empire’s gone,” Uman said.

“You don’t know that,” Lady Par said testily. “They’ll kill us all the second that barrier comes down. They’re out there. Hiding in plain sight.”

“Any luck there, Rain?” Vanna interrupted. “With the barrier?”

Rain shook his head, silently thanking Vanna for getting them back on track. “I still haven’t heard from Velika. I checked around where the artifact should be, but I couldn’t find any safe tunnels leading to it. That section of the sewer is blocked off by a collapse.”

“Want me to send some people over?” Vanna asked. “Get started on the digging?”

Rain shook his head. “The water is more important for now, at least, until I talk to Velika. Even if we can get right over it, we have no idea how deep it is. I can’t sense anything down there except broken stone.”

“You really should call her Citizen Sadanis,” Lady Par said. “Proper address is important, Lord Rain.”

Rain shrugged. “Believe me, I don’t think she’ll care. And on that note, stop calling me Lord.”

“But you are a lord,” Lady Par said, smiling. “It is a lord who has the audacity to take command in a time of crisis.” She sniffed. “I would not follow a commoner.”

Rain rested his head in his hands, massaging his temples. The steel of his gauntlets was cold and comforting against his bare skin. “Why don’t you go next, Lady Par.” He looked up. “Unless you had anything else, Khurt?”

“No, I’m done,” said Khurt.

Lady Par nodded, then stood to speak. Rain prepared himself to gnaw off his own arms, just in case things went bad and he needed to escape.

It took Lady Par approximately thirty minutes to describe the latest doings of the myriad noble families in the city, both large and small. The issue was that the noblewoman seemed utterly incapable of staying on topic. Rain needed to understand the nobles if he wanted to work with them, and listening to their gossip was an excellent way to do that, but still. Lady Par was excruciating to listen to, for all that her updates turned out to be surprisingly informative in the end.

Over the course of her rambling monologue, Rain managed to extract the key piece of information that he was after, namely that the food situation was under control for the moment. They had perhaps six week’s worth of supplies for the city, given the current rates of spoilage and consumption. That didn’t count whatever the non-compliant nobles had squirreled away, but there weren’t enough of those to make a significant difference.

Nobles were selfish and petty, as a rule, at least in Fel Sadanis. However, only some of them, such as Lord Tett, were big enough assholes to try and capitalize on the situation. From what Lady Par had told him, most of her peers had simply hoarded a bit of food for themselves and their families, then hunkered down to wait for the situation to blow over.

Apart from the things he’d actually asked her to look into, Lady Par also shared several ‘juicy morsels,’ as she called them. For example, there was the fact that Lord Summerland was cheating on Lady Summerland, and that Lady Summerland not only knew of the paramour in question, but had literally hired the woman to seduce her husband. Useless information? Perhaps. However, it was easier to just let Lady Par talk rather than try to nudge her back on track.

When she was finally finished, Lady Par sat down stiffly. “Ooph,” she said as she collapsed into her chair. “That’s all I have for today, I think, unless you want to know more about the Ranks tournament. Do you play Ranks, Lord Rain? We’d be honored if you’d join us.”

“Thank you, Lady Par,“ Rain said. “Perhaps another time. I am afraid that I am too busy for Ranks at the moment. Uman, if you’d please.”

Uman nodded. “I shouldn’t need long,” he said aloud, sitting up in his chair. Rain had to force himself to keep a straight face. Uman hadn’t signed what he’d said this time. Instead, his hands had said something along the lines of: ‘I thought she’d never shut up.’ Lady Par was friendly and helpful, but damn if she wasn’t long-winded.

“I spoke with Officer Turton again just after sunup,” Uman said in his slurred accent, signing at the same time. Rain quickly directed his attention to the man’s hands to watch for signs he didn’t know. “He says that they’re having trouble calibrating the mindcaster. They don’t have anyone familiar with it in the Lee, so it is taking a while.”

Rain nodded, then signed “continue.” The Watch had sent a small band of scouts to their outpost in Vestvall to retrieve communications equipment, and that party had returned to find the camp that they’d left behind totally destroyed. They’d been back for three and a half days now, and Rain had hired Uman to serve as a conduit of communication through the barrier.

The Lee was a sheltered camp beneath a massive column of stone leaning against the barrier, a remnant of the cataclysmic battle between the DKE and the Empire. The Watch wasn’t in command out there, having merely joined up with the people who had already taken shelter beneath the pillar and given the camp its name.

