“As for new arrivals, another group of traders showed up yesterday, just before the storm got bad,” Uman said. “They were carrying food, which is good. The Lee shouldn’t starve for another two weeks, now. Population is up to about thirty. Turton is focusing on getting the mindcaster working, but if he can’t fix it within another two days, he’s gonna up and leave. Also, he says he doesn’t need me to talk to the Watch inside anymore. They’ve got their own guy sending messages now. Ran into him, actually. Real shifty fellow, don’t think he’s an officer.”

“What did he look like?” Vanna asked.

“Sorry, say that again?” Uman said, looking at her. “I couldn’t see your lips.”

Vanna apologized and repeated the question, to which Uman shrugged. “Short, scrawny, wearing a cloak. Didn’t get a good look at his face. Why?”

Vanna shook her head. “Just curious. The Watch is really taking the Citizen’s rule seriously. Sadanis hasn’t been seen in days, but they still haven’t come out of their strongholds. It’s odd.”

“Not so odd,” said Khurt. “They lost all of their Sentinels, and the Guild lost three silverplates. There’s nobody in the city who even has a hope of stopping the Citizen if she decides she wants them dead. Other than her, the strongest person in the city is probably that Bank enforcer. I can never remember his name.”

“Sannin,” Rain said.

“Anyway,” Uman said loudly, taking back control of the conversation. “Officer Turton also said that there’s someone else out there, but they haven’t come to the camp yet. A woman in a white cloak. She’s been camped out on a hill on the other side of the city from the Lee since before the Watch got there. He finally sent an officer over to check it out, but that was just before I talked to him. I don’t know what he learned.”

Rain had leaned forward the moment Uman mentioned the woman. Ameliah was wearing a white cloak. “This woman, she was alone?”

Uman nodded. “So Turton said. Haven’t looked for her myself. Northeast of the city, near the river. Should be visible from the walls. Kinda far, though.”

Rain took a deep breath and let it out slowly. It’s probably not her. She should have found the others by now, and they’d be with her. I’ll go see for myself. Later. More likely, it’s just some trader… Rain felt a chill as a thought crossed his mind. Or Lavarro… Yeah, with my luck, that’s probably who it is.

“Last thing,” Uman said. “Turton said that the last storm was really bad, the worst he’s ever seen. The winds were fierce, and the cold was brutal. If not for the shelter of the Lee, there’d have been deaths. Turton thinks the woman north of the city must be awakened; otherwise, she’d have never made it through. She’d have been right out there in the worst of it, but there was smoke from her fire this morning.”

It’s not Lavarro. It’s just a coincidence. Her daughter is still trapped in here, though, so maybe… Rain shook his head firmly, then looked back at Uman. “Any news about what happened to the army? Did the traders know about what’s going on in the DKE?”

“Nothing,” Uman said. “They left Southguard before they knew what they were walking into. No word about the army. They just vanished into thin air.”

Rain nodded. He’d expected as much. “Thanks, Uman. Let me know if anything changes. Maybe go with Khurt to the guild and see if you can find anyone who knows how to run a mindcaster. You can give Officer Turton instructions.”

“You got it,” Uman said.

“Well, if there’s nothing else, I think that’s it for today. Same time tomorrow, everyone, assuming I’m still alive. I’m going to see Velika this afternoon.”

“She finally sent for you?” Vanna asked.

“No,” Rain said. “At this point, I don’t think she’s going to. I haven’t heard back from Carten, either. I’m starting to get worried that, well…”

“What?” asked Lady Par.

Rain shook his head. It was seeming more and more likely by the day that Westbridge wasn’t coming back. Something had happened; otherwise, Velika wouldn’t have holed herself up like she had. Rain had been half-expecting her to take her rage out on the remnant of the Watch. Instead, she’d been silent. Somehow, the silence was worse.

“Come on, Rain,” said Khurt, laughing. “That’s cruel. You can’t say ominous stuff like that, and then not finish the sentence.”

“I can, in fact,” Rain said. The others he could trust, maybe, but telling Lady Par would be as good as distributing pamphlets throughout the city saying that the DKE was going to leave them to rot. That would cause another riot, which was the last thing they needed. No, he had to go see Velika and figure out what was really going on. He didn’t want anything to do with the Citizen, but this wasn’t about him. If they couldn’t get the barrier down soon, then it wouldn’t matter if Velika slaughtered everyone or if they all died from a sudden rank shift. They had six weeks, then everyone would starve. They’d be dead all the same.

Velika’s estate, formerly Halgrave’s, was more like a fortress than anything else. So much so, in fact, that Rain suspected it had been at one point. The main building—or keep, he supposed—abutted the city wall and had been constructed from the same large blocks of stone. While it was much less elegant than some of the nobles’ manors that he’d seen, it was more impressive simply due to the apparent age of the building. That said, it looked like it had seen better days. There were a few smaller, newer-looking buildings inside the low wall that sectioned the estate off from the city, as well as another tower, almost identical to the one that Staavo called his home, only taller.

Rain lowered himself down from the balcony he’d been using to see over the wall, then adjusted his armor. It wasn’t fitting right, the temporary padding he had on underneath too bulky in some places, and not bulky enough in others. That annoyance would be solved within a few days, but for now, he just had to deal with it. It would only be an issue if he got into a fight with someone other than Velika. If he got in a fight with Velika, ill-fitting armor would be the least of his concerns.

He grimaced in pain and reached into a pocket, retrieving a white tablet which he popped into his mouth. He chewed briefly, then swallowed and reached for his canteen. The antacids that he’d purchased from Reason were in dire need of some flavoring. It was basically like eating chalk, but it was better than living with the heartburn.

While Rain was feeling better overall than he’d been since escaping his entombment, a few symptoms had remained, namely stiffness in the morning, heartburn, and headaches. The headache showed up when he pushed himself too hard, while the stiffness worsened when he didn’t push himself hard enough. Managing the two was a balance. He had to stay active in both body and mind without overdoing it. The heartburn was random, seemingly unrelated to anything that Rain ate or did. At this point, he was starting to give up hope that he’d recover on his own, only taking comfort in the fact that his condition didn’t appear to be getting worse.

He lowered his visor and moved deliberately toward the front gate. He’d made sure to charge his armor before he left, and he wasn’t wearing his cloak, so the Dark Regeneration rune hadn’t drained all of the charge away. He was as ready as he could be.

“Oh, look, Breggeh! It’s Rain!” Kettel said as soon as Rain rounded the corner and came into sight of the front gate. Rain waved to both of them. He’d already seen them standing guard when he’d scoped out the place.

“Lord Rain,” Breggeh said as Rain drew to a stop in front of them.

“Rain! I heard ye weren’t dead!” Kettel said, laughing and clapping him on the shoulder. “I was gonna come an’ see ye, but ye know how it is.” He released Rain and lifted his collar to show him the hawk pinned to his lapel. “Gotta’ job to do.”

“It’s good to see you, Kettel. Breggeh.” Rain said. Reluctantly, he flipped up his visor again. “I’m here to see her.”

“I figured,” Kettel said. “Go on in, I ain’t stoppin’ ye.”

“Kettel, she said no one gets in,” Breggeh said. “Even if it’s Rain, don’t you think we should go and ask, first?”

Kettel shrugged. “Ask who? Captain Carten? I’m sure as hells no askin’ the Citizen ‘erself. She’d rip me ‘ed clear off.”

“Yes, the captain,” Breggeh said. “Of course that’s who I meant.”

“Wait, Captain Carten?” Rain said, looking between Kettel and Breggeh. “You mean Carten is in charge?”

“Yup,” said Kettel. “Citizen Sadanis is just lettin’ ‘em handle things. You know ‘em, right? The captain?”

Rain nodded absently. Who would willingly put Carten in charge of anything?

“Well, there ye go then, Breggeh,” Kettel said. “Captn’d just let ‘em in anyway. S’no point in askin’.”

Breggeh sighed. “Fine. Sorry, Rain, I just don’t want to get in trouble. She doesn’t seem to care what we do, as long as we stick around. Arlo left once, and, well…”

“Well, what?” Rain said, concern growing in his stomach. “What did she do?”

“Tracked ‘em down,” Kettel said. “Gave ‘em this whole speech about betrayal, then broke his arm an’ dragged ‘em back.” He held up a hand. “Don’t worry, we snuck ‘em a healing potion. He’s fine. Well, mostly fine. Doesn’t leave his room much. Did ye hear his da’ got killed?”

Rain nodded, sadly. “Yeah, I did hear about that. I’ll go visit him once I’m done with Velika. See how he’s doing.”

“That would be nice of you,” Breggeh said. “When you talk to the Citizen, just…be careful what you say. She’s not exactly stable.”

“I know,” Rain said. “Carten left me a letter. That’s part of why I’m here. How are you two holding up?”

“Well enough,” Breggeh said. “I’m getting plenty of time to practice my kata. I’m making good progress. My husband came to visit yesterday. I told him to just stay here, but he’s afraid of the Citizen.” She smiled sadly. “It was nice to see him, all the same.”

Rain rubbed his neck awkwardly. They’re like prisoners, just without the bars…

“Oi, Rain, check this out!” Kettel said, then pointed at a line of wooden buckets that someone had arranged on top of the courtyard wall a few meters away. “Firebolt!”

There was a brief flash of heat, then a small bolt of fire flickered into existence at the tip of Kettel’s finger and shot toward the buckets, missing them altogether. The spell flew for a few more meters, then detonated in mid-air with a pop when it reached the end of its range.

“Shit,” Kettel said. “Missed.”

“So you’re going Fire Mage, then?” Rain said. “I’d have thought you’d have stuck with staff, or maybe gone for a brawler class.”

“O’course not!” Kettel said, laughing. “Jus’ cuz I liked a good scrap, it don’t mean I don’ wanna blow stuff up!”

“I guess that’s my mistake, then,” Rain said. “Call it a failure of imagination. It’s not like any of you had any other options for fighting before. Of course you’d pick up some magic.”

“Failure of imagination…” said Breggeh slowly. “I haven’t heard that phrase before. It’s a good one.”

Rain nodded. “I suppose. Well, Kettel, if you’re going to be a mage, then that staff of mine isn’t going to be much use to you, being made of metal and all.”

“Oh, yeah, I almost forgot about tha’. Hang on, Rain, no need ta Wukong me. I’ll go grab it. Left it in me room cuz I couldn’t get it ta shrink like ye do.” Kettel darted away before Rain could reply.

“You never did explain what a Wukong was,” said Breggeh. “Is it some kind of monster?”

“Monkey King,” Rain said with a shrug. “He’s from this ancient myth from…” Rain paused and shook his head. “Anyway, he’s stupid strong and immortal in like sixteen different ways.”

“Huh,” Breggeh said. “Where are you from, anyway? Your accent is from Fel Sadanis for sure, but you say the strangest stuff sometimes.”

“Far away,” Rain said with a shrug. He’d gotten used to avoiding that particular question at this point. “How about the others? Bosco? Rina? Samson? They okay?”

Breggeh nodded. “Yeah, they’re fine, given the circumstances. Rina’s slime is getting huge.”

“Huh,” Rain said. “Maybe I should ask her about how pet monsters work. I’ve got my own slime too, now, if you didn’t know. I’m not sure what people have heard about what I’ve been up to. I’m not used to this whole fame thing.”

Breggeh shrugged. “A slime, huh?”

Rain nodded. “Yeah. He doesn’t listen to me, though. I only got him to stay at the bathhouse by locking him in the storeroom. I feel kinda bad about that, but he’s got a short memory, so he’ll probably just forget about it once I’m back.”

“He?” Breggeh asked. “Slimes have gender?”

“Not really,” Rain said. “At least, I don’t think they do. A friend’s daughter decided that Dozer was male, and since then, I’ve just kind of gone with it. Easier than trying to argue with a seven-year-old.”

Breggeh smiled. “I suppose it is. My own daughters are the same way. I wish I could go see them.”

Rain winced, and the conversation stalled. Mercifully, there were only a few moments of awkward silence before Kettel returned and tossed Rain the Quickstaff. Rain snagged it out of midair and retracted it in one smooth motion, then slipped it into a pouch.

“How do ye do tha’, anyway?” Kettel asked, gesturing to the pouch. “Make it smaller, like?”

“Mana Manipulation. Magical Utility tree.” Rain said. “It lets me power the activation rune on the staff. It does the retraction thing all on its own. I told you about Mana Manipulation before, didn’t I?”

“Oh, yeah, that ye did,” Kettel said. “Workin’ me way there. Anyway, I ran inta’ Captain Carten. He knows yer here. Says ta meet him in the study. Second door on the left once ye get inta’ the main hall.”

“Show me?” Rain said.

Kettel shrugged. “Ye can’t miss it. ‘Sides, he said he wanted ta talk ta ye alone. Also told me ta get back ta guardin’.”

“Right,” Rain said. “Well, hang in there, you two. Hopefully, I’ll be able to get Velika to let you go, or at least take a break or something.”

“Don’t…” Breggeh hesitated, then shook her head. “Thanks. Just don’t say anything to piss her off.”

