“I was going to suggest it myself, or rather impose upon your lovely concubine to do so in my stead.” With a suffering sigh, Sung-Hoon shakes his head. “You don’t understand how hard it is working under a social recluse. Lucrative deals can be made or broken based on face alone, and my meagre status is far from influential enough to represent your lofty interests.” Opening the door to the meeting room, he offers a sweeping bow and gestures for me to enter first, far too much pomp and circumstance for me to stomach. “Then again, were you a different sort of man, I’d hardly have this opportunity to ride your coattails to success.”

“Hardly riding my coattails. I provide ideas and little more, you and your father do the lion’s share of the work.” Taking a seat at the table, I pour him a cup of tea and raise my cup in a toast. “To a valued partnership, in which I do so little and gain so much.”

Chortling as he accepts the toast, we continue going over the nitty gritty of our business venture, the documents all laid out for Luo-Luo's inspection. In a mere two weeks, Sung-Hoon has accomplished more than I thought possible, not only training a basic workforce and creating a supply chain, but even moving on to more advanced projects like bellmaking. The advantage of working with an established merchant powerhouse is starting to show itself, and I’m not talking about his family connections. Having a large pool of talent to draw from makes things so much easier. Organization and communication are crucial in a new undertaking like ours, and experienced administrators make a world of difference. With so many managerial skills being transferable, they only need to learn the details of their new job and are less overwhelmed than someone learning everything from scratch. More than one administrator has spotted and resolved a crisis before Sung-Hoon or I even knew there was a problem, and if not for their help, we’d still be arguing about what products to focus on instead of securing profitable military contracts.

Seriously profitable. Sickeningly so, even. Getting the infrastructure in place was the hardest part, and I probably made it more difficult with my demands for fair treatment, but the kid rose to the occasion and did his job well and is ready to reap the profits. Our cookware is priced at eighty percent of the copper equivalent, but in comparison, our material costs work out to be less than a tenth, while labour even less so since we don’t need skilled craftsmen to hammer things out. All we need to do is bring in the unrefined iron ore, which is priced in coppers by the kilogram, melt it down in the special furnaces designed by Husolt and Diyako, then pour the molten iron into the specially designed moulds, and voila. Cast iron pot or pan, with zero skilled labour required. Scale these profits up to the level of giant warning bells, and if the Legate waits another month before sending his assassins after me, then I will die a disgustingly wealthy man.

A small consolation, I suppose.

As usual, Luo-Luo takes the lead in our daily meeting with Sung-Hoon and they discuss the nitty gritty details while I snack and play with Blackjack all by my lonesome. After the first meeting, I wanted to send Luo-Luo by herself, but she put her foot down and refused to attend the meetings without me, though why I have no idea. Ever since Yan joined my happy little harem, Luo-Luo has gone from eager and enthusiastic to cold and apathetic. Outside these meetings, she spends most of her time inside her yurt and doesn’t speak unless spoken to, only coming out to ride Mafu around when I’m out in the bay with Ping Ping or meditating in my yurt. She even stopped dressing all sexy, which I suppose is a blessing since Mila is already jealous enough and Yan made it clear she doesn’t like to share, but honestly, it couldn’t have come at a worse time.

I was starved of sex for the longest time, then Yan showed up and blew my mind. We had one incredible night of passion together, and then, not three days later, she left with Grandpa Du, after we were betrothed but before we could find time to... get together again. Mila left too, not that there was much chance of anything happening there, and as sweet and loving as my adorable wifey Lin is, she’s adamant we wait until she’s twenty. It’s not fair, any time I make a move, she scrunches her nose and gives me this adorable glower which makes me feel so damned guilty for wanting to...

And now, it seems I’ve blown my chance with Luo-Luo, which is a shame. Despite our rocky start, I’ve come to appreciate her brilliant mind as well as radiant beauty and voluptuous body. She had the foresight to suggest Sung-Hoon stockpile iron ore before our competitors drive the price up, and immediately understood the value of purchasing futures as soon as I explained the concept. For less coin than I keep in a single boot, we secured the purchasing rights to enough iron ore to keep us in production for three years, essentially locking in our price and protecting us from unsavoury market manipulation. I wasn’t joking when I said I barely lifted a finger, because with Luo-Luo here, there was no need to.

Beauty and brains, only lacking in brawn. Oh well. I’ll respect Luo-Luo’s decision, and this is probably more in line with how she truly feels. I suppose the sex-kitten act was just that, an act, what she thought I expected of her, and since she now knows I’m not a lecherous, wanton manwhore who will fuck anything that moves, she feels more comfortable being herself, a quiet, reserved woman who enjoys... I dunno, sitting around in her yurt, slow quin rides around the camp, and making passive aggressive comments about things she warned me about but I ignored, like my current stalemate with the Legate. Whatever, the bottom line is, I will not pressure Luo-Luo for sex, no matter how ridiculously horny I may be. I have three wives who love me, and while they can’t love me right now, I can wait. It’s no big deal. I survived for years without sex, so what’s a few more weeks?

Of course, given how things are proceeding, those few weeks may very well be the rest of my life...

Ugh. How much longer until I can go to war?

Chapter Meme
