From her position, Tabitha had a clear view of Aaliayh getting flung off the winged serpent’s back, and immediately moved to catch her young apprentice. She was beyond worried for her, but at the same time, she couldn't stop herself from smiling maniacally.

Tabitha couldn't be prouder if she tried. Not many were crazy enough to try such a stunt, let alone succeed!

Leaping, Tabitha caught Aaliyah in a princess-like carry before she could slam into the hard ground. The girl groaned loudly in Tabitha's arms due to the rough landing, but that just meant she was alive.

Across from them, the snake was still squirming due to its multiple injuries. However, even as it rolled around and twitched unnaturally due to its spinal injury, it never took its one good eye off Tabitha and Aaliyah.

"Did I get it?" Aaliyah groaned deliriously as she slowly regained consciousness.

“And then some,” Tabitha smiled down at her proudly.

“It’s not attacking us?” Aaliyah asked, confused, when she noticed the distinct lack of violence being forced upon them. “Do we make a break for it?” She questions as Tabitha helps her stand on her own two feet, albeit a little woozy.

"No, it's not letting us go anywhere," Tabatha tells her, sounding sure of herself.

“Even with everything we’ve done to it?”

“Especially because of what we’ve done.” Tabitha steps protectively in front of a swaying Aaliyah. “There’s no going back for it; it’s lost too much fighting us.”

“Please, it’ll just heal,” Aaliyah hisses as she finds her footing.

“No,” Tabitha replies bluntly. “It could heal from the injuries you gave it, but not from mine. Even with its vitality, it won’t be able to grow another eye. It’ll scab over and close but not regenerate. It'll have lost an eye for nothing if it lets us leave now."

“Well, shit,” Aaliyah swears.

“Shit, indeed,” Tabitha nods in agreement.

Just then, the winged serpent goes eerily still. Its tar-like blood was still leaking from its injured eye, and its neck still hurt, but none of that mattered to it anymore.

An eerie silence falls over the dead clearing as the lesser dragon stares down the two women with its remaining eye. Time seemed to pause for all parties involved as that single slitted orb refused to look away.

Soon, Aaliyah and Tabitha feel their hair begin to stand on end, and for good reason. They watch as the massive snake slowly tilts its head back until its mouth faces the sky, all while keeping them in view.

Then, they feel it, a pulling sensation. It was coming from the winged serpent, but it wasn’t physical—it was magical. The beast was pulling in all traces of its mana from the air.

In a matter of seconds, the winged serpent’s mana zone was gone; it had absorbed all of it back into its body.

“Fuck, it’s entering its second stage.” Aaliyah felt a chill run down her spine as she could've sworn she could hear boss music faintly playing in her head.

“I don’t know what that means, but it does appear it is powering up for something big.” Tabitha’s voice was slightly grave, but she was still smiling.

It didn’t need to be said that this was the final stage of the battle. The lesser dragon was activating its ace in the hole. The question was, did Tabitha and Aaliyah have any more cards to play themselves?

Either way, the battle would resume.

Time remaining: three minutes and forty-three seconds.
