The wind blows through my hair as the sun rises. Past the mountain range they call the High Passes, which divides Izril in half, a fierce breeze blows north, and I wonder if it’s come all the way down from those peaks hidden among the clouds. It blows down past the screaming Goblins trying to kill me and catches an arrow mid-flight. 
The arrow zings well wide of my face, and the wind chills the sweat on my skin. It’s a good feeling. The wind. People often underestimate how a brisk breeze can change your day.
And on this day, when the sky is blue and clear without a cloud, who wouldn’t want to be outside? The air’s chilly with the hints of winter coming, and the breeze is better than air conditioning.
It’s a perfect day for running. I’ve run through bad days when the heat can drop a horse, and I’ve run through thunderstorms, typhoons, and even dog crap. Twice. And while I can grit my teeth and keep running even when the wind’s against me, I live for the days when it has my back.
Oh, right, the Goblins. They’re still sprinting at me, but here’s the thing—they’re short. And they’ve been waving their shortswords for the last ten minutes. Aside from the one with the bow—which is a concern despite the terrible aim—the others aren’t that quick.
The one in front is clutching at his side. Her side? I see a hopeful mouth of teeth turn into a smile, so I turn and start sprinting. 
The grass is knee-high, and I grin at the screech of dismay from behind me. I’m not sweating much despite the hard run, and my eyes fix on the ground, what I can see of it. It’s been a great run so far, despite the Goblin ambush.
There’s a reason my eyes are on the ground, not my pursuers. A large rock appears in the grass, and I hop over it just in time. Careful. At the speed I’m running, I can easily break a foot if I trip over one. I’ve split my toenails more than once by kicking rocks at high speed. Not fun.
Keep running. Actually, scratch that. Run faster. The wind blows against my face, and I smile again. It’s the small things that make life good. Like the wind.
The wind cools you down. It gives you something to run against; makes you feel alive. It also helps throw off arrows when people are shooting at your face.
An arrow flies through the air, and I change my course slightly. It slices through the air past my left arm. Too close.
I adjust my path and pick up speed. I’m nearly out of the range of the Goblins that have been hunting me. A few more seconds and I’ll lose them.
Goblins. They’re frightening little monsters with red eyes and pointy teeth. They look more like demons, actually. But they’re real enough, and they like eating Humans and, purportedly, even worse. If they can catch them, that is.
One pops out of the grass as I run towards the city in the distance. It’s a larger Goblin than normal, and he’s wearing rusty chainmail and holding a short sword. Damn. A Hobgoblin? That’s what they call them. He must have been circling around this entire time!
He swipes at me at knee-height, trying to cripple me, and I jump. Straight over the blade. The Goblin gapes as I land and then sprints after me.
My legs blur. The Goblin slices at my legs, but I’m already out of range. He runs as fast as he can, but I pull away so quickly that it’s like he’s standing still.
“Nice try.”
I mutter under my breath as I keep running. I don’t have the time or air to actually say that out loud, of course. Besides, I’m not good at comebacks. Or…insults. Either way.
The Goblin stops after a few more feet and howls at my back. I ignore him and keep running. After a while, I hear the Goblins’ shrill war cries end as they give up the chase.
After what feels like a few miles or, to be more worldly, a few kilometers, I stop. I do a quick scan of the area around me. Shorter grasses dominate this gentle downwards slope. Looks like I’ve lost the Goblin tribe.
I take a few deep breaths and wipe at my forehead. Not much sweat. Good. I’d be worried if I got tired that quickly.
“Whew. So that was my first ambush.”
What a way to start the morning. I’d be lying if I said it was normal, but I can get used to anything. I think. I could have used a bagel and some coffee on the streets of the greatest city in the world*, but this is far more exhilarating. Unless I got run over by a cab or something.
 
*Obviously, New York.
 
It would have been close if they’d fully encircled me. I shouldn’t take shortcuts through the high grass like that—especially when I have such valuable cargo.
Is that how they knew how to get me? I check the rucksack I’m carrying and feel a thankfully intact piece of glass inside the leather container. I don’t want to know how much I’d pay if it got broken. And it might have been why the Goblins were after me. Maybe they could detect valuable goods?
“Or Persua, that sallow bitch, tipped them off. Nah, nevermind. Even she doesn’t talk to Goblins.”
I shake my head. Sour grapes. I can just imagine how fuming mad she is right now since I’ve taken ‘her’ delivery. Well, I don’t think she would have enjoyed and/or survived that ambush.
Back to running. After a few seconds, I start walking and then transition into a jog. I could take it easy now the adrenaline has left my veins, but time is money, and soon, I’m back up to speed. Not sprinting speed—I need to conserve as much energy as possible for the emergencies like Goblin attacks, Carn Wolves, bandits, Zombies, Skeletons, Crelers*, and the other nasty things that live in the plains**.
 
*I’ve never actually seen these particular monsters. I’m not even sure if that name is right—they have other nicknames like ‘Tunnel Crawlers’, but they’re a world-renowned threat. Apparently they’re not something you want to meet.
**If I make it sound horrible, it’s only because I’m aware of the possible dangers. At any given time, there’s really not that many monsters lurking around. It’s just that you never know when one will pop up. I checked a bestiary in the Adventurer’s Guild, and they have an entire tome just for the local threats.
 
Anyways, I keep running. I enjoy the wind blowing through my hair for a bit and finally reach the city in question. It looks, well, like most of the settlements I’ve been to over the last week.
Tall, gray walls and spearmen and archers in towers that keep an eye out for monsters. This is Celum, or something like that. It’s a city, one of the southernmost in this region before the High Passes. They have a [Mayor], but they don’t pay fealty to any noble family directly, so that makes them a city-state*. And that’s my destination for the moment.
 
*More like just a city. It’s not that big, but all of the cities have their own form of rule. Some are ruled by a council, others have elected leaders like we do back at home, and some still have lords and ladies, although apparently the nobility isn’t in charge everywhere, which is something. The point is they all band together if threatened, but they have their individual squabbles and goals. Just like the good old USA.
 
I approach the open gates. A guard’s on duty next to a winch so he can slam the gates shut if a dangerous person approaches or if they’re really ugly, but he doesn’t even twitch as I approach.
“Hoy there.”
He greets me. At least, I think it’s a greeting. It’s more like a curt nod, and he’s blinking sleepily in the dawn light. He probably hopes I’ll just trot into the city, but unluckily for us both, I’m trying to be at least somewhat responsible. I wave at him as I slow down, and he begrudgingly stands a bit taller.
He has…well, what I’d charitably call a ‘mustache,’ but it’s more of an attempt at one. I guess he’s either too young or not gifted with facial hair. Aside from that, he’s wearing cheap leather armor, and he has a sword. Between that Hob and this guy in a fight, I’d give it to the Hob, but that’s what walls and the other members of the guard are for, I guess.
“Hm? Something wrong, Miss Runner?”
He looks me up and down, and I notice his eyes finding my feet. Bare feet. I smile at him—and my stomach clenches. I hate talking to new people, so I gesture awkwardly behind me.
“Goblins. A few miles outside the city. A group jumped me.”
The [Guardsman] blinks, and suddenly, I have his attention.
“Goblins? How many? Are you hurt, Miss?”
“No…I don’t know, two dozen? And a big one, a Hob?”
“Hobgoblin? Two dozen Goblins…another tribe. Dead gods, and there are [Traders] on the road. Where, exactly?”
“The—tall grass over there? Only three miles?”
I point in the vague direction I came, and the [Guardsman] peers as if he thinks he can see them.
“That’s not good. We need to send a patrol out and hire a Bronze-rank team. Silver, maybe…you outran them, Miss? Did they have bows?”
“One or two. They missed.”
I grin, and he gives me a strange look as if he doesn’t believe me. It’s hard to hit a moving target! But then he’s looking around.
“I need to inform the Watch Sergeant. And—could you wait here, Miss? I’ll need you to show me the rough area where they are for the Adventurer’s Guild and the Watch—”
Ah, shit. That’s what I get for trying to help. I raise my hands as I begin to jog forwards.
“Sorry, I wouldn’t know the exact spot. Just over there. They probably ran off. Listen—I’m a City Runner. I’ve got to go.”
“But the Goblins—”
“I’m on a priority delivery! For Magnolia Reinhart!”
“Lady Reinhart?”
The [Guardsman] hesitates, and his face screws up in agony. Yep—this is just like home. He’s clearly weighing being responsible for me being late. He curses, then waves me through.
“If you can circle back this way, Miss—I’m Guardsman Wesle! Any help you can render the Watch would be greatly—”
His voice is already receding as I hurry down the cobblestone street. Yeah, right. No offense, but I’m not walking for an hour while people say, ‘is it this patch of grass they popped out of?’ I did my best. Won’t take this gate on the way out.
Hard cobblestone replaces grass, and I slow down a bit, cursing. Now, instead of stones or sticks, I’m looking out for bits of glass, crap, and other hazards on the street.
From a fast run I slow down to a jog, but not the kind that you see on TV most of the time. I hate the stupid bouncy run actors pretend to do, which clearly misses the point of running. Jogging, like sprinting or walking or anything else, should be fluid and concise. You don’t waste energy looking like you’re standing on a pogo stick. 
They have no form. But then, I’ve heard that said about how actors handle guns, do action fights, and about anything else. And my expertise is running.
Let’s see. I’ve never been to Celum, but pedestrians are already out and about despite the early hour. Good. I’d hate to have to wait. I navigate down the streets, using the wooden signs posted above the streets for guidance. There’s a sidewalk to allow the wagons and other wheeled transports and horses to travel about, but few are on the road and I’m in a hurry, so I head straight down each street.
It’s great that everyone around here speaks and writes in English. How amazingly annoying* would it be if they wrote or spoke a different language? But by some contrivance of fate, English is the dominant language in this world. Of course, other languages exist, but apparently, most species know English. And they write it in Human lands.
 
*And realistic.
 
Anyways. As I slow down to let a cart go by, I think of what the guard said. He seemed amazed I got out of the ambush unscathed, and I have to admit—I was caught off-guard at first. Running means tunnel vision a lot of the time. And, uh, I’m bad about seeing everything at once, even when I don’t have an iPod blasting music* in my ears. Maybe I should run without my headphones in?
 
*Pop. And rock. And techno, but that’s hit-or-miss. Look, if I can run to it, I will. I have a soft spot for country music, but it’s hard to keep up speed when I’m listening to a harmonica’s croon. Country is for crying or nostalgia. At least, that’s the only kind of song I download.
 
At last, I reach my destination. By which I mean I reach a tall stone façade of marble and gaze up at a fancier class of painted wood door than I’ve seen elsewhere. Unlike the other houses which enter onto the street, this is a proper mansion within the walls.
It has a walkway and a garden past an iron gate and more glass than any other building in the city, I swear. Whoever lives here can obviously afford it; she’s hired me. But she even has a glowing magical light spell affixed to a little lantern next to the gate.
A magical spell. To be precise, a glowing crystal, which is this world’s version of a lightbulb, only the glow is gentler and comes from within the entire crystal, rather than a filament burning hot with electricity.
Magic. But not everyone can afford a damn magic light. Nor is just anyone titled like the owner of this mansion. I only have to check once.
Lady Magnolia Reinhart. Yep, this is her place. One of her places, as I understand it, but from the shockingly pink carriage* sitting to the side of the mansion…I’d guess that she’s here.
 
*Garishly pink, really. I mean…there’s pink, a subtle color not often found in the natural world, and then there’s the pink you get on princess dolls. The pink that sears the eyes. That pink is on the entire damn carriage in various shades. It offends my very soul. Even the horses don’t seem to be near it; it’s unhitched, and I pity the poor people who have to stare at that all day. Some people have no taste.
 
I take a few deep breaths. This is the part I hate the most. But it has to be done, so I steel myself. And hesitate. I take another deep breath, worry about hyperventilation, and then trot up the garden path and take the brass knocker and bang it a few times.
I really do hate this part the most.
 
——
 
Celum, just past dawn.
 
The instant Lady Magnolia, a member of the Human nobility in the northern part of the continent of Izril, opened the door, she clasped her hand to her heart.
“Oh my! Are you here with the delivery already?”
She personally opened the door, despite the pair of [Maids] hovering behind her and the [Butler], who stood to attention behind both. It was so fast it caught the nervous young woman outside by surprise, and she backtracked a few steps before nodding hastily.
“City Runner at your service.”
