The Marilith Demon frowned. “That's not much fun.”

“You've never tried to catch a greased pig.” Ren chuckled. “I didn't say anything about feeding them to you, so don't worry. You'll have fun... or lots of frustration.”

The Marilith Demon nodded her acceptance and looked at her sister. “I hope you will be visiting a lot.”

“Well, Ren has secured the Dark Elven Kingdom's future, so I don't have much to do besides running two kingdoms.” Lylyth said.

“Two?” The Marilith Demon asked, and Lylyth nodded.

“I'll tell you more when I visit tomorrow.” Lylyth said and opened a portal back home. Her familiar made it bigger for her and scampered through, and she knelt for Ren. “Thank you, Royal Consort.”

“I'm just glad I could make you happy again.” Ren said and kissed her top lip.

“You have.” Lylyth said and kissed his lips and his chin. “Goodbye, dearest.” She stood and stepped through the portal.

“Goodbye, My King.” Tiatha, the Dark Elf healer said. “Thank you for inviting me to see you fight.”

“I'm sorry we didn't get to spend any time together.” Ren said, and she felt his sadness.

“Don't fret, heart of my heart.” Tiatha said. “I will see you again and we will have more personal time.”

“I look forward to it.” Ren said and kissed her. She wrapped her arms around him and her passion flooded into him. He responded as he remembered their last encounter, and she caught her breath as he fed her those emotions.

Tiatha broke the kiss and stared at him. “I look forward to it as well.” She let him go and stepped through the portal, then it disappeared.

“I need to go as well.” Ren said to the Marilith Demon. “I'll be back to see you tonight for a few minutes.”

“That's not nearly long enough.” She said, and he laughed.

“It will be.” Ren said. “See you then.” He left the room and went downstairs to meet Elise, Lara, and Denise. “Thanks for coming and supporting me.” He said, and they each hugged him.

“Remind us to never piss you off.” Denise said. “In the game, anyway.”

Ren laughed. “I will.” He said. “You're welcome to stay...”

“No, it's pretty damned crowded in here.” Denise said. “I'll go find an inn or something.”

“Just stay at the Refugee Center I had built behind the house.” Ren said. “It's for people that don't have anywhere else to go.”

“That's a good idea.” Denise said. “I'll do that.”

“Before you go, take this with you.” Ren said and took out a crate from inventory.

“What is it?”

“Everything that an Amazonian Barbarian will ever need.” Ren said. “Thousands of bikinis and shoulder plates.”

Denise laughed and shook her head. “You're incorrigible.”

“I'm just joking.” Ren said and grinned. “There's only about 30 bikinis.” He said, which made them all laugh.
