“While I have kept to the treaty and not entered the world once it was claimed, I have gone over the information. And let me note that, while the exploration team did continue to extract resources from the world while it passed through Empire territory, they did so only once they believed it was impossible for the Empire to lay claim to the planet, and as such I will accept no such accusations of banditry or anything of the like.”

Seeing Clyde wait for a response, Liz nodded their collective acceptance of his stance, even though Duke Plessi looked like he wanted to retort.

That settled, Clyde continued. “They continued doing so because of one of the features of the world. If we might enter and inspect things more closely, I believe the best method of how to settle the ownership of the world will present itself.”

Matt was intrigued, as their reports hadn’t indicated anything so interesting.

Together, they flew into the speck of light, letting the world pull them into its real space. The collective groups arrived a few miles away from each other in orbit of the world.

Letting his spiritual perception flow down, Matt scanned the planet.

At first it seemed like a bog standard, albeit Tier 15, world. But as Matt’s scan spread further, his eyebrows went into his hairline.

Behind them, Duke Plessi, who had been waiting for them to arrive, cursed, and Matt turned to him, raising an eyebrow. “Did you know of this?”

The other duke sneered at him. “Obviously not, Ascender Titan, otherwise it would have been in my report. I am not incompetent and I will not take any accusations of such lightly.”

There was an unspoken but very loud ‘I didn’t need you to come and take over the incident’ in his words.

Matt could understand the man's feelings, he had pulled off the coup of the century, getting a tether in place at the absolute limit of the teleportation system’s range in the few hours the world had been inside Empire space. Only to have the Imperial government choose to send Ascenders as the envoys instead of letting him represent their Great Power. In his anger, he seemed to be forgetting they hadn’t chosen to come here of their own volition, and he was treating them like the enemy.

Aster tugged on their bond and signaled for him to let her take care of it, so he floated back.

“Duke Plessi, we can appreciate your work you put into this. We can, as the highest-ranking Imperial representatives, assure you that you will receive full credit for the capture.” His bond’s eyes narrowed as their fellow duke flexed his spiritual perception to speak, and she spoke before him. “That said, we, like yourself, have no control over where the planet in question is allocated. We can and will put in that your duchy should have first dibs, but as I’m sure you are aware, your duchy already has more than the standard allocation of Tier 15 worlds. That means the world will most likely be transferred to another duchy in need of an anchor world for a Count.”

“You say that like it's not going to one of your duchies, or Light or Shadow’s. We wouldn’t have this world at all if it wasn't for me, so I don’t think it's too much to ask that I be given it for my efforts.”

Aster nodded along, agreeing with him. Her words, however, were less agreeable.

“An understandable position, however, an untenable one.” Duke Plessi’s complexion started to lighten as the Tier 37 was angered, but Aster’s glare stopped him in his tracks. “Duke Plessi, you would do well to not ruin your achievements with demerits because of a hot temper. You might find yourself bereft of all benefits if you aren't careful. We understand your plight and will offer our recommendation up to High Command and the Imperial government. But ultimately, it's not our choice either. We, like you, serve at the whim of the Royals, and it is up to them to decide where the world goes.”

That seemed to sober the man up, and he nodded stiffly. “Well said, Ascender Wraith. Thank you for the reminder.”

That taken care of, Matt gestured to the world in question. “Even if we get this world, none of us are likely to keep it. Dig deeper, Duke Plessi. I do think this works out in your favor, whether we get the world or not.”

Phoenix Liz let out a long, silent whistle, and even Duke Plessi looked shocked to find a planet-wide ruin deep inside the world.

Close to a mile under the surface level of the otherwise normal planet was a labyrinth of epic proportions that quite literally spanned the entire world.

Even as they watched, portions of the ruin moved and twisted into each other, creating fresh zones seemingly untouched by any delver as rooms seemed to swap places with other rooms halfway across the planet.

Best of all, it was an active ruin, which meant no one had ever cleared it and delved it until it ran out of mana, which would have ‘killed’ the ruin. Since that was the case, the ruin kept expanding and refreshing itself over and over, creating more monsters, more resources, and even more natural treasures.

Most of the time, ruins were cleared to remove their threat, but anyone who was dumb enough to ruin such a unique ruin would have made an enemy out of anyone who cared about long-term profits.

Being a Tier 26, and a strong one at that, Matt was easily able to pierce the surface of the world and the ruin’s inherent protections without too many issues, and could see the ruin was an absolute treasure trove.

So much so that he knew they couldn't just let the Corporations have the world.

Even disregarding the Empire itself, he wanted this world to study the ruin in detail. His aperologists would have a field day with such a unique ruin.

Had the ruin naturally been so large, or had it grown as the rift continuously broke and inverted?

Both were possible.

Tier 15 rifts were fairly large, so it wasn’t impossible that this rift was slightly under standard habitable planet size, but it was unlikely, as rifts tended to only reach that size at Tier 20. But it was possible. Possible, but unlikely.

Ruins over Tier 10 typically ended up in a sort of folded space that acted like a spatial expansion.

Most higher-Tier ruins were, outwardly, only a few miles across at most. But once inside, typically had something closer to the size expected of a rift of their Tier or slightly smaller.

Ruins could, however, grow.

Ruins, despite being inverted into reality, were still rifts, and if not cleared regularly would continue to break as they overflowed with mana. That typically just meant an increase in the number of monsters, but it sometimes led to an expansion of the ruin. With higher-Tier ruins, that usually manifested in an expansion of the inner space of the ruin and a slight, if at all, outward expansion. But with lower-Tier rifts that didn’t inherently have a spatial expansion containing them, they tended to grow outward.

That sort of expansion usually ended up stopping when they ran into other rifts, as they would then start trying to draw in the same mana, which eventually meant the ruin was penned in by its neighboring rifts.

But usually wasn’t always. Sometimes a ruin would overpower the surrounding rifts and expand further.

Matt had never heard of a planetary sized ruin like this, but he suspected that it being almost entirely underground had meant it encountered next to no rifts in its expansion.

There was still the question how the rift, once inverted, had gone so deep into the planet, or how a rift had formed so deep down, even if there had been a natural cavern that deep. But he suspected that was a question never to be answered even with past-sight Talents.

Not that he wouldn’t have his guild try to recreate this beauty.

Or rather, he’d have a dozen teams clamoring for funding to try to recreate not only the ruin itself, but the method in which the rift formed so deep as well.

He suspected he’d be buying the guild a planet to practice more esoteric aperology on sooner than later, but he was excited at the possibility.

Judging from the bemused and doting looks from Aster and Liz respectively, he knew his excitement was written across his face, but he didn’t care.

Rifts were so cool, and too many people took them for granted.

Just below them, there was a unique oddity ready to be explored and he could hear people from both Great Powers talking about the best way to subjugate it.

As if he would allow them to kill the ruin.

Floating over to the Corporations team, he flew into the center where Clyde was surrounded by people like planets orbiting a star.

“Well, you have my interest. What will it cost you to go away and abandon your claim?”

Clyde smiled like the cat that caught the canary. Or a fox who had seen a plump rabbit.

He knew that look all too well, but also knew how to deal with it. “Name your price. One offer, one chance.”

That seemed to catch the business minded Clyde off balance for a moment, before his grin turned into a smirk.

“So the reports about you enjoying aperology are true. Sorry, I can’t just give up the planet. I don't have that authority. We'll have to settle this via our people.”

Matt let his own smile show. The Tier 40 had inadvertently just agreed to settle the ownership of the world via a battle between their Great Powers. His acceptance meant the Corporations could no longer just dig in their heels and claim the planet was theirs, and Matt wasn’t about to waste time letting the Empire side doing so.

“Wonderful to hear. Now, we just need to figure out the method of battle. How would you like to do this? I’m open to suggestions, but I would prefer we leverage our respective militaries and have them push into the center of the ruin. First to secure the rift’s boss room and hold it for a week claims the planet.”

Clyde’s expression went flat as he realized his blunder, but the Tier 40 didn’t react otherwise until he dramatically sighed. “And here I thought I was the puppet master ready to lead you around by your nose, thanks to your interest in the world. I had three speeches ready too. No matter. I can agree to the shape of the bet, but not the details. The Corporations rarely allows its active-duty military to participate in such disputes, and I don’t have the authority to authorize such a maneuver. That is why I brought a number of our nearby mercenary corps.”

Liz, who had drifted into the Corporations area with Aster and their seneschals, snorted. “Pseudo military.”

“Legally civilians.”

Liz didn’t back down. “I’m pretty sure that Stanley's Shock Troops were contracted by the Sects during the last war. Doesn't sound very civilian to me.”

“What private citizens do to earn money isn’t the Corporations’ concern. Complain all you like, but it doesn’t change the fact that they are legally civilians and so must be matched by civilians.”

Aster flicked her tail in disagreement. “That is true, but we can decide to field our military. And according to the treaties, the Corporations have a decade to respond in kind or forfeit. I’m sure you'd find the authority to mobilize the 82nd Independent Army if we did so.”

Clyde took a deep breath before letting it out. If they hadn’t been in outer space and therefore in a vacuum, it would have caused a small hurricane.

“True, but do you three really want to wait? Last I heard, you three were delving to advance. Someone nipping at your heels and throwing rocks through your windows as it were. I’d believe you need to get back for that, and stalling for a decade isn’t conducive to delving.”

Sadly, he was correct, though Matt was perfectly willing to wait the decade if he needed to. They could make up for lost time, but that didn’t mean he wanted to.

At least not when he thought they stood a decent chance at victory given the current allotment of forces. The Corporations might have three mercenary corps ready but the Empire could field more total Tier 15s which he felt would more than even out their experience advantage. And from what he saw from the mercenary corps themselves they weren't anything special meaning they were at best only slightly better than the typical Tier 15 delver.

Connecting to Duke Plessi, the three of them checked the Tier 15 civilian assets that had been gathered in the nearby worlds in the months since the news went out.

It wasn’t as many as they would have liked, but it was enough to give them a fighting chance.

Liz nodded. “Fine, we can work with civilians but we need to hash out the other goals and a point system in case neither side can secure the ruin’s center in, say, a standard year.”

They spent a few more minutes hashing out the details, but in the end, they came to an agreement and separated back into two separate groups.

As if he had forgotten, Matt turned back around and looked to the gathered Corporations leadership. “Oh and if anyone, and I mean anyone, moves to deliberately over delve and kill the ruin, I will treat it as a violation of international treaties on fair competition and an act of war, as well as personal slight to myself.”

He then turned his expression to the Empire leadership and made sure they understood that threat wasn’t just for the Corporations people.

This ruin was far too interesting to allow someone to destroy it.
