Then she was there.
Erin Solstice, before your eyes. She appeared wherever you were—in the rooms of your Wistram accommodations, walking out of a wall like the ghost of Emerrhain—but a better one.
In the tent of the King of Destruction’s war camp, sending an entire army into chaos for fear of assassination or enemy attack. Three blades passed through her before Flos raised a hand and shouted for silence—then turned to her and laughed.
Not just in mighty places—she rolled through a campfire and stopped as Greg slowly began to choke to death on some baked beans. But you had to admit, the more impressive the entrance, the more fun it was.
Nombernaught’s depths. The halls of Fissival. The Earthpact Tent—the new name for the tent that contained the Meeting of Tribes’ great Skill—the Eyetemples of Baleros where Nagas screamed the alarm.
In every continent, Erin Solstice appeared. Past scrying wards. Ignoring magic and blades. Not everywhere, you understand.
Not to every Earther—or even a tenth of them. She could only go places she knew. Or rather…to people she knew.
She had to know their names. A surprisingly difficult task. Erin had only a few. But Ryoka Griffin knew some.
Zara Walker. Ridley Wallis. Thompson Green. Bruce Wayne…no, wait, that one didn’t work. She also knew names of Wistram’s Earthers. Cara’s friends.
Trey Atwood, Aaron, Elena, Greg, Caroline, Geneva Scala—Erin hadn’t stopped there. She had prevailed on the one being who might help her. Luckily, she only needed the first names. Her scrying spell was superior to a Dragon’s.
Palt had obliged Erin in more ways than one. When he realized what she needed, he had put a call back through Ullsinoi.
 
——
 
“Galei. Galei. Wait, is this Taxiela?”
“Go ahead, Palt. Explain to me why I should oblige you.”
“Because I’m your favorite apprentice? Because you want to get on Erin’s good side, and because it’ll be hilarious? Plus, you can try and backtrace the spell.”
“I hear the humor in your voice, brat. You don’t think we can. Alright. Five minutes. Ullsinoi takes the bet. Get ready for a lot of writing. We’ve got the sheet right here.”
 
——
 
That had resulted in a sheet of names, which, thankfully, Palt only had to take the first names of. Not just Earthers from Wistram.
Earthers in general. A few of the ‘later’ Earthers had either memories of specific names of people reported missing or actual pictures of missing lists. Erin had taken the list, and her theater had obliged.
It was still—probably less than a hundred viewpoints when the connection stabilized. But it filled the panes of the [World’s Eye Theatre] overhead. And each one of the hundred viewpoints was unique.
That was to say, Elena was crowding a tent with Trey and Teres and the other Earthers with her. The Earthers in that area of the world didn’t get a viewpoint each. Somehow, the theatre was deciding to consolidate viewpoints.
You could argue that was too powerful—but all they saw and heard was Erin. And she—had her hands over her ears, and so did Ryoka. The Wind Runner raised her voice.
“Stop shouting! We’re getting a hundred people at once—I can’t make a word out! Holy shit, is that—”
She stared at someone out-of-view for all but one perspective and blanched. But Erin just turned her head and spoke.
“Palt. Silence spells. Can you do something? Otherwise, I’m just giving a speech.”
She had considerable poise for being at the center of attention. Either that or she was sitting down so her knees didn’t shake so visibly.
A Centaur trotted into view, recoiled at what he saw, and looked around.
“Dead gods. I can—try. This isn’t a spell that I can see. But we’re getting images, sound—and we can hear whatever’s being said here though. So what if I…”
He waved his fingers, and suddenly, there was a babble of voices so loud that even the King of Destruction, trying to raise his voice to be heard, heard it all.
Including himself.
“—saw you on the scrying orb! Help! I’m—”
“—Erin, you leveled up? Listen, how many people are here? I need to secure—”
“—Fissival! Fissival’s—-”
“—a private word?”
He caught the hints of a Drowned Folk’s voice there. Orthenon frowned, a hand stretched out.
“Was that the Titan? Your Majesty, we are being watched. Our position is open if this scrying spell is being monitored.”
Flos turned his head and nodded, lowering his voice to a whisper.
“Strike the camp. But you will not tear me away from this. Ah, look at that!”
The Centaur had turned off the spell, and he was arguing with Ryoka and Erin in what had to be a [Silence] spell. Then he was trotting around—racing off, waving his arms and shouting at what looked like a Minotauress in robes. They ran off and brought back a giant mirror after a second—then began pointing up at something overhead.
“Amerys? What are they doing? Amerys?”
Flos turned, and the Archmage of Chandrar burst into the tents. She had a bunch of artifacts she began setting up.
“My king—Flos—silence. I need to figure out how we are being watched. If I had to guess, those two are trying to copy whatever that [Innkeeper] sees. Ah, you see? A [Shared Vision] spell on the glass. Clever.”
Palt was carefully, carefully isolating the image of a surprised—and suddenly very self-conscious young woman holding up a book.
Caroline tried to hide her book behind her back as a Drowned Woman practically leapt out of frame. They were on the mirror! Then Flos began to see what Palt was doing.
He was doing what the [World’s Eye Theatre] lacked and taking the visual component and creating a kind of makeshift conference call with mirrors.
“Fascinating. Why didn’t this—whatever Skill this [Innkeeper] is using do that already?”
“Perhaps she just has some kind of scrying artifact? It would not be the first odd thing she’s pulled out of her ass.”
Mars commented, leaning over Trey to see. But Flos’ comment was actually one of the most prescient. Palt was…adding in functionality that made the [World’s Eye Theatre] even more useful.
He wasn’t supposed to be doing that. Too late now to fix it—but he really wasn’t supposed to be—why did they do things in the way they weren’t intended? First chess, now this!
As the scrying spell was turned into a conference call, everyone saw Erin turning and addressing select viewpoints. Her mouth blurred so no one could read her lips, and Ryoka Griffin just looked around. She met Flos’ eyes uneasily, and he grinned. But Orthenon was shoving the King of Destruction out of frame.
“Better to watch, Your Majesty.”
“But—”
Then Flos Reimarch realized that if some Earthers were finding a quiet place to listen to Erin—he wondered who else was listening in. He stepped back and motioned Trey and Teresa and the Earthers forwards.
For a few moments, Erin Solstice spoke to and saw, for the first time in as close to flesh as they could get, her friends and enemies.
 
——
 
“Erin Solstice. Is that you?”
“It’s me. It’s me. You’re…”
If she said, ‘so tiny’, it would have hurt. But it already did, in a sense. He, who performed on the bloody battlefield and the world’s stage so often, was shy.
Because he had not prepared for this. Niers Astoragon was halfway through a breakfast with none other than Geneva Scala. A Squirrel Beastkin woman was eying Erin—she had ducked out of the way the instant she saw what was going on.
But Niers? He looked at Erin, and she was short for a Human. But he was a Fraerling. Erin Solstice looked down at him and finished her sentence as the weary [Doctor] rose, eyes wide.
“…not as scary as I thought you’d be.”
He blinked. And his head rose, and his chest expanded as he took a breath he’d forgotten. Then the Fraerling bowed.
“You’ve leveled up, Erin. And you didn’t tell me over a game of chess first? Splendid way to do it as a surprise. But you’ve put a target on your back.”
“I’ve got a lot.”
She never blinked at that. She was—more forceful than he thought, compared to the reticent speaker who said, ‘everything’s going like normal, what about you?’, when he asked. Erin’s eyes swiveled left.
“Is Foliana there? Hi! I’m glad you’re looking well! And—Geneva. You’re the [Doctor]. You helped bring me back. Thank you.”
“Then you were dead. Can you tell me how you’re feeling? Side effects? I’ve heard claims ghosts exist—is there a kind of afterlife?”
Geneva Scala stared at Erin far differently than Foliana or Niers, each with their own viewpoints. The Titan resented the [Doctor] and Foliana’s presence as the Squirrel Woman reappeared and waved a baked rat. But he was wise enough to let them speak for a brief moment.
“The lands of the dead used to exist.”
“Used to?”
“Mm. Hello, Erin. Don’t surprise me again. I don’t like surprises. Thanks for the snacks you sent. I’ll send something back. What’s your favorite food?”
Erin was glancing at Palt and Ryoka moving in the background. She spoke quickly.
“I’ll try to explain, Geneva. It’s good to meet you, but we’ll do it all together. I dunno, do people have favorite foods, Foliana? …Mac and cheese? Niers…”
She had to go. The Titan felt, once again and yet again, annoyed by two ships passing in the night. Then—he exhaled. And he pointed at her.
“I’ll be watching. And we’ll have a word later, agreed?”
“Promise.”
Her eyes twinkled, and then he saw the thing that had drawn his eye. The Titan’s breath caught, and it was like the spirit he had once seen just on a piece of paper, reflected in a game of chess. A bit of what he thought of as the real Erin Solstice, only now seen in visual form.
Mischief and madness and daring—
The Titan did not actually watch Erin Solstice setting up. He looked at Foliana, and she let him hop onto one arm as she in turn moved to the door. The servants were clearing Geneva’s table, and Niers triggered a speaking stone on one of his rings. It was jet-black, and it was not the kind of thing you activated to request a midnight snack.
Unless you were Foliana. One of her fake teeth began to hum, and he heard an echo of his voice as he spoke. He was grinning at Erin Solstice—then the Titan raised his voice.
“This is Niers. I am issuing a Vault-level emergency.”
“Titan?”
The surprised voice of one of the Fraerlings, Iuncuta Eirnos, leader of the Fraerling division, mixed with two others who’d been issued copies of this speaking stone.
Everyone else was dead silent save for one.
“Titan, I am [Reserve General] Aldoy. Orders?”
A crisp voice, perhaps slightly sleepy, came from the person Niers knew to be in a place far from Elvallian, the capital. So hidden that their enemies wouldn’t know where to watch for a counterattack. Niers raised his voice.
“Armed forces, stand down. We have a magical or, I suspect, Skill-based intrusion in my war camp. It’s gone straight through my ward-spells. It is projecting across the world. I need to know what is being said. If I do not know what is being said and where the projection is going, jump off a cliff before I catch you. You have an hour or less before it ends.”
He ended the stone—if his lieutenants didn’t know what to do with that, they were incompetents and it was his fault for putting them in that role.
“You’re mean.”
Foliana nibbled on the rat as she rolled her eyes. Niers folded his arms. He couldn’t stop grinning.
“Rise to the [Innkeeper]’s challenge, Foliana. I’m just testing her—and my own company at the same time. It’d be good to know if it can be done.”
“Mhm. Sure. Suure.”
Foliana went back to watching as she flagged down a servant.
“Make me a mac and cheese. I don’t know what it is. It probably has cheese in it.”
 
——
 
Then she was there. And they were all there.
The smart outsiders ducked out of frame as Earthers stared at each other. This was a meeting for them, and it struck some, instantly, with nostalgia.
Like a certain text conversation from last year. Only this time—they had voices. It was like staring into one of those mass-conference calls you saw in movies.
Or—if you were from later in Earth’s timeline, you knew exactly what this was. The irony was that Erin thought this was new.
“Hi, everyone. Can you hear me?”
The young woman sat there with an apron on and casual clothing for a day in her inn. She had brown hair, hazel eyes, and she looked ordinary…until you noticed her hat. Until you saw how she sat and spoke as if she were used to being in the center of a room. For some, they noticed her eyes.
She had seen people die and been the one to end a life. It changed you. She had been dead and come back to life.
That changed you.
But for all that, Erin Solstice was the least interesting person here because everyone, almost everyone knew her face from the scrying orbs directly.
The other people were far more fascinating.
See—
His hair was brown too, or should have been. But he had added a red dye to it to turn it an unsettling shade of red. Not bright red—that came from the blood that seemed to stain his bright costume. And that too had changed from being a silly circus clown, red, blue, and yellow, into something more unsettling.
It looked yellow, at first, a flashy yellow cut that turned abruptly blue at a diagonal line halfway down his midriff. Baggy enough to hide any number of blades, but oddly cheerful looking combined with white gloves.
The gloves were stained so badly that the red prints still remained. As was much of the clothing. But if you looked close, you saw the red stitching. Little faces, with thread so fine they only appeared close up.
They looked like howling Demons—or Humans—every species, disembodied heads screaming upwards. Eyes bulging, mouths open so wide they seemed no longer like people, in rictuses of silent screams.
Something so unsettling—and expensive—that only one of the Blighted Kingdom’s expert tailors would have made it for him. His face was painted white with black eyeshadow for tears and actual blue tears drawn on his face. A red smile.
[Clown]. He posed there, arms stretched, as if telling a joke. Even with the unsettling makeup, he almost looked jolly. Only his eyes, darting around and rolling, staring in his frozen face, betrayed his true emotions.
That was one. Remember that had once been a different young man. Thomas had lost sixty pounds and close to a hundred friends. He had shed enough of his own blood to fill three dozen bodies. Killed more than he could count.
He looked nothing so much like an Earther. But none of them did.
Even the ones who thought they hadn’t changed…look at the young man and woman standing in a tent bestrewn with the luxuries of monarchy.
