Ulvama was, as Visma had once observed, more plush than anything. Certainly not like Calescent or Pyrite-fat. And she didn’t really involve herself with the other Goblins or even most of the inn. Mrsha she would bully with some kind of affection, and she had a wary kind of peace with Rags—but she was apart.
She pointed another chip at Erin.
“Sad [Innkeeper] boo hoo. Can you cry elsewhere? It makes the chips taste bad. Or I know. I go to your theatre. Lots of fun.”
The [Shaman] smiled, and Erin Solstice felt just a tiny bit narked. Which was odd, because she got along with most Goblins like a house on fire. But Ulvama was less impressed by Erin, and the reverse was true.
“Listen. Ulvama. We don’t talk much.”
“Nope. Good working system. You go cry inside. Okay?”
Ulvama tried to open the garden door and nearly smacked into the wall. She glowered, but she hadn’t really been going in anyways. She was…Erin Solstice folded her arms and sat back in her chair.
“Ulvama, can you talk like…I know you can talk?”
“What, like ‘normal person’?”
The [Shaman] sneered. Erin Solstice glowered. She was nice to Ulvama, she really was. Because the Hob had helped Mrsha, she knew Lyonette tried not to get annoyed by Ulvama’s pilfering of choice snacks. And lazing around hogging the scrying orb. And sometimes, taking all the water in the copper bathtub and not filling it up…
“Like a Mountain City Goblin. I know you’re faking it.”
Ulvama’s crimson eyes flashed as she paused with her mouth open. She slowly chomped down a chip, swallowed it, and spoke.
“Oooh. Erin the smart Human is so intelligent for knowing I can talk differently. Now I’m her equal. Fine. You want me to talk normal? Then I’ll tell you that you sound like a mother.”
“I what?”
Ulvama shifted the bowl of chips to one side. It hung there in the air as she raised both fists and made a crying motion in that way Goblins were so good at mimicking people.
“I’m so sad. I can’t go off with a sword. I have to wait and take care of my inn because I’m an [Innkeeper]. And I didn’t do my exercises because I’m so special that the muscle-Drake’s rules don’t apply to me.”
Erin opened her mouth—and realized that Ulvama was right about that last part. She crossed her arms.
“I was gonna!”
“You forgot this morning too.”
“Did—did not.”
“Yes you did. You forgot, then you did them really fast. Took you six minutes instead of when he said forty. But okay, I’m stupid. You did the spirit of what Grimalkin wanted.”
The [Innkeeper]’s mouth was opening and closing. She forgot the power of [Shamans], even more than [Witches], was to remember things that you didn’t want remembered and use them against you. It was the Mountain City Tribe’s specialty, in a sense.
Politics. No, something else. Ulvama gave Erin a pointed look as the [Innkeeper] searched for a response, but Ulvama also partook in the Todi school of dirty fighting and kicked people when they were down.
“I just bet you were going to do an hour of exercise to make up for this morning. Not forget and do another ten minutes before you slept.”
“I—just forgot. It’s new, and I—I am not healing myself, and I’m trying my best.”
“Sure you are. Exercise twice a day. Then complain that you can’t go dungeoneering. Hypocrisy! No, wait, that’s the wrong word. Silly Goblin.”
Ulvama slapped the side of her head as if she were wrong. Erin was rapidly becoming the opposite of a fan of Ulvama.
“You—you have a point, but I don’t like it. Is this how you ‘helped’ Mrsha, Ulvama? Thanks. For that.”
The [Shaman] gave her a huge, toothy smile.
“I help all children this way.”
Uh oh. Ishkr had gone upstairs to check on Erin. He caught the last exchange and turned around and walked downstairs again. Erin inhaled and exhaled.
“I’m a [Witch]. And an [Innkeeper], Ulvama, and I’ve had a stressful day.”
“I know. And tomorrow will be worse. You want nice and cuddles? Find Numbtongue. Find Klbkch. Or a sword. Not me. Especially if you say silly things.”
“What’s so silly about what I said?”
The [Innkeeper]’s hat was turning ominous, and the [Shaman of the Old Ways] saw it. But she kept going—and she was looking at her claws now.
“Chieftain Rags is a silly Goblin. She doesn’t want me and my wisdom and magic.”
“I thought that was because you were a conniving, lazy jerk.”
Ulvama glanced up at Erin and frowned.
“Yeah? Someone needs to be one. I am better than Taganchiel. He is young. I am wise. I know…stories. One thing the big [Shaman] does is tell stories to stupid, little Goblins. Stories that matter. So I will tell you a story now, sad [Innkeeper].”
To Erin’s vague astonishment, Ulvama began to waggle her arms. Then she turned—and a light bloomed. She began to make shadows on the wall and stuck up her fingers. One, two…and then the shadows became a cluster of little Goblin heads, complete with pointed ears.
“Once, there was a mighty raiding party. Back in the time when Goblins were many. A large one. Ten thousand Goblins who went to raid and get much treasure.”
“Who’d they raid?”
Ulvama glowered.
“Doesn’t matter. Some Humans. They were strong and many and had a powerful [Chieftain] leading them. But there was one problem. They had no [Shaman]. ‘Is okay’, said the powerful [Chieftain]. ‘We need no magic because we are strong’. Which was true. So they went off and began to travel towards the first place to raid.”
“Is this a true story?”
“Shutupshutup. The raiding party took two weeks to get to the rich lands. But they had problems all the way. You see, no one had checked on their food, and they found it was bad and filled with bugs that ate each other and flew away. So they were hungry by the end of the first week. So hungry some died and they had to eat their bodies.”
Erin shivered. This sounded too true—and Ulvama’s eyes were serious as the shadows mimicked writhing bugs and maggots that grew wings.
“Worse, the bugs ate the straps of leather in armor and sword hilts. So weapons fell apart, and the [Chieftain] said—‘fix all that! Go hunting for food!’ But the Goblins did not know where food was, and no one had brought leather straps.”
“I think I’m getting the point of this—”
“—And then there was no map. They got lost. And their powerful [Chieftain] grew sad, because he had a quarrel with his lover, and he was so depressed he walked off a cliff by accident.”
“Whoa. Is that sorta—”
Ulvama clapped her hands, and the milling Goblins began to vanish, hungry, lost, fighting monsters. Then she held up a single clawed finger.
“By the end, only one Goblin returned. And that one Goblin came back and told his tribe what had happened, and they made him go on another raid. And then another. And do you know why?”
She waited, but this time, the [Innkeeper] was silent. Ulvama spoke.
“That one Goblin went because when he led raids, he made sure they had food. That no one fought with another. That they had a map and supplies. And though he had no magic—one day he woke up and got the [Shaman] class. That is why they matter.”
She fell silent, and Erin held up a hand. Ulvama eyed the [Innkeeper] in a wheelchair. They both knew Erin was going to say something aggravating, but Ulvama grunted anyways.
“What?”
“Isn’t that the job of the [Chieftain] as well?”
Ulvama plucked a chip from the bowl and threw it at Erin. She glowered so intensely that Erin didn’t throw anything back.
“It is a story. You said you were sad you had to wait. Like a mother. Like a [Hearthtender]. Like an [Innkeeper]. All these silly guests and friends run around and get into trouble. Horns. Rags. Suspicious old men. Horns. Numbtongue. Mrsha. Someone needs to be here. Someone…needs to be afraid when they go to raid. Have bandages when they come back hurt. Make sure the tribe is safe. Listen when they cry.”
She stood there, and the Hobgoblin looked at Erin in the evening’s light filtering in through the windows. Then—the [Innkeeper] blinked and realized the [Shaman] was not talking to her as a [Witch] but…as an [Innkeeper].
Because their classes were more similar in that regard than Erin had realized. Slowly, Erin ducked her head, and she saw how sad Ulvama looked. Rags hadn’t taken her into her tribe. Whether that was because she thought Ulvama was more important here—
The [Shaman] had lost her tribe at Dwarfhalls Rest. Even if it had not been a good one, even if what Erin knew of Tremborag was true…her people were gone.
“It’s hard, though.”
The young woman spoke, Human to Goblin. [Innkeeper] to [Shaman]. Ulvama picked up a chip next to Erin’s wheelchair. They stood closer, and the [Shaman] exhaled and squatted so she and Erin were closer in height. She looked down.
“Yes. Some will never come back. Sometimes you say, ‘go’. And you give them all your magic and luck and knowledge and you know they will never return.”
“I’ll never let that happen.”
Erin whispered back. Ulvama looked at her and shrugged.
“I hope not. But here you are. And I get mad at you because I see you punching a wall and shouting that you want a sword. That you want to go with them and take your inn.”
“Because that’s stupid?”
The [Shaman] shook her head.
“No. Because I would too!”
She slapped Erin’s wheelchair, and the [Innkeeper] blinked. The [Shaman]’s head rose. And Erin was reminded who had gone after Mrsha with the Titan and been at the Meeting of Tribes.
“Sometimes you go. And the [Shaman] goes even if she dies because it matters. This is the right thing to say. This is why you would have been an okay [Shaman]. A good [Witch]. But you…you silly, stupid Human, you make one mistake.”
She pointed at Erin’s legs. Her wheelchair, and Ulvama’s eyes flashed.
“How are you going to run through a dungeon like that? How are you going to be ready when the Horns come back with Super Ancient Creler behind them? When they need you—you cannot take care of them. No one comes to [Shamans] when they are well. [Shamans] have to be ready. You are not ready. How are you going to deliver a baby? Swing the stupid sword? Outrun a wildfire?”
The Hob jabbed Erin’s leg again and again. The [Innkeeper] flushed.
“I—I’m not exercising. I get it. I’ll do an hour right now.”
She was going to ask Grimalkin to train her, but the Hob gave Erin a shake of her head.
“Not enough. You speak like you want to go with the scary Antinium, Klbkch. You can’t just stand. You should run. Be strong enough to climb a cliff or run ten miles without getting tired.”
“Y-you mean like if I got super fit? Like Saliss or Grimalkin or…?”
Erin couldn’t picture it. Was there a world where she was packed with muscles like Grimalkin? Or, failing him, just Numbtongue? She tried to laugh it off.
“I’m not that kind of person.”
“Have you tried?”
Ulvama countered, and Erin, flustered, shook her head. The [Shaman] chewed furiously on another chip.
“You have your gardens with all their mysteries. You don’t know what’s in them. You don’t know your powers as a [Witch]—how can you go and win elsewhere if you don’t know what you can do?”
Then Erin realized she sounded frustrated, like someone looking at someone else not at their full potential or doing it wrong. Like…Numbtongue when he watched Mrsha playing games on the computer.
The [Innkeeper] was lost for words. It sounded like [Witch] advice but delivered in a Goblin’s style.
“Explore the gardens. Find out who I am. Find my…it’s all on me to get ready for when I’m needed, isn’t it? If I want to go—I should be able to walk.”
That was what she was trying to say, wasn’t it? Ulvama nodded, and Erin realized the one mistake she’d made. If she asked—Klbkch might let her go with him, at least when he found something. Or she could use her door or try to put her inn on wheels…
But she couldn’t do any of that because she could barely move. Erin stared down at her tired body, and it frustrated her. But she had been lazy—in this—for so long.
It was up to her. The young woman slowly turned as Ulvama stood. All on her, alone. Erin took a deep breath—then turned to Ulvama.
“…How should I fix this? Do Grimalkin’s exercises three times a day? Four?”
The Goblin covered her face with a hand. Oh, come on…but then again, Erin had never really thought of how to keep fit. Like many people, she just moved and trusted her body to do things…until the day it no longer did what she asked.
The [Shaman] took pity on Erin. She tapped the young woman on the shoulder and muttered.
“[Lion’s Strength].”
“Hey, you can’t do that! I’m not supposed to—”
Erin yelped as a sense of power flooded her. She stood up—because she wanted to, and the stretch felt so good and painful—but Ulvama just kicked Erin’s chair back.
“You’re not supposed to cheat. This will hurt so bad you’ll cry if you run around and don’t heal it. But you have to exercise, not just use this to get away from your problems. All you did was walk around and then sit and play chess. You could do the Sinew Magus’ workouts.”
Ulvama correctly read Erin’s face. Despite all she had said—Erin was filled with the opposite of determination when she thought of her workout routine.
Grimalkin had given Erin a battery of exercises like standing up with handrails, leg raises, and almost every muscle group she needed to work on—which was also almost all of them.
The problem was—it was highly strenuous and boring. Forty minutes of workouts? Twice a day? When it was done right, Erin was a sea of sweat and usually so tired she could barely sit in her chair.
But she had the grit to kill Skinner, come back from the dead, and do a lot of things. Willpower wasn’t lacking—it was just that Grimalkin, like his health shakes, just wasn’t that fun.
Ulvama had an idea. She sighed and gave Erin a long, irked look.
“If you need to get strong like me, I will show you my secret. But you can’t tell anyone. And we do it every day.”
Erin opened her mouth. She had two objections. One was that her understanding of Ulvama—politely—was that the [Shaman] had one area of expertise that Erin wasn’t a fan of trying to get fit, if it even worked like that. The second was…
“Er…no offense Ulvama, but Grimalkin’s got a bunch of muscles. I, uh—I’m sure you’re fit, but Numbtongue’s super fit. Redfangs. I could try to punch Redscar for an hour. That’d probably get me in shape.”
The [Shaman] stared down at her bare midriff and then up at Erin with a kind of outrage. She huffed. She puffed—then she raised both arms and made two fists.
“I’m not strong? Raaaaaah! Muscles!”
