Some stared at Elena with her amazing, floating trails of hair in Chandrar’s dry, dry climate, as if permanently affected by static electricity or an anti-gravity spell.
But Trey…many of the Earthers knew him. He probably thought they saw a seventeen year-old kid from London. A young man not nearly as imposing as some of the Earthers, holding a staff with a crystal orb floating over the polished oakwood shaft, a stereotypical [Mage] if nothing else.
The King of Destruction or even his sister would have made more of a mark in his eyes.
Teresa, wearing the newest steel to come from Reim’s forges—light plate now, emblazoned with the sigil of Reim on its front. A crown like the city itself, surrounded by a rainbow of seven symbols. A pair of dice, an eye, a growing plant…
The King of Destruction’s seal. She had a hand on the hilt of her sword and a wild grin that never seemed to leave her face anymore, like someone chasing a dream. Like…Rasea Zecrew, perhaps. Gloryseeker. Battleseeker.
Even her dark blonde hair seemed to be trying to stand up; she had cropped it before it got too long, to prevent it from tangling in battle. It looked redder, as if it were trying to take on some of the blood in battle. Or take after Flos himself. Her skin was tanned from days in the sun.
He looked the same, he thought. But the other Earthers noticed how still Trey could sit. How his eyes would stare at you, then through you, as if trying to read your thoughts.
He didn’t realize how his own companionship had shaped him. He would stare into the eyes of someone until they blinked or looked away; Gazi would never flinch from that. He looked almost forever-wary and never seemed to take any statement at face-value. The Quarass had taught him that—and the line across his throat, a scar, and the little red-glass Golem poking its head out from behind him made him odder.
The sand seemed to follow him around constantly, even indoors. But most of all—he could sit still like a statue, for he had kept undead company on long nights. Even if some of that had been not intended to affect him for the worse, had been meant in full friendship—
He was, in his way, as shattered as the [Doctor] who sat, unable to stand. Few could meet her eyes. Geneva Scala wore light green clothing, sleeves extending to her hands, which were, for the moment, ungloved. Uniform green; she could have asked Niers’ tailors for anything. She had asked for something that could be mistaken for casual clothing.
What it looked like to many was the uniform of a doctor. A surgeon, as if she expected at any moment to see someone in need of her abilities. Her nose was sharp, her round spectacles made her eyes appear bigger, and her hair was a mess: combed but unattended to.
More than the rest, wherever she looked and whenever she moved, it seemed like she was staring at someone else. As if she intended to stand—or move by will alone and sometimes was surprised her body was picking up the slack.
There was no trust in her eyes. Trey had more faith in people. Tom tied with Geneva in their expectations of a good day. But what separated the [Clown] from the [Doctor] was a distinction in their attitudes. One existed out of spite and was determined to laugh at your expectations. The other waited, like she had a duty not to fall over and die.
And these were only some.
Who was that man upon a throne? Surely, one would ask. He sat with his chin upright, a simple brace of gold upon his head. A slight thing, subtle, but it would draw the eye. Monarchy deserved no less. His posture was perfect, his hair, blazoned red, hinted at his heritage, and he had the strength of a waiting lion.
He was, after all, a [King].
…No one paid attention to him. The Earther began to shift, annoyed, because more eyes were on the young man who had not yet opened his eyes.
He sat in a cottage that looked slightly oversized—as if meant for someone several feet bigger—with a blue bird cawing occasionally. He would apologize for her and stroke her head, but he never opened those eyes.
His hair was pale blonde, and he was not imposing enough, not grand enough, and he had no crown. For all that, he seemed to sit or speak with the quiet expectation you would listen. And in that sense—you could not see his ego because you had to step outside the cottage and look up to see the top of it. His clothing was simpler, forest green and a blue cloak someone had made for him with the symbol of an eye on the back in a pyramid.
It fit him better, because he thought he needed nothing more to prove who he was.
More and more. It wasn’t just the most high-level. But some did catch the eye.
The Singer of Terandria had decided her hair was pink today. Long and flowing and glossy, which suggested that it was a wig, and her own face had a mask similar to Tom’s. She just used less makeup. She had painted a silver star under one eye and had violet lipstick on. If she were performing, she might wink or laugh like the spirit of entertainment, as if nothing else mattered by song.
Here? She scowled and listened and watched everything with the pain that said she expected the worst to follow. For a Singer, she did not talk much at first, but she warmed to her new stage over time. When she was excited, she paced and gesticulated, as if performing to everyone who saw her—and herself as well.
Then there were the others.
Kevin, who looked like the spirit of a dude from California, thumbs-upping people. Laughing without apparent care in the world, ordinarily friendly until you realized it was more genuine than you thought and that he was deeper than a puddle. And that he thought he could take something with metal and ideas and make it better than two worlds had ever dreamed of.
Caroline, cheeks flushed and eyes overbrimming with ideas, sometimes half-thought, half-ludicrous, but wanting to write them out into the world. Fascinated with if and possibility—and with a kind of sad resignation that this world had less magic and more terrible, disgusting, mundane violence and pettiness than she had hoped for.
Aaron looked tired but triumphant, as if he had been holding something up on his shoulders for a long time. All he had wanted to do was make something ‘cool’, something he was inspired by. A mistake not of his choosing had left him aged—but he had paid his dues and seen a kind of victory that kept him going.
That was a fraction of the Earthers. And when they spoke, at first, they were so chaotic as to be incomprehensible. Quickly, Erin Solstice demanded order. She could silence speakers, but because she did not want to take charge, someone else did.
Palt quietly wrote the names under each speaker so you could keep track of them. Nothing else. No levels. No locations. No causes or allegiances. When they spoke, one might interrupt or raise a hand to speak, and they would be next.
It was the Wind Runner, the Courier who had run across three worlds now, who spoke first. Her voice was husky, and she looked—nervous. As if the anxiety that had always been inside her was more visible now.
It looked better than false confidence or her silent façade because she had made enough mistakes to know she would make more. And to try to do better. Her right hand had three fingers. She still had bare feet, but they were wrapped, as if to hide scars. But she was still staring ahead, still trying to chase a goal. She wanted that kind of quest, and she would shift, occasionally, and turn her head as if listening for the wind.
 
Ryoka: “One at a time. This isn’t all of us. Not by far. It’s only the first wave. We don’t have the names of the rest, and there are a lot more, I think. A lot more. So if you meet anyone else, tell them what we said here. But I have, uh—a few ground rules.”
Tom: “Rules? Heh. Hah. What are you—you call us all up, you show their faces? You idiot. We’re being watched.”
 
He turned his head at someone off-screen and gave them such a grin that it made others nervous. Then his eyes looked back at Ryoka with sheer contempt.
 
Tom: “You have no idea what you’ve done, you fool.”
Richard: “Ignore Tom, please. We’re all on the same side. We’re…from Rhir.”
Ryoka: “I know. And just so you know, we are being watched. All of us. If you think this is bad, signal us, and Palt will take you off visibility…but be aware, you are being observed. By Rhir. By Wistram.”
Cara: “Thanks for that. I love you like a yeast infection, Ryoka.”
 
Laughter—and Ryoka flushed, but then someone else spoke. Rémi Canada looked like he was trying to be older. He had, interestingly, a natural light green hair. Not obviously dyed and artificially bright. If someone on Earth could have been born with green as a hair color, that was what it would look like.
Forgettable features, as if he were trying to distract you with the hair and not be the center of attention. Which he was. But he was taking notes—he was always taking notes, his hand moving so fast it seemed he was frustrated because he never had the whole story and he was trying to tell it properly.
 
Rémi: “It’s your belief we’re in danger, Ryoka? Can you clarify that so we understand it?”
Ryoka: “Yes. Some people will hunt you down—whether to kill you or just make you an asset, it’s happened. It’s happening. Wistram’s done it—”
???: “That is a gross exaggeration, and we are trying to save lives and be as helpful as we can. If you are in danger, we would—”
Aaron: “Aaah! Shut up, shut up and get out of my room! Or I’ll cancel the spell and damn you all! Get out, Teura!”
Ryoka: “My point. Thanks, Aaron. Let me try again. Know you are being watched. Know what we say here is going to spread. Erin’s putting on this call because we think it matters more than the risk. We have done this before.”
Rémi: “Interesting. I heard of that—I wasn’t privy to it. So this isn’t the first time we…people from home have talked?”
Aaron: “Earthers. That’s the name we’re using.”
Cara: “Fucking stupid name.”
Aaron: “What? You come up with one. Anyways, we did this before. Back then, it was via Wistram and [Message] spells. This…this is more secure? I did the last one. I was ‘Blackmage’.”
Loran: “You were? You bastard! You look nothing like what I expect!”
Tom: “Because he’s actually black?”
Loran: “What? No. I am—I meant—”
Tom: “Explain it, then. I’ll listen.”
Ryoka: “Can you mute…? Thanks, Erin. Listen. I was there too. Back then, no one knew what was happening. Just so you know…I was ‘batman’.”
Teres: “You what?”
Kevin: “No way.”
Zara: “That was you? Oh. My. God.”
Erin: “Don’t say that!”
Zara: “Say what? What?”
Laken: “Don’t talk about religion. Quiet, please. Let Ryoka finish.”
Ryoka: “Thanks, Laken. We do have a lot to cover, so I appreciate silence. Yes, I was that troll in the conversation—because we were being hunted then. Now? Things are different. This is about sharing information, but we have a warning first. So…Erin?”
 
Then all eyes were on the [Innkeeper] as she rolled forwards slowly. Erin Solstice sat there and swallowed hard, but her eyes rose as she looked around.
 
Erin: “I know I’m being watched by other people. Not Earthers. Not just people from home. So you know, my name is Erin Solstice. I’m an [Innkeeper]. I live in Liscor. I’m telling you all this because everyone probably knows that. You should be careful. But so you know—when I was last on Earth, just a year ago, last fall, it was 2016. August, I think. I’ve been here ever since.”
Haley: “No way. No way. It was only 2018 when I—and it was winter—”
Ryoka: “Years are longer here.”
Antal: “You’re her. That’s…her.”
Erin: “I played chess with you. Hi, Antal.”
Antal: “No, I mean…you’re one of the first of the Spirited Generation. Ryoka Griffin. Erin Solstice. Is…is there a Daly Sullivan here?”
Daly: “Huh? What the—I’m Daly. Bushrangers, in Baleros.”
Caroline: “Oh my god. You’re with the cute Fraerlings!”
Antal: “You were—”
Flynn: “Daly! Holy fucking fuck! Daly, it’s me!”
Daly: “Flynn? Is that you? Where are you?”
Erin: “Do you two know each other?”
Flynn: “We were in the airport when—I’m in Terandria, Daly! I’m the guy in power armor flying about!”
Daly: “Get the fuck out of here. Was that you on TV?”
Tom: “Order! Order in the court! No one cares about you Australians!”
Daly: “Fuck off, mate. Flynn—”
Flynn: “Is that a clown? I just got here.”
Loran: “Silence. We will have order! I am a—”
Erin: “Quiet.”
 
And there was. Erin Solstice’s head swiveled around, and she turned.
 
Erin: “Rémi Canada? I need you to speak. You probably know what’s going on.”
Rémi: “I do. Let me check my notes, and please, correct me if I’m wrong. But to summarize, we’re all considered to be part of the ‘Spirited Generation’. Earthers from ages…sixteen to thirty it seems, who get taken from Earth and end up here. They’re aware of it back home, but they have no idea where we are or how it’s happening.”
Elena: “Fourteen.”
Rémi: “Excuse me?”
Elena: “Some of us are as young as fourteen.”
Ryoka: “Fuck. That’s not right.”
Elena: “No, it’s not. Some of them end up in monster nests. It’s…”
Caroline: “My god.”
Elena: “Hi, Cara.”
Cara: “Hi, Elena. How’s it going?”
Elena: “Decent.”
Rémi: “Let’s dig into that later. Where we end up seems to be chance.”
Tom: “Lot of us in Rhir, boyo. Lot of us—let go of me.”
Rémi: “Interesting. But just so you all know—the last Earther I have spoken to tells me that time seems to be passing back home faster than it is here. It was 2021.”
Geneva: “2021? No…how is that happening?”
Aaron: “Some of the [Mages] think it’s a kind of magical backlash.”
Flora: “Some of the mages around me think that too. Earth might be older than this world is, and so tethering us together has moved Earth’s time-speed forward like a rubber band snapping the other way. Hi…hi.”
Aaron: “Whoa. That—makes sense. Who’s coming up with that?”
Flora: “People. I can’t say where I am.”
Rémi: “This is all good to know. So, to summarize, 2016 seems to be when the phenomenon occurred. More and more people have been coming over, and Earth is in a panic. But I don’t have the full story there. I’ve heard of lockdowns, curfews—”
Cara: “Panic over disappearing kids? Please, there can’t be more than a thousand of us. How many people get murdered—”
Antal: “I don’t know about everyone, but some of them were on camera. The Melbourne Moment is the most viewed video on Youtube. It’s got over 40 billion views. That’s how I know Daly.”
Daly: “…What?”
Antal: “May I speak?”
Erin: “Please.”
