“Even if I could tell you and ’twere not against the rules, I would not! Goblin. Your story is one I cannot tell. Only know it is there.”
 
Every eye turned to Magnolia. The [Lady] raised one hand as she coughed into a fist.
“That is not my story to tell either. Nor do I know all of it. Just—what Demsleth has told me. And I assure you, I do not just keep it from Goblins out of spite. There is a…very real risk it could create a Goblin King.”
Erin’s eyes widened, and even Klbkch eyed Rags. The Goblin had gone still. Her eyes glowed as they locked on Magnolia.
“But the secret is there.”
“There is more that even Demsleth doesn’t know, he is certain.”
“The Gnomes knew it. They told me—Rags, there were no Goblins in the lands of the dead. But the Gnomes told me to give you all the help I could. You may not need me to broker peace between Antinium and Humans.”
Erin looked earnestly from one side to another, as if she hadn’t facilitated this meeting that would never happen any other way. She looked at her friend, and Rags’ eyes were trusting. Erin took a breath.
“—but it seems to me that the Goblins deserve their chance. I want to give it to them.”
“Erin. I have made the Goblins my own—generous offer. I will not disclose the terms, but believe me, I am listening.”
Magnolia spoke quietly, and Erin glanced at Rags and got a nod. The [Innkeeper] smiled.
“Well, in that case, you wouldn’t mind doing two? I hear the Goblins might also be doing mercenary work in the new lands. I’d like a second agreement in place. No Goblins fighting Antinium. And—I hear Klbkch is going to be searching for the Crossroads of Izril. For the secret weapons buried deep. For the dungeons of Gnomes.”
Rags sat upright. Klbkch’s head turned, and Erin went on, chasing after a vision.
“I know Klbkch is the toughest Antinium around. And he’s smart and cunning, but he’s just one.”
“And he is weaker.”
Xrn murmured. Klbkch folded his arms and faced away from her. Erin spread her arms. She put her hands flat on the table and looked at Rags.
“No one should adventure alone. And with respect—even if Magnolia Reinhart isn’t all on the Goblins’ side, the Antinium don’t care about Goblins. They’re like the only species who doesn’t harbor a grudge against Goblins.”
“True.”
Klbkch murmured. His head turned, and Rags suddenly frowned. She jumped ahead of the conversation. Erin Solstice was smiling.
“In that case—along with an agreement for Goblins and Antinium not to clash no matter what—if, on his adventure, Klbkch should find a dungeon, can we agree for him to have…backup? And to share anything he finds with them? No matter where he goes, if he needs a hand—I’ve heard Goblins are everywhere.”
She slowly reached across the table and had to lean over and flop a hand out. Rags put her claw in Erin’s grip, and the [Innkeeper], with effort, tried to connect Rags’ hand to Klbkch’s.
They couldn’t quite reach each other unless one literally got out of their seat. But Rags was looking at Erin.
“My tribe will help this…Klbkch if he doesn’t mind Goblins.”
“They killed me when I was weak. And defending Erin. I don’t hold a grudge. I have never spoken overlong to…Chieftain Rags.”
They hadn’t. The two longtime guests of Erin’s inn traded a look. Erin smiled.
“Then you should! But I want more than that. More and more. Rags? Do you agree that Klbkch could help your people?”
Find the truth? A six thousand year-old plus super-Antinium? Rags didn’t turn down assets like that. She nodded—and Erin fixed her with that grin, and her hat burned like fire.
“Then would you please send a [Message] to Anazuland? And spread the word. Not just to her. To—all of them.”
Magnolia’s eyes widened, and Rags got what Erin wanted. She looked up.
“All of them?”
“I think the one in Anazuland would oblige me. Hat to hat. But yes, Rags. All of them. Tell them about Klbkch. And tell them…the Goblinfriend of Izril is asking. Tell them about me.”
Antinium and Goblins.
Goblins and Antinium.
Both groups looked at Erin Solstice, and then it was connecting for her. Like a racing set of flames burning on both edges of a match until it met in the center.
Time to ask.
 
——
 
“Erin Solstice. It’s good to see you. Although my [Administrator] has had to go have a lie-down.”
“Sorry, Ilvriss. It’s good to see you.”
The Wall Lord had been waiting for her; he was sitting in his office, and Erin Solstice spent a moment just—saying hello.
“You look tired.”
“Building an army is busy. Dealing with our war with Fissival…and the new lands. It’s all about the new lands. But I have help. I’m doing better on my task. I do miss the inn, though. It felt refreshing. The closest I got was a brothel, and—it’s a long story.”
Erin hesitated. But she was speaking to him in her theatre now it was mostly emptied, and in fact, only one other person was listening in.
Crunch crunch. Erin glared at the soft sound, but Ilvriss didn’t seem to notice. He was smiling, and Erin Solstice squirmed.
“I still need to visit Salazsar and thank you for helping with bringing me back. It was…a lotta money you spent, wasn’t it?”
“Personal funds. My father threw a fit, but it was my money. It’s just finances, Erin. But tell me. Is there anything I can do for you?”
He knew. Erin Solstice felt guilty for piling onto the Drake. Because she had not come to give him a win unaided. She had things to talk about like moving Antinium and Drakes, possibly even the Gnolls…but she looked unhappily at Ilvriss.
“I’m gonna feel bad about it. You gave me that ring, and everyone thinks we’re married.”
“Er—they’ve moved onto Miss Marquin, actually. I’m afraid they think it’s funnier to have a [Princess] and a Lord of the Walls. I don’t begrudge it, Erin Solstice. It helped her, and it keeps my mother and sister vastly entertained. Ask. I don’t need help—unless you want to give me Mathematician Yelroan.”
“Nuh. You can’t have him. He’s great.”
The purple-scaled Drake rolled his eyes.
“I know. Go ahead, Erin. How can I help you?”
He was smiling at her in the way her friends sometimes did. That aggravating way that said they wanted to help. So the guilty [Innkeeper] inhaled and exhaled. Then she looked up.
“Ilvriss, I’m gonna give you a…task. Or rather, a quest. It might not be a quest at first, but it’ll help you in the sense that you’ll probably gain ten levels from it. And maybe that helps with your ultimate goal. And you’ll make a lot of powerful allies.”
The Drake sat up in his chair.
“You’re not underselling this well, Erin.”
She gave him an exasperated smile.
“Yeah? Well, wait for me to finish, Ilvriss. I wish I could send you some cake or something…but it’s something only you can do. I can only trust you with it. And only know you’ll make it happen. I’ll be working on it—but will you listen? And promise to at least think it over?”
“…Of course.”
He grew serious, then, and possibly nervous. Erin Solstice spread her hands. And she was a woman who kept her promises. So—she looked up, and a Drake sat forward, scarcely believing his earholes. Mirn grabbed Saliss’ arm as Erin looked at Ilvriss.
“Ilvriss. I need you to change the Walled Cities’ minds—or just Salazsar’s first. I need you to pave the way and do whatever it takes. But I need you…to let Turnscales come out of hiding. To protect them and let them speak and give them laws.”
The Wall Lord sat there for nearly a minute. What he had expected from Erin that would give him ten levels…now, perhaps, he saw it. His eager smile faded and grew troubled—then he thought over what Erin said.
Another Wall Lord would have responded automatically, would have refused to hear it and made up his mind. Ilvriss was still tempted to, and the voice sounded like—him and a lot of people talking in his earholes.
His preconceived understanding, his knowledge of what she was asking—when he looked up, she was watching him. Slowly, the Wall Lord exhaled.
“I am going to need you to explain this to me slowly, Erin. Perhaps many times. Do you have a dinner slot open? I think we’re going to need at least two hours.”
The [Innkeeper] exhaled in relief. Then she looked him in the eyes and winked.
“It’s a dinner date. Can I, uh, get a list of questions? I’ll try to have a good explanation ready.”
She looked at Saliss and Mirn, and they gave her two sharp nods. And still—Ilvriss steepled his claws and began to think, and still—
She was still moving forwards with that crazy momentum.
 
——
 
Erin wasn’t the only one. When Ryoka Griffin came to a stop, it was in the Adventurer’s Haven.
She had given up on Taletevirion. The Unicorn had run to the Haven and done a flying leap off the side. Ryoka had seen him speed off north and realized she wouldn’t catch him easily even with the wind.
So she…had decided to take on her own challenge. They were passing by Esthelm, and the Haven was slowing to throw a celebration outside of the city for that sweet, sweet coin.
Most of the guests of the inn, including Sammial, had gone to bother Pelt and see what Esthelm had. Or use the magic door to go elsewhere.
But Tyrion Veltras was busy writing notes to his subordinates and managing House Veltras. When Ryoka knocked on his door, he looked up.
He had a guest suite in the Haven, which was not cheap, but Magnolia had booked it, and Ryoka trotted into the rooms.
She made the mistake of not closing the door fully. But then—a sly faerie might have made the wind gust a bit to hold it open. After all, Shaestrel followed funny moments. Or moments that mattered.
But the faerie lingered outside, spitting at all the cold iron about and giving up to hover outside the window. Tyrion didn’t notice.
“Ryoka. Have you finished your business at the inn? Would you—care for a ride? Or to practice with your sword?”
He seemed to have two modalities. The [Lord] hesitated—then pretended to close his notebook. Ryoka saw him slip a bookmark out, and his eyes flicked down.
“Or…‘would you care to go sightseeing in Invrisil’? ‘Perhaps we could take Hethon and Sammial to a play’.”
“Who gave you that notecard?”
The [Lord] froze up. He turned the card upside down. Took a breath and responded.
“Pellmia.”
At least he was honest. Shaestrel looked like she was in a bit of pain—but also that this was so funny she was beckoning some of the Winter Fae, who, exhausted, clustered at the window to listen.
The Haven’s owner, Larracel, just winced as she swept down the hallway. Sometimes, she liked to do it. Especially if there was something interesting to listen to. She heard the patter of running feet and an argument.
“Mrsha! You can’t do it! Stop, stop—”
Nanette was chasing Mrsha. Mrsha the Furious was going to beat up Ryoka for her treachery, and this time, she was gonna get Tyrion too. Visma and Ekirra had joined them, and Liscor’s troublesome trio were ready to rumble. Visma had her favorite new Antinium doll, and Ekirra had a soccer ball.
They skidded to a halt as Larracel spotted them. Mrsha hesitated, then tried to dodge left. The [Innkeeper] raised her broom.
Heedless of the silent fight outside the room, Ryoka Griffin paced around the guest room. She looked at Tyrion, and she didn’t know how to say it. It was awkward and stupid, and she didn’t have Erin’s sense of timing and, you had to admit, her own style.
Like Relc said—sometimes you just had to do it. So Ryoka took a breath.
“I need to tell you something, Tyrion. And I want you to listen, alright? And…believe me. This is a secret you can’t reveal to anyone else. Jericha can know, but not even Buscrei should. Not…anyone else. Got it?”
He nodded. Ryoka glanced over her shoulder, and the wind closed the door. But the faeries were pressing their ears to a window, and Larracel had a glass cup, and she could deactivate the silence spells on her rooms. Mrsha pressed one ear to the door as the [Innkeeper] swatted down the Gnoll girl’s paws, then levitated her onto the ceiling.
“Go ahead.”
The [Lord] was braced. Pellmia had warned him there was a good way and a bad way to handle…rejection. His heart was thumping painfully. Ryoka studied her bare feet, then looked up at him.
“Tyrion. You know my name is Ryoka Griffin. I’m a Runner, and I don’t have levels. All this is true. I…befriended the wind, and that’s where my magic comes from. But what you don’t know about me, what I think you should know is—I come from another world.”
Ekirra had been yawning and picking his nose. He stopped mid-pick as Visma, about to bite Larracel’s leg, and the [Innkeeper] both halted in the middle of a three-way fight.
Tyrion Veltras sat in the room, staring at Ryoka. Her heart was pounding. The [Lord] looked at Ryoka, blinked a few times, and then—nodded.
“Okay. Thank you for telling me. Should we discuss it over a ride?”
Ryoka nearly threw herself straight out the window. She threw up her hands, reddening.
“Didn’t you hear me?”
“I heard you. You come from another world. How big? Do they have many swords like your Windsword? Are you an emissary or lost?”
Ryoka gobbled. Something about the way he said it—even Tyrion the Rock wasn’t this stoic.
“Wait a second. You knew.”
The [Lord] raised his brows.
“Of course I knew. Or rather, I suspected.”
“How did you—?”
“Your sword.”
He said it as if it were the most obvious thing in the world. Tyrion Veltras indicated the hilt hanging at Ryoka’s side.
“That’s not a Kaalblade. You could fool anyone but Deilan and someone who made it—but I know swords. I know relics, artifacts, and blades from every single dynasty and age and empire. Not a single one has looked like that.”
He raised one finger then added another.
“Also, I was at the Solstice party with Emperor Laken. I saw the visitors from another land, and I saw you vanish. Another large hint.”
“Oh. R-right. I forgot you saw that.”
Tyrion nodded reasonably.
“Somewhat suspicious. Jericha had other notions, which she brought to my attention. I did not know exactly what this was about, but my conclusion was that you might tell me. And if there was somewhere…else, I did not see armies marching about. Therefore, I was content to wait.”
There was something aggravatingly practical about how he said things that made Ryoka want to toss him out the window. She took a breath.
“Then—do you want me to explain or should I go?”
“I would like you to explain. Please. I just did not see the need to panic. I’m…not good at it. I could call Sammial if you want to see it.”
That was a joke, and Ryoka laughed. But then she fixed Tyrion with a pained gaze.
