“Tyrion, this is serious. I’m telling you because a lot of people know. Wistram. The King of Destruction. Roshal.”
“Okay.”
“Would you stop saying—”
The listeners were highly entertained by the conversation. Tyrion Veltras took Ryoka’s information about the Earthers and the competing factions in stride.
“So that’s how Laken made the trebuchets. He’s one or has one.”
He was—sharp. Ryoka swallowed.
“It’s going to change everything. Some people might come after me or…Erin because of it. I hope you’ll help. But I might drag you into trouble again. You already went to war once. Tyrion. I’m telling you this because—I want to be as honest as I can. What are you thinking?”
He was silent, resting his chin in his hands. The younger man sat there, and the older [Lord] seemed to be about him. But he also looked uncertain. An uncertain rock, trembling on a cliff, not sure where it would land.
When he replied, it was slowly.
“What am I thinking? I shall be candid as you are, Ryoka. Because you trusted me—I am honestly thinking I should have kept fighting Ailendamus.”
Ryoka’s mouth dropped open. Tyrion clarified his comments, raising a hand.
“I’m not as war-hungry as you might think. Allow me to explain. I…do you remember when the ghosts appeared on the battlefield?”
“Of course.”
Tyrion nodded fractionally. He clenched and unclenched one hand as if feeling something.
“One of them came to me. My ancestor. One of the first Veltras—he tilted with me. I’ve never sweated that badly before. He knocked me to the ground like I was a child, nevermind my condition. Then he told me that war was coming. A war greater than any I could dream. ‘Forge House Veltras a thousand times stronger and seek the strength of the forests’. That was his charge.”
The ghosts. They had met so many people—and Ryoka had just seen the first consequence. Tyrion bit his lip.
“I…did not have the heart to tell him the Treants, Dryads, and other folk of the Vale Forest were long gone. But I took his words to heart. So—I regret ending the war with Ailendamus, in a sense.”
“Can you explain?”
He nodded, exhaled, and stood. Tyrion gestured at the sword on his side.
“I am not a kind man, Ryoka. I do not—tend to my lands well. My cousins do, and they let me lead them in war because that is what I know. I know battlefields and levels. To level House Veltras, we need a crucible to do it. A war. Perhaps there is another way, as Magnolia claims. One where levels and power come even in peace. Even with enemies at your door. If I could do it that way, I would.”
He shook his head. He could not see that kind of a future. What he saw was his sword…and he unsheathed the blade slightly. Then he slowly offered Ryoka the hilt. Puzzled, she took House Veltras’ heirloom longsword and felt the tingle of magic running down that ancient blade.
“What…”
Tyrion stepped back, and Ryoka held the sword. He bowed to her, then.
“Ryoka Griffin. I am listening to you. I hear that you come from another world. I hear that the stakes are high—and I and my House must rise to the occasion. I am taking it seriously. So to you, I have my own proposal.”
Oh dead gods. Mrsha flailed and then pushed off the ceiling. Larracel caught her as Ryoka paled. Tyrion Veltras slowly sank down onto one knee as Visma put Mrsha in a headlock.
“Ryoka Griffin. I offer you a war.”
The Wind Runner halted, ancestral sword in hand. She exhaled in relief—then she was as frozen as Larracel. What did he just say?
“A war? What do you…?”
Tyrion Veltras looked at her.
“I trust you, Ryoka. I want to trust that you are doing what is best. House Veltras needs to be stronger. So. Name me a foe and tell me you have considered every reason. Be it Ailendamus or Roshal or Wistram. Point them to me, and I will take House Veltras to war.”
He looked at Ryoka, his grey eyes were glinting, and Ryoka was terrified out of her wits. But Tyrion wasn’t done. He touched his chest, as if frustrated, trying to explain.
“I know it must sound mad to put it all in one person’s hands I have not known a year. But—I am not doing this lightly. Show me a cause, Ryoka. Show me a reason to fight that makes my heart feel as certain and as right as when I look at you.”
What? What? Visma, Larracel, and Mrsha were all shaking each other. Shaestrel was laughing with her kin outside the window—and Ryoka Griffin was beet red.
Not even Caroline could do better than this. Not in her wildest dreams—well, maybe then. Ryoka’s voice shook as she tried to say something.
“I—you don’t know—Tyrion. Are you sure you even like me? There’s not a lot to like. I’ll let you down. I’m not good for you or House Veltras.”
She wanted to hand him back the sword, but the [Lord] looked frustrated. He hesitated—then took the sword back. But his hand clasped around hers a second.
“Do I have to marry you instantly? I just wanted to know you. Everyone makes it seem like we can’t even—flirt.”
Ryoka’s mouth opened wide, wide, and—she hesitated. Everyone had obviously thought—had he been—he thought his actions were like—
She looked around, and the faeries ducked out of the way. Everyone was quiet, and Ryoka, reassured they were alone and no one was listening, hesitated a long time. Then…she leaned over.
“I could try that.”
 
——
 
Telling Niers Astoragon to his face that she couldn’t talk with him until later because she had a dinner date with Wall Lord Ilvriss would be Fraerling cruelty.
And an exaggeration of the facts in the most uncharitable manner. Because it was also funny, Foliana begged to be the one to tell Niers when Erin called up Geneva.
Erin let her do it. But she did give Foliana a five-minute start then appeared and waved at Niers. Despite the Squirrel Woman looking so sad at this betrayal of all that was hilarious.
Erin—would have stayed to play a game face-to-face, but the truth was she barely remembered the Ilvriss dinner ‘date’. She was awake and did talky-things the entire time and kept apologizing as she read from a series of statements Mirn and Saliss had prepared with some ‘others’.
Ryoka had helped with terms. In a sense, it was good that Erin just read what they said verbatim. Ilvriss didn’t seem to mind. He kept saying this was ‘refreshing’, ‘bracing’, and ‘highly amusing’. He even said hello to Mrsha and the other people who popped their heads in.
Erin regretted the end of that conversation slightly. Ilvriss had listened to her entire description of Turnscales as more than most Drakes understood it.
As…the beginning of a realization that would encompass more than Drakes liking Drakes of the same gender. Ryoka had given Saliss words to describe herself.
Saliss’ face had wrinkled up, as if he didn’t know if he liked the names—or the ease with which Ryoka put a word to what was so hard to define. Or perhaps the fact that Humans had come up with it first. But he had drunk in her descriptions like someone hungry to know there was water elsewhere in this barren world.
“I understand the issue, Erin. And yes, it seems pressing especially if it will engender—hah—goodwill and talented Drakes. But is this the most pressing issue? I’ll do it if it helps me level, of course.”
She reminded herself that he was trying to help. That he didn’t have to hear her out and that it was in his very culture not to listen. But Erin Solstice snapped.
Snapped with her eyes flashing.
“Do you know what I’m going to ask Fetohep to do, Ilvriss?”
“No?”
The Wall Lord stopped grinning in amusement at her antics and what he regarded as somewhat lighthearted, nostalgic dinner banter. Erin Solstice looked him in the eyes.
“I’m going to ask him to take Goblins into Khelt. I am going to ask him to find tribes, find Chieftains and even if he finds a Goblin Lord, give them Khelt’s peace. And he is not going to like that. He is going to tell me he has too much to do and this is dangerous, even for Khelt. But you know what? I am going to tell him that if I ruled Khelt—that is the very first thing I would do. And that is why he should be glad I didn’t take his offer.”
Ilvriss’ mouth opened for a reply, and Erin pointed at him over her bowl of mac and cheese Imani had made with a huge scowl.
“I don’t know Turnscales. I don’t know…the movement from Earth that well. I don’t. I never paid as much attention as I should have, I guess. Because I thought things were going pretty well until I realized they weren’t. But if you laugh? I dare you to laugh in their faces when you meet them, Ilvriss. Do you think I’m giving you something easy? Something that doesn’t matter?”
“Yes, but—Earth is coming. Surely this isn’t as universally important as Goblin truths or lost dungeons belonging to Gnomes.”
The Wall Lord looked as he had many times before, and he did not look happy that nostalgia was also being reminded of being on the wrong foot in Erin’s inn. And that was where Erin shook a fist at him. Where she raised her voice.
“Goblins. Antinium. One species, Ilvriss. Do you think I’m talking just about Drakes? Or Gnolls? Or Humans? I am telling you to change the entire damn world. You want allies? Make a stand and do it right. I need help…and I thought you were the best of people I could ask. Because if not you, I would have gone to Zel Shivertail.”
“I—”
The [Innkeeper] began shouting at Ilvriss.
“No, be quiet. Goblin truth? That matters to Goblins more than anything else in the entire world. Goblin Kings, the secrets of Elves. Turnscales. How much do you think they want to be safe? Do you think it matters less to them? How bad do you think they want this? What do you think Zel would say if he were here? Do you think he’d laugh and take it lightly? Do you think you’re filling his place well right now?”
Ilvriss didn’t really say much after that. But the look on his face told Erin that he was taking it more seriously, at least. She felt bad about it. But that was why.
She should have called Fetohep up then and talked to him, and Niers and Altestiel and the rest. But the truth was that when Erin was done with talking to Ilvriss, she was exhausted. Not physically.
In fact, aside from shaking a few hands, Erin had sat all day—but emotionally? Mentally? She was in a state of explosion.
“I did it all. I did it…and I’ll keep doing it.”
Erin Solstice was wheeling herself out of the [World’s Eye Theatre] via the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She had figured out that if she wheeled forwards, opened the door, and then opened it again in front of her, the momentum would roll her straight into the place in the inn she wanted to go without her tracking grass and soil everywhere or getting stuck.
The second floor of the inn and her room still carried up the sounds of a rip-roaring party below. Demsleth was setting the inn on fire—somewhat literally as he tried to juggle flaming embers. Erin, though, had to sit in the hallway outside her door for a second.
She should go down, make sure Magnolia was okay with Xrn or the Centenium didn’t have sugar poisoning…but the truth was she was tired.
Tired—but the Relc-hug had kept her from that panic attack. If there was any emotion in Erin’s heart, it was—
“I want to go with you.”
She punched the wall with all the strength of half a Fraerling. Her arm was so tired she could barely hold it up for five seconds before it shook and dropped.
Why was she so weak? It was a rhetorical question. Erin…
“I want to go with you, Klbkch. I wanna go with you and see those dungeons. But I’m not an adventurer. I want to go to Rhir and meet the True Antinium. I want—I want to be a bridge between them and the new Antinium of Izril.”
The words spilled from her mouth, and no one—save one person who hid a second when they heard Erin speaking in the hallway—heard her.
Erin kept talking.
“I want to go with Teriarch. And Ryoka. And the Horns. I don’t want them to run off. I want…”
Her hands were so weak. The Grand Design of Isthekenous really did know her will, because her theatre would let Erin see her friends. But she also wanted to be there.
The portal door. The theatre. Now, Erin wanted Larra’s Haven. She wanted more. And her weak hand was trembling, grasping at something.
Not the doorknob. Erin Solstice squeezed her eyes shut. She reached for something with such will and intensity and longing that Shaestrel and her kin felt it.
“Lend it to me again. I’ll take it this time. Give me the sword of the King of Knights. Give me…Excalibur…”
She tried to pull it out of her dreams, out of that image that the lands of the dead had held, out of memory and will and between the worlds.
But the door was closed. It was just…a memory. It was like trying to fly, willing yourself into the air. It would never happen, but Erin wanted it.
She banged a fist against the wall again and cried out.
“I don’t want to be here! I don’t want to…tend the hearth and my inn. I know you’ll come back. Please come back.”
All of her guests. She was speaking to them. Erin whispered.
“But I don’t want to wait and see your scars. I want to go there after you and make sure you don’t get hurt. See your best moments and be with you in your worst. I want to…”
She didn’t know how to describe it in this moment. But the eavesdropper had, interestingly, the best way to describe this feeling in Erin’s heart. For it was known to them full well. As Erin grieved and raged against her helplessness, she heard a sound which defined the other and echoed down the hallway.
Crunch. Crunch.
Erin’s head rose, and she saw a female Hobgoblin with glowing paint on her arms slowly inserting a potato chip into her mouth. Ulvama crunched it down as she stared at Erin.
“…Ulvama?”
Of all the guests in the entire inn—only Ulvama had enough snacks hidden in her rooms not to be lured down by food. The [Shaman] eyed Erin.
“You complain a lot.”
Erin Solstice just stared at her. The [Innkeeper] was trying not to say something rude. But the [Shaman] pointed a chip at her. Calescent had baked them up with Imani’s help, and while it took a bit of effort to make a chip-bag, Ulvama was a huge fan of the ones with lots of salt. Or garlic. Or spice. Or all of them. Especially with dips. In fact, you could dip Yellats in the sour cream. Or in the fish sauce. Or you could dip your finger in the sauce and just eat it. Or you could just feed her.
She ate a lot. So much that Mrsha the Snacker sometimes looked at her with a kind of disturbed awe. Then again, Mrsha was literally half Ulvama’s weight at best.
