The hallway was wide enough that he seemed comfortable in it. Doors leading to gardens in void space. And at the end…the Dragon looked up, and his eyes shone with pain and a kind of ancient hurt that he had never known this place existed. He lumbered forward to that door—and stared at the writing on the wall.
“This…she never told me. She never told me she had a key.”
He looked hurt. And then pained.
“Secrets. Fate? At the end of it, she accomplished deeds that put Dragonlords to shame. Was this how? It weighed on her. She seemed aged a hundred years by the time—”
“So you don’t know what lies beyond?”
Teriarch shook his head. He looked at Erin.
“No. But I would like to. If there is a key—it must lie in your levels. Please. Will you let me see what she hid until that end?”
He pleaded, and she just nodded.
“I will tell you. Do you…know the other gardens?”
Magnolia Reinhart was halted in place, staring at the words of her great ancestor. Teriarch looked at the red letters and snorted flames.
“Lucifen. I have seen other inheritors. I know a few. But not all realized what the garden could do. You…you have it how Sheta did. Statues.”
The second thing he saw were the statues. Still, he didn’t weep. The Dragon walked up that misty hill after Erin, Ryoka pushing her friend through the grass and fog.
At first, he saw nothing of the statues that Ryoka saw. He did not know Brunkr, Headscratcher, or the many mortals who appeared to the others. He would have seen millions had Erin known them.
But Teriarch stopped when he saw the Dragons. They appeared as Erin and Ryoka had seen them, arrayed around the visitors as they had once appeared to Rhisveri.
The Dragonlords. Yderigrisel had a place among them, head raised high and noble. Saracandre, eyes glittering even in the grey stone with wisdom. Muzarre, arrogant and prepared for war.
Only one was missing. And Erin hoped he would never be among them. Teriarch found his daughter, Nirayicel, resting her head in her claws. He stood there, wings shaking, for a long time in front of them all as Rafaema hid her head in her wings, already leaking tears that sparked with lightning.
Slowly, Teriarch knelt. He knelt in the grass and bowed his head. Then he looked up at his kin, and it might have been hours—or years, Ryoka didn’t know.
It was Demsleth that hung over him. As if his mortal, fake body informed the Dragon himself. He could have come here as Eldavin, the hero of forgotten nations. Champion of voices long lost to time.
He could have walked here as the Dragonlord of Flame or another guise. Taken his place among those statues, for he had earned his place among memory and history. But no.
The Dragon seemed smaller. Not just in physical stature. He seemed…less certain. Pudgier than the proud Dragons who remembered their finest moments. Out of shape, tired. Scarred and scared.
And he welcomed it. For a brief, immortal moment, Teriarch stood there not as the Dragonlord among mortals, but a member of a species among his peers. Time flowed off those brass scales like water, and reflected in the mirror of the Dragon’s body flashed memories. Memories the others could only half-see.
How he had laughed with some of them. Scolded, even pranked other, older Dragons like Saracandre until he felt the weight of his responsibilities in age. Mentored some—fought with others tooth and nail like Muzarre.
When the Dragon knelt there, his people endured. When he rose—they would be gone, and only he would remain. He—and two children in a lonely world.
So he knelt, selfishly knowing he took time from the others. But when he felt that [Immortal Moment] upon him, he looked at Erin with all the gratitude in the world. And envy. For she had something even Dragons wanted.
Erin Solstice kept him company as long as the Dragon needed. It seemed like she just sat there, sat as time flowed by the two—until he had the strength to stand. Only then did she take him to the final statues.
And then he wept.
“Gnomes.”
Zineryr and the Gnomes stood there, grinning and waving as the traitor, the last of Elves, Sprigaena, held her sword up as she had before she cast it over the edge of the world. Ryoka Griffin was shaking so badly by this point—she was glad that she saw Magnolia having to sit down. Ressa was leaning on her.
“They won. They told me they won, and the six coming back after so long, the one in Rhir—they were like mistakes that the Gnomes missed. They won. They apologized—as if they hadn’t done enough!”
Erin’s voice rose. It sounded fiery, angry. Frustrated. The Dragonlord just wept. The [Innkeeper] looked up at him.
“I thought you’d scream or roar or…”
He shook his head, and the Brass Dragon looked up as his tears ran like molten metal in the grass. Trails of smoke joined the mist in wisps.
“I weep, for I did not know them. I weep—because I wish I had. I never knew the Gnomes. I have lived the span of this world—but I was not born when they made war against gods. Nor was my mother. Her mother remembered the end of that war.”
Three generations of Dragons had passed since the end. Teriarch whispered, looking from face to face, then he found one. One of the female Gnomes, a magnifying glass in hand.
“Her. I met her for a single day. She was old, the last of the last when my mother introduced her to me. I was a baby—she tried to make me laugh until I couldn’t stand. Even then, she was kind. It must have been…fifty-eight thousand years ago.”
Ryoka’s head swiveled around. Rafaema gasped—and Magnolia sat upright. Even Taletevirion took a step backwards.
That was how old he was. Teriarch said nothing else for a long time. Then he turned to Erin.
“I know what must be done. But I fear, Erin Solstice, I am not the Dragon you need. You need a warrior for your foes, a general to lead armies, a diplomat and a guide. I am old. They should have chosen someone else.”
“You don’t have to do it alone, you know.”
Teriarch shook his head.
“I hope not. For I have inspired Terandria to move—and I will continue to do so. But I cannot be the Dragonlord of Flames I was when I was younger. Only in seeming. There are…more reasons than just my cowardice.”
She had seen him come into the inn as Demsleth, half-broken, half-asleep. The [Innkeeper] sighed. She reached out—and poked him in one of the legs.
“Ow. My finger hurts. Are your scales as hard as rocks? Wait, can I have a scale? I bet that’d make great scale soup.”
Rafaema, Magnolia, and Ryoka nearly jumped Erin. The Brass Dragon recoiled and put his wings down as if defensively.
“I am not going to be eaten.”
“What? I’m not talking about that. Aren’t scales like, uh, fingernails or hair?”
“Who told you that? No. It’s like a chunk of flesh. Do you rip off pieces of your skin and offer them to people?”
“I thought Dragons molted. Do Unicorns molt?”
Taletevirion gave Erin a huge side-eye. He nudged Teriarch with one hoof.
“This girl is crazy. I think you’re talking about Dryads. They sometimes have flowers in their ‘hair’, which fall off.”
“My scales. What are you going to do, bake the world’s ultimate food to kill a god?”
Teriarch rumbled in indignation. Erin Solstice crossed her arms.
“Well, if you’re gonna mope all day, it’d probably be of more help. No one’s asking you to be Mr. Dragonlord of Burning Things, buddy. Saracandre said you’re dumbest when you do the ‘Dragonlord of Flame’ thing.”
“She said that? That’s so—hurtful.”
He looked genuinely astonished. Erin just folded her arms.
“What are you going to do? Just tell me that.”
He retorted instantly.
“Dragons do not give out their plans to mortals.”
Taletevirion poked his head up from Teriarch’s lower back.
“That means he’s going to wing it.”
Teriarch went to swing his tail, and the Unicorn hopped it casually. Erin Solstice laughed.
“I just need to know what you think is best.”
The Dragon was offended, then rueful, then he looked at Erin with a kind of equanimity the other young women were instantly jealous of. Because Erin Solstice’s relationship with Teriarch was different than how Ryoka’s and Rafaema’s and Magnolia’s were. He rumbled softly.
“Them. I cannot—should not fight battles for those with levels until the time comes. But one of my kind is here, young. She needs to know what it is to be us. I—I believe my task is to find embers and turn them into flames. There are a thousand mortals visited by ghosts. Gifted with revelations or secrets or Skills. They will need help.”
He had a vision after all. The [Witch] and [Innkeeper] grinned up at him.
“That sounds sort of like what I do at my inn.”
“Yes, well. I have more experience. I will try to meddle. To mitigate what my simulacrum—Eldavin—can do with damage. He serves the three-in-one. Kasigna.”
Erin’s smile dropped off the face of the earth. Ryoka went white, and Shaestrel hissed.
“No.”
“He has the power of her in him. I could not best him—even when I took him by surprise. I do not dare to try a second time. I will play the great game in secret a moment. I—must start small. Are you let down by it?”
Teriarch, who had so recently been Demsleth, looked ashamed until Erin poked him in the side again.
“No. I get it. If you need to stop by the inn any time—come on by. I’ll give you a drink and food. But not for free. I hear you’ve got a lot of money, and you’re sort of a big eater.”
His mouth was open, and he was searching for a retort when Erin turned, and both she and Teriarch looked at the real quarry here. The Unicorn began to back away instantly.
“Oh no. No, nope. I’ve sworn an oath. A geas, even. Until I see something new and all that—you’re not getting me involved in a war.”
“Taletevirion, this is the oldest war. If there was ever a cause—”
“You’ve given me this speech eight times, and I’ve done it to you five. Don’t do it, Teriarch. It won’t work.”
The Unicorn began backing downhill, and Erin called out after him.
“Come on, Talete—Taletevoon. Teriarch’s cool. I thought a Unicorn would be cool. I guess Dragons are the only ones with a backbone. I didn’t hear of Unicorns fighting the six.”
The Unicorn froze as he turned around. He turned his head back and glared down his horn at her.
“I know what you’re doing. Like Khelt—I’ll give you a 4/10 for that.”
He trotted back and looked down at Erin as if he hadn’t realized he’d already lost. The only way was not to play. Erin folded her arms.
“Okay, then show me a real 8/10 move of determination. We’ve got 5/10 Teriarch over here.”
“Hey.”
The Unicorn snorted in amusement, but he took a step back.
“Cute. But I am serious. I get the odds, I really do. Worse than Dragonlords, more dangerous than empire—but I am done. Teriarch has one of his people to guard, and…this ties into his very history. But me? My people are gone, Erin Solstice. Not even their ghosts to fight for. My forest is quiet. My people died a long time ago. You ask me to fight…for who?”
He looked sad, and his words made Erin Solstice’s head duck—but before she could come up with a reply, someone swooped down in outrage.
 
“Look at ye, you cowardly cunt of a horned horney donkey! Is this what a warrior of the glades says?”
 
Taletevirion ducked as Shaestrel buzzed his head. He backed up in alarm and then groaned.
“Oh dead gods. Now I have a nag from another world after me. Shoo, shoo. I’m not falling for any pranks, and you’re the worst hypocrite. I’ve seen your lot every year playing pranks—who are you to lecture me?”
He began to trot away, and the enraged Spring Faerie shouted.
 
“We honored our promises! This is when it mattered, and we have waited for this day, unlike ye who’s given up! You may say you’re the last of your kind, and it’s a trueness here—but not in the Court of the Faerie King! I am Shaestrel, and I swear upon my name I will go back and tell them what a coward their kin was!”
 
The Unicorn’s head snapped around, and he stared at Shaestrel. The fae folded her arms, smiling.
 
“Aye, that’s right. Your kind lives in our lands and other places. Should I offer you passage when this is all done? If you walk that road, I might—I might petition my King for the honor of travel. But we do not take cowards, Unicorn.”
 
Taletevirion’s chest rose and fell, and Ryoka grabbed Rafaema’s arm as the Dragon did likewise. Then the two looked at the other and stared. But Taletevirion just snorted hot air.
“Pretty good. If I were younger, that would work. But you’re making one mistake, Shaestrel. My lands are here. My people were here.”
He struck the ground of the garden, and the grass rose half an inch around him in a hundred foot circle. Ryoka swore she felt her hair grow and saw Erin’s lengthen a centimeter. Taletevirion came nose-to-nose with Shaestrel.
“If war is coming—I will pick my battles when it comes to Izril. But I am not marching to your drums. I swore not to move unless I saw something new. Maybe Earthers are that—but they are another world, and it sounds like one with even less forests than mine. I care for the Vale Forest. I will slay my enemies there and safeguard a million lives there. Give me one reason why I would throw that over to die and have my horn cut from my skull anywhere else.”
Shaestrel hovered, biting her lip and scowling. Erin put her head in her hands, and then a nervous voice piped up. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes brightened, and she smiled as Ryoka Griffin spoke.
“What about—”
She coughed, and Taletevirion saw the Wind Runner raise a very nervous hand. He stared at her with such a flat look his thoughts were practically written on the air. In fact, they were appearing as the tip of his horn glowed, magical writing.
Oh no you don’t. Don’t you dare. I’ll run you through. Stop it.
“—What about bringing back the Dryads? Wouldn’t that be worthy of your forest?”
The Dryad seed. The Unicorn’s conversation with Ryoka came back. The one expert on Dryads—the one person who might be able to bring one back—closed his eyes as Shaestrel laughed in his face. Laughed and laughed like the silent Gnomes, eyes bulging, guffawing at his weary expression.
Taletevirion slowly trotted over to Ryoka and laid his head on her chest. Ryoka tried to back up—then realized he was pushing her with his head. Slowly, the Unicorn picked up speed—and then he tossed her off the hill. He watched with some satisfaction as he sent her tumbling head-over-heels down into the rest of the garden. Then he spat.
“I hate you all.”
 
——
 
Have you ever felt that sense of—loss or a barrier being breached? Like when you stand on stage and realize you’re in the middle of a performance.
