This was too open a place to reveal plans. So Zara fell silent, censuring herself. And then, when she thought everyone was mostly done, the last speaker lifted a hand for their attention.
Ryoka Griffin stepped forwards, and her voice was shaky. But she did speak. She rasped at first, then warmed to her speech, desperate, longing, afraid…and courageous.
All at once. To the [Doctor], who looked at the Runner who had brought an antidote to children; to the Singer, who saw a glorious mess; to Tom, who laughed at her scars; to Laken, who nodded to her side even if he couldn’t see—and to Erin, Ryoka spoke.
 
Ryoka: “I am Ryoka Griffin. A Courier. A Runner. I’m nothing special. I just got—lucky. Maybe we were all unlucky to come here. I know so many people have died, and it’s just terrible chance that lands them in a monster nest or somewhere they can prosper. Nothing makes sense, but I know a few things. Those six…are evil. I have seen it, and I see that this world is chaotic. Some parts are as bad as ours or, possibly, worse. Others are amazing. Fantastic.”
 
She took a breath that strained at her lungs.
 
Ryoka: “Here’s the thing. If you’re like I was before I came here, you’ve wondered whether our world had any more adventures left in it. Anywhere to explore. I used to wish I was at some great point in time. A time when it mattered, when the world stopped and a few people could change history. World War II, a fight for independence…I wanted to be someone who did something.”
 
Teresa’s eyes were shining with understanding, but Ryoka had a wearier look upon her face.
 
Ryoka: “This is it, you know. We’re literally in that position. Maybe not all of us have an equal chance—but we are here in that moment so few people get. And it’s terrifying. I wanted this all my life just to realize I never actually desired this. But we have to do something. Doing nothing is a choice. Pretending there’s nothing at stake and we’re powerless is a choice. This is the most important moment of your lives. Look at yourselves, at where you’re going. You can turn back and stop.”
 
She stared around.
 
Ryoka: “More than sides. More than power…when you think of the dead gods, remember this: they have done terrible things. They are why we are here. You want to know what they did? How to stop them? How to gain power or why we’re here? All of it? Find the truth. That unites us all. And if I meet you on my long journey, I hope we can help each other.”
 
When she was done, she was panting for air as if she had run a hundred miles. But the Earthers looked at her—and then someone began to applaud. Caroline, and it was picked up by a dozen people—until Tom clapped and cheered and whistled too loudly.
 
Tom: “Best graduation speech ever. Like every other one I’ve heard, really.”
 
Ryoka turned red, but Cara gave her a wry nod and smile. And Erin? Erin raised her voice, cut off Tom and the laughter, and looked up into her theatre. She exhaled.
“That’s it for now. I’ll try to speak to you all later. Good luck.”
And then it was done.
 
——
 
They were going to remember it. All of it. Whether or not it changed their trajectories—more than just Earthers had listened and seen the pieces go onto the board.
Yazdil? Yazdil had just put himself in the position of the king piece. Flos Reimarch was on one end of the many-sided board, Yazdil another.
But Yazdil had elevated himself onto the level of the six.
And at least one of them didn’t like that one bit.
Later, later. Right now, Erin Solstice was shaking. Shaking so bad that, as the [World’s Eye Theatre] went back to normal and the sun shone down, someone offered her a drink. Erin took a long sip from a wooden straw and nearly sprayed it out.
“Eugh! What is this?”
“I thought it tasted good. It’s a health-shake. It’s got crushed ice in it. For texture.”
Of all the things she had ever seen or done—this seemed to hurt Grimalkin the most. He protectively covered his experimental shake, and Erin looked around.
There they were. She had seen them filing in, one by one, and Palt hadn’t broadcast some of the viewpoints because they hadn’t been Earthers.
Fraerlings, including Niers. Grimalkin, Saliss, Nanette, Mrsha, Lyonette, at least Pisces and Yvlon of the Horns via screen, and Rags and her Goblins. Selys, Krshia—
Her friends looked at her, some with wide eyes, others with a kind of rueful smile.
There it was. Out in the open. Whether they had known or not—Lady Pryde was frozen mid-sip of her drink. She had stopped about halfway into the conversation, and she was whispering.
“…What’s Earth? What about…”
Lady Magnolia Reinhart was gazing at Erin, and it was to her that Erin looked first. Her voice shook a bit as she called out.
“If—if you’re gonna be mad at me, I’m not in the mood.”
In reply, Magnolia just exhaled. She looked at Klbkch and a show of lights as Xrn floated down from where she had been flying to get a better view. The Antinium silently regarded her as Rafaema finally took in a breath. Demsleth and Taletevirion were in the upper stands, and both had poked the Lightning Dragon every time she tried to scream ‘what?’.
It was one way to get them on the same page. Magnolia Reinhart dipped her head to Erin Solstice as Ressa stopped chewing on popcorn.
“Erin Solstice. If Maviola El were here, she would have lit the theatre on fire with her smile. Mad? I am simply—pained. For they will remember you. But I have seen and stood before my peers and my very house as you once stood. I salute you. And if it is a side you want, please believe mine and yours are aligned.”
Her eyes glistened, and Erin gulped and nodded.
“Thank you. Now…”
She looked to Yelroan and a Drake who had been stabbed from the side by Magnolia’s words. Olesm gazed down at Erin without blinking. Relc sidled over to listen to Grimalkin with a look of vague alarm. He was waiting for someone to tell him this was a prank. Bird saw Erin wheeling towards the first of the people she had promised to speak with as Ryoka pushed her.
The [Hunter] took this moment to politely and calmly tap three people on the shoulder. Magnolia Reinhart, Lyonette, and Yelroan turned, and Bird clasped all four hands together.
“In light of today’s events, I think a ballista is very appropriate. Let us discuss funding.”
 
——
 
They were waiting for her. Erin Solstice could literally count them. She had:
 
Xrn and Klbkch.
Demsleth, Taletevirion, and maybe Rafaema.
Saliss.
Magnolia and Ressa.
Rags and her tribe.
Nerry.
 
This did not include Niers and the other people who wanted to talk to her remotely. This was just people in her inn.
In her inn. Enough guests to make the Haven shake with the consequences were waiting for her. Expecting something of her. Each one of them had a task, a goal, and a difficult request. Erin…
…Was already tired after the Earther conversation. She didn’t know if she could answer their expectations. But what kept her going was the knowledge that she had something to tell them. She had carried it since the lands of the dead.
“Erin? How you doing? I feel like I just ran to Invrisil and back.”
Ryoka was wiping at her brow. Erin just exhaled. She laced her fingers together in her lap.
“I don’t like speeches. But this next part? I’d rather give a speech to all of Pallass about, uh…cooking.”
She looked like she was apprehensive. Apprehensive and resigned. Like someone watching a cliff drop away as she drove towards it. Ryoka turned to Erin and realized the [Innkeeper] had a kind of foresight, a premonition of what might come next.
But she turned and waited as the first duo approached. Xrn and Klbkch. The light from her head was already threatening to stain the seats of the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“We should probably talk here. It’s here or the garden—and she might actually fry the Faerie Flowers or the dome.”
Klbkch slowed as Ryoka lifted a hand.
“Hi, Klbkch. It’s been a long time.”
“Miss Griffin.”
He dipped his head. Xrn turned to Ryoka, and her eyes flickered pale orange and then to spruce brown and then…
“Erin Solstice. At last you deign to speak to us. Is now a good time for your goals and ambitions?”
The [Innkeeper] held her ground as Klbkch nudged Xrn hard. The azure Centenium had never exactly been calm—she had always scared Erin even when she was being friendly. Now? She lifted the staff and swung it into Klbkch’s side.
He tried to dodge. The staff missed him. The spectral hand did not. Erin and Ryoka flinched as Klbkch bounced, crashed into several of Erin’s new chairs hard enough to break them—
“Aw, my theatre! [Partial Reconstruction]. Guys. Please.”
Xrn ignored Erin’s complaint as Klbkch got up and strode back to them. She struck the ground with that staff, and a bubble enveloped them.
“We will be silent in here. Why is she here? Is she necessary?”
She turned her head to Ryoka, and the Wind Runner gulped. She took a step back and looked at Erin uncertainly. Even Shaestrel seemed to be holding her tongue.
“I, uh, I could go.”
“That might be best.”
Klbkch agreed, rubbing at his side. But Erin put an arm out and shook her head.
“No. Ryoka stays. We’ve had enough secrets.”
“Antinium secrets are not your secrets.”
Xrn retorted, but Erin Solstice met that glowing eye without flinching. Trey had an unblinking stare that came from talking with Gazi.
Erin had poked out Gazi’s eye. She firmed her expression.
“She’s my best friend.”
“I thought that was Saliss.”
Ryoka muttered, trying not to sound embarrassed. Erin gave her a flat look.
“Klbkch, stomp on Ryoka’s foot.”
Xrn did it for Klbkch. The Wind Runner shifted slightly as the foot came down, and Xrn’s full-body stomp—made the Centenium frown and recoil. She felt like she’d just stepped on a rock.
Ryoka’s footwraps had taken the stomp. She nudged the Centenium with her bare foot in reply. Xrn stared down at the foot—then up at Ryoka. The Wind Runner began to sweat as Xrn lifted the staff.
“Xrn.”
Klbkch caught one end, but Xrn slowly lowered it and tapped Ryoka lightly on the head.
“She stays. She was of some use to Klbkch. But I had better be impressed by what I hear. I have spent nearly half a year in Liscor. Half a year of hearing nothing from Erin Solstice but excuses. If I am unhappy, for all your new Skill is so very interesting, Erin Solstice, by the time I leave, you will need a new one.”
She was angry, and Erin’s first instinct was to poke that bear. But she didn’t. And that surprised even Ryoka and Klbkch, because Erin’s response to pressure was to punch it in the face. Yet Erin seemed to understand.
She looked at Xrn’s torn head and the light leaking from her brain.
“I know, Xrn. You were hurt defending my inn. I haven’t repaid that. I haven’t…given you, personally, much. Because I don’t think I had what you wanted. You wanted armies. All I did was make some of the Antinium my friends.”
“No. You misunderstand. I wanted you to make the entire Hive your friend.”
Xrn sounded tired, and Erin saw how frustrated she was. For all he was often so wrong—even Klbkch seemed to get the error in Xrn’s thinking. The peerless Small Queen…
“That’s not how friendship works, Xrn. I’m sorry.”
The Small Queen shook her head.
“Then I would have rather you led the 7th Hive. I would have made you a Queen.”
Klbkch’s head snapped around. Ryoka’s eyes bulged. Erin Solstice? She shook her head and sighed.
“I can’t rule the Antinium any more than I wanted to rule Khelt. Or anywhere else. I want to help—but in different ways. I died, Xrn. I died, and…I have a message for you and Klbkch. That’s why I wanted to talk to you. I met no Antinium in the lands of the dead. I told Klbkch that.”
He bowed his head.
“They were in Rhir.”
“Nothing that died on Rhir had a soul in the lands of the dead. Because of the dead god buried there. Even the ones who killed her—and they think it was a her—didn’t know she was down there. Or they would have wiped her out.”
Xrn’s head slowly rose. Ryoka gasped, and Shaestrel narrowed her eyes. Erin Solstice didn’t blink when she delivered that news.
“How do you know it was a her?”
Klbkch’s swords were halfway out of their sheaths. Reflexively. He had tensed. Both Antinium drew closer, so close they were practically on top of Erin.
“How do you—?”
Erin looked at them and then Ryoka, and then her eyes found Shaestrel.
“I met their enemies. In the lands of the dead. I met Gnomes.”
Crash. Ryoka had been hearing the conversations around the rest of the theatre. Xrn’s bubble had been one-way, so she could hear Selys talking with Krshia, for instance. And she could see, obviously.
Right now, she saw Demsleth, in the midst of walking over to a seat, miss a step and go crashing down one of the balconies. That was followed by Magnolia Reinhart trying to choke to death on a cup of tea as Pryde and Ressa thumped her on the back.
Xrn’s head turned in confusion…then she stared at her bubble spell. Her good mandible opened and dropped. It stupefied her for an entire second. She didn’t seem to believe someone could bypass her spell.
Then her eyes turned black—and Erin Solstice caught her wrist before she could turn. Xrn naturally just dragged her half out of her chair, but she relaxed as Erin spoke.
“Maybe there shouldn’t be any secrets, Xrn. Just listen.”
The bubble spell popped, and Erin’s voice rose. Rose—as, for a second, four viewpoints flashed across the dome.
They were, somewhat interestingly, all male. Each one, also interestingly, a type of ruler or lord.
King Fetohep of Eternal Khelt. Earl Altestiel of the Rains. Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar. Niers Astoragon, Titan of Baleros.
Each one was caught in a kind of repose. Fetohep was sitting on his throne, reading [Messages]. Altestiel was sitting with a group of five others, including a [Knight] with a set of magnificent armor.
Ilvriss was talking to Alrric, and the Gnoll dragged out a wand and aimed it at them as the Wall Lord turned. Niers was talking to Geneva and looked up as if he had expected this. A Fraerling with an eye-patch jumped.
Four of her friends or allies. Men that Erin had known and befriended.
Then four viewpoints opened below theirs. As if in contrast to the top four, they were all female. But—this group was all unknown to Ryoka.
She had not met a single one of the four, but they winked into place, again, against their will. Despite their safeguards. And it shocked them.
The Quarass of Germina drew a dagger, then her eyes narrowed in her throne room.
Cognita Truestone turned from a nervous, smiling Stitch-man who was hanging on every word and a bevy of servants around her. Her jade eyes flashed in irritation.
