Nothing like being a soldier to notice someone about to keel over. Erin Solstice looked down at herself and shook her head. She twisted, and both she and Relc looked at Klbkch. At Demsleth and Ryoka vanishing and…
“I’m sorry I didn’t tell you, Relc.”
“Yeah. It’s okay. Really. Why…why didn’t you? I’m just curious.”
The Drake cleared his throat. He tried his best to sound the least accusatory he could. Now, he was looking down at Erin and noticing how shaky she sounded. The [Innkeeper] smiled bloodlessly as she saw Fierre and Garia racing after Ryoka with Mrsha and…
“I was afraid of this, I think. This kind of day. I thought that if I told people—there would be a time when I had to choose sides and it all caught up with me. Like this.”
She was cold and lost—until Relc leaned over and gave her the biggest hug imaginable. Erin squeaked.
“Relc! Stop that!”
The Drake didn’t let go. Saliss slowed as he strode over, and Lyonette looked down with some of Erin’s friends. It was really hard, even now, to sometimes remember that Erin Solstice wasn’t the giant, fire-breathing Grandmaster of Scales or the [Innkeeper] who stood in the world’s eye.
“You’re looking shaky. Hey, Lyonette! Erin could use a milkshake. Or something. She’s also cold. Anyone got a blanket?”
Her friends looked down and noticed Erin’s condition. Lyonette went to fetch a drink, but Ishkr simply pulled a milkshake out of the air. Erin laughed.
“It’s too cold! I don’t need a—thank you. Relc, I’m good, really.”
“You liar. You know, Erin, I’m not that smart. But I’m smarter than Klbkch is, sometimes. And I think you’re stressed out.”
The [Relc Hug] seemed to be warming Erin back up. Maybe it should be a Skill after all? It was certainly more impressive than his punch.
Erin Solstice looked up at the Drake. She wiped at her arm.
“Thanks, Relc. I just—I put on that big call because I had to tell everyone what was happening. But I didn’t have a full plan. This, with Klbkch, Xrn? T—Demsleth? It had to happen. This has to happen. But I don’t know if it’ll go well. I’m afraid.”
She confessed to him, and the Drake hesitated. The [Trusted Sergeant] looked around for some words of wisdom. But Ryoka was gone, and the nearest person was Saliss.
So he figured it was up to him. Relc fumbled for a moment. Then he just went for it.
“Search me. I never know what to do.”
Erin laughed. Relc elaborated hurriedly, but the laughter was a good sign.
“You know, that’s how a lot of things in the Watch work. I don’t know what to do? Klbkch or Zevara takes over. That’s how the army worked too. Always someone to report to. But in Cellidel, there was no one. I mean, there was the Watch Captain, but he sucked. It was just me.”
The [Magical Innkeeper] was listening as Lyonette brought a blanket and offered it to Erin. She draped it over the wheelchair, and Relc went on. He was conscious a few people were listening, and he turned red, but he wanted to say it. In case it helped.
“So—I had to change. I had to try and do new things. I messed up, but I think it worked out.”
Erin looked up at Relc. The [Guard] paused.
“I don’t have an end to that story. Sorry. I just said to myself, when I was messing about, when I didn’t know what would happen next during the protests and stuff—I thought, ‘I wonder what Erin will say when I get back’. I forgot you were dead, sorry. I thought, ‘I hope she won’t be angry at me.’ And that kept me going.”
She looked up at him, and he was fully flushed by now. But when Erin was about to protest that was a fake story or laugh…she looked at him and realized he meant it.
Then Erin’s breathing was calm again. She did a slow pivot around the room, and Selys was there, ready to jump in to help Erin with applications of stern love. And Krshia with Gnollish hugs if Drake hugs didn’t work.
“When I go back, tell them…thanks, Relc. I think—I think that really helps.”
He gave her a suspicious look.
“You sure? I just made that up.”
Then she giggled. But Erin relaxed, and he wondered whether it was a [Witch] or an [Innkeeper], an Earther or a dead woman he was staring at. All four, perhaps. Because Erin’s eyes grew so old Teriarch recognized them, and when she spoke, it was with the same kind of dignity Maviola El had once had.
Olesm saw that. Erin Solstice stared back towards her garden and beyond even that.
“If I could go back to those great ghosts in the lands of the dead…no. When. When I die again—”
Selys’ breath caught in her throat. Erin’s friends stared at her, but the [Innkeeper] wasn’t speaking of now. But she was speaking of certainty. She looked ahead with such conviction. At the most true thing in the world.
“When I die again, I want my statue to smile. I said that in the lands of the dead. I want to do so much more before I go. And when I see Zineryr, when I find those ghosts wherever they are, I want them to be proud. I don’t want my ghost to cling to regrets. Hard as it is—if they’re going, they had better come back to my inn. I should send them off right.”
Then her head came up, and Relc saw Erin like he had known her grasp the wheels of her chair. She kicked at the patchwork blanket on her and sat up. She wheeled forwards—and promptly got her wheelchair tangled in the blanket.
“Shit. Someone make me look cooler. And—I need you to get me people.”
“Who, exactly, Erin?”
Lyonette was fussing with the wheels. She saw Erin smile. There was that chaos Niers had glimpsed.
“Interesting pairings. Ishkr? Go stop Magnolia from leaving. Then get me Xrn and Klbkch.”
The [Head Server of Tales and Fables]’ eyes lit up.
“And where do you want them?”
Erin glanced at him, realized what he meant, and gave her best worker a big smile.
“Good idea. Do the private room. Get me snacks.”
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart had been listening in on the conversation with Xrn and Klbkch, and it was fascinating. It made the Antinium more sympathetic to her—and more frightening.
But she would have easily admitted it hadn’t been her moment. If she had thought of the Antinium, it was that they were connected to her via Erin. Erin was the [Innkeeper].
Magnolia had long been their enemy. So…even Lady Reinhart, the Deadly Flower Blooming in the North, couldn’t quite get over a bowl of dead acid flies in front of her.
Xrn was staring at the cup of tea. Erin mischievously waited a beat before switching the two around.
“Whoops, sorry about that. Ishkr, how about some Garry-bread for Magnolia? Without the bugs. And two more cups of tea for Klbkch and Xrn. With straws.”
“Very kind of you, Miss Erin. I could take some cake!”
Ressa rolled her eyes. Then, without breaking eye-contact with Xrn, she reached over and popped an acid fly into her mouth and chewed. She grimaced.
“This tastes awful.”
Xrn slowly raised the cup of tea, and a glob of it floated into her mouth via magic. The Centenium paused.
“There is enough sugar in this to stop a lesser Antinium’s bodily functions.”
Magnolia hesitated.
“I truly don’t want to eat acid flies, even in the name of peace. It comes at too high a cost.”
“Heh.”
Klbkch sounded amused by that. And that was more progress than Magnolia had expected from any conversation with the Centenium. Erin Solstice just waited for a cake and some sliced bread before she went on.
“I know Klbkch is going on his mission. And Xrn’s got the 7th Hive.”
“Which Magnolia Reinhart attempted to hire as mercenaries. We may work for foreign powers. It will be a good levelling opportunity.”
Xrn spoke calmly. Magnolia saw Ressa tense a bit, but Erin shoved a cake slice in front of Xrn. The Antinium levitated a fork up with a piece of cake. It disappeared into her mouth.
“Yum.”
“On that, we can agree. What kind of frosting is this, Miss Erin?”
“Strawberry? And hey—if Xrn and Magnolia can agree on this, we can have peace, right?”
Erin looked from woman to woman. Xrn chuckled, and Magnolia patted her lips.
“Erin, you are so droll.”
“Well, why not? Magnolia, you heard what Xrn said and what Klbkch did, didn’t you? The Antinium don’t want to conquer Izril.”
“It sounded to me more as if they realized it was too difficult. I understand their true goals, but their intention was rather the same, wasn’t it?”
“Yes.”
Erin winced as Klbkch replied. She lifted her hands.
“W-well, they didn’t do it.”
“At the costs of hundreds of thousands of lives. And the Five Families and Walled Cities and tribes driving the Antinium back in blood and fire and rain. Twice.”
Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes glittered as she stared across the table at Xrn. The Small Queen nodded.
“Our Queens died. Our Soldiers and Workers died. What is your point, Erin Solstice? I have the oddest notion you think we can be at peace. But go ahead. I could use a laugh.”
The [Lady] of House Reinhart liked Erin at this moment. She knew what Erin was doing, but she turned to face the [Innkeeper].
“I must agree, Erin. If you want us to be…allies, you must find a way to tell the dead that. Zel Shivertail, for all he liked your inn, could not reconcile the Goblin Lord or Antinium. It is, I feel, difficult for me. And I know our mutual enemy.”
Erin spread her hands on the table and inhaled and exhaled.
“Okay. Okay. I get…it’s like Tyrion for me, I guess.”
Both Antinium and Humans looked at Erin as she tried to speak.
“I—I could never let him in my inn. Not even with the stakes. It’s all I can do to let him—just be in the Haven and know Ryoka’s speaking to him. If it’s like that or even worse—I do get it. But we know what the Antinium want. Magnolia, you want a unified Izril.”
“Without Antinium. Though I may be changing my views. Slightly. But I am aware of their preparations for war.”
Magnolia laid a card on the table. It was not a large one, but she was waiting to see what Erin said. The [Innkeeper] chewed on her lip.
“Can we—can we do the Numbtongue thing?”
“Flirt with me?”
Ressa snorted, and everyone looked at her. Erin’s mouth stayed open a second.
“N—er—I meant more look at each other as individuals. Not an entire species or a cause. Let’s pretend Magnolia’s not all of the Five Families for a second. And Klbkch and Xrn aren’t all the Antinium. Magnolia. If Klbkch and Xrn swear they don’t want to take over Izril, would you believe them?”
Erin glanced to one side, and Xrn shrugged as Klbkch nodded. Klbkch clicked his mandibles.
“I do not believe war is in our best interests. Not now.”
Xrn agreed with a shrug.
“It would take too long.”
Not the best things to say, but Magnolia Reinhart tapped her lips.
“I—would believe they are being genuine, Miss Erin. So what comes after that?”
The [Innkeeper] bit her lip.
“You don’t go after them. What I mean to say is, the Antinium and House Reinhart don’t clash. And you both agree so—so it’s even less likely! You’re not allies, you just say—I don’t send [Druids] after you, and you don’t, uh—”
“Burn [Assassins] to ash?”
Xrn suggested. Erin nodded.
“So long as they’re working for Magnolia, yeah! No permanent peace. No alliances. You don’t have to forgive each other. Just…the enemy of my enemy is my friend. Er—not friends! The enemy of my enemy is my ally who I’m not going to stab in the back. How about that?”
“It lacks for a certain ring…but I could agree to that. With one or two provisions.”
Magnolia doubted she could nail the two Antinium down to a contract, and in a sense, she didn’t want that. It was Klbkch who responded slowly.
“We would not oppose this offer. Provided, of course, Magnolia Reinhart were aware we might take action against…enemies.”
“The Blighted Kingdom. We will go around them or through them.”
Xrn was less subtle. Erin winced, and Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes narrowed. Erin turned to her. The [Lady]’s fingers drummed on the table.
“What of the Grand Queen? The Twisted Queen?”
Klbkch and Xrn exchanged a swift glance.
“…Why do you name those two? We are Antinium. We move as one.”
Magnolia raised her brows in polite skepticism.
“Then I must be misinformed completely. I do believe the Hives are different. I might agree to a ceasefire, a gentlemen’s, or rather, lady’s unofficial agreement. But not the other Hives. The Free Antinium—yes. And the 7th Hive and the [Crusaders]. None other.”
Xrn’s antennae twitched rapidly, but she exchanged a glance with Klbkch, and the two Centenium seemed to talk to each other. Then Xrn nodded.
“Very well. Stay away from us. We shall do likewise, Magnolia Reinhart. If Wrymvr agrees, we shall contact you. But I agree.”
“And I.”
Erin held her breath. Was this working? She had gotten them in the room and had been prepared to drag both together or hold onto their legs to keep them from leaving, but Magnolia had come to the table ready to deal. And so, it seemed, had Xrn.
What Erin didn’t realize was how it felt for the two Centenium. Their antennae were twitching rapidly, not just in communication, but agitation.
It had always been true since landing on Izril, but now they felt it. Saying it like that—
There had never been an us or them. Now, they were a separate group from the Grand Queen. The Free Antinium had long been in name, but now, their goals were radically different. Perhaps the Grand Queen would join them. But if not—
Magnolia Reinhart had just split the Hives. More than her attempts with the [Crusaders], more than anything else—she had just gotten her wish. Perhaps she knew it, because she lifted her cup to Erin Solstice.
“Erin, I thank you. Is this satisfactory to your desires?”
She was getting ready to stand when Erin spoke.
“No. That was half of what I wanted. Now—we bring in the surprise guest. Rags?”
Her garden door opened, and Rags walked into the room. She sat at the table and picked up a piece of bread. She sniffed it once, took a bite, and grumbled.
“Needs butter.”
Silently, Klbkch passed her some. Erin Solstice looked at Rags…then at the figure floating in the air, watching them.
“Shaestrel. Can you tell us what the secret of Goblins is?”
Magnolia’s cheeks bulged, and with the supreme effort of a Level 50+ [Lady], she managed not to spit it out across the table. Shaestrel froze. Rags looked up, and Xrn decided to sip some non-sugar tea. She was beginning to see why it was so much fun.
 
“I—I dunno what ye are talking about, ye stupid Human.”
 
The faerie didn’t exactly sweat, but she was looking the other way. Erin saw Rags’ eyes narrow. The Chieftain turned over her shoulder.
“Badarrow. Get me a net.”
“I don’t think that’ll work, Rags. Shaestrel. I know you know. Does Magnolia know? Can you tell us?”
The Spring Faerie gave Erin an agonized look.
 
