Rasea Zecrew drew her sword as she whirled upon her deck, and a Drake clad in armor that made Saliss’ and Grimalkin’s eyes narrow—a city upon waves—practically backflipped off the railing and into the sea.
And last of all, the Death of Magic whirled. She pointed a finger at Erin, and the glass pane cracked. It began to tremble, and she relaxed as Flora turned pale and shouted. Silvenia stood there, eyes glowing as Ryoka nearly copied Nerry and filled her pants.
 
“What the—”
“Guards, stand down—”
“Erin!”
“[Greater Telep—]”
 
A flurry of voices, alarm and outrage and—danger. It spiked Erin’s [Dangersense], even here. And she wasn’t sure it was only the Death of Magic. But she raised her voice, and she shouted one thing.
Like a preview, a snapshot, a teaser trailer across the world to eight people and the domed room. It made Xrn freeze as she stared at Demsleth and the others. It drew every ear, and Erin shouted it at fate, that cunning bitch, to quote Shaestrel. Trey would have applauded if he could see her, because Erin Solstice was a chaotic thread in that grand design. She said:
 
“I met Gnomes in the land of the dead. I met the last Elf. They made war against the six dead gods. They left me with clues and secrets.”
 
She stopped and met the eyes of the eight. Each one, for a long second. They had all frozen. Then Erin Solstice winked.
The viewpoints snapped off. She turned back to Xrn and Klbkch.
“They told me what lay under Rhir.”
The Centenium looked at Erin, and the only sound then was Shaestrel cackling until she nearly puked.
 
——
 
“A what?”
“A demigod. Something with flesh.”
Erin Solstice had Xrn’s full and undivided attention. Klbkch stood with her in the center of the inn as Lyonette had a panic attack over the possibility of the Death of Magic teleporting here. That Silvenia did not…
Did not make this moment any less intense. Erin Solstice spoke slowly.
“What you found there is a dead child of gods. A god in her own right—but the difference is she had a mortal mother, I think. She’s probably more powerful than the six. So Zineryr said.”
“How can this be?”
Xrn was confused about the nature of mythology. But she was listening—and if Wrymvr could have known what they were talking about, he would have crashed into the [World’s Eye Theatre] like a bug into a windshield.
“It has flesh. A body. A body of…”
“A god. Yes. I see. Even in sleeping, it dreams. She dreams. And those dreams were Crelers or worse. That body—I have seen it.”
Klbkch whispered. Then Ryoka was looking at him.
“You what?”
Xrn turned her head, and for once, she did not scorn Klbkch. The Slayer looked at her—and he touched her chest gently.
“Xrn’s body is of Rhir. It cannot be repaired because only the great Shaper Queens of home had the knowledge. Not the Queens of now. But it is a copy of her original. She has only died once. We all have. That day, Xrn hung back with magic. When the First Queen fell, I was there. Wrymvr was ordered to fall back when she realized her death.”
His hands were shaking. But he spoke, like a confession, and the few Antinium in the room, Pawn, Yellow Splatters, The Crimson Soldier, Belgrade with Olesm, Bird—turned their heads and listened.
To a story that no Worker wanted to hear, no Soldier of glory. This was the true tale of—Klbkch’s voice sounded haunted.
“The world warped the closer we drew. My swords felt more like ideas. The Centenium perished last. But the First Queen dared to lead our armies against that fallen god. To silence her from waking. The Original Spawn of Crelers led an army of her nightmares against us. We killed them. Killed the servants. Killed our way to her until the very presence of her began to slaughter us. The First Queen could have turned back, but when she saw the chance closing, she went forwards alone. To do battle with the corpse of that being. I saw her stop there as that painful radiance burned through my shell. Then she was gone.”
Ryoka couldn’t breathe. But she thought the other Antinium weren’t breathing. Xrn whispered.
“She should have turned back. It was a tactical error.”
“She was Level 79. Greatest of us all. It was waking up. The Crelers were worshiping her. They built temples to her down there. We turned them to ash. Our Queen silenced her these last six thousand years of decay and desperation. Be silent, Xrn. She made the decision for us.”
The Small Queen ducked her head. But she was shaking. Erin Solstice’s own eyes were wide, but she had the ability to speak afterwards.
“Then you have to finish what she started. Find a weapon to finish it for good.”
Klbkch turned to Erin and seized her arm.
“How? None of your Relics—no Centenium could get close. Only the First Queen’s levels and her very aura kept her safe until the end. And she died. We have no armies. Izril was meant to be a staging ground, and we have not taken even a tenth of it.”
The [Innkeeper] tried to squeeze back with all her strength.
“The Gnomes left something. I swear it, Klbkch. They killed the gods the first time. And they told me to seek out their clues to do it again.”
Ryoka thought she saw fate as the way the fae saw it. Klbkch the Slayer looked at Erin, and she had only hints. Only a vague hope.
—But it was more than the Antinium had ever had in their long, quiet despair. Xrn’s eyes began to glow white.
“That is what we need, Erin Solstice. Then we know what must be done. Tell us. Tell us—and the Antinium shall return to Rhir. I have waited six thousand years for vengeance. Now I see it. Klbkchhezeim. Slayer of the Centenium. You know what to do.”
Her hands joined Klbkch’s, and the Centenium looked Erin in the eyes. Klbkch turned to Xrn, but for once, her eyes glowed with that hope long lost. He nodded slowly and then looked Erin in the eyes.
“You did have what we needed all along.”
The [Innkeeper] tried to shake her head. But she was smiling. And trying not to cry.
 
——
 
Klbkch left the [World’s Eye Theatre]. He walked out of The Wandering Inn, down towards Liscor. He seemed lighter and heavier. He would return to the inn in a moment, but in this hour, he knew what he had to do.
And it hurt.
Oh, but it did. Ten years felt heavier than a hundred, a thousand. And it was ten years he held in the palm of his hand. But so Xrn had said.
“Klbkch?”
When he walked into the Watch House, Zevara was leaning over the desk, talking to Beilmark. He didn’t know if it was now—but it made sense, with everyone watching him. Klbkch knew Relc had followed him in.
It was hard—but Klbkch slowly put something down on the desk. The last time he had done it to Zevara, she hadn’t accepted it. He had been going away. This time?
Klbkch’s Watch badge glittered in the light. Zevara looked down at it as Beilmark got to her feet. The new Antinium [Guards] and the rest of the Watch turned to Klbkch, and the Slayer spoke.
“Watch Captain Zevara. I am tendering my resignation. I am quitting the Watch. I am…going on an adventure.”
Why did it feel so painful? Watch Captain Zevara was the only person who didn’t exclaim in dismay.
“Are you—”
Sure? No, she didn’t say that. Instead, the Drake looked up at the ceiling.
“—Coming back?”
The Centenium felt it in his chest. An old kind of painful excitement. A calling to the unexplored, the unseen. Once more, he was called for his original purpose. To find something lost to time.
But he looked around, and it was the hardest thing in the world to do this. Zevara’s words? He looked down at the badge glowing in the light. Then his head rose.
“Yes. I hope I may come back here as well. Even if I am not an officer of the Watch. I would like that. I—would like to go on patrol some days and drink with you all and talk to you. I must go—and I do not want to. This place is not my Hive.”
He looked around the familiar Watch House, and the [Guards] of Liscor looked at Klbkch. He glanced over his shoulder at the Drake standing there, spear in one claw.
“—But I wish it could have been part of my Hive on Rhir. I think I would have been happiest of all if both things existed. I am going to avenge my first home. If I should survive, along my long journey—I hope I can come back to my second home.”
Klbkch saluted Watch Captain Zevara. He spun, smartly, to make a dignified exit—but he stopped when he saw Relc. The Drake threw out an arm—and Klbkch could have dodged.
But he just opened one arm—and clapped Relc on the back. Then the Drake squeezed, and Beilmark caught him from the other side in classic Watch tactics. And they were hugging him, and Klbkch…
The Slayer wished for an [Immortal Moment], but he would remember it forever. And all Relc said was—
“Buddy. You’d better come back and buy me a drink.”
“I’ll bring you a souvenir. Relc, my partner. I’m going away. Keep Liscor safe for me.”
“I will, Klbkch. I will. Just like you like it.”
 
——
 
Erin’s face was dripping. The tears gushing from her eyes wouldn’t stop. Ryoka would have given her a handkerchief, but Shaestrel had stolen it. So Ryoka was using her shirt.
It was not easy. It was not right.
“I never wanted to do this. I don’t want this. I want them to stay in my inn, forever. Why does time have to move?”
She sobbed even though Klbkch would be back, even though this was not the end—it was a turning point in the road.
Senior Guardsman Klbkch of Liscor had quit his job.
The world wasn’t the same. Erin kept crying as she watched Klbkch in her theatre—and Mrsha turned into a puddle along with her mother and the others. Then, as if in vengeance, like a compulsion, Erin went to make other people weep. Klbkch was coming back. She had promised him a party and a cake, and there was more to say.
The next person was Demsleth. Or was he…
They adjourned to the [Garden of Sanctuary] for this. Because, despite Erin’s claims, there were some secrets that even she agreed to keep. Because she had something to show him.
It was not the pot-bellied man, the traveller seeking fine tastes and companionship she met there. Nor the wise half-Elf full of magic and secrets. At last, and at last—she came face to face with someone who made her want to duck and recoil.
Just like the start. Erin Solstice stared at that familiar snout, the brass scales glittering as two mismatched eyes looked down at her with almost as much nerves as she had. But the Dragon curled up around her hill…
“I knew it. It was you. You breathed fire at me.”
“I did? I do not remember. It was an accident, I believe. I am extremely sorry.”
The Dragon rumbled at her, and the Unicorn with a silver mane who stood with blooming flowers and grass around his hooves actually looked askance. Erin stared at him. Then she looked up.
“I’m Erin Solstice. I think I know your name.”
The Dragon rumbled. Rafaema, Magnolia, Ressa, and Shaestrel were all hanging back, listening as Ryoka Griffin stared at the two.
“I am Teriarch. Hello.”
“Hello.”
That was all the [Innkeeper] said. She stuck out a hand, and he extended one of his claws. The tip of one of his ivory talons touched her hand, and she shook it.
This was not the Dragonlord of Flame’s greeting to the Wyrms. He could have said ‘hail’ with a voice that shook mountains. He could have addressed her in the older tongues, in his Dragonthrone, as a ruler or legend or hero—and she could have greeted him in kind.
They did not. And that was perhaps the ultimate gesture of respect. They looked at each other, and Teriarch spoke.
“You met my daughter. You stood among the Dragonlords. Even as ghosts, I smell them upon you. You claim to be the Grandmaster of Scales. You have met the last Elf, who predates me, and you stand in Sheta’s garden. I knew her, the last Empress of Harpies. She was a dear friend.”
He had been here before, as Eldavin, but he did not remember it. The Dragon looked around, and his eyes were lost in pain and memory and…he clung to it.
“It looks like her garden. But different.”
“This one is mine. Hers…I think hers is in all the others. But I don’t think I can find it. Even with the key.”
Teriarch looked down at Erin, and his eyes widened.
“Key? I have only been here a few times. It was always small, for me. She stole away here when it got too much for her. She tried to hold the land together—and the High Passes had not yet risen to their current heights. Yet still, the Harpy Empire of Iltanus ruled from those peaks. She could have swept Izril with fire to keep her authority. She chose to try to let her great nation fall to pieces without harming a single blade of grass. That is the legacy of the woman whose Skill you wield. I would have you know it.”
It might have been a lecture, but it sounded more like a story. A story so painful and so central to who he was that the Unicorn averted his gaze, despite knowing it. Ryoka Griffin had been an audience to the Antinium. But Teriarch was more personal.
Erin Solstice bowed her head.
“Thank you for telling me. I—I didn’t realize what this place meant until recently. It’s special. The most special thing I own.”
The Dragonlord of Flame looked down at Erin—then his head rose. He squinted and stared towards that hill of mists. Then he gazed at Erin again.
“You are worthy of being her successor. I have seen Sheta speak to emissaries of countless species in her courts. Today, I witnessed you speak to a world in yours. You gave the Antinium a great task. I? I have simply been the destroyer. It never occurred to me, never was within my power to offer them anything but war. I salute you.”
He raised one wing. There was still formality to him, and Erin gave him a watery smile.
“I’m glad you said that. Because I’m gonna make you cry. I…have statues to show you. And I want to show you Sheta’s door.”
His brows rose. Copper ‘hair’, gleaming metallic, came together to frown at her.
“Her what?”
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin, Rafaema, perhaps only Magnolia had ever seen a Dragon weep. Truly weep. She realized when he did that the tears were bronze.
Like even they were made of metal. The Brass Dragon saw three things before they were shed. First—he stared into that hallway and at Sheta’s last words.
He was smaller, then. When the Dragonlord of Flame had first appeared to Erin, he had curled around the hill in the garden like a giant of old. But unlike Rafaema, he could adapt his form. So too could the garden, and the two met in the middle.
From the vast being as large as the biggest of planes in Erin’s world, Teriarch became smaller—still close to house-sized, but half as small again. And in turn, the door that opened for him dwarfed the other species.
