“A crucible. This is a test and we’re—”
 
One voice broke above them all before Erin could silence the lot and restore order. And it said this:
 
Trey: “You are allowed to call yourself whatever you want, Loran. I’m sure you are a [King]. But no one is above judgment.”
Loran: “Don’t threaten me, you servant. You’re serving a has-been, a pathetic [King] who couldn’t conquer more than two and a half nations without help.”
Trey: “And you’re in Baleros.”
Tom: “Oho.”
Trey: “I can tell from the Lizardfolk in the background. And your name is Loran Grimnar because you were in the first chat and it’s not hard to find a [King] new to power. Especially when he says his nation’s name. Remember this, all of you. You can do whatever you want—but when you do, we’ll judge you. This world will. Loran, you’ve walked onto the world’s stage. You want power? You can have it. But the King of Destruction has a message for you.”
Loran: “Wh—and?”
Trey: “I’ll let Amerys deliver it.”
Ryoka: “Please. Please…this isn’t supposed to go like this. We’re all from the same world.”
Ridley: “Everyone’s doing what they want. Why does Rhir have so many Earthers?”
Cara: “Something’s up. Sides and sides. Erin, you’ve got me, and I’ll stay clear of any conflicts if they stay clear of me.”
Tom: “You’re all fools. Stop taking sides. Stop trying to jump up and put a target on your forehead. You know what they’ll do? They’ll put an arrow through your brain. You think it’s funny? It’s not. They’ll just kill you.”
 
Then the [Clown] was there, blood fresh on his clothes, and he stood clear of the other Earthers—and no one could stop him. A bow was trained on his back, and only a [Princess] was stopping Hayvon from ordering—
But the [Clown] just spoke. Spoke, as he looked around with a bloody dagger in hand.
 
Tom: “We are the [Heroes] of Rhir. [Heroes], got it? With the brackets. But we are just pawns on a board. Stop it. Turn this scrying thing off, Erin, and go back to running an inn. Because they will kill you. You think you’re lucky? You think you’re special? Invincible? Stop it. Take a knife and run it through your hand. Then you’ll understand.”
 
He lifted that blade—and several watchers blanched and looked away or covered their eyes and cried out to him to stop. Caroline fainted. But Tom flexed his hand and looked at them as blood ran and ran.
 
Tom: “I believe it all. But you know, I also believe it won’t be a fun, pleasant journey. I believe it’ll be littered with your corpses. And mine. I believe those gods are alive and everything we have seen and done will be a pleasant nightmare before what is coming. But—I’m going to sink or die. Sink or die. I’ll see some of you at the bottom. If you ask me to kill you before we touch the ground, I’ll oblige you.”
 
He turned, looking from face to face, and then walked off frame. But before he left, a voice spoke with a weariness that was fading away.
 
Geneva: “I see. Tom, isn’t it?”
Tom: “I don’t like [Doctors].”
Geneva: “You need help. Please…consider it. We all need help. I am asking you all—we do not need to kill each other. I don’t understand this truth or the…but I believe it will be darker and direr than I can imagine. I will not fight. I can’t do much. But if you need me, I will go.”
 
She met the [Clown]’s gaze, and he looked despairing, then. Despairing of her because they were a contrast.
 
Tom: “You think you can stitch the world up, [Doctor]? There’s a lot more knives than you have thread. You want to heal people? We’re out of healing potion. Ha. Hahahaha. Look at you all, posturing and thinking you matter. I’ve seen hell. We haven’t even seen how deep it goes, and there are a thousand would-be [Heroes] here. You think we’re all saints who’ll line up and make this world a better place? You’re stupid. You’re madder than I am. We’re going to drown this world piece by piece. And I’ll be there watching as we go—”
 
He was speaking louder, faster, with that hysteria that had broken through this entire call like a discordant note. An honest one—but Erin hadn’t silenced him more than once or twice.
Possibly because she thought he was right. Right and wrong. But the cackling [Clown], Geneva’s white-knuckled grip on the table as she tried to break in, the disturbed faces of the other Earthers—
Erin Solstice didn’t shout over the [Clown] or silence him with a wave of her hand. She just burned. Burned with pink flames atop her head, glowing like all the friends she had ever seen come and go and their finest hours.
Burned with blue pain for it, licking around pink, which tears alone would never encompass. Gold through it all, for what she had done and the pride and happiness and hope she had seen even in the lands of the dead. Gold, like a laughing Gnome.
Until the [Clown] flinched and raised a hand. He looked up, and Erin Solstice sat there.
 
Tom: “That’s…that’s not a funny trick.”
Erin: “It’s not a trick, Tom.”
Tom: “Stop it. Stop wearing your heart on your sleeve like that. I’ll stab it out. You think a Skill makes you genuine and good? Stopitstopitstopit—”
Erin: “Do you think I can’t see you, Tom? You’re a great liar, but your soul’s leaking out your eyes. If every Earther on Rhir is a [Hero], I’ll believe it. Even you. Especially you. I believe it wasn’t fair what happened to you, or me, or anyone. Even if I don’t know all of it, I see it. I have seen the Earthers who died. Abel. Jackson. It was not fair how they died, or my friends in this world. But I believe some of them, and some of us won’t stop.”
Tom: “You’re crazy. Don’t listen to her…”
 
His voice was weaker. Erin Solstice was blazing at him and the Earthers of Rhir. And the [Clown] was afraid.
 
Erin: “I know it’s crazy. I know it’s mad. But I’m here. I have seen the legends of the dead—and they are gone. But when I ask for volunteers to line up and stab god in the eye, I’ll see you there, Tom. Don’t let me down.”
 
There was no reply to that. Not for a second or a minute…and the [Clown] couldn’t stare at those flames for fear of what he might feel. She was crazier than he was. How was that possible?
Faced with Erin’s optimism, her genuine conviction, and that glorious, wondrous flame…Cara’s head lowered. And the [Singer]’s voice was lower and realer. She envied Erin’s truth.
 
Cara: “Here I thought everyone was an actor upon their own stage. I hate genuine people. I can’t say what Erin just did, even in a speech, even in a play. It would be such a lie coming from my lips I couldn’t sell it to a baby. If we were chosen, we were unworthy. All of us. There is such need and senseless destruction and suffering. There are real monsters here—just like our world. But these real monsters get magic and fangs and to look like they should.”
 
She gestured to herself, and she had brilliant pink hair and facepaint, and it glowed less brightly than Erin’s hat. But the Singer’s voice filled the screen more than her false appearance. Belying the lie she claimed to tell.
 
Cara: “They deserved real heroes, not us. Earthers aren’t the only ones that need aid in this moment. Every single nation is filled with people who have no voice or way out. I can’t help nearly enough. I can’t perform miracles or do more than dance on stage a bit and shine false. But there are a thousand causes, a thousand needs, and I will see them tried.”
Laken: “As will I. I am Laken Godart, and I am an [Emperor].”
Ridley: “No way. How?”
 
The blind man didn’t answer. He wished he could see them all, but he responded to the others quietly.
 
Laken: “If Loran wants to make his kingdom a vengeful one for his ego—I’ll draw my own line in the sand. If you come, I will do my best to protect you. I will not let anyone, be it the King of Destruction or the Blighted Kingdom, sweep over Izril. If I have a side, it’s here. We don’t need to make war. If you come, come softly and try to make this world a better place. For I will be watching you, and if I must ally with the Five Families, the Walled Cities, and the Tribes of Izril, we will stop any madness. We have had enough. If there is a weapon against the dead gods, I will find it. When that day comes—I hope the Unseen Empire will be ready.”
 
They were splitting up. Now—Erin saw it, and her eyes were misty. She had hoped they would come together, but it seemed more as if they were just setting up the stakes and showing each other where they stood.
But at least they saw. And here came a voice—Erin Solstice looked sideways and finally…unmuted the person who was waving at her. She gazed into his cloudy eyes, and he smiled well. Erin wasn’t looking at him. Yet she waited.
 
???: “I have something I want to say. And it’s this. This is all fair. People are being swayed to one cause or another. That’s how it works. These…gods. The rest of it?”
 
He stumbled over the word. But the handsome man kept smiling and speaking beatifically. Palt was trying to figure out who it was, but Erin quietly spoke, and the Centaur looked up slowly. And nervously.
 
Kent Scott: “That is the nature of any world, it seems. And I am reassured to see it. But consider this, please. When our worlds collide, you could be [Princes] and [Princesses] rather than children caught between nations. There is a reward for the right cause, and I will outbid any force in this world. Even gods.”
Cara: “You. You’re not Kent Scott.”
Ryoka: “Fuck. Erin, turn it off—”
Erin: “No. No. Look, everyone. And look very well. You’re not Kent. Who’s speaking through him?”
 
Then he stopped speaking through the man’s voice, and Kent stepped aside and a figure slithered forwards. He beamed and focused on her with such fascination and delight that Erin felt goosebumps.
 
???: “Hello. You are astonishing. Amazing. Beautiful, Miss Erin Solstice. If there is anything I can do for you—wouldn’t you hear me out?”
Erin: “No, never. How dare you show yourself here? Even the King of Destruction won’t interfere. But you? You kidnapped him. How many more?”
Flos: “Emir. We will have words. But I shall see myself out.”
???: “I can see that the bias of your world is against me. But I am no monster. Hello, Earthers. If you call, I will send you an escort wherever you are. Be it Rhir or elsewhere. And I shall treat you as you deserve, I promise.”
Cara: “Listen to what he is saying. Not how he says it. This is Roshal’s monster. Speak your name, you coward.”
???: “Yazdil, sweet singer. Yazdil, beautiful [Innkeeper]. I am the Naga of Roshal. So count me among the six you fear to name. Count me first, before your King of Destruction or Blighted King. Not as your great enemy—but as a side unto ourselves. Yazdil.”
 
He bowed then and looked at them all with a smile aglow with delight. As a collector before a world of rare species, each one waiting for him to catch them. Many shivered—but she, the [Innkeeper], did not.
She stared him down like she had once seen the Rebel of String speak. The Naga’s self-satisfaction and the confidence of Roshal—flickered once as Erin Solstice narrowed her eyes.
 
Erin: “And here is Roshal.”
Ridley: “What’s so bad about this…person? The King of Destruction is right there.”
Cara: “They keep slaves.”
Luan: “Bastards.”
Ridley: “What—okay, but—I’ve seen Crelers.”
Cara: “And this is worse. No, shut up. Be silent.”
Erin: “This is Roshal. Take a good look, everyone. If you think, in this world, that isn’t bad—you have not seen them. Look at him. He knows what we’re talking about. He’s heard and listened, and he’s probably not even that stupid. And he still thinks he’s worse. And you know what makes it so terrible? I almost believe him. I’m not saying to get on Roshal’s bad side. Because they are dangerous. But look at them.”
 
She hoped they saw. But Erin refused to blink, and the Naga met her gaze brightly. Even with his boast and the arrogance to put himself before them all…
 
Erin: “You and all of your ‘people’ don’t have any idea what you’re up against.”
Yazdil: “Oh, but we do. If I was fearful, I would hide, like the powers that watch out of shadows as you talk, Erin Solstice. If I thought Roshal would break in front of you, I would watch my words. But here I am, ready to embrace you. I know your name. I have known it before you posted your first <Quest>. Erin Solstice. You have met my people once before. And still. They salute you and admire you.”
 
Like poison. Like gleeful sin. The [Innkeeper] who had scared the [Clown], who glared with Elucina’s wrath—Ryoka saw her face pale as Yazdil let out a secret like a captive from a cage. A terrible truth. He blew her a kiss with a claw—
And vanished.
Erin Solstice turned off his image with a sigh that seemed so pained the others could feel it. Her head hung for a moment and then looked around. Then—she nodded.
 
Erin: “There it is. If you don’t get it—there are good people and bad people wherever you go. You may decide, but I have met Goblins and Antinium, and I think they are a people. I hope you will see that. But Roshal? Roshal sees the entire world as one thing. Theirs to twist. To change you against your will until you forget who you are. They are the worst thing of any world, masquerading as if it’s normal for them to exist without anyone normal or decent trying to eradicate every last trace of them. I will never be their ally. I will be here. And my inn is open to you too—but I am going to pit myself against all the bad things I can see. I am not going to be safe. Does anyone…anyone have anything left to say?”
 
Many people did. Some blustered like Loran or made their own appeals for help—or to help.
 
Ridley: “Look, listen. I’m on your side. I am. You want help? Hire my team. Join up. We’re better together. My company is called Warstorm.”
Cara: “Three names that offend my soul.”
Zara: “Not everyone on Baleros is bad. If you’re here—if you’re anywhere, you might not be able to trust Wistram.”
Aaron: “Sorta hard unless you like not ever leaving.”
Zara: “Then trust the people who took me in. The Nagas of Baleros. Not…whomever that guy is. They don’t know him. They have a plan. Come to them, and they’ll help. But if you bring them what they want, they’ll give you everything you want. They’re looking for the Eyes of Baleros—”
 
Someone stopped her as several of the listeners sat up. She had said too much.
