You catch yourself—and there’s nothing holding you back. The only way is forwards, in desperation, pushing yourself by the momentum of it into things you can’t believe are happening.
Faster and faster, racing downhill on a runaway wagon. Possibly with a striped tiger. That was how Erin Solstice felt. Yet she also believed that since she had begun it all, she had to see it through. Crashing down and bouncing off a rock into the air—
Was she losing control or flying?
Rags was looking at Ryoka as Kevin carried a laptop around. Practically glued to the screen was Yelroan.
“I was promised math.”
“My dude, this has got cosine and logarithms and more.”
“Yes, but how was the math used? That is the question.”
Kevin gave Yelroan the pained look of someone who understood the question. It was one thing to know, but know why? Rags, though, was waiting for Erin.
“You have a lot of your people. What comes next?”
“I don’t know. What is your tribe going to do, Rags?”
The Goblin didn’t quite look at Magnolia Reinhart.
“Mercenary stuff. Some fighting—finding Goblins. Exploring Izril. Probably killing [Slavers].”
She bared her teeth, and Redscar grinned.
“Old-fashioned Redfang raiding. Unless you got another [Blademistress] to fight? Next time, I win.”
Erin laughed weakly.
“Not right now. So you’re going to go.”
“Mhm. That Dragon giving out quests? Or scales?”
Rags was one of the people who knew. Even the other Goblins looked impressed, but Erin shushed Rags. She took in a breath, let it go—
“What about you, Magnolia?”
“I have a bridge to build across the High Passes. I intend to sweep the new lands clean of pests. Your friends may help me with that—but I will be in Izril’s south. If there is a way to do what Zel Shivertail wanted, I will see it done.”
“Good. Klbkch is going. The Horns have already left. I guess I should help the tribes, and if Xrn needs help, I should—there’s Fetohep, Altestiel, and…”
There was a familiar rushing feeling in Erin’s head. She wheeled back into the [World’s Eye Theatre] to continue the conversations in public. Most of her friends were still there, waiting for her to get back and talk.
It felt like when she had at her party with Barelle the Bard or the Christmas celebrations. Erin looked over, and Klbkch was staring at a map of the new lands. She looked over her shoulder, and Teriarch was speaking to Rafaema in their false shapes. Taletevirion was bumping Ryoka over, and he put a hoof on her back so she stopped talking.
Erin Solstice heard a conversation as she wheeled into the theatre’s center, breathing hard. It came from two Drakes.
Grimalkin and Saliss. They were speaking—and it was the acoustics of the theatre or the fact that Erin was the owner that let their quiet conversation drift over to her.
 
——
 
“Saliss. What do you think about all this?”
“Seems like a headache for you lot and High Command. Chaldion’s going to throw himself off the walls because Erin didn’t trust him. Which is his fault.”
Saliss smirked as Grimalkin crossed his arms, and they stood together. Pryde had gone off for a walk, looking distinctly unwell as she processed how in the dark she’d been. But the [Sinew Magus] didn’t share Saliss’ urbane amusement.
In truth, he suspected Saliss didn’t either. The Drake cleared his throat a few times before Saliss produced a little vial.
“Having throat problems? This will clear it right up.”
“That’s a spice bomb.”
“Yeah. What I said.”
The [Sinew Magus] brushed it away—Saliss was pressing it into his cheek. He cleared his throat one more time.
“I…was wondering if you had talked to your cousin, Onieva. It seems as though the situation is rather serious for the Walled Cities. A time to stand together. What do you think?”
He had no [Dangersense], but all the scales on his back prickled as Saliss slowly turned his head and regarded him out of the corner of his eyes.
“You’re a funny guy, Grimalkin. I’d watch your jokes, though. The Walled Cities standing together?”
“The people then.”
“Find Onieva and bug her about it.”
“I thought you might be able to tell me more than she would. Or at least, present the same point of v—”
Grimalkin kept speaking until Saliss gripped one arm. Gently—except for the claws that dug straight through Grimalkin’s scales. The sharp grip was accompanied by Saliss’ big smile.
“You don’t know me, Sinew Magus. Watch what you insinuate. You think Chaldion gets nasty with his Eyes?”
The [Sinew Magus] was in too deep to back away. He had made his calculations. Sink or swim.
“Chaldion told me nothing. Nor did High Command. I would wager much of High Command is oblivious to who Saliss is. But I have eyes.”
He ran in different circles thanks to his distance from the army and his nature as a [Mage]. Not in Saliss’ circles, but—the [Alchemist]’s eyes grew more and more dangerous.
Grimalkin was aware the topic was dangerous to Saliss’ kind. Turnscales. He knew—had studied and even met a few in Fissival. He’d wanted to study the phenomenon, so he’d blended in and faked being one of them to gain access to their secret meetings. He must not have played the role well enough because they had panicked and left the city.
Pallass’ army, he knew, had had issues with the same. Of course, Grimalkin knew about Zel Shivertail. General Sserys was more of a surprise. What Grimalkin was trying to say—what he believed of the issue was that it wasn’t something the Walled Cities should be focusing on.
To him, it was obviously a fascinating case of shifted personality or interests. He was sympathetic, and he meant—
He had placed Pallass above his own desires at times, and Saliss knew what it was to be part of a Walled City, a cause. So why did the Drake’s claws and his eyes make the Sinew Magus sweat?
Grimalkin spoke quickly.
“If I have said nothing, you can assume I will not.”
“Then why are you wading through the acid river? Not very smart of you.”
Saliss hissed back. Grimalkin decided to de-escalate. He spoke, standing tall as Saliss slowly let go.
“I was just remarking that Drakes should stand together. Especially given what we’ve learned. Is now the time to be—facetious?”
The Named-rank adventurer relaxed a bit, because they had moved away from even hinting at the word both were thinking. But he seemed to grow angrier in turn.
“I didn’t realize you were this perceptive. Or this funny. Are you worried Onieva wouldn’t do her civic duty to Pallass?”
“The thought—occurred to me. The Walled Cities have need of her talent.”
“Once they see it, they want it. So you’re saying she’d better enlist and not stir up any trouble until we resolve our problems?”
“…Yes. I was just inquiring what you thought.”
Grimalkin had really felt like this was a better argument on paper when he’d come up with it. It occurred to him he might not be in possession of all the facts and understanding he thought he had.
Saliss’ eyes narrowed dangerously.
“I can’t speak for Onieva. But assuming I was speaking for her kind of person…I would say that it’s awfully convenient to pull the ‘let’s work together’ card now. Chaldion pulled that card during the Antinium Wars. I heard they pulled that card during the Naga Incursions. In fact, it seems like that card’s always in play. It just keeps changing what it looks like.”
“This is the most dramatic event that you could argue overshadows the Antinium Wars…”
“Oh, I know. I know. But let me tell you something, Grimalkin. Why do we have to be the ones that work together? Why don’t you march up to Chaldion and tell him that, hmm?”
The [Sinew Magus] was sweating slightly. Maybe that was safer, but—
“As to that, Adventurer Saliss, I have to report that, unlike Archmage Valeterisa, I have not learned to cast [Levitate] yet.”
The [Alchemist] threw back his head and laughed. Once. Then he kept staring.
“So you thought I’d be the reasonable one. Well, let me speak for this hypothetical group. I would say—we will have dignity or we will tear down the Walled Cities from the inside. I’m out of patience.”
“Is that what we need, right now?”
This was not going the way he’d hoped. He had thought Saliss might be reminded of what was at stake.
No matter what you thought of them, most Turnscales were still acceptable members of society. Even vital, in Saliss’ and Zel’s cases. He had never agreed with the Watch’s overzealousness, but it wasn’t his area of authority to argue. If both sides dropped the issue…
Grimalkin had searched for shame in Saliss when he tried to remind him of what was happening. For duty and stoicism.
What he got was outrage so hot it felt like he were the one who should blush in shame. The Sinew Magus saw Saliss bare his teeth.
“Maybe now is the best time because they need us. Because the Walled Cities are in trouble. Me? I’m looking at the Meeting of Tribes. The mistakes we made putting ourselves against the Gnolls will be nothing compared to the mistake the Walled Cities could make by doing nothing.”
“Now? Could you not wait a decade and come to the Walled Cities covered in glory?”
He really didn’t get it. Saliss took Grimalkin’s arm again, and the bigger Drake braced for the bite of claws, but Saliss’ grip this time was soft.
“Glory flakes off. Ask Zel how that worked. Ask Sserys.”
Good, solid points. Grimalkin had nothing to say, so, wisely, this time, he listened. Saliss stared past him, and his voice was distant.
“Maybe I am a poor son of the walls. Because—I can’t wait for a day long after I’m dead. Even if it means my species endures. I have suddenly grown so impatient I cannot bear it any longer. But I was clawing at the walls decades ago. If you’re bothered—it’s only because you see how intolerable it is for me. I can’t wait for Pallass to change, brick by brick. Can you?”
Grimalkin had been formulating responses, but the question threw him. He wrinkled his brows and wondered if Saliss had misjudged him. He answered slowly.
“I don’t understand the question. Everything I want is in the Walled Cities. Genuinely. Truly.”
The [Alchemist]’s grip tightened for a second—then he studied Grimalkin’s face and glanced to one side. Grimalkin tried to keep his face as honest and true as he could. He meant it—and he had meant it in that moment when he replied automatically.
He only thought of Ferkr after he’d spoken. But then he had to stand by his words. Saliss paused a second as he looked Grimalkin up and down, then his cheeks puffed out.
How he guffawed. Laughed and laughed as Grimalkin looked puzzled. Then Saliss turned away and saw Erin Solstice watching her friends preparing to leave and go away.
 
——
 
They knew who she was, now. The full her. Even if you had known, like Selys, or been told—now you heard it from the sheep’s mouth.
Even if they had no idea what the hell was going on.
Shriekblade had been sucking jelly boba out a straw through the entire Earther call. Piece by piece in the sweet tea drink. It was so delicious to not be shaking or in the middle of withdrawal. But she stopped now and chewed happily.
She had no idea what was going on. She assumed this was all highly important and someone would pay a lot of money for the information or hire her to kill someone. So Erin was from another world. So there were other worlds.
Huh. She swallowed and sipped again. She supposed that made sense. And that was about all Tessa cared about anything. Things were going well. She hadn’t even bothered to open that letter from the Healer of Tenbault yet, and normally she was obsessed and wrote her six letters a month. Where had she put it? Tessa wondered what it was about.
To everyone else, the revelations were, uh, more impactful. And even if they knew some of the story, the entirety was larger than they thought. Selys was coping because she had heard it before. She was thus helping people who were flabbergasted.
“I—I didn’t know. Who else knew? Klb? Pisces? Pisces knew and Klb and…”
“Me. Erin told the inn family a while ago. Including Mrsha.”
The Gnoll girl waved her paw around at everyone. Mrsha the Secret Keeper smiled—but the big Drake who was looking at the show of hands and claws and paws looked—hurt.
Relc Grasstongue looked incredibly hurt. Especially when he found Krshia had known from practically the first month. But the Gnoll woman just huffed.
“Relc, it was obvious to me, yes? Doubtless Klbkch had his suspicions.”
“I was aware Michigan was not a place, yes. I looked up every nation in an encyclopedia and determined she was either lying or unique. She confirmed my queries not long after. Then I was killed. By Goblins.”
“Yeah. Sorry.”
Numbtongue grunted as he patted Klbkch on the back. The Antinium brushed his hand off.
“Stop that.”
“So you knew. And Lyonette and…but not me. She never told me.”
Relc, the second person that Erin Solstice had ever met, looked so downcast that Selys bit her lip. But she pointed down at Erin.
“Maybe she didn’t think it mattered, Relc. You know Erin.”
“Just not where she came from. I get it. I wasn’t her friend when the Goblins came. I have a big mouth. Yeah.”
Relc exited the conversation, tail drooping. He looked around for Embria, but she hadn’t heard this. He wondered if it was okay to tell her.
Probably why Erin didn’t trust me. At least I know. I bet this is where hamburgers come from. 
Selys was probably right—this was why Erin hadn’t talked to him. What would he have done with the knowledge, help her? Kevin’s bicycles—Relc didn’t know how to hammer stuff. He was extra.
That was why it hurt. She didn’t have to tell him—the Drake was walking out of the theatre when he stopped.
He could stew in this for a long while or—he turned and walked down towards the center of the theatre. Erin was sitting there, taking a break as Ryoka Griffin followed that tall, silver-haired half-Elf guy that Relc suspected was a blademaster of some kind.
“Taletevirion—”
“No. Nope. See you. We’re not doing this.”
He jogged off, and Ryoka ran after him. Relc raised a claw, but she didn’t even seem to see him.
Great.
The Drake drifted over to Erin. He coughed, and Erin looked up. She seemed…wan. That was to say, pale in a not-good way, and Relc hesitated.
“Hey, Relc. Big day, huh?”
“Yeah. About Earth and everything. It, uh—it was a surprise.”
Her eyes widened slightly.
“Oh wow. You found out like…”
Her face looked guilty, and Relc suspected she hadn’t even thought to ask him. It made him feel worse—but something distracted him.
“You doing good, Erin? You look sort of pale. Like Captain Zevara gets after breathing fire a dozen times. Did you eat lunch? Snacks are important.”
