Antal: “My English is not perfect, so I’ll try to explain. It was…a conspiracy video like many, you get it? Every government denied it. The US one, Australia, all were denying it, and the UN and other governments launched an investigation. No one found a thing.”
Laken: “Oh, the wonderful UN. Surprising.”
Kenjiro: “Ha…ha. Yes. What about Japan?”
Antal: “Japan too, I think. More people began disappearing, you understand? There was a plane that vanished. But they found half of it. Only half. It vanished over land and…”
 
His voice got choked up a bit, and he turned to a man in armor with a cowboy’s hat.
 
Antal: “Richard—can you…?”
Richard: “There were all kinds of videos and evidence people were vanishing. I think a lot of governments tried to keep it under wraps, but then some insiders began confirming that they knew people were vanishing. What we understand from a lot of people is—there’s finger-pointing, and tons of groups are researching.”
Antal: “Private groups. And militias.”
Richard: “And militias and all kinds of false reporting.”
Antal: “Fake news. During lockdown and the pandemic, there were all kinds of Zoom conferences like this investigating online. Actually, much like this one.”
Erin: “What’s Zoom? What pandemic? Not the Yellow Rivers…”
Geneva: “Can you elaborate, please? Does this have something to do with the respiratory cases that were cropping up in hospitals?”
Antal: “Oh. Wow. You don’t know.”
 
They really didn’t know. The events of Earth were being rehashed for many who didn’t know all of it, and they listened fervently to the rather dire events that had complicated Earth’s situation.
 
Richard: “Half of the USA apparently open-carries now. Apparently, we ran out of guns to sell.”
Ryoka: “No way we ever run out of guns.”
Richard: “We do if we’re exporting to over a hundred nations and everyone is buying anything they can get their hands on over here.”
Daly: “Fucking Yanks. You had one job that no one wanted you to do and you failed.”
Teres: “Heh.”
 
But the point was that this was about home…and it was something a lot of people were removed from. Even the person who cared most about news from home interrupted, because this was not the point.
 
Luan: “That’s home. I want to know as much as everyone, but have you noticed? We don’t think of home. How many of you think of your families? We forget unless we pay attention. At least, that’s what my group’s observed.”
Caroline: “Luan! Oh my g—”
???: “It’s you! Luan! I knew you weren’t dead!”
 
Luan’s head rose as he heard someone push past the Earthers around Richard. They shouted two things in Zulu at him.
Everyone is worried about you. And—
We can’t leave this place.
It was echoing the last time they’d talked. Luan called back.
 
Luan: “What about my wife? My son?”
???: “Good! They’re under protection—”
 
Then they were pulled out of sight by people that didn’t look like Earthers at all.
 
Trey: “What was that? What do you mean…we don’t think of our families?”
Ryoka: “Haven’t you noticed? That is one of the things we need to tell you. Everyone—listen to what Erin’s about to say next.”
Erin: “Okay, alright. I…I want you all to pay attention. Including the King of Destruction. Including Rhir. I know you’re listening…the Blighted King. Chaldion. Fissival. Eldavin too, I bet, and all the rest of you. I need you to understand one thing. We are from Earth. We didn’t come here to conquer, and I think it was chance that took most of us. Chance…good luck or bad.”
 
She took a breath and looked around, seriously, with that faraway look of someone who had died and come back to warn them. This was it.
 
Erin: “I didn’t call you to just talk about home or make alliances or share information. I hope we will. But do you remember…something Aaron sent us last summer? If you have been here a year, I think some of you know what I’m talking about. Have you met strangers on the summer and winter solstices?”
Cara: Fuck, fuck, fuck.
 
Laken’s heart skipped a beat. Luan’s head turned from hugging his friends, and several Earthers focused. Aaron’s smiling face turned pale and serious, and Erin looked around.
 
Aaron: “What I wrote…don’t pay attention.”
Caroline: “What are you talking about? It was true, wasn’t it? The g—”
Aaron: “Don’t say it.”
Richard: “I thought it might be a prank. Some of us thought it was real.”
Erin: “…What I am going to say is tricky. Because it is dangerous. Because most of the people of this world can’t even understand the word.”
???: “Hmm? We can’t?”
Erin: “No. So you don’t know that what Aaron wrote is the most dangerous thing ever. Listen, everyone. It is true. And not true. You cannot spread what he wrote about. You—you can’t talk about what I’m going to say or you’ll make the problem worse.”
Loran: “I have no idea what you’re talking about. What text? I sol—my phone ran out of power.”
Jacques: “[Repair] spell, genius. It recharges your phone. Everyone figured that out.”
Loran: “Don’t talk to me like that, little man. I am a [Ki—.”
Erin: “I’m muting you all. Listen. I need you to understand what the threat is. Rémi?”
Rémi: “I liked this kind of thing back home. It’s a memetic threat. Is that appropriate?”
Erin: “I…have no idea what that means.”
Ryoka: “That’s the perfect way to describe it. Memetic. Talk about it and you make it worse. Think about it and it gets worse. Erin is talking about something where if you believe…”
Rémi: “My god.”
Erin: “Not ours. And they’re not on our side. Do you get it now?”
 
Someone began laughing. They laughed silently, throwing their head back and laughing and laughing at the looks of disbelief or amusement or…incomprehension.
Tom, of course. He laughed because it made sense. Richard was raising his hand along with dozens of others, but Erin Solstice looked around.
 
Erin: “If you haven’t met them—you might not believe. But they are there. There…were…six of them. Now there might be two. Or four. Or still six. They ate every soul in the lands of the dead. Earthers, ghosts…everyone. They are coming back, or trying to. I think it’s their fault we’re in this mess. You see, they’re dead. They’ve been dead a long time, but they keep trying to live. I am telling you all, now, because that is the greatest threat we’re all facing. And they’re coming. Now, do you have questions?”
Zara: “Hi. Excuse me. You’re insane. This is insane. Even for all the crazy I’ve seen—you are the Crazy Innkeeper of Liscor.”
Cara: “She’s right.”
Zara: “What?”
Cara: “I’ve seen it too. Ghosts. That’s—Erin Solstice is right, and this winter, you’d better find a place to hide on Winter’s Solstice. Better yet—one with lots of people.”
Ryoka: “Don’t take their hands. It’s a trap.”
Loran: “This is preposterous. I’ve never met them.”
Luan: “I met two. One tried to kill me.”
Richard: “…None of us have ever met one.”
Erin: “There’s a reason for that. Rhir might be ‘safe’. Then again—”
Richard: “Someone really wants to talk to you.”
Erin: “Not now. Listen, everyone. That’s what we’re up against. Magic won’t harm them. The highest-levels in the world, Level 70, Level 80—they could barely do anything. But they can lose.”
Tom: “How?”
Erin: “A sword beyond swords. Dragonfire—a bit. Finding a weapon that works is important. There are…safeguards, I was told. Buried deep.”
Daly: “Dragonfire works a ‘bit’?”
Erin: “I don’t have all the answers. But that’s it. All of it. We need to join forces. Stop fighting wars. Focus on the real enemies. Find…the answers. They’re in the new lands. They’re hidden in dungeons no one’s found. Please believe me. I’m not lying. I know it sounds crazy, but you have seen Zeladona. Believe me.”
Ryoka: “I’ve seen the same with my own eyes. This is at the heart of everything. You want to go home? You want to know what this is all about? It’s them. And they are not friendly.”
 
——
 
He had to say it.
A lot of people didn’t believe, even now. Though…Laken bet there were more that believed than not. You had to after seeing magic and monsters for so long.
Even so. He felt his lungs heaving and his chest burning. With fright. Because he had to say it. He had to—and expose himself as an enemy.
He was afraid, but the [Emperor] had lifted his hand, and Erin was turning to him. Say it—there would never be a more important moment.
Say it.
 
Erin: “I’ll take a few questions, but Caroline, Zara—don’t say that word any more. Anything helps them, and they are dangerous. Don’t bargain with them.”
Richard: “Why not? I believe in—if they are g—you haven’t seen Rhir. We need help.”
Laken: “They’re not—”
Aaron: “You can’t trust them. Don’t take their hands. Don’t take their bargains. I did—and one of them stole my body like a puppet. He started small, but then he did terrible things.”
Elena: “What the fuck, Aaron?”
Aaron: “I couldn’t say anything. Listen to me—they might tell you whatever you want to hear. Trick you. I thought I was just…getting advice. They’ll take everything.”
Ryoka: “There it is. I’m sorry. Are you…?”
Aaron: “I’m free. I think. But I don’t know why.”
Erin: “Gnomes.”
Tom: “Did you just say…?”
Erin: “Do not laugh at them. Or do. I think they would think it’s funny.”
Geneva: “I can’t reconcile this. Are you saying all of this misery is their responsibility?”
Erin: “Not all directly. But they want to do what they do, I think. Live, even if it means all of us have to go. And rule us. They want…bodies.”
 
The [Doctor] shivered then, because she understood that more than any. The Earthers were silent—until someone spoke.
 
Trey: “But they are dead, right? I’m being asked to relay this. You’re saying, Erin, that we need armies. We need weapons. We have time.”
 
A man was grinning. Grinning with such delight that Erin Solstice’s flat gaze could not diminish it. But she did nod slowly.
 
Erin: “I convened this to tell you. But—can we join forces?”
Jacques: “My, uh—people over here don’t even know what you said. I’ll try to explain it.”
Saif: “Ours here. We hear you, Miss Erin. What do we do?”
Erin: “Find old stuff. I have clues, and if I can talk to you—personally—I will tell you what I know. But in general? There are things buried so deep no one’s found them. Maybe they’ve been hidden, but I suspect they’re easier to find now. Find…the last works of the Gnomes. The Elves.”
Cara: “—fuckfuckfuckfuck. Alright. Alright.”
 
The Singer of Terandria stood suddenly, and all eyes focused on her. She stood in the spotlight and exhaled.
 
Cara: “And if you need help, come to me. I’m on Terandria, and that’s my beat. I can’t reach across the ocean. I can’t move mountains, but we won’t be taken by Wistram. We’re not going to let anyone snatch us. You want to try? The eyes of everyone are on me. That’s my pledge. I am not going to join any one nation in war. But you want help, Erin?”
 
She focused on Erin and smiled, grimly, with determination. With a focus that made the hearts of some who loved war and this future and adversary smile. Those who could comprehend what Erin even said.
Flos Reimarch had heard ‘god’, so he was grinning fit to burst. And like him—a half-Elf was laughing so hard she was almost rolling around on the floor as she clutched at her ruined chest.
Cara, though. She spoke with the words that would add fuel to that fire.
 
Cara: “Count me in. I said I would never march in any army or join any war. But I didn’t know Lucifer himself was banging on that drum.”
Zara: “What? Are you mad? They’re gods! Wouldn’t they be on our side?”
Tom: “Which ones? The ones in Christianity? Nice guy, that. Old testament, new? Let me just sacrifice my son to them. Emily, want to volunteer? Emily?”
Ridley: “This is stupid.”
Caren: “This is all some kind of joke, right?”
Ridley: “No, this is stupid. Sides? The devil? What are you talking about? Are you kids? There’s no sides.”
 
He focused on Erin Solstice, and the [Innkeeper] swiveled her chair to look at him.
 
Erin: “Everything I’ve said is true. I know it’s hard to believe, but those guys are evil.”
Ridley: “There’s no good and evil. This isn’t a fairytale. Even if what you’ve said is true, it’s everyone for themselves. Nice Skill, nice advice, but I’m not joining hands and singing together.”
Cara: “Hey, Ridley? Go fuck yourself. You think I’m joking? You haven’t seen someone killed in front of you. ‘There’s no good or evil?’ Go out and see a war.”
Ridley: “You’re just some fake celebrity. I’m a Level 33 [Mage]. You can claim this is about destiny or fighting god all you want, but you know what? Earth’s coming. And when it does, there will be nations with access to magic, and we’ll have an entire world plus ours to expand into. I plan on being a leader when that day comes. If there’s any side—it’s us and here.”
Tom: “Big words for a scrub. Level 33? Hah. Hahahahahahahaha—”
Cara: “You think this world will let ours walk over it? You think it has to be about worlds colliding? You’re an idiot.”
Loran: “He’s right in one regard. We’re all chosen. We’re all unique. I agree—let’s join forces. You can join my kingdom.”
Ridley: “You bitch—what did he say?”
Cara: “What now? Oh, come on—”
Loran: “I am a [King]. I don’t know about the rest of you, but I started as a mere [Laborer], and within a year—I became a [King]. When we meet Earth, I’ll be ruling my nation. Don’t you see? We’re chosen. Even if some of us are lesser.”
Ryoka: “Literal chosen ones? You’re not Harry Potter.”
Tom: “I’ll give you a scar if you want.”
Loran: “You can mock me, but I unified the people under my domain. And if you want to oppose me, I will crush you.”
Ryoka: “Come on, we have to work together. This is what our enemy wants—”
Loran: “You’re the fool, Ryoka. Come to me, and I’ll show you everything. This is the new world, and we’re the first people to find it. This is the last adventure. We were chosen. My nation is Lorandia. Remember it.”
Cara: “Wow. That is the worst name I’ve heard in my life.”
Loran: “I’ll remember this. You think you’re safe on Terandria? Step carefully.”
 
Then there was a babble of voices, Earthers arguing, denying what Erin had said.
 
“I just want to go home.”
“Answers? Are the answers…?”
“…line in the sand…”
