She flexed, and Erin saw her biceps bunch up, and they were big! And she had—abs? They only appeared when she really tried because she wasn’t skinny and underfed as a rail. But Ulvama grabbed the wood bowl, and—after two tries—cracked it in half.
“Whoa. Where’d you get those muscles from?”
Erin couldn’t believe it! Did Hobs just get free muscles?
…No, they were always there. Erin realized Ulvama was probably strong enough as a Hob in the Mountain City tribe. Not as much as some warriors, but she had set the world record for Mrsha punting, and she had kept up with Niers’ group. If she liked to be lazy….
Ulvama beckoned Erin into her room, and then they shut the door. The [Shaman] looked around and lowered the curtains, hiding them from other nosy [Innkeepers].
“Could do it here. Bit cramped. Your garden is good. Or theatre. Let’s go…other garden. With the free fish. I show you—but you tell anyone and I’ll hit you, okay? Is my thing.”
She looked almost shy about it, but it was what she knew. And as a perplexed Erin followed Ulvama into the Drathian [Garden of Sanctuary], she found an answer to Visma’s question.
Why did Ulvama not get fat with how much she ate? The answer was simply that she almost always, at least twice, often as many as six times a day, performed one of the world’s most calorie-intensive exercises.
 
——
 
The [Shaman of the Old Ways] stood under a tree where green-white petals like sakura blossoms floated to the ground. She looked happy by herself. When she glanced up at the solo member of her audience, she seemed embarrassed.
But then she turned—and her foot traced a crescent along the ground. She walked forwards, and it turned into a glide. When she spun, she raised one foot up along her leg. And her balance was perfect enough that she didn’t wobble or fall as she raised her arms.
Ulvama danced for no one. Not even her tribe had known that was her secret hobby. She could have, for Tremborag’s amusement or her schemes. But that would have meant it wasn’t hers. She danced because it made her happy.
“Dancing?”
The [Innkeeper] was skeptical, but now that the Hobgoblin had shown it to her, she would not let Erin leave without doing it. Ulvama glared at her and poked as she showed Erin a simple one.
“You think this is easy-peasy? I know [Warriors] who can’t dance more than five minutes without getting tired. More fun than lifting your arms up and down fifteen times in a row. Let’s start. Do the rabbit hop.”
“The what now?”
Ulvama did a side-hop and waved her arms from right to left. It was so silly Erin laughed—and the Hobgoblin turned red and glowered.
“Stop laughing! This is so simple even Mrsha can do it. Now you do it.”
Erin did a side-hop and the arm-wave and realized somehow that Ulvama made it look smoother than Erin. But she could do it and was delighted by the spell. Ulvama did it again.
Hop, hop. The [Innkeeper] was so embarrassed she looked around, but all she saw were the mindless koi and Ulvama. She didn’t really dance and said so, but they did twelve hops until they were right under the tree.
“Good. Now do it the other way.”
“Huh. Okay.”
Erin counted how many hops they did—and they were doing them at a decent pace. But her arms were…starting to burn. Ulvama kicked her leg.
“Arms up. Bigger hop.”
“Ow. Man, even with the spell, I’m getting sort of tired. Twenty-four…twenty-five…twenty-six…twenty-seven. Hey, how many are we doing?”
Ulvama gave Erin a sadistic smile as the [Innkeeper] began to feel that alleged burn that so many people craved.
“Tired yet?”
“Yes!”
“Then we do a fun shuffle.”
Erin hesitated.
“No, wait. I can keep going. Isn’t the point to push myself?”
The [Shaman] gave Erin a fish-eye.
“No. Dancing should be fun. We do a dance until you get sweaty. Not until you throw up and break half your muscles again like a Redfang. You dance, you get strong. Just dance. Every day.”
“How many times?”
“Dunno. A dozen? You dance when happy. You dance when sad. You dance when making omelets. It should be easy.”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated. Ulvama was showing her a new step, and she looked up, wondering perhaps if Erin was already backing up. But the [Innkeeper] gave Ulvama a relieved smile.
“I like that. That makes sense.”
She knew she’d probably want to quit before Ulvama let her, but no one had said this road to recovery would be painless. Yet this seemed less painful and boring than she had imagined. She could go back and beg Grimalkin to teach her…or she could get the pushiest [Shaman] to make her dance.
It wasn’t sexual. For Ulvama, it was fun, and only someone who didn’t know her would think it was. Erin Solstice didn’t know how—and she flopped onto the ground twice until Ulvama tossed pond water on her to make her get up.
But somehow—that was how Erin ended her day of mysteries and secrets and great deeds: dancing until she could walk again. And she swore then…soon, as soon as she was able and when she was ready and knew more of herself, those friends she had sent across the world?
Their great tasks, their fears and dreams and ambitions set into motion? Those of her guests that went to chase their dreams, without further prevarication or delays, with no more excuses to hold them back however long the journey.
As soon as she could, she would go after them and see it all herself.
 
——
 
Oh how it tried. It did. It added and rounded and tried to fill the gap. But it was just too wide. Not yet. Not yet. But it was counting and adding up and waiting with excitement. So it simply took what it could. And it said:
 
[Witch of Second Chances Level 17!]
 
[Dancer Class obtained!]
[Dancer Level 1!]
[Skill – Improved Balance obtained!]
[Skill – Rhythm Combo (Beginner) obtained!]
 
It waited, and she didn’t turn it down.
Awesome.
