The walls, the ceiling, the floor seemed…vaguely transparent. Ceria gasped as she saw the stones were actually ghostly replicas of the real thing. And yet, the mage assured them the corridor was solid.
“Mages will be watching from the outside. Ignore them. Your only job is to prove you can navigate your way down the corridor and pass the other obstacles with your own magic. If you fail, just say so and you will be removed. Your speed, ability to handle each obstacle, and resourcefulness will all be taken into consideration. You will begin when I say so.”
Ceria eyed the empty stone corridor with trepidation. She had no idea what was ahead of her, but she was bursting with nervous energy. Beside her, she felt Pisces tensing.
“Now!”
At the mage’s words the students started. Ceria took two steps forward and ducked as a fireball came hurtling down the corridor towards the group of students. Half of them screamed, one fainted, and Pisces vanished.
“Ceria!”
 
——
 
Standing together watching the students make their way through the first part of the combat test, the mages chortled as the fake [Fireball] spell burst harmlessly among the group, showering them with fire.
“I never stop enjoying that.”
“One of the students has fainted? Well, I think he’s out.”
“Did you see that, though? The half-Elf dodged most of the blast, but that young man avoided it completely!”
“[Flash Step]. At his age? Impressive.”
“Now, how will they do with the traps? Oh? Looks like that half-Elf is quite daring. Isn’t she the one I saw practicing in the morning?”
Illphres watched Ceria navigating the traps ahead of the others. She was doing well, avoiding or disarming the ones in front of her.
“She’s nothing special.”
“Well, she’s doing well enough. Oh, look. That Trevalier boy’s set off three traps. Hah!”
Rievan ground his teeth as he watched the students move through the hallways of traps. But he comforted himself, knowing what came next.
 
——
 
“Monsters!”
Someone screamed that, which made Ceria want to kick them. She dove out of the way as a shimmering bird that seemed to be made of light dove at her. Of course it was a monster! If you had the time to shout it, you might as well cast a spell!
“[Stone Dart]!”
She shot the bird through the head and it dissipated into fragments of light. All around her, students were fighting a swarm of magical creatures, the next part of the gauntlet that was their combat test. Ceria had gotten into the room first, but she’d been hard-pressed to progress. Some of the illusions were the circling birds who dove at you from overhead, but there was a huge Troll guarding the exit and she was wary of getting close.
“A damn Troll? Someone’s got a sick sense of humor!”
She growled as she shot down a huge wolf that was running at her, mouth open. All the illusions seemed so real! She’d already been hit twice, but instead of being injured, the apparitions had left bright, shining marks where they’d struck her.
Ceria was determined not to get hit again. She saw some students scream as a flock of the shimmering birds dove at them. Pisces was blinking around the room, dodging desperately and she saw most of the other students were huddled near the entrance of the trap corridor, throwing spells desperately.
This was her chance. Ceria called all the mana she could into her fingers and aimed at the swarm.
“[Stone Dart]!”
This time not one dart flew, but a score of them. Ceria fired the spell repeatedly, shooting jagged shards of rocks into the swarm, trying to hit as many birds as possible.
A score of the shimmering birds fell, the light-flesh of their bodies shattering and fading as they struck the floor. Ceria grinned as she ran forwards at the head of the group. There were still monsters left, but she had a clear shot to the Troll.
This was what she’d been practicing for! Ceria raised her finger, aiming for the Troll’s vulnerable eyes—
And felt something crash into the back of her head. She stumbled, and the world went dark. Something had hit her. But this was a test. What—?
 
——
 
“That damn brat! He hit the half-Elf on purpose!”
Some of the mages were calling out in outrage. Rievan was raising his voice, trying to placate them.
“It was an accident. A slip of the finger!”
“Was this your plan? If this is what the Libertarians call fair, I won’t have it! I demand a retrial!”
“Now? You’ve got to be joking. We saw the half-Elf go down by accident.”
“My tail it was an accident!”
“It’s too late to retry. We’ll just have to judge her by what we’ve seen. That’s fair. And as for that boy, I doubt he’s passing.”
“He’ll just buy his way in! This is outrageous—”
Rievan let the debate rage hotly among the other mages, sometimes shouting in support, but no longer trying to shift the argument. It was done. Ceria was lying on the ground. She couldn’t distinguish herself further in this trial. A redo of the test was unlikely, he knew. Some mages might shout, but no one wanted to give one student special treatment.
He stared at the examinees, smiling, but his smile faded when he saw what was going on. Illphres shifted her cold stare from Rievan to the students still battling the illusions. She passed a hand over her mouth, and then she was smiling.
 
——
 
Pain. Dark. Ceria felt herself falling—
And someone caught her halfway down. Ceria felt two arms encircling her, and felt herself being lifted upwards. She felt…safe. Someone was calling her name. Ceria smiled. So dark.
The world faded. When Ceria opened her eyes again, the exam was over. But in the time between then, someone carried her.
 
——
 
“That boy. What’s he doing?”
“He can’t be intending to carry the half-Elf to the end?”
The mages stared as Pisces lifted Ceria, dodging out of the way of the Troll’s illusory club. The Lizardwoman angrily turned towards a group of mages Rievan was standing with.
“See what’s happened? Now we’ll have to adjust for his performance as well. He can’t be expected to do as well carrying her!”
“What if we send a mage in to retrieve her? That’s simple.”
“Yes, but—wait a second. What’s that in his hands?”
The mages stared. After a moment one exclaimed.
“A rapier? Why’s he carrying that?”
“We told them it was a combat test. And I suppose some of them heard the rumor about the Troll—”
“If he wants to try and take it out with a rapier, that’s fine. But that’s not a display of mage combat—”
“Hold on!”
Some of the mages gasped as they saw Pisces blur with Ceria’s body in his hands. He stabbed backwards as the Troll lunged at him, and then ran the hulking beast through with his rapier. On one shoulder he carried Ceria’s unconscious body, in the other hand he held the rapier, thrusting it into the Troll’s eye.
“Good strike!”
“Look at that footwork! The Troll can’t touch him! He’ll take it down without a scratch!”
“That [Flash Step] spell is being used superbly! Does he have any [Warrior] classes?”
“He doesn’t need any. Look at his rapier.”
That comment came from Illphres. The mages stared, and after a second one exclaimed.
“A silver bell! Well, that explains that. If we’re looking at a [Swordmage] here, I say we accept him on the spot.”
“Even if he doesn’t want to be one, this is a splendid example of mixing magic with conventional proficiencies. I agree!”
Rievan stared helplessly as he watched Pisces run past the disintegrating Troll. Weapon in hand, the young man was speeding through the rest of the test almost too fast for the mages in charge to trigger the spells.
“Silver bell? What’s so important about a silver bell?”
“It means he is recognized as a true expert. It’s a Terandrian symbol of expertise.”
Rievan jumped. He turned and stepped backwards from Illphres. She was smiling at him and he didn’t like it.
“Indeed, Miss Illphres?”
“Yes.”
She nodded at Pisces.
“He doesn’t have to have a [Fencer] class. A silver bell is given to those who reach a certain level in [Fencer], true, but it’s also given to those who have proven themselves by dueling a master. It’s worth a lot of money to some.”
She turned back to watch Pisces. Rievan clenched his fists, but he comforted himself with the thought that even if Pisces passed, his performance would only serve to eclipse Ceria’s. Regardless of whether she finished the test, she had done nothing.
And then the exams ended. Ceria woke up in her rooms two hours after it had finished, and cried a bit before Pisces and the others checked on her.
 
——
 
“It really wasn’t your fault, Ceria.”
Beatrice said that as they sat together in Ceria’s room. It was hard to fit everyone in. Besides Pisces, Beatrice, and Calvaron, some of their friends and people they’d gotten to know had come, like Cessic, to cheer Ceria up.
The room was crowded, especially with Calvaron in it. He kept turning and finding nowhere to go. Now he stomped one hoof angrily.
“It was that bastard Charles! I wouldn’t have believed he would try anything—the Libertarians have really done it now! There’s a row happening and I’ll protest what he did to the Council.”
“I will too. But the mages won’t redo the test, Calvaron.”
The Centaur deflated slightly.
“No. They won’t. I’m sorry, Ceria. But they saw you during the first part, and you did really well.”
“Yes, you did. And I’m sure they’ll take note.”
Ceria tried to smile, and failed. She looked at Pisces. He was avoiding her gaze, toying awkwardly with the rapier in his hands.
“I hear you carried me all the way to the end. Thank you, Pisces.”
“And he set a record doing it! Dead gods, I heard about it! Some mages are using a [Mind Scene] spell to show others—Pisces was dodging traps left and right! He barely got touched by any! He’ll be sure to pass—”
Calvaron broke off, awkwardly. All the other students in the room fell silent, but Ceria already knew the truth. She looked at Pisces.
“Thank you. I’m glad you did it. And I’m glad you’ll pass. You deserve—you deserve to be here.”
Ceria choked on the words. She felt like someone was tearing out her guts. Beatrice patted her softly on the shoulder.
“You don’t know you failed. You did as well as anyone else. Better, in many parts.”
But Ceria knew it was over. She knew it in her heart. She bore with the words of comfort and vows against Charles and the Libertarian party as long as she could, and then excused herself. Beatrice and Pisces offered to go with her, but Calvaron managed to get them to leave Ceria alone, which she was grateful for.
All she wanted to be was alone. She’d failed. Her big chance had been right in front of her—
And she’d failed.
Ceria stumbled down the corridors of Wistram, deserted except for the occasional golem or older mage. All the students were celebrating or commiserating with one another. She used one cold stone wall for support as she wandering aimlessly.
It wasn’t fair. Part of Ceria was raging. She wanted to kill Charles for attacking her. But why hadn’t she been ready? Why hadn’t she guessed he’d do something like this and taken precautions? She could have learned a barrier spell, or watched her back—
“Stupid!”
Ceria pounded her fist into a wall. She hit it again and again until her knuckles bled, but it didn’t help. Ceria walked on, full of despair. She wiped at her eyes and saw her tears mix with the blood.
She wondered if she could ask Pisces for the spellbook when she left. Maybe he’d let her take it. That way, at least she wouldn’t have done all this for nothing.
It was cold. Ceria shivered, and then looked up. She looked at a wall of ice, uncomprehending, until she stared about and realized where she was. Her path had taken her to the classrooms where they normally studied.
This was the classroom Illphres had blocked off.
“Get through if you’re a real mage and I’ll teach you, huh?”
Ceria spat bitterly and raised her fist to punch the icy wall. But it would just freeze her skin and probably tear it off. She glared at the icy wall.
It wasn’t that cold. It was just ice, but Illphres had made it impossible to break or melt. It was an unfair test, just like the rest of Wistram.
Unfair. But what could she do about it? By now, Ceria knew Calvaron would have talked everyone into doing a bit of celebrating. She dreaded going to his room, where the party would be going on. He’d probably be pouring everyone a drink and showing them how to put salt on their stupid glasses—
Wait a second. Ceria stopped as she had a thought. It was crazy, but…her eyes widened and Ceria dashed off through the halls.
 
——
 
“You need what?”
Calvaron stared at Ceria as she panted and tried to explain. He and Beatrice were standing outside of the large room they’d chosen to party in. Ceria could hear loud voices through the stone walls, but she had no time for drinking.
“Please, Calvaron. I need to take some stuff out of the kitchens, but the [Cook] there said I needed to get permission from the head [Chef] or pay. And I don’t have the coin! Please—I’ll pay you back.”
“Can it wait? We’re celebrating, Ceria! You should too!”
Calvaron stared back towards the party. He pointed into the room.
“Pisces is already drunk. I had to practically pour a bottle of wine down his throat so he wouldn’t go looking for you. Come on, whatever it is, it can wait!”
“No, it can’t. Please, Calvaron. I know I don’t have anything I can trade you, but—”
Beatrice looked at Ceria’s pleading face, and then nudged Calvaron. He blew out his cheeks, but nodded.
“Oh—fine! Tell the [Cook] that you can take whatever you need. Put it on my account.”
“Thank you! Thank you! Tell Pisces I’m fine! I’ve just got to go!”
Ceria raced off. Calvaron watched her go and turned to Beatrice.
“What in the name of the Great Companies was that, do you think?”
Beatrice shrugged. She stared at the place where Ceria had been.
“Should we go after her? She’s very upset.”
“I don’t know. No—she’s got a plan. We’d better let her do what she needs to do and not draw attention. But see if the bookies will take another bet, will you? I’m thinking our dear Springwalker might have better odds than we think.”
 
——
 
Wistram was quiet the day after the exams. Most students and mages were too hungover to do anything, and the ones who weren’t suffering were disinclined to do anything when making loud noises could get half a dozen spells cast at your face. Thus, it was only a few mages who gathered outside to practice their spells by the ocean.
Illphres was raising pillars of ice and shattering them with the [Glacial Spear] spell when Ceria found her. The half-Elf panted as she raised a hand to touch Illphres.
