“Miss Illphres—”
The woman turned faster than Ceria had ever seen her and stopped Ceria.
“Do not touch me. What is it?”
“Please, come with me.”
“Why?”
Illphres stared expressionlessly at Ceria. The half-Elf knew she was disheveled, hair mussed, and she knew she was grimy and still damp to boot. She tried to explain.
“I did it. I did it. I got rid of the ice just like you said so can you come and see? So I can show you? The ice?”
For a second Illphres just stared at Ceria, but then she nodded.
“Very well. Show me.”
 
——
 
No one was using the classrooms when Ceria led Illphres there. She had to slow her pace so Illphres could follow, although Ceria was bursting with impatience. Illphres didn’t move faster than a walk. The ice mage stopped though, when she saw the dripping hole in her ice wall.
“Hm.”
“I did it, you see?”
Ceria practically danced in front of the melted ice, half-hysterical from exhaustion. She waved her arms and nearly cried out. Her muscles were beyond burning—they felt torn, and her fingers and hands were raw and practically numb.
Illphres gazed at Ceria and then at the wall. She stared hard at the puddle on the stone ground, and noted the white stains on the floor. She looked at Ceria calmly and said one word.
“Salt.”
“Yes, salt!”
Ceria pointed triumphantly to the nearly empty bag of salt, a huge sack she’d practically depleted after she’d taken it from Wistram’s kitchens. It was so simple. Salt.
Salt melted ice. Ceria had used it to melt the ice, rubbing it on the frozen spell over and over and raising the heat with her own spells. She’d thought it was hopeless, but slowly, oh so slowly, the salt had helped dissolve the enchanted ice.
“I created this ice wall to be impervious to any spells below Tier 4. But I didn’t expect anyone to actually use something like salt.”
Illphres mused as she stared at the gap in her ice wall. Ceria stared at her, hopefully, desperately.
“But I thought of it. It’s not magic, but you didn’t say I couldn’t use salt. So I pass, don’t I? You’ll teach me spells?”
“There’s only three days before your probationary period ends.”
Illphres turned to Ceria, expressionless. Ceria’s heart sank, and then the anger in her bubbled forth.
“So? You said anyone who could get into your classroom you’ll teach magic! I’ll go in right now if you want!”
“Spare me. But what kind of a mage uses salt?”
“Me! I did it! I’ll do anything to learn magic.”
“So I see.”
“Please, teach me magic. I might not stay here, but I want to learn something powerful. Please, you promised!”
Ceria found herself begging to Illphres and hated herself for it, but she was at the end of her rope. This was the only thing she could think of, the last straw she had to grasp at. If Illphres would teach her something, maybe Ceria could earn money as an adventurer and try again next year. Or if she didn’t, she’d at least have something from Wistram.
For a long time the ice mage was silent. Her face was cold, like a mask, and Ceria could read nothing in her expression. For her part, Illphres looked the half-Elf in front of her up and down.
Ceria was as old or older than Illphres was but still a young woman by her people’s standards. Her hands were red, the knuckles and skin on her palms cracked and bleeding from the intense cold and friction. She was desperate, begging.
Illphres looked at the ice wall, the wall she’d created, sure that no student could break it on their own. Melted, not with a spell, but with salt and effort.
“Tell me, girl. What makes you think a real mage would stoop to this? A real mage would strive towards the height of magic on her own, not rely on anyone else.”
In front of her, Ceria took a deep shuddering breath. She looked up at Illphres, and there was a spark in her eyes of something more than determination.
“I know that. But I can’t become a real mage on my own. You told me that real mages don’t need help. To forge my own path. Well, I found a way to melt your damn ice, but I still need help. I want to become a real mage, but I’m not going to be able to stay here. So teach me something now. Please.”
Silence. Illphres stared at Ceria, and then nodded.
“Interesting.”
That was all. She turned away and began to walk from her classroom. Ceria jumped as the ice blocking it reformed in an instant. She called out to Illphres in despair.
“Wait! Where are you going?”
The ice mage made no reply. She walked away, and Ceria sunk to her knees in the cold corridor.
That was it. It was over.
Slowly, Ceria made her way back to her room. She crawled into bed and slept, too full of sadness to cry. She slept as she heard students stumbling outside of her door, slept and willed herself never to wake.
But someone did wake her. Someone hammered at her door and shouted when Ceria didn’t respond.
“Ceria! Ceria! Are you in there? Get up! You passed! You did it! You passed!”
“What?”
Ceria leapt out of bed. She shoved open the door and nearly ran Pisces over. He gabbled at her and then gave up and both of them ran down the corridors, past students celebrating and crying and hugging each other. They came to the entrance hall and stared up at the floating words that danced and spun about in the massive room.
It was a list. A list of names. Each one was a student. Ceria saw Pisces’ name on there, no last name given, and Charles de Trevalier’s, and Timon’s too. But she had no time for that. She looked up and down the list desperately, and then saw her name. It was right on the end, hovering in the air, slightly out of place, as if tacked on at the last minute.
Ceria Springwalker.
 
——
 
Ceria didn’t know what happened after that. She had a brief image of herself kissing Pisces on the cheek, hugging him, and then running to find Calvaron and Beatrice and hugging and crying some more. She only knew that at some point after the banquet and speeches and eating she found Illphres. Or rather, the mage found her.
The bathrooms in Wistram were magical as with everything else, but Ceria was far too drunk to appreciate them at the moment. She staggered out of one and nearly ran into Illphres. The ice mage was waiting for her, and scaring away all the other students who wanted to use the bathroom.
“I keep my promises.”
That was all she said. Ceria stared at her, and burst into tears. Illphres looked slightly surprised. That was to say, her eyes widened, although the lower half of her face didn’t change.
“Stop that.”
“Thank you!”
“Don’t thank me. You broke my enchantment.”
“But you—you—”
Ceria sniveled and Illphres rolled her eyes.
“Tomorrow, class will be held in my quarters. Find your way there. Do not be drunk or late. If any of your friends manage to melt the ice I will teach them too.”
“Pisces will come.”
Ceria said that instantly. Illphres paused.
“I see. Will all the other students come? It is a valuable…secret you have. It might be worth much. What will you do with it, let everyone pass my test?”
“I don’t know. I don’t know what I’ll do with it. I owe someone—but Pisces will come.”
“So you will help your friend, to pass my test? I wonder, will you drag yourself down by pulling other people up?”
It was a question that wasn’t really a question, but Ceria had an answer ready. She smiled through watery eyes at Illphres.
“Real mages help each other. We don’t abandon each other.”
The ice mage stared at Ceria for a long time. Then she passed a hand over the lower half of her face, obscuring her mouth. When she lowered her hand, Ceria saw she was smiling ever so slightly.
“So I’ve noticed.”
She turned and walked away. Ceria smiled at her back, and bowed ever so slightly. Then she ran to find Pisces. She had to drink more, and tell him—and maybe Calvaron—everything. After all, she didn’t want to be in Illphres’ class alone tomorrow. She wanted to learn everything with Pisces. At last, they had time.
At last, they were true mages of Wistram.
