Tris muttered, “I have no idea how come this thing is coming together so well.” With some easy sarcasm, Tris asked, “Say? Can you put that battery right there, in that slot in this machine that it looks like it can go right into, and that I don’t have to actually mangle to make it work? Because of course I don’t have to mangle anything to make anything work anymore. Of course you got a battery that perfectly slots into the space I made for it, even though it shouldn’t, because all I asked for was a power supply number, and not material or size or… And with silvercarb I don’t even have to worry about waste heat.”

Lokketalon smiled wide, and then put the battery right into the slot that Tris did not know he was making for the battery, saying, “I know! Isn’t it great! We’re all pretty sure it’s some sort of intrinsic Fate Magic—” The battery clicked into place. A little ‘ready’ glowed upon the drab silver surface of the battery. “Yup! Fate Magic. So what’s next on the list?”

Tris took a moment. He said, “Some base metal fabrication for the final touches—”

“Ah! That’s what I’m here for,” said a guy behind Tris.

Tris turned.

Normally, Tris would be worried.

Nothing was worrying him right now. “Hello, Overseer.”

Lokketalon smiled, affected a deep, kinda-sarcastic bow, and said, “Welcome to our project, oh wondrous Overseer Ta’Kamoil.”

“You cut that shit right now, Lokketalon,” Overseer Ta’Kamoil said, smiling as he said it. “I’m only the Overseer because I’m slightly more politically minded than you.”

“And you are welcome to it!” Lokketalon said.

Ta’Kamoil chuckled as he looked over the awakening machine… He blinked. Tris saw his eyes flicker and glow as he did whatever magery that mages usually did to look at stuff below the hood. And then Ta’Kamoil pulled back, nodding. “Yup! I don’t know about most of that, but it looks like you followed the directions to me. I didn’t even know something like this existed, but I guess it’s common in the tech side of Margleknot?”

“Fuck no it’s not common… uh,” Tris said, realizing he had let his usual way of working escape his mouth. “Uh. I mean. No, sir.”

Ta’Kamoil smirked a little. “But it will work?”

“Well… Theoretically.” Tris said, “I put all the parts together and there’s a bunch of checks that are checking out… A little too well, if you ask me. But I guess that’s magic for you? I’m not really one for magic, but I can certainly know when I’m around it… some of the time— Anyway! Yeah. I guess? We need a pair of big plates of mana-fused metal tuned to the power you want to awaken in the person who steps between those plates. Then we hook those plates up there on those slots, one on each side, and then the person steps into the machine and we turn it on… Well…” Tris shrugged. “The person standing between the plates awakens their aura? Mana sense, too; whatever the heck that is. I usually work on warp engines and this stuff is a whole lot different, but the level of tech is the same. Seen about 12 of these before. Each of them was heavily guarded on account of how easy it is to power people... Never got to step in one myself.”

He certainly thought about it before, though. About stealing into one of those facilities and giving himself some real power. No easier way to gain power than to actually gain power. Plus, having mana means you could pay Margleknot for resons and actually have money for once in a damned while.

He’d have been found out within minutes, though, and not just because of security cameras and shit like that.

He’d have been found out for much more basic reasons.

“… Anyway.” Tris said, “And that’s really it. Just need some Benevolence-infused metal— I assume that’s what you want, right? This is House Benevolence, yeah? Gotta make people Benevolence-flavored. Anyway. I’m sure the metal’s got a name but I don’t know it.”

Lokketalon and then Ta’Kamoil both realized something as they heard Tris talk.

“Right!” Ta’Kamoil nodded. “I know why I am here, now, and that is to go get Erick.”

As the Overseer walked away, toward the other side of the island…

Erick was already walking this way, and he was almost here.

He just looked like a dude.

A tall dude, for sure. Big horns, too. Kinda handsome, Tris guessed… He glanced over at Aliandra and saw her looking at Erick. Tris turned back to Erick. Yeah. He could see it.

Anyway.

Erick said, “I heard. So let’s do this.” He waved a hand at the machine and some illusions appeared in the transmission zone; two big silver plates perfectly fit to the hookups, yes, but also some extra plates on the floor and some weird little tuning tines here and there. “That look about like what the machine needs, Tris?”

None of this felt real today, so Tris had no problem saying, “More metal isn’t a bad thing and I’m not sure what the little tines are for, but yeah.”

“It’s for grounding,” Erick said, “I expect people to zap the ground and nearby areas when they awaken.”

“Ah.” Tris said, looking over the machine. “Then yeah. There are alterations we could make to the machine to better allow for lightning… Of course I already grounded the whole thing ten times over… or more like 4.”

“It’s for lightning that creates plants.”

“… Can’t rightly say I’ve ever dealt with that sort of problem, sir.”

Had he said that with too much irreverence? Probably. This was probably a very big point in Tris’s new career in House Benevolence, but nothing felt real right now, so he was probably flubbing it some.

Erick simply smiled and touched a button on his shirt, making two buttons in the action. Two buttons rapidly became four, and then eight, and then Erick held the buttons with pure power, turning that metal into a little ingot, which became another ingot, and then four, and then eight. He continued with more and more bits of metal, doing the impossible of making magical metal just like that, but which Tris had already seen happen, and which he was seeing happen right now, so he couldn’t really deny his own sight, could he?

The guy was pulling metal out of nothing, as though it were a parlor trick and not something truly memorable. It was real fucking metal, too. Not a fae trick.

All the while, Erick easily said, “Everything probably feels really weird to you right now, Tris, but you’re going to go far here. You just needed a little bit of help to get on a better Path in life. You’ll be fine.”

Tris felt his heart beat hard.

The guy wasn’t lying at all, was he.

In the moments, Erick had installed the panels he had said he was going to install.

And then he pressed the button to turn on the machine. A holographic readout came online exactly as it should have… which was strange. Usually these machines kinda broke and needed to be repaired a few times before they started actually working.

Tris mumbled to himself, “Of course it works the first time you turn it on. What’s another miracle on the pile? Not much, that’s what.”

Erick looked at the menu for a while.

Ta’Kamoil and Lokketalon looked at the screen with Erick.

And then Erick looked to Tris. “What do all these buttons do?”

For a very weird reason, Tris found that question immensely enjoyable. FINALLY! Things made sense again. All these mages didn’t know shit about tech. Yes! Here now was something that made sense.

Tris gestured to the buttons on top, saying, “Those are the ones to determine power output and the ones on the bottom are the harmonics for the soul and you usually start at low power, which is a combination of that button and that button and then you increase until the person in the machine experiences an Awakening Event. You usually have to cycle through the soul resonance buttons to find something that works. When the Awakening Event occurs, then the machine spits out some basic ideas of what magics the person might be good at. That black button turns it off.”

Erick smiled at the screen as Tris spoke. “Ah! Yes. That makes sense now.” And then he poked at the holobuttons and the machine hummed to life. Tiny white sparks jolted from the tines Erick had put on the metal plates, leaving tiny green spots growing on the metal. Erick looked at the plates. Then he pressed the black button to turn it off, saying, “There appears to be a drain on the mana in the metal?”

Tris said, “That’s the problem with these machines. You gotta get new metals all the time, which is why the people who have one of these machines don’t let just anyone use them. That readout there on the screen tells you about how many uses you can get out of the machine based on the power inside the metal plates. It’s the most expensive part of the machine, because it’s not easy to get mana-infused metals… for most people.”

Erick looked over the machine as Tris spoke.

Ta’Kamoil and Lokketalon did, too.

Erick said, “I can solve that problem in multiple ways, and a few of which might be permanent solutions, but I’ll do it this way for now.” And then he bloomed with light, and suddenly ten copies of the metal plates of the chamber appeared on a stack a little bit aways from the machine. “There we go. Replacement parts. Easy peasy.”

Tris stared, mumbling, “Easy peasy.”

Erick smiled, “This will be so much faster than training people to unlock aura control and mana sensing. Ahh! This is good. It’s almost like people getting the Script back home for a time. You want to go first, Tris?”

Tris’s eyes went wide. “… You’ll let me use it?”

“Of course! I’m sure you could benefit from the mana production, aura control, and mana sensing that this machine can grant a person, right? You have no normal training in that way, do you? Otherwise it’d take you years to learn normal magic, and we don’t have years.”

Tris still couldn’t believe the events of the day. “I could use all of that, sir!”

Erick smiled. “Hop on in, then.”

Five minutes later, Tris’s world expanded.

Everything seemed even less real than before, and now he could shoot little jolts of white sparks from his fingers and make mushrooms at a touch. They were pretty tasty mushrooms, too.

Later that evening, Tris lay with Aliandra in their new bed in their new home, while Kerbo slept in his very own room beside their own. Dinner had been a whole bunch of fresh meat and nice vegetables and mushrooms. He stared at the ceiling, holding onto Aliandra with one arm, her breath warm on his chest.

He held his other hand up, into the air, in the dark. Reaching for something he could barely touch. A fingernail on a ledge. A thought struggling to escape his tongue.

Tris felt warm and safe for the first time in a long time. He still didn’t understand any of it...

But sparks of lightning glittered in the black, illuminating his fingers and his new life, and it was good.

- - - -

Querkooda had been a simple elven boy in his youth who had not known that he was different until much later in life.

But when he was young, he was no one special. Like many of those born in the Good Lands, and like all of his brothers and sisters, Querkooda had been born with the rather basic ability to See Evil. When he wished for fun, Querkooda did what any village boy did. He went out and killed Evil. It wasn’t till his adult years that he realized how simplistic a thing it was to kill someone based on their use of Elemental Evil, and how oddly he had been raised.

And yet, knowing the oddness of his homeland made him love his people all the more. They were simple. They were Good. Not a single child wanted for anything at home. Not a single grandparent went to their death without a family to surround them, either around their bed, or around them in battle. Not a single brother or sister or cousin was left to fend for themselves.

But eventually, Querkooda distinguished himself from his peers, and he rose through the ranks to become a General for the Armies of the Good Lands. No longer was he solving border skirmishes, but instead he was protecting the realm. He was making decisions to rescue people. He was breaking Evil slavers and killing Evil lawyers and demolishing the wrongdoers of the world.

It was a good life.

During his time as General of the Downspire Flank, Querkooda had developed his shared ability to See Evil into something a lot more unifying. He shared Sight and Knowing with his troops, and they all acted with the power of the entire army because of him. Because of him, the Downspire Flank saved the realm more than once. Because of him, Wraithborne went after him the most of all.

And all the while, Wraithborne Contracts ate at the realm.

Eventually Querkooda fell to those very same Contracts. In a final act of Sacrifice, he turned his ability to Share with his people to absorb all the Contracts that his people had been poisoned with, allowing them to escape.

And then he spent several millennia in the Dead Waiting Room, living a life of nothing, while occasionally ripping and tearing any Evil that he found.

It had been a bad death.

And now he was alive again.

And he was a dragon, too.

And his ability to See Evil… was not really that anymore at all. He was still figuring out that part of himself.

But he still Knew Evil when he saw it.

When he went to the declaration of war meeting with his King to see the Evil of Slaver’s Den, he did not need to know who they were beforehand to know them as Evil.

Querkooda wanted to kill them all and sunder their souls.

It would be improper in many ways and the Fae Enforcers would attack him if he sundered anyone at all… And yet…

Querkooda sat in his rather stuffy elven form, with his curling white horns upon his head and his fingernails probably too claw like, scratching softly at the armrest of his chair, while an open stretch of stone separated House Benevolence from the Evils of Slaver’s Den. They were in the Non-Combat Zone at the moment, because this is where one went to declare war, because meeting in any other sort of land would have been a disaster for any number of assassination reasons. This was not Querkooda’s first experience with this land, with this sort of situation.

The Non-Combat Zone was the same basic grey stone room in a nothingness, like always, and the evil was Evil, like always. This was the Apparent King’s first time here, though, and he seemed to approve of Margleknot’s way of doing at least this much. ‘A place to talk to the enemy, safely? What a grand idea!’

These talks never really worked, in Querkooda’s opinion, but it was still Good to have them.

Erick was on his left, in a similar chair to Querkooda’s own.

Shadow was further left, also in the same sort of chair.

