The people here couldn’t support the mana needs of this land quite yet, though, so Erick had set up a Benevolence Tower dungeon over there, acting as the ‘power station’ to a lot of this place. He had even put it behind a [Hasted Shelter], and it was pumping out mana pretty darn well. It was also pumping out a river that kept the land watered, and which sent out more water into the wastelands beyond. The mana stayed inside, though.

This whole ‘beachhead’ of House Benevolence was mana-trapped, to keep the mana levels high and make it easier for people to accrete Benevolence, once they got to those steps. The level of Benevolence inside the space was still quite low, but it was pushing out a bunch of stray power that interrupted Erick’s mana senses, making it much harder for any part of this land to be invisible to his senses.

Over there was Ta’Kamoil’s Arcanaeum, and people were already taking lessons on accretion and the Dark and basic magic techniques. That Awakening Machine made by that engineer, Tris, was doing work, and Erick approved. He might even try to make one of those things himself, though he wasn’t sure where to start. That machine was complicated. It was a thing made over many centuries of technological advancement, after all. And yet, how easy technology could make things!

Just step into a machine and awaken one’s aura, mana sense, and even receive a big boost to one’s mana production.

It kinda felt like cheating, but then again Erick had started off as a ‘cheat’ by being a Wizard without even knowing what that was, so that was that. He would gladly help people cheat to get ahead.

It had been like cheating to take this place from Slaver’s Den.

Cascadio’s tips on resonwork had been invaluable. Putting resons into spellwork to make a spell stronger was an easy thing; barely a leap of any logic at all to make that happen. But using resons to imbue a self-canceling effect after certain conditions were met? That had been a leap of logic that Erick had not thought of himself.

What he had thought of afterward, though, was to use resons to imbue a spell with a targeting matrix.

That’s how he had taken out 9 out of every 10 demons and Evil-aligned person in Slave Intake #45, without hitting a single slave, in his first blast of [Grand Reincarnation]. 90% of the problem of this place poofed in an instant. Based on Erick’s reson and mana counts both before and after the fight, he had sent 6,800 people away, and into new Benevolent existences.

Sending 6,800 people away had only required 3.4m Mana, 3.4m Health, and 3.4m Psyche, and 680,000 resons.

He could do that many more times over.

Turning all the slaves into themselves, without Contracts or soul twistings, had cost a lot more, at 120m each of Mana, Health, and Psyche.

Saving people cost a whole heck of a lot more mana than it would have taken to simply destroy the whole place, though, so he would be taking some time to make some cost reduction magics as soon as this place felt secure enough to take that break. He’d also be making those truly deadly magics that Lord Dakka wanted to see, the Blood, Death, and Destruction spells.

But other than that, the ‘battle’ for Slave Intake #45 had gone very well.

It had only taken five minutes, and that was mostly because Querkooda was learning how to use his draconic body to make war. Erick hadn’t made much war except that first strike. He had spent most of those five minutes filling the land with his aura and yoinking people out of confinement to work magic upon them.

Most of those people Erick had saved had remained behind to join House Benevolence.

That was why he had targeted this place. He wanted people for his House, and this place, once rescued, should have provided that source of people. It had been a risk, of course. But it was a calculated risk.

Slave Intake #45 liked to break people in family batches. Adding to this, Erick rescued and kept people together as best he could. Those people who had friends and family either had the choice to stay here and thrive under Benevolence, or to try their luck elsewhere, on their own, and it would be on their own, because Erick did not have time to see that every one of the 35,000 people got back to their original worlds. It just wasn’t happening right now.

And so, people from so very many different worlds joined House Benevolence.

It wasn’t like there was any real place to go out there in Slaver’s Den anyway, and Margleknot was completely terrifying to many of the people here. Most of these people actually came from tiny, backwater worlds that were seeded by Slaver’s Den and other Evil lands long ago, just so that they’d have slaves to capture whenever they wanted.

The whole thing disgusted Erick.

Before Erick had come here to Slaver’s Den, to Slave Intake #45, this place was pretty much a wasteland, and it was kept that way to make the slaves despair. Every window of the former Intake had looked out upon dust and rock and sparse vegetation. Sometimes the demons and Evils of this Intake even let the slaves out into the harsh, rocky, thorny land beyond the ‘safety’ of Intake to break their spirits even more.

For the past few days after taking this place, that desolate land out there had been filled with raiders and saboteurs and even a few different dropships and warpships. Now those ships were the spoils of House Benevolence, and their invaders sent off to other worlds to live new lives. Over there, at the workshop, Erick had a bunch of engineers working on the tech they had gained in those fights, as well as working on more shielding and defensive structures. Erick didn’t understand much of that, but Overseer Lanzoil’s Office of the Administrator had people that did, so he left that to them.

Erick gazed out across the land again...

… And everything was looking good out there?

More or less, yes.

The people here were in pain. They were furious, they were in shock, some were motivated by the desire to hide and pretend that nothing was wrong at all. Some were coming out of slave Contracts that they had suffered under for decades or more. Some were coming out of Contracts mere days or weeks old. Some had never been touched by Contract at all.

It would take time to heal the wounds this society had inflicted upon these stolen people. But the kitchens were working overtime and food was flowing from gardens and people were crawling out of their trauma slowly, but surely. Many were working to become soldiers for they desired to kill slavers with their own hands, and Erick did not disapprove. [Reincarnation] did a lot to help the people move on to a new future, but the social systems that Erick had set up were doing more, and communities torn apart by the slavers were coming back together all across the land.

There were problems with the newly-enslaved fighting the old-enslaved, with words like ‘cooperator’ thrown around as though they were fireballs and acid splashes. Querkooda dealt with those people by pulling them into the growing army. He was good about redirecting motivation properly.

Nothing would ever be the same for any of these people.

But the future was looking bright.

As Erick sat on the top of House Benevolence, he looked out, and he couldn’t see anything but desolation out there, beyond the white-knife walls. It had been 24 hours since the last attack. Maybe they had stopped? Maybe they were actually rousing their liches and talents, or trying to get Wraithborne directly involved? Erick hadn’t seen anything too dangerous coming their way, or at least there was nothing he couldn’t stop, but that would certainly change once the danger of their ingress had begun to actually worry the slavers of this land.

Slaver’s Den was land of 40 million people, with 4 million of them in control of their own lives, and those lives were filled with the purpose of making slaves, so they were kinda busy preparing for a full-scale counter-assault against House Benevolence. Slave Intake #45 was only one of a hundred such locations in a land the size of a Veird-continent, at over 10,000 kilometers in the major directions, and according to Erick’s intel these places fought and tore each other down all the time.

It would take some time to tear down this place and remake it into a better land. It would take some time for a real counterattack to come.

Erick had started the process.

And when they came to test him, he would be ready.

Because that 150 day timetable to conquer Slaver’s Den? The timeframe he had said to everyone, very publicly? That was a twisting of the truth. The actual truth was that Erick was tapped into his own node network with Mana Siphon and he had already taken millions of resons out of his Margleknot account and absorbed them directly.

150 days?

More like 15, if he had to.

- - - -

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 101.06m per day / 1,169.69 per second , [Darkness Level = 6.89x Ascension baseline]

Body: 541

Mind: 689

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+1,064.41, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 2,881.13m/∞, ↑ [+362.60, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 2,840.2m/∞, ↑ [+350.9, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 2,839.81m/∞, ↑ [+350.9, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 937.17m [+105.27 = +11.69]
