Querkooda sighed a little. There was a time for talking and a time for doing, and though Querkooda could See the benefit in doing this… It still felt like they were giving too much face to slavers.

And yet, Querkooda reminded himself, it was Good to give the enemy a chance to prevent bloodshed.

And yet, Slavers ought to be murdered swiftly, not spoken to, like they were somehow still people. Evil gave up the right to call itself ‘people’ when it took in that Element. These things sitting before House Benevolence were no more than raw materials to be reincarnated into something better.

But they had only been here for 10 seconds so far. Perhaps Querkooda was being hasty?

Probably not.

The three people on the other side of the open space were perhaps some of the worst Evils Querkooda had ever known, and he had known a lot. Perhaps they were not the most powerful, for all of the most powerful Evils went to Wraithborne, but Slaver’s Den was still Slaver’s Den.

Captain Shackle sat in the center chair. He was a void flier man of black armors and black wings. He was responsible for world-sized raiding parties that captured people and soul shackled them to slavery. He deserved to be Sundered, and if Querkooda ever caught him on Layer 1, or outside of Margleknot, that is what Querkooda would do.

Underling Chains sat to Shackle’s right. He was a half-eldritch thing of metal and flesh, and this part of him here was just the smallest part of his body, sent here because he needed to be here, to be at this meeting. The majority of him was strewn throughout all of Slaver’s Den’s many Intakes and cities. He was their mass security force. Killing him was easy. Keeping him dead? Another matter entirely.

Underling Walara sat to Shackle’s left. She was a demon of sex and death who delighted in breaking people to make them into compliant slaves. Despicable.

None of them would surrender at all.

All of them would have to die.

Querkooda bore witness to this farce of a meeting and hoped it ended soon. He was not the only one. Erick felt the same way. He only did this because it was right to do, as Querkooda kept reminding himself.

Querkooda respected attempted Good… Even if Erick wasn’t all about Good.

Benevolence was close enough… Probably.

Shackle spoke first, “We will kill you all and sell your disembodied souls to the highest bidders.”

Ah! Good. This farce was going to go swiftly.

Querkooda approved.

Erick smiled softly, and said, “I appreciate your candor. In the interest of being forthright myself, I ask you to surrender completely, and I will ensure that you are free to go after a reincarnation. I offer this opportunity to all of your people, as well. Any takers?”

Walara giggled, saying, “Can I have him before we sell him, Shackle? I want to break him.”

“Of course you can, dear,” Shackle said.

“Excellent. I am now free of guilt.” Erick stood, saying, “We’re done here.”

Shackle and his party stood. Querkooda and Shadow stood.

They departed the Non-Combat Zone.

When they were once again standing on the grassy surface of Reincarnation Island, Erick breathed deep and appeared lighter, as though a weight had fallen, this was because a weight had fallen.

Querkooda recognized that look. He said, “It is always easier to go into battle with enemies that are merciless.”

“It is,” Erick said, nodding. He rolled his shoulders, and then asked, “So that Non-Combat Zone was interesting.”

“You said that before, as well,” Querkooda said, “But I have a hard time believing that you had nothing like this on Veird.”

“It’s always an arms race, you know. I was expecting them to be able to overcome the protections there, too.”

“Ah.” Querkooda said, “If anyone could have fought in that place it would have been someone like you or Shadow. Shackle, Chains, and Walara are simple Talents at the higher end of the spectrum. They couldn’t do anything there, at all.”

Shadow said, “I’m rather sure that Chains is a low Power, but only because of his inability to be easily killed. Keep that in mind.”

Querkooda nodded.

Erick nodded as well. “How long till the troops are ready to engage, to make a foothold on Slaver’s Den?”

“I would give them another week. The Awakening Machine is helping a great deal. You will still be the bulk of our forces, though. You’re the only one actually immune to the Slave Magics of Slaver’s Den.” Querkooda said, “We can sweep up trash and control lands, but it will be a year of training before we can actually be a force to be reckoned with, to be able to take the High Cities of Slaver’s Den through a force of Talents of our own. Setting up the auto-resurrections for our people will go a long way to allow them to actually go to war, but Slaver’s Den is skilled in Soul Magics, so death is not something we should expect in any combat between our forces.

“The nascent Soul Mages you have training with Ta’Kamoil need at least a year of training before I would ever have them operate on a person. Ta’Kamoil himself is maybe a few days from realizing his new Truth, thanks to Shadow. I am at least a few days away from regaining something of my lost Sight, as well, so that is my personal timeline to war. I can almost… It’s almost there.” He decided to share something. “When I close my eyes and focus, I can see a path of soft light that turns hard here and there...” He shrugged. “I likely need to be in combat to refine that into something useful.”

Erick gave a small smile, and then he turned Apparent King, and said, “That is a fine time frame, but we do need a whole lot more space and I am loathe to impose upon Cascadio more than necessary, even if he says he likes having us here. I cannot bring a war to his lands. Therefore, we’ll be creating a beachhead on Slaver’s Den right now.”

Querkooda felt his skin prickle.

And suddenly things made more sense again.

When had Querkooda ever hesitated against Evil? Never. Why had he given a timeline of days? He had no idea. Perhaps because he wasn’t used to having needs. The Dead Waiting room had eroded too much, hadn’t it.

At Erick’s declaration, Querkooda felt a surge of need once again.

The air charged with power. Power glowed within his sight, highlighting the righteous and the unrighteous, and all this land was light, and all the lands of Slaver’s Den held in Querkooda’s mind’s eye like a pit of grey nothing. It was not light, it was not dark or shadow; it was the absence of Benevolence, and it was a disaster. For a moment, Querkooda Saw Beyond Seeing again, and then the moment faded.

It was a flicker of Truth, right there, beyond his grasp.

Such a Truth would need to be refined in battle.

If Querkooda had been a young elven boy, talking about Seeing things to his elders, then his Elders would have thrown him at a difficult battle. Erick is doing the same.

The solution is simple, and Querkooda is wondering why he had not seen it before now.

Perhaps he had spent too long being dead.

Querkooda fell to one knee. “I am ready, my King.”

Erick said, “I know you are, and I am glad to see it. Where shall we attack first, my General?”

Querkooda was not a young elven boy anymore. Before, he would have said, ‘At the largest enemy out there!’ But no. He was a man full grown and thousands of years old, though he did not remember most of them for they were lost to the Waiting Room. With that age came wisdom. With that wisdom, Querkooda proved himself worthy of being the General of House Benevolence by already being prepared for this question many times over.

“I have several options planned. Let us pick one.”

- - - -

Respen had given up on screaming at his captors and vowing vengeance after the first day of whipping and branding. It was the fourth day now, and he had been reduced to incoherent screaming. He had not yet given up his soul. Not yet.

He desperately wanted to.

Brother Vulen and sister Vanya already had given up everything. The looks they were giving Respen for not following them into damnation were almost as bad as the branding. The demon had promised that this would all be over as soon as all three of them agreed to take the Contracts, but Respen did not believe that Great Evil at all.

He knew what awaited when Respen finally gave in.

Everyone did.

They would make the three of them fight each other to the death, and only one would survive.

As the brand came down upon his back, Respen screamed in ineffable pain once again, filling the torture chamber with noise, but never blacking out. The brand was too well-made for that. Respen’s teeth gave out before the brand or his body ever would. He cracked another of his teeth as he bit down in pure agony.

Which was also what the demon wanted.

“I think I heard another break!” the demon cheerfully said.

It was wearing the guise of Respen’s mother, and it wasn’t just a mask, or an illusion. They had captured Respen, Vulen, Vanya, Mom, and Uncle in their attacks on the seaside village a week ago. Respen still remembered the blocks of iron appearing in the sky, with their fire-shot backsides and the holes that opened in their sides which released flying terrors of all kinds. He remembered being stuck in a cage with his family and tens of others. He remembered how they took out all of Respen’s family all at once, just as they had done to all the other families.

There had been 5 of them, with Uncle Larro as the fifth.

They murdered Uncle first, then they ripped out his soul and fed that soul to a demon. Then that demon took Uncle’s body for a ride. They did the same to Mom.

And then they did horrible things.

Respen wished he had not seen that, could not remember that—

The demon wearing Mom traced the brand along Respen’s back, and Respen came back to the moment, screaming once again, his mouth full of jagged pain and holes where jagged pain had once been.

The demon pulled the brand away, saying, “I think we should take that tooth out, right? Yes we should! You look so much better without the teeth anyway, my beautiful baby boy. Here. Your brother can do that one.”

Respen did not sob, though he wanted to.

His brother and sister stood in the room with him. They had both been broken. Now, they helped the demon to break Respen. The demon gestured to the tooth pulling iron, and Brother Vulen tried to pick it up, but his fingers slipped on the blood. He was not trying hard. Or maybe his eyes were full of tears. They seemed full of tears to Respen.

The demon chided Vulen, “Silly little elf.” She softly, harshly, demanded, “Pick it up.”

Vulen tried to pick it up again, but he failed again. Tears clouded his eyes.

The demon smiled wide with their mother’s face, exposing many broken teeth that did not belong to her at all. And then she snatched up the tooth puller and gleefully said, “Now everyone gets to lose a tooth! What fun for me! Open wide little boy and girl! Time to lose a molar!”

Vulen and sister Vanya’s bodies went stock still and then their mouths opened wide. They had no control over themselves anymore. Not physically, not magically. They were still there in mind, though. The demons preferred to break the mind through torture.

Vanya pleaded through open mouth that she could pull Respen’s tooth, but her voice was lost to the wideness of her mouth and her inability to make the words. Everyone still understood her, though.

The demons liked to leave people the ability to talk, if only so they could dig their own graves even more.

The demon heard Vanya’s offer, but it just smiled with broken teeth, growing larger than life, her limbs elongating and her nails turning sharp as she gripped the tooth puller, saying, “Now now, little girl, I know you got that evil streak in you, so you don’t have to do much anymore, but I’m breaking your brothers now.” Her mouth opened even wider. Her eyes became pits of vile light. “Of course, everyone can be broken more than they already are, so sure, let’s break you some more. I’ll take two teeth from you now, because your brother is not cooperating enough! How does that sound? Wonderful, right! Think of this as a lesson in—”

A red light went on in the corner of the room.

The demon stopped.

She frowned.

She shrunk.

She set down the tooth puller amid all the other bloody devices. “Now what could possibly be so important that—”

The world went white.

The world came back.

The black metal box of the torture chamber was still black, still metal, still with softly red and harsh light everywhere.

Except the demon was gone and some green moss and tiny mushrooms glowed upon the floor where she had been.

Three holes were in the sides of the torture chamber. Each hole was glowing from the heat of some power that passed through. The walls were already growing moss. The magelights in the room flickered—

Red lights went on everywhere.

Vulen and Vanya both collapsed to their knees.

Respen breathed, unsure of what he was seeing. It was probably a trick of some sort. His brother and sister were on their knees now because in the absence of an authority figure they were locked down by Contracts. They could do little more than kneel there on the sharp ridges on the floor, head bowed, unable to do anything but think, as they felt the pain of kneeling on sharpness.

… Respen’s shackles were just loose enough to escape, because the demons liked it when people tried to escape.

… Respen took a chance. He got out of his bindings—

A quake shook the world. Something rumbled. Something screamed loud enough to break—

The screaming stopped as suddenly as it had started.

Something slipped through the air, like the passing of a wave, crashing through every surface of metal and passing through reality itself. It thrummed inside Respen’s heart.

Surely, Death was here.

Respen went to his brother and sister and held them one final time, speaking softly through the pain of his missing teeth and broken flesh and deep sorrow, “I love you, Vulen. I love you, Vanya. Nothing you did to me was your own fault. I miss Mom. I miss Uncle. I wish you could speak to me, here, at the end of our paths.”

They did not respond. They did not return the touch, or any words, or any thoughts at all. In the absence of authority, they could not speak. It was a hateful turn, and Respen hated the demons all the more for it. Vanya vibrated with some emotion, that emotion coming out as tears to drip onto Respen’s arm. Vulen’s breath hitched as his mind overrode his body with sorrow.

Respen held them.

They were about to die, Respen was sure.

More screaming shook the world.

Something crashed somewhere nearby.

The woosh of some inferno crackled something else nearby.

And Respen held on to Vulen and Vanya—

