“Any more demons wish to come out and die?” asked a voice like a storm. A pause. “Ah. There you are.”

And then came thunder.

Brilliance flashed overhead along with the ripping tear of metal melting and splattering like dashed flames. Drops of heat touched Respen’s back and sizzled away. He glanced up, fast as he could, and saw rents in the torture chamber that were already growing over with moss. He didn’t want to get pain in his eyes, so he turned away—

Something burned on Vanya’s shoulder. It was a bit of melted metal, sizzling in the space between her neck and clavicle, caught on her bone. Flesh bubbled. She could not dislodge it so Respen grabbed the metal, burning his fingers to toss it away. The pain of the burn lingered, but he knew that Vanya was feeling worse.

“I’m sorry, sister.”

The world broke around them.

Respen expected screaming as the floor came undone and he floated, holding onto his family, but all was silence.

And then there was light.

For a brief moment, Respen was nothing and no one, and then he was himself again. He stood nude upon mossy ground, the moisture feeling good under his feet, the sun feeling bright and warm upon his skin. He was not alone. There were countless people all around him and more and more appeared with each passing moment, the world breaking like glass and then coming back together to make a person.

Once again, he saw a sky of horrors, of lands upon lands, curled inward around a bright spire of crystal and a long tube of metal. The sky should not look like that.

And then he saw something impossibly large.

A beast with wings.

A great black beast flew overhead, its wings spread wide, blotting out the sky, its claws flickering with lightning and its hide shimmering with black rainbows. A tail trailed behind a body like a dog’s, a head rested on a long neck. All was black scales. All was white lightning.

And far ahead another great beast flew, this one palest gold.

And maybe Respen wasn’t in hell.

If he was in hell, he shouldn’t recognize the land, right? Because he recognized this land. A week ago the warpship had stolen him and his people from seaside, locked them into boxes, and then unloaded those boxes here, onto this grand ‘landing zone’ that was underneath the moss under Respen’s feet. Here and there he saw the black of the metal ground under the moss.

And up there, he saw the soft gold flying lizard burning down Slave Intake #45 with great gusting flows of lightning and light and fire. Black spires melted into a forest. Black domes ignited into flaming debris that spread mushrooms all across the land—

The black beast overhead spat a great spreading bolt of lightning that impacted warpships converging, or escaping, Respen did not know. He had not seen the ships in the distance until they were here. He saw their great energy weapons, though. Those exploding lights carved brilliance and pain across the sky as they impacted some great invisible shield… And there was no pain? Respen looked at himself… He wasn’t in pain? The light of those blasts had done more damage to all escape attempts than the explosions themselves. People should be falling down in pa—

Vulen. Vanya. They stood dumbstruck mere paces away.

Respen called out to them, tears already flowing. Vulen turned and gasped. Vanya saw. She tried to huddle away, to say something about how she never should have offered to pull his teeth, but Respen forgave her instantly. They were alive. He had all his teeth again. They all had their teeth again. Respen embraced his sister, his brother, their smiles bright and happy and—

The great black god gazed down at the gathered masses of people, and spoke, “I am the Wizard of Benevolence and Apparent King, Erick Flatt. I’m also a dragon, for those of you wondering what sort of ‘great black beast’ I am. As for what you are: You’ve all been rescued from slavery, from Slaver’s Den. I and my House Benevolence will be rescuing more people in the coming months, as we eradicate Slaver’s Den from this land of Margleknot. I will not be returning any of you to your homes as of right now. For now, you are safe, you are healthy, and many of you are younger. You will live here and simply exist for a while, if you desire. Later, when this land is cleared of Evil, you will be granted the chance to move on with your lives, however you wish. For now…”

The ‘dragon’ flashed white.

A great white tree instantly sprouted out of the forest of mushrooms and trees ahead, where Slave Intake #45 had once stood. It was large, stretching out high above, its leaves more of a mist than a real thing. And then the dragon flashed again, and the tree was gone. What stood there now was a great white mountain with tall crags and wide cliffs and great doors.

Respen held his family that remained.

Vanya looked up at the dragon with tears in her eyes and fury in her face. “I never got to kill them myself.”

As if responding to her, which was a crazy, impossible thing, the great black beast spoke, “Those of you wishing revenge on the slavers that captured you and yours are welcome to join my House. I plan to do this very same action you have experienced today, or actions like it, to all of Slaver’s Den’s 40 million slaves and slavers. Rescue the slaves, kill the slavers.”

Vanya sobbed in angry, hateful relief. She was not the only one.

Vulen whispered, “What about Mom and Uncle?”

The black ‘dragon’ did not respond to that question.

It did not need to.

Respen already knew what happened to them. Vanya knew. Vulen… he knew. He did not want to face it.

But he knew.

Respen held on to Vulen and Vanya, saying, “It is enough that we are here together.”

- - - -

Morbion sat on his throne and listened to the complaints of Captain Shackle. The man was, after all, one of Wraithborne’s continual sources of stolen power from all across the universe. People often thought of the process of making slaves as born out of a need of having slaves, of having some source of easy labor, but truthfully, the automation of easy work was not that important. They had ghosts for that, and living, mindful slaves were often prone to rebellion, and rebellions were annoyances.

Morbion didn’t really blame the slaves for their impertinence. No. The people he blamed for those rebellions were people like Captain Shackle, who enjoyed making slaves who did not like being slaves. Soul Magic was very capable of making people who liked being slaves, but some Evils, like Shackle, liked it when people hated their stations in life.

Demons and Evil got off on that sort of shit, and then they got off again when they brought people back into line and told them that they had no rights to rebel, or any of their other rights that they most certainly did. It was the inalienable right for every person to rebel against imprisonment and an unjust ruler, after all—

… Morbion considered the thoughts that had just crossed his mind. He found most of them… reasonable, of course. Rebellions often formed out of a lack of power and prosperity from the ruling party to the ruled, and no one actually liked to be imprisoned.

Unless one used Soul Magic correctly, of course.

But many of those smaller thoughts had not come from Morbion’s own mind. They had come from the trinket Morbion now wore on his left wrist. It was a Benevolence-forged bracelet, created out of the souls of four Good rulers, two Evil despots, and a whole lot of Benevolence wrangling. It had a lot of good ideas about ways to make Wraithborne more efficient, more ruthless toward enemies, and more powerful, overall. But it also had the problem of making Morbion see certain actions in vastly different lights. Actions which had long ago felt right and proper. Like slavery, and the quashing of minds, souls, and bodies.

Wraithborne and Evil liked using Soul Magic to make people like being slaves.

Benevolence wanted Soul Magic to be used to free people, and then work with those free people to make more prosperous societies.

Evil and Benevolence did not work together well right now, but maybe they would in a century or five, after some philosophers worked on combining the two.

Whatever the case, Morbion was done listening to Captain Shackle, and he was done listening to the bracelet on his wrist.

He plucked the offending jewelry off of his wrist and crushed it in his palm, and then sprinkled the broken dust on the broken skulls at his feet. The imprisoned dead of the bracelet sucked into the black Evil of the floor, into his throne, into the Wraithborne Tower itself.

Captain Shackle went silent in that release of ghosts. He recognized that Morbion’s thoughts were not with him, and hadn’t been with him for some time.

Good.

Maybe the idiot wasn’t beyond saving after all.

Morbion regarded Shackle, while he also played around in his own soul, searching for Benevolence influence. After a rapid moment he decided there were no lingering attachments to the trinket he had worn for a day, and yet he could not help but see how some of those actions suggested by the bracelet were still valid under new light. In particular, were the thoughts the bracelet had given him about this problem of Shackle and the attacks on Slaver’s Den.

Morbion stated, “Erick Flatt has displaced less than a point of a percent of your lands. By all accounts, he cannot do that Grand Reincarnation over and over again. If you cannot handle him with the resources I have given you, then perhaps someone else should be appointed to your position. Other than that, the Balance has sought death against every Evil land in Margleknot for 5,000 years. If you fall, then the Balance is that much more restored. Therefore, I have an interest in seeing someone fall, if only so the rest of our lands are more secure. It will not bother me overmuch if you are the one to fall, Shackle. I suggest you prove worthy of the power I have already given you, or you cut and run and kill some smaller land to reestablish yourself, leaving behind the dregs of your Den for the dragon to feast upon.” Morbion said, “There are many solutions to your problem, and none of them involve the Tower becoming more invested in an enterprise that is written-in-the-sky to fail. You are dismissed.”

Captain Shackle was furious, but he was not stupid. He walked backward out of the throne room, bowing as he escaped, his wings kept low.

The ghosts shut the throne room doors.

Witch Agatha stepped out of the gloom, bowing a moment before asking, “Was the bracelet not up to your standards?”

Morbion said, “It was a marvelous piece of magic. It helped solve 13 long-standing problems in the tower. But it also almost created a hundred more. Send the problem to the philosophers.” He looked at the Witch. “Say what you need to say, Agatha.”

Agatha bowed, then said, “Erick’s proclamation that Benevolence will take over Margleknot as the dominant mana seems like it could happen. It won’t happen for another 10,000 years, of course, but if Erick stays, if Shadow stays, if they are given reason to stay, then House Benevolence has a much straighter path to True Empire than Evil could ever accomplish.”

Morbion’s frown deepened. “That’s what we thought of Malevolence, too.”

Agatha bowed only her head this time. “Malevolence might have reached an end due to Nothanganathor being unable to reap his due from Veird and thus being stuck there for far beyond reasonableness. He had created Benevolence in his inability to seal the deal. He has created Malevolence’s opposite. And what an opposite it is. I foresee that the outcome of Veird will have either Nothanganathor returning to Margleknot as a god-wizard-king, or Erick as the same, and either Malevolence or Benevolence becoming truly dominant.

“Should Nothanganathor win, he will do as he planned, and our bargains with him might pay off. He will be disappointed that we did not do more for him at this juncture, though, but that should pale in comparison to what we have done for him, and with him.

“Should Erick win, the entirety of Wraithborne would either need to change, or perish.

“I am not sure which is the worse outcome for us.”

Morbion frowned.

- - - -

Erick sat on the top of his newest branch of House Benevolence, his wings folded on his back, his tail lazily trailing down the side of the tallest tower of the mountain-castle structure. This particular roost was large enough for him, but no others. In truth, he was kinda too big for this roost, too. He had grown some in this conquest, and so had his Status.

But that was fine.

Erick gazed across the land, across the fields of grain and orchards of fruit and rows upon rows of vegetables, and across the distance, to where the white ‘walls’ of the newest branch of House Benevolence rose like white knives in the ground. Erick had stolen that structure from Da’luwe because it was a good structure for his needs; it wasn’t like walls actually stopped the people who needed to be stopped, and Erick wanted all the powerless people to have an easier time coming inside.

It was a wasteland out there. If refugees should show, then Erick would welcome them.

He already had a lot of infrastructure for those people, and for many others.

Over there were new apartment complexes, already with space for 100,000 people, and only half full. Over there were training centers. A node network crossed the sky like a geodesic dome, and from that dome power flowed into many different structures, including ‘buffing magic stations’ set up here and there. Here and there were big white obelisks which outlined the basic laws of this land in many different languages, and right alongside those obelisks were [Language Acquisition] spellworks that rapidly allowed the people of this land to learn the languages of all others.

The houses were filled with a bunch of smaller, helpful magics, like lights and such. The sewers were self-cleaning, and people could step through cleansing waters to achieve the same self-cleaning options. It wasn’t safe to put up [Benevolent Cleanse] stations here and there for those could easily be sabotaged to evaporate people, but sending self-cleaning water through houses? Sure, that worked.

Those self-cleaning stations had even stopped a poisoning-the-water attack from some enemy forces. Many other smaller kill-attempts had been thwarted in the five days since Erick and Querkooda took this land.

