I pinch my belly, and there’s a noticeable layer of flab that definitely wasn’t there before. I siphon it off and toss it into my Stomach in disgust, then hop to my feet.

It’s not all bad. At least now, we basically confirmed that the boss is a Named Disaster, so we can prepare better.

“That is the silver lining.”

Yeah. Well, I don’t know how long I’ve been gone, but I should definitely head back before my minions start to worry.

“Good plan.”

I make it back to the minions a few minutes later, and they are indeed starting to worry. I explain to them what I found below the islands, and that only makes them worry more.

“A real Disaster…” mutters Lauren.

“Yup,” I say. “But hey. On the bright side, you guys might get the Taker of Names Title now!”

“True…”

I try to cheer them up, and it seems to work for the twins, kind of, but Chad and Lauren stay a bit grim as we move on to the next island. Over the course of the next few hours, we fight our way further into the storm, reaching the wall of rain and entering within. The fights here suck, and the rain seems to amplify the lightning, but we manage without any injuries, and in between battles, B is able to maintain a big umbrella shield indefinitely, while Chad can siphon the water off us, so it’s not all bad.

Then, as we get closer and closer to the center of the island, and the features of the boss island start to come into view, it finally happens.

[ Wannabe Vivitect, 29 → 30 ]

[ You have reached a threshold! A Class Upgrade is available! ]

There’s only one more island in between us and the boss monster, and while the storm only grows more intense, we can still see a bit of the island itself. It’s not much different from the others, aside from the size, but in the center, something huge and dark rises up. Even with my Sensitivity as high as it is, it’s hard to make out the details, but a particularly bright flash of lightning, I thought I saw something that looked like charred wood. There’s no sign of the monster itself, but we’ve all agreed already that the storm is probably the Disaster’s aura ability, so it’s definitely there somewhere.

We sit down to rest, B shielding us from the wind, rain, and lightning. The others grab a quick bite and lay down to start recovering, while I grab a quicker bite and call out to Abby. It’s finally time to upgrade my Class. And after that, we’ve got a Named Disaster to kill.
