She let go and scooped up the fox and fell back on the bed, wrapping her up in another hug. “Uncle Manny had a message queued for me. I got a report of what it does from him. I get all the normal benefits from the expanded [Endurance], but it also boosts my blood regeneration through the roof.”

Matt was going to ask how she knew that but realized that the Emperor must have taken her Talent and tested many skills for compatibility issues.

“Did he test other skills?”

“Yup! He said he tested anything that could change and thought I would get my hands on. Apparently, some skills just won’t change at all, some will become non-functional, and there’s others that could actively harm me. He said that he updated my AI with preloaded messages for skills that will hurt me which is helpful.”

Matt was shocked. He understood that she grew up with the man, but him being able to do that meant he had absorbed each skill with Liz’s Talent active. He felt like the Emperor had to have had better things to do with his time.

Shaking away the thought, and with [Endurance] running at a small trickle, Matt felt ready to move.

Their train was about to reach their stop, and the three of them met up with Camilla where they found her shuffling around their common room. “I’m not sure how you want to handle rooms.”

Matt thought about it, but Liz just charged ahead. “We might as well just get a three-room suite. That way we can spend time together and get to know each other better.”

“We usually watch a movie or something most nights. It would be good if you join us. I also cook for us when we have time.” Matt added that last bit to try and get the clearly conflicted woman to agree.

“Okay. That…” she swallowed hard, “sounds nice I guess.”

As they exited the train, Matt probed Camilla for the first time with his spiritual sense. He found that she had a different type of false Concept.

Now that he had his own, he could feel Concepts in others, but it was one he hadn’t felt before. As much as he wanted to ask, he didn’t.

It was far too soon to ask, and he assumed that she had gotten something good from Duke Waters. It just felt like it was more real than the others he had felt.

Matt turned and said, “Well, I need to go see TrueMind. I’ll grab some fresh ingredients on the way back. Camilla, are you allergic to anything?”

With her no, Matt and Liz went to TrueMind, while Aster went with Camilla. Matt was slightly hesitant at letting his bond go with her, but Aster clearly wanted to, so he didn’t push.

Aster said that she smelled nice and therefore was a good person. Matt wasn’t sure that was how it worked, but he trusted her combat prowess.

He was more suspicious that the greedy fox was trying to get the new addition to the party to buy her ice cream.

Arriving at TrueMind, Matt was quickly escorted into the lab, and had his AI linked into their testing. They started with the usual mundane checks, but the techs were much nicer this time.

The man, Oliver, was chatting with Matt while the results came in.

Feeling much better about the environment, Matt asked, “So, why were the other Technicians at the last test tutting all over their pads?”

Oliver spun his pad and showed a screen with more data and charts than Matt could quickly read. “So, your AI is a rewrite of the older, original AIs.”

He peered at Matt and asked, “You know how AIs were made, right?”

“Not a clue. Someone smart?”

Oliver smirked. “No… Well yes. But also no. AIs are actually a Tier 26 rift reward. They were originally a skill like any other with the small addition that they were unique in being a channeled skill that had no real strain on the spirit of low Tier people. It was a huge advantage for rich people to give their kids. Still is, to be honest.”

Matt cocked an eyebrow at Liz, who was looking bored. She shook her head, so he made a note to ask her later.

“But they took the skill structure and made it simple. Simple enough that they could recreate it, but that came with losses. Do you know the saying, “Good, fast, or cheap. Pick two.”? Our AIs go fast and cheap. Yours is throwing cheap out the window and going for fast and well. But it’s not doing it well. Or…it is for its Tier, but it’s doing it in an extremely inefficient way. Sometimes it’s trying to get to step three by going from step one to step seven and doing calculus to get back down.”

Oliver shrugged. “It’s great for its Tier. Your search function is indexing in a very interesting way. Also, the way it locating special identifiable features is great. I can’t tell you why they were acting like that, but your AI is a great low Tier data point.”

That raised a question Matt hadn’t thought of. “Am I not the only one with it? At my Tier, at least?”

Oliver waved him off. “Of course not. But you are the only one I know of that isn’t being supported by TrueMind. Most need mana to keep the AI running, so they’re focused on making them more effective. Your AI hasn’t decreased usage in the slightest. That’s why it’s such a great data point. Your testing of our simulations is going at more than twice the speed we thought it would.”

“So, how is my AI different? I never got an answer for that when I got it.”

“Easy. Your AI is just a rewrite of the original skill. A reset to zero, if you will. The new AIs are so many generations old that we started using two letters. Your AI is closer to the skill itself, though with some rather notable bits chopped off to get it to work for low Tiers. It’s still based on a Tier 26 skill, and we can’t replicate something that advanced with mass produced means.”

Matt questioned the helpful tech a little more as he was a wealth of information he had been wanting to know. “Is there anything else I could work toward? I never got any of the extra modules like the ID function, and I felt kinda dumb that I didn’t even think to buy that.”

Oliver waved his hands around wildly. “No! No. Don’t do that. If you use the premade modules, your AI will change them for sure, but it won’t be as interesting for us as your AI recreating them from scratch. If you want some suggestions on what to make, have it start learning about whatever profession you like.”

“Yeah, I was looking into an enchanting module, but they are way too expensive.”

Oliver looked aghast. “Noooo! I can’t stop you from doing that, but just buy and download the books, then have your AI simulate the results from the lessons. I’m sure you’ll learn a lot, and so will your AI. This is a really unique data point here. Please don’t ruin it with the store-bought stuff. And if it doesn’t work well, you can always buy the module later.”

Oliver then launched into a tirade about how a different approach could revolutionize the computing fields.

Matt thought it over while tuning the man out as he strayed off topic.

The idea had merit. The AI modules would help someone enchant with overlays and show where to carve or embed mana. But they were restricted and ruinously expensive. None were on the open market, and they were all made by various companies, organizations, noble families, or guilds and each was said to work differently, and have their own advantages.

Some were better at weapons enchantments, and others were better at larger defensive formations. Each was made for the guilds that used them, which led to them being jealously guarded. Rivals could glean a lot from knowing what their AI guides did.

Smithing techniques and other professions were mostly open at Tier 5 and below, as it was mostly mundane materials being used. But the higher the Tier, the more exotic the materials were, and the more ways there were to use them and that’s when things became hidden and proprietary information.

Not a single power wanted to give all of their hard-earned secrets away. Matt could understand that, but he really didn’t care about the intricacies of enchanting. He would love to automate it with his AI, and only provide the mana.

He would never get a cooking one. He had talked to Aunt Helen about it. She wasn’t as dismissive as he thought she would be, but she pointed out that a lot of cooking was doing things to taste. You could measure and be perfect all day, but then everything would come out the same.

Each piece of meat, vegetable, or other ingredient was different, and should be treated as such. He knew the same applied to enchanting, but he really didn’t enjoy it. Everything in his life was about producing mana.

It was nice to have something not dependent on it for once.

“Oliver, is there anything else?”

While the man was rambling and Matt ruminating, the chair was beeping at him to get up and leave.

The technician coughed slightly. “Ah. Go ahead. Sorry. Your AI is so fascinating, I could talk about it all day.”

Saying their goodbyes, they left TrueMind and meandered back to their suite for the night.

“So, what was that about not getting the AI skill?”

Liz shrugged. “One. I was on the path. Two, I and most other kids born from higher Tiers get special AIs made from our parents’ AIs. The AIs become unique and better at the higher Tiers when there’s been time for them to grow and evolve. Over Tier 25, maybe up to Tier 30ish, no one sells that info like you did. Too much can be gleaned by the shape of the AIs structure. My parents had an AI made for me when I was conceived. I had it implanted from birth. It was just inactive. That’s why it didn’t convert when I got my Talent. It was already there.”

Matt thought it over. “This isn’t a mark on you, but that feels like such bullshit. Isn’t the whole point of The Path to stop that?”

Liz looked awkward, and Matt had to tamp down on his annoyance. She didn’t choose who her parents were, and he couldn’t say he wouldn’t try to do the best for any future children. Ascenders knew that his parents tried their best.

It still grated the wrong way to find out that there was yet another advantage from having higher Tier parents.

“Is there anything else that comes from having higher Tier parents?”

Liz looked wronged, so he rubbed his face. “Sorry, that was accusing. I just don’t like finding out that I’m starting even lower.”

He gave her a smile, and the tension disappeared.

“Not really. The only other thing is really just the basis of knowledge that I have. Also, having parents over Tier 15 means that the child will be perfect. No genetic imperfections at all. The same will happen when you reach Tier 15, and the mind takes control over the body. So, it is a temporary advantage at best. Also, my body, mind, and spirit are closer to a Tier 15s than a Tier 0s.”

Matt wanted to snark back that it was an advantage at the lowest Tiers, where it would make the largest difference.

He stopped himself. That really wouldn’t be fair to Liz.

“Sorry. I guess now that we talked about dating, I really feel our different social statuses.”

Liz hooked his arm, and they turned into a produce store.

“Well, please don’t take it out on me. I didn’t choose it. And don’t put yourself down. I might have started higher, but we both know that with your skillset, you’ll be there eventually. And on your own merit.”

As he pulled items for a pasta dish, he thought over his response. “I don’t want to be like that. It’s something I’ll need to work on. And I would never leave you and Aster behind.”

They chatted, and when they made it back to their rooms, Matt cooked while Liz and Camilla half-watched him and half-watched an action movie.

Matt served them, and they watched the movie in a pleasant silence. He noticed Camilla looking at her cleared plate and said, “Don’t hold back. There’s enough for more than two platefuls per person.”

She murmured quietly, “Thanks, you are a really good cook.”

He wouldn’t say that she was a friend by the end of dinner, but the hard, jaded image he had of her was replaced with a woman who had issues. She seemed like a skittish animal expecting the next blow to come from anywhere.

Matt supposed that was close enough to the truth. He just wasn’t sure if this was the true her, or an act to get back into their good graces.

The only upshot was that they weren’t just there for the rifts, but more so the natural treasures that existed on a planet that didn’t have humans curating it. Best case, Matt found a Tier 5 treasure that would boost his Mana Concentration so he could save the potions that Aunt Helen had given him.

They would just have to see what the planet brought them.

But before they did that, Matt wanted to see the woman in combat.
