And his relief only doubled as Adam unleashed the full power of his Unique Skill. A channel of azure light surged into Shiv, increasing his Skill levels, escalating his mana, attuned and not. Additionally, Adam bestowed upon Shiv his Seer of Horizons Skill, and the Deathless felt his Awareness sharpened by an absurd degree, so much that it took him a few moments to drown out the worst of the information flooding him.

"How is she?" Adam asked. His breath was hurried. His pulse was quick. He trembled with overdue excess anxiety and tension. "Is the Hatchling dead?"

"Not even close. I just used Andra's Cryomancy to keep it frozen. Spent the rest of my golems delaying whatever the hells the Stranger threw at us. Shit, there's another problem we have to deal with. Adam, I might need you to check the Gateway. Make sure nothing comes through, because if that big finger-y bastard follows us, well... I don't know how many orcs and Legends it will take to bring it down, but I don't wanna bet Blackedge and the remaining survivors on it."

Adam just barked a weary laugh. "That's the first thing I did. The moment the rest of you came through, I had Merrielmel tune the slipgate’s frequency to connect to Piety instead. Whatever was coming for us moved too slowly and arrived too late."

Shiv grinned despite himself. Once more, Adam Arrow made sure the quest was done, and done well.

But then the Gate Lord frowned. "Wait, Shiv, did you see Valor, the Culturist, or the Educator?"

Shiv frowned. "Well, the Culturist splattered the Index the Hatchling was hiding inside and then stayed behind to stare at the giant hand thing. Why? Was Valor with them? Shit, are they still in the Outside?"

Adam swallowed grimly. "I didn't see them come through the portal."

"Fuck. Goddamn it. Okay, we'll deal with Uva first, and then we'll go back across to get them. Do you know where the hells Hymn is? Or your dad? We need the Starhawk too."

The answer to the last question came as Roland Arrow sailed into the room. He glowed dimly with incandescence, and he still looked half a corpse. But he was alive. He was moving again, and the Starhawk loomed over in a protective, ethereal shadow, reunited with his favorite Avatar. Behind Roland soared Can Hu, but there was a glow of organic architecture within the armor, one Shiv recognized as Rose.

But before Shiv could greet Roland, he noticed Jessica standing absolutely frozen beside him. Shiv put a hand on her shoulder intently. "Jessica, let it go for now. Just for now. We can deal with it later. Please."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 133 > 135

The Giantsbane tilted her head to stare at him. He couldn't see her eyes through her visor, couldn't read her expression, but her body language screamed with barely restrained aggression. Shiv held his breath and clenched his fist. He didn't want to fight Jessica. He didn't like his odds in a direct brawl against her, especially with someone else's life on the line. She was almost too fast for Shiv to react to, but there were also considerations on her end. If she started this fight, he would end it, no matter how many deaths it took. More importantly, he had a small army of orcs around him, and they were eyeing Jessica now as a pack of hounds would stare down a bear that wandered into their den.

Footsteps sounded behind Shiv. Adam was moving back, creating more space for himself in case a battle was to follow. In the corner of Shiv's eye, he saw Roland hovering there. He grew a little brighter, but held both of his hands out, showing he had no weapons. Wisely, he kept silent to avoid agitating Jessica.

It was a virtue that Rose didn't share. "Jessica! Put the sword down, you dumb bitch! Whatever fucking feud you have with my husband, you can clear it up with him later. Right now, we have a girl to save."

Can-Hu slammed down, marching forward with whirring mechanical steps. It came to a stop right next to Shiv and then opened its chest, revealing Rose nested safely within. Her eyes widened as she beheld the frozen Hatchling. "Kathereine’s fucking tits! Did you have to turn the poor girl into an ice cube? Did she cheat on you or something?”
