“[Personal Ward], though… But… I suppose you have your [Familiar], so that restriction isn’t a large restriction.” Opal dismissed the floating box, adding, “You need to try to turn that into a [Shield] spell. Perhaps with [Force Wall]. Or perhaps with Mana Shaping, for 500. Whatever it takes to strip it down to its core functionality and attach that functionality onto some other useful spell.” She asked, “Have you made [Strike Reflection], yet? You should! That one has saved my life more than a few times. When you get that one right you need to take that spell and make it so that… hmm… Ah. You’re not a Warder, so that wouldn’t work for you. Never mind.”

“What were you thinking?”

“A secondary [Personal Ward] that turns on when you are attacked, without needing to be activated. I have a few of them. They’re useful.” Opal said, “But! You are not a Warder; you’re not able to have multiple [Personal Ward]s on at the same time.” She added, “But! You can get around that by wearing your [Familiar] like a cloak, or something, and have him react for you. It’s a weird thing, making a [Familiar] into clothes, but that is the best way around that restriction.” She chuckled. “But to wear such a cloak around town! How gaudy!”

Ophiel squawked on Erick’s shoulder, as Erick smiled.

Opal said, “You are a pretty little thing. An eyeful, some would say.”

Ophiel fluffed out with a few more eyes and wings.

Opal seemed to turn back toward Erick, as she said, “It would also be possible to create a [Conjure Force Elemental] that could activate a [Reflection Force Wall] when needed, or when prompted. I wouldn’t bet your life on such a flimsy thing always activating when you needed it to activate. But you might be able to make such a spell that you could pin to your chest, or something, that you could activate with a mental command. You’d effectively multiply your mana a few dozen times over, if you do it right. [Store Spell] is the Script version of what I suggested, but that spell is unreliable, at best. The problem is getting the stored spell to recognize threats, and not activate for every little thing.”

That was a lot to think about. Storing spells for later use! What a nice idea. Erick had another question, though. “Now that you mention [Conjure Force Elemental], I was looking to make a defensive [Familiar], for the house. A tree, actually. Got any tips?”

“Good luck. I tried one of those, but after four years the damn thing got up and started doing what it wanted, and all it wanted to do was be a hermit out in the middle of nowhere! I blame myself, on that measure. It’s probably still wandering the forests north of the Wyrmridge.” She added, “I doubt any natural thing could kill it, but it doesn’t like to be near anyone else, so at least I raised it partially right.”

“What tier was yours?”

“Concerned about that? Mine was tier 3. It took a while to become a real being, but it certainly happened faster than I expected.” She added, “Tried a tier 2 years later, and I loved that little guy, but he... died… I don’t mess with [Familiar]s anymore. Heartbreak is a right terrible feeling.”

“Sorry to hear that.”

“Thank you for saying such, but I know I’m being ridiculous.”

Erick didn’t feel that she was being ridiculous at all, but he kept his mouth shut; besides, his face probably gave him away. Opal bounced a little, slowly, quietly.

She asked, “Any other questions?”

“Oh! Right. I have some rings I made, if you want a pair?” Erick went back to his chair, and picked up a small orange stone box he had prepared earlier. He opened it toward Opal it to reveal a collection of silver tori, as he said, “I didn’t know your size or anything like that, but one of these might fit you.”

“Kindly of you, but no. I don’t accept gifts from anyone. I used to do that, but I got traced back to my home. Nothing personal, but I will never do that again.” She added, “What you can do, is keep raining on Spur. I like seeing this wonderful little town all abustle year round.”

Erick smiled. “Then: thank you, Opal. If there’s anything I can do for you, don’t hesitate to ask.”

“And you, too! Give me a call if you got questions.” She said, “I’m going to be working on my own [Pure Reflection Ward], but I’ve been working on that for forever, it seems like. The best I’ve gotten is dust and dirt compared to yours, so it’s time for this new methodology.”

“Good luck, then.”

“You too. And if your apprentice wants to know what I just told you, go ahead. From what I heard, she seems like a keeper.”

Erick smiled. “I think she is, too.”

Opal added, “Be sure to put your [Prismatic Ward] back up, too. It’s times 6 Variable, right?”

“I will, and it is.” Erick offered, “I could tell you how I made it?”

“No no no. Thank you, though. I made one like it, long ago, but the Solid Ward I use these days is the big one you saw covering the city.” She said, “It was a necessary sacrifice, so I didn’t mind paying it.”

Opal’s opal blipped out of the room in a flickering of rainbow light.

Erick smiled. Opal seemed nice. Then he recast his [Prismatic Ward], covering the whole of the house. Then he recorded Opal’s writings into a small notebook. When all of those notes were written down, Erick broke the [Conjure Item], dispersing opalescent light into the room.

- - - -

The next morning, Erick rained platinum over the Gardens of the Human District, while he read about summons, finished off an order of rings for Mog and the Adventurer’s Guildhouse, and practiced harmonizing his magic for [Intent Understanding].

He managed to make [Discover Intent], which was not at all what he wanted.

Discover Intent, instant, long range, 51 mana

Discover the meaning of a magic.

It was a failed spell, but he still tested it against one of Kiri’s [Force Wall]s. In response, he got back a vague feeling of protection, like he was sensing the emotion of another person, or something, vibrating inside of his own body. Interesting, but ultimately an unwanted combination; the mana cost alone was proof that he had done it wrong. He needed to have the spell understand the intent of a magic, not understand the magic himself.

Erick ripped apart [Discover Intent] and began practicing with summoning and canceling tiny [Absorption Ward]s, over and over again, trying to see if he could ‘feel out’ what was happening there.

After the platinum rains were done for the day, and lunch was over, Erick got a nice message from Poi.

“Sir. They’re ready for rain at the Lake.”

“Awesome,” Erick said, with a smile.
