Tohtella meant what she said. Using any means available, she intended on rivaling Schema's influence and eventually usurping him. If anything, her goals seemed alright. Help unknowns, exiles, and some others who Schema persecuted. At the same time, the execution of her goals bordered on insanity.

It made her stated goals hard to believe. If anything, personal gain and revenge twisted her ideas beyond recognition. That was my gut reaction, and I trusted my instincts. I raised my hands,

"I understand that you're trying to do the right thing, but you're going about it all wrong. Just, just take a second and look around you. This is what you're doing. This does more damage than good. That's obvious."

I raised a fist, "Yawm acted like you do. He believed that the ends justified the means no matter the cost. You're smarter than Yawm, and an Old One hasn't warped you into his plaything over time." The golden radiance of Lehesion ebbed off the Hybrid's frame. Knowing the source, I murmured,

"At least, I'm hoping that hasn't happened to you yet...Has it?"

The Hybrid's many eyes twitched as Tohtella lost her patience. The Hybrid raised a hand,

"Enough talk. Understand this - you're making an enemy you don't want to make. Powerful forces support us, and powerful factions fear us. We will cast a net across many worlds, and we will not be stopped. Not by you nor anyone. This revolution will not be a whimper. It will be a roar that will echo across time."

The Hybrid gestured a palm to me, "Right here and right now, you stand at the crossroads of history. I advise you to make the correct choice and leave the gialgathens with us."

At that moment, I sealed the deal on battling it out with these guys. All the semantics aside, my issue with Tohtella boiled down to responsibility. She never faced the consequences for her actions. She let others face them for her. They'd do the same to me.

If I allied myself with them, the Adair family would make me into their puppet like Lehesion. Ethical concerns aside, joining with them exiled me from Schema's system. My entire guild probably followed me if I did that, and that put us in about as much danger as we could be in. Even worse still, I held no faith that Tohtella wouldn't hunt us down after the Adair Family established itself.

We understood many of their motives, and we acted against them on multiple occasions. Even more so, my guild posed a severe threat to their goals. Otherwise, Tohtella would never speak with me personally; it would be a waste of her time. The more I thought about it, the more it looked like she was buying time to gather her forces.

Once gathered, the Adair family might put my guild next on the chopping block. They already culled the gialgathens. Why would humans be any different?

Even beyond all of that, I just didn't hate Schema. At one point I might have, but by now, a lot of the AI's methodologies made sense to me. Schema proved a harsh, uncompromising presence, but he almost always came across as fair. While the AI wasn't perfect by any means, he did a pretty OK job of handling the eldritch in general too. A lot better than I'd do, that's for sure.

Considering these Adair guys made a factory line for converting people into monsters, they had a worse track record than Schema. At least based off what I'd seen.

After considering all the data, my answer to Tohtella was simple.

Hell no.

But, I cupped my chin, pretending to consider her proposition. As I weighed some imaginary options, another message appeared in my status.

Krog Borom, the Harbinger's General(lvl 13,000 | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - The evacuation is finished. You can retreat.

I peered at the message, reading it with a quick glance. As I turned back to the Hybrid, it lifted its chin, gazing down at me,

"Well?"

I reached out a hand, jerking a singularity into existence over her body. As expected, Tohtella's fighting prowess lacked in many respects. She responded like a snail, unaware of the danger. The Hybrid's control jerked over towards the experienced pilot in time, however, so Version 2.2 avoided the gravitational abyss.

Despite the dodge, the implosion radiated out with devastation, and the Hybrid stood beside the impact. Lobbed aside like a ragdoll, Version 2.2 clashed against the ground, collapsing structures as it passed through them.

I turned and dove into the ground, using the singularity as a distraction. Dashing through the dirt, I shot out towards the sea. I traversed through the subterranean stone. Meeting where the others congregated, I swam into the waters of Giess.

Massive creatures cloaked in the dark sea swam in the distance, many foreign shapes traversing the oceans. The plant life beneath us owned a lavender hue, the seaweeds and corals contaminated with mana pollution. Several shelled bottom feeders feasted on the carcasses of other species that died from the corruption.

A few strange, glowing crabs mixed in with the bunch of bottom feeders. They wielded elemental energies, casting out living darkness and corrosive light magics. The odd sight caught me off guard, but Giess' wildlife was anything if strange.

Using a well of gravity, I pulled myself towards a deep cave under the sea. Once there, I found a subterranean pocket of air that harbored my allies. Krog, Kessiah, and the Sentinel remained. They positioned themselves near a rip in space-time, a view of Elderfire behind them. As I walked up, I pointed at each of them, "How many did we save?"

Krog sighed, "At least four hundred. The rest are dead."

I took a deep breath, "I'm sorry for your loss."

"While I appreciate the sentiment, there's much we must do. There's no time to grieve. This is war, and those that move first will win."

Krog wasn't wrong. I glanced at Kessiah, and she showed signs of exhaustion. Despite that, something about her changed. She stood taller, more confident in herself despite the fatigue. With that in mind, she spoke between heavy breaths,

"I wish we could've dented their army before we left. At least we saved a few people."

I turned to the Sentinel, "It's not too late if you're willing to take a risk."

The Sentinel pointed at himself, "Me? What do you want me to do?"

I shrugged, "Eh, nothing much. All I need you to do is tag along and make a portal or two."

The Sentinel took a step back, grabbing its spear with both hands,

"Why are you smiling like that then?"

"Because we're going to be leaving them with a bang."
