A quick tear in dimensions later, and we stood around a horde of waiting Gialgathens. Surrounded by the spawned forest of Elderfire and the dunes of the Rak'sha dessert in the distance, our army hungered for a fight. Though new members stood among the ranks, the majority weren't green anymore.

They'd fought several times, no longer new to war. These hardened members were tasked with leading the newer soldiers, giving them advice and tactical input as needed. Combine that with our vastly superior methods of handling our assaults, and our casualties cut down even more.

We stood at the same mobilization point as before, the underbrush and trees surrounding us. Torix turned towards Hod and me,

"We shall be attacking Tholosa in the same manner as before. You two are prepared, I presume?"

Hod puffed out his chest, "Hod always ready."

I raised a fist, "Yup."

"Perfect. Now, I shall give another rallying speech for the others. Perhaps you may inform Hod of the plan from last time?"

I gave him a nod, "Sure thing." Turning to Hod, I raised a hand,

"Here's what we did. After Torix and I mentally suppressed several rallying points, we warped from outside the city into the buildings. Hidden there, we got all our soldiers ready to fight while sending several Hybrids to plant mana bombs."

I pulled out some crystallized mana for reference, the red-streaked and pale crystal pulsing with energy,

"Using a pile of these, I rained singularities down on the city before blowing several of these across the city at the same time. After that, we blitzed them while saving as many gialgathens as possible. Your job will be to follow Torix and help him with preparing gialgathens for healing and transport. Got all that?"

Hod gave me a nod, his blank eyes giving me very, very little to work with. I took it on good faith that he wasn't completely lost as Torix worked his way through another rousing speech. With the troops inspired, Hod walked over towards Torix and Spear. The Sentinel waved his spears, preparing to slice dimensions. Torix finished sending messages before peering at Hod,

"We'll be heading out within the next few minutes. Do prepare yourself if you would."

Hod walked off from Torix without letting the lich know if he actually listened. Hod took a deep breath before breathing out every last ounce of air in his chest. When he reached the absolute apex of scrawniness, the Eltari's champion breathed in.

Siphoning energy from around him, a dark aura spread across his frame like charcoal-colored fire. It encompassed him entirely, his frame saturating in shadow. He expanded to triple his previous density, his newfound frame muscled and imposing. The once blank eyes now showed a different side of Hod; they carried a primal, malevolent aura.

Umbral claws expanded from his fingers. His actual shadow grew, crossing into several other shadows near him. The air surrounding him darkened, his mere presence suppressing the light. With a sinister aura, he turned towards us and brandished his claws.

The Shadow Stalker growled,

"Tell Hod what to kill."
