Something about this reply ticked me off. Something felt wrong. There was something between the lines I wasn't seeing. Something Gabriel didn't want to spell out for Jamie and Lucy. I really longed for a private chat with her right now.

Beyond the group of Blessed, still tossing ideas, still not making progress, I saw that boy standing at the entrance, looking out at us all. I tried to give him my best doggy-grin, but his wide-eyed reaction wasn't exactly an indicator of my success.

["Lucy, throw in the next attack and the timing of the ice storm."]

"That's very greedy, Eve. Is Mammon rubbing off on you? One or the other. The next attack or the timing of the storm."

["So the storm isn't next."]

In their voice I could hear them rolling their eyes. "Yes, you are a very smart girl, Eve. The ice storm isn't next."

["And no more 'puppy'."]

"I can do that. But I can find countless other annoying nicknames. And I won't give those up."

I wanted to think I was still establishing the yes or no of the question. But I was already haggling over parameters.

["Jamie, you already made your deal with the devil. How do you feel about it?"]

["I think that was different. But, honestly, I don't feel much about it at all. I owe you anyway and now I owed them on top."]

["Sticking with me purely out of obligation?"] I asked.

["I figured you'd prefer practical over sentimental reasons."]

Why did everyone read me like an open book? Why did the fate of this group fall on me at all? Was anyone else working on some secret solution, behind the scenes? Or were they really all stuck arguing?

["Will you see everything I see, Lucy?"]

"Oh, dear. I already do."

I had feared as much. Both of them had been reacting to what I saw all this time, without actually being in my presence. Did they sit somewhere, watching my vision on a TV screen?

["Can you read my mind? To any extent at all? Why are your reads on me so accurate?"]

"As your Guide, I have extensive knowledge about your life before our invasion. And I'm a fragment of the most manipulative bastard across all realities. No, I can't supernaturally perceive your thoughts. I'm just that good. We need to head inside to seal the deal. And I need to know which you want to know. Next attack or ice storm timing?"

["Next attack. With details."]

"With details. Deal."
