“She’s still asleep?” Daphne stepped a little closer. The fact that the guard hadn’t used any of the blankets made her frown, but she wondered if it had to do with all the time she spent traveling. She might be less comfortable sleeping in a proper bed.

Callan nodded, eyes still wary as he watched her. “Yeah. She was really tired last night.” His voice was thick with worry and concern. Daphne couldn’t help but soften a little. Regardless of what lies the two might be telling, she could tell they did genuinely care about each other.

“…The ichor-poisoning, right?” So much had happened that she’d almost forgotten about it. Pyre had already been noticeably more tired the previous day, and the events of the night would only have made it worse.

Callan nodded slowly. “I think she’ll be better after she wakes up,” he mumbled.

Silence hung heavy in the room. The ghost still wasn’t moving closer, and Daphne was, in a rare moment for her, at a loss for words. What was she supposed to say to a ghost? ‘Good morning, are you feeling evil?’ ‘Did you drain someone last night?’

Her eyes darted around, eventually landing on the desk. The rest of the room had remained untouched, but a few books lay scattered across the desk’s surface, taken from the bookshelf standing against the wall. Those books were mostly decorative—pulled randomly from the manor collection. This was the first time she’d seen a guest actually take any out.

One of the books was being kept open by a paperweight (Pyre must have done that for Callan before going to sleep), and a large paper insert had been spread out across the desk. It was a diagram of a rune circle, Daphne realized. She turned to the ghost.

“You’re a mage?”

Callan blinked. “Uh, yeah.” He shifted uncomfortably. “I was when I was a human, and I’m still interested in magic, so…” His voice trailed.

A magic-casting ghost. That only made him more dangerous, but a part of Daphne couldn’t help but be intrigued as well. She’d never heard of a ghost being able to use magic before, but if he’d been a mage before dying, then it made sense. If she’d died and became a ghost and was still fully conscious, she’d probably continue studying magic too.

Her eyes scanned the open book again, and she squinted.

“So… you use runes?”

“And sigils.” Callan frowned. “…You’re a mage too, right?” he asked tentatively.

“Yeah. I don’t bother with runes, though.” Her voice was dismissive.

The ghost paused at that. “Bother with?” He sounded a little affronted, which should maybe make Daphne nervous considering what he was, but the fact that he was more visibly annoyed than she’d ever seen him be so far and still didn’t look or act threatening was a good sign.

“They’re a waste of time,” Daphne said bluntly. “You can achieve the same thing with hand signs. You don’t need a pen for those, and they’re faster.”

“You can’t combine them as easily,” Callan argued. “Sure they’re good for simple spells, but complex ones need more precision.”

Daphne narrowed her eyes. “Simple? You don’t know what you’re talking about.” She nodded her head at the diagram. “You can cast equally complicated spells as long as you can think quick. Sigils need too much prep time. They’re inefficient.”

Any lingering nervousness on the ghost’s face had vanished in favor of growing irritation. “If you need to cast spontaneously, you can just use a chant. There’s no point in using chants and hand signs. And if you can think ahead, you can prepare all the runes you’ll need for a whole week!”

Daphne took a step forward. “Then someone destroys your runes, and all your fancy prepwork is useless!”

“If someone cuts off your hands, you can’t use hand signs either!”

“And why the fuck would a mage be in hand-cutting range?”

“I don’t know, it could happen!”

“Yo.”

Daphne paused, mouth half open and finger pointed accusingly at the ghost. She spun around.

There, lounging casually on the bed, Pyre had rolled over and was watching them with amused grey eyes. At some point during their argument, she and Callan had moved closer, and they now stood (and floated) less than a foot apart. Daphne hadn’t even noticed.

“Not that this isn’t interesting and all,” the guard drawled, “but your breakfast’s gonna get cold if we don’t head to the dining hall soon.”
