Despite his teasing tone, Song could see the request was made in earnest, but Sister shook her head. “I’ll never make a name for myself riding in your shadow. Besides, Yuzhen asked for my help here. We’ll need all the Spiritual Weapons we can get in the days to come, and no matter how exceptionally you perform, there’ll still be plenty of Defiled left for me to kill.”

“True enough. What a shame. I supposed I’ll have to do without your expertise.”

“I’ll help.” It wasn’t until everyone’s eyes turned to her that Song realized she’d spoken without thinking. After organizing her thoughts, Song cleared her throat and repeated, “I’ll join you on the battlefield.”

It felt strange not using ‘this one’ to refer to herself. Liberating, but strange.

After a silent exchange with Sister, Rain asked, “Are you sure? If Mila stays here and you come with me, then it means... err...”

“It means someone else must hold my chain.” Repressing a shudder, Song took a deep breath and said, “Lin can hold it.”

“Sorry, but Lin’s staying here.”

“No!”

“Yes.” Rain’s tone left no room for argument as he pinched Lin’s cheeks lightly, unswayed by the sweet girl’s tearful pout. “This isn’t a pleasure trip through the plains. I’ll be eating, sleeping, and fighting on the front lines, and I won’t be able to focus if you’re in danger. I already spoke to Teacher, so you’re staying here and that’s final. Luo-Luo’s staying too, along with a hundred Death Corps Guards and all the animals besides Ping Ping.” Turning back to Song, Rain smiled and offered her an escape route. “Actually, I was hoping you’d help look after them in my absence. Mother knows Lin won’t brush them every day.”

All of the animals were staying behind? Not even a single rabbit or wildcat? Discarding her disappointment, Song considered her options for what felt like an eternity. This was not a decision to be made lightly, for it concerned her freedom and everything that came with it. Who among Rain’s retinue could she trust to be as kind and benevolent as Mama? Mister Rustram? Though she enjoyed their spars together, she felt comfortable in his presence because he was harmless. Put her chain in his hands and this would no longer be true, not in her eyes at least. Dastan? A slave himself, but only in name, for he still had the same ego and personality of a free man. No telling what he would do if offered unrestricted power over another person, especially with his freedom so restricted. A woman perhaps, like Chey or Neera? Song knew no others by name, and she trusted those two less than Rain. Not only were they themselves former bandits, their lovers were former bandits as well.

Which left only one option.

Gathering her courage, Song looked Rain in the eyes and said, “I am unneeded here. You hold it.” Bewildered by her choice, Rain blinked several times before pointing at himself, as if unable to believe his ears. He showed no sign of delight or anticipation, only confusion and even a little apprehension. Releasing the breath she didn’t know she’d been holding, Song nodded. “Yes. You.”

“Are... you sure? I appreciate the offer, but -”

“Stop arguing,” Sister said, interrupting Rain’s attempt to dissuade her. “Song’s made up her mind, haven’t you?”

“Yes Sister.” Song didn’t feel the need to explain. Sister understood. There was nothing for Song to do here, and it made her feel worthless. She needed purpose in life, but all she knew was how to fight, so fighting she must go. Lifting the necklace over her head, Sister slowly moved to place it into Rain’s hand, giving Song plenty of time to change her mind. When Sister finally let go and Rain held the necklace, Song’s Oath gripped her heart and warned her to obey her new Master. It took every scrap of willpower she had to remain on two feet, though every instinct she’d ever learned screamed for her to kneel before him. Instead, she clasped her fist in a military salute and bowed her head, a greeting to someone equal in status or perhaps only slightly higher. “This one is here to serve,” she said, choking back the urge to call him ‘Master’.

Gesturing for her to straighten up, Rain returned her salute and said, “This one is honoured by your service, Martial Aunt.”

Though she knew the true test had yet to come, Rain’s sincerity filled Song with relief, and the tension drained from her neck and shoulders. Even more reassuring was Papa’s hand on her shoulder, pulling her into his embrace. “That’s my brave girl. You go give the Defiled hell, then come on back and tell Papa all about it.” Fixing his one eye on Rain, Papa growled and said, “This don’t need sayin’, but I’m gonna say it anyways. You hurt my girl, I hurt you. Understood?”

Reverently slipping the chain over his head, Rain tucked the pendent into his shirt and nodded with all the gravity he could muster. “Understood.”

Unaffected by the solemn atmosphere, Lin ran over and hugged Song. “Thanks Li-Li,” she said, popping up to kiss her cheek. “Okay, now let’s go eat. Char-Char’s waiting with dinner, ya?” And just like that, they left for dinner, with Papa’s arms around her shoulder and Sister on her arm. They ate and talked, laughed and shared, and when night fell, Song returned to her quarters to sleep with Sister, Lin, and Sarankho. Though Rain wore her chain, nothing else changed.

Regardless of her circumstances or what the world thought, she was no slave. Not anymore.

She was Li Song, daughter of Akanai and Husolt, Sister of Sumila and Baatar, and soldier/Martial Aunt of Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
