Rhys raised his brows. Seemed like an academy outranked a school in this world. He hadn’t paid that much attention to the names of teaching establishments in his world, so he wasn’t sure if it was the same, but it certainly wasn’t a shock to him that different types of schools looked down on different other types of schools. The world of academia was notoriously cutthroat and petty, so why would this world be any different?

Cynog crossed his arms. “Say what you mean or get the hell out.”

For once, Rhys found himself wholeheartedly agreeing with Cynog.

Ernesto raised his chin. “Why don’t we have your best students, against these four students of mine? These students aren’t all martial artists, but I’m sure you won’t have trouble facing mages as well as martials, right?”

Cynog snorted. He looked down on Ernesto in return, not backing down an inch. “The best martial in this academy isn’t my student any longer. She hasn’t been for a long time.”

Rhys blinked, startled. Was Cynog actually acknowledging Ev? No way. But he was sure he’d heard right. Damn. Does he actually secretly respect her?

“Oh?” Ernesto scoffed. “A good excuse.”

“No excuse. She’s too high Tier for those Tier 1 students of yours. So why don’t I match your students’ Tier with my own students?”

“There’s no need. My students can fight at Tier 2,” Ernesto said, still looking down on Cynog.

Rhys snorted. Tier 2 sounded impressive, until he recalled that Ev’s power reached Tier 3, and she could fight even higher if need be. These guys wouldn’t last a second in front of her.

“I have a single student who can match all those brats of yours,” Cynog grunted.

“Oh? And who would that be?” Ernesto asked.

Rhys furrowed his brows, equally confused. He looked around. Were those students he’d sent to ambush him and Ev around? They were powerful, but not Tier 1, from what he recalled. Was there some other hidden talent around that he hadn’t met yet?

Cynog lifted his finger. He pointed directly at Rhys. “Right there. He can take on all four of your students alone, no problem.”

Rhys jolted. He looked around, searching for someone else near him or behind him, but he stood alone. It was him, Ernesto’s students, and the forest. He looked back at Cynog to find the man still pointing at him, a small but vicious smile quirking at his lips.

His stomach sank. Uh oh.
