I groaned with pleasure as the new additions to my attributes coursed through my veins. The three points to Fortitude, doubled and improved yet again by my Defense talent fortified me, making me feel indomitable, more solid, more me. Strength gave me the enjoyable sensation of stretching after a good workout, while Mental Power… just slid in there. I didn’t feel squat.

“What’s going on? Are you evolving?” Nix asked.

“Turning into a Transformers?” Steve asked.

“Looks like he’s going Super Saiyan, but without the cool effects. Or hair.” Haddock added.

I paused, opened my eyes and gave them all a deadpan look. “Nerds. You’re all such frigging nerds. Give me five, then I’ll tell you. But let me say it right now: getting yourself to Level 25 is fun!”

There was just a single notification, and it was absolutely lovely.

Passive Affinity unlocked. From here on out, you are more likely to be able to unlock passive skills for yourself.

There were no further surprises or bonuses. Everything else worked according to how things normally worked in this world. I got a new talent tree, with only the first Tier of talents available to me. Supposedly, the second Tier would unlock for me at Level 30.

I only got three different talent options for the first Tier. But what talents!

Natural Growth.

Passive Talent. This grants you a natural gift for learning and improving. Choose an attribute. Any skill primarily associated with said attribute will increase faster.

20% increase in learning speed per point.

0/5 points.

This talent can be chosen multiple times for different attributes.

Ri-fucking-dunculous! We already had the Starved Growth trait. Now, with this on top, I’d be able to improve my skills even faster? And since it was a passive, it’d be a full 150% faster on top of everything else? I ached to just dump every single point I earned into the talent for the next twenty-some levels and let my skills build me into an untouchable behemoth!

Passive Power

Passive Talent. May be engaged at will with no cooldown. While engaged, this talent grants you a constant boost to all your attributes.

10% boost per point.

Cost: 5 stamina/second

0/5 points

Passive Power was pretty similar to the Tier 4 Burst of Power talent in my defensive talent tree. It had some massive drawbacks. Where Burst of Power was a one-off that cost nothing, but had a five-minute cooldown period, this one was a stamina hog. Even if I used my stamina regeneration skill, I’d only be able to keep it on for about five minutes total before running out.

The advantages were quite obvious, though. It could be turned off and on as I pleased, letting me shore up stamina in between activations. Since there was no cooldown, it could be timed and applied with prejudice. Also, Burst of Power offered a 30% boost, while Passive Power offered 50% - or 75% with the effect of my quirk applied. That would take my health well above a thousand and my Agility above twenty-five! Good luck to anybody trying to take me down while I had that running!

When I saw the third and final talent, however, I stopped. I read it again. And again. Then I groaned. This time, it was not a groan of pleasure. Rather, it was a sign of the most exquisite anguish and mental torment known to man.

I murmured the magic words.

“What was that, Liam? I’m fairly sure we didn’t catch that.” Nix asked innocently.

“You were right. You were right, okay? I hate it when that happens.”

“I know, love. I do try.” Nix unapologetically accepted the accolade with a smile. “What was I right about?”

Instead of explaining, I decided to read the damn thing aloud.

Mirror of All

Passive talent.

A Passive Specialist incorporates his chosen path so deeply that it is mirrored onto those around him. This talent enhances a single fixed emotion in selected targets around you. The impact of the talent depends on the attribute of your selected path, pitched against the Mental Power of your target.

Cost: 1-10 stamina/minute

20% effectiveness per point.

Range: 100 meters

0/5 points

This talent can be chosen multiple times for different emotions.

“That was some very flowery speech. What does it all mean?” Steve asked.

“I think… that whichever emotion he picks for the talent, he can make the targets feel really strongly.” Nix mused.

“Why didn’t they just say that, then? Also, that sounds pretty poor. I thought you were looking for a taunt?”

I raised an eyebrow. “Not seeing it, Steve? Let’s just see which emotions I could choose to mess about with.” I entered the system and mentally clicked around a bit. “There we go. First on the list. Anger.”

“Oh.” Steve blinked. “So, you’re actually able to take the anger of others and dial it way up? I take it back. That sounds efficient. What was that second part about pitching?”

Nix repeated the words from memory. “The impact of the talent depends on the attribute of your selected path, pitched against the Mental Power of your target.” She frowned. “You selected the Path of Fortitude. That’s what they mean, right? Wait. That means, when they’re checking to see how effective it’ll be, they’ll match your insanely high Fortitude against the enemy’s Mental Power? Seems broken.”

“I’m not complaining.” I grinned. “Let’s see what else I could pick. Adulation? I can become adorable?”

“Not what it means. Also, no thank you on that count.” Nix laughed.

“Okay, okay. Fear. That one might actually be effective. Joy. Interesting, but no. Pride. Same. Sadness? Who made this damn list? Why would I want everybody to start crying when they look at me?” I snorted. “Lust? How about it, you three?”

“No thank you.”

“Not in a million years.”

“I will fong you.”

“Oof. Tough crowd here.” I smirked.

“Let’s cut this short.” Nix said. “Since we’re looking for something that will work in battle – that is what we’re looking for, right?”

“Absolutely.”

“Then we can probably ignore most of the others. Either the reaction isn’t useful or something we want, or… well, I doubt that the Kadren starting to feel pride from looking at you is going to do anything good. Meaning, we should focus on either… anger or fear?”

“Mmmyup. The rest is crap.”

“In that case, it’ll need to be anger.”

“Just like that?”

“Yes. Just picture it. We’re surrounded by Kadren. Furry, scaly, angry bastards everywhere. You use a solid dose of fear, and they all back off. What then?”

I blinked and considered the situation. “Then they run away for a while, until it stops working. Afterward, they know they’ve been hit by a talent, and they’re either dumb enough to charge again, or will stay and attack at a distance. Also, the clever ones will spread the word.” I followed the argument to its logical conclusion. “Meanwhile, if it’s anger, I’ll be able to make a bunch of them absolutely fixate on me. That will, of course, be bad for my health, but it’ll allow me to keep them close by and remain under my spell. And since it should be more, well, impactful because of my Fortitude, most enemies should outright lose their minds and try to charge me.”

“And close combat is where you excel.” Nix agreed.

I nodded softly, and, with a sense of satisfaction, put five full talent points into the talent. I was going to make a lot of Kadren very angry very soon.
