They continued down the dried ravine, Jessica and Iris sticking behind the group as Draven led the way. The Direwings had been left behind at the campsite, where they would be safe and could scavenge for their own food until the party returned. Draven had explained that the channel would lead out to the greater valley, and sometimes Direwings could draw the attention of larger airborne monsters there. A Direwing in open sky would be defenseless against stronger monsters without tight canyon walls to dive into.

As they continued, Jessica noticed the walls around them were starting to lower, leaving more of the sky visible overhead.

Finally, they seemed to be getting to where they were going, as their path ended in a sudden cliff, looking down over a valley of rocky terrain littered with large boulders and even larger pillars of leaning red stone, almost like they were thick, giant stone javelins randomly thrown throughout the field.

Draven put up a hand, signaling everyone to wait as he looked out over the valley, and Jessica came forward to the cliff carefully, with Iris at her side.

The drop was steep, but she could see a path along the rockface that came down the sheer slope in a crooked line of carved footholds, hammered iron grips, and old rope strung between rusty stakes driven into the stone. Based on the rust of the stakes, hunters must have been using this area for a very long time, though the rope looked a bit newer.

Jessica then put her attention to the valley where she supposed they would be doing some hunting. At first, she didn’t see much of anything other than rocks and natural stone pillars, but then one of the larger boulders moved.

She blinked and leaned forward slightly before realizing it wasn’t a rock at all. It was some kind of hulking creature moving slowly through the valley, its body was the size of a semi with plates of rock, almost like armor. She almost wanted to compare it to a giant turtle; it moved like a turtle, but its back was higher and its shell wasn’t as orderly, and as it turned Jessica realized that it had six legs underneath, thick and almost insect-like because the legs were plated in shell… no, actually it was more crab-like than anything. So was it like a giant land-based rock hermit crab?

Rock lobster?

She always thought shellfish were kind of like ocean bugs anyway.

When it turned toward a patch of grass, she finally decided it was somewhere between an insect and a shellfish. Its head didn’t quite come out of the rock shell, but she could see two small black eyes tucked deep beneath the overhang, along with a blunt, beak-like mouth that looked better suited to crushing stone than chewing grass.

“What the hell is that thing?” Jessica couldn’t help herself from whispering.

“Megalith Hermit,” Korrin answered. “But we don’t have to worry about that one. For their size and difficulty to kill, they don’t give enough experience. Nor are they aggressive, so it will leave us alone if we don’t attack it first. Can be worth it for food for larger hunting parties, though.”

Jessica blinked, still staring at the impossibly strange creature. “What do they taste like?”

“The legs are tough; you have to boil them,” Draven said, coming up behind them. “Parts of the body are softer but deeper parts are poison. The taste isn’t terrible, though. However, they are difficult to hunt, the shell will sooner break whatever blade you try to cut it with, and one misstep and it can break bones just by turning around.”

This world truly was strange, but she figured she should be used to it by now. Was it any stranger than the Colossus? Something like the Colossus she and Iris had killed simply had no comparison to anything she could think of from Earth. The Megalith, at least, she could compare to a weird giant land-based hermit crab that might actually be an insect.

Draven crouched near the cliff’s edge and went still as he scanned the valley. Jessica watched, noticing he wasn’t just looking over the terrain generally. His gaze moved in slow, careful lines.

“There,” Draven said, pointing with the butt of his spear. “Far side. Past the third leaning pillar, just outside that split in the rocks.”

Jessica followed his gesture and squinted. She saw red stone, shadows, more stone. A few dry bushes clinging to the ground, maybe a darker shape tucked beneath one of the pillars. What Draven had indicated was too far away for her to tell what she was looking at.

“What is it? I see nothing,” Saelin said first, crouching beside him.

“A corpse,” Draven said. “Probably too hard for you to see well. Eagle Eye makes it easier for me.”

Jessica looked back. “Eagle Eye?”

“A skill,” he said. “It improves my vision. I can see further and clearer. There’s a trail of blood disappearing behind that further pillar; it had been injured as it fled, then finally caught where it now lies.”

“What kind of corpse?” Saelin asked as she rose to a stand.

“Grubboar,” Draven answered.

He stood as well and pointed his spear across the valley, to where it ended in another wall of rocks that grew into larger peaks the farther out they went, not unlike the area they were currently in. “I’d say there is a good chance there’s a pack of Drakewolves on the other side there.”

Jessica looked across the valley, following the line of his spear. It felt farther away than she’d want to go. It felt far more exposed than in the closed walls where they currently stood. The valley wasn’t flat, either. She could see how the terrain would interfere as well.

“Jessica,” Iris spoke in her head. She looked down to see the Hell Hound side-eyeing her. “If you have thoughts, speak them. Don’t just wait to be ordered.”

Jessica flinched at that, then crouched down to pat Iris’s side as she quietly said, “I’m just looking at the terrain.”

“Then speak it.”

Jessica cleared her throat and looked over to her party, pointing her own spear down below now. “The terrain seems difficult; there are blind spots everywhere from those leaning pillars. If Drakewolves spot us first, would it not be likely for us to walk into an ambush?”

Draven looked at her for a moment, and Jessica braced herself for him to dismiss her concern, or Saelin to accuse her of being a coward.

Instead, he nodded.

Saelin, not unexpectedly, seemed unhappy at that as she interjected. “We already know the terrain is bad. That doesn’t mean we sit here and stare at it all day.”

“No,” Korrin agreed, “But Elva is right to say it. If they are there, they know these rocks better than we do. We shouldn’t cut straight through the valley to the next canyon.”

If Draven would have taken Saelin’s side again, it seemed Korrin cutting in helped keep him objective. Draven instead continued to scan the area until he said, “There. We take the left path down, then cut toward that low ridge and stay along the cliff face. It will be difficult travel, and we may ultimately have to climb down the rest of the way if there’s no clear path forward alongside the rock face, but the height will keep us with a better perspective on what’s below, and keep us from being attacked unaware.”

Jessica nodded as she looked along the ridge he wanted them to get to. It would be impossible to fight there, but on the other hand, nothing could really fight them either. Unless it was a bird or something…

“You mentioned airborne monsters.” Jessica pointed out. “We’d be sitting ducks to one of them.”

Draven thought about it. “In that case, we descend down to the valley at the first sight of them. It shouldn’t be too hard to get down the rest of the way from that lower ridge. Now, let’s go.”

“Iris can also help deal with anything like that. As long as it isn’t too strong,” Jessica added. She looked down to Iris to see if that was okay to say, and she seemed to have an approving glint in her white eyes.

“Iris has a blinding skill as well, doesn’t she?” Korrin asked.

“Oh! Yes, she does,” Jessica said. She was happy he had called Iris by her name.

“Could that give us cover?” Korrin asked.

Jessica nodded. “Yeah. I’ll just try to warn you guys when she uses it. Otherwise, she’ll blind you too if you don’t close your eyes.”

Draven looked at the Hell Hound and nodded once again. “Alright. We’ll keep it in mind. How much control does the Wyrmscar Legacy give you over her?”

“Um… a lot?” Jessica said, not sure where he was going with that.

“I’m wondering if it would be best to leave her up here while we make the climb, so she is in position to intercept anything that comes from the sky. Would you be able to communicate that to her?”

“Oh! Yeah, that would be easy,” Jessica answered. She looked down at Iris, who raised a brow back at her, then she clarified to her party. “She already knows.”

“Did you command her just now?” Saelin asked, looking over.

“I don’t need to,” said Jessica, looking back. She wondered if Saelin was trying to understand their link to help her chances in a future duel.

“How can you be sure she will fill the role we intend?”

“I just do,” Jessica answered. “And she is intelligent, it’s not like she doesn’t understand a given situation and needs me to guide every single action.”

“But, the Wyrmscar Legacy allows some direction?” Korrin asked. He, at least, sounded legitimately curious. “Is it that you give mental commands?”

Jessica recalled how Valrok seemed able to command his dragon with a thought. Maybe that’s how the Wyrmscar Legacy was supposed to work, but in her case, she didn’t necessarily “command” Iris in the first place.

“It is difficult to explain…” Jessica answered. “We have a bond. I don’t know how else to say it.”

Draven nodded. “In any case, it’s not a high chance we’ll be attacked by airborne monsters. They usually stick around the deeper ridges, unless they are drawn by something, such as noticing Direwings circling above the valley.”

With that, he led the way down first, Jessica waiting behind while Iris remained on her haunches. She’d just wait here and then fly to catch up when it was necessary for her to do so.

Saelin was right behind Draven, and then Korrin. Jessica watched where Korrin placed his boots as she started descending last. The path was awkward enough that she immediately hated it. The footholds where maybe hundreds, if not thousands, of hunters had placed their feet before were not exactly at comfortable intervals. It was made worse by the fact that she was the shortest member of the party and, therefore, on the farther-spaced footholds, she had to stretch uncomfortably far while also hugging the side of the cliff and trying her best not to look down.

She supposed between the Direwing flights and general life amongst the Bloody Peaks—constantly crossing swaying rope bridges in heavy winds over visually endless drops—her fear of heights had mostly been squashed. Earth-her would never be able to do this; she would have stayed behind where Iris currently sat, watching the rest of the party with knees shaking at the mere thought of attempting such a climb.

But Earth-her was gone. This version of her was apparently someone who climbed down canyon cliffs with a spear in hand, following masked teenage monster hunters.

The spear turned out to be quite useful for climbing as well. It’s not like there was anything for her right hand to comfortably grab onto in the first place, but occasionally she’d see somewhere to stick the butt of her spear and give herself a little more stability.

Jessica reached the first of the iron grips as the path somehow narrowed even more. She just held onto it for a moment as she watched the other three. They were practically hanging off of the wall, single foot angled onto the narrow path, and they’d swing themselves from one to the next.

This time, Jessica looked down and felt her stomach drop slightly. Unlike the climbs the previous day and this morning, she would certainly break bones if she fell from this one; there was nothing to catch herself on. Earth-her would simply die from the fall, and while she wasn’t as vulnerable as Earth-her anymore, some of Earth-her’s sensibilities still remained.

She sucked in a breath and focused her sight on the next iron grip. She thought of some video games she’d played that had climbing obstacles. Tomb Raider, Uncharted, Horizon.

Yeah, this is just like that, she thought.

Except the grips were not painted bright yellow so they would be easy to spot, and she didn’t have to simply press a button to jump from one to the next while the character on the screen did all the work.

And most of all, if she did fall, she couldn’t press a button to try again from the beginning, and get to try over and over again until she got it right.

But this her had already killed giant monsters and flown through the skies both on the back of a dragon and on a bat-lion with her talking Hell Hound companion held to her chest.

Surely, this her wouldn’t care about a simple platforming minigame in the middle of the main adventure.

It only took Saelin glancing back once, and Jessica realizing the group had moved a good distance ahead of her, to prompt her back into motion. She reached her foot out as she swung herself to the next handhold. Her stomach dropped further right up until the moment her hand instinctively grabbed on, and without drama, she was securely hanging from the wall.

It really wasn’t that bad.

She swung herself to the next one, and the next one. Korrin slowed a little to check her progress, perhaps not wanting her to end up too far behind, but she was catching up fast.

Step, swing, catch. Step, swing, catch. Once she got into the rhythm, it was easy.

Once they got past that obstacle, they crowded onto a slightly wider path. If someone pressed their back flat against the wall, they might even be able to squeeze past another person here.

Jessica looked back the way they had come and saw Iris still sitting atop the cliff, her neck craned out so her white eyes could follow them. She didn’t seem overly concerned. More curious than anything. Perhaps she was thinking how nice it was to have wings.

Then Jessica’s foot slipped on the next foothold.

Her fingers gripped against the rockface, catching herself and steadying her balance, as pebbles bounced and clattered down the mountainside.

She might have been braver than Earth-her, but she still wouldn’t have minded having a pair of wings of her own right now.

[Thanks for reading, next chapter is back to main party!]
