“But before that, I was drinking like a void fish,” she rebutted. “Because of the eyes.”

“Ah. Well.” Ezekiel nodded.

Julia said, “Did we really spend that much last night?”

“Oh yeah. 45 out of 55 gold, gone. I don’t want to control our money, either.” Ezekiel said, “This time I think we should kill enough monsters to get that much for each of us. Of course, we could just hunt for a grand-core monster. That’d give us a nice base for all future interactions in the city.”

Julia said, “I know we avoided it last time, but we could consider flying around. Attract a lot of big monsters that way. Then you freeze them and they fall out of the air and we’re rich.”

Tiffany hummed, then said, “There’s making money, and then there’s tempting fate to turn you to paste. You seem to be after the second option.”

Julia said, “The gluttons only appearing when they’re already able to bite you is more scary.”

“You need a mana sense,” Tiffany teased.

Julia groused, “Don’t I know it.”

“The Mist Stone Gluttons were dangerous enough,” Ezekiel said, “But even those intangible monsters stayed away from the sky because Thunder Birds roost up there, and they blast apart anything that flies from kilometers away.”

“And…” Julia said, “That’s another thing. I was thinking that I want a Thunder Bird.”

Tiffany laughed. “I should have seen that coming.”

“We can certainly hunt for one.” Ezekiel said, “Anyone else got any [Polymorph] forms they want? Or anything else they think they might want to do?”

“Hunting a bird would be much more dangerous than gluttons.” Paul suggested, “Maybe we stick to gluttons for a little while.”

“Fair enough.”

“Are there any high-level monsters around here?” Tiffany asked, “We could hunt some of those, too.”

“Oh! There’s another way to get points, though.” Julia perked up. “What’s your Quest Board saying, dad? Anything good in the area?”

Tiffany frowned a little, but said nothing.

Julia glanced her way, her eyebrows smushing together in a questioning sort of way.

“Quests, eh?” Ezekiel said, “Let me check.”

“Point of order.” Paul said, “Any Quests posted here would be events that we would wish to avoid.”

Ezekiel waved him off, saying, “Oh! We’ll be fine. Now let’s see...” He brought up the Quest Board.

Not twenty seconds of reading later, Ezekiel began to frown.

Paul ate his congee, knowingly.

Julia looked between the two of them. She frowned. “What?”

“All of these…! What’s up with this?” Ezekiel handed over three to the group, saying, “Now you tell me: Is this what it looks like?”

Quest!

Deliver a vase of water to Elder Mirizo Star Song.

Reward: 1 point.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Elder Mirizo Star Song, of Clan Star Song

Quest!

Deliver a vase of water to Elder Bazado Pure Lotus.

Reward: 1 point.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Elder Bazado Pure Lotus, of Clan Pure Lotus

Quest!

Deliver a vase of water to Grand Elder Charkira Wild Song.

Reward: 1 point.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Grand Elder Charkira Wild Song, of Clan Wild Song

Julia hummed, reading.

“Ah. Yeah. That. That’s what I was remembering.” Tiffany nodded, as if she had been proven correct. “Yup! This is how Quests go bad. Yet another reason why we don’t do them at S— Home.” She caught herself from speaking of Spur, there at the end.

Julia asked, “And you can do this with Quests? They still have to pay out of their own points, don’t they?”

“Nope.” Paul said, “All you need is someone with a Quest Board to post the Quest and someone with a point to give up, and there you go— Ah. Rozeta does have to approve of it. She doesn’t approve of everything.”

Tiffany said, “If you were to make a Quest that read something like: ‘Go and kill a guy and you will take their points.’ That kinda thing does not work. I think you get smited for that.”

“There’s never been a recorded case of actual smiting, Tiffany,” Paul said.

Tiffany shrugged, “Like I believe the records. Phshh.”

Paul continued, “More normally, Rozeta won’t allow points to be transferred if the people doing the transfer honestly don’t want to do the transfer. You can’t control someone to put their points up for a Quest as Rozeta checks each time someone accesses the Script in any meaningful way, and Quests certainly count.”

“But you could build a culture around Quests and giving points to the people in charge,” Julia said.

“Oh yeah, you can; people do.” Tiffany said, “There’s tons of ways people try to abuse the Script, and themselves, and their children. I heard that some places— Maybe even here? I heard that they have soul mages to fiddle with their noble children to give them 20 in each Stat, across the board, the day after they matriculate!”

Ezekiel’s eyes went wide. “You can do that?”

Julia was equally stunned.

Tiffany nodded, as though she had drawn people into her campfire story. She continued, “Whenever you hear about a noble’s son or daughter going bad a few days after Matriculation, that’s when you know that their parents fucked with their souls.”

Ezekiel gave a nervous laugh—

But Julia just barked a full laugh, saying, “You’re fucking with me!”

“I’m not!” Tiffany said, “It’s true!”

“It is true. It does happen,” Paul said.

Ezekiel’s face scrunched as strange half-thoughts filled his mind with disappointment and worse emotions.

Julia stopped laughing. She narrowed her eyes. “How easy is this soul magic? Could I have saved dozens of levels of points? Does it go higher than 20? I heard that’s the natural cutoff for slow growth, but… I don’t really know, now do I?”

Tiffany said, “You don’t want to do this soul surgery. The only people who’ve done it right have each performed hundreds of experiments that went wrong, damning the souls of children into becoming monsters in order to learn their dark arts.”

Ezekiel suddenly stopped believing Tiffany’s horror story; she had taken it too far. “Eh! You can fix the soul before it hurts the person too much, can’t you? I don’t know if such surgery would require a practitioner to drop bodies before they got any good at it. And besides that? Can’t you just do the surgery on animals?”

Tiffany rolled her eyes, then said, “Sure. I can see what you’re saying. But—” She gestured around at the walls of the room, saying, “Look at all the people here. There’s so many, and there’s no homeless because they’re all yanked off of the streets and thrown into the war machine of the Highlands. I am sure that someone heard the same stories I heard, but didn’t have your morals, and practicing on people would always give better results than practicing on animals. If you think someone around here didn’t get deep into that dark magic and then make a successful career out of it, then I got some Immortality Potion to sell you.”

“Okay. Despite that horror.” Ezekiel straightened his face, and with the most serious expression, asked, “How much for the potion?”

Tiffany laughed. Even Paul chuckled.

Julia asked, “And can you make more Immortality Potion? We can gain great favor if you can!”

Tiffany laughed louder, and the rest soon followed.

When the laughter died down, they got back to Quests.

“So what do these people get?” Ezekiel asked, “These people who put up the points for the Quest?”

Paul said, “Broadly speaking, those people who give up their points are elevated from initiate to clan member. I’m sure I have not heard the whole story there, but I have little reason to believe that anyone undertakes this action without knowing exactly what they are doing. So… You tell me? Does that sound like a bad deal?”

Ezekiel said, “It means they can go out and hunt monsters and level properly. Probably with assistance? I know how our Clan works, but not every Clan is the same. And these ones are a lot different than I thought they would be.”

Tiffany frowned. “I still don’t like it. It’s too easy to abuse, and the people who give up to get into the system permanently hurt themselves so those at the top can become even more powerful. Look at these Quests. ‘Give a vase of water to an Elder’. These are repeatable Quests, for sure. Means the powerful around here are running around on an extra 200 Stats, at least.”

Paul shrugged. “It’s how they do it, here.”

Julia said, “Even a guy with 200 Strength is still going to die to a pillar thrown through his head. The Script does ensure this much.”

Tiffany said, “With 200 Strength, I bet that same guy could punch a pillar with his head and be fine.”

“I meant an unaware target, obviously. Such a target would not be fine.”

Tiffany shrugged. “I would be fine.”

“And you’re an orcol.”

Tiffany nodded. “Not everyone is perfect; this is true.”

With a smile, Ezekiel said, “Let’s math it out a bit. With 200 Strength, Scion of Strength, and a Class Ability for Double Health, you’re looking at 48,000 Health.”

Paul said, “But most people around here are Scions of Balance.”

Ezekiel nodded, saying, “And I’m sure they’re more balanced in their Stat distribution, too. 150 to Strength and Willpower, means 18,000 Health, and 18,000 Mana.”

These new numbers meant he could revise his previous calculations, where he dumbed down his own ‘incognito Stats’ to a bare 6000 mana. He could pretend to have 18,000 mana… But his current idea of going at 6000 mana would jive well with him being a ‘Foreign Scion’ that didn’t participate in these sort of Stat games like the Highlands evidently did… Which meant that maybe he shouldn’t revise any numbers at all.

He certainly didn’t have to be quite so calculating about mana costs, though, in case someone was watching. And with [Witness], you could be sure that someone was always watching. At least, back home, his [Prismatic Ward] blocked most of that. Tiffany had only gotten as good as she had because she was able to pierce through that dense air.

“18,000 Health and Mana. Ahh.” Julia said, “A large amount, that. But all it really means is that they have the resources to back up their actions, and to make up for a failed attack.”

“That’s…” Tiffany scowled a bit, then relaxed, saying, “That’s not incorrect. Fights between Scions might last more than a trio of exchanges if they have the raw Stats to back up a good, actual defense, and if they focus on reflective magics.”

“Anyway!” Julia said, “I want some more Stats. Got any Quests that aren’t based on the systemic abuse of underlings, and that the posters might actually let us complete?”

“I can agree to that,” Tiffany happily said.

“Yeah. I saw a good one.” Ezekiel said, “Here.”

Special Quest!

FIND the lost alchemist, Tadashi Diligent Scribe, of the Branch Family Clan Diligent Scribe, beholden to Clan Star Song, of Eralis, and then RETURN Tadashi ALIVE and INTACT to Clan Star Song or to any of the lesser posters of this Quest.

Tadashi was last seen roughly 1900 kilometers northwest of Eralis, deep in spiritual herb territory in the Central Tribulation Mountains. He was captured by bandits.

The return of Tadashi is more important than the murder of bandits.

COMPLICATIONS: He has been afflicted by an Antirhine Elixir. If you have no way of returning him intact and unharmed, then do not pursue this Quest. Do not make yourself an enemy of Eralis.

This Quest has been active for <7 hours>.

Reward: 5 points.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Elder Mirizo Star Song, Enforcer Sikali Song of Clan Star Song. Elder Doniro Diligent Scribe of Clan Diligent Scribe.

“I wanted a good in with the Clans.” Ezekiel said, “This is perfect.”

Julia laughed as she read, “We’re just going to drop all attempts at subterfuge, then?”

“Yes. If it means saving someone’s life.”

Julia eyed her father. “I didn’t expect so much enthusiasm, but I suppose I should have.”

Ezekiel said, “We’ll try to be circumspect, but if we get backed into an unwinnable corner, then yeah. No more subterfuge. I’ve never seen a Quest with a timer on it, so this guy is obviously important to someone.” He added, “And it’s his life, which is more than enough reason to do this.” He frowned. “I’m not sure how best to transport a guy with an antirhine problem, though. Can’t be [Teleport]ed. Eh. Wrap him in a comfortable box and drag it behind on a chain, or something? Attach a flying spell to the other end of the chain, of course. But… Hmm… We did see a lot of monsters in the air over the mountains.”

Julia suggested, “Just go up high enough?” She looked to Odin, saying, “He did fine, didn’t he? Ah. But. Yeah. Thunder Birds. They hunt by sound, and Odin was light, so that just avoided the problem, but you can’t avoid this problem with an antirhine person dragging behind you. If they’re not themselves detected, then the box they’re loaded into, or whatever, would be detected.”

“Yup.” Ezekiel said, “Got it, exactly.”

Julia shrugged. “Just kill all of the Thunder Birds. Or Stop them; make them fall out of the sky. That was my original idea for bird hunting, anyway.”

Ezekiel nodded, then asked, “But how to find Tadashi?”

Julia laughed. “You know how.”

“Yes. But…” Ezekiel considered. “People would see that almost instantly… Though I could put it up well away from the mountains? Now there’s an idea.”

Paul said, “We should not take that chance. Someone would see it. Especially if people are searching for strange magical effects, which they will be. 5 points is a lot.”

“There’s always the manual way.” Tiffany said, “You have 10 Odin and [Witness], after all.”

Odin chirped in violin twangs.

Julia looked to Tiffany, saying, “Yeah, but surely they’ve tried those methods before?”

Tiffany shrugged. “Possibly. If it was us, we would have exhausted all the normal methods already. Including esoteric ones like [Shadowalk] hunting, and [Familiar]s geared toward searching. Honestly, there are so many ways to hide, and there are just as many ways to find. If someone doesn’t want to be found in the Tribulation Mountains they could dig a deep hole and you’d literally never find them.” She frowned, then added, “Or maybe not. There are probably horrible things living underground, too.”

“Yes, there are.” Ezekiel said, “But you have given me a [Familiar] idea, though.”

Julia countered, “I’m pretty sure that 10 Odin is very conspicuous.”

