Anyone with a Quest Board in the greater area would see the posting. This meant that the same group of about a hundred people would all see the Quest, as soon as they checked. Though the individuals in that group might change, there were always about a hundred of them. Xue’s wonderful wife had been a member of that exclusive group for the last ten years. Most of them were Scions, but some were just high-level Enforcers, like Sikali. Most of them checked the postings every day, but some would check it sooner, for sure, and then the tide would depart; every single one of them searching for Alchemist Tadashi.

Tadashi might be back in custody by the end of tomorrow. Or sooner.

Five points was a major quest. And a simple search? Well… Likely not so simple. Sikali hadn’t been able to find a single hint of Tadashi’s existence in a full week of searching, though by her own admission she had not tried that hard. Xue felt that this was both her fault, and the fault of the Elders, for they had not informed her of the necessity of rapidly completing her assignment.

But with this new development… Was the man still there? To be found?

After the meeting, Xue walked with his wife toward the Enforcer Manor, asking, “Is he still in the mountains?”

Sikali said, “[Teleport]ing is the only safe way through the Tribulation Mountains, and even that is dangerous if you have not scouted the area before you arrive. If the bandits tried to fly him out, then they are already dead. If they were to tunnel him out, then they are even deader. But the Quest went through. He’s alive.”

“And all this for a simple branch family alchemist.”

“I shall require your assistance, Loremaster Xue,” Sikali said.

Xue heard and understood. “In what official capacity can this Loremaster assist?”

Sikali returned to her casual way, saying, “I’m going to have to figure out a way to transport him out of those mountains. He cannot [Teleport].” She exclaimed, “They inflicted him with an Antirhine Elixir! Can you believe it?”

“I will undertake this task.” Xue said, “There are few standard formations that would be up to the job, but I am sure we have something better in the archives. I will have to check, but I should have a sky boat ready for your specific needs in five or six hours.”

Sikali nodded. “Enforcer Sikali appreciates your work.”

Xue nodded, as was appropriate.

All of this for a new potion. Must be some damn interesting potion.

… And then he considered.

He sent Sikali, ‘A New Stat Potion?’

Sikali’s back straightened. ‘Perhaps?’ She scowled. ‘No. They wouldn’t do this for a potion of Dark Boons. They would have ordered me to kill him like they ordered me to kill every single minor clansman who gained one of the New Stats.’

‘You were forced to ignore some of those from our High Clans.’

Sikali wanted to scowl, Xue could tell, but they were close to the Enforcer Manor, and her face was a mask. Enforcer Peroit might be nearby. The next time Sikali saw that man, Xue knew that Enforcer Peroit was going to get a talking-to, or perhaps a severe beating.

Sikali sent, ‘If Tadashi has made potions of New Stats, then he might suffer some untoward fate on the perilous journey to retrieve him. Grand Elder’s orders supersede whatever this mess is all about.’

‘It would be for the best.’

The two of them entered the Enforcer Manor. The entire building was already active and excited about the new Quest; they were all prepared to head out, right away. Good news travels fast, it seemed.

Enforcer Peroit was standing there, also excited about the new Quest. Sikali acted completely normal around him, for now.

Xue left his wife, saying, “I will organize a flying boat for you. It will take two days.”

Sikali said, “Thank you, Love.”

“Anything for you.”

Xue wanted to stay and watch what his wife did to Enforcer Peroit, but he was on a timer. He went directly to Loremaster Manor, to see what sort of treasures he would need to create that would suit the retrieval of an Antirhine Elixir’d individual.

He rushed to his books on sky boats, and to his personal scrolls.

All of the obvious formations were immediately discarded. They all relied on full field effects. Such a boat might fall out of the sky if the Alchemist wasn’t positioned in them properly, and flying through the Tribulation Mountains would surely cause the Alchemist to get tossed around a fair bit.

As Xue organized his thoughts and plans, he found his mind wandering.

How was Tadashi going to make his new potion if he was Elixir’d? His very touch would destroy the magics in many herbs and all the normal tools of the alchemist would be lost to him. Ah. Not a problem for this particular moment. Tadashi would just have to explain his process to the Loremasters of Clan Star Song, and they would work with him to recreate any specific spells he had, and any specific techniques he utilized. There was no way that whatever potions Tadashi had invented would go back into the hands of the branch family Diligent Scribe. Not at this point.

But those were thoughts for later, for after Sikali rescued Tadashi and claimed the five points that Elder Doniro put into that Quest.

Xue smiled. How strong was his wife right now? This Quest would put her at 249 extra points, if he recalled correctly, all of them spread out mostly evenly in her Status.

Maybe he should ditch one of his Class Abilities… Perhaps Heighten Blood? Then he could retake the Quest Board. The extra damage provided by Heighten Blood was hardly necessary with his current level of spellwork, and he was only at 210 extra points. If his wife got too far ahead she might start teasing him again, and while a little teasing was okay, Xue did not like being teased over power levels.

Not going to happen.

Anything else was fine, though.

Xue shook his head, smiling, and lost himself in his work, pulling out books and scrolls and even accessing the Grand Archive for more esoteric sky boat designs. He quickly discovered that he had been right; there were few formations up to the triple task of speed, safety, and accounting for an Elixir’d person.

There were many formations on record that allowed a sky boat to traverse the Tribulation Mountains at great speed, and under great defense. There were even formations that were meant to ferry the Elixir-afflicted without harming them, or the formations of the boat. But combining the two was a different sort of problem, never really solved. Alchemist Tadashi would likely need immediate medical attention, too, so Xue would need to account for that…

Trees grew at his command. Wood became planks at his touch. Planks curled and bent together, becoming more than what they were before. Soon, the skeleton was done. Ten meters long and half that wide, this was the smallest he could make the boat. He would have liked to have gone smaller and therefore faster, but the formations needed a certain amount of space to be able to ignore the effect the alchemist would have upon them.

Xue adjusted the boat’s skeleton a few times.

When he was satisfied, he opened his forearm with a casual swipe of his finger. Crimson blood poured into the air, like a floating river, and then began to glitter darkly as Xue condensed his mana directly into core-powder within that blood. Glowing red and full of possibility, Xue wielded his blood like a knife and set to work, inscribing the first set of runes into the skeleton of the sky boat.

He smiled. This was almost as good as knocking down upstart adventurers.

… Ah. That man with the shield, and the [Familiar]s. Xue had forgotten. Oh well.

That man would be a problem for someone else.

The first set of runes was easy enough to lay down, for Xue had laid these runes a hundred times before now. The ordeal of minor variations was no real ordeal at all. After a once-over, seeking flaws among his work and finding none, Xue went to his door and told his assistant to make him some food; whatever they had ready and hot in the kitchens would do, and some wakeful tea. The young initiate ran off at his command.

When the assistant came back, he came with a full roast chicken, some of those delightful new ‘potatoes’ from Glaquin, a good tea, and with Elder Arilitilo. The older woman had been woken up by the news, or someone had woken her. Whatever the case, Xue’s mentor appeared as regal as ever, in her bright red robes. Xue’s own conjured robes were a match for hers, of course.

“Loremaster Xue.” Arilitilo said, “I understand that a large Quest has gone out and that you were there when it happened.”

Xue owed this woman everything, and so Xue said, “Yes, Elder.”

“I wish to hear your thoughts, and to hear what was left out of the Quest.”

He told her what he had heard, but he did dance around certain facts that were left out of the Quest, like the fact that they wanted the alchemist back because of his knowledge of potions. Arilitilo understood the necessity of this particular dance, and so did not press, but instead danced along with him, as she had taught him long ago. At the end of the talk, Elder Arilitilo knew she needed to speak to certain people in the potion houses of Diligent Scribe.

She left, satisfied, and yet angry. Something was happening in the potion houses of Diligent Scribe, and she would discover what. Xue would not want to be counted among those forced to fully deny that old Blood Mage, but someone would try to block her path. Pity those fools, for they know not who they are dealing with.

… Just what had that young Alchemist invented?

- - - -

The bar was hopping, everyone was drunk, Paul was a euphoric-drunk, and this was fun.

The light hit his sapphire eyes like a blue fire, as he said, “I just wanna say, that I—! That I appreciate you.” He flipped a hand, speaking in a universally true way, “And I know you do the same to me. We don’t have to ever talk about that so-called ‘revelation’ you had out there. It’s like. I don’t know. This is great.” He concentrated, saying, “We’re being all ‘new-land’ and shit, and that’s great, too. And! Hey! You haven’t nuked anything yet, and that’s just swell.”

Ezekiel laughed, as he teased, “What the fuck is a ‘nuke’, Paul?”

No one cared about whether their words were too loud, for the band was louder than everything else and the night was jumping. Tiffany and Julia were dancing and drunk and surrounded by too many men, but whatever. As for Paul and Ezekiel? Though they were ‘speaking’ in the audible way, they were both horribly slurring their words, and thus only able to actually communicate telepathically. Which is how they were actually talking. The line between mental and aural communication methods was rapidly becoming open to interpretation.

Paul laughed. “A nuke is a cloud made of mushrooms!”

“You’re going to have to explain the logistics on that.” Ezekiel asked, “How does a fungaloid get as large as a cloud? It’s some monster, no doubt.”

“Your diversions to the conversation help no one. For anyone else, I would have told them that they have to go and get laid and I would likely be their wingman—” Paul stopped. He suddenly lamented, “I’m always the wingman.”

“Ha!” Ezekiel said, “I didn’t know that.”

“Yeah. You didn’t. I’m not a great communicator.” Paul said, “And I’m truly going to regret this conversation in the morning, but I need to talk about my sister, now.”

“Please.” Ezekiel said, “I am listening.”

After he said those words the mood between them became something a lot calmer than the rave happening in the other parts of the bar. One might even say that the air turned ‘funeralish’.

“She was great! She helped me gain control of my abilities. And then she died.” Paul scowled, then downed the other half of his liquor. He amended, “She was murdered. She didn’t do something as simple as ‘die’. She was murdered.”

Ezekiel launched out of his seat and grabbed Paul, wrapping him in his arms, saying, “I’m so sorry.”

Paul just started bawling as he hugged Ezekiel just as tight as Ezekiel hugged him. In a building of hundreds of people, no one heard. No one saw. No one cared, except for Ezekiel and Paul.

Paul broke away, drying his face with the edge of his claw, saying, “Gods. I haven’t broken down like that in twenty years.”

“I’m sorry about your sister.” Ezekiel said, “I had a sister. Younger sister. I barely remember her; she died when I was eight. Complications from… I’m not sure. My parents never really said. I think it was some sort of heart disease. Genetic.”

Paul smiled softly, saying, “My sister… Rizala. That was her name. She was murdered by—” He suddenly stopped. He said, “It doesn’t matter.”

“Paul.” Ezekiel sent, and said, “I’ll protect you from everyone in the world, if I have to.”

Paul laughed loud, though not loud enough to break past the music. “I know. I know. Thank you. I thought I was ready to speak of this, but I’m not.”

Ezekiel smirked. “That’s okay, too.”

Paul said, “It’s just that everyone is healing, it seems. Eh. Actually. Your young greenscale friend is fucked up, but Tiffany is doing a lot better. Have you noticed? Yes, you have noticed. Bah. Julia is doing great, too! That gridwork helped her a lot!”

“It did, didn’t it!”

Ezekiel laughed, downed his drink, then signaled to the incani waitress walking around in a thong and floss and the sheerest, smallest robe possible. She was showing more purple skin than any other three people in the bar, combined, and it was great. Paul thought so, too. Two more firewater shots! Bring the bottle! He watched her violet ass bounce as she walked away. It was a good sight. He turned back to Paul, who seemed to be stuck watching the waitress’s ass.

Paul laughed, catching Ezekiel’s thoughts. He turned, and said, “You’re so much more observant than you used to be. You know?”

“I do know.” Ezekiel could not seem to stop smiling. “I know a lot about a lot, but very little about the important stuff. I really should have noticed that about you and your reasoning for not wanting to adventure. Constantly shoved out of the light because your skills aren’t flashy at all.”

Paul affected a glare, without heat. “I’m fine.”

“You say that; sure.”

“The only thing that fucked me up in the last few days was those Hunters,” Paul said, taking a shot from the newly arrived bottle. “Not because of my sister, though. You can nix that thought right away.”

Ezekiel paid the waitress a full gold coin. She set the coin into a small pouch just above her thong, smiling while Ezekiel stared at the obvious goods on display.

