Sikali grabbed Xue’s hand as soon as intermission allowed them to leave their private box. Instead of going to a nice dark corner of the playhouse to use those dark corners for their intended purpose, and to continue what they had begun in the carriage ride, she brought him into the hallway, and then toward the rear exit.

“I didn’t think it was that bad,” Xue teased.

Sikali spat, “It was derivative tripe. No wonder it’s their last week. Whatever. They can’t all be Playway Hits.” She shook her head. “But that’s not why we’re leaving.”

The guard by the rear exit opened the door and let them leave. Husband and wife strode out into the cold night, full of stars and bright city lights. A few more steps brought them to another exit that dumped them onto the street beside the playhouse. They grabbed a carriage to Teleport Square.

Xue asked, “Are we going after those adventurers?”

Sikali frowned, her lower lip bouncing as the carriage hit a bump; a truly sad, and yet beautiful expression. “I want to, but…” She sighed, then laid it out there, “I have received a personal missive from Elder Mirizo Song. They’re putting out a Quest for our young alchemist and I am required to report, in person, and either fund the Quest myself, or demand a fund from an initiate who we will then elevate to the Capture Squad.” She frowned. “Though I doubt that is their goal.”

“No? What? Really?” Xue frowned, surprised. “Highly unusual. And right to the Squad, eh? Usually there’s a step in between.”

“It’s so ridiculous, I know!” Sikali said, “But the worst part is not about me having some damned initiate on my Squad. In the first place, Tadashi is from Diligent Scribe! A branch family! Why are we Enforcing for a branch family!”

“Because you’re the best, Sikali, and I love you.” Xue said, “And this whole thing is odd. Why put a Quest out for the guy you are trying to find. You know… Until we decided to go see a play tonight.”

“It was a bad decision, I know!” Sikali said, “And I love you too, but this has reeked of politics from the very beginning, and it vexes me. All I was supposed to do was work on recapture while they worked on negotiations for Tadashi’s return. And now we’re all the way to a Quest? Insulting, is what it is.”

“Could you have been better at finding the man?”

Sikali scowled. Xue regretted his words, immensely.

But Sikali was as much a professional as him. She said, “They must have caught wind that I went to see a play. Someone told them. But even I am allowed breaks! I was out there for a solid week!”

“Even you are allowed breaks,” Xue agreed.

“I am! It’s just…” Sikali frowned. “Alchemist Tadashi’s recapture is a higher priority than I was led to believe, and instead of properly informing me of the necessity of my task and allowing me to do my job… The shit is rolling downhill, as they say.”

“Should we just… Go? From here? No need to stop at the Teleport Square.”

“No.” Sikali said, “I am angry at them for lying to me. I will respond promptly, but in my own time. I am sure this is some sort of politics. Perhaps they have an initiate in mind? Someone’s pet? I cannot think of anyone. This is just Elder Mirizo Song’s way of getting another claw into my Capture Squad, I am sure of it.”

Xue supplied, “Elder Mirizo Song’s grand-niece is currently an initiate.”

Sikali suddenly went utterly silent; thinking.

They got out of the carriage and reached the Teleport Square. The white tile land was awash in flood lights, while the stars glittered above. A few people flashed with magic, arriving or leaving as they were wont. Xue left, taking his wife with him.

The world flashed.

Red pillars rose from a white courtyard, revealing the inner sanctum of Clan Star Song. Ten hidden elites watched them, but they made no moves to impede the two people who had just appeared inside Clan High Command.

Sikali flicked her hands and sleek, black leathers layered atop her sheer dress; her usual attire while working in her official capacity as the captain of Capture Squad Four. Xue worked his magics with a bit more finesse, discarding his clothes into a bundle at his back, while simultaneously conjuring the sweeping red robes that were his official Loremaster Squad Two attire. There were no captains in the Loremasters and everyone of specific squads were all of the same rank, except for the assistants.

With his rank, this meant that Xue could invite himself to Sikali’s… ordeal.

Which he did.

Elder Mirizo Song, the culprit of the current problem, and Elder Doniro Scribe from Diligent Scribe, the current person trying to buy favor from Clan Song, or whatever it was he was doing, received the pair of them in the solarium. At least that’s what it looked like, at first. But then the truth of Alchemist Tadashi came out.

Doniro was sweating. Mirizo was angry, but good at pretending to be calm. In easy, reasoned voices, Elder Mirizo spoke of what was to happen. Sikali was to fund a Quest to retrieve the Alchemist, and it would be done by the dawn of the next morning. However she wanted to do it was up to her. She could elevate an initiate. She could fund it herself. She could call in favors and have it done that way. But it would be done, and there would be no stopping that decision.

“This is opening the retrieval of Alchemist Tadashi to all the Clans of Eralis,” Sikali said, ensuring that everyone in the room understood the meaning of the action they were asking of her.

“This is correct, Captain Sikali,” Mirizo Song said. “Anyone else who has a Quest Board in the region will be able to see what you post. We need that alchemist back, and as the Captain charged with bringing him back, the enacting of this decision falls to you. Do your job or I will grant your position to your second. Enforcer Peroit will do what needs to be done, if you will not.”

Ah? So that was their play? A full dismissal of Sikali for her ‘failure’ at finding Tadashi?

Hmm. Devious, but easy enough to fight. Still. It made Xue’s blood boil.

Sikali just went colder.

With a dark voice, Sikali said, “I demand an initiate to fund the Quest. Pick an initiate you wish to elevate.”

She tried to bait out the real meaning of the shift in priority of her assignment, but—

Mirizo laughed.

Mirizo had laughed at his Sikali!

Xue almost blasted the Elder’s head off, but he refrained. He wasn’t even sure if such an attack would actually work. There was always the chance of catching a man off guard with a sudden killing spell, but—

Mirizo spared a glance toward Xue.

Yeah. That man wasn’t off-guard at all.

Sikali was in a tough spot, and Xue wasn’t sure how to best help her. How had she pissed off Mirizo? Or had her second, Enforcer Peroit, done something to gain great favor? Either were possible. Sikali was, however, beyond most easy reasoning.

She was entitled to this much, considering what they were trying to do to her.

Sikali said, “My wording for the Quest will be that Elder Mirizo has lost his butt boy, and that he—”

“INSOLENCE!”

The word blasted from Mirizo, focused on Sikali entirely, yet only slamming her back a single meter. She would have gone flying, but she had clawed her feet into the marble floor before she spoke back to the Elder. A few cracks formed in the glass of the solarium, but nothing a single [Mend] couldn’t fix.

Xue looked to his wife, to see how she wanted to proceed. He was ready to fight, and she was already seeing red, but then—

“Please,” Elder Doniro said, into the sudden roaring silence. “Please. There is no need for this violence, but there will be a grand lot of violence if we don’t get him back, and he must be brought back.”

Mirizo frowned, as he turned his glare to the other Elder.

Sikali lost some of her anger. She stared at the branch family Elder.

Elder Doniro said, “I will inform you of the reason we must recapture Alchemist Tadashi. I will even provide you with the five points to create the Quest, as we have already done this much preparation. Tadashi will just have to repay the points himself, therefore, he must be captured, and not eliminated.”

Sikali relaxed a fraction, but it was just for show. Xue knew she was prepared for this to go sideways, and so was he. The middle part of Doniro’s proclamation had rocked her just as much as it had rocked him.

Five points? For an alchemist? Ridiculous! Utterly insane! Was this ‘Tadashi’ the bastard son of some Elder… Some Elder like Elder Mirizo? Clan Star Song and Clan Diligent Scribe had been allies for hundreds of years, and there was no small amount of marriage between the two clans, but...

But… Elder Mirizo’s reaction to Doniro’s words was one of quiet displeasure at the smaller Elder. The room calmed. By that action, Xue knew that something big was happening, but that it had nothing to do with anyone here, aside from the normal scratching and backstabbing that happened everywhere. Elder Mirizo was angry at Doniro for spilling a secret which likely should not have been spilled.

If anyone of Sikali or Xue’s level had gone over Mirizo’s head like this and spilled secrets to the underlings of some other Elder… That would have been bad.

But Elder Doniro was an elder for a branch family.

And yet...

A five-point Quest. For an alchemist. A branch family alchemist!

The logistics involved in such an organization of resources could only mean three things. Either Doniro had supplied the points himself, or he had forced another to supply them, or he had truly organized the spread of those points from five different people in order to pay for the Quest.

Secrets would out soon enough.

Either way, one only put up a Quest when it was absolutely imperative that a task be done right then and there. Xue looked to his wife. By her face and stance, he guessed that her thoughts mirrored his. She had more of a right to speak on her thoughts, though, so he stood back and watched as she did so.

Sikali said, “Five whole points? A ridiculous sum, made all the more ridiculous by the manner in which you comport yourselves. Elder Mirizo. Elder Doniro. You had made me believe that this lost alchemist was a simple ransom, and you were using me to discover the quick way to end this confrontation while you were negotiating with the bandits through missives and such, as per usual.” She said, “These were all lies, or at the worst, a design upon me. Before I accept this assignment, you will tell me why Tadashi is necessary. You will tell me why you failed to impart his true importance when you gave me this assignment.”

“We will not, Enforcer Sikali.” Elder Mirizo said, “You are an Enforcer. You are not an Elder.”

Sikali stared at her Elder, saying, “I will not put my foot into a [Force Trap].”

“You will put your foot where I tell—”

Elder Doniro broke in, “He’s my son.”

Elder Mirizo scowled, but he did not interrupt.

Xue had to speak up, so he did, “That’s a lie.”

Doniro thought about refuting Xue’s declaration; Xue could tell. But he did not instantly refute Xue’s rebuttal, for he had lied, and he was not prepared to have his lie so easily caught and called out. Xue almost smiled in satisfaction, but he kept his face a mask, as was appropriate for the situation.

Mirizo sighed, then said, “Tell them the truth.” He warned Sikali and Xue, “This truth will not go in the Quest, nor will it leave this room.”

Sikali lifted her head a fraction; acknowledging.

Xue waited.

Doniro fiddled with several thoughts, for sure, because he did not instantly speak.

“I’m waiting,” Sikali said, glaring at Doniro.

Elder Doniro spat out, “We told you Alchemist Tadashi was captured when he went out searching for reagents for potions. This much is true. But… Alchemist Tadashi has invented a new potion. That potion is worth more than your life. We had hoped for negotiations to go well, but… Other people are working from opposite angles, and they have screwed all of us. All I can say is that it is imperative that you get him back, tonight.” He lamented, “They forced him to drink the Antirhine Elixir, and thus have forced all of our hands.”

Xue gasped. Sikali’s eyes went wide.

Mirizo breathed out his dissatisfaction, while Doniro wrung his hands.

To force the Antirhine Elixir upon a man was to poison them for all eternity and for them to die to scratches or bedsores or some other such mediocre horror. And the bathing! Constant need for bathing! An ignoble death, reserved for those who were too powerful to exile, too knowledgeable to kill, and too tricky to use more temporary means, like collars and tattoos. There was, at least, some dignity about the Elixir compared to the collar and the tattoos. Less blood and no true markings upon the body…

And you could walk around like a normal person. Mostly.

There were even some people, some fallen scions or fallen elders, who lived reasonable lives in the Noble District. Those people were no longer threats to the Highlands, after all, and their presence reminded everyone what happened to those who defied the will of the Songstresses.

But the Elixir was still a monumental sentence.

What sort of potion had Tadashi made?

An immortality po—

Sikali guessed before Xue could, “An Immortality Potion?”

Doniro angered. He spat, “Every child thinks [Immortality] is the goal of all alchemists! I tell you it is not! There are—”

“Stop.” Elder Mirizo declared, “You have received your true answer, and the heightened reasons for the actions we undertake today. You will receive no more. Do your job.”

“One more question.” Sikali asked, “Are we sure Alchemist Tadashi has not defected?”

With darkened eyes and in the cold air of the room, Elder Mirizo declared, “If Alchemist Tadashi has given his new potion to anyone else, or if he has defected, you will execute the true will of Clan Star Song, and the true will of the Highlands.”

Doniro frowned, then he quickly nodded.

Sikali stood straight. She had been appeased. Xue saw it in her stature and in her soul. Sikali gladly said, “By your will.” She turned to Elder Doniro. “Do you have the points now? I can post the Quest immediately. Is there a specific wording you would want?”

Mirizo produced a sheet of paper. “This wording, right here.”

Within minutes the Quest was posted. It was funded through points paid by Elder Doniro, and backed by an unusually easy prayer to Rozeta. Sometimes Sikali had to pray harder than she usually did. Once, she had even needed to explain herself, and Rozeta had refused to sponsor that Quest. But this time? This posting happened without incident or interruption, like it was meant to be.

