“Of course he is. Which is why I don’t want to do that.” Ezekiel decided, “Not a [Familiar], though. Something I can cast a hundred times. But… Hmm.”

“Point of order, again.” Paul said, “We should probably avoid rushing to find this guy. We are not prepared for such a thing, and —after asking around, just now— I am one hundred percent certain that Tadashi is already being searched for by every power in the area. 5 points is a lot, and this is their culture; they go for these Quests pretty hard.”

Ezekiel went silent, in thought. Tiffany and Julia finished off their bowls of congee, silently thinking. Paul did the same.

With her bowl empty, Julia said, “I still want points, but not if it’ll get us killed. This seems like something that they would kill over, especially if what that driver said is true; that Clans are able to legally murder whoever they want. If everyone is going after him, then we’ll be in their sights, too.”

Tiffany nodded. “Yeah. Hunting for that guy is a bad idea.”

Ezekiel decided that Paul was right. He wasn’t prepared for such a rescue, and Nelboor was full of war.

And looking over the spells he would have used to make a ‘[Searching Buddy]’, [Cascade Imaging] cost 500 mana. Combining that with [Conjure Force Elemental] to create a searching magic was only the barest idea of such a spell. This idea was already 510-plus mana. Such a working was economically nonviable. He needed a 50 to 150 mana spell, at the most. Something to flood a super large area with searchers.

And that base idea wasn’t even touching upon the other magics that he would want to put into such a [Searching Buddy]. Would he want a map to pop up where he was? Or would he want the conjured beings to report back to him, somehow? Or maybe they could just send a flare into the sky once they found the target?

Yeah. Paul was right.

He wasn’t prepared to find Tadashi, and even if he could be after an hour of brainstorming, the alchemist was already being searched for by all the major powers of the area.

- - - -

Ezekiel, Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, stood on the windswept plains northwest of Eralis where no one roamed but the breeze, and those looking for trouble. The mountains were still a few lightsteps away, full of monsters and money and at least one tortured alchemist.

The Quest had said that the man had vanished about a thousand kilometers in that direction, in the center of the South Central Tribulation Mountains.

So Ezekiel looked… to the left. Their monster hunting destination laid a good 900 kilometers south of Tadashi’s vanishing, two valleys over from where they had been yesterday. They shouldn’t run into any trouble with any bandits, or accidentally run into any scions or young masters searching for their 5-point prize.

Accidentally running into Tadashi was perfectly fine, but Ezekiel wasn’t about to encourage such reckless action.

… Maybe if no one found the alchemist by the end of the day, he would risk a [Cascade Imaging] to search for people, and then he’d check in on all of those resulting blue dots. But not before then.

Odin scouted ahead to the target valley. Nothing seemed out of the ordinary in the deep mist of that particular valley. No blooming fires. No wars happening right in front of Odin. No missing alchemists out in the open. There were monsters down there, of course, but that was expected.

With a light step, the four exiled members of Clan Phoenix were once again surrounded by mist.

The Mist Stone Gluttons attacked four minutes later.

In a particular ‘oh shit!’ moment, one of them managed to bite into Ezekiel’s thigh and claw up and down his side at the same time, before Ezekiel hit his emergency button and turned to light, letting the monster flow through him without so much as another point of damage. His thorny shield had stuck itself in the monster's jaw and thus prevented a lot of damage, but the monster was three times Ezekiel’s size, and thus more than able to claw around the tiny deflector.

Ezekiel had taken a claw to the face, directly on an eye, for a critical, and yet...

Killing that beast and the rest was a simple matter of a few more moments of effort. When Ezekiel came back to his body, he checked himself. His [Animadversion] had prevented most of the attack, while his [Personal Ward] had taken all the actual damage and his magenta armor mitigated most of that, anyway. The claw to his eye had scraped at nothing, inflicting no harm. Sure, he had taken damage, but that damage was all to resources that could regenerate. Ezekiel himself looked no worse for wear. His [Personal Ward] would need an hour to regenerate, but by his estimates, he could take another two or three full, direct attacks like that, and not be too worried. He would probably survive even if the monster got a better critical than it had.

And so! He had defenses. They worked. And if the monsters got through his defenses, he had Constitution to fall back on. Ezekiel was stronger than most threats, but threats were still threats.
