The others grinned too. Venaz’s head rose. He looked after Gireulashia, still visible in the distance.
“What? Do you think I fall for the first tall-legged person I meet? That athleticism equates to love? For shame, Yerranola. That’s shallow. She’s not my type. Too young as well. I prefer…strength of character.”
“Sure.”
The others laughed. But Wil remained silent. He cleared his throat.
“Venaz. Did you get the message from Perorn about…the Professor?”
Venaz stopped. He looked at Wil, and then gestured to his bare hand.
“I took my rings off for the contest. Let me put on some privacy artifacts. Then talk.”
Wil nodded. The others went sober at once.
 
—-
 
Something had to be done. Krshia met with Akrisa, Beilmark, and other senior Gnolls of the Silverfang tribe. Krshia was distraught, upset, frightened of the reports of the strange [Witch].
“We must send aid back, sister! Chieftain!”
She implored Akrisa. Her older sister held up a steadying paw.
“Of course we must, Krshia. However, it may be best to appoint Silverfangs from Liscor who…know…Mrsha. I am also not about to order Gnolls to race hundreds of miles north if there are better trackers on the job. You said acquaintances and her guardians are already on her trail.”
“Yes, but…”
It was hard for Krshia to explain just how bad of a group was going after Mrsha—even if Akrisa would have believed her.
“The problem is, this little Mrsha cannot be scried, and her trail is apparently hard to follow, even by scent. We are far from Pallass.”
Cetrule pointed out. Beilmark paced.
“I’m informed a [Tracker] from 4th Company has joined the rescue operation, but there must be something we can do. Is there no one in Silverfang who can quickly go north?”
“We are not a tribe known for speed. What I can do is ask other tribes to lend their aid. A tribe around Pallass…the issue is not that, Krshia. Sister?”
Krshia jerked upright from visions of Erin. Lyonette. She had told Lyonette that Mrsha would be safe here! The inn…little Mrsha…who had done it? She looked at Akrisa.
“What? Anyone who can help would be welcome.”
“Yes…”
Akrisa let the word linger. She looked at Cetrule.
“But Mrsha is the little white Gnoll, yes? The one you intend to plead before the Meeting of Tribes? That complicates things. It would—not be wise—for some Gnolls who might help to encounter her.”
Krshia’s fur rose slightly. She swung her head from Cetrule to Akrisa.
“They wouldn’t kill her out of turn, would they? Akrisa, when Brunkr came, he was violent, but not every Gnoll would be so…”
Murderous? Akrisa pointedly didn’t reply. She rested her paws on the table.
“I am concerned for the child’s safety. But sister. I am more concerned about the Gnolls who attacked the inn. Gnolls with no tribe’s markings. Yet Plains Gnolls. Which tribe is that?”
Krshia felt an uneasy sensation in her stomach. A tribe had sent…? She looked from Akrisa to Cetrule. The [Shaman] cleared his throat.
“I can inquire, Chieftain Akrisa. That may be more important. I fear for the child, Krshia. But if a tribe knew she was a white Gnoll and sent those Gnolls…the Meeting of Tribes might be more dangerous than wherever she is.”
Which tribe? Krshia could only nod as Beilmark swung her head from face to face.
 
—-
 
At the same time, Wil and his friends held conference. They faced a similar problem, albeit from a different angle. Wil had a map of Izril and it was dismayingly large.
“Here’s the High Passes where some adventurers claim to have run into the Professor. Here’s Invrisil, where he appeared. For reference, that’s a search area four hundred miles across.”
Venaz snorted.
“You’re exaggerating, Wil. We know the Professor travelled via door to Liscor. Here. It stands to reason he’d stay near civilization.”
Wil glowered at Venaz. He was the best at logistics. He tapped the pin where Gold-rank teams had claimed to meet the Professor—and taken heavy casualties. Three Gold-ranks were dead, in the skirmishes, or the monster attacks afterwards.
“How did he get to the High Passes then, Venaz? Wayward teleportation spell? Fleeing the first group? He could be anywhere there.”
“And it’s literally like looking for a needle in a haystack.”
Yerranola laughed. The others glared at her, and the Selphid raised her hands.
“What? Oh, come on. It’s hilarious. Right? He’s the hardest person in the world to find.”
“I’m glad you think it’s funny.”
Merrik rolled his eyes, but the others were glad to see Yerranola in high spirits. Feshi chewed on her lip.
“I don’t understand why the Professor came to Izril in the first place. Did Perorn say why?”
“The answer is obvious. His mysterious chess partner.”
Venaz opined. Wil fell silent, but a surge of excitement rose in his chest.
“Yes, it has to be that. Or—he wanted to meet that Drake who published some of the games. Olesm. Liscor. It’s around Liscor we’d find him. Damn shame it’s so far. Even if we went to Pallass…are we going to go after him?”
Merrik folded his arms. He looked around at the students.
Feshi the Weatherfur Gnoll, Wil Kallinad of Pheislant, the [Lord]. Peki from Pomle, a [Martial Artist], standing next to Yerranola, a Selphid of Baleros who leaned on her shoulder.
Venaz from the House of Minos. All talented [Strategists]…but students still. They had already survived a perilous battle at sea.
“What can we do? If there are [Mercenaries] for hire—we’d still be looking for a needle in a grassland, no offense to the Professor. Especially if he doesn’t want to be found. We’ll also be up against the Great Companies—at the very least their agents! Professionals!”
“Professionals against [Strategists] with three Relic-class weapons, Wil. Or are you forgetting this?”
Venaz indicated the diamond greatsword on his back. Wil felt the sword at his side, and Feshi moved her paw to the dagger at her belt.
The Diamond Swords of Serept. Khelt’s treasure. Merrik stroked his beard.
“So what I’m hearing, Venaz, is that you’re an even bigger liability.”
“Yes. No. What?”
The Minotaur turned on Merrik. The Dwarf [War Leader] gave Venaz a critical look.
“You have a Relic-class artifact, so that means every [Bounty Hunter] and [Thief] will go after us. Feshi’s tribe is a deterrent here—elsewhere?”
“I have a sword that casts [Haste] on me whenever I draw it!”
“Sure, sure. All I’m saying is—there are better candidates for that. You’re not exactly a Level 40 [Warrior]. You’re a [Strategist]. I’d do better with it, honestly.”
“You? You can’t even swing it properly! It’s longer than you are!”
“Don’t be heightist, Venaz.”
The arguing banter between the students reminded Wil of home, yet this was serious. Feshi realized it too, and knocked her paw on the table.
“You two, stop arguing. Focus. This isn’t a game. They must be desperate if they are reaching out to us, even as a contingency.”
Merrik and Venaz fell silent and both grudgingly nodded. Feshi was concerned, but Yerranola coughed and grinned.
“Yet—don’t you see, everyone? I see the greatest opportunity for us here.”
They all looked at the Selphid. She’d endured terrible poison, but somehow, despite still needing treatments from the faerie-flower painkillers and antidotes, she grinned. Wil…was relieved to see her smile.
“How so, Yerra?”
Peki tilted her head. She was the least strategic-minded of the lot, being in the officer-classes. Yerra elaborated.
“There are more high-level individuals here than you could find in any great city in the world regularly. Mercenaries? Entire tribes known for their battle prowess are sitting about with nothing to do. And if we did rescue the Professor—that’s definitely worth top marks, right? How much is the favor of a Great Company of Baleros worth, eh, Feshi?”
The Gnoll blinked. The others looked at each other, feeling the same call to adventure. Until Venaz muttered, sotto voce.
“Assuming the Professor isn’t more valuable as a hostage.”
The others glowered at him, but Feshi nodded.
“You’re right, Venaz. There is a chance. I just don’t know if Weatherfur will take it…but we can ask. Let me talk to my Chieftain. If we decided to go and search, we could take a small group. Max movement Skills, horses? How much could we pay?”
The others glanced at each other. Wil sighed.
“I can ask my family for an advance, but war in Pheislant…”
Venaz nodded.
“I’ll pull funds from my account at the Merchant’s Guild. All I can muster; nearly ten thousand gold. That’s all I was allocated.”
“I can throw in a few hundred gold too.”
Merrik’s hand rose. Feshi did some quick notations. Yerra grimaced.
“I can do uh, a hundred gold?”
They looked at Feshi, who had already added her income. Peki raised her wing-hand proudly.
“I am poor.”
Merrik patted her on the arm. Peki slapped his hand down.
“Don’t pat me.”
They nodded at each other and made to leave the private guest-tent. Feshi was jotting down notes.
“We could recompense some Weatherfur warriors. Not the best, but if I add in horses—are we moving fast or do we want a fighting force? Maybe we could purchase…”
They stopped in the middle of the Weatherfur Tribe’s camp. A bit of a commotion had occurred when they were planning out a possible rescue. A bunch of Gnolls had come to the Weatherfur Tribe. They had clearly been allowed in, but their very presence had quite a lot of Weatherfur’s colorful Gnolls with their dyed fur staring.
No less than the Chieftain of their tribe, Torishi, was greeting them, under a halo of light from the sky, the manifestation of her weather aura. Wil blinked.
He knew these Gnolls. Or one of them. Torishi called out to Feshi.
“Niece! You have guests. They claim to have an appointment with you. I hope you are not going to make them wait?”
She looked pointedly at one of the Gnolls, who was scarfing down refreshments. Feshi blinked.
“Chieftain. But I didn’t call for…”
She stared as the little Gnoll swung himself to his feet. He grinned, and motioned to the Gnolls—and three Humans. They fell into step as they approached Feshi, Wil, and the others.
Honored Berr’s grin was wide as could be.
“Feshi did not call us, Chieftain Torishi. But we are here, yes? Hello, children. I am Honored Berr. Do you remember me?”
He waved at Venaz. The Minotaur shuffled behind Peki. Of course they recognized him.
“Of course, Honored Berr. Can we help you?”
Feshi bowed slightly. She looked at him and the others—the Wild Wastes’ finest warriors. Honored Berr scratched at his belly. He stared at her. Then smiled.
“I am Berr. We know each other, yes?”
He…repeated himself? It was such an odd thing to say, all the [Strategists] looked at each other.
“Er—yes, Honored Berr. Can we help you? We did not call you.”
The Gnoll nodded. Then he tilted his head.
“I am Berr. These are [Berserkers], by the way.”
Was he going senile? Wil hesitated, feeling a bit uneasy by the odd way the Gnoll kept repeating his name, reintroducing himself. Then he heard an oath.
It came from Merrik. The Dwarf figured it out first and stroked his beard furiously. His eyebrows bobbed up and down. The others glanced at him.
“What, Merrik? Did you call him?”
“Not me. But we don’t need to. Honored Berr. Wild Wastes. I think we just ran into a high-level Skill. Used by [Mercenaries].”
Yerranola’s brows shot all the way back up. Everyone whirled around. Torishi gave her niece a stare, but Feshi was flabbergasted.
“…We can’t hire Berr! Merrik, you’re joking. That’s not—”
She turned. Honored Berr grinned wide as could be. The Gnolls behind him perked up. One of them flexed an arm—the other slapped his shoulder. Berr peered from student to student, a happy smile on his face.
“Can’t hire me? Why not? How much gold do you have?”
His eyes twinkled with excitement as the students looked at each other.
 
—-
 
High-level Gnolls. Strange plans. Strange designs.
The first arguments over the Raskghar spilled into discussions about Pallass.
“Pallass wants a universal peace treaty with the Meeting of Tribes?”
The rumor was in among a lot of milling warriors from various tribes. Apparently, no less than Chaldion had asked for a mass-treaty since all the tribes were here. The Raskghar were a token of good-will.
Someone spoke, a Plain’s Eye [Warrior].
“Peace with a Walled City would be fine. My tribe is at peace and Pallass’ gold fills our pouches. If the Chieftains effect it, we could do away with other tribes causing trouble for us all.”
The remark was aimed at a Woven Bladegrass Gnoll. She pushed herself up with a growl.
“So says a tribe afraid of Pallass. Will you let them push us around, take our lands and tell us ‘this is Drake property’?”
She slapped her chest.
“Let them come! We all know what Lemol and these cities have done to Gnoll tribes! Do you not remember the Kedarune tribe’s fate? How Drake armies drove off Grovelind’s people from their vineyards they had tended for nearly eight decades over petty laws those cities made?”
“Ancient history!”
Another Gnoll barked back. Someone else slapped him on the shoulder, provoking a growl, but the third Gnoll was big enough to make the rest back down.
“I say the Woven Bladegrass’ Chieftain has the right of it. We bow to Drake law and their armies in every part of Izril. Will we bow to their armies here? At this time? Do you think Pallass sending their army here, even to ‘escort’ the Raskghar, isn’t suspicious? Eh?”
The warriors fell silent. They turned to the third Gnoll, who was impressive, a strong Gnoll. No visible tribe’s markings, but there were wanderers as well as every tribe.
It was one discussion of many, but now the question had been posed…the third Gnoll kept speaking.
“There are too many designs on the Meeting of Tribes this time for my liking. I have been to the last one, when I was a cub, yes? But the Walled Cities never dared interrupt us before. It feels like many foreign powers are attempting to influence us. Or have you not heard of the King of Destruction’s representative?”
The other Gnolls looked at each other. Many hadn’t heard about that. One laughed.
“Designs on the Meeting of Tribes from foreign powers? What could they want? And the King of Destruction’s representative? What is he representing, a burnt pinecone? I heard that’s all that’s left of him.”
There were laughs, but the big Gnoll gave the other a reproving look. The Woven Bladegrass [Warrior] gave the unknown speaker an approving look.
“You have good points, [Warrior]. What tribe are you from?”
“None. I am a [Sellsword]. Among other things.”
