[Invisible], [Muffled]. Artifacts borrowed from his tribe’s armory. [Mage]’s artifacts. Adetr didn’t need to use them to ‘bring’ them into the simulation.
They weren’t idiots, these Humans. They knew he was there, but they let him study them. He let them win, and watched the rolling machines, listened, saw how their weapons worked.
Some kind of bow or crossbow. Not magic. It smells. Adetr stared at a Human, noting the odd helmet. Why not a face-guard? Why…cloth?
They knew he was here. They had some tools that were trying to pick him up. However, he had their weaknesses.
You can’t stop spells. You can’t detect magic. Adetr bared his teeth. He swung his axe, watched the Human’s head vanish. The other ones in the squad jerked, lifted their weapons, aimed at him. They fired. Adetr lifted the object in his other hand. He heard a tremendous sound of ringing, that tore at his ears. Yet when he lowered the shield, he saw they were dead. He checked the metal, and it was unblemished. The projectile had bounced.
“You can’t break artifacts.”
He laughed. Then saw the giant metal turret turn. Adetr dove, shield raised—
 
—-
 
His body couldn’t survive the impact, but he was almost positive the shield had survived—just lodged halfway through his spine.
Still, it was proof he needed to take lessons from Az’muzarre. Adetr tore through the Steelfur’s armory. The Steelfur warriors watched him with significant concern as he ‘went for a walk’ wearing armor, enchanted metal, the highest-grade he could find. Adetr was famous for relying only on his body’s toughness.
 
—-
 
Fourteen.
Adetr threw up. His body was ringing.
“Damn…armor…”
It didn’t break, but his body still rang with each impact. The giant vehicles tossed him around. He was almost there, though. Blind them. Something would come from the skies, but it detonated on a mage-barrier. If they used clouds to hide their location—they won! He could now save sixty-percent of the Steelfur—
 
—-
 
Adetr woke up. Something had hit him in the eye, past the visor of his helmet. A Human [Marksman]? He shook his head.
“One more time. Thirty eight minutes.”
He stared at the Human, determined to win.
 
—-
 
Rose felt like someone had been staring at her all day and yesterday. She eventually went up to Beilmark and whispered in her ear.
“Beilmark, who’s that Gnoll in armor who just stormed off?”
Beilmark had seen him too, especially after he’d begun showing up in armor. She frowned.
“Adetr Steelfur. A great Gnollish warrior, so I’m told. Young. Why?”
“Did…did you think he was staring at me?”
Beilmark hesitated.
“Perhaps, but I cannot imagine why. Did you offend him?”
“What? Me? No, I haven’t even spoken to him!”
“Hrm. That is odd.”
 
—-
 
Fifteen. 
Adetr stood on the battlefield, howling victory. Less than a hundred Steelfur Gnolls lay dead. The Humans?
There was a way to beat their strange weapons. Blind them, paralyze. Adetr had survived a round from that—thing that spat metal, then torn it open. Ambush them! Defeat them!
Even whatever was in the skies had gone down to a [Shaman]’s hex. It hit the earth and exploded. He roared his triumph, and raced across the ground, leaving the Steelfur tribe to celebrate. The clone of Iraz lifted a paw in victory.
Adetr was racing towards the downed craft—what remained of it. He wanted to know how those vehicles worked. They didn’t look like Golem-devices, or even magical craft! The [Shaman] with no real face had shook her head when he demanded to know if it was magic.
Still, Adetr laughed. Victory! Victory! He wondered if he’d level. He knew this was a battle in a box, but if he went up against this army just so, his tribe would win.
Adetr slowed…even in the simulation and looked back. All of Steelfur. The entire tribe. His battle-rage, his frustration left him suddenly. He felt…a chill.
All of Steelfur beat this force of two hundred Humans after fifteen tries in which we all died. True, once they found out the weaknesses, they won with a strange reversal of strengths, but…
Chieftain Iraz has to know. But what is this army? Where is this?
Adetr didn’t know. He looked about. The sky was wrong. The…mountains…were wrong. Even the ground looked different. It smelled so strange. He looked up.
“Even the sky. They were different stars. One moon? Where am I?”
Then…he blinked. He thought he saw something.
Wait a second. High, up there. So far only his keen eyes could even make out something. A flicker past the clouds. Was there a second craft?
Of course! If he hadn’t ended the Skill—Adetr pointed up.
“[Shamans]! Barriers!”
They broke off celebration, cast as Adetr looked up. He saw something drop out of the skies. Adetr braced, grimly raising his shield as he knew he would not reach his tribe before it fell. Which was it this time? The rain of explosions? The curving thing?
It was just one object. It dropped down, a bit off-target of his tribe. Adetr saw it break. He saw a flash and saw—
[Greatest Battle]. Adetr died. But he saw enough when he died. When he opened his eyes in the real world?
He was no longer smiling.
 
—-
 
Rose watched as the Gnoll jerked. He had stared at her, seemed to whisper something and…
“You’re right. He is staring at you.”
Beilmark sipped from her cup. They both watched as Adetr looked around. He had been smiling—then it drained away.
“Do you think he likes me?”
Rose tossed her hair in a show. Beilmark chortled.
“That would be funny. Almost as funny as that Gnoll—Gireulashia—learning the truth, eh? One problem at a time.”
“Mhm. Where’re Inkar and Tkrn?”
“Talking with her.”
Rose was a bit envious. Ekhtouch’s outrage over being accused as [Thieves] aside, and the ramifications of their tribe knowing, Gire was full of questions and in awe of Inkar. That was nice. Maybe—
She saw Adetr stride forwards, snarling, and blinked. Beilmark sat up a bit.
“Hold on. That’s diff—”
“You!”
Adetr roared. Silverfangs turned, and the Steelfur Gnolls who had been told to watch over him. They dropped what they were doing and bounded forwards.
“Uh—”
Rose froze. The Gnoll’s face was twisted in sudden fury. He stormed towards their camp.
“What is it? Where are you from? What weapon—”
“Adetr! Stop!”
Steelfur Gnolls grabbed his arms and shoulders, trying to slow him. He pulled eight behind him in his fury. Beilmark put out an arm.
“Rose, back in the camp. Rose?”
The young Human woman was frozen. Adetr roared.
“Everything was gone! What was it? Who are you? What weapon destroys mountain and land like that?”
“Weapon?”
He stormed towards her, picking up speed. Adetr reached for Rose, to tear the secrets out of her. If that army came here—he had seen it, before whatever it was reached him. It could destroy the Meeting of Tribes. It would change the landscape. Had they more? It was a skirmish. It could destroy the High Passes.
“Tell me.”
“I—I—”
Rose was trying to back up, but she was terrified by the Gnoll’s sudden, battle-raging fury. Adetr had lost himself, blending the Skill and reality. He lunged.
 
—-
 
Chieftain Iraz ran out of his tribe, to stop his nephew before an incident occurred. He did not know what Adetr had seen, but his warriors had come howling Adetr had lost his mind.
He skidded to a stop, having raced through lines of bewildered Gnolls. Five minutes too late, no matter how fast he’d run. He saw a commotion, pushed his way, breathless, through Gnolls gathered around…
Rose. She lay on the ground, face white. Pale. Unmoving.
…Not dead. She had fallen on her butt in terror. In front of her, paw still outstretched, lay Adetr. He had fallen while reaching for her. His face was a rictus of fury, but he was pinned by countless Gnolls.
But someone had knocked him down. How? Iraz panted.
“Who stopped Adetr?”
A Gnoll moved. He turned and saw Senior Guardswoman Beilmark. She flexed her paw and shook it out. There were great wars, and Skills, and battles you could dream of. Reality?
Adetr had never been arrested by the Watch.
“[Immobilizing Touch].”
She explained.
 
—-
 
Chieftain Iraz sat with Chieftain Akrisa, Eska, Orelighn, and the Chieftain of the Ekhtouch Tribe, Chieftain Firrelle.
Steelfur, Longstalker’s Fang, Silverfang, Ekhtouch…and Greenpaw.
Greenpaw definitely didn’t fit. You could sort of make the connection with the other tribes, given some variance in fortunes, specialties, and their great Gnolls, but not Greenpaw.
Yet here they were. Adetr was not present, but Gireulashia was. Iraz would have liked his nephew here as instigator of this mess, but Adetr was so worked up, Iraz had told his Steelfur warriors to sit on him until he calmed down, or pin him under a boulder or something.
At last, Iraz broke the silence.
“I must apologize again for Adetr’s behavior. It is…rude for him to use his Skill like he does. He is young, and it does not bother most if they even notice it. I am ashamed.”
“Young Gnolls do what they do out of youth, rudeness or not.”
Firrelle offered. She glanced at Gire, and the huge [Paragon] hung her head; she was so tall she threatened to touch the tip of Akrisa’s tent with her head.
“Nevertheless, it seems that while two tribes have given offense, both incidents were because of our Humans. Perhaps we have been careless. Do not apologize overmuch, Chieftain Iraz. You cannot control every Gnoll perfectly.”
Chieftain Akrisa lifted a paw, and Iraz was grateful. He nodded to her; they said Silverfang’s Chieftain had a silver tongue to match, and she had not been found wanting.
“I ah—don’t hold any ill will against the Steelfur tribe. Or Ekhtouch. But if the secrets are out…”
Chieftain Orelighn didn’t have Akrisa’s reserve or gift of gab. He was nervous at having two powerful tribes here. Technically they had offended the others, but offense could turn to retribution if not handled right.
Iraz was not that kind of Chieftain, but he bowed slightly to Orelighn.
“It is our mistake. Adetr’s mistake. He will be punished, but it seems we have…”
He trailed off. How did you even say it? We have stumbled upon a secret that may change this world forever?
We have learned of weapons Adetr claims could wipe my entire tribe out in a moment if used?
We have seen artifacts that run on no magic, that come from a land only Humans inhabit by the billions?
He had been told, of course, as had Firrelle. They had to be. Adetr had seen too much through his Skill. Gire? She was too intelligent. Inkar had let her touch the iPhone by mistake.
Gire had opened up the specifications, and been about to start inquiring about the Apple company, and locations listed in the details with the nearest Mage’s Guild before Tkrn tackled her and she helped pick him up and dust him off.
Firrelle looked disturbed, but she was trying to appear unfazed. Iraz hoped he was half as stoic.
“…learned of something that might influence your great gift to the Meeting of Tribes. That is no small matter.”
He finished, choosing the most understated way of saying it. The other Chieftains nodded. Firrelle sighed.
“Knowledge is power. So [Mages] claim. This? I would agree with. It is hard to believe.”
“It will change everything. Firrelle, Firrelle. They said you could make things move with harnessed electricity. If that is so, you could make a horse out of metal and wood! You could do what great enchantments do without needing levels!”
Gire piped up. She fell silent as her Chieftain looked at her warningly, but she saw what might be.
Iraz only knew what Adetr had insisted on telling him. Weapons that spat metal a hundred times faster than arrows. Great armored war-vehicles that could kill even Adetr in a single strike.
“It is not here yet. These are travellers from Earth, Chieftains. They are our gift. Soon, all the Chieftains will know this secret. We will decide as one people what will happen. But…it must be the right decision. That you know is concerning. I had hoped to have an accord before then.”
“On what will be done?”
“About the other world. About the children who appear across this world. Unity, Chieftain Iraz. Longstalker’s Fang, who has adopted Inkar, Silverfang, who knows of more such children, and Greenpaw, who have relics of their land, all stand together. We will gather them, protect them, and learn. Prepare, perhaps, to make ties with a world apart.”
Chieftain Akrisa looked at him. Iraz shifted. Firrelle glanced at him, and he kept his thoughts inside.
What if this world fights like Adetr saw? He fought two hundred to our tribe’s death fifteen times. He never won; he only saw them destroy him a different way at the end.
“I like them. If Ekhtouch does nothing, we refuse to act on a matter that will invariably force itself. Therefore, we should act or oppose and since they have done nothing wrong, Firrelle…”
“Gireulashia! Be silent!”
The [Paragon] sat up, flushing, as Ekhtouch’s Chieftain scolded her, scandalized. She almost shrank and the elegant speech broke off. She was a child then—until her spine stopped bending.
“I am Honored Gireulashia. Ekhtouch’s [Paragon]. I say it so, Chieftain, and this is my word.”
“You are still young. I said be silent while I think!”
The room fell silent as the two engaged in a battle of wills. Firrelle seemed surprised at Gire’s adamancy. Gire’s eyes slowly narrowed. The two traded looks—then, of all things, Gire reached out and poked her Chieftain in the side. The Ekhtouch Chieftain recoiled and swatted at her, but Gire poked her again, and again, her paw darting quickly.
The others in the tent stared at the odd display. Firrelle moved faster, trying to block Gire with both paws now, but she was too slow. Gire began poking her harder, until she was practically shoving Firrelle off the cushion, never changing her narrow-eyed expression.
Rose nearly snickered, but fell silent. Firrelle eventually snapped.
“Alright! Alright! Stop poking me! If that is the wisdom of the greatest of Ekhtouch, so be it!”
She turned to the others.
“My…Honored Gireulashia, who has the wisdom of her blood and nature in her, declares your tribe and mission worthwhile. Ekhtouch stands with you. We must learn more—”
Another poke. Firrelle twitched, and went on.
“But we will join our influence to yours.”
Iraz stared. He knew Gire was fifteen. Firrelle listened to her?
Then again—she was Ekhtouch, and Gire was the ‘greatest’ of them. It was an astounding display of another tribe’s politics and decision-making.
He…wished he hadn’t seen that. But then all eyes turned to him.
“And you, Chieftain Iraz?”
He hesitated.
“I will keep what I have learned secret, Chieftains. I cannot promise Steelfur will join your tribes. But I swear I will keep…”
