“It looked like a brawl, yes? I was in it. We did pretty well, of course. But Steelfur? It’s like punching chainmail. And some of those tribes…well, all the regular [Warriors] were easy targets.”
Merish smiled. The tribes were competitive, and [Shamanic Warriors] like Ghamen and himself considered themselves to be the best of all. He inquired after about ten minutes.
“I have to keep going, Ghamen. My friend, Viri, can’t be left alone or he spends all his gold on my niece and nephew.”
“Of course. We will see each other another night. I am glad you are not as gloomy as before.”
Ghamen nodded, and Merish smiled.
“Me too. Here is hoping the Chieftain’s touch lasts a while. But Ghamen—do you know where Yelroan is? I think he would be at the Meeting of Tribes, yes?”
Ghamen snorted.
“Yelroan? Try the central camps. I forgot…well, he’s certainly here. Tell him…no, just have fun meeting with him.”
Merish bade farewell to his friend and headed for the center of the Plain’s Eye camp.
[Warriors], [Scouts], [Hunters], [Rangers], [Trappers], and so on. Warrior-friends, and childhood friends in various non-combat roles. All were part of the Plain’s Eye Tribe, in various levels and positions. Merish realized—he was above them all in status. Especially after leveling and surviving Rhir.
And all of them, even Merish, had a class that was not unique to the tribe. They had many [Shamanic Warriors], even though it was a higher-level class. Every role overlapped, and Gnolls could occupy any place within the tribe. You were only expelled if you truly could not fit in; there were places for the solitary, the grumpy, and the odd.
However, Yelroan, Merish’s land friend from childhood, was truly unique. No one in the Plain’s Eye Tribe had a class like his, Merish knew. Perhaps no one in the entire Meeting of Tribes had a class like Yelroan’s.
 
—-
 
The Plain’s Eye Tribe was one of the greatest traditionalist tribes in the world. Az’muzarre, Wild Wastes, Gaarh Marsh…they were the tribes you spoke of.
Plain’s Eye were alchemical ingredients. [Shamans]. [Shamanic Warriors]. Tradition.
Yelroan stood on a stump, striking a pose. The Gnolls around him tried to ignore him.
“Children, if you want to learn how to hunt—with me!”
A [Hunter] was trying to entice a bunch of Gnolls old enough to begin learning a profession away from a [Cook] who was cunningly handing out snacks to an eager group. Merish watched.
It was a job market, of sorts. The Gnolls were competing, trying to lure promising young Gnolls to apprentice with them.
Yet this crowd of nearly two hundred of the most promising Gnoll cubs taken to the central camp to apprentice with some of the best instructors was distracted.
By Yelroan. The Gnoll was posed on the stump, standing above all the other instructors. It was…a pose. Merish stared up at his friend.
Nobody stood like that. Yelroan was perfectly balanced on one leg, the other pawed foot resting against his leg, yet he stood perfectly straight. One paw was laid across his chest, two fingers forming a ‘V’. The other paw was held to his face, as if supporting the flashing spectacles perched under his eyes.
He’d somehow managed to stand just so the sun glinted off the glass. It was currently blinding one of the [Shamans] trying to gather her own promising apprentices.
Spectacles on a Gnoll. That was already strange, but Yelroan’s fur was combed up. He had a proper mane, dyed—not in shamanic colors, but like ‘hair’.
He also had full-body clothing on. No loincloth, no easy, simple and free cloth like most Plains Gnolls, but a City Gnoll’s attire.
…If City Gnolls had such vibrant colors. Long, dark leggings cut with white, and a flashy red jacket. Merish covered his own face, trying not to look.
“Er—apprentices, if you want to hunt…”
The [Hunter] trailed off. Even the [Cook] was failing to get commitments from the two hundred potential apprentices.
They were all staring at Yelroan. How could you not? He had a crowd around him, little Gnolls who were waiting to see what his class was. After all…they might well follow this Gnoll, right?
Everyone waited. Yelroan held his pose perfectly still. He let the silence build, then dramatically raised his head. The Gnoll had piercing eyes. He smirked, glancing around at the ‘lesser’ classes around him. The other instructors glared at him. Yelroan took a breath, exhaled. Then he pointed at the sky, striking a second pose.
“Math!”
 
—-
 
Merish came to find Yelroan after everyone had left. His friend stood on the stump, in the same pose.
No Gnolls had chosen to learn from him, even just to try it. Again. Merish didn’t think he’d ever seen Yelroan acquire even a single apprentice, and that had been years before he’d left for Rhir.
“The clothing is new. So is the pose. Why?”
Yelroan sprang to his feet. He beamed at Merish.
“Merish! Do you like it? I tried to do something and it almost works. They stare at me.”
“Right until you start talking.”
Merish shook his head. Yelroan sighed.
“I got an apprentice last year with this trick. She lasted for…half a day. I need more respect.”
“And you think doing that will get respect? Yelroan, just be honest.”
“I am honest. Math is amazing!”
Yelroan did another pose, arms crossed. A [Hunter] tried to hurry her apprentices away, telling them not to look. Merish smiled. He reached out and hugged his friend. After a second, Yelroan did the same.
The one, the only, the unique [Mathematician] of the Plain’s Eye Tribe embraced Merish hard.
“I’m glad you’re okay, Merish. Chieftain Xherw told me he’d see you.”
Merish blinked. His friend was slimmer, although a bit taller; not a warrior. He looked at Yelroan.
“Did you ask him to see me?”
The [Mathematician] gave him a sly look and pushed his glasses up. Somehow, they caught the light and blinded Merish with an afterimage.
“I may have made the request. After all, I had good odds.”
Merish stared at Yelroan. His friend gave him a sidelong look, holding the pose. After a few seconds, they laughed so hard both had to hold onto each other.
 
—-
 
Yelroan was the most interesting Gnoll that Merish knew. A [Mathematician], a class so rare that even city-people didn’t know what it was.
It just meant Yelroan was good at math, as far as Merish was concerned. Really, really good at math.
…It didn’t sound too impressive. Until Merish told stories about their youth, like when Yelroan had answered a math question that had stumped every [Shaman] in the Plain’s Eye tribe. It had been something like…what was it?
“Add every number from one to a hundred up.”
Yelroan entertained Merish in his private tent, overflowing with parchment, paper, quills, and books. More books and ledgers than anywhere else in the Plain’s Eye encampment, and many written by Yelroan himself.
“Ah, yes. That. Why did we even wonder about it?”
Yelroan grinned.
“The [Shaman] mentioned it to us. A clever question posed by someone from Chandrar. And I solved it while you were all adding numbers up.”
“Yes. But why does it matter?”
“It was a test. There’s a way to solve it quickly. Well, that set the tone for my future, didn’t it?”
It did indeed. Yelroan hadn’t gained the [Mathematician] class at first. He’d become a [Scribe], an [Accountant]…then, as he was appointed to calculating the entire clan’s income, managing supplies, and such, he’d morphed into the [Mathematician] class, rather than [Administrator] or some reasonable class.
“You could have been a [Manager] or [Accountant] or something. Why [Mathematician]?”
“Because I’m good at numbers, Merish. Not scribing. Not managing. Numbers. I’m fairly good at managing things. Math is my talent, though. You see?”
Merish did. And ‘fairly good’ meant that Yelroan was the administrator for the entire Plain’s Eye tribe. He calculated income from each clan, assigned supplies, made sure the numbers…were the numbers.
It hurt Merish’s head just to see one of the ledgers that Yelroan wrote out. His organizational strategy, his calculations had caused fights with the [Shamans], who normally oversaw such things.
Yet it worked. The [Chieftains] and then Xherw had decided just to…leave Yelroan alone. Within a year of taking his position, Yelroan had found over sixty three cases of misplaced supplies going nowhere, faulty incomes—only two examples had been actual cases of [Chieftains] embezzling money.
He was the kind of Gnoll who could tell you where the coppers went missing when you bought supplies. If the Plain’s Eye Tribe went to war, the [Warriors] owed Yelroan a debt of gratitude because he could calculate how much they needed to carry.
It didn’t get him much respect. As his lack of apprentices each year indicated. Yelroan was in the central camp, but he wasn’t ‘Honored Yelroan’. He was an outsider among his people for his odd, City Gnoll ways.
Even though Merish had never met a City Gnoll who could calculate half as fast as Yelroan. He quite liked his friend, who had a penchant for showing off and touting math’s many virtues.
Yelroan could also do more…interesting things. Even as a child, he’d shown Merish interesting tricks.
“I still remember when you calculated how many ants were in that ant hive based on…something something with squares.”
“Averages.”
“Yes, that. We tried to count them all and Khaze had so many ants in her fur the [Shaman] threw us in the lake.”
The two chortled over that as Yelroan poured glasses of juice. No alcohol for Yelroan; another oddity. Yet the Gnoll had more talents than just the magic of good math. He sighed.
“Math is power, Merish. I keep telling Chieftain Xherw that. He knows my Skills. If we had…eighteen Gnolls with my class, Plain’s Eye would make Pallass look over its shoulder.”
“I thought we traded with Pallass.”
Merish was reminded of Xherw talking about Manus. Yelroan flapped a paw, exasperated.
“Of course we do! And quite profitably—we have an exclusive trade deal, the only one of any tribe, as far as I know. I have no idea how Xherw negotiated that back in the day…we have other deals too that keep us on top. But give me eighteen—no, seven more [Mathematicians] and some deals with tribes, and we could replace Pallass and sell everything directly.”
“Mm. Seven more Yelroans. I can’t imagine it.”
“You can’t imagine parabolas.”
“…Those aren’t regular bolas? Magical bolas?”
Yelroan groaned and Merish grinned to himself, having done that last bit on purpose. He had to take Yelroan to task for one thing, though.
“Why the spectacles? You don’t need them.”
Yelroan had perfect vision, in fact. The Gnoll winked at Merish.
“Do you like them? I had to figure out how to make them catch the light like that. They’re specially treated with alchemical substances to reflect the light.”
“…That is the most obnoxious thing I have ever heard of. What kind of [Alchemist] would make that?”
“Saliss of Lights. I did an accounting job for him, once.”
Merish put his head in his paws. But he laughed. Yelroan fiddled with the glasses, doing the pose again.
“I decided to wear them after I saw some people with glasses. The stylish [Scholar], you know? I thought it would help my image. Actually…you met someone like that on Rhir.”
“I did?”
Merish glanced up, frowning. Yelroan scribbled something down; he was working as they talked.
“Perhaps not directly. It was…Bastion-General Quiteil. Um—”
“Fourth Wall.”
The tone of Merish’s voice made Yelroan look up. The Gnoll nodded slowly.
“Yes. Him.”
“How do you know him?”
The [Mathematician] smiled slightly, but watched Merish’s face.
“He offered me a position. Quite well-paid. I said no. I’m a Plains Gnoll in the end. A member of the tribe. Even if…well.”
He leaned back in his chair.
“If you go back to Rhir, I might take the job. But you’re probably not going to.”
Merish started. Yelroan knew about that? Then again, if he had persuaded the Chieftain to visit him…he was important. People just forgot that.
“How do you know I’m not going to go?”
Yelroan glanced at Merish, then pulled out a sheet. He handed it to Merish.
“There’s your odds of going.”
Merish stared down at a strange series of notations. Then at the final number.
“22.8%?”
“Yep.”
“You can calculate that?”
Merish laughed. Yelroan looked at him over his spectacles.
“Merish. I can calculate anything.”
The [Shamanic Warrior] blinked. Yelroan held the gaze, serious as could be. It reminded Merish of the time he’d shown his friend the true power of his Skill. Probability. Calculation. If you gave a Skill to that?
Then Yelroan crossed his arms and did a pose.
“Math!”
The moment ended. Merish put his friend in a headlock and laughed.
 
—-
 
The moment Viri saw Yelroan, he was awestruck.
“That is the coolest Gnoll I have ever seen!”
Yelroan posed in front of Ikl and Sveha, who stared at him open-mouthed. Merish was much amused.
“Sveha, Ikl, you don’t remember Yelroan?”
“Mother says we shouldn’t copy him.”
Ikl piped up. Yelroan laughed and swept back his dyed hair. His glasses caught the light and flashed.
“My eyes!”
Someone screamed and toppled from a ladder. Merish hurried the group off.
The Meeting of Tribes was brighter to Merish. Or maybe it was Yelroan plus Viri and the children. Khaze met them, sighing at Yelroan, but she embraced him.
“You don’t visit us at all, Yelroan. Not that we see you in the central clan apart from gatherings like this.”
“I’m often busy. Besides, I heard what your partner thinks of me.”
Khaze coughed, and Merish wondered what her husband, Inir, did think of Yelroan. The Gnoll was occupied with the tribe’s job all day, at any rate, so there was no conflict.
“Ah, the tribes! What shall we do, now we’re all together, like when we were cubs?”
Khaze looked around. Yelroan glanced at Merish, but the Gnoll had no preference. Viri gestured at the festival-section, which had lots of games, some of which you spent money on.
“We’ve been playing games all day! I uh, spent some money. Want to play? And pay?”
Sveha and Ikl tugged the older Gnolls over to some of the games. Many were indeed free, and prizes were given out to winners; it was the Meeting of Tribes, not just a place for [Merchants].
However, there was money to be made anywhere there were this many Gnolls, and they’d already wrung Viri dry. He pointed accusatorially at one booth.
“Look at that!”
It was a variation of a game many cultures had—a guessing game. Some Gnoll, a clever [Craftswoman], or expert in string or just games, had created a huge ball of thread, with multiple outlets. Pull the right string of the dozens upon dozens dangling there, and you got to win whatever it was connected to!
