“Then join our tribe for the night. Our Chieftain admires any Gnoll who speaks with conviction. Perhaps she will meet you. She will not like hearing about other powers; she does not like this Pallass army any more than you. How are you called?”
The other Gnolls broke up, some thoughtful, others shaking their heads. The Gnoll clasped paws with the female Gnoll.
“Me? Keras…il. Kerasil.”
She laughed and gestured. The Gnoll walked with her. He thought he’d done that well, but he kept forgetting his name. Yet if he met the Woven Bladegrass’ Chieftain…or should he win one of the martial tournaments yet? Perhaps tomorrow.
Kerash scratched at his neck, wondering if his Master was watching. Then his head swiveled.
Someone was watching him.
Even here, Kerash had seen powerful living beings. It was almost like there were worthy foes among the living, unlike how Venitra and Ijvani talked about the ‘inferior flesh-things’. Kerash had been…impressed…by all the Gnolls who had confronted the Raskghar.
He rather liked it here. Something called to him. He didn’t know what. But he was wary, because his master had warned him about the potential for discovery.
Who was watching him? As he followed the Woven Bladegrass’ representative, Kerash spotted the watcher.
A metal Gnoll? He slowed, and stared. One of the Honored Warriors of the Steelfur Tribe. One of the names he had memorized.
Adetr Steelfur. Kerash felt the Gnoll’s Skill touching him. Trying to learn something.
It wouldn’t work. The undead Gnoll’s mind raced.
A probing Skill. Master warned me about them. I am warded against such things. Keep calm. Do not react. Bow?
He inclined his head slightly. Adetr snorted, nodded once, and turned away. Kerash kept walking.
Keep to my Master’s plan. All is well. Enjoy myself. Master, how am I supposed to do that?
“Do you use that axe well, Kerasil? Or is it for show? Perhaps you can show me after this.”
The Woven Bladegrass Gnoll teased. Kerash bared his teeth. He forgot his worries.
“I am among the best you will ever meet.”
“Oh? You’ll have to prove that!”
The undead walked forwards. This was a bit fun after all. Far better than being taught by that rude skeleton.
 
—-
 
Someone who was not enjoying the Meeting of Tribes sat cross-legged, in the middle of her tribe. Her small tribe—but not a weak tribe.
Ekhtouch, perfection made manifest, the tribe whose children were without flaw, who comingled and produced the finest of each species…were a boring tribe. They tended to be aloof when meeting other tribes.
They did not intermingle freely. They certainly did not comingle in any way that could lead to offspring without their Chieftain’s permission. In a sense, each Ekhtouch was like a work of art.
And works of art were boring. Like paintings hanging on walls. They ate regimented meals. They trained themselves to be the best at what they did. They aspired to have children who were even more superior.
But what happened if you were the pinnacle of all things? The allegedly superior Gnoll, who could not be matched? The answer was…you were bored. Especially if you were Gireulashia Ekhtouch.
She sat cross-legged in the camp, watched by the children and adults alike. If she was hungry, someone would instantly prepare her food. If she desired a sparring partner—well, they would line up to be punched, like that funny Minotaur.
To be honest, Gireulashia preferred Venaz to her kin. He was strident, always asking questions about her Skills, and perceptive. Ekhtouch? Superior.
Of course, in theory, Gireulashia was one of them, but Ekhtouch had done too well with her. She was an anomaly, even among them.
Nine feet tall. Akin to half-Giants. It wasn’t just size, though; her mind was as sharp as a razor. She thought faster. She reacted quicker. She could even do things that lesser Gnolls struggled with.
For instance—she had stared at the ball of string in the festival, and picked the string that led to a prize unerringly. Ekhtouch had made much of that; proof positive of her eyes and mind.
…That other Gnoll had gotten the Centaur doll first, though. So she’d turned down the dagger, much to the stall owner’s relief. Gireulashia sighed, and shifted, but did not open her eyes as she ‘meditated’, or else her people would flock around her, asking what she wanted.
What she wanted was for them to leave her alone. Intellectually, she knew that would never happen. She was too valuable. Too…important.
[Paragon]. She was a giant among Gnolls, a queen among her kind. Greatest of the Ekhtouch bar none, and thus—greatest across this wide world among all Gnolls. Only the best of Chieftains and Named Adventurers could match her, and only by dint of deed and level, not simple…superiority.
She did not think it was arrogance to believe any of this. Already, Gireulashia had defeated countless Gnolls in sparring matches. She had beaten them in every contest imaginable, from races to strength to even displays of mental acumen.
If anything, her status weighed heavily on her. She had to be a leader. To inspire! Gireulashia Ekhtouch would lead her tribe in the decades to come. She might be mother to the greatest [Chieftain] of this era.
…It was a heavy burden. Too heavy for a fifteen year old girl.
Sometimes, Gireulashia, who preferred ‘Gire’ rather than her portentous name, thought even her tribe forgot how young she was. She spoke like an adult and thought with their complexity, but that was just how she was.
Other Gnolls had no idea, obviously assuming you didn’t get to her height without being at least fully-grown. They thought she was half again as old as she was, if they wondered at all.
Being treated like an adult, especially an attractive one, was not fun either for Gire. So many requests, subtle and otherwise, made her very uncomfortable. Only Venaz had instantly figured it out. When she had asked how, he had snorted.
“I’ve seen noble children surrounded by [Nursemaids] before. There is a difference between that, and an honor guard.”
“Honored Gireulashia. The Chieftain wishes you to meet another tribe. Will you attend?”
The Gnoll [Paragon] opened her eyes. She rose in one movement and nodded.
“Of course.”
Boredom took many forms. It was uncomfortable to meet the Gnoll [Chieftain] of the tribe who tried to introduce her to his fine son who was far too old. Or she too young.
Gire tried to hide behind the tallest Gnoll there, nearly a foot shorter than she was. She spoke, demonstrated her perfect etiquette, made an incisive comment, and slunk away as soon as she could.
They thought she was aloof. Some superior Gnoll who looked down on the others. Gire went into her tent and put her head under pillows custom-made for her.
“Honored Gireulashia, are you hungry? There is food if you require it.”
Someone bothered her no less than thirty four minutes later. Gire already knew it was time to eat, and they worried about her growth.
“Mm. I am content.”
“We shall put aside meals for you, then.”
The Gnoll bowed and retreated. ‘Honored Gire’ sat up. They had made her an Honored Gnoll before she was even grown. That was expectation for you.
She sulked. She hated sitting and making pleasant-talk with all the other important Gnolls and her [Chieftain] and [Shaman]. It was okay now and then, when tribes met, but that was every day in the Meeting of Tribes.
And she couldn’t act her age. Gire listened to Ekhtouch’s children playing. They were allowed to be children, even for the superior tribe. She rummaged around her private possessions and pulled out a doll.
She had really wanted the Centaur doll, but it did not become Honored Gire to ask for one, or carry one around in the Meeting of Tribes. That dratted Gnoll with the spectacles had gotten it. She’d heard him muttering; he hadn’t seen the lines of thread, but he’d used a Skill. He’d watched twenty six Gnolls take turns, then made his move a fraction before Gire could.
Had he counted the Gnolls, observed which strings they pulled and somehow extrapolated the right answer? It was a function of his class, but which class?
Gire’s mind sorted through factoids. Let’s see. His scent, location, and markings all indicated Plain’s Eye, as had the Gnolls he joined, despite his flashy dress. Plain’s Eye Tribe had few Gnolls of such description, but they were rumored to have…
…a [Mathematician] of all classes…
Her mind connected the dialogue she’d once heard in regard to rumors about that tribe. She matched the Gnoll to the class in less than a second, putting the clues together.
That was easy. It was just how she thought, which other Gnolls took to be supreme calculation. It was just…how she was born. Did other people applaud Gnolls for breathing? Gire was not proud of her attributes because they were not earned. Ekhtouch was wrong to place excessive pride in that, to her mind. There was a word for that. Hubris.
Her ears could pick out a fly rubbing its legs together fifty feet away. Her eyes could see tiny bugs and things other Gnolls didn’t believe existed, like the munching bugs that ate plant leaves.
…Which was terrible, really, especially in crowded places like this. Thankfully, Gire had long learned how to ‘adjust’ all her senses down to a normal Gnoll’s level of perception to prevent being overwhelmed. Even so, she had taken precautions for this event.
She removed a bit of beeswax she’d stuck in her ears in the privacy of her tent. That she could hear as well as ‘regular’ Gnolls despite that was also a virtue.
A curious sound made its way into her ears in the brief moment when the overload of countless voices and sound filled Gire’s ears. She could hear conversations, could eavesdrop on any conversation not warded if she chose, and she did not choose to hear such things. Too often, she could sort through the layers of sound and hear a Gnoll having a really bad, just explosive time in an outhouse.
Smell it too. However, this sound called to Gire because she had never heard it before. She blinked.
“What’s that?”
She rose from her tent. Gnolls instantly approached her with food, but Gire waved it off.
“I…am going to walk about the Meeting of Tribes.”
“We shall accompany—”
“No. I shall simply observe.”
The Ekhtouch Gnolls wavered.
“The Chieftain would not want you to be hurt, Honored Gireulashia.”
She fixed them with an arch glance.
“What could harm me here? Raskghar? Other Gnolls?”
Faced with that, they couldn’t rightly object. So Gire strode off before they could find the Chieftain and stop her. She wound her way through the Meeting of Tribes as Gnolls stopped. Pointed. She heard them.
“What is that? Ekhtouch?”
“She’s magnificent. So tall.”
“I don’t even know if we’re the same species…”
That hurt her. Gire affected not to notice, her chin raised, posture perfect. She walked forwards, slowed, turned her head. Following the sound.
 
—-
 
She had to traverse the Meeting of Tribes for a while to hone in on it. It turned out the sound was coming from the ‘exterior’ of the camps, and Gire’s ability to use her hearing wasn’t perfect yet. Still, she eventually tracked it down to a foreign Gnoll’s camp and sighed.
It was hard to just walk in, so she pretended to be looking at activities. She waved away Gnolls who approached her, asking to talk, flirting, or just curious. She paused as she circumnavigated the ring of tents.
“Hmm. Hmm.”
Gire paused, and watched Gnolls playing a curious game with lengths of wood where you hit a ball and then ran around a diamond. She angled herself.
“…There.”
She leaned against a post of wood that could support her weight. In theory, to those who looked at her, she was watching the game.
In truth, she was staring into the other Gnoll’s camp. At a tent where the sound was coming from. Gire stared at the tent.
She stared through the tent.
Her eyes sharpened, piercing through the weave of fabric. It was hard to ‘see’ unless it was poor-quality cloth, but Gire could still put together a picture of what was happening inside. Again—she usually didn’t want to, as there were only a few things Gnolls did inside tents.
This time, though, she slowly pieced together two figures. She listened, focusing on the voices from within. It was hard, very hard, to tune out everything, but she eventually put together a picture in her mind.
Two individuals. One Gnoll—fur brown. Male voice? Female non-Gnoll. Can see skin…Human? Stitchfolk? Dullahan? Half-Elf?
“…so strange. Is it alright for me to see this?”
The Gnoll was speaking. The female one had a laugh in her voice. They were sitting together.
“You know about me, and your aunt says it is alright, Tkrn.”
Tkrn. Gire realized she was staring at Silverfang’s camp. She knew his name from Ekhtouch, who had journeyed with Silverfang’s tribe. A ‘Tkrn’ had been part of a brawl…
“And it doesn’t run out of mana—power?”
“Not with the spell, Rose said. I don’t know what Krshia did! Everything is different. Even the data is…let me see.”
“Can you play another song?”
Song. That was what she’d heard. But it had been different than even the song-crystals of the Singer of Terandria. A sound she had never heard.
She couldn’t see whatever they were staring at. Her eyes could see through holes in the fabric…but not actually pierce it completely.
She’d have to get closer. Gire rose, glancing ahead. There were walls of cloth or actual material that allowed tribes their privacy. She rotated her head, checking the camp.
The two were in a secluded spot at the back; there were sentries on the outside, but it was clear they were in private, far from anyone but her hearing. It would be hard for Gire to find an excuse to walk into the camp.
So she didn’t. She pretended to walk out of the Meeting of Tribes, as if she was going hunting or for a run. She checked the landscape around her.
Gnolls roaming the plains, playing games. Games of tag—she didn’t care what they were doing, only the positions of their heads.
Cones of sight. She waited, forming a picture of the lines of sight. Waiting, waiting…until the sentry nearest her glanced down at a bug crawling up her fur. Until all eyes were off her. Then Gire jumped.
She jumped straight over the wall of the Silverfang encampment. The Gnolls inside the camp never saw her land; she’d jumped such that the top of a tent hid her. She landed in a squat.
In theory, a nine-foot tall Gnoll was the most obvious thing in the world and impossible to hide. In theory.
Gire had Skills as a [Paragon]. Her class was one of those rare ones that encompassed countless areas; in time she might consolidate it. Like [Paragon Warrior] or [Paragon Chieftain].
