A dream without image or sound was still a dream if you knew you were having it. Each time, he did, and it was a welcome dream.
Not a happy dream. Not a…good dream. But not a bad dream, either. So he clung to it. Hoping each second would last a bit longer. Until he woke.
The dream without anything was preferable to seeing something. It was about half-and-half that he got that kind of rest. So when the Gnoll sat up automatically, before the dawn broke, he felt glad.
Chief Warrior Merish heard rustling around his small yurt; comfortable, large enough to do a small circle around in, and as plush as you could want, really. It was packed with pillows, blankets, enough so that he had complained on seeing that he didn’t need the bed; he could lie on the blankets and stay several feet off the ground.
Someone stopped just outside the tent flaps. They sensed Merish waking up; or just knew him. A furry head poked through the flaps. A grin; russet brown fur with a bit of red, like his. Unlike his though, there was no blue and white dye in a warrior’s pattern, magic, the source of part of his powers.
His sister’s fur was just fur, and for a second she reminded him of a giant squirrel, poking her head through to smile at him.
“Merish, another good morning! Did I wake you?”
“No.”
“Good! Then—Sveha, Ikl. Your uncle is awake, yes? You can be louder.”
Merish heard a rustling sound, and then something small and even more squirrel-like popped through the tent flaps.
“Yay! Uncle!”
Sveha and Ikl, the two children of Merish’s sister charged into his tent. They leapt onto the bedding and the big Gnoll—until their mother called them back.
“I didn’t say you could attack your uncle! Behave!”
“It’s fine, Khaze.”
Merish got up, and stared at the two little Gnoll cubs rolling around. They sat up obediently, and he looked at little Sveha, still running around on all fours, and her older brother, Ikl.
Khaze sighed, but in the next moment she was smiling again. She led Merish out of the guest-tent in their subclan, part of the great Plain’s Eye Tribe that was camped at the Meeting of Tribes.
Around Merish was a sea of tents, and Gnolls rising to greet the pre-dawn day. Many still slept, but it reminded him of an army’s camp…and not of one at the exact same time. So many tents, but lacking the military straightness, the layout he was used to. At the same time…
Two Gnolls rolled out of the tent behind him. Merish and Khaze turned. His younger sister’s children literally rolled out, doing somersaults forward until they got dizzy and lay on the ground. Merish just stared at them. Khaze snorted with laughter.
“You two are too silly. Where did you learn that from?”
“Uncle Viri!”
Merish blinked. Uncle? Khaze, though, just laughed again.
“He would do that.”
She wasn’t perturbed by it, so Merish said nothing. He stood in the middle of the tents, the hustle and bustle, and realized he didn’t have his axe. He wore only a loincloth; he didn’t need armor with his shaman markings—he was a [Shamanic Warrior], after all—but a weapon was different.
He almost went back into the tent for it. Almost. Then stopped himself, deliberately. He…didn’t need it.
“Well, I hoped you were up. Ikl, Sveha, get more baskets. Two…no, three. Viri will be up soon, and Ikl and you can share.”
“I don’t want to carry it!”
Ikl protested, but he was already running off. Merish looked around. He felt lost. He didn’t have morning duties, unlike his sister. He was a returning warrior from abroad. From Rhir.
A war hero, they called him. Which meant he had nothing to do, unlike his sister. Yet it seemed today she wasn’t preparing for her usual job—[Knife-edge Slicer].
An odd class, to non-Gnolls especially. What it meant was—well, that Khaze was an expert in using knives in a variety of cutting tasks. Not combat, but butchering, cutting up ingredients for both food and alchemy, cutting fabric…anything you could want in a vast tribe like this. It was the sort of class you didn’t really get in cities unless you worked all kinds of jobs.
Today, though, she handed Merish a basket. He gave it a blank look.
“What’s this?”
His sister gave him a sheepish look and put one finger to her lips as her children ran up. She looked around for a [Shaman] and whispered conspiratorially.
“I know you’re on vacation, Merish, but you would help your sister gather some plants, wouldn’t you? There’s some fine plants to be picked today, and I need every paw I can grab—especially since few are awake at this hour!”
She had another basket and her children had two. Merish stared at the gathering basket, which he hadn’t used for over a decade, since earning his warrior markings. He didn’t mind the task, but he had to point out something he thought Khaze had forgotten. He gestured around at the tents. They stretched as far as the eye could see and hundreds of cook-fires were already beginning to glow.
This was only a fraction of the Meeting of Tribes, though. Soon, there would be countless tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Gnolls mingling and mixing. Tribes from across Izril had come. Perhaps there were millions of Gnolls here?
An army. He forced the comparison away and looked at Khaze.
“Gather what? We’re at the Meeting of Tribes, Khaze. Even the grass is being stomped flat.”
She laughed at him and slapped Merish on the shoulder.
“I know that—but the Gaarh Marsh tribe and three others got up to something last night. Now there are plants blooming everywhere! Edible ones as well as pretty flowers! A nice present, yes?”
The Gnoll blinked. He looked around and saw it was true. Unlike yesterday, the grass and dirt from so much activity had changed. A little plant had shot up overnight right next to his tent. He walked over as Khaze brought out a little bulls-eye lantern and shone it down. Merish squatted down and stared.
“That’s a tomato.”
The tomato plant sat there, three full-grown tomatoes hanging from the plant, which was already sagging under the weight. Khaze happily grabbed all three and yanked them off the plant.
“And that’s breakfast, yes? Why are you looking so surprised, Merish? [Shamans] and their tricks. Hrm. You’re still talking like a City Gnoll, too!”
Merish glanced up at her as Ikl and Sveha begged for a bite, complaining they hadn’t had food yet! Khaze assured them they would get breakfast—after gathering the unexpected plant bounty.
It was the second time she’d told him he was speaking differently.
Merish still felt like a Plains Gnoll, but his accent had changed, much to his bemusement. He had grown used to being told he spoke ‘funny’ by other species thanks to his rolling r’s and some of the idiosyncrasies of Gnollish expressions, like how ‘yes’ was both affirmative and indication of goodness, but it seemed to Gnolls from home, he had an accent.
Years abroad in Rhir had done that. Merish shook his head. Everything had changed. Sveha had been a baby, and Ikl had been younger than she was when he left. He had been eager, even ambitious, and…different.
He had come back with scars, ‘quiet’, to hear his friends and sister say it, with nightmares and stories of horror and war. And with Viri. The Plain’s Eye [Warriors] who had gone with him had come back too.
Eight of them. Many times more had gone, from many tribes. Many had gone again, to avenge the fallen. In that sense, Merish was among the lucky ones.
Commander Cirille was dead. So was Uxel. Delezza. Vorn, Lacten…
“Merish. Merish!”
He blinked. His sister was poking him in the side. He stared at her. She grinned, and he realized he’d spaced out.
“Take Sveha and Ikl with you. I would, but I’m going to fight for the rare cooking ingredients! I have to run, many thanks!”
“Wait, but I don’t even know what I’m looking f—”
She was already gone, jogging off on a quest to find something nice. Merish stared down at the tomato plant. It stared up at him, denuded of the tomatoes, probably fated to wither away or be stepped on.
You’ve taken my fruit. Leave me alone, you monster.
He looked after his sister, who was shooing Sveha and Ikl back towards him. Because they were too slow to elbow other Gnolls away from rubyroot plants and the like.
“Uncle! Mother says we have to stay with you!”
Sveha padded back over and sat there. Ikl yawned, blinking up at Merish. He looked around helplessly, almost amused, exasperated at Khaze. She hadn’t changed. She left him with her children, as if she was a cub still and foisting dishwashing duty onto him. Merish sighed, but inwardly, he smiled.
Why it didn’t translate to a smile on his face, he didn’t know.
“Why is there a carrot outside my tent? Is this a prank? Ahoy! Merish! Sveha! Ikl! It’s meeeeeee—”
Someone shouted. Merish, Ikl, and Sveha looked around—then up. A loud, exuberant voice cut through the quiet morning. A little figure bounced from the tent he’d hopped out of, and flew through the air like a giant grasshopper. Sveha and Ikl stared up, open-mouthed, though they’d seen Viri many times before.
The Lizardman hopped through the air and landed, planting his stick on the ground. He grinned, leaning on it as his one leg planted itself on the ground. He had only a stump for his second leg, but Viri hadn’t changed.
“Uncle Viri! I want to go hopping!”
“No, me!”
Ikl pushed his sister away. Viri hugged Sveha and Ikl and grinned.
“Merish! There’s a carrot over there. How did it get there?”
Viri could still smile. He pointed at the carrot sprouting from the ground in front of his tent, laughing with delight at it. Merish had to explain.
“We’re gathering plants. A [Shaman] made them sprout.”
“Really? Wow! That sounds like fun! Let’s go!”
The Lizardman hopped around excitedly, taking a basket from Sveha. He didn’t moan about the hour; other Gnolls were doing that, but they were used to the Lizardman, the foreigner from Baleros. Merish’s friend from Rhir.
A survivor of 5th Wall. That was what Merish couldn’t explain to Khaze. Oh, she knew enough. He had spared her all the details, but his tribe knew…and didn’t know.
5th Wall. It had come to be a phrase, almost like a password. If you understood what it meant—it was because you had been there. Merish went to gather plants on a day in the wondrous Meeting of Tribes, with his family, Viri.
He still felt like he was standing there, on distant Rhir.
 
—-
 
“Uncle, why do [Shamans] make plants appear?”
Sveha let Merish carry her as he trudged along. Viri was hopping with Ikl, who was trying to copy the Lizardman as they bounced from plant to plant. The blooms were everywhere. Merish stared at a sunflower taller than he was and gingerly plucked the entire head and tossed it into the basket. Sveha sniffed it, then looked up at him.
“Yeah, why do they do it, Merish? We don’t have [Shamans]. Our Nagas have all kinds of magic…but this is more like Centaur stuff. Dullahans are mostly [Geomancers] and stuff. Maybe it’s a [Druid] thing. But why plants?”
Viri looked expectant too. Merish shrugged.
“…As part of a way to demonstrate the power of their tribes, I suppose. Impress the others. A fun activity.”
Viri nodded. Sveha, on the other hand, looked up.
“Why can [Shamans] make plants grow?”
“…Because they have the tribe’s magic.”
“Why does the tribe have magic?”
Merish looked down at Sveha.
“Everyone has magic, Sveha.”
“Why does everyone have magic?”
Merish was stumped by that one. Sveha was little, and curious. She asked ‘why’ so many times he felt like a [Shaman] himself.
“How about we find more plants? You can ask your mother about that later. Can you smell anything interesting, Sveha?”
And Khaze can deal with existential questions about magic. Merish was a [Shamanic Warrior], but he didn’t have time for an hour-long lecture about harnessing magical power. Sveha nodded. She cast around, sniffing, and then pointed.
“There! Smells good!”
All three gatherers trusted Sveha’s nose. She was a Level 2 [Sniffer], a child’s class, so her sense of smell was even more acute than other children. Merish jogged over, seeing more Gnolls eagerly grabbing plants. They were arguing already.
“That pumpkin is on our tribe’s land, friend.”
“But I was uprooting it before you came along, good fellow Gnoll, yes? This is a bounty for all.”
“So why don’t we share it?”
Two friendly Gnolls were arguing over a huge pumpkin. Merish took his group around what might be an impending fight, and saw a tiny flower. He blinked.
“Good nose, Sveha. I think this is valuable.”
Instantly, both arguing Gnolls looked over. They were from different tribes. Sveha stared down at the purple flower with the red pistils.
“It smells good. What is it?”
“I think it’s useful. Viri, do you recognize this?”
The Lizardman hopped over.
“Nope!”
He announced triumphantly. Ikl, surprisingly, identified it.
“That’s saffron! Mother said to grab it.”
“Well, it goes into the basket, then.”
The non-native plants to Izril were growing thanks to the [Shaman]’s magic. Merish grabbed the entire flower and decided to uproot all of it.
“Hey! That’s on the Decles Tribe’s land—”
One of the Gnolls began to stride over. Merish straightened and the Gnoll hesitated. He looked at Merish, who outweighed him, out-heighted him, and certainly out-leveled him.
Merish, whose fur glowed with magical markings. The Gnoll blinked.
“…But the Plain’s Eye Tribe is a friend of ours! Why don’t we share everything? Here’s your pumpkin, friend.”
He backed off. Merish was amused—he would have split the saffron flower if the Gnoll insisted. Viri chortled.
“This is why you have to have a Merish.”
He whispered slyly to Ikl, who gave his uncle a proud look. Embarrassed—he hadn’t meant to intimidate the other Gnoll—Merish hurried off with Sveha.
More Gnolls joined the search, exclaiming over plants that had popped out everywhere. Merish wondered how long they had to gather; until they filled their baskets, he decided. They were almost done when Ikl pointed.
“Look! There’re some nice plants! I’ll get them!”
He ran over, ahead of other Gnolls to secure a spot. By now it was a competition. He’d found a patch of plants with fat fruits. Merish glanced at him, then his eyes narrowed and he snapped.
“Herthee! Ikl don’t touch that.”
Some other Gnolls looked around. A male Gnoll blinked.
“Herthee? Grab it!”
The Gnoll boy froze, one paw raised. He looked from the Gnoll to Merish, confused. So did the other Gnolls picking the herbs.
Viri eyed the plant, hopping over.
“What’s Herthee and why are we grabbing and not grabbing it?”
Merish trotted over to confirm he was right. He squatted down and eyed the bush-like growth.
