That every Gnoll knew. Lehra Ruinstrider and her team appeared, the Stargnoll wearing her armor already. Chieftain Iraz and the Steelfur Tribe stormed forwards. Yet every eye was on the first Gnoll, who had pushed through the Az’muzarre Tribe. Now, she stared down at the Raskghar, who backed up in their cages. Eying her with clear disbelief.
She was thirteen feet tall, as if someone had…stretched her. Her arms were long, hanging low at her sides, and she wore a ragged cape that stretched to her legs. The cape was…hide.
A bear’s hide. The Gnoll was growling. Roaring.
“Who is that? What kind of—she looks like a bear herself. What kind of class turns you into that?”
One of the Gnolls didn’t recognize her—or couldn’t put name to the truth. Merish knew her. Someone else breathed, a [Huntress] who lowered the bow she had been clutching.
“[Racdelbear Shapechanger]. That’s…Garsine. Wallbreaker. I thought she was dead.”
The Gnoll who had broken the walls of six Drake cities came to a halt, in front of the Az’muzarre tribe, facing the Raskghar in cages. The [Shaman] tried to give an order and Garsine looked at her.
The [Shaman] fell silent.
Merish heard a familiar howl among the others. A muster-call from the Plain’s Eye tribe. He began to push towards it. It was for [Shamanic Warriors]. Before he got there, he saw another group emerge.
Gnolls. Each one was tall. They were akin to him—he stopped as he saw the first wave of them appear. He smelled them too. When he saw them, Merish knew in an instant who they were.
Each Gnoll looked to be covered in muck. Mud, detritus of nature. A swamp’s coating. They were practically masked in it, from head to toe. They left a trail behind them. As if the swamp had come to life itself.
“[Marsh-Guardians of Gaarh]. The Gaarh Marsh Tribe’s greatest warriors.”
Behind their tribe, Merish thought he saw the hill, the living embodiment of their tribe itself moving. Then he heard the howl and moved.
 
—-
 
Gnolls looked around as the Steelfur Tribe’s [Warriors] began to march towards the Raskghar. They joined Gaarh Marsh—and then other tribes.
[Shamanic Warriors] of the Plain’s Eye Tribe. The Woven Bladegrass’ fierce warriors.
Krshia Silverfang had come to a halt when the Raskghar arrived. She remembered them and their horror, and was thus less affected by seeing them than the other Gnolls who had never glimpsed such things. She saw the Gnolls stream forwards. Not just Az’muzarre, or new heroes of Gnollkind like Lehra.
Summoned by the word of these monsters from myth, older than even stories of the Death of Magic, older than Demons, all the Gnolls were coming.
Honored Berr strode forwards with Wild Waste [Berserkers] and [Barbarians], bare-chested, not smiling, their weapons already drawn. Next to him strode giants, not as tall as Garsine, but taller than any other.
“The Ekhtouch Tribe.”
Krshia recognized them instantly. The Gnolls in the crowd were calming, recognizing the greatest tribes. One pointed.
“Who is that?”
A Gnoll strode along, the second-tallest Gnoll but for Garsine. Taller than the other Ekhtouch!
“That must be…Gireulashia Ekhtouch. Their [Paragon].”
Krshia started. She saw her sister by her side. Chieftain Akrisa had come, with the other Chieftains and [Shamans]. She moved past Krshia, towards Garsine.
The other Gnolls were coming to a halt next to her, facing the Raskghar.
The legends of Gnolls. Next to Chieftain Iraz marched a Gnoll whose entire body was metal, not just his fur. Even his skin underneath looked like moving metal.
Adetr Steelfur, nephew of the Chieftain of the Steelfur clan. Inheritor of the same will that had created his tribe.
He looked like a statue of a Gnoll cast in metal come to life. His teeth, his claws…all but his eyes were metal. And even the eyes…the whites had turned to iron or something like them. Only the pupils looked like flesh.
The ranks of Steelfur parted. Krshia, moving towards the front with Akrisa, saw even the other tribes stop. Steelfur Gnolls looked back and moved aside.
A Gnoll was coming. Krshia stared past them and saw an honor-guard wearing curious armor escorting an elderly Gnoll. He was walking with help, but he slowed.
“Honored Deskie?”
Krshia jumped. She saw Deskie, the Longstalker Tribe’s great [Magical Weaver] behind her. Chieftain Eska was there. Deskie raised her own aged head.
“Is that you? Shedrkh?”
The Gnoll was so old he had gone to full-grey. But never white. His eyes had a trace of rheum and a Gnoll had to support him as he walked. No wonder he had not been seen like the other famous Gnolls. Yet his was a famous name as well. Krshia instantly ducked her head with the Gnolls around her and stepped back.
The two Gnolls met. Deskie joined Shedrkh, who gestured to his guard as they admitted her.
“Deskie, I am told terrible foes have returned. Come…I would not have the courage alone. Show me these ancient nightmares of our people.”
They moved on. Eska held back, but Chieftain Orelighn didn’t recognize the old Gnoll. He whispered to Krshia and Akrisa.
“Who was that?”
Both looked incredulously at the Greenpaw’s Chieftain.
“Didn’t you recognize him, Orelighn? Honored Shedrkh. The Keeper of Hides!”
Orelighn frowned; the name was familiar to him. He blinked, then focused on Shedrkh’s back.
“A [Tanner]?”
Krshia corrected Orelighn, almost about to slap him for his tone.
“A [Tanner] who made armor out of Kraken’s flesh. Who has made more leather out of Wyverns than a lesser [Tailor] has made cloth out of cotton.”
She pointed at his honor-guard. Some of them wore unfamiliar, leather-ish armor. Flexible as fish’s scales. Tough as…Orelighn’s eyes went huge.
“Do we go with them? Us?”
Akrisa’s partner, the [Shaman] Cetrule, wavered. He represented the Silverfang Tribe, but Krshia had to admit—she didn’t know if Akrisa fit, even being a Chieftain with these Gnolls.
“We go. We are Chieftains and you are my [Shaman]. Krshia, you are my sister. You fought these Raskghar. We belong.”
Gnolls turned to look at Krshia. Akrisa’s chin rose. A voice came from behind them.
“Yes. Silverfang and Liscor. You do belong. Let us go.”
The group of Gnolls turned. They fell back a step, but the Gnoll just walked towards Akrisa and nodded his head. Armor covered him, and he leaned on a strange polearm that Krshia had never seen before, despite being a [Shopkeeper].
“I have never seen such things, and I have walked every land in this world. If you know more, then come, Chieftain of the Silverfang Tribe. I would be honored to walk with you.”
The adventurer inclined his head. Akrisa stuttered.
“That—we are honored, Honored Gadiekh.”
She fell into step with him. Orelighn pointed wordlessly and Krshia nodded.
Gadiekh, the World-Pact Adventurer. The Named Adventurer who was unanimously given his rank by eighteen different nations.
One more great Chieftain joined the procession near Krshia. She too, was unmistakable.
“I am…sad. This day dawns again. Can no old horror ever truly be ended? My cousin should have been here to see it. Feshi, come. You must see them too.”
Krshia saw light. The dawn was still breaking, yet somehow, impossibly, light also shone down from the sky. The dark clouds overhead parted.
A Gnoll walked in the light.
The sun shone down around her. A beam of light that broke even rain and clouds apart and shone on her always.
Torishi. Chieftain of the Weatherfur Tribe. Next to her walked Feshi. They joined the Gnolls, who formed a semi-circle. The Raskghar in their cages snarled, eying the others. Sensing their power.
They recognized Krshia. One actually pointed at her, howling what might have been an insult in their tongue, and she saw countless heads swing her way. Krshia stared at the Raskghar.
Now they see you. Can you overcome our people at their strength? I think…not.
She felt safer here than she had in Liscor, even with Chaldion and the army. Krshia bared her teeth. Then she felt the world tremble.
Something was walking. Krshia’s head slowly turned. The snarling Raskghar fell silent. They looked up—then tried to squeeze back against the bars. The Pallassian [Commander] gulped.
The Gaarh Marsh Tribe’s greatest guardian was moving. The huge thing that you could mistake for a hill, so still it had been. Now, it walked.
It rose above them all, even the Rocs and Garsine Wallbreaker. A figure of earth and swamps. The greatest power of the old world.
Earth Elemental.
 
—-
 
Merish felt the thing with each step. He gazed up at the Gaarh Marsh’s protector. He saw the Earth Elemental stop.
The great elemental was not shaped like a Gnoll, or a humanoid, really. It was too squat. Yet it had limbs. He had heard tell there were smaller ones in times past, and they could change shape.
That they were intelligent was also a given; the Earth Elementals, like Treants of old, were great, natural protectors. Guardians of nature, which could doom cities if roused to wrath.
All that Merish knew. Yet, as the living piece of earth halted, Gnolls moved back, wary, like people around an unpredictable animal.
They underestimated it. Merish did too. For he saw a line split across the Earth Elemental’s body. Not where a mouth would be on a regular creature; along its belly.
Yet it was a mouth. It moved. The Earth Elemental pointed one limb at the Raskghar.
It spoke.
“RASKGHAR.”
Merish heard the emotion in that single word. Wrath, fury—an implacable hatred that reached back far past the days he had been born—all delivered in the immortal tones of grinding earth, the very squelch of mud, the shifting of the firmament itself.
The monsters flinched at that. The Earth Elemental walked forwards further, raising a huge limb. The Gaarh Marsh tribe ran around it, trying to calm its wrath.
Was it going to slaughter them? Merish didn’t think even Garsine could stop this great creature’s wrath. The Raskghar flinched, almost resigned to their fate.
They could have died in that moment, surrounded by so many Gnolls feeling the ancient grudge amplify the old stories and nightmares carried among the tribes. The Earth Elemental was moving, the Gnolls tensed.
Then a howl disrupted the Elemental’s movement. It slowed, and the last great tribe appeared. Merish began to walk forwards, following the first Gnoll as he walked through the ranks of the [Shamanic Warriors].
The [Shaman] stared ahead with mismatched eyes. He had removed the eye patch that normally covered the unnatural eye. He walked forwards, and the Raskghar focused on him. Then looked away.
They couldn’t help it.
The Plain’s Eye [Shaman] of [Shamans], greatest of them all, advanced, his eyes unwavering. Gaze into the eyes of the Shaman of the Eternal Grassland. The Raskghar shuddered. For his eyes recognized them. His eyes had seen Raskghar before.
One eye had.
The [Shaman] stopped, and the last figure approached. Merish felt him coming. A familiar feeling. He straightened, and locked eyes with the Gnoll as he passed by for a moment. He saw the lips move, the words unspoken, but there.
Old stories, Merish.
Something—walked with the greatest Chieftain, leader of Merish’s tribe. Chieftain Xherw halted next to his [Shaman]. The Gnolls regarded each other, then turned as one to face the Raskghar.
The beasts of Liscor’s dungeon quailed. Thus, the Raskghar came to the Meeting of Tribes. Merish saw Garsine snarling, the implacable wariness of Iraz. The wary battle lust of the Woven Bladegrass Chieftain and her people.
Thereafter, he realized, the Meeting of Tribes could not be the same. He felt it in his bones as he looked for Viri. A calling back to war.
 
—-
 
The day the Raskghar arrived at the Meeting of Tribes caused chaos. Not productive chaos, mind you.
It reminded Krshia too much of how Liscor had dealt with the first attacks. A lot of condemnation, outrage, and unity—but no resolution. The tribes united against the Raskghar threat. Thereafter?
Splintered. The great meetings with the Chieftains were about to begin, and it became clear that the Raskghar issue, the tribes going to Chandrar, the Antinium, would be among the contentious issues discussed.
For instance, Az’muzarre wanted the Raskghar dead. They would execute them within seconds if they got their paws on them, which was why Az’muzarre wasn’t given responsibility to guard them. That fell to a joint task-force while the Raskghar’s fate was decided.
A lot of tribes wanted them dead, but the cool-headed ones wanted to know all there was to know first. One side effect of the Raskghar arriving was that it thrust Pallass into the limelight. The Walled City had as many grudges with and against the tribes as any Drake city, but this certainly helped their image. Then again—others wondered if this was a ploy, to distract the tribes.
Silverfang’s involvement with the Raskghar was far more of a net positive, and Krshia and Akrisa were invited to tribe after tribe to re-tell the story of the Raskghar raids.
That was how their tribe finally worked its way into the fore of the Meeting of Tribes, rubbing ears with even the biggest and best. And there were a lot of stronger tribes. Silverfang was good.
Compared to the legends of Gnolls, Krshia recalled they weren’t superior. But good.
Good…at what Silverfang did.
“Hrr. Are these Silverfang’s chief warriors? Well met.”
The Wild Wastes Chieftain looked the Gnolls armed with silver-alloy weapons up and down. They had no fancy names like the marsh guardians or shamanic warriors of other tribes, and were not a recognized class or force.
They were…[Silverarms Warriors]. As in, you literally carried silver. And presumably this helped with the stabbing or fighting.
It actually did, a bit. Silverfang’s warriors were quite good at fighting mage-barriers and the like. They were a reason no Drake city picked a fight with their tribe lightly.
On the other hand…the [Silverarms Warriors] stood behind Akrisa and Krshia and tried not to sweat as they eyed their counterparts from the Wild Wastes Tribe, a tribe known for their combat prowess.
[Barbarians]. [Berserkers]. Gnolls who somehow contrived to outweigh their Silverfang counterparts by sheer height or muscle, despite the armor the Silverfangs wore. The likes of Honored Berr, Berr the Berserker, were cut from the Wild Wastes Tribe.
Chieftain Perale was bare-chested, sitting in a loincloth to greet the Silverfang’s delegation. Akrisa, the technical junior in age as well as her tribe’s might, dipped her head slightly.
“Chieftain Perale, you honor us.”
“The honor is mine, Chieftain Akrisa. Please, share our fire and hospitality. Ah—what is this?”
