What was also useful was learning how each tribe fought. Generic warriors with a few powerful individuals they might be, but they still fought like…their people. Adetr used it on the Minotaur, Venaz, and was rewarded with a fight.
The King of Minotaurs herself wiped him out. He tried three times and she killed him before he even touched the Minotaur lines. It was actually a disappointment; he wanted to fight the House of Minos, not see a giant axe filling the world and feel his death. He supposed Venaz was fairly important in the House of Minos after all.
Then again, Adetr’s Skill gave him the greatest battle possible. Not solo-duels. Sometimes he regretted that—but it suited him. He always had Steelfur at his back. Always faced his foes at full power.
Well, should I try it on Plain’s Eye? If they sense it like Garsine and I offend their [Shaman] or Chieftain…
Adetr growled. He could use it on a lesser warrior, but less of the tribe showed up. Presumably because a lesser representative couldn’t get all of his or her tribe behind them. He cast around, but there was no ‘fun’ Gnoll to see at the moment.
“Maybe that Garuda.”
He looked up, hopefully. They made much of Pomle’s strength. Or—what about the Dwarf? Something had gone wrong that one time he’d used it on a Dwarf. He’d won eighty nine simulations against Dwarves…except for one. A weak Dwarf, but someone in the projection had slaughtered Adetr so fast he couldn’t see what it was.
That was why he lived, to know there were worthy foes like that. He’d level up, challenge them again. Who next?
Az’muzarre. Of course! He found one of their warriors and grinned.
Let’s see how the greatest warriors of the Great Plains fare.
He fought the entire tribe and died in seconds. Adetr grunted.
“Not bad. But cheap.”
Dragonbone weapons. That was how they cut through him and his warriors in moments. A weapon with unmatched attack power.
Surprisingly, Adetr didn’t respect that. They were bearers of relics, whose power was given to them by what they held. Take it away and…well, his Skill didn’t let him choose the parameters of the battle, but he could choose to do it himself.
Thirty eight minutes to reset.
This time he yanked a blade off one of the Gnolls before they killed him. Sure enough—the snarling Az’muzarre champion was less effective, just striking ineffectually with a mundane weapon while her companions ran him through.
So they relied too much on the weapons. Adetr lost interest at once. Maybe some were better—but that was annoying. It was half and half—the Gnolls who stood up to the stories, and those who turned out to be exaggerated.
Aimlessly, Adetr chased through the crowd. You know who was good? The Pallassian Drakes. He went hunting for one—or a City Gnoll. Where was one of them?
There. He found one after a few minutes, a group striding along, arguing.
“Are you sure it was her?”
“She was huge.”
“I do not understand. Why would one of Ekhtouch, especially their [Paragon]…she knows. We must be careful, Chieftain Eska.”
“We have the right to be angry, Krshia! If she appeared in their tents—”
He aimed. Krshia Silverfang. Adetr whispered.
“[Vision of Greatest Battle].”
As always, he went still. Then he jerked. He snarled.
“Antinium!?”
Gnolls around him turned. Krshia didn’t hear, as she strode off. Adetr felt at his fur.
“What was—”
Liscor’s first defenses had folded up depressingly fast. Despite the city’s walls blasting them with decent wall spells, Steelfur was a powerful tribe and their Watch was…average. No high-level Drakes beyond one with a sword and a few [Senior Guards]. He’d heard there was a powerful duo, but he hadn’t seen one. They’d taken the walls, fought towards the Watch Captain…
Then the Antinium had come out of the ground. Thousands! Adetr had fallen into a pit, where it was dark, fighting shapes that came out of the darkness, the earth—he’d killed many, until they bore him down.
He had to do it again. See more. Instantly, Adetr followed after the group—then cursed as he remembered the recharge time.
“Hrm. This is excellent. I can fight them. Watch the ground. We have to lure them out? Stick to the walls…”
He was planning the battle, excitedly. He strode about, nearly hopping with impatience, then set out for the Silverfang camp.
To his great disappointment, Krshia Silverfang wasn’t there. Had they been talking about Ekhtouch? Adetr paced back and forth, then decided to go there. But before he could, he heard a voice.
“Oh my god. Where? Ekhtouch? What are we going to do?”
Something was—off. Adetr frowned. He saw a young woman hurrying with a group of Gnolls out of the camp. A Human woman.
“Hrm.”
Adetr had met many non-Gnolls at the Meeting of Tribes, so a guest didn’t surprise him like the Lizardman with one leg. He guessed this young woman was a friend to Silverfang.
Maybe she was from Liscor? It was worth a try. He pointed at her.
“[Vision of Greatest Battle].”
 
—-
 
Adetr awoke under a strange sky. It seemed smaller. He frowned, sniffing the air as his tribe howled their traditional call to war. Then he heard a strange sound. An explosion—louder than anything.
Gnolls vanished next to him. Adetr recoiled, knocked sideways by some powerful blast. Was that a [Fireball]? No—he stared ahead as they pointed at a strange object. 
“What is that?”
He charged towards something. A…were those Humans standing over there? What were they holding? What was that giant metal thing?
He saw a strange metal tube swiveling to point a long ‘nose’ at h—
 
—-
 
Adetr died. He stopped, staring, as Rose ran past him. His head turned to follow her. The Gnoll’s jaw was open. He had died quickly before—always to high-level warriors who could close the distance. He had seen many battles. Many armies.
Never that.
“What was…”
They were heading somewhere. Adetr stared at Rose, then instantly followed after.
 
—-
 
Gireulashia Ekhtouch stood behind her Chieftain, head bowed, the iPhone on the ground in front of them. The tent where they talked was filled with commotion—albeit warded so no one could hear the intense discussion taking place. More Silverfang Gnolls and Ekhtouch stood tensely to one side.
Adetr didn’t care. He stared at one person, and one person alone.
Rose. He lurked, but couldn’t help but stare at her. Every forty minutes—the transit through the sprawling Meeting of Tribes had taken a while, and the discussion looked to be a long one—he blinked for about five seconds.
And his questions multiplied.
He survived the fourth time long enough to see more. It was a small force. He counted barely two hundred Humans, not counting the strange Golem-vehicles. He supposed that was all Rose was ‘worth’.
They still ravaged the Steelfur tribe. The second time he’d gone down to—something. A shard of metal that hit him, propelled through the air.
It didn’t kill him, not the first shot. Nor the second. Nor the hundredth. He was metal, and a stronger metal than this.
Yet he was hit by hundreds, thousands of rounds in moments. Each Human had some kind of weapon that flashed and—
Lesser Steelfur warriors went down before they even closed. Their fur resisted the deadly projectiles barely at all. One, two, four at most, and they died.
Worse was that one…thing. One, or two; it did vary…giant boxes that destroyed everything they aimed at.
Worse than [Fireballs]. Somehow, it tore him apart. So he didn’t let it hit him.
The fourth time he managed to survive. Adetr had control of his tribe’s assets. Chieftain Iraz was there, as were [Shamans].
“Walls of earth! Barrier spells! Hide us under the earth!”
That seemed like the best way to survive. Adetr followed the Silverfang tribe as they concluded negotiations. The other Human and a Gnoll were talking with the huge [Paragon]—he didn’t care.
He had to know what this Human’s army was. The thirty eight minute cool-down was killing Adetr.
Six times.
They couldn’t hide under the ground! The Humans just punched through with those damn explosions! Adetr snarled as he raised his head. His skull rang and he fell back as Steelfur warriors cried out and dragged him back.
Something had lodged in his head. More of the bits of metal—the only reason he was surviving was that his body was tougher. They’d still cracked his skull. He snarled.
“Through the earth! They die if we touch them!”
The fortifications were failing—he saw his Chieftain go down as another round blasted through a wall. Adetr knew the Humans had to come in, though. He refused to let his tribe charge. Then he heard a sound and saw something streaking down through the air at—
 
—-
 
Something had blown up their entire tribe—or just the ones around Adetr. He could have sworn he saw something in the sky. The Gnoll snarled.
Night fell. Gnolls ate. Adetr did not. He ran around camp, to burn off the adrenaline running through his veins.
Thirty. Eight. Damn. Minutes.
 
—-
 
Eleven tries. Seven hours, almost. Adetr was worried Rose would go to sleep.
He finally found their weak spot.
 
—-
 
“Blind them! Blind them!”
The Humans were in disarray. Adetr stood, shielding himself and watching the battle turn at last. 
The [Shamans]. That was the key.
In his desperation he had tried everything. Skills? Even Iraz’s Skills didn’t overturn whatever the Humans had, but the [Shaman]’s magic had stymied the Humans—until that thing in the skies came and hit them.
So Adetr had tried other spells. The Humans—these ones had no magical guard. They went blind, fell asleep, unable to block even Tier 1 spells.
If the [Shamans] lived long enough to cast the magic. Adetr watched as the blinded Humans in the metal vehicle fired ahead. Killing Gnolls—but the Steelfur Tribe was on them, trying to rip open the metal armor. The Humans on the ground held their fire—until they realized it was fire or die, then they fired, but fell as Gnolls closed.
Adetr was striding towards the first vehicle, which had been disabled, the long ‘nose’ a smoking ruin after one of the Gnolls bent it out of shape and it exploded. The Humans were blind; they couldn’t detect the [Invisible] Gnolls who had assailed their ranks.
Eleven times. Such a strange battle. It had gone from annihilation to victory—and Adetr wondered what they were. Why did they not tell stories about this army, if it was so powerful? What weapons were they, that spat metal?
Where was he? Why did the sky…
He stared up. Another object streaked down and the Steelfur Tribe vanished. He stared up. 
“What is that thing in the skies?”
Then he died.
 
—-
 
Rose went to bed. Adetr was so furious he considered storming into the camp and making a pretext to keep her awake.
Reluctantly, he went to sleep, though he had to literally go to a [Shaman] to beg a sleeping draught. The Gnoll gave him a concerned look.
“Are you using your Skill, Adetr? The Chieftain worries—”
“I am fine. I’m leveling!”
Adetr snapped, snatching the medicine. He consumed the foul elixir, felt himself tire…
 
[Battle Seeker Level 27!]
[Skill – Foreign Lands Training (Landscape) obtained!]
 
His eyes snapped open. Adetr shot out of his bed with an oath.
“How?”
He shouted so loudly the sentries shot to attention and half the tribe woke up. Adetr told them all was well, but Chieftain Iraz himself fixed him with a sleepy glare. The Gnoll bowed his head. He didn’t quite know how to tell Chieftain Iraz he had leveled in his non-primary class overnight.
Four times.
 
—-
 
“Adetr. Garsine Wallbreaker complained of your Skill. The [Shamans] tell me you have been erratic. I am concerned. Is there something you need tell me?”
Chieftain Iraz was a strong Gnoll, a Chieftain who had turned his tribe into one worthy of standing with the best of them in one generation. It was his Skill which turned his entire tribe’s fur to metal.
He did not pry, but let Adetr and his people act as they would. Normally. Adetr was a protégé, and one of the best warriors, so his uncle was concerned. Adetr sat in a private meal in the Chieftain’s tent. His head was bowed. He did not touch his breakfast.
“Adetr.”
Iraz prompted after a few minutes had passed. Adetr finally looked up.
“Obsessed, Chieftain?”
His eyes—the flesh parts that remained—were bloodshot. Iraz wondered if his nephew had slept.
“Must I prohibit you from using your Skill? What are you fixated on?”
“I…cannot say, Chieftain. Not yet. I do not know. Give me leave to find out.”
“Will this cause trouble with other tribes?”
“Possibly.”
Adetr admitted. Iraz frowned.
“Why does it consume you so, Adetr?”
The Gnoll warrior took a long time in replying. At last, he looked at the Steelfur Chieftain.
“If I cause trouble, if I am obsessed, Chieftain. Let me. Let me do what I must. I leveled four times last night. As a [Battle Seeker]. I have a new Skill.”
Iraz slipped in pouring himself tea. He splashed tea all over his fur and stared at his nephew.
“Four times? How many Skills?”
Adetr’s eyes glinted.
“One. A good one. Chieftain. I climbed Mount Sernis this morning.”
The Chieftain went silent. Mount Sernis was well-known to him. It was a mountain where the Steelfur tribe was founded…eight hundred miles from here. Steelfur warriors honed their bodies and climbing skills there.
“I see. Can you take me there?”
Adetr shook his head.
“Not yet, Chieftain. May I go?”
Iraz stared at Adetr. The Gnoll was trembling.
“Go.”
 
—-
 
He was not actually there. But he could visit his home—and train. Even fight monsters and learn how to take advantage of the geography.
Adetr’s blood boiled. There were no people in his Skill. Not yet. He felt like the Skill was…incomplete.
Landscape. Did that mean if he grew more, if his other Skills combined, he could walk another nation, fight their people, all in his head? He had thought it was a class that might weaken him. Iraz felt so, sometimes. Now?
Adetr sought out Rose. His obsession made manifest.
The fifteenth time he won everything.
 
—-
 
Thirteen.
It was simple. Steelfur died en-masse. There was something in the skies. There were…things that shot across the air and destroyed everything in vast sections. The Humans even had a whirling thing that appeared twice out of the fifteen times and raked the Gnolls from above with some kind of weapon even more destructive than on the ground.
What was worse was that Adetr was sure, sure, by now that this was a skirmish. If you used his Skill on weaker members of a city or tribe, you got less of them. A [Chieftain] or leader? All their might.
Rose gave him a fraction of whatever army this was. Some kind of…patrol? Imagine tens of thousands of Humans like this.
They had no magic. That was how they died.
