The long, almost stalk-like plant of Herthee was strange. It was bright yellow turning to a healthy greenish white at the roots, with fat, appealing seeds that could be larger than your fist. Fleshy, a tangy yellow that when split open, looked almost like the inside of golden flatbread, but puffy and chewy. They hung from the stalks on miniature branches, inviting anything to just come over and eat it.
“It is Herthee! You should grab it, friend.”
The other Gnoll came over. He didn’t have markings, but he had a triangular cap on. He gave Merish a friendly nod, which the Gnoll returned. Sveha looked at Merish.
“Why don’t you want it, Uncle? Does it taste bad?”
Merish shook his head. It was a vegetable, and the looks didn’t actually deceive. Herthee tasted as good as it looked. The trouble was that it was also deadly.
“No…but it has side effects.”
The [Shamanic Warrior] glanced at the other Gnoll. The hat-wearing Herthee supporter shrugged.
“It’s not that bad.”
Merish begged to differ. If you ate the Herthee seeds, you experienced the secret poison in the plant, which allowed it to ‘harvest’ the corpses of those who thought they’d found an easy meal.
Your tongue swelled up and you choked to death. A horrible way to go. Death by suffocation, rightly giving the plant its dreaded reputation among small, foraging animals.
…Gnoll-sized people were by and large resistant to Herthee’s effects. You’d get a fat tongue and be in danger if you really gulped them down, but they were mostly annoying.
Even so, no one wanted a swollen, slightly irritated tongue for the next two hours, so Herthee had a dubious place in the culinary world. If you had anti-allergen Skills or knew how to neutralize the effects—or were just desperate or hungry—it was for you.
“Ikl, you’ll puff up if you bite it. I once had a tongue so big I had to breathe through my nose and keep my mouth open because it wouldn’t fit. For six hours straight.”
His [Shaman] had laughed so hard she’d nearly passed out. The others snorted and Viri almost fell over, laughing. Ikl backed away, but the hat-wearing Gnoll encouraged Merish.
“Any good [Cook] can deal with it. I’d gather it, friends—but my basket is full.”
He indicated his basket, which was full of the damned Herthee. Merish bared his teeth.
“We will, then. Good idea, friend. We’ll…add it to the gathered produce if our camp doesn’t want them.”
The Gnoll smiled as Merish and Ikl plucked the seed. He waved and headed back to wherever his tribe was. When he was out of eye and earshot, Merish dumped all of the Herthee into Ikl’s basket and turned to the boy.
“Ikl, take all of them and toss them in the nearest fire.”
The Gnoll boy nodded and ran off. Merish sighed.
“Let’s go back to Khaze.”
They found only one more plant on the way back, another plant more endemic to Izril than the rare saffron. This time, Merish brightened up because unlike Herthee, he actually liked this plant.
“Lyepeppers. Viri! Come take a look. You too, Sveha. You will like this.”
Both Lizardman and Gnoll girl watched as Merish hurried over and began to pluck the fat peppers. Both gave Merish a very dubious look.
“Uncle. Those are bad.”
“Yeah. Are you sure that’s not poison, Merish?”
Viri pointed to the peppers. They resembled the tooth-like peppers you could find in other varieties, fat and fully-grown. The difference was…well, the coloration.
The Lyepeppers were a mix of colors, each so bright as to seem artificial. One was bright red with green spots that almost looked like warts on it. Another was distinctly yellow, with tiny blue dots as if it was sick. If there was any unhealthy or poisonous look—it was that.
“Lyepeppers aren’t bad, Sveha.”
Merish assured his niece. He offered her one, but Sveha, normally eager to bite any snack or treat, even dirt, closed her mouth.
“They have spots. I was eating this thing, but not this with spots and Mommy said no.”
The Gnoll girl stared up at Merish as if that last sentence made sense and had a conclusion. Her gaze somehow managed to convey accusation for Merish going against Khaze’s rule against spotted plants.
He tried to explain and reassure her.
“Lyepeppers are…liars, Sveha. Only Lyepeppers are edible, even though they look like…”
He showed her a purple, striped Lyepepper crossed with an unhealthy orange.
“They try to trick you. They’re good, see? Just be careful; they do mix with weeds…er, bad plants. So you break a bit off and rub it on your skin. Under your fur. If you don’t get itchy, it’s probably a good Lyepepper. So you take a little bite and wait. And then…”
He gave up on the survival explanation because she was giving him an even more mistrustful look.
“…We have [Cooks] who can appraise all the ingredients. So we’ll gather it all.”
The little girl watched Merish and Viri pluck the rest of the peppers. She didn’t like them—or her empty stomach.
“I want Mommy!”
She scrunched up her face, casting around and glaring at Merish, but Khaze was nowhere to be seen.
“We’ll find her.”
“I want her now.”
Her face turned dangerously upset. Merish sighed, and looked for Khaze, but before Sveha could start crying, a claw tapped her on the shoulder.
“Sveha. Psst, Sveha.”
She looked around. Viri popped up beside her.
“Bleargh!”
He made a huge face, sticking out his tongue and making his eyes wide as possible.
Sveha just stared at him. Viri stared back. Neither one laughed. After a second, Viri dropped the face.
“How about a Lyepepper? Look, isn’t it funny?”
He offered her one that seemed like it had a face on it, a unique striped look. Sveha grabbed the pepper.
“No!”
She hurled it away, grumpily. Viri cried out.
“Nooo! My pepper! What are you doing, you mad child?”
He hopped after it, waving his one arm in dismay. Sveha peeked after him, and to Merish’s relief, began giggling. Viri came back, a mighty frown on his face.
“Okay, I got it and it looks good. But promise me you won’t throw it again, okay? Here…put it in the basket.”
He handed the pepper to Sveha. She picked it up, stared at it, and then at Viri. He waited.
She tossed the pepper.
“My pepper! How could you?”
The Lizardman leapt in horror, splatted comically on the ground, and rolled over until he could grab it. He pushed himself up and began hopping back.
“Okay. Sveha? I need you to put it into the basket. Here—no, don’t—!”
Away the pepper flew. Viri chased after it, brought it back, and didn’t seem to understand what would happen next if he handed it to Sveha. The little Gnoll girl forgot her tantrum and began laughing in delight as the little Lizardman grew increasingly more dismayed.
“Don’t throw it away again!”
“The poor pepper! Oh no!”
“Nagas help me! She’s gone mad! She’s throwing my pepper! Merish, stop her!”
 
—-
 
By the time they got back, Sveha was panting from laughing too hard. Khaze laughed herself as Ikl waved at them.
“I was told you got rid of some Herthee, Merish? Good job! Remember when your tongue looked like a slug? Sveha! Are you making poor Uncle Viri chase after your pepper?”
“I don’t mind, Miss Khaze!”
The Lizardman hopped over, a huge smile on his face. She looked at him appreciatively.
“You are so good with cubs.”
Everyone liked Viri. The cheerful little [Longstick Jumper] had ingratiated himself into the tribe on the first day he’d met them. Khaze took Merish’s basket.
“Ooh, you found saffron? Well done. Lyepeppers—Sveha, stop throwing that.”
The Gnoll girl looked disappointed that the game was over, but she hopefully stared at the cooking station set up. Breakfast was going to be more special than the regular; Khaze was chopping up some of the findings and preparing a pot. She gestured at the table.
“Put everything on there and we’ll see what else we can put in. We have some goat…I just need to make a fine stew around it. How do tomatoes sound? Tomatoes and…where are my spices?”
She looked around. Merish set the basket down as Sveha whined.
“I want beef.”
“Goat is fine. Don’t whine, Sveha.”
Her mother, exasperated, looked at Merish.
“Children. She complains about the type of meat, never mind that we get it every breakfast.”
The [Shamanic Warrior] felt his lips move up. He smiled, for the first time that day.
“As I recall, Khaze, you used to throw beef jerky on the ground because it was ‘too salty’.”
She blushed under her fur.
“I was just—”
Boom. Merish saw a flash out of the corner of his eye as he heard a sound. Viri screamed.
“Spell—”
The [Shamanic Warrior] whirled. He looked up and saw an unnatural flash cross the heavens. A spell. An attack.
Lights fell down from the sky.
A second dawn; a false one, tricking the defenders of 5th Wall into believing they had survived the night of Demons.
It only brought oblivion as Merish looked up, seeing the Demon soldiers fade to nothing and realizing he had battled an army of ghosts. His companions, friends fallen to a…spell.
It took Cirille as he watched. A flash from above, something hidden beyond the clouds. Then she and everyone around her were gone. That brave Drake who had led them—gone in a second. Before she even saw their foe’s face.
The Death of Magic.
“Merish. Merish!”
For a second, the voices were intermingled, the shouting from his warriors—Merish was on 5th Wall. Then—he was back in reality.
He came to his senses. The Gnoll was panting raggedly. He heard Khaze’s voice, shocked.
“Merish?”
Merish was crouched behind the upended food preparation table, the hard-gathered ingredients lying on the ground, utensils and dishes overturned.
Gnolls gathered around cooking fires were staring. Viri was flat on the ground. Everyone else, from Khaze to Ikl and his clan were just…looking at Merish. He straightened, then flinched as another boom echoed in the air. He turned to see the flash—
A silly little face, a cartoonish Drake, floated overhead. Mage lights. Someone was artificially darkening the air and shooting up spells into the sky. A [Merchant] or someone with a wand, perhaps. Not [Shaman] spells. Merish stared up at the lights. Then at the table.
“I…”
He heard a small sound. Then he looked down and saw Sveha.
She was lying next to the table. Sveha was whimpering, curled up and holding her leg. He’d—Merish saw her staring at him.
“Uncle. Uncle—you threw me! He—”
Then she began to howl. Khaze instantly raced over to her and scooped her up.
“It’s alright, Sveha. Show me your leg. It’s just bruised? Merish didn’t mean to do it. It was just—”
Merish stood there, staring at Sveha. He walked over, but she wailed and swung a paw at him, and Khaze fished for a potion.
“I don’t have a healing potion. Sveha, it’s not bad! One second…”
“I have one. Let me—”
Merish was blocked as something hit his leg. He looked down. Ikl had seen his sister crying. The little Gnoll boy began to punch Merish’s leg as hard as he could, snarling.
“Ikl! Enough!”
Khaze shouted at her son. Viri was getting up. He looked at Merish. The Gnoll looked at Khaze, at the others coming over to pick up the fallen goods. Khaze met his eyes—then hurried for a potion. Merish stood there, trying to say something. Explain? In the end, he could only look at Khaze, and repeat himself.
“I’m sorry.”
 
—-
 
When he dreamed of nothing, it was welcome. The alternative was nightmares.
Blood and terror. Hacking down a Demon [Soldier] in his way. Turning. Hearing the bang. Ser Vorn falling. 
Light from the sky.
He woke up with his fur matted with sweat, howling a cry to arms. Seeing light flash down from the heavens.
It was another day. Merish woke before dawn, the day after the disaster with Sveha. No Khaze to greet him. He wondered how upset she was. Understandably…or was she giving him space?
Of course, the day went on after the incident in the morning. But it colored everything. What had he done after that? Merish washed his face, wondering if he’d woken anyone up. Then again—his clan might be used to it by now.
He stared into the bowl with water taken from a flask. The Gnoll found he couldn’t actually remember. He’d done something. Eaten. Gone around with Viri, maybe?
The world was grey, sometimes. He forgot what he was doing. He felt…out of place, no matter where he was, even with his sister. He was glad he wasn’t with the entire clan; shamefully, Merish was glad his mother didn’t see him like this, which was part of the reason why he had volunteered to join the Meeting of Tribes.
He wondered, if his father had been alive—what he would have said. Maybe he would have understood. Merish’s father had been a [Shamanic Warrior] too, and even if he had never gone to Rhir…
The Gnoll did not leave his tent for a while. He sat, rummaging through his things. He nearly reached for his enchanted axe—left it be. After the incident with Sveha, he didn’t trust himself with it. No accident had been fatal, or injured people beyond Sveha’s leg. But if it did?
Merish unfolded a bit of costly paper. He sat, cross-legged, and conjured a bit of light from his fur markings. The pattern lit up his dark yurt, giving him ample light to read by. A beautiful pattern. He didn’t look at it.
 
I still feel like I am at 5th Wall. I have to go back and settle things there. For Commander Cirille. If you choose to come back, there will be a place for you with us.
 
The writing was neat, cursive, and Merish had found it hard to read at first. Yet he’d read it so many times he could recite the letter by heart.
Captain Shellc. No—hadn’t he been promoted? Merish’s finger traced down the letter.
Ah, yes. It said here. [Swordgrace Major] Shellc. Merish stared at the letter and thought about it again.
If you choose to come back…
Would that be for the best? He had leveled too, even if he hadn’t changed his class. Their reward for surviving the massacre was to level faster than anyone else. Merish had left, to come back home. Perhaps he would leave? What would Khaze and his family say?
Merish folded the letter. Then he went to wake up Viri. It was just a hunch—but it proved to be correct.
The day after seeing the lights-show, Viri did not emerge from his guest-tent beaming and smiling like normal. He was thrashing in his sheets, crying out. Merish heard him even before he pushed back the thick fabric. Viri was shouting in his sleep, like Merish.
“Call the charge, Uxel! Uxel! Where are—”
His face was twisted up, and his legs were kicking. Both legs—the whole one and the stump. Merish reached down.
“Viri. You’re dreaming. Viri—”
He touched the little Lizardman and Viri’s eyes opened wide. He looked at Merish and cried out.
“Demon!”
He slept with his staff by his side. The little staff blurred.
