Predictably, the cost of a pull was only three coppers while the prizes were worth much more. A fabulous little Centaur doll that made Sveha’s eyes go round, a sharp dagger…Viri had tried multiple times and refused to tell Merish how much he’d lost.
Yelroan glanced at the stall, amused. Merish agreed to try and stared at the string. His [Shamanic Warrior] class let him see and interact with magic, so he tried to use that to his advantage.
One string looked magical…and there were a few magical strings connected to the winning prizes. He pulled the magical string.
Nothing happened. The owner of the game smirked slightly and Merish knew it had been a lure. Sighing, he watched as Khaze refused to play.
“What about you, Yelroan?”
The others glanced at Yelroan. He raised a paw.
“I’ll pass.”
Merish frowned, but thought no more of it. They went on, dragging Viri away from the ‘one more time’ game. Merish actually did manage to win some snacks when he pitched a bola around a target, more from luck than skill, and gave some spicy crackers to Ikl and Viri. He saw horse races in the distance, which you could bet on, competitions of strength…
“Merish, there will be songs later tonight. Will you join us?”
Merish had never been in the mood, but he agreed at once to Khaze asking if he wanted to join them. He was looking around for Viri—who was slowly edging towards the betting on horse races—when Yelroan jogged over.
“Merish! Where’s Sveha?”
“She’s playing with some cubs. Creler Escape. Ikl too.”
The more modern game was simple. A ‘Creler’, a Gnoll dressed up with horrific claws and in a costume, ran after little screaming children. The last one to be caught got a prize.
“Oh, good. I’ll give her this afterwards.”
Merish turned. Yelroan had the little Centaur doll in his paws. Khaze blinked.
“How did you—? How much did you spend?”
“Three coppers.”
Merish guessed at once. The [Mathematician] winked at him. He gestured back at the stall.
“Er—you might be banned from there. I certainly am.”
“Why don’t you come to the horse races? I could bet some money!”
Khaze instantly looked to the place where Viri was headed. Yelroan shook his head.
“I can’t.”
“Why not?”
The Gnoll winked once more.
“I’m banned there too. The [Bookies] know a dangerous class when they see one.”
“Math!”
Khaze did a pose, mimicking Yelroan. The Gnoll grinned.
“Statistics.”
Both his friends gave him a blank look.
 
—-
 
Viri being Lizardfolk meant that he stood out among the Gnolls, but there were members of other species who had come for this great event.
Some of note, like Venaz, Peki, Merrik, Wil, Yerranola, the students of the Titan. The team of Lehra Ruinstrider, and so on.
The fact that Merish had a passing acquaintance with the Stargnoll herself made Ikl and Sveha agog. Merish himself had to…think about it.
“I feel as though I have been under a cloud.”
He confessed to Yelroan and Khaze. They listened sympathetically. Merish wanted to apologize, but Khaze was just glad he was ‘back’.
“It won’t last forever, you know. The average time for the Chieftain’s effect to last is a day. Five days is the longest significant time excluding outliers.”
Yelroan glanced at Merish. The [Shamanic Warrior] had no idea what outliers were, but he knew Yelroan was right.
It was already wearing off. He could feel himself jumping at loud sounds, and he certainly kept away from any non-[Shaman] magic. Merish was more impressed that Viri could smile and play with the kids. Perhaps it was a front.
So, he made his night last. Merish ran a footrace and came in distinctly average. He ate more than he had all month, and nearly got sick stuffing puffy sweetened bread down his mouth.
He smiled and laughed, and actually showed off his class’ Skills for Ikl when the boy pulled over some new friends. Merish’s fur lit up and shone. Then he called on the magic.
“Viri. Do a big jump.”
“Sure. What are you going to—whoa!”
The Lizardman leapt and did a double-take as Merish followed him up. Laughing, the Lizardman and Merish leapt around, and Viri hugged him.
“You never did that back on Rhir!”
“I was serious back on Rhir. You never were.”
Merish smiled and put an arm around Viri. They put Sveha and Ikl to bed; the little Gnolls had run around in an excitement-high and crashed before it was fully dark. But Merish helped Khaze get them up one last time.
“Mommy. What are we doing?”
Ikl whined, sleepy and carried by Merish. The lighter Sveha was in Khaze’s arms.
“Stop whining, Ikl. This is important. This…is your heritage. We’re attending the songs.”
The little Gnoll peeked out of Merish’s arms. He saw Gnolls, thousands of them, gathering around a bonfire.
The lights had gone out, but countless torches and fires remained. In this place, though, it was dark. There was just the central light, from the blazing fire.
A few Gnolls stood together. Merish recognized the [Shaman] in front of the fire.
This was a Plain’s Eye event. It was…music.
The Gnolls made sound at first, finding places to sit or stand. The talk died down quickly, and the crackling fire filled the night. The [Shaman] spoke then, into the darkness, to the gathered group.
“Gnolls from across Izril, we are honored by your presence. We have had great [Singers] and heard tales of [Bards] on other nights. [Storytellers], [Shamans] reciting great tales. Today? Nothing so dramatic. Let us…simply sing. The old songs. Together. To lead us is [Singer] Ecleif.”
She gestured at a young Gnoll, who bowed slightly. He looked nervous, but he would not be alone.
Viri stood on his staff to watch, but solemn, eyes shining in the darkness. Next to him, Yelroan smiled and helped Sveha and Ikl stand on the shoulders of the adults—Khaze’s husband, Inir had joined them, but all were silent in this moment.
Merish found himself standing alone, as it began. He had missed the name of the song, but it didn’t matter. As soon as he heard the tune, he knew what it was.
There were some songs every Plains Gnoll knew. Passed from tribe to tribe, old to young, generation after generation.
It began with humming. A growling sound, from deep in the throat. Crooning Gnolls of every pitch. A rumbling buzz that filled the night and sky. Ikl and Sveha listened, wonderingly. So many voices, providing a backdrop.
Then Ecleif began. He sang at first, but a second later, dozens, hundreds of Gnolls joined in. Anyone who wanted to sing, could. Most, like Merish, just hummed, following the tune.
“So when my fur calls me to Igawiz’s Jet…”
Ecleif’s voice was strong and rang across the crowd. The other voices swelled, a powerful chorus. The song…Merish knew it. It was the same song that had called him to Rhir. A desire to go beyond Izril’s shores.
A beautiful song. A melancholy song if you listened to the words. They called it…
 
Great Plains Sing
 
So when my fur calls me to Igawiz’s Jet
To seek my people’s kingdom in that distant jungle land
Oh, finding the glade where the Queen of Gnolls still lies
And find the heart of stories my [Shaman] sang to me.
 
Race across the wilds where [Explorers] feared to go
Continents apart in which the Gnollish people died
To howl and greet their bones, to tell them we remain
One day we’ll reclaim lands as yet untamed.
 
So when my fur calls me across the Kraken’s Pass
To follow Garlen the Explorer over The Last Tide 
Seeking mountains in the High Passes never climbed
And find the heart of stories my [Shaman] sang to me.
 
[Adventurers] long past call upon distant winds to me
Chieftain Seru’nial took her tribe beyond the clouds
The Gnolls who passed their years o’er and under land and sky
So not a patch of grass could say it never had seen Gnolls…
 
And on the song went on. Verses of Gnolls who had gone beyond the continent they all stood on. Tales of when their people had spread across the world.
Merish felt his fur rising. He felt…connected. A part of the mass of Gnolls around him. As far as he had gone—he was still a Plains Gnoll.
He looked around. Viri was listening, eyes wide, to the Gnolls of many tribes singing. A sound he might never hear again in his life. Sveha and Ikl were experiencing it for the first time.
Khaze held her partner, singing loud and clear.
As for Yelroan? He stood there, humming. Apart in his garb, in his class. Yet…here. Part of the Plain’s Eye Tribe. He had turned down better offers for better pay, perhaps more respect and power. Because this was home. A family.
Plains Gnolls all. Merish stood there, as the last of his Chieftain’s gift faded. For an hour, though, as they sang, for this night—someone else let him push aside dark memories. He sang with his people.
Then he slept, going back to his tent with the others after the bonfire had burned low, to embers. Merish only wished…they could be good dreams for once. Or oblivion. That would be a fitting end to it.
He had nightmares. For dreams of Rhir were not kind to him. Merish dreamed of Demons and light in the sky.
When he woke, it was to screams. To howls of horror. To nightmares in waking. He emerged from his tent, axe in hand, as Viri leapt out, watchful, and Khaze cried out to him in fear.
He almost laughed. Merish almost thanked them, even as his teeth bared and his fur stood on end. He was almost grateful, because it proved he was right.
I am not crazy. I’m not going mad. No—at least some of the madness is right. There are nightmares, even back home.
It was almost a relief. Merish heard the word on the wind. Horror had arrived. It had a name.
“Raskghar.”
 
—-
 
The army from Pallass brought them.
Raskghar. Not all of them. A mere dozen. Chained, in cages, to show the Meeting of Tribes.
Nevertheless, the effect they had on the Gnolls was extreme.
Raskghar! Nightmares of old! Ancient enemies! The names whispered to frighten children. Predators of the dark.
The Feasting Betrayers. Darkstalkers. The Gnolls Who Abandoned Sun.
Raskghar.
A great howl went up among the Meeting of Tribes, from everyone who saw it. Other Gnolls picked it up, hearing the fear in the air. The army from Pallass halted, warily stopping as thousands of Gnolls joined the sentries surrounding them.
It was a…gift. A gift from the Assembly of Crafts, from High Command and Chaldion. See your enemy. Know they remain.
The first ranks of warriors parted as a scream shook the air. They looked up and scattered as a bird larger than any Wyvern, massive, furious, landed. Gnolls leapt from the Roc’s back as one of the greatest predators of the sky shed members of the famous tribe.
Az’muzarre. They howled, and one of them, the Roc’s rider, lifted a sword.
“Fear not, Gnolls of Izril! We will let not one of these monsters claim one of our kind!”
The [Relicbearer] hefted the sword of Dragonbone. The Drakes standing in neat formations eyed the sword made of their Ancestor’s bones uneasily. Then they saw more of the small, deadly tribe appear.
Here stood the power of the Great Plains. Az’muzarre stood together, forming a line a hundred Gnolls wide, confronting the Raskghar.
The caged monsters stared at the Gnolls, warily, but without fear. They sniffed the air, eying the Az’muzarre tribe. Wary of the Roc pecking at the soil. They had never dreamed the world was this vast on the surface. Even so…what they saw were Gnolls.
Prey.
Merish was part of the crowd who had gathered to see the Raskghar. He saw them—like him, but different. Bigger, hunched. Bestial, ancestors who had gone down a different path than Gnolls.
That was not what chilled him. It was the innate sense, the revulsion in his very bones. Something in Merish told him they were enemies.
He was among regular warriors, axe in hand. He saw Az’muzarre begin to move forwards. They struck the weapons they held, making a rattling sound. The Pallassian [Commander] hesitated. Then raised a hand. He was smart enough to move the Drakes back.
“Are they going to take them into the camp? They should be killed!”
One of the Gnollish [Warriors] snarled, voicing a thought shared by many. Merish stared at the Slayers of Muzarre. He saw them strike their weapons. Then realized—a [Shaman] was leading them. She pointed at the Raskghar.
“Raskghar! Enemies of old! There is only death for them here. Warriors of Az’muzarre, protect the Great Plains!”
His eyes widened. The warriors began to advance. As it happened—they were not planning on letting the Raskghar exist another second at the Meeting of Tribes.
Some of the Gnolls growled assent, but Merish looked around. No. Wait. He was as unsettled as the others were by the Raskghar, but you didn’t kill your enemies. Rhir—the Blighted Kingdom didn’t kill every Demon if they took prisoners.
Yet Az’muzarre was advancing and the Pallassian [Soldiers] did not look ready to bar their way. The Drake [Commander] rode forwards, but one caw from the Roc and his horse nearly threw him off. The Gnollish warriors stepped forwards, and three bearing relic-class weapons moved towards the Raskghar.
The Raskghar began to snarl. Merish swore he heard one say something that sounded like…words. He was pushing through the crowd, but everyone resisted him.
“Stop. Don’t be fools!”
Merish growled. He began to use more force, and shoved Gnolls aside. Too slow. He saw the first warrior bring up a Dragonbone sword, howling, as the [Shaman] exhorted her warriors.
The Az’muzarre Gnoll never got a chance to execute the Raskghar in their cages. The air was full of howling, shouts, screams, but a noise broke through the chaos and fear.
A roar. It was angry and loud. A bear’s roar, but scaled up. Merish whirled. So did Az’muzarre’s tribe. The warriors stood in a bunch, continuing to be reinforced as more raced towards them. The [Shaman] stared back—then up. One of the angry [Relicbearers] moved to block someone striding forwards. Gnolls parted before the giant figure. The [Relicbearer] looked up—
A paw shoved the Gnoll aside. The other Az’muzarre Gnolls stirred—took one look at the giant Gnoll—and backed away.
Merish’s eyes went wide. He saw a Gnoll towering over the others, half again as tall as the tallest Gnoll, striding forwards. Behind her—he saw more Gnolls marching out of the Meeting of Tribes.
“The Chieftains are coming! Do not touch the Raskghar!”
Someone shouted. The Gnolls’ heads turned. Merish heard a questioning voice.
“Which [Chieftains]?”
The answer soon became self-evident. Which ones?
All of them. They emerged from the center of the Meeting of Tribes, some with their tribe’s warriors around them, others alone. Not just the [Chieftains]. [Shamans] strode forwards. But who came first were…the Gnolls that Merish knew.
