Viri struck at Merish three times with his staff in a fraction of a second, so fast the Gnoll couldn’t block the third blow. Merish stumbled, his head ringing with the impact. Viri dragged himself up—then, like Merish—came back.
“Merish? I—Nagas—”
He reached out, but Merish waved him away.
“I’m fine. You were having a nightmare.”
“I…was.”
Viri swayed—then fell over. He stared at his missing leg. Then he curled up.
“I’m sorry, Merish. Can—can you leave me alone for a moment?”
Merish nodded. Without a word, he backed up and left the tent. He heard Viri crying before he swung the flaps closed.
What a wonderful day in the Meeting of Tribes.
Merish stood in the darkness, shoulders hunched. Head bowed. He waited for something—for Viri to emerge. For something to happen.
It was someone else who came to find him. Merish’s head rose. He saw someone walk towards him, straightened, and then dipped his head.
“Chieftain.”
Merish did not kneel or bow, but he was surprised. This was not his clan’s leader, but the [Chieftain] of the Plain’s Eye Tribe.
Chieftain Xherw smiled. One of the greatest [Chieftains] of Gnolls here or anywhere walked forwards, out of the night. No bodyguards or escort—not among his tribe.
“Merish. I hoped to speak with you. Is now a bad time?”
He could hear Viri too. Merish hesitated, then stepped away.
“No, [Chieftain]. Of course not. Is something wrong?”
“Not with the tribe, Merish. Walk with me.”
Xherw gestured, and Merish fell into step with him, walking through the camp. He looked at Xherw, sidelong.
The Gnoll had dark fur, almost black, but with faint lines of silver breaking the uniform fur. He was not as tall as Merish, and he was certainly far older. Twice Merish’s thirty three years, nearly.
He wore a [Chieftain]’s garb. Lightweight, free clothing, like most Plains Gnolls wore, but ancient cloth, still perfectly maintained by magic. Practically relics unto themselves; the Raiment of the Plains. They were decorated with motifs of their tribe, and the cloth was probably stronger than Vorn’s steel plate had been.
Xherw also carried a light hand axe, for throwing or close combat. It wasn’t the spear he would take to battle; just decoration at the Meeting of Tribes. His pawed feet were bare, as were Merish’s, and if you could not see the power of the magic he wore, he might look almost normal.
That was just physical appearance, though. The Chieftain of the Plain’s Eye Tribe was more than just his looks. Where he walked, you felt it. Merish could feel it.
It was like walking beside…solemnity. A temporal disturbance. Gnolls looked up, or came out of their tents, feeling it even from afar. They called out, waved.
“Chieftain!”
Xherw waved at them, calling greetings, but led Merish away from the tents, and the Meeting of Tribes itself. If he was careless, he could wake up everyone within a hundred feet of him just by walking past them as they slept.
It was the power of Merish’s [Chieftain]. That he had come here was humbling, and Merish wanted to know if he’d heard about Sveha, or…
Well. He was respectfully silent as they walked away from the Plain’s Eye camp, past sentries, into the Great Plains. It was dark, and the two Gnolls strode along at a good clip. Only when they were truly alone, and the wind blew in a distant gale across the dark plains did Xherw speak.
“It is beautiful, isn’t it? Is Rhir so, Merish? I have seen images on the scrying orbs—but never been.”
Merish hadn’t expected that. He looked across the flat Great Plains, which stretched out in every direction as far as the eye could see. Flat land, that made you want to run forever. Once…Merish would have raced into that distance.
He thought of Rhir.
“It is different, Chieftain. No part of Rhir save the Blighted Lands is not in some way managed. They have glorious fields, tall structures. Beautiful and deadly—but it is like walking through an armory. The walls are magnificent, but Rhir is all geared to war.”
“I see. Some beauty there.”
Xherw paused, and the two Gnolls slowed. Merish waited, trying a few different sentences out in his mind, but he couldn’t break the silence.
He was a [Chief Warrior]. This was the [Chieftain] of the Plain’s Eye Tribe, far beyond him. Normally, [Chief Warrior] was a rank close to [Chieftain], but the Plain’s Eye Tribe was different.
It was one of the largest tribes of Izril. It had so many Gnolls in it, hundreds of thousands, that it rivaled Drake cities in population alone. Accordingly, it had many ‘clans’ which were all part of a greater whole. Xherw commanded it all, such that there were at least a hundred [Chief Warriors] under his command.
Still, Merish was important enough to have been chosen to lead the expedition to Rhir. That he was important enough for Xherw to meet himself—well, that was as much his brush with the Death of Magic as anything else. He had been questioned by the [Shamans] and other [Chieftains], as well as Xherw.
“I heard you were disturbed by the light show yesterday. I asked they confine it to the night-time, or inform the tribes when such displays would take place.”
Merish jumped. Then flushed.
“Chieftain, that was my fault. All the tribes?”
“It disturbs children, and we should regulate it. Think nothing of it, Merish. The nightmares and visions of Rhir continue, then?”
Xherw looked at Merish. The Gnoll nodded. The [Chieftain] sighed.
“We will send for an expert if our [Shamans] cannot mend your pain somewhat, Merish. It is not good to heal the body and leave the mind behind, no. Tell me. What do you dream of? Is it always…her?”
“Yes. The Death of Magic.”
The wind dropped for a second, as if even here, the name alone had power. Merish shivered. He saw her, laughing, sweeping down and blasting the [Clown], before attacking 4th Wall. Xherw shook his head.
“I have seen great names, Merish. I have met Zel Shivertail, and Sserys of Liscor. I have even beheld the Centenium. I saw one die a final death during the Antinium Wars. I dream of them, sometimes. But the Death of Magic? That is an old legend. I grieve that it haunts your waking and sleep.”
Merish nodded.
“I am ashamed. I thought even if I met the Deathless on Rhir, I could stand against them. Fight. Now? I suppose this is what it is like to see a true story, not dream of it, Chieftain. It is—painful.”
He did not daydream about fighting the half-Elf, or even hurting Silvenia. He couldn’t picture it. Xherw touched Merish’s arm. The Gnoll started, but his [Chieftain] just shook his head.
“I do not mean to judge, no, Merish. You saw something I have not. Tidebreaker, even the Antinium are recent tales. The Death of Magic is the oldest of stories. Like a Dragon of ancient days reemerging, not the hatchlings who sometimes appear every few centuries.”
He stood there, arms folded, shaking his head. Merish listened as Xherw stared across the empty plains.
“I have lived three Meetings of Tribes. The [Chieftain] before me lived six. Six, Merish. And she told me that the elders when she was a cub said how small the Meeting of Tribes had become. Small. Look.”
He pointed back at the sprawling encampment. Merish looked, and couldn’t credit it himself. So many Gnolls, so many tribes.
Then he thought of the Death of Magic. Xherw nodded, knowing Merish’s thoughts.
“Old stories. I would like to see the Death of Magic gone for good, Merish, but part of me does not.”
“Chieftain? Why not?”
The Plain’s Eye Chieftain stood there, sighing.
“Dragons are dying out. Perhaps they are all dead already. For the best for them, yes. One could say the same of Giants—they made terrible war and sided with the Demons. Perhaps we say the same of Cyclopes when they go too, hm? Then there will only be nicknames, like that for Pallass’ Cyclops, Grand Strategist Chaldion. But each time they go—they become stories, and we forget they were real. We are an old tribe. If stories die out, do we lose our power too?”
Merish had no answer. That was a [Chieftain]’s dilemma. Xherw speaking of such things before Merish was an honor.
“Will you go back to Rhir?”
The [Chieftain] also saw through Merish. The Gnoll hunched his shoulders.
“I do not know, Chieftain. Viri is thinking of it. If he goes…I would go with him. If not?”
“I understand. Know this, Merish—you have done enough. You could stay with our tribe, and I would give you the position of [Chief Warrior] in any clan with an opening. Or a post among the warriors in the central tribe.”
“That is a great honor, Chieftain.”
Merish ducked his head. Xherw studied him.
“Perhaps it is not what you need, though. Ah, Merish. I come to you with my worries, not to help! I am sorry.”
“Not at all, Chieftain.”
The two Gnolls stood there in the darkness a while. Merish’s ears perked up. He glanced sideways.
Voices? Xherw had heard it too. He looked to the side and three [Shamanic Warriors], like Merish, the elite of the Plain’s Eye Tribe, appeared out of the darkness.
Xherw’s bodyguards after all. One nodded to Merish and Xherw.
“The Gnoll, Kerikool, is asking to see you, Chieftain.”
“Again? Tell him later.”
Xherw scowled. Merish glanced at Xherw, not recognizing the name. The [Shamanic Warriors] nodded and melted back into the darkness. Merish saw their dyed fur glow—then they turned transparent.
[Camouflage]. They took on a glass-like appearance, melting into the landscape. Scentless too. The power of his kind.
“Who is that, Chieftain?”
Merish wasn’t sure he should ask, but Xherw just snorted derisively.
“Just another pest from Manus. Asking if we will represent the Walled City before the other tribes.”
“Manus? For what?”
Merish was not surprised that someone would seek Xherw out. The Plain’s Eye Tribe had strong relations with the Walled Cities, actually. As Merish recalled…well, they had some kinds of longstanding trade agreements. Xherw waved a paw.
“[Soldiers]. Experts, as always. Anyone they can lure to their ‘High Command’. I will talk with him, later.”
“If I am keeping you from him, Chieftain…”
“No.”
Xherw looked at Merish. He stood there a moment longer, then sighed.
“The Plain’s Eye Tribe is old, Merish. Gnolls are…old. We have endured much, but even in the days when Dragons hunted us with Drakes and we hid under the earth, I cannot know if we were this…few.”
Such somber words. Merish would have flinched at them, but then a paw took his arm. Strong, even now. Xherw smiled at Merish, and the touch had that power in it. It made Merish feel strong, for a second. Strong enough to face dreams. To go back to Rhir.
“We will survive. With your strength, the strength of Gnolls like you, with cunning, and with resolve, Merish. I am glad you returned. I came here to tell you that. If you would stay—we have need of you.”
He turned before Merish could reply, and walked away. The [Shamanic Warrior] stood there, feeling humbled at the trust. He walked back to camp an hour later, thinking.
 
—-
 
Xherw’s meeting with Merish was more than a gesture. It meant something. Well, a [Chieftain] singling you out was already a sign you were honored, or on your way to it.
But the touch was something too. Merish felt…alive. That was Xherw’s power, or part of it. He felt clear-headed, hungry.
When he came back to the clan, he actually smiled and waved Viri’s apology aside. He ate breakfast, apologizing to Sveha, talking with Khaze. She nearly dropped her plates.
“What has gotten into you, Merish?”
“I met with the Chieftain.”
“Olmpe? Why would that old nag make you feel better. Unless—”
Ikl and Sveha looked up. Khaze spun around, wide-eyed.
“No. Chieftain Xherw?”
Merish smiled. Khaze made a sound and threw up her paws.
“I have to brag about this! My brother! What did he want?”
“Just to talk. He touched my arm. I feel…good.”
“Of course you would! What an honor! No—you might be Honored Merish! Do you hear that, Sveha, Ikl? We might be moving up! He touched your arm? I heard a Gnoll ran a hundred miles after that happened—without any movement Skills!”
Merish smiled, enjoying Khaze’s excitement. The energy that blew away his depression seemed to fill Viri too—such that they were actually out and about the camps, rather than being tugged into something by Khaze.
“Merish, Merish. Do you want to play some games? You can win money if you win some of the tossing games.”
There was a Gnollish game that involved tossing bolas, or just balls if you were smaller, through goal posts. Playing was free, and there was already a crowd. It was just one activity among the Meeting of Tribes, and Viri was being practically carried by Sveha and Ikl towards it. Khaze had work, and Merish for once felt tempted. However, his conscience pricked him.
“I actually have someone to call upon, Viri. I will catch you later—don’t buy sweets for Sveha and Ikl with your money.”
“No promises! Sveha, are you good at tossing things? Want to show me?”
Viri bounced away, Sveha clinging to his leg and shrieking with delight. The Lizardman was watched by a bunch of Gnolls, shaking their heads at the odd sight. Merish smiled. Then—he went to call on his friend.
 
—-
 
Merish had friends. It occurred to him he had not prevailed on any of them since returning. Now, with Xherw giving him energy, he tried to make amends.
They were glad to see him, mostly. Some weren’t sure what to say, but Merish was a [Warrior], and thus many of his comrades just clapped him on the back, avoided talking about Rhir. He knew Gnolls from many clans in the Plain’s Eye Tribe, and did a circuit of the entire camp for four hours.
Four hours of straight walking and he didn’t clear the Plain’s Eye camp. That was how large it was. Merish actually called on the power in his markings to relieve the exhaustion in his legs. He greeted a fellow [Shamanic Warrior], Ghamen, and the two Gnolls stood a while.
“Anything interesting happening where you are?”
“Aside from the clan wanting more [Hunters]? Or in the Meeting of Tribes?”
Ghamen leaned on his spear, then shrugged.
“Ah, well, I heard my sister kissed Lehra Ruinstrider.”
“…Huh. And?”
“That’s something. Not everyone can be visited by the Chieftain!”
Ghamen slapped Merish on the shoulder, pretend-irritably. He grinned.
“Aside from that, I wish you’d been there in a competition yesterday. Twenty eight of our [Shamanic Warriors] engaged in a brawl with other tribes’ warriors.”
“A fight?”
“No…an organized thing. You know, to show how good we are? Just fists. Not weapons. Disappointed some of the tribes, but we’ve had too many injuries already.”
“So a tournament.”
