He sniffed the air and some of his bodyguards—a lot less professional-looking than the Silverfangs, some lounging around, but decidedly more deadly—perked their heads up. Akrisa gestured. Baskets heaped with snacks were brought out.
“Merely some refreshments. Let us share in it, Chieftain Perale.”
He grinned.
“Silverfang is generous! Then we shall talk of Raskghar—and eat like [Princes], yes?”
Krshia sat, among the Honored Gnolls, close to her sister, but able to glance around. The Wild Wastes tribe was fascinating to the [Royal Shopkeeper]. Mainly because of a few things.
Wild Wastes. Mighty Gnolls who had actual [Barbarian] classes, the theoretical basis of the ‘savage Gnolls’ stereotype. In truth, they were quite civilized, albeit traditionalists, who roamed to the far northeast of Liscor, along the mountains of the High Passes. They did crazy things like fight cows, climb mountains, and often took work as [Mercenaries]. They had herds, and other goods, but they were known for being among the best fighters in close combat.
Honored Berr waved at Krshia, and turned back to a small group of far-younger Gnolls, each one marked with a [Berserker]’s dyes. He bore few decorations, and his warriors, despite being some of the best of his tribe, were simply armored, with enchanted weapons…little to no armor.
Here was the interesting thing: the Wild Wastes tribe was poor. Or, they had little gold to spend, an important distinction.
Krshia saw it everywhere. When they had asked to meet, Chieftain Perale had instantly volunteered to host them. It might have been a power-play, but now Krshia thought it was so they could offer the fire, tents, and limited refreshments. Traditionally, the visiting tribe brought gifts.
The snacks from Liscor, including cookies and new items from Erin’s inn, but also including snacks purchased or made by the Silverfang tribe vanished fast. The Wild Wastes Gnolls literally stuffed everything they could grab into their pockets or belt pouches—or mouths. They looked at Silverfang, and Krshia saw them eying the jewelry many of her tribe wore, their clothing, with a bit of envy.
“Ah, Chieftain Akrisa, such good snacks. Sometimes I envy tribes who trade more with cities.”
Perale confided, the older Gnoll scratching at a battle-scar under his fur. After the greetings were done, he was quite retiring.
“Wild Wastes has its charm, Chieftain Perale.”
Akrisa tried to be diplomatic. Perale just laughed.
“Charm is not a replacement for money! Whenever we leave our homes, I feel poor. When we return, I will feel all is fine. When we win a war or battle? I will feel rich! For about six days. Then all the gold vanishes.”
He grinned. His tribe had lots of [Mercenaries]; hence, Krshia supposed their income was very random.
“Surely the Wild Wastes tribe is not that poor. Your [Warriors] are known Izril-over.”
Krshia spoke up when she had an opening, as her position allowed. The Wild Wastes Gnolls chuckled. Perale rolled his eyes.
“That lot? Honored Krshia, from Liscor, yes? You overestimate my warriors. Fierce in battle—lazy at home. They train, yes. They practice and fight, and eat without doing much. And when they break each other’s bones, who has to pay for healing potions?”
He jerked a thumb at one of his head warriors. The Gnoll called out, completely unabashed.
“We hit things, you make decisions, Chieftain.”
“So they say. Silverfang has Gnolls who can work jobs that pay. My Gnolls? Many earn money only a fraction of the time.”
Perale sighed. Silverfang was clearly richer than their tribe. Which made Krshia feel they had some ground to stand on. A tribe like the Wild Wastes could use a rich friend, and Silverfang a powerful ally.
But they were just introducing themselves today, so Krshia let Akrisa and Perale talk and walked the camp after she’d told Perale about the Raskghar. He listened intently, growling at hearing the sacrifices, but it was clearly not news; Krshia suspected her story had made the rounds everywhere, but Gnolls liked to hear it from her lips.
She talked to the one Gnoll she did know in the camp. Honored Berr. He was the oldest Gnoll she saw still acting as a [Warrior]. His fur was grey, and he was short.
Unless he chose to grow. He stood like a dwarf-Gnoll among a group of giant, far-younger [Warriors] in their twenties or thirties at the latest. Krshia nodded as he smiled. Berr was scarfing down cookies he somehow had a dozen of.
“Honored Berr. Are these Gnolls all your apprentices?”
He shrugged as the Gnolls sniffed at Krshia, nodding to her, also chowing down.
“My apprentices—and offspring. That’s my son. And that one. And that one…hrr, they were all boys. Eleven. Strange, eh?”
He pointed out three Gnolls among the warriors standing around him. One, with blonde fur, tall, handsome, and a scar running from the ear down along his neck, gave Krshia a smile. He was like a Gnoll out of stories, and some of the Silverfang Gnolls were giving him admiring looks.
Krshia just grinned. Honored Berr gestured around.
“Isn’t it annoying? They crowd me so, so I like to leave my tribe. Shoo!”
He pushed at his son, irritably, but the tall Gnoll just rested his chin on Berr’s head.
“Father, we have to learn from you. Such an honored Gnoll. Give us wisdom.”
“Don’t mock old Gnolls. Here is wisdom!”
Berr ducked, swung a fist up, and hit his son in the chin. The Gnoll went cross-eyed and staggered, and then swiped at Berr. The [Berserker] was already gone, and the others laughed uproariously.
[Berserkers]. [Barbarians]. What was amazing was that they weren’t all Gnolls. The laughter cut off as one of the warriors apprenticed to Berr came forwards. He had emerged from the guest tents, rather than greet the Silverfangs.
He didn’t even notice Krshia, as he fell to his knees in front of Honored Berr. The female Gnoll started and stared. The other Gnolls fell silent as a tear-stained man, seven feet tall, as muscular as Grimalkin—almost—sank to his knees. His eyes were red; his scarred arms reached out as Berr stopped jesting and turned to him, gravely.
“Master. I ask you to teach me, now. I have rested from my journey, and I must learn or go mad.”
“Hrm. Solen, isn’t it?”
Two companions came out of the tents and joined the Human man. They were all Humans, similarly strong, but wearing armor. Their accents were…Terandrian?
“I apologize, honored Berr. He would not rest.”
One of the men spoke, clumsily adding the title. Solen ignored his friends. He reached out, supplicating. To…Berr.
“I have…I have taken too much blood, master. When the pounding is too loud—it consumes everything. Already, the crimson sin knows my name. I cannot live like this. I will slay all I love. Can I be cured? Can the beast inside me be tamed?”
Krshia’s fur rose slightly. She looked at the [Berserker], and finally noticed something that wasn’t a scar on his cheek. An ashen brand; a tattoo in his flesh. It looked like a slave-marking, but if he was from Terandria…she took a step back.
[Berserker]. One didn’t have to guess what blood he had taken by accident. Yet why had he come here?
For Berr. The small Gnoll looked up, unafraid, though even his sons and the other Wild Wastes Gnolls were wary. He laid a paw on Solen’s shoulder.
“There is a way. I will teach you what you must know, Solen. Now…no. If you cannot wait, please excuse me, Honored Krshia. We will begin the first lesson.”
The man clutched at Berr’s paw, the light of hope in his eyes.
“Thank you, master.”
“Don’t call me that. I’m not…well, don’t call me that.”
Berr gently led the man away. Respectfully, the others watched and the two lesser [Berserkers] followed. Krshia was curious.
“They come to Honored Berr to teach them to master their tempers?”
She turned to his son. The Gnoll grinned.
“My father? Of course. He is calm. A rare thing in our class. This lot came from distant Terandria. That one—he killed his father in battle-rage.”
He nodded at Solen. Krshia was struck again, with sympathy, wariness—and also curiosity.
Now that she thought of it, she had never seen Berr lose his temper. Even in that fight with Inkar and the others, he had seemed like he was having fun. Even when the Raskghar came and half the Gnolls were in a frenzy—if she didn’t know his class, she would have never guessed it.
She went back to the discussions just in time to see Akrisa rise to her feet. Perale was standing too, and Krshia feared some offense had been given. But both Gnolls turned to her.
“Krshia. There she is.”
Akrisa pointed. A panting Gnoll turned to her. It was…Beilmark? She was supposed to be with the Silverfangs.
“What is wrong? Beilmark?”
The Senior Guardswoman looked at Krshia. She spoke, her voice ragged from sprinting here.
“Krshia. It’s Liscor! It’s Mrsha. She’s been kidnapped.”
 
—-
 
It was a game of catch-up. News travelled—but always too slowly. Krshia Silverfang and her tribe learned of the attack on Liscor after it had happened, after Mrsha had been kidnapped, too late. They reacted—but slowly.
In the same way, Wil Kallinad felt how far he was from the action when the call came for him. The Order of Seasons rode to war against Ailendamus, and he was far too far from his home kingdom to help if Pheislant had to fight.
Even this…he turned to Yerranola, limping along next to him.
“The Professor. I can’t believe he’s in trouble. Why’d he go to Izril alone? Isn’t he the one who always says ‘don’t take stupid risks’?”
She slowed, resting an arm against a tent pole. Wil felt bad and slowed, but Yerranola just kept walking after a moment. She was still…stiff in her body, which was something he had never seen in a Selphid. She bared her teeth at him; she had a Gnoll body to blend in.
“Maybe, but the Professor’s not always careful, Wil. This sounds like something he’d do—but are we going?”
“I don’t know. Let’s see what the others say.”
Wil kept on. He had received a communique from ‘home’, that was, the academy. No less than Professor Perorn had written to him. Him and the students here. Asking if they would join in…what?
She hadn’t specified. A search, or a rescue mission. Perhaps combat. Wil wasn’t an idiot. He knew that if she was reaching out to them, there might be trouble indeed for the Forgotten Wing Company. One of his classmates said that the entire academy was in a furor. Something was going down on Baleros.
And here they were, enjoying the Meeting of Tribes. Which was the point! Heal Yerranola, help/watch Feshi gain the approval of the other tribes, and enjoy themselves.
They had been doing just that, today. Wil and Yerranola arrived just in time to see what was, by now, a regular start to their day in the Meeting of Tribes.
Venaz losing.
There were worse ways to start your day. Of course, Venaz could later ruin it by being surly or challenging you—or denying he’d lost, but a good Venaz-defeat put a smile on Wil’s face, even now. There was something about the Minotaur’s superior attitude that invited it.
Only he’d consistently choose to lose like this, as well. The Minotaur lay face-down in the mud. He came to after a second.
“Eight losses each morning. What will it be tomorrow, Minotaur?”
An amused voice called out. One of the Gnolls watching, a tall one even by the standards of their kind, chortled. Venaz sat up, blinking.
“Easy—you idiot.”
Merrik and Peki hurried forwards. They checked Venaz, but he wasn’t concussed—just knocked out. He swigged a bit of healing potion, spat out some blood, and looked around.
“Chess. Chess tomorrow, again. I nearly had the timing right.”
“Sure you did.”
Merrik rolled his eyes. The Gnolls laughed. But it was the tallest of them, the giant who’d laid Venaz low with a single punch, who bent down.
“I do not see the desire behind your actions, Venaz of the House of Minos. I hope I did not hurt you?”
If there was anything to wound the Minotaur’s pride…he took the paw slowly, and was effortlessly lifted to his feet. Wil stopped as the second-tallest Gnoll in the entire Meeting of Tribes lifted Venaz up.
Gireulashia Ekhtouch and some members of her tribe surrounded Venaz, as tall, or taller than the Minotaur. Superior Gnolls…bred to be superior. And Gireulashia herself was the best among them.
A [Paragon]. Venaz spat again, a bit of blood landing on the ground. He bowed slightly to the female Gnoll, and snapped.
“I am not hurt, Honored Gireulashia. But I insist on another try! Tomorrow. If you are willing, of course.”
She nodded. Wil stared up at her. Magnificent red-brown fur, nine feet tall, and strong enough to knock a Minotaur flat with a punch—she was an Ekhtouch among Ekhtouch.
“I still fail to see the point, Honored Venaz. I am using my Skill. [Superiority Made Manifest]. By definition, all that you do shall be inferior to my action.”
“I know. And yet—I deny it! I will best your Skill.”
Venaz ground his teeth together and winced; her punch had knocked something loose. Wil shook his head as he joined the party.
“Are you still trying to prove you can best her in some way, Venaz?”
The Minotaur had tried for eight days straight to beat the [Paragon]’s Skill. It had been throwing yesterday, a game of chance the day before…he harrumphed at Wil.
“You’re late. You should have seen the punch I threw so you could analyze it. I had my guard up—”
“She punched him silly. Nothing to see, just hilarity.”
Peki announced. The [Martial Artist] demonstrated.
“Straight punch. Venaz could have done better.”
“It was a classic punch.”
“I can throw a better one.”
The Garuda mocked the taller, heavier Minotaur. Venaz growled, but didn’t dare Peki to prove it; she was the best hand-to-hand fighter there, with the possible exception of Gireulashia.
“Until tomorrow, Venaz. Greetings, Wil Kallinad, Yerranola.”
She bowed slightly and strode away, as the Ekhtouch fell into a kind of procession around her. Gnolls turned to stare as the [Paragon] departed.
“I don’t know why she humors you, Venaz.”
Merrik grumbled. He massaged his neck from staring up at all the tall Gnolls. Venaz shrugged.
“She respects Feshi’s tribe. I have to prove I can beat her Skill. The implications of a Skill just…exceeding someone? Could she do it to the Professor?”
“Maybe. That’s why she’s the Ekhtouch’s pride. It’s a great Skill. No matter who appears—she can best them.”
“But can she best…something she’s never done? Maybe I should ask her to prove it with…magic? I don’t know magic, damn. How about an activity…”
Venaz broke off, scheming. He was fascinated by Gireulashia. Yerranola just laughed.
“Besotted by the first person taller, stronger, and better than you, Venaz?”
