"I will come if you ask," you say, "though I fear I may be more hindrance than help. By your description, I think you have your answer. If this boar has reached a size unnatural for its kind, it must have ascended to a different kind. If it is the same boar that killed your brother, all the more reason it must be brought down. However, are there preparations we could make to make the hunt safer? What of poison? If we know where it will forage, could we use that to weaken it? What of a pit trap with sharpened stakes at the bottom? Its weight would surely cause it to fall through a light cover, and may make it harder for it to get back out. Could we combine that with fire in the pit, and suffocate it in the smoke?"

Tie Bo hears you out. Then he answers, flat and slow, one thing at a time.

"Poison. There's one poison in Three Stones. Granny Hua keeps aconite, for rats. A boiled paste of it, for a dog gone mad. There's no other poison in the village." He lifts one shoulder. "I'd take it if she gave it. Soak the stakes with it, and soak the bait. But it's hers, and she'll not hand it to me. Maybe not to the headman either."

"A pit in the paddy? No. It would fill with mud and water before midnight. Besides, the terraces are the village's rice. The headman would never allow a dig there. Up at the wallow, maybe. But that ground is bog, and it's his own wallow besides."

"Fire? We have straw, pine resin and green bamboo, and all three smoke thick. But smoke in an open pit just rises away. A beast that can walk out isn't smothered. And fire in those pines would run the whole valley. Terraces, houses, the lot. The headman would forbid it, and he'd be right. And I'd not do it anyway. A burning, blinded boar is worse than a whole one."

He is quiet a moment, looking at the lamp. Then he says what he has been holding back.

"I'll not promise you we kill it. I'll promise to make it bleed and leave the rice alone. This bow is mulberry. Good on a deer. It will not touch a hide like that one's. There are the headman's two old iron-headed spears. I'll ask two men I trust to stand with me."

He rubs his jaw.

"How old would a boar be, to weigh what that one weighs? Old. And cunning with it. Old boars have smelled smoke and heard dogs and seen men. They are not fooled twice. My grandfather told a story about that."

He looks up at the dark hills.

"A white stag lived on the mountain, and three hunters went up after it. It killed all three, and no spear or arrow touched it. It went through the pines like smoke. Then a wanderer came and burned a bundle of herbs at the old shrine up there. The stag left the mountain that night, and stayed away while the man was there. The wanderer was a cultivator, and the village paid him a year's rice for it."

He looks back at you.

"Steel will not bite a spirit beast. Everybody knows that much. So if it is one, spears will not kill it. We will only make it bleed. And a wounded one turns into a terror. It hunts whoever cut it."

He settles the bow on his shoulder.

"It's still my brother's boar. I'll go up with a spear. Tomorrow at dusk. The Fangs uphill with torches and gongs. Me behind the stakes. You stand behind us, out of the line, and tell me what you see."

Then he remembers the rest.

"The poison, or whatever she keeps, is Granny Hua's. She bars her door at night, and she'll not deal with anyone she hasn't seen by daylight. She'll want your hand in hers, and a good look at your face in the sun. That's her way."

Up at the headman's gate a lamp burns. Zhao Jun is in there telling all of it, as he was told.

Tie Bo looks at you one last time.

"Tomorrow morning, then. Will you come to her door with me?"
