"Are you two done?" the Icon asks, although it finds itself amused. "I hope you know simply dodging the blade is insufficient to defeat me."

"Of course it is," Cale says. "But you're the Icon of Battle, so participating in the fight is just going to make you stronger, isn't it? My greatest weapon is awkward banter."

"That is not how that works," the Icon protests, although the human is technically correct. Technically. For the purposes of a spar, it is a patently absurd point to make.

"Sure it is," Cale says. He pulls a hand out of his pocket, flicking a small golden octahedron brimming with power into the air. "Just watch."

The Red Knight found itself flinching backward, more from the memory of what Cale had done than what he actually did in that moment. Memory-Cale possessed artifacts beyond comprehension, forged within the pressures found only at the base of the river of souls. That version of him had chosen to end the Planar War desperately fighting to defend what was being slowly destroyed, no matter the cost, and his friends—of which the Icon of Battle was one—stood by that decision. They knew it had to end.

But the current Cale had only just stepped foot on Utelia, and his last universe had been barren and dying. He had no such power with him now, only the strength of the Gift and eons of knowledge.

The Icon of Battle knew better than to underestimate that knowledge. It remembered, now, but there were threads of that compulsion still hanging down over it, tangled in its soul. They would have to complete this memory to shatter it completely.

Yet Cale's hands were still in his pockets, and he repeated his casting of that fire-element spell, conjuring massive tongues of flame that sought to capture and restrain it. Even with the emotional component of that spell, they both knew it wouldn't be enough to free it, let alone stop the power of [The First Edge].

What was Cale up to?

Cale was remembering the same things the Red Knight was remembering, at roughly the same time, so it was easy enough to step into his own role in the memories. The problem was that he really didn't have the same tools he had back then—at that point in time, he had accumulated quite a number of magical tools, all for the explicit purpose of the task ahead of them.

That octahedron had been built by one of his favorite artificers. It was known as the Reforging Die, and had the remarkable ability to latch on to any weapon and change it into any other weapon, depending on the face it landed on. Cale had used it to reforge [The First Edge] into a garden rake, and while it had been an exceptionally deadly garden rake, it was still enough to throw the Icon of Battle off enough for him to win.

The fact that he'd forgotten it all infuriated him. It was one of the few good memories he had of the time. They had been training, yes—preparing for the battle soon to come, knowing not all of them would survive—but it had still been the final moment of real peace he had with all his friends at the time. They knew they wouldn't come out of the battle for Yggdrasil the same, even if everything went according to plan.

And they knew exactly how likely it was that everything would go according to plan.

Cale sighed. Without the Reforging Die or the use of his barriers, he needed to find a different way to end this fight.

Perhaps the Gift would have something for him. Even if there were cooldown restrictions on evolving a spell he had already evolved, there were no restrictions on the new spell he obtained.

So he cast a spell twice. Once as a distraction, and the second one with even more mana, pouring into it.

A double evolution.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Ten Tongues of Vesuvius] has evolved into [Tempered Forge of Hephaestus]!

[Tempered Forge of Hephaestus, Level 1] [Fifteenth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e37 Mana]

Call into existence the forge of Hephaestus and its master to modify any blade. Note that this spell will call forth a named mythology with the commensurate consequences; it does not provide control over the mythology in question.

Another fiery aperture opened, but this time, a celestial forge poured out in a burst of lava. The Red Knight tried to arrest its movement, to no avail; Hephaestus caught [The First Edge] with ease, gave it a contemptuous look, and struck it a single time with his hammer. That strike reforged the spell instantaneously into a massive, overwrought javelin so heavy on one end that it stabbed into the ground, and the Red Knight struggled for a moment to pull it free.

Then it stopped, bowing its head. "I yield," it said warily, staring between Cale and Hephaestus. Cale was mostly eyeing Hephaestus, not quite sure what to make of his magic summoning a named mythology, of all things. That was yet another thing that should have been impossible.

"I do believe I asked to never see you again," Hephaestus said idly. He didn't sound too upset about it. He hadn't even gotten up from the wheelchair he sat in, and he was twirling his hammer around, looking between Cale and the Red Knight.

"In my defense," Cale said. "It was an accident."

Hephaestus rolled his eyes. "I should have let the sword hit you."

Cale made a grumbling noise. "What happened last time was not my fault, and you know it. Besides, haven't you been looking for me? I'm pretty sure you've been looking for me."

Hephaestus gave him a flat look. "Which means you were avoiding me on purpose?"

"...I plead the Fifth."

"You don't even know what that means."

The Red Knight cleared its throat, finally free of the compulsion tangled on its soul. It took a step forward before its expression twisted with something urgent, like it had remembered something and was now suddenly alarmed. "Cale," it said, reaching out.

Then it collapsed flat on its face into the grass.

"That doesn't seem good," Hephaestus observed.
