<<I could consult celebrities for that amount of money. ‘Stop saying stupid things. Stand up straight. More Appeal!’ >> Emilija barked.<< You paid too much for these fancy business cards, Natalie.>>

“You did pay a lot,” Hadiza agreed. “I did not know they would cost this much when you said you’d give them to us for holiday presents.”

“I had enough argold left,” Natalie said easily. “And these cards will help us to be really memorable! We can’t expect the old Rabbits to take us seriously if we just arrive with nothing special and hide in a corner. And I thought about this. Us handing them something makes it awkward for them not to hand us something. Like….an invitation to their hop parties! This is our first social season as Anesidorans. It will set a tone for our futures. I want to do it right.”

Hadiza frowned. “You had ‘enough argold?’ Not plenty. Are you poor now?”

<<I want to do it right, too, but it might be hard to get out of the corner as an F. There’s probably a pen in the corner where they make us stay,>> Emilija was grumbling.

“Natalie, you bought a new ice cream machine yesterday,” Hadiza added. “That was expensive, too. What was wrong with the old one?”

“It was too loud,” Natalie answered. “I wanted one I could run when you two are sleeping or studying. Emilija, I will not let anyone put you in the corner pen. You saved our lives last month. You are a small, vicious hero who crushes evil Avowed beneath your feet. Don’t worry about the money, either of you. A lot of people want to pay for meals. Including that boy…that boy who likes my food and my friendship and not the other things you both were so sure he liked.”

“Um…Natalie,” said Emilija, <<are you—?>>

“Crossing light! Let’s run to catch it!” Natalie took off, the bag in her hand swinging, its logo twinkling in the sun.

When her friends caught up to her on the opposite sidewalk, Emilija said, <<So are we asking Alden to come with us to the Rabbit Welcome tomorrow night or not? You keep changing your mind.>>

“We can just find him when we get there,” said Hadiza.

<<You’re assuming he’s going to go. He might not if nobody reminds him he should.>>

Natalie watched a line of drones coming in for a landing at a building’s upper delivery door. “…no. Alden says he’s working on important stuff in his own life. And he’s going back and forth to the Triplanets. And it hasn’t been long since he tried to kill himself with a pita so that he wouldn’t have to talk to me…Emilija, don’t laugh! You laugh like you’ve gone crazy!”

Hadiza was giggling more normally than the Lithuanian girl, whose cackles were attracting attention.

“So no,” Natalie said, chopping the air in front of her with one hand. “We won’t ask him to go with us. Even though together we would form an unbeatable team.”

“What if he’s there anyway?” Hadiza asked.

“Then we tell him he has to form an unbeatable team with us. But no inviting him. It’s too late now anyway. I have made up my mind for the final time.”

<<Not being invited to arrive with the best group at the Rabbit Welcome will be his punishment for—>>

“I’m not someone who punishes people for rejecting me!” Natalie squawked. “I hate people like that!”

<<—for stealing the turkey. My beautiful bird. Not everything is about you, Natalie Choir.>> Emilija shook her head dramatically. <<He’s committed far worse crimes than rejecting you.>>

“You do realize there would have been no turkey without Natalie?”

Natalie’s face reddened. Then she gasped, “Oh, Emilija! You need to call him ‘fowl’ because it sounds like ‘foul.’ On Trime! Have you done that pun yet? Maybe it’s too obvious?”

******

end clip

******

******

Alden was in the middle of apologizing to Emilija for missing the girls’ texts and explaining that he’d adjusted his message priority because of the amount of chatter he was getting from people Kon had spoken to today. But then he found the messages she meant.

“You guys only texted me twenty minutes ago! I’m not even that late replying.”

“You are so foul,” said Emilija.

He frowned. That’s a harsh and strange word choice. But she doesn’t sound mad. Maybe she means something else?

<<We were on our way to the ferry, but we decided at the last minute that you should come with us. It’s a once in a lifetime experience. You shouldn’t be left out.>>

“What’s the experience?”

The text message from Natalie to a group that included him, Hadiza, and Emilija said, [If you’re not there already, you should come with us.]

Like he was supposed to know what they were all doing.

<<The annual welcome event for new Rabbits. >>

Right. I am supposed to know what they’re all doing. “I forgot that was today.”

<<Of course you did. You’re lucky we’ve all come to help you.>> Emilija looked behind her. <<We were all here. I think Natalie got distracted when she saw people in the kitchen.>>

Alden followed her out of the laundry room. He was trying to simultaneously research the Rabbit Welcome on his interface, explain that he was tired because he’d only had a short nap since returning from Artona I, and remember everything Natalie had said about wanting to go to this event and all the other Rabbit festivities that would follow it.

I have to be in bed by eleven. I won’t be able to look Yenu-pezth in the face otherwise.

It looked like this celebration-slash-conference-slash-hobnobbing had started at 5:30 PM and would only last until 9:30, so it wasn’t undoable. Except for how little he wanted to socialize with strangers tonight.

<<Think of what Neha would say if you didn’t go at all. I bet there are people waiting there, desperate to invite you to their hop parties,>> Emilija said as she led the way back into the common room.

“I’m partied out right now. Really partied out. The last one I went to involved throwing people into ceiling nets, and a huge Artonan woman growled at me while we both had combatants riding on top of our shoulders. And that was only a little while ago.”

The common room, which had been rowdy minutes before, was much quieter now. Around fifty people were there. It was a mix of magic cup enthusiasts and guys who’d been prepping a contribution for a “Spaghetti Swap” activity the high school dorms were doing tonight. Or they had been prepping it themselves. Now they were all watching Natalie toss tiny ribbons of basil into a mountain of grated parmesan while she explained that there wouldn’t be as much of an effect from her skill because it was only two ingredients.

“I can get you more ingredients,” said the boy who’d been in charge of the meat sauce. “I’m really fast.”

“He’s not as fast as me,” said Mehdi. “I could get there first.”

“My uncle lives right by a store, and he never has anything to do. He could be here in five minutes with whatever you want.”

“You guys are suddenly so into running errands,” said Kon, who’d positioned himself by Natalie’s elbow. “But she told us she was on her way somewhere. You can’t make her work just because she stopped by and has a good skill.”

As he spoke, he was pinching some of the cheese and basil.

“Alden let me taste the lunch you made him once,” he told Natalie. “When we were eating together on combat assessment day.”

He casually took some more cheese. “So I’m familiar with your cooking. This is excellent. You’re definitely improving.”

His fingers were moving again.

“He’s pretending to know her to steal cheese!”

“Don’t believe him, Cook of the Moment!”

<<He doesn’t even know Alden,>> said Ignacio, smirking at Kon while he sharpened a knife he’d pulled out of a drawer. <<Keep him away from the food.>>

“Ignacio!” Kon protested, shoving the cheese into his mouth. “<<Liar!>> I know him, Natalie. He has shared your food with me. I was literally on Artona I with him hours ago.”

“Do you know this person, Alden?” Hadiza asked. She was leaning against the end of the counter farthest from Natalie, and she was the only one who seemed to have realized he’d entered the room.

Natalie’s head jerked up. She was in jeans and her rabbits and radishes top. It seemed to be a favorite. Her blonde hair was pushed back from her face by a white bunny ears headband.

“That person?” Alden glanced at Kon before shaking his head at Hadiza, who had her own dark green rabbit ears in one hand. They matched the knee-high boots she’d tucked her pants into and the blouse she wore. “Never met him in my life.”

“Aldeeen! How could you?”

Kon managed to run out of the kitchen with one more pinch of the cheese, narrowly avoiding a checker someone threw at him from across the common area.

Alden wished Natalie would smile. They’d ended things on a positive note. She’d smiled at him then and hooked her ankle around his, and they were definitely going to stay friends. But she was giving him a little bit of a deer-in-headlights look that was making him worried she’d gotten angry or sad about it since then.

He walked over to the counter she was at, weaving around a couple of people who’d lost the ability to move out of the way. “You three are inviting me to come with you?”

“We are. There are four of us, actually. A guy is heading down to F with us, but I think he has to work at the event, not hang out. He just went upstairs. We…wanted you to come and help us collect invitations to all the best Rabbit clubs and parties.” She smiled finally. “I mean, if you can? If you want to. We didn’t ask until a little while ago, and if you did just get back from Artona I… ”

“Of course I’ll come.”

“You will? Great.”

“Yeah, it sounds fun.” It sounded like something he’d prefer to skip, but this was the first thing she’d asked him to do since that day. He’d already made up his mind to lean hard toward a yes the next time she asked him for something. “I don’t have ears, though. Can I take Emilija’s?”

“Oh, they’ll give you some at the door!” Natalie said, while Emilija told Jeffy in Lithuanian that Alden was a serial food thief who was obviously branching out. “We just bought our own ahead of time because we wanted to make sure they looked good with what we’re wearing. Can we come up to your room and see it while you get ready?”

“Sure. Haoyu and Lute are here. And we have a Christmas tree.”

Alden didn’t ask why his t-shirt wasn’t good enough for what seemed like a casual event. “And I can fly us all there on The Nine-edged Son Whose Own Mother Forsakes Him. It’ll be faster than the ferry.”

“That would be perfect!” Natalie’s pep seemed to have recovered. She hurried over to the sink to wash her hands. “Do you think we can park at the top of Nautilus Needle?”

“I think sky traffic control is going to love it when I ask.”

She laughed. Almost everyone in the room seemed to lean into it.

“We’ve got a tree, too!” she said. “I put Wobble Gobble on it.”

“You did?”

“I propped him up with a branch.”

“I was hoping he’d grow into his tail feathers but I guess not.”

“I still like him just the way he is,” said Natalie. “You need to make him a friend. Life’s better with friends. Even if you’re a paper turkey.”

******
