Psycho-Cartography: You should be proud of yourself. You should be pleased by your power and everything you've accomplished. The decision, the choice to fight matters. The decisions we made are who we are, because that's how we grow. We use everything we have at our disposal to overcome problems, to step beyond our previous failures. Power or no power, we choose to fight. But remember that not everyone is like us, and not everyone has our gifts. If you can do that, then you can understand them, and you can understand their fears.

Shiv stared at the back of Merrielmel's head and felt some of the subconscious judgment he held toward the elf dissipate. He didn't really know who Merrielmel was. He didn't know what drove the Enchanter to be part of the criminal enterprise, why he allowed drugs to be trafficked across campus, why he found himself performing underground experiments. Shiv didn't know, and so, before he had all the details, he wouldn't judge Merrielmel. He would try to be as detached as possible.

“Merrielmel,” Shiv said after a beat. “Why are you doing this stuff underground? Why are you with Neath and the Outside? What’s the deal with all this?”

The elf stiffened. “It’s… a personal matter.”

Concelhaunt spat on the ground. “His brother went missing in an experiment gone wrong. Blast happened when he was trying to build a Slipgate.”

“STOP, STOP!” Merrielmel suddenly screamed, covering his ears. He never stopped walking, but he hummed to himself, as if trying to self-soothe.

The goblin Smith sighed. “Said too much. Look. Neath has resources; they’re interested in Slipgates—let's you use the Outside as a medium. Theoretically, could let you get anywhere in the Integration. Practically? No idea. Not sure a bridge like that can work with what we have available. But we’re close to creating an opening to the Outside. The Inertium might just be our final piece for the stabilizer.”

“And you?” Adam asked. “Why are you involved? And why not petition the administration?”

Concelhaunt’s expression turned haunted. “It was my project. I was the one that set the whole thing up. And I’m gonna be the one that sees it finished. But not with the academy. I think… I think we were sabotaged.”

“What?” Adam breathed. “By whom?”

The goblin turned to face him. “Headmaster Hymn. And no, I don’t felling know why. I just… caught him the day before. In the lab. Doing something… I don’t know why… Don’t know…”

“You’re lying,” Irons said.

“The fuck you say, Irons?” Concelhaunt snarled, taking a step toward the captain.

Irons didn’t flinch. He just glared harder. “I served under Hymn. This is not his way. He is not that kind of person. You are lying.”

Concelhaunt’s expression twisted into a derisive sneer, but before they could get any more heated, the Enchanter gave a shrill whistle.

"Alright, here, here!" Merrielmel said, interrupting the others with a loud shout. He gestured to his left and right, and Shiv found himself staring at an assortment of weapons. One looked to be a lightning bolt caged within a length of stone, making it resemble something between a column and a spear. The spear crackled constantly, and the stone itself rumbled, barely able to contain the power it bore within. Despite this, Shiv couldn't feel the mana radiating out of the item. In fact, this entire equipment museum was pristine, devoid of any overlapping mana fields aside from the lights above or Merrielmel himself.

"Oh, oh, sorry, I was a little bit too hasty." Merrielmel waved his hands, and then the chitinous glass lining the outside of the display case collapsed. Shiv cocked his head as he watched how each section of the glass receded into another, unfurling as if a fan. The bits of the glass were as if ribs of skin or chloroplasts from plants. In seconds, the glass splashed down like a waterfall, hiding in the gaps between the equipment stands and the outside of the display case. Just then, Shiv felt the crushing power radiating from the storm spear.

"This is the Heavenfall Anvil. It allows one to shape the ground by using bolts of lightning. It possesses a range of well over ten kilometers and grants you the power to root yourself to the earth while lashing the world with lightning."

Shiv lifted an eyebrow as he examined the Anvil in greater detail. It was flashy, but… How many people are me? And do I really need another piece of equipment right now? He knew the answer to that question. Shiv looked over his shoulder and shrugged at Adam. "So, what do you think?"

The Gate Lord’s mouth fell open slightly. "What?"

"Yeah, what do you think? Useful or shit? You like this thing?”

For a moment, Adam didn't reply. You’re… You want me to choose something? For myself?”

"Yes," Shiv said, as if it were the most natural thing in the world.

"But you're trading your gauntlet for it."

"Yeah, I'm trading my gauntlet so that you can have something new." Shiv held up his pan. "Not feeling that greedy. And besides, you can use another edge. Maybe something that'll let you shoot further or get away faster. You deserve it. And if it makes you stronger, it makes all of us better.”

“Soft,” Mortar scoffed.

“Strategic,” Whisper praised.

Adam pressed his lips together, and Shiv read the thankful glint behind his eyes. Shiv adopted a smug grin, but then the Gate Lord just scoffed. "Are you going to use this to guilt-trip me if we disagree in the future?"

"Yeah," Shiv said, admitting it without shame.

"You are an utter bastard."

"That I am," Shiv admitted smoothly, "but I just want the best things in life for my best asshole."

Irons looked between them, and a flicker of suspicion danced across his face. It vanished a second later. The Gate Lord stepped past Shiv and placed a hand on the anvil.
