Hm? Oh, yes. Headmaster, I'm aware that Master-Instructor Heresine is a spy. And a spy of Aviary, no less. One of their so-called Sparrows. Long-term, deep cover. Not meant for active combat.

I commend you for noticing, but the Inquisition has the matter well under control. As such, I recommend you leave it be.

Why, you ask? Because this is simply what is done between rival nations. You understand this. I know why you wish to stamp this out, but it's a little bit like trying to kill all the cockroaches in an infested house using the bottom of your heel alone. It's woefully insufficient, and it doesn't get the job done. Now, for these matters, it's best to prevent or subvert it beforehand, instead of trying to react and deal with it.

As such, the so-called spy you have uncovered is already nullified. Nullified because the Inquisition has existing cells pre-planted within the Academy. They're there for one purpose and one purpose alone: to reach out to new and subversive elements and turn them to steal information from our adversaries while they're trying to compromise our students. There is no space for them to slip in between the cracks, because we have already colonized the cracks, so to speak.

So, again, Headmaster, I thank you for your concern, but lay that heavy burden in your chest to rest. Your duty is to the children, so focus on them. Leave the rest to me and to the ones that dwell in the shadows of our Republic.

We all have a role to play. Just worry about yours.

-Legend-Councilwoman Veronica Chandler to Legend-Headmaster Hades Hymn

206 (I)

Academy [IV]

Shiv was taken aback by Merrielmel's fervent pleas. There was a desperate gleam in the Enchanter's eyes, and he had the look of a man who was willing to offer an arm and a leg in exchange for the broken gauntlet in Shiv's hands.

"What kind of Heroic equipment?" Shiv asked.

Merrielmel perked up immediately. "Come, let me show you." He reached out and seized Shiv by the wrist, and he tried to pull Shiv along. Unfortunately, Merrielmel was not a Legendary-Tier Pathbearer in terms of physique. He wasn't even a Master. The outcome was like a blade of grass trying to drag an oak. Merrielmel squeaked as he stumbled back into Shiv, unprepared for how heavy and rooted the Deathless was. Shiv caught Merrielmel's face before he could slam nose-first into the chest piece of the Voidmantid armor.

"Oh, oh, terribly sorry," Merrielmel muttered. He coughed awkwardly and released Shiv, who raised an eyebrow. "Yeah, next time, just ask."

"Of course, of course."

Beside them, Concelhaunt gripped his face and tried to hide his second-hand shame. "Gets this way when he's a little too excited."

***

Merrielmel led Shiv and the others out of the crafting chamber. They cut several corners before they got to another dead end, and this time Shiv found himself staring at a cylindrical crack. It resembled a depressed fracture imprinted upon the stone. He wasn't sure why they all had to be cracked in different ways, but this one leaked Dimensionality mana too. Unbeknownst to Merrielmel, Shiv wasn't alone. There was a certain reserve Avatar in his cape, and gliding behind them just underground was a Hydra that had been playing the role of hidden ace all the while.

The cylindrical crack swirled into a whirlpool of black static, and as they stepped through, Shiv found himself awestruck at the large space that greeted him. Instead of being a narrow chamber, humid and choked with clashing mana types, he stood upon marble tiles and glanced down a massive hall that had hundreds of display cases. It was almost museum-like in terms of the arrangement, but the lights above were a bit too bright, and from them radiated faint pulses of Dimensionality.

Shiv got his answer to why they were infused with Dimensionality as a few of them started ringing upon detecting him. "Ah, sorry, sorry," Merrielmel cried out. He sent a few of his flying drones to crash against the lights. A spark of violet energy filled the air, and the alarms died down in an instant. "It's meant to make sure no one tries to pilfer our finalized products. Our personal products, I must tell you. We make a great many things for the Academy, but for certain things, you know, it's very hard to get permission."

The elf rambled on as Shiv followed behind him. The Deathless was only halfway listening. Merrielmel continued talking about how the administration had no vision, no willingness to fund ambitious projects, forcing him and Concelhaunt to do things themselves. As for the aforementioned things, they resided in the two dozen or so display cases.

The first thing Shiv noticed about the cases was the glass. Instead of it being natural glass, it was reinforced with a sort of crystalline substance, and to his surprise, when his mana hydras brushed over them, he realized it wasn't a synthetic crystal, but an organic compound. It was complex in its biological architecture, and the renditions that manifested over his hydras were composed of so many interconnected microspells that Shiv struggled to process what he was looking at. It was like systems collapsing on systems, and what's more, the glass was still alive. The crystallized compound was not a dead organism. It was chitinous. Bits of it died, and bits of it re-grew.

"Oh, you have a unique Biomancy Skill Evolution," Merrielmel noted, beholding Shiv's mana hydras for the first time. "I was wondering why your Biomancy field was so dense earlier. Hero?"

Shiv considered withholding the information, but something told him he might just get a bit of useful knowledge in exchange if he decided to be open. "Yeah," Shiv said, "Hero. Aegis of Assimilation.”

"Aegis of Assimilation?" Merrielmel coughed. "That's very, very unusual. Have you accepted any Blessings from a Hydra god of some sort? Or have you transplanted bits from a Hydra into yourself?" The elf pulled a pair of spectacles out of nowhere and layered them over his eyes. The lenses flashed blood red, and he squinted at Shiv.

The Deathless realized what Merrielmel was doing a moment later. He was trying to scan Shiv's innards. This grew more evident as a sweeping beam of redness washed through Shiv's skin and made it transparent. The Deathless found himself slightly perplexed rather than offended. "Seems pretty useful. What kind of item is that?"

"Oh, it's one of my personal gadgets," Merrielmel explained. He clicked the side of his glasses, and then they flashed with a sudden rush of Pyromancy as well. "Oh, you seem mostly human. Large for a human, but still mostly human. There is a strange glow about you, though." He clicked his glasses twice more, and this time they were infused with a bright vitality. That was when Merrielmel's breath caught in his throat. "What is… this?"

"Something you might not want to dig too far into," Shiv answered. There was a warning under his breath, but Merrielmel missed it entirely.

"No, no, I've never seen anything like this before. Your vitality, it seems to be blended into..."

"My soul," Shiv finished for him. "And if you try to find out why, you're probably going to get a visit from a certain someone. You don’t want to meet them. I don’t want you to meet them. It won’t end well.”

Merrielmel let his glasses slide down the bridge of his nose. "Who? Someone unwilling to share the fruits of their labor, that's who…" He frowned and then pouted. There was something deeply childlike about his expression. "I must tell you, any scientist who withholds their intelligence and dedication to this world is not worthy of being called a scientist. All our efforts should be toward furthering society and—”

"You know the name Udraal Thann?" Shiv cut Merrielmel off again.

Merrielmel paused. "I... You... you mean..."

"Okay, so you have heard of him," Shiv continued. He folded his arms and leaned down to stare Merrielmel eye to eye. "My dealings are with Udraal. I don't much like Udraal. And someday, if I get the chance—no, when I get the chance—I'm going to tear Udraal in half and stomp him until there is nothing left but paste and dust. And when I'm done doing that, I'm going to reach into his soul, and I'm going to break every single skill he has." With the last word, Shiv's syllables trailed off with a rageful growl, and he surprised even himself with how angry he felt. But he meant every word. For what Udraal did, for what Udraal might do, he was going to kill the bastard. And he was going to do it slowly.

Merrielmel's mouth fell open, but then he swallowed. He nodded vigorously and spoke no more about the Deathless's Vitae. "Oh, well, come along," Merrielmel chuckled nervously. "There are a great many things you can select from. But please, can I… see it?"

Shiv handed his gauntlet over to the elf, and the Enchanter all but chirped as he accepted it, like it was some kind of priceless gem. Which, to Merrielmel, it might as well have been. He needs this to finish his shifting device, the thing that can make them travel to the Outside, Shiv muttered internally, thinking back to what the Enchanter had said earlier. And that means I need it too. Otherwise, there's no easy way to reach Uva or Blackedge. Still need to figure out their deal—why they want to reach the Outside. And why the Neath is interested in helping them. And then there’s the Dragon Brokers. More shit to deal with.

Shiv held back a sigh. Fuck me, the Outside. I hate dealing with the eldritch shit. I hate the Recollector. I hate the Stranger. I hate the Eldest. I... He hesitated when it came to the Dreamtaker. It wasn't like he liked the Dreamtaker, but aside from being a little dubious when it came to not possessing people or talking through their eyes, she was relatively amiable when it came to Shiv or Uva’s requests. Still a dream-eating entity, though. Just another felling thing I have to deal with.

"Inertium," Merrielmel breathed. He held the gauntlet high and practically worshiped the broken thing. "I still have no idea where you got this. Must be a grand story, a remarkable story. Have you met one of the Farwalkers? The Mage-Slayers? Oh, they despise the System in all its ways. They loathe magic. I can't imagine what favors you might have to do to gain this gauntlet from them." And then Merrielmel gasped. "Don't tell me you killed one of them. How did it feel? Did you kill one of them?"

"Didn't really get it from one of them," Shiv said, and immediately he saw Merrielmel deflate slightly. "I got it from..." Shiv grimaced at the recollection. "Got it from a friend, I guess."

"You guess?" Merrielmel asked.

"Yeah, I suppose she's a friend, but... honestly, she died before I could get to know her all that well. Wasn’t anything she could do. Or I could do either.”

"Oh," Merrielmel said, and he sounded properly depressed. "I know how that feels. I have several colleagues who are both scholars and warriors. Many of them don't last very long. It is a treacherous thing, living the life of a Pathbearer, especially a martial Pathbearer. I have pleaded with a great many of them, you know, to commit to the science. It's safer that way. It's where we belong." But Merrielmel coughed as he caught himself rambling. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to offend you."

"Not offended," Shiv said. “Just dealing with being alive in the Integration. Sometimes, I forget. But then it reminds me.”

Psycho-Cartography: This one is extremely terrified of practically everything around him. His mind also skips from place to place. Probably very useful if you're someone who has to experiment or test a lot of different possibilities, but in combat, he'd probably be a liability. He'd just get overwhelmed by everything happening and shut down. Him choosing to be a non-martial was likely a wise decision.

Despite recognizing that rationally, another part of him still scorned Merrielmel in a certain way, and he noted that about himself.

Psycho-Cartography: You scorn him because you don't like it when people surrender their agency, when people refuse to fight for themselves, refuse to spit in the face of a cruel world. He is, in a word, pathetic. And you like to tell yourself that you're the opposite. You are the so-called Overman that Valor told you about. It makes you feel powerful.

"I am powerful," he said under his breath.

"What?" Merrielmel said.

"Nothing," Shiv replied, following the enchanter. Merrielmel stared at him from the corner of his eye, and then he nodded, unwilling to confront Shiv, retreating into his own anxiety.

Psycho-Cartography: You are powerful, but power is relative. The dirt is littered with powerful Pathbearers. Sullain was powerful, incredibly so, and yet he perished unceremoniously, used as a test subject to teach you how to break someone's soul. The Recollector was powerful, but if we were to fight that fell thing again, you'd tear it in half in short order. Roland is powerful, and Roland nearly broke himself trying to protect Blackedge. There are limits to power, and there are other monsters in the world. Power is not enough. You have to be more than powerful. You have to make the right choices as well. Decide who you wish to be.

Shiv stopped to consider these ruminations for a moment. Just how free was anyone? Yes, you could choose to be a martial. You could train yourself day and night. You could push yourself beyond your limits and try to climb as high as you can go. But still, there was no guarantee you'd survive the next day. And Shiv had made it this far by not surviving, by being brutal, by being reckless, by never stopping. But who else could be like him? Who else could fight the way he did? Who else could grow the way he did?

