“Soothing spells in the arms. I’ll grant you, it’s novel. Let’s, er—let’s visit the Room of Winnable Debates. I’ve always wanted to try it.”
 
——
 
Once Valeterisa corrected the room’s authority enchantments, it revealed a room on par with Larracel’s own great Skill, the [Pub of Best Moments].
Only, in this case, the room would pull from your thoughts and generate an entire place or event you wanted—or had lived—and let you do it over.
Only this time you would have the poise, forethought, and ability to win any argument you wanted. Relc went into it, and Valeterisa watched as he argued Captain Zevara of Liscor into not only giving him more time off, but giving him a raise.
“Ancestors, that felt great! And it was so realistic! Did you see her shake my claw and admit I’d been working really hard? What actually happened was she threw an inkpot at me.”
He punched the air, grinning. Valeterisa wanted to try, but she realized the room needed access to your thoughts; her spells prevented it from working correctly.
Everyone watched as Nanette went into the room, and a tall woman with grey hair appeared. Rather than argue—Nanette gave the image of Califor a hug, and Cuddle Golems rushed over.
“Well, that’s sad. I am going to go over here now before I begin weeping.”
Bezale stomped off. Yet Valeterisa believed the island was still worth the journey. For one thing—she got to remind herself how much magic there was for her to achieve.
 
——
 
Taking Hedault and Grimalkin was a good idea, and Valeterisa congratulated herself on listening to her apprentice’s idea. What would have been busy work for at least a full straight day, if not two, became a half-day of work and a lot of pretending to be busy when the Wellfars checked in.
Which meant more time for the island itself. And coincidentally, Relc.
Sometimes, she forgot they were what you would qualify as ‘together’. Sometimes, she wondered what he saw in her.
Was it…that she was the Archmage of Izril? It couldn’t be her personality or age or appearance. She was older—and the Isle of Heiste made her uncomfortable for a while.
Mostly because the etiquette here was to go around in states of undress, similar to the beach. House Wellfar’s nobles certainly enjoyed themselves with almost nothing on, regardless of gender; the isle was of course climate-controlled via magic, so the winter never touched it.
Valeterisa adjusted the temperature until it was cold enough so everyone was putting clothes on—until they complained. Then she dithered before remembering how you were supposed to do it.
“Hey, Valeterisa. You said we’d have some free time and whoa!”
Relc caught sight of Valeterisa during her downtime when they had arranged to explore the island. He had a fruit drink in one hand, but completely forgot to hold onto it.
Valeterisa was wearing one of the two-piece swimsuits that House Wellfar had offered. But she had, ah, added a bit of magic.
…She might have gone overboard. She was fairly certain she’d blended the illusion spells well, but then she remembered Relc had seen her naked.
“It, um, um, comes with an [Illusion] spell?”
Relc was staring at…he jerked his eyes up, and they dropped like a gravity spell was attached.
“Yeah. That’s some illusion.”
That made her more embarrassed. Then, Valeterisa was ashamed and was trying to talk herself out of using a memory spell on him. But the Drake glanced at her expression—and his softened.
“Hey, if you want to put them on—do you mind doing something about my tail? And face?”
He grinned at her, indicating his own features, and Valeterisa protested.
“But you look fine.”
“Well, you’re not a bad drink of water yourself.”
He gave her ‘finger guns’, and Valeterisa stared at him blankly, then felt better. It wasn’t that Relc was, in fact, the paragon of wordy and worldly grace. It was more that when she felt bad about something, she realized—he understood.
Then she was reminded why it was pleasant to walk around with him. In the end, Valeterisa adjusted the spells slightly to be less obvious but still compete with some of the beach-goers. It wasn’t like she minded Relc looking so…interested.
“So they’ve all got illusion magic on? I just thought, y’know, if you’re richer, you can afford a better diet.”
“She does. And he does. And—he does not, but he’s old.”
They were playing ‘spot the illusion’, and it turned out to be harder to spot those not ensorcelled in some small way. And, often, what the people chose to correct surprised Relc. He was using a [True Sight] spell she’d attached to a pair of spectacles, and he kept shaking his head.
“They look good to me.”
“Mm. Wait. She’s not using a spell.”
“Dead gods.”
They both stared at the [Lady of Surf] as she passed by. And that was entirely amusing in a way that didn’t make her feel worse.
 
——
 
One of the features of Heiste was a magical sandbar that let you walk anywhere you wanted, even on the water. It would rise and provide a path—until you accidentally walked into the sea where the magic stopped.
Relc and Valeterisa did just that and admired fish that flocked to the island to feast on plantlife cultivated to attract them. No fear of sharks—Relc whistled as he saw one being picked up by the security spell and tossed into the distance.
“This Valmira was some [Archmage]. Almost as good as you.”
“She was far better than me. Valmira was well-respected…envied, really. She dueled numerous [Archmages] and was considered the best in Wistram before her passing. A freak accident; she should have been protected from the spell that killed her. Speculation has been rife that it was a Naq-Alrama blade or sabotage. I have a book on [Archmages]…um, I could lend it to you if you like.”
Here, Relc nodded affably.
“I could read that. But it’s cooler when you describe them. With spells.”
She could demonstrate [Valmira’s Comet], and the fact that she could cast almost any spell was endlessly amazing to Relc. Valeterisa, in turn, appreciated being able to show off her magic.
They were not in perfect sync, though. They both liked puzzles, but Valeterisa had observed Relc wasn’t always willing to commit to reading a book over the week and giving her his detailed thoughts afterwards.
Similarly…she didn’t have his appreciation for strenuous exercise. Valeterisa got tired after walking for twenty minutes, and Relc kept suggesting walks or ‘exercise’. He had been hurt when she revealed she was researching ways to artificially speed up muscle growth and casting [Lion’s Strength] on herself to keep up.
“I…tell me if there’s something else we should be doing on this date. Is this a date? Do we move sex to tonight? Larracel wrote down some advice for me, but she didn’t mention vacations.”
Relc’s expression was colorful, and Valeterisa confessed.
“I—haven’t done this much. I’m sure you have.”
Relc grinned and jerked a thumb at his face.
“Who? Me? Who wants to date someone with a face like this? I had a kid, but the army’s different.”
Valeterisa protested.
“But you were a Senior Guardsman. And a [Spearmaster]. Surely…”
Surely they appreciated you. She did. Relc glanced at Valeterisa with that wide smile that almost seemed incredulous. Then it turned pained.
“Eh…I wasn’t always good about it. I’ve had a—I guess there was—”
He stared past Valeterisa for a while and kicked some sand at a fish, who went to gobble it up—then spat it out.
“I think meeting Erin helped a bit. Meeting Klbkch definitely did. [Guards]—you know, the other ones I work with? I used to treat them like the army. Now, I get rookies who come to me because they’re scared of Beilmark. That’s sort of how it is. I cleaned up my act a bit, and good thing too! Or we’d never have met!”
He gave her a big thumbs-up, and Valeterisa smiled. Then she felt compelled to talk about her past.
“I…never met many people I wished to talk to. Ever. There were some I recall, like Archmage Amerys, but they weren’t close. For magic, I gave it all away, and they told me I sacrificed love for that.”
Relc saw Valeterisa brush at her face. Not because she had tears; the wind was getting hair in her face.
“—Sounds like you made a choice and did what you thought was best. People always get on your tail about it.”
He was talking about her, but he meant his daughter, Embria. Strange how her pursuit of magic and his quitting the army for his daughter had so many commonalities.
“Yes. I suppose this is true. I have always listened to that advice. When I first heard it, someone told me being different would always make me unloved. But…‘no visionary has ever seen or said what the rest of the world does’.”
“Sounds like a wise person. Who said that?”
“A Djinni. Named Heorth. He lives in Fissival’s Grand Librarium. And when I was very little, I once got lost and he gave me a book…I kept coming back.”
Perhaps that one encounter had shaped her life. Perhaps she would have always gone to magic from the other people she had known, like Milaw. But Relc listened, fascinated, to the tales of Valeterisa’s youth.
They told stories. That was what Valeterisa found strange. The Isle of Heiste was around them, and they flew up to stare at the clouds they could walk on. Admired the sea life, accepted drinks from the [Familiars], and explored Valmira’s mansion.
But they spoke as much of themselves as of this place, as if the place were so wondrous it became a suitable backdrop for the mundane and personal. Or—maybe it was simply that Valeterisa wanted someone to understand her. She had thought no one could who did not know magic, who had not given their life to it.
Then she looked up at that grinning Drake who would go quiet and clench one fist when she said something she had only told Larracel or Mihaela, or a few others, and he’d look proud of her triumphs. Then—she’d have the incredible desire to take his arm, like an immovable object, warm, feel the blood racing, and whisper a word of magic into his ears.
When he looked at her—it was like the delight of casting a new spell. A thrill that rose like magic surging within her. So she pursued that feeling. Heiste was a very lovely island for that too.
For a day or two, Valeterisa reclaimed something she’d thought she’d passed up in her youth. Which was quite a lot of fun. Montressa told Valeterisa not to give her details, though. So did Larracel, which was hurtful.
 
——
 
“Dead gods. Look at that. And you’re telling me this scrying spell shows us the sea? That’s a whale! Dead gods, that’s a whale!”
That night, they ate on the beach with food from the infinite cornucopia, and Wailant stared at an image of the sea floor, lit up, another spectacle by night. There was also a choir of Golems that could perform any music in their memory banks, and Valeterisa had just restored access to a library of books where a familiar would read them out to you and recreate every scene with illusion magic.
“I’m glad you could see this, Relc. Archmage Valmira is one of my most beloved idols. She was an [Archmage] at a time when her contemporaries changed the world, like Igawiz, and was renowned among them all. She dedicated everything to magic, and but for her untimely demise at fifty—she would have been the greatest [Archmage] ever.”
It distressed Valeterisa to know she was older than her inspiration. It was just more proof of how unfocused she was.
Even Ci was sipping from a coconut, and the group demurred when Valeterisa compared herself negatively to the legend of Valmira.
“Archmage Valeterisa, you are one of the greatest [Mages] alive! Valmira was amazing, but she also grew up in a time with grander magic. How can you say you’re not as hardworking?”
“She was more focused. I have so many projects to work on…I cannot even earn enough coin. I do have some, from the Kaalblades and whatnot, but she was richer, more successful, and more magical than I. It is not a bad thing to know this, Mage Montressa.”
Valeterisa was adamant about the facts, but once again…Enchanter Hedault came in with the proverbial steel chair, though his was, in fact, made of wood as he reclined on the beach.
“You say this, Archmage Valeterisa, and I too have read accounts of Valmira’s greatness. But upon visiting Heiste…her wonders of magic are true wonders that endure to this day. Testaments to her superior enchanting ability and magecraft. But what a waste of magic.”
Valeterisa sat upright, eyes flashing.
“A waste? Her Golems functioned perfectly for thousands of years after her death!”
“Yes. Their purpose is to hug you if sad. She has a room dedicated to winning debates long past. One of the magical bedrooms is designed to create a rainstorm if you are upset. There is a room full of objects with infinite [Reconstruction] to break repeatedly. She was an unhappy woman.”
Hedault’s eyes were clear and straightforward, and Valeterisa gazed around as if seeing some of the magic for the first time.
Unhappy? Valmira? Surely not! She had all the power and money in the world. She had stayed on her island and only left to visit Wistram in her later years. Only to…duel other challenging [Mages] to the death…which was how she’d died.
In the silence, everyone avoided looking at Valeterisa, and Bezale coughed.
“Uh—speaking of enchantments, do you need to fix that thing? It hasn’t worked all the time we’ve been here. I swore I saw it moving now and then, but—what is it, Archmage?”
With three people working on the job, most of the island was back to spec far ahead of schedule. Valeterisa glanced over aimlessly, wondering if they’d missed something. Bezale was pointing to a contraption only six feet tall, but oddly made. It was…well, it was a series of rings that were motionless as they sat on the beach. Even the wind hadn’t moved them.
“Oh, that. That is a magical…weathervane. It reacts to mana. If there were a mana surge or something, it would react. Go stand next to it, Bezale.”
The Minotauress hesitated, then walked over and jumped back as the rings began to swing around in a complex pattern. It reacted to her mana! It wasn’t very active, and when Montressa joined Bezale, the movement picked up speed until it became an active, hypnotizing pattern.
Bezale had very low mana reserves and was embarrassed, but the other [Mages] came by. Hedault had decent reserves, but Grimalkin had the most and grunted as the spinning accelerated.
“Hey, it’s got nothing with me—though the spear gets a reaction. Archmage, come over!”
Valeterisa sighed, but walked over, and the spinning became very rapid in her presence. It halted when she reached for it, and the quivering metal was cool to the touch.
