Menolit was here, and a few diehard regulars, but Relc and Valeterisa had a spot to themselves. The Drake saw Valeterisa wave a finger.
“Imagine…something like this, Relc. This is mana. This is what the hat does. It forces the mana through, makes it go faster—this is an approximation. But the shape limits the amount and power.”
She conjured a tube that narrowed at one end, and Relc nodded.
“Oh, sort of like how a spear tip concentrates all that force instead of a mace. But you only poke someone in one spot as opposed to breaking all his bones. Unless you hit him hard enough.”
“That’s a very refreshing way of saying it.”
Relc jerked a thumb at his chest.
“[Warrior]. Anyways, if Hedault’s mad—he’s a touchy guy. But you can keep trying to make it up to him. Do you still have the hat?”
That was a good question. Valeterisa actually thought it might be at her mansion and said so. Relc gave her a thumbs-up.
“Replacing that and his window might be the thing. Wait, did you steal the window to analyze it too?”
“No…he made it too well to unlock or bypass. I had to rip it out of the wall.”
Relc kept laughing about that, but soon he and Valeterisa rose to do something they’d agreed on this night that she had reservations about. It felt rather intimate, and it was her first time, but he was confident everything would work out, so she’d agreed.
 
——
 
“Okay, just let me know if you think it’ll actually hurt you.”
Valeterisa prodded the tip of Relc’s spear.
“No, I think I have good enough protection. Just stop if you think you’ll actually hit me.”
“Got it.”
Relc backed up, then took a running start and jabbed.
With his spear.
With his anti-magic spear. Valeterisa had already teleported away, and he continued the charge alarmingly quickly, and she began to levitate upwards as Montressa shouted.
“Go, Master—whoa!”
Relc used his spear like a pole to vault up, and he kicked Valeterisa so hard she went flying downwards from the force of the blow. She bounced as her barrier spells reacted.
Oh my, he’s very dangerous. She felt a thrill as she vanished, and Relc swung around.
“Aw, hells. It’s like fighting a good [Mage]. All of them can teleport in a second.”
[Invisibility]. Valeterisa hung in the air as Relc paced around. She thought she was completely invisible until he reached in his belt pouch—
“Sand attack! Ha! Gotcha!”
Seeing an Archmage go up against Liscor’s [Spearmaster] had brought out a lot of the guests, even the busy staff. Bezale leaned over and whispered to Montressa.
“When you described this to me, I had an entirely different idea of what might be happening. I was quite worried when you asked if I wanted to watch.”
Montressa spat out her drink. Meanwhile, Valeterisa was having a harder time than she would have liked against Relc.
At first, she was going to take it easier on him. When he stabbed through two of her six [Arcane Barriers] in a single move, she realized he really was a threat.
“I would have used [Triple Thrust], but I was worried about hitting you.”
Could he have struck her if he’d used that Skill? Valeterisa backed off—and he closed the gap in moments.
The Gecko was too fast! No wonder he’d been known as an officer- and mage-killer back when he was in the army. Even with [Speed]—she felt too slow.
“[Haste]. [Reduced Spell: Fireball]. [Fireball]. [Fireball]—”
Valeterisa could fling low-tier spells down with extreme speed. In reply, Relc just dodged right, leaping faster than she could track him! Or rather, her fingers could track him, but the burning [Fireballs] couldn’t. When she made them home, he just jabbed his spear through each one, killing the magic.
“Come on, Valeterisa! I know you can do better than that! I know I’m going to lose. Give me your best shot! Without, uh, killing me.”
In reply, she decided to fly up high, high out of his range. There was no way he could strike her. In response, he threw his spear at her and knocked out another two barriers.
“[Recall Weapon: Spear]!”
This was actually rather embarrassing. Valeterisa decided that to look good, she had to show off a bit. So she raised her arms.
“[Bind Spell]. [Reduce Spell: Chain Lightning]. Increasing magic…eleven bolts. Eighteen…”
One hand caught a splintering nest of lightning bolts that writhed down from the sky. The other hand pointed down at Relc, and he looked up.
“Ah, hells.”
[Reduce Spell] let her take a lot of the danger out of a spell. So without much worry for his safety, Valeterisa hurled eighteen lightning bolts down at him as her second finger began firing [Arrow of Light] spells, a basic attack. Multiplied by about a thousand.
He actually managed to block the first three lightning bolts with his whirling spear and dodged a fourth. The rest caught him as he swore, and when the rain of light arrows finally stopped, Relc eyed his sooty scales and sighed.
“Yeah. That’s pretty much how I thought it would go.”
“You deflected a lot of them.”
“Sure, sure. It only takes one. Well, maybe three. I’ve eaten two [Lightning Bolts] in a battle before. That was not fun, let me tell you. Want to keep going?”
She was surprised; the level disparity between the two of them was clear, but Relc seemed excited as he lifted his spear.
“The thing is—you never get to practice anti-mage tactics. I could do some of it in the army, but how many [High Mages] do you think were keen to let me learn how to beat their spells? Everything I know is based on experience. Can I try the ray spells? I want to see if I can cut them with my spear.”
“Of course. How did you normally solve them?”
Valeterisa was interested by Relc’s spear, which was a very good artifact as well. He shrugged.
“Dodge. See, I’d never have risked it—yeow! That’s why! Spear on fire!”
He looked sillier when he danced around, waving his flaming spear, and certainly, some of the staff and guests laughed at Relc’s antics. But the ones like Bezale, Peggy, and Valeterisa herself did not.
If I were Level 40 and he met me on the battlefield…a second of overconfidence was all it took. The fact that he had a solution to flying [Mages] would scare many of Valeterisa’s peers. Speed, toughness, and skill with the spear—
She liked that he was a [Spearmaster] when all was said and done. Not the best of them; he only had a few [Spear Dances], but he broke through almost every spell below Tier 5 she cast at him without a scratch, even without knowing what they did.
When he whirled his spear, dancing through [Meldat’s Burning Rings] without so much as a singed scale, he grinned at her, and Valeterisa decided she was not wrong to like Relc Grasstongue at all.
She just wondered if they were correct for each other. She was still the Archmage of Izril. And it seemed that her magic experiments would have to wait.
She had work to do.
 
——
 
That night, Valeterisa taught Montressa a few basics of setting up enchantments on something the size of Liscor and told Montressa she intended to take the project on.
“It’s a lot of work, Archmage, even if you have me drawing most of the wall enchantments. Are you sure? After the, um, transportation issue—”
Valeterisa well remembered the debacle with the teleportation plan. And she wasn’t sure.
“I said I would look at the issue. At the very least, walk the walls and propose your plan, Montressa, and I will evaluate it with my schematics tomorrow evening. After I meet with the Dwarves. And—”
She sighed.
“Eldavin has work for me. The Archmage’s Isle needs magical help.”
That was considerably far away, even with her long-range teleportation spells. Montressa grew a bit excited, though.
“The Archmage’s Isle? That paradise? Didn’t they have trouble when Khelt was telling everyone about Seamwalkers?”
“Allegedly. I will go there and resolve the issue…soon. Not with the Dwarfhalls Rest issue. Later.”
Valeterisa went to bed in her room, barely remembering to fill it with more mana before she went to lay down. She was tired, but not magically, unfortunately. Mentally. What an unproductive day in many senses.
Of course, she had spent a lot of time with Relc. The rest had been meetings—but what about the magic? She stared at the floating orbs of mana in the air and sat up with a sigh.
“Two hours.”
She could spare two hours before she went to sleep. In the end, she spent six. But that was fine! [Twofold Rest] gave her…four hours of sleep?
 
——
 
The next morning, a groggy Valeterisa stared at her coffee and wondered how Relc got up before dawn to train children with a spear—and go to his morning patrol. The inn was bustling, and she heard Lyonette clapping her hands.
“Remember, everyone! Rheirgest is heading our way! We have time, but I want everything prepared. Food, welcome gifts—Yelroan, is our permit ready?”
“I’ll check. Liscor is dragging their heels on it.”
“Well, throw gold at them and demand it be here. What about the Antinium?”
“Ready to work this morning. Priest Pawn wished to speak with—”
“Alright, I’ll talk to him, Rosencrantz. Get working. Laken has the lumber from Riverfarm ready to go. Pay him in advance. Oh, and Mrsha, Nanette? Go and get a welcoming banquet ready. Not just food; gifts, seeds, things they might need in their houses. Be reasonable in what you spend.”
For some reason, the two girls began sniggering each time Lyonette brought up coin, which Valeterisa thought was very juvenile.
She had a healthy appreciation for the value of coin. Not that Valeterisa wanted money. She wanted magic, but it was the same thing, by and large. She’d tried a number of schemes over the years to get enough money for all her many expenses, from spellbooks to materials and so on, and she had a lot of money.
Enough to build her private mansion and buy an isle, but money came and, sadly, went. The House of El had had a lot of failed ventures back in the day. Maviola El had somehow always talked Valeterisa into working on another spell that would definitely succeed this time.
Right now, Valeterisa wasn’t hurting for coin. She’d always be able to afford an inn, for instance. But she had a lot of projects, and that was where coin was limited.
Hence her teleportation network idea. Things would have been so much easier if Fissival had gone well. If they had let her trademark her magic, she would have had all the funding, support, and frankly, access she needed.
Without it? She was free, independent…and poor as independent institutions usually were. Valeterisa had slowed her teleportation project idea. For one thing, it was more like sending comets through the skies, and she had the idea that if she had a huge platform, she could ‘toss’ something at extreme distance with the right spell.
But only if she had a gigantic tower the likes of which no building in even Invrisil was close to. So her main income was performing magical feats.
Liscor’s walls were a good example of the kind of work Valeterisa could pull. Sending goods from House Sanito to Invrisil? It was reliable work once a week…but it wasn’t for thousands of gold pieces.
Dwarfhalls Rest…now, that was a bigger project.
 
——
 
“We want you to recreate one of the Magic Hammers of old, Archmage! See that giant arm? The Goblins didn’t mangle it; they even used it, but it’s nowhere near as strong or fast as if you got it moving!”
“…What?”
The sounds of Dwarfhalls Rest, the mountain that the Dwarfs of Terandria had reclaimed, were so intense that Valeterisa had to upgrade [Silence] to [Complete Silence] and boost the [Forgemaster]’s voice so he could be heard.
Dwarves. Thousands of them. Well, in the entire mountain. The one assembly line was at best only a hundred Dwarves on actual hammers, and they led her around on a tour of the hot mountain interior.
“We’re bringing back the tools of old, Archmage. No more single forges—this is the vision of Deríthal-Vel. See how each smith is moving metal from station to station? Mind you, that’s why we need your magic. A moving platform would help a lot. Right now, it’s apprentices doing the running.”
Valeterisa saw. One [Smith] had just quenched a blade in a huge barrel of oil. After taking it out and inspecting it briefly, he let a younger Dwarf run the still-smoking steel to another Dwarf with a grinding stone. He was pedaling it and began to remove the scaling caused by oxidation at once.
“I’ve heard of assembly lines.”
“Have you?”
Forgemaster Cadimus’ brows rose. He was one of a handful in the mountain, and he blinked as he lifted his helmet and wiped sweat from his brow.
“Well, it means someone understands how to get things going. It’s not the first time we’ve done this; we need magic on that hammer, and we brought a lot of things for our master forges to smith Dwarfsteel, but we need you to re-enchant the stone to take the heat. Do you know how hot mithril needs to be? Dwarfsteel goes hotter.”
The challenge actually made Valeterisa a bit happy. She let him show her around as she speculated what spells were needed, and he told her what they used.
“If you can do [Enchantment: Deep Freeze], that works, but I’d really more like you to use [Greater Fire Resistance] combined with some earthshaping to move the right material around. We have some Grasgil we’d like to use to dampen the heat outside the forge, and some heitbane granite—if you can meld it into the stone.”
He was pointing out where a gigantic furnace was being installed for the famous Dwarfsteel, and Valeterisa nodded.
“I can do that.”
Cadimus was relieved.
“You can? Every [Geomancer] we’ve sent for has complained they don’t know how to melt ore back into the earth. Trust an Archmage to know how to do it right.”
Valeterisa suspected that even some of her Archmage peers wouldn’t have been able to oblige the Dwarves fully. They all might have been able to make do; Nailihuaile had been a superior [Enchanter] in her field, for instance, but Valeterisa could simply oblige the Dwarves.
 
——
 
It ended up taking her three whole days to do the job, which the Dwarves praised as exceptionally fast, but Valeterisa ended up drinking eight mana potions despite her considerable reserves.
The Dwarves were very good hosts, though, and gave her rooms far from the clanging of the forges. They understood the need for quiet as well, and the places lined with insulating mud and whatever they used were almost eerily silent after being on the forge floor.
She also got to hear why this was so extraordinary from some of the other Dwarves assigned to be her escorts.
One of them was a Dwarf that Valeterisa vaguely recognized, who’d fought the Eater Goats and Gargoyles at Orefell. He rubbed his hands as she spread the Grasgil into the ground.
