“We could build a giant funnel…in the secret rooms? If we hung it up on a string. However, we simply need a rotation. And lots of bags of holding.”
Rosencrantz motioned with his hands. Lyonette scratched at her head.
“Yes…though every part of Erin’s inn has a compartment of holding. What if you got a bunch of baskets and…Archmage, I will deal with you later. Excuse me.”
She hurried off. Valeterisa wondered what that was about, then banished the knowledge to the back of her mind on the basis that it probably wasn’t as important as what she was doing. Montressa glanced sideways at Valeterisa, then hissed.
“Master? What the heck is going on?”
For answer, the Archmage of Izril sighed.
“I was just experimenting with my new Skill. And, um, trying to do something I’ve done in the past. It’s all perfectly safe. Sort of. Just don’t cast a spell in my room or you might destroy the entire second fl—”
Lyonette’s head whipped around, and Valeterisa beamed at her.
“Flan. I’d like flan for lunch, Apprentice. Get on it.”
 
——
 
The experiment really was simple. Montressa took one look in Valeterisa’s room, rubbed at her eyes, swore, and backed up.
“Archmage—is that—”
“Yes.”
“—And you created—I’ve only heard of this! Is it raw—”
“Mostly. Due to my Skill. Don’t cast a spell.”
Montressa’s red hair, proof of her Terandrian heritage, was levitating slightly.
“Don’t cast a spell? My wand is about to activate on its own! Archmage, this is raw mana! How is it not dissipating?”
She was staring around the room at the floating orbs of solid—or maybe liquid—raw, glowing, glowing…well, magic. It was a faintly purple color, yet vibrant beyond any naturally-occurring color, semi-transparent. Hypnotizing.
Magic itself. Magic in its purest form. Mana…and enough of it to fuel any spell the two might cast. Normally, this much mana would fuel a Tier 5 spell. If Montressa were to, say, cast [Sparks], a Tier 0 flame spell, it would probably activate—suck up all the magic into the room, and then?
Then you had a Tier 0 spell boosted to Tier 5 intensity. It wasn’t as likely to happen as Valeterisa made it seem; there were containment and nullifying spells, but Montressa could probably have cast a spell if she tried. The [Apprentice] blanched.
“How did you do it?”
“My new Skill. I was testing it out, and one of the side-effects, along with a higher density of mana for my spells, is…this. [My Mana Runs Thick as Blood]. I have been storing a bit of my magical power each day. It seems to keep, though I have had some bleed off. The Manavore must have sensed it, though. Drat.”
Valeterisa picked up a brush coated in melted gemstones and began adding to the containment ward spells around the room. She’d thought she’d done a good enough job, but…Montressa just stared.
“This—this is the stuff of real legends. [Archmages] of old.”
She turned, and Valeterisa gave her a happy smile.
“Yes. Isn’t it?”
It was the first magical Skill and spell that had made her feel like she was truly…beyond the level of magic she had known growing up. Oh, Valeterisa was a Level 54 [Grand Magus of Mind and Studies]. She knew thousands of spells. She was an Archmage, and etcetera, etcetera—who cared? She could empower a spell, boost it, slow it, alter it on the fly, raise earth and call down lightning, or divine the exact radius of something.
But these were all features of a modern [Mage]. No discredit to them; if you wanted a [Fireball], a [Mage] could blast a hole in a hill if they were strong enough. Magic provided so many day-to-day features, from enchantments to [Message] spells, that it was indispensable.
This, though…this was something else. If Mrsha walked into this room and cast [Light], she could probably illuminate Liscor from here. Valeterisa’s mana was condensing, and she added to the room now; the liquid mana, floating around like strange, underwater clouds, grew slightly as she poured more magic into the room.
A child could use this power and cast a spell well beyond them. This was something that had no regard for rules and levels. If Mrsha knew a Tier 5 spell—she would be able to cast it with this.
This was the domain of Level 50 beings and the potential to warp the mundane reality. Montressa’s hands were shaking.
“If you could box this up and I could carry it around—I could fly halfway across the continent.”
“Impractical, but yes. With this, if I can create a storage container that does not attract monsters, I can fuel a spell beyond even my own mana reserves. Perhaps even complete my life’s work.”
Valeterisa stared dreamily at the sight in front of them. She reached out, and a small orb of mana drifted into her skin as she drew it in, and she felt the magic in her blood, like a caffeine rush amplified, like being alive.
Anyone or anything could take it in. Why, when Montressa waved her wand through the air, her wand instantly recharged itself. There was a dried orange on the table that Valeterisa kept meaning to eat, and it had turned incredibly vibrant.
The food was becoming magical, and if the mana density grew further, even the bed and mundane objects might become charged. Valeterisa was looking forwards to that. She smiled as Montressa gave her a look of wonder, then lowered her voice.
“So just keep this secret from Lyonette. And don’t tell her what the magic is doing to the walls.”
The entire room was bathed in indigo light, and Valeterisa was sure you could scrub the color out. With a lot of soap.
 
——
 
That was the joy of Valeterisa’s stay at The Wandering Inn, one of two projects she had begun that was bearing fruit. Even the Manavore hadn’t been much of a problem, what with its understandable desire to get at enough sustenance for months of its life.
The rest? All downsides.
“Archmage, you have…three major meetings today. Liscor’s Council, Archmage Eldavin, and the Adventurer’s, Runner’s, and Mage’s Guilds on behalf of—”
“Skip that last one. Again. Apprentice, I have work to do! And Relc is getting off-duty in the evening. Can’t you deal with the rest of it?”
Valeterisa made shooing motions. Montressa could often take meetings in Valeterisa’s stead. Didn’t she understand how amazing all this magical experimentation was? But Montressa just sighed.
“The Council wants you, Archmage, and Eldavin?”
“…Can he just write down a [Message] and I’ll reply later?”
The two were having breakfast in the inn. Avocados on toast, something Valeterisa quite liked. It was a decadent meal; in the dead of winter, they had this good food? She ate greedily and noted Montressa adding fried egg to her toast.
This was another reason Valeterisa liked the inn; the food tasted good. Back in her mansion, she ate from her garden, which her [Shadow Familiars] had tended to. Edible, nutritious…turnips. Potatoes without seasoning or cooking—perfectly edible! Yellats.
So many Yellats. It worked if she turned off the part of her brain that had to deal with eating it day after day for years. But here? Valeterisa stopped thinking about magic long enough to finish breakfast and let Montressa agonize.
“I’ll keep an eye on your room, Archmage. Please go to the meetings? Please, please, please, please—”
“Oh, very well.”
“Excellent! Then you also have to meet with Lord Sanito at 4 regarding the transportation network, and you wanted to apologize to Master Hedault today. I also have a meeting with the Dwarfhalls Rest Dwarves tomorrow, so you should be ready for a trip.”
Montressa hit Valeterisa with the rest of it, and the Archmage debated running away. Unfortunately…she grudgingly admitted this was all stuff she had deemed important. There were no more [Merchants] bothering her, no annoying requests from [Mages] to learn a spell—just the big stuff.
Drat the big stuff. Montressa got up, looking visibly worried, as a Gnoll girl padded past.
“Mrsha? I’m warning you, I’m warding Valeterisa’s room. No snooping around with the garden, I mean it! The ward spells won’t hurt, but they’ll kick you out.”
Normally, a statement like that might well backfire as the nosy Gnoll girl, always in search of adventure, might take this as a personal challenge. Today? Mrsha stopped hurrying across the inn with a bunch of…tools? A hammer, chisel, stiff brushes, rocks—she put them on a table so she could write a reply to Montressa.
Pshaw. Keep your boring magic. Who wants to worry about magic today? I have more important things to do. Good day to you, madam.
“I feel like something’s going on with the inn. I’ll try to ferret that out, Archmage.”
Montressa eyed Mrsha, grumbling, and Valeterisa shrugged. Larracel’s Haven always had some event for the other guests; Colth was always coming back hurt and talking about having to kill a Creler with his bootstrap while hopping on a cliff’s ledge two thousand feet above the sea.
“You get used to it, Apprentice. Now…”
Valeterisa sat back and tried to not activate [Parallel Thoughts]. Be in the moment. Learn from this world. It’s not all bad. Relc likes this city. He lives in it. 
She exhaled and looked at Montressa.
“…What is the meeting with the Council about?”
Montressa slammed her head onto the table.
 
——
 
Another [Mage] had once declared Valeterisa her rival…at some point. The Archmage didn’t recall the specifics. The [Mage] was—had been?—a master of mental magic. Thought-spells and so on.
Very good at her magic, too. Valeterisa had stolen all of it by copying her. There had been a protest with the Council of Wistram, and Valeterisa hadn’t been charged.
Sometimes, Valeterisa wondered about that other [Mage]. The more important point was—Valeterisa had learned how to divide her thoughts at Level 50, but she’d also long ago memorized spells to aid in recall. She could even replay events.
Her life had not been filled with much of anything she wanted to replay, except maybe days as a girl sitting and watching Master Milaw making a new magical timepiece, or with Heorth, the Djinni of Fissival, telling her the stories that were the truth behind the books she’d read.
Everything after that? No. At least, until she’d met a very strange person.
His name was…Relc. And he was a [Sergeant of the Watch] as well as a [Spearmaster]. They’d met a while back, and he liked puzzles! He was quite, quite large, and Valeterisa only remembered a few Drakes like Magus Grimalkin having shoulders that large.
Some might say his tail was too short and stubby and not very handsome, but Valeterisa had never minded thick-tails. He was very—gratifying. And fit. In fact, she very fondly recalled the beach with him, and she could experience it like it was happening again any time she wanted—
“Archmage? Archmage? I hope we’re not, ah, asking too much?”
—Valeterisa blinked, came back to reality, and looked at the seven members of Liscor’s Council, who were all eying her.
“Ah. No. You were recounting the factual information of which I was already aware from the first sentence, Councilmember Insert Name Here. Thank you.”
Councilmember Insert Name Here was a purple Drake, and he sat back, blinking and mouthing a few words.
“Er. Yes. So the walls?”
Valeterisa had happily replayed other events while waiting for him to finish. She blinked at him.
“They need re-enchanting. You don’t like Wistram.”
“Ah—we don’t dislike Wistram. It’s just that with recent events, you know, some bastard [Mages] showing up, their entire debacle with the news, and—but the wall spells need refreshing.”
“And updating. Especially given all the attacks of late!”
That came from an anxious Drake. The Council looked at Valeterisa, and she nodded.
“I am Wistram.”
They fidgeted a bit. Councilmember Insert Name Here raised a claw hurriedly.
“Ah, yes, but you are the Archmage of Izril, and if I might say so, Archmage Valeterisa, we would be delighted to have you enchanting our walls, regardless of our gripes with the academy!”
She gave him a warm smile.
“I must decline. I am quite busy, but I appreciate the interest. Thank you, and if you have any further inquiries, questions, or complaints, my apprentice, Montressa du Valeross, would be only too happy to—”
“Wait, wait, Archmage! We need the walls enchanted! 3rd District has solid walls, but the rains! And if another monster or army comes out of nowhere—”
Here came the begging. Valeterisa sighed. Relc, now, Relc had huge forearms. She’d been too shy to ask the first few times, but she’d wanted to poke them just to see how much muscle a [Warrior] actually developed…and he’d looked so pleased at that—
 
——
 
Liscor was obligations. Eldavin could at least get Valeterisa’s attention.
“—are you memory casting, Archmage?”
“What? No. Are you?”
Valeterisa stopped saying ‘yes, absolutely’, ‘mhm’, and ‘I understand’ at randomized intervals. There was a long pause in their [Communication] spell.
“Right. Well. The snufflewuffamonster is still killing off students and teachers alike. We’ve fought it down to the third underground floor, but we might have to break out Tier 6 spells.”
“Oh dear. Good to know.”
“…You didn’t hear a word I said, did you?”
Valeterisa hesitated, and Eldavin sighed into the [Communication] spell. They were both members of the Terras faction, and he was in charge, so Valeterisa guiltily paid more attention. The problem was, he was intelligent enough to know she cared about none of what he was saying.
“Let me be brief, Valeterisa. Archmages—we’ve sent Verdan back to Baleros. A mess with the Iron Vanguard. Still at war with Terandrian nations. Beatrice—Archmage.”
“Who?”
“Nailihuaile’s helper.”
Valeterisa ran an analysis of all [Mages] she knew from Wistram.
“…She’s too low-level.”
Eldavin’s voice was annoyed and cheerful.
“As I already said! She knows the Revivalist faction, and we needed someone to take charge. If someone wants to challenge her for her seat, well, I’m going to vote in the old system of challenges. Too much complacency with the others. If an Archmage doesn’t return to Wistram every four months at the latest, they are not keeping their seat. You shouldn’t have trouble popping in for a day with the teleportation spells I taught you.”
“Mm.”
“Incidentally, are you planning on muscling out Fissival’s network?”
“I might. It is in prototyping. Teleportation as you taught me is not efficient enough. Moving the parcels by air…”
