She snuck a glance at Relc, but she also meant, well, Hedault. The [Enchanter] would have been invaluable on projects, and Valeterisa was ready for him to scowl at her and remind her about the window incident. But Hedault just nodded.
“A place of isolation where I can exit and interact with clients or the world beyond as I please—but my own. I well understand this, Archmage Valeterisa. I was reminded recently of the inequities of those with control and those without.”
He scowled so fiercely they had to ask him about it. Hedault looked at Valeterisa.
“Do you recall the state of disarray my workspace was in?”
She gave him a blank look.
“I thought the boxes everywhere were your method.”
The [Enchanter]’s scowl made it clear they were not.
“I am, in fact, moving out of my apartment. I had resided there for over a decade, but circumstances have forced me to make unappealing choices. I have chosen the lesser of them.”
Nanette was shocked and worried. Was he leaving Invrisil after the Solstice?
“What? Why?”
The [Enchanter] answered in one word.
“Rent. Due to my success, the owner I had leased the building from elected to raise my rent far higher than I felt was fair. Negotiations failed, and I was served with an ultimatum. I elected to leave—at which point the rates fell to a price I could tolerate. However, once I realized such a situation could come again, I elected to depart either way. I am currently seeking lodgings in Esthelm. Or Liscor.”
That was entirely unpleasant, and Valeterisa remembered the same sort of thing when she was younger.
“This is why you buy an island.”
Hedault gave her a half-nod.
“I considered it, but my job requires proximity to adventurers.”
“Oh, oh, Master Hedault! I know somewhere that could offer you room and board! And—”
Hedault’s head swung around to Nanette.
“The Wandering Inn is chaotic, has an unrepentantly nosy little Gnoll, and is often attacked or has loud events going on. No.”
He shot Nanette down instantly, and her face fell, but now he’d gotten the ball rolling, even Salamani was nodding.
“I can empathize about not having space to practice magic. Outside of Wistram, getting a spellbook means paying adventurer prices. But I can’t just jaunt over to Wistram, and Fissival isn’t exactly close or friendly either. I thought about paying into a local cabal of [Mages], but that can be a disaster. All the egos and sharing…and you know, magic isn’t that strong in Izril.”
Viceria offered around another bottle of wine, remorseful.
“There are enough [Mages]. But not always enough schools. Particularly in the north. When I saw all those children lining up to see Valeterisa—you know, even little Mrsha and Miss Nanette herself don’t have adequate teaching. There is that [Druid] who’s holding lessons, but she doesn’t teach magic. I’ve heard that little Drake, Visma, begging for magic lessons. From Mrsha! I would have put Garia in a school if there was a good one, but otherwise, it was just me. And that’s no good.”
“Why not? You’re a splendid [Green Mage], Miss Viceria!”
Montressa protested, and Viceria raised a brow.
“Mage Montressa, even if that were so—a [Mage] is not a good [Teacher]. I am one very specialized magical school. Teaching a variety of magic? I would want spellbooks, a dedicated place in case of accidents, other teachers…only Magus Grimalkin has any kind of acceptable experience, and he is quite spartan, if you’ll forgive me, Sinew Magus.”
Imani chimed in as Grimalkin agreed, blushing faintly.
“That’s right! If I could learn magic, I would love to, but it’s just difficult.”
“What? My beloved unshod darling! I could have taught you!”
Palt yelped, totally shocked by the revelation. In response, Imani gave him a level look with her one good eye.
“Palt, I know you’re very good at magic, but you would be a terrible teacher. You alternate between buttering me up or smoking out a problem, and I would want someone who would tell me to my face when I’m doing something wrong. Remember the quiche you kept saying was perfect?”
He looked crestfallen. Montressa and Bezale assured Imani they could give her pointers, but that wasn’t the issue, was it?
Valeterisa had a moment of…thought. The same thought she’d had in Fissival, that idea in the back of her mind—she closed her eyes. Then she turned to Imani.
“If you wish to learn magic, I can teach you how to start. Have you ever cast a spell?”
Imani hesitated.
“N-no. Never myself. I’ve been guided, but—I’d love to learn.”
Valeterisa smiled.
“Then I shall teach you in the best way I know. [Darkness].”
The lights went out. The beach, the Isle of Heiste, the fire, all vanished, leaving perfect and complete darkness. Of course, several of the [Mages] could see, but Imani cried out.
“Wait, I can’t see—”
“I’ve got you, Iman—”
Palt tried to grab her, and Bezale moved him out of the way. Valeterisa spoke as Imani felt around and found a wand on the sand.
“Are you afraid of the dark, Chef Imani?”
“When I remember the Cr—Crelers. Yes.”
Imani was panting a bit. Valeterisa reached down, and Imani flinched, but the Archmage simply took one hand.
“Then think of light. Concentrate on the wand. You have to want light. Desperately.”
“Just want it?”
Imani’s voice was warbling, but Valeterisa sensed her clutching the wand, and the Archmage’s voice was calm.
“Yes. Elemental magic is linked. Light must come from darkness. Fire cannot rage without fuel. Ice mages must have a temper to master it. Fear the darkness—and grasp the dream of light. The more you want it, the easier it will be.”
“But how do I cast the spell?”
Imani was panicking, despite her hand in Valeterisa’s, and the Archmage replied.
“Magic is something you feel. I am full of it.”
In the distance, the magical sensor began to light up, and Valeterisa ignited her mana. Thick as blood—so intense Imani gasped and flinched away. But Valeterisa gave none of it to Imani. Now she sensed it…
“Magic is a thought. A word. A deed. It can be anything—in the old language of [Mages], the word for light can be used as an incantation. Say it—”
She whispered it to Imani, and the [Chef] gasped.
“Lux!”
It was just a spark. In fairness, it probably was easier from Valeterisa’s overbearing mana, but the spark came from Imani, and the wand flared to life.
Sunlight, a ray of it, shone upwards, cutting through the [Darkness] spell as Valeterisa dispelled it, and it lit up the night sky as Imani’s eye widened, fixing on it. Palt stared upwards, cigar fallen from his mouth, and Viceria clapped in delight.
Valeterisa was smiling as she sat down.
“That’s how I was taught, long ago. Only, it was a Djinni who covered my eyes and told me how to do it.”
“But you didn’t teach her how to control your mana flows or—or use the wand or anything, Archmage!”
Palt was amazed and gratified as Imani hugged him in delight, but surprised. Valeterisa shook her head.
“Technique does not matter the first time. Only passion.”
“I never would have expected that of you. I read several of your books, Valeterisa, and they were amazingly technical. I had no idea you could use [Measure Distance] like that—your spells are infamously complex. I thought of you as a very, well, academic [Mage].”
Grimalkin blinked at Valeterisa. She gave him a miffed look.
“The joy is implicit in anything magical. Surely I wrote that down somewhere?”
She had not, but that won a smile from Hedault, and Valeterisa looked at Imani, who blinded Palt with her ray of sunlight.
“I do feel like a wizard! Now I want to be a [Mage]!”
She called out, and Valeterisa sighed.
“It would be…wonderful if I could set up an academy somewhere. Near Liscor, probably. Higher up, perhaps in the High Passes. Secure, of course, against monsters. With magical shielding. And access to the door. A place for students and masters.”
She was thinking of the [Clockmaker], Master Milaw. The other artisans. It was a dream she had brought from Fissival, and when they heard that…
Viceria, Salamani, Palt, Montressa, Bezale, Grimalkin, and even Hedault, all [Mages] with their own reasons to keep distant from Wistram, looked at Valeterisa.
It was not her dream alone. Viceria stared at Valeterisa and whispered.
“That’s what I thought when I saw you lifting the City of Incantations, Archmage. I thought…if anyone could teach magic, it might be you.”
“If only.”
“Why not try? I must admit, if you offered a lesson, I would go to it myself, Archmage. Or even if there was a place to collaborate…”
Grimalkin himself was taken by the notion. As if he too had considered leaving Pallass. But the problem was there was no funding. Valeterisa sighed.
“I do not have enough gold.”
A simple answer, and Salamani looked abashed.
“Ah. Is that my fault, Archmage?”
She smiled vaguely at him.
“No. Not just yours. I have thought about it, Mage Salamani. There are [Witches], a [Sorcerer] in First Landing, Larracel…there is magic here to be studied. A place for collaboration, of quiet and teamwork—that is a worthwhile dream.”
Hedault was looking at Valeterisa, as if for once they were on the same page. Valeterisa whispered.
“…And I could build it. I thought Magnolia Reinhart would fund some of it, but it should be apart from anyone’s control. Neutral. Comfortable too with big, fluffy armchairs and…and good food. Not Yellats.”
Imani was glancing up, and Valeterisa imagined someone who could make good food all the time. There were so many pieces. She even had the ability to make dimensional magic…but she had not enough mana. And worse? Not enough gold.
“I have two things I must buy before I die. Such a place to live—my mansion is not comfortable anymore. It is too far away. And the second is a promise. I cannot afford either, yet. Maybe in another decade.”
She looked so wistful as she sat there, dreams unfulfilled, as if she could see the opportunity she had helped bring about slipping away. Here sat a woman who might be able to lift all of Heiste overhead—but she could not eat magic. And magic could not do everything.
Yet. Nanette’s eyes were shining as she lay there, and the other [Mages] were wistful, but Relc asked the salient question, as he always did.
“What’s the promise, Valley?”
She looked at him, and Valeterisa’s smile was sad as she packed away her dreams of an academy.
“Oh, that one comes first, Relc. Before I can buy an academy…I must save up. Tens of thousands? Hundreds of thousands of gold pieces. Milaw may never move to my academy of magic. He may die—and so will I before I solve aging and death. But before I die, I must buy a librarian. The librarian of Fissival. Heorth.”
Grimalkin inhaled and Relc blinked, because only those two understood what that meant—and the others had to be told who that was. The great keeper of Fissival’s librarium—Heorth. The Djinni who had taught a girl long ago how to do magic.
“It is illegal to free Djinnis, of course. So I would not free him. Just…forbid him from accepting orders until I died.”
Fissival had laughed at her several times when a younger Valeterisa had asked how much it might cost. Which meant that she just had to have enough money to make even Drakes go silent.
Dreams, possibilities flickering around so tantalizing and yet so impossible to grasp, like magic itself, sat on the beach of Heiste. Valeterisa indulged in them a while. It was good to be passionate and remember why you did such things.
Only that little scamp—and there were two—that little witch without a hat stared up at all those dreams and didn’t have an adult’s cynicism. She spoke like her mother and her mentor, Erin Solstice, and Valeterisa’s skin chilled in a pleasant way.
“Archmage. If you could create a great academy, hire the world’s finest librarian, and maybe make a place for Hedault—even if it was hard—even if there were…complications…”
Hedault was frowning at Nanette, and Valeterisa turned her head, remembering some oddities at the inn. Nanette made no promises, but her eyes danced, brown and merry, like she had a great magic of her own.
“…What kind of place of learning would you want to create?”
Everything waited on Valeterisa’s reply. The Archmage of Izril sat there, meeting the girl’s eyes, then looked around at Heiste, a lonely island of wonders. She thought of Wistram, of Fissival, of places she had been, of her own mansion, and her answer was different than when she had been a girl.
The same in many ways—but the perspective was different. The girl said…
The Archmage said…
“To me, the great institution of magic would be a place where a young girl could walk into those halls and an Archmage could take her by the hand and show her wonders never dreamed of. A place where anyone could enter and delve into the heart of magic as long as they needed. And when they left, it would be waiting for their return. Just that. Magic itself, echoing down every hallway.”
Her dream floated before her vision—then she came to herself and blushed. But the others sitting around the fire applauded her, and then the stupid Cuddle Golems joined in—and the little witch looked up at Valeterisa. Untrained. A witch indeed, but…
“I’d like to learn that magic from you, Archmage Valeterisa.”
So the Archmage gingerly held out her hand, and a beaming girl took it. And she whispered into Valeterisa’s ear.
“Wait until we get back to the inn, Archmage. Miss Lyonette might want to talk to you.”
What a [Princess] could do…well, Valeterisa thought about that sentence, and she decided to hold onto hope.
 
——
 
The next day, they left the Isle of Heiste. Of course, Valeterisa had to collect her pay first.
House Wellfar was not about to give her more than gold. She tried to haggle for even a single spell or Golem, and in the end, Valeterisa lucked out.
“What about—that?”
The [Lady of Waves] was trying to shove a bag of gold into Valeterisa’s hands. She turned, squinted, and then went off to mutter with some of her fellow nobles.
“Er—that? I suppose we could give…that to you. No one really needs that.”
That was how Valeterisa ended up flying back with the magic-sensor, much to her delight. Montressa was staring at the bag of gold they’d left behind, but Nanette assured Valeterisa it was a splendid idea.
There was some debate about going to Valeterisa’s mansion to pick up Hedault’s hat, but everyone was tired of teleportation-sickness, so they headed back to Liscor instead. Valeterisa found herself sorry to say goodbye to the other [Mages], and when they said they should do this again…she realized she meant it.
