“Rather ingenious, Valeterisa. I must admit, I did not see that as a solution. When you return to the Academy, I can teach you more spells. I could use the help; getting Terras under control and trying to neuter the other factions is a chore. Not to mention the cleanup from the Solstice battles…”
The half-Elf’s voice pitched lower, and she imagined him scowling. Valeterisa sat in an outdoor cafe in Liscor and realized she had little desire to return to Wistram.
When he first came here, I would have followed him around day and night to learn from him. Now? She was cold.
Literally. Valeterisa cast a warming spell.
“I do have business here, Eldavin.”
“In a month? I hope you can return to participate in the duels that will inevitably crop up once we allow challenges, Valeterisa. I doubt Feor will go down easy, and Viltach might get sympathy points, but I want you to prove Terras is unmatched. You were a good duelist back in the day, weren’t you? We could have a refresher; I need a good opponent.”
Duels. He wanted her to establish Terras’ supremacy. Valeterisa knew it was the premier magical faction in Wistram right now. No one could come close. Eldavin, the Archmage of Memory, was the font of more magic than all the Archmages put together since Zelkyr.
Including her. Yet her admiration of him had run cold. Valeterisa listened, and do you know what she heard?
Politics. It was a smart consolidation of power. He was talking about getting nations to back Terras, sending his [Mages]—and the students armed in what they’d called ‘Terras Armor’—to make impacts. Eldavin might become the next Zelkyr, and without Cognita, Wistram truly was changing.
Yet—
This is not the same Eldavin who first came to Wistram. That Eldavin had been more careful and had felt more cautious. This one had participated in wars, and his voice was pointed.
“I am going to require effort from everyone, Valeterisa. Magic will rise, but with it, our enemies. Wistram must be united by them.”
“Mm.”
“How much did you actually hear?”
“I dislike duels, Eldavin. I kill my opponents. I was never sure if I could win without being gravely hurt at higher levels.”
There was a moment of silence, then he exhaled.
“Yes, well, I can admire that. We’ll be sparing, and as I said, you are the most senior mage I need right now. A month, Valeterisa. Oh, and while you’re at it, I told your apprentice I’d like you to look into a few other issues as our representative on Izril. The Archmage’s Isle keeps complaining—not yours, the ‘paradise’. And there’s one of our own who’s gone quiet. Try not to cause a mess?”
“I can do that. Are you going to take the Earthers back, Eldavin?”
He was about to disconnect the spell, but Eldavin paused a second.
“No, I think the ships have literally sailed on that one. We’re simply moving ahead of the competition, Valeterisa. Let’s discuss the matter further on your return. Ah—would you grab those ‘Faerie Flowers’ from the inn while you’re there? It’s surprisingly hard to get ahold of any.”
 
——
 
Because she was sad after that, Valeterisa looked forwards to her next appointment—Relc, back for a lunch-break.
She couldn’t have exactly expressed it like a magical formula, but it was better with him than without. They liked puzzles. He was from Izril, a Drake, and she had grown up in Fissival.
More than anything else? He seemed to genuinely like her and feel flattered she liked him. Which was not…well, people had tried, now and then, to court the rising [Mage], or later, the Archmage of Izril. But they hadn’t meant it.
Valeterisa thought Relc did. And he had other qualities that made it easier for her to talk to him.
“Look at this, Valeterisa. It’s Shield Spider chitin. I haven’t seen this since I was a kid.”
She peered at it. It was a curved, almost spiky-looking series of overlapping plates of smooth chitin. It flexed a tiny bit when Relc moved it with his claws, but it was very rigid. And lighter than she thought.
“Ah, armor. To my knowledge…the chitin is considered comparable to steel. Lighter, breakable, but in the same value of pricing. Isn’t Esthelm nearby? And Pallass? Why does this matter?”
Aside from you telling me, of course. Relc grinned at her and explained.
“It’s a warrior thing, I guess, Valeterisa. Lighter armor is great, and this is ours. Liscor makes this! Apparently, someone figured out how to make it again, and it means the Shield Spider chitin gets a lot easier to work. We can produce armor like the old days!”
“I see. But why was the method lost?”
It seemed obvious to her it should not have been, if this was Liscor’s industry. Relc’s face grew troubled.
“I think it was the Necromancer. A lot of good people died back then. When Az’kerash invaded…maybe it was the Antinium? I bet the right [Armorer] died, and his apprentices just didn’t remember how to make the stuff. Then you get people moving away because of the Free Antinium, and the secret just—vanishes. Maybe it was a Skill.”
“That’s very inefficient.”
Normally, when she said that unguarded, Valeterisa was used to people growing upset because they felt she was critiquing them or something else, but Relc just patted her hand and laughed.
“Yeah, that’s us alright, Valley. Say, I heard this place got attacked and someone took it out in five seconds. Nice. Too bad I wasn’t there or we could have raced!”
He winked at her, and she turned red. That was the second thing—he wasn’t afraid of her magic. Other [Mages] were competitive, even when courting her, and yet the Drake didn’t care. Relc half-turned.
“Though…what’s up with service today? Hey, I have to be on the job in thirty minutes! Can I get something to eat? I mean, we?”
Another grin, and Valeterisa smiled back. After a few more seconds, Ishkr appeared, dusting his paws.
“Sorry. We were just tumbling, ah—stones. What can I get you?”
“Is garlic spaghetti really half off?”
“Yes—though we have to get it out of the garden due to customer allergies. Colfa’s here, but she doesn’t mind—one second!”
Ishkr vanished into the garden to get the spaghetti, and Valeterisa heard the sound of ringing—hammers on metal? And shouting. Yelroan was ordering everyone about.
“No, tumble the stones with the coins. Otherwise, you don’t get the right roughness, Mrsha. Mind you, I’m just doing this based on what a [Rogue] once told me, Lyonette. If Normen gets back—”
Relc craned his neck.
“What’s going on over there?”
“Mm. Something with the inn. I have to go to Dwarfhalls Rest tomorrow, Relc.”
Valeterisa remembered that and grew sour, but Relc just got excited again.
“All the way there? Of course, you can teleport. That must be awesome. I’d have to run.”
Another admiring look, and she fiddled with one of her rings.
“If you could take time off, I could take you with me.”
Relc hesitated.
“That would be nice, but I’ve got my job—and the kiddos with the spear training in the morning. Too bad. Though I, uh—I, uh, was wondering about something. Venim—okay Drake, a bit uptight, nothing like Captain Z—he came by for a word before lunch. Let me know if this is crazy…”
Valeterisa blinked at him. For a [Spearmaster], Relc wasn’t treated nearly as importantly as he should be. That wasn’t just her bias; Spearmaster Lulv was an important figure in Manus, for instance, and even Guildmaster Tekshia, a retired Drake, had been a Guildmaster. As Ishkr brought the plates over, she distinctly heard him say…
“[Pay No Attention to That].”
She supposed she caught the Skill because she was too high-level, but since Valeterisa didn’t actually care, she just began eating some of the garlic spaghetti.
“You said you wanted to discuss something. What was the topic, Relc?”
The [Sergeant] looked uncomfortable.
“Well—the walls. Liscor’s Council apparently asked you to look at them, right? It’s hard to get someone who’s not Wistram to do those kinds of spells. I don’t want to—”
“Oh, the walls. I—was going to do them, actually.”
When she realized what he was going to ask, Valeterisa grew flustered and blurted that out—then regretted it.
“You sure?”
Relc eyed her, and she hesitated.
“I—can do it. Or rather, Montressa can. I didn’t think of it, but she is the best person for the job. She’s an [Aegiscaster], you know. I can show her some of the other spells, and it would be a good project.”
Yes, she could do that! Learning to scribe mass-scale spells was good, and it wouldn’t be that hard. The smile on Relc’s face made Valeterisa’s stomach flutter.
And the cool part of her mind said—you shouldn’t have agreed to that. It wasn’t worth the gold, and Liscor wasn’t that powerful. She told that part of her mind to be silent.
“Hey, well, don’t let me force you into doing it. I said to Venim I’d only ask you if there were options. You sure?”
“It’s your city. I could help. Because I like you.”
The Archmage of Izril blurted that out and then stopped, embarrassed, because she knew from experience that saying it outright was a mistake. But when she saw how pleased the Drake was, she remembered why she liked him again.
She did that a lot. Relc patted her hand.
“You’re a cool person, Valley.”
“Yes. I cast warming spells all the time.”
 
——
 
Master Hedault in the evening. Or rather, Valeterisa’s attempts to mend bridges with him.
There were very few people of magical note she remembered…anywhere. Hedault was, of course, the best [Enchanter] of Invrisil, but she had gone to major cities, and there was a best [Enchanter] everywhere.
He was more notable because of the bicycles he’d made and, she believed, his connection to the inn. She’d also heard he’d produced Lifewood and had been researching something very magical that had caused him to cancel most of his work.
Something to do with Ryoka Griffin. Who was an Earther and also had other secrets even the rest of them lacked.
When Valeterisa had gone to try and inquire about all this, though, Hedault had refused to even give her an appointment or open his door. When she had asked Montressa—who did have a good relationship with him—to inquire, it had turned out Hedault did not like Valeterisa.
She wasn’t sure why. It was something she’d done. The problem was…Valeterisa didn’t recall what she’d done.
So, she had booked a chance to make it up to Hedault. She tried it in her best methodology.
“This is for you, Master Hedault, to apologize for my previous indiscretions.”
She offered him four thousand gold pieces—or rather, a voucher for it with the Merchant’s Guild. He sat across from her in his apartment, arms folded. He was balding, had an orange beard, and a rather off-putting glower.
Valeterisa noticed quite a lot of odd magic on him she couldn’t identify, stored in his bag of holding, but he covered his bag of holding with one hand when she peered at it.
Everything in his building had his magic on it, from the Lifewood chair to the items in boxes. Quite a lot of boxes piled up everywhere.
It must have been the man’s style. Valeterisa slid the voucher forwards; he slid it back.
“I am not interested in working with you, Archmage. Is that all you booked my time for? This is a favor to Mage Montressa, I might add. Not you.”
She gave him a big smile.
“How about a spellbook? I imagine you have a lot of spare time on your hands, what with your reduced work. How is business? Your Lifewood was much acclaimed in the city.”
She had personally scribed this book with a lot of good spells, and it was one of the things that got any [Mage] interested. Hedault glanced at it, then pushed the book back.
“My Lifewood business is done. A month past. I have personally refunded every client with orders outstanding.”
“Ah.”
She should have really updated her information there. Hedault continued, his glaring eyes turning melancholy, his voice lowering.
“—And I am not taking orders in any case. Solar Cycles has paused with the death of Kevin.”
“Very unfortunate.”
Valeterisa did mean it; he was an Earther and had seemed amiable, but she hadn’t known him. The [Enchanter] stared at Valeterisa, and his lips thinned in a way she knew was a bad sign.
“If your third attempt would be to seduce me, you tried that eleven years ago.”
The Archmage of Izril had, in fact, been about to pull out a lot of enchanting resources that were hard to acquire. She hesitated.
“…I did? How did it go?”
“As well as this time. To be specific: completely unfruitful. For your lapsing memory, after you failed that time, you left, and the artifact I was working to analyze vanished the next day—along with my window. The Gold-rank team was furious, and it ruined my reputation for two years.”
Valeterisa squirmed as Hedault’s eyes flashed. This…sounded familiar. She went back to the voucher and corrected the sum.
“Would this be—”
“I would appreciate if you left.”
Hedault stood up. Distressed, Valeterisa rose.
“I would like to recompense you, Enchanter Hedault.”
His arms were folded, and he glowered at her as he adjusted his spectacles.
“Why? It seems abundantly clear you have only tried to mend bridges because you wish something of me, be it work or magical knowledge.”
“Well—yes. That is how I approach most things in life. You have something I want, and I have come to sequester your favorability.”
Valeterisa had to be honest when he put it like that. Hedault paused, and his glare didn’t lighten, but he gave her a grudging nod.
“At least that is honest. Good day to you, Archmage. You have come at a poor time, which I suppose is in keeping with my week. Please see yourself out. Do not steal a window.”
The Archmage of Izril debated trying to win Hedault over, then shuffled to the door. She stared at whatever his bag of holding contained and stopped in the doorway.
“I could replace the window—”
“Please. Leave.”
 
——
 
When Valeterisa told Relc about that later, he laughed, which hurt her feelings, but he apologized for it.
“You were wild when you were younger, huh?”
“I did what I felt I needed to to learn magic. As I recall, he had found a hat that boosted your spellcasting power, or so I thought. I remember it now. I took it, and it did add to the potency of your spells…but it limited your casting to Tier 3 magic at most.”
“Whoa. How’s that work?”
Valeterisa was gesturing as they had supper in The Wandering Inn. All the mysterious goings-on in the garden had ceased, at least, the obvious ones. The staff was only half-present, and Mrsha and Nanette ran off without wanting to play with Hethon and Sammial, but the inn was mostly empty.
