Another useless object? Well, she supposed this was good to detect some elements of magic. Valeterisa gazed up at the Isle of Heiste.
Lonely. But capable of great magic. She supposed it was a warranted critique of her favorite Archmage. Especially when several Golem-Servants, two [True Familiars], and a Cuddle Golem found the group and began applauding for no reason.
“Well done, Archmage Valmira!”
“You’ve worked hard today! Will you have a glass of water? You must stay hydrated!”
“You have 10,562 pieces of mail from your adoring fans! Would you like me to read an archived message at random?”
That did seem egregious.
 
——
 
Thus passed two very enjoyable days at Heiste. Very little actual time was spent fixing the isle. It really was something that took little effort—but only one or two people in the world could do it.
Valeterisa spent the rest of that time exploring the island with Relc and the others, availing herself of Valmira’s wonders and even playing ‘tag’ with the Cuddle Golems.
…Which was less fun than you might imagine because they were a second line of defense for Valmira’s island. Seeing one of them race after Ci and nearly catch the terrified horse was bad enough—then it came for them.
If Valeterisa had one complaint, it was that this was, again, not magical improvement. She would have kept this to herself or just complained to Montressa, but this group was open enough that she let it out at the campfire.
“I do enjoy the company here. But I feel…I apologize if this is a selfish complaint, but I never have enough time to study magic. I realize this is foolish, but—”
She got no further because, at this, every [Mage] sitting around the fire burst out laughing.
Grimalkin, Salamani, Viceria, Palt, Montressa, Hedault, Bezale—even little Nanette giggled herself silly. Valeterisa grew rather hurt because Imani and Wailant had joined in until Viceria dabbed at her eyes.
“Oh, Archmage—I’m glad you said it. Because I’ve complained to Wailant about that for years. Time? I never have enough time!”
“No one does. Between my apprentices, my work for Pallass, my own studies of the body—I’ve been guilty about it since the Wyvern attack.”
Valeterisa stared around and realized that her lone struggle was, in fact, the commonality between all [Mages]. From Palt to Montressa, all of them were just busy. With relationships, with jobs, with little inconveniences!
“If anything, I admire you, Archmage Valeterisa. You have always been the [Mage] who gave it all to magic. You sacrificed it all for that. I couldn’t. I don’t know if I would, but you did, and that’s why I always wanted to meet you.”
Viceria confessed shyly, and Valeterisa was so unable to handle the compliment she almost flew away. They ended up talking, frankly, about the struggle.
“Even in Wistram, I understand why you left, Archmage. You’d think the Academy of Mages would have time, but you’re attending banquets, teaching students, playing politics—why, I’m glad I left. When I saw you lifting Fissival…that was real magic.”
“It shook the City of Incantations up, I can tell you that. It was an inspiration. A reminder how insular and petty our institutions of magic are.”
Grimalkin agreed. Valeterisa didn’t know where to turn and pressed her palms to her cheeks with a cooling spell. Relc had a proud smile on his face as his tail twined around her leg, and Nanette raised a hand.
“Excuse me. I have always wanted to know—what are Fissival and Wistram like, truly? Montressa described Fissival as—haughty. With second-class citizens, and I have heard Wistram spoken of by the Horns as…as prejudiced against [Necromancers], but it is also Wistram. Can you tell me what it’s like?”
There, at least, Valeterisa could speak.
“I have been to multiple magical schools, not just Fissival and Wistram. I have been to Chandrar and Izril and Baleros and Terandria and Rhir, and each one had a different focus. I wish I had gone to Drath…Fissival is different. The city has faults, and it is still a Walled City, but the Scholarium is the heart of the city. Imagine…an entire city dedicated to catering to magical needs. Paper making, imports of materials, a Watch for defense. The city prizes magic.”
“But so does Wistram.”
Nanette pointed out reasonably, and Valeterisa nodded. She had created an image of Fissival as she knew it from above, a vast city, but now she produced images of Wistram’s shifting corridors, the libraries, and of course—
“Secrets. Wistram is more like a place of secrets and discovery, Nanette. It is where you search for old mysteries and trade in them. This is not all the differences between the two, but it is a theme, even if they change by generations. The Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes in Nerrhavia is more akin to an ancient library. You delve down and study—but never overcome—the weight of all that knowledge.”
Each one had great aspects to love and reasons why they had driven her away. Viceria agreed softly.
“Yes, Wistram is amazing—but I wouldn’t tell you to go there, Nanette. Not as a [Witch]. You see, like the Gnolls, we tend to ignore what isn’t proven. Naturally, the greatest [Mages] break with tradition, and we pretend it was our idea all along. There is a reason I never pushed for Garia to go there.”
Valeterisa had honestly…not known Viceria had a child, but Imani was curious.
“That reminds me. Why didn’t you teach Garia magic, Viceria? She’s always been more like, well, Wailant. She says she barely knows any magic.”
The [Green Mage] shrugged.
“We just never pushed her. What was I to do? Put Garia on a path to Wistram? Wistram Academy? That…is not what I thought might be best for my daughter.”
“Why not? Even if she doesn’t become a full graduate—”
Montressa protested, mildly shocked. Viceria raised her brows.
“If she didn’t become a full graduate, how many years would she waste, Miss Montressa? She would have no experience in the real world, as I didn’t before I met Wailant—and Wistram is not kind to those without talent. It is often not kind to those with talent.”
This was very true, and Valeterisa’s head sank, but Palt had been smoking merrily on a cigar, enjoying the talk, and Imani slapped a puffer he was offering Nanette into the fire.
“Oh, come on. I think if you get out of Wistram you’re fine. Who here wasn’t talented in some way that Wistram saw?”
His self-assured comment elicited silence from Valeterisa, Montressa, and even Bezale and Salamani, but Viceria raised a hand, as did Grimalkin and Hedault.
Palt hesitated, cleared his throat, and turned red.
“I—er—oh. But you didn’t go to Wistram, Magus Grimalkin!”
The Drake took his time in replying. He glanced at Viceria, whose shake of the head said it all. Not kind to the untalented? Valeterisa wondered what stories the two might share. Fissival was much the same, but it was unkind to the untalented—and non-Drakes. Grimalkin, though…
“I applied. Fissival has an exchange program. In my second year, I interviewed before a panel of [Mages]. If you’re from another academy, you can try to get in for a year, or as a full student. I had an entire paper on my theory about muscles and physical magic. Not polished, but it was there. I had served in Pallass’ army; I had experience.”
His voice trailed off, and he looked bitter.
“Right before me was a man from Terandria. A first-year student without nearly as much research, but he said what the panel wanted to hear. Wistram was the finest institution, the Libertarians—he knew some people at Wistram, and he wanted stronger ties to Terandria—Mage Rievan, I remember. I’ll never forget it. I went and gave my presentation, and I knew it was good.”
Grimalkin sat there. Then he shrugged, and Valeterisa knew what he’d say.
“Afterwards, they announced he had the slot. When I asked why, the oldest [Mage] got up and said, ‘Young [Mage]. Wistram is a place where students come to learn. Not for those who believe they are already ready to teach.’ And that was it.”
Salamani shook his head, and Palt looked mildly aghast. That anyone had turned down Grimalkin, the Sinew Magus who had proven his school of magic worked, seemed stupid now—but Valeterisa could just imagine it.
As for Hedault? The [Enchanter]’s story was even simpler.
“I was an established [Enchanter] when I considered I should learn magic as was described to me as…proper. Superior. I had no problem passing the entrance exams, but when I arrived at Wistram, my instructors reprimanded me to the point where I quit. They claimed enchanting was one thing. I had studied artifacts of old, and I informed them their methods were not superior to the ones that had gone before. Therefore, I left. Later on, Archmage Nailihuaile, ignorant of this fact, offered me entrance to Wistram due to my acclaim. I refused.”
Salamani wondered aloud as he shook his head.
“How many good [Mages] has Wistram turned down over the years, I wonder? I left and cast [Haste] and became a Courier. My peers laughed at me until they realized I was a famous Courier and they were just…[Mages] of Wistram.”
Palt was so abashed he apologized, but his bias was, well, Wistram’s. The conversation swung back to magic itself; now that they had a chance to ask, everyone did want to know about magic from the greatest [Mage] here: Valeterisa. Unfortunately, her mastery of spells wasn’t what Valeterisa found admirable. She might well know more spells than all the [Mages] here combined—but that was not the same as mastery of magic.
The other [Mages] listened as Valeterisa sighed.
“I…thought I could perform my studies alone. But I was trapped against my limitations. My great work is unfinished, and the two projects I have begun in Liscor will not be complete—or the teleportation network—before I return to Wistram.”
“Your great work. What was that, Valley?”
Relc was chewing on some of the dinner, and everyone else went quiet. Relc looked around, and Salamani coughed.
“Relc, that’s, uh—probably a big secret. Spells are one thing. You can tell people you know them, but Valeterisa’s speaking of magical techniques. Any single one is a huge advantage. You could say Magus Grimalkin knows one technique he’s honed over his life.”
The Sinew Magus flexed, nodding.
“Knowing a spell is different from internalizing a method of magic. I have triumphed over countless peers because when we were matched spell-for-spell, I could draw on the magic ingrained in my muscles, regenerate my wounds to a very limited extent.”
He paused.
“Or just punch them. That tends to work amazingly well.”
Relc nodded.
“Sorry, Valley.”
“Hm? Oh, I don’t mind. I have not succeeded after eight years, so it matters little. My grand magic would have let me do any number of things. Haven’t I ever mentioned what it was?”
Montressa’s head snapped around so fast she was in need of a [Restoration] spell. Everyone turned to Valeterisa, and she supposed she’d never mentioned it. She spoke as Hedault gave her a curious stare.
“It is called…[Auto Spell] is the old name of the Skill, but the true way to phrase it would be self-continuing magic. For instance, I cast [Light Arrow].”
She flicked an arrow of light up.
“I can cast a hundred [Light Arrows] or spells for a thousand. But I must do it. Automatic magic would cast that spell or do something for me without the need for my participation. The [Mages] of old who knew it could create complex spells.”
Grimalkin exhaled.
“Tier 5 magic. They could use minor magics and build entire spell circles in moments. Ancestors, you were ambitious.”
Valeterisa smiled briefly and sadly.
“The problem was that reaching magical theory without a level is…difficult. Beyond difficult. Eight years I sat trying to learn the theory.”
“What, is it like you needed to have the right inspiration or something?”
Wailant was munching along, following this magical discussion. Valeterisa decided to heck with it.
“No. At first, I thought that was it. But I realized…how would you create a spell like that?”
She put it to her audience, and no one had a good idea.
“Melding…some chronomancy…no, I guess it’s like a familiar spell or…”
Palt scratched his head, and Valeterisa nodded.
“Exactly. But how does one deconstruct a familiar spell into the component parts? I do not mean dispelling it or destroying it. Do you know how…[Summon Lesser Familiar] works?”
No one here even knew how to cast the spell. But even if they had…Valeterisa explained the second problem.
“I did not know the magic I employed. From basic fire spells to even grander magics. How does [Valmira’s Comet] work? How does fire work? Slowly, I began to re-teach myself every spell I knew. Until I understood that the spells of today, nay, the magic of modern mages itself is not magic as it was once practiced. It is closer to…Explorer’s Magic.”
What an insult. What a travesty! Only Hedault seemed to understand Valeterisa’s comment. But Nanette was lying with her head propped in her hands, fascinated, drinking it in.
“What’s that, Archmage?”
“Explorer’s Magic, Nanette, is what old adventurers learned. They would delve for books, for spell scrolls, and teach themselves magic without understanding it. As one takes a template for a sword blank and can thus make the copy of a sword. They do not understand it. Our spells are much like this: we put mana into the correct blueprint, but we do not understand what we do. I…retaught myself this magic, but even now, I cannot achieve the next step.”
She had spent eight years to gain little in the way of additional magical power or spells, but to instead ground herself in magical basics. And in the end—she was limited by other concerns.
“Magical power is another factor. There are countless spells we are capable of, even with Explorer’s Magic! But even an Archmage’s mana is limited. For instance, one of the projects I was working on in The Wandering Inn was copying the [Gardens of Sanctuary]. The dimensional aspect of them.”
Grimalkin’s eyes gleamed, and Hedault tapped his fingers together interestedly. The [Enchanter] looked embarrassed.
“I have experimented with that in the past. Failed attempts.”
“As have I. But I barely made a small area.”
Valeterisa nodded.
“Mana constraints. I was attempting to, ah…make more room for my book collection in my bedroom.”
At some point, it had become a full-scale project trying to emulate Erin Solstice’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. Valeterisa sighed as she realized it wouldn’t get off the ground—not with the time she had left.
“I only wish I had a space for me. Not my mansion. Somewhere…with people around. Experts.”
