“Gaze upon my mastery of magic and despair,” called [Archmage] Igawiz from the Steps of Challenges. He gazed down, and the [High Mage] removed the veil so all might see her face for the first time since she had come to Wistram.
She lifted a hand, and the aether in the air pooled until even Igawiz’s own arcane glow seemed as a puddle before a great sea, and the [Mage] who had altered the ocean itself grew dry-mouthed. His tongue became leaden, and he stumbled backwards, catching himself as he tripped upon his own robes.
“Magic has no mastery, only deeper mysteries, Archmage. Allow me to show you my question.” High Mage Valmira lifted her hand, and then the stars began to fall.
—Archmagi, Shapers of the Magical World, Chapter 16, pg. 212.
 
Valeterisa was reading her favorite book and her favorite page in it when the monster attacked The Wandering Inn.
This time, it was her fault. Sort of.
Vaguely.
She accepted ownership for the issue after analyzing the monster itself. Before laying eyes on it, Valeterisa assumed it was one of the ‘regular monster attacks’ that the inn sometimes apparently generated. She sighed, closed her book, and called out.
“[Apprentice]? What is that banging sound?”
“Monster attack! Where’s Numbtongue? Mrsha, Nanette, in the garden! It’s hideous!”
That was Lyonette’s scream. Then Valeterisa understood it was an attack and sighed louder.
“[Invisibility]. Um. [Speed]. Apprenticemakesuremyroomisn’tdestroyed.”
She began to move closer to a blur as Montressa skidded into Valeterisa’s room. The Archmage blurred past her…at a walk. She was still casting magic.
“Twofold…no, better make it [Fourfold Arcane Barrier]. And, um. [Stoneskin]. [Detect Life].”
[Arcane Barrier] was her go-to spell. She always had one layer around her, and she had a number of Skills that enhanced the most generic defensive spell of the modern [Mage]. Hers included [Barrier: Arcane Spellguard] and [Barrier: Crystalline Defense].
That mostly just meant her spell wouldn’t be easily dispelled or blasted and that the barrier ‘cracked’ and was fairly hard even if you struck it with enough force to damage it. Normally, they just winked out of existence once overloaded; Valeterisa’s would crack and need to be shattered.
The Skills had saved her life hundreds, perhaps thousands of times. Mostly in magical accidents. Valeterisa wasn’t a warrior.
She dueled, yes, but she didn’t act as a [Battlemage]…much. And the dueling was something she’d done as a younger student in Wistram and Fissival. Later on, she’d taken a few with fellow [Mages] to generate acclaim, but Valeterisa did not enjoy fighting.
She’d been told she was good at it, but seldom by adventurers, so Valeterisa disregarded this feedback. At any rate, she was staying at The Wandering Inn, and her room on the second floor had all her possessions.
It would ruin her morning if a monster destroyed the inn, so she walked downstairs and saw people running to and fro, doing…warrior things.
Goblins and Antinium were firing crossbows out the window while Lyonette and two [Knights] waved swords and argued. Relc was not here, Valeterisa knew. And none of those Solstice [Knights].
Drat. A Gnoll with sunglasses shouted.
“Numbtongue’s not here! He must be somewhere else! Who am I calling for help, Lyonette?”
“P—Pallass? If it were just a few hours later—I said keep in the garden, you two!”
Lyonette shouted at Nanette, who’d come out with a wand, looking determined. The two began fighting as Valeterisa tried the door to the hallway that led outside.
Locked. And someone had pushed a chair in front of it. She sighed, wandered over to a window where the monster wasn’t—she could sense it outside the western wall.
Eight feet long. Five high? Not a Rock Crab. Valeterisa stared at the window latch and fiddled with it. She was an expert puzzle-solver. An acclaimed genius of magic. Archmage of Izril, whatever that meant.
“Do you pull it up and then it unlatches? No. It’s down and…hm. [Unlock Object].”
She gave up, and the latch undid itself with a click. Valeterisa made a soft ‘oh’ sound. You normally unlatched it, but it had a second way to deadbolt the latch…she climbed out the window as one of the Goblins running around with quarrels for the crossbow slowed and pointed at the opening window shutters in alarm.
Valeterisa instantly flew off. Not away, but up. In her experience, many things had to catch you to kill you. At this point, she was annoyed, wondering if this was going to affect lunch and considering lodging a complaint with Lyonette about the attack. She lazily circled the inn, reflecting that it would have been so much easier to do all this with [Parallel Thoughts].
But she was trying to be more invested in the world—the parallel thoughts were a trap, so here she was. Sighing, the Archmage cleared the roof, saw the monster, and said two things.
“Eugh. That is hideous. Oh dear. This one is my fault.”
Her next thoughts were immediately how she could cover up this being her fault and whether or not this would get her evicted from The Wandering Inn. Valeterisa agonized about it. Maybe they wouldn’t be able to tell? Larracel would, instantly.
The monster was indeed eight feet long and had drooping scales and a lizard-like body—though it had six sticky feet that let it climb with ease, and its ‘face’ was more like if a bunch of tendrils had burst out of an open wound like a growth of maggots. Writhing tendrils that dripped as the ‘mouth’ gaped, revealing more cilia inside.
The Manavore was a disgusting monster that grew hair along with scales; it was speculated the unnecessary shift from scales to hair along its ‘back’, to even patches of disturbing, scaleless flesh, were the result of too much magical radiation. It was fairly dangerous; this one was slamming itself energetically against the inn with such force that a regular house would already be cracking.
It was loath to use the magic it stored in its body—but Valeterisa could sense it beginning to generate fire magic. Manavores were capable of ‘spell-like abilities’, what you called any monster with a magical effect.
Wailer Frogs, which could scream beyond any normal lung capacity. Invisible Ghouls, which were….invisible. That sort of thing. Manavores had a lot of potential powers due to how much magic they could store.
Valeterisa never got to see what it actually was going to do. She pointed a finger as the Manavore seemed to notice her and raised that head, tendrils questing up at her. She’d heard they were actually blind and only sensed the world as relative amounts of mana.
“[Ray of Incineration].”
The Tier 4 spell was an orange-red beam that reached down, touched the monster, and set it aflame instantly. It shrieked, and Valeterisa made a note.
One Tier 4 spell not effective.
“[Ray of Electrocution]. [Ray of D—oh, that did it.”
A flaming, soot-blackened corpse flopped over, and Valeterisa reflected that maybe it was the quality of her spells; she was a superior [Grand Magus], not a lower-level [Mage]. So perhaps killing it would normally take 3-4 spells of a Tier 4 nature.
Either way, the Manavore was dead. The shouting from below stopped. Valeterisa sighed.
“Drat.”
…She’d known she was going to get in trouble for her latest experiment. She’d just forgotten how many problems it generated. She hoped she didn’t get evicted for it.
Maybe she could get Montressa to take the blame?
 
——
 
Lyonette was very thankful, initially, after Valeterisa descended. One of her staff, Peggy, was hitting the burning Manavore’s head with a hammer to make sure it was dead. Valeterisa saw the Antinium preparing to drag it off, and Yelroan was speaking loudly.
“Can we get a [Detect Life] spell on it? Then signal the Adventurer’s Guild in Invrisil, I guess, that we’ve got a burnt monster for identification. They’ll generally do all the butchering and hauling off on their own if it’s worth something.”
She appreciated that. There wasn’t any screaming, any fuss, or any huge sobbing ‘thank you’s and ‘you saved our lives’ that she normally had to deal with.
It was much like Larracel’s inn, which was why she enjoyed her stay here: convenient. Of course, Lyonette’s effusiveness was mostly because she didn’t know the Manavore was Valeterisa’s fault.
Montressa knew. She was the [Apprentice] and could sense her master’s guilt with the powers of her class and Skills. Either that or she just knew Valeterisa. She was giving Valeterisa a narrow-eyed look.
“—and thank you again, Valeterisa. I’m sure we can manage several complimentary discounts—dinner on the house? Something for you and Relc?”
“Er. Yes. I did that purely to help the inn. Which I enjoy. Discounts are not needed. I hope the Manavore is worth something…they do tend to have mana crystals, which I’d love to see—I mean, I am happy to let you sell them to the Adventurer’s Guild for cleanup. Because of the inconvenience, yes. And if any more were to appear, I am sure I or my apprentice could easily handle them.”
At this point, Lyonette’s gratitude changed to something resembling Montressa’s narrow-eyed look of suspicion.
“…Why would there be more?”
Valeterisa glanced at her room.
“No reason. That is, there is a good reason, but it’s largely in keeping with me being here as an Archmage. Magical experiments have…magic. Which is what attracted it. But as you can see, it was handled very adroitly, if I say so myself!”
No damage to the inn, either! She folded arms, smiled, and Lyonette’s stare made Valeterisa hesitate.
“Ah. I could help move the corpse?”
The [Princess] inhaled, exhaled, and put her hands together. Valeterisa hadn’t really paid attention to Lyonette the last few days, but she had been running around quite a lot. Lyonette muttered to herself.
“Think of the box, think of the box…Archmage! Why don’t we discuss any additional ‘monster attack’ fees later? Montressa can handle that. For now, if you would move that corpse away from the inn and ensure it is dead, that would be a start. Then you may explain why Manavores are after the inn in more detail.”
Ah. Valeterisa sighed, and her shoulders slumped.
I should have lied.
 
——
 
Life was a confusing series of events wherein you did your best. But you never knew what your best was, and there were no books that explained things like socializing, conduct, and so forth.
Everyone else seemed to understand the rules or assured you they were there, but you had to just guess and observe and figure out what to do.
It was tiring, stressful, and Valeterisa had learned the greatest secret of all: there were no real rules. Everything you ‘couldn’t do’, you could, and it was only weighing the cost. The impossible, in magic, in anything else, was just something someone hadn’t figured out yet.
She supposed, in hindsight, she could have told Lyonette that one of her experiments might attract magic-seeking monsters like Manavores. But she’d honestly forgotten. Valeterisa supposed life might be easier if she explained everything to everyone and told people what she was going to do first.
But it would hardly have been efficient. Even now, at the age of—well, she decided not to remember how old she was—Valeterisa kept being surprised by things.
Both in magic and the world around her. Recently, Valeterisa had found the rest of the world, not just magic, was worth experiencing. That had not been her belief for decades, but some things, some people, were worth it.
Her apprentice Montressa, for instance, was a net positive. They’d had ups and downs that might have been Valeterisa’s fault in large part, but Montressa was a good apprentice. Valeterisa said so all the time.
And Relc was also good. If surprising. The Wandering Inn was a good place to stay. Why, Valeterisa had reminded herself why Larracel was so important just recently.
These were positives in the world—and everything else was either non-important or net negatives.
Like most of Fissival, most of Wistram, 98% of Izril’s north, and so on. Valeterisa hadn’t tried to calculate whether the few good things outweighed the bad. For the last two months, she’d been staying at The Wandering Inn because it was convenient, because she had been tired after Fissival, because there was opportunity here, and because she didn’t want to do the calculus. There was only one logical outcome if it wasn’t worth staying here: she should then go back to her island or return to Wistram.
And she did not want to do that. Therefore, she nodded a few times as Montressa apologized to Lyonette, and she tried to look contrite. As far as Valeterisa understood ‘contrite’, it meant looking down at her feet.
“Manavores are a monster that pursue, well, mana, Lyonette. They might have gone for the inn on its own because of the leyline—but I think it was one of Archmage Valeterisa’s experiments.”
“One with more mana than normal? How dangerous is it? I told you, dangerous magic—”
“I’m sure it’s not dangerous except that it’s radiating magic. Right, Master?”
Montressa stared at Valeterisa, and the Archmage tried to guess what the widening of her apprentice’s eyes meant.
…Probably to lie? Valeterisa answered with the truth.
“The experiment is highly magical, but there is no dangerous spell in any part of it, Miss Lyonette. I assure you, I have no intention of putting a spell with any kind of volatility into this particular experiment!”
That was, by the way, absolutely true! Valeterisa gave Lyonette her best smile and hoped like heck the [Princess] didn’t ask how dangerous the experiment was on its own, even without spellcasting.
Lyonette’s narrowed eyes said she didn’t believe Valeterisa either way. She took a deep breath.
“How likely is it to harm the inn or people within? Aside from attracting monsters?”
“If nothing goes wrong—zero chance. So long as they stay out of my room.”
“What is the likelihood of something going wrong?”
“…Low?”
By now, even Montressa was giving Valeterisa the side-eye. The Archmage was sweating a bit as Lyonette inhaled, exhaled, and then spoke sweetly.
“Archmage! Could you ensure all precautions are taken that this doesn’t happen again? And that your experiment, whatever it is, is secure? Otherwise, we may have to revisit your stay at the inn.”
“I can pay double.”
“That isn’t the point, Archmage Valeterisa. Please—check on your experiment? Now, I have to see about a dead monster and, uh—shovels.”
For some reason, Lyonette developed a shifty look at that last comment and glanced at Peggy, who’d come into the inn. The Hobgoblin nodded.
“And wheelbarrow. Is very important. Maybe just bag of holding and scoop?”
