And then everyone was peering at the trees and wondering if they were ‘like the ones back home’. Nanette caught a pale blue bug on the bark and ran it over to Hedault, who recoiled, but Grimalkin identified it softly.
“Frozen barkeater. Frigus Stultus Arbor Comedentis. The formal classification of the insect.”
Valeterisa knew the meaning of the old-magic name of the bug and smiled and had to whisper to Relc why. He laughed, and Wailant produced a jar.
“Worth money, is it? It’s pale blue and looks almost made of ice.”
Viceria sighed.
“No, Wailant. It’s a pest, and it will eat your crops. What a lovely forest. Do you hide your teleportation runes, Archmage? I imagine you had to proof them against animals and weather.”
“Yes. I put down some basic spell circles. Just some enchantments. [Ghostly Presence]. [Superior Deflection]. [Earthshaping] the sigils into the ground.”
Valeterisa was uncomfortable with the conversation, so she waved a hand and expected the others to be vaguely impressed and not have opinions on the matter. But this was a rare gathering: they were almost all [Mages].
Nanette grew excited at the casual references to higher-tier magic. It was a rare [Mage] who could cast any one of those spells. She wrote this down—until Hedault sniffed. He wasn’t cold; he had a number of splendid enchantments on his travelling gear.
“How banal. [Ghostly Presence] would be what you’d do. [Superior Deflection] is as efficient as one taking a sledgehammer to a nail.”
—That rankled Valeterisa. She frowned at him.
“Those are all very acceptable spells. I have no magical interference, so the enchantments are perfectly within scope.”
Hedault looked victorious as he folded his arms.
“Perhaps. But animals can detect [Ghostly Presence]. Cats, sensitive birds, breeds of dogs—and [Superior Deflection] would not withstand a true seismic shift, just something pounding on the sigil. [Steelform] would have been just as useful and added malleability.”
Ooh. Palt covered his mouth and translated for Imani as Valeterisa’s cheeks turned red. Montressa opened her mouth, but Valeterisa cut her off.
“Oh? And what would you have done to hide the runes?”
Hedault frowned.
“[Isolated Magic]. Obviously.”
“That doesn’t reduce the smell. Or physical appearance.”
He wavered.
“[Isolated Magic] combined with [Camouflage] and [Scentless Musk].”
“So three spells instead of one? Efficient. Weaving that many spells into a single, contiguous circuit that won’t decay would have tripled the time for each camouflaged teleportation point.”
“—Only if you didn’t pre-write the exact enchantments onto a blueprint and lay them down. Which you did, or you would have hand-scribed each one. You could set up this network in fifteen minutes.”
Valeterisa hesitated, and Hedault’s eyes flashed behind his spectacles.
“You hand-scribed each one, didn’t you?”
The amount of time she’d wasted writing runes in the pouring rain—Valeterisa began arguing over how he would have done the earthshaping bit, and the other [Mages] watched.
They were wary of interjecting into the conversation, even Grimalkin; Hedault and Valeterisa were masters of their crafts. Once again, Wailant decided he knew enough to jump in, despite Viceria now stomping on his foot.
“So all these things are hidden anchors for the Archmage to teleport to, eh?”
He stroked his beard as Valeterisa and Hedault allowed that, yes, he understood what was going on. The [Pirate] gave them a big smile.
“I reckon I’d have not bothered to hide it at all. ‘S not like this stuff glows.”
He kicked Valeterisa’s teleportation rune.
“Most buggers walk into a forest and see this? Your average [Poacher] won’t mess with it, or a [Hunter]. Animals don’t care if it’s ghostly or not.”
Hedault and Valeterisa stared at Wailant, and both turned red. Palt gave Wailant a surprised, then gratified grin, and the [Pirate] winked at Nanette.
“I reckon I would have made a fine Archmage myself if I ever put my mind to it.”
“Wailant—”
Viceria did kick him then, and they moved on.
 
——
 
The unshakable ego of Wailant was complemented, not hindered, by Imani’s willingness to pass out food she’d taken from her kitchens and Grimalkin’s knowledge on most subjects on the hops from place to place.
In fact, since they could arrive in Heiste by evening, the group actually flew over to a few nearby settlements instead of standing around in a forest or cave for thirty minutes.
Normally, this delay would have been Valeterisa waiting for Montressa to stop retching while she read a book, and she would have agonized further over not studying magic…but again, Relc and company were more interesting than expected.
“Oh. So you were at Wistram. I thought your personal enchantments were competently done.”
Valeterisa had to allow that Viceria seemed like a capable [Green Mage] who could actually grow plants on Wailant’s farm rather than just talk about it. Not every graduate of Wistram had real-world experience, and Viceria bowed.
“Thank you, Archmage. It was a struggle the first few years, adapting theory to the fields. The hardest part was when we switched to Sage’s Grass. That’s why we’re a team; Wailant had to take care of the monsters.”
“Damn buggers come after the farms. But a few sensor spells and Old Lassy—that’s my scimitar—and we get most of them. The trick is making sure most monsters don’t know there’s magic there to begin with.”
Growing Sage’s Grass was hard. Valeterisa frowned vaguely.
“I had that problem just this morning. An Acid Fly ate all my mana. In my room. I was storing it, and the Acid Fly mutated.”
That made Grimalkin turn.
“You were producing free-form mana? That’s…incredible.”
Nanette was excitedly listening as they sat in an imitation of the outdoor cafés in Liscor and Invrisil. Imani was actually giving the flustered [Cook] tips and her recipe book, and Palt almost dropped his cigar from his open mouth.
“Excuse me—back, please. Yes, that is the Archmage of Izril. Back!”
Montressa and Bezale were keeping the townsfolk back with barrier spells, and Valeterisa tuned out the people staring at her. They always did that; Relc was more shocked and staring at the crowds.
Wailant was unphased by the revelation about mana and tapped the side of his nose.
“Right, that always happens. I dunno about this flying mana, but you just need to do it like the Fraerlings. You hide the magic or—you pretend there’s some better magic over left a bit. We do both; we’ve got magicore bits in the soil. They absorb the mana while the Sage’s Grass is growing.”
Valeterisa didn’t follow the logic at first.
“Won’t that create more signatures?”
“Sure, but it’s magicore. Think most monsters want to eat that? You still get Manavores, but if you rotate the magicore out—it’s still deadening. You can also put other stuff in the soil. I even have this tarp I set up when they’re near-full grown. Heavy as shit! Covered with lead and crap; masks the magic.”
Hedault was nodding grudgingly. He didn’t really like Wailant, who was a backslapping, obtrusive man, but he could recognize sound magical theory when he heard it.
“Standard to Fraerling nullification practices. Their Allotment system is perfect, measured down to the nearest magirite. Free-floating mana…a single contaminant in the room would be able to absorb it.”
It was a vexing problem for her new Skill, and Valeterisa glared at her table. Damn Acid Flies. It was Viceria who blinked and whispered into her husband’s ear. Wailant spoke up.
“Huh. What if you…changed the nature of the magic?”
Huh? Valeterisa, Hedault, and Grimalkin, who’d been making notes in a journal on the puzzle, all looked up. They turned to Viceria. A [Light] spell lit up Valeterisa’s mind.
“I only meant that while it doesn’t work with Sage’s Grass, what Wailant forgot to say is that the magicore isn’t raw. We turn it into low-grade poison magicore. Nothing that can harm the ground. But monsters—”
“—sense it as poison magic. Only raw magic can be easily ingested by mundane monsters like Acid Flies. Of course! If I had changed the nature of the magic, it would be more effort to use, but the Acid Fly wouldn’t have had the ability to do anything!”
Valeterisa grew excited, and Hedault gave Viceria a respectful nod. Grimalkin sighed and crossed out everything he’d been writing.
“Here I was about to compartmentalize the magic via sectionality and add ‘nets’ to reduce any loss of power. Common-sense solutions…”
Hedault nodded at Grimalkin.
“Ah, you have read the same book on Fraerling settlements I did.”
The Drake smiled for the first time since leaving House Ulta.
“There’s only one. Insignificant Thaumaturgy: Fraerling Magic, A Disambiguation.”
“Such an overstatement from someone who only managed to talk to two settlements and never had access inside.”
As it turned out, every [Mage] except Palt and Montressa had read the one book that even hinted at Fraerling magic, and only vague theories, nothing concrete. The non-[Mages] listened in as Viceria murmured.
“I heard there were more substantive books from the times when [Mages] shrunk themselves down to visit Fraerlings on their own terms. But they were limited in number, and Fraerlings eventually destroyed them all. Even in Wistram. There’s that story about Fraerling [Saboteurs]—”
It grew rather convivial. Despite herself, Valeterisa admitted that Hedault had had a point regarding her enchantments, and she would have wasted time on the mana problem—she couldn’t wait to retry her experiments, actually. Wailant slapped his knees as he got up.
“Alright, my stomach’s settled. Onto the next spot?”
They were about to leave when Relc tapped Valeterisa on the shoulder. She had the ability to forget anything she found inconvenient, so she had absolutely tuned out her audience as they sat there, much less requests from some [Farmer] to help her enchant things or for her to magically fix problems.
Her heart sank when she saw the Drake giving her a pleading look.
“Can you spare five minutes, Valeterisa? For the people here.”
She dithered—and gave in. Maybe once, and she’d tell Relc she couldn’t be bothered to do this kind of work, even if they paid her. She was rewarded with a grin. Then he pointed her to…
A child.
Valeterisa peered at a boy holding a crude stick with a painted star on the end. He was standing there, his parents nervously behind him, and she saw his mouth was open, revealing gaps in his teeth.
“Hmm. Perhaps a rot in his teeth? [Analysis]. No? [Detect Magic]. No crippling curses. [Myflta’s Magical Sensor Net]—boundary here, here, here…”
A bouncing beam of light criss-crossed a cylinder around the boy, and he stared as the beams of light traced around him, trying to detect everything in the field Valeterisa had designated. After a second, Valeterisa studied his wand.
“…Ashwood. Non-magical.”
She stopped, stared at the boy, and his mouth was open wider if anything. Then she leaned over and whispered to Relc.
“Er…what’s wrong with him?”
The Drake had been giving Valeterisa the side-eye. Amused. And…he gestured at the little boy.
“Nothing, Valley. He just wanted to meet the Archmage of Izril. The one who lifted Fissival. He’s a big fan of yours.”
Valeterisa blinked down at the boy. He stared up at her, lost for words. She blinked at Relc, pointed at the boy.
“Him?”
Most people who were ‘admirers’ of hers were [Merchants], who wanted something from her. Or the nobility, who wanted something from her. Or [Mages], who’d love if they could ask her about a spell or…
Children? Valeterisa saw more of them peeking at her and stared down at the boy.
“His name’s Todd. What if you cast a spell?”
Valeterisa panicked as Relc whispered in her ear. Spell? Spell…she looked around, then pointed.
“Oh. Very well. [Grand Lightning].”
Everyone ducked as a bolt of lighting as wide as a tree trunk blasted over the houses and town, exploding in the air a mile away. The boy fell on his backside as Valeterisa lowered a finger, and Montressa covered her face. She stared at him—then decided to fly away as his parents dragged him to safety. Relc ran after her, trying to apologize and laugh and call her back at the same time.
As she flew, Valeterisa saw the little boy’s eyes focus on her, then he waved his wand. And he looked so delighted…she stopped flying away and came back.
That was how she realized she had fans. Or rather, not just fans…something else.
Ryoka Griffin had fans. The Wind Runner was so famous that when Nanette mentioned she knew Ryoka, several children begged for her to tell the Wind Runner to come here and let them fly.
But Valeterisa didn’t have fans among children. Rather, they looked up at her and asked if she had really lifted Fissival. Or been that comet in the skies. When she, embarrassed, lifted a wagon a hundred feet straight up, they were speechless.
They stared at her not like a hero, but like a dream. In their gazes, Valeterisa saw something familiar that scared her. It was like the girl who had looked up as she saw the Archmage flying across the skies or the expressions of children in Fissival.
Someday, I want to do magic like that too.
Because it scared her, she tried to avoid them, but Relc cajoled her into casting a spell. Not [Grand Lightning], but any one of the spells she knew.
The Archmage of Izril. There was only one these days, and none of Izril’s people had seen her for a decade. It was a strange thing for a minor spell like [Karas Duststorm] to attract such awe—but even the other [Mages] got into it.
Hedault enchanted Todd’s wand to pulse brightly and make a sound. Grimalkin lifted a boulder overhead. Palt conjured a dozen illusions, and Viceria made plants grow out of the snow.
They did that at numerous towns, eating more into the travel time, but Nanette’s and the children’s looks of delight were something.
Non-valuable to her studies, obviously. A waste of time. But like Relc…Valeterisa began suggesting they visit each town every stop for a bit. There was something here that she clung to.
A reminder of why she’d practiced magic to begin with.
 
——
 
They were so slow to reach Heiste they ended up camping out three jumps from the isle—well, they’d have to fly to Heiste since Valeterisa didn’t have an anchor-point on the isle itself.
Nothing would do but for Valeterisa to cast one of Larracel’s spells. A magical building appeared, and everyone walked into it wonderingly.
“Not a speck of dust. It’s got a table, chairs—dead gods! Is this what an Archmage can do? Makes a Level 50 [Warrior] look like absolute Creler-crap!”
Grimalkin had to disagree with that.
