But the [Apprentice], who normally echoed her master’s mood, was in a suspiciously good mood.
“Ready, Archmage! I’ve packed our travel bags and food in case we don’t make it there overnight—for everyone!”
Valeterisa noticed that last bit. Her eyes narrowed.
“Everyone? If Mage Bezale is trying to come with us—”
She was not about to spare the mana for that. But Montressa assured her it wasn’t Bezale. Valeterisa stared at her until the door swung open.
“Hey! Am I late? I just had a word with Venim, and I’m good to go.”
Senior Guardsman Relc appeared, and despite herself, Valeterisa goggled at him and then shot Montressa a look.
“My class made me think you’d approve, but if I’m wrong, I’ll take full responsibility, Master. Anyways, it was his idea.”
Valeterisa looked at Relc, and he had his travelling spear and a rucksack. He looked embarrassed.
“Hey, I, uh—thought about what you said. And I was going to ask you, but Montressa insisted she ‘knew’ it’d be okay. So I thought—what if I took some time off and we combined work with—”
She began smiling, and then Valeterisa had a thought. Why didn’t I take him to Dwarfhalls Rest? Or ask him to go with her to other places? Relc got along with people, and he was more fun than her being by herself.
She walked over, hesitated, stood on her tip-toes, and shyly tried to offer him a kiss. He didn’t know what was going on for a second, then looked entirely too happy. He made a fist-pump at Menolit, who was nodding.
“Plus, I got that other thing sorted for you—at least I hope so if it—”
Relc stopped because less talking and more kissing was optimal. Valeterisa was distracted—until she heard the loudest and least pleased clearing of a throat to the side. Then she turned, and she had never been more surprised to see Master Hedault in her life.
He stared at them, then pointedly at Montressa.
“I assume we will be teleporting?”
Montressa—and Bezale—innocently nodded as Valeterisa goggled at Hedault. Relc whispered in her ear.
“I had a word with him too. I said we’d give back the hat, and this guy loves enchantments. So I thought—Heiste?”
“It has lots of enchantments. Um. Last I checked. Master Hedault, welcome. Are you willing to journey with us?”
Hedault folded his arms.
“As my workplace is closed until I vacate the premises—and visiting Heiste is a once-in-a-lifetime chance—I am convinced journeying with you is worth it. Also, I would like my missing item returned. If I have permission to inspect your enchantments and Heiste’s, I have agreed to go with the company. Despite the number of couples it seems this trip entails.”
His disapproving stare took in Relc and Valeterisa, Montressa and Bezale, who opened their mouths to object, and Palt and Imani. At this, Valeterisa turned and slowly stared at Montressa, who turned red.
“I didn’t invite those two! I just was discussing it with Relc, and someone has long ears.”
Imani punched Palt in the side.
“Palt! You didn’t get permission?”
“Wait, this isn’t a couple’s retreat? Oh, I really shouldn’t have invited—”
Palt hesitated as he unslung a towel from around his neck. Montressa covered her face as the door slammed open to the inn, and Valeterisa jumped.
“Hey! Heiste’s not waiting around forever! Let’s go!”
Wailant Strongheart and Viceria entered the inn, and the [Pirate] rubbed his hands together. Valeterisa stared at Montressa, and her [Apprentice] cast [Invisibility]. She’d picked up the new spell, and Valeterisa was impressed with her.
“[See Invisibility]. [Gravity Anchor].”
That was how the strangest gathering of [Mages] headed to Heiste. Couples…and one very annoyed Hedault.
 
——
 
Something odd happened as they were leaving. Valeterisa was obviously not anticipating so many people coming with her, and honestly, the cosy time she envisioned grew a lot less so with all these [Mages].
Hedault was one thing, but the [Pirate]-[Farmer]? Imani and Palt were…
She was annoyed, especially when she considered the mana costs, but the surprising thing was when Nanette noticed the crowd. She was dusting her hands off; something yellowish like dust was on her palms, and she saw Palt and froze. He glared—but when Imani waved and explained what was going on, Nanette instantly begged to come along.
“Heiste? I’ve always wanted to see it! Please pleasepleasepleaseplease—Lyonette, I have to go! If I don’t, I’ll die!”
She threw the first tantrum that Valeterisa actually remembered seeing from the girl and clung to Lyonette’s legs—then Montressa’s.
“You can’t just fly off for—how long?”
Valeterisa scratched her head.
“Three or four days. For work. Which is why only Relc—”
The [Princess] rounded on Nanette.
“Three or four days, Nanette! Rheirgest might arrive and—”
“It’s Heiste! I have to visit! My mother did! It’s amazing! I have to go! Plus—Master Hedault needs someone who isn’t a couple.”
Bezale lifted a hand.
“Again, Mons and I aren’t—”
Lyonette wasn’t having it, but Nanette glared at her.
“If you don’t—I’ll start talking about everything! And I know who needs to go north! He’ll be great company!”
“Nanette? Don’t you dare, young lady! Nanette?”
“I’m not a lady, I’m a witch! Witches make threats!”
Valeterisa deliberated teleporting out there and then, but she did owe Hedault, and he, unfortunately, seemed to like Nanette. Not Mrsha, who tried the same tactic with Lyonette. The [Princess] might not have had [Gravity Hook], but she seemed quite capable of capturing Mrsha under one arm, even with Mrsha squirming in every direction.
When Nanette ran back into the inn with a Drake who had been in the middle of clipping his neck-spines, Lyonette sighed.
“Oh, for the love of sunbeams.”
“What’s the crisis? The checkpoint guards said it was an emergency.”
Magus Grimalkin had run straight here. When he saw the vacationers, he gave Nanette a betrayed look. She gave him a hopeful smile and inhaled, eyes locked on Lyonette.
“I have either a great vacation for you—or a very big secret for you, Magus Grimalkin.”
You wouldn’t dare. Lyonette mouthed the words as Grimalkin looked around, and Lyonette and Nanette had a showdown. Valeterisa was extremely upset—until someone passed her something crinkly.
“Candy? Peppermint?”
It turned out Imani and Palt had more sweets. Valeterisa decided they were a useful addition. She sucked on something flavorful as Lyonette slowly caved.
“If a hair on her head is hurt, Montressa—this is assuming Archmage Valeterisa lets her come along.”
“One more nuisance isn’t a problem. She’s a third of the others’ weight for the spell.”
Wonderful. Lyonette saw Mrsha writing something down urgently, but the blackmailing attempt failed as Dame Ushar calmly plucked the note out of Mrsha’s paws and swallowed it.
Which was the wisest move, because Valeterisa could repair a scrap. Of course, at this point, Ser Dalimont grabbed Nanette and towed her into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Valeterisa ended up explaining to Grimalkin where they were going, and he rubbed at his face.
“Heiste? I admit, any [Mage] worth their salt would want to visit—and it’s not like I can get a ticket there ordinarily. I have my classes—but Nanette has a point.”
He was wavering, but something made him change his mind. More than the company of [Mages]—he glanced at Hedault. Hedault, who’d helped Felkhr fly. The [Enchanter] gave him a cautious nod.
“Apropos of this entire event being chaotic and not having fair warning of the situation—your company would not be unpleasant, Magus Grimalkin. Without pressure.”
“Without pressure. Thank you, Hedault. If…Archmage, you can teleport across Izril within a day.”
“At great magical expense.”
Valeterisa grumbled. Grimalkin nodded.
“If you’ll allow a short stop on the way north, I will gladly accompany you. And vouch for Miss Nanette’s safety if she is allowed to come.”
 
——
 
Wailant and Viceria. Palt and Imani. Montressa and Bezale. Grimalkin, Hedault, and Nanette. Valeterisa and Relc.
Too many people. She ended up making a list just to make sure she didn’t lose one of them. How Nanette got Lyonette to agree to let her go was a mystery—but from the respectful way Ishkr and the staff looked at Nanette as she marched out of the garden, it had been a fight to remember.
Valeterisa didn’t wait around to see if Liscor’s Council and half of Esthelm decided to come with. She just flew everyone to her nearest teleportation rune from Invrisil and set off.
They had a slight course correction immediately; Grimalkin’s stipulation for coming was a layover in House Ulta.
Valeterisa didn’t know passengers even got to do that. She sat in the air, cross-legged, grumpy, as Relc and Montressa tried to cheer her up.
“Listen, Valeterisa, I know it’s not what you hoped, and I, uh, apologize for that. I screwed up.”
“I suppose we have both made mistakes this morning.”
Valeterisa allowed. Relc was glancing at Grimalkin.
“But it’s a good thing you brought him. I mean—you know why we’re here?”
“No.”
Valeterisa realized she was the only person who didn’t. When Grimalkin had announced the destination he had to visit…everyone had gone silent. Even now, they stood there, watching as he walked up to a mansion set in the heart of the largest city in House Ulta’s lands.
Salt was mostly what they exported, if Valeterisa recalled right. Oh, and they had this new initiative around physical fitness. Thanks to a collaboration with Magus…Grimalkin…
Ah. Hadn’t Lady Pryde been at the Solstice?
Valeterisa still remembered nearly dying there and Relc rescuing her. She hadn’t been able to continue fighting in the same manner; she’d eliminated undead coming via the north gate, and burning Draugr trying to leap over the walls had been difficult enough.
But she recalled…injuries. And deaths.
The power to teleport meant that aside from the sickness of transit, it took moments to travel countless miles. A revolution in transport even Couriers envied. All the [Mages] had actually linked to provide Valeterisa some mana to pay the cost of travel, except Nanette, who didn’t know how.
They ended up teaching her the rudiments of linking while they waited to teleport to the next spot on their journey north.
Two hours was how long they waited on the first leg of their journey. Valeterisa would have complained—but she didn’t. Something told her it didn’t feel right.
This is what she saw: Magus Grimalkin, shoulders hunched, head slightly bowed, standing in the snow outside a mansion emblazoned with House Ulta’s seal. People passing in the streets and doing a double-take, then running over and holding up a set of weights or pointing to a gymnasium down the street.
Then—seeing the mansion he stood before and going quiet.
Every few minutes, someone would open the door and come out to offer him a drink or something to eat. But the Drake just stood there. Waiting.
There was a subdued air to House Ulta, who, if Valeterisa recalled right, were supposed to be a forthright people, proud, inclined to straight-speech and telling you their minds. Much like their [Lady].
She was in the mansion; the curtains were all closed, but Valeterisa heard murmurs, and Grimalkin stood there. Neck-spines not fully clipped, claws folded behind his back.
Waiting. Head rising—then studying the ground again, bowed, as if under a heavy weight. Standing there as people came out and whispered to him. Apologies. Clarifications. Requests for him to go.
When he eventually turned away, Valeterisa saw him nod to the others.
“I apologize for the delay, everyone.”
“Not at all, man.”
Wailant answered for the silent audience. Valeterisa saw Nanette craning her head up to the curtains, which flinched suddenly, and the little witch opened her mouth.
“If you went inside—”
“That would be exceedingly impolite, Miss Nanette.”
Grimalkin wouldn’t hear of it. So, Valeterisa silently handed him something made of sugar that he took without a word and began to eat, another sign the Sinew Magus wasn’t himself. They teleported away. But not before Grimalkin lifted a hand towards the window. He gazed upwards—and when there was no response after a minute, turned away and murmured to one of the servants.
“I’ll be back. Have my letters been arriving?”
“Yes, Sinew Magus.”
“Good.”
 
——
 
You’d think that would set the tone for the entire trip, but if anything, it did the opposite. For a while, everyone was silent, but then they began to become more energetic to draw Grimalkin out of his deep silence.
The trip went something like this: they’d teleport twice, stop for thirty minutes to an hour, teleport twice, stop.
The reason was that everyone but Valeterisa would puke if they did three jumps in a row without letting their stomachs acclimate. Even Montressa needed time to reset herself.
Also, the mana cost was extreme; Valeterisa had almost burnt herself out with six passengers on the Winter Solstice. With every [Mage] chipping in mana, it was a lot more manageable, but the downtime helped them all replenish mana.
“Feels like I was just on a rolling ship for an entire day then you put me on flat ground. Ugh. But dead gods! Here I am, teleporting with an Archmage! If that isn’t something, I don’t know what is. Oi, Archmage. You mind signing one of those autograph-cards for me?”
Pirate Wailant was the first to introduce himself, much to his wife’s chagrin. The other [Mages] gave Valeterisa space, but he strode up, and she scribbled something on a card. Unfortunately, that didn’t get rid of Wailant. Tier 5 spells didn’t get rid of people like him in Valeterisa’s experience.
“Beautiful. Mind doing another? My wife’s a huge admirer of yours.”
“Wailant! Be respectful!”
Viceria turned red, and Valeterisa scribbled something again. To Wailant’s Wife…she was unmoved by the praise.
“[Mages] do admire the rank of Archmage. Hello, hello…[Recall Memory]…Viceria Strongheart. Let us all have a wonderful journey to Heiste. Please forward any question to my apprentice, Mage Montressa.”
She was doing it on purpose. It was like when Ieka tried to introduce someone to her; Valeterisa didn’t have the time or energy to be polite. She might have done this the entire trip, but the problem was…Relc. And Montressa.
Golem-Valeterisa, which was what Larracel hurtfully called this mode, was deactivated when Relc took Valeterisa’s hand.
“Wailant runs a farm with Viceria. They’re a fun duo, Valley. Hey, where are we now?”
—And the Archmage of Izril started, looked at him, flushed a bit, then cast around.
“Oh—um. House Sanito, actually. A forest.”
“Really? Dead gods!”
