Maybe she should go back to her mansion and buckle down for work for a month or two. Not forever, but just focus. Even with Montressa, all her tools and gear were back there. Valeterisa waited for Relc to respond. When he did—he stared at Valeterisa, hesitated, almost said something, then sat there.
He seemed, unaccountably, nervous. Then worried. Then…his chest inflated as he took a huge breath.
“Valley—I’m not going to take time off for that. I appreciate the thought, but I can’t do that.”
She stared at him.
“Why not? It’s a stipend to train—”
Relc raked a claw across his neck-spines.
“Yeah, but it’s not what I want—it’s a good idea! Thanks for doing that, but I don’t think it’ll work out. Or maybe it will, but I just don’t think it’s right for me. Thinking of it was great, but I’ll just tell Venim…”
He smiled and kept going, but Valeterisa sat there and was unaccountably hurt. She thought it was a good idea, and Relc noticed her expression.
“How’s it going, you two? Sorry for the wait. Menu, menu. Check out all our specials of the day. I hear this is a gift for some boots! Happy to hook up Relc.”
Palt trotted back over with a big smile about a minute too late. As usual. The Centaur beamed at both breakfasters and hesitated.
“Uh—let me know when you’re ready.”
Valeterisa was drawing on the table, suddenly thinking of her projects. Maybe the spell looked better like this? She began to fold the napkin up. And if you moved space like so—
“I’m sorry for assuming.”
“No, it’s not—Ancestors, I don’t mean I’m mad.”
“It’s the wrong idea, though. I understand.”
Relc hesitated. Palt was whispering to a [Chef] with an eyepatch who’d poked out of the kitchen with a look of concern. She slapped his flank and pointed—Valeterisa murmured.
“I just thought it was an equivalent scenario to my problems. I am overburdened by…non-magical work. It has weighed on my mind.”
She glanced up, and Relc paused.
“I guess I’m one of those things.”
“No! Yes. I enjoy this, but I am worried, Relc. Aren’t you, that you’ll let your advancement slip away from you?”
The Drake’s jaw worked as he glanced at Valeterisa and down at the menu. He suddenly looked very nervous and glanced back up at Valeterisa before forcing a chuckle.
“Hey! I get it. I thought to myself—a lot—‘wow, I can’t believe she has the time to hang out like this’. Especially with me. The beach was one thing, but you’re the Archmage of Izril. And I’m…”
He glanced down at his shiny new boots.
“You can get to Dwarfhalls Rest in a day. I can barely run to Esthelm by nightfall.”
“That’s not what I mean. It’s not about power or levels. But my magic…I’m busy. With Liscor’s walls.”
“Hey, Venim asked me to ask you—I shouldn’t have. Forget the walls. Hexel made them perfect. That’s my fault.”
Relc leaned forwards and hesitantly touched Valeterisa’s hands. Which made her feel guiltier still. The Archmage fiddled with a napkin, folding it into a crane, then undoing it and folding it into a box. Relc blinked at it.
“I, uh…I just can’t take off time myself. How do I explain? I know—if you need to, that’s you. But I? If I could take off time to just train…even if Klbkch were here…”
He sat back, trying to say something, and Valeterisa hung her head. I haven’t felt this bad since I was sitting in a restaurant in Fissival for two hours until I realized my date wasn’t coming and I was being laughed at. 
I should erase that memory. [Calm Emotions]?
No.
The other diners were having a good time. Outside, there was a commotion; there was a line, but Barehoof Kitchens didn’t promise you’d be able to get in on the few days they were open each week. A loud voice was fighting with the others.
“Excuse me. Excuse me, I’m not in line—out of the way.”
“Back of the line, buddy.”
“This is an emergency!”
“So’s our stomachs! Don’t make us call the Watch! Senior Guardsman Relc is right in there! He’ll mess you up!”
Palt was trotting over, and the loud, familiar voice rose.
“Funny you should mention that. Hey! I’m Menolit from Liscor Hunted! This is an emergency! My [Wingman] class—”
The shouting and arguments intensified. A Drake burst into Barehoof Kitchens, slammed into Palt, and both went over with some of the dishes. Relc and Valeterisa didn’t pay attention.
“—I appreciate it, Valeterisa. I guess the problem is…I don’t see myself as needing to learn…no, that’s not right. I’d love to be a better [Spearmaster].”
Valeterisa peeked at him as Relc finally got a hold of his thoughts. He tapped his chest. He wasn’t wearing his badge today since he was off-duty, but she could practically see it there.
“The problem isn’t that I didn’t like the suggestion. Hey, who doesn’t like time off? If it was—spending it with you, that’d be great. For a second, I was all for it. Then I thought about me training each day and not teaching the kids. Or being a [Guardsman]. And I gotta ask—which matters more, Valley? Me learning a new spear dance? Or me punching some idiot who might hurt someone in Liscor?”
She saw Relc give her a big smile, his yellow, slitted eyes flicking to her, then to the table.
“I—have a kid. I think when that happened, no, before that, I sort of knew I wasn’t going to be the greatest [Spearmaster] of all time. Everyone thinks they might be, you know. When I got my class so young, they told me masters from around the world paid attention, and I thought, ‘yeah, I’ll be one of them’. But then I decided I didn’t want to die. I quit the army and—”
“I understand. The value of your work is not in your level alone. In a sense, my magic is better used in service of others. I could be casting [Restoration]. I am sure there are calls for my power without healing potions.”
Relc nodded. Valeterisa thought back to being in Fissival, and her magic could correct eyesight and heal wounds. It could create places to forge metal, and it could protect.
“I am a selfish [Mage]. Magic, the heart of magic, is what I desire. I realized that I had to practice magic in the living, breathing world to level. But I still resent wasting my time.”
She felt ashamed compared to this Drake who would rather teach children how to defend themselves, but Relc demurred.
“Hey, that’s not true, Valley. I hate every time some idiot rolls in front of me while I’m on patrol or when I have a day when I think nothing’s been done. Show me someone who doesn’t hate having their time wasted, and I’ll show you a half-Elf.”
She saw him grin at that, and the smallest smile grew on Valeterisa’s face. Yet…the table drew her head.
“I just wish I had more time to—practice magic. Real magic. I was tired of politics when I left Fissival, and it never ends. I have important things to do. Spells to learn. Even gold to make.”
She clenched her hands. Yes, even if she just earned gold all day and night, it would be better than—Relc looked at Valeterisa.
“Hey, I get it. And if this is the part where you say we see less of each other…can it wait until after Imani serves us food? But I have to say—I really liked the fact that you made a mansion for me out of sand. That…that mattered to me.”
He forced a smile, and Valeterisa looked at him. She sat there and wondered if it would be the best move.
 
???: Yes, and yes. Unless you intend to be a mother or can utilize him as a bodyguard what is the point? Even if he rises to Watch Commander, he offers minimal benefits so what is the point? Physical intimacy? Making your bruised ego from past failures feel validated?
Valeterisa (Primary): He is a better person than that.
???: Better than you deserve. The point remains.
Valeterisa (Primary): There is a point.
Doubt: How can this help you learn magic?
Valeterisa (Primary): I saw within the arc of his spear a word of magic I do not know. I have seen Zeladona. He makes dealing with it all slightly easier. Including you.
Doubt: This state of affairs is transitory, without real value. It will not continue forever.
Valeterisa (Primary): Tomorrow will do. Begone.
 
She was tired of planning for those future days. She had left eight years of her life in her mansion fighting against her limited knowledge and failed.
And failed.
She might still be there but for Ryoka. Valeterisa teared up as Relc patted her hand, now sighing, shoulders slumping.
“Aw, hey. Listen, we don’t have to stay. I, uh—”
Menolit and Palt were staring at him, and Valeterisa blew her nose on the napkin. She suspected it was a terribly awkward moment for him, for the owners of the kitchen, and for the guests.
“I could cast [Firestorm], and we could pretend this never happened. I don’t want to break up. I’m just sad.”
Relc blinked at her as one of the Gnolls dining behind them decided it was time for the bill. Then he laughed.
“Don’t do that. I haven’t had breakfast yet. Come on, it’s supposed to be really good.”
 
——
 
Her realization that she wanted this, even if ‘this’ was a hindrance, made Valeterisa feel better. She had never had to question it, she realized. Each and every time a relationship or occupation, anything, had gotten in her way of magic, she had cast it aside and walked on.
Did this make her weaker? Or did it mean she’d finally found something valuable? Like Montressa, she held onto it.
She wondered what Larracel would say, but Imani herself came out of her kitchen—perhaps to ensure Valeterisa wouldn’t destroy the entire restaurant—and took their order.
“So, Imani—sorry for the commotion. What’s all this about? ‘Special of the Day’?”
“I’m glad you asked, Relc. It’s limited food made with special ingredients. Expensive as can be—check the prices.”
Relc did and swallowed, but Imani assured him he’d get a friend discount. Valeterisa was distracted from the angst of her worries by the odd menu. The Drake squinted at the menu.
“Huh. I recognize some of these names, and the descriptions are crazy. Allergies? Am I allergic to peanut butter?”
“…Maybe. I recommend the top item.”
Relc stared at it. Then he laughed.
“Hold on. Are you still at The Wandering Inn? Lyonette said Palt hates the place. And even if you are, is she okay with you selling that much…?”
Palt developed a huge scowl at the mention of the inn, but Imani winked her one eye.
“Just order it.”
So Relc did. Then he pointed to one of the snacks that cost a gold piece. Each.
“Two of these, please. Wait, that’s all sweets. Eh…you only live once.”
The dish came out fast, and Valeterisa had to admit to Relc that she had a sweet tooth. She stared at what he was craning his neck to see, and Relc muttered.
“No way. And what’s that orange thing? Imani, you’ve got to explain this.”
Palt cast a [Silence] spell and whispered as Menolit tried to sit down at a table and was ejected by the other patrons.
“Let’s just say it’s my new Skill, Relc. [Ingredients: Cultural Shift]. Enjoy. I made the dish with the ingredients; the snack we literally just sell as-is.”
She had just placed two round cakes in front of Valeterisa. The Archmage recognized cake, obviously. But she checked the recipe again, and Relc read it out.
“Fudge chocolate layer cake with marshmallow filling. I don’t know about something out of a marsh, but dead gods, this much chocolate?”
He gave her a wide-eyed look and then realized Valeterisa had never had any of the chocolate before—which was incorrect, actually; Wistram had, at great pains, found cocoa beans in Baleros and synthesized some of it.
Just enough for flavor. Valeterisa dug a fork into the first bite of cake and decided whatever amount of chocolate Wistram had had—it was not enough.
It had sprinkles of coconut on top, whipped cream, and even some special ice cream that turned out to have strawberry, chocolate, and vanilla in it.
“Neapolitan ice cream? Why the heck would anyone make it in three flavors—actually, this is really good. Nevermind. And this? What is this?”
Relc was incredulously crinkling something in front of him, trying not to eat the entire treat too fast. He and Valeterisa glanced at a Gnoll tearing it open and sniffing what was inside, and they realized it was a wrapper.
It was, in fact…a weird object made of chocolate with another wrapper inside. And it had peanut butter and chocolate in it. Valeterisa stared at the object.
Then she read the back of the packaging.
“…What’s a calorie?”
“Dunno, but whatever it is, give me another!”
It was literally candy from another world, Valeterisa realized. She stared up, and Palt winked at her. He was ensuring the wrappers didn’t leave the restaurant, but all of this was due to Imani’s Skill.
She could shift ingredients from this world with something from her world. Imani had chosen her ingredients this week to intrigue her guests. What was so unique that even a [Master Chef] wouldn’t be able to replicate? Well…
The [Chef] accepted compliments as she came over, but she had a sardonic look.
“Thank America. Capital of sweets and corn syrup. Try not to eat too much of this kind of thing, Relc. I hope you liked it, Archmage Valeterisa?”
The Archmage realized Imani was also the reason they had fresh avocados and other, rarer items from Oteslia. She sat there staring at Imani. Then she put a large tip in gold on the table.
“I quite like you, Chef Imani. When is your restaurant open? Also—you may wish to be careful of Wistram. They may attempt to kidnap you if they realize your Skill.”
Imani’s lips twisted as Relc hesitated, and Palt glowered.
“They’ve tried that. But thank you—and if you’d like to recommend us to your friends, next week we’re trying Guatemala.”
 
——
 
The breakfast made Valeterisa feel better. The impending journey to Heiste did not. Here she sat, in her room in the inn, as a loud banging sound and voices echoed from the common room.
It sort of got on her nerves, and when she asked what was going on and if she had permission to [Silence] it, Ishkr panted.
“We hired some Antinium to help prep the ground for Rheirgest. They need to lay the foundations. Apologies, Archmage.”
“Oh.”
Valeterisa pretended to know what that meant. She went back to sit down and noticed a bunch of Antinium entering the inn, and lining up to collect bowls of hot stew. Was someone building something? Lyonette was busy welcoming them, and Valeterisa got up to tell Lyonette she was going.
“I will be back…later. Apprentice, ready?”
Montressa had begged to see the isle of Heiste, which sat on the northeastern coast of Izril, a privileged place for people to visit. Valeterisa, having been there once, was just glum, wondering what she had to fix.
