Nanette ran to find Lyonette, bursting with some idea, and Valeterisa hoped she didn’t have to tell Nanette that a few gold coins in savings wouldn’t be enough for all of Valeterisa’s plans. She did apologize about the Acid Fly incident to Lyonette as the [Princess] whispered to Nanette.
“You what? She what? Cuddle Golems? Well—okay. That’s actually not—er, welcome back, Archmage, Relc! Stay out of the basement, would you?”
They’d boarded the basement off for some reason. Relc glanced at Ishkr, who was nailing the last board into place.
“You got a monster problem? I could take care of it.”
“What? No! We just had an, uh—floor collapse. Lots of water down there.”
The Gnoll wiped at his brow, and Relc shook his head.
“Now floors are going? Dead gods, you should get the Antinium to look at that. Hey, Heiste was great. Look what Valley brought!”
Everyone stared at the magic-sensor as Hedault, sighing, spoke to Grimalkin about the costs of renting a place in Pallass. The Sinew Magus helped put the sensor down outside; it was too big for Valeterisa’s room, and she was frankly concerned about her floor imploding.
“We must talk dimensional magic, Archmage. And frankly, I’ll volunteer a room to see your mana experiment in my mansion.”
Grimalkin shook hands with Valeterisa, and even Hedault chimed in.
“I would not be adverse to seeing that either and would help with the construction of the room. For due compensation. For my hat as well as my window.”
Valeterisa was so pleased by this she nodded to him, and Lyonette bustled over, trying to recruit Hedault to the inn. A lost cause, but they were talking magical compression. Valeterisa gestured with her hands.
“I could actually make a smaller bounded dimension. Say, double the size of my room with limited risk of sudden expansion, but the mana cost takes days of saving up. And hitherto now, I didn’t have a way to store magic reliably.”
Grimalkin nodded, flipping to his notes to show her his experiments, which corroborated her understanding.
“Fascinating. So you can now fuel powerful spells…if you can solve the storage issue. Which of course is a recursive problem. You need a safe space first…”
Hedault lifted a hand, feeling at his Bag of Holding.
“That has been my experience as well. I suppose since Archmage Valeterisa is sharing her knowledge, I must admit—I cannot create powerful enchantments beyond my mana capacity. And I have actually been studying some truly unique magic—”
He pulled out some stones written with magical symbols, and Valeterisa almost stole them then and there. Grimalkin’s eyes popped.
“What is—it’s magic, but those symbols—”
“Ryoka Griffin. If only we could study these…privately.”
The three [Mages] looked at each other. Grimalkin folded his arms.
“If all three of us linked and we had, say, Salamani, Viceria, all three younger [Mages]…we might be able to create a single bounded room doubling Valeterisa’s current one. Mana requirements indeed. Any actual academy or building must be physically constructed. Either the Archmages of old had enough mana to lift islands overhead or there was an efficiency or something we don’t have.”
It was a puzzle. Valeterisa stood there until she heard a cry from outside.
“Argh! Hey! Back up! Back—”
“Archmage, your object is attacking someone! Help! Help! I warned you about this!”
My—Valeterisa ran downstairs and found Lyonette screaming. Someone was fleeing as the magic-sensor whirled around, so fast that it was generating waves in the air—and the central ring had turned red. It was projecting a ray of light that followed a swearing, running Drake.
“I come to the inn for one second—I don’t have time for this!”
Saliss of Lights was diving around, trying to dodge the beam. He was alarmed, and Valeterisa fussed around the enchantment—it went still as she approached. It wasn’t enchanted to injure someone.
But she had never seen it react like that! Not even to her magical presence! Saliss jogged over, panting.
“Is that an attack spell? Please tell me it is. The inn needs some of that.”
“No—it’s a magical sensor. Are you carrying something that is intensely magical, Saliss?”
“Me? I’ve got tons of exploding potions, but you should be more magical than…wait. Wait…”
Saliss’ eyes narrowed. He felt at something and pulled out a heavy box that had a huge padlock on it. He grunted as he put it down.
“I was just coming here to visit Hedault, actually. I have a job for him. Reactivate that thing, would you?”
Valeterisa took her hand away, and the spinning resumed instantly. Everyone backed away as the red line aimed straight down instead of at Saliss. No…wait. There were two lines now, and one was focused on Saliss’ bag of holding, the other on the cube.
What had that much magic in it? Valeterisa bent over the cube, and Saliss licked his lips as he snatched it back from her.
“Well, nevermind if it’s good in enchantments. I’ll just, uh—see you!”
“Wait. What’s in the box? What’s in that box?”
Mrsha, Valeterisa, and Hedault all suddenly needed to know. Grimalkin was staring at the magical sensor, which was claiming there was more magic in something Saliss had than all of Valeterisa’s body. 
Like a magical…fuel. For spells. Or enchantments. Or potions. Saliss pulled with all his might, then grinned as he gave them an answer.
“What’s in the box? Seith. You want to buy some? Hundred thousand gold per piece.”
He stepped back, smug, as Valeterisa recognized the word and wondered how hard it would be to mug Saliss of Lights. Lyonette looked from Valeterisa to Nanette to Ishkr and glanced back at the inn.
“How many pieces do you have? I’ll take two.”
Saliss stared at Lyonette, looking genuinely taken aback for a second—before he smirked, slicked back his neck-spines, and offered her the box.
“Excellent! Always happy to have a repeat customer. Also, you gave me the seith in the first place in the urn, but hey, you can have this bit from the lab in Albez. That will be one hundred thousand gold pieces, please.”
He really should have known better. But the naked Drake saw only the [Princess], not the madness of Erin Solstice peeking out of Lyonette’s eyes, like a bloodstained woman holding a knife.
It was in her smile, too. Lyonette oh-so-sweetly curtseyed and gave Ishkr and Yelroan a significant glance.
“Give us half an hour and you can pick it up from Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary], Saliss. I do hope your bag of holding is big enough? I’m sure you can take enough trips to your home. Or the Merchant’s Guild.”
Saliss’ smile became uncertain, and Yelroan groaned as he massaged his back.
“This one’s going to hurt.”
Did she have—? Was there a [Garden of Sanctuary] that had—?
The Wandering Inn was terrible about keeping secrets. So, as any good [Princess] or Bird could tell you, you lied with the truth. And Saliss of Lights was now staring at a future that involved transporting a hundred thousand gold pieces…and finding somewhere that wouldn’t collapse under the weight of that much gold.
He was a Named-rank adventurer. The Merchant’s Guild in Pallass would be surprised if he exchanged some, but everyone knew Saliss was rich. A lot less suspicious than if, say, Lyonette of The Wandering Inn went to Liscor with that much gold. And Valeterisa was an Archmage. Archmages had gold.
Saliss hesitated and tried to grab the box of seith back, but Lyonette handed it to Mrsha, who ran away with it. Valeterisa saw Nanette wink at her. And she quite audibly heard Lyonette whisper to Yelroan.
“I must say, this laundering isn’t that hard! It’s almost as easy as laundry itself!”
Then, Valeterisa saw Saliss’ eyes crinkle up as he grinned with sheer delight—before thinking of a way to turn this into an annoyance. And she?
She dreamed of wild, crazy, and perhaps just a bit insane magic again. Her head rose…and she thought that mountain looked quite nice. If you were going to build anywhere, that was.
