“Don’t apologize for that, man.”
Wailant protested, and Grimalkin got nods of agreement.
“And don’t stop writing her letters! I’m sure—I’m sure she wants them.”
Nanette urged Grimalkin, and the Sinew Magus looked at the girl. He dipped his head.
“…Of course. I did not want to upset her, and it occurred to me arriving unannounced was exceptionally rude. I appreciate you allowing me on this couple’s gathering, Nanette and Master Hedault excepted, of course.”
The two nodded at him, and Hedault glanced around.
“I, for one, am relieved not to be the only single individual present.”
“Again, Montressa and I are not a pair.”
Bezale raised her voice. There was laughter, but then Wailant blundered into the wrong thing for the first time.
“Come on, Hedault. Even the Archmage has found someone. What say you we meet some nice [Enchantress] on the way to Heiste, eh? Eh? Got your eye on anyone special?”
The [Enchanter] got to his feet so fast it was clear he’d been offended. Valeterisa hoped this wouldn’t be the start of another grudge, and as if he’d remembered her, Hedault glanced at Valeterisa. However—his voice was more level as he replied.
“Farmer Wailant. I do not discuss my personal life often. So I will simply state this: a relationship has not been my goal, or I would have pursued it. I am…very content not to even wonder. I understand this strikes many as odd, or even wrong, but I would appreciate not being involved in any speculation as to my desires.”
“Nothing wrong with liking men, man. We’re all reasonable people here.”
Wailant retorted, looking mildly amused. Hedault’s eyes flashed.
“I was not referring to that. This is why I find it so irksome. When I say I am content, no one believes me.”
There was a moment of silence as he wavered, clearly about to retire, and Nanette tilted her head.
“I think I don’t understand, Master Hedault. But will you please explain it to me?”
Her earnest entreaty caused the [Enchanter] to give in. Imani rushed to break out more snacks with Palt, and at length, Hedault accepted some melted cheese on toothpicks that were dipped in a spinach sauce.
He ate it with relish. Sipped from a glass of purified water and sighed.
“Good food. Fascinating magic. And tolerable company.”
“Hey.”
The [Enchanter] went on as someone kicked Wailant. His eyes were on Nanette, but it seemed as though he met Valeterisa’s eyes more than once, and she listened and understood.
“The world can be vibrant, to me, or dull and tedious. I enjoy enchanting. I do not enjoy most clients, but it is a requirement of the job, and I have a great deal of autonomy—present days excepted—to pursue what I enjoy. Not just enchanting. Skateboarding. Food. The world, Miss Nanette, is colorful, and I seek that out. The difference between me and others, I observe, is…”
He paused, and his fingers tapped on his wrist as he tried to put it into words.
“—The world does not grow less vibrant for me. Passion, I have seen, is an all-consuming thing. The same food that is so delicious becomes less so, for infatuation or heartbreak. The world seems to condense into a single thing, a desire that must be fulfilled or else the rest is meaningless. For me? The world is untainted by that vortex of meaning others call romance. And I have never been more grateful for it.”
The little speech drew silence from the audience, and Nanette nodded, clearly listening to each word and trying to understand. Hedault stared into the fire, which was becoming embers by now, and then he did reach for a beer.
He drank it, grimaced, read the label, and murmured.
“Kevin understood that. He had his desires, but he understood the joy of creation, and he was amiable to all. To myself, Master Pelt—many claim Erin Solstice is the [Innkeeper] who draws you into her life like a storm. Kevin was not that. He was a pleasant breeze and never offended me. Death was unworthy of him. I miss him greatly.”
It was a quiet eulogy, and Hedault poured the rest of the can onto the fire. Wailant had tears in his eyes, and Imani rubbed at hers.
Then they began to speak of the dead, from Halrac Everam to Moore, who Viceria had known, and Valeterisa listened. When they turned to her, she spoke quietly.
“He was no great [Archmage] of old. But he was an Archmage, and he grew more cautious with age. But Verdan Blackwood could fly, and he stopped Tier 6 magics with his very body before he died. When I was a girl, he welcomed me to Wistram.”
She conjured an image of him, toasted him, and shared a story and realized this—
This was community.
 
——
 
By common consent, Salamani joined the party on the next day. They arrived at Heiste after a two-hour flight spell that was very taxing on Valeterisa given how many people they needed; Salamani rode over the waves with a delighted Nanette, but everyone else flew.
The first thing they saw of Heiste was an island paradise. It was larger than Valeterisa’s humble isle, and the brilliant white sands and multi-layered mansion had once belonged to a real [Archmage] of old.
Golems and other ancient, magical servants moved around the paradise, and a boat at dock and some guards and servants were evidence of the current caretakers.
Paradise. One of a few. Heiste was unique in that it was owned by House Wellfar, who let people stay at the paradise and want for nothing—but admission was only for the very wealthy. Or connected. A month or longer stay was to be cherished and remembered.
The white sand, like the brilliant emerald surf, and the waterfall falling from an anchored cloud overhead filled the island’s background. Valeterisa almost missed the small delegation standing at a small pier awaiting Valeterisa’s arrival.
The first thing Wailant Strongheart did was fall to his knees and vomit onto the white sand.
“I hate flying. So this is Heiste! Dead gods! Amazing!”
He leapt to his feet and a scandalized [Lady] of House Wellfar recoiled, pointed, and a [Servant] ran to dispose of the mess.
“Archmage, thank you for arriving! We have been requesting, urgently, support for months now, yeah? Better late than never. You’ll be sorting the matter right out?”
Wellfar’s nobility were barefoot and rather pirate-like themselves. But noble [Pirates]; they glanced at Wailant’s tattoos with mixed appreciation and rivalry. Valeterisa sighed.
Work time.
Though, in this case, Heiste was not plagued by a monster attack ravaging the paradise.
“We killed all of those. No thanks to anyone else.”
The [Guard Captain of Paradise] fingered a new scar on his chin and pointed down the beach as they showed Valeterisa the problem.
“It was about when Khelt began shouting about Seamwalkers. Something…happened. All these servants? Don’t need to be here. I was right here when all the Golems and familiars went dead. Stopped responding. Then some of the ward-spells deactivated. I didn’t even know there were monsters in the lower laboratories until they came out.”
Grimalkin frowned.
“How many? What kind?”
The man shuddered.
“Prismatic Hydra. Some kind of two-headed giant dog. Horrific monsters, Gold-rank or worse.”
The Sinew Magus raised his brows, trying not to sound skeptical.
“And you killed them all?”
Salamani, Grimalkin, and Hedault had come along because the magic fascinated them, and Nanette was wavering between staring around and listening. The [Captain] grimaced.
“Of course not. Some just went into the sea and swam off. But we killed a few; they were almost dead.”
Hedault looked around uneasily, clearly not at home with escaped monsters, but he was fascinated by the reason the magic had gone haywire. He speculated out loud.
“They must have been in [Stasis] spells if they were underground since the era of the owner. Archmage Valmira herself might have captured them. So her magic began failing?”
“That’s the thing—we’ve had other [Enchanters] check the place top-to-bottom, and her magic’s still good. It’s just the Golems and some of the familiars and functions that went dead. A few of them stopped moving. One of ‘em—here, see for yourself. The Cuddle Golem just says ‘Archmage Valmira is dead’. As if that wasn’t the case for ages.”
The problem was actually more fascinating than Valeterisa had given the issue credit. Heiste had apparently suffered something connected with the rest of the world when the King of Khelt had made war against the Drakes on Izril.
All the Golems and a lot of the magical creations and functions of Heiste had gone offline. The magic was still good, but they required delicate re-enchantment to restore functionality, mostly by stripping the original owner’s protocols for obedience only to herself out of them.
It was actually fairly informative work, but the mystery of why it had happened remained a mystery until Nanette shyly drew Valeterisa aside.
“Archmage. I think I know what happened. Valmira must have been a ghost. And her spirit itself…vanished. Could that be the cause?”
Valeterisa blinked at Nanette, and her mind lit up with speculation.
“Maybe. Perhaps. If she were advanced enough to have a connection with ghosts, she might have had contingencies in case she were able to bind herself as a spirit. Even if she failed—she died in a duel, you know, not when she expected—the island might have been programmed to function with that ideal in mind.”
Which meant that with her passing, all the Golems and whatnot had finally been allowed to rest. Nanette looked quite sad when Valeterisa confirmed the theory, which motivated the Archmage to pat her on the head.
“This will take two days. It is not difficult work. You may watch if you wish, and Master Hedault and Master Grimalkin have offered to help me. Otherwise—Heiste is open. You may do as you wish. The Wellfars have given us the run of the island.”
The House of Wellfar wasn’t exactly pleased with Valeterisa’s guests, but until she restored a lot of the island, their own clients were being disappointed by the lack of paradise’s wonders. And Heiste did have wonders!
“This place is too beautiful to exist. Stick some lead up my ass and use me like an anchor—I’ve seen beautiful beaches, but the sand is spotless!”
Somehow, Wailant had befriended a number of the Wellfars—mostly by handing them beers from Imani’s supply as it turned out. And the [Lady of Surf] was a lot more convivial when buzzed.
“Ah, well, we have to have servants combing the beaches, but there’s spells that do it. There! Look! The Archmage’s got them back online!”
Some of the trace vomit and a beer can were floating up into the air as they watched. Trash and detritus—or approaching sea life—was picked up and tossed hundreds of feet from the island. Even the sand would be recombed, and examples of Valmira’s magical genius were everywhere.
“Now, remember. The island is protected, so you can’t harm yourself with fire, but you can cut yourself by accident. And the worst thing to do is to exit the flying zone—you’ll fall straight down until you get caught. Not lethal, but we’ve had a guest die of fright.”
“The—the flying zone? What’s that?”
Relc had been goggling at one of the unique Golems on the island. For answer, one of the Wellfars pointed, and Valeterisa herself glanced over and saw some of the regular guests around the waterfall.
There was a giant cloud that held another building on it raining water off the side. A literal cloud, but one you could apparently walk on. Valeterisa wanted to harvest a sample of the cloud for later—she had been promised compensation for this work.
A rather elderly man was spreading his arms like wings—and as everyone watched, he began to fly, abandoning his walking stick and shooting upwards faster than Valeterisa could.
“That’d old Lord Lichtef. He’s a regular. Look at him go!”
He was doing loops around the waterfall, flying through the clear spray, and the [Lady] outlined an area high above.
“See that cloud? That’s one of the buildings—and there’s those light steps over there. Everything in a rough rectangle is enchanted with a permanent [Flight] spell. The rules are to not run into anyone else; it’ll slow you before you hit anything, but it’s rude. Aside from that? Fly wherever you want.”
Magus Grimalkin just stared upwards as Imani, Nanette, and Relc raced for the waterfall. The Sinew Magus had much the same reaction as the other [Mages].
“That is magic beyond any modern imagination. This island is full of it. Can we inspect the spell?”
The [Lady of Surf] was amused.
“Of course. It’s all written in crystal, but I doubt you’ll learn much. We always get new Archmages in to stare at them.”
 
——
 
The problem with Heiste was that it was too perfect. Or rather, Archmage Valmira had made this place her home and put into it her best magic.
All her notes and equipment had long since been ransacked, so for even Valeterisa, modifying the most basic components of Valmira’s magic was the most she could do. Everything else was too complex—not that Valeterisa hadn’t been here before to copy everything she could.
“Ah. She’s layered the enchantment somehow. You would have to deconstruct it to see what has been done.”
Hedault came to the same conclusion Valeterisa had and sighed as he inspected the flight spell. Obviously, the Wellfars would rather kill you than let you try to deconstruct an enchantment, so he just took the best notes he could.
Meanwhile, Valeterisa admired the magic—as well as repaired it.
One of Heiste’s functions was of course a cornucopia artifact that spat out whatever you wanted to eat. Valmira had made this place her home; there were marvels as mundane as a massive garden that had contained every reagent she could want to grow, to [True Familiars], who could communicate and do almost anything a person could—to the Cuddle Golems.
“The what?”
Relc had finished flying, and he found Valeterisa and remembered one of the weird things she’d mentioned that needed fixing. For answer, Valeterisa pointed, and Relc recoiled from an eight-foot-tall…teddy bear.
It was bright red with silk fur and a big smile, and Relc backed away.
“That’s horrific.”
“It’s very cute. I just fixed it. Look.”
The Cuddle Golem was a unique Golem that would go to someone it deemed in emotional distress.
In this case, Magus Grimalkin. The Drake broke off inspecting a magical walkway and almost punched the thing. In response, the Cuddle Golem spread its arms.
“Hello. Are. You. In. Need. Of. Comfort?”
Since you only got to visit Heiste once, even Magus Grimalkin hesitated—and the sight of him being picked up and hugged by the Golem made Relc laugh so hard he fell over. Grimalkin’s face was red, and he muttered as he stomped away.
