“Dead gods, Archmage, you’re saving us a lot of work. Having to hammer all that up ourselves would be a pain. Our [Runecrafters] could do what you’re doing, but we weren’t sure what state Dwarfhalls Rest was. We hoped they’d left the floor intact, but the damn Goblins pried it all up and turned the ore into weapons!”
[Field Commander] Rlint nodded to her, no longer sweating; one of the things Valeterisa had done was punch in a few new vents and add spells to improve circulation in the forges. The Dwarf had been promoted after the Gargoyle skirmish, and he wore one of the signs of his new office on his chest: Mithril-plated armor.
If that was the quality the Dwarves were bringing to Izril, Valeterisa could see why they were dying to get their forges to maximum capacity. She nodded at the assembly line.
“You are already churning out a lot of steel, Commander.”
“Steel? That’s nothing to what the Magic Hammers will do. We’ll give even old Pelt a run for his money—though you should hear some of the old guard back home moaning about how we’re trading expertise for mass-production. Hah! We did it once, we’ll do it again.”
“What do you mean?”
Rlint explained, glancing around for the other [Forgemasters].
“It’s a bit of a sore spot, so don’t tell anyone I repeated this, but Master Pelt apparently spat on Forgemaster Amared’s offer for him to return and lead the smithies. He had a point; we’re doing a lot of bulk-smithing. Back in his day, under Taxus, it’d be each Dwarf to an item. No one trades off. Slower, and it means they all have to be good. But they had such levels they produced insane works of art. This? This might be less exquisite, but it relies on our knowledge, not our levels.”
[Artisans] versus [Craftsmen], perhaps. A [Smith] in an army versus one making custom swords. Valeterisa understood. She wasn’t as invested in the politics, but she liked knowing about high-level beings in any class.
They tended to lead to magic, and something caught her ear as Forgemaster Cadimus surprised the two.
“Don’t let Amared hear you, Rlint. He’s chomping at the bit to prove Master Pelt’s not the only one to smith Adamantium—for that, we need the Magic Hammers.”
He nodded to the gigantic arm of metal that Valeterisa was experimentally swinging up and down. The way it worked was you would pull one weight down manually, or with magic, and the hammer, which actually was on a moving arm, would swing down and hit a piece of metal with all the force of…Valeterisa couldn’t guess.
The entire Magic Arm was enormous and weighed thousands of pounds. The shock of impact and counterweight would send the arm up and prime it for another blow.
There were six that the Dwarves had either salvaged or brought from home. Cadimus pointed at them.
“That’s the only thing we have that can bend Adamantium, Archmage. Heating the damn stuff is hard enough—Master Pelt can hammer Adamantium with his damn hands, which tells you what he’s made of!”
He sounded in awe of the old [Smith], disgraced or not. Rlint nodded.
“Shame he’s not making any. A lot of smiths around Esthelm are apparently taking us on—but none of them will be doing more than mithril. Even Pelt can’t do Adamantium.”
“Why not?”
Valeterisa turned, and the Dwarves chuckled.
“I saw his smithy in one of those scrying orbs. Nice place. Got promise, and I’m sure Esthelm worked hard on it. You could see some magical gear—but even in Pallass, I bet he didn’t want to hurt the Drakes’ feelings by telling them he’d cave their city in if he tried. He’d crack Esthelm’s foundations if he swung hard enough!”
“Really?”
Valeterisa hadn’t known that. So Master Pelt couldn’t even smith Adamantium right? She replayed a memory of an account of him smithing Adamantium and realized that checked out. He’d apparently melted a portion of the road and created a huge crater to forge even an ingot.
Fascinating. Valeterisa kept working as Rlint polished his armor.
“Those, uh, Antinium doing well in Liscor? We’ve got to get more ties there, Forgemaster Cadimus.”
“Eh…we were about to, but you know what that [Innkeeper] did, Rlint. Leave it be for a bit. Dead gods, I was talking with home about Erribathe. Some of the Dwarves in the Kingdom of Myths are saying they’ll march for vengeance if she’s back.”
Valeterisa was sure this was all very worrying…for Erin Solstice. She just kept enchanting the Magic Hammer, sighing. At least the pay was good. The Dwarves knew better than to haggle with the Archmage of Izril over a fair price, and she gave them a small discount when she had an idea…
 
——
 
“Wh—are these mithril boots?”
“Mithril toes and parts of it.”
Valeterisa presented Relc with a gift upon her return that made his eyes pop. That made her smile; she was sooty, exhausted from her work, and Eldavin had messaged her while flying back with a reminder to get on the Archmage’s Isle problem and locate someone who was refusing to report into Wistram.
One of Beatrice’s faction, apparently, gone rogue. They were handling it for favors from Beatrice. And then Montressa came over, a bit shamefaced.
“Archmage, I’ve got plans for the walls and a list of wall spells. It lines up sort of well with your plans, but it’ll take at least two months if I devote time each day to it! And a bit of work. I, um, I know you have to be back at Wistram soon. But there’s no other person I can imagine we could get to help on this.”
Valeterisa didn’t write magical enchantments that much faster than Montressa. She groaned and went to her room for a lie down, kicking the door open. Relc hovered at the entryway. He blinked at the floating mana orbs, then waved at Valeterisa.
“Er—Valley, I’ve got to do something for you. Want to go to Liscor tomorrow? My treat.”
She turned and smiled at him, and that was the one thing that made her feel better.
“Of course, Relc.”
Then Valeterisa realized that would take time and she had to be on the way to Heiste—but she wanted to see Relc. It was just…she lay there as that treacherous thought came back.
This is a waste of your time. You have [Arcane Discovery]. You’ve levelled up. Now is the moment to dive into magic, or you will be dead before you reach true heights.
“Shush.”
Valeterisa rolled over in her bed and put her pillow over her head. But the magic swimming above her glittered, and she knew she hadn’t done anything with it—
Or her other project. Or her grand goals.
Valeterisa was almost asleep when someone thrust open the door.
“Are you the Archmage of Izril? I’m bored! Hey, what’s this stuff? I want some—”
A child named ‘Bored’ found out that Valeterisa could and would cast a [Gravity Anchor] spell and nail him to the hallway’s ceiling. Which, in fairness, satisfied his request.
 
——
 
Valeterisa’s life was a series of things getting in the way of what mattered: magic.
It had to be magic. She had given up everything else, and Relc was a handsome, thoughtful distraction. Being polite was a distraction.
The second monster attack on the inn was definitely a distraction. Also, Valeterisa’s fault again.
This time, it wasn’t a Manavore. Rather, it was…an Acid Fly.
A single Acid Fly, humble, male—all the small ones were male—awoken by the advent of spring, buzzed into the inn. Normally, it would have been quickly ejected or destroyed, save for a tired Archmage who had forgotten to do one thing: close the door to her room.
What happened when an Acid Fly ran into enough mana to be supercharged? Well…most beings that ran into raw mana didn’t try to ingest that much, or if they did, they were more complex and just got mana-sick.
Insects were easy to magically alter because they were simpler organisms. Hence, you got something like a bloated Acid Fly—minus the acid sack, thankfully—pulling itself downstairs and trying to kill a screaming Hethon just before dawn.
He’d been going to the bathroom. Valeterisa woke up groggily and found the Acid Fly beaten to death by Rosencrantz, who had been on night-duty. He was passing out limbs to the Antinium, who were all looking hungrily at the corpse.
Lyonette stared at Valeterisa, who was so tired that the Archmage snapped back.
“What? It stole my mana too, you know. It will take days to store that much up again!”
 
——
 
She was banned from storing mana in the inn. Valeterisa was so upset about this that she went to find Relc; it was still just brightening around Liscor, and she needed to talk to someone.
On the way, she wondered if she should draw their relationship to a close. It had occurred to her…that he was a delightful waste of time.
No, how did you break up with someone? In her experience, they just stopped talking to you or came and screamed at you that you had ignored them for weeks/months/years.
She was tired. She was the Archmage of Izril, and she was wasting her time on affections. Maybe it was not a waste of time to exist in the real world, but…she had things she needed to do, and affection was eating into that time.
And when she saw Relc, part of Valeterisa thought that she was right—because she felt like he was doing the same as her.
What did she see? Valeterisa saw Relc teaching the spear to a bunch of apprentices.
He’d told her about them. A young Gnoll [Trainee Guardsman] named Vok, a girl who was very talented named Hickery, both from Cellidel, and these days, Humans, Gnolls, and Drakes from Liscor. Even a trio of Antinium.
Relc, apparently, held this practice each morning where he showed them forms and how to spar with practice spears. Valeterisa, loath to bother him, sat in the air and watched, holding her head with her hands.
What she saw was a [Spearmaster]. The Gecko was stripped down to his waist, scales gleaming with sweat, as he pointed the spear while twisting his torso, whirling it to block an attack from the front—then showing his better students how to do it.
He made it look easy, and she was no [Warrior], but she could see the fluid motions that everyone thought they could copy were nonsensical and clumsy in everyone else.
For an hour, Relc practiced with groups of students, going through warmups, encouraging them, giving them tips, lightly sparring with the best students, and grinning.
The last fifteen minutes he took for himself as Valeterisa and everyone else watched. They lined up, sitting on benches, while several children kept thinking Valeterisa was sitting on a fence and falling flat when they tried to copy her.
Relc’s spear cut the air in dances, and he leapt incredibly high, vaulting from the butt of the pole. He stopped, and when he lifted his spear and cut the air, Valeterisa could almost see the promise Zeladona had left.
The moment when magic and blade met and became a style of your own. It seemed to her as if Relc’s spear was tracing a symbol of magic she could not read. The Drake was straining to capture what he could not yet envision, and she thought—
What a waste. What a waste of time it was for him to have to spend his time as a [Guardsman] and teacher to these novices. Even with her, though you could argue she at least could spar with him.
Relc paused in swinging his spear and turned back to his audience. He shaded his brow with his claws.
“Valeterisa? Huh. I thought I saw…”
—But she was gone by the time he looked around.
 
——
 
They met for breakfast, as Relc had promised, in thanks for the boots, and Valeterisa had an idea by then. She had to head out on another mission, but she wanted to do something for Relc.
She was resisting anything as drastic as…well, her having to go to Heiste was proof enough. Montressa followed Valeterisa to their meeting place, and the flustered Archmage snapped.
“Cancel the appointments, Montressa! I apologize, Relc.”
Montressa threw up her hands as Relc glanced at her.
“No problem. Did I see you at my morning practice? I, uh—is something wrong?”
Yes. Valeterisa smiled and lied.
“No. Montressa just has lesser priorities for me. I have to go to Heiste soon and perform some duties for my faction in Wistram. Everything else matters less.”
“Oh. What’s the less stuff, then?”
Valeterisa waved a hand.
“[Mages] wish to talk to me. They always do. I imagine it is like younger [Guards] or [Warriors] challenging you to duels.”
Relc laughed.
“Not as much of that anymore. I remember I got a few [Spearmaster] duels back in the day from guys thinking they could win the class off me. That’d be hilarious. Wait, were you at the practice?”
“Yes. There was an—a bug incident that set back one of my magical experiments.”
Nothing would do than she relay everything to Relc while they waited to be served. This took some time; unlike The Wandering Inn, this restaurant was busy. But the conversation dovetailed nicely with Valeterisa’s idea.
“Oh, great that you saw it. Hey, it’s also a relief to have a day off. I mean, I was on the night shift all the time when I realized that—we’d see less of each other, right? Time off matters more. I’ve started counting my days off.”
Relc blushed a bit when he said this, and Valeterisa smiled.
“I thought of that when I saw you practicing. I had a thought, Relc. You should have more time to practice as a [Spearmaster]. Your talents are wasted as a [Guard].”
“Sorry for the delay, folks. Have a breakfast scone on the house!”
There was a clip-clop of hooves, and someone deposited a basket of scones and jam at the table. Relc waved a claw.
“Thanks, Palt.”
“No problem, Relc!”
The Centaur winked, and Valeterisa realized vaguely this was that restaurant everyone liked. Barehoof Kitchens? She took a scone and began to add jam as Relc blinked at her.
“Go on. I think I’m not smart enough to be anything other than a guard, but I like free time.”
She shook her head.
“I should clarify. You’re the Watch’s best asset. A [Spearmaster] would be one of Pallass’ finest, or Fissival’s. You only have fifteen minutes to practice before work. If you had time to train, you’d be even better than you are.”
“…I guess. You’re right it’s hard to get in the full workout, especially with Klb gone.”
Valeterisa nodded a few times.
“That’s why I went to Watch Commander Venim. He is a Drake from Pallass. When I explained this, he was very receptive to the idea of a sabbatical. Pallass has the same system.”
“Wait, you what?”
Valeterisa lost Relc so fast he was still on ‘these scones taste good’. He stared at her with his mouth open.
“You could receive a stipend to train, Relc. It’s the best way to have time for yourself. Venim is willing to discuss time off. I suggested a month. It’s what I must do as well.”
