“This magic is convenient, Wailant. You saw the late Admiral Rosech fighting. Nothing and no one could bring him down.”
“Sure, sure. I guess that’s nice, but this is a free chair. Ah…”
Wailant put his feet up on what was supposed to be the dining table as Imani pulled out food and Nanette hurried to help her cook. The [Chef] gave Wailant a pointed look, and he put his feet down and went to check out a couch.
It was true that Valeterisa’s weakness was that she was a woman capable of casting incredible magic—but a Human woman, not another species. Which meant that her back and feet hurt from all this standing around all day; she was used to sitting.
By contrast, Relc had enough energy to chop down a tree with his spear for firewood—he was dragging the trunk over to the house. Imani opted for an informal meal of what she called ‘korma’. Which had Valeterisa licking her lips and let people sit and eat.
Valeterisa noticed Relc drawing off to stand outside next to a fire Wailant, Grimalkin, Bezale, and Palt had set up on the basis there should be a fire if they were camping. Hedault was busy inspecting the house with Nanette, having never seen this spell before, which left Viceria, Imani, Montressa, and Valeterisa to talk.
…The Archmage had no idea what to talk about. But she accepted another object from Imani and inspected it.
“…What is this?”
“Just something else from my ingredients Skill. Careful on the edges. You snap it open like this—it’s a beer. Palt’s already sharing them around, I see. I swear, of all the things I got from this batch—it was all stuff like this. Too many wrapped products. Just an entire box of chocolate chips…ah, nevermind.”
Valeterisa didn’t care for the drink, so she handed it to Montressa, and Viceria produced some wine, which Valeterisa did accept. The Archmage awkwardly watched Relc talking around the fire, conspiratorially, with his group.
Should she go out there? This was a time for women’s talk…Valeterisa hated it. Then she heard her name. Valeterisa cast a listening spell a bit guiltily.
 
——
 
“—So there I am and she gets me mithril boots. And how am I supposed to give her something that good? Thanks for helping with that, Palt.”
“What, like real mithril? Dead gods, keep her. Hey, this stuff tastes like someone else’s piss, but it’s not bad. I could have used a lot of these on the ship! Barrels go bad once you’re scraping the dregs.”
Wailant muttered as he sipped from his beer. Relc scratched at his head.
“It’s weird. She doesn’t really ask me to do things. We go on dates, but it’s, uh—it’s been a while since I, you know, did the relationship stuff. It’s like—okay, Menolit was giving me tips on how often to ask for sex.”
Valeterisa saw Bezale spit out some of her drink into the fire. Wailant started laughing. Grimalkin gave Relc a look of great reservation.
“This would be Menolit’s opinion?”
“No, he says he heard it from some of his buddies. Once a week! Is that right? Or do you think—?”
Valeterisa’s cheeks were turning red along with Relc’s, and Wailant kept laughing, losing his balance on the tree Relc had chopped down. Palt blew out his cheeks.
“I, uh—don’t think you have to time it like that, Relc. It’s more about the mood. Also, Menolit isn’t seeing anyone.”
“Yeah, but he’s a [Wingman].”
“Wingman. That means he helps other people. Now, the real question is whether or not you use magic in the bedroom.”
Everyone stared at Palt as he waggled his eyebrows, and Valeterisa wondered which spell would be able to melt a hole in the wall, hit the Centaur, and avoid collateral damage. Wailant sat there a second.
“Well, I can tell you, it’s a lot of fun, but I have to ask this, Palt, my man. You and Miss Imani. How does that, er…Viceria told me she’d kill me if she heard me asking, but—”
More laughter. Valeterisa heard Palt huffing.
“You know, Imani told me the other Earthers hassled her about it. It’s private—is what I’d say. It’s more like other people make such a big deal we didn’t want to talk about it. There’s this Gnoll who thinks Erin is a, and I quote, ‘sexual fiend’ who would come by every week and try to get me to talk about the depraved sex stuff I got up to with Imani. I had to call the Watch on him.”
“Oh, that guy. He’s weird. I’ve had to arrest him twice. He tried to pull a Saliss. The difference between him and Saliss is that he was enjoying it.”
Relc shook his head. Palt groaned.
“Listen, it’s very simple. It’s fine with me sharing it, I think…all you do is, uh, use a potion if you have two different species. A shrinking potion in my case. Because, heh, let’s just say I’m pretty close to my non-Human half.”
There was a moment of silence, then Wailant snorted.
“Yeah, that checks out. So, Relc. Tell us about—”
 
——
 
“That lot is incorrigible. At least, mine is. I don’t think Magus Grimalkin signed up for this conversation. No wonder Master Hedault is staying away. As for Bezale—she’s shockingly frank.”
Viceria interrupted Valeterisa’s eavesdropping and brought the Archmage back into the conversation. It turned out Valeterisa wasn’t the only person with a long ear. The Archmage blushed.
“Is that what company talks about? Socially?”
She was almost disappointed that it wasn’t something more…well, she understood why it was interesting. Viceria smiled politely.
“When I was young, I thought adults talked about important matters. Then I learned it was ribald jokes, silly nonsense, and gossip. Even among the nobility.”
“Oh, they’re terrible with that. Back home—my family was always gossiping about who was in bed with whom.”
Montressa filled a glass with wine, and Imani glared out the window at Palt. Then turned to Valeterisa with a big smile.
“Since I can only guess what Palt’s talking about with Relc—you do like him, don’t you, Archmage? I hope so. Relc deserves someone good for him.”
Valeterisa was put on the spot, and she hesitated.
“I—yes. He’s very brave. And a good person. He likes puzzles, and we often solve some together. And have intimate relations at least once a week. I was unsure of how to bring up the subject.”
The old Wineblaster was being performed regularly—only in this case it was more like Montressa choking on her wine. Valeterisa was about to drop the matter and flee, but Viceria engaged with the topic with little more than a smile.
“I hope you’re careful.”
“Oh, with magical protection? I have, even if…wait, do I need it anymore? And I have memorized the proper usage of all sex-magic spells. Not that I have used many.”
Valeterisa grew a bit gloomy at the thought of her age, but Viceria gave Valeterisa a worried look.
“I mean, about Relc. This may be too much, Archmage, but he is considerably stronger than you are if he’s over Level 30. I’ve heard tragic stories.”
Imani winced.
“I can imagine…wait, is there much of a difference? Palt’s over Level 30—”
“My dear, he is not a [Warrior]. Galas muscle is real. I imagine Valeterisa knows the difference.”
The Archmage had to own she did. She gestured at Relc’s arm.
“You can feel it. It’s like—I tried to pull his arm down and could not, and you can touch-identify Galas muscle. I read that in a book, and it was very apparent to me as well. Um—um—what do you do to mitigate the dangers?”
“Protection spells. They’re generally good about knowing their own strength, so you just make sure that if you tell them not to worry—also, if one of them has the stupid idea of using a Skill, tell them not to. It usually doesn’t work well.”
Valeterisa decided to take notes. This was all very important information, and she decided to try some of the—Montressa listened to Viceria with great interest, but every now and then, she would look at Valeterisa, stare—eventually, she had to excuse herself.
The talk was not all about the various mating rituals of this world. For one thing, Nanette and Hedault came downstairs, and the young witch girl would have loved to listen in and ask questions, but she dampened the conversation—and Hedault’s glower tamped down the embers outside.
Also—they had a guest. Two of them.
It was inconceivable anyone would stumble accidentally across them in the forest where Valeterisa had made her teleportation anchor. So the duo that appeared were here on purpose.
They’d been tracking Valeterisa, but only one kind of person could find her, even if people were abuzz about her passage.
“Archmage. I hate to disrupt you, but I’m here on behalf of three Guilds. Mage, Runner, and Adventurer. Courier Salamani and Ci at your service.”
The Mage Rider rode up to the fire, and Valeterisa tried to hide. Everyone was astounded, but Valeterisa knew why he was here.
Salamani, the Human with Lizardfolk ancestry evident in his slitted eyes, a Wistram-trained [Mage] who had become a Courier, bowed to her. He was accompanied by Ci, the brilliant white mare who had once been the Moonlight Rider’s companion until Tritel’s passing.
Both looked—well, worn wasn’t the right word. They were in tremendous shape and had crossed miles to catch Valeterisa. Marked by death was the right way of putting it, but Salamani shook Grimalkin’s hand and blinked at the company.
“I—I am on a job to Heiste. I thought I had settled my accounts. And Eldavin said he would help resolve the issue.”
“I understand, Archmage. I merely have a request for you—and you have been dodging [Message] spells. If I may turn over this list so you can confirm you have read it?”
Salamani was insistent, and Relc glanced at the Archmage as Montressa gulped. Valeterisa hesitated—then accepted a list of names and locations.
“Here, what’s this about, Salamani? Have a drink.”
Wailant actually knew the man, and the Mage Runner hesitated.
“If I’m welcome. I had to deliver to Archmage Valeterisa a list of…well, the dead is the only way to put it. The deceased who perished at her mansion. The families and friends would like to speak to her to hear her apologies. Or simply to speak, I imagine.”
“I gave them gold.”
Valeterisa mumbled. A lot of gold, actually. It was one of the things she hadn’t thought of, but the Mage Runner, who had nearly expired in her cells himself…his eyes were vaguely sympathetic up to a point.
“The Guilds have forwarded the gold to all those who would accept it, Archmage. Most of the others knew the risks of trying to contact you. The request—and it is a request—remains. No matter what the Archmage of Memory says.”
Relc was giving Valeterisa a troubled look; perhaps he vaguely recalled the people who had died in her cells, starved as she sat for eight years in her mental prison, but now he was hearing what she had done firsthand. Valeterisa stared at the list.
I cannot do this. Would they accept it if she stood there and used [Parallel Thoughts]?
“You do not have to do it, Archmage. I did—explain to some of them what the issue was. Few would understand how someone can be trapped by their own Skills. Not all will accept an apology, but my job is done. And with that, I think I should be going.”
He was about to head on his way, but Nanette begged him to stay.
“I didn’t meet you last time, or Ci, Mage Salamani. I’m from The Wandering Inn—we’re going to Heiste. Won’t you stay at least tonight?”
Ci pawed at the ground, and Salamani eyed Valeterisa, but she allowed that he wouldn’t make much of a difference, and Imani coaxed Ci over with a beer and some of the korma.
In the end, the Mage Runner ended up sitting with everyone around the fire outside. Salamani was shocked by so many [Mages] being present.
“Then again, I suppose it makes sense. Everyone wants to see Heiste, and even if we’re fewer and far between—it’s good for magic-users to know each other.”
“It’s not like we don’t have other friends. But sometimes you just have to talk magic. Right?”
Palt nodded amiably and got murmurs of agreement. Hedault was patently uncomfortable; he had refused a beer and wine and was sipping from a glass of water. However, Salamani proved to be another icebreaker. After he’d asked Imani about the odd beers and snacks she was showering him and Ci with, the Mage Runner sat forwards, face serious.
“—I know this is sudden, but can I ask what went down at the Winter Solstice? We were far up north. The next thing I hear, Erin Solstice is at sea. I’ve heard everything from her being kidnapped to joining the Goblin Lord to…Lady Bethal Walchaís is at war with House Reinhart. That’s obvious. I ran two deliveries for her because the Driver’s Guild is scared spitless of Magnolia’s wrath. But House Reinhart itself is more active, and that’s a mess.”
“Lots happening in the north? I missed it too. I thought about going, but—dead gods, Salamani. I saw the battlefield afterwards, and it looked like a real war. I saw the King of Destruction’s wars when I was a lad sailing down the coast. It was every bit as bad as that.”
Wailant’s face was grim and somber, and the others told Salamani what they had seen or witnessed. The Mage Runner looked at Imani’s face and Palt’s suddenly wrathful expression.
“Roshal. Of all the enemies to make…and that Bone Giant’s still there? No one’s destroyed it?”
Grimalkin shook his head.
“The size of Liscor, Salamani. Not a lesser Giant. A real one.”
“Dead gods. I thought the Circle of Thorns would be the worst I’d ever see this decade. Now this.”
Ci stomped on a beer can in agreement. The group around the fire was quiet a moment, then Nanette cleared her throat with a wobble in her voice.
“U-um, how is Lady Pryde, Magus Grimalkin? She’s healed, isn’t she?”
Every head turned to the Sinew Magus, and Grimalkin’s back grew even straighter, and his face went blank.
“I don’t believe I should speak out of turn about her—condition.”
“No, no! I just meant—you were there to visit her, right? Have you been keeping in contact?”
Grimalkin hesitated. Then he took a drink, and the words spilled out, awkwardly, but with great necessity, Valeterisa felt.
“I—have. I offered to help try and deal with the curse…but it is not a curse. Or rather, if the magic is still working, it—those Hag Queens—reversing it cannot be done by [Restoration]. I have been sending letters to Lady Pryde. To express my condolences, support…”
He laughed, rueful.
“I do not know what to say. I feel responsible, though, of course, she chose to be there. She has written me replies—I fear our acquaintanceship has only been to her detriment. What else is there to say?”
He paused a second and looked around.
“I apologize. The conversation this night seems to have been about relationships, but it is not my forte.”
