Nu suggested but the Mime turned back to the Core, grinning. Delta was about to start spending DP and Mana to slow the Mime down but Nu suddenly vanished as Deo appeared far across the level, staring at awe at the large jungle room as Vas was escorted down by a worried Mr Mushy.Delta felt stunned. Her powers became locked and her two guests were too far to properly see what was going on. The Mime was too close to her core.It was too late, there was nothing stopping the white teeth from reaching the core, from reaching Delta.It was over and Delta felt numb. Over? It had barely begun...“Nu... I’m sorry,” she whispered as the Mime reached the tunnel.There was silence and something thumped to the ground heavily beside her.Delta opened her eyes to see someone walking back from the near tunnel, a series of broken bushes and branches showing a path carved by the newcomer starting at the riverbank.“Woo wee. There's an ugly mother fucker if I ever did see one,” Ruli said, her face devoid of her usual jovial expression. She looked dripping wet and her duck hat looked burned, the brown feathers turned jet black.“Quack,” Waddles grumbled on top of Ruli’s head. Delta gaped as Ruli looked like she had swum through the secret passage. The Mime looked up at the ceiling, it’s mouth still open. It slowly raised itself to a sitting position as if still confused.“Duck, guess you were right,” Ruli tilted her head and some water leaked from the woman’s hair. Waddles shuffled but still didn’t jump down from Ruli’s head.“Ruli!” Delta yelled with such powerful happiness. Ruli nodded once.“Your duck went little nuts and showed me the secret way down. Nice touch. The pool felt weird, something touched my ass and I didn’t look back to check.” She sounded so casual.She smirked.“Your core is so close that I can almost... hear you. But ya know? Creepy Mime? Not funny,” Ruli said to the now standing Mime.It shrugged and made the cannon motion again. Waddles quacked, sounding so deep that it rumbled.Delta shivered and the Mime glowed black. It struck its heel and... paused, it struck its heel again.It looked at his fingers where the unseen match apparently refused to light. It scratched it’s head in puzzlement and looked up to see Ruli putting the exhausted bird down, Waddles’ chest heaving from the effort.“What’s wrong? Didn’t you know that Dark Drakes affect all luck? Things that can’t go wrong, will?” Ruli called, her walk steadily increasing in pace. The Mime made a climbing motion and scaled a ladder up. Ruli leapt and easily caught the thing as it tried to go over Ruli.They fell and fought for the upper hand. The ghoulish Mime bit into Ruli’s shoulder, making the woman snarl as she punched it hard enough that its head snapped back again.“Fucker,” Ruli said and flexed her wounded shoulder which expelled the dark fluids as it began to knit back together. She watched as the Mime also started to fix itself.“Well, isn’t this a pointless fight already?” Ruli said sarcastically and the Mime made a ‘one-moment’ gesture as its neck squished its spine back under its skin.“Ignoring physical damage, teeth like a rat mutant, fucking creepy... a ghoul,” Ruli spat and eyed the pulsing Core behind her then at her own hands.“Another floor and I’d be good for this but...” Ruli muttered. Delta watched with horror at the scene of the undying Mime. She rushed over and made sure Waddles was going to be okay.“Delta. I need your permission,” Ruli began, watching as the Mime seemed to pull something out its pocket and shook it, before throwing away is it appeared to be broken. The black aura around it became a little thinner.“What? What for?” Delta said and Ruli closed her eyes as if to listen.“I need your mana, pure dungeon mana. I need to drain some to give me the edge here,” She explained as the Mime flicked a match and seemed delighted at its apparent flame.“Yes! All of my yes, just do what you need!” Delta agreed and Ruli looked pained.“Delta... you’re too nice, you know that?” she said and jumped back and flew down Delta’s tunnel. The Mime looked confused and then danced on the spot as it saw what Ruli was doing.Delta peered down and saw Ruli put her mouth to Delta’s core and inhaled, orange mana beginning to flake off.It looked like Ruli was drinking orange stars and-Oh.Oh.OH.It Hurt! IT HURT!ITHURTITHURTITHURTDelta felt her awareness snap into numbers. The world around her became her, them, and numbers. 1’s and precious 0’s flowed into the numberless Ruli. There were no numbers in Ruli, just being and it was wrong and beautiful. She was a mix of charming blue, scarred and tough, and unbridled red rage that swam together in some dance that worked together to exist.Delta was inside Ruli’s ocean and the numberless existence burned before her numbers became Ruli’s ocean water.She forced her eyes on the Mime and saw old things.Shapes that were and were not right. The Mime had touches of burns on itself, Numbers that had left scars. A deep dry wasteland where tiny droplets of orange numbers breathed grey grass back into life and from that grass came a whisper.I... am not me...please...please...hear...me.It was quickly swallowed by the dry wasteland as the numbers... the mana was not enough to sustain the growth. Not enough mana.So hungry. It just was so hungry and Delta wept for it.Then the pain stopped.Mana: 1/80It was a relief to Delta once more.The Mime shuddered silently and walked backwards away from the tunnel where Delta’s core was.Smoke billowed out and blanketed the darkness where the dimming star of her core barely blinked.A shadow moved and a monster held the Mime by the throat. Delta felt utter fear rise up as Ruli’s form appeared.She easily broached 8 feet now. Her clothes were torn, unable to keep up with the growth entirely. The black skin drank any light that touched it, the curling horns of white bone jutted out like a crown. Her face was beautiful and mind-numbingly terrifying. The tail of wicked spines flowed and moved like a bored cat.Fire and shadows danced around Ruli now like eager children and Delta felt something alien about her where it had never been before.“Mana from the core. Drain it dry and it’s like five levels worth of mana hitting you at once, was that what you smelled?” Ruli asked with inquiring tone, calm like the Mime was just an oddity.“It's painful. If it cannot spare the mana. Like taking too much blood, it begins to cause damage. Delta, sweet, lovely, Delta, she had none and yet I took it because you made me,” Ruli chided playfully and there was a cracking noise as she began to crush the Mime’s neck.Devina had gone very still as if Ruli inspired some primordial fear in the frog. Waddles was tiredly moving to protect Delta’s core from any more harm but the bird was still exhausted.Deo and Vas were coming closer, Mr Mushy trying to pull them back in fear.“I hurt Delta. Do you hear me? I hurt my friend to hurt you in return. Does that make sense? Does that penetrate your silent fucking head?” Ruli snarled, black fire leaking on each breath and her hand began to burn the Mime from its touch alone. The creature let out a quiet screech.Delta tried to move. She flopped and tried to speak, her tongue like a dead fish, flopping with no life.This...this was not what she wanted.Delta had seen something, she had seen consciousness in the deep pits of the Mime’s being. Ruli’s tail whipped and cracked the air as she held the Mime higher.She was going to burn the Mime and kill him. Delta could see it... no, feel it.Her mana was in Ruli and Delta felt the heat and hatred, of the Mime, of herself, flow back into Delta. There was a small bond now, limited and fading, but just enough for this to alert Delta.She managed to stand.“Stop,” she said and no one paid her attention. Not Waddles, not Ruli, not Devina, not Nu who was gone... no one listened.Delta tugged on the painful words of numbers, fueled by desperation, fear, anger, and hope.“Stop!”Her voice sounded from the heavens, shook in the ground, vibrated out every plant, rock, flowing water, the very air.Ruli dropped the Mime as if burned herself. She spun and stared at Delta.“You...” she began and Delta strode forward and put both hands on Ruli’s large form.“Stop! Stop! Just stop! No more! This... there are other ways we can solve this. I refused to let fear and anger drive me to just kill! Ruli... thank you, thank you for being my friend,” Delta hiccuped and Ruli winced as if Delta had slapped her.“Delta, you... you have a body!” she tried to say, her wonderful and terrifying features mixed with lovely human confusion. Delta looked down to see an orange body of an avatar, already fading away. She turned to the Mime, on the ground, curled up and burned.“Violence. It will happen. But I will not tolerate murder, I just have to think,” Delta said without hesitation and continued to speak.“Why does a Mime want to eat a dungeon core?” she asked as if setting up a bad joke.There was no answer so Delta bent down and gave a weak smile.“Because everyone gets a little grumpy if they get hungry,” she spoke and willed her desire to the Mime.The Mime lowered the arm shielding its face and eyed the displayed box.

“My name is Delta... This visible state of mine won't last long, but I would like it very much if you’d become my friend. I can take care of your hunger. Just... please stop eating people! Please be a good Mime instead!” she begged, her orange avatar flaking off onto the Mime, soaking into his skin, and the Mime tilted his head... then the thing fell off.Delta went numb and all thought logic thought became a silent scream and the Mime looked to keel over in death but suddenly shook with silent laughter. It put its head back on its neck and tapped the accept button, still shaking with unheard laughter.It began to glow.“WHAT IS HAPPENING! I FELL INTO THE RIVER AND MISSED EVERYTHING!” a soaking wet Deo asked.Delta had no answer for him.She really, really, didn’t have an answer for him.
