“We greet the lord,” the beast said, infusing his voice with a bit of Willpower, likely to relay intent through it and make himself understandable. “How may we serve you?”

“At ease, Nomads,” the Archweaver said, raising a hand and waving them off. This casual action seemed to make all the B-grades shiver slightly, really hammering home that Archweavers were considered pretty scary amongst the Arachnecs.

“I have come to introduce the Miresnakes to this guest,” the Archweaver said, motioning towards Jake.

Only now did the goat-guy seem to notice Jake was even there, much unlike the five Miresnakes. All of them had been sneaking looks at Jake while trying not to catch the ire of the Arachnec.

The goat-guy looked at Jake for a few moments, definitely confused why the Archweaver had introduced him as a guest, but ultimately, he just nodded. “May I know what the honored guest wishes to talk about?”

“Nothing of any immediate concern. I was just curious when I heard about their ability to absorb energy and digest it to adapt to their environments,” Jake answered casually, making them all stare at him.

“Has the guest never met our kind before?” the one Jake assumed to be the leader of the Miresnakes asked.

“No, this is my first time seeing one,” Jake answered as he shook his head, remaining casual in his response, in part to make them relax despite the hovering Archweaver. However, that’s when Jake was reminded that he’d forgotten something rather important. Something that, outside of his Minor World, wasn’t something anyone would comment on, but that here was quite attention-grabbing.

“But... your ability to speak our tongue...” the Deathscale Miresnake muttered, getting the attention of the goat-guy.

“It spoke ours?”

“Mine too,” another beast said, confused, with several others nodding in agreement.

The Archweaver stared down at Jake with an incredulous look, as Jake had definitely just unintentionally shown off perhaps the most overpowered function of Myriad Tongues in the multiverse. The sheer scale of system-fuckery on display as Jake spoke, and everyone had his words live-translated into whatever their most familiar language was, wasn’t something any regular skill or ability could do.

“Just a small skill of mine,” Jake tried to downplay and remain casual, but he could already feel the Archweaver stare at him, even more curious about his existence than before. Jake still didn’t know whether that was a good or a bad thing.

It certainly didn’t get better when the Miresnake continued staring at Jake before asking in a confused tone:

“Even so, are you sure you’re not related to my kin? Because when I look at you, it makes me feel the same as the time I saw the Great Sea Serpent... no... it’s almost more oppressive...”
