Fenton was normally an aloof and determined lad, capable of keeping it together. But when the boy’s mother came into the picture he naturally became anxious and fretful. A good son, concerned about his mother more than himself.

Of course, Fanny Penny would naturally ask the same of him but in reverse, so there would be no resolution to that circular argument.

“You can make body enchantments, a ring capable of causing a spatial fold explosion, and a device capable of listening in on a communications amulet. I think, Fenton, soon you can protect your mother yourself,” Orodan remarked. “Now then, we have preparations to make. The dead zone isn’t a pleasant place and Clyburn will need to be prepared.”

“T-the dead zone? On the front lines? But I’m not a soldier…”

Ironic coming from the lad who had been fighting on the front lines the very first time Orodan had visited Lonvoron.

“Who asked you to come with? The device, however, will be going into the dead zone for a test run, as are Clyburn’s competitors and their respective projects,” Orodan explained. “Been a while since I’ve fought the plague. And while I can’t go too crazy, I’m sure it will be a good fight.”

“You’re going too…?”

“Of course. Who else will protect Clyburn from sabotage?”

“Oh I know that look… his mother won’t be pleased.”

#

“Absolutely not. Over my dead body!”

“But mum! I can’t let Misters Orodan and Clyburn go alone!”

“Fenton! Do you know how dangerous the…”

Orodan gave the mother and son their privacy, opting to step out the guest house. Some battles Fenton would have to fight for himself.

The concept of having to acquire his mother’s approval was a foreign one to Orodan, who’d grown up an orphan. If he wanted something, he went out and got it or returned empty-handed having received a beating in the process. And once he came of age by Inuanan standards, who else could tell him what to do?

Whether he lived or died, starved or thrived was within Orodan’s own hands upon turning fourteen years of age. From then until he was seventeen, when the time loops began, life had been a constant struggle for survival and self-betterment, the price paid in sweat, blood and hard work.

Outside, were Talricto and Luetta.

“Why… you’re possessed of such a noble mien and regal character esteemed ser spider. I can’t believe you’ve brought me this many gifts…” Luetta said with a most pretentious giggle. “How is a lady supposed to feel when she’s courted so directly? I must admit, our pairing would be more than a little unorthodox, but the threads of fate are bringing us together.”

“Indeed, destiny has meant for you to find yourself working under me. While I might seem quite distant from you, legendary figure that I am, I’m not above rewarding my most humble and loyal followers. You’ve aided my hard-working student, and now I bestow gifts unto you for your loyal service.”

“L-loyal service…? No that’s not what I-”

“Orodan! There you are! As your master I’m quite appreciative of all your aide has done for you, to that end I’ve brought her quite a lot of things sourced from all across Lonvoron,” Talricto imperiously declared, taking a long drag of some cylindrical roll-up of plant matter, imperceptibly trembling as the smoke clogged his pores a bit.

Orodan didn’t think Talricto could swallow his ego enough to show romantic affection for even his own kind let alone a human. Nor did he think the spider regarded Luetta as anything more than a useful servant.

“Hmm… physical conditioning through inhaling toxic smoke? The halflings of my world have their pipes, is that something similar?” Orodan asked. “In any case, we’re getting off-topic, I’ll be seeing you two upon our return. Let me know if anything goes amiss Talricto.”

“Amiss? With me around? I think not. Go engage in whatever petty games you’re required to, and I shall be waiting upon your return,” Talricto said.

“You can just say you’re afraid of the Eldritch…” Orodan muttered.

“A-afraid?! Why that foul substance has no sway over me! None! I simply wish not to sully my hands with it is all…”

“The plague is no trivial matter Mister Wainwright… from what I hear in the old tales, entire worlds fell to it before the powers above went to war in order to stem its tide,” Luetta added, looking quite serious. “I’m no soldier and have no particularly strong loyalty towards King and country. To me, heading into that dead zone is the intent of a madman.”

“Planning to achieve Transcendence while defying the System could also be seen as the plan of a madwoman,” Orodan countered. “I’ve dealt with both the plague and the System before; your venture’s the worst of the two.”

“I suppose it’s a good thing I have an experienced assistant at my side, isn’t it?” Luetta asked, proffering a hand.

Orodan shook it.

“I’ll remain in touch. Try not to trigger the trial without me, the entire thing becomes a bit pointless in that case.”

The stomping of feet coming out the door interrupted their conversation, and an angry Fanny Penny whipped an accusatory finger towards him.

“You!”

“Yes?”

“You’ve been putting ideas into my son’s head!” Fanny angrily declared.

Orodan owed Fanny a lot. Weaving had gained eight levels over the last three months thanks to his tutelage under her. He was certainly no talent at the art, but improving the skill could only better his ability to weave magic into his fighting style. He had hunted food daily for them, cooked for her and her son and then dined with them.

Needless to say, he liked the two of them.

But that didn’t mean he was about to get overly involved in this spat by taking any side too strongly. By Alastaian standards, Fenton was on the cusp of becoming a grown man. The boy would have to make his own choices.

“I understand that you’re angry, but all I’ve done is train Fenton to better himself. You and I both know this,” Orodan replied.

Her face was red with frustration, but she took a breath to steady herself before continuing.

“He’s but a thirteen-year-old boy, he has no business being on the front lines of a war Mister Wainwright! Help him see some sense!” Fanny pleaded.

Fenton came up from behind and looked determined to defy his mother.

“There’s lads a year or two older than me helpin’ out!” Fenton said. “If the plague ain’t stopped, we’ll all suffer!”

“Foolish boy! Why should it be your duty to stop it?” Fanny hissed in turn.

“Because… because…! It wasn’t Mister Orodan’s duty to come ‘ere and put a stop to our wrongs either, but he did! Where would we be if he said it wasn’t his duty?”

And of course, this led to the woman levelling an angry glare towards him now.

“Mister Wainwright I-”

“Enough,” Orodan said, a hand gently outraised. It was said calmly, but the woman became silent anyhow. “I will not mince words with you for that’s not my way. I have no intention of encouraging or discouraging Fenton from accompanying us, for the choice is his own.”

“He’s but a boy!”

“And so was I when I was forced to take a life amidst the desperate struggle for scraps. Crime, violence and poverty were all I knew growing up,” Orodan solemnly stated. “Destiny’s cruel hand comes for us no matter what age we are. Fenton’s decision is one he’ll have to make for himself. After all… before I came, how long did you have left? Do you mean to say your death wouldn’t have pushed him down an unpleasant path?”

The question clearly shook Fanny.

“And if he dies in the dead zone, what then? I’ll be both a widow and a grieving mother, Mister Wainwright,” Fanny retorted. “You’re not wrong… I felt the end drawing near before you graced our lives. But now, even with my good health and two arms and legs I can move around… I feel nothing but terror at the thought of losing it all again. I’d sooner be stricken by the Withering once more than see my little boy perish far from home, cold and alone. Do you know what that feeling is like? For a mother to lose her child?”

“I do not… but I unfortunately do know the feeling of losing both my mother and father. I was perhaps a few months old when both of them were slain in front of me, leaving me the only survivor of a doomed caravan, relegated to a life of orphanhood,” Orodan said. “The pain of loss, I’ve experienced it one time too many myself. Yet, that fear cannot prevent us from moving forward.”

“Then, knowing such harsh misery yourself, should you not want Fenton to remain safe?” Fanny asked, her tone softening.

“I do. I wish everyone would remain safe and well, but whether he remains here or not, Lonvoron is doomed to inevitably fall to the Eldritch without intervention,” Orodan said. “Still, Clyburn and I can manage just fine by ourselves. But… I will not lie and say Fenton’s aid wouldn’t be greatly beneficial. He’s a young man, and has the right to make his own choice on this matter.”

The Blackworth Collective was mounting an excellent defense, but they were losing ground regularly, with some of the other worlds under the crown’s authority looking far bleaker. Eventually, whether it took centuries or millennia, the Eldritch would overwhelm even the prime world they were upon.

And Orodan, much as he could purge it, would not only become the immediate target of the Prophet, but he also had to consider what he originally came to Lonvoron for, which was finding the previous time looper and inquiring about the notion of true soul genesis.

“Mum… I can look after meself. Haven’t I been lookin’ after you all this time before Mister Orodan came along?” Fenton asked. “You say I’m a boy, but I had to step into da’s shoes rather early on, didn’t I?”

“Oh Fen… you should never have had to do any of that…”

Her voice broke and she started crying, which was Orodan’s cue to once again step away and give mother and son some space.

“All these emotional outbursts have exhausted me,” Talricto said. “Orodan, try not to die. We have more sparring to do upon your return.”

The spider winked out of existence, utterly imperceptible. Orodan’s regular testing of Talricto’s skillset had benefits for more than just himself.

“Well then Mister Wainwright, I shall be away to find someplace secluded and begin preparations for attempting the trial,” Luetta said. “I still have a scant more to progress before I can ascend, and I shall reach out once ready.”

Orodan nodded as she walked away as well. Finally, a familiar boy came up behind him.

“She’s talkin’ like I’m marching off to me death ser!”

“You are headed for the front lines, assuming your decision still holds. You cannot blame a mother for opposing her son heading off to war.”

“I suppose you’re not wrong Mister Orodan… still, now I can prove I’ve got it in me to be like you!”

Orodan frowned and gave the lad a light cuff upside the head.

“There are far better people to emulate than me. Trying to follow in my footsteps will only get you killed in a brash manner,” Orodan chided. “Come then, the ships are waiting for us.”

#

“Gods I detest sea travel… I feel my lunch on its way out…”

Orodan put a hand on the man’s shoulder, silently using Domain of Perfect Cleaning to correct his inner ear’s balance-detecting function.

“Oh… that feels a lot better, thank you Mister Wainwright,” Clyburn said. “You could become obscenely rich as a healer, you know? Then again, I’m sure an otherworlder like you has better things to be doing than going around healing people.”

“He healed me mum he did. Mister Orodan’s not above helpin’ the little folk when he comes across their problems, he was one of us too!” Fenton declared.

“Sickness is but an impurity which can be cleansed. My Celestial skill revolves around the aspect of cleaning. Naturally, this lends well to dealing with such things,” Orodan explained. “However, there are doubtlessly better healers than I. Particularly those across the cosmos whose Celestial abilities specialize in it.”

Orodan was under no delusions that he could out heal a Transcendent with a Celestial-rarity skill of healing for example. Cleaning was cleaning, and while it had Basic Healing under its purview, he wouldn’t be besting someone with comparable talent who specialized in the art itself.

“Celestial-rarity? I’ve never heard of such a thing except in fairy tales…” Clyburn muttered.

“Better than me who’d never heard of such a thing in his life when acquiring it,” Orodan said.

Alastaia was a small world with a relatively undeveloped civilization. Lonvoron at least had fairy tales about the Celestial-rarity, his home world had nothing.

“I wonder if I can ever get a skill like that,” Fenton said. “A few centuries maybe?”

“Sooner than a decade even. Your talent at Enchanting is comparable to my talent in Cleaning,” Orodan said. “If I recall… I ended up acquiring a Celestial-rarity skill in under ten years.”

In under ten years of time looping anyhow. And it’d taken him a lot of hard work, doing things the overwhelming majority of folk would find insane, and a flash of inspiration near the end when he’d lost everything during the climax of the battle of Novar’s Peak.

Fenton had a determined look on his face which Orodan wasn’t sure he liked all that much.

“You’re worried for him,” Zaessythra said.

“I suspect your words are true. I’m not normally so concerned about someone getting killed. But I’ve come to grow fond of him… and he’s going to make a lot of enemies if this test goes well.”

