The main problem with body enchanting, Orodan and Fenton had discovered, was the interference the body’s natural flow of mana and the enchantment itself.

What’s worse was that upon Alastaia, mages and those quite in-tune with their mana simply couldn’t get body enchantments. Their mana pools were too large, their mana circuits attuned to a particular element or flowing too quickly. Any mistake in the application of a body enchantment and fatal results could occur. It was why Orodan had only ever seen body enchantments on a few martial specialist members of the Cathedral and civilians, such as the registrar for Bluefire Academy.

They didn’t use mana, thus body enchantments carried far less risk for them. Even Master Gormir Eltros in Bluefire Academy, the best in the Republic at the art, only took warriors and non-mages as clients from what Orodan had heard.

Needless to say, any inscription upon the body had to be exceptionally well-crafted, which meant Fenton’s work was doubly so. Orodan had taught the lad quite a number of spells over the prior three months, so he knew that Fenton was far too attuned to magic to be using body enchantments the way people on Alastaia did.

“How long have you been working on that one? Is this what you’re up to when your mother tells you to get some sleep?” Orodan asked.

“Er… you won’t tell her, right?” Fenton asked and Orodan nodded. “Been workin’ on it for over a month now!”

“Hmm… not bad at all. Your mother’s likely to give your hide a good tanning if she learns about it, and it’s risky stuff which could have blown your hands off too.”

“But then you’d just put me back together ser.”

“An unsafe mentality to adopt. This life is your only one… but I can respect your guts Fenton. Can’t get anywhere without taking some risks,” Orodan said. “But use your hidden time in bed to practice something a little less volatile. From now on, you’ll work on body enchanting in my presence lest any accidents occur. Plus, it will also help me learn the art.”

Orodan had to admit he was a poor caretaker for the youth. If he’d had his way, Fenton would be training at all hours of the day, even in his sleep. Fanny Penny of course vehemently insisted her son get some time to himself for rest. And yet this stubborn lad had gone and used even that spare time to work on body enchanting as a project?

Quite respectable!

“I can get with that ser. Now shall we continue looking at the body enchantment?”

They looked over the fish and a few other animals Fenton had added living enchantments to, but while Orodan understood the concept well enough… he just didn’t want to acquire a mere Living Enchantment skill. Several times he felt the sealed central knowledge rune of his own System flare, indicating that he had learned enough to acquire a skill fairly, but Orodan wanted it not. It wasn’t that Orodan didn’t want body enchantments, but that he needed them to be powered by a different source entirely.

Mana-based enchanting wasn’t what he needed.

“Say, Fenton… you’re a genius right? Do you think you could make this work with soul energy instead?”

“A genius? I have a hard time wrappin’ me head around things just as much as anyone else, Mister Orodan,” Fenton said, causing Orodan to lament the lack of self-awareness that his empty-headed savant of a student had. “But soul energy? That’s the glowing stuff that surrounds you whenever you’re doin’ some impressive magic, right?”

“Aye. You think an enchantment fuelled by that only could work?”

“Hmm… it’s a strange sort o’ energy, that’s for sure. I’m used to mana, but soul energy? Not a clue ser,” Fenton admitted. “For starters, I’m using mana to inscribe my enchantments, but whoever’s weaving a soul energy enchantment would have to use that or else the flow won’t be quite as good. A mana-powered enchantment needs to have the pathways and inscriptions be woven with mana, or else the incompatibility will cause problems. I bet that’s the case for soul energy too.”

That made sense. Fenton had identified the first problem, which was that a typical mana-based enchanter who wrote the inscriptions with liquid mana and imprinted them simply wouldn’t be as successful. Mana flowed well through enchantments written with mana. Vitality and life force flowed well through the nefarious enchantments he’d seen Alastaian cultists use, which were written in blood.

Then, how could an enchantment powered by soul energy work?

He recalled his memory of a certain artifact he’d seen upon Eldiron.

“Yes, a soul is what powers this wand,” Orodan said. “The nature of the enchantment is quite sickening, in all honesty, but that explains why the devil-script language works at all despite the lack of a living thing.”

After all, from what he knew, the enchanting language of the hells was dark and required life to function. Frankly, the only thing stopping Orodan from just ripping the wand apart to free this thing was that he could sense it was slumbering and not being actively tortured.

He had met with one of the elven Gods, Athandelu, back then. If soul energy-based enchantments required life to function… then Orodan could fill that role easily enough. And as for a material? He knew one which could fill the gap.

Something he’d used to reforge his own System.

Orodan’s hands were brought together near his chest as the familiar white glow of his soul enveloped the ship.

Material made of his very soul, borne of his very physical and metaphysical essence. Existing in both the material plane and outside of it. The System within his soul, all the glyphs and runes, were composed of it.

But what else could this do? Especially in the hands of a never-before-seen talent?

“If it’s soul energy you need to make such an enchantment… how about this Fenton?” Orodan asked, handing him a bundle of the glowing essence which was still malleable.

“This… is quite the stuff. Is this what a soul feels like, Mister Orodan? Almost like what’s in my hands is limitless…” Fenton muttered. “Where’d you get this from?”

“My soul,” Orodan answered. “This is soul weave, it’s what the System within me is made of.”

“Soul weave? Damn… what a bright thing it is, can barely look at it without turnin’ blind as a bat,” Fenton muttered, yet focused. “If this stuff’s what made the System… then isn’t the System just one big enchantment ser?”

That…

…was a very good point actually.

Hmm, perhaps the lad could have a look at what Orodan had done with his. Who knew what improvements could be made.

#

They’d trained and discussed for a while, with lots of intriguing theories and concepts exchanged between the two of them.

Yet, grand things never came about in the span of a day. Even Fenton admitted that he would need more time before being able to consider the idea of a successful soul-powered body enchantment. Furthermore, Orodan didn’t want to overload his student’s plate when he had something coming up which would decide the future of Lonvoron.

Orodan already planned on using Fenton as a sounding board and mentor as he learned soul-powered body enchantments himself. As he’d been the teacher, so too would he be the student. After all, a good teacher was always in the process of learning new things themselves.

And he also needed to teach Fenton about the soul, train the lad’s proficiency in it and give him a good foundation in the art. Being phenomenal at Enchanting counted for only half the task when entirely unfamiliar with the medium of it.

“Souls are both physical and in another dimension then? A little odd…” Fenton muttered.

“In a sense it is, but this dual-existence is what allows the power of the System to flow through people, granting them skill levels, knowledge and gains. Soul energy and souls themselves certainly exist in the material plane too, but it’s a fine balance, with life being the anchor maintaining this state,” Orodan explained. “When death occurs… the soul loses its anchor in the physical world and crosses the dimensional boundary, pulled towards the nearest soul nexus.”

“So we can’t make any soul-energy powered enchantments without learnin’ about Dimensionalism, can we?”

[Teaching 72 → Teaching 73]

Another excellent point. Of course dimensionalism needed to be involved in any potential soul energy-based enchantment.

Fenton was a good student. In training him over the past three months, Orodan had become a Teaching Elite. Which ironically made him a better insructor than most of the ones he’d encountered on Alastaia. Even on Bluefire, instructors were chosen for their personal skill in a subject and didn’t often make the best teachers themselves.

Of course, personal proficiency was necessary to an extent, but the ability to impart lessons and training was also a skill that mattered.

“You’re not wrong Fenton. But enough of that, we can pick this discussion up at a later time. For now, we have work to do,” Orodan said as they entered the west tower. “Today’s the deadline for the project is it not?”

“Aye ser, we’re sure to win Mister Clyburn the competition aren’t we?” Fenton asked, slipping his mother’s quiled coat back on now that the spar was over. “The crown’s inspector will lose their mind they will!”

Having seen what one of the rival projects at Castle Ironpeak looked like, Orodan wasn’t too concerned. Not when Fenton had altered the core enchantments from the ground up, turning the pillar into his own passion project. Alongside Orodan’s help with the Blacksmithing and labor, he doubted Clyburn’s submission for the competition would face any hurdle at all.

Still, best not to get a big head.

“Our hard work will determine our success… and given how much effort you’ve put into this, I can’t see it going wrong,” Orodan said. “Stay focused and your results will speak for themselves.”

In terms of quality, he doubted anyone on Lonvoron had Fenton’s knack for enchanting beat. And if any last-minute schemes were attempted? Orodan would deal with the offenders himself.

The first floor of the west tower was dramatically different to how it used to look. There was no clutter, no stressed faces and no angry barking whatsoever. Clyburn’s engineers moved around with spirit and a sense of purpose as they ran a battery of tests. That being said, the tower was a lot more crowded though, with dramatically less space for foot traffic.

Why? Because instead of a singular pillar, there were two.

Orodan was industrious and tireless. In tandem with Fenton Penny’s skill at Enchanting and Engineering, he’d just finished the first pillar, but built a second one from the ground up. Not only were both pillars forged to a level unattainable upon Lonvoron, but they were also immaculately inscribed with glowing lines of enchantment by the hand of the finest enchanter Orodan had ever seen.

Singular wispy threads of inscription, all coming together to form a complete enchantment. Inscribing such a complex and mind-boggling work on even a dagger would have seen Fenton kidnapped and developed into an asset nations would go to war over on Alastaia. Doing it for an entire two pillars? Even with Orodan’s stringent training and recovery, the lad needed frequent breaks. That was what had taken them most of the three month deadline.

If Lord Morvale knew what was inside the west tower, the arrogant noble would almost certainly resort to direct force and criminal methods of taking the project down. Though if the crown knew what this was capable of before that… tampering with this would be akin to a death sentence.

Nonetheless, before them, within the tower were two looming pillars of the finest hand-smithed steel. Orodan had worked tirelessly to personally forge and pour his care into each and every inch of them. The Blackworth Collective’s industrial metallurgy didn’t compare to his Blacksmithing, even if it was but at the Adept-level. And these two devices were sturdy and more than capable of tolerating a very high amount of stress.

Which allowed Fenton to take additional liberties with the enchantments he placed upon them.

“I can’t believe we’ve come this far… when I first drafted up the blueprints and submitted my bid for a slot upon this research project, I never thought it would get anywhere…” Clyburn Anderthorn muttered, gazing at the two pillars. The man was far less stressed. Lately, he didn’t even bark at anyone, instead calmly asking them to help or do something. “And then you and Fenton took that even further. With your metallurgy and Fenton’s Enchanting, I altered the blueprints in a way any other guild master would laugh at. By all reason this pillar should fall apart from the stresses it’s expected to bear.”

“And yet, it shall not. You’ve seen for yourself the strength of this metal, we’ve run some preliminary tests already, have we not?” Orodan asked. “Let the crown’s assessor come. With how powerful this device is… I do not think they’ll have the courage to interfere with it lest their heads go rolling.”

The main difference between Clyburn’s original pillar and the newly made version, was the sheer resilience of something whose metalcraft was at minimum, Adept-level. Orodan had then gone and frozen the particles solid before using Domain of Perfect Cleaning to nudge them into perfect alignment before setting them in place. Of course, Fenton had to enchant as Orodan forged, lest the tough metal be entirely unmalleable once ready.

