“Some of the soldiers ‘round the fort tell me that the best of the best on the front lines use somethin’ like it. Call it a flashbang they do, sends the plagueforms reelin’. I modified it to add a bit of shrapnel and alkahest is all.”

“A good trick to have. You might be able to best any Apprentice-level monsters thanks to your equipment. But are you good enough to leverage it against stronger enemies. Let’s try me fighting at the Adept-level now.”

“Bloody hell… this is goin’ to hurt, isn’t it?” Fenton asked, a face of grim acceptance.

“Only if you let it happen,” Orodan answered with a smile.

For fairness’ he gave the lad a healthy amount of space and let him reload all his weaponry. Only then did Orodan begin a mad dash for him.

The first few times they’d sparred, Fenton had been quite psychologically unnerved at the sight of a towering muscle-bound warrior doing a mad sprint for him. The lad had been sent flying into walls and lost enough spars before learning to remain calm.

Now though, a particularly powerful shot tore through the air, making for his head.

It was easily avoided. The bullet was quick enough, but the wielder of the gun was not.

“Your trigger motions are too obvious and readable. Either conceal them or train your hands to be faster,” Orodan said, smashing Fenton into the wall of the ship’s cabin with a shield bash. Dust and debris erupted in a barely visible mist as the wooden wall cracked but held.

Such a blow would have killed him before Orodan’s arrival. The boy had made gains.

Fenton spat blood and had the wind knocked out of him, but recovered well, scrambling to the side while dropping two of the so-called flashbang grenades. Fenton had been put through his paces during Orodan’s training sessions. Beatings, spars and physical conditioning galore. And while the lad might not have been a frontline fighter, being in shape and honing Physical Fitness helped everyone.

Still, Orodan had seen grenades enough times over the last three months to know how they worked. He viciously kicked the ground, sending both of them, alongside a shower of wooden splinters, towards the escaping Fenton.

His student’s eyes widened, barely activating an amulet around his neck. The defensive mana barrier emerged in time for Fenton’s own thrown flashbangs to erupt across it. The shrapnel pinged off the barrier with a thrum, but the alkahest clung and chewed right through it.

“The delay before those things erupt can be used against you, and most fighters won’t be stupid enough to ignore suspiciously dropped objects,” Orodan lectured. “But I’ll admit, it’s a nice touch having that alkahest chew through barriers. Good way to deal with pesky mages.”

He charged in once more, taking advantage of Fenton’s distraction of having to deal with his own grenades. The boy rolled away, only for Orodan to intercept, kicking mid-roll and sending him skipping along the ground like a pebble.

“Don’t roll so often. It’s good in certain situations but takes you off your feet and is easily intercepted. Better to stay primed for movement and evade normally,” Orodan instructed, rushing in and delivering three swift cuts which caused sprays of blood to go flying about. “Are you just going to run away while I carve you up? Your blood’s going to run out at some point.”

Harsh training, but effective and necessary. Too many of these soldiers of Lonvoron would succumb to panic if wounded in melee, used to only pulling a trigger as they were. On Alastaia, getting used to the sharp agony of a wound and being inured to at least some of the violence of melee combat was mandatory for even the county militia. The boy’s mother had nearly fainted when Orodan had done it for the first time but had calmed upon him healing her son.

Fenton himself had certainly been shell-shocked and paralyzed with fear the first time around. But now, a grunt of adrenaline-masked pain came forth, but the young man didn’t panic and instead returned fire at close range with his revolver, forcing Orodan to take a step back.

“Not bad, you’ve learned to embrace the violence,” Orodan said lunging in once more, sword poised to stab the boy. “Is that all Fenton? Surely you aren’t going to roll over and die if an Adept-level plague-ridden monster shows up, right?”

Fenton had a mad smile on his face.

Orodan frowned as the boy offered little resistance to the stab, only shifting so it wasn’t too horrid a wound. A classic feint, but he respected the lad’s decisiveness and so let him have it.

And as the sword impaled Fenton, Orodan could sense a ring upon his finger activating.

The mana drain was immediate and apparent, taking nearly three-fourths of the boy’s reserves in a singular swoop. He’d trained the lad over the last three months and had gotten his mana pool to a respectable size for even an Adept. For it to deplete so quickly…?

Orodan found out why in the form of space folding in front of him, compressing inwards. With his sword buried in Fenton’s shoulder, he didn’t have room to dodge either. And wasn’t this…

…his move?

The compressed space exploded outwards, the enchantment on Fenton’s ring ensuring it was towards Orodan and not him. And even though Orodan didn’t defend or resist at all, the force of it was enough that even his powerful body was pushed back an inch through inertia.

He actually had to whip a hand out, using spatiomancy to prevent the stray force of the spatial explosion from destroying the entire boat.

Fenton looked exhausted, pale from significant blood loss, but the lad had a pleased grin on his face.

A casual reversal of time reverted the damage, and Orodan had a pleased smile on his face as he sheathed his weapons and gave a light bow.

“I believe that’s my defeat,” Orodan said, quite amused. “Who taught you that?”

“You did Mister Orodan. Heard you talkin’ about that otherworldly adventure of yours where you squeezed space like dough and made it explode, and I got the idea in me head. Enchanted this ring after that.”

Impressive. To be capable of making an enchantment so efficient that it could create a spatial fold capable of destroying an entire building. That enchantment could kill an Adept and at least severely wound even a tough Elite. Looking at it, Orodan could barely fathom the enchantment.

Having access to physical training which improved his ability to stay awake and require less sleep, and harsh mental and magical training which expanded his mana pool, alongside tutelage on enchanting fundamentals… Fenton had already surpassed Orodan in enchanting. This was talent, something the lad was made for.

“You cheeky brat! Listened to my story and decided you would give it a try, eh?” Orodan said, fondness in his tone. He reached out and gave the boy’s hair a good ruffle. “Good work! Quite decisive of you to accept a deadly blow for the opportunity to strike a finishing attack upon me.”

“Of course one battle-obsessed maniac would praise another… have you ever considered that you’re not the best influence on him?”

“I don’t think he takes after me that much.” Orodan countered.

“Orodan… the boy goes around trying to find deranged methods of training just like you do.”

“Is that such a bad thing?”

“It isn’t… but I hope he doesn’t take after your worst aspects too. You have a time loop, Fenton doesn’t.”

That much he could agree with. His hands were stained with far too much blood, and he was often quick to anger and mete out judgement in his way while stubbornly refusing to consider other viewpoints. Most concerning was his disregard for his own life, which made sense given he was the one in a time loop and held confidence in his ability to triumph.

Fenton would be better served modelling him a little less in certain respects.

“Mister Orodan? Somethin’ on your mind ser?”

“Nothing… just try to avoid lethal gambits like that if you can, alright? No do-overs for you if you’re killed.”

“Of course I don’t want to leave my mum behind, but if it’s all I can do… I might not have a choice in the matter ser.”

A realistic outlook. More and more Orodan felt the lad was similar to him in mentality and upbringing.

“You’re far too young to be saying such things… but again, I suppose I was too, and the cold hand of destiny cares not how old we are when it bestows misfortune upon us,” Orodan said. “Now then… before we set sail you said you wanted to show me something.”

“Right, have a look at this ser.”

Fenton brought out a fish from a sack and put it upon an examination table.

“A little small and subpar for use in a stew… maybe if I ground the bones down for broth and-”

No, no! I’m not talkin’ about cooking ser, much as I’m a glutton for your food. Look at the inscriptions.”

The inscriptions? Orodan looked, and then he saw what the lad was referring to.

Enchanting pathways, perfectly crafted, flowed through this dead fish’s flesh.

“I don’t understand this…” Orodan muttered. “No, wait… body enchanting?”

“Truth be told. I didn’t understand it either ser, came up with it from scratch after you told me about the concept. Real volatile and full of risk it is,” Fenton protested in return. “But it’s not as difficult as you think.”

Coming from the single greatest enchanting talent he’d ever seen, Orodan felt the lad’s statement lacked a bit of self-awareness.

“I mention body enchanting one time, and you have it in your head that it’s something you need to teach me… might you remind me why you’re so insistent upon this?”

“You’re askin’ too many questions Mister Orodan! Just focus on the fish I have here,” Fenton said, prodding at it with gloved hands. “You’ve done me a good turn, now it’s my chance to repay the favor is all.”

Orodan smiled.

“I didn’t do what I did so you could repay me…”

“Well I want to, so that’s that ser,” Fenton declared. “As you can see, the inscription goes through the body, almost functionin’ like veins. Got to make sure it follows an even path through the flesh though, don’t want your arm explodin’ from a blockage and mana overload.”

It was an experience most surreal. To be learning from the student he’d been teaching since not three months ago. Of course, Fenton’s talent in the art had allowed him to quickly grasp levels and advance at a breakneck pace. Most importantly, even if the lad was still only an Elite-level enchanter, the insights and comprehensions he had of the art were on another level entirely.

Long ago, in his early loops Orodan had considered the idea of body enchanting upon Alastaia. He was supposed to have learned from Master Gormir Eltros at Bluefire Academy. Of course, at the time he still hadn’t met the pre-requisites for it and that particular loop had been full of misery and misfortune in general.

Yet here and now it was Fenton Penny, the prodigy of Enchanting, who was attempting to teach him about body enchanting. And he hadn’t even learned it from Orodan, mainly because Orodan himself didn’t know what the skill exactly entailed. The boy had learned from the ground up, coming upon the skill and reinventing it from scratch over the past three months.

What was Body Enchanting?

He genuinely didn’t know because he had no academic foundation to base any comparison off of. Instead, he’d worked with Fenton during the boy’s process of perfecting the art of regular enchanting and had stringently advised the lad on sticking to the difficult but rewarding ways of doing things. Fenton himself had also embraced Orodan’s ethos, and as a result there were no shortcuts, only a dogged insistence on perfectionism.

Looking at the fish before him, Orodan had to admit the mindset had paid off. He hadn’t seen such intricate inscriptions upon anyone’s flesh, even on Alastaia where he’d seen body enchantments before.

“I understand the basic concept of it, creating a mana pathway of your own through the body. But it looks user-powered rather than self-powered. The mana of the wielder can be a bit volatile and not always compatible with the enchantment, how does it not fade or wear out?” Orodan asked.

“Simple enough ser, through an enchantment of permanence,” Fenton explained, drawing Orodan’s attention towards a particular part. Of course said enchantment could be used that way, how obvious… for a genius. “You can have permanent body enchantments if you want, but… I get a feelin’ you’re not the type to be satisfied with just that.”

His student, or rather, his Enchanting teacher, had predicted correctly. What was the point of a permanent body enchantment? What if he wanted to improve upon it further? More importantly though, during intense battles Orodan often suffered severe damage. The loss of limbs, the destruction of most of his body; sure he reformed after, but any enchantments painstakingly applied would be lost within the first bad exchange.

Better not to rely upon power he couldn’t keep in all situations. At the very least he’d have to learn how to reform such an enchantment on the fly.

“Right. I’m definitely not about to rely on a fancy enchantment which will be rendered defunct the moment my arm’s cut off,” Orodan added.

“I figured you wouldn’t. Which is why… a living enchantment might work better,” Fenton said, taking his gloves off.

Orodan’s eyes homed in on the inscriptions. This quality was…!

“Profound… it’s like a living organism of enchantment within you,” Orodan said.

“Aye Mister Orodan. This one’s a storage space in fact, dimensional like your ring,” Fenton explained. “It’s adaptable too, grows with me and doesn’t interfere with me mana circuits.”

