Contrary to Orodan’s expectations, the three months went by smoothly; a far cry from how his long loops typically went. There were no reprisals, no inquisitors coming by to investigate him and no military fleets suddenly showing up to destroy him.

There had certainly been some wide sweeping reactions to all had occurred though.

The fort of Port Bellgrave for starters, had noticed foreman Elwin Clemmings’ disappearance once Orodan lifted Incipience of Infinity from the constabulary. It had happened around the time he left for Castle Ironpeak too, since the range on the skill wasn’t all that high. Of course, the fort commander had also discovered the abuses the foreman was heaping onto his indentured servants. There was simply no proof of who had done it, and desperate enough to have her hands washed of the matter and leave the former fort commander’s influence behind, she had pronounced the investigation inconclusive. The mines though, were brought under the fort’s direct purview, with working conditions and employment at them being voluntary even for indentured servants as Collective law had always stated.

Castle Ironpeak however - though Orodan didn’t see any of it with his own eyes and got the news from Luetta - was in an uproar. Orodan’s sabotage of a great deal of high-value enchantments had set Lord Morvale and the Ironpeak enchanter’s guild back severely. Wealthy clientele were the man’s greatest source of income, and the sabotage had stripped that for a month and left his reputation in question for a while longer. Needless to say, the castle’s security had been beefed up to the high heavens and traffic was monitored far more closely since. If Lord Morvale ever suspected the timing of the sabotage being too close to his encounter with Clyburn, the man was far too busy to do anything about it.

Legal threats and further sabotage? The arrogant noble had no time to interfere with Clyburn’s work as he was occupied putting out the fires in his own.

The greatest waves however, had come from the discovery of an Eldritch tainted inquisitor attempting to sabotage a project critical to the war effort. Luetta reported that all of Lonvoron was naturally in an uproar that the Eldritch were capable of having tainted operatives outside of the dead zone. The inquisition’s credibility was brought under heavy scrutiny, and the High Inquisitor had ordered an immediate recall of all members of the organization to Storven, with those not showing considered enemy operatives subject to being hunted and killed on sight.

As expected, this meant increased security everywhere, Port Bellgrave included. More fleets patrolled the waters, and the fort was also ordered to begin producing batches of lantern-like devices which were supposedly meant to detect the Eldritch. Inquisitors apparently used the devices, but the fright from the recent loss of trust had caused demand to soar and there were talks of equipping city guards and soldiers across the planet with the things.

And in the background, Luetta had also said that the Collective’s voidcraft were scrambling to find just what had entered their local star system in the aftermath of Orodan’s titanic clash against Ur-Vah’sahn. Apparently, the Collective had encountered one of the Living Crystal’s pieces, had a skirmish against it, only for the other to suddenly appear, fuse with the first, and wipe out the responding fleet. It escaped shortly after, but Orodan had no doubt it still lingered near enough.

Perhaps he would get the chance to fight it once more and finish the job he’d started?

In any case, the Living Crystal caused enough distraction that he hadn’t run afoul of any investigations himself. The previous looper doubtlessly had their hands full dealing with the Eldritch, the Prophet and the Living Crystal. Orodan, whose name hadn’t come up anywhere, likely wasn’t a priority.

But all of these were thoughts for the future.

For now, the only thing which mattered was the ore in front of him.

[Mining 26 → Mining 27]

His pickaxe hit the iron-laden wall, crushing rock, stone and ore. Whatever was dropped, Orodan simply waved his hand, and it was pulled into his dimensional storage ring, a convenient modification made by Fenton.

His next strike wasn’t with pickaxe, but fist. His hand crushing dirt, metal and rock, causing it to fall down for gathering. His strength was carefully moderated of course, no more than that of a decently strong Initiate lest he collapse the mines.

The tapestry of fate shifted around him, practically pouncing towards him like an ambush predator.

Orodan was ready for it though.

[Fate Mastery 36 → Fate Mastery 37]

[Fate Disconnect 84 → Fate Disconnect 85]

Their local section of the tapestry shook as Orodan forcibly took control of multiple threads, scrambling them and essentially disrupting the board. This made Luetta’s attempt at getting past the Fate Disconnect far weaker.

And upon hitting the soul energy shield, the tendrils she was probing with were practically disintegrated.

“Hrk!” he heard from behind as he continued mining. “I’m running through tissues at an alarming rate with how many headaches and nosebleeds you’ve caused.”

Fate Reading was a mental task which required concentration and the investment of focus into the tapestry. Skilled fate readers seeking to parse as much information as they possibly could would even dip their senses and awareness into it. Naturally, for a Grandmaster like Luetta, alongside her Bloodline skill which allowed her to mold the tapestry itself, her mind was closely tied to any attempts at fate reading.

Of course, when one’s mind and consciousness were deeply rooted in the tapestry, consequences could arise from having fate reading attempts thrown off.

As a result, Luetta had been suffering headaches and nosebleeds aplenty over the last three months as Orodan destroyed her tendrils of perception in the tapestry over and over. She had gotten better at tolerating the backlash by now, but she’d refused Orodan’s recommendation to engage in physical training to withstand them as well.

Perhaps she’d been offended when Orodan insinuated a stiff breeze would bowl her over? Or maybe she’d seen what Orodan regularly put Fenton through and decided she wanted none of it. In any case, despite Orodan’s insistence that physical conditioning would ameliorate the mental backlash, the woman had no interest in rectifying the lack of decent muscle on her bones.

“And yet, I don’t see you stopping. I suppose all the levels you’ve gained in your Bloodline skill aren’t a bad exchange.”

“An exchange which will inevitably lead to trouble once I crest and surpass the Grandmaster-level. I’ve never met someone as capable as yourself who can defeat my attempts at fate reading in so direct a way; this training is causing me to accelerate far too fast. I don’t have any arrangements made for what comes after,” Luetta said. “And who knows whether I shall take the path of divinity or transcendence? The prospect of a trial is nerve-wracking I’ll admit. Shall I prove insufficient and be forced to abandon my home, family and friends? Or will I rise to the challenge and then have the crown hunt me down and bind me to servitude?”

Much like his home world and what had befallen Zaessythra, achieving Transcendence would draw attention. The Hegemony came for the former world ruler of Vylrystia, and here on Lonvoron the Blackworth Collective would come for Luetta Treadway. Powerful factions didn’t like unaffiliated Transcendents running around in their territory.

“Something tells me you’ll pass the trial just fine. And if you’re concerned about moving too fast, just stop training with me,” Orodan advised. “The trial of transcendence in fact causes quite some ripples across the tapestry of fate. As a Grandmaster fate reader, you know this better than I.”

“Correct. But I shall be far too preoccupied with the trial to cover for my ascension…”

Cover for her ascension? Orodan turned around to frown at her.

“If you want something, just say it. Batting your eyelashes while hiding behind that gaudy fan of yours doesn’t impress me.”

“Hmph! And your brutish and unrefined manners are equally unimpressive to my civilized sensibilities. Do they have no gentlemen on Alastaia? Men of chivalry who would rush to help a delicate woman such as I?” she asked. “Are they all rough-looking barbarians lik-”

Her eyes widened as a pebble came her way.

The cells of Orodan’s body each took on different intentions, his mind splitting and contradicting itself. Like a madman, he held multiple opposing thoughts at the same time. One group wanted to target the nose, another the foot. Like a contestant at a fair game, picking from a random assortment, he ran with a stray thought, no rhyme or reason to it.

The pebble reached its mark, causing a most un-ladylike squawk of pain from her. Right in the kneecap, one of Orodan’s favorite targets.

The pebble hadn’t been unfairly fast either. Luetta had simply predicted wrongly as her fan went to her shoulder instead.

“You won’t be reaching Transcendence anytime soon with that sort of fate reading.”

Her face was red with fury, and a glare came his way.

It was a new trick he’d learned, particularly meant to confuse fate readers. Yes, the tapestry of fate reacted to his every thought, shifting with his changing intentions. But… what if he was too mad and random with his intentions for it to be parsed? Each cell in Orodan’s body was a mind of its own. What fate reader could keep up with millions of minds having separate thoughts and the final result picked entirely at random?

Whenever he did that, the threads of fate connected to him would blink most chaotically causing a dazzling lightshow which was borderline impossible for even him to understand.

“How is anyone meant to read the tapestry when you scramble it in such a manner? It’s as though a million different changes are taking place at once!”

“Get better then,” Orodan said with a smile, returning to the wall he was mining. “And perhaps put in more work and less complaints.”

“When are you heading back to your world again? I believe you’ve overstayed your welcome,” she icily complained. “Such an unchivalrous cur… assaulting a gentle and defenseless lady such as I…”

Given how well armed Luetta was, Orodan would have to question the defenseless bit.

“If you want chivalry, go serenade Talricto. I’m sure that spider would like his pride stoked while he mumbles something pretentious,” Orodan said. “Now then, let’s cut to the chase. You want me to mask the results of your trial of transcendence on the tapestry.”

“Correct, I’m willing to-”

“No need for any compensation, I’ll do it.”

“T-that’s it? You will?”

“Of course. It’s good training, and I think I have a decent method of going about it too.”

“I see… I’ll leave it in your capable hands then. If anyone’s capable of affecting large portions of the tapestry with raw power, it would be you,” she said. “And… if I fail…”

“Which you won’t. But in the unlikely scenario in which it occurs, I’ll simply reverse time,” Orodan reassured. He’d seen beings with far less talent in their respective skills succeed in attaining Transcendence. Luetta would be fine. “In any case, hold off on going past the Grandmaster-level until I make some preparations.”

Preparations which involved finding a secluded location far out of the way. Left unsaid was the fact that he was the only one with enough raw power on hand to cause the System’s time stop to fail, something which always notified an Administrator whenever it occurred. But Orodan had something in mind for that too.

In any case, the matter was settled, but for a later time. Certainly not now, and not until they’d wrapped up the business with Clyburn’s project for Luetta still had a bit to go before she could rise past the Grandmaster bottleneck.

Currently, mining was all he cared for. It seemed a dull and pointless thing, with even Luetta initially being unwilling to accompany him to the mines simply so he could multitask. It had taken Talricto bribing her with more trinkets to agree, and even then, she didn’t look like she was enjoying sitting there being pelted by the occasional rock while Orodan loudly smashed rock and metal.

But at the end of the day, sometimes the most profound of gains came from the humblest of things.

His mining continued well into the night with nary a level gained.

Yet somehow Orodan left feeling more confident in his martial abilities all the same.

#

After his final jaunt at the mines, he’d headed straight for here. Someplace no other mortal on Lonvoron could safely enter without protective gear or magic.

The south tower of the fort.

And in the basement, noxious fumes covered the entire laboratory.

In front of him was a vat of liquid, its nature most deadly. It was just past regular shift hours, and only Orodan and the lead alchemist of the south tower - Emory Weller as he’d learned - remained within.

“If you’re sure about this Mister Wainwright…” the lead alchemist muttered, most nervous. “I’ve ceased being surprised by your antics, but this is a new and exceptionally daring venture, even by your standards.”

“It’s just a bath; do you not take those?” Orodan asked.

“Of course I do! But what madman would think to take a bath in alkahest?!” Emory yelled. “And not just regular alkahest, but the sort which can destroy the surrounding thousand miles if it leaks.”

“A man on a journey to improve his Acid Resistance. Now then, you’ve ensured the room is sealed and airtight?”

“I wouldn’t be standing here behind four layers of protection and enchantments if I hadn’t.”

