The Eldritch were maddened beasts who sought to furiously close the distance. Even with Fenton’s style of fighting, simply having guns, trinkets and enchanted devices wouldn’t be enough. The boy needed to remain light on his feet and be capable of rapidly repositioning, skirmishing and keeping out of the death zone of melee combat.

Naturally, all this movement to avoid melee still involved much usage of the body, which meant the ability to last over the course of a protracted fight was important. The boy had grown stronger, his mind tougher. At the very least Orodan would feel comfortable pronouncing the boy’s endurance and physical conditioning on par with that of an Elite-level soldier. Physical Fitness, a skill which Fenton had trained to above level 20 over the past three months, was important for more than just melee fighters like Orodan.

To Fenton’s credit, a run of that length wasn’t too strenuous a task any longer.

As it came to an end, the ship docked at a small but fortified staging point for the Collective’s military. It was the docking point for all naval resupply from the islands, the sea point nearest to the dead zone. Outside the infected zone’s perimeter, but still amply defended due to its strategic importance. With the ship docked, steam carriers and vehicles began hauling the pillars out of the ship and onto land.

“Gentle, gentle! If there’s even a mark on these things I’ll be quite displeased!” Clyburn barked.

“But Mister Clyburn… I don’t think even an artillery volley can dent these pillars ser,” Fenton reminded.

“Right you are my boy, but it’s the principle of the matter,” the lead engineer explained. “If our work is treated like dirt, then it shall make those looking upon it have a subtle but negative opinion in the backs of their minds. We’re just as worthy of being here as the rest of the projects fielded by the larger guilds are. I won’t stand for any derogatory treatment no matter who Lord Morvale and his ilk have hired to try and bring us low.”

Good words, but rhetoric alone would not save the day, strength would. And for that, Fenton and Orodan had tagged along. Upon learning that their ship was meant to have a military escort which never arrived on time, he had little doubt that someone had it out for Clyburn Anderthorn.

They were upon the mainland, the largest and central landmass of the otherwise water-laden world of Lonvoron. And roughly a few thousand miles north of the capital, Storven, was the dead zone, which their convoy was now marching towards after having departed from the military’s naval resupply point.

As their convoy moved, Orodan kept his eyes and ears open. And just as he’d suspected, Vision of Purity caught someone stalking the convoy, following from a distance.

A group of laborers too… a little odd when they weren’t accompanied by any military escort this close to the front lines.

For now, he acted as though he hadn’t noticed them. Especially when the greater red flag was that the convoy’s rear guard was acting as though nothing was amiss. Soldiering, even across worlds, wasn’t too dissimilar. Unknown group following their patrol or escort? In Orodan’s county militia days they would’ve been stopped, questioned and then told to move in front of them.

The odds of some of the soldiers being in on this nefarious scheme were high.

Soon enough, his suspicions were proven correct as the group of ‘laborers’ - which Vision of Purity told him were a little too armed to be considered such - got uncomfortably close to the convoy without the rear-guard saying anything.

Orodan nudged Fenton, having warned him already. The boy was prepared.

The convoy proceeded at an orderly pace, up until something blocked the road.

“Tree blockin’ the road? Point guard go and-”

“We’ve got it!” the rear-guard sergeant called out, looking exceptionally nervous.

The men and women of that company marched forward, leaving the rear guard quite obviously unwatched.

“Hey, we’ve got it up front, don’t abandon post, what’re you doing?” the convoy commander asked, and then his eyes narrowed. “Soldiers, back to your post. That’s an order.”

Unfortunately, it was too late. As the rear guard moved up front and out of position, the group that had been following them got within firing range.

And a volley of spherical objects came their way.

“G-grenade! Take-”

A device clicked into place, and suddenly a pulse of mana went out.

The hail of explosive ordnance stopped mid-flight. And then, with another shift of the cogs, a second pulse went out…

…which had the hail reversing directing.

Screams tore through the air as the group of assassins following them were eviscerated, having almost no time to evade. Only one of the now former group had survived, heavily wounded though. Orodan would follow him soon.

The problem however, was the rear guard of the convoy suddenly turning their rifles towards Clyburn and Fenton. Traitorous soldiers, either holding true loyalty for someone else, or paid to kill.

Orodan was about to deal with the volley when Fenton yet again showed his competence by throwing a spherical object down by his feet. A spherical barrier emerged in front of them, and as the crack of gunfire went off, the enemy volley of bullets hit a gelatinous and goopy material which stopped them in place.

“Did you combine a mana barrier with a substance?” Orodan asked. “Far tougher than a barrier composed of only one or the other. You didn’t use this when we sparred.”

“Can’t reveal all me tricks before a battle ser.”

Smart lad.

The group of treacherous soldiers were caught between a rock and a hard place. The regulars at the front were looking at them aghast, on the verge of opening fire, and their target was still unharmed. With a yell, they pointed bayonets towards Clyburn’s group and charged.

Orodan nudged Fenton forward.

“Can’t hide behind a barrier forever, let’s test your close combat skills in a real fight.”

The first approached, and his head disappeared as Fenton simply withdrew his revolver and shot him dead.

“I’m quite alright ser, stayin’ at a distance is to my advantage.”

“Except you won’t always get that choice,” Orodan replied, throwing two enemies towards Fenton.

A long dagger pierced the eye of one, with Fenton then withdrawing to blow out the other’s knee and then following up with a head shot.

“Two on one and you can still handle it? Let’s try three!”

Orodan ignored the bullets of the assassins harmlessly pinging off his skin as he grabbed three and shoved them towards Fenton like drunks being thrown out a tavern.

The first was shot mid-arrival. The second received a dagger to the neck, gurgling as he went down. But the third actually grabbed Fenton’s knife with one hand and his revolver with the other, beginning a rough tussle for the weapons.

“Remember, be violent in everything you do,” Orodan reminded. “We’ve brawled enough times that I think you can take him.”

The woman was an Adept, a tier higher than Fenton… but not a martial specialist. More suited to firing a gun than engaging in a brawl. Orodan felt his student had good odds in this fight.

Fenton and the assassin grappled for a second more, when the boy finally got some sense and decided to start fighting dirty. He stamped down hard, eliciting a yelp of pain as the woman’s foot received a heavy strike. Fenton then let go of the knife, opting to hit a follow-up punch to the throat had the assassin gagging.

The vicious assault had the assassin choking and taking a step backwards… which freed the lad up for a revolver shot which put the assailant out of her misery.

[Teaching 73 → Teaching 74]

“Not bad. Better than me who died after a three-on-one even after winning. Then again, I didn’t have fancy tools or ranged weapons,” Orodan remarked, recalling the death of his which had started the time loops.”

“Damn it Mister Orodan, can you stop throwin’ these mongrels toward me? I’m just fine shootin’ them, thanks,” Fenton said, activating a ring on his finger which conjured a defensive barrier even as he continued returning fire.

Fenton was a vicious fighter with plenty of dirty tricks, but the lad wasn’t a great shooter. Consequently, in a straight firefight some of his shots missed and many were evaded as the disciplined gunmen fighting him laid low, sought cover and alternated between distracting shots to keep his focus elsewhere while their fellows repositioned.

Still, Fenton fought back, and the advantage of a mana barrier which could soak shots while he returned fire with impunity was a strong one. Three more assassins fell to his bullets before the main force of the convoy caught up and finished off the rest.

Clyburn wasn’t a combatant and had thus taken cover behind the large cargo vehicle bearing the pillars.

The convoy commander stomping up to them however, was angry. Face red with fury.

“First I discover you received no escort when you should have, and now a group of my own soldiers have turned traitor? This warrants an explanation.”

“We’re one of the groups bringing pillars of purification to the front line,” Clyburn said. “That’s all we are.”

“Sir Clyburn, you’re the lead engineer and this boy’s your assistant I presume… but who are you?” the commander asked, looking at Orodan.

“He’s also an engineer, someone to help with materials integrity,” Clyburn said.

Orodan though, knew what he really was.

“I suppose I help with that, yes, but really… you could also say I’m the cook.”

Which was technically true.

#

“Damn… never knew rations could be made to taste so good…”

“I can barely move… ate too much I did…”

“Oy Mister cook… will you marry me?”

[Cooking 45 → Cooking 46]

He ignored the one woman who was looking at him a little too intently. The soldiers were more than sated, and he’d gained a level in Cooking for his trouble. Their rations weren’t bad, but they could certainly do with proper seasoning. And catching and cooking a decently sized hog for addition to the meal helped.

Over the past three months many of his skills had made gains across the board. But Cooking in particular had jumped ten levels thanks to the regular meals he made for Fenton.

Orodan took a scoop of the stew he’d made by throwing all the soldiers’ rations into one big, communal pot. He supped it…

[Gourmand 24 → Gourmand 25]

…not bad at all. The meaty taste of the stew paired well with the accompanying side rations the soldiers had. The industrial nature of these packaged rations meant that they were quite dehydrated for the sake of long-term shelf life or storage during a campaign. The ‘beef’ stew they had was more of a dry paste meant to be hydrated, and Orodan had taken one look at the sad stuff considered meat within it and ground it right down. He’d then re-hydrated everything, sourced some spices from a few smart members of the convoy and caught a fat pig to use as the actual meat.

The wild hog he’d caught was an Adept-level monster. The existence of the dead zone meant that civilian hunting around the wilds had stopped almost entirely, leading to the proliferation of good game.

Gourmand was certainly a strange skill. Even now Orodan felt his body and just about everything he consisted of getting slightly stronger and better. Hells, even his mind and soul experienced slight improvements as he savored the fine meal. Over the past three months it was akin to an overall improvement of a twentieth, through just Gourmand alone.

It didn’t seem like much, but the effects were multiplicative. If his soul energy flowed even a twentieth better, and his mind thought five percent faster, then it made all his attacks, spells and crafts stronger. The experience of such a fine sensation added a strange sort of breadth to his soul, enriching everything Orodan did.

“Bloody hell Sir Clyburn… you’ve really outdone yourself hiring this man on,” the convoy commander said, patting his gut. “Where’d you even find him?”

“In fact, he’s Lady Luetta Treadway’s assistant, lent to me for his unique talents,” Clyburn elaborated.

“Remind me to pick up some Fate Reading if it means I can find a cook like this…”

In the immediate aftermath of the ambush, the convoy commander had rightfully been paranoid, wanting to know why they’d been attacked and trying to ferret any further spies out. Of course, good food had a way of assuaging someone’s distrust, and soon enough the man realized that Orodan wasn’t some undercover mole.

They were on the viewing deck of a heavy carrier as the convoy trundled onwards at a steady pace. No further attacks had come, and the border of the dead zone lay ahead. Before them, as Orodan remembered, a shimmering blue barrier. Six spatiomancers stood on-duty, closely monitoring the region and any attempts for teleportation in or out. There were numerous soldiers and artillery batteries on-duty as well, with a small fortification set up, akin to a checkpoint.

“Approaching the hot zone commander!”

“Alright, halt here for resupply and re-armament. I’ve got to make a report to the ranking officer as well,” the commander said as they all stepped off the steam carrier. “Some dangerous business going on surrounding your project, and the colonels and generals need to be informed. Hot zone’s no easy place to pass into either, and we’ll need more troops, heavy weaponry and personnel for a successful sortie towards the main camp.”

The convoy leader left them alone as he made for the checkpoint.

Fenton however was looking past the translucent barrier, enraptured by the horrid sight beyond.

