The enemies on Lonvoron Orodan wasn’t concerned about. It was the powers behind the plague that were the problem.

The main problem was just how absurdly talented Fenton was at Enchanting. The lad’s talent was comparable to Orodan’s own proclivity for Cleaning. That in combination with the suspicious circumstances around his upbringing had Orodan very concerned about the sorts of beings that might take an unfriendly interest in the boy.

It was no lie to say that if the Prophet became aware of Fenton, the boy would die. And unfortunately, Orodan was still too weak to do anything about it. Anyone else on Lonvoron short of the previous time looper? He felt confident he could beat. An Administrator? Not yet, he had much training and advancement to go before he was on that level.

The seas were calm. Nothing on the waters save a singular boat in the distance.

Which was why Orodan’s eyes narrowed as Vision of Purity sensed the familiar plague coming towards the ship. Eldritch.

Half a minute later, the waves became just a tad bit more turbulent, signifying that something of significant size was approaching.

“Somethin’ big coming for us ser!” Fenton declared. “We should head up to the deck and assist the crew!”

Orodan, Fenton and Clyburn went out to the deck where sailors were in a frenzy and the ship’s captain looked exceptionally worried as he barked out orders.

“All hands man the cannons! I want the guns loaded and ready to fire the second that thing breaks the surface!”

“Captain, what’s going on?” Clyburn asked.

“Sir Clyburn… something really, really big’s coming our way. Never seen anything like it before,” the captain said. “Are either you or any of your guests capable of fighting? We could use all hands on deck for this one.”

“But… we’re on a shipping lane! How can something so big get through!” Clyburn protested.

“I don’t know, and we’ve sent an emergency communication out to the navy, but they’re still a ways out and we’ll have to make do without backup,” the man said. “Now I’ll ask again, can any of you pick up a gun?”

Clyburn looked to Orodan, but Orodan himself looked at Fenton.

“It’s a Transcendent,” Orodan stated.

“T-transcendent?! That’s… too big a gap for me to cross, some of my experimental stuff isn’t ready yet,” Fenton replied.

“That’s fine. Because I’m not expecting you to fight it, directly anyhow,” Orodan replied. “It’s infected by the plague.”

“That’s even worse!” the captain barked. “The infection grants creatures a monstrous increase in ability! We’re bloody done for!”

Fenton and Clyburn simply shared a look however.

“Shall we get to cranking the device, young Fenton?”

“Right away Mister Clyburn.”

“Hey! We need all hands on deck! Where are you two-”

“At ease captain, we’ll be activating something that should resolve the matter,” Orodan said as he walked away.

He entered the cargo hold of the ship.

“Damn… how do we deploy this thing? It’ll need to be standin’ up straight,” Fenton said, frowning.

They were upon a gigantic cargo ship, the only type of vessel capable of holding two giant metal pillars the size of a tower. Of course, the devices were within the cargo hold of the ship and not at all accessible to the open air. Something Orodan could solve easily enough.

“We’ll have to compensate the ship captain for this…”

His fist shot up, blowing a hole up and out. Rain began pouring in, but that was alright and within expectations as Orodan hoisted the gigantic pillar up, standing it so that it was now exposed to open air.

“Good heavens Mister Wainwright… is that what a high level of Physical Fitness can do?” Clyburn asked.

“With training, anyone can do it,” Orodan said, finishing the process of standing the pillar up. “Fenton, whenever you’re ready.”

“Aye ser!” the boy said, placing his hand upon a golden metal plate marked differently as the controlling array. “Turnin’ it up to five percent power!”

With a minuscule pulse of mana, the pillar hissed, belching steam as it began the process of winding up.

Clyburn had a stack of paper in his hands, madly jotting notes down.

“Activation time’s lower than expected!” Clyburn declared, pleasantly surprised. “The original blueprint would have needed five minutes, this might be done in seconds!”

“Right ser, it’s ‘bout to go off!” Fenton excitedly said.

Just in time too, as the infected whale the size of an entire large island was barrelling right for them. Perhaps it was a sabotage attempt by the Eldritch, or maybe it was a random attack now that they were approaching the dead zone. In any case, it mattered not.

A monstrously powerful suction force erupted from the top of the pillar. Orodan placed his hand on the metallic frame of the device, noting that it still felt cool to the touch. Good, the construction was holding. They’d run preliminary tests before, but seeing a successful activation during a field test was even better.

An incredibly loud shriek was heard, the ship violently rocking as the waves turned chaotically turbulent.

And then…

…it stilled.

The captain of the ship appeared above the newly created hole in his deck and looked down at them.

“What the hell did you lot do? Whatever that thing is, it stopped moving!”

“No… wait… it’s movin’ for us again!” Fenton warned, looking at the sensory device in his hands.

Orodan wasn’t worried though.

“Come, let’s head up to deck and greet it.”

They clambered up, with everyone save him preparing their weapons. But truly, they needn’t have.

Just in time, the waves rose, and rose… and rose. Something gargantuan breaking the water’s surface.

“We’re… we’re doomed! None of our guns will do anything besides tickle that thing!”

“Gods of the sea please save me! I have a family!”

Fenton and Clyburn looked quite concerned too. Yet what they didn’t notice was the look of curiosity in the whale’s eyes, and the utter lack of purple-gray corruption upon its form.

A spout of liquid erupted from the top of its body, like a giant geyser. Not harmful, but showering the ship in water.

“Who… who is responsible for this?!”

Its voice was like a booming explosion, resounding for miles.

Orodan shoved Fenton forwards, offering him up as a sacrifice. The boy giving him a look of shock, that he could betray him so.

The ship nearly capsized as the gigantic whale slowly inched its snout over the deck, looming over them all. Its snout pushed Clyburn and the ship’s captain out of the way, until finally reaching Fenton…

…where its snout almost gently nudged him.

“…thank you.”

“…eh?!”

“If you’re thankful… perhaps you could start with keeping this thing afloat while we fix it? Showering it while there’s a large hole for water to enter the hull doesn’t help,” Orodan said.

The unfortunate vessel which had a hole blown out the hold by Orodan, took on a bit more water than it should have. And slowly but surely the ship was sinking.

The whale could only let out a pitiful and embarrassed sputter of water in response.

#

“Land ho!”

“I thought we’d never make it…”

“Quit bein’ dramatic, the young master’s device saved us from a permanent trip to the bottom of the drink!”

Fenton however had his head lowered in embarrassment.

“Young master? I ain’t no noble…”

“They clearly seem to think you are. Competence and status tend to go hand-in-hand,” Orodan said, clapping the lad on the shoulder. “Good job.”

“Good job? All I did was hit the activation array ser, we’d be dead without you liftin’ the pillar up.”

Or him just clobbering the whale and possibly blowing his cover. With some guidance, Fenton’s ability to handle things Orodan would otherwise have to step in for was invaluable for allowing him to remain undetected thus far.

“A weakness you’re now aware of and can address,” Orodan said.

“I don’t think Mister Clyburn wants to do any work on the pillars while the military escort is around ser… too many eyes. And they don’t look happy either.”

It wasn’t that the navy was unhappy with them; rather there were some serious discussions going around on ship security and miscommunication.

For starters, neither Orodan, Fenton or Clyburn had known that all ships carrying purification projects to the front lines were supposed to have an armed military escort. It was a horrid blunder of the worst sort, and the captain sailing the ship had barely avoided being clapped in irons and thrown into the brig upon the realization that he’d received false orders and the actual captain and accompanying military escort was supposed to come a day later.

Although the military officers of the Collective’s navy were trying to outwardly play the incident off as a blunder, it was obvious to anyone that foul play had occurred. Regardless, they now had a very militaristic escort for the remainder of the way to the dead zone.

The formerly infected whale had sincerely thanked Fenton and left before the Collective arrived. Concerningly, and to further lend proof to the conspiracy, the Transcendent whale had in fact been a user of light magic frolicking about and enjoying life not even a few days ago.

Its conversion and subsequent directive to assault their ship was a recent move. Very much planned and not random, which meant that the Prophet and the Eldritch world cores subservient to it were becoming more aggressive in their moves. They must have realized that the initial attempt to sabotage the project at Castle Ironpeak had gone poorly and were now acting more brazenly.

Orodan wondered how long it’d be till the Prophet took the mask off and corrupted every user of light magic calling upon the elemental plane.

Still, for now, land approached. And as they got closer, the clouds cleared, and dawn’s first rays illuminated a hazy purple sky.

“Bloody ‘ell… the sky really is purple near the dead zone…” Fenton muttered. “Is this what everywhere will look like if we don’t stop the plague?”

“Worse than this, far worse. A plague world is the end stage of what happens when the enemy wins,” Orodan explained. “Eldritch everywhere in sight; the air, the ground, the water… one cannot go anywhere without encountering it. Everything in sight is infected and wants to corrupt you, you’ll be lucky to meet anything living before the ground starts trying to turn you Eldritch yourself.”

“That sounds like a nightmare… how are we expected to win ser?” Fenton asked, sounding shaken.

“That’s just the thing… we aren’t. Without intervention, the gradual corruption of the entire System by the Eldritch appears inevitable. Whether it takes a few billion more years, or even a few millennia longer, it’ll occur all the same,” Orodan said, but then flashed the lad a grin. “But that’s why it’s up to people like you and me to break those expectations isn’t it?”

“Can it be done…?”

“I didn’t think a device capable of purging the Eldritch like I do was possible, but you’ve proven me wrong, haven’t you?” Orodan questioned. “Have faith Fenton. As long as your world has someone like you, I don’t think it will fall.”

Even in the darkest of nights, heroes could be found lighting the way. The previous looper was doing their best to shield Lonvoron from the Eldritch, though despite their efforts the plague was closing in and they’d been cast aside by the time loops. But… in the shadow of giants the unlikeliest of talents could emerge.

Fenton Penny was one of those unlikely talents. The lad had been facing the Eldritch as a grunt engineer on Orodan’s first loop here. Orodan had a hunch the boy would be fine even if he hadn’t crash landed in scrap town.

“Just like your world had a hero like you ser… this Eldritch Avatar you told me about was a right strong bugger, wasn’t he? Took you a lot of sweat and blood to beat him in the end, didn’t it?” Fenton asked.

“A hero? There are men and women worthier than I to hold that moniker. I’m but an idiot who likes fighting a little too much,” Orodan said.

“Nonsense! You came down from the sky and helped dozens of people without bein’ asked, while getting nothin’ in turn!”

“You’re reading into it too much Fenton. I just like fighting and I’m here for my own goals. And if I see something I don’t like along the way, I’ll fix it with my own hands,” Orodan retorted. “As I said, I’m naught but a fool who likes the taste of battle more than he should.”

“Your declaration to reunite the dead across the cosmos didn’t sound very selfish. Nor did your grand ambition of fixing the System and purging the Eldritch,” Zaessythra reminded, Orodan brushing her comment aside.

“Well… if you’re just an idiot who likes fighting, then I’m just a nitwit who takes after Enchanting a bit much!” Fenton declared. “Not a hero he says…”

Orodan shook his head.

“If you have enough energy to talk about pointless things, then you have enough energy to train. Go run a lap,” Orodan ordered, producing some pebbles in his hands. “The plague will certainly test your stamina aplenty, go on, get to running.”

Fenton scrambled to jog while Orodan hurled pebbles at him.

Not everyone could be a melee fighter like Orodan, and even then, the Eldritch were a serious existential threat which could infect just about anyone. Without Eldritch Resistance and a mind backed by an iron will, most people would fall to the plague in short order.

