The result was a monstrosity even an artillery volley could not dent. It was so utterly sturdy that Fenton felt quite comfortable inscribing upon it enchantments that would place a great deal more stress on it than the original blueprints were meant to tolerate. Before, the pillar was projected to be capable of draining the surrounding hundred miles.

Now? Who knew what it was capable of.

“Well, I suppose we should fit the final piece in,” Orodan said. “Entirely symbolic that we’ve held off on it for this long, but better we present two complete devices to the assessor than one.”

“It’s a tradition in inventing circles, to hold off on putting a final piece in until the last moment. Adds to the accomplishment,” Clyburn explained, then turning to the other engineers in the room. “Come! Let’s see our hard work realized! Gather around!”

Orodan’s hand hammered onto a small piece of metal, heating it into shape and then letting it cool.

[Blacksmithing 68 → Blacksmithing 69]

A cast of ice magic followed.

[Flash Freeze 39 → Flash Freeze 40]

And two minutes passed as Orodan nudged each particle into perfect alignment before finally setting it to be incorruptible.

“Ready Fenton?” Orodan asked, handing him the completed piece. “Last one, try not to stumble.”

The lad rolled his eyes.

“I’ve yet to stumble at all ser,” he said, beginning the enchanting process as his hands hovered above the perfectly forged metallic piece.

It was tiny, the smallest one Orodan had forged in all honesty. Fenton had enchanted bigger pieces in one go without stopping, so it was no surprise that the work was done within five minutes.

Fenton then handed it to the project’s lead engineer.

“This… this will be the culmination of our work!” Clyburn declared, and then looked at the two of them. “To Mister Wainwright! Whose exotic smithing techniques have allowed us to succeed! And, to Fenton Penny whose enchantments have brought it all together beyond even what my original vision could foresee!”

The engineers whooped and hollered as Clyburn Anderthorn put the final piece into the slot dedicated for it…

…and a wave of energy suffused the room as the overarching enchantment of the pillar was brought together.

Powerful. Orodan had an inkling that these modified pillars of purification might be capable of draining the plague, at minimum, on a continental scale.

“And I believe the crown’s man is coming through as we speak,” Orodan informed, watching the fort’s gate open with Vision of Purity.

“Right. Clear the room and make it presentable, we’re sure to make a good impression today!” Clyburn instructed.

Soon enough, the crown’s assessor, one of the men in charge of evaluating the competing projects in this endeavor, walked through the tower doors.

Orodan got a vague feeling that this was a slimy man. His soul certainly had that tell-tale shifty feeling he’d come to associate with liars and those of poor character. The assessor took one look at the device and frowned.

“Clyburn Anderthorn. Is this your project?”

“Yes, it is. I’m afraid I don’t recognize you… I was under the impression that crown assessors were supposed to be high ranking members of the royally sponsored guild,” Clyburn said.

“Count Clearwater has taken ill and was unable to meet the commitment. He appointed me in his stead.”

“That is most… unorthodox. Projects completed on behalf of the crown have the right of assessment by the crown’s appointed assessors, do they not? You bear the seal but have no experience in such matters,” Clyburn protested.

“Fine by me. I can just walk away and mark you down as requesting a proper assessor,” the man said, smirking.

“No! That will not be necessary, come have a look!”

Orodan felt the man was doubtlessly suspicious. Having grown up in Ogdenborough, he knew the look of a dog on someone’s payroll about to conduct criminal business on their master’s behalf.

“Right then… this is your device? I was told you had a singular one…” the assessor muttered.

“We had enough spare time that we built two. You can look at either and will no doubt be quite satisfied,” Clyburn explained.

“Enough time to build two? Building more of a subpar product will not help you, you realize?”

Clyburn looked angry, yet Orodan put a hand on his shoulder to calm him and caution against acting rashly. Under the effects of Incipience of Infinity, the assessor couldn’t see him. Now that Orodan was quite suspicious of the man he planned on tailing him after.

Besides, the work would speak for itself.

“Incidentally, this metal’s quite odd. Where did you get it?” the assessor asked, eyes narrowed. “Enchantments don’t look as though they would take well to this material. I might have to mark you as insufficient based off this al-”

The man suddenly stopped speaking, and Orodan smiled.

Assessors came with differing sets of expertise. This one was quite obviously crooked, perhaps arranged by a rival or with motives of their own, but even then, the man didn’t seem to be experienced in Engineering. But, that wasn’t the case for Enchanting.

“Like what you see?” Fenton asked, shaking the man out of his stupor.

“W-what is this? Who wove these enchantments?” the assessor asked frantically.

“Unfortunately, we cannot divulge internal affairs to those outside the project,” Clyburn recited. “If it’s to your satisfaction, might we know your assessment?”

“This is…! I… I must speak to my superior before I can give you a determination.”

“Incorrect. By crown law all assessments on royal projects must provide their determination on the spot, alongside documentation of it,” the lead engineer said. “Your assessment please ser.”

The assessor looked as though he’d swallowed a bitter pill. As though the man was unwilling to mark the project as good.

Hastily, the man signed a paper and threw it towards Clyburn.

“I must be going now, farewell.”

Soon as the man left, Clyburn looked at Orodan.

“Exceeds expectations. He didn’t even ask how it works or request a preliminary test,” Clyburn said. “But I doubt that will be the last of our problems.”

“Aye, he’s most certainly bought by someone,” Orodan said “As for who, I’m going to find out.”

“Tailin’ scoundrels again ser? Can I come with?” Fenton asked.

“That would be highly irresponsible of me Fenton. What would your mother think of me dragging you into trouble?” Orodan asked. And then flashed a devious smile. “But if you want to tag along, who am I to stop you?”

Fenton took the hint for what it was and scrambled to follow Orodan as he set off.

He would normally be opposed to having anyone tag along, but for Fenton it would be good training.

He and the lad made their way out the fort normally, getting past the gates of the island’s port town too. Known as Luetta Treadway’s assistant, Orodan had no problem getting in and out of port town. With the soldiers often speaking about her strange assistant, the locals were almost amenable towards him even.

Nearer to the docks however, Orodan slowed.

“He’s headed into the portside alehouse. What’s an assessor of the crown doin’ in that dungheap?” Fenton asked as the two of them stood a distance away, turning into an alleyway.

“Dungheap? I’ve seen far shantier taverns where I come from,” Orodan said. “Not familiar with local custom. Is it uncommon for him to be there?”

“Aye ser. Assessor like him should be roomin’ at the fort or be on his ship and about his business. He’s got the bearing of a blue-blood he does, his kind don’t frolick ‘round there,” Fenton said. “Quite odd. We should follow him Mister Orodan.”

“I concur, but let’s wait to see what he does. I’m not exactly inconspicuous if I were to head in,” Orodan reminded. “Better I remain outside. Mundane walls and obstacles don’t prevent me from seeing or hearing what I seek.”

Fenton nodded.

The assessor simply entered the alehouse, walked past the sailors and merchants enjoying drinks, and headed right upstairs. It seemed the man had a room booked too.

Orodan tapped Fenton on the shoulder, indicating the lad should follow. The assessor’s room was on the backside of the alehouse, near a garden with a decently tall wall around it. Orodan leapt over it, landing on the other side, waiting for Fenton to also kick off the wall to scale it and come over.

“Imagine if you tried scaling that wall before all the training I put you through.”

“Wouldn’t have gone too well ser… I see the benefits of rigorous exercise now,” Fenton said.

They got nearer to the wall, on the ground just underneath the room’s window on the third floor.

“Nobody in the room with him. He’s bringing out a communications amulet though,” Orodan said. “Might not be able to get the full conversation… what’s that Fenton?”

Orodan’s words were cut off by the sight of a small foot-long metallic pole Fenton had brought out and deployed upon the ground.

“That won’t be a problem ser.”

It was an intricately enchanted pole too. And from the inscriptions upon the metal…

“Will that let us trace where the mana leads to?” Orodan asked. “I’ve traced such tethers before, a device won’t be necessary.”

“Right you are Mister Orodan, but this thing will let us listen in on the conversation too.”

Was this why the lad had wanted to come along? To test his new device?

“Is this why you were so insistent on accompanying me?”

“Little bit… but then I heard from Mister Talricto about your escapades at Castle Ironpeak and wanted to join in too,” Fenton said. “This is rather fun!”

“Not every clandestine adventure is safe or fun… but I suppose you have enough of a level head to know that already,” Orodan remarked with a smile.

With a gleam, the pole activated as Orodan watched the enchantment produce a singular wispy tendril which hung onto the tether between the assessor’s communications amulet and its counterpart. The audio coming out of the pole was crystal clear too.

This was some fantastic enchanting work. Even skilled communications specialists with all the time in the world wouldn’t have been able to replicate the feat on Alastaia.

“About time. Were you followed? Are you in an unwarded area?”

It certainly sounded like Lord Morvale, laying to rest the question of who’d paid off the assessor.

“No my lord, no pursuers. I’ve booked a room at the alehouse as you recommended. The last place they would suspect me to inhabit,” the paid saboteur said.

“Well? Report. Did you give his project a black mark? Your boss in the Storven Steelmaker Engineer’s Guild has assured me they’ll bury his submission as long as it has a poor assessment on paper.”

“That is… we have run into complications…”

“Complications? Speak plainly!” the voice of Lord Morvale sounded. “What do you mean by complications?”

“I did not expect the quality of Clyburn Anderthorn’s work to be so extraordinary… Lord Morvale, you gave us incorrect information!” the assessor hissed. “To put anything less than stellar down on my assessment would be guaranteeing eventual imprisonment for myself once the crown discovers just how potent that device is.”

“You exaggerate! How can something of halfway decent quality cause you so much trouble? Promising projects are buried beneath the tides of bureaucracy all the time,” the voice of Lord Morvale angrily barked.

“Respectfully, my lord, to refer to that thing as ‘halfway decent’ would make anything you’ve produced be trash not worth touching,” the assessor venomously complained, his anger apparent.

“Mind your tongue lest I inform your Duke of your insubordination!”

“My lord, Duke Trevelain and the guild will not be happy about the mess you nearly got us into. You can expect a word from him after this,” the assessor said.

“You…! Fine, fine. I shall smooth things over with the Duke; ever have I been a loyal supporter of his,” Lord Morvale placated. “As for Clyburn… you may tell me further details about his pillar of purification once you return. If need be, there are accidents which can dispose of him and his work.”

The communication cut off shortly after.

“Damned, arrogant fool. That bloody device could change the entire war, and he wants me to die by trying to suppress it? To hell with all this… I’m returning to Storven,” the man muttered to himself. “Duke Trevelain can hear about this from me first…”

Fenton was frowning as he packed his device up and placed it back into his own dimensional storage enchantment. Orodan first directed the lad to clear the scene before they discussed the matter.

They scaled the backwall and were out of port town and near the fort before they spoke.

“They’re going to try and assassinate us Mister Orodan!” Fenton exclaimed. “I’m no stranger to someone tryin’ to rough me up, or get me with a shiv in an alley, but assassins? They’ll kill me before I even realize I’m meant to be fightin’ for my life! What’re my mother and I to-

Orodan’s hand upon his head stilled the boy.

“Easy Fenton. Nobody will be assassinating you while I’m around. Bullets fired by a Transcendent? I’ll intercept them. Eldritch monstrosities? I’ll slay them. You just focus on getting better at your enchanting. Soon enough, you’ll be stopping them yourself.”

The boy stilled for a moment, a hundred different thoughts going through his mind, and then finally deflated.

“I don’t even care about meself, just keep my mother safe please…” Fenton muttered.

