“The ground really is lifeless… I can see why they call it the dead zone,” Fenton said. “Is the earth going to rise up and corrupt us like in the stories you told me Mister Orodan?”

“Not quite yet… I’m not sure what’s been done to the ground, but it’s quite lifeless, devoid of anything living and the Eldritch too,” Orodan said. “It can’t corrupt thin air.”

“Alkahest,” Clyburn answered. “I was part of the campaigns here when the Collective brought entire ship-loads full of the substance and dumped it onto the ground. It stopped the plague but also killed everything for miles.”

Of course, the Eldritch was adaptive and capable of proliferation. Where the ground was lifeless, Eldritch lifeforms would actively begin seeding new life in an attempt to spread the corruption. Even the alkahest wasn’t a surefire method of containment. Even now he could sense tiny seeds, the beginnings of rough shrubbery and insects within the ground. Not the ideal hosts for the Eldritch, but eventually these would grow, and the earth would once more be corruptible as life frolicked about.

Perhaps the detection of this was why alkahest was so highly in-demand as of late.

“Havin’ to do all that just to stop the plague… this thing’s real evil, ain’t it?” Fenton asked.

“For most of my time loops, the Eldritch has, in some shape or form, been my ultimate enemy. I’ve suffered a lot at its hands, yet in turn many a time I’ve dealt a grievous blow to it too,” Orodan said. “And before I can achieve what I’ve set out to do, I’m certain it’ll stand in my way yet again.”

“I see… they’re my enemy too then.”

“They’re everyone’s enemy,” Orodan clarified.

“Somehow I get the feeling he didn’t mean it in that sense,” Zaessythra warned.

Orodan sighed. Stupid young men and their burning desire to showcase their loyalty…

…he couldn’t even be too frustrated for he was the same. How many times had he declared his debt to those who’d aided him?

“Look, you have a long life ahead of you Fenton. My enemies aren’t yours, and you owe me no service. I fight my own battles and eventually, I’ll beat the Eldritch too,” Orodan explained. “I don’t need you rushing towards the plague in my name and getting killed.”

“But what if I wanted to help? I could make you enchantments which make the fight easier!” Fenton argued. “Together we could make devices aplenty which purged the plague all across the stars!”

“I assure you that foul rot is not so easily vanquished; not just with machines and enchantments.”

“But I’ve got to do somethin’! I can’t let you-”

“Fenton, a warrior must make their own choices in life. I and your mother allow you to make your own decisions, do we not? It would be a little hypocritical then if you were unwilling to let me make my own. The powers behind the Eldritch are my enemy, and my enmities live and die with me,” Orodan said.

“And I’m supposed to just watch you get yourself killed Mister Orodan? I won’t stand for it!”

“What you’re supposed to do, is live your life. I’d rather you made enchantments for yourself and lived your life to the fullest. Following someone you’ve known for months into certain death isn’t the way to go,” Orodan chided. “Or were those promises of coming back alive you made to your mother false?”

That shut the boy up for the time being.

“Bugger… why’re you bringin’ that up Mister Orodan?” Fenton muttered. After a while he spoke. “I’ll go work on a thing or two. Nothing to do but kill time while the convoy resupplies.”

“You do that. I’ll be out following someone.”

“Following? I’ll pack my-”

“No Fenton, much as I appreciate your aid, I need someone here capable of defending the pillars. If we both leave, who’ll protect Clyburn?” Orodan asked.

“But… but…”

“Alternately, I can stay here and you can trek through the wilderness by yourself to find our quarry,” Orodan suggested.

“Hey… I don’t know the first thing about trackin’, that’s not fair ser.”

“I’m no tracker either, but I can show you a thing or two about traversing the wilds at least,” Orodan said. “We’ll have plenty of time to practice in the dead zone itself. Now then, off you go. Be ready in case another attack comes; I shall return soon.”

Fenton seemed dissatisfied at being unable to come along but couldn’t fault Orodan’s logic. The boy frowned but walked away.

“Ah, to be young and eager to prove myself again,” Clyburn remarked. “A little headstrong and eager for action, isn’t he?”

“And why shouldn’t he be? Better than being lazy, spineless or expecting the silver spoon of luxury to fall into his lap. Eagerness and diligence are attributes which pair well with youth. Better he be daring and forge a doughty character in his early years than rot away with sloth and an easy life which softens him,” Orodan said. “Of course, such drive must also be tempered with caution lest he find himself dead like plenty of eager youth before him… but that’s why his elders are here, isn’t that right Clyburn?”

“Myself perhaps, but you don’t appear very old to me Mister Wainwright! Though it’s hard to tell with you otherworlders and the strange skills you possess.”

“Physically, you wouldn’t be incorrect. Mentally… that’s another matter entirely,” Orodan replied. “I’ll return soon, try not to let the boy get up to too much trouble.”

“I can hardly stop him… but I shall endeavor to keep an eye on young Fenton all the same.”

Orodan nodded and then made way out of the checkpoint. He got some strange looks from the soldiers for leaving alone, but by now they knew not to question ‘young master’ Fenton’s party members overly much.

Orodan hadn’t lied, he wasn’t a tracker. But he didn’t exactly need the skill here when his prey had been in the sights of Vision of Purity from the get-go. The lone assailant who’d survived Fenton’s return volley of grenades had fled and was lurking nearby.

Stealthily, Orodan skulked through the bushes and dense trees to reach the man’s location.

Without the ability to see through the landscape with Vision of Purity, Orodan would have had a difficult time finding the assassin. The man was hiding under a jagged outcropping of overhanging rocks which had a dense amount of vegetation covering it.

As he got closer, he could hear the man speaking.

“My lord that boy is anything but ordinary! He activated some sort of item, and our volley of grenades was sent right back at us!”

Audio, unheard to Orodan, came over the amulet.

“No my lord we cannot! We failed at full strength and they’re at the checkpoint now, it would be suicide. We were supposed to hit them out at sea but then that gigantic whale approached and the navy was called in. It’s been one stroke of bad luck after another.”

“I concur,” Orodan said, coming up from behind and wrapping both hands around the man’s head. “So how about you tell me who sent you and I can give you a swift death.”

The man tried thrashing, but it was no use. He then attempted to end his own life, but Orodan simply forced the assassin’s mouth open and yanked the false tooth and poison pill right out.

“Wait… I don’t know anything!”

“Your conversation with whoever was on the other end would beg to differ. I won’t waste my breath negotiating. You can either tell me what I want to know, or I can simply tear into your mind to find out,” Orodan threatened matter-of-factly. “Your death can be painful, or it can be swift, make the choice before I make it for you.”

“I’m just doing a job! You would kill me for it?!”

“If you trade gold for blood, then you should also be prepared to have your own life be part of that equation,” Orodan said, his hands gripping the man’s head. “Nobody held a dagger to your throat and forced you into this trade.”

“A-alright, alright! It was Lord Morvale of the Ironhaven Islands! The royal guilds of the capital are backing him on it too!” the man fearfully said. “I don’t know anything else besides the fact that there’s a few more soldiers loyal to them within the hot zone.”

Orodan sensed no lie in the man’s words. He shoved him forwards, sending him stumbling.

“What on-”

“Draw your sword, I won’t execute you like helpless cattle. I offer you the chance to die with a blade in your hands and honor in your heart,” Orodan declared, unsheathing his own.

“Are you mad? I don’t want to die! How am I supposed to fight you?”

“Perhaps you should have thought of that before trying to murder two innocents just trying to cleanse the plague. You sell death as a service, why are you complaining now that you’re on the receiving end?”

“That’s… you…! Just kill me then!” the man shouted and then charged with a roar as he unsheathed a long shiv.

The exchange of blows was momentary and ended with the assassin’s head rolling.

However, there was no rest for Orodan, as he could faintly sense the familiar corruption in the distance. Quite a lot of it too.

All headed right for Fenton Penny and the two pillars of purification.

It appeared that a spatial rift leading to a plague world had opened right on the other side of the barrier to the hot zone.

And the veritable army of plague forms spewing out were quite intent on rushing towards the two devices Fenton and Clyburn were guarding.
