But now, he’d finally figured out the trick. Just as he’d shattered the attack of Avraxas, so too did he find the weakest point of Talricto’s dimensional waves. His strong, to the opponent’s weak. The concepts of swordplay applied in so many other places. Just as the strong of his blade could optimally hit the weak of his opponent’s, so too could the strong part of his own dimensional attack hit the soft spots of Talricto’s.

Be that as it may, his opponent wasn’t an amateur in the ways of dimensional combat. Talricto was a veteran combatant, and the shock was only because he was impressed with Orodan’s growth. The surprise quickly faded as more attacks came Orodan’s way. Additional waves of force meant to rigorously test whether he could reliably repeat the feat. Miniature dimensions the size of sand grains meant to explode upon contact, shot towards Orodan at odd intervals and angles. And false dimensional cages with pores meant to close in on him as they passed shot forth.

Yet, Orodan concentrated, battering all these assaults away as he advanced.

He broke the waves by hitting them at their weakest points yet again, ruptured the miniature dimensions by hitting them with his own needle-shaped bolts of dimensional force which popped them prematurely and simply sent waves of his own to wash away the false dimensional boundaries coming his way.

It was a battle of skill and finesse. And Orodan had lost it every single time thus far. Until now where he could finally break the waves and had at last passed the bottleneck.

Puppeteering himself with Dimensionalism, he rushed forth, hand outstretched most dangerously.

At the last moment Orodan felt a deft interference with the freeform dimensional manipulation he was performing upon himself, Talricto’s desperate last dregs of resistance at so close a range! But that was fine, for just before he had his puppeteering interrupted…

…Orodan used the remaining control over the dimensional force to throw his body directly towards Talricto.

“Cheat-!”

Gravity and momentum did the remainder of the job, even if his control was stripped. Talricto’s protest was interrupted as Orodan, having hurled himself like a projectile, knocked the hat right off the spider’s head.

“At last!” Orodan declared. “Your stupid hat has been knocked off! Let it never be said that Orodan Wainwright doesn’t keep his word!”

“You cheated! I tore the control of the dimensional forces from you!” Talricto immediately protested, angrily picking his hat up.

“Oh? So if I throw a projectile at you, but you strip the empowerment over it, only to still be hit, it’s cheating?” he asked in turn. “Accept your loss with dignity.”

“Using your entire body as a projectile doesn’t count!”

Orodan allowed the spider to bicker, protest and whine for another minute before finally speaking.

“You lost.”

“Hmm… I’ll not have it said that I’m an honorless cretin, under the conditions we agreed upon, I admit to my defeat,” Talricto said. “And… I suppose your performance was… good.”

“Good?” Orodan queried, surprised at the honest praise.

“Yes. If you were a hatchling dimensional spider, your talent would be considered quite decent. Don’t let it get to your head now,” Talricto warned and then turned away. “I suppose given that you are human… you’re quite the talent. Try to stay away from dimensional phase spider colonies, will you? You might just get abducted in all but name and strong-armed into marrying a brood-queen’s daughter. Or worse, cause a war between rivalling factions.”

That sounded like quite the headache. And he didn’t even want to know how such a marriage between human and spider would work.

Orodan however, felt a thrum of pride within. Three months of constant sparring, and his hard work had paid off to an extent. Yes, he still had a ways to go before he could truly bring his body into harmony with his freeform dimensionalism, but to reach the level of a dimensional phase spider hatchling within so short a timeframe?

And when not even a dimensional spider himself? It was excellent news.

Normally, he and the spider had a relationship of mutually reciprocated barbs and thorns, no heat involved, but rarely was anything nice said between the two of them.

“That was almost nice of you, my most wise and esteemed teacher,” Orodan said.

“Don’t let it get to your head. I was still holding back and not using a third of the more nefarious dirty tricks I could have been employing.”

Now Orodan was curious.

“Been holding back on me I see… I’m almost offended,” Orodan said, a vicious smile on his face. “Let’s go again.”

Which was when Talricto’s eyes took on a dangerous glint and he got serious.

Orodan had scant time to react as two separate dimensional tears opened up to the right and left of him. Blazing flames came forth from one, horrid frost colder than absolute stillness came out the other.

It wasn’t even a high-power move… just pure finesse and skill at work.

[Ice Resistance 38 → Ice Resistance 40]

“Opening gateways to elemental planes?” Orodan asked, being subjected to a dual elemental assault. “Considerate of you to pick two elements I’m used to.”

Thankfully his Fire Resistance was enough to mitigate most of the damage, rendering it mostly surface level. The ice too, despite doing more damage, was still manageable thanks to the resistance skill he had against it. Nonetheless, receiving two opposing blasts of elemental fury directly from the very planes they came from was no trivial matter.

As Alagameth had opened spatial rifts to summon monsters to drive towards him, so too was a dimensional spider like Talricto capable of opening pathways to some hazardous places.

“Tch! Of course, I do not want to kill you… but you forgot to mention just how high your resistance skills are!” Talricto protested. “It’s a matter of pride now. You claimed you’ll knock my hat off again today? Prove it.”

That was fine by Orodan.

“An impressive skill, the ability to open pathways to elemental planes of energy. Keep these open for long enough and we might even have high level fire and ice elementals come through. But I’ll have to thank you today… I wasn’t aware you could do that.”

“What are you-” Talricto paused himself, realization dawning in the spider’s eyes. “…you’re about to do something exceptionally Orodan-like aren’t you?”

Orodan-like? What was that supposed to mean?

“It means exactly what it sounds like. I for one, am glad to see someone else understand the feeling.”

Zaessythra’s comments were put aside for now. He had two excellent sources of training in front of him.

[Commandment of War 45 → Commandment of War 47]

The fire and the ice were already pouring out the dimensional openings.

So Orodan simply called it all to come towards him. All the elemental power of each plane that was.

[Fire Resistance 59 → Fire Resistance 61]

[Ice Resistance 40 → Ice Resistance 42]

His flesh sizzled as heat greater than a star rushed to fill every pore. The life within his cells stilled, never to rise again as cold which could kill a God entered every part. And as the two met in-between, a harmony of fire and ice, the union caused grievous damage across his form. His cells were disintegrated and frozen in equal measure.

And a tenuous balance was reached for a scant few moments as the fire prevented him from being entirely frozen while the ice prevented him from being entirely burnt.

Of course, not all things were equal. Orodan’s Fire Resistance was higher than the corresponding skill for ice, and the deathly chill coming from the elemental plane of ice seemed a third stronger than the fire. Naturally, the ice began to overtake the flames after fifteen seconds.

[Ice Resistance 42 → Ice Resistance 44]

“This is… good training Talricto! Keep going!” Orodan demanded.

“Aren’t you supposed to be fighting me?” the spider asked, incredulous.

Was he? He’d forgotten all about that in the face of this excellent training method.

Unfortunately, Talricto looked as though he was struggling with the sheer volume of raw elemental power coming out the two pathways he had created. The spider, even with Orodan’s Blessing was trembling under the strain of just how much power Orodan was forcibly pulling through.

Eventually, Talricto was forced to let go and the gateways immediately exploded outwards, unable to handle so much energy going through them.

Orodan looked more than a little dejected.

“You oaf! If I had kept going the planetary sensors would have detected the dimensional anomaly! Do you know how difficult it is to sneak rifts of such power past the methods one might use to detect them?” Talricto lectured.

Ah, good thing then that the spider had enough foresight to avoid that, else this loop would have been entirely wasted. If anything, it was Orodan who had gotten carried away.

“We need to do this more often, Talricto. No, teacher, my most wise and esteemed tutor and legendary wanderer,” Orodan said, laying it on thick, so excited he was.

“Someone shows you one good training method and all of a sudden you’re bending over to thank them.”

Talricto sighed.

“Who else but you would suggest such a mad training regimen…”

This was exactly what he needed!

Drawing power from the elemental planes was the single quickest way to improve all his resistances. But most importantly, it exposed Orodan to the sight of an opponent drawing from them…

…and as he watched, he had an idea brewing in his head on how to deal with the looming enemy who had corrupted the elemental plane of light.

That was far into the future though. For now, his young protege’s training awaited.

#

A bullet tore through the air, followed by another aimed for his knee.

Orodan leaned out the way of the first and shifted his footwork to avoid the second.

“A good attempt, but if you’re hoping to get revenge for me kneecapping you all this time, you’ll need to do better than that,” Orodan said. “Even at the Apprentice-level, while a warrior won’t necessarily be faster than your bullet, they’ll certainly be quicker than your hand. Watching the squeeze of your finger lets me react well before the shot is fired and you can’t adjust.”

“Bugger…! Try this then!” Fenton shouted, empowering the next shot with a large amount of his mana pool.

Orodan responded by simply leaping to the side, avoiding the mighty bullet which could have killed an Elite. The lad’s gun, made by Fenton’s own hand, was powerful, as much as an Apprentice-level boy could handle. But that was about the extent of it.

Orodan had taught combat prodigies like Zukelmux before. He still had fond memories of the goblin. Unlike many who might’ve needed equipment, tactics or special abilities like a Bloodline or divine empowerment, Zukelmux had been capable of jumping a tier to fight through grit and skill alone. A true warrior through and through.

Fenton though, fond as Orodan was of the lad, wasn’t a combat prodigy. Which was fair, as not everyone could be good at everything. What the lad was capable of via Enchanting and Engineering, was balanced by the fact that fighting came rather stiffly to him.

Certainly, the young man had a dirty trick or two which Orodan approved of, and a certain viciousness born of living in scrap town which would get him far. But the lad’s talents lay in the crafts, not combat. Which was entirely fine, even if Orodan insisted Fenton learn how to fight anyways for his own sake.

“Calling out a mighty attack before you make it can only be done if you’re certain it’s going to land,” Orodan chided. “What’s the point of pouring all that mana into a bullet if I can just move out of the way thanks to your announcement?”

“Er… right you are ser. Got to work that habit out of me I do.”

“You’ve improved though, gotten stronger mentally and physically too,” Orodan said closing the distance suddenly, the wooden floorboards of the ship creaking as he stomped closer.

They were on a ship, out on the choppy waters near Port Bellgrave. Sparring in the fort’s training yard risked revealing Orodan’s identity and Fenton’s strength, and he wasn’t about to use Incipience of Infinity on everyone watching either.

The boy’s eyes widened as Orodan neared. Fenton wasn’t dumb, not overly eager to engage Orodan in melee combat. Fists and swords simply weren’t his style. He performed an athletic roll out of the way, the constant physical training helping even when it came to dodging and left behind a spherical object.

In the interest of honor and fair play, Orodan kept himself limited to Apprentice-level strength and speed, hence he stood there and took it as the enchanted grenade went off.

A blinding light flashed, accompanied with a shrill sound meant to disorient an attacker. And offensively it fired guided shrapnel towards him, along with a sticky form of alkahest which clung to the skin. At the Apprentice-level, martial specialists might not be fast enough to deflect the shrapnel or send it back. Hence, he lowered form and braced, taking the shrapnel and alchemical substance upon his shield.

The sticky alkahest was decently strong. The Apprentice-level Orodan at the start of the loops would have certainly lost his shield to it, might have eaten a bit of shrapnel too if the shield wasn’t raised quick enough. And even if he had… the shrapnel would have just punched through the cheap wood and slain the pre-loop him.

He shucked the sticky stuff off with raw force and then lowered his weapon, giving Fenton a nod.

“Not bad, we’ll consider that your win over the Apprentice-level Orodan Wainwright. Grenades are quite the difference maker,” he praised.

