Orodan and Emory had worked together over the past three months to not only produce copious amounts of alkahest, well exceeding the crown’s desired quotas, but had also built special storage containers and modified the workspace to be suited for containing Orodan’s modified alkahest. Now, even if the alkahest got loose, the only one affected would be him, and he wouldn’t have to worry about the Ironhaven Isles becoming devoid of life.

All this work had predictably crossed him over to the Elite-level of Alchemy, and Orodan could now call himself an Alchemy Elite. On Alastaia this would’ve meant being part of a rare few, being coveted by the most powerful of noble houses and making an extravagant living. Of course, he was on Lonvoron now where being an Elite alchemist simply meant he could be considered a veteran staff member of the lab.

Countess Primrose Lawson was the woman nominally in charge of Port Bellgrave, a decently high-ranking military official and politician. Her coffers gave her some say in how the Ironhaven Isles’ operations were run, and the woman had gladly allowed Emory to modify the workshop and do as he pleased. Given how much profit he was bringing her with the increased alkahest production, it was a fair request. She’d also agreed to keep the methods of just how the alkahest was produced so quickly and, in such quantities, a secret.

Even she didn’t know what was going on in the lab, which was fine by her as the woman was wise enough to not question excellent results when they came her way. Best not to look a gift horse in the mouth.

But alchemy aside, Orodan’s main aim in visiting the lab was to train his Acid Resistance. Hence the open container in front of him.

“Well, if I die it’s been a good time,” Orodan remarked, raising himself over the mouth of the large vat.

[Acid Resistance 73 → Acid Resistance 74]

His skin prickled and sizzled as the fumes covered his body, and this was without him even entering the vat. It was good progress however, when but three particles of this substance had ravaged his body the first time he’d made it.

He’d mostly been joking when he cautioned Emory about his death. Over the last three months he’d been drinking and bathing in regular alkahest multiple times a day every day. He’d even graduated to sipping his modified and lethal version too.

It was an exceedingly deadly acid, capable of reducing any target substance to absolute nothingness, however Orodan had inoculated himself against it repeatedly and thoroughly all this time.

Today would be the culminating event of it. A direct bath.

There was no need for a gentle lowering. Orodan simply dropped into the vat with a splash.

[Acid Resistance 74 → Acid Resistance 77]

Immediately, his world was nothing but non-existence.

Thanks to Absolute Body Composition, each of his cells was capable of thought in and of itself. Yet as the acid bath hit and subsumed every part of him, it was as though many millions of minds were instantly eradicated, their thoughts completely lost and dissolved down to utter nothingness.

Over two-thirds of Orodan’s physical form faced instant destruction. The other third stubbornly hanging on as he focused on empowering Harmony of Vitality with as much soul energy as it could take to repair his body.

[Incipience of Infinity 138 → Incipience of Infinity 139]

Slowly but surely, he began to gain ground, as his cells regenerated faster than the acid could destroy them. The skill began to gain levels too, and Orodan began pushing back against the tide of devouring liquid which sought to erase him.

“That vitality skill is ridiculous… are all otherworlders capable of such a thing?” Emory asked, astonished.

Orodan opened his mouth to talk, but acid flowed in and ravaged the inside. Well, he could speak later he supposed.

At least the substance tasted decent.

Thirty minutes passed, and eventually Orodan’s recovery outpaced the acid enough that it just wasn’t feeling effective.

Finally, he could talk.

“You asked if there are others like me who can heal as I do? Who knows? The cosmos is vast, and there are plenty of Transcendents and Embodiers out there. I’ve met a few who have respectable healing capabilities though,” Orodan said. Trolls and slimes were naturally good for it, and he’d fought a creature or two which had regeneration he had to work past through battles of attrition. Yet none of them had truly compared to his own. “But enough of that, it’s time for the next phase of this.”

“Next phase?”

“This acid isn’t doing enough.”

A roar tore free from his lips. An order… a commandment.

[Commandment of War 44 → Commandment of War 45]

He directed, demanded the acid thoroughly infiltrate every part of his body. The liquid which had till now been scalding the surface layer of cells, now began getting into the gaps, Orodan allowing it. He let it flow through the small spaces between cells, encouraging it to destroy as much as it could.

[Acid Resistance 79 → Acid Resistance 80]

The modified alkahest entered every single part of him. The cells of his skull, his torso, his ribs, eyes, everywhere. And it thoroughly began eradicating him from the inside out.

Orodan neared death a few times as he was reduced to clumps of dissolving flesh. Yet, these clumps… they were slowly beginning to adapt where the rest of him failed. And he took the lessons from them and applied it further as he began reforming himself with Harmony of Vitality.

Orodan was disintegrated and reformed over and over. Yet he gained ground, even as the alkahest coursed through him like water flowing into sand, getting between each grain. He would not falter, and he would master this alkahest, tempering his physical form.

He tightened the gaps between cells, making it harder for the substance to flow through. He strengthened the boundary of each cell, making them tougher. And as each cell was destroyed and reformed over and over, Orodan learned how to make them just a little bit stronger each time.

After fifteen minutes, he began noticeably outpacing the alkahest’s destruction of him.

After half an hour, the concoction only partially harmed the outer layer of each cell.

And after an hour, the alkahest was useless as a final set of messages appeared.

[Acid Resistance 82 → Acid Resistance 83]

[Body Tempering 73 → Body Tempering 74]

And from here Orodan knew no further gains would come. The alkahest now failed to sizzle even a singular cell of his, for his body had grown strong, and his intrinsic understanding of how to resist the liquid had grown by leaps and bounds.

Truly, this was good training. But it had run its course.

Acid Resistance was well and good, but the singular level of Body Tempering he’s just acquired mattered far more than all the gains made in resistance skills thus far. Yes, resistances were nice, but gains in the quality of his body benefitted him in everything he did. It was an exceedingly difficult skill to train too, at least, without drawing a lot of attention. Orodan had only acquired one other level over the past three months.

He rose from the vat, alkahest pouring off him yet having no effect whatsoever. Just for testing’s sake, he cupped some and gulped down a mouthful.

Even sweeter than regular alkahest. The empowerment must have amplified the taste too as the metallic sensation was a hundred times stronger. It had Orodan idly wondering if he could empower food ingredients to amplify the taste. Though he’d have to watch how much energy was poured in lest he kill untrained civilians with the meal.

“A refreshing bath, and it tastes decent too when sampled directly from the vat, but I’ll have to look into making a more potent version.”

“A- a more potent version?! By the Gods… what even are you?”

“Someone looking to get in some good training.”

And mainly someone looking for a way to deal with his ultimate foe’s powers over light. Taking a bath in alkahest wasn’t just for the purposes of developing Acid Resistance. Orodan also took the opportunity to train Commandment of War.

It was a skill he had big plans for down the line.

But for now, just before he was due for a final session with Fenton, a certain irritating spider awaited.

The culmination of three months’ worth of training in Dimensionalism.

#

Sporting a top hat, monocle, cane and pocket watch; Talricto had a most arrogant look upon his arachnoid face.

And opposing him was Orodan, arms crossed, a look of determination and defiance upon his.

“I’m going to teach you a lesson and knock that stupid hat right off your head today.”

“Grown awfully overconfident, have you? Come, let me remind you who your betters are.”

Three months of getting beaten in spars. Three months of continually attempting to best this opponent.

For too long had Orodan been bullied by Talricto. He’d suffered defeat after defeat, all while holding back lest he claim a cheap win by simply overpowering the spider. But no more! Today, he would teach this arrogant bully what justice truly was! Talricto and his dumb top hat, monocle, cane and watch could sod right off!

Soul energy coursed through his body, and he could feel the pull of power upon his own soul as Talricto matched his generation via the Blessing he’d granted the spider.

Orodan stared at Talricto.

Talricto stared at Orodan.

Both their eyes narrowed.

Chaos erupted.

[Dimensionalism 82 → Dimensionalism 83]

Ten-thousand needle-like miniature dimensions exploded forth from Orodan’s hands, meeting the ten-thousand dimensional orbs fired by Talricto. The Blessing granted by Orodan had made the spider quite powerful.

His freeform dimensional assault struck Talricto’s head on, and the collision caused the nearby waves to be blown away for a mile. The abandoned island they were on shook, and he could see the wariness in Talricto’s eyes already. The spider must’ve known this fight would be a different one.

Still, this wasn’t a test of raw power, but a game of skill. The both of them had engaged in that initial clash as a means of sating their pride, but now the true test would begin.

Orodan wrapped a layer of dimensional force around his body, the very dimensional boundary shifting to accommodate him. And guiding these dimensional forces, he threw a straight punch towards his opponent, puppeteering his own form like marionette on a string.

Even as his fist was redirected, the dimensional control over his own body being tampered with, Talricto frowned. The punch and the forces guiding it must have been stronger than anticipated.

In their last duel a few days ago, Orodan had made the spider struggle, even in defeat. This time, with some new insights and inspiration, he intended to test himself once more.

Dimensionalism.

This was the key. He had been honing it over the past three months hoping to replicate what he’d achieved against Ur-Vah’sahn the Living Crystal. It was the necessary skill for bringing his elemental magic and martial might together in perfect synchronicity. It was the quintessential bridge between the two powerful aspects of his combat style. If he could bring it all together… then what occurred against the Living Crystal need not be an inconsistent fluke any longer.

Still, such a thing would first require perfecting the synchronicity between his body and dimensionalism, and then between dimensionalism and his elemental magic. Only then could the bridge be perfect.

Now as Orodan threw another fist towards Talricto, an unexpected but welcome message came.

[Unarmed Combat Mastery 98 → Unarmed Combat Mastery 99]

It was a level long due since he’d been practicing the puppeteering of his body through Dimensionalism. At first, Orodan had thought only his ability to manipulate the boundaries between dimensions would improve, but who knew that controlling his own body gave him a different perspective on it and allowed him to gain a level in fighting unarmed?

Multiple intersecting dimensional waves came crashing towards him, leaving him no way out, but his Transcendent Combat Mastery would not allow it. His fist the pick, the dimensional power manipulating his body the guide, and Talricto’s hostile waves the ore.

[Combat Mastery 116 → Combat Mastery 117]

[Mining 27 → Mining 28]

The intersection point, where all three waves were the weakest, was impossibly narrow and the timing to strike it accurately all too slim. Yet as Orodan’s dimensionally puppeteered fist struck… it hit true, and drilled right through with a crash of energies which scattered sand all about them.

“W-what on-”

The spider didn’t even have enough time to be surprised as Orodan continued, pressing the advantage.

It was the first time in three months that he’d actually won an exchange. Rare was the opponent who gave Orodan so much trouble, but he had to wholeheartedly admit that Talricto was likely a prodigy among a race of beings already possessed of an unfair advantage in the ways of dimensionalism.

Those damned waves had always given him the most trouble of them all. Numerous projectile attacks? Orodan had learned to create enough of his own, that with the backing of his powerful mind he could match them. Traps meant to draw him in with false openings? He had learned to recognize the patterns, having gained another level in Combat Mastery prior to the recent one when he did.

But the waves were like an inescapable net closing in, there was no easy escape from them. Worst of all, Talricto enjoyed intersecting them together into a singular point with no way out. Using Dimensional Step to dodge would’ve been weaselling away, akin to running. And simply brute forcing his way through would have been admitting defeat.

