Before she could react, she was pulled to a new scene, staring at a young drow with silver-white hair and blood-red eyes. She did not recognize the drow, but she recognized the colors, and knew it was one of the others that she had been dreaming of. This one was among the most mysterious, never seeming to have the same form. Sometimes, she was a rabbit, other times a bird, sometimes a young woman, other times a child, and now, apparently, she was a drow. But she always had the same eyes.

She stood in the midst of an overgrown city, staring at a glowing sprout with a golden-eyed drow at her side. Then, the red-eyed drow suddenly frowned.

She saw a drow with silver-white hair and red eyes staring blankly at a sprout for a moment before turning to stare directly at the general. Unlike the little girl, the drow clearly had no clue what she was looking at, and squinted to try to get a better look, just a moment before the general was shaken awake by her assistant.

She trudged to her bath, relaxed in the water as she was scrubbed clean, then collapsed into her bed, and all the while, her mind never left her dream. She had observed people in her dreams before, but this was the first time they had observed her back. She had no idea what any of it meant, and wanted more than ever to sail across the ocean and ask the Saintess what was going on.

Unlike her dream on the floor of her tent, her dream from her bed was ordinary and nonsensical, giving her no further clues, and her tired morning mind managed to let the encounter slip away entirely, at least temporarily. She dragged herself out of bed, her wounds almost completely healed, leaving behind only scars. A few seconds later, her clothes ended up on the floor, and she found herself standing in front of her mirror, as had become a habit after each battle.

Her body almost looked like it was made of patchwork skin with how many scars she had accumulated in the past few years. The one on her arm was among the worst she had, while the one on her gut was indistinguishable from the dozens of others. While her special healing left no trace, she only used that for the truly fatal wounds, meaning every single other one had left a more or less permanent mark.

There actually was a way she could get rid of them all, and she had done it before. All she had to do was get beheaded and grow her body anew from the stump of her neck. Unfortunately, that would require her special healing, and healing that much would not be without cost.

Ordinarily, that Skill consumed essence. Or aether, or divine power, or whatever the scholars she consulted wanted to call it—she preferred “essence” because it was simple. However, when the Skill ran out of essence to use, it did not simply stop working. It just started consuming something else: her lifespan.

She had been born only nineteen years before, but looking at her face in the mirror, she would never have known it. The war had taken a heavy toll on her, and she looked closer to thirty now. Considering her Tier, she might have even looked this way at sixty.

If this was her first life, she would have been more displeased with it. Even with her lifespan increasing with her Tier, losing so much of it was not a light toll. But this was not her first life. She had already grown old once. The face in the mirror was much closer to the one she was familiar with, even despite its scars. She had already lived the years she lost, so losing them was not a big deal.

Instead, she put on a smile. It looked hollow to her, and she couldn’t help but recall the faces of the dying and dead she had left behind in her bloody rebellion. But she smiled nonetheless. As many had died due to her actions, if she had not acted it would have been worse. Many times worse.

When she awoke back in time, she had originally wanted to try to politic her way to stopping the impending chaos. Her position as a bastard princess was not high, but it was high enough she had opportunities. Unfortunately, she soon proved incapable of navigating through the false smiles and white lies, and she knew she would never make it in time. Besides, she had more than enough justification to oust the emperor, and the size of her army was more than enough evidence that she was not alone in her desire.

Still, I wish it could have been bloodless, she thought with a sigh.

Almost as if in response to her request, she suddenly heard her assistant’s voice from outside her room.

“Your Highness, I have news.”

“Is it urgent?”

“I do not believe it is… but I also believe it is something that you would be interested in addressing sooner than later.”

“Give me one moment. I will be out shortly.”

A half hour later, the general was in a clean, undamaged set of armor, and standing inside the second most secure tent in the camp. There were seven others present, one being her assistant, five being researchers, and one being an elated dwarf. The dwarf had been a slave under one of the great families she had overthrown who had insisted on joining her conquest, calling her a “Fated One” and saying that he would serve her with his life. She had not thought much of it at the time, but the fact that he was present was curious.

The eight of them all stood around one single item—a pitch black, cube-shaped box—and listened as the dwarf talked excitedly about his discovery.

“It has the rune!” he exclaimed. “Just like yours! It matches!”

“What rune?” asked the general.

“The Rune of Fate!” he exclaimed. “I’ve never seen anything like it! I did not believe it was possible to transcribe the Rune of Fate, but here it is! General, it was meant for you!”

The general glanced between the dwarf and the box with a frown. They had taken it from the vault of another great family not long before, and she herself felt strangely drawn to it, but the researchers had not discovered anything from it. It was only when they brought the dwarven smith in as a consultant that they had discovered this… connection.

“Explain further.”

“I wish I could,” lamented the dwarf. “But that Rune is the only one visible. Whoever crafted this was truly a master. I’ve never seen anything like it. Even the great ancestors could not have made something like this. It’s almost— No, it is divine!”

“Divine?”

“Yes, nothing could have made this but the gods!”

The general looked at the box again, then, almost as if drawn by an invisible force, reached out her hand toward it. She was just inches away when one of the researchers grabbed her wrist.

“Apologies for my impudence,” he began.

“No, it’s fine,” she said, pulling her hand back. “I don’t know what came over me.”

“Do it again!” shouted the dwarf.

They all looked at him, but he didn’t seem to register its rudeness.

“The runes glowed when you brought your hand near,” he said. “They were resonating!”

“I do not believe this is wise,” said one of the researchers.

“The gods must have intended this!” said the dwarf. “Why else would they have left a rune of Fate on the surface if they did not want it to come into contact with a bearer of the rune?”

Some of the researchers wavered, but the lead remained resolute.

“No,” he said. “We were very explicitly warned of what would happen if this was to be opened.”

“By an ancient scrap of paper written by a humanoid!” said the dwarf. “Who can confirm the truth? The runes are much more valid!”

The bickering continued, and the general listened at first, but soon, she their voice became a dull droning as she stared at the box. It was calling to her. She knew it was calling to her. She knew that touching it was a great risk. But those thoughts all faded to the back of her mind as though she were in a dream.

While the others were distracted, she took a step forward, and this time with no hesitation, she reached out and placed her hand on the box. The dwarf was the first to notice, his eyes widening in delight as he turned his eager attention to the box and her hand. Her assistant noticed next, and pulled the general back, but by then, it was too late. The vast majority of the essence she had recovered overnight vanished, and something had changed in the box. A moment later, there was a hiss of escaping air, and the lid of the box rose.

The Collector frowned as, for the second time in twelve hours, he felt a ripple in the aether around the two dark boxes he kept deep in his vaults. This had happened once before, a couple years prior, and it had been ominous then, but now, it sent a shiver down his spine. Something big was happening, and with the second ripple, he knew one thing for certain: the boxes were connected, and they had been located.

He was already in his manor when the second ripple occurred, at which point, he promptly went to find his children. Sasha was the first he found, her head resting on her original body as she walked through a room of headless corpses, examining them for damage after her latest “play.”

“Father?” she asked when she saw him.

“Sasha,” he said. “Gather your things and leave. Inform the others to do the same.”

“What? Why?”

“We will have company soon, and it may not be of the pleasant variety.”
