Rose's anger rumbled inside her, and then it was bottlenecked as she realized what she was doing, as her mind caught up with her heart. “Fuck,” she muttered, sagging back into her seat. Her combusting core calmed. The rage was still there, but it was dulled, like fire transmuted back into napalm. However, a new substance laced its alchemy, the grime of shame. Shiv didn't need the Harbinger to see how she felt. The Lady of Blackedge wore her emotions on her face. A war ensued internally, her embarrassment and grief warring against her frustration and stubbornness. The former won. “I'm sorry,” she said, a single tear rolling down her right cheek. “That wasn’t fucking fair of me at all. You’ve always tried. I can see it. And I wasn’t there when he needed me. I wasn't there his entire life. My boy. My baby boy. My baby boy that I'm so proud of, that I couldn't protect and that I barely know. You've done more for him than I ever did, kid, and this is all I can do. All I’m worth now. Not even a Pathbearer anymore. Just another one of those useless Ladies I used to hate.”

But though she tried to muster a measure of thoughtfulness in her apology to Shiv, she thoughtlessly inflicted another lash upon Roland's already fragile ego.

“I was there,” he said, clenching his jaws, clenching his fists, clenching his heart, and yet he still couldn't stop the outpouring of despair. Rose shot him a hopeless look—and to her deeper shame, part of her did blame him. A part she would never give words to. It was remarkable what insights even a near-crippled Harbinger could grant. “I was there, and it still didn't matter. I was there. The Starhawk was with me. I drew upon all my reserves of power. Even far from the Perch, it should have been enough. I should have been able to save my son, but I couldn't. I couldn't even overcome the… the…” Roland looked at his own hands in disgust. “The rage. It just took me. I was drowned immediately. I thought myself strong. How delusional.”

“Roland, enough. Slapping your own face serves nothing for Adam.” Valor’s chastisement came with its own growl of anger. Returned to more of his former self, he despised self-pity, but he also understood it. As such, his tone took a gentler bent. “I fell too. Unless you have forgotten, almost all of us fell, aside from Adam, who you should be most proud of. This is a wretched reward for goodness, and I've seen it too many times, but he made the sacrifice regardless, in place of any of us. This is what he wanted, and even if your grief is demanding that you deny this, I ask that you face it regardless. You've raised a fine Pathbearer and a finer man. And now, whatever we may feel, we must be wise in trying to help him. We must understand his situation. For anguish alone is no solution.”

Valor's words, though well-intentioned, made Shiv cringe. It wasn't even a conscious response. He just knew, deep in his bones, that this was exactly the wrong thing to say to Roland, because the Town Lord's heart burned far hotter, unleashed far more output than his mind.

It didn't matter what logic you could direct. It didn't matter how intellectually potent you were. If there were simply more emotions than thoughts, if you were simply ruled by impulse rather than intellect, then the imbalance would see you usurped by the baser instincts within.

Shiv had learned this lesson well. He had fallen to his own emotions—hatred, rage, anger—far too many times. He'd seen this in others, starting with Sullain and then the orcs. With the Sage of the Enkindled Heart, he gained an in-depth education that perhaps no classroom could ever teach.

Though Shiv remained an informational fool, he considered himself now a journeyman of the heart. And it seemed Valor, or at least this imperfect version of him, was still lacking a full Psychology skill.

“What would you have me do then?” Roland cried. His shout was filled with ragged emotion. In the throes of defeat, he was Rose's opposite. He turned his feelings in on himself. He besieged his own heart, much like the Vicar besieged Blackedge, and the burdens of failure weighed heavily on the so-called Master. Adam was simply the latest maiming in a long set of agonies. Blackedge was still destroyed; the Republic was still hunting them. And all of that had caused Roland to crumble in on himself, and now the pain within came spilling out.

“What would you have me do?” he sobbed. “What lesson would you have me learn, Valor? That this was all beyond me, that we are merely insects, no matter how much we try in the face of the true monsters, against the true powers of Integration? That this was simply a passing tragedy you've seen one too many times across the eternity you call a life? Is that the lesson? Is that the pain I'm supposed to swallow?” He shook his head and tried to stop crying. He tried to pull his tears and emotions back in, but there was just too much coming out. Roland was strong, unimaginably skilled, but he had as much chance of stopping his emotional breakdown as an insect did of holding back an avalanche.

And just as Shiv sighed, Rose did too. She moved out of her seat and immediately took his hand. Roland broke some more, but Shiv saw a part of his heart stabilize. She had done this before. She was his pillar, just like Uva was serving as Shiv's right now. Everyone needed someone in their most devastated moments. It didn't matter how powerful you were. As a person, there was always going to be a time when you were beaten to your knees. And it was a special kind of hell to be broken alone.

A memory came to him, unbidden, a memory that was so intertwined with Roland Arrow that Shiv couldn't shake it free. He remembered being cold. He remembered biting into the flesh of a stinking rat. Too young to be on his own. Too old to be adopted, not that anyone would have. Too scorned to be allowed into society. Yet too protected to be granted a merciful end.

And while the lights and fireworks of some festival or another crashed high in the air, while Starhawk's Perch was painted as a looming, delightful presence, where the Town Lord flared his blazing wings and wished his subjects another joyous year, a lone Omenborn child glared up at the architect of his suffering and spat.

That version of Shiv would have blacked out from sheer blissful pleasure at seeing Roland brought this low, at seeing such pain inflicted upon him. That version of Shiv died when the attack on Blackedge occurred. What followed then was an evolution, not of skill but of personality and character, after so many deaths. No, not death, but life. Shiv had lived through much since his fall into the Abyss, and his life had taught him more about how to conduct himself, how to face the world. Now he felt perhaps a sympathy, but more a dull bitterness at old wounds unaddressed, yet no triumph with the subject of his hate lost to suffering.

“But we can fix this,” the Harbinger whispered. “We can change this. We don't need to be like this. Adam did all he could, even in his final moments of conscious thought, to make things right.”

I don't think I hate him like I used to, but I don't know if I can forgive him. I don't even know what that feels like.

“This is not purely about forgiveness; this is about strength and trying to do the right thing, the heroic thing, the virtuous thing. It is not about foolishness. We are not letting go of old wounds. We are addressing them; we need to fix them now because they will weaken us. And Adam would want this.” The Harbinger sighed, sympathizing with Shiv, for he was Shiv, merely a higher, more idealized version of the wounded man in the room. “Our birth was a tragedy. It might not have been of our own making, but it was a tragedy regardless, and it scarred him. Do you see how fragile he is now? Do you see that symmetry between him and Adam?”

…Yeah.

“So then you must also realize he's a person, a true person with failures and weaknesses and the capacity to change. We evolved, and he can do so as well. The Starhawk has failed him; he's emotionally fragile. I'm not telling you to take advantage of his brutalized state. I am saying, however, that this is a moment for us to face our darkness rather than turning from it. Forgiveness should be earned through actions and demonstrations of change, but more importantly, we don't even know what forgiveness is, as you have said, and we will not know until we grapple with the tension between Roland and us. But beyond forgiveness, it would be a show of true power and strength on our part to mend some of his hurt, even in our current strength. Forgiveness is something he should earn from us, but he stands as an altar to our virtue as well, because you don't need to forgive someone to do right by them.”

The epiphany caught fire within Shiv, and his mind cleared. Along with his awareness, he sensed a faint presence in the room, the flame of Heroism still burning, still fueling him with the desire to seek what was good and proper. Shiv gave Adam a sorrowful, appreciative look. “Still serving as a compass even when you're in a torture coma, huh, Adam?”

“Shiv? Are you well?” Valor was surprised by his student's words, and he sounded worried. But Shiv just patted the old man on the back and went forward into the embrace of discomfort.

Because if he could face monsters in the flesh without fear, then he could apply the same dauntlessness when it came to demons of the heart.

He took slow and deliberate steps toward Roland, making no sudden movements to startle the man. He was already emotionally imbalanced. It wouldn't take much for Roland to think that Shiv was coming to strike him, simply to vent his own rage.

However, as he walked, the Red Rider's Hand followed behind him, a looming shadow, the shame of his victory that couldn't be wiped away. Even still, it whispered to him. It promised power. That single act of violence he'd performed left it charged with building power.

As Shiv came to a halt, his immense shadow spilled over both Lord and Lady Blackedge. As they looked up, it occurred to Shiv how large he was compared to your average person, and he took a step back to reduce the feeling of intimidation.

Roland’s lip quivered. He waited for Shiv to speak. His own emotions and anxieties were drawn taut like a rubber band on the verge of snapping. When Shiv spoke, it wasn't to excoriate or to explain away the Town Lord's pain. No. When unbalanced emotions flowed, you needed to flow along with it. One could not block a river as a person. Even a dam would be worn down over time. It was best to divert, to rush along with the path of the water, and Shiv had plenty of symmetrical grief to offer.

“Adam and I have been through a lot. A lot. I never thought I could care about people. Not really. I always thought I'd be on my own. And I really couldn't have imagined that I'd ever give a single shit about the Young Lord of Blackedge of all people.” Shiv paused for effect. “He was your son after all, and words aren't strong enough to carry how much hate I had for you.”

Roland's face tensed as he took that blow.

Rose opened her mouth to interrupt, but Shiv cut her off first. “Let me continue. Please. This isn't about my hate. It's got nothing to do with that anymore. I just want you to know that if there was any way it was possible, if I had the power, if I had the choice right now, I would change places with him in less than a heartbeat. I would be the one lying there, and he'd be with you, and I'd be the happiest person in the world.”

Once more, truth proved itself to be a weapon as Roland's emotions softened beneath Shiv's words. He nodded, and he sank, as if Shiv's shadow had a weight to it, bowing him down.

“He means the world to me. Uva means the world to me. And all the hate I think I have for you doesn't amount to a single spark compared to how much I love them. And how much this hurts me. And I know you're the same way. I know that whatever happened during that ritual, whatever was between our families, I know that he means more to you than anything else. And I’m sorry too. You didn’t fail alone, Roland.”

These Words of Truth and Adoration 71 > 73

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 303 > 307

A gasp left Roland, charged with far too many emotions to be regarded as a single feeling. He rubbed at his face and sniffled, looking at his son as he processed Shiv’s words. A long quiet followed. Rose rubbed her husband’s hand, touch serving as their comfort and love language.

Roland cleared his throat. “You know what's one of the worst things about you?” he asked.

Shiv felt his chest tighten. He told himself this was about his own virtue, that Roland’s judgment meant nothing. Yet, there was still a lurking rage inside Shiv that wanted him to see things through with Roland right then and there.

“The worst thing is that you sound like him and Vera. You sound like them put together, but you don't talk like him.” Roland let out a laugh that was rich in nostalgia, yet just as imbued with loss. “Your mother, before whatever Udraal did to her, would make some awkward faces at me, slap me over the back of the head, tell me that we're going to kill the bastard who did this, and then find a dark corner to cry on her own. Harlon would have tried to take my mind off things; played a stupid song for me.”

And for a moment, Roland’s expression turned truly sweet, as a memory of finer times came and took hold inside of him. For a moment, he wasn't in the miserable present. He was lost in that eternal, glorious instant in his past. “I just remembered how much he used to make me laugh. I said that was his real gift as a Pathbearer; that he should have been on the Path of the Clown or the Jester.”

