“I don’t know what I’d do without you. I really don’t.”

“Have you been gambling again?”

“What? Uh, no. Not really. Not literally. It’s not the same thing—it’s not even an official bet.”

“How much do you need? And keep your voice down. Rose is still awake. I don’t need her hearing about me letting you do this—she’ll force me to take her out too.”

“I mean, shit, Ro’, you can afford it. We put down that Terrogeist up north. That was a hell of a bounty we collected.”

“Yes. We. Actually, what happened to your part of the reward?”

“What the hells do you mean, my part? You mean Vera’s second portion of the mith.”

“Ah. She’s still doing that.”

“She doesn’t want me gambling.”

“She’s a wise woman.”

“She gambles herself.”

“She’s a greedy, selfish woman.”

“Don’t talk that way about her, jackass. That’s my wife. You’ve offended me, Lord Arrow. As my right as a Pathbearer, I want you to fix this slight and shit. The only thing that will make me happy is money right now.”

“Fine, fine. But I have a condition.”

“What? And if I need to win your money in a bid against Rose, I absolutely refuse. That woman is a fucking gambling demon creature birthed to bankrupt everyone she plays against.”

“I know. She doesn’t even use her Divination when she gambles. You have no idea how bad it is, Harlon. Her Gambling Skill seems to verbally converse with her—she’s an entirely different person when she gets to playing cards. But that’s not… Take me with you.”

“What? You hate gambling. Actually, you hate anything that makes you lose money. Why do you wanna come with?”

“It’s just… our lives are good, aren’t they?”

“Uh, I guess so?”

“They are, but… I love Rose, but something I have been missing recently is the trouble you and I got up to. You know. Early on. The Arrow-Lowe kind of trouble. Not… not this post-raid Pathbearer sadness. Look at us. We’re playing with money like old lords, risking it a few days out in the field and then at the tables. But we used to do other things too.”

“Oh. Oh, yeah… Heh. I remember that stuff. You would dress up all pretty like in the shit parts of town, and the dumb godsdamn thugs would come rolling up, and we’d jump ‘em… Yeah. Those were the days.”

“They can be again.”

“...”

“...”

“Alright. Never mind the mith. You still got that innocent temple-boy getup?”

“You still have your ominous black cloak of invisibility?”

“Hells yeah, I do. Let’s go do some pest control.”

“You’re the best, Harlon.”

“I know. And don’t you ever forget it.”

—Harlon Lowe and Roland Arrow

367

Reconcile [II]

“So,” Roland began, awkwardness staining his expression, his tone, his body language. “Your Curses have been removed?”

Shiv just nodded. Despite everything, he'd achieved his main goal when it came to the Fairwoods. Sure felt hollow now, though. “And then some. Got a lot more than I bargained for. Like always. I should’ve learned by now. Should’ve learned that it doesn’t matter what I want or what I think. The System’s going to do what it always does.” But it was more than the System; the weariness in him flared. “Maybe the System’s the excuse. It never really bends anyone’s arm. Everything that happens to me is because it dangles some choices in front of people. A few levels. An evolution. An item. Greed and cruelty do the rest. That’s the way it always goes. It’s like people were born to betray themselves.”

A groan left Rose. She staggered across the room and began going through a new set of cabinets lining the walls. “Talk this depressing can't be done sober.”

While she dug through the bottles, Adam shivered in his bed. Shiv’s focus kept drifting back to his ruined friend. Adam's urge to indulge in violence was only countered—and overwhelmed—by his unchecked Awareness that continued pulling his sanity apart. With his bloodlust-drowned mind proving hazardous for any Psychomancer to enter, Adam couldn’t fall asleep, couldn’t have his burdens shifted to a stronger mind, and couldn’t find any reprieve. The layers of suffering destroyed him, and kept on destroying him.

And there was nothing Shiv could do.

“Cooking. Fighting. And then talking. Only things I was really good at. For a while, I thought I could get myself out of any situation with those skills. Between that and my Deathlessness, I was sure I could beat anyone eventually. Inevitably.” Shiv thought back to the Challenger, and a bitter laugh escaped him. “I didn’t even actually fail. Adam wanted this. I—I managed to talk the Challenger into it. I made this happen. I succeeded. And he paid for it. My victory, his blood—”

The butt of a bottle bounced off his head. Shiv turned and found Rose jabbing at him with a huge bottle of champagne. “Can you mope and drink at the same time?”

Her question left him stunned. “I can resurrect a body. I don’t even actually have a mouth right now.”

“Yeah, well, do that.” Rose Van Erren sniffled. Her eyes were puffy and red from sobbing, and her heart was a pit of deep bitterness. But she was a Pathbearer too—even in her reduced state. She knew how this life went. She knew the costs of being alive under the System. “If we’re all going to sit around and whine about shit, then I prefer to do it with, well, actual wine.”

Shiv accepted the large bottle, but didn’t feel like drinking it. Instead, he placed it atop the Red Rider’s hand—mostly as an insult; a little because he found it funny, even now. “War is war is war is… war is a table for holding drinks,” Shiv mockingly echoed its mantra.

Slowly, the right hand of war extended a single finger at him.

Yeah, this doesn’t fit the Challenger’s personality. The fucking hand definitely got that shit from me.

“Fuck you too, hand.”

Comedy 22 > 25

Adam quivered, and he whispered for someone to kill him again, adding to the incongruent atmosphere in the room. “And double fuck you, System,” Shiv added.

Comedy 25 > 26

The Red Rider’s Hand began sending him telepathic sucking noises. Because it didn’t just have to be a transplanted hand that embodied war, it also had to encapsulate the worst aspects of Shiv’s personality.

“Double fuck the System indeed,” Roland muttered, more to himself than Shiv. His head hung low, and his mood dropped lower. If Shiv was magically sedated, then Roland was literally broken. His god had fared no better against the Challenger than mere Heroes, and Roland was helpless to protect his son—even when he was there in person.

That feeling of demoralization was something they all shared: Shiv, Uva, Valor, Roland. They were all together, gathered in one room, so many Legends, Unique Heroes, even a god, and it amounted to nothing before the Challenger.

“That Farwalker I talked to might be able to do something,” Shiv said, but he couldn't muster up the strength to have hope in his own words. “He's Mythic-Tier. One of my bodies is going to go with him over to Chorus, wherever that is. Maybe I can find someone who can help us there. I talked to him about Udraal, but he said it's unlikely he’ll be interested in helping us.”

“If this Farwalker can find my son, let me know,” Valor said, his voice low and somber. “Our parting was not on good terms, but there is still something between us. Maybe if I speak to him, implore him for aid, he could be persuaded to help us.”

But Shiv doubted the world would ever be so kind. “The Usurper-Narrator gave me an offer. She said if I brought Adam back into the Fairwoods, she would feed him to the Watchtower and see the crown removed, or at least that's what she planned to do until the Challenger decided to intrude. She didn't do any better than us. He smacked the Farwalker too. Myth. Goddess. All of us were like insects.”

“No. Not entirely.” Roland's eyes burned bright and blue, and they were locked on Shiv. “I saw what happened when he reached into you. The rage took me, but I remember all that Chronomancy spilling out from you. The shape that formed behind you. The tide of slashes that tore into the Challenger. I watched him reach inside of you, and I watched something inside of you cut back and sever his arm.”

“Yeah. That.” Shiv breathed in and shot the Red Rider’s Hand a look. Its middle finger was no longer extended. “That was some weird soul fuckery I don't fully get. From what the Farwalker told me, though, it seems the Challenger stabilized my Harbinger and reached into my personal timeline, and that caused all my possible futures to align until there was one single path. Or something. Since my Chronomancy was hypercharged by the Challenger's Divinity, and he also powered the Vitae inside of me, it caused me to bleed over into him as well. I guess a future version of me—or maybe all the future versions of me—decided to bite back.”

His explanation left the others reeling. Roland looked pensive, bordering on fearful. Valor held to a state of silent contemplation—before his focus was broken by Adam wheezing and sobbing softly. Rose drank, and she picked the bottle up entirely as she dumped a flood of wine down her throat. Her reaction to Adam's pain had been the exact opposite of Valor's. She flinched and tried to build armor around her heart; the ancient lich was used to such wounds. He stared upon the mangled form of his disciple, allowing the sadness to flow in and then out of him. He was like a clean chasm, a channel for emotions to pass through.

Rose was more like a bomb, but instead of something that might break itself, Shiv could see her emotions radiating outward. She wanted a solution. She wanted it now. “Okay, so you have future selves or something. Fuck, I hate Chronomancy. It always does weird nonsensical shit like this. But since we're all desperate, we could use some weird nonsensical shit. Can you call out to your future selves or something? Can you ask them for help? If they're powerful enough to rip up a god, then maybe…”

Shiv just shook his head. “I can't do it, not without the Challenger pouring himself into me and holding my skill together. If Uva wasn't neutering my emotions right now, I'd probably shatter apart in front of you. The guilt I feel would be a terminal condition without her.”

“For fuck’s sake,” Rose snarled. She drew her arm back to throw her beverage against the wall, but then stopped herself at the last second. It was still sloshing, filled with wine. She decided that getting drunker was a bigger priority than venting her anger right now. “Okay, so from what I'm hearing, it's not impossible. We just need to lure that orc fucker back. Have him ram himself inside your skull again, and then you can have your future selves do something.”

“Yeah,” Shiv deadpanned. “I’ll think about how I can call the Challenger out for a quick rematch.”

The rage inside Rose detonated. This time, she did throw the bottle, but Roland intercepted it, catching it before it could ever strike Shiv's head. Even so, Roland, unbalanced by what happened to his son and moving in surprised haste, accidentally let the glass shatter. Wine sprayed between his fingers. A speckle of dark red soaked Shiv's armor, staining the chitin and the foodstuffs that comprised the material. Rose was on her feet again, seething openly at Shiv. Her rage was spilling out, looking for anything to latch onto. It was like a serpent, desperate to inject its venom, desperate to cast the caustic fires inside of her into someone else. Rose Van Erren wanted to go off like a bomb, but she didn't want to destroy herself. In the absence of a proper target, she would choose the next best thing.

“Absolutely fucking useless!” she snarled. “What’s the point of you? What’s the point? This is it, or what? Because it's too hard? Because it can’t be done? Because you’re sad or something? You’re giving up? We’re just going to let him suffer?”

Logically, Shiv understood her anger. From her perspective, life had been an unceasing series of brutal torment. First came her death, and what a savage death at that. Her own child was cut out of her womb by those she cared for, by the machinations of a vile Transcendent. Then she was resurrected, cast back into the world as little more than a feeble Initiate. Even after being reunited with her husband, she was cast outside, forced to contend with eldritch forces. And now her darling son, her only true surviving child, lay drenched in his own blood, stammering nothings of madness and violence.

But in the dull depths of Shiv's emotions, he was weak too. He wanted to snap back at her. Touched by something that was buried, his subconscious took on a shade of anger, and he was so insulated from his own heart that he couldn't even use his Feat to burn the skill as fuel for his Rhetoric or Psychology.

More than anything, Shiv was tranquilized by his own Harbinger, refusing to let him spiral into a whirlwind lest he descend into a fatal psychotic break, and by Uva, who stood as his pillar in this trying time.

“I don't want to let anything happen,” Shiv replied honestly, wearily. “And I'm not done. I haven't given up. I'm just…” His hands were beginning to shake again. It had been some time since he did that—some time since his old weakness took hold.

