But the thing about the past was you couldn't live there, and so Roland was wrenched back to the present, the ever-eternal now, with yesterday drifting further and further behind. “He wasn’t skilled with words, but he always made sure I knew he cared. So. I guess he was always good when it came to me, specifically.”

Shiv understood, despite all the darkness between them. Despite what Harlon and Vera had done to his wife, to his unborn daughter, to his heart, Roland still couldn’t stop loving them either.

“Yeah, I guess the inclination toward rhetoric skipped a generation. Not trying to manipulate you; I just want you to know that I do care about Adam. This isn't my Psychology or Rhetoric skill at work here. Though I am using the skills, to be honest.”

Both Roland and Rose froze, but the former scoffed after a moment. “I know. And I know Veronica too. You don't speak like her either. She bends you. She hammers you with her words until every part of you folds the other way. You, you're a lot more like water.”

A snort escaped from Shiv. He couldn't help it. “I think that's the first time anyone's ever compared me to water in my life.”

Rose rolled her eyes. “Trust me, kid, that's not special. Everyone's like water when it comes to Legend-Bitch Veronica Chandler.”

That made Shiv realize he needed to speak with the Councilwoman. Again. Who knew what the hells killing Longinus in the Fairwoods did to his Avatars back in the capital and on Integrated Earth as a whole?

“I'm sorry.” And two words from Roland pulled Shiv back to the present. He stared at Shiv with what ragged dignity and honor he could muster. “I'm sorry. I'm sorry for what I did to you. I'm sorry for what I made you go through. I'm sorry that I wasn't a stronger man. That I wasn't a more decent man. That I couldn't face the fact that you were just a child. That you were about as much of a pawn in this as I was.” The shame took hold inside Roland again. A shame so strong it had fueled his self-loathing to new heights. “I lied to myself every time I looked at you, and I did look at you plenty of times. I stood in this room, staring down from the Perch, and in the darkness of the night, after everyone was asleep aside from the sentries, I sank into my misery and hate. I imagined the unthinkable. I didn't even pray to the Starhawk, but I held prayers in my own heart toward the System. I didn't ask for my wife or daughter to be brought back. I was too wounded for that.” Rose held on to Roland tighter—ironically reminding Shiv that it was he who brought her back. “I didn't wish for more power, or to spare anyone else this tragedy, or even to understand why my best friends did this to me and what could have possibly caused them to hurt me this way. I watched you, a child, crying alone, starving, shivering, feeding off garbage and vermin in alleyways. And I wished that you would suffer a little more, just enough for you to realize that you were the sum of sin. That you deserved this. That I could have some measure of retribution, or some justice for what was done to me.”

A weird vindication washed over Shiv. “Huh, so I wasn't being paranoid. You were watching me all the time.”

“I was, and I always hoped that you died when you went down into the ruins. I didn't want to hope it, but at the same time I did.” And Roland crumbled in on himself, unable to muster more words, unable to even guide his own thoughts. There was too much passing through him. He was a nexus of discord. But still he forced it out one more time: “I’m sorry.”

“Yeah. I know.” Shiv sighed. He worked his jaw and looked around the room. “Look, as much as Adam would like us to fix whatever's going on between us, I don't think I'm that strong right now either, or at least not smart enough to resolve my own emotions. But I'm also more than my emotions, and so are you. I know why you did it. Even if it hurt me, I know why you did it. And if what happened to you happened to me…” Shiv shook his head. There was a lot there he didn't want to imagine. “I don't know who I might become or do, how bad that experience might disfigure me. Udraal made me to psychologically regenerate from any trauma, but I'm still shaped by experience, and I think there was a world where you might have been right, where you might have saved Blackedge from a monster. It probably wouldn't have taken much for me to learn the wrong lessons.”

Shiv turned and stared at Valor, who was standing a respectful distance away, with gratitude. “But I got lucky, time and time again. More than being Deathless, I got lucky, and I ran into the right people to keep me a man instead of a monster.”

Roland digested his words and let out a sigh. “It's weird for me to say, and strange for me to feel this, but despite everything between us, would you believe me if I told you I was proud of you too?”

“Uh, What? No.” Roland's words caught Shiv completely off guard. “No, I wouldn't believe you. Are you serious?”

Roland nodded without a hint of irony or self-deception. “You're still a son of Blackedge, even if we treated you ill. I'm proud of everyone who's left our town. I'm proud of you, just as I know Georges would have been to see you become this.”

In what should have been an uplifting moment, a thought hit Shiv from the flank. “Fuck. The Challenger cursed the egg too.”

“The egg?” Rose asked, incredulous. “You mean that glowing Outsider ball thing that you guys brought back with you?”

“Yeah, so, a version of Georges who was enslaved by Longinus to serve as his Avatar and got trapped in the Fairwoods with him is still stuck in that egg. If he ever comes out, he's likely going to have to deal with an orcish skill too. Also, I think the Dreamtaker's in there with him, so, uh…” Shiv shrugged, too tired to consider the ramifications. “Bring on the bullshit, I suppose.”

A long beat of silence dragged out. Adam coughed wetly and then asked for a pair of shears so that he could start flaying his own flesh free from his bones. His voice was decidedly manic, sounding closer to an orc's than his own.

Everyone pretended not to hear him.

“And I thought I went on wild adventures when I was younger,” Roland breathed. “Just what were you all up to? And in so short a time?”

Shiv couldn't help but chuckle. “We got into a lot of shit, Roland. A lifetime's worth of shit.” And then an idea struck him. An idea bit down deep into his mind and wouldn't let go. “Hey, you wanna hear about our time together?”

At that, both of Adam's parents perked up. Rose leaned in, and Roland’s mind drifted a bit further from pain.

“Well,” Rose said, “I was here for some of it, but you know what? Fill us in from the start.”

“Alright,” Shiv said. “So, one fine Eclipse Festival, this raven-faced asshole murdered me and beat Adam’s asshole until it was slanted sideways…”

“L-literally?” Roland asked, horrified.

“What? No. I’m just… I’m exaggerating—felling, just listen, alright?”
