"But she's not wrong, either—if she's at the level I think she's at, then she's more likely to get a workable result from a bumbling student than from another alchemical master. You can't always 'solve' a potion. Sometimes they need a step that's basically never been invented before and requires sheer dumb luck. Or, alternatively, students that have no idea what they're doing."

Flia's mouth opened, then closed again. "How do you even know all this?" she muttered, going back to the ingredients list and giving it a closer look. A second later, she did a double-take. "Ghostfire pollen from the Illwyld, pale petals from the Aersheld cliffs—silver dragon scales?!"

"She definitely knows what she's doing," Cale said approvingly. "And to answer your question, I tried out alchemy a couple times. It's not as fun as actual magic, though. I want spells, not potions."

Still, class was class, and the distortion storm did what he suspected, then there was a good chance he could use what he learned in this class to brew something that might help Sternkessel. Cale had encountered at least a few alchemists that had attempted exactly this back in Karmia, though they had never succeeded. Something about thresholds?

"Well, we might as well get started," Cale said. "Let's—"

Cale paused mid-sentence, his brow furrowing. He glanced at their cauldron, which was now both inexplicably full and bubbling merrily. Then he turned his gaze to Orguk.

"Orguk put in all the ingredients with the most mana," Orguk said. "Orguk thinks this will make a mana capacity amplification potion. Orguk will drink the potion when it's done, and Orguk will get lots and lots of mana."

Cale considered this for a moment.

"Well, it's not like we're short on ingredients," he said after a moment, shrugging. "Let's just see if we can't make Orstrahl empty their entire treasury, shall we?"

What Cale had feared the most about Alchemy 101 was that it might bore him.

All the other classes he'd been to had been fascinating, but even with all his practice, he'd always struggled to really get into alchemy. He saw it as little more than a basic survival tool—even the few times he managed to brew a working potion and imbibe it, something about that just felt different than casting a spell on his own.

Not that he had any problems with alchemy itself as a form of magic, of course. His own lack of affinity with it didn't mean he saw it as lesser. But what interested him most about Utelia was the Gift and its ability to adapt any kind of spell, and alchemy seemed like a magic that would have virtually no interaction with the Gift.

Cale reflected that he should probably have known better than to worry about this, considering Professor Rinkle's personality. The ingredients they were using were exactly the sort of bizarre and eclectic collection that fascinated him, and more than half of them required specialty spellwork just to handle them. No wonder she'd said this would take all term.

In the first few minutes alone, Professor Rinkle had them learn [Iron Grip]—a necessity for handling dartaway petals, which did exactly as their name described—and [Divide], which was a simple cutting spell that was practically a requirement for handling some sort of specialty pollen that would explode violently if not split exactly in half.

Cale was pretty sure he could evolve [Iron Grip] into some sort of kneading spell. For baking, obviously. He would have tried it, too, if Orguk hadn't taken to the spell with an alarming sort of ferocity. He seemed to take the failure of their first attempted brew quite personally, probably because it exploded in his face within the first couple of seconds.

Professor Rinkle had stepped in before it could do any harm, fortunately, and then she had praised him for attempting to try something new, then warned him not to deviate that much from the instructions.

Probably fair, really.

Still, he learned a lot about handling Utelian ingredients over the next half-hour or so. He even innovated, in a manner of speaking!

"Cale," Flia said nervously. "You do realize that's demon-molt that you're handling, right?"

"Yes?" Cale glanced down at the cocoon-like object he was currently stirring into the cauldron. It had stopped shrieking a while ago, thankfully. "Why?"

"I'm just making sure you read the part of the ingredients handling list where it specifies that demon-molt kills you if you don't sing to it," Flia said tightly.

"Oh, that." Cale shrugged. "They only kill you if they think you're weak. I told this one I blew up the eighth realm and it stopped shrieking pretty quickly."

Flia stared down at the cocoon, which was currently visibly trembling instead of performing the death-shriek it was supposed to. "Ah," she said after a moment, her voice strained.

You have learned [Shrivel]!

[Shrivel, Level 1] [First Tier, Active] [5 Mana]

Shrink to appear non-threatening.

"Huh," Cale said. "Didn't know demon molts could cast spells. I wonder if they're alive."

"They are very sophisticated magical constructs, but they are not alive," Professor Rinkle said, her voice filtering in through the wards to speak to them privately. "I would never use them as an ingredient if they were. But the potion must be happy, not terrified! Perhaps you should sing to it anyway?"

Cale made a face. "No thanks. I've tried that before," he said. "Trust me, that would not make the potion happy."

He glanced back over the ingredients they'd been provided thoughtfully. There was something else that was interesting about them. Professor Rinkle didn't actually have a complete inventory of all the ingredients she provided—the Orstrahl Kingdom had mixed in a number of unknown herbs with the shipment, apparently.

The cabinets were all magically linked together and she hadn't had time to sort them further, so instead she'd warned them not to use anything that wasn't explicitly labeled, since they had no idea what they were. She would, she warned, be watching.

"You must know your potions from within," Professor Rinkle had repeated emphatically. "Adding something you don't know or understand means you do not, and an alchemist cannot control what they don't understand."

"Well," Cale said, eyeing the ingredients thoughtfully. "That's all well and good, but..."

He did, in fact, recognize several of these. Some were things that could only be obtained from the Abyss, so no wonder Professor Rinkle hadn't been able to identify them. That said a lot about Orstrahl's connections.

More importantly, several of these ingredients were supposed to be extinct. Cale remembered more than one campaign sent out across the realms to destroy them all, mostly because they could be used to brew potions that could counteract some of the most dangerous magicks from the Planar War.

If he used these right, there was a chance he'd be able to use them to brew something that would mess with a lot of the Red Hunters' leverage.

"Professor Rinkle," Cale said, slowly grinning. "I think I'd like to request your permission to experiment."
