“Corporate phone, if you want to use it,” her Tech explained. “It’s trackable through our corporate account with Apple. You will also have a corporate email tied to us. However, you can add your own if you know how. The iTunes account there has access to our entire catalogue, plus the usual fare.”

“That’s amazing,” Eppie hugged the phone to her chest. “Thank you so much!”

“You don’t mind being tracked by the company?” Eric raised a brow. “They can check your email, you know. Can they access her photos, Johan?”

“Absolutely,” Mueller nodded. “These are sponsorship phones. We give these to our performers as part of the digital record promotions. Is that going to be a problem?”

“She’s a teenage girl,” Eric’s eyes darted between them. “What if…”

“I am NOT going to do that, Eric,” she held her phone like a short, balding midget from Middle-earth. A corporate phone! A phone with unlimited calls and data plans! Privacy be damned. “The precious is mine!”

The men laughed.

“Just be careful," Eric turned the phone box over and over in his hand, his Blackberry burning a hole in his pocket. “Some tech from Sony is probably going to know where you live, and where you go for fun. That’s… is that acceptable?”

Knowing her future business with the cast of potential villains from LAPA, Eppie actually preferred a trackable phone that a global conglomerate kept an eye on. On the matter of phones, however…

“Actually, Mr Mueller, I have another request,” she expertly turned on the phone and began the setup process, surprising her lawyer, tech, and guitarist. “I have an old phone, very old. Sony Ericsson. It isn’t powering on, but I really need something I recorded on the 15 mb hard drive. Contact lists… a song, I think. Do you think it can be retrieved?”

“Not if the data is overwritten," Mueller remarked. “New song, you say?”

“Well, an old idea.” Eppie fluttered her eyes innocently. “Can you help?”

“You do realise Sony Pictures isn’t Sony Electronics,” Mueller snorted at her attempt to extort him with cuteness. Even so, both Eric and Antonio looked smitten. “Else they’ll be giving out the new Xperias.”

“Pleeeeeease? There may be a new song… a wonderful new song… on that ”

Mueller’s lips failed to fight their curling. “Alright, I know a guy. Eric, can you play the middle man? Guy lives all the way in Santa Monica. Not a great place for Eppie to frequent. It’s a repair shop; he works forensics for the FBI. Don’t ask me how I know him. Leave the phone with him. Knowing his workload, you’re looking at four to six weeks. Is that acceptable?”

“YES!” Eppie clapped as the setup of her new phone concluded with the Welcome screen.

“Good, he’s not cheap either, but you should be able to write it off as an essential expense,” Mueller said. “Now, before you lose focus—get back in there and sing!”

She sang with all her heart, and the rest was history, culminating in her new phone. She still had her old phone, but this one had all her familiar apps, as well as the direct corporate extensions of Eric Lee, Johan Mueller, and Frederick Curon.

“Next time,” Mueller said seriously. “Use the secure mail, and send your ideas straight to the Director.”

“And he’s going to listen?” Eppie was surprised they had so much faith in her. “You’re promising some pretty exclusive access. I am just a kid, remember?”

“Are you really? No, never mind. What does that matter?” Mueller looked at her like a man marvelling at a particularly unusual catch. After all, the man had flown from NYC to LA just to tune her track. “Just know that usually, he isn’t a patient man, though for you, your contribution has made him very patient indeed.”

Eppie was home a quarter of an hour before the cutoff, though Josefina was far more accommodating when she had a man from Newfoundland to flirt with for five minutes while she snuck upstairs.

A few minutes later, she came down with the broken phone, and Eric bid them farewell.

Her two roommates were still wide awake, having returned home from their families in the early afternoon, and badgered her until all four sat in the kitchen, listening to her new song around the dinner table.

“I should have gone.” Halle was paralysed with regret. “Even if I had to disobey my mum, I should have gone.”

Ava merely immersed herself in the music, moving her dancer’s body now and then to mime the brush strokes. She did not lament missing the famous soundstage. Her Jewish parents would not have allowed it, and that was that.

After the third or fourth replay, the women listened with their hands on their laps, eyes closed, soaking in the ekphrastic liminality of her mortal melody.

“Aeee… that Antonio… qué bárbaro. He plays like he is trying to steal your soul, like he is whispering in your ear. Tienen química, Eppie. He makes you sound older, but he also makes you sound like a ghost… Did you say he was handsome?”

“Exceedingly handsome,” Eppie chose not to mention Antonio’s height. “He was in all black, black snakeskin pants, black shirt, black hair, black goatee.”

Josefina made the sign of the cross.

The girls fell about laughing, breaking the melancholic tension.

“Alright, girls. To bed. Next week will be very busy indeed.”
