Aliandra

Ali followed along, bringing her summoned monsters prowling beside her as they picked their way through the dark, bone-littered area of the cavern. Calen had surprisingly sharp eyes, easily calling out the skeletons hidden in the darkness well before any of the others could spot them, saving them time and again from deadly surprises.

With each skeleton that crawled, clacking and creaking out of cracks in the walls or from behind decaying trees, her terror rose anew as she struggled to shed the fear and helplessness of that night fleeing from monsters through the deserted streets of Dal’mohra.

Malika tanked with gritty determination and resilience, withstanding the onslaught of the undead monsters with her body and her healing magic while Ali strove to kill them as fast as she could manage. And each time one died; she felt the rush of pure relief once again. She hated the skeletons, but at least she was no longer fleeing them in abject terror.

“Looks like a cave entrance up ahead,” Calen said quietly.

Ali stared ahead, squinting as she tried to pierce the gloom, but all she could see were shadows. It wasn’t until they had walked about halfway there that she finally made out the darker outline that marked the jagged gap in the rocky wall. A cool, dry breeze wafted out from the opening, carrying the smell of stone and just a hint of something burnt.

“Shall we explore it?” Calen asked.

“Yes, let’s go see what’s in there,” Malika agreed. “Though, if it’s a bunch of skeletons together, we run. One is my limit, I think.”

“I’m game,” Mato said.

“Ok.” Ali added her vote, trying to ignore the fluttering in her belly.

“Ok, let’s go,” Malika said.

Ali crept toward the entrance, keeping behind the others, barely breathing as she tried not to make a sound. There was a tense moment as Calen’s Mote of Light drifted through the jagged opening, slowly illuminating the interior of a cave that probably hadn’t seen light in thousands of years.

She gasped; her breath caught abruptly by the sudden bands of tightness that clamped across her chest.

The cave was not particularly large, but the ground was littered with a thick layer of broken bones. Huge heaps of bone lay piled up against the walls as if blown there by some violent squall, gleaming a bleached white under the radiance of Calen’s floating magic. At the back of the cave, a small stone-paved square of ground remained mysteriously clear, and in the center was a black hole leading somewhere below.

Guarding the hole was a skeleton.

Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 9

It had no legs. Instead, its torso loomed nearly three meters above the coils of what must have been a long tail on the ground – now naked vertebrae and ribs. It had an elongated skull with giant protruding fangs, and four arms held four rusty scimitars. An eerie scraping pierced the silence as the Naga skeleton shifted, dragging bone across the rough stone paving.

“Armand…” Ali gasped, choking on the sudden lump in her throat.

Malika

A chill settled into the pit of Malika’s stomach as she stared at the monstrous skeleton looming large in the center of the small cave. It was some kind of four-armed Naga that stood nearly ten feet tall even with most of its body still draped across the ground.

The skeletons outside this cave hit unbelievably hard, and she was immensely grateful for her Enlightened Evasion and Soul Armor skills – and the fact that, so far, they had only encountered them solo. Taking on more than one skeleton simultaneously was simply out of the question, she had to heal continuously to tank just one. And annoying as he sometimes was, she had to admit that Mato’s ridiculous skill that allowed him to take damage for her whenever she was in trouble, had saved her several times already.

But this thing was enormous. This is going to be tough.

“Armand…” Ali said, with a sudden hitch in her voice that caught Malika’s attention instantly, making her heart lurch.

“Ali?”

But Ali was unresponsive, her eyes glued to the monster, her body trembling.

Gently Malika placed a hand on her shoulder, and Ali startled, her head snapping around to stare at her. Malika could see the tears welling up.

“Somebody you knew?” Malika asked, trying to keep her voice as gentle as possible.

“Armand,” Ali said, swallowing hard. “He… he was a dear friend who saved my life.”

“We need to kill that,” Mato said, his lips curled back like a wolf or bear tasting something foul.

“But…” Ali said, her voice sounding tiny and brittle.

“That’s not your friend anymore,” Mato said, his voice softening.

Ali looked like she was about to shatter.

“I have to agree with Mato, Ali,” Malika said, crouching down to look her in the eyes. “That thing in there is a monster wearing the bones of your friend. Armand is long gone. We should kill it and release your friend’s remains so he can be with his ancestors in the spirit realm. Just like we did with Donavan.”

“Ok,” Ali said, sniffing, clearly struggling to hold back her tears.

Malika stood, readying herself. “Mato, I’m going to need a lot of help with this one.”

“I got you covered,” he said.

“Hold up,” Calen cautioned.

Malika glanced at the Half-elf as he stared at the monster with narrowed eyes.

“My Explorer skill is identifying it as a dungeon boss,” he said.

Malika’s notification sounded like a strangely hollow gong in her head as Calen shared his skill.

Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 9

[Explorer]Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: GroupMonster Type: UndeadDamage: Physical

A chill ran down her spine. The regular skeletons had hit hard enough. How much harder will a boss hit? And it was level nine.

“What’s a boss?” Ali asked quietly in the darkness.

“A monster that is stronger than normal,” Malika explained. “Adventurers have categories of threat. Bosses are usually found in dungeons, and usually require a group of adventurers to defeat.”

“How many in a group?”

“Four to six, depending on levels, strength, and classes,” Malika replied, glancing over to Calen to confirm. The truth was somewhat worse though – bosses were supposed to require excellent team coordination in addition to simple numbers.

“I still think we should try to kill it,” Mato said. “The undead are abominations against nature. They spread blight and death and nothing good will come of us leaving it here.”

He certainly hates the undead, she thought. But she was inclined to agree with him, if it were not for the extreme danger, she would also choose to destroy it.

“Perhaps we can test it, and if it seems too dangerous, we retreat?” Calen said. “With Ali’s summoned monsters, we’re quite a strong party, but if it’s too strong we could level up a bit more and come back later.”

“I could go for the ‘try it and run away’ plan,” Malika answered. “What about you Ali? Are you ok?”

“I’ll be ok,” Ali said. “Let me summon another rat.”

“Ok, same plan as usual,” Malika said, waiting for Ali to finish her summoning before she turned and entered the cave.

The four-armed Naga skeleton turned at the sound of her footsteps, its bones and swords clanking discordantly in the enclosed space. A whisper of wind rose from the dark hole in the ground, bringing with it the smell of dusty catacombs and a hint of acrid brimstone.

She hadn’t taken more than two steps before the monster rushed at her, crossing the bone-covered ground with an incredible burst of speed, brandishing all four swords. She dodged left. Three powerful overhead swings whipped past her face, sending chips of bone and dirt flying, and her heart racing. Malika spun, unleashing a spinning kick empowered with her Soul Strike to land her first attack on its lower ribs with a flash that briefly overpowered Calen’s light.

She dodged a fourth horizontal slash and stepped further into the cave, positioning the monster where Ali’s summons and Mato could easily reach it. She punched it a second time and everyone engaged as if the brief clash had stung them into motion, unleashing a light show of magic and arrows and the sudden din of combat that rang loudly in the close confines of the small cave.

Not so bad, she thought as she lined up another attack.

In that moment, the skeleton’s swords all glowed with a dull red light and suddenly she was flying across the cave to slam into the wall with a stunning impact. She coughed once, half of her health ripped away in an instant by the sword that had cleaved clean through her chest. She slid down the wall, struggling for breath with the tattered bloody remnants of her lungs, and landed with a crash in a pile of bones. Urgently she channeled her mana to heal herself as a sense of impending doom settled upon her.

Out in the center of the cave, the swords glowed again, slashing viciously. Mato’s heavy fur-covered body slammed into the wall with a thump that reverberated in the cave. A dense wave of his red mist of rage billowed out from his battered and bleeding body. An instant later, Ali’s wolf flew across the cave, bisected by the sword slash, landing with a splat in two gruesome bloody pieces.

We’re going to die. The colossal magnitude of their mistake hit her like a gut punch of absolute certainty.

“Run!” she croaked, coughing up left-over blood as her brain struggled to catch up with the whiplash of having her lungs ripped out and then nearly instantly repaired.

Over at the cave entrance, something flickered like a dark shadow crossing the sun. A deafening thunderclap reverberated off the rocky walls, and Malika blinked at the sudden afterimage of a shadowed figure blurring across the ground with a silver spear pointing forward. A silver flash heralded an explosion of bone, and the pieces of the giant Naga skeleton rained down across the entire cavern.

Your group has defeated Skeletal Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 9.

What the fuck? She stared uncomprehendingly as rusty scimitars clanged against the stone with bone fragments clattering down beside them.

A shrouded, hooded figure clad in black leather stood where the skeleton had been, holding a glowing steel spear casually in his left hand. A premonition of danger knotted Malika’s gut at the sound of a gloating chuckle rising from a second figure entering the cave.

“No more running for you, little rat.” It was Edrik’s voice, dripping with his sadistic glee.

Which means… she looked back at the shrouded figure as he dropped his hood, revealing his face.

Fuck! The knot in the pit of her stomach froze in an instant.

She instantly recognized Kieran Mori, leader of the Town Watch, and Adrik and Edrik’s boss. The man known as ‘Sudden Death’.

And lurking behind Adrik and Edrik at the entrance was another shadowed figure that Malika recognized.

Tala.

It was abundantly clear to Malika, in that moment, exactly what had happened. Tala had sold her out, betraying her to the thugs of the Town Watch, and by the contented look on her face, she was the one who stood to gain the most from her death.

“Let me show you what it means to betray us, little rat,” Edrik said, stepping forward with his sword already drawn.

Malika watched her executioner limber up his arm as he strode across the bone-littered gap separating them. It would not even be a contest. She knew he was over level twenty, and he would take her choosing a Monk class as a personal insult. The sword blurred towards her.

I wish I had gotten more time.

Before the sword strike landed, a blur of red mist and muscle slammed heavily into Edrik’s side, knocking him sideways and drawing a surprised grunt, stopping him as suddenly as if he had run headlong into a wall. Mato stood there; four paws planted as his huge bulk blocked Edrik’s advance. He roared his rage, spraying pink-tinged foam from his mouth.

Malika gawped, stunned. Why? It was a hopeless battle; all he was going to achieve was getting himself killed as well. Her eyes took in the scene, as if in slow motion; Edrik slowly getting to his feet, his face twisted in murderous anger, Mato looming between them, blood gushing from the grievous sword wound the skeleton had inflicted, his cloying mist of rage billowing from his body.

As Edrik charged, Malika reacted. She reached out her hand and touched Mato’s back, unleashing as much of her mana and stamina into her Healing Mantra as possible.

Live! She screamed it in her mind as her magic tore through his body in a rush of desperate healing the instant before Edrik’s sword lifted him from the ground and tossed him across the room. The bear slammed into Ali’s tiny body and, with a loud crash and a startled yelp, suddenly both of them were gone.

“Edrik, you’re ruining the merchandise,” Kieran said, his voice glacially calm.

Edrik immediately halted, as if frozen in place. “Sorry, boss.”

“Now secure the rest before we lose any more. Without that Fae, it will be hard to turn a profit from this fiasco.”

His cold eyes swiveled and settled on Malika. Her vision faded to black as an intense pain blossomed through the back of her head. She hadn’t even seen when Kieran Mori had moved.

Aliandra

The sword flared with an angry red searing light as it arced around in a vicious empowered strike. It bit into Mato’s flank with a sickening crunch, spraying crimson blood into the air, and a force so powerful that it lifted the entire mass of the bulky bear into the air, tossing him across the room flailing like a ragdoll.

Ali stared, dumbfounded, at the sight of a bear growing rapidly larger as it hurtled through the air toward her, her mind unhelpfully reminding her of the physics of the situation, and how Mato outweighed her several times over. Too late, she tried to run, but Mato’s body struck the ground right in front of her, bounced almost a meter into the air, and then collided with her tiny frame. Something crunched. The impact knocked the wind from her lungs, throwing her across the darkness of the hole to crash into the rocky wall behind it. She felt a sharp jolt of pain as her head cracked against the rock, followed by the sickening lurch of weightlessness. In her daze, she desperately tried to process the yawning expanse of empty darkness below her feet.

Falling!

Her body flailed, feeling strangely languid as the echoes of the impact pounded through her dazed mind. Panic clamped her chest.

Think!

The smooth walls of a stone shaft whipped by in a blur as she and the dim bulky outline that was Mato plummeted into the dark unknown, and in that moment her muddled thoughts suddenly sharpened into crystal clarity.

I’m going to die.

