In desperation, Ali reached for her mana; stretching out a hand below her, she summoned a barrier. For one brief moment, it shone out with the bright golden glow of hope, banishing the darkness. Her body smacked into it with a bone-jarring stop, radiating a spiderweb of cracks through the magical surface. Her respite was fleeting; Mato’s enormous bulk crashed down on top of her, shattering the barrier into tiny glowing shards and splinters of spent magic.

She fell.

Forcing the pain and shock of the double impact aside, Ali summoned a second barrier. But the sheer momentum of her and Mato’s fall shattered the barrier instantaneously, filling the stone shaft with golden light, and drawing her terrified attention to the endless darkness below.

She cast it again.

Desperately, she burned her mana, casting and recasting barriers as they smashed their way through her golden magic in a precipitous descent of exploding shards and jarring pain. Somehow, Mato managed to twist his bulky form so that he was below her, taking most of the impact instead of her. She clung to his blood-soaked fur with all her pitiful strength, while she chain-cast her barriers, heedless of the cost.

With a loud, sudden thump, Mato collided with something solid and stopped. Ali bounced off of his furry stomach and landed in a painful heap on the cold stone floor at the bottom of the shaft, stunned and dazed, watching the shards of her broken magic slowly rain down on them like fading golden snowflakes while she struggled to breathe. Something inside her had broken. Her body ached, her head was throbbing, her breathing was agony, and she had spent nearly all her mana.

Health: 12/100

Mato groaned beside her as his form twisted and morphed back into his normal body.

Alive.

The word drifted around her stunned mind for a while before it began to make any kind of sense. How am I alive? Somehow, that crazy stunt with her barriers had slowed their descent enough that the landing at the bottom had not left them as splattered bloodstains on stone.

Although she felt like she would have preferred to be pushed down a mountain.

Mustering her scant remaining strength, Ali willed her bruised and battered body to move. She winced at the jab of pain in her side.

Whatever broke in there must have been important.

She bled freely from several cuts, and likely, her entire body was one large bruise. Slowly, she sat up and glanced around, trying to grasp what had happened, and where she was.

By the fading light of the last remnants of her barrier magic, her eyes took in an area of dust-covered, fitted flagstones, and the unmistakable precision and artistry of Dwarven stonework in the walls of the dark chamber they had landed in. As her gaze searched across the stone room, she suddenly froze. There, staring back at her from the darkness, she found three sets of glowing red eyes.

A flicker of flame sprang up in the darkness, its red glow lighting an outstretched taloned and scaled hand. The flames intensified, condensing into an angry orange-red ball hovering in the air. Her instincts screamed at her to flee. Dancing reddish light grew stronger, illuminating a blunt reptilian face. The scent of smoke and flame, and the sounds of crackling and sizzling filled the room.

“Mato!” she shouted, her voice cracking with panic and urgency. She spent the dregs of her mana to summon one last barrier between them and the high-speed ball of fire that shot out across the room.

The fireball shattered her barrier in a deafening detonation of flame and heat. Like a ragdoll, her body was tossed by the concussion wave of force and heat and slammed into the beautiful dwarven stonework. She slid down to the ground, ears ringing and lungs burning as she struggled to breathe in the suddenly scorching air.

Still alive? I’ll never doubt Malika again. Every point of vitality was worth it…

Dimly, she heard Mato’s yell twisting strangely into a roar as he transformed into his Bear Form. The burns and scorch marks down the side of his body were so severe in places that the white of his ribs could be seen through the burnt flesh – a gruesome testament to the power of the monster’s fire magic. Did he take some of my damage too? Smoke from the flame mingled with the red mist of his rage as Mato tore across the room and collided with the monsters with a display of aggression and savagery that shocked her to the core. For once, Ali was grateful for Mato’s eagerness to dive into battle, but his demeanor and the density of the red mist flowing around his body told her just how severely he must have been burned.

Why is this happening? She wanted to wake up, run away, or do anything to make this stop. But she couldn’t. No matter how much she wanted it, the air still burned in her lungs, and her head still throbbed with searing pain.

Instead, her mind clung to the memory of Malika’s calm voice coaching her through their first battle together, and the torrent of panic settled just a little.

Ali drew a deep breath. What can I do? She wouldn’t be effective if she didn’t at least understand what she was facing – she was not Mato, someone who could just wade in and figure it out on the fly. Using Identify, she examined the monsters engaged in brutal melee with Mato.

Mage – Kobold – level 9Rogue – Kobold – level 8Warrior – Kobold – level 8

Kobolds! Her panic immediately loomed larger when she saw just how high their levels were. I’m five and Mato is only level three! Urgently, she rechecked her mana while Mato roared his challenge, but it would be a while before she could regenerate enough to be of any help to him.

The warrior was a little bigger than the other two, standing perhaps a little over a meter tall, covered with dense green scales that gleamed in the flickering light of the still-burning remnants of flame strewn across the room and dripping down the walls. The Kobold’s swings and jabs with its rusty sword were deft and quick as it darted back and forth, balanced well on taloned feet and a sturdy tail. Short, sharp white horns protruded from its head and a row of sharp fangs lined its mouth, lending it a monstrous, almost draconic appearance, while its reptilian red eyes were filled with malicious cunning as it focused on dodging Mato’s wild swings and slicing at him from the side.

“Mato! Use your heal!” Ali yelled, realizing that he was already so far gone in his rage that he had forgotten to activate his healing skill yet again. To her intense relief, the greenish flicker of his magic activated on his swipe and his wounds began to recover slowly.

Thank goodness, she thought. She had been terrified that he was too far in the rage to hear her.

The smaller, black-scaled Kobold chittered in a high-pitched call, darting out of the shadows to flank Mato with uncanny speed. Using its black scales and blackened leather armor to great effect in the shadows, it buried two daggers in his back before he could even react. Mato roared in pain and lashed out with his claws, but the Kobold rogue deftly sidestepped, dodging back in to make another attack. The green-scaled warrior in front of him slashed across his shoulder with its sword, taking advantage of the sudden distraction.

The malevolent red Fire Mage, however, was the one that terrified Ali the most. It hung back at the far side of the room, fixing its glowing eyes on Mato and summoning its fire once more. Its claws gleamed in the intensifying light of the flames it conjured and the walls of the room began to flicker with dancing shadows. With a cold certainty, Ali knew that if that fireball hit Mato, it would all be over.

She cast around the room, desperately looking for something, anything. But there was nothing to even throw, not that she could throw anything effectively. She racked her brains, frantically searching, when suddenly a flash of inspiration came to her. She reached out towards the mana she was still reserving to support the rats left behind in the cavern above and with a painful wrench, she broke the connection. It wasn’t much, but it was all she had.

“Mato, mage!” she yelled, unleashing an arc of glowing arcane bolts at the red-scaled Kobold who was still summoning his fire magic. Mato clearly heard her because he broke off the engagement with the warrior and rogue, and with a burst of speed from his skill, charged at the mage. The instant he moved; the fireball flew from the Kobold’s outstretched claws. With reactions born from sheer desperation, Ali summoned a barrier between them with some of her precious remaining mana, angled to deflect the imminent inferno.

The violent explosion rocked the room, filling it with smoke, flying gobs of fire, and the glowing shards of Ali’s shattered barrier. The blowback from the fireball knocked the Kobold mage rolling head over heels across the stone floor. The concussive explosion tore further wounds along Mato’s shoulders and flanks, but much to her relief, Ali’s barrier had blunted the bulk of the explosion, and he still stood.

He swayed a little.

Ali fired Arcane Bolts into the downed Kobold mage while it scrambled to regain its feet in the aftermath of the explosion, but to her horror, Ali’s mana dried up and the mage immediately began summoning more fire.

No! Her barrier had cost most of the mana she had regained – she had nothing left to stop him.

In that moment, Mato descended on the downed Kobold, pounding it senseless with a mighty swipe of his forepaw. Then his jaws closed on its neck, shaking it, and tossing the creature against the wall, where it fell limp and lifeless to the stone floor. The half-cast fireball careened off into the corner and detonated, spraying fire across half the room. Several flaming gobs landed on her, burning through her clothing and searing her arm and both legs. Ali hissed in pain as her vision dimmed briefly, coming back in a wave of dizziness.

Mato still tangled with the rogue and the warrior while bleeding profusely from dozens of severe stab wounds and gashes, but Ali was completely out of mana again. Helpless without her spells, and terrified of being noticed and attacked, she sprinted unsteadily across the room to the corpse of the Kobold mage and began to deconstruct it. Seconds ticked by like dripping molasses as Ali watched the rogue’s daggers repeatedly stabbing Mato while his healing magic struggled and failed to keep up with the onslaught. The ground was slick with blood and Ali had never seen his misty aura so dense and red. He was spitting foam and blood from his mouth as his attacks became more and more erratic and violent. Fresh smoke rose from his burns, and the room was filled with the stench of partially cooked flesh, burnt fur, and sulfur.

Finally, after seemingly forever, her spell finished with the rush of mana filling her pool. Immediately, she summoned a Barrier to block the rogue’s dagger strikes and cast her Grasping Roots to lock it in place, giving Mato some room to maneuver. However, Mato ignored the rogue, slashing at her barrier with his claws instead.

“What are you doing? Move!” Ali yelled. But Mato simply growled and tried to bite her magic, dripping bloody froth all over the barrier.

He can’t hear me anymore, she realized, releasing her barrier so that it wouldn’t distract him further. Instead, she channeled her mana into her Arcane Bolts and fired them as fast as she could at the rogue, deciding that it was by far the most dangerous of the two remaining Kobolds. Ali emptied the rest of her mana into the rogue, finally dropping it right as she ran dry with Mato landing the final attack, able to connect with a swipe because her roots were interfering with its ability to dodge.

Ali left Mato to deal with the remaining warrior. Dodging gobs of fire, her feet slipping on the blood-soaked flagstones, she ran back across the chamber to the corpse of the rogue and began to Deconstruct it. As she urged her magic to somehow work faster, she kept glancing at the brutal fight unfolding before her, checking on Mato, hoping she would be done before he succumbed to his grievous injuries. Even his eyes were beginning to glow red, and the dense mist around him seemed to be pulsing with an ominous heartbeat. He knocked the warrior back with a powerful attack, taking a deep cut on the shoulder from its sword. Lost to the rage of his Berserker magic, he simply ignored the ugly wound.

Ali was forced to look on, helpless to intervene, while her magic continued to dissolve the corpse at her feet.

As soon as it finished, she immediately poured her mana into Arcane Bolt, and the stream of magic slammed into the warrior, sending green scales flying. Anxiously, she watched her mana dwindle as the bolt stream curved across the room. Suddenly, and with an anticlimactic swoon, the remaining Kobold collapsed to the sound of a soft chime going off in her mind.

Ali sunk to the ground too, exhausted, burned, and in extreme pain. Mato continued growling and shaking the corpse of the warrior.

“Stop it, Mato, it’s dead,” she said, exhaustion and the aftermath of shock and adrenaline finally crashing down on her.

Mato turned gleaming red eyes on her and roared, suddenly charging at her. She screamed in sudden panic and created a barrier at the last moment. His large frame slammed into it, spraying blood across the golden surface. He roared and attacked the barrier, biting it repeatedly.

“Mato! Stop!” she shouted, the panic making her voice crack. He was completely out of control. She scrambled backward along the ground in her haste to escape the enraged bear. His heavy paw smacked into the floating barrier, shattering it into tiny floating golden shards.

Her eyes opened wide with shock, and she screamed as the huge bear charged her. She summoned another barrier, but all she got was a fitful puff of golden glitter that bounced off his snarling muzzle. His foaming jaws bit down on her ankle with a sickening crunch. Her tiny body was no match for his power as he shook her back and forth. Her ankle snapped with a loud crack, a surge of incredible pain, and with a dizzying lurch her vision faded to black.
