“It is, Your Grace,” Gan Guangli said. “Following our encounter with the lights, we faced one last obstacle, a glacial valley home to three higher realm spirits of wind and winter. After Baroness Ling and Sir Meng scried the paths, we were able to bypass two of the spirits, and the Baroness successfully used her understanding of such spirits to negotiate a safe path through the territory of the third. In the valley beyond, we found a mountain of iron in the shape of a man and met the scouting force of our hosts.”

Cai Renxiaing raised her head again, and Ling Qi swallowed as the glittering radiance cast by the woman on the throne fell upon them.

“Gan Guangli does not exaggerate when he speaks of a mountain,” Cai Renxiang said. “It was over two kilometers in height, and to all of my senses, composed of a strangely alloyed iron.”

“Later, we would learn that this was a result of their method of cultivation,” Ling Qi said, following off of her liege’s words. “Those who achieve the higher realms become more akin to ancestors providing shelter, protection, and wisdom, rather than interacting directly in temporal matters.”

They had discussed the best way to present the White Sky’s method of government and approach to cultivation, and they had decided on this version to avoid more negative impressions. It wasn’t really a lie or even a misdirection, just a careful choice of words.

“Such a method seems deeply at odds with that of the tribesmen,” said a Jia officer with pinched features. “You have seen proof that it was not merely a strange spirit?”

“I was allowed to meet with the religious leader overseeing the settlement, who was a fifth realm. They were strange but still obviously human,” Ling Qi replied carefully. A flick of Cai Shenhua’s hand silenced further questions for the moment. “I was able, using the shard of iron and the songs taught to me by my mentor, to establish that we had arrived with peaceful intentions, and we were brought into the iron mountain to meet the Emissary in charge of the day-to-day operations of the fortress.”

Ling Qi took a breath here, preparing herself for the more important part of the narration. “The woman in question was the same one who had given me the shard. When I call her ‘emissary,’ it is her actual title. We learned that among them, there is a specific caste of priests and diplomats who bear the blessings of powerful ice spirits. I was given the shard because she believed me to be a junior member of a lost bloodline who was in need of rescue.”

“Fortune can truly be strange,” Cai Shenhua said, her gaze burning on the back of Ling Qi’s neck. Sweat gathered on her brow. “But then again, one needs a certain good fortune to advance as you have.”

“The Baroness is indeed fortunate,” Meng Diu spoke up. “It seems likely that the great spirits have their plans.”

Several of the other Meng gave Meng Diu sidelong looks, but none gainsaid her. Some of the more traditionally garbed among the courtiers and clan attaches were looking at Ling Qi assessingly.

“Plans in line with my efforts, no less.” The Duchess chuckled throatily. “Will wonders never cease. Continue, then. How did the initial negotiations go?”

“We were brought to a hastily prepared meeting room in the entrance hall of their fortress, likely out of security concerns.” Cai Renxiang took up the speech as Ling Qi fell silent and tried to maintain composure under everyone’s scrutiny. “There, we met with the Emissary and her husband, the son of one the allied khans of the south.”

They had to get this part out of the way.

“We learned there that there are a number of cloud tribes who have begun to abandon their old modes of living in the far south as encouraged by the White Sky, who are in the process of integrating them. This marriage was an example of that, and their presence at the caldera event was an effort to convince other tribes to do so as well.”

“Integration is all well and good, but I must wonder at their wisdom in letting new tribesmen hold such prominence. In my experience, it takes generations to beat the banditry out of them,” one of the Wang generals said. “How in the world do they ensure good behavior?”

“If anything, Sir Wang does not go far enough with his suspicions,” a man in Diao colors said with a grimace. “The Wang clan’s methods are experimental. That these people would accept tribesmen on such a level very much undermines the narrative you are trying to construct, young miss.”

There was further back and forth, and on her throne, Shenhua was silent. Ling Qi’s eyes remained on her liege’s back as the volume began to grow.

“Honored lords and ladies of the Court,” Cai Renxiang said loudly and forcefully over the growing noise. “I feel it is necessary to remind you that the Wall is wide and that there are many tribes within it. The tribes of the far south have often never heard more than stories of the Empire. They are as often victims of their fellows, as anything else. Did I not say that they were only being encouraged to abandon their ways rather than being forced to?”

Several individuals looked indignant at being spoken over, but Cai Shenhua’s warm laughter silenced any retort. Ling Qi squeezed her eyes shut as the pounding in her head grew with the light shining from the throne, and she shuddered to remember the half-dreamed glimpse of that radiance unmasked.

“Speak, Cai Renxiang. I would hear your thoughts uninterrupted,” the Duchess said, and despite her earlier laugh, the words were spoken with utmost seriousness, reverberating in the air to silence and embedding themselves like nails in her mind and drowning out even the faintest whisper of other sound.

“I will not speak in defense of the tribes which have brought pain and ruin to the people of the Emerald Seas since time immemorial,” Renxiang said. “But these are not those people. You have heard the breadth of our journey, more than ten thousand miles through mountains, valleys, and spirits. These tribes were not among the hosts of Ogodei. It is as foolish to judge them by their kin as it is to judge any of the great clans by the bonds of blood they share with the hated Hui. I will not say that our host’s methods are perfect, but from what I was able to observe, they have found security, expansion, and profit together from this integration. The tribes have safety and civilization, and the Confederation of White Sky has found a great pool of warriors and hunters with which to tame their hinterlands. We must be watchful, but to dismiss a nation because of this is something I cannot countenance, Your Grace.”

That… had not been wholly planned. Ling Qi could hear bits and pieces of their planned speech in there, but the composition was off the cuff.

“Passionately said, my daughter,” Cai Shenhua said as the last echo of the words faded, the inhuman reverberations gone from her voice. “As a matter of principle, I agree. Hasty judgement in a matter of this magnitude is… unacceptable.”

Those who had most loudly voiced their doubts looked as if they had bitten into something sour, but they did not dare gainsay the Duchess.

Ling Qi found her voice very small as she launched into the next part of their presentation. “It was because of this that we were asked to negotiate a weregild for the warriors lost during the caldera event.”

She was certain had she spoken earlier she would have been interrupted here, but the atmosphere was such that she was able to continue immediately.

“We used this matter to discover something of what materials the White Sky values, and as it happens, what they value most is quality wood. Their request was for ten wagon loads of hardwood and six of soft. You can see why we agreed to this so easily,” Ling Qi finished.

“Interesting,” commented the Bao man who had spoken before, breaking the tense silence of the court. “Did you happen to discern what they have in abundance, Baroness?”

“It was not our focus, but by its sheer prevalence, they have easy access to very large amounts of metal. In fact, the way they described their settlements, it seems that they are generally centered around what they call ‘Blood of the Sun,’ which are masses of metal which fall from the sky with some regularity and burn with a fraction of the sun’s heat…”

The atmosphere of the court eased a little as Ling Qi and Cai Renxiang traded off describing what they had learned of the White Sky’s practices and culture, as well as describing the agreement they had secured, the neutral grounds they had negotiated to take place at the Hui ruins, and the rapport they had gained.

“One matter remains,” a Luo courtier said as they finished their presentation. “You have spoken of this ‘White Sky’ in the terms of a peer polity. Why do you ascribe them such status?”

Ling Qi responded with her head low. “We have no reason to believe their maps are lies or fabrications, and although the territory they claim may be exaggerated, I do not think it is greatly so.”

“In addition to what the Baroness says, it was made clear that the White Sky is a smaller part of a larger polity, just as the Emerald Seas is part of the Empire. While it is impossible to judge their full scale with the information we have, I feel it is wise to assume that they may at least be a peer to an imperial province,” Cai Renxiang supported.

There was some rumbling at that, but it seemed, of those willing to speak up, their explanation was accepted. There was silence as no more questions came, and they lowered their heads, presentation finished. When the silence was broken, it was by the tapping of the Duchess’ fingernail upon the arm of her throne, a small noise made into a sharp report by the acoustics of the chamber.

“As expected of my daughter. It seems that you truly have succeeded at every goal I have given you in this expedition with additional accomplishments beside.” The Duchess’ voice was not quite warm, but it was satisfied, at least. “I will approve the terms you have negotiated and provide the small sum of the weregild from the Cai lumber yards. We will send forth messengers to scout the prospective neutral ground for their delivery as well. Should these White Sky maintain their end of the bargain, the province of Emerald Seas will speak with them.”

A smattering of affirmative sound spread throughout the court, others, whatever their position, bowing to the will of the Duchess.

“Tell me, my daughter, what boon will aid you in continuing to succeed so?” Cai Shenhua asked, sinking back into her throne to resume her more languid pose.

“I wish for myself and my immediate retainers to maintain a central role in the diplomacy to come,” Cai Renxiang requested.

There was silence from the courtiers, and above, Diao Linqin frowned at them while Cai Shenhua simply tilted her head very slowly to the side, making their shadows dance.

“You are young and have other commitments beside, my daughter,” Cai Shenhua said. Her words did not feel like a rebuke, but a simple reminder.

“I know, Your Grace, but it is my heartfelt belief that I will advance the interests of the Cai and the province more effectively by ensuring that this matter ends productively rather than continuing to simply act as a student,” Cai Renxiang replied. She did not raise her head.

The Duchess let out a thoughtful hum that made Ling Qi’s ears ring, letting them stew in silence. “If this is your true desire, I will allow it, although by accepting this responsibility, you must be prepared for greater consequences.”

“I understand,” Cai Renxiang said, pressing her forehead to the rich carpet.

“I will begin making some arrangements then. You will not be without oversight. I will assign an apprentice to oversee you and assemble a pool of advisors for you to recruit from. I will speak with the Sect as well,” Cai Shenhua said thoughtfully. “Your successes are to remain at this level of quality, naturally.”

Ling Qi let out a breath. One way or the other, they were committed now.
