Satisfied that she’d at least mitigated one of the larger issues before them—and in only a couple of hours—Tala and Rane settled in for a family tea-time.

Lea and Terry appeared just as Mistress Petra and Kedva were setting out the last parts and greetings were exchanged all around.

While they shared mint tea, Rane read a few passages of poetry, then showed the others his latest little carving and exercise in precision.

It was a small, game-piece-sized statue of Tala without her armor, but still armed with Flow in glaive form.

Terry chirped approvingly, Tala kissed Rane’s cheek, and Lea excitedly exclaimed that Tala could now be the ‘royal’ piece at the center of their tafl board.

Once Rane had soaked up the praise, and joked with Lea for a bit, it was the girl’s turn. She showed her parents a few pictures that she’d sketched of various places within the sanctum, then read a passage from a less known, early gated philosopher.

That sparked a discussion on the nature of souls and gates, and whether the ‘healing’ of gates would actually be good on an individual, societal, or global level.

They’d moved onto black tea and coffee when it was Terry’s turn, and he presented the perfectly cleaned skull of a great cat, which Tala thought looked vaguely familiar.

The rest of the Sappherrous family was suitably impressed, and Terry fluffed his feathers happily at the praise.

Tala finished off the afternoon with her own selections of acclaimed poems and a brief summary of the work that she and Rane had done on her mental model of the expanded spaces.

Thankfully, Lea had enough of a grounding in spatial theory to understand well enough, even if she was still at least a few years away from enacting any such working, herself.

The four spent the rest of the late afternoon relaxing together, playing some games, lightly sparring, or just talking.

When evening rolled around, they cleaned up, and headed out to meet with their family in the city for dinner. It wouldn’t be quite the event that the quarterly reunions tended to be, but it would still be good to see everyone there in the city again, even if just for a meal.

As her husband willed himself and his family to the superficial, Tala felt a growing warmth and pride within her.

This was her family.

Her husband, her daughter, her companion, hers.

She wasn’t sure what the coming years would bring, but she felt glad that these three, at the very least, would be with her through it all.
