Standing before the largest audience the Empire had ever seen, Du Min Yan felt neither anxiety nor fear. This was her moment in the sun, with millions of people watching as she faced off against her formidable opponent, Wu Gam. His match against Yong-Jin showed just how strong the fetching half-fox warrior was, easily dispatching a veteran soldier of nine years with a single thrust of his long, thick staff. As much as she wanted to joke around about it, if he were to hit her with a similar thrust, she’d fare much worse in comparison considering she lacked Yong-Jin’s brawny frame and steel breastplate. Not that the armour did him any good against her opponent’s overwhelming physical strength, exploding inwards and embedding Yong-Jin’s taut flesh with shards of sundered steel.

The Mother truly loved to play favourites, but Yan herself was Blessed too.

With his adorable silver-fox ears and unremarkable build, Wu Gam might as well be a second Mila, both of their lithe, slender frames hiding an absurd amount of power. Thankfully, while Wu Gam might rival Mila in pure physical strength, he lacked her dominating presence and deadly grace. Though it shamed her to admit it, when Yan discovered Mila’s absence on stage, she felt a surge of relief and said a small prayer of thanks. After eighteen months of gruelling training and first-rate instruction, Yan had risen farther along the Martial Path than she previously believed possible, and still she wasn’t confident about winning a match against the Mila she remembered, much less one a year and a half stronger. In contrast, Wu Gam was a slow, ponderous man who moved with deliberate care and rarely lifted his feet during spars, a weakness Yan intended to exploit with no remorse. Beat Wu Gam, beat Falling Rain, maybe beat that impressive pretty-boy Dastan for fun, and claim her title as number one talent in the Empire.

After all his hard work and sacrifices, she owed Grandpa this much at least.

Blowing out a long breath, Yan reached for Balance and immersed herself in the Blessing of the Divine Wind, keeping Grandpa’s teachings in mind. ‘One cannot tame the wind, only shape the setting so the wind chooses to follow your will’. Wind was a capricious element and while many believed it embodied freedom and liberty, like any other force of nature, it followed a strict set of rules which governed its behaviour, arbitrary though those rules might seem. Yan spent many a night studying various dusty texts on how the wind behaved and how it could go from gentle breeze to cataclysmic hurricane, all so she might learn to harness its destructive power.

Having long since familiarized herself with the surrounding conditions, Yan waved her lightweight Spiritual Battle-Fan back and forth, testing how the air around her reacted to small changes in pressure while going over what she knew. A strong western breeze fluttered in from over the cold waters of the bay, displacing warmer air in an updraft where water met land and creating a cyclical convection over the docks. Constantly in flux, the air here was humid and unstable, cresting and subsiding like the waves of the bay, the wind whipping about as hot and cold vied for supremacy. All this meant her long-ranged attacks would require more effort to produce and maintain, with her external Chi easily broken down by a natural flurry of wind, but her attacks would also be heavier and more impactful were she to harness the natural opposing forces. Not the best place to display her talents but not the worst either, unlike Wu Gam’s current predicament. There wasn’t much he could do with the Blessing of Earth while standing on a floating platform in the middle of a bay. An unfair advantage? Perhaps, but Yan was happy to exploit it.

Like Rain once said, all’s fair in love and war.

Dismissing all thoughts of the arrogant, amber-eyed idiot who couldn’t even remember to smile for her, Yan focused on the task at hand, defeating Wu Gam. Throughout her preparations, the lunkhead stood in place with his staff in hand, shoulders slumped and head hung low, wearing a doleful expression as he waited for her first move. Such arrogance, playing the part of chivalrous hero in a match this important, allowing the ‘little lady’ the first move. Where was his zeal and drive for victory? So handsome but so dull, it annoyed her to be treated like a damsel playing at games of war.

Gathering her Chi into her battle-fan, Yan harmonized with the flow of air and prepared her strike, a nail-length wisp of Chi which mimicked the properties of Wind. Slashing the empty air before her, she sent the wind blade lancing towards Wu Gam and watched it cut a hole in his robes and reveal a sliver of pale, white skin beneath. Though most of the audience missed it, Wu Gam lifted his head as his eyes went wide in surprise, more shocked than injured by her attack. Pleased by his reaction, Yan smirked and said, “You’re not the only one with an Awakening.” Dumbass.

The damage done was minimal, barely nicking the surface of his chest. Such were the limits of practising Chi skills without a Natal Palace, but even though Yan knew the attack represented the upper limits of her abilities and cost her a tenth of her Chi reserves, Wu Gam couldn’t be certain of the same. For all he knew, her attack was merely a warning telling him to take the match seriously lest she cut his throat from a distance, which meant he had no choice but to close the distance. Taking a defensive stance, he held his staff like a spear and cautiously advanced, finally treating her like an opponent instead of a fair maiden to woo. Not that she minded his shy blushes and stolen glances, but there was a time and a place for having her fun and this certainly wasn’t it.

Knowing her opponent liked taking his sweet time, she held her ground, used her Runic ring to restore her spent Chi, and waited for her moment. Step by careful step, Wu Gam shuffled forward on the swaying platform while Yan smiled and waved her fan back and forth, rotating it in the palm of hand and building her Chi within it. All the movement and pageantry wasn’t necessary, but it helped her get a feel for the wind so she could mimic it, a crutch of sorts until she could correctly visualize the process on her own. Her Wind Sliver was nothing compared Grandpa’s massive, multi-layered Wind Chakram, but it wasn’t the only skill at her disposal, nor was it the most powerful, merely her skill with the longest range.

The first part of Yan’s plan had worked perfectly, drawing Wu Gam out of his comfort zone and forcing him to advance. Unfortunately, his staff still held the advantage in range which meant Yan had to act soon and execute her plan flawlessly lest she be spattered across the stage by an errant swing.

Honestly, having so much strength was practically cheating.

Once Wu Gam was almost in range, Yan drew her arm back for an attack, reminiscent of her first wind blade. Reacting to her feint, Wu Gam balked and drew his staff back defensively, giving Yan the opening she so desired. Bounding across the platform, she closed the distance and caught Wu Gam on the back foot, the blockhead realizing his mistake a heart-beat too late. Having slipped past his optimal range, Yan opened with an uppercut from her six-pointed shield aimed directly at his exposed hands. The impact shot up her arm and Wu Gam barely moved, as if she’d smacked a damned boulder instead of a human hand, but she followed through with a downward chop at the same target. Circling left to avoid his counter strike, Yan kept her battle-fan ready to block or strike and relied only on her shield for offence, smashing it against his exposed hands as she ducked and dodged his attacks. She got in six good hits before Wu Gam stepped forward to shove her away, at which point she was forced to retreat from his assault and skipped away to take her distance once again.

Exhaling to calm her nerves and steady her breathing, Yan stifled a grimace as she gazed upon Wu Gam’s hands, still pale and unmarked despite her best efforts. The Honed edges of her shield failed to pierce his skin, glancing off the invisible protective layer of Earth Chi sitting just under his skin. Were it not for his distraction and ‘gallantry’, Yan’s first attack would have never made a mark. A powerful offence paired with his formidable defence, two factors which made Wu Gam a most formidable opponent.

No matter. His Earth-Chi didn’t make him invulnerable and his reserves were finite. Through quality or quantity of attacks, Yan’s plan was to wear her opponent down and seize victory, a simple, but risky endeavour considering he could end it in a single strike. Luckily, although Wu Gam’s expertise with the Blessing of Earth was astounding, his basic Martial Skills and experience were utterly lacking in comparison. If Yan had a spear or another weapon with a range greater than his, her plan would be much easier to carry out, but unfortunately, her shield and battle-fan were all she had to work with.

While Grandpa could easily afford a third Spiritual Weapon for her, Yan refused to be the first to bring it up. He’d already done so much for her, accepting her into his family and sacrificing his holdings and reputation to defend her from his ungrateful relatives, how could she bear to ask for more? All she wanted was to show the world the truth, that Du Min Gyu was still sound of mind and the greatest Mentor in the history of the Empire.

Raising her battle-fan, she repeated her previous actions and Wu Gam played along like an obedient child, taking a defensive stance so she could slip in and attack, dancing and weaving about as she hacked and slashed away, only to escape before he could mount a proper counter-offensive. For long minutes, the half-fox warrior became Yan’s training dummy, helpless to respond to her measured aggression as she chipped away at his defences, using only her shield while keeping her battle-fan in reserve. As she raised her battle-fan to begin her fifth assault, Wu Gam finally smartened up and didn’t fall for the feint, holding steady to fend her off with a warding thrust.

About damn time too. Why are the pretty ones always so stupid?

Charging forward, she struck out with her battle-fan and unleashed the power she’d been accumulating the entire match. Teeth bared in a grin, Yan’s spirits rose as her weapon made contact with Wu Gam’s staff and sent five blades of wind hammering into his chest. Reeling from the attack, Wu Gam staggered away and she pressed her advantage, advancing on Wu Gam with a flurry of strikes. Knee, shoulder, hand, and belly, she battered whichever target presented itself, desperate to end the match here and now. Her surprise attack left her Chi reserves dangerously low, which meant she had to break through his Earthen defences soon if she hoped to win.

Robes in tatters and chest dripping in blood, Wu Gam rallied from her onslaught of attacks and countered with one of his own, his staff lancing out to buy him space. Twisting her body aside, it took all the strength she could muster to parry his thrust, reluctant to waste more Chi on Deflection. Shoulder sore from the attempt, the pain bought her an opportunity to slash Wu Gam’s throat, praying he wouldn’t bleed out before the Healer reached him. Her battle-fan hacked at his neck and she waited for the spray of blood, but to her dismay, it never came, her Honed sword sliding across taut skin without leaving a mark.

Then, his staff smacked into her bicep and Yan watched the world sail by before her vision went dark.

Coming to with a gasp, Yan sat up and immediately wished she hadn’t, collapsing back into the arms of her attendant, a sweet, matronly woman named Eun who made the tastiest dumplings and loved to fuss about Yan’s scandalous outfits. “Tch, sweet child, rest your head,” Eun said, gently stroking Yan’s cheek as she closed her eyes. “You gave me a great fright with your nasty fall at the end there, opened up a big gash on your pretty little cheek, all full of splinters and such. Broke your shoulder too, but thank the Mother for the Legate’s Healers, fixed you right up they did.”

“I lost?”

“That you did sweet child, but you gave it your best. Oh it’s such a shame you weren’t awake to hear it, the applause was almost too much for my old heart to handle.”

Dammit. She should’ve stayed in bed this morning. “Who won the next match?” Perhaps with Wu Gam’s Chi reserves low, Rain finished the job.

“It hasn’t started yet dearie, that Falling Rain insisted on a break so Wu Gam could recuperate. Not a bad fellow, and handsome too, although Wu Gam isn’t too bad either.” Yan opened her eyes to find Eun fanning herself with her hand, the greying, plump woman wearing a devilish smile. “You put on quite the show for us ladies, shredding his robes up like that. If it weren’t for all the blood, I wouldn’t have been able to tear my eyes away from his bared chest and chiselled stomach.”

It was a game they played often, gossiping about every handsome man in sight. “Mhmm, a shame I didn’t have time to properly appreciate it.” Forcing herself to her feet, Yan swooned in place as the blood rushed to her head, but she grit her teeth and endured it. She was back on the sidelines again, forced to stand furthest from the centre by her ‘peers’ in the Hwarang because she was a demi-human and a woman. Flower Knight was a stupid name anyways, she only joined to prove her strength and show that she deserved to be the Disciple of Du Min Gyu, but her efforts did nothing to stop her detractors.

And now that she failed, Yan might never get the respect she deserved. Bah, if only she’d won...

Wearing new robes and looking none the worse for wear, Wu Gam sat cross-legged on the platform, immersed in quiet meditation. Leaning against his... axe, Rain waited across the stage from his opponent with a bored, inattentive expression, watching Wu Gam with half lidded eyes and drumming his fingers in impatience. After their long absence, Yan was surprised by how much he’d changed, plumping up rather nicely in all the right places from what she saw while he changed in the streets. While she appreciated the free show, she was still miffed he’d forgotten to smile for her like he’d promised to before she left. Instead, he treated her to a vacant, confused expression like someone trying to remember who she was, not at all how she expected their reunion to go.

How frustrating. She should have taken action when he had no working arms to defend himself. Surely he’d remember her then, but now it was too late...

Even now as she caught his attention, all he did was smile and look away. No lustful stare or suggestive smirk, no concealed wink or mouthed message, just a stupid, polite smile. It was probably her makeup, or those jewels she’d worn in her hair. They didn’t suit her and he was too polite to say so. Ugh, she wanted nothing more than to head over to his camp and catch up on old times, but Grandpa couldn’t afford to publicly side with the People. Doing so would cost him his last few remaining allies, and he needed them on his side for a chance to prove himself during this First Imperial Grand Conference.

Yan wished she could do more to help, but her only chance just slipped through her fingers when Wu Gam refused to fall.

Choking down her bitter defeat, Yan sighed and waited for the final match to begin. Unfortunately, although she wanted Rain to win, after seeing how poorly he’d fared against Dienne, a victory for the North seemed unlikely. Stupid, arrogant idiot, Rain should have gone ahead with the final match without giving Wu Gam time to rest. Pride was one thing and victory another. He was too clumsy with the new axe, unfamiliar with how it handles and unable to use it to its full potential. While his reputation was greater than ever and there was the whole spectacle with him Awakening in the bay, it seemed like Rain’s progress was lacking compared to her own.

Which made her feel a little better about losing, but not by much. She’d been looking forward to sparring against him again, although she’d prefer a more... secluded venue.

After another quarter hour of waiting, Wu Gam stood and indicated he was ready to begin. Flashing his insolent smile, Rain tilted his head and asked, “You sure? I don’t mind waiting until you’re fully rested. I wouldn’t want anyone claiming I had an unfair advantage.”

There it was, Rain’s casual conceit which naturally oozed from his every pore. It wasn’t the haughty disdain or smug hubris other nobles shared, but a more subtle, cheeky presumption he couldn’t contain. Thinking everyone was as talented as him or selling medicine to his competitors, and now stating he wanted a clean, unblemished victory, this was just the sort of charming arrogance Rain was full of.

“This one has rested enough,” Wu Gam replied, taking no offence at Rain’s statement.

“All right then. Let’s do this.”

Both men bowed and took their places, Wu Gam with his staff and Rain with his axe, neither one the least bit nervous as the Crier announced the start of their match. In the opening seconds, both men stood in place, neither one in a rush to exchange blows. Fiddling around with the haft of his weapon, Rain smiled and said, “I had some time to think while you rested, and I’ve a few things I’d like to share. You’re an impressive rival and your Awakening is so practical I’m bursting with envy. Easily the most formidable youth I’ve come across in all of Central.”

Yan couldn’t resist smiling as Wu Gam asked, “Only Central?” So the lunkhead had some pride after all, but too bad for him, he would always be second best to Mila.

“Yep.” Unstrapping his shield, Rain slung it around his shoulder and pulled on a loose strap, tightening the shield against his back. More arrogance. If he intended to put a weapon away, why wait until the match began? “Personally, I’m more impressed by Dienne and his two comrades from the South. They train to kill Defiled. That’s what they do, it’s all they train for, it shows in their movements, and I respect that. You, on the other hand,” Rain said with a shake of his head, “you’re more talented and stronger than I am, but your basic skills are a little lacking and your performance far from overwhelming. Do you even have an Aura?”

“I do.” Wu Gam’s voice was a little strained, Rain’s taunting finally getting through.

“Oh. Good for you.” Thank the Mother the audience couldn’t see her smile as Yan enjoyed Rain’s needling. “Your Mentor did you a disservice focusing so much on your Awakening at the cost of your foundation, which is the only reason why I can still beat you.”

Wu Gam snorted softly. “Prove it.”

“Oh I will. Watch.” Stretching his arms out to either side, Rain lowered his defences and closed his eyes, standing in place and inviting Wu Gam to attack. Wary of a trap, the fox-eared warrior settled into his stance and waited, but nothing came of it. Peeking out from one eye, Rain grinned and said, “See what happened there? I gave you the perfect opportunity to strike but you didn’t take it. You didn’t even think about taking it, a costly mistake. Was it because you’re afraid? Of course not, you’re Wu Gam! You think you’re going to win regardless, because you’ve always won before. To you, victory is a foregone conclusion, merely a matter of time. That’s why you let chances pass by, why you don’t seize every opportunity, and why you don’t fight with everything you have. You don’t hunger for victory, you believe it will always come to you, a mistake you won’t make again, not after I defeat you today.” Lifting his axe from the ground, Rain flicked it to the side and Nan Ping gasped as the blades slid up the shaft and clicked into place, transforming from axe to glaive in one smooth motion. Waiting for the crowd’s surprise to die down, Rain shrugged apologetically as he took his stance. “I’m going to charge and stab you in the stomach now, so try not to die.”

And then true to his word, Rain did just that.

Balance on Windy Leaf into Pierce the Horizon, a combination she’d seen Rain practice countless times before, but today’s Rain was a whole different beast. Leaving shattered wood in his wake, he dashed across the stage in the blink of an eye and pierced through Wu Gam’s defences like they didn’t exist. Flying back in a spray of crimson blood, the half-fox crashed into the soldiers of Hideo’s retinue, bowling over a dozen people before coming to a stop. Healers rushed in to tend to the wounded and for long seconds, Yan and all of Nan Ping stood in silence, eyes wide and mouths open in utter disbelief as they watched Rain casually flick the blood off his glaive before bowing to the Legate.

And just like that, the match for the title of number one talent of the Empire came to an end, the victor decided in a single exchange.

Fucking. Unfair.

Chapter Meme
