Rain smiled. Her arm was still looped through his, and he gave it a friendly squeeze. “Patience is a virtue,” he said, mock scolding her. “We’re technically trespassing according to the terms Vanna agreed to, and I need the mayor in a good mood so we can have an honest conversation. With the success of light bulbs and the latest food numbers, the evacuation might not be necessary. Once he hears that, this tension might just—.”

“Shh, someone’s coming.”

Rain subsided, and moments later, a new figure appeared atop the barricade. Ameliah reacted immediately, tightening her grip on Rain’s arm and taking a step closer to him, behind, not in front. This was so shocking that Rain didn’t hesitate, snapping up Force Ward and preparing himself for imminent assault. His alarm rose even higher as he took in the newcomer’s appearance, but before he could take any further action, Ameliah surprised him again. She’d relaxed, releasing his arm and stepping away.

Rain blinked, confused. What—?

There was a thump of boots as the defender dropped from the top of the barricade, falling the three meters without any apparent regard for the distance. The man straightened, and Rain got a better look at him, taking in the wild shock of porcupine quills that he had in place of hair. His hands were darkly furred, with wickedly sharp-looking claws. His face, too, was like that of a porcupine, with beady black eyes and a pointed snout. His appearance was at odds with his attire, consisting of a rich green doublet brocaded with gold and pants to match. Fancy pants.

When the man spoke, his voice was normal enough, despite a mouth filled with oversized beaver teeth.

“So, they finally sent someone important to see us.”

“It’s okay,” Ameliah said to Rain, sounding almost sheepish. “You can relax. He’s just one of the Shifters. I thought…never mind. Vanna didn’t specify, so I just assumed they’d both have full transformations.”

“Gods, there’s a woman under there,” the porcupine man said. He brushed a hand through his quills, slicking them back, then stepped forward and extended it to her. He even managed a greasy smile somehow, despite his enormous bucked teeth. “Lord Egan Urs. A pleasure.”

Rain narrowed his eyes.

When Ameliah didn’t take his offered hand, Egan frowned, then his skin rippled, the hair receding to reveal pale flesh beneath. The quills sunk back into his skull, leaving only normal hair, black and wavy. His face likewise transformed, and Rain realized that he was young—very young, perhaps seventeen.

“Come now, don’t be rude,” Egan continued. “Didn’t your mother teach you not to judge people by their appearance?”

“You wouldn’t happen to be related to an Argan Urs, would you?” Rain asked coldly, already knowing the answer.

“You know my father?” Egan asked, raising an eyebrow and apparently missing the subtext. The smile returned, just as greasy as it had been before, and the offered hand shifted its target. “That must make you the captain. It shouldn’t surprise me to learn that you’ve heard of the noble lineage of Urs. Lord…Rain, is it? Tell me, is that your given name, or that of your house? Your people weren’t very enlightening in that regard.”

“That’s because I’m not a lord,” Rain said. Like Ameliah, he made no move to take the offered appendage. Despite his previous resolution to be polite, he was suddenly finding that he was having trouble in that regard. Apart from who this man was—or rather, who his father was—something about the noble was rubbing Rain entirely the wrong way.

“Ah,” Egan said, retracting his hand. “Well, that explains your manners.” He snorted, shaking his head, his bearing changing almost instantly. “Commoners. No refinement at all. I suppose we’re back to this then.”

Rain tensed as the noble’s skin rippled, quills reappearing as his hands morphed back into claws. Egan spread his arms wide, taking a stance like a sumo wrestler. “Remove yourselves, or I shall remove you for…yourselves. Damn.” He shook his head, recovering quickly. “As a better man, I felt compelled to try diplomacy, but the mayor does not wish to speak to you. Your lackey, the Vanna woman, made it quite clear that you intend to steal what rightfully belongs to Vestvall. You can’t have it. Now leave before I kill you and yours as I should have the moment you arrived. You are all beneath me, and you should be thankful that my father is such a staunch supporter of the mayor’s authority.”

“Nobody is that stupid,” Rain said flatly. He glanced at Ameliah, finding that his simmering anger had evaporated. “This is bait.”

“I agree,” Ameliah said, standing completely at ease with her arms crossed.

Rain snorted, then looked back at the Vestvallan noble, who had recoiled in shock. He left Force Ward running just in case the intelligence he’d received was wrong, but when he continued, he made no effort to moderate his tone. “You know who we are, and you know our reputations. From that, you know we won’t kill you just for running your mouth. What is your game here? Are you hoping we’ll attack you so the mayor can paint us as the enemy? Did he send you specifically because he knows I’m friends with Jamus?”

“You… You dare?!” Egan demanded, to his credit maintaining the act quite convincingly, supposing it was an act. “Have no doubt, I am more than enough to deal with the both of you. And to be so crass as to mention that common dalliance of my lady stepmother?” He scoffed. “Have you no sense of decorum?”

Ameliah snorted, then caught Rain’s eye. “They must have sent him to stall us.” She uncrossed her arms, then gestured to the wall. “Come on. Just ignore him.”

Rain nodded, his patience spent. He walked past the spluttering teen, then eyed the barrier before him. Judging Velocity to be unnecessary, he simply shifted his stats to Strength. With a running start, he made it to the top in a single leap, landing in a crouch. Ameliah made it look even easier, alighting gracefully beside him and sending the nearby sentries scrambling back.

Behind them, Egan screamed in wordless outrage, but Rain paid the noise no mind. He rose smoothly, taking his first good look at the surviving section of Vestvall. The noble quarter was remarkably untouched. The wide, cobbled street beyond the barricade was flanked by closely-spaced buildings, firelight flickering in their windows. Thanks to Detection, he’d already known that they were occupied, and he could feel the weight of dozens of eyes pressing down on him, though most of the attention was coming from what was clearly the welcoming party.

Standing on the street was a formation of perhaps three dozen people. The mayor stood at the back, flanked by two distinct groups. Lord Argan Urs was easy to pick out from his description. He was an older, stern-looking man wearing the same green as his foolish son, though with less gold embroidery. Beside him stood a woman with steel-gray hair, doubtless Jamus’s ex. It occurred to Rain, then, that he didn’t actually know her name. To their left were a number of women armed with spears—house guards, judging by the uniform. On the mayor’s other side was Lord Hakim. He was a Fire Mage and was wearing a robe and hat much like Jamus’s, though in blue. He was accompanied by his two sons, also Fire Mages, as well as several guards bearing swords and wearing the blue and silver of his house. There were a few more nobles in the rear, but none matched the description Rain had received of Lady Sale, the only remaining awakened who wasn’t accounted for. In front of the mayor and the nobles was a double-rank of townsfolk, unarmored, but armed with crossbows.

Every single one of them was leveled in their direction.

Rain tilted his head. Where did they get all those?

Silence fell, other than the scrabbling of Egan’s claws as he attempted to clamber up the wall.

Stepping forward, the mayor spoke, his voice firm. “You are not welcome here.”

Rain shook his head slowly, his eyes moving past the mayor, down the road to where it opened up into a cobbled square. In the center was a pile of corpses. Monster corpses, mercifully, torn and rotting. But still.

He inhaled slowly, the odor of rot and corruption coming to his nose, then turned to Ameliah, shaking his head slowly. “Val was right. I didn’t want to believe it.”

“Look,” Ameliah said, pointing and causing a bit of a reaction in the crowd as dozens of crossbows shifted to target her.

Rain looked. Beside the pile of corpses was a splotch of something on the cobblestones. It was difficult to identify from this distance, even with his perception accolade, but after a moment, he recognized it. Slime. Clear slime. And in its center, lying there on the cobblestones, what might have been an arrow.

“They killed them,” Ameliah said, lowering her arm. “Lured them in with that pile, then killed them.”

“Monsters are to be destroyed on sight,” a voice called out, bringing Rain’s attention back to the crowd. It had been Lord Urs who had spoken. The man was staring at him, his glare oddly intense, though his voice was flat and passionless, his tone matter of fact. “They consume filth and spread disease, even as their presence summons more of their kind. We are no fools to accept your so-called gifts.”

“The absolute softskulls,” Ameliah muttered, anger clear in her voice. “That’s not even close to right.”

Rain felt that anger too, but he did his best to push it away. Normal Crystal Slimes weren’t like Dozer. They were barely even aware, operating on the most basic of instincts.

But still.

The sheer, callous stupidity was mind-boggling. Rain had heard it said that monsters could respawn based on proximity—self-replenishing packs of Kin and so forth—but in the case of Crystal Slimes, that would only have been a good thing. In fact, he’d been hoping for it, but as of yet, no examples had been observed. As far as he knew, it was just a rumor.

“Leave!” the mayor’s voice shouted from the crowd, and Rain returned his attention to him. Oddly, the man looked nervous. As Rain watched, the mayor looked over his shoulder at the gathered nobles, then returned his gaze to Rain before beginning to thread his way through the ranks of townsfolk. Reaching the front, he planted his feet, then crossed his arms. “I said leave! Now! Before you make us do something regrettable!”

Rain narrowed his eyes, beginning to understand. The mayor was not awakened. When he’d met him before, Rain had actually been impressed by the man’s grit in withstanding the pressure of his broken soul. Even after it had become clear that he was a scheming snake of a politician, Rain had still held some respect for him. The mayor didn’t want this, and he knew that the only possible result of this confrontation, should it come to a fight, was the total defeat of Vestvall. His power to prevent the clash, though, was limited. He served at the mercy of the other players, all much more powerful than him in the most literal sense. It was more than likely that he had been elected as some sort of compromise, the three awakened families not wanting any of the others to hold the office.

Spreading his arms in a gesture of peace, Rain spoke, addressing the mayor and the mayor alone. “Mayor Graymond, we should speak. In private. If you would prefer to join us at our camp, we can leave and—”

Suddenly, the wall below Rain lurched, and he cried out in alarm, cutting off his speech. Beside him, Ameliah reacted even more strongly, dashing along the battlements toward one of the bow-wielding sentries. Terrified shrieks rose from the gathered crowd, and a noise trembled through the air, like the passing of a large truck. The shaking continued, and there was a sharp clatter of nails on metal as something slammed into the back of Rain’s neck. He whirled, seeing Egan standing there, clutching at his hand. By the sound, the damage hadn’t been sufficient to trigger Force Ward. The spell wouldn’t waste Rain’s mana, not when his armor’s base hardness was enough.

Behind him, a nameless voice cried out. “They’re attacking! Loose! Loose! Loose!”

“No!” the mayor shouted, mirroring Rain’s own cry as he watched Ameliah. She’d snatched the bow away from the sentry, as well as a fistful of arrows, and was already drawing back the string. Fire splashed against her breastplate, first one bolt, then two more, followed shortly by a hail of crossbow bolts.

“Ameliah!” Rain yelled, his awakened lungs allowing him to cut through the noise as bolts pinged from his own armor. “Don’t!”

Ameliah glanced his way, and Rain immediately realized that he was an idiot. She’d moved to shield the sentry whose bow she’d stolen and wasn’t aiming the weapon at the crowd, but was instead looking around, searching for the real threat.

The ground continuing to shake beneath him, Rain altered the settings of Force Ward, covering everyone in range, not just the two of them. Egan clawed at Rain again, yelping in surprise as Force Ward triggered, stopping the blow cold with a distortion in the air. Rain felt a minuscule draw on his mana as the spell protected the idiot from himself, but he had other things on his mind.

Whirling, he looked out over the ruins of the town outside the barricade. Dropping Force Ward for a moment, he risked a quick pulse of Detection, but the lack of a response wasn’t enough for him to relax.

This can’t be the townsfolk’s doing. They don’t have a Geomancer. If it’s not a monster, then what—? Shit, the buildings.

Rain turned again, and while the ground was still trembling, nothing had yet collapsed as far as he could see. Below, the mayor was screaming at the crossbow wielders, most of which were standing down with terrified expressions, though a few were struggling to reload. Lord Hakim and his sons were continuing to hurl fire at Ameliah, surrounded by their guards, and in place of Lord Urs stood a pair of enormous, shaggy bears, their brown fur streaked with white. Sallow Bears, Rain corrected himself, already knowing that to be Lord Urs’s Arcane Shifter transformation. The startling thing was that there were two of them, and that Jamus’s ex-wife had vanished.

She’s awakened? That wasn’t in the brief…

As Rain was considering this revelation, the shaking stopped as abruptly as it had come. He staggered, adjusting his footing on the now stable ground as the crowd cried out in surprise, turning rapidly to relief.

“Did you sense anything?” Ameliah asked calmly, startling Rain again. He turned to see her approaching at a rapid walk. Fire was continuing to splash harmlessly against her armor.

