Early in the morning, just after sixth bell, Rain sat beside Ameliah at a small table in the tavern, tucked away in the corner. It was one of the few that remained, the majority of the space occupied by row after row of bedrolls, emptying now as people rose to begin their day. Across from Rain and Ameliah sat Jamus and Carten, just off their watch, and the four of them were presently sharing a quiet conversation as the noise of the camp grew around them. Seeing Jamus look up at someone behind him, Rain turned his head, then blinked in recognition. “Oh, hi Lana, what—”

He broke off as the former washerwoman removed a metal plate from the tray she was carrying. “Captain,” she said respectfully, placing the plate in front of him. On it rested a thick slice of buttered bread, a pair of sliced hard-boiled eggs, and four thick slabs of Emouile bacon, which was almost as good as the real thing. Beside the plate, Lana placed a steaming mug, the aroma of fresh coffee wafting from it enticingly.

“Oi!” Carten said, pointing rudely. “Where’s mine?”

“In the kitchen, oaf,” Lana said, looking at him as she placed a second plate in front of Ameliah. “If you get in line now, there might even be some eggs left.”

“You didn’t have to do this, Lana,” Ameliah said as Carten spluttered. Jamus began to laugh, laying a hand on Carten’s shoulder to hold him in his seat.

“I wanted to,” Lana said, tucking the tray she’d used to carry the plates under her arm. She turned to Rain, then bowed. “Thanks to you, I have a place here. This was the least I could do.”

“I—” Rain began, then hesitated. He looked down at his breakfast, his mouth already watering. He looked back up. “Thanks, really, this looks amazing, but I don’t— Ameliah’s right. We could have gotten our own breakfast, just like everyone else.”

Lana smiled. “Don’t be daft. You’re the captain. You have better things to be doing than waiting in line. Anyway, I have to go. I’m on Samson’s patrol this morning, and he doesn’t like it when people are late.”

Rain nodded slowly, realizing only now that Lana was wearing armor, not regular clothing. It looked like Emouile leather, possibly from the same monster that had been turned into the bacon before him. It was finely tailored, too—at least, compared to the first sets Ascension had been making. She also had a sword hanging from her waist, but he didn’t get a good look at it before he was distracted by Tarny, who was approaching with another tray.

Tarny nodded to Rain, coming to a stop beside Lana. “Captain.” He looked down at the table, frowning. “It appears that I was too slow.”

“Lucky!” Carten said, standing and reaching over the table, snagging a pair of plates before Tarny could snatch the tray away.

“Carten,” Jamus said scoldingly. “That isn’t for you.”

“Oh, stuff it,” Carten said, depositing a plate in front of the orange-robed mage. “Here.”

Rain smiled, taking a sip from his mug. He grimaced, then quickly tried to hide it. Depths below!

“Here,” Ameliah said, taking the mug from his hand and swapping it with hers. She’d just taken a sip herself and was making a face like a husky confronted with a stalk of broccoli.

“Oh no!” Lana said, looking between them as Rain fought not to laugh. “I’m so sorry. I must have gotten them mixed up.”

“Don’t worry about it,” Ameliah said, taking a sip from Rain’s mug. She sighed in contentment. “That’s much better. Maybe just a touch more honey next time.”

“More?” Rain asked, incredulous. “Are you insane?”

“Quiet, you,” Ameliah said, taking another sip. “Eat your bacon.”

“In the middle is right for me,” Jamus said, busy pouring coffee between two mugs like a bartender making a mixed drink. Finishing, he slid one of them in front of Carten, then took a sip from the other. “Ahh, perfect. Not too sweet, not too bitter.”

“Keep yer horse drop water,” Carten said, pushing the mug back. “No matter how much honey ye put, I ain’t drinkin’ steamin’ ass juice.”

Rain snorted mid-sip and barely stopped himself from spraying everyone at the table.

“I really should be going,” Lana said, smiling as Ameliah patted Rain’s back.

“Go ahead,” Rain managed once he recovered. “Thanks again for breakfast, and really, you didn’t have to. If Samson’s mad at you for being late, just blame me.”

Lana smiled. “Samson doesn’t really get mad, though. He just gives you this sort of disappointed look.”

“We wouldn’t want that,” Ameliah said with a smile, catching Carten’s hand as it crept toward her plate. “You’d better go on. And thank you.”

“You’re very welcome,” Lana said, nodding and moving away.

A deep rumble made Rain jump.

“Depths!” Tarny cried, jumping and almost dropping the tray. He set it down on the table, then pressed a hand to his chest. “Don’t do that!”

“Is that eshad?” Tallheart asked mildly, peering over the much shorter man’s shoulder.

Rain grinned, then looked at the tray, curious to see what eshad might be. There was a bowl there holding a lightly-charred tumble of greens that looked vaguely like spinach, drizzled with a reddish sauce with black flecks. It smelled peppery and a bit sour.

“Well, at least I don’t need to go looking for you now,” Tarny said, turning and craning his neck upward. “Yes, it’s eshad, but I make no promises. Cervidian recipes are quite hard to find, especially the ones that disagree with humans.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said. He stuck a finger in the sauce, then into his mouth, then considered for a moment before picking up a fork and taking a proper bite of the greens. He chewed slowly, and after a long, breathless moment, nodded. “Passable.” He turned to Tarny, then smiled one of his barely-perceptible smiles. “Thank you. I appreciate this. Hmm. I will get myself a chair.”

Rain beamed as Tarny melted in relief, taking a bite of his bacon. Jamus was busy fending off Carten. The turtle had finished his own plate and was presently trying to filch one of Jamus’s eggs. Tallheart returned with a chair, and Tarny made way. He moved to stand at Rain’s elbow, then cleared his throat.

“Captain, I have your agenda for you, if now is a good time?”

“Sure, why not,” Rain said, picking up his fork once more. He gestured with it. “Get yourself a chair, though. We’ll make room so you don’t have to hover. You’re making me feel awkward. Like I told Lana, I don’t want to be waited on or served or any of that nonsense.”

Tarny opened his mouth to say something, but seemed to reconsider. He finally nodded, moving away to grab a chair. Ameliah shifted closer to Rain to make room, and taking advantage of her new position, moved in to kiss the side of his neck.

“What was that for?” Rain asked, smiling and turning to look at her.

“Do I need a reason?” Ameliah asked innocently.

Rain smiled. “I suppose you don’t.” He leaned in to kiss her properly, but the moment their lips made contact, he pulled away sharply, making a face. “Ugh. Honey coffee.”

Ameliah snorted, chasing after his retreating lips. He let her catch them, and this time, didn’t pull away. They did break apart after a moment, though, being in public and all.

Tarny cleared his throat awkwardly, and Rain laughed, seeing that Carten was giving him and Ameliah a double thumbs up. Jamus was likewise smiling, mild surprise on his face.

“I’ve been training him,” Ameliah said, gesturing to Rain as she settled back into her chair. “Look. No red.”

Rain rolled his eyes, placing his hand on her armored knee and giving it a friendly squeeze. “Go ahead, Tarny. Let’s have it.”

Tarny nodded. “Yes, sir. Firstly, I have left your morning free, as you asked. Then, at first bell, Romer is holding a literacy lecture. He has requested that you sit in on it so the students can benefit from Winter. At second bell, you and Tallheart are meeting with the Engineering Council to discuss ‘replaceable parts,’ whatever that means. Staavo wished me to tell you that if you’re going to call a meeting with a vague topic, he would appreciate it if you could not. His words.”

“I would also appreciate that,” Tallheart said through a mouthful of greens.

“You’ll both find out,” Rain said, smiling. “Explaining what it means is what the meeting is for. Go on, Tarny.”

“At third bell, you and Ameliah have an appointment with Aspirant Dempton to take your measurements. Myth and Reason have already started on the fabric.”

“What fabric is this, now?” Ameliah asked. “Who is Aspirant Dempton?”

“Forceweave, for the suits Rain has requested for the both of you,” Tarny replied. “Aspirant Dempton is a tailor from Vestvall. He seems to be quite skilled, though I am no judge. Vestvallan fashion is…interesting.” He glanced at Jamus, who smiled, then made a show of tipping his hat.

Rain laughed as Ameliah nodded. “Okay, what’s next?”

“Nothing for a few hours, though there are a number of petitioners you might wish to talk to. At fifth bell, I have arranged for a meal with all of the council heads, followed by a discussion concerning the larger plans for the crack and the evacuation.”

“Good, good,” Rain said, taking a deep breath. “Anything after that?”

Tarny shook his head. “As you said, that discussion might take some time, so I didn’t put anything after it.”

Rain nodded. “Good.”

“If I might ask,” Tarny said, hesitating. “Why did you request your morning to be left free? I could have arranged for the council heads to meet earlier in that case. It is an important topic.”

“It is,” Rain agreed, nodding. “I just have something more important to do first.” He smiled at Ameliah. “How would you like to join me on a date?”

Ameliah sighed, squeezing Rain’s arm, looped through her own. “This is so romantic.”

Rain laughed, squeezing back. The pair of them were walking through Vestvall, or its ruins, more like. The city had seen better days, to be sure. He’d never visited before on account of his soul, but from what he’d heard, it had been a lot better than this. Now, most buildings had either been torn down or gutted, and there were piles of scrap wood lying everywhere, waiting to be burned. Ahead, an earthen wall much like the one surrounding Ascension’s camp marked the start of what would have been the noble quarter. It wasn’t terribly high, but it was enough to prevent them from seeing anything inside other than rooftops. A dozen-odd townsfolk could be seen atop those and along the battlements, holding bows and watching their approach with clear alarm.

Rain couldn’t really blame them for that, given the current tensions between Ascension and the city’s remaining inhabitants. Both he and Ameliah were fully armored, including their helmets, but they’d made a point to wear their Guild plates out in the open—his bronze, hers silver, naturally. He also had his Custodian’s plate on display, which would settle any doubts as to his identity. That being threat enough, Rain had insisted that they remain unarmed. They’d even removed their cloaks and pouches, removing the possibility of concealed weapons, not that they needed any. The gesture was symbolic, more than anything. Vestvall didn’t boast any awakened beyond low-bronze. Vanna had briefed him yesterday, and he wasn’t concerned.

“You owe me a real date after this,” Ameliah said, bringing Rain’s attention back to her.

Rain chuckled. “Obviously. Maybe there’s a nice lake around here or something. We could take a day off once we’ve dealt with Mayor Graymond and figured out whether we’re staying or going.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said. “A lake sounds nice. I’d settle for a quiet evening where you tell me how The Hobbit ends.”

Rain blinked. Shit. I totally forgot about that.

Ameliah laughed at his expression. “I’m a patient woman, but even I have my limits.”

“Yeah, yeah,” Rain said, distracted by a splotch of color in the ruins. It was a sign, standing, though the building behind it had collapsed. It depicted a slice of pie, oozing purple filling, resting on a plate beside a mug of beer. Below the image were the words ‘Half-Pint Bakery’ in fancy script.

“Damn,” Ameliah said, following his gaze. “I was looking forward to trying one of those pies.”

Rain patted her hand consolingly. “There’s still hope. For all we know, the owners already joined Ascension and we just haven’t met them yet. That, or they’re in there.” He nodded toward the wall ahead of them. The third alternative, he left unsaid. One in four people in Vestvall hadn’t survived the night of the Shift. It wasn’t a happy thought.

Passing the sign, Rain and Ameliah walked on for a few more moments before they came to a stop in front of the barricade. More sentries had appeared up on the wall, and they’d all nocked arrows. Rain frowned, seeing that, then waved up to them in greeting. “I’m here to see the mayor. Can I come in?”

The sentries looked at each other uneasily. After a moment, and after some elbowing from his colleagues, one of them raised a hand, signaling Rain and Ameliah to wait. He looked over his shoulder nervously, then back at them and licked his lips.

Rain’s frown deepened. What has the mayor been telling them about us?

To say that things were tense between Vestvall and Ascension was putting it mildly. The nobility had holed themselves up in the fortifications Ameliah had helped them construct, along with a good number of working-class folk that had been sold on the dream of a rebuilt and revitalized city. Nine days ago, the mayor had barred everyone from Ascension from even approaching the walls, though exceptions had been made for Tahir and Mereck, as well as food deliveries. Six days ago, they’d stopped accepting even those. Val had gone in since—invisibly, of course—and from what he’d overheard, the nobility had started railing for an independent Vestvall, professing outrage over the loss of so many of their people to Ascension.

Rain couldn’t even blame them, really.

“I still think we’re being too polite,” Ameliah said. She glanced up at one of the sentries, who immediately ducked down behind the makeshift battlements to hide from her gaze. “Banning us from the city. Making us wait. Rude.”

