“No,” Rain said, sighing as he caught Egan’s hand. Like the Fire Mages, the young noble seemed amazingly unable to get the hint. Roughly, Rain jerked him around, placing himself between the idiot noble and the other idiot nobles so nobody got burned. “No monsters around other than the Shifters.”

Ameliah tilted her head. “An earthquake?” Another Firebolt struck her in the side of the helmet, and she sighed. “Can you do something about that, please?”

Rain nodded as Egan struggled to free himself from his grip. The kid was pretty strong, actually, but Rain was stronger, thanks to his ring. Looking over his shoulder, he saw that the two other Shifters hadn’t moved. Unlike Lord Hakim and his sons, most people seemed more concerned with themselves than continuing their foolish attack.

Rain spared one more look for the buildings, then switched to Suppression, satisfied that the physical danger was past. There was a strangled cry from one of the younger Hakims, who’d been in the middle of casting another Firebolt. As Rain watched, the other two reacted similarly, stumbling and raising their hands to their heads.

“Enough!” Rain roared, his voice overriding the startled shouts as people realized what had happened.

“What did—?” Lord Hakim gasped, flames flickering at his fingertips, then dying away. “How!?”

“Idiots!” The mayor yelled, stomping over to the Hakims. “I told you to let me handle this! Why did you attack!?”

“They attacked first!” one of the sons shouted angrily, still pressing a hand to his head. “You felt it! The bitch is a Geomancer!” Rain bristled. “She was trying to tear down the wall!”

“She built the wall, you pigeon-headed hill-ninny!” The mayor shouted back, snatching the man’s hat from his head and throwing it to the ground. “If they wanted us dead, we’d be dead, and you’d have been the one that killed us!”

Fighting against the adrenaline pounding in his veins, Rain took a deep, shaky breath, then turned, releasing Egan, who’d finally stopped struggling. The moment he was free, the porcupine man scrambled away, then seemed to catch himself and straightened. He turned, then smiled at them, smoothing back his quills before spreading his arms in a shrug.

Rain sighed, then dropped Suppression and turned to stare down at the top of the mayor’s head. “Mayor Graymond.”

Freezing for a moment, the mayor turned, then looked up.

Rain paused, thinking hard. Coming to a decision, he nodded, then spoke in a firm voice, one that would carry. “We did not cause that. I know you might not believe me, but I give you my word.” He glanced at Ameliah, then back at the mayor. “See to your people. We are leaving, and we will send our healers to you as soon as we return to our camp. You WILL allow them inside your walls. This stupidity…this division…it ends now. I’m not telling you that you need to join Ascension or give up your homes or anything like that. We are all on the same side here. That earthquake, whatever caused it, is just one more thing that we have to deal with together.”

“You’re doing great,” Ameliah whispered to Rain, stepping closer to him and dropping her stolen bow and quiver to clatter to the battlements. “We should hurry back, though. I’m worried the crack might have collapsed.”

Rain nodded, already having had that thought. “One more thing!” he shouted, pointing past the mayor at the pile of corpses in the distant square. He shifted his gaze toward Lord Urs, who had changed back to human form. “I can’t stress enough how stupid it was to kill the Crystal Slimes we gave you. If that’s the kind of thinking your nobles are doing, then maybe you should think about how much allegiance you really owe them.” Rain let his arm fall. “By that act, they chose for you to live in filth, either through stupidity or as some kind of obtuse political ploy. In either case, it’s unforgivable.”

Rain turned back to the mayor, who’d gone pale and was looking nervously between Rain and Lord Urs. Immediately seeing the problem, Rain raised his voice again. “Mayor Graymond, I expect you to keep things under control here until I return. Help people. Check the buildings. Anyone who does anything stupid or tries to interfere with you will answer to me.”

The mayor seemed to sag in relief before catching himself and giving Rain a dignified nod.

Rain crossed his arms, staring straight at Lord Urs, who was watching him with a contemplative expression. A flash of fire made Rain look away, seeing Lord Hakim trying his magic and finding that it had returned. He and his sons were staring at Rain and Ameliah, hate and determination in their eyes, though in response to Rain’s scrutiny, the older lord snuffed out his Firebolt and looked away.

They still don’t really get it, do they? They think they actually had a chance. Rain shook his head in disbelief. Seriously, how dense can they be? Maybe they don’t believe Ameliah’s actually a silverplate? Hells, do they even know what a silverplate is?

Breathing deeply and smelling the stench of the city, Rain looked at the pile of corpses and had to fight against another flash of anger. Judging the distance, he decided that it would serve as a perfect demonstration.

This might cause a bit more panic, but…

Uncrossing his arms, he reached for Purify as he addressed the crowd. “Watch your eyes, everyone. This will be...a little bright.”

Ameliah laughed, pressing her hand against his shoulder. “Oh, yes, do it. This is going to be priceless.”
