Delta grabbed Nu and threw his box into the river. He simply floated out, untouched. Delta would need to break into his system and tickle him or annoy him or...Or... have someone do it for her.She knew exactly who would be perfect for the job.“Oh Mr Mushy!” she called, knowing her monster could hear her. Nu vanished instantly.Delta smirked as her cute mushroom made Nu run. The endless questions, the endless curiosity just drove Nu mad.With some peace, she had only two more tasks to do before she returned the first floor. She took some time to fill the river with her four types of fishes and her tangleweed. The crayfish, the yellowbelly cod, the Whitetail fish, and the little-finned guppy.If the room’s nature was true, then they spread on their own. She put her head into the water and watched as the tiny guppy, swimming as fast it could glowed once and like some scaley cell, split into two.Delta was reminded of a movie.No time for sex.If she ever made a humanoid that could reproduce like this... would they come out of each other's ribs?Delta made a sour face and wondered if God had been like this. Trying not to look too closely as things happened. Just planting the apple tree and telling Satan to stop being a snake....Was Nu her Satan?This raised way too many questions so Delta quickly moved on to her next task.She opened her menu and pushed the newest monster option. Space before her rippled as flesh came into view.It was slightly hunched over but its height was that of a small man or a tall teen. Yellowish skin that was ringed by black markings. Its chest was humanoid and rather muscular. The legs became thin and looked odd until the monster crouched and the powerful muscles made for jumping bunched up.The clothes it wore was basically the jungle itself. Hide-Like pants with leaves to provide camouflage, a necklace of stones and odd marks that looked painted on. It opened its eyes, the sideways pupil blinked once or twice.It inhaled and Delta saw how big its mouth was. A human head could fit in there and the flexing jaw muscles made it damn clear it could do some damage.In one hand was a wooden spear, the stone spear tip was surrounded feathers of some bird and the shaft had intricate designs carved into them.The frogman spun it with ease and held it out to Delta with both hands, palms up. The frogman had very human-like fingers.“Queen of my home. I am yours to command. I will die for you,” he said and his voice was deep.Like the well the frog got stuck in and thought was his whole world.Delta felt slightly sure no well was going to contain this frog by any means.“Oh... hello! Nice to meet you!” Delta said nervously and the frog didn’t move, still holding the spear to Delta’s general direction, using her voice to know where she was standing.He didn’t say anything.“So... you can stand up. It’s fine. My name is Delta!” she tried again and the frog stood slowly and looked around.“Where shall I guard? I shall deliver your foes hearts to you, my goddess,” he vowed and Delta waved her hands.“No no no, no heart taking or killing!” she said quickly and for the first time, the frogman looked perplexed, his large cheeks moving down as his tongue rolled about.“I... yes, I will not taint your realm with unworthy blood!” he promised and bowed again. There was a moment where nothing happened and the frogman looked up, unsure.“I am ready to be punished for assuming your wishes,” he said slowly and Delta felt a headache fast approaching. There was movement at the corner of her eyes and Mr Mushy approached. He looked... winded as if the air around him was too thin.He waved and Delta thought she heard a noise. The frogman tilted his head.“Bow to the Goddess, she is a being that demands respect! What are you doing here?” the frog questioned and his tone became hard as if Mr Mushy was breaking some law.“I called him here,” she said and he froze. Mr Mushy handed the frogman a misshapen pot. Delta beamed as Mr Mushy nodded with friendliness.“See? He brought you a ‘welcome to the dungeon’ gift. Listen, some ground rules...uh...you need a name,” Delta trailed off. The frogman looked between the pot, Mr Mushy, and her. He looked rather confused and looked back down at the pot.“I am a simple monster, the shadow of the jungle... a member of the tribe. I am... do not deserve a name,” he tried to back away but Delta just followed him.“You don’t look like a hopper, which I guess is racist now... Hm, jungle names aren’t my forte but you’re hardly a Jack or Joe...” Delta muttered and the frogman reached the each of the river and looked like he would rather jump in that accept a name.Delta stopped and eyed him.“What’s wrong?” she asked and he put the pot down gently.“I am not sure... why I am here. I am your tool to kill and yet I am not allowed to kill. I possess no magic to turn or put foes to sleep, my Goddess. Why did you make me?” he asked bluntly and Delta blinked.“Because I wanted to meet you. I was excited to have another monster around. I wanna see what you do or see how you enjoy being around. I’m gonna build you a nice jungle, so don’t worry!” Delta assured him.Something popped into her head.“Your name is Rale, it’s simple and relevant!” Delta beamed and Rale seemed to shiver before he bowed.“I am truly not... worthy. I must go,” he said quickly and jumped the river in a single bound. Delta’s mouth fell open and Rale moved into the quickly spreading grass. Delta felt like she had failed utterly at this.Rale didn’t seem to enjoy or accept what her goblins had. Delta wanted to follow but decided to give the frog some time. If she could understand Rale, then she could understand how the frog tribesmen worked as a whole before summoning more.Mr Mushy eyed the river and picked up his pot and scooped up some water.The water began to leak out of four holes but Mr Mushy seemed pleased. He held it up for Delta to see, getting hit in the face with water as he did so.Delta smiled softly and decided to just wait.She was good at that.---Rale... Rale...Rale.A glorious name... wasted on pond scum. What had he done? What had he accomplished? What had he managed to do to deserve such a boon?Nothing and the shame burned in his chest. He had just run from his Goddess. He was too ashamed to face her. A box appeared and Rale froze.

This was a voice of power. Not the Goddess but her shadow.“Master, I cannot accep-”

Rale watched as the box went blank for a moment.

He stood, how could he not?

“We are Delta,” he repeated as a sense of peace fell over him. It was okay... he didn’t have to understand. Rale blinked as he felt Delta’s warmth inside.It was okay to be a little wrong. That’s what the warmth told Rale at that moment. He struggled to fit his purpose into acceptance but he stood regardless.

He bowed and walked...slowly back to where Delta still was. He could hear her gentle voice talking to the walking fungus.Yes... the mushroom was right. Not just a Goddess. A mother.He was but a child but soon he would grow into a worthy warrior for her. He, Rale, first of his kind, vowed it.This time, the words felt real and powerful in his heart which began to beat louder.
