Valorie watched her from the sink. The way they looked, a casual observer would think that their roles were reversed, that Valorie was Cinderella, and Eppie was the stepsister.

"And that's the end of my story."

Eppie collapsed on the divan, crucified by the retelling. Valorie turned on the tap and washed away the sick.

"What a terrible tale," came a voice from the shadows. It was Vaughan. She stood under an arch formed from birds of paradise; the greenhouse’s lighting was angular and sharp as it fell upon the mistress of the garden. "I am so sorry that's how it happened."

Eppie sat back up, her posture prim as a lady at a tea shop. Vaughan had been standing there long enough to hear everything.

As she approached, Vaughan stopped by Valorie. "Think on what Eppie has told you, Valorie Sanders. It is not often that we are given a second chance in life." Then she stood between them, in case Valorie had other ideas.

"May I give you a hug?" Juliana asked for her permission this time.

"I am dirty," Eppie said. She still stank of December rainwater.

"We're all a little dirty," Juliana moved toward her, and the two embraced—stiffly.

When they separated, Vaughan's permanent haughtiness had diminished. It was still there, but it was no longer so pronounced.

Neither of them said anything. Both were too intelligent to vocalise the obvious. Eppie’s teacher had discovered that her student had been studying material not included in the syllabus and had just now accepted that she was no longer the most qualified person in the room.

Eppie felt like she should break the tension. But how?

Thankfully, George appeared with the timing of a Middle-earth wizard, someone who had spent decades arriving at the precise moment he was needed.

"Sir Justin is pacing like a lost cat, Madam, in the anteroom."

Vaughan nodded. She looked at Val one final time—not with a lecturing look, not with a measuring look, but with something more measured.

"Valorie," she said. "From the Roman Valeria, derived from valere, of the Valerius family. It means vigour and vitality—and in today's vernacular, courage under fire. I hope you learned something about yourself tonight, Valorie, even knowing that no choice you can make tomorrow shall erase the ones you've already made."Valorie studied the tiled floor. If Eppie was religious, she would have prayed for her friend.
