“When I don’t come,” he said to a klerm watching him from a deep purple leaf. “When it’s a school day, but I don’t come. Then you’ll know I’ve found my confidence and done it.”

******

******

******

Alden arrived very late to the snowball fight.

It was almost halfway through, and the gym was so loud with the sound of students cheering, stomping, and laughing their heads off that he could feel the noise in his body. Like it was washing through him, uncramping what the day had tightened, and propelling his legs as he headed for one of the higher bleachers.

With most of the school gone for the holidays, it was no surprise that they were only half full, but the enthusiasm of the crowd made this feel as alive as a packed house. The event was called Superhero Snowball Fight, but Alden hadn’t realized the faculty and guests would be wearing their superhero outfits over their gym suits. They looked cool.

Lesedi Saleh, her old white Ghosten gear blending into the flurry around her, phased out to avoid a truck-sized snowball shaped by Luna Plim and then resolidified to swing toward the ceiling on a vine controlled by a man wearing a fern-patterned cape. Alden paused his climb to watch the principal take aim with an ice chunk that flew like a bullet toward Morrison Waker. In Little Snake’s black and red fringed jacket, he was racing around the place fast enough to make speedster heroes have doubts about themselves. He laughed jovially as the ice missed and flung a snowball of his own with a wink that was shown on the floating displays.

A moment later, Alden caught sight of Rahul, hiding behind Instructor Plim for safety while he packed a ball of ice into his launcher.

He looks like he’s having the time of his life down there, Alden thought, continuing his climb. Good for him.

A long line of students in unitards waited on the bottom row of the bleachers, screaming to be chosen, which was why Alden hadn’t bothered to grab his own suit. Price of being late. Being here will still be fun.

He snorted at the sound of Jeffy bellowing, “Pick meeeee!” with a desperation that was probably scaring superheroes who’d never met him before.

The spot Alden chose was near the top, a little empty. He took a seat and leaned back, ready to enjoy the madness and the familiar faces wearing costumes he’d known since he was a child.

Arjun’s here, he realized.

The Brute wasn’t currently on the floor, but he must have been just before Alden walked in because he was brushing snow off the nondescript burgundy suit he wore as his hero costume these days. Alden watched him briefly, a thought drifting across his mind about how it felt somehow appropriate to see Arjun on a day when he’d written a letter to his parents.

Then, the motion of Rahul raising his launcher to his shoulder caught his eye instead.

“Go, Rahul!” he shouted.

Across the gym, a girl in a long yellow skirt was shouting the same thing so loudly that he could pick her voice out of the crowd.

Is that the girlfriend he hopes will be more than a girlfriend one day?

And there, a few rows above her, were Natalie, Hadiza and Emilija. If Alden had thought to look for them when he first arrived, he would have gone to sit with them.

I guess I still could.

Rahul’s ice ball shot across the gym toward the man with the fern cape and shattered against a vine as if the plant was made of stone.

Just wait until Jupiter can do that, and she’ll be even more trouble.

Alden was smiling.

Then, a return snowball made it past Luna Plim, who was firing three at once toward Principal Saleh. It hit Rahul in the chest and burst apart. The Wright stiffened and fell backward into the snow that covered the gym floor.

Alden flinched.

He flinched so hard, before even understanding why he had, that he was momentarily perplexed by it.

Only momentarily.

Oh. He stared down at Rahul. Getting hit with a snowball is death for this game.

Rahul sprang back up when his suit released him and waved goodbye to Instructor Plim as he walked off the floor. The instructor pointed at Jeffy, and he ran in so fast he skidded on ice and fell on his butt trying to get over to her.

This way more people get a turn. It’s nice.

A ball hit a girl Alden didn’t know, and she fell, her long black hair fanning across the white while fresh flakes drifted down toward her.

He flinched again.

It’s supposed to be nice.

A boy, cackling, took a snowball to the face and tumbled into a fluffy mound behind him. He was instantly silenced, his body almost disappearing from view in the heap.

This…

The voices of the crowd didn’t disappear. The game didn’t stop. But, for Alden, they did.

Just as suddenly and with as little fanfare as those bodies falling, one by one, into snow.

A girl wearing a reindeer sweater over her unitard. A boy whose axe cracked ice as it landed beside him. Sina-art’h looking into the Primary’s eyes in the moment before she collapsed.

They all fell together, though they fell worlds and years apart.

Alden stopped flinching. He didn’t look away.

Can’t always have light, he thought as Klein was taken down by a combined attack from the principal and Little Snake.

Can’t fight every darkness. Jeffy’s body slid across the floor.

Rahul was climbing the bleachers toward his girlfriend. There is more than one way to live a good life.

He saw Ella-Clara Thomas and her figurine taken down. Arjun was shaking his head from the sidelines.

None of the doors are perfect. Some are easier. Some are safer.

But there’s not one where I don’t lose something. There’s really not.

Just accept it, then choose what you’re going to fight for.

He looked to his side, where an Artonan boy might have sat if this were a different place on a different day.

I know what I can’t lose after all.

Alden watched the snowball fight. He didn’t exactly see the same show as everyone else.

But he saw a lot of things he’d been looking for.

******

******

“I don’t think that’s a good idea,” Arjun Thomas said when Alden approached him at the end of the fight and made a request he wouldn’t have dared to make an hour ago.

The man had visibly recoiled at the suggestion, as Alden had suspected he would. It wasn’t the end of the world if he refused; but Alden wanted this favor, and he was considering the possibility that he might never get another chance to ask for it. He was willing to push some more, even in front of Ella-Clara, who was listening in from a couple of steps away.

Arjun had introduced the B-rank Figurinist as his sister. Alden hadn’t made the connection before. Thomas was a common surname, and they didn’t look much alike.

“You didn’t think me coming to school here was a good idea either,” Alden said. “It was…unexpected…to get an evaluation from you after combat assessment. I didn’t know what to make of that. But here I am, doing well in MPE. And I’m not asking you to hit me with the pain setting cranked up to a hundred. It can be at zero. Faculty members have hit me this term. I didn’t start sobbing or anything.”

“Then why ask me?”

Is he serious?

Alden studied his face. It was a dignified face. Prominent nose, great beard. Alden couldn’t recall seeing Arjun smile ever, but he must have done it at some point because he had laugh lines forming.

“For the same reason that you don’t want to say yes,” Alden said. “There’s a thread of something awful connecting us. What happened is history. It’s over. But still… ”

Arjun looked so uncomfortable that Alden wondered what people filing out of the gym thought they were discussing.

“You don’t have to. Obviously. I wouldn’t have bothered you except I really want to know how strong you are. Your strength has had a major impact on my life.”

There was no way to explain it that sounded very logical, so he might as well be honest.

“I’m an Avowed now, too. I have shielding magic. I’m worried I won’t get another opportunity like this. Please hit my shield just once. I promise not to be weird with you about it afterward.”

Arjun shook his head. “Alden, I don’t think—”

“What? You’ll hit me and every other kid at this school, but not this guy who actually wants your help with his training?” Ella-Clara said suddenly. She crossed her arms, and beside her, the figurine did the same. “If you don’t want to give him special treatment, fine. But it sounds like you’re giving him negative special treatment. Did you actually become one of his evaluators?”

“He did,” said Alden. “I’m not mad, and he doesn’t owe me anything.”

“If you were a regular student, he’d just refuse or give you some pointers, not talk to you in this sad tone about why it’s not a good idea.”

“It’s fine. I knew it was a big ask.”

“He should—”

“I can answer for myself,” Arjun said so crisply that it almost had to be a response to the comment about his tone. “Alden, go put on your suit.”

Alden felt his brows lift.

“We’ll wait until people finish clearing out, so…” Arjun cleared his throat. “Take your time. There’s no rush.”

******

In a stall where someone had hidden a line of graffiti with an Anesidora Forever sticker, Alden brushed his fingers against the auriad that hugged his bicep, then covered his body with the suit future superheroes wore.

He walked out into the vast and nearly empty gym to meet a man who’d once saved his life but not his parents.

Principal Saleh was one of the few people left, and she stopped him to ask why he wanted to do this in that cautious-friendly way worried teachers liked to ask things.

Afterward, Alden couldn’t remember what he said to her. He must have used the right words because he was allowed to keep walking toward Arjun, who stood waiting in the middle of the floor.

“Sorry,” said Alden. “I just need to know.”

Arjun regarded him. “Don’t you have to have something to hold for your shield?”

“Yes. Isn’t Instructor Plim…?” He looked around until he spotted her. “Hold on.”

He waved and asked her to give him a thin plate of shaped snow. Not quite as great as the water shield Stuart had helped him make out of a puddle, but pretty good. He held it in front of his chest.

“I realize,” he said to Arjun, “that you could probably tap this to break it. But if you’d please give it everything you’ve got?”

Arjun stared at the shield.

“Do you want everything I’ve got, or everything I had that night?” he asked eventually.

“Your current best,” said Alden, after considering the question.

Arjun nodded once and took several steps back.

Alden held up his shield, and for the first time in the gym, he reached out with his free authority, actively trying to feel what would be coming his way.

Ah, he thought, as he found what he was looking for. Arjun must train hard. He’d be much more famous than he is if the past had gone differently.

Then, the man came at him.

Alden sensed what hit him with his authority better than he saw it with his eyes. The effect of Bearer broke in an instant. His body crashed into the far barrier.

There was a purity to strength like this. It was more like being erased than murdered.

Alden Thorn hit the floor and lay there.

He was thinking. Accepting. Being dead, like so many others before him, in an arena that was utterly silent and full of snow.

******
