That being said, his own shame did not stop him from finding delight in Gerel and Rain’s accomplishments, only regret that he could not share in their successes as a grandfather should. It took him fifteen years to get over Ankhbayar’s betrayal and try to reconnect with Gerel, but the first time they saw one another, Naaran’s grandson reacted with such anger and betrayal he didn’t know how to make things right. He thought to give Gerel time and space until he was ready to talk, but that day never came and Naaran only realized the error of his ways on the day of his grandson’s wedding, which he watched from afar like an unwelcome stranger, for that was what he'd become.

As for little Rain, he tried to watch out for the boy by becoming his warden, wholly expecting to have to one day join him in exile, but the beaten little boy was tougher than he had any right to be and fought his way back from the brink through sheer willpower alone. Even if the boy himself didn’t understand it, Naaran saw it all firsthand, how the boy would go out on his solitary hunting trips to indulge his dark curiosities, but he never did anything of the sort. He picked his shots and only ever loosed if he thought he could make a clean kill, and every time his aim was off, he’d put the beast out of its misery while apologizing for its suffering. In spite of all he'd been through, Rain was a boy brimming with empathy for all things living, and that empathy would carry him a long way.

No one wanted the boy to succeed more than Naaran himself, but he understood the danger of allowing love to cloud one’s judgement, and he refused to make the same mistake again. Proud as he was of the boy’s achievements, he remained objective and distant as could be, observing, confirming, and cross-referencing with others to ensure they missed nothing regarding the boy’s pattern of behaviour. So long as he remained Balanced and in control, then there was nothing to fear, but should he step out of line, then Naaran would be the one to claim his life, a duty he took more seriously than anything he’d ever done.

He hadn’t always been the gruff and dour man he was today, and in fact had been much like little Rain himself, a flippant, free-spirited young man who loved to drink, gamble, and cuddle animals whenever he could. Alas, all that changed when Naaran left home to visit Central as a young man in his thirties, one filled with dreams of glory and grandeur, only to return home a broken and defeated cynic who no longer loved the Empire so. He fought to protect it, yet the nobles of Central sought to kill him for no reason other than their own pride, so why should he bother with their affairs? Better to stay in the mountains and leave the Empire to its own devices, and even if the Defiled were to set the Empire ablaze, Naaran wouldn’t care enough to even piss on the flames.

He harboured so much hatred and resentment towards the Empire for its lack of gratitude and appreciation, it festered inside him until it spilled out and infected his friends and family both. Ankhbayar grew up hearing about how the Empire would never accept him, and how he was better off staying loyal to the People and the Saints Tribulations Mountains alone. There was so much hateful rhetoric being bandied about that almost two generations of the People turned traitor and Defiled, all of which was born from the seeds of hate which sprouted in Naaran’s heart.

But Rain? Rain suffered so greatly at the hands of the Empire, and continued to suffer so at the hands of his supposed allies and comrades, yet never once did he succumb to hate. Make no mistake, the boy was no diehard patriot like Akanai or Binesi, and was in fact highly critical of the Empire’s social, political, and financial systems, but that never had any effect on the love he bore for the Empire’s people. No, not the Empire’s people, but his fellow human beings, for everything the boy did was geared towards improving the lives of the people, even going so far as to arm them with weapons of war and destruction, for he understood that change would not come until the people of the Empire were willing to seize it through blood and fire.

And now that boy was a man grown, one who killed a Divinity and helped bring down another. Two if you counted the Demon Divinity as a separate entity, and Naaran most certainly did, but proud as he was of Rain’s accomplishments, he didn’t dare accept any undue credit for the young man’s efforts. Naaran was grandfather by blood alone, no more worthy of love and respect than Ankhbayar, who Rain mercilessly mocked and renounced before all of Shi Bei. The boy had his own family now, one in which Naaran had no part in, this he accepted as true, and yet it still stung something fierce to hear him call the Old Wolf ‘Grandfather’ before he even acknowledged their relationship with more than a glance.

No doubt sensing his inner turmoil, Rain turned towards him and offered an awkward smile, but that was all. There was no invitation for conversation, no implication that they would speak in the future, not even a hint of curiosity in his eyes regarding the circumstances of their relationship. Though he would likely make an effort to connect in the future, the truth was that the boy didn’t care much about their relationship, because he had his family and Naaran had no place inside it.

A choice he made long ago, and had been paying dearly for ever since.

As Naaran’s emotions threatened to overwhelm him, the Heavens showed mercy by sending him a foe to fight, and he rushed forward with spear in hand to defend the boy. Earlier, he’d hesitated to act when Rain came under attack because he thought the boy still had matters well in hand, for if he was capable of warding off a blow from Mataram YuGan, then surely three Half-Demons couldn’t threaten him so. This almost cost little Alsantset her life and earned Naaran a stern talking to from Akanai, so he would not make the same mistake twice. Bounding forward in the blink of an eye, his spear took his first foe clean through the throat, killing the Half-Demon outright. Rather than pull back, he carved through flesh and bone to strike at his second target and send him stumbling aside, whereupon Baatar dispatched the Half-Demon with an errant back-handed swipe. Twirling his spear in his hands, Naaran stood before Rain and wielded his spear like a glaive, for this was the only way he knew how to help the boy. Despite having had it for some time now, he still used his polearm like a sword with a long hilt, which wasn’t entirely wrong, but not entirely correct either. The strength of a spear lay not solely in its range, but in the sheer versatility of the weapon in the hands of a Peak Expert, and Rain was still a ways away from reaching that particular milestone.

The boy was strong, but his foundations weak from progressing too far too fast and leaving all too many flaws behind. Though capable of near miraculous feats, his basic knowledge was sorely lacking and it showed whenever he fought in a more traditional manner, a weakness he made up for with his unconventional approach. A rather effective one, Naraan admitted while watching the boy’s flying weapons kill three Half-Demons on the approach. The boy was more than capable of putting up a fight without needing to take a single step, and he preferred using his glaive as a rifle these days, but Naaran might as well try to teach him something in the hopes that it would be of use. Who knows, as perhaps it would come in handy one day, and if so, then all the better for it. If not, well… then nothing of value would have been lost, so really, there was no harm in trying.

The Forms had always bored Naaran, as he would much rather take Kharuul out for a ride or spend time with the love of his life Yisu. She was no Martial Warrior and had other responsibilities of her own, meaning they had precious little time to spend together in their youth. The Martial Path was simply a profession to him, not a passion or obsession like with so many others, and so long as he could put food on his table and provide for his wife and family, why did it matter if he was the strongest Warrior of all? His laid-back approach and attitude meant no one was willing to take him on as a Disciple, and it infuriated Akanai so, for he was Kharuul’s partner in battle and the Spiritual Quin was a formidable force on his own.

Luckily for Naaran, he loved nothing more than playing with Kharuul, for they were lifelong companions since the first day they met, when the greedy quin stole his candied fruits and he bawled his eyes out in protest. Years of keeping close company meant they shared a bond unlike any other, and when they rode out into battle, he only ever had to heed his partner’s directions to know what to do and where to strike. Kharuul was even older than Akanai, and he’d seen more than his fair share of battles, so under his guidance, Naaran quickly rose to become one of the greatest young talents of his generation.

Explosive speed and power, that was the key to a quin’s strength. There were plenty of creatures out there that were stronger, faster, and more durable than quins, but few that hunted in packs. So long as there was someone else to distract their prey, a quin would not hesitate to launch itself at an opening, even if it wasn’t for a killing blow. That’s how Naaran fought, without fear or hesitation, for even though his lifelong partner was not here on the walls of Shi Bei, he did not fight alone. The boy fought with him, coordinating his flying weapons to distract and harass his foes, allowing Naaran to close in for the quick kill, and he tried his best to pass along all his hard-learned lessons as best he could.

Be decisive, but always hold something in reserve. With a spear or polearm, you didn’t have to put all your strength into each blow, for leverage combined with the weight of the weapon would do most of the work for you. The blade itself wasn’t your only killing tool, as the haft and base of your polearm is more than sturdy enough to break bones and take lives, to say nothing of fist or boot. Don’t be afraid to get in close, because your foe doesn’t expect it either, so sometimes a good shove is all that’s needed to gain the upper hand. Conversely, don’t be afraid to retreat either, because taking a step back might well give you space enough to allow your foe to impale themselves on your weapon.

There was so much Naaran wanted to say, so much he wanted to pass on to Rain and Gerel both, but he was never any good with words. This was the best he could do, show him the man he was and the Warrior he hoped they would both one day surpass, assuming that time had not already come. Most of all, he wanted to tell them just how proud he was of them both, and how sorry he was for being too weak to properly protect them, for though he did not show it well, he still loved them so.

Naaran did not deserve to call himself their grandfather, but they were the blood of his blood, and he would sooner die than see either of them come to harm, a fact he was more than willing to prove through actions alone.

Chapter Meme
