“He’ll do what he wants and you’ll accept it,” the wolf replied, still grinning for all he was worth, because infuriating as the boy might be, he lived his life as he should, rather than as others expected of him. A free spirit he was, and this did much to help him along his Path, though surely there had to be more to it than just that. “Boy’s still mortal yet, and unconstrained by the Treaty, so unless you’re ready to die alongside the rest of your Clansmen, you best keep you and yours away.” Not because the wolf was ready to burn the world down for one single human, but he didn’t dare speak for the Divine Turtle, whose true strength was still a mystery after so many years of close study. All they really knew was that one tiny turtle was strong enough to knock out four Divinities in one go, including the hare and rabbit who were both powerful enough to threaten even the wolf. Irritating and idiotic as they might be, they were a formidable pair even when working within the constraints of the Treaty, and that level of control translated into even more power when working outside them.

Course, the wolf left out the fact that he was more than willing to go all out if the Enemy should choose to overstep their bounds, and from the looks of things, the boy was also willing to risk it. The Treaty had seemed so simple at one point, a collective agreement to stay out of mortal affairs and avoid invoking the Wrath of the Heavens and rendering vast swathes of land uninhabitable. It was only natural to avoid destroying what was theirs, a decision the wolf would have adhered to even without any agreement in place, yet in recent years, the Enemy had taken to using this against the Empire. They broke the unwritten rules and threatened death and destruction should any form of retribution fall upon them, like rabid beasts uncaring if they survived the night so long as they could drag someone else down with them. The wolf was at a loss on how to deal with these madmen, but the boy treated their threats like air, doing as he pleased whilst ignoring all their threats of mutual destruction whilst adhering to the Treaty in full.

The wolf wouldn’t call it clever, ignoring a clear threat to focus on a lesser one, but in doing so, the boy had uncovered the Enemy’s deceit and deception, for they were just as unwilling to break the Treaty as anyone else. Even though a Divinity could easily live in the wastelands beyond the Empire’s borders, life was far more pleasant here than it was out there. Clean water and cooked food alone made the effort worthwhile, but if the Enemy wanted to break the Treaty, then the wolf would gladly oblige and shatter the world before he died.

Putting YuKon out of mind, he turned back to the boy and studied him close, moving right up beside him until their faces were almost touching. Lost in thought and Insight, the boy didn’t even notice as he absently stared at his sword, brimming with glee and confusion while struggling to work out how he did what he did. Odd considering he just did it, and sometimes, the wolf wondered if the boy might one day forget how to breathe. Difficult to say if he was stupid or smart, especially in light of all the changes he’d brought about to the Empire, though the wolf would reserve final judgement after seeing if those changes would last. He wasn’t interested in the boy’s inventions however, nor was his Honed Emotional Aura or Manifested Domain of any real significance considering the wolf already knew how to defend against both. No, there was only one thing he wanted to know, and one thing only. “How’d you do it, boy?” he Sent, struggling to put into words what he’d witnessed earlier. “Negate the Wrath of the Heavens?”

“Hm?” Recoiling away once he noticed how close they were, the boy reacted with surprise, confusion, and a bit of frustration as he tried to find the right words, though he continued to swing his sword at empty air and deliver Aural attacks at his foes. “You mean how I stopped the uhhh… big explosion?” That was one way to put it, though explosion was hardly enough to convey the severity of what would’ve happened if the boy failed to contain the wolf’s power, for the destruction would have poisoned the earth and air for centuries, if not millennia to come. The rabbit and hare both assured him that the boy was capable of suppressing Heaven’s Wrath, but the old wolf had only partially believed it until he saw it happen with his own two eyes. “It’s complicated, but uh… when you attack with the intent to destroy, the Energy of the Heaven’s takes that a little too literally and kicks everything up to eleven.”

“Speak plainly.” What kick? What eleven? The boy spoke common well enough, but his words made no sense when put together.

“Sorry.” The boy started anew, this time speaking in proper sentences, though his explanation still left much to be desired. There were many words spoken, and many sentences used, but in the end, he said little to nothing that made proper sense. How was it possible for destruction to result in a net gain of energy? Was that not creating something from nothing? Not according to the boy, for reality itself required energy to exist as physical matter rather than discrete concepts. “Think of it like burning wood,” the boy explained, which made more sense than anything else he’d said thus far. “The wood isn’t destroyed exactly, just converted into heat, light, and ashes, which is similar to what happens when you uh… invoke the Wrath of the Heavens? Reality itself is broken apart and turned into energy, a reaction which takes energy to release even more energy. Yea, that seems right.”

Having grasped the core concept of the issue, the wolf asked, “Then how do you stop reality from burning?”

“Splash it with water? No, that doesn’t fit…” Offering a shrug that said much and nothing at all, the boy tried his best to explain, “Rather than try to turn the heat, light, and ashes back into wood, I use my Manifested Domain to keep the wood from catching fire in the first place.”

“I see.” Made sense. There was a time when he tried his hand at sailing for a century or two, just something to pass the time, and he remembered having to swab the decks with some foul-smelling concoction that protected the wood from rot and fire both. It wasn’t perfect, but it kept the ship from going up in flames every time someone dropped a torch or broke a lantern, which happened more often than you’d think considering sailors were drunk most of the time. Using those same principles, the wolf deployed his Domain to reinforce reality before lashing out with a punch to test things out, one that just barely touched upon the limits of reality, and to his delight, he felt the Heavens surge and roil without invoking its Wrath. “Good, good.”

It wasn’t as difficult or complicated as the boy tried to make it sound, with all his talk of tiny building blocks and invisible forces working in perfect harmony. Draining and exhausting yes, but not at all complicated, and even this minor accomplishment was enough to set his tail to wagging once more. Putting aside his testing for now, he looked the boy in the eyes to offer a word of advice. It was nice to not have to look up to do that, or even straighten his back all that much. “About that attack,” he began, not sure how to say what he wanted to say without confusing the boy too much. “The one you used to strike down the pronghorn? Don’t use that again unless you have to, not until you understand the true cost of doing so.”

“…Life force?”

Now there was a welcome surprise, because if the boy was already this far along, then he might well have a chance to one day ascend beyond Divinity, a feat even the wolf had long since given up on. “In part, yes,” he replied, though he immediately regretted it, since the boy’s guess was as good as anyone else’s. “Maybe. I don’t really know, not for sure, else I wouldn’t be as old as I am. Understand?”

“Sort of?”

A wisp of warm energy flowed into the wolf, a gift from the boy, but not something of any real value to someone as old as he. “Save it,” he Sent, shaking his head with a smile and patting the boy’s head, wishing there was a pair of cute furry ears to ruffle. If the boy was his, then the wolf would be proud to call himself a father, and that Ankhbayar was a fool to have thrown this one away. Then again, the wolf was a fool many times over for failing to overcome instinct and accept the truth to raise his pups with the love and care they deserved, but he’d long since given up trying here as well, because the inevitable failure just hurt too much. “Your usable Energy of the Heavens is of no use to me, for even the Heavens cannot restore that which I am lacking.”

“…Maybe.” The boy’s eyes said different, for he believed otherwise, but who was the wolf to say he was wrong? “We’ll talk when all this is over.”

“Mm.” Why not? The boy was a perceptive one, else he’d never have come so far on his own, so what harm was there in learning from him? For now though, the wolf needed to find somewhere close by to rest his weary bones, for those two punches had taken most of the wind out of his sails. The cub was out looking after her yellow eyed pup, while the blue-eyed pup was already bristling before the wolf even approached, but the boy seemed like a safe enough bet so long as the Divine Turtle was willing to tolerate his presence. A quick query was all it took as the turtle squeaked out an invitation, his Aura brimming with caution and warning but also cordial curiosity. Shuffling in a little closer, the wolf rested his head on the boy’s shoulder and closed his eyes with a sigh, drained and exhausted from his ordeals.

“Rest easy, grandfather,” the boy said, and the wolf stopped to consider the familial title. He rebuked the boy the last time he used it, because there was no blood between them, but his blue-eyed pup claimed the boy as his own, so grandfather was a good a name as any. If the boy was willing to use it, then the wolf would allow it, and doing so filled him with a warmth that he thought would forever be denied him. A pleasant thought to sleep on for now, and he would revisit things when he woke up again, for if there was to be a battle of Divinities, then he wanted to be as well rested as possible. Long before the world knew him as the old wolf, he wandered the world by another name, a name likely forgotten by all, so he was of a mind to take up the mantle once more and remind the Empire why the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains belonged to him and him alone.

For even that Saint of legend once called him Calamity, and calamity this wolf would bring should the Enemy dare lay hands on one of his.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There was a time when Naaran thought himself dead inside, and he actually preferred it that way.

It was far easier to bury his pain and anguish than confront it head on, to run away and pretend as if his life had ended when his precious ‘First Joy’ stabbed him through the chest. If only that spear had pierced his heart, then Naaran would have died then and there, and everything might’ve changed for the better. Killing his father might well have filled Ankhbayar with remorse, enough for him to repent his sins instead of gathering his co-conspirators to flee into the night, setting off a chain of events that led them here to an Empire on the brink of a war between Divinities, but how was Naaran to know?

No, ignorance was no excuse, for he’d had thirty-odd years to make up for his mistakes and had done absolutely nothing about it. Leaving Gerel in the orphanage had been the best option for everyone involved, because Naaran himself had not been in any condition to care for a child, not after he almost killed his daughter-in-law and grandson both as he chased them out of the village in a blind rage. Upon discovering his son had turned Defiled, Naaran almost succumbed to the Father’s lies himself, and to this day, he still had difficulties holding fast to Balance more often than not. That’s why he didn’t dare show his face before Gerel, because the boy had already lost his parents and maternal grandparents, so why subject him to losing another grandfather again, or worse, implicate him a second time? No, better a clean cut to sever ties until Naaran was sure he could control himself, but even after a decade had passed, his anger and guilt still burned hot.

It was no one’s fault but his own, yet it still pained him to see his grandson grow up into a splendid young man and know he had nothing to do with it. Two grandsons now, though he suspected as much from the first time he laid eyes on Rain, as the Heavens conspired to remind Naaran of his failures as a father and grandfather both rather than leave him to wallow in his misery. The fact that both his grandsons excelled without his support only made his incompetence that much more evident, for despite giving Ankhbayar all the love and guidance he could spare, Naaran had failed to raise his son right.

At least his beloved Yisu was not around to see this, though she would have done a far better job raising their child than he did. The Mother took her away too soon, but only because She wanted Yisu close by Her side, and Naaran could hardly blame Her.

