Running long distances isn’t about endurance, it’s about determination. Sure, at some point you will run out of energy and collapse in a puddle of sweat, tears, and puke, but that point is much farther than you would think, so long as you possess the determination to continue, putting one foot in front of the other, simple as that. Slogging through the mud and rain tires me out far more than usual, but our pace has slowed the past few days, either Akanai having mercy on me or truly in no rush to reach the Bridge. I don't understand why, I’d prefer to put all this ugliness behind us, hopefully as peacefully as possible, maybe with a stern warning from the Justicar.


I can still dream.

A tirade of cursing draws my attention, a sigh escaping me as I slow down to help Ravil once again. Grabbing him by the shoulder, I pull him out of the mud with a loud pop, Ravil grumbling the entire time. “You’re a terrible rider, no grace at all.” Pointing at his quin, I beckon it over towards us, but it remains still, shrinking back as if afraid. “Hey, what’s your quins name?”

His grumbling stops for a second to answer me. “Jinx.”

“They gave you a quin named Jinx?”

“Nah.” Brushing my hand aside, he tries to clean himself of mud, an impossible task even if he weren’t blind, but I wisely keep my mouth shut. “That idiot creature didn’t have a name, so they left it to me to name her. Ain’t a single thing gone right since I marched with you Khishigs, so I figured you were my jinx, my black star, but I might as well embrace it, so that’s her name, Jinx. Must be working, I've fallen every day and ain’t broke my neck yet.”

Responding to her name, Jinx timidly walks over to us, stopping at arms reach to sniff me before deciding that I’m acceptable company. These wagon quins are the weaker more timid ones that wouldn’t survive as well in the wild, but I like them docile, they’re much sweeter and approachable. While they’re still capable of biting through flesh and bone, that’s more of a last resort and not their standard greeting.

Feeding the sweet quin a slice of dried fruit, I chuckle lightly. “Well, whatever you like.” Not like learning how to heal isn’t awesome or anything, just focus on the negatives why don’t you. Helping him back onto Jinx, I smack him on the shoulder. “Listen up, you aren’t used to riding and she isn’t used to carrying you, so sit on her back, relax, and let her lead. Someone will notice if she runs off, no need for you to guide her.” Jogging alongside, I continue to offer advice, until, tired of my company, Ravil urges Jinx to run faster, leaving me behind. You’re welcome, jerk.

Picking up the pace, I continue to run through the mud and rain, my raincoat little more than a straw cloak and hat, keeping me dry and my skin feeling hot. The day wears on, but the rain shows no sign of stopping, nor do we, eating on the move, something easier done from the back of a quin, but I manage somehow, wishing the entire time for money to fall from the sky, so I can buy another roosequin.

If only that stupid big cat was 1,000 years old or older, then all of my immediate money problems would be solved, even split with Huu. Instead, I have to find a way to pay him for half the value of the damn kittens as well. How much they're worth I can only guess at, but Taduk doesn't think they'd be very cheap, so my fiscal obligations continue to grow.

Do they have banks here? Perhaps I should see about robbing one... or better yet, open my own bank if they don't exist. Although, collecting on debt would be a real problem, with everyone insisting I give face and whatnot. Man, how do businesses make a living here?

Mercifully, the downpour ends in the early afternoon as does our journey for the day, Akanai setting up camp on some rocky high ground. It's difficult finding places to fit 4,000+ people, considering all the stringent requirements, like a defensible site with access to water, firewood, etc. I should find a book on command, so I can figure out how to screw up without putting lives at risk.

Mila and Li Song go out to hunt today, giving me time to rest, exhausted from the day's run, while my squad settles down around me, silently practicing their healing, most of them still learning how to examine their own injuries. With the need for privacy, we settled away from the main camp each day, doing nothing to endear ourselves to the other Sentinels, but I know that screams of pain would see us immediately ostracized as masochistic freaks. There has yet to be another person to succeed with my healing technique, not even Taduk or Mei Lin able to replicate my success, but I have confidence that the both of them will be able to persevere past my horrible teaching and puzzle out the mystery, going on to teach the others far more effectively than I ever could.

Ravil, the poor unfortunate, currently sits nearby with Taduk and Tokta arguing next to him, the two of them spewing venom at one another over his head. It surprises me how terribly they get along, but I supposed it's some sort of professional rivalry considering most of their insults are directed at the other's healing skills. Neither of them are happy at being unable to puzzle out my healing method, and Ravil has taken the brunt of their displeasure, although I've endured more than my fair share.

Escaping their notice, I scoop up my favorite kitten and snuggle him, the runt of the litter struggling while I shower him with affection, nibbling at my hands. After a day of napping inside the sling Li Song made to carry them in, the little trio of adorable kittens curiously explore their surroundings, filled with energy yet unwilling to travel too far away on their own, often glancing back to see if I'm still where they left me. They're timid little creatures and I hope they stay that way, because they will eventually grow into 500-pound murder machines.

I should probably ask someone for advice.

Gathering up the remaining kittens, I bring them over to the cooking pit where Alsantset is hard at work preparing for dinner. “Hey, you know how you said I can keep these cats as long as I tame them? How exactly would I go about doing that?”

“Hmph, three days and you finally come ask, your stubborn attitude never ceases to amaze me.” Giving me a wry look, she motions for me to sit, her lecturing beginning in earnest. “Contrary to your desires, those cats are not pets, they are living weapons, and a weapon that strikes its owner is worthless.” Following her gaze, I look down at the little cuties gnawing away at my hands and arms, kneading at my flesh with their claws out.

“But they're being friendly, it’s only a little harmless play biting.” Cooing at the kittens, I smile as they show affection in their own way, smiling at the sight of their over-sized paws and sleepy eyes.

Sighing deeply, Alsantset tosses a few uncooked bones to the ground, the cats squirming out of my grasp to pounce on them, gnawing at the meaty treats with relish, their eyes shut in content satisfaction. Brushing off her hands, she grabs both my cheeks and pinches hard, frowning as she tries to tear my face apart. “Know this Rain, I love you like family but at times you frustrate me to no end. You take too long to ask and when you do, you choose to ignore my given advice. Do you know how infuriating that is?”

The pinching stops and she cups my face with both hands, her feline eyes staring at me full of concern and questioning. The extreme levels of eye contact makes me incredibly uncomfortable, but her unyielding hold on my head makes me keenly aware of how strong she truly is, leaving me stuck in an uncomfortable position while she remains silent, waiting for my response. “Er... sorry? Won't happen again.”

Smiling, she gently pats my face as if soothing the pain. “You have always been one to question things and I was happy to let you, because you often came to the right answers. Perhaps that is even why you could discover your new method of healing, but your misdeed this time was far too severe and I cannot simply let you go unscathed. Akanai's punishment is too light, so to thank her, I will be more strict with you in the future and help you grow into a proper man, one worthy of her daughter.”

Returning to her preparations, she begins to lecture me on wildcat care. “Stop letting the creatures gnaw at you, it encourages bad habits. They are tiny and cute now, but in six months to a year, their teeth will be like knives, tearing through flesh easily.” Stepping over, I begin helping her where I can while she continues to list off advice for taming the cats, from hand feeding, to commands they need to learn, and I commit every word to memory, making sure not to forget a single thing, until finally she ends with a stern look and a warning. “Combat training will only occur if they becoming compliant to your will. Do not shirk on their training Rain, if they are unruly I will put the creatures down myself. I will not allow them to be a danger to the People, and especially not around my children. Do you have any more questions?”

Gathering my thoughts, I ask a few questions to clarify a few of her instructions, and when I have no more questions, I continue to help with the preparations, doing whatever task Alsantset has for me. She says she will be strict, but she is still as kind as ever, taking the time to explain her instructions in detail, knowing I will ask why. In the end, a little discipline might not be too bad for me, although I am a little worried about her new mindset. I hope it doesn't spill over to Tali and Tate, those poor sweet babies deserve the kind, loving mother they had before I messed things up.

Mila and Li Song return shortly with a few rabbits, pride surging through me as I inwardly gloat about my catch with Huu, but three deer, a wildcat and three kittens is tough to top. Taking over the dinner preparations, I cook the rabbits in a stew along with chopped vegetables and make some simple dough wraps, letting Alsantset rest for the evening. While it seems a little like currying approval, she's been cooking dinner without complaint for ten people every day, Tokta, Huu, and his lovely ladies joining us every night, and she deserves a break.

