You might be reading a stolen copy. Visit Royal Road for the authentic version.

Dinnertime comes and goes without incident, aside from a shower of compliments on my culinary talents, as well as some less-than-subtle prompting from Yesui for me to teach Huu. The poor guy is being led around by the nose, both sisters shaping him in various ways, molding him into their perfect man, but they display plenty of affection for each other, eliciting slight pangs of jealousy from me. Mila and Lin don't even sit next to me at meals, leaving me to eat with Taduk and Tokta, bombarded with their questions as they shout at one another with mouths full, the food barely tasted in their rush to continue their studies.

Before I can rush off to do the dishes, Tokta and Taduk drag me away to once again display my healing for them to study. Lin and Mila follow along while Li Song gathers up the kittens with her unreadable expression, the little animals obediently hanging in her arms while their furry little butts sway back and forth. I wish I could carry them like that without being bit, I have no idea why they are so docile around her.

Handing me a knife, Tokta looks at me expectantly while Taduk shrugs helplessly, knowing there is no other way for them to observe. The panacea is invisible to their extrasensory perceptions, so if I were to create the panacea with nothing for it to fix, we'd all be wasting time, so to visibly demonstrate its effects, I require an injury to heal. Wincing before I even begin the cut, I draw the blade across my forearm, a deep gash in the fleshy area, avoiding any arteries. Don't want to get my new clothes all bloody, it's harder to wash out than cat piss. I should have asked Alsantset how to housebreak those cats, I'm getting sick of waking early to wash my bedroll, but their tiny sleepy snores are worth it most days.

Settling down to meditate, I quickly fall into the State of Balance and begin creating the panacea in my forearm, letting it take care of my injury, using every ounce of concentration I have on the process and unable to sense the results as I work. While I heal, I detect two intermittent streams of energy, Taduk and Tokta taking turns to 'watch' the process, remaining silent throughout the entire process. Once complete, I open my eyes and glance up at them, seeing the discontent and irritation in both of their eyes, neither one willing to admit to their failure first.

Shoving them aside, Lin makes her way to sit next to me, wiping my bloodied arm with a wet cloth, her hare ears inadvertently brushing my face, feeling soft and warm. “Good work Rainy, I'm sure Daddy and Tokta will figure it out soon. Could you explain the process again, I might have an idea.” She smiles expectantly at me from beneath her hooded headscarf and it's difficult for me to say no. The headscarf was a normal scarf I bought her, one of more reasonable length than her prized white one, but instead of switching it out, she had ear holes sewn into them so she could wear both, a sweet, considerate gesture.

Taking her into a small hug, like we did when she was younger so I could read stories to her, I begin explaining my process for the umpteenth time. “Alright... So, it starts with teeth. Although teeth are composed of a number of varying materials, I noticed there was no gradual progression into the different parts. Blood would flow towards the missing tooth, and the different parts would form from the same base... material, I guess is the best word.”

“Which was previously believed to be a 'tooth seed', but you call it panacea.” Taduk chimes in, listening intently even though he has heard it a hundred times. “Not only are we unable to sense it, I still do not understand how it is capable of healing injuries without guidance, regenerating what is missing. There is a process to healing an injury, no matter what kind. The blood clots, collagen forms, then tissue will scaffold and skin will grow, these are the basic steps, but this panacea makes a mockery of all we know about healing, doing all those steps concurrently. How is that possible?”

“I'm more interested in how you create this panacea to begin with, the rest will come with further study, but I am unable to even replicate your success outside of regrowing teeth.” Tokta mutters beneath his breath while rubbing his jaw, recalling the dozens of teeth he's pulled in the past few weeks, the man's tolerance for suffering impressive even to me. He barely makes a sound when each tooth is broken and removed, but the pain is clear on his face every time. “Three weeks, and I've been unable to make my blood produce the panacea, yet that empty minded fool Ravil is able to do so, most vexing indeed.”

Shushing them both, Lin urges me to continue my explanation, but there really isn't much else for me to say. “I don't know either, I just... direct my blood to create the panacea in the area of the injury. I don't have the attention to spare to see how it does anything, and even if I did, I doubt I could offer any addition insight on the matter.”

The happy sounds of Mila and Li Song playing with the kittens fill the silence, we four healers sitting quietly as we each ponder the problem, but my heart isn't in it. I want to play with the kittens, they seem as if they're having so much fun, pouncing around and mewling cutely while chasing strings pulled by a delighted Mila, lovely in the fading sunlight. Next to her, serenely petting the lazy one, Li Song exudes contentment and tranquility, completely engrossed in her single action.

“Ah!” Lin perks up, startling me from my thoughts and I do my best to appear innocent, and not an ogling lecher, but my staring went unnoticed. “You said you 'direct your blood' to create the panacea right? How sure are you about that?”

Taking the time to consider her question, I answer hesitantly. “Well yea, I believe that's what happens. Part of the blood is... siphoned off, and that's where the panacea comes from, but it isn't always there. I can't create it right away, it takes time for things to get started, so I assumed my blood is the source of the panacea.”

“Hmm, but blood doesn't work that way, it doesn't create things.” Plucking the knife from it's sheathe, she draws it across her palm in a neat slice, carefully keeping from spilling any blood.

“Uhh, what are you doing?” My question goes unanswered as her eyes have already closed, her body going slack as she does when meditating, leaning against me, almost as if she were asleep. Looking to Taduk and Tokta for explanation, neither of them are any help as their attentions are already focused on Lin's healing, so I make do with watching her palm, keeping any blood from spilling out and onto her clothes. I can't imagine how hard it would be to remove blood from white silk, and I know her scarf means a lot to her, although she's never said why.

After a half-hour, Lin's eyes open and she sleepily snuggles against me, yawning adorably as she wakes from meditation. Grinning toothily, she triumphantly announces, “I did it Rainy, I figured it out!”

Before I can speak up, Tokta asks frantically, “How did you do that? You replicated his method! Speak girl, speak! Please tell me you can explain it better than this idiot can.”

“Hehe... Rainy was saying that it was 'siphoning' from his blood, but that didn't sound right. Blood delivers and is consumed, that's its purpose, so I thought that it was delivering the panacea which had to be created somewhere else. Add to the fact that Daddy couldn't sense it and Rainy's description of 'siphoning' -

“The panacea must be a special type of blood, made in the bone marrow!” Tokta blurts out the rest, before exclaiming, “Ha! I win, I figured it out first. Medical Saint, more like Medical Moron, can't even reach simple conclusions.”

“You figured it out? My wonderful daughter figured it out, you just stole her moment, you second-rate scoundrel! I'd belittle your title as well, but what was it again? Oh right, you don't have one, because you languish in mediocrity.” The two of them continue to argue as they sit and draw their own knives, cutting themselves and bleeding while they trade insults, their sudden silence almost a relief as they concentrate on testing Lin's method.

Holding up her hand, she proudly displays the healed cut while leaning her head for a pat, waiting for her praise. Feeling foolish, I oblige her while smiling, listening to her continue on about her process, but I'm distracted by the fact that my simple mistake kept my teachers from replicating my success for weeks. It's because they took my words at face value, and only after Lin decided to try to verify them did my mistake become clear.

I have little time to wallow in self-pity, as both healers leap up almost in unison and begin discussion on methods to more easily teach my squad, pulling me in to settle their arguments. Watching the animated expressions of my two healing teachers, I feel a touch of pity for my squad as it seems more of them will soon be joining Ravil in his pain filled misery as they slowly heal their injuries. On the bright side, Akanai will probably let me off the hook after everyone is healed, which means I won't have to pay their salaries anymore, so I have that going for me. They say money can't buy happiness, but crushing debt never made anyone happy either.

Now all I have to do is survive the trial with the Society.

How hard could that be? We'll have Akanai, Baatar and the rest of the Banner, Du Min Gyu, and 4,000+ Sentinels. The Society is nothing, just a conglomerate of sects and clans that have been in existence for hundreds, if not thousands of years, perfecting their way of combat in the defense of the province.

No problem.

…

Well, at least this can't all be blamed on me, I didn't want to go to that stupid contest in the first place.
