“Don’t worry. It’s not the right season for them. You’ll see a lot more wildlife around here when the new year begins. This is the quietest time of the year, actually. Once the rains start, you’ll see a ton of weird creatures, and then when it stops, all the animals that travel come here to graze. And in the winter, it gets really dangerous. There’s these things called Winter Sprites, which are a pain in the tail…”
“Wonderful. I bet everyone comes here to see all the monsters who want to suck your face off.”
It might have been that Drakes were impervious to sarcasm. Or it might have just been Relc’s natural obliviousness. He nodded happily as he licked his lips.
“We used to get a lot of travel down south. But that all stopped when the damn Necromancer appeared.”
“Necromancer? You mean Pisces?”
“That weakling mage? No. I mean the bad Necromancer that nearly destroyed the city about ten years ago. Is the food ready yet?”
“Not yet. So that’s why you guys hate the undead?”
Klbkch shook his head as Relc glanced longingly towards the kitchen where good smells were beginning to waft out.
“I believe the Necromancer did not help public perception, but the undead have always been considered a threat, Miss Solstice. It is said that the three most dangerous things to Liscor are rain, the undead, and war.”
“I can see war, but why rain and the undead?”
“Bah. They’re the real threats. War? Huh. We don’t fear war. Our army fights in wars—far south of here! They send back loot, but no one attacks Liscor! We’re too far, and the Bloodfields are in the way.”
“That is true. Most residents of Liscor do not fear war. I personally deem this unwise given the volatile nature of conflict between nations on this continent.”
“Hah! Even if all the northern and southern cities burn, Liscor will never fall!”
Relc slammed a fist on the table and then looked at Erin beseechingly.
“Can I at least have a drink? Blue fruit juice?”
“Oh, of course. Just a second.”
Erin hurried into the kitchen to grab glasses and the pitcher of freshly-squeezed juice. When she got back, she heard Klbkch and Relc arguing.
“—The certainty of Drakes in the impregnability of Liscor seems unwise. My people have brought up the need for increased vigilance to your governing body, but—”
“What’s the problem with the Watch, huh? You’re part of it. You know we can take care of any monsters that appear. And if an army does come here, so what? There’s only two ways into this valley. North and south. The mountains are practically impassable, and the Bloodfields guard the southern border. Even if an army comes through, the Floodplains will cut off any chance of siege. What don’t you get about that?”
“The north is still relatively unguarded. If the Humans were to unite under the Five Families—”
“Human cities?”
Erin leaned over the table and nearly spilled juice all over Relc. She looked at the two.
“There are Humans around here? Where?”
“To the north. Duh.”
Relc raised his eyebrows while Erin struggled not to throttle him. Klbkch glanced sideways at Erin and then back to his drink.
“And? Um, what do the Human cities do?”
Relc frowned as he poked at his claws with a fork as if testing how sharp it was. 
“Who knows? They’re Humans. We have an okay relationship with them. They don’t come over here and stomp on our tails, and we don’t eat them.”
Erin sagged slightly. Klbkch kicked Relc under the table, and the Drake glanced up at Erin. His eyes widened.
“Oh. Um, uh, like I was saying to Klbkch, Liscor would never fall! Even if an army did attack from the north, we could just recall our army. Unless they could breach our walls in a week or less, the army would come running right back and smash them. See?”
“Is your army really that great?”
Relc nodded proudly as Klbkch indicated his agreement.
“The Liscorian army is famous. Don’t you know? We fight battles for other cities, and they pay us to kick our enemies to shreds. We field two thousand Drakes and a few hundred Gnolls at any given moment with officer classes. Those are just the officers. Now, we don’t have that many soldiers per officer—sometimes as low as two, but that’s Liscor strategy. When there’s a big battle coming, it’s as many as eighteen per officer. Now, I know that sounds like a small army to you, but their average Level is 17. How about that, then?”
She wasn’t sure what to make of that. It sounded quite low.
“Um. It’s good?”
“Good? It’s great! The average level of soldiers in other armies is Level 8. Eight. They have low-level [Conscripts] or [Militia] who don’t see battles. Ours are veterans. Get it?”
She did. And when Relc put it that way, it was impressive.
“So the, uh, Liscorian army is twice as strong as other armies?”
Klbkch shook his head.
“That is not entirely correct. Levels cannot replace tactics or numerical superiority, or equipment, for that matter. However, it is still a potent deterrent to larger forces. That allows the Liscorian army to fight as a mercenary force without prolonged engagements.”
“Exactly. Any army that runs up against ours knows that if things get serious, they’ll bleed for every soldier they bring down. That’s why we can earn so much money fighting abroad.”
“So are they here? In the city, I mean?”
“Nah. They’re almost always out on some campaign. The Liscorian army fights wherever. I think they were in the east, fighting near one of the Walled Cities. Oteslia, probably. They’re easy to siege.”
That all made a sort of sense to Erin, although she was having a hard time thinking of a parallel with her world. That was also because she hated history class. But she vaguely recalled the Mongols doing something similar. Or was it the Turks? The Swiss? Now she had no idea.
But Erin did have one question. She raised an eyebrow at Relc.
“So your army goes out and fights for money? Isn’t that dangerous if someone attacks here?”
“Exactly my point. If a stranger to our city can identify the weak spot so quickly, why is the populace so resistant to any suggestions regarding defense?”
Relc shook his head at both Klbkch and Erin angrily.
“Like I said, Liscor’s got a lot of natural defenses. Besides, what army in their right minds would want to attack the one city with an Antinium Hive?”
Erin sensed her food was nice and warm, but that last word bothered her. She lingered, her hands on the table.
“A what? An Antinium Hive? Is that unique?”
Relc opened his mouth to laugh in her face—then he saw her genuine expression and waved his hand at Klbkch. As for the Antinium, he gave Erin a long look as Relc explained.
“This city. Liscor. It’s home to a bunch of Antinium—not the violent kind, the peaceful ones. But they live here, so that makes it a Hive. One of six in the world. The Black Tide, the Antinium from Rhir—we are the only city that allowed a Hive to be created. Because they helped fight off the Necromancer. ‘sprobably why no one wants to visit anymore. But hey, it makes us special. And the Ants do help a bit. Right, Klbkch?”
Erin turned to look at Klbkch. He nodded in agreement.
“We have a standing contract with the people of Liscor. In exchange for our presence, we provide services and goods to the city. It is a mutually beneficial arrangement.”
“Yeah, it was weird having the Antinium around, but it turned out to be a good idea.”
Relc shrugged.
“Anyways, the bottom line is that the Ants defend the city if we’re ever attacked and help out with construction and other jobs. They send some of their people to work in jobs, like Klbkch here. And in return, we let them stay.”
“That doesn’t sound too fair. What’s in it for the Antinium?”
Relc looked amused.
“No one kills them. You think the Hives would be allowed anywhere else? All five of the other ones are in the Hivelands, and we’d be at war with them if the Walled Cities thought they’d win. This is the only city where Drakes, Gnolls, and Antinium mix. It’s probably why we’re not in the middle of a third Antinium War. To everyone else, they’re the monsters who should be destroyed.”
Erin looked at Klbkch. He didn’t seem inclined to disagree, but she did.
“They seem pretty good to me. Although Klbkch is the only one I’ve ever met. But he doesn’t cause trouble or call Humans names or do anything bad. Unlike certain Drakes I could name.”
“Thank you, Miss Solstice.”
Relc glared as Klbkch bowed his head. He flicked his tail back and forth on the ground and growled.
“Oh, the Ants are great. They’re quiet, they don’t get drunk, and they’re about as interesting as wood—until one of them goes crazy.”
Klbkch nodded.
“The strain of madness has not been eliminated from the current generation. We have reduced the average instance of insanity by 14% per year, but we must remain vigilant.”
“What? Fourteen…what? Can you explain that bit to me?”
Klbkch nodded and opened his mandibles, but Relc’s stomach audibly growled. He poked Erin in the side, which made her jump and earned him a foot-stomp from Klbkch, but he didn’t seem to notice. He whined at Erin.
“You can talk about the crazy Ants later. But right now…food?”
Erin dithered, but relented at last at the desperate look in Relc’s eyes.
“Oh, fine.”
She went into the kitchen and began lugging out a pot of soup, a basket of warm bread—a bit too dry from being near the embers—and her standard pasta with sausage and onions. Relc began to salivate the instant he saw the food.
“Sorry it took so long. I wanted to tell you guys about the Goblins, so I forgot to heat stuff up.”
“No problem, no problem. Just put it here and all is forgiven. And oh yeah, we’ve got news too!”
Relc rubbed his claws together eagerly as Erin brought out plates and bowls.
“Ooh, is that soup? And bread? And pasta! That’s a lot of food!”
“Yeah, well, I was celebrating earlier. I cooked up a lot by accident.”
“Celebrathing? Celebrathing whu?”
It was hard to understand the Drake as he spoke through a mouth already bursting with food. Erin politely averted her eyes as she replied.
“Oh, you know. Not dying.”
“’S good! Good to celebrath!”
Relc washed down his mouthful of bread and cheese with a cup full of blue fruit juice. Erin had other liquids for sale now too; regular apple juice and a refreshing minty drink, but the Drake had developed a taste for the sticky blue fruit drink.
“I would like a bowl of soup too, if it would not trouble you, Miss Solstice.”
Erin glanced over at Klbkch and remembered. She put a frown on her face.
“Wait a minute. Is soup another one of those things Antinium can’t eat?”
Klbkch ducked his head.
“I assure you, soup is completely palatable to my kind.”
Erin glanced over at Relc, who nodded agreeably as he stuffed his mouth with pasta. She put her hands on her hips.
“Okay, but I’m still mad about the pasta thing. So tell me—and I hope to god this is true or I’ll be really upset. Tell me, do the Antinium eat bugs or worms or stuff like that?”
Klbkch looked up into Erin’s face and hesitated.
“I would not like to offend your sensibilities with a description of my diet, Miss Solstice—”
“Offend away, by all means.”
Again, he hesitated.
“My kind is fully capable of digesting most dishes eaten by humanoids. However, it is true that if offered we will eat creatures Humans and Drakes deem unsavory. We do not tend to consume such meals in public—”
“Right, no problem! Just wait here!”
Erin skidded into the kitchen and began banging pots and plates together. Relc and Klbkch exchanged a puzzled glance until she walked back into the room carrying a heaping bowl of black things as far away from her as she could.
“Whath tha?”
Gingerly, Erin set the bowl full of Acid Flies on the table. Relc looked at it curiously, but Klbkch leaned towards the bowl as if suddenly hypnotized.
“These are—well, they’re these flying acid bugs that I found. I wasn’t sure if you’d want it, Klbkch, but I thought it was worth a try and—”
Klbkch picked up a spoon and began shoveling the black insect torsos into his ‘mouth’. Erin shut up. She also looked away. As much as she liked Klbkch, the crunching sounds and the sight of him eating the flies was hard to stomach.
“Looksh good.”
Relc swallowed his mouthful and reached out a hand. Without missing a beat, Klbkch slapped it away from his bowl. Both Relc and Erin stared in surprise at Klbkch.
“Um, can I have a bowl too, Erin?”
“You want some? Oh, uh, do lizards—”
Relc glared, and Erin amended her words hastily.
“—Drakes like bugs?”
“Not as much as this guy, but I wouldn’t mind trying some. I’ve eaten worse on campaign.”
Dutifully, Erin brought another bowl out. Relc tasted the bugs and munched a few down experimentally.
“Ooh, nice and crunchy! I didn’t know you could eat these things. How’d you manage to get rid of all the acid?”
“It’s a long story. It involves blood and—actually, I’d rather hear your news. What is it?”
Relc looked blank. Then he snapped his fingers. Erin was surprised he could with his scaly hands.
“Right, oh yeah. It’s terrible news! Guess what? Some idiot found a bunch of ruins to the northeast of the city, and it’s apparently some ancient dungeon! Now, every adventurer in miles is coming here to explore it!”
Erin frowned.
“Is that a bad thing? I thought finding old ruins and exploring them is what adventurers do. It’s what happens in all the games I, uh—well, it’s what adventurers do, right? Doesn’t Liscor have an Adventurer’s Guild?”
“Yeah, but they don’t have many members. Not many idiots in our city bother becoming adventurers since there’s not much to do around here. If you want to fight, you join the army or the Watch. It’s Humans who are the stupid—um…uh…”
Erin pretended not to hear that.
“You don’t like adventurers, is that what I’m hearing? Why? Don’t they kill monsters?”
“Yeah, and they cause trouble. They pick fights when they’re drunk, they run away from tough monsters, and they’re rude to guardsmen.”
Relc slammed his cup down on the table.
“Adventurers. I hate them so much.”
Klbkch nodded. He dropped his spoon into his bowl with a clatter. Erin blinked and looked down. The bowl she’d filled was huge, twice as big as a soup bowl. He held it up to her, empty.
“Another serving, if you please, Miss Solstice. It is true such sites bring increased commerce to our city, but the negative effects of so many adventurers cannot be discounted.”
