“Baking soda.”
Krshia shook her head. Once more, she stood at her shop counter, this time sharpening a knife with a whetstone as a product demo. She was selling whetstones and knives. She seemed very familiar with both; there wasn’t much chance she would cut herself as she applied more water to the whetstone.
Erin hadn’t known you sharpened knives with, well, a stone. Or that you got it wet. Hence the name. Krshia had laughed the entire time—until she realized Erin was serious. And when the Human girl described the idea of the ingredient she needed, the Gnoll rested her chin on her paw and frowned mightily.
“I know not what that is. I have many things which can be baked, but none of this ‘soda.’”
Erin groaned. She felt she shouldn’t be surprised, but she still hated being surprised.
“How about baking powder? Everyone has baking powder!”
Again, Krshia shook her head.
“What is this powder supposed to bake, Erin Solstice?”
“Cookies.”
“And what are these ‘cookies’?”
Erin gaped at Krshia. She gestured with her hands.
“Cookies. You know? Small, round, brown things?”
“Are you talking about cow leavings, Erin Solstice?”
“No!”
Furiously, Erin grabbed at her hair. She immediately let go. Her hair was not as hygienic or as clean as she was used to it being.
“How do you—this world doesn’t have cookies? How is that fair? How!?”
Erin stopped ranting and pounded her fist lightly into her hand.
“…How about ice cream?”
“What is this ice—”
 
——
 
Thirty minutes of Krshia laughing and snorting at her later, Erin Solstice was walking back to her inn. She kicked at the clumpy grass, too mad to even admire the orange tint to the patch she was walking through. She was mad.
“Stupid worlds that don’t have ice cream. Stupid Gnolls who act nice and look at me like I’m insane. How does anyone live without ice cream and cookies?”
Erin grumbled to herself as she trudged back to her inn. She kicked the knee-high grass and wished she had a lawnmower the size of a skyscraper. Maybe then her legs wouldn’t itch so much after walking—
Clickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclick—
A familiar sound across the plains. It made Erin’s blood go cold. She stopped, listened, and then saw it.
A gigantic, grey, craggy rock seemed to be levitating across the grasslands. But that was only an illusion. If you looked closer, you’d see many legs churning up the soil underneath the rock. But Erin had no intention of getting that close. She knew what was making that sound and what was living under that rock.
It was a Rock Crab. Erin froze and then turned to run. But it wasn’t coming at her.
Instead, the gigantic rock was propelling itself across the grasslands quite quickly. Its rapidly shuffling legs tore up the earth as it ran. But it wasn’t chasing anything. Was it running away? From what?
Erin got her answer as a bunch of much smaller figures surged over the crest of a hill, chasing the Rock Crab. Goblins. 
Goblins? Chasing a Rock Crab?
What a ridiculous statement. Erin was amazed to see the same group that had been around her inn when the Chieftain…her smile vanished, but it came back when she saw the silly sight.
A huge Rock Crab, half as large as a house, was scurrying across the grass, surging down a hill as little green figures, short and waving weapons, pursued it. Erin had been in that situation, but she hadn’t weighed—what—thousands of pounds? Yet the crab fled the tiny group of eight, and Erin wondered if the Goblins had scared it with seedpods. That was the only thing she could think of.
At first, Erin grinned at the sight, but her smile faded as more and more of them appeared. First there were eight. Then ten. Then twenty—forty—
Yiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyi—
That was a lot of them. Erin’s smile vanished as she heard that familiar, dangerous sound. The Goblins were screaming a warcry of their own as they chased the Rock Crab. The crab seemed to sense them behind it and sped up, but it was still too slow. As Erin watched in amazement, the first Goblin leapt and managed to cling to the Rock Crab’s shell.
Instantly, it swung around and threw the Goblin off. From underneath the Rock Crab’s shell, a large claw appeared and snapped at the Goblin. Erin covered her mouth as the Goblin screamed and held up a bloody stump of an arm.
But even as the Rock Crab surged towards the injured Goblin, more Goblins leapt at it. It swung around, trying to knock them away, but although it knocked several Goblins flying, many more dodged its claw and charged at the Rock Crab, screaming wildly.
The Goblins swarmed the Rock Crab. Erin watched, open-mouthed as the giant land crustacean snapped and struck out with its claws. Three Goblins fell away, severely cut and bleeding. One was missing a hand, but the others—
They swarmed over the rocky shell, bashing it with clubs. They ducked underneath it as well, biting, stabbing, tearing.
Erin couldn’t see what was happening as more and more Goblins crawled underneath the Rock Crab’s shell, but she saw it spasm. It clicked rapidly in pain and swiped at the Goblins, but they were too close for its claws to grab at. A baby blue liquid seeped from beneath the shell. The giant Rock Crab collapsed, and slimy, blue Goblins dripping in entrails and crab shell emerged from underneath.
Erin backed away slowly. Her heart was pounding a million times per second. She imagined what would happen if one of the Goblins glanced over at her. They’d rush her and cover her in an instant.
But they were all intent on their kill. The Goblins were ripping the Rock Crab apart, hungrily scarfing down its guts. It was a sight to make Erin nauseous, but her stomach was already clenched tight from fear.
Eventually, she thought she was far enough away. Erin turned and ran.
 
——
 
Most of the other Goblins didn’t see the departing Human. They were too busy cracking the Rock Crab’s hard shell and scooping out its slimy entrails. They feasted.
But a few Goblins did notice the Human. One with ragged clothes, the smallest of the tribe, stopped biting into the Rock Crab’s bitter flesh to watch the young woman leave. The Goblin gripped something in her pocket tightly. Soon. It would be soon.
The ragged pouch of coin jingled softly as the Goblin shook it. The littlest looked around quickly, but the other Goblins were too busy gorging themselves to notice the small sound. The female Goblin stowed her pouch of coins among her ragged clothes. Then she went back to eat as much as she could.
The warriors let her pass. They were grunting, tearing bits of raw crab off to eat. There was no Chieftain. The Chieftain was dead—the tribe might have fractured or fallen apart, but they would eat well today, and they might have lots of food till later.
All because they’d hunted a Rock Crab. Without the Chieftain! The tribe hadn’t been certain it would work, but—the Chieftain had never run fast enough to kill the crabs anyways. If they could do it with him just shouting for them to ‘run faster’—why couldn’t they try to do it one last time?
That was what the littlest Goblin had suggested, and the warriors had taken her suggestion because everyone was hungry. Now, they glanced at her and let her grab a juicy bit of the crab’s stomach. The littlest Goblin didn’t like whatever it was—it was wet, slimy, and bitter. But she felt her pouch full of shiny coins.
Soon.
 
——
 
When Relc and Klbkch tried the door to the Wandering Inn, they found it was locked. Only after Relc had knocked twice did the door open a crack. When Erin finally let the two in, she bolted the door as soon as they were inside.
Relc raised one non-existent eyebrow and flicked his tail idly at Erin.
“What’s gotten into you?”
“Greetings, Miss Solstice. Is something wrong?”
Erin looked warily out the window, but felt better with Relc and Klbkch in the building.
“Goblins.”
“Goblins?”
Relc laughed as he and Klbkch sat themselves at one of the tables.
“What, are they throwing rocks at you again? If you want, I could—um, scare them. But Goblins? Seriously? After you killed their Chieftain, what’s there to worry about?”
“How about a group of Goblins that can kill a giant rock-crab-thing in seconds?”
Erin snapped at Relc as the Drake laughed.
“It was the scariest thing I’ve seen. Some kind of raiding party swarmed over the crab and—”
“A raiding party?”
Relc sat up in his chair and grabbed for his spear.
“Where, and how many? Come on, Klbkch. We can head them off—”
He jumped to his feet. Erin waved her hands frantically.
“No, no! There’s way too many of them. Besides, I don’t want you to kill them! That would be—”
Relc interrupted Erin as Klbkch watched her silently. The Antinium’s hands were on his weapons too.
“Look, if there’s a raiding party out there, we need to take care of it. I can ignore a few Goblins, but a few hundred of them roaming around? That’s a threat.”
He went for the door, but Erin dragged him back. Or rather, tried to. Her feet slid uselessly across the ground, and he didn’t even seem to notice her weight.
“Exactly how many Goblins were in this group you observed, Miss Solstice?”
Klbkch interrupted Erin’s futile struggling as Relc paused by the door.
“Well—”
Erin had to think.
“Not more than forty, I guess.”
Relc blinked and stopped unbolting the door. He looked back at Klbkch and then down at Erin. Slowly, he walked back to his chair. Then he sat down in it and started to laugh.
Erin gaped as Relc chuckled and then transitioned into full-scale guffaws of mirth. He covered his face with one claw and pounded the table with the other.
“Just what’s so funny?”
“A raiding party, she says! Hah!”
“I fear you were under a slight misapprehension, Miss Solstice.”
“Oh yeah?”
“Yeah!”
Relc finally managed to get his laughter under control when Klbkch stepped on one of his feet. He wiped tears out of his eyes and grinned at Erin.
“That’s just the local tribe. Forty Goblins? Please. I could take out half of them without breaking a sweat. Between me and Klbkch, we could kill all of them—”
He broke off and cleared his throat.
“Not that we would.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Despite their competency, a Goblin tribe is no threat to any but lone stragglers, Miss Solstice. On the other hand, a small raiding party is usually comprised of at least three hundred Goblins. Larger groups have been known to exceed a thousand individuals.”
Erin gulped.
“That’s not a raiding party. That’s an army.”
“Not if you’re a Goblin.”
Relc’s expression became serious as he leaned back in his chair.
“Yeah, like Klbkch said, a Goblin tribe isn’t dangerous. Maybe to you—but you killed their Chieftain, so I doubt they’d be brave enough to attack this place. Besides, if you lock the doors and windows, they’ll have a hard time getting in. But when Goblins start appearing in numbers? That’s when things get nasty.”
She heard the silent cue and took it.
“How nasty?”
Klbkch leaned forwards over the table.
“Extremely. Although Goblins are considered a minor threat by most settlements of any size, when they do appear in numbers, they are fully capable of wiping out villages, cities, and even nations in the past.”
“Get out.”
“It is quite true, Miss Solstice.”
Relc nodded.
“I’ve heard stories of the Goblin Crusades. And witnessed one myself. The last time one occurred, multiple armies of Goblins rampaged throughout the north and sailed across to the Human continent, Terandria. There were at least a hundred thousand Goblins in each army, and their King had a million Goblins at his back when we pushed his forces out of the south. The Bloodfields.”
He stopped talking for a moment, and his arm tensed around his cup.
“Bastard. The north got him in the end. But it felt like you couldn’t see anything but smoke everywhere you looked. I heard the north was ash in some parts of it. They nearly took First Landing.”
Erin felt like she needed a history class or at least a map. Yet Relc’s face was suddenly set and Klbkch was quiet. She hesitated—but she had to ask.
“Bloodfields? What’s that?”
Relc snapped out of his fugue and blinked. Then he looked amused again.
“Oh come on! You don’t know about…? Even if you’re foreign, the Bloodfields are famous! It used to be a battlefield. Well, it still is. Lots of armies fight there, and so much blood has been spilled that the entire place has changed. The entire area is full of Blood Grass. Very nasty. Drinks blood and eats people if they’re not careful. I fought there twice.”
“Oh.”
Erin felt like she should say something else, but Relc’s expression had grown uncharacteristically serious. She searched for something else to say.
“Then…the Goblin tribe isn’t that dangerous?”
Relc flicked his tail dismissively.
“Not to me or Klbkch. Just don’t walk into them, and you should be fine. Most people can outrun a tribe unless they get trapped anyways.”
“But they killed a Rock Crab!”
“Yeah, what’s that?”
“You know, that giant thing that hides under a rock? It goes clickclickclickclick—”
“Oh, that. Is that what you Humans call it? We just call them Hollowstone Deceivers. What’s a crab?”
“A creature that lives in the sea, I believe. The name is quite apt.”
“Whatever. It’s not that tough.”
Erin blinked at Relc.
“It’s not?”
He waved a hand at her dismissively.
“Oh, we’ve got a lot more freaky monsters living around here. Way more dangerous. They’re just all sleeping or somewhere else this time of year.”
“Or underground.”
“Yeah, or that.”
That didn’t sound good to Erin at all.
“I haven’t seen any of these other monsters. Just the dinosaur birds.”
Klbkch nodded.
“That is appropriate for the season. At this time of the year, the Floodplains contain few creatures besides the Goblins. Aside from grazing herds, most animals—”
“Herds? You guys have herds?”
Again, Klbkch nodded.
“They are usually confined in villages to the north of Liscor. The city hosts many pigs, sheep, horses—”
Relc nodded and smacked his lips.
“Delicious. They’re great if you eat them half-raw. Speaking of which, got any food?”
“Oh, right. Sorry.”
Erin got up and mechanically began placing dishes on the table.
“Dinner will just be a few minutes while I warm everything up on the embers. Uh, what other creatures haven’t I seen yet?”
Relc scratched his head.
“What else? Um. What about Shield Spiders? They’re probably hiding in their tunnels right now, but they’re still around…watch where you step or you’ll fall into a nest.”
Klbkch twitched as Relc mentioned the spiders. Erin twitched too, and her skin crawled at the thought. Relc grinned at both and shook his head.
