Orodan was not often impressed, but he found himself having a real appreciation for the men and women of the Novarrian Intelligence Service.

Who knew that gathering information and acting as the liaison for so many separate groups was such an important task? If left to his own devices he would have had to individually track down separate teachers, perhaps act on suggestions heard along the way and as usual turn many people away with his rather direct behavior.

It would have been entirely inefficient, and he was only one man. Even his reputation as the time looper would’ve only gotten him so far.

Which was why Kalemar Cosanox and the Novarrian Intelligence Service were such a great help. They had sourced suggestions, ideas and possible avenues of testing from all across the worlds of the alliance. Suggestions which Orodan himself would’ve never thought to even try.

In particular, one agent of the service was sitting before him, nursing a lump upon her head as she mumbled to herself over and over.

“Fluidity is the essence of compartmentalization… fluidity is the essence of compartmentalization…”

Vision of Purity told him that there was some slight damage to the woman’s mind and soul, but nothing that would not recover.

Truthfully, he had been hesitant to try applying his Celestial skill in such a manner, but she and Kalemar Cosanox had insisted. The woman in particular was not being strong-armed into it at all. Rather, she had been a near-Master in the skill of Compartmentalization and was almost desperate to advance it to the next level.

It had worked; she was a Master now. Though nursing a mental headache from his conceptual mashing of a lesson into her head, and a physical one from the lump she received as his closed hand clocked her atop the head simultaneously.

“Excellent! Entry number two can be considered a success as well!” Kalemar exclaimed and then turned to the other agents accompanying. “Ensure the footage and notes are comprehensive.”

“She has some minor mind and soul damage. I would not consider this a reliable method of instiling a lesson in someone,” Orodan cautioned. “In all honesty, experimenting upon people who are not my enemies with a skill I am still getting used to has me hesitant, Kalemar. A singular misstep and her mind could break.”

“And I do not think you would make that misstep, Mister Wainwright. But, that too we have accounted for. We are nearing our destination anyhow and shall take a break for now. When we resume later, there are plenty of wicked criminals whose crimes are of an irredeemable sort. And things which do not involve other people.”

“That only slightly makes me feel better. Executing captives like livestock will not do either. If their crimes are truly so grievous and they cannot be redeemed then better we put a sword in their hands and give them a chance to die honestly than experiment upon them,” Orodan spoke. He had been guilty of such a thing in the past himself, but could see the dishonor in such a thing now. “Anyhow, although this test has proven that I can do such a ridiculous thing… this is an inoptimal method altogether.”

“How so?”

“She was quite close to reaching the Master-level already, and is also a mind mage, which means her mind is naturally strong and quick to recover from forced granting of knowledge. Furthermore, it was a jump from level 89 to level 90. And despite all those advantages in her favor, the fact that I was beating a lesson into her that I myself did not fully understand came with flaws. Flaws which have caused some minor damage,” Orodan clarified. “Civilians and non-combatants cannot be subject to this safely. And I do not yet have confidence that my proficiency with the Eidolon of Violence is enough to help Masters cross to Grandmastery or Grandmasters cross into Transcendence. Not without severely harming them.”

It was at the end of the day, a combat skill. Certainly, the goal was to improve it enough that he could use it delicately, but as of now, both Kalemar and this operative of the Novarrian Intelligence Service had suffered damage in the process. Training through other means would need to occur before he felt comfortable enough to use it on vulnerable individuals.

And while he felt Domain of Perfect Cleaning almost shouting at him to use it in tandem and solve the downsides… that would’ve been a mere stopgap measure. It wouldn’t have been good training.

“Hmm… I suppose our plans to rapidly create armies of Transcendents shall have to be put on hold,” Kalemar lightly joked. “Now, while there were a few more entries I would have liked to put to the test, such as killing the melancholy within a forlorn man or physically ripping someone’s dreams into reality to make them real, I shall put them on hold for now.”

For now? That last one sounded far too much like something he’d royally screwed up on recently. That would not be happening at all until he could guarantee that the dream and its inhabitants would be fine. To mention nothing of the dreamer themselves of course.

But all those thoughts and concerns could be put to the side for now. Since they had arrived at the teleporter leading to the northern continent. He would’ve normally just made do with a Dimensional Step or Teleportation, but Kalemar had insisted that the regular walk was a good opportunity to test a few entries on the gathered list of suggestions.

A list sourced from all across the worlds of the alliance… yet the philosophers of the Eastern Kingdoms’ monasteries were overrepresented among that list. Perhaps he would have to pay these enigmatic folk a visit some time.

The teleporter, guarded by two Grandmaster-level warriors, had been set up recently as part of the effort to see their worlds interconnected and allow free travel. Orodan had been told that Tegin Carrotfoot was working closely with Old Man Hannegan and Edrosic to draft up a standardized plan for re-establishing all infrastructure and critical systems upon the beginning of each loop.

With tens of thousands of people now part of the loops—an entire army—the thought of having everything reset was hardly the impediment it used to be when Orodan alone was the time looper.

Still, it was a surreal sight to be walking through Novar’s Peak and see not just imperials, but merchants of the Blackworth Collective, mage-lords of Thazrivin, machine-beings of the Unity and Vylrystian half-dragons. An absurd sight which neither he nor many of the non-looping common folk whose eyes rapidly flitted about had gotten used to.

He was no philosopher, and it was just the first loop of everyone tagging along… but he had a feeling that the line between looper and non-looper would soon become apparent.

But that was a problem they had the best people in position to handle. After all, the good part about no longer being the only time looper was that he now had a lot of help for the things he might not have been the best at handling. Social matters among that.

“Looper Identification number 100000303,” Kalemar recited to the teleporter guards, the other operatives following suit with theirs.

“Looper… Identification?” Orodan questioned, puzzled.

“Identification. A suggestion offered by our friends in the Unity and implemented by Lord Carrotfoot and the department of looper affairs. The metallic beings of that world have some marvellous capabilities for cataloguing numbers and information. It took Lord W78 less than a minute to create and assign numbers for each person part of the loops. Each looper has been assigned a unique number, corresponding to their seniority and home planet. Helps with administrative matters and provides one more hurdle for any hostile spies,” Kalemar explained. “As you can see, the 1 series are for Alastaia, 2 for Vylrystia, three for-”

“I have one as well?” he asked, interrupting.

“Yes, but it’s not something you need worry about, Mister Wainwright. Everyone knows your number,” Kalemar said. “One.”

“Just… one?”

“Right. You are the time looper himself after all. And while the Vylrystians protested at this, Lord W78 and Queen Zaessythra herself felt it appropriate that she be number 100000000, the first designated looper after you.”

That was right. Nobody else had been along for the journey for nearly as long as she had. Orodan wanted to ask why Zaessythra had insisted she be numbered as being Alastaian, but then stopped himself. Perhaps she considered this place home now. She did begin each loop in his hovel after all.

Intriguing as the system was, it was little more than a method of organization. Further proof that the department of looper affairs had hit the ground running and was taking their job very seriously. For even as Orodan continued his routine work of stubbornly skill grinding to become stronger, there was plenty occurring behind the scenes now that all these people had been added to the time loops.

He and his group of shadowing intelligence service operatives stepped through the teleporter even as the ramifications of the time loops upon society coursed through his mind.

Thoughts which came to a halt as a glowing divine in the form of a young child stood before him upon a field of snow just outside Vorskard. Alongside Ozgaric were the familiar forms of Malzim and Faraine.

“Orodan Wainwright,” Ozgaric greeted, causing a shower of flowers to fall upon him. “I am glad you have come.”

Malzim and Faraine nodded as well.

Faraine, the elven Goddess of truth and justice, looked how any other elf did. She was taller than most of them, with a glow to her skin which no human possessed. These people had never seen elves before, and many of them stared, either gazing at her ears or entranced by the graceful elven features she possessed.

Orodan idly wondered whether Eldarion, who was the best-looking by elven standards, would cause a riot around these parts.

Malzim however, was drawing the bulk of the attention and would likely cause a riot soon. When bringing the death divinity into his own dimension, Orodan hadn’t really considered it, but the God of Death’s long dark hair with streaks of white running through it drew attention. Hells, even people in Ogdenborough had openly called the deity ‘coldly handsome’.

The people here knew Ozgaric. The God of Illusions and Trickery was their chief deity.

A number of the people were also staring at the elven Goddess as they’d never seen elves before.

But the overwhelming majority were gathered to the side or spying from windows upon the Inuanan God of Death. And when plenty of those sightseers had red faces and entranced eyes, it wasn’t hard to guess why.

“Are you sure you’re meant to be the God of Death?” Orodan asked.

“Do not encourage this, Orodan Wainwright…” Ozgaric spoke up, frowning. “From the moment he has visited, the people of my city have not been able to focus upon their duties. A God of Death who might as well be a God of Seduction.”

“You slander me. I would not lower myself to such base acts nor would I ever touch a mortal,” Malzim defended, turning away with a gesture that had the death divine’s hair whipping about.

A gesture which caused plenty of gasps to erupt from the crowd. And was that… squealing Orodan had just heard? What in the hells?

He had slain Agathor, Eximus and Ilyatana plenty of times before. But he had not ever entered the divine dimension to look at Malzim until the last loop. He could never have predicted that the conflict-averse divine would cause such problems in the material plane.

“I suppose we should move someplace far away from civilization before we are charged by a mob of hungry admirers,” Faraine spoke, and Orodan agreed.

[Dimensional Step 50 → Dimensional Step 51]

He brought the three divinities and his shadowing Intelligence Service escorts along to someplace familiar. A place suffused with a very minor degree of wicked taint.

“What a unique sensation… I have never experienced dimensional travel before,” Kalemar Cosanox spoke up and then frowned as the typical feeling of wrongness associated with the Eldritch must have hit him. “This is… the Valley of Spires.”

“A fell place you have brought us to. This is where an invader will descend in six months,” Malzim spoke. “The very ground is corrupted.”

Orodan had faced some limits on what he could alter while still succeeding partially. If he had tried to push too far and cleanse everything or bring every one into the loops, he would have failed and lost control at the time. The Eldritch Avatar and its ties to the Prophet and one of its infected plague worlds was one of those things.

And although the world core of Alastaia was now purified and free of Eldritch in all coming loops as well as being part of the time loops, the surface of the planet and the marks of past Eldritch invasions was a different matter. Hence, the existence of the Valley of Spires.

A place Orodan didn’t even want to cleanse since the Eldritch was non-corruptive and nothing lived near here anyhow. It was also a place of significance to him, being where the tyrant three had betrayed him and where he’d truly had his will tested for the first time. A place where many other Orodan Wainwrights of alternate timelines had failed, but he had succeeded and held strong.

“An invader who Alastaia’s finest can now best with ease. I trust Zukelmux alone can beat it one-on-one, and following that, someone can bind it and Fenton’s device can purge it,” Orodan spoke. “The Eldritch corruption here also makes the ground stronger. Better we run amok in this lifeless place which every living thing for miles avoids than anyplace else.”

Faraine didn’t look too thrilled about being near Eldritch, but Orodan knew that the elven Goddess had already been infected once by Eldritch and come out alright. She had the Eldritch Resistance skill and had managed to come back from beyond the precipice. Furthermore, not only had all loopers been fortified by Orodan’s Celestial skill during the period he spent shoring up Alastaia’s defenses and getting rid of the influence of the tyrant three and Agorhiku.

“Is that what you have called us here for? To train?” Faraine asked. “I had not realized you were such a slave driver, Orodan Wainwright.”

“Consider it limit testing more than training. That will come afterward and with plenty of resources and the best possible tutors,” Kalemar assured. “But what Mister Wainwright is here for today is to tap into this… ‘Action Increase’ of his again.”

“To you three, I am indebted forever,” Orodan began, voice replete with gratitude. “When I called, only you three answered, and it allowed for what we have now. But, it’s not an ability I can use lightly. Not when I felt the strain it put you under and when I do not know the consequences of what should happen if you fail to bear the backlash.”

His True Soul Weave—something painstakingly developed from watching the spider dragons of Xan’Coran and finalized by taking inspiration from that slumbering Boundless One in the elemental plane of lightning—allowed him to extend himself and act simultaneously with clones of him which were entirely equal in power.

It was based off of how the System itself caused his Quest Reward to function in the past. The System channeled itself through gigantic veins in the divine dimension which Gods helped filter. So, Orodan had simply created an ecosystem of the same, with the Blessing connection between him and these three divines serving as the veins. With them bearing the backlash of his clones.

However, Malzim had nearly faltered last loop. And Orodan wasn’t entirely sure how bad the backlash of him using his clones without divines would be. If the System itself needed veins and an entire divine dimension to manage its power output… then Orodan whose power was beginning to approach a point where it could threaten a Boundless One, would not be too far off in consequence.

“I will not avoid accountability. It was I who was the weakest link. I held until the end of your labor, yet only barely,” Malzim spoke. “This, I shall strive to rectify.”

“Malzim… are you sure of this? I did not bring you into the loops merely so you could be of use to me.”

“Ever have I been shy of entering combat, Of risking myself in perilous situations. Now, with our world entering a new era, one where we return through time… how can I remain a God worthy of worship when I do not confront the foe as stalwartly as my other fellow divinities do?” Malzim posed the question, looking almost ashamed. “I have decided then, that if I cannot prove myself deserving of my peoples’ faith through battle… then I shall do so by shepherding the dead. And by bearing the burden of your power whenever you so choose to call upon it.”

The death divinity’s words were heavy and full of significance. Not only had Malzim always avoided truly committing to battle or personal risk, the God of Death had in the past, despite helping Orodan, always fled during critical moments. But this signified a difference in that. It was Malzim stepping up in his own way.

It was more than Orodan could have ever asked for.

“And you two? What of you? I realize that last loop was a one-off event, but I will not mind in the slightest if you do not wish to do so again, nor will my debt to you change in any way,” Orodan spoke up, looking at Ozgaric and Faraine.

“A tempting offer, for bearing the brunt of your power was no easy task… but given all the levels in my new Dimensional Domain skill… it is as you would call it, good training,” Ozgaric airily spoke, for once sounding like the young boy he was and not the many millennia old God of the north.

“Cithrel must be reminded of her inferiority in comparison to me in some way must she not? The levels are nice… but driving her wild with anger is the far more tempting prospect.”

And although Orodan felt the elven Goddess’s reasons for aiding him to be just a little petty and borne of a vendetta… he kept those thoughts to himself.

“Excellent! We are all in agreement,” Kalemar spoke and gestured for two operatives to lay out a bunch of training dummies in front of him. “Let us commence with testing right away then. Mister Wainwright, if you would conjure up your three clones.”

He nodded in response and focused on that connection between him and the three of them. A connection which let them have access to his Blessing.

[True Soul Weave 25 → True Soul Weave 26]

Malzim flinched, but only from surprise, while Ozgaric and Faraine bore it stoically.

Immediately, three of him, flesh, blood and all formed almost instantaneously, a result of Harmony of Vitality. They formed… and they simply stood there.

Although saying they simply stood there would be akin to saying he simply stood there.

He had not truly noticed it when using Action Increases long ago when he had the System and Quest Rewards everyone else did, but these clones were him. As in, if he thought to move an arm on a clone it was no different than moving an arm on his own body. Their eyes were his, their legs were his to traverse with, their arms his to lift with. His old clones from Action Increases would disappear shortly after too.

But these remained, though at a cost as he could see Malzim undergoing some effort.

In tandem he willed the three clones to punch him, and he met their three strikes with one of his own.

It was gentle, limited to just the Apprentice-level.

Yet Orodan found his main body’s attack being blown backwards all the same.

“Fascinating… would you say they possess the same strength you do, Mister Wainwright?”

“By the feel of it… yes. It will make for some good physical conditioning, to wrestle myself,” he replied. “Malzim, how does that feel?”

“Uncomfortable. But not near as overwhelming as when they were summoned last time. I believe the scale of their actions matters much when considering how much burden they place upon us,” the God of Death spoke.

“It would also explain why the System limited people to using them only temporarily… the veins of its power running through the divine dimension might have been overloaded otherwise,” Orodan added. “Also why I never saw any Transcendents or Embodiers using such Quest Rewards. The veins would not have been enough.”

“Of course, when you have one of the greatest dimensionalists in the cosmos creating a domain for you and then securing it… how can the System compare?”

The voice came from the familiar set of eight legs which materialized upon his shoulders. A sudden appearance which led to one of the operatives behind them reeling in fright before managing to school herself.

“Oh my… afraid of spiders are you? I am not so savage as to bite,” Talricto assured. “Though I cannot guarantee that for this one here.”

“I do not go around biting people…” Orodan defended.

“That dwarf you fought would tell a different story. Did you not bite his ear off?” the dimensional wanderer asked, amused.

Orodan sighed, but acceded to the spider’s point.

Talricto looked as he always did, though Orodan was getting an odd feeling from the spider which he couldn’ quite put his finger on just yet.

“Talricto… have you come by to frighten people and amuse yourself?” he asked.

“I leave the frightening to you with that face of yours, Orodan. In contrast, I’m the very picture of gentle civility.”

Much to his displeasure, Ozgaric laughed and the other two divinities had amusement on their faces.

“Mighty wanderer! I have missed your presence greatly! Come regale me with more tales of your travels!” the northern God exclaimed, sounding quite his physical age and very excited.

The spider obliged, flitting from Orodan’s shoulders to Ozgaric’s back. Of everyone, the northern God adored Talricto and loved it whenever the spider came by.

A God of Trickery and a dimensional spider with a proclivity for thievery.

What could go wrong?

“Where have you even been? You helped secure the dimensional boundaries for our worlds at loop start and then promptly went off somewhere.”

“What? Am I not allowed to travel freely? Am I not the legendary Talricto the Wanderer?” the spider asked in turn. “Do not think you are the only one who betters themselves.”

Betters themselves? Orodan now understood what that odd feeling was. He was so comfortable and used to Talricto that his instincts had stopped seeing the spider as a threat for he trusted it. But if he focused…

“You’re a peak-Transcendent now? Damn…”

The spider practically vibrated with joy at the fact that it had managed to shock Orodan.

He was surprised yes, but it shouldn’t have even come as one. For too long had he noticed that Talricto’s talents with Dimensionalism were simply too good. The wanderer’s species was built for it, so in the back of his head Orodan had chalked up its absurd abilities with the art to natural inclination.

But now he had to question whether they had erred in not putting Talricto down as one of the potential beings who could feasibly attain a Celestial-rarity skill.

Orodan frowned, deep in thought as he stared at Talricto.

“What’s with that look? I do not like it one bit!” it complained.

“I think it might just be time to push your training further as well…” Orodan muttered. “For someone who could pull an Administrator out of a dimension and has repeatedly shown dimensional prowess and abilities surpassing everyone else, you’ve been ignored for far too long.”

“Orodan Wainwright, that can come later. I have not seen my friend in far too long and you shall not be interrupting our reunion,” Ozgaric said.

Hadn’t they come here for training and to test the limits of his True Soul Weave?

#

Once Talricto and Ozgaric had managed to cease their shenanigans the group had run through a gamut of tests which tested the upper bounds of what Orodan could do with these new clones of his before the divines bearing the backlash were overwhelmed.

Of course, the good thing about Talricto’s presence was that the dimensional spider was able to shunt them to another dimension where they could safely test what happened if Orodan used his clones without anyone to bear the backlash.

The answer, unsurprisingly, was that the dimension’s boundaries had been shattered even as he just created the clone. And if he had used it at any measurably high-level of power? It might have even shattered the dimension outright.

Still, the remainder of their testing upon Alastaia had gone well enough.

Malzim, for as much as the death divine felt inadequate for being the weak link, was beginning to adapt techniques and methods of bearing the burden which were quickly narrowing the gap. With some loops of training it would not surprise him if the Death God was the one able to bear the backlash for the longest.

Kalemar had recorded everything, had thorough notes taken and then looked as though he was devising efficient plans for this particular gathering moving forward.

Talricto however, had pulled him aside and stated that if he was serious about helping him train, then at some point this loop the spider would be traveling someplace and would require him to accompany him.

An odd request, and odder still that Talricto refused to elaborate on where it was that they would be going, but Orodan had no problems with that at all. Since when did he fear going anywhere unknown?

Now, stirring a pan with an assortment of sizzling vegetables in it, Orodan’s mind was on a different matter.

[Cooking 65 → Cooking 66]

Food.

“Teacher… you don’t normally cook with such skill. You… where have you learned such techniques from?” Zukelmux asked, overseeing the main pot where the stew was coming together. “Have… have you been cooking without me?”

The goblin sounded quite betrayed at that line of thought.

“It was during my battle against the zealot. I was forced to delve into alternate timelines and learn. These techniques, I learned from a wise and kind man,” Orodan answered, mollifying the goblin. “Besides… I’m still no match for the Elite-level cook Zukelmux. I’ve heard some whispers of a growing waitlist to sample your culinary skills.”

The goblin shook his head in exasperation.

“They are simply too much at times… ever since I helped cook during that feast which hosted the Magocracy, everyone wants a taste. And do not think to sell yourself short, teacher! That feast would not have come together without you, and your skill levels have only clambered upward since then!”

He supposed they had. If not for him, but for his close proximity and affinity in working alongside the alternate version of him. In memory of that man, Orodan would not forget to slow down and enjoy Cooking and the crafts. Especially now since his new Celestial skill had such synergy with it.

The surroundings were serene. They were in Zukelmux’s longhouse, fashioned in the goblin style with some Eastern Kingdoms’ flair added as symbolism of the tribe’s friendship with House Simarji.

They were in Velestok. Specifically, in the plot of land granted to the Rising Spears tribe by Adeltaj Simarji.

That being said, Orodan’s alteration of the timeline had changed a number of things.

For starters, although a good number of the tribe’s members were now part of the loops… the timeline had been altered so that the massacre which had befallen them many years before during Zukelmux’s childhood had never occurred. Instead, the goblins migrated away to Velestok and away from the borders of the Republic’s halfling territories who they had friction with.

House Simarji had been more than glad to accept these beleaguered peoples, and the plot of land they were now on was no hastily settled thing, but a sprawling village and residential quarter of Velestok which was right next to the Simarji lumberyard.

During his approach, it had certainly caused Orodan’s eyebrows to reach his hairline when he saw goblins not only walking the streets freely, but even part of the county militia. Supposedly, goblin warriors were a serious force amplifier when fighting in formation with their taller human compatriots due to the ability to strike from a lower height while the humans struck from a regular one.

He had essentially done what he had when erasing Ilyatana. Except this time, it was carefully controlled and every outcome very much intended.

The main timeline permanently changed by his own hand.

“It must be as surreal to you as it is to me, for things to be so different, no?” Orodan asked, grating a type of cheese made from monster milk. “I believe Aliya experienced a similar shock when suddenly awake in a world where her brother had never died in the first place.”

“It has been… an experience. Myself, Elder Griok and a number of the tribe’s craftsfolk are part of the loops. But the rest… there are a number of people who now exist who did not before,” Zukelmux added. “You created life, teacher. The old me did not think even Gods could do such a thing.”

“I merely prevented a tragedy from occurring, that is all. More a feat of timeline alteration than one of true life creation,” Orodan clarified. “But to live alongside people who you have never known and who now know you are time loopers… do you get along well?”

It was one of the consequences of bringing them into the time loops. The time loop mechanism itself did something to shield against casuality warping by grounding loopers in the overarching timeline of the loops. Any changes he made to the main timeline would not affect those part of the time loops.

It had led to the bizarre situation of Orodan himself having never existed when he erased Ilyatana. But here and now it also led to Zukelmux and the time looper goblins of the Rising Spear Tribe not having any memory of these new folk. And yet many of these goblins had memories with them.

“Of course. Chief Griok insists all us time loopers personally memorize and know the names and stories of all newcomers, even though they are not newcomers in the slightest. But… I profess it was unnerving to learn that I have a wife I cannot in the slightest remember.”

Orodan’s knife froze mid-motion, sparing the hearty tuber he was about to chop momentarily.

“You did not mention anything like that in our earlier conversations.”

“I did not wish to overworry you, teacher. It is… not a bad thing,” Zukelmux quietly murmured, the red evident in his cheeks. “She is… rather the sort of woman I would have taken a fancy to anyhow. A similar temperament and kindness to her as my mother has.”

Even then. This woman had a whole life and memories of Zukelmux which the goblin himself did not share.

Yet another thing Orodan had not gotten entirely right. Proof that his manipulation of time was not perfect and needed work for when he did another pass at the loop mechanism.

“And that is why I did not wish to tell you, teacher. Your face has taken on that look again.”

“That look?”

“That expression you wear whenever you’ve decided to take yet another heavy weight onto your already loaded shoulders,” Zukelmux said, frowning. “My mother has been returned to me, I have a wife who I might not have memories of but who I can forge new ones with… and I am stronger than I have ever been before with friends, family and comrades around me. Perhaps you should let us deal with our own problems from time to time. It is no tragic situation I find myself in, and my wife is quite the understanding woman.”

Orodan smiled and his knife returned to execute the vegetables while the pan sizzled.

“Hmm. You speak true. Who am I to deny a warrior their chance to confront a challenge?” Orodan spoke. “You know, I have yet to meet this wife and mother of yours properly.”

“Ah, that would be because they are out getting-”

The door to the longhouse swung open.

“We’re home!” a gentle but happy voice called out.

Two female goblins entered the kitchen. One, relatively young, perhaps a year or two physically older than Zukelmux, but bearing a kind face and an energetic personality laced with a bit of mischievousness.

Orodan noted with no small amount of amusement, that this woman looked quite similar to that drawing Edrosic had shown Zukelmux to get the victory over him in a spar once.

The goblin woman, Zukelmux’s wife, came up and gave the spear-and-shield wielding warrior a very enthusiastic kiss which Orodan respectfully turned away from lest his student die of embarrassment then and there.

But it was the other goblin woman who caught Orodan’s attention.

He had seen her before when helping his disciple increase his mana generation long ago. And of course the memory of a mother within her son’s memories would be warm and kindly. But what he didn’t expect was that the memory didn’t do the sheer warmth and radiance full justice.

The woman was positively radiating happiness, gentility and a warm aura of concern for all around her. Not just in the personality sense, but in that her very soul felt as though it was a pure thing and too good for this world.

“My little Zuk!” she cooed and hugged him from behind while still holding a bag full of groceries. “How sweet of you to start already and lighten the task for me.”

Even if Orodan had turned away out of respect, he could practically feel the sheer embarrassment mixed with jubilation and contentment. His disciple’s soul practically radiated it.

Even with his back turned and focusing upon the act of Cooking, Orodan smiled.

[Cooking 66 → Cooking 67]

It was moments like this, seeing the happiness in others, that made his journey for strength take on new meaning. What was the point of power if it could not return joy where there had been none before?

Two people who had either never existed or were dead in the original timeline, were now present in this one, and the source of such happiness for his disciple.

Perhaps this was what it meant to be the pillar which dreams could become reality upon.

“Oh! You did not even introduce us! Is this him? Is this your teacher?” the goblin’s wife frantically asked, looking up at him as though he was an alien being. “Wow… I thought they exaggerated about how absurdly big you were. Is… is the air thinner up there? Does it hurt extra if you trip and fall?”

“Though rare, there are bigger humans than I. And if you met the object of my affections you would be more inclined to ask her that than me,” Orodan answered with an amused smile. “Yes, I am Zukelmux’s teacher. Though I cannot take much credit for the warrior he has become. It was he who elevated himself to where he is.”

“But you’re the one who brought him back, right? Made him a new person?”

Orodan saw where this was going, as did his disciple who looked ready to intervene.

“I did. It is my fault for-”

“Fault? You’ve turned him into a mysterious and dashing prince who every woman and some men in the tribe want a piece of! Thank you!” Zukelmux’s wife cheerfully exclaimed.

And to that… Orodan knew not what to say.

Zukelmux’s mother however leveled a disapproving frown at the other goblin woman who simply let out a nervous laugh before scampering off with an excuse of needing to make the table.

“D-do not pay heed to her, teacher… she’s quite an excitable woman,” Zukelmux tried to defend, red-faced. “Ever since I’ve begun the loop she can’t stop giving me the most insidious of looks with stars flitting about her eyes. She loved the Zukelmux she knew quite dearly as well… that is just her way of accepting the current situation as best she can.”

“Indeed. Please forgive my daughter-in-law. She is having to adjust to the changes in Zukelmux,” his disciple’s mother spoke. “But where are my manners. I do not think we have met before. Zukelka, mother of Zukelmux, Master-Cook of the Rising Spear Tribe. It is good to finally meet the man who my son speaks so reverentially of, Orodan Wainwright.”

“M-mother…! You did not need to mention that last part…!”

“A pleasure,” Orodan replied. “Your son is a warrior without peer who has paved his own way to the top. A staunch vanguard of Alastaia.”

“And a boy who has lived a life without his family for so very long,” Zukelka added, but there was no accusation in her tone. If anything, she seemed almost too understanding. “I see it. You and he are so very similar. Although with how alien you find me… have you ever known your family?”

Trust a mother to notice.

“I have not. Not until much later in my life and only for a brief few moments,” Orodan admitted.

Zukelka shook her head and gave him a pitying look as her eyes softened.

“And yet you bear all this weight upon your shoulders despite such a horrid beginning to life,” she spoke. “Come. You may not have a mother or father, but you shall not eat alone today. Now then, out of here, both of you. I have a kitchen to run and I’ll thank you both to not shuffle my organization any more than you already have. Truly… my spices and utensils are all over the place…”

“But mother we-”

“Shush,” Zukelka gently said and then guided the both of them away. “Watch if you will, but do not touch.”

Orodan would not disrespect a woman in her own home by refusing, so he stepped aside as well.

Altering the timeline was a strange affair.

When he’d done it for the first time he’d permanently erased the harpies flying over Ogdenborough. When he’d done it for the second, Adeltaj Simarji had died long ago without the Goddess of Fate. But this time, he had been very careful and meticulous about the changes he’d enacted.

Although the new existence of a Master-level Cooking talent came as a surprise to even him.

“I see where you get your love for Cooking from,” Orodan muttered to Zukelmux who was also watching beside him. “Half of those techniques I didn’t even think of…”

Just watching Zukelka cook was a source of inspiration, and he felt the next time he handled the pans his Cooking skill would increase.

“She is a wonderful woman is she not?” Zukelmux spoke, pride in his voice. “I did not know my father. A wastrel who lived a life of raiding and pillaging rather than one of prosperity and peace; a pursuit which saw him dead before I was even born. To have raised me alone despite that… no other mother of the tribe can compare.”

“I am right here,” the goblin woman spoke dryly, sounding amused as she grabbed a pouch of spices off a low shelf and made to clamber onto a step-ladder for one on a higher shelf only for Orodan to abuse his superior height to just hand it to her. “Thank you dear.”

Zukelmux cleared his throat in embarrassment at having been called out.

“Er… well, yes. Pardon me mother, I am simply unused to your… your existence,” the goblin spoke. “Your new life is but a narrated tale to me, something I will need some time to come to terms with.”

“Hmm, well allow me to recite some of it for you. After we migrated to Velestok and the kindly House Simarji took us in, I found work rather quickly as the head chef for the High Spire of Karilsgard. Not difficult when I’m the highest-level Cook on the continent,” Zukelka explained. “And let me tell you, it’s quite exhausting to have to fend off recruitment attempts from Novarrians who insist I shall be better treated down south. Something about a ‘first emperor’ appreciating my cuisine in a way the councillors of the Republic never could.”

“And that’s why the Republic is just a bit wealthier now in this new timeline you’ve created, teacher. It is my own mother’s Cooking which sparked a wave of cuisine-based tourism and has made her famous!” his disciple recited with pride.

It was a tangled mess of things to consider. On one hand there were the non-loopers whose entire lives had been based around the events of this new timeline. People like Zukelka and Aliya’s family, for whom the changes in the loopers were alarming or entirely novel. On the other were the loopers themselves who Orodan had brought along. For them, unaffected by the timeline changes as they were, they had memories of the original time where their lives had been filled with tragedy and the scars of old hurts remained. To them, the joy of this new time was a distant thing they were being told of and not something they had experienced.

Still, while Orodan had caused some problems with this, such as in the case of Ilydia Arestos, he had created much joy in other instances. This happy goblin home being one of them.

“Altering time is quite convoluted…” he muttered.

“I agree. More so for our enemies…” Zukelmux said, face darkening in a rare show of vengeance. “The halfling association certainly finds itself in a poor position these days.”

Zukelka’s cooking stopped for a moment as the kitchen’s atmosphere darkened with unspoken weight.

“Son… do not allow the memories of a time which no longer exists to cloud your mind.”

“How can I-”

Orodan put a hand on the goblin’s shoulder, their eyes met and Orodan gave him a look of understanding. He, more than anyone else, understood exactly what Zukelmux was feeling.

“Come, disciple. Let us allow your mother to finish up her Cooking in peace, aye? Your wife looks as though she could use some help making the table and more guests come to the door as well.”

The goblin exhaled and allowed himself to be led out.

“Teacher, I apologize for-”

“Do not apologize. I know that feeling all too well. Of having experienced times and events which nobody else will understand or remember,” Orodan replied. “I am sure this is equally jarring for your mother as well. To have her son so suddenly changed into a mighty time looping warrior. As you said before, perhaps this is their way of adjusting, to treat you softly in her motherly way.”

“And by day’s end she’ll have you adopted into the family as well if you let her have her ‘motherly’ way,” the goblin jested with a smile, allowing the darkness to fall off his mood.

“I would not make a very good son, always getting into fights and causing trouble as I do,” Orodan returned with a smile before leveling an inquisitive look at his student. “I had not considered that the halfling association had paid for their crimes against your peoples in this timeline. I enacted the base changes, but had no time to see the ripple effects of causality.”

“They, and many like them, argue that you are a tyrant for tampering with time. Among small segments of the non-looper population there is a growing undercurrent of resentment even in the short few days of the very first loop we have returned,” Zukelmux spoke. “But what can they do but accept their lot?”

In changing time, Orodan had created winners of losers and losers of winners.

He had no doubt that the halfling association and its people, whoever existed in this timeline, were quite unhappy about the fact that their current existence and whatever punishment they were suffering was a result of Orodan having changed time to prevent a massacre. A massacre which previously left barely any survivors and forced the goblins to flee into the depths where they had no allies or remaining connection to the Republic.

Instead, now, the Rising Spear Tribe had remained fully intact and had strong allies in House Simarji. Orodan had not done any reading on the history of this timeline, but he was almost certain that Adeltaj and his rather righteous house would push to see the halfling association’s bullying and attempted genocide of the goblins held to account.

Orodan’s alteration of the timeline affected not just the loopers but everyone around them. Many parts of the standard social order yet remained, but there was another dimension to now consider, the divide between looper and non-looper. Something that would only grow more pronounced as the loops went on.

The boundary wasn’t entirely iron-clad of course. Orodan could make another pass at the time loop mechanism to add more people. Furthermore, Fenton’s prodigious talents meant that the enchanting savant could make not just a thousand-slot orb, but perhaps something even greater in due time. But how far would people go in order to be granted a spot? How would the loops change the very economy of trading? Would agreements and arrangements still hold? Debts? Contracts?

It was a good thing Tegin Carrotfoot and Eldarion organized and headed the department of looper affairs, and it was somewhat relieving to know that the planetary leaders of Thazrivin, Vylrystia and the Blackworth Collective were with him in the loops. Their expertise was something he could rely upon, because this sort of thing was entirely beyond the skillset of Orodan to tackle. That being said…

…more power was always a good answer to most problems.

If people had complaints or wants… then he would simply grow strong enough that he could satisfy all of those demands so that there were none left.

Still, for now Orodan smoothly took a stack of plates from the hands of Zukelmux’s wife and helped place them around the table. All while his disciple opened the longhouse door which had visitors behind it.

“Big brother Zuk!” Aliya exclaimed, lunging in to give the goblin a hug before pulling back and gesturing behind her. “My mother Alwyna, my father Kalin and… this is my older brother, Alren.”

Aliya’s mother and father, Orodan had met. In fact, the two of them gave him an almost reverential half-bow as they uttered their greetings; his reputation having spread far. The younger man beside them though, had a frown on his face as his eyes took on a serious look at the sight of him. He merely nodded in greeting and said nothing else.

Wainroach, who had arrived while riding Aliya’s shoulder, was glaring daggers at the young man as she caught it.

The moment was quickly overtaken by the arrival of Fenton alongside his mother and father, Edrosic, and Chieftain Griok himself.

The elderly goblin had a large and exotic fish sourced deep from the Sea of Uxumar upon his shoulders.

“Zukelmux… help this old goblin out would you? My bones creak carrying this large thing…”

“Elder!” the goblin warrior said, swiftly lightening the load by taking it off. “A snapper from the sea?”

“We have plenty of human guests today and not everyone appreciates exotic cuisine the way Orodan Wainwright does, isn’t that right?” the elderly goblin asked him with a smile. “It is good to see you. Gotten the chance to hone your Jewelcrafting at all since we last met?”

Orodan shook his head.

“It should be I who asks you that. Your eyes twinkle with a level of insight that was not present before,” Orodan spoke.

The elderly goblin, being a critical member of the alliance and possibly its best Jewelcrafter altogether, had of course been brought into the time loops.

“Ah, of course. Those operatives of the Intelligence Service flit about me and have even assigned me protection at all times. I do not agree with their assessment that I am some priceless asset to be coddled at every step… but I suppose I can see the merit in our foes wanting to strike a Grandmaster Jewelcrafter dead,” Griok spoke. “Thank you, Orodan Wainwright. You really are as good as your word when it comes to repaying people for helping you. I have reached a new stage of my craft, and though I have not experienced any of it personally, my peoples are happier than they have ever been. With many old faces I’d thought gone forever, and new ones too! Truly, this old goblin has many new memories to forge with all of them.”

“A mere trifle. It would not have occurred at all without your expertise contributing to the preparation of the ancient machine,” Orodan dismissed.

More guests came. Zukelmux, or rather, his disciple’s mother, had a truly large longhouse as befitting her fame and status as Inuan’s finest cook who even nation leaders wished to meet.

Adeltaj and Count Rohanus arrived. House Simarji’s friendship with the Rising Spear Tribe in this timeline and Adeltaj’s friendship with Griok and Zukelmux throughout the loops meriting them a special spot at the giant long table. As did the Vedharnas who were also on good terms with them.

The gathering got a little more chaotic once Balastion Novar entered.

“The home of the famed Master-Cook I have heard about. I have come with fifty-thousand golden coins and an offer of nobility. She will reside in Novar’s Peak henceforth,” the man declared, much to the exasperation of Demosthenos Albathrax and Vespidia behind him.

The arrival of Eldarion and Tegin Carrotfoot alongside Destartes, the High-Orast of Thazrivin and King Alstatyn and Almyra only caused the chaos to escalate further.

Poor Zukelmux was looking rather overwhelmed, quite unused to hosting this many guests. Thankfully, his disciple’s wife stepped in to help.

The large longhouse devolved into chatter and merriment as Zukelmux brought out plenty of drink and fruit for the guests to savor prior to the main course.

“My lord… you cannot just demand to kidnap the Republic’s greatest cook…!” Demosthenos cautioned. “It will create an international incident!”

“I didn’t even know you could craft jewels so immaculately! You must help fashion the stone for our wedding band esteemed Grandmaster Griok!” King Alstatyn begged. “Whatever the price, the Collective shall see it paid!”

“W-wedding…!” Almyra slurred while red-faced. No surprise at all that the frail woman was a lightweight. “We shall plan it thoroughly… with layers upon layers of… just like I planned each loop to…”

“Hi! I’m Mahari! What’s your name?” the girl asked. Unfortunately, Fenton looked far too red-faced and smitten by the sight of her to give any sort of smooth reply back.

“Worry not, Zukelmux. I’ve ensured that the halfling association is made to answer for their crimes,” Tegin Carrotfoot assured. “Clan Honeybrook was deeply infuriated but what can they do when the evidence is found by the Novarrian Intelligence Service?”

And amidst all the merriment, it appeared that Zukelmux—overwhelmed as the poor goblin was with this many guests and having to individually greet and attend to them—had forgotten to bring the large snapper back to the kitchen.

Which led to Orodan himself stepping away for a moment, fish in hand, to deliver it.

“Zuk, you can… oh, Orodan Wainwright? I see Zukelmux has gotten caught up with the festivities. If you do not mind, could you bring that fish to the chopping board here?” Zukelka asked as she maneuvered eight different pans around with casual ease. “Hmm… I had asked old Griok to have it de-scaled and filleted before bringing it… it will add a few more minutes to dinner at this rate.”

Orodan however, simply picked up a knife.

“If it’s Skinning or Butchering you need done. Allow me.”

The goblin woman looked him up and down once, and then nodded.

So Orodan got to work.

Eidolon of Violence made absurd feats possible. But just like his Domain of Perfect Cleaning which was also capable of reality-altering feats and yet had basic actions it could be trained through… so too did Eidolon of Violence have some very basic actions it could be refined with.

And de-scaling and filleting a fish was one of them.

Just as he had long ago swept the broom in the most basic of acts to acquire insights, Orodan now devoted his all to the most basic act of de-scaling a fish.

What was violence if not the application of force? Of effort?

And had Orodan not been applying effort all his life?

[Eidolon of Violence 93 → Eidolon of Violence 94]

Effort.

Struggle… this was the essence of his violence.

Butchering something helpless and weak was not right, it was sadism, not violence. Tyranny and oppression, not brutality.

Orodan thus shifted his outlook. He was not carving the fish… he was struggling against the task. Violently.

It was a routine task, easy. It should have been a matter of seconds.

Yet to Orodan this was not right, This was not his way.

He refused to let a task be an easy task for every step taken, every action performed, was an opportunity for growth. For struggle.

Orodan had been fighting all his life, yes. But was the essence of that fighting really not just… struggle?

He had fought the bigger street rats, and once those were done, he’d fought House Argon’s guards. And right before the loops began he struggled and died against foes stronger than him, only to then continually run his head into the wall over and over throughout the course of the time loops.

For Orodan, violence had to include struggle.

Perhaps this was the real essence of that Combat Mastery trance of his.

[Eidolon of Violence 94 → Eidolon of Violence 95]

He intentionally tampered with his own soul to turn all his senses off. He lit his hand up with various types of elements to damage it as much as he could and then selectively refused to allow Harmony of Vitality to heal it. And finally… he summoned three clones who began wrestling his knife hand while he tried to skin and butcher the fish.

[Eidolon of Violence 95 → Eidolon of Violence 96]

This was true struggle. Even for a seemingly easy task.

This was the true essence of his violence.

And it was in the midst of this violence that Orodan felt alive.

His clones tried maneuvering his arm one way, he compensated by moving it another. They tried blocking his joints from turning in one direction, so he simply double-jointed them and whipped in another. They sought to predict and block his next twitch of the knife… so he feinted and fought a battle with layers upon layers of violent feints against his own mind all while continuing the process of de-scaling and butchering the fish.

At the end of it all, came a final message.

[Eidolon of Violence 96 → Eidolon of Violence 97]

And a fish which was perfectly de-scaled and filleted down to the cell.

And a cook who cleared her throat to get his attention.

“I just wanted the fish skinned and cut up, but I suppose that was quite the show to accompany it,” Zukelka said, impressed but not having stopped her own Cooking process in the slightest. “Well done. Can you help me peel these root vegetables too? That skill of yours… it has the Skinning skill as one of its aspects, does it not?”

“It does. You can tell?” he asked as he got to peeling, utilizing the Skinning aspect of Eidolon of Violence while challenging himself by shutting his senses off yet again.

“I have cooked my entire life, Orodan Wainwright. Although… I suppose it is a life which did not exist until recently,” the woman quietly said, paying no heed to his self-imposed training like a true professional. Though her voice was softer and more vulnerable with her next words. “He will not speak very much of it… but did he live well in your time where he is from?”

“He is a mighty warrior, but was the same even when I first met him. I could tell right away he was meant for greatness,” Orodan spoke. “I suppose he was a bit too similar to myself. Perhaps that was why I sought him out even after.”

“Was he… happy? I was not there for him in your time. That cannot have affected him well.”

“That is not for me to speak of. But… what I will say is that when I helped him with something related to his soul… his core memory was of the day he lost you.”

The woman became quite suppressed after that, as though understanding and a silent weight had come upon her shoulders.

“You know… for the past few days I grieved. As though a son was taken from me,” the woman said. “Despite his insistence that his enchanter friend would find some way of linking his memories with your help… it was difficult not to feel as though a son was taken from me.”

This, Orodan could only silently bear. It was true… the Aliya of this altered time, the Zukelmux of this one… they were gone. Replaced by his disciples who had been looping. Just like when he erased Ilyatana and ceased existing, it didn’t mean he vanished. Even if his own endless power hadn’t anchored him, the time loops certainly would have.

“But. I see now that I have lost one son only to gain another,” Zukelka spoke, her eyes watery as she smiled. “Thank you, Orodan Wainwright, for giving me another Zukelmux. He is, despite the differences, still the same boy I remember. Now go on, it is embarrassing enough that my eyes water so in my own kitchen. Why… I haven’t had them water from cutting onions in decades!”

Orodan was summarily sent out of the kitchen with a final thank you for his help in chopping the meat and vegetables. He stepped out into the main dining hall to see Tegin Carrotfoot upon the table, a mug of drink in hand, making a toast.

“And I’d like to again profess how valuable our friends of the Rising Spear Tribe are to the Republic! Three cheers for Chieftain Griok and his people! Long may the friendship between us reign!”

“I can drink to that,” Balastion spoke. “Unaffiliated and hostile goblin encounters have dramatically lowered all across the Empire. With the Rising Spears proving that cohabitation and peace are possible, many of the wild tribes have migrated to Velestok outright, and there exists even an enclave in Novar’s Peak now,” Balastion Novar added, raising his mug in cheer.

The humans had specially designated seats, goblin longhouses used to accomodating guests of all sorts. However, the one sort of guest they didn’t account for was a ten-foot-tall half-dragon.

“Apologies for my tardy arrival,” Zaessythra spoke, noting with a look of satisfaction that her seat was placed right next to Orodan’s. “Finalized some logistics and plans for our upcoming foray.”

Most everyone present was used to her and half-dragons by now, but Zukelmux’s wife however, could only look up with her jaw agape. Orodan hadn’t been lying when he said she was tall.

Standing at ten-feet, Zukelmux had needed to have a taller chair commissioned just for her.

“Lady Zaessythra!” Zukelmux greeted. “Please, come this way. Your seat is right next to teacher’s.”

The World-Queen of Vylrystia strode towards him and took her seat with practiced grace and sovereign elegance. Fitting of the woman who had declared him her consort-to-be.

“Orodan. I see you cannot help but keep busy. I can feel that aura of brutality around you has sharpened,” she greeted. And then, in an act which surprised him, took his hand and leaned down to brush her lips across the back of it. “I’ve missed your presence.”

And there it was, with those odd things she said and did which made his non-existent heart undergo the most strange of feelings. He knew what that feeling was—most intimately since they’d connected upon Vylrystia—but it still ranked as being the most foreign thing he’d ever felt. He wasn’t sure if he’d ever get used to it.

Around them, the chatter died down as several people turned red and some even swooned at the sight and thought it a romantic gesture.

For Orodan, who had no idea what a kiss to the back of the hand was supposed to mean, it wasn’t the gesture itself but her closeness in doing it and the words after which had him captivated.

“And I yours,” Orodan returned as she took her seat next to him. “I profess, having you in my head all this time has made me miss your snarky remarks.”

“You mean when my soul was miserably damaged and even getting something across to you hurt?” she ribbed, causing him to frown as he recalled all she had been through. “T’was a jest, Orodan. You don’t need to take everything upon your shoulders.”

“You’re not the first person to tell me that today.”

“Nor do I suspect I shall be the last. Now, I believe I see the main course coming our way. By the flame… that smells wonderful…”

And it truly did too. The number of times Orodan had been impressed with food were few and far-between. And among consistent chefs, only Zukelmux had really stuck out to him as someone whose food he would gladly sample.

He found himself adding his disciple’s mother to that list.

Orodan wasn’t sure what the line between Master and Grandmaster was, but the goblin woman’s Cooking skill produced a final product that both looked and smelled incredible. It had his very cells and soul yearning for a taste.

It was a gigantic platter which Zukelmux himself was carrying, something the goblin warrior’s mother wouldn’t be able to manage when it was a platter meant to feed close to a hundred people.

And finally, Zukelka, Master-Cook and most reputable goblin of the Rising Spears Tribe in this timeline, took her seat at the head of the table, flanked by Zukelmux and his wife on one side, and Griok and Adeltaj on the other.

“Friends, both old and new, please feel welcome in our home. Now, I am quite miserable at delivering speeches, and I am sure that Chieftain Griok here has had too much to drink and talked half of your ears off. But I’m told my hand at cooking up a treat is not too bad,” the goblin matriarch said with a gentle smile. “So, without further delay, please, eat and make merry!”

The guests didn’t need to be told twice.

Some were gracious enough as per their own cultures to wait for Zukelka to take the first bite. But others simply tore right in.

Orodan himself sampled a bite of the fish he’d helped de-scale and butcher…

[Gourmand 31 → Gourmand 34]

…and felt his soul practically sing in ecstasy.

It was one of the largest gains in the Gourmand skill he’d experienced at once. And everything about him felt stronger, just a slight bit more potent. As though life was truly worth living and his very being wanted to fight harder to preserve it.

It wasn’t just him either. Zaessythra, Destartes, Balastion, Almyra, Alstatyn and even Talricto who had appeared without any fanfare, were all in various states of disbelief at how good the food was. Only Zukelmux and his disciple’s wife had any semblance of control, likely used to the Cooking to an extent.

It was a simple dish, the ingredients not overly complicated, but this woman had made it positively sing. The mark of a true savant.

Who knew that such a simple timeline alteration could produce a prodigy of such cooking prowess?

Orodan gained two more levels in Gourmand over the course of the meal, strengthening everything about himself as he did.

Truly, the Rising Spear Tribe had outdone themselves with this celebratory dinner.

The meal concluded and soon enough the long table was pushed to the side, the dishes cleared and barrels of goblin-style drink placed upon it instead. People began rising from their chairs to drink, sing and make merry. It was a scene of bustling jolly, and despite the lively atmosphere and the presence of others taking to the floor it seemed Zaessythra and he both had no inclination on dancing.

For Orodan, dancing was something he’d only ever seen a wandering minstrel do once. But he’d honestly thought the World-Queen of Vylrystia would have known more about it than he did.

Still, even without that, there was plenty of merry to be made off to the side with a drink in hand while those with the inclination for it danced in the center of the hall. He normally avoided alcohol before the loops, preferring to remain clear of mind and entirely unaltered at all times, but with the resilience of body he had that wasn’t a concern any longer.

“A good vintage is it not?” Adeltaj asked. “I profess, it is a shame I have no memories of having lived this timeline. But also a boon because that means I am experiencing this wine and Zukelka’s cooking for the first time.”

“Your house sheltered them even before this, when I brought them to your attention. Ever have you and your family been generous towards those in need,” Orodan returned.

“A need we would not have known of if not for you. And now, we’re in the center of a bustling residential quarter of Velestok which has never existed before, my town twice as prosperous and lively as a result. Not often an old codger like me gets excited at the prospect of getting to know all these new people who I should have memories of,” the old halberdier spoke and then yelled out across the room. “Ho! Aramir! Apologies Orodan, I must go harass that boy, hahah!”

Given that said ‘boy’ was an older man with gray hair, Orodan had to remind himself that Adeltaj was over seven-hundred years old and had likely seen multiple generations of House Simarji be birthed and die. He watched as Adeltaj harassed the older man and his son, poking fun at them and going off about how much he had missed them since their move to Trumbetton.

Over the cacophony of all this chatter however, nobody noticed when a certain young man approached Orodan. A young man with a frown on his face and anger in his eyes.

“Orodan Wainwright.”

“Yes? You are Aliya’s brother, are you not?” he asked in turn.

“I am. And you killed her.”

He had been expecting this. There was no other way around it, no excuse to be made. Nor would he ever take a step back in the face of accountability.

“I did. It was my alteration of the timeline which caused the sister you know to be replaced by Aliya the time looper.”

Perhaps the young man had expected excuses, or some argument, or even to be assaulted given how his body was angled as though expecting a blow. But none of that came besides honest admission.

“Y-you…! Do you think standing there and professing your sins like some penitent monk absolves you? My sister is gone… gone! Whoever that girl is, she never experienced the memories we had together. She isn’t the same innocent little child who I was carrying atop my shoulders just a few days ago! This one’s eyes carry the shadow of war and pain… what have you done?!”

“I brought her back in time with me. And I gave her the chance to experience a timeline where her brother never died. She’s a lot stronger now too,” Orodan said, pride in his voice at how far the eight-year old dungeon delver he’d met long ago had come.

“And in the process, caused the little sister I knew and loved to vanish.”

“Right. I will not deny this. I also will not deny that my priority will always be the Aliya of my time. And if caring for my disciples is selfish and makes me a killer… then it is a label I bear gladly,” he calmly returned.

Orodan was not the sort to engage in excessive hand-wringing and self-flagellation. He had caused the Aliya of this altered timeline to be replaced with Aliya the time looper who came from a world where her brother had died in the depths. He would not deny his sin.

But nor would he whine and groan about it.

He had erred, and he fully intended to grow enough in power that he could rectify the mistake. But that was the extent of it, for a warrior ever moved forward. Even if that sometimes meant having to push past the weight of his own blunders.

“Tch! You bastard! If I possessed the strength to kill you, I would do so here and now! But that would just send you back through time in that little loop which everyone is talking about, wouldn’t it? All that power, and what do you do with it? You take away a man’s little sister?!”

By now, the guests around them had quieted down, the argument having reached volume enough that it was audible over the sounds of the goblin drummers who were playing music.

This was no gathering of strangers either, but people who were part of the loops and close family of theirs. Whoever was near enough to have overheard the argument knew him.

While Destartes and the High-Orast who were arm-in-arm looked on, faces a bit more impassive, the younger folk were less than pleased.

Fenton looked as though he wanted to come over and deck the man. And even the mild-mannered Edrosic looked ready to dispense a beating.

But it was only Orodan’s swift eye which caught an angry Wainroach between his two fingers, preventing her from sending Aliya’s brother through a wall.

“Wainroach… it would be disrespectful to our hosts to cause violence in their home,” Orodan calmly explained, even as her antennae twitched with fury and the smell of wine wafted off her. “Have you been drinking overly much? And you’re already intoxicated? Hmm… we shall put you through remedial Poison Resistance training alongside extra physical conditioning.”

“Feh! Look at you… look at the lot of you! All of you brought along in a time loop, acting as though you’re having a grand old time! And what of the rest of us who are consigned to knowing it all resets once you die? That nothing we do will matter? Better I have remained-”

A resounding crack of palm on skin echoed throughout the room.

The recipient was an Adept and the deliverer an Elite, but even then the slap hadn’t been excessively forceful. Meant to sting rather than truly hurt.

“How dare you?” Aliya sharply asked. “None of you believed me when I told you. None of you understood. But at least mother and father were there and tried! But you… kept looking at me like I wasn’t me!”

“Aliya, that’s not what I-”

“No. That’s exactly what you mean!” the polearms prodigy sharply rebuked. “You promised that we would explore the world together! You taught me how to fight! I remember all of that and you still think I’m not Aliya?”

The eight-year-old, mentally older than her physical age would suggest, and possessed of more sense and education than her pre-loop self had… was livid and hurt. And she looked as though she wanted to start fighting her brother here and now.

Thankfully, Zukelmux and Fenton stepped in while Wainroach and Edrosic gently separated the girl from her target.

Orodan had said his piece already. This was a matter for the girl to resolve on her own. His alteration of time was not perfect and he had much more to learn. Thus, Aliya’s family was not what she thought it would be, even though her brother had been restored. Not without her having lived the life of this timeline’s Aliya.

They were the same person, but the disjoint caused by the time loop mechanism’s protection meant that none of the loopers had lived the lives of this time.

Her rage now subdued, she said only one thing.

“You should go.”

And her brother did. The man looked hurt, though he did not stop glaring hatefully at Orodan the entire while. Her parents followed too, concerned about Aliya but also wanting to ensure their son was alright.

“We can have agents speak to him, persuade him,” Balastion suggested, walking up beside him.

“No. Let him feel how he does. The root of his objections are not untrue. It is a failure whose price I must bear,” Orodan denied.

“You didn’t fail!” Aliya angrily insisted. “He’s stupid and reads far too many books about that dumb philosophy of his. He’ll understand soon. I’ll make sure of it.”

Orodan ruffled her hair, causing her to frown.

“I don’t need anyone defending me for my own shortcomings, Aliya. But thank you.”

“And technically,” Edrosic piped up. “Now that your family aren’t here, county law prohibits anyone under twelve years of age from imbibing alcoholic substances without adult supervision.”

“Which technically means we shall have to supervise you,” Zukelmux spoke up as the drums picked up their cadence once more. “No more than a sip. Perhaps two…”

Orodan thought that restriction a bit silly when she was a time looper and had a body resilient enough to render most alcohol entirely useless. But such concerns could come afterward, especially since Alstatyn was practically dragging Almyra to the center for a dance and looked as though he wanted to drag him and Zaessythra in too.

#

Orodan was not as bad at dancing as Alstatyn had assumed he would be.

Much as the King of the Collective had thought it the classic pitfall of what he saw as a stoic warrior, Orodan had surprised him. Hard not to when dance involved the body and a solid understanding of footwork.

He wasn’t good, but nor could he be said to be bad. Zaessythra on the other hand…

…he could understand now why the World-Queen of Vylrystia had been so unwilling in the first place.

Still, it had been an excellent night overall. And although it had contained a sour spot at some point, it was one Orodan fully intended to rectify once he had a second pass at the time loop mechanism and some more strength and insights in relevant skills.

But for now, he was seated in one of the chairs meant for visiting dignitaries. The seats of the High Spire of Karilsgard were typically lined with elected council members of the Republic of Aden.

But today, they were chock full of divinities.

Divines of Thazrivin, Gods of Alastaia, deities of the Blackworth Collective and the twelve Gods who Orodan had broken from their shackles. The remainder of them though, were kept in the material realm through the power of Alastaia or Vylrystia’s world core, or via Avatar.

There were others too, non-divines. In particular, a large group of the best and brightest chronomancers and soul mages of the alliance. And the leaders of each faction.

And directing that meeting, was Tegin Carrotfoot.

“My lords, ladies, majesties and divinities,” the halfling General began. “There are two major reasons we have gathered here today. The first… is the inability of our resurrection division to breach past the year wall.”

At this, numerous people muttered and some even shook their heads in shame while others looked at Orodan hopefully.

“Our list of those due for resurrection is lengthy, my lord Carrotfoot. Powerful as Lord Wainwright is… can he truly bring back so many? Some of whom are incredibly far back in time?” an Alastaian councillor asked. “This is not to doubt his capacity for power… but of finesse. There is so much involved with each resurrection.”

However, it was Almyra who spoke up, putting that matter to rest.

“Even from a distance, I have seen Orodan Wainwright’s reversal of time and alteration of the timeline,” she spoke. “With support from the chronomancers and soul mages we have on hand, the matter should be an easy one.”

“Then… the question remains. Will you agree to this at the start of each long loop, Mister Wainwright?” Tegin asked.

And his answer was a simple one.

“It will be good training. Why wouldn’t I?”

Some laughed, having expected that response. Others breathed a sigh of relief for they did not know him the way those did.

A few smaller matters such as military cross-training and hybrid experimentation were discussed until at last, Zaessythra took the floor.

“As you all know. We have elected to not passively sit by any longer. To that end, though it was informally marked on the map during our first grand gathering, I’ve seen fit to officlally proclaim it here and now,” she spoke and then paused a moment. “We shall be assaulting and launching a World Invasion of Narictus in three days.”

Mutters and murmurs broke out at that.

“Three days? But we’ve just begun the loop…”

“Can we win? They have plenty of Gods and Transcendents.”

“What if they call down the Hegemony for aid?”

“Order!” Tegin Carrotfoot bellowed, silencing the chatter before giving the floor back to Zaessythra.

“As most of you have seen by now, when gathered together we are capable of besting the Hegemony. We also have time, preparation and more Grandmasters on our side now than we did in the battle last time. And the three day time limit, though harsh is for a simple reason. The Hegemony comes for us, and we would be better served going for them first,” she explained. “And need I remind you that our three gathered Embodiers attract enemy attention? We shall be assailed in a week regardless of what we do.”

“And our objectives upon Narictus?” a mage-lord asked. “What is the point of assaulting an enemy planet when the time loops shall simply reset our progress?”

“Besides the excellent opportunity for development is presents? Simple,” she spoke. “We shall strike like lightning… and steal all their treasures, secrets and research. And with it, shall bolster our own worlds off the backs of their civilizations and advancements.”

A ruthless proposition… but an efficient one.

“Not only have Orodan Wainwright and I been to Narictus once and have some understanding of its layout already, but we also have an insider who can help us. A being from Narictus itself… one of the Gate Guardians of our world.”

And as she spoke, a tall and gaunt moon elf entered the council chambers of the High Spire.

“Lord Orodan Wainwright. In an act of betrayal which was anathema to all that is good, I slew my own wife in the final civil war which determined the fate of Narictus. I lack the power to change anything. The Lord of Night has ever been beyond me… but if you can bring my wife back, if you can reverse the foul stain of the blood-curse upon my world. Then I, Aherozam, shall provide whatever aid I can to you and your forces.”

He had purged this former True Vampire of the affliction once. And in this loop he’d done it again.

“And perhaps along the way… Lord Wainwright can grow in power and affinity for time magic enough that he can include more worlds during his second pass at the time loop mechanism,” the High-Orast Valmarra Malvorra spoke. “This is a good start to our alliance. But imagine the heights we could achieve if we brought the Unity into the fold as well? More of our worlds’ populations too? The current undertone of social unrest we are experiencing due to the divide between looper and non-looper would need not exist at all.”

Which of course put everything upon his shoulders.

Zukelmux frowned, seeming quite disapproving of the woman’s words. But for Orodan who thrived under pressure and was used to carrying the weight of everyone’s expectations upon him already… this was exactly what he needed.

There could be no violence without struggle.

And struggle he would.

He still had three days of training before the assault. Time enough to train with W78, with the armor-masters of Alastaia and the half-dragons of Vylrystia. And time enough to venture out with Talricto.

Time enough to truly get into the swing of training with the entire alliance’s expectations and resources sunk into him.

And as he pulled up his Status, he could only think that he had time enough…

…to test his limits. And perhaps push them even further.

Name: Orodan WainwrightAge: 17Title 1: Wainwrighting ApprenticeTitle 2: Weaving AdeptTitle 3: Alchemy EliteAvailable Titles:

Administrator SlayerBearer Of A Celestial SkillWorld ConquerorWorld Gate DelverAvatar SlayerWielder Of A Mythical SkillOne Who Has Experienced DeathEmbodiment SlayerGod SlayerTranscendent SlayerCelestial EmbodierEmbodiment of Perfect CleaningEmbodiment of CleaningEmbodiment of the SoulEmbodiment of InfinityCombat TranscendentUnarmed Combat TranscendentPhysical TranscendentSpace GrandmasterTeaching GrandmasterSword GrandmasterDimensionalism GrandmasterTime GrandmasterShield MasterEnchanting MasterWrestling MasterWoodworking MasterAlchemy ElitePathfinding EliteFire Magic EliteViolence MasterBlacksmithing EliteStonecutting MasterHalberd MasterMining MasterSpear MasterClub MasterLaboring AdeptWeaving AdeptEngineering AdeptCooking AdeptMasonry ApprenticeFire ApprenticeGathering ApprenticeConstruction ApprenticeFate ApprenticeWainwrighting ApprenticeLightning Magic ApprenticeCalligraphy ApprenticeStealth Apprentice

Skills:

Domain Of Perfect Cleaning 191 (Embodiment - Celestial)Incipience of Infinity 175 (Embodiment - Celestial)Eidolon of Violence 97 (Master - Celestial)Balance Maker 150 (Transcendent - Mythical)Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 100 (Grandmaster - Mythical)Reality Alteration 91 (Master - Mythical)Eldritch Resistance 68 (Adept - Mythical)Elemental Living Enchantment 57 (Adept - Mythical)Divine Resistance 58 (Adept - Mythical)Dimensional Resistance 31 (Apprentice - Mythical)Absolute Body Composition 10 (Initiate - Mythical)

Harmony of Vitality 100 (Grandmaster - Legendary)Endless Blitz 100 (Grandmaster - Legendary)Time Reversal 100 (Grandmaster - Legendary)Vision of Purity 99 (Master - Legendary)Draconic Fireball 98 (Master - Legendary)Unassailable Fortress 97 (Master - Legendary)Bulwark Physical Resistance 92 (Master - Legendary)Body Tempering 91 (Master - Legendary)Fate Disconnect 85 (Elite - Legendary)Wood Communion 76 (Elite - Legendary)Mana Resistance 72 (Elite - Legendary)Dimensional Step 50 (Adept - Legendary)True Soul Weave 26 (Initiate - Legendary)Dimensionalism 100 (Grandmaster - Exquisite)Time Mastery 100 (Grandmaster - Exquisite)Iron Body 97 (Master - Exquisite)Psionic Resistance 90 (Master - Exquisite)Draconic Mana Channelling 82 (Elite - Exquisite)Fire Resistance 82 (Elite - Exquisite)Burst Casting 76 (Elite - Exquisite)Lightning Resistance 71 (Adept - Exquisite)Vitality Destruction 68 (Adept - Exquisite)Ice Resistance 50 (Adept - Exquisite)Spatial Shift 45 (Apprentice - Exquisite)Wind Resistance 43 (Apprentice - Exquisite)Water Resistance 42 (Apprentice - Exquisite)Light Resistance 26 (Initiate - Exquisite)Curse Resistance 9 (Initiate - Exquisite)

Space Mastery 100 (Grandmaster - Rare)Teleportation 99 (Master - Rare)Acid Resistance 85 (Elite - Rare)Fate Mastery 49 (Apprentice - Rare)Fire Mastery 46 (Apprentice - Rare)Gourmand 36 (Apprentice - Rare)Spatial Fold 92 (Master - Uncommon)Mana Manipulation 86 (Elite - Uncommon)Shield Intent 84 (Elite - Uncommon)Shield Throw 76 (Elite - Uncommon)Fate Reading 68 (Adept - Uncommon)Lightning Bolt 61 (Adept - Uncommon)Halberd Throw 55 (Adept - Uncommon)Wainwrighting 46 (Apprentice - Uncommon)Flash Freeze 45 (Apprentice - Uncommon)Light Beam 42 (Apprentice - Uncommon)Earthen Construct 34 (Apprentice - Uncommon)Waterstream 30 (Apprentice - Uncommon)Gunsmithing 28 (Initiate - Uncommon)

Physical Fitness 102 (Transcendent)Teaching 100 (Grandmaster)Enchanting 94 (Master)Tool Mastery 85 (Elite)Blacksmithing 80 (Elite)Fire Magic Mastery 79 (Elite)Alchemy 74 (Elite)Pathfinding 72 (Elite)Jewelcrafting 69 (Adept)Laboring 68 (Adept)Cooking 67 (Adept)Flare 64 (Adept)Weaving 61 (Adept)Engineering 54 (Adept)Artificing 53 (Adept)Surprise Attack 51 (Adept)Candleflame 49 (Apprentice)Masonry 45 (Apprentice)Construction 43 (Apprentice)Maintenance 42 (Apprentice)Mana Bolt 40 (Apprentice)Sprinting 39 (Apprentice)Gathering 39 (Apprentice)Galewind 38 (Apprentice)Lightning Magic Mastery 36 (Apprentice)Logistics 35 (Apprentice)Calligraphy 30 (Apprentice)Stealth 30 (Apprentice)Repair 29 (Initiate)Smelting 28 (Initiate)Swimming 27 (Initiate)Recycling 25 (Initiate)Identify 21 (Initiate)Light Magic Mastery 18 (Initiate)Magical Rituals 18 (Initiate)Observe 17 (Initiate)Deception 15 (Initiate)Lumberjacking 14 (Initiate)Parkour 12 (Initiate)Dancing 6 (Initiate)Thievery 6 (Initiate)
