With a perfectly straight face, Fallopolis said, “I moved beyond that trauma a long time ago—”

Buzz. Lie.

“—so there’s no need to bring any of it up again—”

Buzz. Lie.

“— and besides, there’s probably nothing you know that I don’t already know.”

Buzz. Lie.

“… Tell you what I’m going to do.” Erick held out his hand and an Ophiel lightstepped into the space, holding onto a large brown envelope that held a smaller envelope inside. That smaller letter was wrapped in a Privacy. Fallopolis could easily break that seal and read that letter right now, if she wished, but she did not. It had taken Erick about three seconds to make the item, and he had done so in the seconds following Fallopolis’s denial of the olive branch. He still held that branch out to Fallopolis, though. “I’ve written down the full account of the story, straight from Rozeta, in black ink. In blue, I have written down my own interpretations of the events, which may or may not be correct. This is yours to do with as you want. So far, this story is only between Rozeta, me, and maybe you, if you accept this letter. I have not told anyone else, and I don’t think this letter has been compromised in the full 30 seconds of its existence.”

Erick continued to hold the letter out to Fallopolis.

And Fallopolis stared at the brown envelope and its bit of hidden insides. Her eyes were focused, her expression stone. And then suddenly she spoke, “I have changed my mind about accompanying you to the other presentations,” while also snatching up the letter.

The Shade of Civilization vanished in a step of shadows.

… Erick moved on.

- - - -

Queen stood resplendent in the center of her presentation space, looking like a prismatic incani bodybuilder queen. Her iridescent white crown of horns suited her well, as did her soft, pale violet skin, though the deep sadness kept on the other side of her thoughts was rather apparent for all with the Sight to see. Erick saw that sadness easily as one could see the sun on a clear day.

“Hello, Queen. Glad to see you again.”

“Greetings, Wizard Flatt. Would you care to speak of the rebuild of Songli? Or of my disastrous handling of Terror Peaks?”

She was not being flippant. She was fully ready to receive judgment; to die for her crimes of 4 million dead. But the outcome of the Chelation war was not entirely her fault. It wasn’t just her that had increased the power of Terror Peaks, and gathered allies to that side, all in an effort to cull the chaff from the Highlands and simultaneously force Songli to kill every single hurdle to Songli becoming a true empire. Goldie had helped. Terror Peaks, themselves, had pulled 95% of that weight, though.

Erick had heard a great deal of that story from Goldie, and it did not need to be repeated here.

So Erick simply said, “I judge you guilty of the crime of warmongering, but I was the one who walked the Worldly Path, and neither of us are the ones who actually went to war. Terror Peaks is to blame for what happened back then, for what they did of their own volition. But besides all that, you are trying to make up for what you did, correct?”

“Absolutely.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I’m probably going to accidentally kill millions, too, either through some integral system I create being corrupted, or someone using my knowledge to do something evil— though that already happened with Odaali and the Daydropper… I can only hope that when the good I have tried to do goes bad, that I am allowed to make up for it afterward.” He stared hard, saying, “Though trying to increase the size of a war so that the outcome of that war is more favorable is the stupidest fucking thing I have ever heard of and you will not be doing anything like that ever again!”

Queen absorbed the reprimand with poise; though some tears did fall from her eyes, she did not break down.

Erick calmed himself after his minor tirade.

Moments passed in near-silence.

Eventually, Queen recovered herself fully. She basked in those words like a woman given reprieve from execution, which is sort of exactly what happened. But Erick wouldn’t have been the one to execute her. Fallopolis probably would have done that. Or maybe someone else? Who really knew about these things. Killing Shades was dangerous, though, and not just because of the actual danger of such an action.

Erick certainly wouldn’t be killing any Shades unless there was a clear and present need to do so, because to do that would be to reopen hostilities with the Dark. In a strange way, this year was the exact opposite of last year. Back then he had wanted to kill all Shades, but now, he wanted this treaty to work, and that meant reforming Melemizargo’s Clergy.

… Erick turned away from Queen and looked to one of the intricate lightpaintings on the walls. It was a map of Eralis, the southernmost major city of the Highlands. This particular map was color coded with territories marked out and labeled and with all those areas sorted out on other lightpaintings. Each of those sortings held explanations of the major forces therein and how they influenced the other forces of Eralis, through trade, movement of people, and anything else of note in those areas.

There were other maps for Alaralti and Holorulo, and for the areas surrounding those other two major cities of the Highlands.

Clan Void Song, Clan Severing Crescent, Clan Devouring Nightmare…

All the High Clans and all their major members were listed and spoken of, but only a few of those people had little black numbers by their names, indicating that Queen was in talks with them (according to the key to the side). Those numbers were listed on other lightpaintings, showing exactly what Queen was in talks about, and how successful those talks were.

Erick calmly asked, “So what’s going on here?”

Queen rapidly began, “I began with Eralis...”

Over the course of three hours, Erick understood the whole of Queen’s efforts. Mostly, she was vetting what she was seeing, and then trying to get people to meet each other, so that those people could come to their own prosperous conclusions. She spoke directly to scions of noble houses, to tell them that some puppet minds had taken hold of one of the hamlets on the edge of their territory. She told authorities in Alaralti how their main northern farms were currently experiencing banditry from an ousted clan, and how that ousted clan were just kids trying to make a living post-war. She helped healers find work, and broken families find assistance organizations.

She was also ensuring that people knew what she was doing. No more letters on pillows. No more subterfuge. She was placing herself as an empire builder and she was not doing it from the shadows—

Well.

She was hiding herself enough so that the many, many different forces of Songli did not try to murder her in response to her being a Shade, and also for her responsibility for the Chelation War. So there was some physical disconnect between herself and the people she tried to help. But those were basic protections, and more than once she had met directly with a few clans, only to have the High Clans show up and try to speak with her, which she did.

“I must confess, Wizard Flatt,” Queen said, at the end of the presentation and because she could no longer hold it in, “I might be responsible for Songli Juggernaut’ing their Gate agreements with you. It was completely unintentional, but I had to ensure that people knew what I was doing this time, and some people assumed that I was working for you already, due to… Goldie and I... I will not have a repeat of the Chelation War… Where I…” She had started off strong, but then her voice trailed away.

Queen was not the same person she was last year; that brash, powerful woman who controlled the Feast and then watched it all fall apart, who then joined with Tania and went to war with all the other Shades. She was not the same person who had [Prismatic Bomb]ed Erick while he slept. She was not on ‘the other side’ anymore, and she was repentant.

Erick was 99% sure of that.

“It was good talking with you, Queen, but only time can truly judge your actions. Hopefully your decisions turn out well.”

Queen’s voice was small, yet even, “I hope so, too.”
