Or at least he would have moved on to the next presentation, but apparently Lapis had been the only person who was fully ready for him.

So Erick sat down for breakfast with someone who he had never sat down with before; a ‘general’ of the Quiet War, First Knight Harriz Greysteel. The older man contented himself with a cup of really good breakfast tea, for he had already eaten, while Erick had a cheese pastry and coffee, opting for something light this morning. The two of them sat off-center of the food court floor, well away from anyone else, but fully visible to everyone in the area, which was on purpose.

“I must admit, Wizard Flatt,” Harriz said, his hands placed both stoically and nervously around his teacup, “I am surprised you decided to accept my and the Wasteland’s overtures so quickly, what with your reluctance to treat with us prior to today.”

Erick sipped his coffee. Then he said, “Unfortunately the Quiet War is a fact of life with the Kingdoms and I do not wish to be involved in that utter shitshow. Based on your wording, you assume there was more to my reluctance than that?”

Harriz lost all of his nervousness when Erick called his entire career a ‘shitshow’. He stared Erick in the eyes, saying, “The angels are an unparalleled menace to this world and all other worlds to come. They must be purged from existence, for they can never change; that is their curse, their boon, and they would spell the doom for all of us, were it not for the demons pushing back against their unchanging ways.”

“They would say the same about you. Honestly, with how much destruction both sides get up to, Kirginatharp has the right idea; destroy both moons. There’s absolutely no reason for this fight to have continued to go on like it has, except for all the inertia of the Forever War.”

Erick was being purposefully antagonistic. He wanted to see how Harriz would react. Would he bring up the fact that the Old Demons were all dead, and all the people on Hell were incani, and that the angels were enacting an ancient war, and that was the start of this Quiet War? Or would he bring up something else? Would he just get mad?

Harriz remained completely unfazed.

Perhaps he might have even gained a measure of true steel to him, to go alongside his last name of Greysteel.

“The Forever War is contained to the moons. If the moons were destroyed, then a Hell or a Celes would form here, on Veird. Yes, both sides would lose immensely, but the base nature of Elemental Vile and Elemental Exalted would remain, and those two opposing deep sources of afterlife would quickly resume the intake of souls, reforming the whole problem but in a less organized way.” Harriz said, “Those moons up there are little more than dirt and Elemental Vile or Exalted, and they would come back soon enough.”

… An interesting idea, and one that Erick had never heard before. Admittedly he tried to stay out of the Quiet War, except when it was actively stopping the war and researching the reasons behind the war, and learning what Elemental Vile, Exalted, Demonic, and Angelic actually did. He had never heard of this ‘source of afterlife’ angle to the Forever War, though. Nor had he heard of this ‘ability to come back’ of the moons before.

Erick said, “There is still something good to be said for destroying intractable enemies who spill their wars off on to all the rest of us, even if that only shoves the problem to a hundred years in the future. I would prefer to never hear another thing about angels or demons or their war, though, so do you think that there is a way to actually solve the war?”

“… An impossible task. The best we can do is mitigate the touch of the war upon our world.”

“Perhaps. But if there were a way to stop both wars without causing untold horrors in the result, I would do that. Very few people deserve angels or demons calling for their deaths, and no one deserves the generational perpetuation of endless cycles of violence. If you have a way to break those cycles, I would hear them. This is the main reason why I invited you to dine with me for breakfast.”

Harriz gazed upon Erick, his mind whirring with thoughts. After a moment he found something specific inside those thoughts, and said, “I will have to think on this. I have nothing for you at the moment that is not a counter-offensive or defensive territory capture, and I doubt that you would wish to hear of those.”

“Perhaps something more specific is in order: I would like to talk about the Kingdoms and the Sovereign City of Pearl, in particular. You all share a mountain range, and a long history of killing and otherwise. I recently conquered Pearl, and changed all their nobility to be less violent, alongside installing some dragons into power. I’d like to know, specifically, the feasibility of common trade between your nations, instead of the trading of lives in a long history of ‘counter offensives’ and ‘defensive territory captures’ that are not nearly as pleasant as those phrases would suggest.”

Harriz was prepared for this specific conversation, apparently, for he spoke rather easily, “Impossible as of right now. We would rather our Gate systems be completely disentangled from them, with the only place to meet somewhere in Candlepoint, under a [Zone of Peace] and other such magics. We are most looking forward to trade with Songli, and Stratagold, and so if any trade between us and the Cities happen, it will likely happen through those intermediaries.”

“Acceptable. So tell me more about the Shades you have had in the Wastelands. I heard you had one before you worked with Lapis. A man who was like an uncle to Caizoa; Anopix.”

Harriz looked confident as he said, “Shade Anopix had been a silent benefactor for the Kingdoms for the last fifty years, until Last Shadow’s Feast, helping us to fight back against the Greensoil Republic the entire time. He came to us back when the Kingdoms were known as the Lori Dukedom, and the Opalice Empire was growing and burning the whole place down. Anopix was instrumental in bringing about a new equilibrium, helping us to eliminate the Greensoil-backed Opalice Empire. He was a Shade, and he was terrible in his wrath. As a dragonkin he was perhaps even more angry with Greensoil than most incani, due to the Greensoil Republic’s treatment of anyone who is not human as lower than human. The incani they simply kill, but the dragonkin? That entire society helps all humans, but never anyone else, engendering a specific, deep hate in the non-humans.

“Anopix had charity work all over the Kingdoms, from orphanages to farming collectives; many different interests in rebuilding the nation after the collapse of the Empire and of the Dukedom into the Kingdoms. He even had some remaining family, which is where Black Star Caizoa came from, along with every single member of Caizoa’s group. He was the one who sent them into Ar’Kendrithyst to take the Trial of the Dark, to recover the Black Star to use it against the Angels, since we needed that artifact to uncover the depth of the angel infection within our own lands, and within the lands outside of the Kingdoms.

“I understand he was murdered by Tania Webwalker long before the rest of the killing happened.” Harriz asked, “Do you have any idea why that happened?”

It was a schooled question, and to any outsider, they would have seen the man’s question as a simple thing. But there was a lot going on in that simple inquiry. Some unknown intrigue between Tania and Anopix; two dead people, a year gone.

Something connected Harriz and Anopix, too; unknown.

Some intrigue between the Wasteland Kingdoms and the Greensoil Republic.

While Erick was thinking of all that, he remembered that Anopix was responsible for the birth of the Halls of the Dead; the people who had created the daydropper which carbon-dioxide’d Odaali, killing many people in that city. The Halls of the Dead had also almost summoned a Breach Demon last year, and they would have, except Erick had stopped that.

… This talk was a rather dangerous thing, posing as something innocuous.

Erick said, “I try not to get involved in the Quiet War, but I understand why you ask this; it doesn’t make much sense that Tania, with her plans to eradicate all humans, would want to kill Anopix, a man who was already firmly on the side of the demons. Do you have any idea why that happened?”

Harriz frowned a little. “Nothing beyond the fact that Anopix was a good Shade, and all the rest were not. I was hoping you would have a satisfying reason.”

… It seemed like Harriz believed what he said; that he had come to Erick asking about Anopix because he genuinely wanted to know why. But according to what Erick had heard last year, and if Harriz was actually connected to Caizoa and the rest of all that organization, as he claimed and as he had already proven to be, based on the presentation he had given on behalf of Lapis...

Erick knew why Tania had killed Anopix.

He decided to tell Harriz.

“Tania killed Anopix because Anopix saw the opportunity to turn Caizoa and her group against me; to have whoever got the Black Star add one more name to the list of humans who needed to die.” Erick said, “And so, since I was still under Melemizargo’s anti-kill orders, Tania killed Anopix.”

“That cannot be the real answer!” Harriz instantly said, his voice raised in well-worn anger. “You’re not even human and you were bargained to kill the Converter Angel!”

Erick couldn’t help but smile softly, though he did school that expression away as soon as he felt it creeping upon his face. “Didn’t make much sense to me, either, but the Shades are all tainted by Melemizargo’s insanity. Are you sure that Anopix wasn’t a little weirder than he should have been?”

Harriz’s demeanor crashed, though he managed to salvage enough of himself to remain in the conversation, as he said, “Thank you for answering my questions, Wizard Flatt.” And then he regained full control of himself. “Is there anything else I can answer for you?”

The man was getting punched from every angle, and was able to keep right up. It seemed like he was a good guy to know… Which was why Lapis had brought him here, of course.

Erick said, “I want to help the Wasteland become something more than ‘the Wasteland’, either through assistance or trade or whatever. I don’t want to support a land just to see them get into That Old War with the Greensoil Republic, or with the other human lands out there.” Erick asked, “Is there a way to ensure that the Kingdoms only fight defensive wars? Or hopefully no wars at all? My own tentative idea is for the lure of progress and trade to eventually outweigh the possible boons of a successful war, though that will be a long time coming.”

Harriz’s eyes went fractionally wider. “I don’t know the feasibility of trade impacting the Quiet War in any meaningful way, but…”

They spoke for a little while, the conversation meandering here and there.

Erick gained an appreciation for Harriz, as a person. The guy was deep in the Quiet War, for sure, and he had been for a long time. But he seemed to only partake in the War in order to protect his people, or, at least, that’s what it seemed like. Harriz spoke of all of the defensive actions he had taken with regard to defending against Greensoil, and all of the failed counter-attacks against Greensoil that he wished would have not happened, like with the Halls of the Dead and the Daydropper. Those sorts of things only caused more war down the line.

He was much easier to talk to than Lapis, for sure.

Erick was rather sure that if he had been forced to talk to Lapis for more than ten minutes, that the conversation would have gone off the rails somewhere. Harriz was a welcome go-between.

It wasn’t until after Erick had left that conversation, to go on to the next presentation, that he wondered if accepting Harriz as the person to talk to, instead of Lapis herself, was a bad move. Did it show weakness of character? That his relevancy could be mitigated by putting a new face between himself and a Shade? Or was Lapis simply making a professional connection between Erick and the Wasteland? Or was Lapis just protecting herself from Erick’s wrath?

The real truth likely involved a little bit of every suspected thing.

And also Erick’s own paranoia; couldn’t forget that.

- - - -

Erick stepped into a cleared office-like space, located on the second ring of the atrium.

The presentation space was almost completely empty.

White eternal stonewood walls. Lights in the ceiling. Bare floors.

A single crude lightpainting on the right side of the room.

A simple message written in scrawled shadows; ‘I did nothing this year. I await your judgment.’

Erick frowned a little. This was Treant’s ‘presentation’, and he was having troubles, apparently. Perhaps he was even having trouble seeing the good that he had done, as good? Erick knew that Treant had killed countless monsters around Treehome, quite a few of which were the insidious, horrible kind, like unicorns hunting on the edges of society and wyrms gorging themselves on people and even more small horrors, that got everywhere and did every horrible thing they could. Treant had moved on, though, when Treehome continued to tell him to go away. Apparently, Treant had moved on to solving an intractable problem of the world, but Erick had no idea what Treant himself had actually done. He only knew what Treant had done thanks to another person’s presentation.

Erick decided to go next door, and see what Hollowsaur had done, in Hollowsaur and Treant’s joint venture in Quintlan. Hollowsaur seemed more than willing to give credit to the bark-skinned orcol who was his contemporary, with a quarter of that presentation all about what they had been working on together, but apparently Treant thought he was worthless.

Hmm.

- - - -

Last year at Last Shadow’s Feast, Hollowsaur had been a loincloth-wearing orcol man who had dark green skin that was knobbly with ritual scars. When the fighting had started, Priestess had detonated some sort of conflagration ‘Red Dot’ish magic, and splashed the Temple District into glass, catching Hollowsaur in the effect, along with a bunch of other people. This had not been good for Hollowsaur’s existence. Erick had found the skeletonized Shade trapped in a splash of glass, whereupon Erick had offered the man help in the form of the first [Blessing of Empathy], and some Healing Magic.

From there, Hollowsaur had seen the error of his ways, and he had rushed over to the minotaurs whom he had cursed with horrible fates and monstrous natures in order to fix those ugly, hunched and evil-inclined people. Through Hollowsaur, the minotaurs had become a bronzed skin, orcol-like people.

