Erick hadn’t seen the man past that.

Hollowsaur, and many of his goblin friends who oversaw Hollowsaur’s domain in the Jungle, had vanished. But Hollowsaur was back for the Feast, and so was one of the goblins. That goblin stood in the back of the room, wearing nice clothes and seated behind a small desk. That small green guy looked like a businessman of some sort, though Erick might have been mistaking his role; if the goblin was important then Erick would likely hear from him, too.

But the Shade of Life, as he was calling himself these days, stood in the center of his presentation space, looking like a well-to-do chieftain of some rich grasslander clan. Hollowsaur wore furred leathers with chainmail inserts that looked more like a half-robe crossed with a suit. And he wore it well, but not because he was an orcol, though that part of him could not be denied. No. The change that made him look good was in the man’s face.

He looked happy.

Last year Hollowsaur had been a furious man, constantly fighting with everyone, needing to kill all who opposed him. But here he was, looking joyful.

Erick looked up at the man. “You look almost fulfilled, Hollowsaur.”

“I am!” Hollowsaur smiled almost as brightly as his glowing white eyes. “The oozes of Quintlan have been and will continue to be an intractable problem for many years to come, but I think Treant and I might be able to make a real difference in that land through careful monstery and forestry. And we already have even more allies than I thought we would! A few weeks ago, Zenipeq of Frostflower crashed out of the sky into our hidden encampment, telling us that she would participate in our cleansing of Quintlan, declaring her full support for our actions! We are grateful for the ice dragon’s inclusion, Erick; she will be a great help.”

Erick smiled softly. “Glad to hear it. With any luck, we’ll have a Gate connecting to Frostflower soon enough; perhaps as early as next month. Once that happens we’ll be able to trade and support the cleansing of Quintlan more easily, though I would ask that you use some fronts to purchase goods. Perhaps just buy stuff in Frostflower. I won’t support you directly, but I will allow tertiary support to happen. I believe Lapis is going to go through Farix and New Brightwater; you can do the same as it suits you.”

Hollowsaur grinned. “I will do that, then! So!” He waved a hand at the presentation space. “Shall I go over what we’ve tried, and what has failed?”

“I would love that. I have not had much experience with Quintlan and its oozes, though. Can you start with why you call the problem intractable?”

“Of course! That’s over here, in these images. The problem of oozes on Quintlan is one of a thousand vectors, each of which reinforce the rest. The problem is not, as many postulate, only because of the elusive ‘dungeon-creating ooze’, which is more of a classification of ooze type than any specific ooze. The entire idea of a dungeon maker is a false idea, for the real problem lies in how oozes are constantly at war with each other, scouring the world, and then remaking that conquered territory into nests for their element, which in turn pushes out all other forms of life…”

Erick listened and learned of oozes. Most of this stuff he had heard offhandedly before, but he was not aware of the nesting capabilities of stronger and purer mana-type oozes. Fire oozes became inferno oozes which then burned away mountainsides, melting stone into magma and creating deep holes in the ground where fire slimes were birthed, and then gradually grew into oozes.

Stone oozes formed the bedrock of the whole ecosystem over there, though, and it was these oozes which people called ‘dungeon makers’, for they bored holes into the world and made nests which gave birth to stone slimes. When those nests began gathering too much mana, because they always did, this caused the transformation of stone slimes into stone oozes, or, which happened a lot more often, some other type of ooze infiltrated and consumed the slimes therein. And thus, that invader slime turned the stone nest into whatever element the invader happened to be.

There were a great many ancient, 1200-year-old labyrinthine dungeons all over Quintlan which were originally the sewers of old cities, or the dungeons of old cities from before the Fall, but almost every single one had been taken over by oozes long, long ago. Those original underground spaces had been expanded over and over again, collapsing the ground above or expanding deep below. When they went too deep, though, something from the Underworld usually ended up fighting the oozes for dominance, locking the two sides into something of a semi-permanent war state.

Sometimes some oozes, like the rare stonework ooze or wooden ooze, actually built cities or city-like structures with their secretions on the Surface, not going underground at all. These advanced-intelligence slimes would make houses or hovels, or even wooden shacks in the woods, and then lie in wait for animals or adventurers or whatnot to come into those places, looking for shelter or treasure. This was just one of the reasons that Quintlan killed so many people. No one walking in that land could ever be sure of what they were walking into, because sometimes oozes built places like a person would, and all oozes were ambush predators by nature.

Adding to all that, oozes preyed upon other oozes in a vast web of interconnectedness that was impossible to actually break, because oozes were omnivores capable of eating other oozes, and they would fill any niche missing in any ecosystem, as they had in Quintlan.

“They don’t like plants, but they’ll eat anything else.” Hollowsaur said, “Fungi, mold, anything that isn’t plantfiber. The wooden ooze doesn’t even eat wood; it will shape wood into planks and build houses out of that wood, and some joining slime. And so…” He gestured to the actual presentation, saying, “We’re working on plant-based solutions to the ooze problem…”

What followed next was talk of spreading plants that consumed oozes in a myriad of ways, and which Erick had been concerned about ever since he stepped into the room. Plants were one of the few ways that a person could create propagating magic, and Hollowsaur and Treant had come up with a lot of plant-based solutions to the ooze problem of Quintlan.

Lichens that invaded soft bodies and grew moss everywhere. Most people could shake off this mossification, but oozes could not.

Vinewolves, like shadowolves but made of vines, which spread with spores injected into oozes, using the ooze body as part of its life cycle.

A variation on the deathsoul shroom that infected oozes, eventually killing the ooze and becoming a tower of spore-spreading shroom, which then infected even more oozes. Each tower would collect the primitive souls of oozes and use those souls to defend itself, and seek out more ooze sustenance.

All of those ideas seemed really bad to Erick.

But then there were other horrors, including an idea about the creation of another type of ooze which would out-compete all the other oozes, eating them all and then making more of themselves, but which could not spread through eating its own kind. That ooze-ooze would be able to eat anything except ooze-oozes.

At the end of it, Hollowsaur stood proud.

And Erick calmly asked, “So what happens when any of these solutions run out of control? When an ooze-ooze gains the ability to eat other ooze-oozes?”

Hollowsaur neatly said, “Then they’ll eat their young, and the problem will become self-solving.”

“… Oh.” Erick narrowed his eyes and looked across the presentation again. “What’s your solution for when the vinewolf turns different?”

“It becomes a normal part of the ecology. The vinewolf’s main form of reproduction involves sporification of watery, rad-occupied bodies, though, so it’s rather incapable of infecting normal, non-monster life; that rad inside the host is how it makes more of itself. The oozesoul shroom is similar, and yes, it could infect a person, if that person was unhealthy, but in all normal ways it should only be able to truly infect something with a rad inside. The lichen only grows when the host does not move, and every living thing normally moves a lot, except for oozes, when they get into ambush mode. Everything here is just tentative, though; Treant and I have spent most of the year trying to understand the whole problem from the ground up, asking experts about how they would solve the problem, but the two of us already are experts in the field of forestry and monstery, so we’re covering our—”

“It’s an intractable problem,” Treant said.

Treant had walked into the room around when Hollowsaur mentioned the man not five seconds ago. The Shade of the Forest, as he was calling himself these days, was a massive orcol with brown, bark-like skin, who wore little more than a furred kilt/loincloth, and a joyless expression.

Hollowsaur said, “It’s not intractable. We can fix it, Treant.”

“Every solution you have created is either a terror unleashed upon the world, or not strong enough. Oozes are too variable; they will simply evolve away from every solution you have.” Treant looked to Erick, and knelt upon the ground. He was eye-level with Erick now. “I submit myself for your judgment, Wizard Flatt. I have no idea where to go, and the Dark will not tell me what to do.” And then he put his head on the ground, kowtowing.

Erick frowned.

Hollowsaur frowned, too, rapidly saying, “We have a plan to clean Quintlan, Treant. This will work.”

“I’d rather be a tree in the middle of nowhere, with no thoughts in my head. I have never felt what other people felt until my Blessing, and I wish I could forget it all, but the Dark will not let me, and the plan for Quintlan will be a failure that I cannot participate in how you want me to, Hollowsaur. We’ll end up solving the problem for a decade, and then either the problem will mutate, or Death Throne will decide to go on a crusade against the living now that they’re not fighting oozes for territory all the time.” Treant did not lift his face at all as he continued to speak to the ground, “We will end up like Queen and Goldie; we will have attempted to do something good, only to fail and doom millions in that failure.”

Erick had some sudden mixed feelings. Here was Treant, a formerly unrepentant murderer, kneeling, but not in repentance; in defeat. It felt wrong in too many ways to label.

Some small thing inside of Erick snapped, and so did his voice, “Get the fuck up off the floor, Treant. Right fucking now.”

Hollowsaur’s eyes went wide. He almost stepped back, but he stopped himself.

Treant froze.

Erick allowed Treant a moment.

And Treant unfroze. He raised his face. Tears of light raced down his visage, rolling down his chest to fall onto the floor, leaving streaks of soot in their wake. He stared at Erick with false anger, for if being sad was not allowed, then maybe fury would allow him to survive this tribulation. His attempt at hate was mediocre though, and he knew it.

Erick said to the two of them, “Plants survive in Quintlan. Animals and monsters do, too. Since I am sure that oozes will eventually mutate past your ideas, which I believe is what Treant means about this all being unworkable, then I ask if you have considered altering the life that is already there? Instead of making new possible problems? No need for new ooze types, or new deathsoul shroom variants, or anything that could spread so fast that it would trigger a Kill And Exterminate Quest, like we had for the Daydroppers. I know there are primal frost owls that eat oozes, so why not make more birds to eat more oozes? Birds can get away from the ground-based monsters, after all, and they won’t spiral out of control as fast as a plant or otherwise can spiral.” He added, “Or, the real solution could be systematically using a spell like [Landshape], or similar, to transform the entire surface of Quintlan into a new Surface one piece at a time; drive out all the oozes from their hiding spots and remake the entire continent into a new image. That’s what we had to do here to clear out the crystal mimics, and it’s what we’ll continue to do to keep clearing out the mimics.”

Treant said, “We tried remaking the continent but we were driven away by idiots who didn’t see the good we were doing.”

Hollowsaur said to Treant, “With Zenipeq’s involvement that might not happen again.”

Still kneeling and unable to make himself rise further, Treant sighed, “It won’t work.”

Hollowsaur suddenly glared, but he saw Erick looking at him, and he forced that emotion away. Erick could tell that the man was exasperated with Treant, and he had no idea how to fix the situation.

… Briefly, in a surreal sort of way, because here he was mediating a collaboration between Shades, Erick felt himself step out of himself, to assess this situation from an outsider’s perspective. Here was Hollowsaur, a man who regularly worked with people and animals and every living thing on Veird, trying to adapt everything he was to a new life. Before his Blessing, the Shade had taken adventurers who assailed his place in the Jungle of Ar’Kendrithyst, looking for magical animal parts, and turned those people into amalgamations of cow and magical effect. In this way, Hollowsaur made even more magical animal parts. He had probably even carved up one of those unfortunate people and sent their magical meat to Last Shadow’s Feast, and then served this meat at the party, where Erick had partaken, unknowingly. Calling Hollowsaur an ‘asshole’ was like calling the Chelation War ‘a little spat between nations’.

But make no mistake; Hollowsaur was an asshole of the worst sort.

Or at least he used to be.

Maybe he still was an asshole in some major way that [Blessing of Empathy] could not fix.

Treant was just as bad, except his nature was to sit in his garden and do nothing almost all the time, until someone invaded, looking for magical plants. And then Treant would do what he needed to do to murder the invader as swiftly as possible. People got mulched. Bones got turned into fertilizer. Souls went on their way, wherever they wanted to go. Treant probably did some soul torture and transformation, too, just like Hollowsaur, for he helped to make those Stat Fruits, but as far as Erick knew, he did not do the horrible things that Hollowsaur had done to people.

Treant did not glorify in torture. Treant was a simple misanthrope who sometimes took people and turned them into plants. He himself was a plant, though, appearing as a tree in the center of his garden unless threatened. So his tortures seemed… Less bad than Hollowsaur’s.

Or at least that’s how they used to be.

