These days Hollowsaur was working with lots of others in order to make the world better, or at least he was trying.

And Treant had no idea how the fuck to do anything at all. Sure, he had the instincts to help people, to connect with others. [Blessing of Empathy] had done that. But Treant’s first act of contrition after Last Shadow’s Feast had been to go to Treehome and start killing monsters and piling them up around the orcol lands, begging for forgiveness from the Arbors.

Just the other day, Treant had tried to speak to Yggdrasil and beg for forgiveness from him, too, but Yggdrasil did not know Treant, and told him as much, telling him to go away. All the other Arbors had told Yggdrasil to tell Treant to go away, too.

Both Hollowsaur and Treant had some overlap in their areas of power, in the wild spaces of the world, with Hollowsaur dealing with fauna, and Treant dealing with flora…

Which gave Erick an idea.

Erick asked, “There’s Fangorl, god of the wilds, right? Have you two tried speaking with their clergy? An interfaith action might help sort some of your problems before they become problems.”

Hollowsaur raised an eyebrow.

Treant scowled, getting to his feet, saying, “I will not.”

Hollowsaur glanced at Treant, and then asked Erick, “Do you have experience with Fangorl’s druids? Unless I am mistaken, you didn’t use them for your own retaking of the Crystal Forest.”

“I’m not bringing back the wilds to the Crystal Forest. I’m bringing civilization to the Crystal Forest. Less Quintlan or Nergal, more Greensoil or Nelboor or Wastelands.” Erick gestured to Hollowsaur’s presentation, saying, “You, however, are talking about the wilds. You also have a lot of decent work here, but you really could involve more people in your actions, like how Lapis did with the Converter Angel problem.”

“By the Dark,” Treant muttered, “I fucking hate people.”

And then Treant shadowstepped away, to be somewhere else; anywhere else at all.

Hollowsaur looked to Erick, saying, “He’ll come around.”

Erick looked up at the tall orcol Shade. “I can see you’re adjusting poorly, too. All this work here was the product of two months, frantically done in order to show that you’ve been doing something besides acclimating—”

Hollowsaur’s eyes went wide as his breath hitched. Panic gripped him, but he maintained most of his exterior calm.

“—which is fine.” Erick said, “You’re adjusting. He’s adjusting. Time is changing and nothing is how it usually is, and you and Treant have been doing the same things for hundreds of years. It would be insane for anyone to expect every Shade to become different people overnight, even if you have been soul-changed into a different path in life. Just this last week I transformed over 25,000 people into new people, and with those sorts of numbers I see that some people are easily able to become someone new, and others have a lot of trouble. Most people have a lot of trouble. Based on some generalities, it seems that the more powerful people with many connections to others which they formed based on that power, now have a difficult time realizing who they have become.

“Which is fine.

“You’ve got a hundred years left to figure out how you want to make Veird more stable, to prepare us all for the future, and to repent for your deeds. Treant has the right idea about taking some time. Don’t go off half-prepared like Queen and Goldie did, with the Chelation War and 4 million dead. Take your time, Hollowsaur. When I see Treant again I’ll tell him the same.”

Hollowsaur calmed, fractionally. After a moment of hard staring, he simply nodded.

Erick left, pretending not to see the glowing tears gathering in Hollowsaur’s eyes, the pure relief on his face at being found out that he hadn’t done anything at all, and the goblin in the back of the room slowly walk over to Hollowsaur and reach his hand up to hold Hollowsaur’s. Hollowsaur squeezed back.

- - - -

Farix’s presentation was simple.

It was about New Brightwater; all the people he helped save, all his assistance given to the stabilization of that city state, all the people who grew in power and prestige under his aegis. He spoke of the governing system he set up, and of the trade agreements he forged with the rest of the world. The trade that he secured with Spur through the cooperative half-defeat of the soul ooze was only part of that new trade network he got up and running—

“Well. Me and my people,” Farix said, gesturing back to the city personnel map. “It wasn’t my single effort that made New Brightwater possible. Your man Poi’s sister, Rizala, had occupied my assistant guard position until she went over to you and she was instrumental in a lot of that rebuilding. We’re hurting a bit with her gone, but the captain and the council and the merchants and the arcanaeum staff are all doing well enough together— Ah! You remember Professor Illipine Grouser? The one who was forced to plant those osteobombs inside those people who tried to kill you?”

Sudden anger.

“I very much remember the Charisma gangster and the kids he held hostage with bombs. I also remember how Poriti Rollini killed those kids, when I wouldn’t lay down everything and submit to him. I recall how he would have killed all of Grouser’s family had I not intervened,” Erick said, keeping his voice carefully even. And then he inclined his head toward the mugshot-like personnel list. “I see that Grouser is over that part of his life, and that he is now a part of your new arcanaeum. I see that the Rollini family has become one of the major members of the merchant cabal.”

“All correct. Anyway!” Farix happily said, “Grouser and the other rescued academics have almost recovered our arcanaeum capability back to where it used to be; a near-full recovery! The Rollini family is doing well now, too, now that Poriti is dead and his mother Karine is back in control. That whole mess was a bad guy put in charge of a tense situation, under a culture of horror and oppression, made that way by us Shades. And so, I have been doing my part to ensure that the society of New Brightwater is not at all like how it used to be. Of course, I do think that certain parts of our culture are better than the ones currently out there in the rest of the world. This is particularly true when it comes to arcanaeum learning.”

As Erick had done many times in his life, he made yet another choice to be understanding and forgiving in the hope that in doing so, tomorrow would be a better day. It was only in times like this, though, when his choice to be that way truly stood out to him as a conscious thing. “I have an arcanaeum that is creating a new type of arcanaeum-level curriculum. Do you have an interest in participating in that in some way? It will have to be a participation in the way of books given and ideas shared, and nothing so direct as the supply of a professor, or even the presence of Shades in any classroom at all… But I would like to know what the Clergy believes qualifies as good teaching.”

Looking surprised, relieved, and then quietly joyful, Farix said, “I’ve already heard that you plan to allow New Brightwater to openly trade with Candlepoint through our agreements with Spur, in a roundabout sort of way. Maybe even a direct Gate if this meeting goes well!”

Erick had been prepared to tie Candlepoint more overtly to the Shades for multiple reasons, even if the rest of the world saw this as a bad thing. Chief among those reasons was the fact that one could not repent if there were no avenues for repentance. But also, so that he lay down some mitigating agreements, to hopefully preempt whatever horrible thing the Shades were all hiding from him.

Because he was not stupid.

Whatever these presentations held? Lapis’s endeavors with removing the Converter Angel’s taint. Hollowsaur’s bare attempt at cleansing Quintlan. Treant’s desire to do something good, but his inability to actually do anything at all. These were real presentations which held no lies, but they were also not the whole story.

And so, Erick said, “If this Feast turns out well then I look forward to approving some merchants from New Brightwater for trade in Candlepoint. A Gate is not off the table.”

Farix smiled calmly. He understood Erick’s entire statement, subtext and all, and he also pretended like this Shadow’s Feast was going to go perfectly fine.

He knew something was up, though.

Either Fairy Moon, or Queen, or Fallopolis, or Lapis, or literally anyone else here at this party…

Someone was up to something untoward. Maybe even Farix himself was guilty of this? Erick had no idea what that ‘something’ could be, but if Farix knew, then he was doing a damned good job of pretending not to know anything specific. He certainly understood Erick’s worries, though. He wanted that Gate to Candlepoint, and those trade agreements; he needed those agreements.

It seemed Erick had kicked the nest exactly right.

Only time would tell what crawled out of the nest, though.

- - - -

Erick could have gone to see Queen’s or Fairy Moon’s or even Quilatalap’s presentation, which might all have been more important than this next one. Maybe he should have checked up on Zolan’s presentation, which was all about the Gate District and the progress of Candlepoint over the last year, or really the last third of a year, after Erick finished the Worldly Path and founded House Benevolence.

But this presentation was either as unimportant as Treant’s, or the most important thing to happen at this Feast.

Erick stood in a mostly empty room, save for its single occupant.

Fallopolis smiled brightly, saying, “HellooooOOoooOOo, Erick Flatt! I have a presentation, but it’s only available after you see everyone else’s.” With an excited tone, she asked, “Shall we see what Queen’s been up to?” Fallopolis walked right past Erick, merrily saying, “Or maybe Ar’Cosmos! Or how about your man Zolan’s presentation? So many options!”

Erick frowned at her.

Fallopolis tapped the open doorway to the room, saying, “Come on now! Let us see Quilatalap’s presentation!” With eyebrows raised high. “Or is that a private show?”

Erick saw the deflection.

He was having none of it.

“Putting aside how I dislike you opting to put yourself above the etiquette of participating like a normal person... I have a few personal questions for you, Fallopolis.” Without waiting for the Shade to answer one way or another, Erick asked, “Are you a Mind Mage?”

“… Nope!” Fallopolis eyed Erick, asking, “Wh—”

“Are you capable of mental magic in any way?”

“… Of course.” Turning reluctantly serious, Fallopolis added, “I am glad to report that you have not been mentally mutilated since last we spoke, and I’ve been checking. Keeping a safe eye on you. Even that fairy didn’t fuck you over too badly, though you should probably speak to a therapist, like your man Poi suggests every other week.”

Without missing a beat, Erick said, “As soon as the trauma actually stops I might do that.” He asked, “So do you know what I know, without me needing to tell you?”

Erick had many different things that he wished to speak about, with the frizzy-haired Shade. One of those topics stood out to him now.

Back in the Core, Rozeta had spoken of other Wizards to come before Erick, whom Rozeta had tried to help. Erick was not the first Wizard to try and make the world a better place, after all, and he was certainly not the first Wizard that the gods had tried to bend into their ticket to a true New Cosmology; into a hope and fulfillment that stretched across the stars, and which was proof against a Sundering.

One of those Wizards was Fallopolis’s mother, though that woman never got very far along Rozeta’s desired path.

That Wizard had started out as something good, though she rapidly progressed from Rozeta’s assistance in becoming a Wizard, to doing small acts of terror and disgrace. And then she stepped far over the line. She went to war, and then she won that war through Paradoxing her way to victory. If it was only that, then steps likely would have been taken to bring her back into the fold. But Fallopolis’s mother went a step beyond that war Wizardry. She won her war, and she also stole the mana generation of every single person she ‘killed’ in that war, making it her own.

This was taboo.

The combination of it all triggered a Forgotten Campaign, forcing Rozeta into erasing the woman, her accomplishments, and her horrors from the world.

That Forgotten Campaign somehow missed Fallopolis, though; the Wizard’s daughter.

Erick had a lot of thoughts on all that, and he left those thoughts unguarded, though he had never learned how to guard his thoughts anyway. His Domain still held around himself, but from his understanding of Mind Magic, his ‘mind slime’ hung out there all the time for anyone to read, and maybe control; even extensive mental practice for decades couldn’t change that fact. Eventually, by becoming a full Wizard, Erick would become immune to people affecting his mind slime, but for now, he was not immune to Mind Magic, and his thoughts were out there.

Fallopolis seemed not to notice any of those thoughts, though, but she did gain a small edge to her voice as she simply said, “No. I do not know what you are thinking, Erick. I am not a Mind Mage. I don’t use the little mental power I’ve developed without due cause, and I have not been given due cause in this case.”

The [Blessing of Minor Truth] that bound them remained silent; no little buzz in Erick’s soul to indicate a minor lie, no spark to indicate a true lie. Fallopolis was either telling the full truth, or she had subverted the blessing.

So Erick decided to lay it out there, “Last Feast, you told me that the forces of this world had killed your mother in a Forgotten Campaign, and you have been trying to find out why for a very long time. What they did to your mother is why you joined the Clergy in the first place. I have been given some of this information as a peace offering to hand off to you, in the hopes that it will be accepted as such. Will you accept this peace offering?”

Fallopolis was silent and staring, her breath even, her shoulders rigid. Her grip on her staff was tight, her knuckles turning white. She said nothing.

… Erick said, “You once said that you could never forgive them for what they did, but considering the world we live in now, and the world we’re trying to build, could you move past that hate? That is what I’m really asking for. Not forgiveness. Not reconciliation. You can keep your hate, as well, if you must. But I would ask you to move past it all.”

