Rain slowly sat up from his slumped position, careful not to make any sudden movements. The Watch didn’t look openly hostile, but he wasn’t going to take any chances. He licked his lips, thankful for the helmet that was concealing his expression. How did they get in here?

“Nothing to say?” said Lamida, arching an eyebrow.

Rain took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Play it cool. “Hello, Sentinel Lamida, Sentinel Phoss, Sentinel Talasa.” He’d made a point of learning the names of all of the Watch sentinels, though Lamida and Phoss were the only two he’d interacted with before.

Phoss had been the one who’d requested his aid with the river, though ‘request’ wasn’t that accurate of a term for the way the man had asked. The burly sentinel made Lamida seem like a ray of sunshine by comparison. He was some sort of spear wielder, though Rain had never seen him fight.

The red-haired, red-robed Lamida was a mage. A fire mage, to be specific. It was the spell she had used in the baths that had led him to that conclusion, rather than her choice in apparel.

Sentinel Talasa he wasn’t sure about. She had a shield slung across her back and a mace at her hip, so she was likely a warrior of some kind. She was quite a bit younger than the others, perhaps nineteen or twenty. Currently, she was raising an eyebrow as she looked at him.

“You know me?” she said curiously.

Rain shrugged. “I’ve heard your name in passing. I’d like to say it’s nice to meet you, but I’m not sure about that yet.” He looked at Phoss, then at Lamida. “What do you want with me? I’ll be honest, I wasn’t expecting to wake up surrounded by the Watch.”

“Are you saying you aren’t usually honest?” said Phoss, his tone cold and serious.

Rain gulped. “Just an expression.”

Phoss frowned but didn’t comment further. Lamida glanced at him, then returned her attention to Rain. “You know why we’re here. That skill, Winter, is it? It is hardly subtle. I too will be honest, to use your expression. It is impressive, to say the least.”

Rain shifted uncomfortably. “Thanks, I guess. Still, I’m getting the feeling that you didn’t just come here for the mana.”

“Relax,” Talasa said. “We’re not going to do anything to you. I don’t know what experiences you’ve had with the Watch before, but there’s no reason to be so twitchy.”

Rain looked around the room again and shivered. The air was freezing, and the tables were filled with Watch officers and sentinels. There were a few Guild members around too, which made him feel better, at least slightly. They would have cleared the room if they were going to do something…

He cleared his throat. “Okay then, you’re here for the mana, and to…?”

“Just to talk,” said Lamida.

“Okay, that’s fine I suppose,” said Rain. “Why is it so cold in here, though?”

“That wasn’t us,” said Phoss. “Some Guilder in a blue robe got carried away. She said she was going to cool the room down, but Froststorm is hardly suited for fine control. She’s lucky she didn’t kill anyone.”

Mahria? Rain looked around again but didn’t see the ice mage anywhere. He returned his attention to Lamida. “Okay. Let’s have a chat.”

“I do not like your tone,” Phoss said, narrowing his eyes.

Lamida stopped him with a raised hand. “Phoss, let me handle this, please.”

Phoss’s frown deepened, but he sat back, nodding to her in deference. “Very well. As long as he shows respect.”

Lamida cleared her throat. “I will cut straight to the point. You have two skills that are critical to seeing the city through the current crisis. We are here to make sure that you understand your responsibility and to secure your aid. Nothing more.”

Rain blinked. “What do you mean by ‘secure my aid’? You aren’t going to lock me up in your barracks and force me to use Winter, are you?”

“That is an insolent accusation,” growled Phoss. “You—”

“Enough, Phoss,” said the younger sentinel, Talasa. She looked at Rain. “I understand your concern. It isn’t easy being a support class, trust me, I know. Relax, we’re not going to do anything like that. The Watch isn’t some greedy noble house or a bag of dicks like the DKE. We’re here to ask for your help, not to force you to do anything.”

“Language, Talasa,” said Lamida sternly, but the younger woman grinned and scoffed at her.

Rain smiled too, relaxing. Talasa seemed to be pretty easy-going for a sentinel. Bag of dicks? He sat back in his chair, the wood creaking as he shifted his weight. He nodded to Lamida, who was clearly in charge. “Okay, what do you want me to do?”

Talasa spoke before Lamida did, causing the older woman to give her a frosty look. “We want you to come to our stronghold and use that skill. We’ll gather up all of our mages to maximize the effect. The Guild mages are welcome to come too. We need as much mana as we can generate if we want to get rid of the mana drain. Until we do that, we’re practically crippled.”

“I suppose I can do that,” Rain said, still wary. “Just…I don’t want to be stuck there for days and days. I don’t know how long it’s going to take to charge up the barrier.”

“Fair,” Lamida said. “When can you come?”

“Tonight? I can use the skill while I sleep. How about you set me up with a bunk and I’ll just do that every night until the barrier is full?”

“You can use that while you sleep?” Phoss said incredulously. “How?” Lamida and Talasa also looked surprised and there was a wave of muttering through the rest of the room. Rain winced. Oops.

He paused to recover his composure, then shrugged. “I just…kinda do it. I don’t know.”

“What are you hiding? Auras are shit, but yours… Who the hells are you and what is your secret?” Phoss asked, then shifted his focus to Lamida. “I’m having trouble getting a clear reading from him. Either he’s got something to block me, or he’s past the wall and that bronze plate is a fake.”

Talasa glared at Phoss. “Secrets are fine, Phoss. For the last time, we aren’t starting an inquisition. I can’t read him well either, but Lamida can. She was there for his assessment. It’s fine.”

“Enough, both of you,” Lamida said. She looked at Rain. “Will you help?”

Rain nodded.

“Do you require any payment?” Lamida asked.

“No,” Rain said, shaking his head after considering briefly. “It costs me nothing, and it helps the city. That’s enough. Just…”

“Yes?” Lamida said.

“Can you stop Vel—Citizen Sadanis if she tries to—”

“No, we cannot,” Lamida interrupted, her tone grave. “She is strong enough that the risk of subduing her is not worth the attempt. We will attempt to guide her actions through whatever means we can, but we cannot directly oppose her.”

“Besides, she hasn’t done anything too egregious,” Talasa said. “She hasn’t even killed anyone. Westbridge is another story, but Citizen Sadanis doesn’t seem too bad. Yet.”

“Really?” Rain said. “I’ve met her once before, actually. Before she became a Citizen. She doesn’t seem like the type to hold back.”

“Politics,” Phoss grumbled, then spat on the floor. “It’s all a game. If she starts murdering Watch officers, word will get out, barrier or no. Vigilance would retaliate against the DKE, and that would be a bloodbath. She’s going to play the game, and so are we. Otherwise, the Empire is the only one that will win.”

Rain nodded. Makes sense. They can’t take back the city without causing a direct conflict that would let the Empire get the advantage. Damn, the DKE has us over a barrel. As bad as they are, we can’t fight back or we’ll end up with something worse.

“Do we have a deal?” Lamida asked, watching him coolly.

Rain nodded and got to his feet, extending a hand to Lamida. Lamida stood and took it, shaking it firmly as the other Sentinels got to their feet as well.

“We’ll take care of gathering the mages,” Talasa said. “Come to the west stronghold tonight. And thanks.”

“You’re welcome,” Rain said, adjusting his cloak. “I’m going to go now. I’ve got a plan for cooling down the city.”

“Refrigerate?” Lamida asked.

Rain nodded. “You’ve been doing your aura research. Yes, I have Refrigerate, and no, I’m not going to use it where it can hurt anyone. I’m going outside the city. There’s enough space between the wall and the barrier for me to use it at full range. I don’t know how much I’ll be able to do, but the math looks promising.”

Almost two hours later, Rain walked out through the gate of the city, alone at last. He’d gotten held up slightly; it seemed everyone wanted to talk to him for some reason. The appreciation was nice at first, but it had quickly gotten annoying. Val had helped fend off some of the more persistent questioners before he’d left to help with one of the reconstruction crews—another of the Citizen’s requests. Thankfully, Rankin hadn’t been around to make a fuss, though Rain didn’t like not knowing what he was up to. Gus had been there, though, and Rain had taken the opportunity to collect the rewards for the three quests he’d completed before the DKE attack. The Guild was still operating normally for the moment, though Gus wasn’t sure if the synchronization of the Guild ledgers with the main branch would work while the barrier was active. They’d know when the next scheduled update came around.

Regardless of whether his Guild rating was going to reflect the quest completions, he now had around a hundred Tel and 250 copper in his pouch. He needed to stop by the bank at some point to pay the Citizen’s imposed tax. He’d also reserved 20 Tel for paying back Jamus. That left him with 70 Tel to spend, plus copper for every-day expenses. He was planning to stop by the adventurer’s shop again at some point, as well as Mlem’s stand in the market. However, right now, the Citizen’s quest was the foremost thing on his mind. It also gave him a convenient excuse to get away from all the questions. He hadn’t revealed IFF, content to let people believe that they’d need to stay away while he worked. Right now, that was exactly what he wanted.

He looked at the dome as he walked down the road that led away from the city. The visibility beyond the barrier was practically zero. It looked like a veritable blizzard out there. The magical wall seemed to be more or less frictionless, judging from the fact that snow wasn’t piling up on top of it. He’d yet to have the opportunity to walk right up to it and investigate properly. He’d have time to do that later; for now, he had a job to do.

Commencing Operation Heatsink.

He stopped, having reached a spot about half-way to the barrier. Fel Sadanis was laid out in a sloppy circle, the wall following the contours of the land. He estimated that the city was no larger than a square kilometer or two. The land itself was relatively flat, sloping toward the river slightly. The magical dome formed a perfect circle where it met the ground, slightly off-center from the city itself. The radius was quite a bit larger, though, at least two kilometers. There was plenty of room for him to use Refrigerate without restraint.

He bent down, making a futile attempt at reaching his toes in a stretch. He’d gotten used to moving in the armor, but just because Tallheart’s clever metalwork didn’t inhibit his flexibility, it didn’t mean he had much to begin with. His physical skills were still lacking, which was why he’d decided to kill two birds with one stone and work on his athletics while he was out here. The plan was to use Refrigerate as a Nova, chilling the air in a radius of 100 meters. He would then jog for 200 meters and repeat. He’d keep that up until he either ran out of mana, got too tired to keep running, or finished cooling off the city.

He’d done a few experiments with water before, trying to find the point at which the skill would turn it to ice. However, without a second reference, he’d been unable to work out the formula. The temperature at which water boiled was the obvious choice for that second data point, but that would require him to make an assumption, namely that Immolate and Refrigerate followed the same formula. Also, there was the small issue of Immolate’s tendency to set everything on fire. That didn’t seem to be directly related to temperature, judging by the wording of the spell.

All of this was academic. The real question was how strong of a Nova could he tolerate. To that end, it was time for a few experiments. He pulled up the skill card for Refrigerate and fired off a Nova with Channel Mastery reducing it by 99%. He left off Amplify Aura as it wasn’t efficient, but used everything else.

Refrigerate (10/10)

5-5 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 108 meters

Cost: 4.5 mp/s

At this level, the spell felt like a sudden cool breeze. By his own definition, a Nova lasted exactly one second. That was the tick rate for his auras; he couldn’t reduce it any further, despite trying. He knew that Refrigerate was capable of freezing water at this intensity, but it didn’t have enough time to do so after only a second. The air would become uncomfortably cold if he sustained it for longer, but not so cold that it would damage him in any reasonable timeframe.

He could have left Refrigerate on constantly while he jogged of course, but he’d calculated that doing so would be much less efficient. He needed the range from Aura Focus, and he couldn’t jog blind. The mana cost for Refrigerate scaled with the radius, but the volume scaled with the radius cubed. That meant pausing every so often to use a strong Nova would be the best method for stretching his mana as far as it would go.

As best as he could tell, the aura itself was invisible, perhaps with a bluish tint as it spread through the air. That might have just been due to the light emitted from his armor. If Purify was any guide, the visual effect should get stronger as he increased the power, but he couldn’t see it when he was using Aura Focus. He’d previously tracked the progress of the skill by the wave of expanding cold that formed as the magic spread, accompanied by the rushing of wind. He’d come to realize after a while that his initial impressions about how the skill worked weren’t quite correct.

