It wasn’t that the aura sent out a gust of cold air; it sent out a wave of cold magic. That magic—or mana or whatever it was—then chilled the air and did damage to any entities that weren’t exempt via IFF. The sudden decrease in temperature caused a decrease in air pressure, and that was what caused the wind. At least, he was pretty sure that was what was going on. Complex meteorology was beyond him. Any simple explanation was further complicated by the fact that the aura seemed to use up energy as it traveled through things.

Any matter would block the aura, including air, with solid objects like walls blocking it almost completely. The chilling was strongest at the center, just outside the radius of his soul. However, he’d noticed something interesting. Once whatever piece of the environment—air, ground, water, whatever—reached a certain minimum temperature, it would stop getting colder. Further, it would also stop blocking the progress of the spell. It wasn’t that the magic expanded faster, it was that the zone of minimum temperature did. The minimum temperature itself also decreased as he fed more power into the spell, but more slowly than the rate of cooling.

At least, that’s what I think is going on. Let’s try 10% Channel Mastery this time.

Refrigerate (10/10)

45-52 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 108 meters

Cost: 45 mp/s

This time, the drop in temperature was much more pronounced. When his sight returned, he was greeted by rushing wind and a few swirling flakes of snow. It was uncomfortably chilly but hardly worse than what he’d subjected himself to in the past.

Getting there. I don’t want to spend all day playing around, though. His eyes flicked to his health, then back to the skill card. Screw it. 50%. If I get hurt, that’s just more practice for Recovery.

Refrigerate (10/10)

226-258 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 108 meters

Cost: 225 mp/s

Rain gasped and stumbled at the rush of wind and snow that buffeted him, sending his cloak whipping around as the pressure equalized. He scrambled to wrap it back around himself, squeezing his eyes shut against the arctic blast coming in through his visor. The chill he felt was only partly from the cold.

Fuck, that’s strong. Holy shit.

He looked around at the ring of frost on the ground. It hadn’t reached the theoretical 108-meter range before the magic was consumed, but it was still a massive area that had been chilled. It would have gotten there if he left the spell going, but that would have been dangerous. He started to shiver for real as the cold leached in through his armor, the metal rapidly cooling against his skin. He hadn’t lost any health, but it sure did feel like he should have. His cold resistance was slightly higher thanks to the Ring, but it wasn’t clear how much that was helping.

Time to move.

He started walking parallel to the city wall, then bumped his pace up to an easy jog. He was careful to watch his footing as his feet broke the icy crust that had formed over the muddy ground. The cold hadn’t penetrated far, but it was enough to create a slushy, muddy, icy mess. The cold air burned in his lungs as he ran.

Yeah, I’m not going any higher than that. I hate jogging and I hate the cold. Jogging in the cold? Three out of ten. Not a fan. He shook his head. Come on, Rain, stop whining. No pain, no gain. I wonder if I can find some hot chocolate or something once I’m done here. Do they even have chocolate? Probably not. Chocolate’s tropical.

He frowned and quieted his thoughts, focused on his form. He really didn’t want to do a faceplant into the icy mud. When he started feeling warm again, he let off another 50% Refrigerate Nova. He did it mid-stride, as he usually did with Detection. The gust of wind almost made him fall, but he recovered quickly, even picking up his pace a little. The point was to get a workout. Getting out of the circle of cold was a good motivator, even if he was just going to create another one as soon as he did.

As he ran, he started to notice that something was different. His lungs were burning from the cold, true, but the rapid pace he was setting wasn’t making him tired. He glanced at his HUD to check his health and stamina. The red bar showing his health hadn’t budged, but the green one had dropped slightly.

Hey, maybe jogging isn’t so bad after all. Thank you, Stamina!

He increased his speed further, breaking into a full-on run. He grinned as the air rushed past him, firing off another Nova. This time, he barely stumbled, armored feet crunching through the frozen layer of mud.

Magic fucking rocks.

On the ramparts of Fel Sadanis, two figures stood watching the progress of the armored mage. Every so often, the cloaked man would release an expanding shell of faint blue magic. The light was quickly followed by an expanding dome of snow and wind.

“That’s eleven times now,” Sentinel Talasa said. “How much mana do you think that uses?”

Sentinel Lamida shook her head. There was no way to tell, not without investing further into unlocking a bunch of spells that she would never use. Even then, Rain’s class, whatever it was, was also likely responsible for mitigating the ridiculous efficiency problems intrinsic to auras. There’d be no figuring that out, short of asking him directly. She didn’t want to risk alienating the mage by bringing him in for a full inquest. She didn’t have justification for that, either. Rain had done nothing wrong, the original incident with Purify notwithstanding. No actual harm had been done there unless you counted an annoyed noble.

“It’s pretty impressive,” Talasa said, bringing Lamida’s attention back to the running mage. “You’re sure he’s not a silver?”

“I’m sure,” said Lamida. “And it isn’t that impressive. Any ice mage could do the same by the time they reached level 10. We just saw it with Froststorm earlier.”

Talasa shook her head. “Yeah, but could they keep doing it like that? And while wearing plate armor and going for a jog? Also, I still can’t believe Phoss didn’t insist we lock that Guilder away. Using a spell like Froststorm inside is madness. What the hells was she thinking?”

Lamida shrugged. “Their building, their rules. Plus, that was Lavarro’s daughter. Phoss knows better than to make an issue of it. We don’t need that kind of trouble right now.”

Talasa looked over at her. “You think they are going to register a formal complaint against us? The Guild, I mean. We did sorta just barge in. That old guy was furious.”

Lamida snorted. “Not likely. We can’t get any communications out other than by hand-code, and I doubt that they can either. I’d like to see them try to force an arbitration with gestures being the only way of talking with our respective guild leaders.”

Talasa smiled, then turned her attention back to the running mage. “He’s pretty slow, even accounting for the armor. Look, there he goes again. Twelve times. That is an aura, right? I’ve never seen anyone use one before. Too inefficient. He wasn’t lying, was he?”

“He was telling the truth. You need to work on your Reading. His soul is on the strong side, true, but you should be able to push through it if you apply yourself.”

“Really?” Talasa said. “He’s got to be close to the wall then.” She tapped a finger on the stone parapet. “You’re sure he’s not a silver? Like, really sure?”

“Yes,” Lamida said, flicking her gaze at the younger sentinel in annoyance. “Stop asking. I know you’ve never been further than ten leagues from Fel Sadanis in your life, but if you had, you’d know not to judge power levels against what you see in this backwater. He’s strong, but only when you compare him to fools stumbling in the dark.”

“Hey, I’ve been further than that and you know it. You were there when I got my blue.”

“That doesn’t count. And you aren’t supposed to talk about it.”

“Does too,” Talasa said. “Relax. There’s no one around to hear. Anyway, I say he’s strong, even if you don’t agree. That armor looks pretty impressive. You think he’s got a backer?”

Lamida tilted her head. “Maybe, maybe not. He’s…different. The way he speaks, it’s as if…I’m not sure. It’s like he’s been living in a cave and doesn’t know anything about society. He is educated, though. If he has a backer, then he was probably snatched up when he was a child and trained in isolation.”

“Suspicious,” said Talasa. “Not to mention the fact that he just showed up one day. We’ve got no record of him entering the city before he left and came back with a pile of Tel and that armor. Something definitely happened there. You think he’s dangerous?”

“Yes,” Lamida said, sighing. “And no. He’s category three, but he was being honest when he said he wanted to help the city. I’m more concerned about him causing damage without thinking. He’s no Abaras. We’ll watch him, but there’s no danger of him going down the same path as that…man.”

“Was it really that bad?” Talasa said. “I’ve heard the stories, but…”

Lamida shook her head, fighting off the dark memory. She’d put the rogue mage down herself, but there was no undoing what he’d done. The only things left in the village that he’d claimed were the graves of those who hadn’t made it out in time.

She frowned, seeing that Talasa was looking at her expectantly. “It was bad,” she said simply. “Nobody is above the law. It was our job to put him down, even more so because he was one of our own. His power corrupted him.” She breathed out slowly, then nodded to Rain. “I don’t get that feeling from our new friend, but we will monitor him all the same.”

Lamida watched as Rain slid to a halt at the bank of the river and released another pulse of magic. The surface of the water flash-froze, leaving a thin pane of ice floating on the surface of the still river.

“Think he’s going to try to freeze it completely so he can cross?” Talasa asked, idly playing with the mace that hung at her waist. “Oh, wait, never mind. He’s heading back the other way. Hey, I bet you fifty copper he makes it all the way to the river on the other side.”

Lamida snorted. “Impossible.” She paused to consider. “I shouldn’t, but fine. I accept.”
