“Oh?” She walked over to him and put her hands on her hips and looked at Ren. “What's that?”

“I own a county a few hours cart ride outside the starter city of Aurora.” Ren said. “I think it would be a perfect spot to build a place for you girls to work.”

The woman squinted her eyes. “You don't mean a regular job or something, do you?”

“No, I think your skills, and that of the other girls, would be much better served working in a similar place as the Pink Pearl.”

“Really?” Jennifer ran over to Ren. “You're really going to build a place for us?”

“You aren't going to scam us like that last guy, Conner, are you?”

“I certainly will not.” Ren said and let some of his anger show. It activated his Fear Aura, and the girl's eyes widened. He heard Elerlyth take in a sharp breath, and he calmed down and switched to his Camaraderie Aura.

“I don't want any of your money.” Ren said. “I'll build the place, help you start with supplies and resources, and then it's all yours.”

“Are you serious?” The one who liked being ordered around asked. Unlike the others, she actually walked closer to Ren when he let his Fear Aura out.

“When we get back from the quest, I'll have a really nice place built.” Ren said. “What kind of theme do you want?”

“Theme?”

“The Pink Pearl was a ship and a sea theme.” Ren said. “I'm sure you're all tired of wearing sea shells and listening to water sounds.”

“Oh, am I ever!” One of the other girls said. “I felt like I needed to pee all the time!”

Several of the girls laughed.

“So, any ideas?” Ren asked.

“I'd like a Hell theme.” Jennifer said. “Dancing flames everywhere! Blood red costumes with horns and tails! Maybe even a deadly sins room!”

“Leave your personal fantasies out of this.” The woman that stood closest to Ren said. “This is for men to get off on, not the dancers.”

“Aww!” Jennifer said, and several girls laughed.

“Just come up with something yourself.” One of them said. “If we don't like it, we'll burn it down and tell you to start over.”

Ren laughed. “I'll do it if you leave the 'burn it down' part out.”

She grinned and nodded.

“So, just hang out for a few more days, and then you'll be back to work.”

“Oh, I can't wait.” One of them said. “I really miss the tips.”

“Me, too.”

Ren looked at their sad faces. “I'm sorry you haven't been making any money since the Pink Pearl closed down.” He said. “What did you make every day?”

“8 gold, plus tips.”

“6.”

“15.”

“Don't pad your earnings, Jennifer.” The woman said. “The most we've ever made was 10, and that was on the weekends.”

“It's been about week since you left your jobs, right?” Ren asked, and they all nodded. “Okay, 2 days at 10 gold coins for the weekend, and I'll round everyone up to 8 gold for the other 5 days.” He said. “So, that's 60 gold you've missed out on. Do you all have coin pouches?”

Most of them nodded, but three of them didn't. Ren took out three coin pouches and put 60 gold coins into them, and handed them to the three girls that didn't have coin pouches, then started handing out 60 gold coins to the others. Everyone just stood there and watched as he gave all 12 women money.

“Ren, what are you doing?” Elerlyth asked when he was done.

“I'm paying them for their missed time.” Ren said. “Why?”

“Ren.” Elerlyth said. “Look at them.”

Ren turned and looked at the dozen women, and each of them had slightly red faces and held the money to their chests. It looked like they were afraid he was going to take it back.

“You can put it away.” Ren said. “It's yours. I gave it to you.”

“Ren.” Elerlyth sighed. “You're missing the point.”

“What point?” Ren asked and looked at her. “I can't let them go a whole week without having any money.” He said. “Some of them depend on a steady income.”

Elerlyth chuckled. “Are you really this dense?”

“What do you mean?” Ren asked.

“Ren, you just gave 720 gold, or over 7 platinum, to women that will do anything for money.”

Ren's eyes widened. “Oh.” He said when he finally got it. He turned to the women and gave them a regal bow. “Ladies, please accept my apologies. I sincerely hope that you won't be insulted that I don't want you to do anything for the money.”

“Is he joking?” One of them asked. “I think he's joking.”

“No, he's not joking.” The woman that stood closest said. “You don't want us to at least dance for you, do you?”

“I'm sorry if you feel like you need to earn it.” Ren said. “I was the inadvertent cause of you all losing your jobs, and I won't let you suffer because you can't work right now.” He said. “I'll get the new place up and running soon, and then you won't have to worry about money anymore.”

Jennifer shook Billy's arm. “Billy? Is he serious? He doesn't want us to do anything for all this money?” She asked and held up the blue coin pouch Ren had given her. “Does he know how hard we have to work to get this much?”

“I don't know him very well.” Billy said. “But, I'm pretty sure he's completely serious. I don't know if he's actually a nice guy or just pretending, though.” He smiled. “Either way, he just gave you over a week's pay and you don't have to do anything for it.”

“Is... is he crazy?” Jennifer asked, and Ren chuckled.

“Most definitely.” Billy said. “Remember the bow he made for me?”

Jennifer nodded.

“He practically gave it to me.”

“Mine, too.” Tommy said.

“He gave me mah bow bracers, too.” Clint said.

“He gave me this wicked Mana bracelet.” Dillon said.

“I haven't gotten anything yet.” Hank said.

“That's because you haven't picked what you want yet.” Dillon said.

“Is that my fault?” Hank asked.

“Yes.” Dillon said, and they laughed.

A couple of the women stepped close to Ren.

“You really don't want us to do anything?” One of them asked.

Ren glanced at Elerlyth and saw her grin, because she knew they wouldn't let any payment go without working for it. He sighed and looked back at the 12 women.

“If it'll make you all feel better about this.” Ren said. “When I get the new place built, you can give me the very first dance.”

“Ooo!” One of them said. “A competition!”

“Yes! Whoever has the best dance can use it on him!”

“I'm gonna kick your asses!” The one that liked being ordered around said. “I'll earn that first dance with him!”

The women launched into a huge debate over techniques and proper form, and the guys started to laugh.

“Ladies.” Ren said and held his hands up to try and quiet them. “Ladies!”

They ignored him as they talked heatedly for several minutes, then they stopped and looked at him.

“When you get back, we'll have a dance off.” The one that stood closest said. “Whoever you like best gets the first dance with you at the new place.”

Ren opened his mouth to say that he didn't agree to be a judge, then sighed. “That's fine.”

Several of the girls hugged and two of them even did a high five.

“This is going to be so much fun!” One of them said as the entire group of them turned almost as one and walked back to Clint's house to go back inside.
