Our talks went back and forth, everybody chiming in now and then with details or back stories.

Samuel, apparently, had been a CEO back in South Africa, who’d loved the thrill of the hunt. Only ethical hunting, though, whatever that meant.

Somsak had been professionally poor, in his own words. Caught in a low-tier dead-end job in Bangkok with no prospects whatsoever.

And Victoria had been, according to her, balancing on the edge of bankruptcy and success, as a franchisee in a gym in Mexico City, in what she called a “Medium poor” neighbourhood. The perks, according to her, were being able to train relentlessly, toss anybody who annoyed her from the premises and do some good in a hard place. The downsides were having to pay protection money to gangs and cops, and occasional setbacks when local violence spilled into her little slice of normalcy.

Steve let the rest of us in on his own improvements, which was a quick experience. He’d hit Level 24 and promptly decided that he wasn’t going to spend any of his four available talent points yet. He believed he’d already picked the most important ones available to him, and that he’d be able to pick something a lot better when he hit Level 25 and gained access to an entirely new talent tree.

He was right, of course. But hearing somebody be that responsible and frugal, and not even complain about the lack of instant gratification? It was unreal.

Until then, we’d just have to make do with his other talents. The invisibility and the piercing attack for fighting, and of course the well-rested buff and the other buff which would pump us all to greater heights. I figured we’d be able to make do.

Victoria and Somsak started to share their experiences in the pens, and I tuned out their presence for a while as we walked, checking out my own development.

Experience-wise, the battle for Ever Steady had been insane, earning me a total of four levels. Of course, I’d gone and spent three of the four talent points during the battle, maxing out my Life Steal talent. No complaints there, because I wouldn’t have lived otherwise.

Skill-wise, it had been absolute insanity as well. Every single skill revolving around me getting knocked around had pretty much leveled multiple times, except for the more esoteric ones, like Frost Resistance. The +3 to Pain Tolerance, +4 to Higher Shield and insane +5 to Improved Resilience were a good indicator of just how much damage I’d taken.

The highest single increase had come after the battle, though, with Secrets of the Self rising a full +7 from all the people trying to use Identify on me. They likely mostly failed, though I was certain there’d be some nosy bastards out there who already had Identify at a sky-high level.

At this point, I had a handful of amazing skills hovering right on the edge of the first automatic evolution at skill Level 25. Dodge, Fire Resistance and Resilience especially. All were damn close, and especially Dodge and Resilience would make for amazing improvements to my survivability. Yet, one skill actually had crossed the threshold, granting me two options for improving myself – and by God, that choice was rough.

Your skill Armor has reached the first evolution threshold at Level 25. This earns you a choice between two different evolution options.

Option one:

Level 25 evolution:

From now on, your armor will not burden you quite as much. You will only feel half the weight of any armor you don, regardless of quality, material or magic.

Option two:

Level 25 evolution:

Your armor becomes more durable. From here on out, it will take decidedly more force or magical power to impact the structural integrity of your armor.

They were both amazing options, really. I was a bit sad I hadn’t managed to improve the rarity of my Armor skill beforehand so the improvements would be even better, but Cuilcis hadn’t even had it among his selections.

The first evolution wasn’t that impressive if I considered only my current armaments. The Ethereal Marmot leather I wore on my legs, arms and head had suffered a bunch of ugly tears, holes and rents during the battle, but it was still holding up nicely. It wasn’t overly heavy either. Yet, I wasn’t planning for today. If I could get myself a set of… enchanted plate armor, or some such, this evolution could make it light enough for me that it wouldn’t burden me down! That would make a marked difference. Something like that Higher Riverkin would barely have been able to touch me, if I’d been armored properly. And if I could still sprint around like the armor wasn’t even there? Instant survivability.

Yet… that was all coming from an Earth viewpoint. And I couldn’t help but think that I’d probably be able to sprint in heavy plate armor with just ten more points in Strength regardless. As such, the evolution might be a bit of a waste.

Meanwhile, improved durability… yeah. If they couldn’t penetrate my armor, they couldn’t hurt any body parts that were covered by armor. And I liked my body parts. And just like that, my choice was made. It didn’t hurt that it’d also improve durability against magic. I’d still cook under the effect of a magical flame thrower, but something like the air attacks of the Ethereal Marmots would have a harder time piercing my defenses!

Apart from Secrets of the Self, I hadn’t had the chance to truly grow my skills after the battle. I’d lent a hand where I could around the camp, helped with clean-up, but mostly I’d just… talked. Answered questions. Fled the attention. It was horrible, and I was not going to get trapped like that forever.

There was one exception.

We’d bargained with Cuilcis to gain access to the knowledge needed for unlocking the higher rarity of as many useful skills as possible. I’d managed to unlock most of them by now. The ones I hadn’t unlocked were either skills which were locked to me due to my quirk, like Unarmed Combat or Piercing Weapons, or ones that did not come naturally to me, like Mana Shield, Construction or Mana Efficiency.

The one exception was Improved Athletics. The Uncommon rarity of Athletics. As a general skill that helped with every sort of physical exertion, I sorely needed it. The path to unlocking it shouldn’t be insanely difficult either. Cuilcis’ explanation merely said, ‘Spend eight uninterrupted hours only on improving your physical state and resting.’ The actual interpretation, meanwhile, eluded me for a while. Because I did just that here in Ever Steady and still didn’t receive the rarity increase.

Eventually, I decided that the keyword here was ‘uninterrupted.’ Even though I’d worked without rest, there’d still be people stopping by for a chat, onlookers wondering what the hell I was up to (As proved by my ever-increasing Secrets of the Self skill.) and potential fellow gym rats wanting to join in. In the end, I locked myself in my tent, ignoring the rest of the world. It was one long, sweaty day of exertion, but I got there in the end.

Athletics evolves to Improved Athletics.

Improved Athletics

Uncommon Passive skill

Some people are more physically gifted than others. They are the ones who always seem to stand out, do better when they use their body. Every level in Athletics will slightly improve your physical efforts. Your jumps will be higher, your sprints more explosive.

In addition, once a day, your Strength will count as double for Athletics for the duration of a full minute.

The new ability was excellent. It wasn’t overwhelming or inhumanly strong. Yet, in an even match, it could absolutely grant me a momentary edge in sheer manoeuvrability and explosive movement. Also, the real win was in the stronger upgrade I’d get when I eventually managed to hit Level 25 in the skill.

Finally, I’d spent my last available talent point.

Natural Growth.

Passive Talent. This grants you a natural gift for learning and improving. Choose an attribute. Any skill primarily associated with said attribute will increase faster.

20% increase in learning speed per point.

1/5 points.

(Chosen attribute: Fortitude. Current total, improved by Passive Power quirk: 30%)

This talent can be chosen multiple times for different attributes.

Was it a flashy talent? No. Not really. Was I probably going to regret my choice when I hit Tier 2 in just a single level and got new, insane options? Obviously. Was the talent likely to be a game changer for me in the long run? Yes. Very much so.

Humanity as a whole already had our Starved Growth trait, granting us increased skill growth for the next three hundred and seventy-ish days. That number, by the way, was a shared countdown for all of Humanity. It didn’t give any newcomer about four hundred days, but was a gift to all of us. On top of that, I had my Passive Affinity, allowing me a better chance to learn passive skills. With this talent on top and maxed, I’d be able to outgrow anybody and everybody – at least when it came to Fortitude-based skills.

I grinned. Now, who might be the sort of masochist who’d expose themselves to every sort of torture, self-inflicted and otherwise, under the sun and earn a ton of Fortitude-based skills? Oh, wait!