“As far as my experience follows, no. For Adam to have become something divine, there needed to be a structured faith embedded inside him. There needed to be a Domain already sleeping, waiting to be lit by a holy fire. But on that point, what is his Domain?”

“Heroism,” Shiv replied.

Once more, Maia’s expression turned incredulous. “Heroism? That makes no sense. None of my former companions had a Domain of Heroism.” Unnerved, she fell silent, contemplating as her mind spun faster and faster, her thoughts coalescing into a dense fog at the center of her skull. “Matthew couldn't have engineered a Domain from scratch. That is simply beyond his ability. But… perhaps the Great One had another? Perhaps Matthew managed to reach back into the source and fundamentally alter someone's Domain through their Phylactery?”

“Yeah, I don't think that's it either,” Rose interjected. “I can't claim to know the Starhawk as well as Roland, but I’m a close second.”

“Third at most,” the Educator retorted. "I’ve known him for far longer than you."

Rose scoffed. “Well, if that were true, then you'd know he'd never do anything like that. The memory of his comrades is sacred to him. The Phylacteries that he has retrieved are in the safest place within the castle.”

“You forget he is demented as well,” Maia replied, scowling.

“No, she didn't,” Shiv countered. “Think clearly, Maia. Very clearly. When you get demented, you become a parody of your own story. The Starhawk hasn't turned into a liar, he's just become even more of a mindless hero than he was before.”

“Then perhaps he performed the deed before he was fully decayed.”

“Or maybe we need to stop assuming and ask Roland,” Shiv said. “Listen, I don't much trust the Starhawk either, but Roland isn't going to hide anything from us—not with Adam's life on the line. If we ask him, he'll tell us.”

A turbulent ripple cascaded through the Educator's empathetic core, but she had no good retort. She knew he was right. His logic was sound. More importantly, Adam meant more to Roland than he would ever mean to the Educator. Her agitation ultimately was misguided.

“They mean a lot to you, don't they?” Shiv asked. His question caused an interesting change inside her heart. There were moments where it went cold, where she felt nothing, nothing but scorn, and then there were other moments where it swelled with warmth, with overwhelming affection, and it alternated, her core ruled by bipolar seasons.

Maia sighed. “It's complicated.”

“I can see that. You don't need to answer this question if you don't feel comfortable, but is your own partial decay why your emotions are so unbalanced?”

Her body tensed, her face tightened in a look of alarm, but the pull of his Rhetoric felt stronger than ever. She was careening toward him psychologically; she needed to tell him something, like a drunkard had to puke. “I escaped the worst of my fate. I did. I had foresight; I did everything right, but even so, it wasn’t enough. It wasn’t.” Her gaze turned toward Adam, and the simmering glow of jealousy took hold inside of her. “Do not mistake my behavior right now. This isn't affection towards him. This is responsibility. We made the mistake. We stole this power—this undeserved glory. This mistake needs to end with us. It will not spread any further. And if the Republic is to end without the Ascendants, then it was damned to end regardless. I've seen what lies beyond. I know what waits for us. Integration will never belong to the weak.”

“Well, you won't hear me disagree much about that. And whatever you actually feel about Adam, I'm real grateful for what you just did.” He gestured at the painted world around his friend. “I think the world you want and the world I want are pretty similar. And Udraal’s been using both of us for his own ends. We're not even people to him, just things for him to use. Now, I might not like you. It might come to a point where I try to kill you, but I'm never going to use you as just a thing. I'm never going to treat you like you're some kind of expendable tool. And you know that.”

“What is the purpose behind your words?” the Educator asked. “What do you want?”

“For us to be on the same side—at least for now. We're starting up a coalition. We're inviting everyone we can from the surface and the Abyss.” Shiv saw Maia’s eyes widen in horror, but he cut her off before she could raise any protests. “We're not doing this for no reason either. If we can get enough people inside this gate, if we can get enough of our enemies mingling among each other, then maybe, maybe we can turn this Gate into a trap for them or something like that. Either way, we'll have people we can use to blunt any incoming attacks. It'll buy us some time. And before you say something about the danger, I want you to remember how favored we are. I want you to count the days since I went Deathless and think of how many people I’ve killed during that time. I want you to remember how much we all suffered. It's not going to get better, not unless we change things up.”

These Words of Truth and Adoration 75 > 77

An inner struggle ensued within the Educator. She didn't want to trust; she refused to trust, and her empathetic core revealed scars that ran so deep she flinched at the very thought of exposing herself. But she was also so close and so desperate; she wanted someone to be in her corner, on her side. Despite everything between her and Shiv, he wasn't wrong: they were bound for the same path, the same eventuality—the coming Incursion.

Shiv sighed, and he felt his Rhetorical pull grow just a bit stronger. “I'm not gonna force you. Frankly, after what we had to do with Longinus, I'm glad there's any person left inside of you at all. Killing him was like… like butchering a monster. Putting down a shadow of a dying man inside.”

Once more, both her mind and heart reeled. “I know. I saw. You gave him mercy. It was what he would have wanted.”

The hate Shiv felt toward Longinus was stone. But that feeling could co-exist with sympathy. The man buried deep down inside the god was a different entity to Shiv altogether, and he'd deserved a better fate. “I'm sorry things turned out this way. It's a real ugly ending for a group of people who only tried to do the right thing.”

“It matters not that we tried. It matters that we failed, and it's not an ending. It's still ongoing. And it will continue to be an ongoing problem until I finally put an end to this.”

“Until we put an end to this,” Shiv said. “The mistake's not just yours to solve anymore. It’s come looking for me. So. The past is the past. Let’s see about dealing with the future—”

Just as he was reeling her in, rhetorically, a massive column of fire exploded outside the window, and a rush of heat flooded the room, even through the walls and the glass. The spike in temperature came first, the explosive thunderclap followed mere moments after.

“What the fuck’s happening now?” Rose cried. “For the sake of all the fucks, I thought we would have more than a few hours before—”

Shiv's Atlas revealed the culprit of the blast in an instant. He jumped into the perspective of a passing Weaveress, and saw that the godsdamned Dragon-Brokers were having Candles heat their tea. “Ah. False alarm, nothing to—uh, the Brokers have Candles on menial labor duty. Actually, Maia, you wanna say hi to the dragon crime-bosses who’ve been bringing in a shit-ton of mithril?”

“Hm.” The Educator looked as if she couldn’t decide between a frown or a shrug.

“Come on, think about it: not every day you get to paint four golden dragons in nice suits having tea.”

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 309 > 310

These Words of Truth and Adoration 77 > 78

A slow breath whistled out from her. “Her presence is heavy inside you.”

Shiv scowled. “What? Veronica's?”

“No. She is lesser blood; you remind me of Kathereine, long before her fall.” The Educator forced herself to meet Shiv’s eyes. “And that horrifies me.”
