Grick remained atop Lily’s back as I ordered them to circle around in the opposite direction of me.

“Wait until I see an opening and get some information!” I warned them.

Checking the bandit's pulses, I could see they were starting to head back to camp, probably realizing they overextended by coming after us. Of course, couldn’t blame them for assuming it would be a safe bet to send three level 18s after us. They thought that I was only 17 myself, and Lily and Grick much lower, if they indeed managed to analyze us earlier.

But they didn’t realize how strong I was above my level. Even with my increased stats, fighting off two at once was difficult and damn near fatal for me. I was sure that numbers could mean far more than extra levels when it came to fights. As Rin had said, no matter how powerful, one person could not win a war, and it is clear that was the reason. Fighting two at once wasn’t twice as hard; it was exponentially more difficult the more that were against you.

But even so, I wasn’t just one person. I had my pack, and I believe together we could become stronger than anything imaginable, especially once the rest of my family was together again.

As for these bandits…

Once I got closer to their pulses, I hunkered down and came forward a little more slowly. I poked carefully through the last bit of underbrush, spotting them in the moonlight, and I used Analyze three times.

Human - level 24

Human - level 16

Human - level 15

Human - level 15

I could snap off one of the lower-level ones pretty quickly, given the right opportunity, then that would drastically even the odds. However, their boss would be a hard fight one way or another, and they were all sticking together.

So, how to deal with this?

I lowered myself further into the brush, belly nearly brushing the dirt as I watched them.

Whatever move we made, we’d have to make it soon. If they made it back to their base they’d have us completely dominated with numbers again, and at this point, I doubted they’d make the same mistake a third time by underestimating us.

All four of them had swords drawn, the boss balancing his blade over his shoulder. His posture reflected what I saw in his pulse—steady, calm, confident. He would certainly be a hard fight. Could Lily and Grick handle the other three on their own? Probably not. Lily and Grick were only levels 13 and 15, so the spread wasn’t too bad, but that’s not to say they didn’t have some further advantages of their own. They certainly had a rarer Path than whatever Classes those lowly lackeys possessed.

“We hunt?” I heard Lily ask. I looked through the darkness to where I saw her purple eyes peering out just past the humans on the other side of the clearing. They were not aware of her yet either.

“Just wait,” I told her.

“Hunt!”

“I said wait!” I chided. “We need to find an opening… we need to be smart about this.”

“I confuse prey!” With that declaration, her purple eyes disappeared as she spun around and retreated, but not without a rustle that stopped the humans dead in their tracks.

“Did you hear that?” one of them muttered.

“Aye, something’s watching us,” the boss said.

“Lily! They’re already onto you! Listen to your big sister!” I warned her.

Seriously! Was she entering her rebellious phase already? They grow up too fast! Well, we’re technically the same age, even if I was a development stage above her.

And before I could try to talk any more sense into her, I heard a human voice cry out.

“Help! Ahhhh! I’m hurt!”

The boss lifted a hand. “Who is that?” he called back into the darkness.

“My legs! I can’t walk! Aaaaaaaah,” the voice moaned.

Lily’s intervention at least got them to stop heading back to camp, and to be fair, I probably would have suggested she use it at some point myself… but… Aaaah! I want my little sister to look up to me and respect me! Part of me is proud she's growing more independent, but another part is scared of losing sweet, innocent little Lily!

This is really hurting my heart, guys!

“Please—over here!” she continued.

The boss then barked into the darkness. “Get a damn hold of yourself! Who are you? What got you? Is it near?”

“P-Please help! Please! I’m hurt!”

Lily would need to work on her script a little. But were they buying it? No, it didn’t seem like it.

“Hang on,” the boss said, putting out a hand to slow his men down. “Something ain’t right.”

The level 16 shifted uneasily. “Boss… what if it’s one of ours?”

“Then they should answer properly, not squeal like a stuck pig.”

Another strained cry echoed through the trees. “I—It’s me! Please—my leg—!”

“Who’s me!” the boss demanded. “Make some sense, or we’re leaving you out here!”

I quickly thought of a human name to give her, hoping Pack Bond wouldn’t translate it poorly. “Say your name’s John!”

It was a pretty common western Earth name, anyway, and that’s what these guys most closely resembled.

Lily’s fake voice then cried back, “I have human name! Aaaah—help!”

I wanted to facepalm… uh… if I currently had palms!

“That settles it,” the boss murmured. “Whatever the hell that is, it isn’t one of our own.”

“Never heard of such a monster before,” one of the others whispered. “Is it one of those Hell Hounds?”

“Most likely. They’re creatures of the depths, after all.” The boss tightened his grip on his sword.

“It’s not working, Lily! Send some clones to see if you can separate them that way! Uh—and keep using Cry for Help! It’s still distracting even if they know you’re not human! But don’t attack for real until I move first. I’m going to try paralyzing the weaker ones!”

I checked the exact wording on the skill.

Intimidate LVL 2

Let out a vicious roar, temporarily inducing fear and paralyzing creatures who are inferior to you. The weaker the target, the longer the duration.

I’d always estimate its success based on level before, but the wording didn’t actually specify level. It only specified inferiority and weakness. Well, the boss might have been a tough fight, but those other two were surely inferior to me! But more importantly, would my bonus stats from Soul Rend make Intimidate more effective?

It was time to find out.

I cast {Veil of Shadows} and began prowling towards them. As I did so, one gasped.

“B-Boss! Over there!”

Lily—or a fake Lily, I’d assume—poked out of the underbrush up a slope, her purple eyes staring them down from a distance. All three of the weaker humans tensed and faced her.

“Stick together!” their boss ordered. “It’s obviously trying to separate us, and one of them has clones. Remember what I said?”

So, they figured that much out, huh? I wish Death Mark wasn’t still stuck on that useless archer back near their base, otherwise I’d see if it could push one of those guys over the edge.

A second Lily poked her head out, causing them to whip around, but they stayed true to their boss’s word and stuck together.

“Easy… listen…” he said softly. He was listening for footsteps—this guy was good! But unfortunately for him, Veil of Shadows also muffles my footsteps along with obscuring my outline!

I crept closer.

Closer.

Closer—

And then I burst out of the shadows, revealing myself in front of them, where I let out a vicious, soul-rattling snarl that tore through the forest like a shockwave.

{Intimidate}!

The reaction was immediate.

The two level 15s froze.

Not just hesitated—not just flinched—they locked up, their pulses spiking into panicked chaos as their bodies betrayed them completely.

The level 16 staggered back half a step, teeth gritted, fighting it—but even he faltered.

But the boss came right at me!

I ducked down under his first swing and pivoted around him, but he hopped to the side, keeping distance, keeping his eyes on me, keeping his sword in a position I couldn’t risk diving into.

“Lily attack!”

But she didn’t need my order—her clones were already running into the mix, the real Lily with Grick on her back coming in last. But the boss completely ignored the clones; it seemed he was smarter than that. I should have warned her to leave Grick behind for the initial attack.

But I kept him busy as she went after the level 16 who’d not gotten his wits about him yet. She tackled him, and I got myself between her and the boss as he tried to advance. I pivoted and cut to the side, forcing him to back up a step.

I locked eyes with him and tried blasting another {Intimidate}, thinking maybe my stats were enough if we were face to face!

But no, he just roared back—as well as a human could—and swung his sword at me.

I couldn’t simply dodge—I was too worried about his focus turning to Lily!

I instead dove forward, keeping myself low, going for his feet. I felt the blade slice shallowly across my back, and I simply slammed into his legs, trying to throw him off balance. It worked—kind of—but then I flinched back as he thrust a boot forward, and by the time I registered it, I was too slow to react.

I got booted right in the face and thrown back, tumbling in an awkward roll for just a second before I scrambled my feet back under myself. Lily was nearby, snarling as she sank her fangs into the human she had downed, and Grick leaped from her back.

The boss already had eyes on my sister, so I darted forward as soon as I could, forcing his attention to stay on me, and as I did so, I noticed Grick from the corner of my eye perform a sort of flying hug on another bandit. Only, he connected blade-first on the paralyzed human’s neck.

Foe Eliminated! Level 15 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

I wasted no time with celebrating as I got in front of the boss and pivoted away from his blade. I could hear Lily snarling and her prey now screaming in agony as he’d gotten over his paralysis.

As soon as my paws touched down, I arced around the boss’s side, but he swung his sword and—he suddenly moved forward.

I dropped in a low roll, but for the second time, I felt the sword slice through my flesh, and this time, he just continued to press the attack. I dove upward to meet the blade head-on as it stabbed forward. It cut across my side again, but I saw how the boss’s eyes widened in surprise, and a moment later, my jaws found his wrist. I bit down hard and twisted—

{Crippling Bite}!

It wasn’t enough to snap, but I held on tight anyway as he dropped his sword and screamed, backing away as I danced on two back legs and refused to let go. My blue eyes locked with his, my fangs deep in his flesh even as he then swung a balled fist . I took it right on the nose—I didn’t care!—and a moment later—

Foe Eliminated! Level 16 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

Lily finished hers! That’s two down! And Grick was already on the move. He ran behind the boss’s heels, his dagger flashing out and slicing, causing him to fall backward immediately with a scream!

Now you’re done!

As I fell on top of him, he grabbed at me, his fingers ending up in my gouged flesh, whether purposely or not, I wasn’t sure, but I locked my jaws tighter to bite back the pain of fingers sliding into my open wounds!

Thankfully, Lily was soon on him as well, and as she chomped at his face, I gave myself some reprieve as I tore away from him. But I didn’t retreat for long—I came right back and joined my sister in the chomping!

“Aaaaah!” he screamed, losing his composure all at once, “AAAah HEEELLP! GET THEM OFF MEEE!”

Satisfied, I finally lifted a paw and slashed it down.

{Soul Rend}!

Foe Eliminated! Level 24 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

Essence extracted!

170 health restored

120 mana restored

110 Stamina restored

+13 to all attributes

Nice, there was only one human left in his group, but before that—

[Quest: Show them what a real hunter looks like!]

15/15 Bandits killed!

Tier 1 Complete!

Moderate Experience Bonus!

Moderate Development Bonus!

You have leveled up!

You are now level 18!

+6 Vigor

+7 Strength

+7 Dexterity

+9 Attunement

+8 Sense

Yup, my mental puppy math didn’t lie! Boss there was lucky number 15!

But where was that last human in his group?

I spotted his pulse fleeing through the woods ahead of us.

What a coward! While his allies were being mauled, he took off without thinking twice about them once Intimidate had worn off!

Well, to be fair, he didn’t stand a chance anyway, and it probably was smarter to desperately go for reinforcements. But that wasn’t something I was going to allow.

I began to move, but Lily bolted past me, Grick swinging up onto her back as she went by him.

“Sister stay!” Lily yelled at me through Pack Bond. “You hurt! I hunt!”

Okay, I got hurt again, but I didn’t have a choice this time! Geeze!

But as I watched Lily go, something started to happen to her. I was at first confused by the slight glow, but as it turned to a bright gold, I understood—Lily was evolving!

She and Grick turned into silhouettes beneath the glow as she grew slightly larger beneath him, and with a final flash of golden light, it completed.

Lily instantly split into three clones, but this time, there was a Grick on the back of each of them.

Waaaoooh—

That’s my little sister! I cheered internally.
