“I’m sure you’ve all noticed me collecting whole plants with clumps of dirt around their bases,” I said as I stepped through the threshold. “The plants that could survive without a special environment were moved here.”

“How will you take care of them? Don’t they need water and real light and bugs to pollinate everything?” Stephen asked, looking up at the moderately illuminated false sky.

“And where did the tree come from?” Cora gasped. “Is that…”

She turned to me with wide eyes. I cleared my throat and looked away, not quite knowing how to answer that question.

“I have a lot of space in my storage?” I hedged. It wasn’t a lie, after all. “And I’m pretty sure the space itself will take care of a lot of the necessities. I just evolved, so I don’t have all of the answers.”

“But where did the tree come from, Emie?” Cora repeated, eying me suspiciously.

“I might have acquired it back when we first explored the second floor,” I said, not meeting her eyes.

“Then why weren’t we hit with a ridiculous tax? We both know how valuable one of those is.”

“I’m sorry. I’m a bit lost,” Stephen interjected. “What’s so special about the tree?”

“It’s a Golden Oak,” I said with a sigh. “I found it in the dungeon and pulled it into my storage. It wasn’t discovered because I was able to layer protections around it to hide it from the Association’s scans.

“And before you all start thinking I’ve been cheating the city out of taxes, it’s the only thing I’ve ever removed from the dungeon without paying taxes for. And the reason I hid it was because we probably still wouldn’t be able to afford the taxes on such a tree. They’re too rare and valuable.”

“But how did you pull the whole thing into your inventory?” Cora asked. “I mean, it’s not a huge tree, but it’s not like it’s a sapling, either.”

“I did it the same way I collected the rest of the herbs that I planned to eventually grow,” I said, motioning toward the clusters of greenery around the tree.

I’d tried to collect enough dirt to provide a bit of space between the plants, but the garden still looked quite crowded.

“All that aside, this is pretty amazing, even if it does feel strange with so little dirt underneath,” Mike said. “I’ve only heard of spaces like this in stories.”

“You’ve heard of something like this before?” I asked, perking up.

“Yes. Old stories about Space Mages with their own little pocket worlds. Most of it was exaggeration, I’m sure. Honestly, I thought the whole concept was fiction until you showed us your sanctuary.”

“My old realm had artifacts that could create something like this,” Stephen said. “Obviously, I only ever heard about them, but the concept isn’t new to me.”

That was interesting to learn. Then again, I was pretty sure the people of my old realm had the capability of doing something similar, but it just wasn’t publicized.

I knew there were storage devices capable of holding living creatures, so creating stable pocket dimensions capable of mimicking an actual world really didn’t seem too far-fetched.

“Well, even if it looks a little weird with the hazy barrier around everything, I love the fact that you have real plants growing inside your sanctuary,” Cora said, letting go of the fact that I had an actual Golden Oak growing in the space. “It makes it feel more alive. Maybe we can leave the door open so we can see the garden from inside?”
