My blood-bonded Infinite Essence of Regeneration. It is the product of the 7th ranked Dark Guard's clear energy crystal and silver metallic arrowhead left behind from the 2nd ranked Dark Guard. It's malleable and can form into whatever shape I desire.

It's also high enough grade that I believe it won't become a cursed item when I try to craft with it.

I think about it a little longer, then decide to go for it, making the silver substance float in front of me and expand in the air.

I stare forward, concentrating, and form the liquid into the shape of a large dome, twice the size of the one I made with the mana shielding moments ago.

I use the same amount of blood and soul energy, and the same reaction follows.

The outside of the silver dome tints bright red instantly.

My eyes widen at the sight, and I decide to expand the metallic dome.

As I do, the red barrier around it grows in size but lessens in density. The same amount of energy as I started with spreads out to create a larger dome.

I make the base of the dome 100m in diameter before I stop, then place a hand on the outer silver layer.

I can feel every bit of it.

The item is blood-bonded with me, and the soul energy surrounding it feels as if it's still connected to me, yet there is now more room in my core to recharge it with mana and Qi later.

I hold the soul energy in place just how it is for a few minutes straight, then take a deep breath and begin to let the metallic dome disappear starting at the top.

The thin silver metal disappears, but the large red dome stays in place exactly the same form.

Once the silver metal hits the sand near the bottom, I stop making it shrink and all that's left is a massive silver ring, keeping the huge red dome formation steady in the air.

I motion for my two test subjects to do as I say.

The one connected through my link walks through the red wall of energy like there isn't anything there but open air.

The grunt hesitantly touches the wall again and jumps back once it starts to burn him.

I stare up at my creation with awe, and picture it at a much larger scale covering the entire city as a final line of defense.

I let the prisoner heal and thank the villager again, making sure to repay them both with what I promised and have them go back to their daily lives.

The villager is escorted back to the bar and I bring the worker back to the construction crew, asking Maurice for an updated map of the city so I can plan out how exactly I'll make this happen once I need to do it at a larger scale.

As I place the map into my storage, I see the Infinite Essence of Regeneration is not on my status at all anymore, it is an independent object out in the distance holding up the red dome in the desert.

I come back alone and it's still standing perfectly. Placing my hand on the edge of the barrier, I let soul energy leak out from my palm, and the coloring gets much denser as the barrier itself gets stronger.

Satisfied with the results here, I swallow three full Qi pills and plunder a few mana crystals to restore the soul energy lost during these tests.

Unlike Qi and mana separately, the perfect mixture between the two that is soul energy doesn't regenerate instantly. I hardly used up 10% of my core for the tests done today, but recovering this much will still take about two hours to come back to its 100% natural fully usable state.

I float down to the desert ground level and touch the metallic circle that keeps this dome steady. Once I do, it re-equips to my status, and I instantly reform its malleable state back into a small ring that fits around my finger. Instead of just being silver like it was before, it now glows red, but the soul energy is leaking out of it at a fairly steady rate. I can tell it's not permanently imbued.

The large part of this structure that kept it stable has now disappeared, and I watch the dome of red energy begin to drift away into the atmosphere like residue from an attack.

I make sure to take notes of everything that's happened today, adding my own experiments to the pool of data that craftsmen have collected, then place it all into my item storage before heading to the residential area to meet the elemental army.

I have a long day of MCP farming to do, then, I need to make a visit to Monk at the monastery in Valor City to pick up some more Qi pills if I want to attempt creating a stable barrier that covers this entire settlement.
