“Because I believed the ends justifies the means. The world we live in is broken, and someone needs to fix it. I’ve never been one to sit around and let other people act in my place. The Coalition was a part of the problem, but Major XiaoGong was different.” Faltering at the mention of his former hero-turned-demon, Dastan pressed on. “Or at least, I thought he was different. I didn’t know about the collusion with Yo Ling until we were outside Sanshu’s walls. I was told the Coalition was using Yo Ling to cleanse Sanshu of its filth, and on their orders, I exposed the left flank to the Defiled army. The idea was to drive Yuzhen’s elites away and keep them from interfering, buying time to for the Coalition forces inside Sanshu to clean up both Yo Ling and the Magistrate’s forces. Then, they’d instill XiaoGong as the next Magistrate and... well, I’m not sure.”

“You make it seem so innocent, but you killed soldiers of the Empire. You almost killed my friend.”

Swallowing his sigh, Dastan owned the mistake. “That I did. Though I tried to hide away and kill as few as possible, I was forced into action when Major Yuzhen sent orders for me to group up. I had no choice but to strike, lest my absence was noted and the hole in their defences noticed. Before the battle, I warned Fung to flee should things go wrong, so I hoped a few quarrels would send him running, but he stood and fought to the last man. Piecing together my involvement, he called me out by name, demanding I meet him in battle, and so I did.” Almost dying in the process. Though he hated to admit it, Dastan didn’t go easy on Fung, and if not for the servant/torturer revealing his presence, they both would have died on that field in mutual destruction.

Lost in thought, Rain sat in silence for several minutes, deliberating the fate of Dastan and his people. After an eternity of waiting, Rain shook his head and Dastan’s heart stopped. “I can use you and your retinue, but I still can’t trust your people. Maybe if my... If things changed and I was certain they weren’t tainted, then I could make an argument to bring them away, but as it stands, it’s too dangerous. I have to answer to my Grand Mentor and she is not a woman to cross lightly.”

Trembling in place, Dastan forced the words past the lump in his throat. “Will you be merciful?”

“I haven’t signed their death warrants yet. Let’s leave that as a last resort. It’ll be a week or two before we’re in any shape to travel, so I still have time to deliberate.” Standing up, he shrugged and added, “Who knows, maybe we’ll get lucky and the decision will be out of my hands.” Heading to the bed, Dastan’s relief quickly turned to apprehension. Did Falling Rain mean to sleep here? With him? Looking at his choice in women, Rain's tastes varied wildly, perhaps he even liked to rut with men.

Oh sweet Mother have mercy, my chrysanthemum is in danger...

“Sit down on the bed.” Unable to resist Rain's command, Dastan closed his eyes and waited. Taking Dastan's hand in his own, Rain stood in silence for what felt like an eternity as Dastan's heart hammered away in his chest, his stomach threatening to empty his dinner all over his new master. After a long moment, Rain let go and clicked his tongue and mumbled, “Fucking worthless blob... Can't do shit. Guess I'll have to wait for confirmation...”

It took some time before Dastan gathered enough courage to open his eyes, letting out a sigh of relief as he watched Rain studying the crossbow, his amber eyes wide with intrigue. Testing the string’s pull, he asked, “Fung told me these things were powerful so how come it’s so light on the draw?”

Grateful his chrysanthemum was spared, Dastan hurried to explain the finer points of the crossbow. “This weapon is the culmination of decades of testing, with many improvements not found anywhere else. The stock contains a system of pulleys to make drawing the bowstring easier without negatively impacting its power.”

“Pulleys, why didn’t I think of that... Stupid.”

“The bowstring itself is also special, made from the leg tendons of wildcats.” Seeing Rain’s look of horror, Dastan recalled the pet felines lazing outside and hurriedly continued. “There are other, better choices, like gale rabbits or prong-horned deer, but it’s not only the tendons which make the bowstrings special. They’re reinforced with the quills of an exotic bird native to the southern province, adding power and durability. There’s more to it, but I’m no expert.”

“How much do they cost? Seems like a long way to ship quills.”

“We paid next to nothing for the quills.” Straightening with pride, he explained, “There’s a merchant from the Coalition who collects exotic birds, and their feathers often blow into the streets. My uncle discovered the quills by accident and we collected more than enough feathers to make hundreds of crossbows. You could also claim the birds if you’d like, their owner is either dead or soon to be. There were over twenty birds last I checked.” Though beautiful creatures, Dastan thought it best to not mention their jarring, raucous call, best described as a grating, mocking, eerily human laugh.

Thankfully, Rain was more interested in the crossbow, though why, Dastan couldn’t say. The Bekhai earned much fame due to their incredible skills in archery. After asking a few more questions, Rain looked up and grinned. “I’m not a huge fan of birds, but who knows. I don’t mind a few more pets and if they’re too annoying, then maybe they’ll taste delicious. Let’s go grab them and then I want to have a chat with your uncle. Oh,” he added, “You and your retinue are my new bodyguards. Gather them up please, I don’t feel safe wandering the streets of Sanshu after dark.”

Brimming with pride, Dastan saluted and ran off to carry out his orders. Perhaps there was hope yet, with Dastan’s uncle proving his worth. Besides, he’d never dreamed of receiving a position of such great honour. Anyone who insulted them would be insulting Rain’s honour, allowing them to hold their heads up high despite of their status as slaves. Though a far cry from his former status, Dastan was willing to serve as penance for his crimes.

Though Dastan Zhandos would never find fame, there was no disgrace in standing side by side with the rising dragon Falling Rain, defending him from harm and following him to greatness. If need be, Dastan was even willing to give up his chrysanthemum.

It wouldn't be the worst thing it the world... would it?

He prayed he'd never have to find out.

Chapter Meme
