He didn’t like the prospect of sitting around for half a day while his opponents were finding their way to the lodge. But what choice did they have? Even if they somehow made it through the storm, they’d be too drained to deal with even the weakest opponents. Giving the enemy some time to implement their plan might even work in their favor.

The invaders were turning the core into a desert to dismantle whatever illusions hid the lodge. Zac also had a feeling that the island wouldn’t go down without a fight. They could sneak into the lodge and join the fray after both sides had worn each other out.

“I’ve been thinking about what we saw. Marai felt just like the [Peregrine Gondolas] toward the end, but even more obvious,” Zac commented between mouthfuls of food. “You peeked into her Inner World, didn’t you? Was it the same there?”

“Yes, but it didn’t seem intentional. At least not on her part,” Esmeralda said, glancing at Idiche with a raised brow.

“The corruption?” Zac guessed before throwing a rock at Idiche. “There’s no need to play dead. We might need your input.”

“I was just focusing on stabilizing my state. I seem to have absorbed something in my sleep,” a blushing and bleary-eyed Idiche muttered as she sat up. She’d been awake for over five minutes, though the transformation of her bloodline was still ongoing.

“The corruption is part of the picture, and the Guild Leader had undoubtedly drawn the corruption into her world willingly. However, I believe she did so to infiltrate our enemies,” the toad explained, which made Idiche perk up. “She was in possession of a pretty decent method with an accompanying impressive item.”

“Huh?” Idiche was first confused, then calmed down. “Any Inner Disciple around here would have some fated encounters, and Marai became the leader of the Explorer’s Guild without any powerful backer. She would naturally have made some finds during her years in the archipelago. I’m not sure which item you’re referring to, though.”

“I didn’t get a good look before it fell through a crack in reality,” Esmeralda sighed with regret. “It allowed her to fold space and illusions to create something akin to a second Inner World. She allowed that illusory plane to take on the corruption while her true world hid beneath.”

“It spilled over after she was wounded?” Zac surmised.

“You could say that, but the problem ran deeper,” Esmeralda said. “This would have been her end sooner rather than later, no matter what. The girl’s solution wasn’t enough to contain the energy of the Lost Plane. It had already tainted the treasure that maintained balance, and her true Inner World showed signs of mutation.”

“Maybe she knew and did it anyway. Infiltrating the enemy to collect information, or striking back at a critical moment,” Idiche sighed. “Royce... I never knew.”

“It doesn’t explain the other parts. None of the invaders turned into a patchwork of multiple timelines when they died, and I haven’t seen anything like it from corrupted native beings,” Zac said, bringing them back on topic. “Did you gain any insight inside her Inner World?”

“Nothing,” Idiche said, hesitating for a moment. “Well—maybe? I felt something similar to another vision I had just before I caught the toad. Except I can’t exactly remember what it was.”

“Anything could help,” Zac said, ignoring Esmeralda’s displeased expression.

“Whatever it was, its mere presence almost broke my soul, and my memories are damaged. Just thinking about it makes my head hurt,” Idiche shuddered. “I think it was an egg? And the entity inside was being harmed by the disgusting energy that’s all over this island.”

“A powerful entity inside an egg?” Zac muttered in thought before shaking his head. “There’s no point in speculating when we’re missing so much information. We’ll find out when we reach the lodge. I need to focus on recovery.”

Esmeralda nodded in agreement. “Prepare yourselves. I have a feeling that a new world will be waiting for us outside.”
