"That's a Realm Wave...?" Theories and memories click into place as Maria and I watch all of the memories of the Realm Waves throughout the zones in the past.

Then, we compare them to the properties of what we're witnessing here. The fact that the Realm Waves coincide perfectly with a memory where Marcellus disappeared into this darkness to contact the Overseer clicks into place next.

When I experienced it for myself the first few times, I thought it was just a natural phenomenon of the Upper Realm. It was a very mysterious construct to me in the past, but now that I see the source of these waves, it is clear that these waves were being used as weapons.

In order to keep certain enemies suppressed until their natural lifespans run out, or to slow down the passage of time in their own demon-controlled zones to have more time to prepare, train, or set up arrays.

This realization makes more and more of the Demonic Legacy Glyphs fill in and connect together in the depths of my mind.

The skill or talent that ties the entire legacy together is this very phenomenon. The Overseer has some kind of power that can control time... or at least the perceived flow of it.

Another burst of purple aura flows into me. "A True Emperor? Didn't you always tell me that only the Originators could be the True Emperor? They were the only ones that could awaken that unique skill, the one that would resonate with their Amplifier. That is why we had to create the Demon's Legacy to find a new way to pass on the silver and golden threads! Or was that all a lie too? Are you changing your mind now that I've won?"

It does not come from nowhere; I actually see many strands of this primordial aura flowing through the silver Realm Wave.

When my own aura seeps into it, my perception of time flowing by begins to distort.

Some fragments of my awareness speed up, while others slow down. I simultaneously start feeling fragments of my soul freeze to a stop in time, and others start to witness years go by instantly.

They also perceive the purple energy move through the Realm Wave, completely unaffected. It moves in a constant flow, like streams of runoff. Where my own waves of consciousness get stuck in time, this aura bursts right through without a problem.

I watch Ember's Golden Aura pour through next. "I have not changed my promises at all, nor any portrayals of the past. All of it is true. However, in this Great Cycle, history tends to repeat itself. A new anomaly has come with a talent capable of passing on the legacy. There are many in this era that have awakened ancient talents and helped in fact, but only one that has come here with the power to end your foolish rule."

The strange golden streams of aura that pour through the Realm Wave do not get caught up in the erratic bends of time. It just slices through, almost like a sharp knife. There are indentations left behind that slowly heal up behind it.

This is very unlike the Demon's aura that flowed through in a natural pattern.

I try to contemplate how or why this is happening, but I can't even figure out what their auras are truly made of.

All of my instincts and subconscious senses are leading me to believe it is the upgraded version of energy that will emerge when all of my own energies align. Yet, I still feel a hot internal blockage holding my High Royal Vibrations back from merging completely with my Advanced Primordial Aura and refined high-quality ether.

The only weak link I can feel in my body is my Purple Core; it is completely inferior to the dangerous silver threads warping reality in front of me.

I want to move forward, as I can feel Ember's soul tie growing stronger and stronger, but if I move any closer, this wave of energy is going to tear my mind apart into an unrecognizable state.

Maria's diamond-like glassy aura pours into the Realm Wave too, but she has to sever off portions of her energy when they flow too deep inside. It just becomes a chaotic mess. Some mental fragments age thousands of years in an instant and die off.

They disappear into the darkness of the membrane, and a mysterious force summons the lost energy back into her soul like it never left. She does not even try swinging her blade at the bent wall of space. It would not be possible to break part of it off if its consciousness began to split and fracture.

Our attention has become solely focused on this Realm Wave, and the auras of the demon and dragon that flow through it from the other side. Slowly, the Dark Primordial Aura around us bends these thoughts to become a reality.

The strange curved silver wall bends to create a circle around us, then expands to become a sphere. It even folds into another dimension of space, making it impossible for us to retreat away. Every single direction we try to think of leads us forward into the Realm Wave; therefore, it becomes all we can see.

Getting too close to its outer edges has made it so the gravity of the imbued will is far too strong for us to turn around.

Our only option is to go through.

A tinge of fear blooms in my mine and Maria's hearts, as not a single drop of our auras that fell into that wave ever made it out.

However, when I feel my own sword tremble in my hand, it does not share the same fear.

It is the only option we have. I still do not have a complete understanding of this blade's new power, but I do know it carries silver threads of its own, and very powerful instincts that can act without me.

I give into them entirely, and let the pure crimson aura it holds flow into my arm and through my entire Origin Body.

It vibrates around the outer edges, and I feel a mind that is not my own start to move my arm.

It feels like I'm moving in a dream-like state. Or maybe something more like muscle memory, like I'm repeating a movement ingrained deep in my consciousness. I can stop it from moving at any time, but it is far more satisfying to step into the feeling and move with it simultaneously.

My Soul Sword crackles with a silver light as I lunge straight into the Realm Wave and slice through its outer layer.

I feel a completely foreign Primordial Aura surrounding its edges, and watch as the chaotic layers of bent space are destroyed in front of me, perfectly replicating the slicing motion that Ember's Golden Aura did just moments ago.

However, the threads of the Realm Wave do not grow back behind it. They start falling into the center of my sword instead.
