"I do not. The Wind Thief is more a central valley and hilltop tale," Luo Yaling said. "I practice in the tradition of the Gale Princess, who freed the headwaters of the river Jing from the old gods and carved its route north in her flight to freedom. I will probably be questing into the mountains myself in the future."

Ling Qi nodded. She wasn't too familiar with the tale, but…

"Thou canst not bind me with iron collar, with driven nail, with woven words. O frozen god, o god of trapped waters, for thee, this songbird shall never sing."

"I cast off my pierced hands; I cast off my crushed feet; I cast off my soiled heart. Formless in the way of Father I shall ever be, and never again shall I bear unwanted touch. My wings be my blade, perish, o Keeper of Chains!" Luo Yaling finished reciting for her. "Haha, I did see that play, too. It is not so bad, though I think the writer is of Xiangmen. It is a bit too clean for my tastes and places too much emphasis on her role as the mother of the River Jing, when his birth was incidental to her story."

"That is a matter of some debate, depending on the region in question,” Meng Dan explained. “The sources are unclear which version came…"

Luo Yaling waved Meng Dan off. "Nope. They are wrong."

He gave a put-upon sigh.

Ling Qi gave him a comforting pat on the shoulder, only to pause awkwardly when she realized what she had done, but she completed the motion with only a split-second hesitation.

"Totally smooth, Qi."

She knew Sixiang could sound more convincing if they wanted.

"Sure could."

Ling Qi forcefully changed the subject. "Do you write letters?"

"From time to time," Luo Yaling replied. "I shall see if I can remember to write you one. We should probably stop ignoring your guest, though."

They had all felt them in the last minute or so, Ling Qi was sure. She had seen Meng Dan’s eye twitch and saw Luo Yaling’s stance stiffen. No one else in the garden had.

Ling Qi had no such reaction herself. After all, appearing behind her was just what Shu Yue did.

"Teacher, is it time already?"

"It is."

They loomed behind, compressed down to their most human. Their pale round face was framed by long dark hair that hung loose past their slightly stooped shoulders, and their hands were hidden in the depths of voluminous sleeves.

Ling Qi bowed to her companions. "Thank you for the company tonight, Meng Dan, Luo Yaling. I have to take my leave from the reception now."

"Of course. I enjoyed the night greatly. I wish you well. Master Shu, I hope you have also found the night agreeable."

"It has been, but it grows too noisy for this one to enjoy," Shu Yue said, amused. Their eyes fell on Luo Yaling.

The girl stared at Shu Yue like a smaller hound, cautiously inspecting one twice its size. "First apprentice, I am pleased to meet you."

Shu Yue tilted their head. "Young Miss Luo, I am pleased as well. The two of you have a pleasant night."

Ling Qi bowed once more and then turned to follow Shu Yue, hurrying in the wake of their long stride. She didn't miss the way the crowd opened for them without ever seeming to notice their passage, even as they cut through the center of the well-lit fields and beyond the quiet perimeter of security.

They took a step, passing through the palace and all its defenses. She could only sense the slightest flicker of Shu Yue's qi rippling outward to meet the vast and ancient array's attention.

On the next step, they stood beside the yawning entrance down into the trunk district, the lights of the cloud district sparkling behind them.

Ling Qi glanced back toward the palace.

"Do you feel any regret for your choice?" Shu Yue asked conversationally.

Ling Qi considered the ugliness she had seen in the vase, and the no doubt vile emotions she would feel as they immersed themselves in the lesson below.

"I might have enjoyed spending the rest of the night at the reception," Ling Qi replied. "But no, I do not. Let's begin, teacher."
