“Fine, keep your secrets,” Jake chuckled, also finishing his last bottle of beer. There were more bottles, but Jake feared he would actually get drunk if he had more. “As for plans... not sure, honestly. The next part of the Exalted Prima system event should start soonish, but there’s no set timeline, so all I can do is prepare, but I doubt I can do much that will have an impact outside of maybe working on upgrading a few skills or getting better equipment.”

“You go figure out what you need to do,” Villy waved him off. “But if you want my advice, then try to upgrade a skill or two. Oh, and spend some time meditating; that should help things progress more smoothly. I’m sure you’ve noticed your increased ability to detect and comprehend concepts that came from your evolution. Take advantage of that.”

“Alright,” Jake nodded. “Can you send me to my place?”

“Sure,” the Viper nodded. “And remember, no need to reveal anything if you don’t have to. Not even to someone like Artemis.”

“I won’t share needlessly,” Jake answered, looking a bit more serious. “But I’ll decide when it’s needed.”

“It’s your life,” Villy shrugged. “Now go have fun, and see you soon enough. We will need to have a little strategy meeting regarding the Seat of the Exalted Prima system event.”

Jake was only halfway through a nod as space magic enveloped Jake’s body, and a moment later, he found himself sitting on the couch back in his own residence, empty beer bottle still in hand.

After taking a moment to orient himself, Jake chuckled and stood up. He stretched and cracked his neck before sitting down again as he considered what he wanted to do now.

Vilas sat alone after Jake’s departure, and the moment he had sent his Chosen away, the snake god manifested a thought, making the stupid costume he’d been wearing become undone.

With that, one bet had been paid, and Duskleaf should get off his ass.

As for his recent talk with Jake... Vilas had to admit he’d underestimated Jake this time around. That Spirit of Man surpassed anything the Primordial had even imagined, and it truly entered the territory of being overpowered. It was the kind of race skill that shouldn’t even be possible, yet here they were.

What’s more, Jake clearly still didn’t see just how ludicrous it was. While they downplayed its current effects a lot and reiterated how it didn’t really have any noticeable impact on anyone besides the people closest to Jake... that was here and now.

But what would happen when Jake reached A-grade? S-grade? Godhood? With every step he grew in power, this skill would grow with him, its effect amplifying on everyone it affected, gods and mortals alike.

People like Valdemar already had profound impacts on the human race due to their power, but neither had a skill like this that positively affected their entire race. Their influence was almost entirely due to their Records passively affecting the rest of their race.

If Jake reached their level of power with this kind of skill... also, what would happen if more skills like this existed at the same time? If Jake’s offspring also shared his variant human evolution, would they get the same Spirit of Man skill? Would they stack together? Perhaps simply amplify each other slightly, ultimately still creating a far stronger effect?

There were so many implications to consider, and honestly?

Vilas was here for it. He was looking forward to seeing what kind of chaos Jake’s ludicrous existence could bring to the multiverse, and was more than happy he had front row seats.
