“How does the whole taxing process work?” I asked. “The simulation had an artifact that compared what someone had when they entered the dungeon with what they left with. Since pretty much everything I have came from the dungeon, do I just pay ten percent of the value?”

“For new Ascenders, the initial tax is waived. That exemption only applies to the delve that you’ve already completed, though. Anything earned in subsequent delves will be taxed like normal,” Priest Zeth replied.

“To clarify,” he continued, “anything removed from the dungeon from this point forward is subject to tax. If you were to use a skillbook or consume materials to craft new items made by your own hand, those things would not be factored into the tax. Also, while I cannot see your exact core skills, I can tell that you have a storage skill.”

Considering his role as a Priest of Dia, I was only a little surprised that he’d been able to sense my dimensional space. Rho had mentioned that the priests would know more than others, and I knew there were advanced skills that could pick up such things.

“We still use artifacts, just like those you described,” Zeth added. “Those artifacts will easily be able to see into your storage, though rest assured, the details of what they sense are not recorded or disclosed – not even to the appraisers involved in collecting the taxes.”

I wondered just how effective the artifacts would be after I obtained a few storage devices. While I had no doubt they might be able to see into inventories and storage devices, I wondered how well they’d be able to peek into storage items within the stasis section of my inventory.

Further, would the artifacts be able to perceive spaces isolated from the rest of the dimensional space if I used Divide Space to nestle one space within another?

I had no plans to cheat the temple out of its tax, especially given how reasonable it seemed compared to the services provided, but it was something to ponder. I’d have to test things at some point in the future.
