"So much for it being a message from Kervin," I joke darkly.

“Now sweety, we don’t know what the message is about. No use worrying until we meet with Camden. Let’s hurry over and see what the fuss is all about.” Mother rushes father and me out the door and over to the headman’s house.

On our way over, Ronald silently joins our group.

We pass by many villagers starting their day, and many notice we’re walking towards the headman’s house as a group. A few of the braver ones call out to us and ask us what's going on, to which we have no answer.

By the time we reach Camden's house, I can see master walking over in the distance just as Salus rounds a nearby house to join our little party. "Morning Silvia, Darrius, Aaliyah. Oh, and to you, Ronald, I didn't see you there." Salus politely greets all of us. "I don't suppose any of you know why we're here?"

“I would like to know the same thing?” Our group turns around to see Anastasia walking over, followed by Nicolas. I don't understand why she was summoned; Anastasia's healing is important to the village, but she doesn't usually concern herself with its affairs.

Master walks over and stands next to me.

"As I said, Ms. Anastasia, my father didn't say." Nicolas is trying to keep a straight face, but judging by his twitching eyelid, she's asked him more than a few times already. Nicolas looks like he's about to say something else to Anastasia but turns towards us instead, looking past our group, and smiles in relief.

Turning around, I see Nicolas’s brother Braddon leading Markus and Ezekiel over to our growing group. The two men look just as reluctant as Anastasia does at being summoned on such short notice.

Braddon walks next to his brother. “Everybody here?”

“Yeah,” Nicolas responds. “Was it difficult convincing them to come?”

The two brothers share a meaningful look between the two of them that speaks volumes of their troubles.

Nicolas clears his throat and turns to everyone gathered. “Alright, everyone is here; follow me to the drawing-room."

We’re led into the headman’s house to the familiar room the family uses for entertaining guests.

"Silvia, Aaliyah, come sit next to me," Sarette calls out to us as soon as we enter the room. Mother, Anastasia, and myself each take a seat while the men stand around the room. Camden watches everyone file into the room while sitting in a chair with his hands folded and one of his legs nervously bouncing.

Usually, Sarette would try to start with some friendly conversation with my mother, but Camden's heavy atmosphere keeps anyone from trying to talk to one another. Even Anastasia, who's known for being impatient, stays quiet until Camden decides to speak.

“I’m sure my boys told you I got a letter from Drey… it isn’t good news." Camden reaches to his side and reveals a wrapped piece of parchment with a fancy broken seal; he leans over and places it on the coffee table. “The message was sent from the city’s lord; I’ll summarize the contents for you.”

Camden takes a deep breath to steady his nerves. "Fort North Ridge has fallen, and Scholl is likely to move in our direction."

The room becomes ominously silent after Camden drops that bombshell on us before everyone erupts with questions.

“What are we to do?”

“Are we in danger?”

“What does this mean for the village?”

“What happened to the general?” I find myself caught up in the heat of the moment and call out my own question.

Camden holds his hand out in a stopping motion until everyone stops talking. “I didn’t receive any news about the fort itself, only a message from Drey's lord on behalf of the Earl,” Camden answers my question first.

“What was in the message?” Mother asks the million gold coin question.

"The message informed me that effective immediately, all villages, towns, and cities are placed on high alert and that we're to support any official sent to combat Scholl's forces in any way they deem necessary," Camden explains.

“What does that mean?” Markus asks.

“It means if a soldier under the Earls command shows up in a village, they’re allowed free reign of the place,” mother snaps at Markus before turning back to Camden. “Is that all?” She hesitantly asks.

“No,” Camden lowers his head. “Each village and town are required to send supplies to their nearest cities, in our case Drey. Food, weapons, people, the message was purposely vague, but the wording suggested we would receive little compensation."

“People!?” Mother exclaims.

Camden slowly nods his head. "The lord of Drey is scraping together as many people as he can to repel Scholl's advance. The message said if there were not enough volunteers, the city lords and commandeers under the Earl hold the right to conscript people to fill out their numbers." Camden says everything with a strained expression.

News of a draft infuriates everyone in the room. Markus and Ezekiel are red in the face from yelling, while mother is tightly gripping fathers' hand that's resting on her shoulder. If anyone were drafted from the village, it would be mostly the men.

Our village is remote, but even we heard about the army taking in anyone willing to defend the fort. What happened to everyone there? Did Scholl kill everyone?

“That’s not all,” Camden interjects between Markus’ and Ezekiel’s protesting. “The last part of the message said every person level 50 and above is required to report to their nearest cities, lord."

The room goes deathly quiet as everyone turns to look at master, Ronald, and me.

Oh shit!

“They’re also calling on any healers to report in as well,” Camden continues with the bad news. “You can see why I’ve called you all here today.”

“My daughter isn’t going anywhere!” Mother stands up with fire in her eyes.

“I’m not leaving the village either!” Anastasia slams her hand on the coffee table in front of us.

“We can’t send our best people off to war!”

“That’s right,” Ezekiel agrees with Markus.

Camden carefully studies everyone in the room. “You’re all talking about defying the Earl’s call to arms. What you’re saying could be considered treason.”

Ezekiel and Markus shut up as soon as they hear the word treason, but they still have the same displeased looks as everybody else. Everyone shares tense looks.

According to that piece of paper on the table, almost half of the people in this room are officially drafted already.

"I summoned everyone here because I can't decide how to proceed by myself," Camden laminates. "Whether we follow the orders of the summons or pretend it never arrived, the people in this room have to be in agreement."

“Are we?” Ezekiel hesitantly asks.

“Talking about going against the Earl, yes.” Camden nods his head. “Master Del, myself, Ronald, Anastasia, and Aaliyah will all have to leave for Drey if we decide to follow the summons.”

“You, why? Who will lead the village?” Markus asks.

“It's been a busy year, and I recently reached level 50 myself. I’d leave the village in Nicolas's care. His brother and mother will help him, but once I leave the village, Nicolas will be the new headman." Camden gives his eldest son a half-smile in acknowledgment. Hearing that someone reached level 50 would typically warrant a celebration; too bad under these circumstances, it only makes things worse.

“And if we disregard the summons?” Anastasia gives the headman a pointed glare.

“Then things become tricky," Camden folds his hands in front of himself. "We're quite remote, and other than sending our taxes to Drey every year, only a handful of people know that miss Anastasia is living here and even fewer know the levels of our residents.”

“Then we should be fine then if we don’t send anyone,” Markus exclaims.

“Yes, but we could still be found out should the army or nobles send a representative to the village. We would most surely be labeled as traitors and executed.” Everyone in the room pales upon hearing the consequences from Camden.

It’s moments like these that I’m reminded I’m living in a feudal system. I’ve been spared having to deal with this world’s hierarchy, having being born in such a remote village. It’s quite disheartening seeing how the local nobility is reacting to an invasion.

They demand supplies for free and declare every strong person part of their fighting force.

I wonder how Scholl would manage things if they were in charge?

No, I shouldn’t think about that. Those bastards might have killed the general and ruined my future business plans.

Though that does mean there’s one less person who’s aware of me, silver linings and all that.

“How long until we have to decide?” Ezekiel whines.

Gods, those two are annoying; they can't even think for themselves. But he does have a good point; how long until shit hits the fan?

I turn towards Camden, “do you have a map?”

Everyone looks at me, curious. "I have one of the village,” Camden offers.

“No,” I shake my head. “A map of the region. Like where Drey, Teeburn, and the other major cities are,” I ask.

"I think my father had an old one, but it's probably outdated," Camden warns me.

“That should be fine. Can I see it, please?”

“Give me a moment,” Camden stands up and heads out of the room.

"What do you need a map for?" Markus asks me. He isn't outright rude to me because he knows how strong I am, but I can tell he still thinks of me as a child. And he and Ezekiel are both looking at me like I'm wasting everybody's time.

I’ve never been more compelled to try out my tier 6 skill than right now.

“I have it right here,” Camden calls out as he rushes back into the room. The two assholes none the wiser to how close I was to snapping at them.

Camden carefully lays the map out on the table. The parchment looks like it will crumble under the slightest touch.

“Where are we?” I ask.

"We're down here in the middle of the forest" Camden points to a blank spot on the map that has a crude circle drawn with the name of our village scribbled illegibly nearby.

“Then that’s Drey,” I point to the closest city on the map.

“That’s right, and that’s Teeburn, Blaiton, and Yleles,” Camden points to each of the cities on the map.

There’s none of the smaller towns or villages are marked anywhere on the old map.

“There’s a mountain over there?” I point to the center of the map.

“That’s Red Dust Mountain, it isn't very tall, but the land is hard to traverse. It once supplied all the cities around it with iron ore, but it was mined out during my grandfather's generation." Camden informs me.

"And this city up at the top of the map? Couldn't Scholl consider moving in that direction," I point out? The city's name has faded too much to read it, and only the R at the beginning is legible.

"I don't remember the name of the city, but that's the shortest route leading towards the capitol. I'm no expert, but Olebert's forces should be marching down that path as we speak."

Damn, so once they take Teeburn, they can hold of Olebert there and move this way. No wonder the local nobility is freaking out.

Studying the map, I notice a small circle under the city of Yleles. Does that say Earl Yleles? “Hey Camden, the city is named after the Earl’s family?” I ask.

"Not anymore; the Yleles suffered from a string of bad decisions when my father was a boy and was replaced by the current lord, Earl Rodrick Vagan. Though the Yleles were stripped of their rank, a side branch of the family still governs the city." The more Camden explains to me, the more a small smile grows across my face.

“Is this really necessary?”

“Yeah, can’t we get back on topic?”

The peanut gallery strikes again; only this time, everyone in the room gives them a dirty look causing the two men to flinch back.

"I think we're in luck," I say to the room, gathering everyone's attention.

"What do you mean?" Camden leans over the map, trying to see what I see.

“They’re coming from here, right?” I lead everyone with my finger. “We know where they're coming from, and we can guess how long they're going to take to reach Drey."

“And how do you know that?” Sarette asks me.

“Kervin told me he takes around five days to reach Teeburn from Drey. If we factor in how fast an army can move, we can guess how long it will take them to reach the city,” I explain.

I turn towards our resident healer. "You were in the army, Miss Anastasia. Do you know how long it takes for an army to march from city to city?”

Anastasia seems surprised by my question. “I was only trained for a little while and never on logistics.”

“That’s ok,” I tell her before she becomes too discouraged to answer my questions. “I’m sure you must have seen them send out troops on exorcises. How fast did they seem compared to a cart?”

Anastasia frowns at my question but looks like she’s thinking of an answer. “Maybe a third of the speed of a cart,” she hesitantly offers.

"Thanks, that helps a lot," I smile at the woman. "That would mean we have roughly two weeks before Scholl's men near Drey. "And that isn't factoring in skills, so they might even be here sooner," I point out to everyone.

“That still doesn’t tell us much?” Markus again points out to me.

I smugly smile at his question. "Look at where the Earl's residence is. They sent out word to every village because they're hurrying to gather people. If we could guess how long it will take Scholl to reach Drey, I'm sure the Earl has already done the same. Two weeks is not enough time for them to mount a sizable defense of Drey."

