“And right there, I’ll put a tree. A happy tree,” I try and give my best Bob Ross impression.

Waving my hands around, I manipulate the experience around me to form an oak tree. It's hard to create one based only on my memories entirely, but oak trees were pretty common in my past life, and I only need to get the outward appearance to match the shape in my head.

I hold my fingers up like I'm looking through a camera and marvel at my handiwork. This is my biggest project to date since I received my second tier 5 skill, Soul Manipulation.

I look around my soul, at the clearing I usually appear in, and marvel at all the changes I made.

Since my jump in levels, it's been harder to fall asleep at night, and I've frequently resorted to retreating into my soul. What was once a chore of having to sit still and meditate for hours on end while my body rested in the real world has turned into a sim building game.

Soul Manipulation is the only skill I can use and practice inside my soul. In the past few days, I’ve started by figuring out how to widen the small clearing I appear in, and from there, I started crafting a whole garden around me.

I've only been able to replicate stone pathways and plants, but I'm hoping to eventually mold inanimate objects from my previous life and maybe build a small building in the future.

I reach out and touch the rough surface of the oak tree’s trunk. The surface of the tree looks a little too uniform to the eye. No matter how good I am or how much time I spend working on it, I can't match nature's beauty. I consider starting over; with only a single wave of my hand, I could destroy hours of work in a single moment.

Like everything else, destroying is easy; it's creating that takes the most time.

This isn't the first tree I've tried to make; heck, it isn't even the twentieth. But this is the first tree from Earth I’ve managed to craft without it looking like a half-melted sculpture.

Though I consider the tree a benchmark for my skills rising strength, it’s the first plant that I crafted that brings the biggest smile to my face. I walk over to the center of the clearing and look down at the six-foot by six-foot patch of grass I have meticulously grown from the surrounding experience.

Not to be confused with the wild grasses I can find around the village, or even the sprouts from the seed the keepers grow in the animal pens. No, this patch of grass is unique in this world; it's grass from Earth. It took me forever to figure out how to form a single blade of grass, let alone group them closely together and make them flexible to the touch.

My first try at recreating the grass that I remembered from parks back on Earth resembled a bed of nails rather than groundcover.

But all my hard work finally paid off, and now every time I enter my soul, I appear atop a soft carpet of grass under the moonlight sky.

I let myself fall over and sprawl out on the lush green carpet, remembering the times I played in the park or just in my backyard as a child in my previous life.

Slowly, I sit up and glance at the mess surrounding me. All my projects are scattered across the clearing, with most being unfinished works in progress. Random flat stones and bricks of different colors are embedded everywhere in the ground next to plants I've tried to replicate.

On one side of the clearing, I have copies of the common plants around the village, while on the other side are all plants I’ve tried to recreate from my memories of Earth. There's an apple tree that looks closer to a kid's drawing than the real thing, and flowers of different shapes and sizes surround it. I'm not even sure if some plants are ones I encountered or if they're fictional foliage I remember from movies. I’m pretty sure that glowing fern is from James Cameron’s Avatar.

The funniest of all has to be a rose bush I made that’s covered in flowers of every color I could imagine. It looks like a rainbow fell out of the sky and landed on a bush. The colorful plant always brings a smile to my face.

I look up at the stars and moons hanging overhead and raise my hands in a grabbing motion. "The very heavens move to my will!” I call out in an exaggerated manner.

I hold that ridiculous pose for a minute before I drop my arms in defeat. It would be cool if that worked, and I could arrange the stars into my own constellations, but I can't fly before I've learned to walk.

After meeting the goddesses' avatars, I now know that the stary sky I see is actually the outer barrier of my soul and the moons are the representations of the links to the pantheon of gods. What makes me curious is there are supposed to be six gods, yet there are seven moons, I ponder to myself.

Gods, actual gods. Beings of immense power.

I wish I could talk to mom or someone about meeting the goddesses, but a voice in the back of my head keeps telling me that's a bad idea every time I try to bring it up. And considering that Mental Resistance doesn't stop the voice, I'm inclined to believe it.

My world view has changed a lot recently.

There are things out there I couldn’t imagine.

“And gods help me; I want to see them all.” I stare up at the moons looking for any minute changes.

"Nothing," even though I call out to them, nothing changes. I'm sure my first impressions of them were correct, and they don't care enough to interfere with my life. Knowing I won't accidentally summon a wrathful goddess every time I swear was a massive load off my mind, but I still wish I could've asked them some more questions.

No, I don't think I could handle meeting them again; the first time was mentally taxing enough.

It was only thanks to breaking down in my mother's and father's arms; I was able to let out all my pent-up feelings after meeting the deities. Though as the days passed and after some self-reflecting, I realized I might not want to meet the goddesses again, but the thought of encountering another creature like the soul eater intrigues me. I want to see more of the world, and that includes the monsters roaming through it. I don't have a death wish, though, and I'd never want to fight such beasts, but the thought of seeing them with my own eyes makes my blood boil in a way I never thought possible.

A big part of me wants to expand my horizons.

Thinking about expanding my horizons, that reminds me, I should check if it’s morning yet. I don’t bother to stand up and start walking towards my sea of memories; instead, I choose to stay seated on my patch of grass.

Using Sense Soul and Soul Manipulation, I look inside myself. This body represents my consciousness, and with my new skill combined with the skill levels I gained after the Soul eater incident, I can now feel the connection my consciousness has with the real world.

I bring my right hand up to my chest and slowly push. My fingers pass through the surface of my clothes and skin as if they weren’t solid.

“There it is,” I mumble to myself. In the center of my consciousness is a thread that connects me to my physical body. As soon as my fingers touch the connection, I feel my consciousness being inverted on itself as it’s snapped back into my body.

I slowly open my eyes to see the familiar ceiling of my room.

I smile to myself as I sit up without feeling the strain of being forced from my soul by the moons. I still sometimes go to my sea of memories to train Mental Resistance but exiting my soul of my own volition is much less taxing on my mind and lets me be more productive during the day.

It's still dark outside, but I can tell by the faintest of glows in the distance that the sun will soon be rising.

Today will be the fifth day since I woke up after meeting the goddesses. I was out for a long time; I wonder where Kervin is at right now? I'd guess he's either in Teeburn or already left it. I wonder if the general liked the arrow or not?

I wish I could start the next arrow, but I'm stuck crafting the weaker arrows without the supplies I need. Whether the general liked the arrow or not, I'm excited for my delivery of kaglese anyway. I need to forge a new sword, and I plan on making it out of a steel and kaglese alloy. And this time, I'll be adding mithril to the mixture as well. I want to enchant my next sword after I figure out that damn engraving ink recipe.

I started practicing synthesizing the ink and even gained the Alchemy skill, but I've burned through a tenth of my materials so far, and I've only figured out how to do the first few steps correctly. Too bad the ink wasn't as easy to figure out as my katana.

I miss my flaming sword, but my last few fights have proven the flames were mostly a novelty. Though highly effective against chameleon spiders, I've found myself using my mana to strengthen Mana Skin or using other forms of magic rather than use it to engulf my sword in flames.

In both my fight with the bandits and the soul eater, the flames my katana could produce were utterly pointless.

With my rising Strength stat, it's more practical to have a stronger and heavier sword. In fact, it makes sense for me to go back to using an axe, but I can't get over how fun it is to practice swinging a sword. I guess I'll always dream of having an epic sword fight like in the anime I used to watch.

I get out of bed and start my morning stretching routine as the sun slowly makes its presence known to the village.

As I move to brush out my hair and tie it up, I hear mother and father shifting around their room.

While I'm getting ready, something obscures the rising sun from shining through my window for a brief second. I know it isn't something close by because I don't pick up anything with Sense Mana. Peering out my window, I see a great bird diving towards the headman's house.

The large brown bird moves through the air at lightning speeds, so much so it’s hard for my eyes to follow it. That has to be a messenger hawk.

Maybe it’s another letter from Kervin like last time?

When mother and I go for our morning run, we'll swing by Camden's house to check.

"Aaliyah, are you up, sweety?" Speak of the devil; I hear mother through my bedroom door.

I’m already dressed and ready for the day, so I move over and open my door rather than call out through it. “Morning, mom,” I greet mother with a big smile.

“Did you sleep well? How are you feeling today?” Mother asks me while leaning in and wrapping me up in a hug.

“I’m fiiiiiiine,” I draw out the fine, exasperated from her asking me every morning.

“Are you sure?” She asks, leaning back and staring me directly in the eyes.

"I'm sure," I give her a crooked smile. Thanks to my mother's and father's support, I was able to recover so quickly after the soul eater attack, but while dad still asks me every so often how I'm doing, it's mother who sees fit to ask me the same question multiple times a day.

I’m all for sharing, but she asks me so frequently, I don’t have anything else to talk about!

“We need to stop by Camden’s house before we start our run,” I tell mother, breaking out of her death-grip.

Mom gives me a curious look when I hear dad call out from their bedroom, "You're heading to the headman's house; what for?"

“I think I saw a large bird flying over to his house. I might have gotten a response from Kervin regarding the general’s arrow,” I explain to the two of them.

“My group is working that way as well. We can walk together.” Dad offers, walking over to mother and kissing her on the cheek.

"That sounds like a lovely idea," she gushes and returns dad's kiss with one of her own. I turn away from the sweet atmosphere before my teeth start to rot.

Mother and father eventually separate, and the three of us move into the living room together. Mother moves to put on her shoes while father and I grab our axes. It's annoying having to carry such a big weapon on my back, but we still live in a remote village, and I need something to defend myself with if something happens. Mother doesn't advertise it, but I know she always has a dagger on her person, and every so often, I catch a glimpse of her practice swinging it.

I guess the good news is that everything has been relatively tranquil around the village after the soul eater event. The hunters have reported smaller game returning to the woods, and hopefully, the bigger animals will soon follow now that the spiders are all but gone.

When I accompanied my mother to have tea with Sarette the other day, I was told thanks to all the tree felling around the village, the fields will be expanded more than ever this year, and we'll have more crops than we know what to do with.

Our village has suffered many trials and tribulations this year, but things are finally looking up.

*Knock**Knock**Knock*

We all jump at the sound of someone knocking on our front door. “Hello, this is Nicolas. May I come in?”

The three of us share confused looks before mother, who’s standing next to the door, flips open the latch we use to seal the house at night and pushes the door open to let our early morning guest in.

Nicolas moves into our doorway and scans the room, meeting each of our gazes. "I'm lucky, you're all still here," he sighs in relief.

"Is something the matter?" Mother asks, concerned, noticing the strained look on the young man’s face.

"Father received a messenger hawk from Drey and told my brother and me to gather the senior members of the village immediately," Nicolas tells us while trying to catch his breath. He must have run straight here.

“What was the message?” Father curiously asks.

"I don't know, father wouldn't say. Please head to our house; I still have to go and inform a few others of the meeting." Nicolas turns around and takes off towards his next destination.

Really. I know my luck isn’t the best, but I tempted fate only five minutes ago! Shouldn’t there be a grace period before fate reacts to a flag?

