"I've been to the city, and I don't see that many guards on the walls. Unless they have a secret army hidden somewhere or plan on forcing every citizen to fight, they won't hold the city. If the Earl tries to keep the city, he’ll lose men and spread his forces too thin.” I explain my thinking to everyone.

“I think I see what you mean,” Camden nods his head at the map. “When you look at it like that, it makes sense for the Earl to abandon Drey. The city isn't as wealthy as Blaiton or Yleles, and it will take Scholl days to get a whole city of people under control. Now that I think about it, the army may take longer to reach us if we factor in Scholl securing Teeburn,” Camden gives his opinion.

“And you forgot about the good part,” I say out loud for those who aren’t following our train of thought. "As long as we send some supplies to Drey and make a token appearance of helping, we can just wait for Drey to fall. If Olebert later retakes the land, we can always say we were too late in sending off our villagers." I cross my arms in front of me, feeling proud of my evil villain insight.

"That sounds good in theory, but what if Scholl can't take Drey?" Sarette asks me with a worried look.

"Scholl managed to take a fort with someone over level 100 guarding it. If by some miracle they can't take the city, we revisit our plan. The main thing is we should wait to see how things further develop," I smile at my mom's friend.

A lot of people looked relieved after hearing my plan. It may not be patriotic to the kingdom of Olebert, but I care more about Ezekiel and Markus than I do a lord who couldn't spare us help when the Chameleon Spiders first showed up.

The only thing that matters to me is keeping my family safe and staying out of a war…

"OH, SHIT!" I curse out loud, scaring everyone at the table.

“What?” Mother asks me.

“Richard and Sarah, aren’t they still in Drey!?” I shout.

A cold realization dawns on mine and Camden’s family.

Isn’t Sarah close to being a mage? Would they try and draft her? I panic to myself.

“Honey, our little girl!” Sarette brings a hand to her mouth and looks at her husband with tears in her eyes.

“I’ll take care of it,” Camden reassures his wife before turning on Markus and Ezekiel. “Do we have any produce ready to be harvested?”

The two men share a look before Markus answers. “The wortel could be harvested early; why?"

“We’ll take an emergency cart of food and some of the spears Aaliyah made for the village and bring it to Drey. We can say we brought everything because of the summons and use that as an excuse to bring Sarah and Richard back to the village.” Camden hastily explains.

“But our food stores are running low,” Ezekiel says the right thing as one of the head farmers, but he isn’t talking to Village leader Camden; he's arguing with worried parent Camden.

"Losing a few crops won't hurt us that much," Camden looks ready to bite Ezekiel's head off and eat it. "Our fields are larger than ever; we can spare a few crates of wortel.”

Ezekiel wisely steps back and keeps his mouth shut under the heavy gaze of Camden.

I dislike Ezekiel and Markus as much as anyone else, and I’m just as worried about brother and Sandra, but now isn't the time to fly off the rails. "Camden," I call out to him to grab his attention.

Not only the desperate-looking headman, but everyone turns their attention back to me. "Ezekiel may be an insensitive ass, but he's right about the food. We only have two to three weeks to prepare for the coming army. I lost my composure just like you did, but we need to be extra careful right now.” I tell Camden with a serious look.

The rage slowly fades from his face as he collects himself. “What is it that you propose, then?” He asks with a raised eyebrow.

It isn’t like I have any great ideas rattling around inside my head, so I tell him the best thing I can come up with. “I’ll run to Drey and find them.”

"Absolutely not!" Half the room shouts at me. Careful master, I send him a side-long glance reminding him to stay calm, or more people will find out you don’t have a speech impediment.

"You know what happened last time you left the village!" Mother looks ready to shake me in frustration. I'm not sure if she's talking about the soul eater or bandits; either way, I technically won both those fights.

"I do, but I'm a lot stronger now," I plead my case in an even tone as to project a calm atmosphere. "I'm faster than I ever was, and a journey to and from Drey should only take me four days by myself. I can find Richard and Sandra and talk to them. If we need to, we can send a messenger hawk to the village. I also need to meet up with Mr. Grey and discuss where our business deals go from here.”

Though I made a fair argument, mother still looks reluctant to let me leave.

I don't want to tell her, but I will if I have to. Running to Drey isn't just for business reasons or meeting up with Richard; no, I want to run to Drey to prove that I'm not afraid to leave the village!

I've noticed it every time I've walked to master's clearing; I get antsy when I'm alone in the forest now. I don't outright panic, but I can feel my body tense, and I feel like I'm being watched even after I've scanned the area a dozen times.

The longer I wait to leave the village; the more my sense of paranoia will likely grow until I mentally limit myself and never leave the village again, giving up on my dreams.

I stand up to see a three-way divided room. Ezekiel, Markus, Salus, quiet Ronald, and Anastasia don’t care whether I go or not. Mother, Father, and master look ready to hold me down while Camden and his family look torn between asking me to go and agreeing that I should stay.

“I’m making the run,” I say, activating Shout of Valor without raising my voice. I can see how my skill brushes up against each of the souls in the room. The skill’s low level probably wouldn't affect most of the people in this room, but with a gentle nudge from Soul Manipulation, the skill manages to take hold of the entire room.

Everyone looks at me with wonder in their eyes, feeling the uplifting effects of my skill… for a few seconds.

My skill combination can't overcome everything, and mothers scowl returns even deeper when the effects quickly wear off. “Did you just!?” Mother dragon once again awakens.

Damn, I missed my chance to exit like a hero.

“I’mdoingtherun, seeyouinfrontofthevillage!" (I'm doing the run, see you in front of the village!) I quickly blurt everything out and escape the drawing-room as fast as my stats will let me.

I know I'm going to regret that later, as I burst through the headman's front door, but I put all those negative thoughts aside for now and head home to gather my supplies quickly.

I need to leave as soon as possible.

I wonder how fast I can run with my improved stats? A manic grin forms on my face at the idea. I'd try to make the full run in only three days, but I learned my lesson after encountering the bandits last time. I can’t push myself that hard when I’m running alone.

I wonder if this is considered an adventure, I ponder to myself as I reach my house.

Knowing my luck, it will be.

No matter, this adventure will be different. I’ll kick ass and take as many names as I have to, proving to my parents and myself that I can handle life outside the village!
