The earth opened on the third day of planting.

Edric Voss heard it first -- a sound like a held breath releasing, like the ground itself sighing in a way that made his mare sidestep and the crows lift from the fence line in a single black sheet. He stood in the east field with barley seed in his pockets and dirt under his nails and he looked toward the ridge where the sound had come from and he thought: that is my land.

That was the shape of the thought. Not curiosity or wonder or dread. Possession. Thirty-two years he had worked this soil, turned it and fed it and cursed it and slept on it during the worst droughts when the house felt too large with only two. He knew every stone and root and drainage pattern from the creek to the property line and beyond. When the earth opened, his first instinct was the same as when he found the collapsed irrigation channel two springs ago: go see what happened, figure out what it will cost, fix it before the season turns.

He left the seed bag on the fence post. Walked back to the house for his mattock -- the good one, the one his father had rehandled twice before Edric rehandled it a third time, the ash shaft worn to a pale polish that fit his grip like something grown there. He filled his belt pouch with barley seed because he was halfway through the east field and did not intend to make two trips. He told Maren he was going to check the ridge and she said bring water and he said it was not far and she gave him the look that meant she knew he was wrong and loved him anyway.

It was not far.

The opening was seven strides across. Perfectly round, as if someone had pressed a vast thumb into the hillside. No rubble, no displaced earth, no broken roots dangling over the edge -- the soil simply stopped and smooth stone began, curving down and inward like the throat of a massive animal. The stone was the color of old honey and it was warm to the touch, warmer than the April air, warmer than stone had any right to be. Edric crouched at the lip and put his palm flat against it and felt, beneath the warmth, a pulse. Faint as a sleeping heartbeat. Steady.

He pulled his hand back and wiped it on his trousers.

The crows did not come near. The grass around the opening was undisturbed. A beetle walked to within a hand's width of the stone edge and turned back, and Edric watched it turn back, and some part of him understood what the beetle understood but did not have the beetle's sense to act on it.

Instead he leaned forward and looked down.

The curve of stone descended into soft light -- not sunlight, nothing so scattered. Pale green luminescence clung to the walls in patches, some kind of moss or lichen that gave off a faint steady glow. The stone beneath it glistened. Wet. The air rising from below smelled of copper and damp earth and something else beneath both, something living, animal, close. He could see perhaps thirty yards before the passage curved out of sight, the walls smooth and gently ribbed and slick with condensation, the floor wide enough for two men abreast.

Edric Voss was not a brave man. He was not a fool. He had a wife and a barley field half-sown and a mare that needed re-shoeing before market day. He had calluses that told the story of a careful life, and debts that told the story of two bad seasons, and a way of thinking about the world that started with the ground beneath his feet and worked up from there.

He went in because it was his land.

He brought the mattock because you never went into a hole without a tool, and he brought the seeds because they were in his pocket and he did not think to take them out.

The passage swallowed the daylight five steps in.

---

The stone was warm and wet beneath his boots. Not hot -- warm, the way a hearthstone holds heat hours after the fire dies, but slick with moisture that beaded on the ribbed walls and collected in the shallow grooves of the floor. The bioluminescent moss grew thicker as he descended, pale green constellations that pulsed faintly with a rhythm he could feel in his ears like a pressure change. He was inside a throat. The thought arrived unbidden but once it came he could not shake it. The ribbed walls expanded and contracted around him with each slow breath -- inhale, the passage widening a fraction, the air thinning; exhale, the walls pressing gently closer, the air thickening, a faint copper smell. A rhythm of perhaps six breaths per minute, slow and deep, like a large animal sleeping.

He counted his steps because that was the kind of man he was. He held the mattock across his body the way he carried it between fields, head forward, balanced on the fulcrum of his grip. At step eighty-seven the floor dipped into a shallow depression and the moisture that ran down the walls had collected there in a still pool, ankle-deep, faintly iridescent. He stepped around it. The liquid smelled of copper and something sharper, something that made the hair on his arms stand. At step one hundred and twelve the color of the stone shifted from honey-amber to a deeper gold. At step one hundred and forty the walls pressed closer for a span of ten strides, the ribbed stone contracting in a slow rhythm that left barely enough room for his shoulders. He turned sideways and shuffled through, the wet stone warm against his back, and when the passage widened again something small and pale skittered across the floor ahead of him -- too fast to see clearly, too many legs, gone into a crack before his next breath. He tightened his grip on the mattock and kept walking.

At step two hundred the light pulsing through the walls brightened enough to cast his shadow behind him, sharp and long. He looked back at that shadow and saw the entrance still visible as a pale disc behind and above him, and the sight of it steadied him. The way out was right there. He could turn around any time.

At step two hundred and forty the corridor opened into a chamber.

It was round, perhaps twenty paces across, with a domed ceiling twice the height of a man. The moss-light gave way here to something warmer -- an amber glow seeping from the stone itself, honeyed and steady, while condensation ran in slow rivulets down walls ridged like the interior of a shell. The floor was smooth and faintly damp, unblemished, and the air smelled of copper and wet stone and something else beneath both -- something living, animal, close. The breathing rhythm was stronger here. The walls visibly moved. A slow patient tide of stone, expanding and contracting, and Edric stood in the center of it and felt like a seed in a cupped palm.

Then the words came.

Not words. Not exactly. A pressure in his chest, behind his sternum, three syllables that he felt rather than heard, that arrived without sound the way hunger arrives or grief arrives -- not from outside but from some place deeper than his ears could reach: what do you want.

Edric Voss stood in the breathing chamber with his mattock in one hand and barley seed in his pocket and thirty-two years of turned earth in his history, and the question was not a question. It was a key fitting into a lock he had not known he carried. He felt the answer rise before he could shape it, pulled from somewhere beneath thought, beneath language, from the place where his hands knew the soil and his back knew the seasons and his whole body knew the single truth that had governed his life since before he could name it.

He wanted it to grow.

Not a thing. Not a wish. The answer was the marrow of him -- the part that pressed seed into dark earth and believed. The part that watched bare fields in March and felt, not hoped, felt the green waiting underneath. Faith. The bone-deep certainty that the dead ground was only sleeping and he could wake it.

The answer left him like an exhale. He felt it go.

For a long moment, nothing. Then the walls pulsed once, harder than before -- a single strong contraction, like a swallow -- and something settled into him the way soil settles after rain, filling spaces he had not known were empty.

Words appeared in his vision, pale and precise, as if written on the inside of his eyelids:

```stat-screen
  DESIGNATION ASSIGNED

  DESIGNATION: The Reaper
    Gift: Verdant Touch — Organic matter responds to your
    will. Touch accelerates growth, restores vitality,
    awakens dormant life. Effect scales with Attunement.
    Cost: Rooted — Stillness binds. Each minute spent
    motionless, root-fibers extend from your feet into the
    nearest surface. Fibers strengthen over time. After
    three minutes, removal causes tissue damage. After five
    minutes, removal is no longer possible without amputation.

  Irony: You will grow where you fall.

  Vitality ........... 34
  Resolve ............ 31
  Attunement ......... 5
  Fortune ............ 7

  You are Reaper #1.
  There is no survival data for this Designation.
  There is no survival data for this dungeon.
```

He read the words twice. He understood perhaps half of them. Designation and Gift were new vocabulary for an old man, and the numbers beside dotted lines meant nothing to a person who measured the world in bushels and rainfall. But Cost -- that word he knew. Cost was the language of two bad seasons and a lender's patience and the difference between what you owed and what the soil gave back. His eyes caught on *amputation* and his stomach tightened the way it did when the farrier's knife slipped near the quick. The line about root-fibers sounded like something from a disease pamphlet rather than anything real. And at the bottom, a word he did not pause on, because a farmer did not think in ironies: *You will grow where you fall.* It passed over him the way weather passes over stone. But Verdant Touch -- that part he understood, or felt he did, the way he felt a season turning before the almanac confirmed it.

He knelt and pressed his palm against the smooth stone floor.

Nothing happened for two heartbeats. Then three. Then the stone beneath his hand softened -- not crumbled, not broke, but yielded, like cold butter warming, and a green filament pushed up through the surface. Then another. Then a dozen, thin as spider silk, unfurling and reaching for the amber light. They grew faster than anything he had ever seen, faster than thought, curling around his fingers with a gentleness that made his throat close. In five seconds a small knot of green covered his hand. In ten seconds it had roots in the stone and tiny leaves the size of his thumbnail and it was growing, actually growing, reaching upward like it could feel the sun that was not there.

He pulled his hand back. The green stayed, rooted in the stone, a small shock of life in a place that had no business holding any.

Something shifted in his chest -- a loosening, like a knot untying itself, and the walls pulsed once in response. The breathing rhythm changed. Not faster, not slower -- closer. As if the distance between him and the stone had narrowed by some measure he could not name. He felt warmer. He felt known.

"Well," Edric said to the empty chamber. His voice sounded strange here -- flat, close, swallowed by the breathing walls. "Well."

He stood and his knees creaked and he noticed that his boots felt slightly stuck to the floor. He looked down. Hair-thin tendrils, pale and rootlike, extended from the soles of his boots into the stone. He had been kneeling for less than a minute. He pulled his feet free with a wet tearing sound and felt nothing -- the roots had not reached his skin, only bonded to the leather.

He started walking again.

---

The passage beyond the chamber narrowed and deepened. The color of the stone shifted from gold to a warm sienna, then darker, and the light in the walls dimmed to the color of banked coals. The breathing rhythm grew faster here -- four breaths a minute instead of six -- and the air was warmer, thick and close and humid, like standing in the doorway of a forge.

But it was not unpleasant. Not yet. The warmth wrapped around him like a blanket, and the air had a sweetness to it that reminded him of the greenhouse in high summer when the tomato vines were heavy and the whole space smelled of green heat and growing things. His muscles loosened. The ache in his lower back that had been his companion since the accident with the plow horse twelve years ago eased for the first time in memory. The passage was, despite everything, comfortable.

He touched the wall as he walked and felt it respond. Not growth this time -- the stone was not organic enough -- but a warmth that flowed into his fingers and up his arm, a pulse of something that might have been recognition. Each time he reached out, the connection deepened. The Maw knew he was there. He did not think those words but he felt their meaning in the way the walls seemed to lean toward him as he passed, in the way his own pulse had begun to match the breathing of the stone. He was becoming part of the rhythm. The Gift was a door that opened both ways.

At the next junction the passage split into three. Left descended sharply, the light dimming to near-darkness. Right climbed slightly, the air cooler, the stone paler. Center continued straight, the walls narrowing to barely shoulder-width, the light deepening to a color that was almost red.

Edric stopped.

He looked back. The entrance was still visible, impossibly far but unmistakable -- a pale coin of daylight, steady and patient, the way out. He could see it. He had been able to see it the entire time. It was right there. He told himself he was checking because a careful man checks. But careful men do not stand at junctions in breathing stone and weigh which darkness to walk into. He was telling himself a story about leaving and his feet were not turning around.

He looked at the three passages. The center one breathed faster than the others, a rapid shallow rhythm that he might have called eager if he were the kind of man who gave feelings to stone. The warmth coming from it was stronger. The smell of copper was stronger. Something in his chest -- not the voice, not the question, something else, something that felt like his Gift pulling at him the way water pulls downhill -- tugged him forward.

He chose the center passage. He chose it. No one made him. The entrance was right there and he walked away from it because the warmth felt like belonging and the pull felt like purpose and he wanted to see what would grow in the deeper dark.

The passage narrowed. His shoulders brushed the walls and the stone yielded against them, soft and damp as skin, and the breathing was his breathing now, matched, synchronized, his lungs filling when the walls drew back and emptying when they pressed close. The moss-light had given way entirely to a deep amber that darkened as he walked, turning the color of old blood. The air was hot.

