He touched the wall and pressed his gift into it and the stone responded -- not with green growth but with something else. A ripple of movement ran through the surface, spreading from his hand in concentric rings like a stone dropped in still water. The wall shuddered. The stone softened. And from the place where his palm had been, a spray of pale tendrils erupted -- not plant tendrils but the Maw's own substance, the same rootlike fibers that grew from his boots when he stood still, but these were thicker, faster, and they reached for him with a blind groping intelligence that turned his stomach.

He pulled back. The tendrils retreated into the wall and the stone smoothed over them and everything was as it was.

His heart was beating fast now. The ache in his back had returned and brought friends -- his knees, his hips, the old break in his left wrist that predicted rain. The warmth that had been comforting was becoming oppressive. The air was thicker. Breathing required effort.

He looked back.

The entrance was still there. Still visible. A disc of pale light, impossibly small now, like a coin held at arm's length, but there. Still there.

He was not going back. He knew it with the same certainty he knew frost dates and soil depth. Somewhere between the first chamber and here the decision had been made without his permission, and looking at the entrance now was not reassurance but grief -- a man watching the door of a house he had already left.

The floor beneath him pulsed. A ripple of warmth traveled up through his boot soles and into the bones of his feet and he felt, for one perfect terrible moment, the entire dungeon -- not as architecture but as anatomy. A living thing, vast and old and hungry, and he was inside it, and it had felt his touch and it was turning its attention toward him the way a sleeper turns toward warmth.

He took a step. The sole of his left boot did not come cleanly. He looked down.

Root-fibers. Thicker now. He had been standing still for -- how long? A minute? Two? The chamber breathing had slowed and he had slowed with it and the roots had found him. They extended from his soles into the stone floor in a web of pale threads, each one thin as a hair but together forming a mat that gripped with the patience of something that had never needed to hurry.

He pulled his right foot free. Heard the small wet sound of fibers separating. Lifted his left foot and felt resistance -- real resistance, not the gentle tug of before but a pulling, an anchor, the stone holding on.

He pulled harder. His boot came free with a sound like tearing cloth and he stumbled forward two steps and kept walking, faster now, his breath loud in the narrowing passage, the red light pulsing in time with his heartbeat.

---

The passage opened again. A second chamber, smaller than the first, the ceiling low enough to brush with his fingertips. The walls here were the deep red of arterial blood and they were not merely warm -- they were hot, hot enough that the air shimmered faintly, hot enough that sweat ran freely down his face and neck and pooled in the hollow of his collarbone.

He should not be here.

The thought arrived with absolute clarity, the way a season's first frost arrives -- not gradually but all at once, undeniable, too late.

He should not be here. He had a wife. He had a field half-sown. He had a mare and debts and a life of ordinary particular ongoing things and he had walked away from all of them because a hole opened in his field and he wanted to see what was at the bottom and now he was in the red dark of a living thing's gut with roots growing from his feet every time he stopped and the entrance was still visible behind him, still right there, still reachable, and he was not reaching for it.

He stopped.

He should not have stopped.

The roots began immediately. Not the hair-thin tendrils of before -- these were cord-thick, pale as bone, and they drove into the stone floor with an urgency that the earlier growth had lacked. He felt them push through the leather of his boot soles and touch skin and the sensation was not painful but it was intimate in a way that made him want to scream. They were warm. They pulsed with the same rhythm as the walls. They were growing into him the way his own roots grew into soil, naturally, inevitably, as if this was what they had always been meant to do.

He moved. Stepped forward. The roots tore.

Pain -- bright and specific, in the arch of his left foot, a dozen small wounds opening at once as the fibers ripped free. He gasped and stumbled and looked down and saw blood and pale threads and new roots already growing from the torn stumps, growing faster than before, reaching for the floor with a blind determined hunger.

He walked. He had to walk. The Cost was clear now, clear in his body the way the Gift had been clear in his hands -- if he stopped, it would take him. The roots grew faster each time. The intervals shortened. He could feel the threshold approaching the way he felt a storm's edge, a pressure-change in the bones, a certainty that what was coming could not be avoided, only met.

The chamber had no exit except the way he had come.

He turned. Looked back down the red-lit passage toward the distant pale coin of daylight. The entrance. The way out. His field, his wife, his life. It was right there. It had been right there the entire time.

He took a step.

His foot did not come free.

He looked down. He had been standing still for -- seconds. Only seconds. But the roots were different now. Not threads. Not cords. Trunks. Pale woody shafts as thick as his thumb, driving deep into the stone, and where they met his skin they had not merely bonded but fused, the boundary between his flesh and the root-material dissolving as if they had always been one thing, as if the Cost had been waiting for this moment to show him what it truly meant.

He pulled. He strained. He dropped the mattock and gripped his own leg above the ankle and hauled with both hands and the roots flexed and held and something in his foot broke -- not the root, the bone -- and the pain was so vast and white that his vision went dark at the edges.

Fifteen seconds.

That was the window. He knew it the way he knew planting depth and soil acidity and the exact day in March when the frost line retreated far enough to risk early barley. Fifteen seconds where the roots were still young enough, where the fusion was still shallow enough, where if he had moved immediately instead of looking down, instead of stopping to understand what was happening to him, he could have torn free and run bleeding for the entrance and made it.

He did not move immediately. He was a man who understood things before he acted on them. It was what made him a good farmer. It was what killed him.

The roots climbed his ankles. His calves. They spread through the stone floor in a widening web, pale threads racing outward and downward, seeking purchase, building infrastructure. His legs locked. His knees fused. He felt the root-material push into the spaces between muscle fibers with a patience that was not cruel because cruelty requires intent and this was just growth. This was just what the roots did. They grew. He had asked for this. He had wanted it to grow.

Edric Voss sank to his knees in the red chamber as the roots took him, and the pain was enormous and then it was not, and the warmth was suffocating and then it was not, and the walls breathed around him and the light pulsed and he thought about the barley in his pocket and how stupid he had been, how profoundly stupid, to walk into a hole in the ground because he could not let his own land hold a mystery he had not solved.

He thought about Maren. The look she had given him. The water he had not taken.

The roots reached his waist.

He could not feel his legs. The stone floor around him was a garden now -- his gift, leaking from him in his dying, turning the Maw's stone into something it had never been. Green shoots pushed up through the web of pale roots. Barley. The seeds had spilled from his pouch when he fell, scattering across the root-webbed floor, and his gift was feeding them as it fed the roots, and they were growing, impossibly fast, green spears of barley rising from the stone in the red-amber light of a dungeon that had never held a living plant before this moment.

He watched them grow. He had that much time.

"It is growing," he said. To no one.

The roots reached his chest. His breathing slowed to match the chamber's rhythm, and then slowed further, and then the distinction between his breathing and the chamber's breathing ceased to exist. The warmth entered him completely. The red light filled his vision. His hands, flat on the stone floor, sent out roots of their own -- pale threads from his fingertips merging with the stone, and where they merged, green followed, tiny shoots and curling tendrils of impossible life spreading outward from his dying.

The barley was six inches tall when he stopped breathing.

---

In the red chamber, deep in the first passage of the Maw, a man's body settled into the stone floor. The roots had taken everything below the waist. His torso leaned slightly forward, chin on chest, hands flat, fingers splayed and fused with the floor. Around him, in a perfect circle, barley grew. Green and vigorous and utterly impossible, rising from the web of roots and stone, fed by a gift that outlasted the man who carried it.

His mattock lay where he had dropped it, three feet from his right hand. The ash handle was already sprouting. A single green leaf, pale and tentative, uncurling from the wood as if the dead timber remembered what it had been.

On the wall behind him, words appeared.

Not carved. Not written. Pressed into the stone from within, as if the wall itself had formed them, letter by letter, in the shape of his own hand, pressed into stone. The dying man's last coherent thought, extracted and preserved:

*Tell Maren I should have brought the water.*

The first Death Inscription. Cut into clean stone that had never held a mark before. It would be there when the next person came, and the next, and the next, and by then the words would be one among thousands, a single voice in a chorus of the dead, but now, in this moment, it was alone on the wall of a dungeon that was learning what it meant to kill.

Below the inscription, smaller, in the Ledger's flat clinical notation:

```stat-screen
  DEATH REPORT

  Entrant:         Edric Voss
  Designation:     Reaper #1
  Depth reached:   1 (The Gullet)
  Time survived:   1 hour, 14 minutes
  Cause of death:  Rooted (Cost manifestation)

  Vitality at death:     0 (root integration)
  Resolve at death:      31
  Attunement at death:   12 (+7 from Gift usage)
  Fortune at death:      7

  Gift used:       4 times
  Monsters killed: 0
  Distance covered: 0.3 km

  Note: The entrance was visible from the death site.

  Harvest:
  - Death Inscription: 1 (first recorded)
  - Memory Crystal: 1 (Gold — love)
  - Floor Mutation: Root integration. Organic growth now possible
    in Depth 1, Chamber 2. Classification: unprecedented.
  - Gift Absorption: Verdant Touch acquired by the Maw.

  You are death #1.
  999 remain.
```

No one read it.

In the breathing dark of the Maw, the first Memory Crystal formed at the site where Edric Voss's heart had stopped. It was gold -- the color of love, the Maw's selection unerring, reaching past the fear and the pain and the regret to find the strongest thing in him. It sat on the root-webbed floor among the growing barley, a small warm light in the red chamber, and it held inside it not his death but his life: Maren's face in the doorway, the morning light behind her, the look that meant she knew he was wrong and loved him anyway. The absolute ordinary perfection of a moment he had thrown away for a hole in the ground.

No one picked it up.

The dungeon breathed.

Above, on the ridge, the opening waited. The April sun moved across the sky. The mare stood in the paddock and watched the place where Edric had walked over the hill and did not come back. In the east field, the seed bag sat on the fence post where he had left it, and the crows settled back on the wire, and the beetles went about their business, and the day went on without him in the specific ordinary way that days go on when someone has been subtracted from them.

Maren came looking at sundown. She carried the water jug in both hands, the clay still cool from the cellar, and when she reached the ridge the last light was copper on the western fields and the shadow of the opening was a perfect dark circle in the grass. She stood at the lip and looked down into the honey-colored stone where the pale green moss-light began and called his name. The sound went down and did not come back. She called again. The evening wind stirred the grass around the opening and the air rising from below was warm and smelled of wet copper and she did not go in. She stood there until the light failed and the opening became indistinguishable from the night around it, and she called until her voice broke, and then she walked home across the dark fields with the water jug still full and sat at the table and the chair across from her was empty and the barley field was half-sown and that was the shape of the rest of her life.

Below, in the Maw, the barley grew.

In time, others came. They walked through the barley and did not know what it was or why it was there or that the body fused with the floor in the center of the small field had been a person with a wife and a half-sown barley field and a mattock with an ash handle his father had replaced twice.

They noticed the green. Everyone who came after noticed the green.

It became a landmark. Later entrants, those who survived long enough to compare notes with other survivors who had retreated before the lower depths took them, called it the green patch, or the farmer's field, or simply the garden. It marked the boundary between the entrance and the true dungeon. Before the green, you could still turn back. Past the green, the Maw had you.

No one remembered his name. The inscription on the wall -- *Tell Maren I should have brought the water* -- was read by hundreds and understood by none. It became a superstition. Touch the words for luck. Drink water before the green patch. An instruction from the dead, followed for the wrong reasons, by people who did not know who Maren was or why the water mattered.

