Luke really, really has changed, I thought as I rubbed his side. He was sleeping with his muzzle over my leg. I’d changed back into my human form and was wearing my assassin gear.

I wonder how much we’ve all changed. Lily, for one, has definitely gotten a lot tougher from the version of her our siblings would remember.

I suppose I hadn’t noticed because I was with her the whole time, so her changes were gradual. But I hadn’t stopped to consider how everyone else might be changing while we were away from each other, and not just in things like size, strength, and evolution. Luke was still Luke, but he also wasn't the same Luke.

“So, I notice you’re dressed like a Night Sentry,” Themial ventured. He was sitting with his back against a boulder, legs stretched out towards the fire as he occasionally stoked the coals with a stick.

“It’s the best that was available,” I explained, slowly running my hand over Luke as he slept. I’m glad he at least settled down with me when he was ready to sleep as opposed to lying down near Themiel.

“Hmmm… how do I put it,” Themiel said, looking up to the sky. “I guess I should say, I know you’re not just a simple monster. Not even simply an intelligent one.”

I shrugged, figuring it was pretty obvious, even Fox could tell. I wasn’t very good at hiding that truth, especially not now with a human form. “Yeah, I guess you would figure that out.”

He nodded. “If you were older, maybe it’d be possible to believe you’d simply grown up around humans and adopted enough of their traits over time. But no. Also, I’m curious. Do you have classes like a human?”

“No, just Paths. I’m full monster as far as that goes.” I turned my gaze to him. “And I don’t know what you have planned, but I can’t join you Umarii. We’ll need to go our separate ways at some point, and I want to bring my brother with me when I do that. I won’t be separated from him again.”

“Do you have somewhere you’re aiming to go?” he asked.

“I… don’t really want to answer your questions.”

“Fair enough. For now,” he agreed. “But I guess I’d say I’d be okay with that only if it’s Luke’s choice and fully Luke’s choice. I won't stop him from doing what he wants to do.”

My ears perked. “Really?”

“I think he’s smart enough to understand if I were trying to keep his sister from him. If leaving with you is what he wanted, I don’t think we’d be as close going forward if I stopped that. So you see, it really is no choice of mine one way or another.”

“I was told other things about you, Umarii,” I said.

“Oh?”

“I was told you’d sooner rather see me killed or keep me enslaved before letting me exist freely and outside your control.”

“And who told you that?”

I didn’t answer.

Themiel looked towards the fire, thinking it over a moment. Eventually he said, “You wouldn’t be wrong. At least, if we are talking about the High Council.”

“High Council?” I asked.

“They’re basically the ruling class of my people. They control the resources, direct us on where to live, choose our jobs and lifestyles for us.” He stared into the fire. “When I was younger, because I’m small and I wasn’t naturally talented with a weapon, nor did my stats favor that of a warrior, they wanted me to apprentice in the kitchen instead of learn to fight.” He chuckled softly. “I was supposed to be a chef for the fortress.”

I turned my head.

“I might have done that if it were not for Corath. He was my brother in all but blood. We grew up in the same ward together, and unlike me, he was strong and naturally quick with a sword. We didn’t want to be separated, so I convinced him to train me. And so he did, in secret.” Themiel drew a dagger from his side and stared at it. “I couldn’t effectively wield a sword then, so he trained me to fight with a dagger instead. Though, I did learn the sword when I got older. I’d gotten strong despite my slow start. Anyway, it was enough that I was able to convince the council to reconsider and allow me to move onto the martial ward with him once we came of age and moved out of our youth ward.”

My ears folded down. “What’s this about wards?”

“As I said, we live where the council tells us to live. We grow with the same youth ward until about thirteen years old, then we go on to a different ward that focuses towards training whatever role we are meant to fill in our society.”

“That sounds… terrible…” I said flatly, not sure how else to put it. “So your friends you grew up with you are just separated from if you don’t go on to do the same job?”

“For the most part. Well, it’s not as if we’d never see each other. It’s just… harder. Only when days off or meal times align, or during certain events. Unless you are one of the chosen and go to the Ascendence ward. They are… much more isolated while they are training. And they change.”

He got a look as he explained that.

“Did you... have a friend like that?” I asked carefully.

“Yes. Her name was Serithe.”

I was surprised by how open this guy was. I felt a little bad that I wasn’t doing the same for him. Though to be fair, even if I wanted to open up to him, there simply wasn’t much I could say without revealing I’m a transmigrator or my ties with the empire. It’s technically been a rather short puppy life I’ve lived so far, after all. Though, it does feel like a lifetime already with all that has happened.

“What’s the Ascendence ward?”

“Hmmm. Well, for the most part they work as healers, but it is more than just that. They get special training in certain skills. What this training is exactly is kept secret, but it changes them. Not dramatically, but uh… Well, I suppose it’s kind of like how monsters evolve, but not so dramatic. Serithe, the only change I’ve seen in her is her horns have grown longer,” he explained, pointing at the two nubs of what looked like budding horns on his own head. “Mine are what horns look like for all of the Umarii people. That is, except for the chosen. Whatever their training consists of, it also makes them capable of inheriting a certain unique class. But they are also isolated much more so than the other wards. It is hard to get a chance to see someone in the Ascendence ward, typically.”

“Anyway, that’s why I was even more determined to join the martial ward. I knew I’d grow distant from Corath if I were a chef, and Serithe, I was unlikely to ever regularly see her again like when we were young. As a fighter, there was at least a chance I’d need her healing, or that we might one day be put on a mission together.” He shook his head.

“You mentioned your partner dying…” I asked carefully, also noticing how he kept referring to this Corath person in the past tense.

“Yeah. It was those fucking barbarians,” Themiel said, tensing his fist around his dagger. He let out a breath and returned it to its sheath. “It was my fault. We should have been in and out faster, but… Well, there was this girl who saw us. She was one of them, but I didn’t feel right about just killing her. She was too young. We were going to do it anyway, we had to, but we hesitated. That is, until she said something about… Well, it doesn’t matter. But one of those damn barbarians swooped down on his Direwing and put a spear through my brother’s chest.”

“By barbarians, do you mean the red masks?”

“The Bloody Peeks Tribe,” he said in an agreeing tone.

My ears folded down, I felt my tail drooping behind me.

I guess I couldn’t help feeling a bit of camaraderie with this guy, as much as I didn’t want to. He had reason to hate the red masks too.

“I know my sister Iris is still with them. Or at least that’s the last I heard. One day, when I’m stronger…” I said in a quiet voice. Then my ears perked as something occurred to me. “You came here specifically looking for me, didn’t you?” I could tell by his face that the answer was yes, so I asked, “How? How did you know where to find me?”

He seemed to think about it for a long moment, rubbing his chin. That was the kind of expression someone makes when they are considering lying. “The Oracle..." he finally said, though hesitantly.

“Oracle?” I asked.

“Yes. That’s the unique class I mentioned. There can only be one Oracle at a time, and it's always someone who's gone through the training in the Ascendence ward. Our current Oracle directed me towards you. She thought I should try to help you somehow.”

I stared, confused. So this Oracle person knew of me? And why me?

“I don’t really know much about how the power of the oracle works," he went on. "But let's just say, she knows things. She didn’t tell me why I was coming here, only that I should come here and make a friend.” He chuckled softly. “I’m hoping I understood correctly, and you’re that friend.”

“Make friends?” I narrowed my eyes. “You know, you’re not off to a very good start.”

“No?”

“You put a sword to my throat.”

He smirked. “Technically, you attacked me first.”

"Only because you were chasing me."

"You were dressed like the skeletons that had been ambushing us, and you were stalking us."

My ears folded down. "Okay, fair point.” Then I asked, “But why? Are your people hoping I’ll join them?”

“No. I think bringing you back to the fortress would be a very bad idea. I think if I took you there, you’d end up being killed.”

“Oh. Um. I’m surprised you’d just say that.”

“Well, I have no reason to lie about it. Even if I did convince you to come back, based on my limited interaction with you, I don’t think you’d be willing to go along with whatever they want. Therefore, they’d see you as a liability.”

“Really…”

“We’re in good company as far as that goes. I may have gotten on the high council’s bad side recently myself. So I don’t think I’ll be going back there any time soon.” He laughed, but then a bit of a distant look returned to his eyes. “I’m not sure when I’ll get the chance to see Serithe again. I really screwed something up. I owe her a proper apology she hasn’t gotten from me yet, and now I’m not sure I’ll get the chance.” Then he looked over to me. “Well, I’ve answered all of your questions; you want to answer one of mine? I think I know the answer anyway. You’re a transmigrator, aren’t you?”

My ears folded down. “Yeah, I guess that’s pretty obvious, huh? I just wasn’t sure if you know they exist or not.”

“Hm, you’re the second transmigrator I’ve met… er, technically the third.”

“Oh?”

“The oracle for one. But also when I went to the bloody peaks, that girl I mentioned. Supposedly she was one as well.”

“The bloody peaks has a transmigrator?”

He nodded. “It seemed to me she was keeping it secret as well. Only told us as a way to keep us from killing her. Could have been lying either way, she overheard us talking about other worlds.” He tapped his chin. “Actually… I just had a thought, if you don’t mind.”

I tilted my head.

He scratched his temple. “Ah… what did she say again? I remember oil because we have that here as well, but she was blurting such nonsense it’s hard to remember. No system or monsters… School lunch trays or eating from a bucket. Damn it, what were those other words she’d said?”

I waited for him to search his memory.

“Traveling in something metal?” he offered.

“Um… cars?” I offered.

“What is that?” he asked.

“Okay a car is like… Hmmm… I guess a carriage that can be pulled without a horse, and it's not magic either. It’s more like there is a machine inside it called an engine that burns fuel to make the wheels move. Basically…”

“I see.”

“If that’s what she’s talking about then yeah she must be from my last world too. I don’t remember that world very well but I remember common things like that.”

“These cars are common?”

I nodded. “Very. Almost everyone owned one. Well, at least in the part of the world where I lived. And they can go way faster than a horse.”

“How much faster?”

“Two or three times faster I guess? But a car can run all day, as long as it has enough fuel. I’d guess a horse would tire out going at full speed for long.”

“Oil is its fuel?”

“Kind of. It’s called gasoline, and it is made from oil. What else do you remember her talking about?”

“Hard to say. She just blurted out that she knows of other worlds. Then when we decided to test her on that, she just started rambling on about a bunch of nonsense.” He seemed to think for a moment, then shook his head. “Honestly, she struck me as a very foolish person. But then again, a fool couldn’t have come up with such lies so quickly, so I suspect she was telling the truth. The Oracle would know, but I don’t exactly have the luxury of asking her of her visions myself. That is something only the High Council has a right to know.”

“But she told you to come find me?”

“She told me to come here and make a friend,” he corrected with a smirk. “But that meeting I had with the oracle was not exactly legal. She wouldn’t be in trouble, of course. Nobody truly rules the Oracle, though some of the council try. I, on the other hand, would have been arrested for seeking her out in secrecy as I had.”

“Why did you do that?”

“Because I was trying to protect Luke. I feared he was in danger, I wanted her opinion, and she sent me here.”

“In danger from this High Council?” I asked.

“Exactly.”

“And the oracle is also who told you to go to the Bloody Peaks? Looking for me? That’s because I’m a transmigrator, right?”

“Yeah.”

“And you met a different transmigrator, and ended up leaving with a different Hell Hound,” I mused. “Anyway. The question I’m still wondering is what happens now? You’re planning to just start following me around?”

“Well, I did come a ways to find you. I know you don’t want to be separated from your brother, and honestly, I don’t think he’d want to be separated from me. So…”

I looked down at Luke, still snoozing with his muzzle across my thigh. I ran my fingers through his neck fur. He really was so big and fluffy now, but in a rugged way.

“Where are you planning to go?” Themiel asked.

“I was going to train here a little while longer. My original plan was to find whatever strong things there were in the city and try to defeat them. But if that took too long… I guess I’d just move on eventually.”

“To the Black Pyre?”

“So you knew that too, huh?”

“The oracle said that’s where I should go next if I don’t find you here.”

“How could she know what I was planning to do?” I asked.

“As I said, it is her power. Though, she claims it is far from perfect. She didn’t know I’d find you here, just that there was a good chance I would find you here, and if not here, then possibly the Black Pyre.”

“I see…” I moved my hand to rub the side of Luke’s snout. He stirred a little, and his lips curled in a smile. “So this thing we may have summoned by killing too much in the city. You don’t think I can kill it on my own?”

“Very doubtful.”

“Hmmm. Well, I want to try.”

“That’s foolish.”

“I want to at least see it. Besides, the three of us can beat it together right?”

“Yeah, but we’d have to be careful.”

“Then that’s what I want to do. I want to at least see it first. Then we can move on to the broken fangs.”

“So you’re accepting me tagging along now?”

“It doesn’t seem I have much choice. And you don’t seem to be trying to hurt me…” I looked down at my brother. “But eventually we will have to part ways. And I’m not leaving my brother behind. No matter what.”

“If that’s what Luke wants,” Themiel agreed.

“Yeah. If it’s what Luke wants.” But in my heart, I just couldn’t believe there would be any reality other than that. Once I did more hunting and training with Luke, he would get Pack Bond, and I’d be able to make sure he understands the choice. At that point, I was sure he’d choose to come with me.

At least, I wasn’t going to listen to that doubt whispering in the back of my mind, that he really wouldn’t choose me in the end.