There is no longer any life remaining in the Upper or Lower Realm.

The cold dust left behind from ancient planets and burned-out stars drifts throughout the Origin Plane between the jet-black roots of the fossilized Primordial Tree.

Even the fabric of space that was bent over the Lower Realm to create isolated zones has fallen apart.

Without any ether or mana to hold it in place, the entire Upper Realm becomes one and merges back with the original space of the Lower Realm.

If a mortal with advanced enough perceptions were to look upward, they could see from the base layer of space in the Origin Plane up to the leaves of the Primordial Tree without any physical barriers blocking their way.

The only dividing factor is the thick clouds of divine threads.

They disperse and spread out to fill the empty space.

Many green threads pour down into the Origin Plane, and with far more area, they stretch out into yellow, orange, and even red threads.

The same thing happens with the cyan and blue zone's tight thread count, being torn apart as they flow into the areas of Lower Zones.

All the remains of buildings, citadels, ravine pathways, and all proof of life left behind fall down to mix with the red of the dust swirling about in the Origin Plane.

Even the compact purple threads at the top of this Primordial Tree spread outward and decompress until the pressure stabilizes.

The sight left behind is a rainbow orb with red at its bottom and purple at its top, held together by an enormous Black Tree. The divine threads resonate with the laws emanating off this legacy left behind, but they are only a manifestation of its gravity. Divine threads themselves have no true energy; they are only the result of this semi-living sentinel's structure existing within this space.

There is only an extremely thin layer of translucent film surrounding this tree, it is the construct that held the Lower and Upper Realms within the membrane before.

It was an unbreakable prison at one point, without any signs of cracks or weakness. Yet now, the entire construct barrier holds less ether than a single fast travel ride in the ancient green zone would have cost.

A level 1 dungeon goblin could pierce its wall with a single dagger strike and destabilize the entire Origin Plane's protective barrier.

The perfectly balanced layers of rainbow threads remind me of the first divine construct I entered long ago back on my origin world.

It was an ancient legacy relic left behind by the severed soul of an elven race, containing a small pocket dimension world that also naturally created layers of divine threads, from the red threads at the bottom to the clouds of green, cyan, blue, and even purple threads at the very top.

It was one of the many catalysts at the start of this journey. Celia's dream to create a realm where all life could connect, trade, and live together did come true in the end; but even my attempt at it cannot last forever.

The shimmering rainbow light that swirls around this tree like an enormous divine core is reflected in both Maria's and my eyes.

We watch in silence as the final bits of the construct barrier dissolve and merge with our immortal bodies.

There are no longer any direct soul ties connecting us to the Realm Waves we created.

The entire concept of time within the Origin Realm is ceasing to exist.

Even the fabric of the membrane is beginning to react, weakening and fluctuating with laws as it prepares to reject the area of dead space it was holding. This enormous living artifact that we all float in has fulfilled its purpose once again, just like it has with all of the other galaxies in this universe.

The overwhelming pressure of the system notification that has been attempting to trigger for over 3.1 trillion years has finally reached its breaking point.

Every droplet of Emperor's Essence in my being vibrates in anticipation as I hear Ember's voice enter my consciousness.

"We have made it here once again, and it appears we're even lucky enough to bring another relic along with us. There is only one more step you must take for the last notification to trigger, then the Great Cycle may commence."
