She woke on Day 11 to silence where the insect chorus should have been.

Not absence -- the forest was never absent. But the long-count had shifted registers overnight, the way it did when the cycle advanced a phase. Fewer voices in the upper range. The insects tracking the pulse did not stop; they changed their counting. She lay in the bedroll and counted the remaining voices and arrived at a number she already knew.

Seven days.

She did not write it yet. She rose, dressed, and went to find Theron.

The camp was smaller without Maret. She had left two days ago -- Day 10, the morning after the rosemary -- walking north with the same quiet certainty she had arrived with, as if the escarpment edge were simply the next place she was supposed to be. She had not said goodbye in the way Wren understood goodbyes. She had said, "She'll tell me when she's ready," looking at the ruins rather than at Wren, and then she had gone. The fire pit still held the shape of four people's warmth. It would shrink to fit three soon enough.

---

He was at the ruins already, crouched at the east wall's base, running his thumb along the mortar gap where a ghost-elm root had threaded through decades ago. The root had thickened since then -- she could see where the stone had shifted a quarter-inch to accommodate it, the mortar crumbling at the pressure point. Not structural damage. The wall was still plumb. The root and the wall had found a settlement.

"The healer's house," she said.

He looked up. "Northeast quadrant."

"I know. I want to survey it properly today."

He stood, dusted his hands. "Light from the south window is best in the morning. You'll want to be there before midday."

She nodded. He did not follow -- he had his own work at the west wall, something about the north-facing drainage pattern he'd been trying to understand since Hadley left. She went northeast alone.

---

The healer's house was the second structure from the east.

She had noted it in passing a dozen times: walls standing plumb, south-facing window opening intact, threshold stone worn smooth at its center in a way that was different from the main threshold stone's wear. That one had the worn-smooth of foot traffic -- many feet, over years. This one had a different quality. More deliberate. Worn at a specific height, a specific angle. Someone had stood here often, doing something with their hands at that height. Wren studied the wear pattern for a long time before she understood: it was the height of a mortar bowl. Someone had stood at this threshold preparing things, grinding things, for a very long time.

She crouched and pressed her palm to the threshold stone.

It was warm.

Not the cluster anchor's warmth -- she knew that quality now, the [Dormant] warmth that had no identity, that was simply heat stored deep in dense stone. This was warmer at the surface. The warmth of a space that had held the sun's heat from the south window for three centuries and released it slowly through a stone that had been pressed against by hands and feet and the residual purpose of a hundred thousand small acts of care.

She did not reach for a bond. She sat down at the threshold with her back against the doorframe and opened her survey journal.

She began to draw the south window.

---

The morning light through the south window fell in a particular angle. She calculated it: southeast of true south, which meant the morning light came in low and slanted, reached the back wall by mid-morning, and moved west across the interior through the late morning hours. By midday the window was in shade. By afternoon the light came from the east, lower, and lit the floor rather than the walls.

This was not accidental.

A south window that faced slightly east caught the warmest part of the morning light. An herbalist or healer worked in morning light -- that was when you assessed, prepared, dispensed. By midday you needed no light because the work had been done. By afternoon the room was for resting.

She sketched the window angle. She sketched the floor plan as best she could reconstruct it -- the worn threshold, the back wall with its irregular stones (storage niches, she thought: not random variation but deliberate placement of different-sized stones to create shallow alcoves). She sketched the south wall's exterior, where a pattern in the stonework repeated every four stones: a slight protrusion, half an inch, in a diagonal sequence. Heat capture, perhaps. Or ventilation. Or something she didn't have the knowledge to name.

She wrote in the margin: *designed by someone who thought about how air moves.*

She stayed until midday.

---

Theron found her on his way back to camp for the noon meal.

He did not comment on the journal, the sketches, or the two hours she had evidently been sitting at the same threshold. He looked at the south window from outside, assessed the angle in the way he assessed everything -- without seeming to, as if the information arrived at him rather than the other way around -- and said: "My grandmother talked about a healer here. A woman. She used a different name for her." He paused. "I don't remember the name. I only remember that my grandmother said she was good."

Wren looked at the worn threshold stone. At the mortar-bowl height in the wear.

"She stood here every day," she said.

"For a long time," Theron agreed. He sat down on the root-seat -- the old ghost-elm root that curved up from the ground at the right height and angle -- and took out his water skin. "The first pulse I counted," he said, not looking at her, "I was fourteen. Hadley's age. I counted every day from thirty. I had a stick I notched."

She waited.

"I got to ten and lost the stick." He drank. "I made a new stick and started from ten."

"Did it help?"

He considered this with the seriousness he gave everything worth thinking about. "No," he said. "But I had something to do with my hands." He looked at the threshold stone. "What I'm saying is: you can count or you can work. You can probably do both. But the counting doesn't change the number."

She thought about the journal margin. The column going down.

"I know," she said.

"I know you know." He stood. He looked at the south window one more time -- that brief, field-note assessment. "The light's good in the afternoon. From the east." He walked north toward camp.

She sat at the threshold and worked through the afternoon.

---

The bond did not seat on Day 11.

She had half-expected it -- the healer's house had been accumulating her presence since she first surveyed the ruins, which was four days ago now if you counted from the first time she had crouched at the east quadrant wall and pressed her palm to the warm stone. But [Lay the Path] did not open that afternoon, or that evening, or in the hour after dark when she sat at the ruins with a small lantern and finished her window-angle calculations.

She went back to camp. She updated her journal:

*Day 11. 7 remain.*

*The healer's house: south window east-of-true, mortar-bowl wear on threshold, heat-capture pattern in south wall stonework. Designed by someone who understood light and air. Theron's grandmother's healer. Good.*

She thought about what Theron had said. She did not add it to the journal -- it was not a field note, it was something else. She held it the way she held things she wanted to keep without yet knowing what to do with them.

The night held the usual sounds -- insect chorus running its altered count, ghost-elm hum at the bass edge of hearing, the Thornwild's breath slow and sweet over the camp. But the usual sounds were thinner. The gaps between the insect voices were longer. The silence between breaths was wider. The forest was not slowing down. It was gathering. The way a singer gathers breath before the note that matters.

She lay in the dark and thought about the healer's house threshold, worn smooth at mortar-bowl height. About three centuries of morning light through a south window. About Theron's counting stick, notched from thirty, lost at ten. She thought about what it meant to prepare for something you could not prevent and could not yet understand and could only be present for.

She did not sleep quickly. When she did, she dreamed of stone worn smooth by use, and the smoothness was warm, and the warmth said nothing because it did not need to.

---

She went to the gap on the morning of Day 12.

Alone, in the early grey light before the basin thrush called. Theron was still in his bedroll -- she had heard him turn, the creak of his lean-to's ridgepole, and then silence again. She took the compass and her journal and went south along the basin floor, following the trail she had mapped.

The corruption gap was not dramatic in morning light. It looked like what it was: a fan-shaped absence in the ghost-elm canopy, three dead trees in a spreading arc, the living trees on the boundary leaning slightly away as if the space between them was occupied by something that made them uncomfortable. She had sketched this three times already. She knew the arc's current measurement: five degrees of fan spread at the treeline, the apex at the dead tree with the perimeter breach.

She stood at the boundary and opened the compass.

The compass needle pointed north-northeast. Then it dipped.

Not dramatically -- not the sharp downward pull she had felt at the healer's house threshold stone. A softer inclination, as if the needle were being pressed gently from above. She waited, holding the compass level. The dip persisted at the same bearing -- south-southwest, toward the anchor bond. Not toward the corruption. The compass was not reacting to what was in front of her. It was reacting to what was behind her -- the threshold stone, pulling the needle toward itself the way it pulled at her sternum, but here at the gap's edge the pull had to work harder, and the extra effort bent the needle down. She noted it in the journal: *compass dip at gap boundary -- anchor pull under strain, not corruption signal. The corruption does not attract. It suppresses.*

She walked the boundary clockwise.

At each station she stopped, opened the compass, noted the needle behavior, noted the warmth (or absence of warmth) through the bond network, noted what she could see and smell and hear. The ghost-elms on the living side: the low grey-green bark-shimmer visible even in daylight, the gentle sound of their root-network, the particular texture of air in their presence. The gap itself: different air, drier, with the thin sweet smell that was not the Thornwild's vegetative sweetness but something sharper underneath it. The smell of the corruption's holding.

She had walked three-quarters of the arc when her chest went quiet.

Not silent -- the bond network was never silent now. But the [Dormant] signature of the threshold stone, which she carried as a specific quality of warmth at her sternum, softened suddenly. Became less present. She stopped walking.

She was standing at the gap's eastern edge. The fan-spread extended seven or eight meters beyond the last dead tree, into territory she had mapped as clean on her first survey. She looked at the living trees on her right. Their bark-shimmer was dimmer here. Not absent, but reduced -- the same grey-green but the grey winning over the green, the shimmer moving slower.

She turned south.

The threshold stone was behind her and to the south-southwest. She knew its location the way she knew the location of her own hand -- not by looking but by the bond. She held that knowing and felt for the distance, the angle, the relationship between where she stood and where the stone was.

The gap's eastern edge was closer to the threshold stone than she had calculated.

She sat down in the leaf litter and opened her journal and did the geometry. The fan-spread at the treeline: six degrees now, not five. She had measured five four days ago. One degree of spread in four days, which meant -- she worked it backward and forward -- by Day 18, at the current rate, the fan would reach eight or nine degrees at the treeline. She sketched the angles. She calculated the suppression field's boundary radius using the reduced bark-shimmer as her proxy measurement -- the shimmer dimmed where the field began, and the field extended some distance beyond the visible gap.

The threshold stone sat at the edge of that projection.

Not inside it. Not yet. But by Day 18, at current rate, the suppression boundary would reach the anchor bond's outer radius during the pulse itself -- the pulse, which was when the corruption's energy was highest, which was when the suppression field would extend furthest.

She sat with this for a long time. Above the canopy, the first three-note phrase of the morning: the thrush confirming what the clouds already showed. Steady weather.

She had six days.

She did not know how to deepen the threshold stone bond faster than the system would allow. She did not know if you could force depth -- everything she had learned said the opposite, that depth came from sustained presence and the system's own timing. [Dormant] would activate at Known depth. She was at Glimpsed.

She wrote in the journal margin: *anchor on boundary during pulse. threshold stone -- Known depth -- six days.*

She did not write *I don't know how.* She let the not-knowing sit where it was and stood up and walked back to the ruins.

---

The healer's house received her differently on the afternoon of Day 12.

She could not have said what changed -- not the light, not the sound, not any specific sensory difference. She crouched at the threshold and pressed her palm to the worn stone and it was the same temperature as the morning. The same south-window angle. The same quality of air that had not been rained on in years.

But there was a quality of attention in the room that had not been there before.

As if the room had been watching her all morning while she was at the gap, and she had come back and the room knew it was her.

She sat down. She opened the survey journal -- not to write in it, just to have it open in her hands. She looked at the south window. She looked at the storage niches in the back wall, the slightly protruding stones at irregular intervals. She thought about the woman whose mortar bowl had worn the threshold stone smooth. Who had stood here every morning for however many years, preparing things for whoever came.

The healer had not known that the building would still be doing this three centuries later. She had not built it to last that long. She had built it to be good now, for the people who needed it now, with the knowledge she had now. The stone had held everything she put into it and then held it past her, the way the ghost-elm roots held the seed-storage slab past the people who had placed it. Not because they planned for three centuries. Because they built well for one year, and then another, and then another, and the good building accumulated into duration.

[Lay the Path] opened.

Not with the recognition of the prayer-notch -- that had been like a door she knew the shape of. This was different. Quieter. Steadier. As if the path had been there for a long time, patient, and she had simply finally walked to the end of it.

The bond formed at the healer's house.

She felt it in her hands first -- the palms she had pressed to the threshold stone, to the south window frame, to the back-wall niches. The sensation of stone that had been shaped for a purpose and had not forgotten the shaping. It traveled up her wrists and into her forearms and settled behind her breastbone, and when it arrived at the place where the other bonds lived, it did not sit beside them. It sat *between* them.

The threshold stone stirred.

She gasped. The [Dormant] warmth -- that deep, impersonal heat she had carried for days without variation -- shifted. Not awake. But no longer in dreamless sleep. More like a sleeper who hears a familiar voice and turns toward it without opening their eyes. The threshold stone recognized what was seating beside it, and the recognition traveled through the cluster's connective tissue and reached the prayer-notch, and the prayer-notch's [Tended] signature brightened -- the small persistent life in the dark suddenly aware that it was no longer the newest voice.

Three bonds in the same stone. Three traits in the same family. And the chord they made was not harmony the way music was harmony, not pleasant, not beautiful. It was harmony the way a wall was harmony -- three stones bearing weight together, each one holding a different angle of the same load. She could feel the load. She could feel what the cluster was *for*. Not yet -- not at Glimpsed depth, not with [Dormant] still sleeping. But the shape of the purpose was there, the way the shape of a building is present in its foundation before the walls go up.

[Kept]. She felt the trait's quality in her spine -- not warmth, not the small bright tending of the prayer-notch. Something denser. The specific endurance of a structure that holds through abandonment, through forest pressure, through centuries without repair. Not because it was built to be indestructible. Because it was built to be *good*, by someone who cared about doing good work, and the caring had calcified into the mineral itself.

The weight of a thing that has held.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  SYMPATHETIC BOND FORMED
  Location: Varethen — East Quadrant Secondary Structure
  Bond Depth: Glimpsed
  Trait Active: [Kept] — Elemental family
  Bond Type: Cluster Node 3 of ?
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Cluster map updated: 3 nodes bonded.

  [Kept]: This structure has maintained the conditions for
  its original function through 250 years of Thornwild
  pressure without active maintenance. The original act
  of care is present in the stone. What was built with
  intention holds intention.

  Glimpsed: +1 RSV

  ---- FIRST FULL-TRIAD RELAY ENABLED ----
  Varethen cluster: [Dormant] (ADP) + [Tended] (EMP)
                    + [Kept] (RSV)
  Three Elemental nodes. Three stat inflections.
  The cluster can now relay across all three simultaneously.
  During high-resonance events, the cluster functions as
  a single compound voice.

  Discoveries at bond: 3 (prior surveys logged here)
  Active Bonds: 5/? [Warden's Shelf, Warden's Eye,
                      Varethen — Threshold Stone,
                      Varethen — Prayer-Notch,
                      Varethen — East Secondary Structure]

  Network connections: 10 (geometric, 5 nodes)

  +75 XP (Cluster Node 3)
  Surveying: +3 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Ten connections.

She read the number and held it. Two bonds had been one connection. Three had been three. Four had been six. Five were ten. She had known this was coming -- she had calculated it at the prayer-notch, foreseen the fifth bond making ten. But knowing it and feeling it were different things. The network in her chest was not larger, exactly. It was more itself. More the thing it had always been trying to be.

She looked at the [Kept] trait. At the RSV notation. At the phrase *compound voice.*

She thought about what the cluster would say, when the pulse came.

She thought about the threshold stone. About six days.

She closed the journal and went back to camp.

---

The night survey was not planned.

She woke at the third hour past midnight -- not to a sound, not to the basin thrush, not to any signal she could name. She simply woke, and lay in the dark, and knew she needed to go back to the gap.

She dressed without light. She had walked the gap's perimeter four times now; she knew the trail well enough to navigate it by the ghost-elms' bark-shimmer, which was visible in the dark as a faint grey-green that was not quite bioluminescence and not quite phosphorescence but somewhere in between: the trees' own presence made visible in the absence of everything else.

The basin was a different place at night.

The insect chorus ran its altered count. The canopy was black against a grey-clouded sky. The ghost-elms on either side of the trail showed their bark-shimmer -- not bright, not enough to read by, but enough to navigate, enough to show her where the living trees were and where they weren't.

She reached the gap's eastern boundary.

The dead tree was a black absence in the shimmer's pattern. She had known it would be. She had known the living trees would give off their faint grey-green and the gap would be visible as the place where that light stopped. But the degree of difference caught her off guard -- the living trees' shimmer against the gap's darkness was more stark at night than any daylight survey had shown her. The gap was not just an absence of trees. It was an absence of that quality. A hole in the light.

She opened the compass.

The needle dipped south-southwest.

Not the question-dip of the morning. A direction. She oriented herself: south-southwest from the gap's eastern edge was toward the threshold stone, which was forty or fifty meters south-southwest from where she stood. The compass was not finding north. It was finding the anchor.

She stood still and let the bond network settle around her.

[Dormant]: the threshold stone, its warmth low and steady, the sleeping weight she carried at her sternum. She felt its position south-southwest, felt the distance, and then -- standing at the gap's eastern boundary at the third hour past midnight, with the dead tree's absence to her left and the living trees' shimmer to her right -- she felt something else.

A thinning.

Not the warmth going cold. Not the bond weakening. But the [Dormant] signature had a quality that was difficult to name: it was present, but there was less room for it here than there was fifty meters south. As if the space at the gap's boundary was already slightly occupied by something else, and the bond had to make itself narrower to fit.

She stepped one pace into the gap. Closer to the dead tree.

The thinning deepened. The [Dormant] warmth at her sternum contracted -- not fading but compressing, the same amount of warmth forced into a smaller space, like a fist closing around something it was determined not to drop. She could feel the effort. Not her effort -- the bond's. The threshold stone fifty meters south was sustaining its presence at her sternum, and between here and there, something was pressing on that connection. Squeezing it. Not with malice. With the indifferent pressure of a thing that occupied space and did not care what else needed that space.

She stepped back. The compression eased. The warmth spread to its normal diameter, settled to its normal weight. She breathed.

The suppression field did not block the bond. It compressed it. Made the bond's presence in this space smaller, thinner, more effortful to sustain. Not hostile occupation. Pressure. The difference mattered. A blocked bond would have been clean -- severed, absent, something she could diagnose and name. Compression was worse. Compression meant the bond was still there, still trying, still spending whatever a bond spent to maintain itself, but with less room to exist in. The way a root in compacted soil still grows but slower, thinner, using more energy for less reach.

She understood then what she had been calculating on paper.

During the pulse, that compression would be at its maximum. The suppression field would extend furthest. The anchor bond -- the threshold stone, the [Dormant] foundation of the whole cluster -- would be trying to sustain itself in a space where it had less room to be itself. Not broken. Strained.

A cluster without its anchor was not a cluster. It was three separate bonds that happened to be near each other.

She stood at the gap's boundary in the dark and let the knowledge land. The basin thrush did not call. The ghost-elms held their faint grey-green around her. The dead tree held its absence.

She got out her journal and wrote by the light of her small lantern, which was the wrong tool for this -- too small, too local -- but it was what she had.

*Day 12 / third hour. Gap eastern boundary. Suppression field confirmed at this range. ADP reading: [Dormant] thinned here -- compression, not severance. During pulse (Day 18): suppression maximum. Threshold stone (anchor) will be in compressed zone.*

*Rate: 1 degree per 4 days. At Day 18: 7.5 degrees. Suppression boundary at anchor's outer radius. Possibly inside it.*

*[Dormant] activates at Known depth. At Known depth, the anchor is not sleeping -- it is awake and present and sustaining. An awake anchor in the suppression zone holds differently than a sleeping one.*

*I have six days to reach Known depth at the threshold stone.*

She looked at what she had written. Then she wrote below it:

*I do not know if this is possible.*

Then, after a pause, in the same margin column as the countdown:

*I have not known if things were possible before.*

She closed the journal. She turned off the lantern. In the dark, the ghost-elms' grey-green shimmer was the clearest thing she could see -- the living border of a dead space, holding its light against the absence.

She walked back to camp.

---

She updated her journal by firelight. The camp was quiet -- Theron sleeping, the Thornwild breathing its night register, the pulse-phase insect count running lower than it had been a week ago.

She opened to the margin column.

*Day 4. 14 remain.*
*Day 5. 13 remain.*
*Day 9. 9 remain.*
*Day 11. 7 remain.*

She looked at the blank line below. She wrote:

*Day 12.*

The number in the journal's margin said six.
