“What?” Romer said with a start, looking over his shoulder and blinking at him. “Oh, hello Captain.” He returned his attention to the runes. “This is fascinating.”

A muffled groan came from within the vault.

“Tell your men to hurry it up,” said the man in green and blue, clearly having gotten over his trepidation. “He’s been in there for days, and these two are out here bloody studying!”

“Don’t worry,” Rain said as he glanced at him, paradoxically pleased at the rudeness. It was better than cowering. “What’s your name?”

“Nemen,” the man said tersely.

Rain nodded. “Nice to meet you, Nemen. I’m Rain. As I was saying, don’t worry. We’ve got this under control.” He shifted his gaze to Romer. “Romer, do we have this under control?”

“This is beyond me,” Romer said, looking up from his notebook, then getting to his feet and levering his free hand into his back as he stretched. “I’m just trying to learn what I can. If we can get it open without breaking—”

“Damn you!” Nemen shouted, whirling on him. “My friend is in there! This is no time for joking around. How can you be—“

“Hey!” Rain sharply interjected before continuing in a softer tone as he walked forward. “I said don’t worry.” He clapped a hand on Tallheart’s shoulder, a smile forming on his lips. “Grond will breach it.”

Tallheart rumbled, only now opening his eyes and taking his hand away from the vault wall. “That is not my name.”

“Grond, Grond, Grond,” Rain chanted, not a doubt in his mind.

Rumbling again, Tallheart brushed Rain’s hand from his shoulder, then crab-walked slightly closer to the door. He extended a single finger, then pressed, and his finger sunk into the steel below the door with a squeak. He then rose slowly, loudly carving his finger around the perimeter of the door as easily as if the vault had been made of wet sand. When he finished, the door settled into the gap with a clang. Before it could fall free, Tallheart grabbed it by the wheel in the center, then pulled it out like a stopper from a bottle. He set the door down against one of the stone columns with a dull clang, its runes still glowing.

“There,” he said, his antlers lightly scraping against the ceiling as he turned to face Romer. “Undamaged. You may study it at your leisure.”

“That works,” Romer replied, snapping his notebook closed.

“Make way,” Rain said, stepping forward and activating Purify.

The vault hadn’t been airtight, obviously, given that the occupant was still alive, but it had been airtight enough to keep the worst of the smell inside. Now that the seal was broken, there was nothing stopping it…or the truth of what the man inside had been forced to do.

Gods, I’m glad I’m done with that.

Perception-enhanced senses complaining loudly, Rain stepped through the door. The vault’s metal walls hungrily drank up the luminescent fog, but Rain simply boosted the power, kneeling beside the man sprawled on the ground between the shelves. He was wearing a brown robe, the color fortunately having nothing to do with the rapidly evaporating mess in the corner.

The Mage moaned weakly, having raised a hand to shield his eyes.

Three days without water. He’s probably only conscious because he’s awakened.

“Here,” Rain said, extracting a test-tube vial from a thigh compartment, then pulling out the cork. “Drink this. It’s a health potion. Anyone have a waterskin?”

“I do,” Nemen said, not having room to cram himself into the vault behind Rain. He passed it over Rain’s shoulder, and Rain took it while the prone man spluttered on the syrupy potion.

“Sorry, it’s concentrated,” Rain said, holding out the waterskin. “Here.”

The Mage grabbed it, eagerly raising it to his lips and practically pouring the contents down his throat. He choked, coughing and slopping water down the front of his newly-cleaned robe, only for it to be evaporated away by Rain’s spell. Clothing was not supposed to be wet while worn. That was a bit of a stretch for Purify, but Rain had come a long way since the time he’d been drenched in slime in the sewers below Fel Sadanis. With how much power he was shoving into the spell at the moment, convincing the magic to wipe away a little dampness was no trouble at all for his practiced will.

Rain looked around while the man was busy taking a second, more controlled draw from the skin. The shelves glittered, anything and everything metallic reacting to his ongoing magic. The back wall in particular caught his eye. Three shelves practically shone in his sight, loaded with silver bars about the size and shape of smartphones, stacked three-high in double rows.

Rain whistled to himself softly.

Those are Bank issue.

In day-to-day dealings, most people stuck to copper coinage—or copper and iron, if you were the kind of person who liked paying with exact change and holding up the line at the grocery store. The largest denomination of copper was a small bar, a little bigger than a domino, and it was worth fifty of the common, one-copper pieces. After that, it switched to silver.

Incidentally, there was no point in trying to melt down coinage to exploit the difference between its fiat value and that of the metal it was made from. Rain had asked. It turned out that the Bank didn’t use pure metals, but instead alloys containing Tel, which, in addition to being more durable and immune to corrosion, would shatter into nothing if overly damaged. It was a tidy solution to the dual problems of counterfeiting and coin clipping, he supposed, cleverly exploiting the rules of the world to make a system that didn’t need much in the way of oversight.

It almost made up for the non-decimal insanity. Almost.

Two copper bars made a single small silver coin—or just a ‘silver,’ in the same way the small copper coins were ‘coppers.’ Five small silvers made a large silver, or a ‘ring,’ the name coming from the hole stamped in the center of the coin. Four rings made an ‘orb,’ which was a patterned sphere of silver about the size of a gumball, because screw you.

Seriously. Somebody at the Bank in times of yore was sadistic.

Rain shook his head, then looked back at the shelves. A silver bar was worth two orbs and two rings, making this a lot of money. It was hard to assign dollar values to things, given the wildly varying cost of goods and services when comparing an industrial society to a magical one, but the figure Rain liked to use was $2 per small copper. Doing the math, that made one silver bar worth about $10,000, provided that you were only buying stew.

Rain smiled, recalling the irritated look on the waitress’s face when he’d paid for that meal in Tel. Then he finished his count, and his smile widened.

Five hundred and four bars, so about five million dollars. Wow, okay. I’ve come a long way from that day in Fel Sadanis. Granted, my conversion rate is suspect, but it gives me a rough idea of what I’m working with. How about GranTel? One GranTel is worth…three silver bars…ish, so… Huh, wait a minute. Is that why they’re stacked three high? Eh, maybe not. Price of Tel varies. Probably a coincidence. Anyway, one hundred sixty-eight GranTel is at least as close as five million dollars.

…

Hot damn, piracy pays well. Good thing, too. With all the Tel we’ve been burning through, this should add some nice backing for the credit system. Anyway, fiscal policy later. Looks like he’s ready to talk.

Lowering the empty waterskin, the Nature Mage looked up at Rain and scrubbed at his mouth. He cleared his throat, then spoke in a scratchy voice. “Thanks.”

“You’re welcome,” Rain replied, watching as the man got to his feet. He moved to help, but the man waved him away.

“Who are you?” the Mage asked, using one of the shelves for support. “And what’s that magic you’re using? Are you—” he licked his lips. “Are you with the Empire?”

Realizing that Purify was still active, Rain let the spell fade, backing out of the vault as he replied. “My name is Rain, that was the best spell ever, and no, I’m not with the Empire. Anyway, come on out. Your friend was worried about you.”

“Are you okay?” Nemen asked hurriedly, having been hovering behind Rain’s back, too short to see over his shoulder.

The Nature Mage relaxed significantly. “Nemen? Gods. Yes, I’m okay. Just a little unsteady.”

“Here, let me help you,” Nemen said, offering him a hand to help him through the carved hole where the vault door had been. Once the Mage was safely through the opening, he brushed himself off, then immediately did a double-take, snapping an arm up to point at Tallheart.

“C—cervidian!”

Tallheart recoiled as if he’d seen a snake. “H—human!” he exclaimed, pointing right back.

After a perfectly held pause, Tallheart dropped his arm, his face becoming stone once more.

“That is how you sound.”

Once Rain stopped laughing, he flashed Tallheart a quick thumbs-up, then addressed the Mage. “Captain Bakal asked me to get you out. He didn’t tell me your name, though.”

“Lellermen Green,” the Mage replied, sounding a bit overwhelmed. “Just Green is fine.”

“Green, then,” Rain replied. “Is that a family name?”

Green shook his head. “From my class.”

“Ah,” Rain said. “Anyway, Green, the city’s a bit crazy right now, and I’ve got a lot to do tonight. If you’re up to walking, I can take you back to Captain Bakal’s place. Before I do, though, a couple questions. First, and most importantly, do you want to go there?”

“Uh,” Green replied, hesitating. “Yeah, sure.”

Rain frowned behind his visor. “I’ll be more direct. Do you serve Bakal willingly, or has he coerced you somehow?”

“What?” Green asked. “No, I just work for him.”

“He pays you?” Rain insisted. “How much?”

Green glanced at the open vault, then back at Rain, then to the silver plate dangling from Rain’s neck. “Yeah, he does,” he said, his eyes narrowing. “Are you trying to make a better offer?”

Rain shook his head. “Nothing like that, and by the way, feel free to keep what’s in your pockets. You deserve it after being trapped in there. Anyway, I’d rather not piss off Bakal, especially with what we just…well, you’ll see. I just wanted to make sure I wasn’t returning you to slavery or anything.”

“Uh…no,” Green said. “Nothing like that. He paid for my class, but I’ve been free of that debt for ages. I stay because I want to.”

“Good, good,” Rain replied, catching Romer’s eye. “Romer, can you start filling some of these crates, please? I’ll have the others upstairs come down to help. Tallheart, guard everyone and make sure they get to the clinic safely, yeah? I wouldn’t put it past someone to try something. People are stupid. I’ll have Nails tell Vanna to send another team for backup, just in case.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“So much to do, so much to do,” Rain said with a sigh, heading for the stairs and beckoning for the Nature Mage to follow. “Come along, you two. Say, Green, about that class of yours. While we walk, would you mind if I asked you just a few questions? Can you, like, make plants grow super fast, or…?”
