Okay. Alden could go there. Your skill was you, so it didn’t go away when you weren’t using it. Even when you fatigued a part of yourself, it didn’t disappear or empty out like a gas tank.

Alden was The Bearer of All Burdens even if he’d gotten too exhausted to make reality bend to his will. He was continuing to exist in reality, so in some way, no matter how little magic he was doing, he was still a place on the map of the universe imbued with unique qualities. And those qualities could presumably affect or be perceived by other things that existed.

Still, what he’s saying is amazing. It’s like me meditating on the nature of my skill and…having luggage feel drawn toward me?

Vatha were clearly more suited to being entranced than inanimate objects were. He was impressed anyway.

“That’s special,” he said. “You have a sign that you’ve chosen your skill well.”

He meant it earnestly. It was something he wished he could say to himself more often than he was able to. And Stuart wanted people to compliment his skill choice so much he’d let Alden write unsigned words of encouragement in the back of the study journal—the one nobody else would comment on—before he returned it to the library.

So Alden wasn’t at all prepared for Bithe to stand and look down on him, his tired eyes suddenly alive with something fiery as he said, “Many people choose beautiful skills for themselves without receiving signs.”

Alden froze, one hand suddenly going white-knuckled on a fence rail, stomach tightening. “I apologize. I didn’t mean to say the wrong—”

“If you don’t know the right thing to say, then stop <<mutilating>> our language just to make wind.”

What did I do? He’s so mad at me. Was the word “signs” insulting somehow?

He was so upset that Bithe was so upset that he didn’t realize the others had noticed the situation until Stuart sprang in between the two of them, brimming with outrage if his posture and the wand in his hand were anything to go by.

“You are making a lot of wind with your mouth, and it has the <<putrescent smell>> of wind from a lower <<bodily orifice>>!”

Yeah, that’s outrage.

Alden jumped up. “Stu—”

“You mock someone for sharing thoughts of admiration—”

“Stuart—”

“Do not grab my face now!” Stuart cried, which made Alden realize he had been about to grab his enraged defender from behind to prevent him from being hurt by the volatile moth man.

Stuart was on a roll. “You should feel—!”

Shame, thought Alden

“Shame,” intoned Stuart in a bizarrely deep and resonant voice, like the judgement was welling up from the center of his being to claim its victim.

“I’m fine,” Alden said. “I’m sorry I said…whatever I said that wasn’t correct.”

Deescalating verbally was the only way, since he’d been forbidden from face grabbing.

Before Bithe could reply, Ryada leaped off the fence and landed on his back,  wrapping her arms and legs around him while he tried to shrug her off.

“He should feel shame.” Her deep note would have been pretty impressive coming out of a human dude, but it was flat compared to the weird one Stuart had just done. “Shame. Shaaame.”

She coughed after the third attempt.

“Bithe, are you unwell?” Emban was frowning at her squadmates.

Bithe seemed to have decided that trying to peel Ryada off him was either dangerous or undignified because he’d gone still. It made him look like he was wearing a living backpack.

“I made a similar comment when you told me about the vatha,” said Emban. “It didn’t seem to bother you then. I thought you were proud of it.”

Stuart drew himself even straighter, perhaps deeming Bithe more shameworthy than ever since the knight was capable of taking skill compliments from people who weren’t language mutilators.

Damn, that one’s going to sting for a while.

Alden was already feeling less like he must have done something wrong, since the others didn’t think what he’d said was bad. But he’d been forgetting more and more that he probably sounded clumsy and dumb to an Artonan who wasn’t inclined to be generous. Most of them were inclined to appreciate the effort, so he’d stopped being self-conscious about using some of the harder words that he knew but had trouble getting his mouth around.

“I’m not unwell,” Bithe muttered, both eyes drifting away from Emban toward the field.

“Then your shame must be worth bellowing about after all,” Ryada said. “Or is this just another sign your skill is well-chosen? It is! You mesmerized a young Ryeh-b’t into speaking to you and then burned him. Bithe is sorry everybody. Or he should be.”

The silence that followed was too long, and Bithe turned a lost look toward Ryada and Emban before finally deciding to face Alden again.

“I am sorry for my harshness. Your comment had no cruel intention or wrong meaning behind it. I must be tired.”

Alden found the apology a little weak, but Bithe did look tired. And Emban looked concerned now instead of excited about their day. And Stuart… Stuart’s auriad was wrapped around the hand that didn’t have the wand in it. What in the universe was he going to do? Turn Bithe into a wevvi fruit with one hand and then press it into juice with the other as revenge for a verbal assault?

Maybe this was what Lind-otta had meant when she asked him to be patient with moody younger knights.

“I’m well,” Alden said, smiling around at everyone. “If we’re all fine, let’s have a good day together.”

Ryada released her grip on her squadmate. “That’s what I want to do, too. By the way, Alden, my skill is Life to Water. Transformer of Life to Water. If I touch someone and they turn into a puddle, don’t praise me. It’s not like the vatha. That would be an unfortunate accident, and as our votary, Stu would be obligated to drink the <<evidence of crime>>.”

Bithe stared at her blankly.

Stuart shook his head at Alden. Whether that was to indicate that no people would be in danger of puddling or to say he would not cover up a death in that manner, only he knew.

Emban smiled at the joke.

The morning regained a semblance of normalcy after that, except for Alden’s brain being subjected to its third sunrise of the day when it was sure he was supposed to be having nighttime.

He let Stuart realign the wooden pins on the shoulder of his shirt; they marked him as an attachment to the knights, so that they’d be honored by any good deeds he did. Then he filmed himself feeding a worm to the o’odee that preferred humans because Bithe had walked up to him, silently handed him the worm, then gone off to stand alone by the road.

Was moth summoning no longer possible due to his mood? That was a mystery Alden would not be asking about.

But he had been given a worm, and Kibby needed cool videos, and Emilija needed more pictures of birds to make fun of on Trime because that was the only thing Trime was good for.

I’ll post these after I get an official summons next year, he thought, trying to find his o’odee’s most flattering angle. That way everyone will assume it was normal Rabbit stuff and not wonder how I’m getting alien ostrich photos right now.

“What kind of votary points his casting tools at his knight instead of at the source of his knight’s distress?” Ryada’s voice, lighthearted, called Alden’s attention toward her, Emban, and Stuart.

“One who knows to aim at the knight’s problem even if the problem is the knight himself,” Stuart said firmly.

Nice one.

“They’re coming.” Finally, Bithe’s self-imposed road watching had been rewarded.

Alden took a few more pictures before he went to join the others by the pavement.

“My feelings will be hurt if nobody stops this time,” said Ryada.

“They’ll stop,” Emban said. “It looks like a large…I don’t actually know what that is.”

“I don’t know what that is either,” said Bithe. “A farm machine?”

He’s interested in tractors. Go figure.

“Alden, do you have your inhaler?”

“I haven’t lost it. I’ll use it when I need to.” He’d need to. The temperature was rising noticeably.

When he got a better look at what was coming down the road, Bithe’s interest made more sense. An entire caravan of vehicles was on the way, led by a thingamabob that looked more like a nest of purposeful metal arachnids than a tractor.

“I don’t want to ride on that one,” Alden said. “If I’m given an option.”

All of a sudden, the others were making him feel like he was supposed to be anxious. They were checking hair, rings, and belts. Brushing off specks he couldn’t see. Bithe was practicing what sounded like a different formal greeting than the one he’d used when arriving at the siblinghold.

[Is everyone nervous?] he texted Stuart, who had waited to make sure the caravan was slowing down for them before he took a few steps back to join Alden behind the knights.

“They want to be close to perfection,” Stuart murmured so low Alden had to lean nearer to him to hear over the clatter of the arachnid nest against the hard surface of the road. “They’ve never presented themselves at something like this—as knights instead of youthful members of the wizard class. The expectations are different.”

[I’m sorry about what happened with Bithe. He gave me a worm, so I guess we’re all right with each other now. But if he seems to be upset I’m here again, you know it’s fine to ask me to teleport away. If you need to.]

Stuart turned a look he hadn’t expected on him. Calm. Focused. “You are never in the way, Alden.”

The caravan was stopping except for a couple of things that looked like surfboards with sails made of light, their riders shouting out apologies as they shot past.

“Ha! Well met on the road! Well met! I gave those women the <<windmemorizers>> from my collection. Beautiful memorizers! I do not think I mentioned how to stop them. Say, ‘Fold!’ Say, ‘Fold!’”

The man shouting at the ladies on the unstoppable surfboards was probably a wizard, since he was giving out magical tools. It would have been hard to tell from his outfit alone. He was wearing less of one than was usual. Just unembroidered white harem pants. No shirt. No shoes.

He stood on the roof of an automated riding cart that would have fit right in at LeafSong if not for the pink and yellow streamers tied to it and making firecracker sounds as they flapped. It was overloaded with people who didn’t look like they belonged together, from a woman holding wiggling, neatly-dressed twin toddlers to a man with mud all over one side of a pair of coveralls.

“They’ll probably be fine!” the wizard decided. “It is a delight to meet you! I’m Leeter-zis. A visitor in this place and a professional celebrant!”

“Alden, that is not a profession,” Stuart whispered.

Alden appreciated the information in this case because celebrant sounded like a profession the Artonans might invent.

“The sun is up! My stripes are out! These people of the Triplanets go today to free themselves from their village master, and we meet knights on the road! What fortune!”

He stomped on the top of the golf cart, and the people inside exchanged glances. The woman holding the twins passed them over to an adolescent beside her, and climbed out of the cart. People were leaning out of vehicles or emerging to get a better look at the knights.

Alden tried to pretend he was shorter and less obvious.

“Ones of power,” said the woman, giving Ryada, Emban, and Bithe each a bow in turn. “We and many others go to a new home. The way may be long and dangerous.”

Ryada broke into a wide smile.  “We will spend our strength for the whole of that length and against any dangers if you would welcome us to walk with you.”

She said the words loudly so that they carried to everyone.

An excited murmur rose in response, like all the ordinary class people really had thought that this bunch of knights just happened to be standing by the road for their own mysterious reasons instead of because they wanted to participate.

“We welcome you!” the woman said, bowing again. “Thank you! Our village master will be so honored you came.”

Soon, people were offering seats and rooftops to the knights. Ryada looked thrilled, Emban gracious, and Bithe paralyzed by the social conundrum of having two villagers trying to persuade him into their trucks at the same time.

Alden and Stuart were being ignored for now. Someone had just started singing a song that went, “Here, this land, my former home…” and it was getting picked up by others.

“Did you just see those windmemorizers go off the road ahead?” Alden asked.

“I do see them. The riders appear to know how to turn, lift, and speed up. But not stop.” Stuart raised an eyebrow in the direction of Mr. Stripes Out Professional Celebrant. “They may be afraid of leaping off and leaving his possessions to crash. I think they’re circling toward us through the field. You and I will stop them if nobody else helps.”

Alden nodded. “Stuart, send me what you’re reading. The parts you like anyway.”

Stuart stopped watching Stripes Out gyrate around the farm equipment. “Do you mean the…”

“The friendship contract examples. Stories about legendary friends. Whatever it is that’s important to you. If you’re thinking about it, I can think about it. You don’t have to keep it to yourself just because I’m human.”

Stuart nodded, but he didn’t answer until the windmemorizers were almost back. “I will put my thoughts in a study journal,” he said. “If that is all right with you.”
