“A dungeon? Ach…” Thuli said, scratching the back of his head.

“Yes,” Ali answered. “It’s a fire and lava dungeon, and just being inside it is extremely deadly. I was wondering if you know how to make any gear with fire resistance?” The dungeon had two fire-aligned mana affinities: the general fire one, and the specialized fire-earth hybrid of lava. The interaction between the two produced a synergistic effect that burned everything within its domain. If it weren’t so painful, it would be endlessly fascinating to study. In the back of her mind, Ali connected with her Hobgoblin boss’s senses, studying the fight with yet another of the endless fire elementals – mostly to keep an eye on things.

“Aye, fire resistance is not a problem. Fire-aligned enchants take to my Fireforged steel like fish ta water. The problem is the materials – I need a source of concentrated fire affinity to create it, and those are quite expensive and hard to find in this town.”

“What about this?” Malika said, producing the Lesser Essence of Fire with the flair of a marketplace conjurer aiming to liberate coins from purses. Ali could smell the faint scent of cooking meat as it danced beautifully on her hand, the bright trickle of soul mana the only sign that Malika was actually healing herself to hold the dangerous essence.

“Oh! Now there’s a pretty thing,” Thuli exclaimed, his eyes widening as they took in the orange-red glints of the essence. “Where did you get that?”

“From the fire dungeon this morning,” Malika answered.

“Will it work?” Ali asked. It would certainly be a stroke of good fortune if they had already acquired the crafting component they needed.

“That is perfect,” Thuli answered, reaching out to take the essence of flame. He held it up, examining it carefully, and Ali was surprised to notice that he was not burnt in the slightest. A perk of his ember affinity? It would certainly be convenient – and logical – for a blacksmith to have resistance to incredible heat and flame.

“We’ll need a new plate armor for Mato,” Ali said. “And plate for my Hobgoblin, and some chain mail for the shamans. Oh, and a couple of shields with fire resistance…” She was assuming that shields could take fire resistance enchantments simply because they were the other item that could be made with innate magical resistance – just like her orb. Her Hobgoblin and her shamans both used shields.

“Hold up, lassie, this here essence is good for one piece. And only for a moderate enchantment. If ya want that much work, you will need a lot more than just this.”

“Oh…” She truly didn’t understand how crafting worked. Probably because her dungeon magic typically shortcut all the complex material components and skills that went into creating a novel piece. But, of course, the drawback was she could only duplicate something she had studied and learned – it took skilled crafters like Thuli to create custom orders.

“I have another one,” Malika said, producing another self-sustaining flame and offering it to the Dwarf.

“Ach… then I’ll start with the wee Beastkin,” Thuli grinned, tossing the essence from one hand to the other. “Kavé! Let’s get to work! Off with ya lot. Come back in three days. Kavé!”

“Looks like we will have to farm the Shards of Flame for a few days,” Calen said thoughtfully as they all filed out of the smithy.

“Yup,” Malika agreed. “We need to check on Ali’s Hobgoblin regularly too; the essences don’t stick around for very long if you don’t store them.”

Switching to the eyes of her Hobgoblin, Ali searched the ground. “She killed two more elementals.” As she watched, the shamans unleashed their lightning and Ali received a notification.

Your minions have defeated Shard of Flame – Elemental – level 43 (Fire).Martial Insight has reached level 30.

“No, three now. Ooh, and I just reached level thirty in Martial Insight,” Ali said.

“Cool,” Mato said. “Wait, we’re not even there…”

“Are you serious?” Calen asked, stopping dead in the middle of the street to stare at her.

“Yes?” Ali said, not immediately grasping the significance.

“That changes everything!” Calen gasped. “You can level up without even being there! That’s incredible. I’ve never heard of anything like that!”

“Don’t get too excited, Calen,” Malika grinned. “She’s a dungeon – that’s what her class does. It’s not particularly surprising she earns experience for it. And besides, she didn’t get a hundred levels overnight.”

“I just got one level in Martial Insight,” Ali said, realizing what had gotten Calen so riled up. “My boss has been fighting elementals almost constantly.” Not to mention, her wolves and bats had been tangling regularly with undead in the Forest Cavern and she still wasn’t swimming in experience.

“Aww,” Calen said. “I can’t leave stray arrows lying around and monsters will step on them and I’ll get experience?”

Malika chuckled, “Monster pit traps, maybe?”

“I don’t think I’m in much danger, save by rampant nearby silliness,” Ali responded, quirking her lips as she puzzled through it. “Mostly my minions are killing very low leveled undead, and this is the first time I was watching the Hobgoblin remotely…”

“With low risk, the gain is probably small,” Malika said.

“Even a small trickle with low risk is amazing,” Calen said, returning to his more normal quiet calm.

“I think I need to observe the fight,” Ali mused. Her Martial Insight, at least, explicitly said so in the description.

Perhaps it was fortunate then that the fire dungeon insisted on respawning the Fire Elementals and spewing them out into the jungle in a continuous dungeon-break. It would be easy to monitor the fights constantly. Fighting the elementals outside the intense domain was manageable, if hard, and hopefully, once they built up enough fire resistance, they would be able to survive the flames of the dungeon itself long enough to look for the Forge and earn some good experience along the way. She needed the levels if she was to ever resolve her mana shortage.

This must be the place, Malika thought, gazing at the outside of what had to be a converted warehouse in one of the cheaper districts of town – not quite the slums, but far from the places the nobles frequented. The wooden sidings on the building looked like they had needed replacing several years ago, and there was even evidence of scorch marks on some of the walls where a fire had been hastily put out and the damage just barely patched up. However, the sign over the door had been freshly painted.

Densmore Dance Academy.

Malika walked up to the door, pulled it open to the sound of a musical chime, and stepped into a small reception hallway. Immediately, she heard the sounds of a waltz coming from somewhere beyond the entryway.

The woman sitting at the desk immediately glanced up and greeted her, “Welcome in. How can I help?”

“Hi, I’m Malika,” she said, studying the woman. She wore her chestnut hair in a high ponytail, and she was dressed in stylish athletic black. “I have an appointment with Polina?”

“Oh, hi, Malika. I’m Polina Densmore,” she said, getting to her feet. “Come, let me show you around first before we get started.”

“Ok,” Malika said, but her attention was riveted to the energy coursing through the woman’s body. While it was not nearly as powerful as Rezan, she matched him in efficiency and control. Every movement oozed poise and grace and even without the ability to identify her directly, Malika would have known she was a professional dancer.

“You can see?” Polina asked.

“Stamina,” Malika confirmed.

“That will help a lot,” Polina smiled, leading her to an open doorway. “This is the main ballroom. No street shoes, please.”

The ballroom was a wide-open expanse of gorgeous wooden floors – completely at odds with the building’s exterior. Not a single copper had been spared in making this space. At the far end, several chairs were arranged around small circular tables, and three couples whirled around the dance floor with obviously diverse skill levels.

Malika sat and quickly removed the Pathfinder Initiate Boots Calen had brought back from Ciradyl for her, wincing at the loss of speed and dexterity, and placed them in an empty cubbyhole along with her socks, and then joined Polina as they wove their way past the dancers to a smaller room at the back.

“This is the room I use for private lessons,” Polina said. It had an equally beautiful floor and an entire wall had been converted to a mirror. She shut the door behind Malika and the sounds of the music and dancers faded – presumably the result of an expensive sound ward. “Why don’t we talk a little about your goals first?”

“Well,” Malika said, considering how to approach it. “I’m a monk, and I have combat skills that are mainly dexterity-based but have the Dancing general skill. Occasionally my dancing skill levels up from combat, and I wanted to find out if it was possible to improve my fighting ability by working on my dancing. Is that actually a thing?” Her mother had encouraged her to pursue dancing, but back then she hadn’t really considered how it might work.

“Of course,” Polina said. “Dancing is an understanding of one’s body, momentum, balance, and rhythm. I have trained many people like yourself who want to improve one of these aspects for combat.”

“Ok,” Malika said. “So, what do we do? I don’t know waltz or any of the fancy ballroom dances…”

“For your goals, I’d recommend modern or contemporary – at least, for now,” Polina said. “Something solo that we can use to explore your own sense and style before we get into partner dancing.”

“That sounds good.”

“Ok, how about this…” Polina said, making some adjustments to a device on a small table in the corner. After a few moments, the small dance room filled with the sounds of an upbeat, popular rhythm.

And then she moved.

Malika could only stare at the incredible, if brief, performance. Her movement did not merely follow the music, it was the music. Every single muscle worked in harmony, a delicate flow of stamina that pulsed in time with the beat as her body performed feats of understated strength and balance that Malika couldn’t even believe.

“Aah… you want me to do that?”

“Of course,” Polina said, grinning at her. “It will be fun. Here, let’s begin with the first step. First, place your foot forward like this, and then put half your weight on it.”

A little uncertainly, Malika did as she asked.

“Turn your foot out a little more to accept your weight,” Polina suggested, bending down and pushing her foot into a slightly more ‘correct’ position. Then she adjusted Malika’s shoulders and lifted her arms. “Better. A touch more arch in your back… good. Now, you said you can see stamina. Try to copy this.”

Two hours later, Malika left the dance studio feeling entirely wrung out and drained. Not even Rezan’s exacting drills had pushed her this far. Muscles that she didn’t even know she had were trembling with exhaustion, but she smiled broadly as she made her way back to the guild.

It had been nothing like she expected. Studying the movement patterns with Soul Sight and trying to duplicate them in her own body had pushed her mind and body equally hard. Malika extended her arm in the swooping gesture she had been struggling with so much, rotating her wrist like she had been taught and reaching to create maximum stretch. This would be so good for the new recruits. I should get Vivian to make them sign up for lessons – at least the ones who want to try for an agility-based class. Heck, even the strength-based warriors could learn a thing or two about balance and the transfer of power. She chuckled at the image of Mato prancing around the dance floor to the music in his Bear Form. Polina would probably make him wear protective socks on his paws, so he didn’t rip up that fancy wooden floor with his claws.

Dancing has reached level 9 (+3).

Maybe next time I’ll try that waltz… and turn into a dancing tank? Hmm.

As she turned a corner, the back of her neck suddenly prickled. A watcher? She scanned her surroundings surreptitiously but saw nothing out of place. Odd. She knew these streets like the back of her hand. Maybe that little dance move had attracted attention? When the premonition did not recur, Malika shook her head and walked on purposefully, turning her thoughts to more pressing matters.

You have entered the Grand Library Arcana.All Learning and Knowledge magic is enhanced by 10%

“So, tell me, what did you like about Ciradyl?” Lira asked, arranging the cups on the table, and pouring the tea for each of them. She had been excited to help with Calen and Ryn’s language lessons and had immediately switched to conversing with both exclusively in Elvish.

Ali smiled and sipped on her tea as she corrected Calen’s grammar and pronunciation and helped him find the correct words. They were both progressing rapidly, but she was certain Calen was on the cusp of making a breakthrough. Surprisingly, her Sage of Learning would periodically nibble at her mana while she taught – although, she assumed that was simply due to her making deeper connections for her own language due to the process of organizing clear explanations in her mind.

She loved teaching and watching both of them grow. It was an activity she only rarely experienced growing up, given that she had always been a student in a city full of masters and experts. But now her friends needed her, and she looked forward to their sit-down sessions in the library, practicing language. It didn’t hurt that the library enchantment she had repaired was helping them.

“You need to conjugate it the other way,” she suggested. “And the word you’re looking for might be ‘splendor’, ‘magnificent’, or perhaps ‘astounding’.” Just like Lira, she spoke exclusively in Elvish – both her students having advanced enough that the challenge would be helpful.

Calen tried again. He was describing the Well of Souls, an artifact of some significance she had gathered. Quickly, she corrected the pronunciation again and he spoke the sentence correctly. Suddenly his face registered surprise and Ali’s chime sounded.

“I got it!” he exclaimed in Elvish, an expression of delight replacing the surprise.

