Sage of Learning has reached level 21.Requirements met for skill advancement.Sage of Learning has reached at least level 20.Taught someone a new language.Repaired the Grand Library Arcana’s Learning and Knowledge runic enchantment.Practice teaching within the Grand Library Arcana.Intelligence has surpassed 220.Sage of Learning gains Teaching Sage.Sage of Learning – level 21Your ability to learn languages, magical systems, history, and similar academic knowledge is significantly enhanced. You have enhanced memory for the content you have studied.Mana: Channel mana and uninterrupted focus to enhance Sage of Learning while studying. Cognitive function, memory, and reading are enhanced in speed and clarity. Mana: Channel mana while teaching to share your Sage of Learning’s passive ability with your student. Arcane, Knowledge, Channeled, Perception, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

“Congratulations,” Ali said, enjoying Calen’s excitement. It was no surprise that Calen had been the first to make the breakthrough – even though both of their classes thrived on intelligence, his was at the higher level.

As she glanced over in his direction, she noticed Lira eyeing her with curiosity.

“I got something, too,” she admitted, sharing her advancement.

“That seems to be an excellent skill,” Lira said.

“Yes, I like it,” she answered. Something about it resonated with her – perhaps it was simply the enjoyment she had experienced teaching Ryn and Calen. “But it doesn’t help with my mana problems or make me stronger for defending my domain.” She was still critically low on mana and would probably lose several of her minions if she allowed her Empowered Summoner to drop. And she had the periodic touch of the dungeon-rage, and the regular stream of background notifications to remind her that she was still under continuous attack.

“Not everything should be about growth and power,” Lira said, allowing a frown to pass across her brow. “If only I were not so diminished… if only I could help more, then you would be free to focus on sharing knowledge. That is what I would wish for you – I believe that sharing makes the world and the people around you better, more capable, and stronger. Time invested in teaching others is never wasted.”

How does she do that? As usual, Lira had seen through to the core of who she was, her words resonating powerfully with the kind of person Ali aspired to be. Killing Roderik, or the disruptor mage had been an uncomfortable necessity – and one she was learning to cope with, without hesitation. But it was teaching and learning that truly inspired her – fixing the library enchantment, saving Lira, teaching Calen Elvish, and even seeing Havok, Ryn, and Basil growing with powerful new classes that she had helped them achieve – all of these filled her with joy and a deep sense of satisfaction.

“You have already done so much,” Ali said.

“What have I done? It is you who have saved me. I live only on your providence.”

“You keep the forest above the library safe, driving off any monsters,” Ali said.

“That is but a trifling thing. If I still had my forest…” Lira trailed off with a grimace of fresh pain.

“You will recover your strength in time,” Ali said. “Besides, it is your advice that has helped me the most. I believe I will take this one, then.” She accepted the advancement with a clear conscience, but more than that, she now understood why she would offer her shrine to the people of Myrin’s Keep, regardless of the potential for negative or dangerous attention.

“It is the least I can do, dear,” Lira answered, but the grimace and frown slowly faded from her face.

The guild hall was smaller than Rezan had expected, certainly much smaller and less ostentatious than the Adventurers Guild in Vertias. His eyes took in all the little details, carefully evaluating everything. While the guild in Myrin’s Keep seemed small, he noticed the smiles on the faces of the low-level adventurer party sharing a meal at the bar while they chatted about their exploits. One of them, to his surprise, was a Goblin with an unusual holy mana signature, but the Goblin’s familiarity with his companions spoke clearly for his acceptance as an equal in their group. Even the easy price haggling at the store that they had placed within the guild hall, and the care with which the entire room had been arranged was not what he had expected.

I hope this is not a mistake, he thought, stepping across the threshold, followed by Sabri. Basir and Hala entered behind them, taking up positions on either side of Sabri, as if to protect the smaller girl. It had been a hard ride, and they hadn’t even stopped to refresh themselves when they reached Myrin’s Keep, heading straight for the guild, so he was sore and covered with dust and sweat. But his dignity would have to take a back seat, Sabri had a little less than two days left.

He strode up to the desk and the elegantly dressed Elven woman looked up at him as he arrived.

Spy – Sun Elf – level 51 (Mind)

Mind magic? Whatever this guild was, it was certainly breaking every expectation he had had.

“Welcome travelers,” she said. “I’m Mieriel, the guild administrator, how may I help you?” Her mana flickered quickly and in a complex formation, and the others seemed briefly disoriented, but his own energy simply disrupted the low-level magic before it reached him.

“Sorry, bad habit,” she said, having the decency to blush with embarrassment.

“Is the Guildmaster, Vivian Ross available?” Rezan asked flatly, recalling the name Malika had given him. A lifetime’s discipline kept a frown off his face, but the woman must clearly have sensed his reaction.

“She is training the aspirants; she should be done soon. May I say who is looking for her?”

“I am Elder Rezan. We have come from Kezda in northern Toria. Malika said I could speak with the Guildmaster about using a class shrine.”

“Oh, yes, I was told to expect you. Please make yourselves comfortable, I’ll go let the Guildmaster know you’re here,” Mieriel said.

Rezan took a seat on a soft couch to wait, studying the guild hall as he dismissed his mild annoyance at the luxurious seating and rather, took in details about the adventurers and the wares displayed in the small store. His senses ranged further, searching through the building. In a training room below, he found her – an intense brightness of someone perhaps nearing their first evolution. She must be the Guildmaster.

It didn’t take long before they began moving toward the stairwell, and he noted with pride how quickly his disciples reacted to the powerful energy, first Hala and then Basir.

But what emerged from the stairwell was a procession of unclassed people carrying basic training swords and daggers, chatting rowdily amongst themselves, followed by Mieriel.

The woman who emerged, following the Elf, had braided black hair and carried her swords openly on her hip, rather than in a spatial storage enchantment. But what was most striking about her was the powerful energy within and surrounding her body. Rezan immediately recognized someone well-trained in combat. She would be a formidable foe on the battlefield. But her energy seemed twisted and warped. Damaged. Not as bad as Malika had been when he had first met her, but something was definitely amiss – it was only when he saw her level that he understood. Rezan rose to his feet as they approached, meeting her eyes and finding them exactly as sharp and powerful as her aura suggested.

“Welcome, Elder,” she said, making a close approximation of a respectful bow between peers. “I am Vivian Ross, the Guildmaster of this little guild. How may I help you?”

“Guildmaster,” he greeted, returning the bow. “I was hoping to speak with the Fae, Aliandra. I understand she is a member of your guild – it is a matter of some urgency.” The Guildmaster’s eyes flickered to Sabri and then back to his.

“Why don’t we have a seat? I assume this is about class advancement?”

“Yes,” he answered warily. It was perhaps unfortunate that Malika had shared so much with this woman, as it severely limited his ability to negotiate effectively.

“Mieriel said you’ve come all the way from Kezda?”

“That is correct.”

“You come a long way then,” she said. “I assume shrine access in Vertias has become too expensive?”

“Yes, you have understood my position accurately,” Rezan winced, and his grimace actually made it onto his face, earning a surprised look from the perceptive Hala, sitting nearby.

“You are in a tough position,” Vivian continued, pointing out what was clearly obvious, “to be forced to seek help from a kingdom that is technically at war with your own.”

He schooled his face. Even if she was going to try to take advantage of his position, it was not appropriate to lose composure. Although, he had no other options. He just wished he could find Malika, but her energy was shrouded from his sight somehow. It was like looking for a light at the bottom of a vast well of swirling and shifting mana – precisely how it would appear if she were in a dungeon – which brought him right back to his worries.

“I understand why you would want to seek out Aliandra,” Vivian continued.

The door to the guild opened and several people entered, and with them a dark energy he had not felt in many years.

Mage – Human – level 11 (Death)

Necromancer! But before he could speak, the Elf called out from the reception desk.

“Seth! I said, no zombies in the guild hall.”

“But…”

“They stink, and I had to clean up that foul black goop they leaked all over the carpet. They stay outside!”

What kind of a guild is this? He had never imagined a guild that would have a mind mage arguing with a necromancer. Or have a dungeon as a guild member.

“What is your fee for accessing the shrine?” Rezan asked, tuning out the argument behind him. Whatever was going on seemed normal to the members and the necromancer was only level eleven. It was time to see what kind of person Vivian really was, and how she was intending to profit from this exchange.

“Shrine access is free.”

No fee? Despite his composure, her response left Rezan speechless for a moment. Malika had offered Aliandra’s services, claiming they would be free, but he had found that impossible to believe. Free shrine service was unheard of. Even if Aliandra’s shrine was free, it was expected for the guild to levy some kind of charge for something so valuable.

“Why would you offer such a thing with no advantage to yourself?” In his surprise, his question was more direct than he had intended.

The Guildmaster sat back on the couch. “You are aware that Aliandra is a dungeon?”

“Malika told me, yes,” he answered. While he knew, he was again surprised that the Guildmaster knew – it implied a depth of cooperation he had not expected. But then he recalled the trainees emerging from below and it suddenly became clear to him.

“Aliandra values equality and she insisted on equal access to her shrine. It may simply have to do with her being friends with Malika who was a street urchin and wouldn’t have been able to afford any shrine fees on her own. As part of her agreement with us, Aliandra insisted that I do not restrict access to anyone, be they crafters, artisans, combat classes, rich or poor. Or even foreign applicants seeking more affordable options.”

“And that is why you are training the unclassed?” Rezan asked. “You can offer combat classes to grow your guild?” If guild membership was a requirement to use the shrine, that at least was something they could afford. However, he would have to explain to Seyah why he’d left her daughter in a foreign kingdom.

“You want to know what I get out of this deal?” Vivian asked. At his nod, she pointed to the group of adventurers who were sitting at the bar finishing off their breakfast. “That is the first set of people we unlocked with her shrine. As you can no doubt see, they all unlocked a class with a powerful mana affinity. There were a few others; crafters that we placed with good mentors. I just started the new training program for those poor and disenfranchised who want a shot at a combat class – Malika’s suggestion, by the way. I give them enough training to hopefully allow them to survive the trial, and then they can optionally sign up with the guild. They get discounted combat training and mentors. Aliandra even made a low-level training ground in the sewers as part of her dungeon for them to level up quicker.”

Now it makes sense, he thought. Vivian Ross was not interested in money, she simply wanted to grow her guild – and as he well knew, a competent person with a good class was much more valuable than all the money in the world. The care invested in the guild hall suddenly made more sense. Even the internship idea had significant merit; the trial and the first few levels after unlocking a class were always the riskiest. Almost anything could still kill you and you had no idea what your limits were.

“How long do they have to be affiliated with the guild?”

“The only obligation is to pay off the training and the guild storage ring by doing quests for the guild,” she said. “For all that Aliandra’s dungeon does not drop much equipment, it’s still remarkably lucrative for the adventurers, especially those willing to escort the herbalists on guild quests. Those five have already paid off their obligation, and they earned accolades for defending the city effectively against a necromancer attack recently.”

“I see,” Rezan said.

“Even though my program is optional, I’m hoping to make it attractive enough that people will seriously consider it. The economics of the shrine tax in Vertias is good news for me because it will likely drive even more people to seek out Aliandra’s generous offer. Then at least some of them might find my offer enticing enough to stay for a while and grow. You asked what I get out of it – building a reputation as a guild that grows strong adventurers. That is what I seek.”

Rezan sat and considered her words. There seemed to be no deception within her, her energy remained calm, without any apparent anxiety. While it was not a truth-detector divination, he had become adept at reading hidden stress and anxiety with his sight, and Vivian Ross seemed to be genuine about wanting to grow people to enhance her guild’s reputation. While he didn’t care much about building a reputation himself, the desire to grow the youth resonated deeply with him.

