[Aginian Guardsman – lvl ???]

“Finally, some proper enemies,” Casper said, also using his own stealth skill as the two checked out their next targets.

“Eh, soon, but not quite yet,” Jake said, narrowing his eyes. “They are stronger than the trash B-grades earlier, yes, but they’re still trash. Fortunately, I get the feeling that within the room ahead, proper prey awaits.”

“Hey, they have Guard Golem and Guardsman in their names; they can’t be that weak,” Casper said, shaking his head. “Maybe those senses of yours are off for once?”

Spoiler: they were not off for once.

You have slain [Aginian Guard Golem – lvl 360] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

You have slain [Aginian Guardsman – lvl 361] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

Casper and Jake proceeded clinically through the hallway, wiping out every single guard group in their way. As Jake had felt, these guards were stronger, yes, but they were still far from powerful enough to offer a proper challenge. Compared to someone like the Rainbowfeather Sovereign Jake had fought while in the Pantheon of Life, these were weaker, and compared to back then, Jake had grown a lot stronger.

It still ended up taking a little while, but soon enough, the two reached the entrance to the first actual “room” within the massive Grand Labyrinth. The hallway behind them was littered with corpses and broken golems on the various battlements, which only further confirmed that this room was important.

While still staying hidden, Jake and Casper scouted the area ahead. The circular room was mostly empty, and unlike the stone ground everywhere else, it was all gray sand here. Moreover, patterns had been drawn in the sand everywhere, making the entire place look eerie.

Besides the sand, there was one more thing present in the room. Right at the center stood a ziggurat, emanating an odd sense of power. On the lower levels of the ziggurat, Jake and Casper spotted several enemies. These definitely looked more impressive than the guards they had just slaughtered. For good reason, too.

[Aginian Elite Guard – lvl ???]

They were apparently elite, and as Jake scouted more, he spotted another unique-looking Aginian who gave off an even more impressive aura yet.

[Aginian Guard Captain – lvl ???]

Jake was already smiling, but as he saw the top of the pyramid, his smile turned into a full-on grin. A singular robed figure stood there, their aura by far the strongest they had encountered in the dungeon so far.

[Aginian Formation Master – lvl ???]

Casper had gone through the same inspection process as Jake and looked to the hunter. “Say, Jake… I have a feeling I’ll finally be able to show you my single-target curse magic properly now.”

“It sure seems that way, doesn’t it?” Jake agreed wholeheartedly, looking forward to seeing if this encounter would add or detract stars from the dungeon’s final review.
