Liora let out another wyvern scream and flapped her powerful wings, sending sand from the pathway flying straight at the guards.

To their credit, they were startled by her only for a moment, and reached for scimitars the next, charging at Liora. Looking at their labels, she saw that they were Level 40 at best, their names either white or light green. Not a threat to Liora.

It would have been easy to slice them with her talons. But Liora hadn't come here to murder people. These guards were just doing their job, trying to earn a keep for their families. It wasn't Liora's goal to create orphans this evening.

She flapped her wings again and activated Decoy Fade. Her decoy flew up into the air and further back to continue the show. The guests who had emerged from the tents to look at the ruckus could be heard screaming and running away in a panic.

Most of the guards followed Liora's decoy, while Liora herself flew towards the covered case. The guards carrying it were hurrying back inside, but they were humans. Meaning that they were incredibly slow. Seriously, were they even trying to protect it?

Liora swooped down, guided by Theft, and snatched the case away, instantly pulling it and the treasure inside into her Inventory.

"The case has disappeared!" One of the guards yelled, stupidly staring at the empty space where the case had been.

That's right. From their perspective, it just suddenly vanished in thin air, since Liora's decoy was still active, fluttering high in the sky, out of the reach of the guards. Some of them were trying to shoot arrows at the decoy, but none of them had managed to land a hit so far.

With the treasure secure, Liora turned back to magpie form and went to the second phase of her plan. This actually wasn't originally part of the plan, but that sheikh had been so vile, so disgusting, that Liora decided to ruin his reputation a little while she was at it.

The guards were focused on either the decoy or the vanished treasure. So when Liora flew into the mansion through one of the open windows on the top floor, nobody was any wiser of her presence.

It looked to be a library of some sort. There was nobody there, but the doors were open, suggesting that the guests were allowed inside during this party.

Liora flew to one of the tables, suddenly realizing that she was visible again. Well, kinda. Her decoy had been destroyed, but Nightveil was still partially hiding her.

She opened a drawer and stuffed the jewelry she had stolen from those busy couples inside. It was a bit painful to part with the jewels, but their overall value didn't exceed the treasure Liora had stolen from the sheikh. It was worth it if it meant that dirtbag got a bit of deserved justice.

Liora made sure that part of a golden chain remained dangling out of the drawer. As if it had been hurriedly hidden in there.

With that done, Liora left the mansion and flew back towards the guest tents, making sure to stick to the darkest place so as not to get noticed. From a distance, she could see the frenzied guards, unsure whether they should focus on the monster that had randomly disappeared, the missing treasure, or the panicking guests.

Liora watched the frenzy for a bit, letting it settle down a little. At least to the point where guests weren't screaming. As they calmed, they looked to their host for answers, accusing him of negligence.

Sheikh Rassid was beside himself with rage, his face turned bright red. He didn't really care about the monster, instead yelling at his guard to find the treasure, while the guests yelled at him, demanding answers.

Liora flew and perched herself on a tree near the back of this shouting match. She cleared her throat and said, mimicking the voice of one of the women she had robbed earlier.

"My necklace has gone missing! Am I the only one?"

The frenzied people instantly began checking themselves and their belongings. It didn't take long for other victims of Liora's skill to announce that their jewelry was missing too. A new wave of frenzy overtook the crowd, and they began yelling at each other, searching for the thief.

Liora could barely suppress her laughter. Time to put a nail in this coffin.

"I think I saw something in the library. We should go check it out!"

"The library?" One of the people asked.

"The thief has hidden the jewelry in the library?" Another asked, confused.

"Stop spouting nonsense! My treasure, my precious gift to Princess Nadira has been stolen! It was one of you who did it. I know it! Confess, and I might just let you live!" Sheikh Rassid screamed, red in the face.

This was likely the worst thing he could have said. The guests who had their stuff stolen yelled at him that their jewels were just as important.

"I bet the sheikh stole our jewelry. It was his plan all along! He wanted to humiliate us!" Liora shouted from the back, mimicking the voice of one of the guests.

"Yeah!" Another added.

"We should check the library for our stolen jewels!" Liora added.

"Yeah!"

The guests riled up and all marched towards the mansion, while the sheikh yelled at them that they wouldn't find anything anyway.

Liora wanted to fly back up to the library and watch the whole scene unfold, but decided against it. She had completed her mission. Sheikh's reputation would be in complete tatters after this. It was unlikely that Princess Nadira's father would want his daughter to marry this old fart now.

Satisfied with this knowledge, Liora returned to Aenir and told him everything that happened.

"You framed the sheikh for theft?" Aenir was trying hard not to burst into laughter.

"Yeah. He was a perverted asshole. I hoped he gets thoroughly punished for it!"

Aenir shook his head. "Nah. That old snake always has a way to slither out of trouble. He'll throw some money around, and the whole thing will be covered up."

"Covered up? You underestimate the mess that I have created!" Liora puffed out her feathers proudly. "At the very least, poor Princess Nadira won't have to marry that pig."

Aenir's whole demeanor shifted, growing serious. "You saw Princess Nadira?"

"Yeah. She was supposed to receive that treasure I stole after all. She didn't like that guy at all. Honestly, even his wives don't like him. Is it normal to have multiple wives in this country?"

"It's a sign of wealth. The more wives one has, the richer and more respected they are. He wanted to add Princess Nadira to his harem, just to boast. He doesn't actually care about her. Just her title," Aenir hissed, his fists clenched into tight fists, knuckles white.

"Oh, he seemed interested in her, alright. Interested in taking her to bed," Liora said, watching for Aenir's reaction carefully.

The result was more explosive than she signed up for. Aenir instantly jumped to his feet, his face twisted with rage. "Did he do anything to her?! I swear if that old pig…"

Aenir trailed off when he realized that Liora was watching him. The mage cleared his throat and sat down. "I mean… It would be inappropriate to treat royalty this way. As the royal mage, I must look out for the royal family…"

Liora grinned. "So that's what this is about! You want Princess Nadira for yourself."

"Do not compare me to that lecherous pig! I would never force my will upon the princess!" Aenir snapped, looking genuinely insulted.

"So you are interested in her?" Liora teased.

Aenir's cheeks flushed, almost matching the shade of his hair. He looked away and grumbled, "I mean… How could one not like her? She isn't just beautiful. Princess Nadira is well-educated and smart. Not to mention, kind. She's always trying to—"

The next half hour consisted of Aenir growing more animated as he sang praises to Princess Nadira. It was endearing at first, but Liora soon grew bored. It was clear this guy was head over heels in love with the princess. It explained why he was here, working in a foreign country as the royal magician, rather than remaining in Velithra.

Eventually, she ignored him and instead decided to check what exactly it was that she had stolen. Withdrawing the case from her Inventory, she looked at it.

Aenir stopped rambling, also looking at the case curiously. Inside sat an elaborate gold necklace. The chain links were shaped in the form of intertwined vines while five beautifully polished amber stones sat in special leafy nooks. The stone in the middle was the largest one of all and was speckled with bright orange pieces.

Treasure Sense was going wild. Liora could feel her mouth salivating.

"That's quite the gift…" Aenir grumbled. "Amber is very rare around these parts. It would have to be imported from Velithra, and since the relations between the two countries aren't too great at the moment, it must have cost a fortune to get this imported."

Liora stared at it in awe, but… Something wasn't right. She was obviously overjoyed at having stolen such a beautiful treasure. It shone brilliantly in the light. The magpie within her should be satisfied.

But she wasn't.

"This isn't quite as pretty as Renir…" Liora said ruefully.

"Not as pretty as Renir? You said you haven't seen him as a human," Aenir noted. "Also, I don't think pretty is the right descriptor for him."

"Renir as a gem, I mean. You know he's also an amber color, but the specs within him swirl in the light. His body is also a much more pleasing shape, this top being just a tiny bit smaller than the bottom. Recently, when he grew tiny arms and legs, his beauty only increased. He also gained a tiny gem face, which is the most adorable thing. His eyes shine, you know. It is so pretty!"

"Okay, okay, I get it!" Aenir said, his voice full of exasperation.

This guy didn't get it. He knew nothing about shinies. Maybe if he actually saw Renir.

But thinking about Renir only made Liora sad. He hadn't made any attempts to apologize. Did he even care? Or was he so mad at Liora for talking to Aenir that he didn't want to see her? He would likely be even more mad if he knew what Liora was doing now.

So what? If I began avoiding all people who Renir doesn't like, then I might as well become a hermit!

"We'll move on to our next target. I imagine you may have leveled up Theft once or maybe twice?" Aenir said, changing the subject.

Liora withdrew the necklace back into the Inventory. "Just once."

"Well, it's a start. In either case, let's move on to our next target."

"Is this guy also one of Princess Nadira's suitors?"

Aenir glared at her, then sighed. "Yes, he's also interested in marrying her. But I promise you, he's not much better than Sheikh Rassid. In fact, I believe he is embezzling—"

Aenir continued explaining things about their next target, but Liora found that she wasn't able to fully focus. She couldn't stop thinking about Renir all of a sudden.

She… missed him, actually. She missed Cee too, and Smokey. Even Cassian. Part of her really wished for things to go back to the way they were. She was also worried about Renir. Had he been able to decipher anything about the ritual that was supposed to break his next seal?

If he had, did he even have all the necessary ingredients? Cee would undoubtedly help with the ritual circle itself, but maybe they required something more.

Although part of Liora was angry because she was supposed to be angry at Renir, mostly she was just worried.

I'm just going to settle this whole mess with the ants and the river, and then… After that, we'll go back to the way things were before.