“Yes, sir. And I shall need all the sugar you have. Flour, er—I have a list—”
Lyonette had called for supplies knowing that among the things you could sell in this three-day holiday would be cakes, cookies, and other confections. Ser Lormel wanted them run to The Wandering Inn, but the [Baker] wasn’t done. He eyed the radiant Thronebearer—who had fallen in the mud on the way here—and frowned.
“Well, I can do you a lot of these goods. All your meat stuff? Try the [Butcher]’s three doors down. Liscor Cuts—been open for decades, you know.”
“Thank you, sir. Now, if you could deliver within the hour, we can pay—”
Unfortunately, Ser Lormel had run into a Drake who would have his say. Not because he spoke fast, but because he would speak over you until you listened.
“—decades, a family run business. Not that we aren’t adapting. Those new [Farmers], the shady ones? In that they’re all wearing dark clothing? The Humans? Wonderful products. Lischelle Herders, even I’ve heard of ‘em. So you’ll get fine meat there. Not that we’ll be open since apparently it’s a holiday. Nevermind that we got no warning. I suppose I’ll keep the store open today and tomorrow and maybe close it. Them Antinium are coming back on the third day, right?”
Lormel realized there was nothing to do but rehash the entire plan Liscor had laid out.
“Yes, sir. We’ll have two days of celebration whereupon the Crusade should arrive by the third day. Or even tomorrow if they march fast enough. The Council and Celum and Invrisil have not shut down businesses; in fact, many are advised that this is a profitable moment, but they quite encourage it, and there will be activities, free, free goods which will be paid for by Liscor’s Council. Which you may want to get on, sir?”
The [Baker] hmmed; his shop was filled with busy [Apprentices] and the orders. Yet he had the time to look Ser Lormel up and down.
“And all this is by way of The Wandering Inn, eh? Going to be music?”
“Yes, sir, that is planned.”
“Dancing? Something crazy? No monsters this time.”
“If it can be helped, sir—we have Goblins, which is why I am slightly pressed for—”
“You’ve changed.”
The Thronebearer hesitated.
“Excuse me?”
The Drake shook his head slowly and sadly. He tapped a claw on the table.
“You’ve changed. Tell that [Innkeeper] that. I remember when she’d have her big parties out of nowhere. One second I’m dusting flour off my claws, the next? Moths. And then we’re eating snacks and clubbing the stragglers down. Or what about the party with music? Now you’re organizing it? You’ve changed.”
“I…will relay that to Miss Solstice at your convenience, sir.”
“You do that. Now, as I was saying, what kind of flour did you want? Because there’s acorn flour and wheat flour, and I assume your list just says ‘flour’, which is wheat flour, but sometimes you get things wrong. Why, once, I delivered six bags of wheat flour only to learn that I was supposed to have—”
Ser Lormel’s smile calcified in place. But while some [Bakers] could object, the rest of the city liked the actual time they had to prepare for this big celebratory bash.
The only question was…some people were making plans to close up the next day or already headed to the inn, which was a known quantity in celebrations.
But the question was—what was going to be on offer today, tomorrow, and so on? Drinks? Food? The moment? Yes, but if it were a holiday, there was a plan, right?
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin was a Calanferian [Princess]. She knew she had upped the stakes by calling for a parade and holiday.
If anything, she had had the easiest time talking the various leaders of cities into it. The potential for profits drove Liscor’s Council straight into a ‘yes’, as well the opportunity to garner attention and acclaim for their army.
Invrisil? The City of Adventurers’ [Mayor] had been bowled over by Lyonette in the first engagement, and they were no stranger to delights and parties. Same for Celum; the [Mayor], Cetris Duiland, had practically begged to be invited to the festivities.
Because there was a high, high profit incentive. Imagine, Lyonette had claimed, having a door open to all the cities? Obviously, Invrisil would be a long commute, but what if visitors trickled into Liscor for two days in preparation for the third one? Then, on the third day, they’d be able to transit to local cities like Esthelm, Celum, and a few would get to hop to Invrisil or Pallass.
During that time, all the cities would be putting on a joint holiday, and so you’d get your share of activities in each city, pay for food or lodging at inns, and fill the coffers of every city. This event had the potential to draw in people in the radii of every city, from noble guests to people who wanted to see the Antinium or be part of a news event.
Most of the leaders of their cities were canny enough to see how valuable this could be, and they agreed to spread the word. Visitors from Wales would head to Celum to see their army celebrated. Nobles in Invrisil could come to Liscor to safely see the Antinium and appear on the news.
All great. All wonderful. However—that left Lyonette with a problem she knew would come up, and it was this.
Activities. Festivities. You needed them. Now, Erin could throw a party in a second, but she mainly threw it around something new, like baseball being invented or a monster disaster being defeated. But for days of festivities?
Calanfer had [Troubadours] who sang in shifts. They had events for little children, late-night festivities; some funded taverns to hand out free drinks all day, and a parade was almost inevitable, with at least one [Princess].
And that was the baseline for Ielane to even consider something. She always kept Calanfer’s celebrations fresh and exciting. Lyonette had no smaller aspirations.
Fortunately, she had four Thronebearers who knew the score, and she had talked to Lism in a quick conference.
“You need to subsidize several taverns to give out free food.”
“Subsidize?”
He said the word like it was a filthy thing. Krshia was also huddled with him, and she gave Lyonette a puzzled look.
“Ah, like the Meeting of Tribes?”
“Exactly. Free food—but not so much. Don’t scowl at me, Lism. It just needs to be a mix of free and paid food. Find a hole in your budget.”
“Our budget is calculated, you—you—okay. I can see the point. Free samples. What else?”
“Parade routes. How is the army coming in? Where are you giving speeches, and how many times are you going to repeat them? Get me a map of Liscor, Dalimont? Thank you. I suggest doing a route. You need to avoid crowds so pedestrians can get around…talk to Hexel. Now, I will try to provide entertainments, but you’ll need to help me. Invrisil has a lot of performers, so I suggest dividing them up.”
“And we’re paying for them too?”
Lyonette gave the Drake a sweet smile.
“I suggest taking an estimate of how much coin you think will be paid and selling permits for [Shopkeepers]—like yourselves—to sell at the best points, Councilmember. Also, remember the door travel fee.”
That mollified him. Krshia gave Lyonette a respectful nod, but she glanced at the second group waiting in the wings.
“And what about the entertainments?”
Lyonette bit her lip. She smiled at Krshia anxiously.
“…I intend to have something grand. I will let you know on the hour, Krshia. Alright?”
The Gnoll gave Lyonette a look that said she knew Lyonette had no plan, but she nodded and then grabbed Lism and put him into an clothesline across the throat because he was trying to talk to Lyonette.
“So let’s talk about civic awards. How many medals does Invrisil give out? Do they even have a trad—Krshia, let go, you’re strangling me.”
“We can ask the [Mayor] ourselves, eh, Lism? Elirr, you stay here and monitor the inn.”
Elirr jumped. He was ‘monitoring’ a drink and a sidebar of tapas that Imani had delivered as he chatted with Redscar, who, amazingly, was prone to socialness. He gave Krshia a relieved nod, and she winked.
Lism was being strangled by Krshia. He hissed at her.
“You’re choking me. I do the—save that for later, Silverfang. Fine, let’s convene the Council. Where’s Jeiss?”
Meanwhile, Zevara was storming out to convene the Watch. She was hopping mad about the impromptu parade—but she did have the time to prepare. And she was bribed; Lyonette had handed her a bag of coffee beans. Zevara had justified it by saying it would be shared through the Watch House. They’d probably need it.
As for the celebrations? Lyonette sat in one of the private dining rooms and thought. She turned to the dozen people who had filed in after her and smiled.
“Does anyone remember how Erin’s big parties went? She was always good at having one main event, but we need activities for this celebration. I need ideas. How did Erin do it?”
“Well…”
The answer came from a scarred Drake who wore a shirt that said, ‘I survived Liscor Hunted and they gave me this shirt’ on the back. He had gotten that idea from Kevin, but the originator of the now-profitable Liscor Hunted activities was none other than Menolit.
He had no tail, but the [Veteran] looked happy to be here and far more fulfilled than he used to be.
He was also an old customer of Erin’s, and he scratched at his chin.
“—If we’re talking about monster attacks, I recall there being a lot of gore. But you’d have drinks, food, and everyone just gobbled down everything in sight. Conversation? Mostly recounting nearly getting your face torn off by a moth. Then you’d be drunk and high on life and kiss the nearest pretty Drake and pass out. That’s how I remember it.”
He looked around for confirmation, and the rest of the guests chuckled or sighed. Selys scratched at her neck spines, looking slightly miffed.
“That’s mostly you, Menolit. Erin tended to have something else be the spotlight. Remember her plays? It was all about the Players, right, Temile?”
The Human man nodded, straightening his flamboyant dress as befit the [Producer].
“The light shines on the stage, and the food and drinks are background. I recall the ball game being much the same. Erin’s inn was always stocked up.”
“…But she has no secondary activities.”
“The people are the secondary activities. Always someone new to talk to.”
Menolit waved a claw, and Lyonette saw the subtle genius in it. Entertainment via excitement, her mother would have called it. You could get a ballroom of the nobility chattering for hours without needing more than a single string quartet in the background and enough to eat.
The problem was—the Antinium had already won their battle. The people might celebrate, but celebrate what?
“Are there any activities that Antinium do? Pawn?”
“Eat? Paint True Antinium? Play chess?”
He looked happy to be included in the group of successful business people that Lyonette had convened. Temile, Selys, even Palt and Imani, Kevin, Joseph for Earthers—
She needed ideas. Unfortunately, her guests were sympathetic—and not that helpful. Kevin waved a hand.
“What if Numbtongue got the old band back together? We could, like, play some songs.”
“What band?”
“Mrsha, me, Numbtongue, Octavia, Saliss.”
“Saliss of Lights is in a band?”
Temile’s jaw worked as he tried to digest that. Lyonette had almost forgotten that moment! Which just showed how Erin did have secondary activities. She shook her head.
“Good idea, Kevin, but this needs to be systematic. A ‘band’ can only be in one place. Yes, we might well do that, but I need all-day activities that tens of thousands can participate in. Even if each city puts on their own performances, we need to give them ideas. Anyone?”
The group shifted. Menolit slowly raised a claw.
“Well, Liscor Hunted can help. What if we let several people go in our groups for free and took some hunting Corusdeer or fighting Shield Spiders? That’s why you asked us, right, Lyonette?”
She smiled at him.
“Yes, thank you, Menolit. And I know that the Players of Celum and Liscor have agreed to put on performances—but we need more. Kevin, Joseph, Imani. You three are…from Erin’s home. Is there another sport you could introduce?”
Kevin, Joseph, and Imani looked at each other. The [Chef] looked surprised.
“What, just introduce a sport? Lyonette…I mean, there are some we haven’t done. Kevin?”
He hesitated.
“What about…basketball?”
“Anyone got a basketball?”
Joseph was well aware of how you needed the right ball for the game. Kevin shook his head. He looked around, scratching his head.
“Don’t they have catgut in Liscor? Or something similar? What about tennis?”
“Do we have bouncy balls? Badminton?”
The Earthers broke off to make a separate group to figure out the problem. But they had only a day or two and none of them knew how Erin had managed to bully her way into creating sports practically overnight.
And Erin was not here! Good! Lyonette was going to do this on her own. Besides, Erin needed rest and to speak to her friend. So the [Princess] turned, desperately, back to the group.
“What if we also involved the Silverfang Gnolls? Krshia?”
Krshia had elected to stay to help this part of the festivities and to let Liscor’s Council to weigh in. But at the mention of the Silverfang contingent in Liscor, she frowned.
“How do you mean, involve the Silverfangs, Lyonette? We do not have a surplus of goods nor do we have the time to prepare as if this were the Meeting of Tribes.”
The [Princess] shook her head.
“I know that. But—Gnolls are one of the most famous species after the Meeting of Tribes. Could we—could we bring some of that here? Wait a second. What about Liscor Hunted?”
She turned to Menolit. He raised his brows.
“What about it?”
“What if—we asked Gnolls to take people out to build fires, set up tents, and live like Gnolls? Show them what the lifestyle is like?”
That could tie up thousands if they had enough [Hunters] and such. Lyonette thought the idea had merit—right until Krshia snorted.
“No.”
“No?”
Lyonette turned to her, and the [Shopkeeper] shook her head. She gave Lyonette a firm stare.
“My tribe is in mourning still. We may participate, but we are not going to ‘show’ visitors our lives. Not in the Floodplains. Not Drakes. Nor even Humans, not right now.”
The [Princess]’ face fell. She needed ideas! To her relief, Selys suggested one, glancing at Pawn.
“Well, if nothing else—what if we have a contest?”
“A contest?”
The [Heiress] nodded as everyone turned to her.
“Drakes love contests. Humans too. Dead gods, we have a lot of crafters and visitors to Liscor too. Remember the Yoldenites are here?”
“How can I not? They were singing all last night.”
