Mrsha was writing a dissertation on why Nanette was a treasure and that anyone who bullied her was compounding multiple instances of horribleness, and Gire was learning the error of her ways as Joseph organized a soccer game.
But—it wasn’t the Erin moment that Lyonette wanted. Maybe this bazaar would be fun, but there wasn’t a high enough zany quotient in the air for Mrsha’s tastes. Still, people were getting into the mood, and there were celebrities.
Not just the Players, but the adventurers. Jelaqua was autographing people’s cards, blushing orange as she stood next to Maughin. In fact, she was making him sign the cards too.
“It’s Maughin and Jelaqua. A couple! He’s the best [Armorer] in Pallass. In fact—he’s been teaching me to smith too.”
“You’re very good at it, Jelaqua.”
“Well, I did need to learn to repair gear—Seborn! Seborn, stop acting aloof!”
The Drowned Man was refusing to autograph cards. He was giving Wailant a play-by-play of the battle as the two old seadogs talked, and there was a smaller crowd around him. Even the Drowned Man looked pleased by the attention.
As for Moore? He was talking with none other than…Mrsha sniffed the air. Yes, that was definitely Himilt. Fierre’s dad? Moore was leaning on a staff and asking about plants or farming, and Mrsha was thinking of going over there and giving him more hugs.
However, there were also the Horns of Hammerad. And the Silver Swords should be coming soon! Mrsha had a few pranks to pull on Ylawes, and she wanted to say hi to Dawil.
Even if it wasn’t entertainment, it was pretty darn good in the friends department for Mrsha, and if Gire straightened up, they might have a fun few days! She saw Ksmvr signing autographs with all four hands; he was so popular as Ksmvr of Chandrar.
But where was Pisces? Mrsha’s ears perked up as the [Necromancer] himself came out, talking quietly with Yvlon.
“…Ceria go? If she’s eating those spicy fries—”
“Just find the nearest plate of food. I swear, she’s going to gain weight all over again. So are you sure that woman’s from your home, Pisces? That’s an incredible coincidence.”
They were speaking so quietly only Mrsha and Gire, with their excellent hearing, could pick their voices out in the crowd. The irony was that Gnolls had great ears, but even adults had to struggle to differentiate individual conversations when it was so noisy. Pisces muttered.
“I think so. There were things only Ama could know. She likely fled Terandria.”
“So…are you going to catch up with her? If she was robbing battlefields, that’s not an upstanding person to associate with, Pisces.”
“It’s…a [Necromancer] thing to do. I shall wait at her meeting point and see what she has to say.”
“Take me with you. Or Ceria. Or Ksmvr. What do you hope will come of it?”
Pisces looked troubled as he scanned the crowds.
“Knowing if anyone else made it. I…there you are. Ceria! Here!”
He waved, and Mrsha’s head turned as a half-Elf walked out of the inn, behind Pisces and Yvlon. It seemed like they’d missed her, but Ceria wasn’t holding a plate of food. If anything, she’d changed clothes and swapped robes for some light travel gear.
“Hey, you two. What’s going on?”
“We’re talking about Ama. What are you doing?”
Yvlon eyed Ceria’s dress. The thing about [Mages] was that they were sort of pigeonholed into the same attire; if you had magical robes, you tended to wear them at all times. Right now, Ceria was wearing a kind of pale blue Liscorian jeans, a light red jacket over a knitted maroon sweater, and even a belt.
It looked modern, and Kevin pointed Ceria out to Joseph, as if Ceria could walk into their world and almost fit in.
But for the pointed ears. And the skeletal hand. But she even had a variant of sneakers on, and the half-Elf [Cryomancer] grinned.
“Just doing some training. I told you; we looked bad out there, against the monsters.”
Pisces and Yvlon exchanged a look. The [Armsmistress] inserted a metal finger in her ear and winced because it was cold.
“You. Training. Of your own free will?”
Ceria gave Yvlon a look as she put her hands on her hips. She noticed Mrsha watching and winked at the Gnoll girl and waved.
“I deserve that. Hey, Mrsha. Hello, Gireulashia. Anything fun happening?”
Not as of yet. Our festivities, while potentially entertaining in the future, have been thus far as dull as to leave me recumbent.
Gire read for Mrsha, and Ceria laughed. Pisces was working on the last word as Yvlon shook her head over the flowery prose.
“Well—I had the same thought. And since Erin’s busy and we’re out of shape, I’m going to work on my flaws. I noticed a lot in our battle. We weren’t mobile; we lost the Behemoth fast, and Yvlon and Ksmvr were just fighting.”
“As opposed to staring?”
Pisces was sardonic, but Yvlon nodded slowly. Ceria rolled her eyes.
“Pisces, we’re Gold-ranks. Yvlon once killed an Adult Creler with a broken sword. Everyone’s changed classes; we should either be able to lock down half the battlefield or take out the huge threats. You’ve always been the best in your role. You can [Flash Step] for mobility, turn invisible, and now you can animate dead while firing [Deathbolts]. You’re the least flawed. The rest of us need work, and we need team tactics. The chariot’s no longer good enough.”
“Oh, well…I’m pleased someone recognizes my talents.”
Pisces was great because if you complimented him genuinely, he turned red and got embarrassed. Mrsha smirked at him as he glared at her. But Ceria seemed—well, confident.
“I have ideas on how to fix my problems. I’ve been fighting like an [Ice Mage]—or how people see my class. Stationary, walls—but there’s a better way. I found it on Chandrar, but I’ve been so lazy I didn’t keep at it. Vacation’s over. I’ll just find some space over there. It’s not like I’ll be throwing too many spells around. Say…Mrsha, are you bored?”
Mrsha nodded eagerly, and Ceria flashed her a smile.
“Well then, maybe you can join me. It’ll be fun.”
So saying, she pointed, and Mrsha raced over as Ceria led Pisces, Yvlon, Gire, and a small group of people listening in down the hill. A Thronebearer was following them, Mrsha realized.
Ser Dalimont was still doing his job. She gave him a grudging nod as Ceria stopped halfway down the hill.
So what is it? Are we shooting at things? Raising mighty blockades?
Mrsha had her own wand out, ready to cast her single [Stone Dart] spell. She looked at Ceria, and the [Cryomancer] laughed. She raised a wand and glanced at Mrsha.
“No. Just try to keep your balance.”
The little Gnoll’s face went slack. What? What was that supposed to m—
Then Mrsha realized she was sliding. Sliding, and her arms flailed as she tried to keep her balance. She sat down on her butt, and it was cold. Cold, slick—and she saw Ceria brace, lowering her stance.
The two began sliding down the [Icy Floor] spell that Ceria had cast. Mrsha’s eyes went round. She tried to stow her wand, fell flat on her back, and then she was going faster, faster—
“Miss Mrsha!”
Ser Dalimont ran down the hill as the Gnoll went careening down the first hill, over the slick ramp of ice. Heads turned as Ceria, laughing, went skating down the ice.
“Whoa! Mrsha! Are you okay?”
The smaller Gnoll went streaking down the hill, and the momentum carried her up a smaller hill. And the slippery ice launched a flailing little Gnoll up into the air.
Mrsha landed on her back on the grass with a whumph that forced all the air out of her lungs. She stared at the sky, wide-eyed, as Ser Dalimont nearly slipped and went crashing down himself. Then she got up and, laughing, leapt down the ice.
“Icy floor? Ceria, what are you doing?”
Yvlon tested the ice with one foot. It was far, far slicker than she thought. Not like Ceria’s regular ice, but slick, that stage between solid ice and meltwater. In fact, it refused to give even a bit of traction, and Yvlon slipped, cursing.
Pisces had begun laughing when he saw Mrsha’s expression, but he doubled over as Yvlon went down on her back. The [Armsmistress] skidded down the hill as Ceria, windmilling her arms, came to a halt.
“It’s all hills and valleys! Well, I suppose this is training. Pisces! Do you get it?”
He did. The [Necromancer] felt a pang in his heart, but he was smiling. He shouted one word down to Ceria.
“Illphres!”
The [Cryomancer]’s smile was his reward. Yes, just like she’d tried against the Bloodtear Pirates in Savere—she tried to do a run-up on the ice and nearly slipped. Windmilling her arms, the half-Elf cursed, grabbed at her head, and righted herself.
“If I can skate—I can move as fast as Ksmvr. If I can skate! I don’t know how Illphres did it!”
“Ceria! Warn me next time! Mrsha, are you okay?”
Yvlon had hurt herself more than Mrsha. She got up just as the Gnoll did a cannonball onto the icy ramp. Ceria was casting her spell wider, and Mrsha slid past Yvlon.
Now this was what she’d been waiting for! Mrsha got up on all fours, instead of her two legs like normal. She scampered forwards and began sliding. Then she tried to run on the ice and barely got anywhere.
It was so silly that Pisces kept snorting as he tested the ice himself. But it reminded Mrsha of the Horn’s finest hour.
Not killing Crelers—but sliding on waxed floors at night. Yvlon herself got up, tested the ground, and eyed Ceria’s sneakers.
“So that’s why you took off your boots. Do you even know how to skate, Ceria?”
The half-Elf made a face at Yvlon.
“My village didn’t do it during the winter. ‘Too dangerous’, they said. My grandmother told me she used to skate now and then, but no. Illphres made me do it a bit, but I never picked up her style.”
“Ah. Well—you could wear ice skates.”
“What?”
Ceria had never actually heard of the metal blades you could put on your feet. But Yvlon had.
“House Byres looks wonderful in the winter. The lake near our keep freezes over. Although…I don’t think you can walk around with skates on.”
“Another thing this world already has. Cross it off the list, Joseph!”
Someone called out. Kevin was standing on the edge of Ceria’s skating rink, delighted. He tried a few steps and slid on his shoes. Then he wiped out.
“My hip! Whoa, this is slippery!”
Ceria came to a stop again and nearly face-planted as she realized halting was just as hard. She grinned at Kevin.
“Like it? I’ve been experimenting with my ice. See, Pisces, Yvlon? I can create barriers and ramps. So if I can manage my balance—what’s wrong, Pisces? Afraid?”
He was still testing his balance on the edge of the ice. At her words, the [Necromancer] glanced up. Then he did a little hop and went shooting down the side of the hill. He passed by Ceria and Yvlon, arms spread wide, and even did a little twirl on one foot as his teammates stared at him.
Mrsha stuck out a foot, and Pisces tripped and went flying. She laughed until he came up with a bloody nose. But the [Necromancer] just grabbed her and tossed. Mrsha went skidding past Ceria like a giant, white puck.
“Okay, slightly dangerous.”
Pisces dabbed at his nose with some potion. But he gave Ceria an arch look as he cleaned the blood away.
“As Lyonette saw fit to remind me—I do come from Ailendamus. They had frozen winters, and I learned to keep my balance on ice. As part of my father’s wonderful training.”
Indeed, Ceria saw Yvlon was gingerly trying to skate on her own boots. The half-Elf tried to copy her two teammates and nearly wiped out.
“Wait. I’m the [Cryomancer]. You two—off the ice! I’m the one who’s supposed to be better than you two.”
“Oh, indeed? Dear me, then I’m sure you’re holding back.”
Pisces, smirking, skated in circles around Ceria as Yvlon managed to do a straight line and break. Ceria wobbled, tried to take a step, and fell forwards. Mrsha skated past her, this time giggling as Gire hopped onto the ice and did a perfect slide.
“This is wonderful! I’ve only done this once before. Mrsha! Let’s skate!”
There was nothing like a [Paragon] for making you feel like an idiot. Gire skated with one leg raised behind her, wobbling, and looked delighted when she nearly fell over. And by now, Kevin was asking if anyone did have skates. When it turned out no one did, he did a running start, leapt onto his knees, and did a slide, arms raised.
Ceria’s ice was indeed like a maintained ice rink from Earth. Wet, fresh, and slippery. Possibly too slippery. The half-Elf got up ruefully and pointed at the ice.
“Maybe I need more grip. Or those skates. Let me try drying it out a bit. I—oh, there you are, Ksmvr!”
The Antinium had spotted his team doing something without him and came running.
“Captain Ceria, are we training on icy terrain? Novel idea! Let me try to whoa—whoa!”
To Ceria’s great satisfaction, their [Skirmisher] slipped a bit as he ran forwards. Despite his [Sure Footing] Skill, ice was ice. He slipped onto his back—
—And flashed past his teammates. Ksmvr’s four limbs flailed as he shot past Mrsha on his back shell.
His back shell—which was perfectly smooth. Like an Antinium cannonball, he ramped up over a hill and landed on the other side—and kept going on the ice.
“I believe I have discovered a faster method of travel—”
Pisces and Yvlon were laughing. But then Ksmvr got up and, to Ceria’s great pique, began to hop across the ice, running about with his Skill with only a minor amount of slippage.
“Ceria, this is great. Can you make your spell go further? Pisces, how good at ice skating are you?”
“Only as talented as the most capable amateur.”
Pisces polished his nails on his robes. Yvlon bared her teeth at him.
“Race you all the way over to the edge, there? Ceria, make the ice three hundred feet long. First one wins, but if you slip, you lose.”
“Hey! I’m the [Cryomancer].”
But it was too late. Pisces and Yvlon were off, and Pisces did a running start, then just stopped, sliding and maintaining his balance. Yvlon went running, then drew her sheathed sword and used it as a guide to push herself onwards. Pisces shouted as Ksmvr ran past him, ignoring the slippery ice.
“No fair!”
They were…better than she was! Ceria’s outrage knew no end. She tried to speed up, raised a ramp of ice to leap off of, as if she were jumping over a Gargoyle—
Kevin watched and then winced as a sprawling half-Elf went flying over a ramp, six feet into the air and—
“Oooh! Oh god!”
Joseph covered his eyes. It was one thing to see someone bellyflop like that. Another to see someone hit solid ice that hard.
All the Horns skated over as Ceria slowly picked herself up.
“If anyone laughs, you freeze. My master could do it. Dead gods, she could skate over waves. She once sawed a ship in half.”
