“…I’m not a good person either, Rags. No one is.”
“You’re better than most.”
Erin turned her head, and she gave Rags much the same look that Rags had given Erin when she realized she was being treated like a child.
“No, Rags. There’s a part of me that knows exactly what you’re talking about. It’s like fire. Maviola El taught me to see part of myself, and I’ve felt it more than once. You’re not good? I killed the Raskghar when they kidnapped Mrsha. I would have wiped them out if I had to. If she was dead…there are things I’ve thought about doing. Some things I might do, against my enemies. No matter what, I will kill them, and if it is as painfully as I can imagine—I won’t hesitate.”
The Goblin looked at the [Innkeeper]’s serious face. Then she stood up lightly. The wind ran through her hair and blew at her clothing, and she felt unguarded without her armor. She had been speaking to the one person she wanted to talk to for a long time. And it had not been what she expected, but it had not been horrible. So—Rags hesitated and looked around this wide plain stretching upwards.
“Alright. Just one time.”
“One what?”
The Goblin glanced at Erin, and she looked completely amused. She gave Erin a real grin.
“You can carry me on your shoulders. I sort of want to see what happens. Unless you’re too tired.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Rags a wide-eyed stare, and then she scrambled to her feet.
“I can do it! Hop on! It’ll be the ride of your life!”
Rags climbed onto Erin’s shoulders and felt the most childish she had felt all year. Erin hoisted her up with a grunt, and Rags was displeased that even the weakened young woman could do it. Then Erin began jogging across the ground.
“Alright. Let me just build up some speed—how am I doing, Rags? How does it feel? Do you feel like a child?”
“It’s bumpy. Go faster.”
Erin laughed and panted, and she actually sped up. Rags was tense, expecting Erin to wipe out at any second, but she realized that she was fairly stable. And if she fell? The Goblin leaned back and saw the sky moving slowly overhead.
The warm air whipped around them as Erin ran, and Rags realized she was laughing with the sheer stupidity of the moment. The innocent laughter filled the air. Rags looked up, and then she wondered if this were how it might have been.
Like Mrsha and Lyonette, a little Goblin riding on an [Innkeeper]’s shoulders. Rags’ eyes stung. She squeezed her eyes shut tightly. Then she opened them and smiled.
Just smiled as she rode on Erin’s shoulders like the child she’d never been and never known she wanted to be until this moment. An adult capturing something she’d missed.
“Wheeeeeee.”
 
——
 
Erin ran until she wiped out. She stumbled, Rags leapt off her shoulders, and Erin flopped on her back, wheezing for air. Yet they were smiling.
The little bee, flapping her one wing in the quiet garden, watched as Erin and Rags sat up. Then Erin hugged Rags tightly, and the [Chieftain] hugged her back.
Apista thought they might be friends after all. What did the bee see? She was the only observer, besides the empty garden itself, besides the will of classes and levels.
She saw something different, in her bee-like way, as the two spoke. Erin was ablaze with joy. It radiated out from her as she looked at Rags.
A hat full of flame. Yet she was that fire to Apista. A burning hill of fire, like Inkar saw. She was the inn and garden, inheritor of this sanctuary and the will of flames. She was glorious and grand when she was filled with life.
And Rags? Apista saw a little Goblin standing there. As she had stood before Tremborag and the last Dragonlord of Flame. The [Innkeeper], all her foes—Rags’ image of herself was different.
For there stood just a Goblin. But even shorter than Rags was in reality, in Apista’s insight into the two. Just a tiny Goblin, barefoot, wearing nothing but tattered clothing, staring at flame and fire and giants.
Facing them all down. Then the flaming giant wavered, and she took Rags’ hands.
“I wanted you to be young, Rags! I wanted you to be young and grow up slowly. I’m sorry. I didn’t do enough. Anyone else can say I did, even you. But I never did enough for the friends I met. And no one is a Goblin’s friend, so I should have been a better one.”
She was suddenly uncertain. A wavering spark of light buffeted by her own fears and trials and weaknesses, and they loomed large. She kept reaching out, for people. For love. And she was unable to grasp it. She chased a spark she herself couldn’t feel. Not yet.
The Goblin, though, just took Erin’s hands, and she was proud. She stood, leader of a tribe, buoyed up and sheltering, responsible for tens of thousands of lives. They were all close to her, all connected.
—Yet she was proudly alone. She neither wanted nor needed what part of Erin would cry out for. And gently, she squeezed Erin’s hands.
“I was old before I met you, Erin. Goblins. Humans. I will pull us forwards one step, our species, if I can manage it. Half a step, if that is all. Until we can be children together. But I can’t do it alone. You gave a hungry Goblin food. If I’m ever hungry and lost later—can I come here?”
“Always.”
The [Magical Innkeeper]’s eyes shone, and she grabbed Rags’ hands with all the strength in her body. The [Great Chieftain] bared her teeth in a true smile, and Erin’s aura grew larger.
Fire. Those flames that Apista saw around her sometimes—and the Ashfire Bee knew fire—so wondrous and powerful.
It filled the inn and grew from the garden. Such that even the [Princess], the other [Innkeepers], and the guests felt it. They looked up and smiled and suddenly laughed.
From the witch who raised her head and beamed at the ceiling to the nervous Goblins who slowly relaxed and knew their Chieftain would be back shortly. To the giggling, snorting Gnoll girl and the adventurers who nudged each other.
A warm feeling, as if it was inviting them in. The [Princess] threw up her hands, mildly exasperated—
Because she couldn’t top that.
 
——
 
Slowly, a [Baker] glanced up from the table where he had been complaining about everyone and everything and this faulty party. He glanced up and looked around.
“Ah. Now this feels more like it.”
 
——
 
Flame. Rags’ own aura flickered around her, that lonely [Aura of Command]. But—she looked in Erin’s eyes and felt like she was lacking.
She was more than the Goblin who wanted to be a leader. A leader? She gazed around, and it was this inn, if not this exact garden and place, she had always been coming back to.
She took in Erin, and the Goblin reached out, across species and time, and took the [Innkeeper]’s hand.
Goblin and Human, not shaking hands, but holding each other’s hand as if supporting one another. Smiling as flames flickered around them.
—The inn was shaking. Apista felt the tremor under her feelers and wondered just how it felt in the actual inn. But she waited as some of that glorious flame licked off Erin, pure aura and will. Almost, almost…
Then the little bee fanned her wings and ignited her own flames. Like one of Octavia’s pieces of fire flaring off a match head, she caught fire. The flames jetted from little vents in her carapace—but Apista was focusing. Some winked off on one side as her good wing beat frantically.
Focus. Focus. Can we do it? Here we go. Herewego.
The bee had little to do while she was resting and while Lyonette was gone. All she could do was watch the scrying orb. For instance—the Archmage of Izril’s famous lifting of Fissival.
To the little bee, she’d seen something really interesting when Valeterisa did that. And if it worked for a city—
A jet of green-red flame shot out, startling Erin and Rags. They looked over, and Erin’s jaw dropped. Rags took one look over and closed her eyes.
“No. Fightipilota was right?”
A flame was burning upwards, and a tiny little thing, a bee, was corkscrewing madly through the air. She was flying! Apista was internally screaming for joy and sheer panic because she was not in control.
But the first jet-powered bee was using her wing and the flames burning out of her body to propel herself through the air. She buzzed past Erin as the [Innkeeper] gaped up at her.
“Hey. That’s my fire. That’s my fire!”
Apista saluted them with one antennae. Then Erin was laughing and running after her, and Rags’ aura was changing. The Goblin looked up and sighed.
Later, she would hear the voice telling her what she already knew. But that new aura flickered around her. Changed by her meeting with the [Innkeeper].
Erin Solstice.
 
——
 
One last thing happened to the inn as a tremor ran through it, disturbing dishes, startling guests, and heralding the beginning of strange, fantastic days.
The Goblins, Humans, Drakes, and Gnolls all didn’t see it at first. But then Numbtongue nearly ran smack-bang into it when he and Octavia were running out to see what Erin had made explode. He stopped, and his eyes went round.
“Is that—from the garden? It has to be. Numbtongue!”
Other guests hadn’t even realized what had happened. They turned—and exclaimed. Some leapt out of their seats in shock. Relc? His eyes bugged out.
“That’s not supposed to happen. You—that’s from the garden. Erin! Is she alright? Is she—”
He leapt to his feet in a panic, but Numbtongue didn’t think Erin was hurt. Or perhaps…he stared at what was standing in the common room of The Wandering Inn.
It had appeared in the center of the room on a little pedestal. Just grey stone. A function—one of the oldest functions of the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Yet the two statues who stood there shouldn’t have been present. Not…not yet. Erin and Rags stood there. Clasping hands and smiling at one another.
How? Numbtongue didn’t think they were dead. Yet—he looked at the door to the garden, where a laughing [Innkeeper] and the [Chieftain] were coming from, following an out-of-control bee.
She had died. That was her garden, and so Erin’s statue belonged there. As for Rags? It might not be time for her. But the garden surely knew who would one day stand on that hill.
Perhaps that was why. Numbtongue’s claws trembled as he looked at the first statue to fill The Wandering Inn for all to see. It was a [Message] louder than even the Goblins’ presence as helpers.
For you could call them [Mercenaries] or servants or even justify their existence as some did without calling them people.
But if you did, then that statue made no sense. For they were not shaking hands to seal any deal. There was no partnership nor give or take on the gently smiling Goblin’s face or the [Innkeeper]’s beaming smile.
Just friends. They clasped hands as, once again, The Wandering Inn saw its [Innkeeper] walk out of the garden’s doors to cheers. Erin looked around and blinked out a window.
“Is that a skating rink? What have you guys been up to? Let’s do this party!”
She laughed, and Rags smiled. Then the two of them walked out, properly. Not to thank each other anymore, but as friends.
 
[Great Chieftain Level 35!]
[Skill Change – Aura of Command → Aura of the Emissary obtained!]
[Spell: Apista’s Jetflame created.]
[Skill – The Innkeeper’s Daily Bounty (The Wandering Inn) obtained!]
