A child salivated over a plate of spaghetti. This Rags would pick up a knife and fork and look for seasonings or check if anyone else was eating.
She had become an adult so fast that Erin understood, bitterly, how Goblins aged.
As for Rags?
She saw the same face, but more worn. Not by time, but by struggle. Erin’s cheeks flushed too quick, and she panted, weakly, if she exerted herself. It was all over her. Not that Rags had seen her collapse, but the knowledge that she might. The sudden, painful frailty of someone who had felt their body betray them completely.
And Erin was only one year older. She had seen so many friends die—the wonder that shone through and her determination, however clumsy, was changed to something else.
A great wariness. A terrible fear and knowledge buried deep down. The [Innkeeper] who had chased off Rock Crabs and fought monsters had been brave, generous, and good. She had nearly died, but she had the willpower to fight, the intelligence that Rags admired.
That young woman had no enemies. This woman did, and she knew them well and waited for the day they would return. She had seen every failure in her actions, and she no longer pushed ahead blindly.
The two people they had been were still there, in Erin, in Rags. But there was almost more of them in the memories the others had of them. They saw it reflected in each other’s gazes and looked away.
Silence fell once more. Erin didn’t know what to say. Secrets, perhaps. Even the great secrets of dead gods. Zineryr. She might have told Rags everything—
But that wasn’t what she wanted to say to Rags. It was all going wrong. Erin thought of Ryoka and how they had met after so long. It was like that, but even worse, because unlike Ryoka, she had never talked to Rags.
“What—what were you going to do after the chess game?”
Rags shrugged.
“I don’t know. That was all I dreamed about. Thanking you for helping me.”
“I didn’t, really.”
Rags just narrowed her eyes slightly, and Erin protested.
“I didn’t! I gave you a bit of food, but I never helped you build your tribe, Rags. I didn’t help you against the Goblin Lord. I didn’t do…much of anything, really.”
“More than any other person I’ve ever met. Even Goblins.”
“So? I could have done so much more.”
Rags fell silent. Again, it seemed like something was on the tip of her tongue, but she left it unsaid. Rather than argue against Erin, she just dropped the matter.
Erin wasn’t expecting that. And she realized, to her chagrin, that despite their mutual—respect—for one another, they had very poor chemistry in dialogue. She couldn’t figure Rags out, how to speak to her. Erin could with Grimalkin or Relc, but Rags didn’t respond in the same way. Perhaps because she wasn’t certain how to speak to Erin herself.
“Who…who did you bring to the inn? Helpers, you said?”
Rags sighed slightly, but she nodded. She gestured to the far wall.
“Goblins. Two Hobs. Mostly small ones.”
“Good workers? Um. Lyonette will want to know. Do they have classes like [Server]? [Cook]?”
“…Nope. They’re all different. One is missing a leg. Got eaten by an Eater Goat. Another? [Petty Thief]. One Goblin who wanted to come, he…picks up sticks.”
“Oh?”
“Just that. Picks up sticks. Very good at picking up sticks, but he keeps nearly getting eaten by Wyverns. Goblins like that.”
Erin was silent for a second, but a word was on her tongue too fast for her to stop it.
“…Are you giving me troublemakers?”
Rags grinned.
“Yep. Goblins who are hard to fit in Goblinhome. That’s the place where we are. Maybe you can help them. Like me.”
“I’ll try. They’ll be safer here, I think. There are jerks, but—the inn is safe.”
Erin hoped that was true. She turned to Rags.
“We’ve got some of the Goblins who went with Badarrow, too. I didn’t know if they wanted to stay, but—”
“If they want to come, we’ll take them. Not all survived. Most did. More than I thought. Badarrow and Snapjaw lived. It was good.”
“How many died when you kidnapped the Healer of Tenbault? I had no idea you did that. It was so dangerous—but you did it for me. Thanks. Again.”
Rags waved a claw.
“Less. It was my choice. My choice, Erin. The only Goblins who died for you went with Numbtongue. I chose to raid Tenbault.”
For me. Erin fidgeted, and Rags seemed to take something else from the subtle motion. She lifted a finger.
“If you don’t like them, I will take any back. If the [Thief] steals—it’s not hard. It’s an experiment. I can send good Goblins, but I need most.”
“No, I think it’ll be worth trying.”
Rags shrugged.
“Just send back the ones who don’t work. Silly Goblins are easy to deal with. All cause problems. Even my best ones.”
She heaved a huge sigh, and Erin tried to remember the Goblins she’d passed by.
“Badarrow wasn’t here long, but he told me there are a few who, um, work right under you. Calescent—wait, that’s the [Chef]? Poisonbite, Redscar, Taganchiel…is Ulvama part of your tribe?”
“Eh. Maybe. She would be useful, but I don’t like her.”
“Really? She’s not that bad…”
The Goblin [Great Chieftain] gave Erin another look that was a mix of annoyance and patience. Erin hesitated and amended her statement.
“Okay, she’s a bit of a lazy pest. But Mrsha says she’s actually nice, and she went to save Mrsha. That’s something.”
“More than I ever saw.”
Rags grudgingly admitted. She sighed and brushed at her tufts of hair with a claw.
“Maybe I’ll take her back. Badarrow is my lieutenant, too. Snapjaw as well. All of them have problems. That’s my concern. How about you? Does your inn need guards? Is Numbtongue doing well?”
“Numbtongue? Great. He’s, uh…”
Erin was going to say, ‘indiscriminately cuddling’, but it felt too childish. And after her conversation with him last night—she lowered her head. Rags noticed and changed the subject again.
“So. You were at Riverfarm. Are the Goblins well?”
Again, Erin started, but Rags seemed to have sources of intelligence that at least matched Selys. Erin nodded.
“Yeah, they were good. I met this [Emperor]…he says he has a history with your tribe, actually. But he seemed to be treating the Goblins under his rule well. They didn’t even want to come back with me.”
“Nor me. Good. If they were unhappy, they’d leave. So—a good vacation?”
Rags said the word as if she had no real idea what it meant, and Erin nodded.
“Oh, yeah. I met a friend, and I brought back this young witch—former witch—to stay at the inn. I’ll introduce you to her. Her name’s Nanette, and I met a bunch of [Witches] and refined my craft. Oh! We even summoned a River Elemental and nearly flooded everything, but then we found a Law Elemental, and that was wild.”
The [Chieftain] nodded along, listening. But she only broke in near the end.
“Mhm. What is a Law Elemental? River Elementals? Tell me about them.”
She was far more interested in the Elementals as a subject than Riverfarm. Erin gave Rags a brief recount of her time in Riverfarm and trip back. All the while, she was conscious of how painfully stilted their conversation was.
“How’s Goblinhome, Rags?”
“Oh. Well. We had a goat attack and Gargoyles. So we are building more defenses. Most went down the High Passes, but we are tunneling. Like Antinium, but slower. Sorry. Goblinhome looks like this. First, we inhabited a large cave at the end of a plateau in the mountains. Then we built it out with wood. We had a rampart, like a Terandrian castle, but we decided to make it almost completely indoors. No aerial defenses except in cover, because Wyverns would try to steal Goblins, and Eater Goats attack everything. So now it looks like this. If the original caves are here, we dug out here, here, and began adding wooden exteriors which we covered…”
The more Rags talked, the stranger it became. She was so…neat with how she laid out things. She gestured, tried to give Erin a complete picture of what she was talking about—and Erin had never known Rags thought like that.
The [Innkeeper] was beginning to despair about everything, and Rags was petering off her summary of the choke-points and kill-zones she’d set up to defend her colony. She muttered.
“It’s fine. Goblins are Goblins. Silly creatures. Even when they’re fed and no one is attacking, they get into trouble. Like Poisonbite. And her relationships.”
“Hm? What’s wrong with Poisonbite?”
Rags had to explain that Poisonbite, one of the leaders of the mostly-female Goblin forces, often had an off-and-on relationship with a Hobgoblin under her command. Which then led into all kinds of Mountain City Goblin interpersonal drama, grudges, affairs…
It sounded dreadfully Human to Erin. Rags was apparently called in when the issues got so bad they were on the verge of provoking mass brawls, and her growing scowl indicated how she felt about her time being used that way. And despite herself, Erin couldn’t help but venture a tiny, sarcastic comment.
“Oh man. If Goblins can’t escape relationship drama, who can? That was just like yesterday when I had to talk about—”
She hesitated, guiltily, because that was private.
“—stuff in relationships. I hate it. I would rather eat a handful of grass. Two handfuls! And dirt!”
Erin stopped herself because she was venting the guilt and unhappiness she’d felt about hurting Numbtongue like that. And she was sure Rags didn’t want to hear about it. But to her surprise, the shorter Goblin snorted in amusement.
“You have love troubles, too? I would have thought you had easier times. I thought you were dating the Titan of Baleros.”
“Who said that? I’ll slap ‘em with a pan!”
Erin sat up with a yelp. Rags just shrugged.
“Rumors. So. Do people come up to you and try to get you to have sex with them? Ask to hold hands? Be…girl-Human and boy-Human?”
She flapped her claws at Erin, urbanely amused. Erin flushed, but she was in it now.
“No, but not for want of trying. I have the Titan in one corner, and, um—someone just sorta confessed to me, but it didn’t work out. And it hadn’t worked out, so I—I don’t think I handled it well.”
“Ah, Numbtongue.”
Erin bit her lip. Rags just peered back at the inn. She nodded to herself.
“I’m right. I can sense sad Goblins. I am a [Chieftain].”
“Oh no. Is he broken up about it? This is like Altestiel all over again.”
Now, Rags was counting.
“Three…any more?”
“No! And it’s three too many! People were already making rumors that I was engaged to Ilvriss!”
“That’s four. Let’s see. [Earl], famous [Strategist], Wall Lord. Numbtongue is the worst one. Only a [Bard].”
Erin glared at Rags. The Goblin seemed to find this hilarious. Erin didn’t find it amusing. At all. The snap in her tone made Rags go quiet, as did the flash in Erin’s eyes.
“It’s not funny! I keep hurting them. It’s not right of me. It’s not fair—and I know that. I want to find love, but I’m—I’m not able to. Even though I died. I realized I didn’t want to die without trying, but I’m…such a failure.”
She was whispering by the end, and another piece of her heart felt like it was out of place. As if she was on the wrong track, going the wrong way, with no idea how to right things. Let alone between her and Numbtongue.
Then Erin felt bad for flaring up at Rags. She thought of Olesm and Niers and—and wondered why she was so terrible.
To her surprise, the Great Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe didn’t take offense. Her eyes widened, and she sat back as her armor crushed the soft grass and a Faerie Flower. Rags gazed at Erin and then spoke, sounding surprised and hesitant.
“I didn’t mean it was silly. I just laughed because…it sounds like my life. Too many Goblins, all of whom want to hop in my bed. Or throw other Goblins in.”
“…What now?”
Erin sat up as Rags heaved the largest sigh in creation. She gestured emphatically as she stared across the garden.
“Goblins want a Chieftain to have partners. It makes Chieftains more balanced. That’s what they say. Children are good. First it was Pyrite, then Redscar—but that was stupid. Now Taganchiel, but he doesn’t want to. Then—well, all this year, Poisonbite tries until I kick her out of Goblinhome and lock the doors. Now? Probably Ulvama. Or Badarrow or Snapjaw. Or both.”
She glared past Erin, clearly venting over a long-standing issue between her and her tribe. Erin was mildly appalled.
“What, they want you to get in a three-way relationship?”
“Eh. Anything.”
“What’s the basis in thinking that a partner makes a Chieftain stable?”
Rags counted on her claws.
“Garen? No partner. Very crazy. Tremborag? Only has sex. Very crazy. Reiss? Goblin Lord. Very crazy. No partner. Goblins get stupid ideas.”
Erin had to admit, when she put it like that, there might be causation or correlation. But Rags wasn’t done.
“Now? They just want me to have fun. So every fourth night, I find Goblin in bed. Naked. In my bed. Tall, short, big, small. Very muscly, very scarred. Very magic—all the attractive Goblins, even ones in relationships.”
Attractive meaning, of course, any quality a Goblin thought was attractive, including the more technical aspects of sex to being a very attentive companion. Rags had shot them all down faster than Fightipilota in her dreams of soaring through the air in a jet plane.
Her scowl was huge, and, when she realized she was confiding all this in Erin, hugely embarrassed. Rags turned away.
“Stupid problems to have.”
“You’re telling me. Do you—do you feel bad?”
“About what?”
Rags looked over, and Erin’s face was guilty. And wistful.
“Not giving any of them a shot? I mean, I don’t have people in my bed—and that sounds like a real problem. Especially if they don’t wash their feet first! But I…I almost wish I had given all of the relationships a try, y’know? Just so I could say I tried. It’s not like I didn’t like Altestiel, you know?”
“…No.”
The [Chieftain] gave Erin a strange look, but Erin was trying to explain. Her cheeks flushed.
“I liked Altestiel. A bit. Just not in the way I thought I should if I was gonna love him or anything. But isn’t that how it starts? You really like someone and that turns into love?”
Rags sneered.
“Looks more like needing to jump each other, first. Love? Different. Snapjaw and Badarrow are a couple. Not like Poisonbite and her problems.”
Erin hung her head.
“Yeah. That’s what I thought. But I do like Altestiel. I do like Numbtongue and even Niers.”
Rags cast a glance at Erin.
“So you don’t try. Hmm. I thought you would have an easy time. Be an easy person.”
“What? Me?”
Erin turned red and grew a bit outraged, but Rags just shrugged.
