In Baleros, there is a [Doctor].
Her name is Geneva Scala, and she needs to be found. She is waiting, waiting…a ‘guest’ of the Minds of Selphids. Few people know this, and even if they do, who can find her, much less bring her back?
The Minds have her. And whichever Minds they are—they are both secluded and guarded by an army.
The Titan of Baleros had lots of maps. And he had found at least one group of Minds before. As for an army? He had a few. Now, the trick was sneaking up on a telepathic group of super-brains, or at least, cornering them.
Find, locate, extract—and the prize would be meeting the Last Light of Baleros, a woman from another world. Earth.
The Titan mulled over his maps as he sipped a mug of coffee, which he was probably already addicted to. And he had one, crucial thought.
Damn the [Doctor].
The reason why he had a cup of coffee was not because Oteslia’s new product had spread to Baleros—ironically, the species of plant that made coffee was endemic to Baleros anyways.
The reason was because the Titan of Baleros kept tabs on things, so he had heard about the drink. But he was mainly drinking it because…
The Wandering Inn was selling coffee. At a huge markup. The Titan of Baleros happened—just happened to know this, because next to his maps and notes about the offensive against The Dyed Lands, finding Geneva Scala, and pushing back Jungle Tails was a scrying orb.
One of four. But this one just happened to be a feed of The Wandering Inn’s common room. And he was, right now, watching as a flood of Goblins, Antinium, adventurers, and interesting people poured into the inn in what would be a three-day mega party.
And he had just seen Erin Solstice return from her vacation with what he swore was a flaming hat. How Niers wished he could be there.
He had heard, down the grapevine, that The Wandering Inn had famous parties. And an Antinium army would be returning to the city as well as even more fun guests in the next few days.
The Titan was piqued. He hesitated, scribbled in a little Fraerling-sized scroll, then tried to stop. But he couldn’t. So he kept compounding his problem, but…the [Message] scroll read something like this.
 
Niers: Heard about the river incident. Anything interesting happen with your [Emperor]?
Niers: Peki’s at the battlefield. Not my fault.
Niers: Thoughts on the Crusade? Have you met Xrn?
Niers: Nice hat.
 
He told himself that four was too many. Which was why six messages since Erin’s last comment was, uh…he was fiddling with a quill when someone passed by his table littered with tools at breakfast.
Foliana was used to Niers in work-mode. But she definitely noticed the non-war-related paraphernalia at the table. Niers tried to hide the scroll behind his back, and the squirrel just shuffled around him.
She looked up at Niers as he opened and closed his mouth. Then Foliana killed him. She leaned forwards, and her huge squirrel-face contorted into a terrible glee and, worse, sympathy for him as the Fraerling looked at her in horror.
“Lame.”
She left Niers skewered on the table and hopped off. The Titan slowly rolled up the [Message] scroll and went back to plotting to kill people. Possibly with more vengeance than before. But he didn’t miss the inn’s commotion. He couldn’t see the ‘private’ elements, of course, but he was watching.
The [Princess] was standing in a flurry of people, organizing them pretty well, calling out names, meeting with a Watch Captain and a few Councilmembers of Liscor. A party. They were having a party, and multiple cities were invited.
But the little Goblin Chieftain and Erin Solstice were nowhere to be seen.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin stood in The Wandering Inn, and Pawn was glad to see her. He had missed Lyonette terribly, and he walked forwards.
“Lyonette. You are back. I have missed you. How was—”
Then, like usual since she had returned, a figure in golden armor subtly interposed himself between Pawn and Lyonette. Ser Lormel coughed as the [Princess] hurried into the inn, escorting a young girl.
Who was this? Pawn tried to edge past Ser Lormel as the Thronebearer blocked him. The others were like that, too. Whenever he and Lyonette tried to be private, one of them was there.
He waited for Lyonette to turn to him and order her people out of the way, but she was busy talking to a young Human girl.
“I’m so sorry it’s chaotic, Nanette.”
“Not at all, Miss Lyonette. I should see how the inn is if I’m to live here.”
“Yes, but I did hope it would be less chaotic. What am I saying? Here’s the inn’s common room, and as you can see—”
“Lyonette. Lyonette, what are these Goblins doing here? I need to talk to you or Erin about so many.”
Watch Captain Zevara ran into the same problem as Pawn was slowly trying to push Lormel into a wall. Ser Dalimont checked her with an arm, and she stared at him.
“Excuse me, Miss. Her Highness is busy.”
“I am Watch Captain Zevara on business of Liscor. And this inn is technically part of Liscor. One side.”
“I regret that no authority but the crown of Calanfer can supercede my orders, Watch Captain.”
Ser Dalimont and Zevara clashed in a rather impressive way. The Watch Captain was literally breathing fire, but Dalimont didn’t move. And Lyonette was showing Nanette around, still.
Was this a new guest of the inn? Another child?
In Pawn’s view of the world, children could be born naturally, a process which he was still fuzzy about since the Antinium had no place in other species’ biological reproduction. Or they appeared, like Mrsha. Thus, he was the only person to guess that Nanette was staying at the inn. In which case he should obviously introduce himself to her to make a good impression. He had failed with Mrsha, but she was a rapscallion.
“Excuse me, I need to speak to Lyonette. Please move.”
“I regret that Her Highness is busy, Mister Pawn.”
Lormel had the friendly look of someone who really wasn’t that friendly. Pawn frowned.
“I have not insisted because I am being polite to Lyonette’s guards. But I must. Please move.”
“Mister Pawn, I am well aware of your…acquaintanceship with Her Highness, but I regret to say that she is busy.”
Lormel stressed the words with that same veneer. Pawn suspected that he wasn’t regretful at all. If he were, he would have let Lyonette know Pawn was standing there. What annoyed the Antinium more than the lies was something else, though.
“I am not ‘Mister Pawn’.”
“Oh? Pardon me, sir. I simply use it as a term to refer to people. As [Knights] of Calanfer do, sir.”
“I am not sir, either. I am a [Priest].”
Lormel hesitated for a second. He eyed Pawn with a look of slight unease, then smiled.
“Well, er, Priest Pawn, as Ser Dalimont said, no force besides the crown of Calanfer supercedes Her Highness’ own will. Please step back, and we will let Princess Lyonette know someone is petitioning her time at her convenience.”
Pawn stared at Lormel as a familiar feeling of frustration began to build in him.
“You know my relationship with Lyonette.”
Lormel’s lips compressed, and his eyes swiveled about, but the inn was flooding—literally flooding with people. Ceria escaped through the door as a flood of people asking for autographs charged in after her. Mrsha had met a wild Grev, and the two were high-fiving as Gireulashia gently picked up a startled Human and moved them out of the way so she could find her little friend.
No one had heard, so the Thronebearer leaned forwards.
“I know nothing of the kind, sir, and I would hope you will be silent about most untoward accusations against Her Highness’ integrity.”
Pawn looked at him. Then something clicked in his head, and he realized they knew. Which meant they were doing this on purpose. And disapproved. And—
Calmly, he patted Ser Lormel on the arm.
“My private life is my business. And Lyonette’s. Who I will now see at our convenience. Thank you for not getting in my way further, Ser Lormel. I would hate to disturb your work.”
“I regret—”
Ser Lormel reached for Pawn, and Gireulashia bodily checked him into a table.
“Mrsha, MrshaMrshaMrsha, let’s sit here with—oops! I’m so sorry!”
She hadn’t seen him, and the Thronebearer went stumbling into a table. Lormel turned to grab Pawn, who was marching towards Lyonette, and slipped. On his ankle.
[Bane of Luck].
Lormel was down, and Dalimont, Sest, and Ushar closed ranks. And all the while? This was the least important thing in the inn in some sense.
Because there were Goblins, and the [Princess] had promised a party. The only problem was—there was no Erin wandering about organizing everything in her odd way. There was a party, and this time, it was Lyonette who had to deliver.
 
——
 
The [Princess] was stressed out. But in that way where she invited the stress. Lyonette was deliberately buying time to think by showing Nanette around the rooms and organizing the little witch her spot.
But she was well aware that Zevara was breathing smoke, and that Lism, Krshia, Elirr, and the Councilmembers were waiting for her.
And the [Mayor] of Invrisil. Nanette seemed to sense it too.
“Miss Lyonette, you can let me look around. It’s safe in the inn, isn’t it?”
“Yes…”
Nanette gave her a brave smile. She looked around the common room and found Mrsha speaking excitedly with Gire. Her eyes went round at the sight of the huge Gnoll.
“She must be Ekhtouch! Mrsha’s here—she can help me if I’m lost, can’t she? I can look around myself.”
That instantly placed her as older than Mrsha. Lyonette hesitated.
“If you’re sure. Erin would be here, but we are in the middle of everything. Thank you, Nanette. I shall make it up to you.”
The girl went to tip her hat again, caught herself, and just smiled. Guiltily, Lyonette nodded to her, stepped back, then clapped her hands.
Every head in the inn turned as the [Princess] invoked her aura. And her voice.
“Attention, everyone! The Wandering Inn is open for business.”
Those familiar words. Smiles appeared on toothy fangs and mandibles, and then Lyonette saw familiar faces in the guests.
Old friends. Repeat customers.
They were already here, because they had sensed the moment the instant it began building.
Senior Guardsman Relc, tugging his daughter over to the table that Klbkch had already secured. The changed Antinium had a bowl of acid flies in one hand, and they were seated right next to Menolit, wearing his Liscor Hunted apparel.
New visitors too, like Venaz, staring at the Goblins with undisguised wariness. He twisted in his seat, and Wil put a hand on his shoulder with Merrik as Redscar entered the inn.
With Thunderfur. The Carn Wolf scared every cat in existence into hiding behind Elirr as the [Beast Trainer] eyed the giant wolf with appreciation. Lyonette saw a Lamia poking his head out from behind Elirr’s back and smiled.
Nerry the Sariant Lamb scuttled into Garia’s arms as Numbtongue looked around. And he grinned as a sleepy [Alchemist] poked her head out of her shop and smiled and waved at him. But there was Badarrow and Snapjaw and—
Ishkr. The [Head Server] was everywhere, showing Antinium who to give food to and how to record receipts in the busy inn. Amazingly, he was keeping up with the chaos so far, but one look and Lyonette knew he needed backup.
So—with countless more faces she knew, like grumpy Tekshia banging a claw on the table and demanding cookies, Ceria slyly offering Bird a ‘stone bird wing’ she’d claimed from a Gargoyle’s corpse and getting a hug in return, Lyonette called out.
“We are slightly busy! So I hope you will bear in mind that these are going to be busy days. Please do not disturb any other guests, including the adventurers. The second floor is off-limits. Lastly, do not go into the kitchen for food, no matter how hungry you are. We store jars of acid in there.”
Some of the guests blanched, but the others just laughed. Mrsha was staring at Lyonette, and the [Princess] caught her daughter’s eye. She jerked her head and gave a meaningful nod to Nanette, who was watching Lyonette’s crowd management appreciatively.
Mrsha’s eyes went round, as if she’d forgotten Nanette. She had to be responsible now! She slid out of her seat and went to grab Nanette’s hand, much to Gire’s shock. Grev, the rascal, was just grinning, his feet up on a table as he leaned back in his chair.
The inn was warm with so many bodies and smelled like something wonderfully spicy coming from the kitchens. The Goblins smelled a bit travel-worn, a bit muddy, wet, like clothing got or leather, after being frozen and doused in water, and some were shivering from their long, high-altitude flight. So Lyonette gave orders fast.
“I could use a larger fire and a second fire, Liska. Ishkr, please call out if you’re in trouble, but focus on food for the tables.”
They had no bartender, unfortunately, which meant Ishkr would have to somehow fill mugs as well as deliver food.
…That was what Lyonette thought until a familiar figure paused and tried to duck behind the counter. She thought it was that other [Innkeeper]—until she saw the beetle shell. And the waving silver antennae.
The Antinium polishing the counter clean and filling mugs peeked up at her as he surreptitiously took money and filled a mug of ale. Lyonette glared at Silveran, but it was not Silveran.
Because of the huge, bushy mustache he wore, see? He stroked it as Silverstache, the temporary [Bartender], got to clean up all the horrible messes on the bartop. And yes, it was a silver mustache on his face.
Lyonette just sighed, but all hands were needed, and more were in fact wanted. So she clapped her hands.
“Right now, I would like to ask anyone with personal business to wait—I need to speak to Liscor’s Council, Watch Captain Zevara, and the [Mayors] of Invrisil, Celum, and anyone from Pallass regarding the parade. Next, I would appreciate it if Menolit, Temile, Kevin, Joseph—someone find them if they’re not here—Imani and Palt, uhm, Selys, and a few others would wait for me. I won’t be more than fifteen minutes.”
Now that was odd. It was like Erin telegraphing her seemingly-random moves ahead. But this was Lyonette style, and Menolit looked as curious as Kevin. Selys glanced at Lyonette sharply, but the [Princess] was already heading off to meet with Zevara. She passed by Pawn, smiled at him, took his hand for a second, and had to go.
For the news was this: the inn was throwing a party. But it required everyone’s help.
 
——
 
“A holiday? Really?”
The news in the rest of Liscor was simple. The Council, after a flash-meeting with the [Princess] at the inn, had come to an agreement.
In fact, the word was being cried across Liscor. A panting Ser Lormel, trying to escape his run of slips and bad luck, was standing at a bakery supplier.
