The first thing that came out of Erin’s mouth was silly. She was taking Rags on a walk around her garden. As if she were Mrsha, showing Nanette every crack and crevice of the inn.
Yet the Goblin seemed to enjoy it. Erin led Rags down that dreadful, beautiful hill, and the Goblin seemed to breathe easier. She looked back over her shoulder, but Erin was pointing out the Sage’s Grass and flowers.
“They’re both super important. One fuels the door with magic—and they’re totally safe. Isn’t that cool?”
“Very smart. Free magic. What about the yellow flowers?”
Erin twisted slightly and, once again, marveled that Rags spoke. She was even eloquent, not like how Ulvama pretended not to know syntax and diction. Yet she had something of the old Rags in her.
A recalcitrance to speech. Not as if she were shy like Numbtongue, but weighing her words, choosing them as if each one she spoke were important and reflected back on her.
If Mrsha could speak, she would be a silly babbler at times or as prone to pontificating as Pisces. That was not bad—but Rags’ way of speaking made Erin hang on the words. Because they were ones that the Goblin could never have said to Erin long ago.
And here they were, talking about flowers. Erin’s silly mouth spoke on.
“I got ‘em from faeries. Do you remember the faeries?”
“Winter Sprites? They don’t bother Goblins.”
“No, I guess not. Ryoka says something’s up with them. They’re actually faeries from another world.”
At this, Rags stopped and gave Erin the strangest look in the world.
“Really?”
“Yep. Faerie-people from another world. You’d have to ask Ryoka more, though. She had one as a friend. Ivolethe. She’s…well. Ryoka’s alive. And this is my garden. My [Garden of Sanctuary]. It’s my best Skill, that I got at Level 40. I mean, [Immortal Moment] is cool and I have a few other ones like my fire Skill, but this is really great. And I have more gardens, like I said!”
“Hmm. I know.”
“You do?”
Rags bared her teeth in a grin as she looked around and inhaled the faint smell of mushrooms and damp earth in the soil where that circle of mushrooms sprang up in a faerie ring. She bent down to pick one and stopped.
“I saw it on the scrying orb. The snowy garden. And I know about Ryoka. She’s not dead. I saw her fly.”
Erin realized Rags knew more of her than she did about Rags. She felt…Erin flapped her hands at Rags hurriedly.
“Go ahead and pick a mushroom if you want! I’ve never tried eating one. Anything you want! And look! My [Garden of Sanctuary] opens anywhere in my inn! It’s super convenient to get around and sneak up on people. See?”
She demonstrated, opening a door straight into the kitchen. A Goblin [Chef] was tasting a mana candy surreptitiously. He turned, spotted them, and screamed.
“Whaaah!”
“Aaah! Who was that?”
Erin slammed the door shut, then turned to Rags. And the little [Chieftain] was grinning. She pointed back to the empty wall.
“Calescent. My best [Chef]. You wanted one, so he kept annoying me until I told him he could come. I sent more Goblins. As helpers.”
“You did? Oh—thank you!”
Erin put a hand over her chest and felt bad about scaring him. Then she frowned.
“Have you…didn’t I meet him before?”
“When you woke up. He’s a [Spice Chef]. A very good fighter. Very dangerous.”
“With a cleaver or something?”
The Goblin snorted.
“Nope. Throws spice in people’s faces and blinds them. Even Gold-rank adventurers fall for it.”
Erin put a hand over her mouth, then laughed.
“I did the same thing with a bowl of soup one time! No, wait, it was curry. I bet you he and I will get along great! Are you sure it’s okay? Thank you, I mean! I felt bad about making the request.”
Rags brushed at her shoulder as if dismissing Erin’s concern.
“It’s fine. Everyone likes your inn. Not everyone wanted to go. Calescent likes to cook. Just stay away from Redscar. And all the Goblins who fly.”
“Why? Are they…mad at me? For what I did?”
The first real question entered the conversation five minutes in. Rags glanced up, and Erin saw the little Goblin studying her face. But Rags just shook her head again.
“No. Silly. They want you to…post a <Quest>. I have questions about that, too. They want you to give them classes or secrets.”
“Oh—I can do that.”
Erin was so relieved she nodded, but Rags held up a claw. The [Chieftain] searched for words.
“They…would also like you to make one of my Goblins gain a class. Redscar said, ‘if she can make a [Knight], she should make a [Fighter Pilot].’ Kevin told him about it. Idiot.”
She gave Erin a helpless, slightly annoyed, amused look, as if she were—well, a Chieftain who had to hear that kind of request all the time. Erin’s jaw was dropped in a satisfying manner, and she didn’t know whether to laugh or…
The two stared at each other slightly too long. And then Erin realized she hadn’t laughed and tried to, but it sounded unnatural.
“Oh. Hahaha! That’s great!”
“Mm. You don’t have to.”
Rags grunted, and Erin fell silent. She tried to insert a word into that silence—and fumbled.
She fumbled. Where she had spoken to people she hated or, at least, talked to them and known how to persuade them to think or do something, she couldn’t quite do the same with Rags. That bothered her.
“…I’ll definitely post <Quests> that can help, Rags. Definitely. You just ask. You need food? Or, um—things? I can post a <Quest> if you want. Even a hidden, private one.”
“You can do that?”
Rags’ head raised. Her red eyes shone with interest, and she spoke quickly.
“I thought you did. I have questions. About how they work. About the rewards. Are they really random?”
“Yes! They’re totally new. Actually—I might have, uh, unlocked them.”
“You unlocked them?”
Rags just blinked at Erin and then snorted and rolled her eyes.
“Of course. Duh. Strangers from other worlds. You unlocking <Quests> and coming back from the dead. Very normal.”
Erin’s smile felt strained. She didn’t feel like Rags was insulting her. She was just—desperately—
What?
What? What was so wrong that made this feel more painful than it should be? It should be the best. But Rags?
Perhaps Rags felt the same, because she caught herself and shook her head. She kicked at a mushroom and sent it flying.
“I—no. I don’t want to ask you about that. Not yet. Later.”
She stopped, took a breath, and Erin thought she saw the uncertainty in Rags’ face for a second. The Goblin looked up and pointed to the hill.
“I saw the statues there. Is that…part of your garden?”
Erin’s heart squeezed. Then she looked at Rags, and the bit of cheery artifice she’d put into her voice faded. She looked around and realized that the only bench in the entire garden was up in the hill of mists.
“Let’s go walk up on the hill. I can sit in the grass. Sorry. I get tired.”
Rags nodded. They walked up the hill, and Erin, to her great embarrassment, had to lean on Rags’ shoulders. She was still tired from her excitement in Riverfarm. But the Goblin didn’t say a word.
“Sorry. I’m still…”
“It’s okay. You’re not heavy. Sometimes Thunderfur lies on me.”
She meant the huge wolf? Erin smiled and hid her head. Rags glanced at Erin—then she poked Erin in the side.
The [Innkeeper] nearly jumped off the hill, and Rags glanced at her. But the [Innkeeper] finally sat down, and when she spoke, it was facing the hill shrouded in mists.
“…Yeah. The hill was there when the garden was given to me. It’s everyone. Everyone…I’m sorry I didn’t warn you.”
“It’s fine. I saw it the first time I came here.”
Rags settled, cross-legged, as Erin stretched her own feet out. The [Innkeeper] gave Rags a puzzled glance, and the Goblin elaborated.
“When you were dead.”
“Oh. You visited my…my grave?”
Instantly, Erin realized she’d said the wrong word.
“My body, I mean? When it was frozen?”
Rags just nodded.
“Yes. I got here too late. I’m sorry.”
“Don’t be sorry. It was my fault. I was silly and careless and—”
The young woman swallowed a lump in the middle of her throat. She looked down at her weak legs and felt the same sensation that she remembered in her dreams.
A sudden push at her chest and a strange, alien feeling. Lying on the ground and wondering why she couldn’t breathe. A piece of wood and steel buried in her lungs.
Dying. The worst part of all was that in her memories, in that dream—Erin Solstice died smiling. She died too soon, unexpectedly, in the stupidest of ways.
—But no force in this world could stop her. No miracle came, and she knew it and left them her last words.
That last moment before the world ended sometimes called to her. And it pulled her down and down until she woke—and her lungs had stopped, and she rolled over and coughed and sobbed for air. But what frightened her was that calm certainty.
The fear that this was all a dream. The fear that she had died, and this was a true death, and the fantastical land of the dead and ever after was just—an illusion.
Erin had not often questioned if this world were a real one. It felt too real. So, then. Her death had been far, far too vivid, and it haunted her.
The Goblin noticed how Erin stopped. She looked down and regarded Erin, the [Innkeeper] who had begun this, who had come first of all to this world by chance.
Rags said this:
“You changed, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] looked up at Rags guiltily. But the Goblin didn’t mean it like an accusation. She just sat up slightly, cross-legged, and looked at the [Innkeeper].
“I wanted to say, ‘thank you’. I said it. I came back to thank you for everything. I was too late. You died, and I looked down at you and knew you were dead. Now—I see you living again. Strange. I thought I saw so many strange things that I wouldn’t get tired. Now. I wonder if I’m dreaming.”
Erin jumped, and Rags seemed to be echoing her very thoughts, but the Goblin went on, engrossed, reading out her deepest emotions like a list.
“You died, Erin. I did my best to save you—but I didn’t know if it would really work. I did it because I hoped. But when you did wake, after everything? I realized that I was too late. You changed. When I said those words, that Erin wasn’t the one I wanted to thank.”
The [Innkeeper] was having trouble breathing. She looked at Rags, unable to respond. And she realized this wasn’t an accusation either.
“I—I changed a lot in the lands of the dead, Rags. They were all there. Ghosts. Everyone I had ever met—only I couldn’t meet them all. Everyone but Goblins.”
“No Goblins?”
Rags didn’t look surprised by the revelation. Erin shook her head, and the Goblin grinned. Sadly.
“Where do they go? Nowhere?”
“I don’t know. No one does. Except—no. I don’t know, Rags.”
“Maybe it is nowhere. Maybe Ants are right and somewhere should exist. Maybe it’s here.”
Rags tapped her head, and Erin didn’t reply. The Goblin looked at Erin.
“When you were dead…no, it’s not important. I was too late, Erin. You’re sorry? I’m sorry. The Erin I wanted to thank isn’t here. But. Neither is the Goblin who should have thanked her.”
She tapped her own chest, and she looked rueful. Erin gazed at her, and her eyes opened.
“Oh. Oh. You don’t mean I’m—all wrong.”
“Wrong? No. Why would I?”
Rags blinked and gave Erin an exasperated look. The [Innkeeper] ducked her head, and Rags gazed at her. That knowing gaze shifted.
She had pupils, in those crimson eyes. Just a slightly different shade of red. Now, Rags fixed on Erin.
“Who says you’re wrong?”
“No one. I just wonder. I woke up, and I can post <Quests>, and I’m a [Witch] now, Rags. I should have told you about that. There’s a world of things to tell you. I just don’t quite know if Erin woke back up. Or if she died in the grass outside her inn and someone else is here, now.”
The [Innkeeper] stared down at her chest. That scared her. Not just the paralysis or the dreams of dying, but when her family looked at her as if she were made of glass and she thought of who she had been and—wondered if she could ever be that person again. If she had lost a piece of herself, perhaps, as if the crossbow bolts had broken off a piece of who she was and she’d lost it even when they put her back together.
She said this to Rags and felt like she was unloading an ocean as heavy as the one that had poured out of Nanette’s hat. Too quick. This wasn’t how she wanted to do this.
“Rags. I’m sorry. You came back to see me, and I’m just blabbing on. Let’s try again. Let me get you a plate of spaghetti, and—”
Erin began to try to heave herself up, but her arms shook. To her surprise, Rags grabbed at her arm. The Goblin peered at Erin and then gently tugged her down.
That was all it took for Erin to collapse onto her back. Rags noticed Erin’s weakness and let go at once. She seemed ashamed, and Erin played it off.
“I’m as weak as a baby. You could kick my butt right now, if you wanted. I bet that’s what you wanted to do to the old Erin. Even if you thanked her—beat her up for being so weird, huh? So silly?”
“Nah.”
Rags uncrossed her legs and copied Erin. She stared at the hill, as if trying to remember, now, the lines of a script.
“Let me think. I was going to thank you. Then I would sit down, and you would give me a…a hug. Probably. Then a plate of spaghetti and blue juice. Then I would challenge you to chess. And win. Or surprise you.”
“Really? We can do that.”
Erin almost laughed at the idea, but Rags just shook her head.
“It’s only a thought. It would never happen like that. The Goblin—that Rags is long gone.”
The young woman pulled herself up urgently. She propped herself up on one arm and turned to Rags. She looked over the Goblin, and yes, she was taller, but not by much! She had not changed markedly in one year, and neither had Erin. Physically, at least?
“What happened to her? No she’s not. I’m looking at her.”
She was lying. Rags gazed at Erin, and the young woman tried to connect this to the Goblin with almost no hair, wearing practically nothing but filthy rags, scared of everyone, buoyed up only by courage and her wits.
Rags, now, was clothed. The starving ‘monster’ had been wearing clothes because she was cold. If Rags tossed all her clothes to the winds now, she’d be naked.
…That was a bad analogy, but it was the difference in how she held herself. The eyes. Erin had seen those eyes when Olesm came back. They were the same kind of eyes that Maviola El had, that she imagined Niers had. Someone who had commanded and failed and watched people die.
But crucially—the eyes of someone who would do it again. When Rags looked around, it was too knowingly.
