But—well, the three were running around a busy inn. In fact, multiple [Innkeepers] were now coming to the inn itself.
So they came. Walking up to the inn by themselves in small groups, coming from Celum, Esthelm, Invrisil—and even Pallass.
Timbor Parithad, Peslas Folktale, Ulia Ovena. Drakes and Gnolls and Humans.
Some paused before The Wandering Inn and gulped. Others walked in as if they were Silver-rank adventurers entering a Gold-rank’s domain. Or defiantly, as if denying something right before their eyes.
One or two walked in like challengers or peers. Such as a Drake who Peslas practically fawned over.
Adalton Serristail of The Noble’s Fancy in Pallass. But most, like Timbor, came somewhat humbly. They were seeking an audience with The Wandering Inn regarding the coming celebrations.
After all—the inn would be the focal point for all the visitors and traffic flowing through the door. And while they did not have control over the people—they could recommend any inn they pleased. So if you were hoping to have your inn packed and full of paying guests…
Lyonette was holding court like the [Princess] she was. Mrsha rolled her eyes as she, Nanette, and Gire slowed to let the procession of [Innkeepers] past as they came down the trapped hallway. It was always funny to Mrsha to see the reactions of guests who looked up and saw a murder hole. Then she pointed.
Look! That scoundrel! That wastrel of no good purpose!
Miss Agnes was trying to hide behind Ulia, ducking, as she came into the inn. A coughing man was being helped by her. Miss Agnes and her husband! What was his name?
Mrsha’s glower softened a tiny bit, because she remembered Agnes’ husband was sick. Nanette, obviously, had no context for the grudge Mrsha held against The Frenzied Hare. Mrsha turned to tell Nanette all of this in writing and found the [Witch] had disappeared.
…Mostly because Gire had picked Nanette up, opened the hidden side passage in the main hallway, tossed her into it, and shut it in her face. She looked innocent as could be as Mrsha saw Nanette breathlessly open the hallway door, scaring the daylights out of Ulia.
At this point, Mrsha got the first sense that Gire might not like Nanette. The little [Druid]’s flaw was that she didn’t quite believe Gire would be so mean. In that sense, Mrsha made a mistake, because Gire had no idea who Nanette was. Mrsha, in her way, thought everyone knew why Nanette should be loved and made to feel happy and warm.
So she was uncertain and wavered before calling Gireulashia out on anything. Which could have led to a very unpleasant day for Nanette indeed—except for one thing. Something Gire had failed to consider or didn’t know and Mrsha and Erin and Lyonette and everyone worrying over her had forgotten.
She was Califor’s daughter. She was a witch, even if she had no hat or class. Kind as Nanette was—Alevica and Mavika had been [Witches] she regularly met, and she had roamed for twelve years with Califor in places hostile to [Witches].
So when she came back, she marched over to Gireulashia and looked up. The [Paragon] gave her a sinister smirk, as if daring Nanette to call her out on it. That smirk turned to chagrin as Nanette did just that. She stuck a tiny finger up at Gire.
“Miss Gireulashia, I must tell you I don’t appreciate you pulling tricks on me. I don’t believe I’ve done anything wrong to you. I’m sorry if you feel upset that I’m taking Mrsha’s time away from you, but I just want to be Mrsha’s friend, not your enemy.”
Gire’s eyes went round and innocent as Mrsha stared up at Gire with a sudden suspicion.
“Me? What are you talking about? She’s lying, Mrsha. What did I do?”
Nanette refused to play into the [Paragon]’s games. She just reached for her hat and then folded her arms.
“Miss Gire, I have done nothing wrong to you, and you have been a bit unkind. If you cannot tolerate me, that is how it must be. But I want you to know that I would like to be your friend. I do not wish to make Mrsha unhappy by fighting for her affection, but I will not be bullied.”
“I didn’t—I’m not—”
Gire was turning red under her fur. Nanette held her ground, her round cheeks slightly flushed. She looked around, and even Ulia, the [Innkeeper] who ran Blazehound in Celum, was taken by the girl’s composure.
Gire! What did you do? Apologize! I’m sorry, Nanette!
Mrsha was writing furiously. Gire was mumbling an apology as if she were a third her actual age, but again, Nanette just pulled her robes straight.
“Thank you, Mrsha. I think I’ll explore the inn by myself for a bit.”
“No, wait, I’m sorry!”
Gire looked hunted as Nanette began to march off. The little witch turned back to her and, to Gire’s surprise, smiled.
A kind smile, if not a happy one. Nanette dipped her head and looked at Mrsha.
“Then you can prove it in a bit. Let’s try again in half an hour, Miss Gire. Mrsha, don’t be mean to her. Everyone makes mistakes.”
And with that, Nanette walked off, leaving the [Paragon] speechless. She also put the fears of Lyonette and Erin to rest—if only the two could have seen her.
The sight of a twelve year-old girl lecturing someone twice her height and fifteen years old while they fought for a seven year-old’s affection was so mundane as to pass everyone by in the inn.
Getting Normen the [Knight]’s autograph was far more entertaining. Or looking at the Goblins, who were largely left alone by all the new guests. Liscorians were friendly; other cities were not. As Nanette wandered through the inn, she saw people investigating the weights room, the rec room with the billiards table and cards, and all the while, people were buying food and drinks.
Ishkr was everywhere. He raced down one hallway with a platter of drinks, showing a pair of Antinium how to take the food in and collect coins, then Nanette saw him behind the bar, serving more guests. She turned her head back, walked into the hallway, and stared as the two Antinium trundled back with empty serving trays.
…She definitely didn’t imagine that. Nanette’s brows rose. But then she was stepping aside to let the Workers pass, and someone was speaking loudly.
“Ants. Ants and Goblins. Who’s in charge here? They’re monsters! Monsters. Are you all blind?”
The angry voice was coming from someone in armor. An adventurer from Invrisil who was calling out. Some people turned, but the Human from the Waterborn Raiders, a team of Gold-ranks, was actually lost in the general hubbub.
He was staring at the Goblins with such hostility that some of the warriors were eying him back. However, what made the Gold-ranker so nervous was how the Redfang veterans who’d come with Rags were sizing him up.
As if he would be the one who regretted drawing a blade.
The rest of the Waterborn Raiders were not here, so the man was making a broad appeal to what he saw as common sense. Relc, leaning against a wall and trying to convince Embria that this would be a great opportunity for them to check out Pallass’ puzzle market together, glanced over.
“What’s that?”
“Goblins! You’re a fighter, right? Who’s in charge?”
Relc cupped a claw to one earhole.
“Goblins? Right! Yeah, are they getting served first? Damn Goblins!”
He shook a fist at them, and this might have been true; they were all accounted for. The man stared at Relc and decided he’d get better backup if he just forced the issue. He headed for the Goblins, a hand on his sword.
“Excuse me, sir. No attacking Goblins. No killing Goblins in this inn. There’s a sign.”
Ishkr intercepted the man as Nanette looked around for Lyonette—but the [Princess] and her Thronebearers were meeting with the [Innkeepers] in another room. She was worried for Ishkr and, broadly, for the man if he drew blades.
After all, Shriekblade was about. But even so—it just took one stab for Ishkr to be in trouble. Or dead.
Yet the Gnoll was fearlessly blocking the Gold-rank, who was shouting now, and people were turning.
“Those damn Goblins are murdering monsters! There’s letting [Bandits] at your inn and there’s this!”
“Sir—I will have to ask you to leave if you don’t lower your voice. No one is harming Goblins.”
The man finally focused on Ishkr. He turned his uncertainty over whether or not he’d be able to beat the Goblins in a fight into a certainty about the Gnoll [Server].
“If you’re with them, you flea-ridden bastard, you’ll have every Gold-rank in Invrisil coming down on your head! Get your hands off me.”
There was a flurry as Ishkr tried to gently move him back. At this point, Nanette was reaching for a wand and looking for help.
—And help was there. Todi had heard the argument, and Selys’ bodyguard and enforcer of all things Selys was pushing through the crowd with three of his team.
He was too late. A scrum formed and broke up fast as people crowded in as the Waterborn Raider exploded into physical fury. Todi drew a club, cursing—and saw Ishkr, panting, next to the bar.
“Where is he? Ishkr, you alright?”
“Captain Todi? Everything’s fine.”
Ishkr looked up, and Todi whirled, looking for a ducking figure.
“Where’d the bastard go?”
Ishkr got up. He was breathing only a bit hard. He nodded to the closest window.
“Outside.”
Todi stared at the window, a good eight feet away. He strode over to it, cracked the glass open, and stared down straight at a man’s crotch. Never a good place to stare, but that was because he was staring at the Waterborn Raider—upside-down and struggling to get up. Todi glanced back at Ishkr and then shrugged.
He cracked open the window and happily leapt on his opponent as he called for his three teammates to back him up. The Todi school of fighting had all kinds of ways to kick someone when they were down. Very few moves in an honest fight.
 
——
 
The entire scene was just one of many in the inn. Nanette saw it because she kept her eyes open. She walked around the inn, sizing it up.
So that was how she met the new [Chef].
He was in the kitchen, warming up food and serving it out, but Calescent was cursing and sweating.
Not because he didn’t get how Erin’s inn worked. He had been here before, and her system of serving preserved food was perfect for rushes like this.
No, he was upset because he was trying to cook and he had no idea where anything was. You see, the Goblin was trying to make a good impression. And the problem was—he wanted to prove to Erin he could cook something for the guests.
Like some hot-hot fries, which he made with some sliced, roasted bell peppers, a unique spread of his own you lathered over cut french fries that made it delicious with his Skills.
He felt like this would be a good showcase of his talents. But Calescent was heating up lasagna and other stuff like pizza in the ovens while trying to find everything.
“Pepper. Where is peppers?”
The [Chef] was, in short, having the crisis of anyone thrust into someone else’s kitchen. All the organization and where you put certain tools and foods was unknown to him, and Erin had not, as of yet, labeled everything.
“Can we get pizza sliced for nine? Nine?”
Liska appeared at the kitchen door as Calescent banged around. The Goblin yanked a pizza out, drew a knife, and had to calculate the geometry of a pizza. Then he was hunting for a peeler for potatoes before he realized—he’d burned his bell peppers!
The chef had to toss them out. This was not a good look! And then he had to begin heating up a tureen of soup—
If Erin or Lyonette could have seen him, they would have probably advised the [Chef] that he didn’t need to try so hard and been very sympathetic to his plight, but Calescent wanted to make this work. So he was suffering. Not in any grand way like being stabbed through the stomach and bleeding out on the ground, but in a mental way that was new to him, even with a horde of hungry Goblins banging on the table and demanding less spice.
After all, these were paying customers. Ishkr had also left Calescent with the least help because he understood that the Goblin at least knew his trade.
Well, Calescent was going to make at least some fries!
“Bell peppers. Potatoes! Where is the peeler thing—waaah!”
He had a knife out to peel the potatoes without a specific tool when he screamed. In a very embarrassing way. Mostly because a little Human girl had suddenly appeared at one of the counters.
Nanette jumped, but she kept her hands steady. Calescent peered at her. He recognized her from the inn’s staff—Lyonette had done that much—but he was afraid she was going to grab a bunch of food like Mrsha and uncertain if he should stop her.
That was, until he saw what Nanette was doing. Namely—slicing up bell peppers for him. She did it in very neat rows, copying him as she pulled the seeds out of a pepper. Then she took a smaller knife and began to peel a potato in one continuous strip.
Someone had taught her how to cook. The girl looked up innocently and slightly warily at Calescent. Yet she had met Goblins. Even a Goblin [Witch].
“Hello, sir. Do you need any help?”
The Goblin blinked at her. Then a huge smile came over his face. He looked around and saw a secondary poofy chef hat on the wall. He took it off the peg and handed it to Nanette. She tried it on and smiled shyly at him.
In that moment, Calescent began to pick up on how Nanette might be better for the inn than most of the others. The same girl who had survived wherever she went with Califor could at least handle the chaos of the inn. He began asking her to dice up the potatoes for him as two people took on the hungry customers of the inn.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin was mad at Gire. She peeked inside the kitchen and saw Nanette was helping the Goblin [Chef] and chatting up a storm. So she went outside and sulked.
“Mrsha? Mrsha, I’m sorry. I was just jealous. Don’t hate me!”
A big Gnoll snuffled and tried to pick her up, but Mrsha just bit at Gire’s arms until she let go. Mrsha sat on the ground, arms and legs crossed, refusing to look at the [Paragon] as she apologized.
When Nanette came back, she had better be super nice! Or Mrsha was gonna go back to her savage days of poisoning sandwiches!
The girl was justifiably upset over Nanette, and even the sight of Todi, three Gold-ranks, and Alcaz kicking a man on the ground didn’t cheer her up. They hauled the fellow off with admonitions as Mrsha eyed the crowd outside the inn.
Kevin and Joseph were still doing their best to provide a floor show. Kevin had brought a few bikes from his shop and was letting people take them on rides—but not joyrides. In fact, Poisonbite and her gang helped here; whenever someone looked like they might be trying to make a break for it with a new bike, the Goblins would chase after them.
