The electricity electrocuted Rags, Erin, and Apista, and all three practically leapt out of the water as Rags held the sword upright. The bee angrily jabbed her stinger in Rags’ direction as the Goblin apologized.
“Sorry. It must be active when I hold it.”
She eyed the blade, and Erin, wincing, gazed into the garden. Now she knew what they were, she saw most of the enchanted blades had probably succumbed to the battering long ago. Only the most powerful or durable ones were still untouched.
“Electric swords. Who made electric swords? Are they all powered by lightning? And it’s expensive, too! Look at that handle, Rags. Whomever had it had…claws.”
That was the only thing she could think of. The sword had deeper divots in the grip than any Human would want, but it fit a Drake or other clawed grip better. Rags nodded; her hands fit a bit better than Erin’s did.
“Insignia’s worn off. Nice sword, though. Balanced.”
It was a shortsword, and it had a curiously slanted diagonal edge along a flat, wide blade. Rags could actually balance it, and she seemed so engrossed Erin pointed at it.
“Why don’t you take it with you?”
Rags blinked.
“Me? Doesn’t it belong there?”
Erin gazed into the muddy pit and shook her head.
“Whatever this garden was—I’d rather take the swords out than risk electrocuting myself. And frankly, whoever owned the garden doesn’t deserve how it looks. Do you need a sword?”
Rags eyed her plain sword enchanted with a bit of sharpness and durability. Then at the mithril blade from a bygone era. She raised her brows.
“I will take it. If you want?”
The [Innkeeper] smiled down at Rags.
“I don’t wanna give anything in the gardens to just anyone. Like that Dullahan [General]’s stuff. So keep this private. But if it’s you, Rags—yeah.”
“Thank you.”
The [Chieftain] looked up, and Erin waved a hand awkwardly. She reached down and grabbed Rags’ muddy glove. This time, the Chieftain let her do it.
“Come on, we’ve got baths—but I wonder. Hey, is there a garden where we can clean up? And don’t do the snowy one. I’m already cold.”
She trudged over to another door as it appeared and then reached out. Erin eyed the strangest door yet that looked like a square…hatch? She reached out, nudged the handle—and the door fell over.
Whumph. Erin jumped, and she and Rags stared as her door fell flat. Erin’s mouth worked.
“What the—”
“Are they supposed to do that?”
“No! Did I break it?”
Anxiously, Erin bent over the door and pulled. Her face turned red, and she tried to use both hands. Rags bent down and heaved—and the heavy hatch came up. Erin and Rags looked down, and Apista began lightly smacking Erin with her good legs.
You. Have. Terrible. Gardens.
She backed up and began crawling for safety. After all—Erin and Rags were staring down, down through the wood of an ancient ship’s hold—
Straight into a garden flooded by water. Erin gazed down at the surprisingly bright depths and saw a sandbar just below her and, further down, illuminated by bright coral and even lights, a home untouched by more than the fish swimming around—
“Oh wow. A Drowned Folk garden!”
Rags whistled. Now she understood why the hatch looked like that. What if this had been in a ship? You’d open it and leap into the depths. The water was so close to the hatch that Erin could actually reach down and splash some on her muddy clothing. She splashed some in her mouth as she washed her head and instantly spat it out.
“Peh! Peh! Aw man. It’s saltwater.”
“Mhm. Plus lots of fish. Probably been pooing and dying in there for hundreds of years.”
Erin gagged. She ran back to her first garden and splashed around in the pond as Rags backed away.
Yet another garden that was, for now, unexplorable. Rags took off her armor so she could let it dry, and Erin saw she was dressed in a casual set of clothing underneath. She splashed at Rags.
“Hey! Look who’s lightening up! After this, let me give you some cake and ice cream, huh? And that spaghetti and blue fruit juice!”
Rags thought about it and shrugged. She frowned at Erin, then scowled. Something was again off about the way Erin was talking now.
“Cake and ice cream? I’m not a child. Or Ulvama.”
She had seen how Mrsha was treated, and she had a feeling Erin’s hand-holding was more than trying to keep her safe. Erin ducked her head.
“No, I know that. But you’re young!”
Rags folded her arms. She eyed Erin—then kicked a huge splash of water all over the [Innkeeper].
“Rags! How dare you! I’ll—”
“Do what? I’m a child. Right? Don’t treat me like one. Garen did. So did Tremborag. I’m tired of it. I am a [Great Chieftain], Erin. Even if we’re friends, I don’t like it.”
She looked Erin in the eyes, and the [Innkeeper]’s face fell.
“Oh. Okay. I got it. I didn’t mean to offend you.”
Rags sighed. There was something strange about Erin. She treated Antinium like people. She had treated her skeleton like a lamp. And Rags?
Erin glanced sideways at the Goblin, and Rags saw her bite her lip. The Goblin pretended not to notice. She let Apista crawl over onto her shoulder and stood.
“Do you want to keep exploring or not?”
She thought she had ruined the mood, but Erin shook her head after glancing at the far wall.
“No. No—I want to keep doing this together. So long as you do.”
She looked so earnest that Rags said nothing more, and slowly, the two formed up. Erin was wet and shivering a bit, so Rags suggested she get more clothes.
“Don’t look, okay? I’m just gonna change—”
“Yeah, yeah.”
Rags waited as Erin shuffled into new clothes. Apista was buzzing on Rags’ shoulder as the Goblin patted her head.
One more garden, one more bad one and I swear, I’m stinging both of yous.
When Erin came back into the garden, Rags glanced at her black pants and mismatched, yellow shirt. Apista gave Erin an approving look, but the [Innkeeper] defended herself.
“I was in a rush! Selys bought me all kinds of weird stuff. What’s our garden? Let’s do one more, at least.”
“Your bee is going to sting us if we take her anywhere wet.”
Rags pointed to the fuming Apista, and the bee nodded. Even Erin and Rags could tell how ticked off she was, so Erin clapped her hands.
“What about this, then? Garden! Take us to the place Apista will like most!”
The final door was made of glass and as clear as the blue skies. Erin peered at it as Rags felt at the nigh-invisible handle. Apista fanned her wings longingly, and Erin stared into the last garden.
“Oh. Wow. This one was a Garuda’s, right?”
She opened the door, and the wind blew, and Erin inhaled a smell like spring and sky. She knew she had to show this to Ryoka, because this garden?
This one had belonged to someone who could fly.
 
——
 
The ground was not, actually, flowers and grass like Erin would have pictured. Some of it was hard-packed earth, dry because the sun had shone down on this place for such a long time. There were tough plants growing around, including what Erin thought was a bush—until she realized that all the leaves were, in fact, hiding little cotton balls!
The instant the wind blew, a dozen scattered into the air, and Erin looked up and saw the largest garden yet.
It was so tall, vertically, that Erin and Rags stared up and up and finally saw the dome concealed amongst a backdrop that seemed like a world of clouds and blue sky. Until you realized that was an illusion projected across the backdrop of the dome.
Apista was fanning her good wing as the wind blew, almost picking her up, and Erin spread her arms and ran, laughing, across the ground.
“Wow! This is a great garden! Look, Rags! Are those floating structures?”
She pointed up, and Rags shielded her gaze against the sunlight.
“Nope. Just wood.”
But they were concealed along the edges of the dome such that it did look like rooms and places were hiding high up there. Erin stomped a foot.
“Yet another secret area out of reach! Just you wait until my friend gets here! She can fly!”
Then she looked down at Apista guiltily, because the bee was staring up longingly into this place where she could fly free. Erin hugged the bee until Apista crawled out and began to hobble across the ground.
Then Erin looked so despondent that Rags had to say something.
“Maybe you can heal her?”
“If we had a drop of Potion of Regeneration—we could. But we don’t have any right now. Ilvriss took his bottle back.”
Erin bent down as Apista crawled along. She looked up at Rags, and her glee was gone.
“I’m sorry, Rags.”
“What about?”
Erin shook her head.
“Remember when Relc hated you? I kicked you out of the inn right after the Goblin attacks or…or something, remember? You had that big Goblin with you, Garen? And I asked you to go? That was the last time I saw you until the siege at Liscor.”
“I remember. It’s fine. You did what you thought you needed to. Goblins did attack and kill people. Garen killed his team. Even Goblins didn’t forgive him. Even his tribe.”
Rags squatted there, and she saw Erin shake her head guiltily.
“Thanks for saying that. It’s just—I haven’t done enough for Goblins. I even got a Skill. [Natural Allies]. But—I don’t feel like a friend to Goblins. Not all the time.”
Rags gave Erin the blankest look in creation. If she didn’t feel like a Goblinfriend, who did?
She spoke after a second.
“Do you know Gna?”
“Who? Oh—the [Sergeant] who came with Numbtongue and the others, right? She’s with the army now. She helped. What about her?”
“Hmm. Badarrow told me about her. Do you know her class?”
Erin hadn’t met Gna personally, but her class was unforgettable. She grinned.
“[Bug Captain Goblinfriend] or something like that?”
Rags grinned.
“Yep. She got that class, and I think it’s funny. But she got that class, and Badarrow told me she didn’t like Goblins that much. Even at the end, she was wary. But she got that class because even marching with Goblins was enough to be a friend. You? You’re the only ally Goblins have.”
The praise might have fallen upon deaf ears. Erin just shook her head.
“But here I am, treating you like a kid. Sorry.”
“It’s not a problem.”
Now Rags felt annoyed that Erin was taking it so personally, and she glanced at Erin.
“I know I’m small. I know I’m young. I shouldn’t snap at you. You have kids like Mrsha. Who is a child. A spoiled one.”
Erin snorted and hoped Rags wouldn’t say that to Mrsha or Lyonette’s faces. She was sort of…a savage, verbally! Not in any other way. But she shook her head.
“No, I know you’re not a child like that, Rags. I know you’re a [Great Chieftain]—Badarrow told me of everything you’ve done and what you mean to the tribe. It’s just…”
She looked wistfully upwards as Apista began to smoke. Rags and Erin glanced at her in alarm, but the bee just ignited and then turned off the flames. She must have been pleased—she was staring around the windy garden, and Erin’s heart went out to her.
Like Rags, actually. The Goblin glanced at Erin.
“Say it.”
“You’re gonna be mad.”
“I’m not. Say it.”
“Promise you won’t get mad? It’s just—I had a dream, too, about you. But it’s sillier than you wanting to thank me. Promise?”
Rags just raised her brows, turning to face Erin. The [Innkeeper] ducked her head. She eyed Rags and then confessed.
“I…I had this idea, Rags. Whenever you came back. Whenever I got my inn in order. You’d be grumpy, and I’d cheer you up. And then I’d feed you, and, um…giveyouapiggybackride.”
“What was that last part?”
“Give you a ride. On my back.”
Rags gave Erin a blank look. It grew blanker as Erin explained. Rags had seen little Goblins riding on older Goblins’ backs, but seldom for fun.
“You wanted to give me a ride?”
“Horseback ride. That’s where you’re super high up. Legs around my shoulders. I thought you’d laugh and—and you can stop looking at me like that!”
Erin defended herself, blushing. It didn’t work anymore, not with the Goblin giving her the long look.
Rags could have snapped at Erin, but she knew the [Innkeeper] felt guilty. If anything? She was curious.
“Why? In what scenario of knowing me did you think I’d enjoy that? Pebblesnatch would have enjoyed that.”
Not her. But Erin looked so wistful that any wrath that Rags might have felt was already gone.
“I know. I know, Rags. But in my head…you were the same Goblin I first met. Terrible things happened to you. I just—I wish I could have gone back and my inn of now, this garden, could be back then. Because then I would have been able to properly protect you, give you a room, not just food whenever you came in. I should have.”
“We were dangerous back then. Some of the Goblins would have slit your throat.”
“I know. But I wish…I wish you weren’t so old, Rags.”
The [Innkeeper] cried out. She looked at Rags sadly.
“You’re young! You are small, and I wanted you to be a kid. Properly. I know you’re a [Great Chieftain] and you’ve done so much, but you shouldn’t have been. You should have been like Mrsha, even she’s gone through too much.”
Ah. Now Rags saw why Erin was so upset. The Goblin leaned back and stared at the sky as Apista ignited again, this time testing something out. She stared up.
“To live, I had to be a [Chieftain]. I could have been young. I could have refused to become a [Great Chieftain]. I am no Goblin Lord, Erin. I fear being one. But I want to know why Goblin Kings kill. I want to stop it.”
Erin looked at Rags. Her hands clenched in the dirt, and she exhaled. Then it seemed like she let go of something. She brushed at her face.
“Ow. Dirt in my eyes. I know that’s what you want to do, Rags. I think it’s so brave. And I promise—whatever you need, if you’re ever in trouble, my inn will always be open. I’ve said that to so many people. No Gnoll will ever leave hungry. Well—no Goblin will die within my walls. Not if I can help it. Whatever happens, no matter what trouble your tribe runs into—you can come here.”
She meant it. Every word. Yet Erin’s smile wasn’t reflected in Rags’ troubled expression.
“Don’t say that. Don’t promise that.”
“Why not?”
Rags had not told Erin about how she had burned across Riverfarm’s lands. She wondered if Erin knew. Now, she told Erin.
“I am not a good…person. Don’t promise to always protect me without knowing what will happen. I kidnapped the Healer of Tenbault. To do that, I killed people. And I would do it again. If they came after my tribe—and they will—I will kill Humans, Drakes, and Gnolls. I am afraid of becoming Reiss.”
She looked up. Or Tremborag. She didn’t know how, but this long road was one they had all walked before. The [Innkeeper] was silent for a long while. Then she exhaled.
