"Why…Won't… You… Break!" I slam my hammer down on the black rock as hard as possible and am only rewarded with a pebble-sized chunk of material chipping off.

For the last twenty minutes, I've been working on the mysterious black ore Mr. Grey traded to me, and I'm starting to realize why other smiths didn't want to purchase it. The damn thing is almost impossible to break even with my Strength stat.

“You can step in anytime, yeah know,” I give master a desperate look.

“I was just remembering the days when you used to claim you needed to handle everything by yourself.” Master smiles back at my pleading look.

“Point taken, now help me with this rock. We’re on a time crunch, remember?”

“Alright, put it on the ground,” master instructs me.

“Why?” I ask Del as he walks over to his house.

“Because I don’t want to nick the anvil with my pickaxe,” he shouts to me while he steps inside his hut.

I move the black rock over to a large stone protruding from the ground. Balancing the sample on top of the rock, I watch master walk over to me, wielding his enchanted pickaxe. When master reaches me, he offers me the pick. "You're not confident in breaking the rock unless the enchantment is activated?" I ask in astonishment.

"I could probably break it even if the enchantment weren't activated, but I don’t want to chance damaging my best pickaxe before you can replicate it.” Master hands me his pickaxe with a good-natured smile.

"One of these days, I'll make you a better pickaxe," I boast while injecting my mana into the enchantment.

The runic lines light up across the pick, and I hand it back to master.

“You should take a step back,” master warns me in a serious tone.

I don’t have to be told twice. I use Double Step to distance myself from the ore sample and make sure Mana Skin is ready to deflect any debris that might fly my way.

Mater Del raises his pickaxe over his head, and I watch his muscles tense as he takes his stance. I've only time I’ve seen master focus this much before a swing was when we fought with the chameleon spiders, and this time he can charge up his swing without worrying the target will move or try to attack.

Master draws in a deep breath and then, “Haaaa!” Master’s shout rings through the air.

I feel the earth tremble before my brain realizes master has already swung his pickaxe. A cloud of dust obscures where the specimen once was.

Master rests his pick up on his shoulder and patiently waits for the dust cloud to settle.

When I finally see the result of master's strike, I'm astounded by the result. The black rock master was trying to break, is split into five chunks of varying sizes. The rock I set the sample on top of is obliterated, and the dirt surrounding it was blown away, revealing the damage done under the surface.

I look up at master in amazement and notice he’s slowly opening and closing his hand. “Are you ok?” I ask.

“Yeah, I’m fine,” he tells me. “I’ve never swung my pickaxe full force like that and never with the enchantment activated. The rock was strong enough to rebound some of the force back at me.”

“Do you need to take some time and recover?”

“No, I can finish this. Gather the pieces closer together for me.” Master instructs me while preparing to swing again.

I try to move the shattered black stone pieces together on top of the shattered boulder, but I can't balance the fragments on the uneven surface. “Wait one moment,” I tell master. I run over to where we store the different types of wood and grab thick logs to use as a base. Carrying the wood back to master, I set up five individual chopping blocks close together.

“That should work fine,” master motions for me to step back again.

I watch master take up position again with bated breath. His shout once again splits the air, and I watch his pickaxe split into five afterimages, each finding their target. The wooden bases can’t handle the force of master’s strikes, and each of them splinters into countless shards.

Master lowers the pickaxe to the ground, and I watch him wipe the sweat from his brow. "The smaller chunks should be easier to break now. I’m going to sit and catch my breath.” Master lumbers over to his favorite bench and lies down.

While master rests, I grab one of the buckets we use for ore samples and gather every piece of the black rock I can find. I use Sense Mana to make sure not even the smallest bit of the ore is left behind; I can't afford to waste a single piece.

After double-checking the ground twice, I move back over to the anvil and try to break up the remaining chunks further.

Sadly, even with alternating between Weighted Strike and Double Strike, it takes me over an hour to break down the samples into smaller pieces.

I have to take my own breather on the bench next to master when I’m finished. It took almost two hours between the two of us to reduce the rock down to the size we wanted.

"It's definitely a tier 4 earth attuned material," master says to me as I groan in my seat.

“I wonder what a tier 5 ore would be like?” I mumble.

“The gods be dammed if I know,” master complains as he gets up. “I’ll add the blacksmithing logs and magicite to the forge while you take a break.”

I regulate my breathing to hasten my Stamina regain while watching master turn the flame in the forge into a small sun, with all the materials he’s feeding the fire.

When my Stamina pool reaches three-quarters of the way full, I start prepping the crucible while master adds more fuel to the forge. Because this will be our test sample, I use my measuring cups to get roughly 50 grams of ore to process.

I wish I knew what element the rock was closest related to. The magical metals I've encountered so far all have ties to periodic elements. Of course, the fire iron had many properties of iron, and mithril is just magic silver. Quite a few of the metals Mr. Grey showed me were also related to primary metals like tin, copper, and even a few had the same base properties as gold.

I've never seen titanium or tungsten before in this life, so I can’t compare the sample in front of me to them, but I have a feeling the black rock is a naturally occurring variant of the two. It would be nice to see either of the futuristic metals with Sense Mana, but I'll need to guess about their structures until I get lucky and see them for myself.

It’s impossible to speculate how the ore will react with other substances, including glass, but the sample Mr. Grey showed me was already excellent, and I didn’t sense anything added to it. With how challenging it is to work with, I doubt whoever managed to process the small sample tried to experiment with it. I’ll believe in nature this one time and seal the crucible without adding anything else inside.

I take my time sealing the crucible, making sure the lid is secure and that there are no seams for any foreign elements to make it inside the container.

By the time I have the crucible ready, master already has the forge so hot even he needs to stand a few feet back. I use our longest pair of tongs to move the crucible into the hottest part of the forge. Despite having Mana Skin activated, I feel like I’m being cooked standing close to the flames.

“Do you think it’s hot enough?” I ask master.

“We’ll have to wait and see. You can monitor the contents from here, right?” Master asks me while working the bellows. The fire roars louder each time he blasts more air into the forge.

It’s hard for me to clearly sense the material because of the vast amount of magic contained in the flames. The blaze is made up of two mana sources; the blacksmithing logs and the magicite burning together create a vail of superheated magic over the forge. The only reason I’m still able to sense the ore sample in the crucible is that its internal mana is strong enough to shine through the magic veil.

“It’s difficult, but I can see the sample inside. It’s drawing in an incredible amount of fire mana, but I don't see its structure shifting yet. It's probably going to take a while for it to melt," I inform master.

“I figured as much. Back home we have special furnaces to handle materials like this. The only thing we can do is keep the bellows going and see what happens.” Master Del tells me.

"Well, that gives us time to talk," I stand next to master. "I didn't tell my parents everything," I say to Del just loud enough for him to hear me over the forge.

“It’s about me then, isn’t it?” Master asks without looking away from the forge.

“Yeah,” I confirm his suspicions.

"Spit it out; hesitating won’t change anything,” master urges me to talk.

“They know you can’t use magic,” despite how ready he was for the bad news, master flinches after I tell him what Mr. Grey said to me. "Apparently, the merchant you tried doing business with after you left your home was Silver Herds founder. I didn't confirm their theory, but they knew you by name and even called you 'stripped.'"

Master grits his teeth. “Did they use it against you?”

“No, but Mr. Grey did hint that they’re forgiving your past due to my working relationship with them.” A silence falls between us.

“I guess it was foolish for me to believe I could remain hidden here forever. Sooner or later word would’ve gotten out about me.” Master sighs in defeat.

"It isn't your fault; I'm the one who drew their attention here," I acknowledge my part in the problem.

"That merchant friend of yours has been bugging me since he learned I was living out here. Eventually, he would've sent word back to his bosses that I was here. It’s my relationship with you that’s keeping them away from me, so I don’t want to hear you saying it’s your fault again.”

“Ok," I agree with master and give him a soft smile. Another silence hangs between us, only this time, less foreboding.

“Isn’t there something else you want to talk to me about?” Master turns his head towards me, giving me a questioning look.

“What makes you say that?” I try to act like I don’t know what he’s talking about.

“For starters, you can tell me what happened on your way back home. The way you glossed over your trip home was very suspicious. I’m sure your mother noticed it too, but she decided not to ask you, seeing you trying so hard to hide what happened.” Master’s shocking revelation causes me to freeze.

“Then there's the fact you're not wearing the knife I made for you; I can't remember the last time I saw you without it.” My hand subconsciously moves to where my knife usually is.

“It's subtle, but I see you carrying yourself differently." Master Del looks at me like he’s peering into my mind.

I don't want to lie to master, but I don't want to talk about it either, so I turn my head and scan the tree line.

“And then you keep doing that,” master points out, snapping my attention back to him. “You’re scanning your surroundings a lot more than usual. You haven’t scanned the woods like that since we first encountered the chameleon spiders.”

“Have not,” I look away from master so he can’t see my nervous expression.

"I noticed you scanned the clearing five times while you were on your break like you were expecting something to come running out of the trees. You did the same thing yesterday and again this morning.” Master further points out.

“I don’t want to talk about it,” I say in a low voice.

“That’s fine.” I cast a sidelong glance at master, not believing him. "When you're ready to talk, find someone you trust who will listen. It helps; I should know. It wasn't until I talked about my problems with you that I was finally able to overcome the problems that have been haunting me for years. You have a lot of people who support you, remember that.” I feel master put his hand on my shoulder.

I turn my head away from master and sniffle. “Sorry, the smoke got in my eyes.” I rub at my face.

Master doesn’t say anything more and continues to work the bellows. He doesn’t comment on the fact our forge isn’t producing any smoke right now.

We don't talk much after master's heart to heart speech, but we take turns on the bellows and add more blacksmithing logs and magicite to the fire.

Soon an hour passes.

Then three hours.

After we've kept the forge going full blast for five hours, master and I start to get worried. "Any change in the crucible?" Master asks me with a dark expression.

"No, the metal isn't liquifying," I tell master. We've burned through a ridiculous amount of magicite and wood, and yet we haven't been able to get the ore to melt. “What do we do?” I ask in a panicked voice.

"We need to figure out a way to increase the temperature of the forge." Master calmly informs me.

“We’re already burning our best materials,” I point out to master.

Both of our eyes widen at the same time when we remember that’s not true. We still have one more thing that might burn hot enough to melt the ore. I rush over to the shed we store the materials in, and grab an armful of chameleon spider carapace.

"Be careful; you know how easily they ignite," Master Del warns me.

I use the tongs to position pieces of carapace up against the crucible. The fire is so hot the carapace ignites as soon as it touches the flames and starts to melt inside the tong’s grip. The chameleon spider parts turn into a gooey mess around the crucible. The already intense flames grow brighter as the carapace's wind mana reacts to the mana rich fire.

I’m forced to leap back because the outer layer of Mana Skin was starting to catch fire in places.

“That should do it!” Master shouts over the violent flames.

He's right; I can see the contents of the crucible finally starting to melt properly. “It’s working,” I call out in excitement.

