I test his resolve by poking one of his cheeks. As soon as my finger touches his exposed skin, he recoils and hisses through his teeth. "You're fine, huh," I say sarcastically.

“I don’t want to talk about it,” master uses my earlier excuse against me.

I don't know why, but that pushes me over the edge. "Fine, you stupid dwarf, turn into ashes for all I care!" I regret what I said as soon as I finish yelling at master. I lower my gaze to the ground and clench my fists.

I expect master to yell at me or maybe even throw a punch, but nothing happens.

I look up, and master is still working the bellows like I never said anything in the first place. Seeing master ignoring me hurts more than if he did try to hit me. My vision starts to become cloudy; I wipe away the tears before they can fall down my face.

“You’re fine, huh?” Master finally looks at me with no small amount of concern on his face. “Brushing away someone trying to help you hurts both of you. I’ll let you take over the bellows if you finally tell me what happened.”

“Do I have a choice?”

“I was going to give you time to talk to someone on your own terms but seeing how quickly you deteriorated from yesterday, I can't play the nice master anymore," Master tells me with a severe expression. "How are you supposed to do your best work as you are now?”

"Fine, move out of the way," master lets me push him aside so I can work the bellows. Master steps a few feet away, where the smelter's heat isn't as bad but still close enough to listen to me.

I start telling master everything that happened to me on the way back home. He doesn't interrupt even when I explain how I killed all the bandits by blowing myself up.

After telling him how I made it back home with Reel and what he said about the bandits, I explain to master my recurring 'dreams.' I rant about how I'm over what happened, but for some reason, I'm plagued by the memories of the bandit attack.

Master patiently waits for me to stop talking before telling me what he thinks. “That Reel fellow made some good points,” master nods his head. “But he didn’t tell you the one thing you needed to hear most.”

“And what’s that?” I ask.

“That you are still you,” Master Del tells me with a smile. “You haven’t changed who you are as a person because you were forced to take a life. You’re still the girl who told me she didn’t want to join the army to further her magic study because you didn’t want to hurt others.”

"I agree with Reel; I don't think you should feel bad about killing the bandits. But just because we tell you that it doesn't mean it will change who you are. If these dreams are as persistent as you say they are, then obviously you aren't over it."

"But!" I try to deny what master is saying, but he shakes his head, silencing me.

"You suffered a traumatic experience. There is no way your over it just because you were given a pep talk. It will take time for you to feel normal again, and that's ok. I'm here to talk with you, and I recommend you tell your family as well," master suggests.

“Are you crazy? You know how mother and father will react,” I exclaim.

“Maybe at first, but you forget how much they support you. Maybe wait until we finish the arrow, but you definitely should confide in them.”

“Maybe,” I half heartily reply.

“Good. Are you feeling any better now that we’ve talked?”

“A little,” I reluctantly agree.

“Excellent, but don’t think I forgot about how you called me a dwarf." Master Del's supporting smile morphs into a grin of someone looking for revenge.

“I’m so sorry,” I sincerely plead for forgiveness.

“You can’t get out of it that easy,” master crosses his arms.

“What are you going to do?” I tentatively ask.

“I don’t know, but I’ll think of something. I’ll tell you what I decide your punishment will be after we finish this blasted arrow. But mark my words, it will be brutal.” Master laughs in an over the top manner.

“Ok,” I reluctantly agree to master’s belayed sentencing, with a small smile on my face.

And just like that master knows what to say to make me feel better.

The rest of our day went smoother after I talked to master.

We worked together to process the black stone. And when we poured the shiny metal into our molds, we realized we would have enough material to make nine arrowheads when we factor in the mithril we still need to add.

After we poured the molten black metal, we decided to process the Kaglese today as well. We used the already hot smelter to process the material quicker, much like we did yesterday with the forge.

At the end of day two, we had our primary metal samples ready. Tomorrow I can add the mithril to the metal and start shaping the arrow components.

After some back and forth with master, I decided to tell my parents what happened after Kervin comes to pick up the finished arrow.

Mother is just about to finish dinner, and hopefully, I can get a good night's sleep after talking with master. But whether I sleep or not, tomorrow will be a big day regardless. Now that all the prep work is finished, the real fun begins tomorrow.

I hope I’m ready.
