"We're going to have to plan a better way to do this next time, or we'll run out of fuel. I think we'll need to use the smelter, which should hold the temperature better. And if we do it like that, we can easier pour the metal into molds. We might even be able to save some time if we process the black ore in the smelter tomorrow while we study the Kaglese.” Spoken like a true master, Del points out a problem and quickly comes up with a solution.

I agree with master's plan; any way we can save more time on processing the materials, the better. And if we pour the processed ore into multiple molds, it will be easier to shape, considering separating an ingot will be challenging with the metal's durability.

It takes a further two hours for the metal sample in the crucible to melt entirely. We're halfway through the day, and we still haven't had a chance to start adding mithril to the test sample yet.

We stop working the bellows and let the fire die down a little before we proceed. Our forge usually runs a bit under 2,000°C when we work with steel; the forge right now, I'd say, is around 3,000°C. Master and I can't even look at the flames in the forge without hurting our eyes.

Master watches the forge while I prepare for the next step. We’re not sure how hot we’ll need to keep the metal to work it correctly, so I’ll need to run my mithril experiments while the forge is still pretty hot.

I grab the mithril I bought from Kervin and a chisel. I’ll gather flakes of mithril into neat piles and add it to the metal in controlled amounts. The ore sample in the crucible is only about 50 grams. I’ll add 2.5 grams of mithril to start out and then add the same increments until it becomes detrimental to the sample. I'm looking for a sweet spot where the mithril improves the internal mana structure without softening up the sample too much.

The black rock already has an impressive internal mana structure and is pretty close to mithril in comparison. However, mithril has a better mana conductivity, and adding a little bit of mithril will help if the arrow is to be enchanted later.

I prep seven portions of mithril for the experiment; if I end up using each of them, that would mean the alloy would be 26% mithril, which is exceptionally high.

Once I have everything ready, I warn master, “I’m going to pull it out.”

“I’ll grab the mold.” Master moves across the clearing and grabs our smallest ingot mold.

Using our longest pair of tongs, I fish out the crucible from the forge. While I hold the extremely hot ceramic pot, master carefully removes the seal on the lid. I slowly tilt the crucible until the molten metal slowly starts to drip out into the mold. The metal looks like molten obsidian.

I expect the metal to take a while to cool, but the small ingot of shiny black metal is solid enough to pick up with togs in only a few minutes. I scan the metal with Sense Mana and peek at what's happening on the inside.

The earth mana inside the sample isn't meshing with the fire mana. Though the sample absorbed a lot of fire mana while it was in the forge, now that it's removed from the heat source, the earth mana is pushing the fire mana out of the sample.

While it’s cool to watch how the different types of mana interact with each other in the metal, I need to move fast with the sample cooling rapidly as it is.

I use the tongs to move the metal sample back into the forge. The metal once again quickly starts to reabsorb the heat, and the black metal surface appears to shine brighter in flames.

I shift the sample from the forge over to my anvil and sprinkle the first measured sample of mithril on top of it. The metal is so hot the mithril sizzles when it touches the glossy black surface and appears to evaporate. I have to use my mana senses to verify if the mithril is properly bonding with the sample.

To make sure the mithril bonds evenly, I test the sample with my hammer. I have to use Precise Strike because the small ingot is hard to hit correctly. I only get two swings before the metal needs to be reheated.

When the sample is hot enough to work with again, I bring the metal out of the forge and test it on the anvil. The mithril has bonded nicely with the metal and doesn't appear to have had much of a difference on its durability. Even using every bit of my Strength with every swing, the metal is barely moving under my strikes.

I repeat the same steps again and again until I’m out of my mithril samples. It took longer than I thought because of how quickly the metal would cool.

“What’s the verdict?” Master asks me after I’ve set the sample to the side and not back into the forge.

“This ore doesn’t need much mithril. After I added the first three samples, I saw little improvement with the metal’s mana conductivity. That means our best alloy is 13% mithril and 87% of the ore, that should help us stretch the material a little farther.” I tell him.

I look up at the sky. We have maybe five hours of sunlight left, six if I’m willing to listen to mother complain about me coming home late.

I glance at our forge that is cooling down but still hot enough to melt steel. “Master, do you think we can make the Kaglese sample if we hurry?”

Master looks up at the retreating sun and then at the forge. “It will be close; you want to try?”

I give master a challenging grin, and he responds with his own smile. We don't need to say anything further to each other; master starts pumping the bellows again, and I grab a new crucible.

Because most of the Kaglese is waste rock, I'm going to add three handfuls of the ore into the crucible. I'll put the lid on, but I won't seal it this time because I might need to add more ore if the Kaglese sample isn't big enough. I'll also have to pour out the slag before we smelt the ingot, so the lid is just there to help retain the heat.

Master and I carefully work the forge until the material inside the crucible starts to melt. Thankfully we don't need the forge as hot as we did for the black rock, so we don't have to worry about our clothes combusting on us. I look at master’s shirt and notice it has a few holes in it that weren’t there this morning.

When the metal starts to separate from the waste material, I notice how little Kaglese is in the ore I bought. Of the three handfuls of Kaglese ore I placed in the crucible, I got less than 20 grams of workable Kaglese in return.

Master Del and I work together to remove the crucible and dump out some of the slag before adding more ore. When we have the crucible back in the forge, I can’t help but complain. “I thought I grabbed the best samples.”

“You did,” master reassures me. “Kaglese was one of the ores I tried to work with when I left home. I remember processing much more material than this to get a workable specimen.”

We continue to work as the sun slips across the sky.

When the sun’s last rays start to fade, we remove the crucible of Kaglese. I let master pour out all the slag and form the ingot on account of his experience. I couldn’t take the risk that I would mess up the pour and waste the good material along with the slag.

We ended up processing ten entire pounds of the Kaglese ore to get a good sample; that is 10% of what I brought back with me. In the end, the Kaglese ingot was more significant than the black rock ingot at 90 grams.

I honestly hope the Kaglese needs more mithril than the other sample did; I might be left with only 800 grams to make the arrow shaft!

I start putting everything away and cleaning up the mess we made.

“You should head on home; I can get the rest,” Master offers to finish cleaning up by himself.

“That’s ok,” I tell him. “I’m already going to be late; might as well help clean up the mess I made.”

“You are pretty messy,” Master snickers at me.

“Says the man who can’t throw anything away,” I point an accusatory finger at master’s house.

“I’ll use everything in there… eventually,” master says that last part under his breath.

"Sure," I sarcastically reply. I look into the forge and glance at the glowing embers within. "It's going to suck to clean this out when we're done with the arrow. We brunt through a lot of materials today; I hope we have enough blacksmithing logs to finish the job.

After everything is straightened up, I tell master, “good night.”

On the way home, I check my mana pool, 584.31. I only used Mana Skin all day, but the heat from the forge was so intense it ignited my mana a few times. The fire mana from the forge stuck to Mana Skin's barrier and was slowly burning away my protection. I had used up 30% of my mana by the time I completed testing the black rock sample.

"Gods, I need to come up with a name already. It might be one of a kind sample, but I can't keep referring to it as 'black rock sample,'" I complain to myself.

It looks like metallic obsidian, but it's strong like tungsten.

Maybe tungian? No, that's horrible.

Blasten, for black tungsten?

Obsten, Perhaps?

I’ll think about it later. I need to hurry home before mother comes looking for me.

But overall, we had a productive first day. Fingers crossed, we make the same progress tomorrow.

I rub under my eyes, "Come on, Aaliyah, get your shit together." My little pep talk to myself doesn’t help me. I walk into master's clearing, trying not to let my fatigue show.

"Looks like you had a fun night." Well, I made it three steps before master noticed. "Did your mom yell at you all night?"

I shake my head, no. “Surprisingly, neither of them gave me a hard time; both my parents understood why I came home late last night."

“Then why do you look like you’re about to fall over?” Master asks.

I grit my teeth. “You could say I had an annoying dream that kept repeating every time I closed my eyes.”

“A nightmare?” Master tries to clarify as he moves magicite and blacksmithing logs next to the smelter.

“No, just a recent memory,” I tell him.

“Want to talk about it?” Master offers.

“No!” I snap at him.

Master drops the wood he’s carrying and holds up his hands in a placating gesture. “Alright, I won’t ask again. Are you ready to start for the day?”

“Yeah, I’m ready,” I grumble loud enough for master to hear. I leave master to set up the smelter while I get the forge going.

I use magic to start the forge before master has time to light the smelter. Walking over with a strut of superiority, I point my hand at the blacksmithing logs.

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

I overclock my flame spell with four times the usual mana, creating a fireball the size of a baseball in my hands. The large flame easily ignites the dried wood. I turn and smirk at master, who raises a questioning eyebrow. “I got a new skill while I was away,” I tell him with an obnoxious look on my face.

“The joys of having magic are immense,” master agrees with downcast eyes.

Well, I’m an asshole.

I can’t take my frustrations out on master. “Sorry,” I quickly apologize to Master Del and move back to the forge. I set up the mithril for the Kaglese test just like I did with the last sample, only this time, I measure out piles of mithril that weigh 5 grams each due to the larger size of the starting sample.

I stick the Kaglese sample in the forge to let it heat up and cast a glance at master, who's adding the black rock to the smelter. I can't believe I snapped at master like that.

It’s my skills damn fault, I complain to myself.

I couldn't fall asleep last night and was forced to rest in my soul again. If that wasn't bad enough, when I entered my sea of memories, I was once again forced to relive the bandit attack. And to add insult to injury, when I woke up, not nearly enough time passed as I thought it did.

I was forced to go back into my soul, and wouldn't you know it; I was forced to relive that moment for a fourth time.

And to top it all off, the last time I was ejected from my soul, the sun wasn't even up yet, so I ended up lying in bed for an hour. Mother wanted to go running together again; only this time, she spent the time running next to me, sending me worried looks.

Put it aside, Aaliyah. You're here to work; I berate myself.

I start testing the Kaglese like I did the… blatgon sample? Gods, the names are getting worse.

I eventually discovered the Kaglese compound I'm looking for after adding the sixth pile of mithril. It turned out the 5th helping of mithril was the sweet spot. When I added the sixth portion of mithril to the sample, the durability dropped significantly, and the mana conductivity only improved slightly. I added 25 grams of mithril to the 90-gram ingot of Kaglese, which gives me an alloy of 21.7% mithril and 78.3% Kaglese.

I noted down the percentages for later and moved next to Master Del, who was focusing on maintaining the smelter's temperature. The smelter retains heat better than the forge, but master still needs to watch the flames as he works the bellows, meaning he has to stand in front of the smelters only opening.

Master is wearing the same shirt he had on yesterday, and I can see why. Large patches of Del's clothing are burnt away, revealing his toned ebony skin underneath. The parts of his skin unprotected by clothing look dried out and irritated.

“We should switch,” I offer to take over the bellows to give master a break.

“Are you finished with the Kaglese?” Master asks me, ignoring my offer.

"Yeah, I'm done," I tell him. "Let me work the bellows for a little bit; your clothes need a break." I reach for the pully master is holding.

“I’m fine,” master bumps my hand away with his elbow.

A part of me realizes this is master's payback for earlier, but I'm not in the mood to play along. "Really, you're fine?" I narrow my eyes at master.

“Yep,” he tells me in a flat tone.

