"It matters," Cale said. "The Named throw lesser favors around all the time—it's not uncommon for them to favor a specific mortal, for example, which usually happens if that mortal happens to be playing their lives particularly close to a myth. Becoming favored isn't usually a good thing. They might help you, but they could just as easily decide to make things worse, if they think it'll help them manifest."

Leo grimaced. "That matches what I've read about them," he said. "But a Favor is different?"

"A Favor is their version of currency," Cale explained. "The Named are basically ideas that are desperate to exist, and they're never completely identical from one manifestation to the next. That means they can barely rely on themselves to advance their own agendas whenever they manifest, let alone each other.

"Favors are binding fragments of their original myths. They guarantee that the Named tied to them will act in accordance with what the Favor demands, and it allows them to get around some of their limitations. They use it as a form of trade, essentially, sometimes to ensure that they'll cooperate with one another when needed and sometimes just to get some guarantee of continuity with themselves."

"That sounds... complicated." Leo shook his head, looking suddenly uncomfortable. "And valuable. They have to mean a lot to the Named, right? If they're, uh, 'binding fragments of the original myth'?"

"They do," Cale agreed.

"Then exactly why did I have one of them?" Leo asked. "I didn't do anything to help Asterion. I wouldn't do anything to help him, even if I could. I mean, I guess if it turns out he didn't create the Impetus on purpose—but I don't even know why we're all cursed—"

Leo cut himself off, his fists clenched in frustration, and Cale sighed.

"I don't know," he admitted. "You probably did help him, even if you didn't realize it at the time. If he's trapped in the Labyrinth, manifested alongside the Nothing...."

"It's just..." Leo gritted his teeth, then looked away again, as if ashamed. "I don't know what I'll do if it isn't his fault."

"Does it need to be?" Cale asked, the words quiet.

"I don't—I don't know." Leo sighed. "I've hated him for such a long time. I just feel like it would be easier, you know?"

"Easier, yes," Cale said. He got to his feet, then offered Leo a hand—more for the spirit of it than anything else, considering Leo was too tall for that to actually help him up. "But a true mage—"

"—never does things the easy way?" Leo snorted, almost pulling Cale down when he accepted the hand. "Cale, you said that specifically because you were insisting on creating fifteen different baking spells instead of just conjuring bread."

"And I stand by it," Cale said with a grin. "Look, the answer's easy enough. We need to figure out a way to talk to Asterion. And I'm pretty sure we've got a way to do exactly that." He jerked a thumb toward the now-open dungeon.

"What does the Bitter Path have to do with anything?" Leo stared at it, brows furrowed.

"Reality's always a bit thinner in dungeons," Cale said, shrugging. "Now come on, we have to get to our next class."

"We're not doing it now?"

"A true mage never enters a dungeon unprepared and without a full complement of friends," Cale said brightly. "And possibly a professor or two."

"You definitely just made that up." Leo made a face. "And what do you mean, a professor or two? Please don't tell me you're planning on dragging one of our professors along."

"Okay," Cale said. "I won't."

"That is not what I meant!"

Cale caught something in the distance, then grinned. "Also, I call dibs on not being the one to explain all this to Professor Delia," he said cheerfully.

Leo stared at him, horrified. "That's not how dibs work," he said weakly, his voice strangled.

"And here she is now!" Cale said. "I believe in you, Leo. Points are on the line, you know."
