Ember dives down to follow the Guard's descent, his crimson blade grows larger and larger, glowing so bright red that it fills the sky.

The Dark Guard fights back with everything he has, creating an orange blade in one hand to replace the shattered silver sword, then a dark grey blade in the other made from its own Soul Energy.

Then, Ember speaks up in a low tone that only they can hear.

"You were pretty strong, it's a shame you had to work for the Lich King. You would have been a great Labyrinth Guardian."

Ember pauses, staring the monster in the eyes.

"You want to know who I really am? You're going to die right now, so I might as well humor myself and see if anyone still remembers."

Ember whispers a few words to the creature, and its pupil shrinks to the size of a pea in an instant.

It shudders and all of the Soul Energy surrounding its body vanishes as it loses the will to fight.

Ember swings his blade across his body and slices the defenseless monster in half right down the middle, splitting its head and heart in one shot.

The red crescent follows through and hits the desert floor, making an enormous slit in the ground, followed by the earth-shaking thuds of the monster's corpse.

This is followed by level up notifications ringing in Ember's inner ear as he floats back toward the battlefield and whispers to himself.

"I guess he did remember."

Ember arrives above the endless army of Ghouls that continues to fight with the Flame Emperor's Elites down below, then looks out into the empty desert facing Sector 1.

"I know you're watching, you have been this whole time. When will you show your face, Lich King...?

—

Back underground in the bunker below the town, the red swirling energy around the final isolation pod swirls much faster, and the bright light coming from inside the pod only grows more as the level-up notifications ring inside my main body's inner ear.

[Level Up] x177

There is another pulse of light from inside the pod as my main body opens up its status and upgrades a single skill.

The dense red energy that comes out from the pod begins to change its consistency.

More and more of it flows out, and the rate at which it spins around the humming and vibrating machine increases.

It gets to a point where wind is blowing through the room because of the energy's rotational speed.

Then, once it seems to have hit a dangerous level to the point where it could damage the shielding of the bunker, the red energy starts to shrink.

It all comes back into the pod and disappears inside in a matter of seconds.

The room goes silent, and even the humming and buzzing of the isolation pod halts.

There are hours left on the timer above it, however, it appears there isn't any Qi or Mana remaining in the pod.

The door clicks open, and the first thing to touch the white floor is a boot covered in a Dark Red, almost Black, Soul Energy Aura.
