If the leader of the Bitter Hearts thought Viv was needed then she ought to really hurry.

“I’ll let you guys finish talking about the prisoner handling.”

“And the looting rules,” Marruk said with a pointed gaze at her neighbor.

“Yes, that. I’ll be off.”

Looting rules were very important to the kark. It was also how armies recouped the tremendous spendings they incurred during long military campaigns, so no objections there, but keeping the city in its ‘not currently on fire’ state was even more important. Viv flew out of the palace at full speed, following the twists of angry fate mana. The dragons stood on the path leading down while carts full of wounded waited at a very respectable distance. That wouldn’t do. On the other hand, maybe they could wait five more minutes if it meant preventing a fight.

The dragon’s mental voices were almost deafening. Unsurprisingly, Stormrider was at the head of whatever rebellion was happening. She faced Avarice, her snout reddening with latent heat.

I will never recognize you as a One Name.

You are a twerp.

Avarice watched the larger dragon hiss through half-lidded eyes. She then moved into her rival’s personal space, something that Viv would consider ‘unwise’ at the best of times.

I do not need your recognition.

I AM a one name.

Your opinion does not matter.

The power of her conviction radiated out, as did the truth of her words. She was a one name.

You are too young and too inexperienced.

I will not follow you.

I will not be scared of a juvenile.

Avarice didn’t let up.

You should be scared because I am so young and a one name.

The youngest one name ever.

Stormrider roared. The concerned humans nearby turned into panicked humans.

Perhaps I should teach our newest one name a lesson!

Avarice slowly stood on her hind legs, doing that T-pose that Viv had always thought ridiculous, especially since she tended to do that to creatures she had no hope of defeating. But that had been over a decade ago. Now the dragon doing that was one of the finest casters alive, capable of teleporting mid-flight and deploying an impressive array of lethal spells designed to kill the kind of opponents even dragons might fear. Her one name proved her mental maturity and the power of her belief. Gone was the amusing spawn. What faced Stormrider was the newest, and only one-named dragon of the magical bloodline. One who had dueled Judgment’s killer to a standstill to protect Viv. The future of dragonkind.

You can try.

So it wasn’t that funny anymore, and Stormrider, being at the receiving end of the threat, lowered her head. In a surprising act of maturity, Avarice didn’t immediately use that opportunity to insult the opposition.

You can feel it as I do.

We are being called north and east.

More of us will join the battle.

You can refuse the call, or you can accept it but fly alone.

But if you do come, you would do well to listen to me.

My methods led us to victory against the human avatar of the Slayer Goddess.

Viv was a little annoyed that the memories of close air support and dogfight doctrines she’d read in the army (during the foolish time she’d considered joining the air force) were now ‘Avarice’s methods’. Whatever.

Without loss of life.

For the dragons.

I have demonstrated my wisdom.

Do as you wish. I care not.

Stormrider was temperamental, but she wasn’t a fool.

I feel the call of my ancestors anyway.

I will follow.

Viv nodded while the dragons flew off to their respective corner to sulk and sleep and eat their leftover marinated fish. It looked like she hadn’t been needed after all.

***

“I don’t know. I love a good old charge as much as the next red-blooded…”

Order Master Ered remembered who was in attendance around the command table over the pacified battlefield. He was a little tired of Interesting Times, if he had to be honest there.

“Persons of whatever sex or species like charging, I suppose. I just do not believe we would all be a good fit, speed-wise,” he finished.

The merl elder crossed his thin arms over his skeletal chest and now Ered was feeling bad about it. The empress didn’t look amused, and neither did Rollo. Although, to be fair, they never looked amused. She tilted her head to the side and Ered knew he was in for a bit of tongue lashing. His wife made the exact same face.

“I already received the commitments of King Sangor and the rest of the Baranese knight orders. They say your ancestors defeated Harrak with two thousand mounted warriors. Between the human cavalries, the pakar, and the spider riders, you would be leading a force three times that number. I am personally curious as to how a charging skill that scales with the number of chargers would perform at the head of the largest cavalry force in the history of the planet, but if you’re reluctant…”

“Wait, hold on.”

“We can always find someone else. I’m sure other order masters have lesser versions of the skill.”

“I do,” Rollo confirmed.

The smarmy asshole crossed muscular arms over his chest. In the distance, his husband wagger eyebrows at Ered. That made the old knight very uncomfortable.

“Hold on now, I never said no.”

“You’re taking a suspiciously long time to say yes,” the empress admonished.

“Alright, alright, you got me. We’ll put the kark and merl on either flank and have them move first so we should all strike at the same time. The merls will be wall-side since they can climb it,” Ered added at the last moment, very proud of himself.

The elder trilled something in his native language. He jumped with excitement.

“He speaks the truth. Walls do not stop us. We can help with the evacuation!”

“Yeah no I don’t think follow the massive spider will work as an ordered evacuation technique” the empress said, but then she reconsidered.

“I’ll pray to Neriad. The population is devout, so warning the priests in advance should help us plenty. Alright. We have a plan.”

“We do?” Ered asked with some suspicion.

“Yep. Use the portals, move to Mornyr, you guys clear the front of the city so we can evacuate.”

“And what about the shield? The spear?”

“Solfis and I will handle that.”

***

It was barely a full day after the end of the battle and the field had already been changed with the sort of efficiency Viv would have never believed possible without the help of an army of bureaucrats armed to the teeth with Excel spreadsheets. All of the Baranese had been either reintegrated with their army or, in some rare cases executed, and their infantry was already on their way home via teleporter with Rakan opening a second pair through the Deadshield Woods just to speed things up. The kark were done looting their share. Their civilians were on the way back loaded with spare iron and mana-infused vegetables. The Enorians were staying at Viv’s request since there were still a lot of prisoners to oversee. It was a mess but the sort of mess that was being quickly and efficiently handled. Also, it was snowing. It looked like Lake Solfis would be filled by spring.

“It’s time to go,” Viv said.

A line of cavalry like she’d never seen gathered in ordered ranks next to the entrance to the ghost network, slightly south of Kazar. In the distance, the first pink petals of a Sardanal-blessed replacement to the tree was growing where the old one had burnt. Viv thought it would have been better to plant it in the old capital, but symbols were important too. Kazar had earned its tree back.

Mother, the borglings and their slightly dumber mounts are ready.

Show them your wings, mother!

Fill them with dread!

“Look, I’m still a little tired. Let’s save the intimidation for our enemies.”

The foreigners are not our allies either.

Once the danger passes, they will turn on us.

They fear us!

“Ok but if a city-ending flying castle that fires lasers doesn’t convince them to behave, nothing will.”

It’s about giving it a personal touch.

Business one-oh-one, mother.

A firm handshake, eye contact, setting expectations, deploying a crushing soul aura that promises their end…

“I think you’re mixing your banking and world domination schemes.”

Avarice gave Viv a look that conveyed utter confusion.

There is a difference?

“Please stop, my head hurts.”

***

There were darknesses that went beyond the lack of light. Oleander had lost everything: his pride, his hope, the purity of his body, that of his soul. Most importantly, he’d lost the favor of his goddess. Even as he rested in the shadow of her immense presence, the red non-light radiating from her soul didn’t bring any warmth. Or any of the certainty he’d felt before.

Failure.

He had lost. Not just that, he had lost completely and irreversibly. His army was no more. His power was broken. The best general in history couldn’t salvage this situation because there was nothing left to fight with. No one could stand against either the witch of her dragon or her golem fortress. And they were fiercely loyal to one another. His addled mind kept returning to the problem, poking and prodding at it like a bad tooth. There was no out. He had lost. He wasn’t even sure why he was still alive. He was a failure. A failure. A complete, abject failure who had caused the death of his friends. All of their hopes were gone, dashed by his fault. All the sacrifices he’d made in the name of final peace and the unification of mankind: useless. The families he’d destroyed, the people he’d killed, the noble souls he’d led to ruin: wasted. Because he was a complete and utter failure. Without the veil of zeal protecting his heart, in this place without place and with nothing shielding him, he had only himself to blame.

The corruption buried in his arm and his soul. He was a broken thing, forsaken and deserving of that fate. Despair dragged him down. Despair, and the inability to cope with the horrors he’d committed. It pulled him down a line of power surging from the depth and feeding the Queen of Queens as she sat on her vacillating throne. The deeper he went, and the less the corruption mattered. There was no acceptance below, just oblivion and madness. He went there anyway.

The end wasn’t sudden. It was a slow, progressive death, an abandonment of the self until even the part that resisted corroded in the sleep of the exhausted. Like a great ship doomed to sink, he slowly succumbed to the dark waters spilling inside of him. Why even fight? Everything was lost. Everything was destroyed by his fault. He deserved it. He deserved everything happening to him.

At the root of the line of energy, something stirred. Oleander didn’t react. He didn’t resist, because by then, there wasn’t enough left of him to perceive the mortal threat.

The dead god reached for the falling man. On the altar of Maranor, at the heart of Mornyr, Oleander’s flesh bubbled.

***

Solfis had reactors at its back, trailing blue energy across the cloudy sky. It made the dread lozenge travel with a speed that only served to render its appearance even more alien, for nothing this large had any rights to be this fast as well. Like really it was too fast.

“Can you pick up more speed?”

WHY DON’T YOU HELP INSTEAD OF WHINING?

Avarice was catching up but it was taking time so Viv could only deduce her not using portals to just pop up near the hull was a matter of pride. The wind was intense enough that Viv used a colorless enchantment to keep it out of her face. And hair. She wasn’t sure why Avarice felt the need to compete with four manatech macro-turbines powered by a God Core who had been accelerating for several hundreds of leagues under an air-dispersing shield. Honestly, it was amazing what maniacal engineers could come up with when ‘near-infinite energy’ became a factor. Eventually, Avarice managed to reach the side of the fortress, then crawled around it using handholds specifically designed to accommodate dragons (an early prototype had ended up with too many scratch marks).

Sometimes dragons were just flying cats with pyromania.

Viv decided to keep that thought to herself.

Avarice slithered through the open lens aperture which closed behind her. The command room was barely large enough to accommodate and thankfully, it was nearly empty at this time. Abenezigel stood by the main console with a thoughtful look. He waved at them.

Behind, Solfis’ core floated in the containment tube over the massive orb of the God Core. Twin yellow flames floated there like demon eyes.

//Ah, your majesty.

//I was hoping you would come.

//Welcome to my humble body.

//Tea?

“With pleasure. How are you holding up?”

//I am pleased to report that all my systems are functioning within acceptable parameters.

//Except for the hangar bay which is being fixed as we speak.

Viv shrugged. Fortress Solfis was originally meant to welcome a complement of floating transports just so he wouldn’t have to land, and also because she liked the idea of sky marines. They hadn’t had the time to develop them. It was as the old saying went: you go to war with the army you have. While Solfis talked, long and thin artificial arms emerged from the ceiling to prepare a pot of tea with meticulous precision. The command deck came equipped with a water boiler since Viv knew the importance of liquid excitants for anyone serving aboard any kind of ship. By corollary, there were lavatories in the next compartment.

//I assumed you would be with the cavalry.

//Is there some sort of problem?

“Yes, there is a big problem. Mornyr is shielded.”

//That is not a problem.

//That is a temporary obstacle.

