“Look, that barrier was made by the light gods to create a sort of neutral ground. It no longer needs their permission to work. The plan right now is to clear the front of the city to allow its people to safely evacuate, something the servants of Maranor might oppose.”

//So?

“So if we fire the Calamity Cannon on the shield and the blast kills everyone in a three leagues radius, that’s gonna be a problem.”

//I will overload the shield in a single shot.

“How would you know that? There is no way for you to run any sort of math on that thing because first we’ve never had any data on the shield, and second, the branch of mathematics that would calculate that hasn’t been invented yet. Explain where your confidence comes from because it sure as shit isn’t from evidence.”

//I just know.

Viv narrowed her eyes, ready to force a maintenance cycle.

“I’m not firing that thing on a ‘trust me sis’ justification. What in the name of all the gods?”

Just then, she felt a strange call. It was eerily familiar but also rare enough that the timing made her suspicious.

“Hold on.”

The temptation to send the god contacting her a ‘leave a message after the beep’ reply was strong. Unfortunately, that entity contacting her wasn’t familiar. She settled in a lotus position and closed her eyes.

Falling into the in-between had become as scratching her back. The planet-sized soul facing her was one she recognized. It was purple and almost hidden in the non-color that formed the stuff of this strange space. It was Maradoc. The secret god because his followers stayed hidden. And also the God of Secrets.

“Good day you’ve reached Ascender Viviane’s hotline how may I help you?”

“No need for sass, outlander. The knowledge in your golem’s mind is my own. I tried to share it with you as well, but you are halfway up. You are beyond my influence.”

“Shouldn’t you ask before you share mass destruction knowledge with sapient murder machines? That’s a bit of a violation, no?”

The sphere bobbed quietly in the void.

“I can see why Neriad and Efestar like you. They’ve always had a soft spot for snarky ladies who had a decent chance of killing them. I would prefer it if you stopped now, however. My sister…”

The sphere pulsed once and there was something in its depths that made Viv shut up. It was grief.

“My sister is not well. She has made a list of bad decisions that have led her to disaster, but she is still one of us. And despite everything, she is still my sister.”

The sphere opened itself to Viv, showing a belief that couldn’t be a deception.

“There is a chance for you to make a difference for good, but you need to trust me when I tell you that your weapon will work. You must be sure to fire it before the lance fires, and you need to do so within the next two days, or she is lost.”

“We’ll be there the next morning.”

“Good, That is… good. Thank you. And… good luck. We’re all going to need it.”

***

“You heard the news?” the soldier asked in the tongue of the Shadowlands.

“Hush. We should never have come here.”

The soldier looked around the forest east of Mornyr, lit by the first timid rays of a winter sun shining over the leafless canopy. It was the sort of silly and useless patrol officers liked to order. There might be monsters but why even chase them? The city was sealed. Spring had not come yet. There was no food to contest.

He looked up and frowned at a sudden cloud blocking the sky. Freak weather. The gods were angry. The entire city was on edge after rumors of a disaster came from the west, where the black witch’s army was and clearly where they should be patrolling instead.

“You think we could sail back?”

There was no answer. He turned.

His friend was gone.

“Tolin? Tolin?”

Movement in a nearby bush. The man grabbed his spear, then there was pain. He fell. He was dragged forward, leaving only the helmet behind.

The briefly interrupted silence resumed until something whispered angrily, and then a pale hand partially wrapped in black bandage snatched the discarded helmet, too.

***

Dawn came over the fields before Mornyr, the holy city. For the garrison of Maranorians left before their would-be capital, the day started with chores. The news that came back was confusing but uniformly bad so the officers doubled down on discipline. As far as the common soldiers understood, no one knew who was supposed to give orders, or even who was left to give orders. Those few sentries on the eastern side of the massive camp frowned when they saw the glint of metal. Most were struck with disbelief when they spotted a knight in garish white armor coming out of the forest, as the sentries were Vizimans who were not familiar with heavy cavalry. They screamed in alarm when more knights emerged, forming a line a hundred men wide. Then two hundred. Then three hundred.

The camp was sent into panic. Those soldiers not already in armor scrambled while others gathered pikes and polearms under the screams of officers. Archers gathered in squads and the palisade gates were hastily closed. More than a few soldiers eyed the basic half-walls they’d built from the frozen ground and wondered — though not for long — if it would be enough. It wouldn’t. Above the horsemen, white battle standards were raised, soon joined by the blue of Baran when realm knights joined the Order of the White Orchard. Women in shimmering gold armor joined them, raising the flag of Enttiku. The green of Enoria added grim veterans of the civil war in scarred armor, then the black roses of Harrak, and other minor orders: lighter riders from the northern cities, hedge knights, mercenaries. By then, the camp had stopped mobilizing. They were already in position, if still unfed or poorly dressed. The only thing left for them to do was to watch the line complete with strange, short humanoids in feathery clothes riding on top of spiders, some as large as barns, and kark soldiers in full plate atop fierce pakar. By the time they were done deploying, the cavalry line was five riders thick and wider than the entire camp.

The knight in white armor lifted a sword, which caught the sun into a blinding radiance. It shone on all the colors of the rainbow represented in every flag, standard, pennant, engraved shield and cape belonging to hundreds of factions gathered for a single purpose: to ride that camp down and trample it.

“Warriors of Param!” the old man roared. “For that land we share! For the alliance! And for vengeance! Chaaaaaarge!”

The noise of the horns alone would have been enough to freeze the heart of the staunchest defender. The charge was perfectly orchestrated, the wings going first before the center accelerated, their warhorses easily catching up. The ground shook under ten thousand hooves and some pretty thick spider legs. The dragons flying overhead were entirely superfluous and by the time the charge made contact, barely half of the camp was still standing their ground. Ered didn’t care though. He was the happiest man in the world.

***

Viv followed Solfis on dragonback far over the battlefield. The fortress flew in an arc, aligning its main weapon with the city’s central tower. Mornyr was smaller than she remembered from up there. It seemed to lack the entire ring of humble homes that marked most great cities. Instead, the city was temples and palaces hidden behind a shield of impossible proportions shining a dull white in her mana perception. It was deceptive, however. This was a divine construct. It was the closest thing to an artifact a spell could ever get to, and it was fed by the collective will of a pantheon that had put this measure in place knowing, one day, one of them might turn on the others. That was what Viv was facing now. As Solfis lined himself up, a massive mana spike erupted from the tall tower overseeing even the imposing Harrakan-made pyramid marking the town’s heart.

“Hmm, Solfis?”

//EMERGENCY FIRING SEQUENCE INITIATED.

Avarice portaled them at a safe distance. Viv looked back at the lozenge, its aperture open and glowing.

Both constructs fired at the same time. Every bit of air left Viv’s lungs from pure pressure. From Solfis, a black ray left like a thin cut across the fabric of space, warping it as it went. From the city came a beam of golden light that eclipsed the sun. The two rays of energy met in the middle, twisting like snakes when their impossible energies pushed the laws of reality to their extreme limits. The power of the sun went close enough to Solfis that Viv saw something melt. The black ray struck the divine shield at an angle, causing it to flash violently.

The sun lance ended its course at the top of a nearby hill, obliterating it in a column of molten rocks.

The light returned to normal levels.

Viv gasped oxygen back into her lungs just in time to swear. Solfis’ left side was belching smoke and her first reaction was that he was dead. That terror abated when she noticed that the central lens was intact, and as such, the core behind it must be fine. Her second reaction was that she was going to lose her mega weapon after firing twice and by fuck was this how every super villain felt when their hard-won creations got bombed at the last minute by five teenagers wearing spandex? She was livid. Against all odds, however, Solfis stayed airborne. Now that some of the smoke was being extinguished by the fire suppression system — never skimp on those — she could see that the damage was barely three weeks of her entire nation’s GDP and would be repaired via a temporary budget deficit. Some of the crew members were already climbing the twisted metal of what looked like a storage space to smother the last embers. One of them waved at her.

Looking back at the city, she noticed that the shield was on its last leg but still holding, somehow. It looked like a perpetually mid-burst balloon with entire segments disappearing. If she timed it right…

//YOU

//DARE

Solfis didn’t use any sort of skill for that one. His fury was conveyed via old-fashioned speakers stuck at max volume. The very idea that a weapon designed by all the light gods to destroy anything could even touch his august body had sent him over the edge.

//YOU PATHETIC WORMS.

//ALL CREW, PREPARE FOR A RAMMING MANEUVER.

Mother?

“Errr what the fuck? Solfis, you don’t have a ramming maneuver?”

The crewmen disappeared back into the bowels of the fortress, presumably to strap themselves to any seat they could find.

“Solfis?”

The four macro-turbines roared. Mana particles instantly formed four blue trails behind the titanic construct. It accelerated violently toward the flickering shield.

“Solfis!”

He didn’t listen.

The gods had planned for armies, archmages, dragons, hell, they’d probably planned for elementals, but they had not, apparently, planned for mountain travelling at one hundred and fifty leagues per hour. Solfis smashed into the city’s defenses in a sound like God’s cat pushing His wine glass off the table. The divine protection shattered with the coming of Solfis, Viv flying close behind. The fortress opened its gun ports to deliver a point-blank range volley against the source for good measure, turning the host tower into a much shorter tower. A turret maybe.

//ONE HUNDRED, PREPARE TO LAND.

//SECURE THE GATES FOR EVACUATION.

Mother.

Viv turned away, trusting her friends to do what they had to do. Below her stood the temple of Maranor. Just looking at it filled Viv with great discomfort. There was something terribly wrong with the mana.

“I know. Time to see what my spell did. Let’s go.”
