His skills had surged across the board. He had been rather worried that Rampant Growth would stagnate down in a rocky cavern filled with fire and no plants but using it to hold back the demon hordes in the jungle had earned him three skill levels. The rest of the skills seemed to grow according to how urgently he needed them: Swipe for the Battlemaster retaliation, Battle Trance from being hit by a room full of monsters, Last Stand for saving his life in the rift chamber, and again before Ali’s Forest Guardians had spawned. Last Stand and Survival Instinct were etching their place as his most trusted skills for saving him from the worst situations. Often, just the damage perception and the ability to create thirty seconds of breathing room for the healers was enough to turn an unwinnable fight around.

Identify has reached level 12.Cooking has reached level 14.Herb Gathering has reached level 7 (+2).

He nodded, satisfied that the rewards for the day matched the risk and difficulty of the fights. Even cooking! Must be because I made demon kebabs with my claws down there. Grinning widely, he read on.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Survival Instinct has surpassed level 25.Perception has reached at least 75.Survived an abyssal realm.Exposed to the mana of two second-tier or stronger domains. Survived the blood corruption of a Pit Lord.Has tanked more than a thousand monsters in one battle.Has blocked multiple attacks that would have taken more than half your life.Has survived being hit by Elemental Storm.Has disrupted more than 50 ambush attacks with perception.Survival Instinct gains Mana Prescience.(You can sense mana within your domain. Whenever you sense an attack, your reaction speed is increased for 5 seconds.)Survival Instinct – level 26Your natural senses of sight, hearing, and smell are significantly enhanced. You have a sixth sense about incoming attacks, how much damage they will do, and how to move to mitigate the most damage. You can sense mana within your domain. Whenever you sense an attack, your reaction speed is increased for 5 seconds. Range: SanctuaryNature, Physical, PerceptionAccept this advancement?

There was a time when he would have rushed over to Calen cheering excitedly about an offer like this. A part of him still felt like that, but his time studying with Lira had sent his roots down deeper. A sense of satisfaction percolated down to his heart, and a little awe at the achievement – his skill had grown because of their encounter on the abyssal realm – an event he could never have imagined even in his wildest dreams.

A thousand monsters… Abyssal realm… He had certainly grown. Mom and Dad are going to be so proud of me. He could see the scene clearly – his mom would cry and hug him and say she loved him. His dad would laugh and slap him on the shoulder – and he wouldn’t need to hold back anymore. Then they would cook dinner together – he could not help smiling happily. It had been a fantastic fight.

“You get something good?” Ever perceptive, Calen had noticed his mood.

“Yes,” he answered, sharing the details with everyone, including Ryn, Sabri, and Brena just as Malika had done.

“That looks very strong,” Calen said, but Mato already knew it was, and everyone else agreed too.

“Hey, Brena. You’re a lightning mage, would you like to help me test this?” he asked, accepting the advancement.

“Sure, what do you need me to do?” she asked, getting up from her seat.

“Shoot me when I turn into a bear,” he said and then chuckled at the sight of the suddenly horrified expression on her face.

“It’s ok,” Ali interjected. “I do it all the time. I think he likes it.”

Malika put in, “And he’s ridiculously strong. In fact, we should do this for more training. Hey, everyone, let’s all beat up on Mato.”

Mato shifted with an amused growl and then closed his eyes, focusing his attention on the strange new prickling sensation and gentle sparkling he felt throughout his sanctuary aura.

Is that Ali’s magic? It felt like trees, lush verdant growth, and the crawling, creeping, roaming, and flying of wild beasts, but woven through it all he found the prickle of magic, the dryish parchment sense of a new book, and the tickly sparkle of runes and knowledge – and something that connected to… elsewhere. Something beyond the realm of life, plants, and animals.

On the edge of his sanctuary, a brilliant blue-white flash of energy appeared – an electrified pulse. The world around him slowed down dramatically as his powerful combat perception recognized the danger, intuiting the small amount of lightning damage he would receive from what was clearly Brena’s Lightning Bolt. His body felt sluggish, but his mind and perceptions remained clear and nimble, and after letting the bolt hit him, he heard a squeal of surprise from the Gnome.

He shifted back to his Beastkin form, watching curiously as his body transformed in slow motion, and only after he was done did the world resume its normal speed.

“I’m ok, Brena,” he said, reassuring her.

“I thought you would dodge it,” she said, eyes still wide. He could even hear her racing heartbeat.

“I have more than three thousand six hundred health and over three hundred resistance to magic. I’ll be ok. Besides, Ali’s Acolytes will heal me if I need it.”

“Oh, ok.” She seemed even more stunned if that was possible, but the horrified look faded quickly. “Can… can I shoot you again? I got a skill level for that!” She glanced guiltily over at Malika. “I… thought you were joking. Sorry.”

“Hey, you can apologize by zapping the bear for me again.”

“Sure,” Mato chuckled. “I need to get used to the perception haste, it’s a little unusual. Come on, Brena, let’s see what you’ve got.”

It would take some adjustment to his combat style, but he was certain this would be a potent improvement to his defensive abilities. Given how frequently he was typically attacked, he knew the perception haste would likely last continuously from the beginning to the end of most battles, much like his Battle Trance.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
