Conversations started organically, or, more realistically, based on some hierarchy of clan status, along with Erick’s own physical location in the party, and if it looked like a good moment to start up a conversation, or not. Most of the talking went quick, with a small question and a polite answer, or a nice comment, or a thanks. Everyone seemed to want to make him feel welcomed, and they did.

And then Erick felt even better about the night when a young man approached, one hand nervously held in the other, and asked a scandalous question right in the middle of everyone.

“I have a small problem of a magical nature, Archmage Flatt, and I was wondering if you could help.”

A few people flinched at the mention of magic, but everyone listened in; even those having conversations at other tables. They were polite about the snooping, of course, and no one was actually putting Erick in the middle of the clan and then bombarding him with questions. Some people at other tables were deep in the middle of their own stories and jokes and laughter, and they didn’t give one whit to whatever Erick was doing. This was a family gathering; not an interrogation. People were simply making their way to Erick as they were wont, and this young man was very much in need of something rather important.

From the other nearby table, Speaker Yorila watched the young man with deep interest.

Erick still had yet to talk to her, too, but he imagined she would get involved soon enough.

Erick said to the young man, “I’d lend an ear. Tell me what’s on your mind.”

With approximately all of his gumption and bravery, words spilled out of the young man, “I have never been good at magic and I feel I need to be good at magic if danger can [Blink] in like that person did and I—” He cut himself off, either his words failing him or the sudden silence of everyone else forcing him to be quiet himself.

Erick guessed, “You’ve never been good at magic, so you want some tips?”

The young man nodded, shaking his head up and down with vigor.

Other people listened with keen interest.

Erick nodded, then said, “There are many things that are not told about how to make mana into magic, for to tell these secrets is to invite disaster upon the unsuspecting. I might, however, be able to give you some hints, if I find a reason to tell you some of these smaller secrets, and if you make an appointment. The paperwork is in that box at my yurt. Feel free to take a form and fill it out.”

“Yes, sir! I’ll go do that right now!”

And then the kid rushed away without waiting for another word from Erick.

The rest of the night went a lot better than Erick’s first night with Clan Pale Cow.

Time wore on. Food was packed away. More beer came out. People danced, though Erick just talked to people who wanted to talk. It was nice.

It was at least two more hours of casual conversation, much of it about nothing at all, or about news that other people had heard, before Erick decided to leave the party, mostly because he could tell Nirzir was socially exhausted. Teressa and Jane both had people they were talking to, about teaching and about cheese, respectively, so they stayed back. In the full dark, and with Nirzir leading the way in a hurry to retreat to a quieter space, Nirzir, Erick, and Poi, walked back to the yurt.

One of Ophiel had remained on top of the box the whole time, handing out forms and taking them back from people who brought them back. Erick was surprised to see that half of the forms were gone. He was even more surprised to see that only three of them had been returned, filled out. Perhaps the bloody thumbprint scared off most people; it would have scared off Erick, for sure.

Only the first two forms were from people Erick knew, with one form being from Urshao, the young man with the magical problem whom Erick had talked to at the party, and the other from Speaker Yorila.

The third was from a ‘Warlord Linxel’, from ‘Clan Green Grass, a True Traveler clan’, who wanted to talk about ‘your intention to join the debates at Ooloraptoor, and a counteroffer to prevent that joining’. A location and desired time was given for the talk, and while Erick had no idea where ‘the Twin Rocks along the Barlaxl tributary’ was located, Ophiel had seen everyone who took a form and who brought the form back, and a thumbprint of blood had been put into the provided box. After a few failed [Cascade Imaging]s for the woman who brought back the completed form (which meant something but Erick wasn’t sure what, though he wasn’t going to jump to sinister explanations right yet), Erick Imaged for the blood in the thumbprint. He found Clan Green Grass. They were camped out by a massive boulder that had been split in half, beside a shallow river; the Twin Rocks and the Barlaxl tributary, for sure. Tomorrow morning Erick would meet with Linxel at the man’s desired time, and place. After that, he would meet with Urshao and Yorila.

Erick wasn’t sure why, but sleep came easy that night.

In the morning, he figured the easy sleep came because of two reasons. The first, was that the people around him had welcomed him into their society, even though he brought trouble with him. That was respectable and brave of them. The second, was that Erick was preparing to do something he had done for two decades already.

He was going to meet a client!

And there was paperwork, and everything!

And what’s more: Erick was himself the person who decided if the people he saw got help, or not.

… Which was both a blessing and a curse, really.

The caravan got underway early that morning, for today was a day of distant travel and they needed all the time they could get.

So while Jane and Nirzir were out at the other yurts, learning to make cheese and learning how to cook, Erick sat back in his captain’s chair, feeling the wind upon his face and the sun against his skin. A little while later, at the appropriate time, he retreated inside the yurt, into the dense air, and prepared to meet a client.

- - - -

Three Ophiels, each wrapped in sunform and carrying supplies, descended from the sky to land upon the grasses near two twin rocks. Two Ophiel set down a pair of comfortable office-like chairs, though they were certainly not called that on Veird. The third Ophiel set down a perch.

And then Erick took control and set the chairs two meters apart, to face each other, while the perch went to stand behind one of the chairs. Each Ophiel alighted upon the perch, each set to look out for magics and otherwise, while Erick shaped light from the lowest Ophiel to project his own image, standing there at the meeting site.

Clan Green Grass was stationed only fifty meters away. People stood at their yurt, staring at the display of magic. Those people had been expecting Erick and their faces said as much. Other people, at other yurts, were googly eyed as they watched the magic happen. Some of them even called out to their neighbors that ‘The Archmage is here!’, prompting even more onlookers.

But at that first yurt, a message was quickly passed to the person inside. Not thirty seconds later a man came out of that home. He was incani with dark blue skin and large, spiraling horns, but he might have had some orcol mixed in there, too, for he was easily half a meter taller than most other people. No lower fangs, though. His clothes were deep brown and black hunting leathers; he matched half of the people in the clan. The other half of Green Grass clansmen wore white cotton clothes.

The tall man was warlord Linxel, and his people parted for him as he hopped off of his yurt, and headed toward Erick’s little setup.

The lightform Erick had crafted mostly looked like himself, but with white feathers for the face and around other defining characteristics. He could have gone with a very accurate representation, but he had already used this form in several places, and he kinda liked it for this sort of thing.

Soon, Linxel arrived. He looked at Erick’s lightform, then glanced toward Ophiel. He spoke in a deep voice, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt.”

“Greetings, Warlord Linxel.” Erick gestured to his chairs. “Please, sit, and let us discuss what you wish to discuss.”

Linxel frowned a little, then said, “I appreciate the nod toward hospitality, but you are not actually here, and so there can be no hospitality given nor received.”

Erick mirrored Linxel’s manner, saying, “Did you request my presence to discuss pleasantries and ritual, or to discuss my participation in Clan Pale Cow’s upcoming debates?”

Linxel huffed, almost laughing, but that emotion never reached his eyes.

Then he took a chair and sat down.

Erick sat down in his own chair, and said, “My plan for this meeting is to discuss your desires, whatever they might be. If something is said which is unclear to you, or to me, I expect that asking for clarification will not be a burden upon either of us. Know that whatever you say to me will be kept confidential, unless otherwise stated by you. That said: Do you wish for Privacy before we have this talk?”

Linxel tilted his head a little bit, trying to understand the meaning behind Erick’s words. “… Privacy? Do you wish for privacy?”

“I do not care. This is about making you comfortable, as I imagine we will be discussing very large topics.”

“… Yes, then.”

Without hesitation, Erick cast a [Sealed Privacy Ward] across the space, keeping his Ophiel half inside and half outside of the sphere. He could still connect to them, this way.

Linxel looked around. “It is see-through.”

“It is,” Erick said.

Linxel seemed to decide something right quick, then said, “Don’t get involved in the business of us grass travelers, Archmage Flatt. This is not your place. This is not your land. These are not your people, or your decisions to be making. Take your pacified Shades and go elsewhere, please. Our counteroffer to keep you away from our upcoming debates is information about magical troves of power, locked under the Tribulations, and guarded by dark beasts which no one has ever been able to kill. Whatever is down there is certainly worthy of an archmage.”

“Heard and understood. You feel that I am doing this for some sort of material gain, which is true, in a way, but it is not that simple.” Erick said, “Through a series of events which need not be elaborated upon, I am helping Clan Pale Cow with their upcoming debates because it will lure out some dragons, and I wish to find out why some dragon attacked me about two weeks ago. I feel that attacker is somewhere up here, in grass traveler territory.”

Linxel’s eyes narrowed when Erick denied him, and then his eyes bulged when Erick mentioned dragons. Supreme surprise gave way to mirth, and laughter. Roaring laughter; brief, yet complete. Linxel came down to a chuckle then said, “You pursue dragons! Gods above. Of course you want something that crazy. A dragon hoard would be a much finer treasure than whatever is in that dark place under the mountains; only one legendary monster to fight, instead of hundreds of lesser beasts.” And then he considered something. He stared at Erick’s lightform. “You’re truly after dragons, now?”

“At least the one known as the Mirage Dragon.” Erick said, “I will likely stumble across many others in that pursuit.”

“So you heard about the integration war 85 years ago, and the dragon fight that came from that?”

“I have. Through a series of events, this is exactly why I am here.”

“Your dragon attacker could be from anywhere.”

“Could be. But they’re not. They’re somewhere among the grass travelers, hiding— Which brings me to a related problem.” Erick asked, “You know you have face stealers among your people, right? I offered to clean up that problem, but only Clan Pale Cow accepted my help. This was one of the major reasons I have thrown in with their cause, specifically. I know they are who they say they are; everyone else is suspect.” He added, “One of my side goals for this whole thing happening here is to help get rid of those face stealers I missed. Would you like help finding the face stealers among your people?”

“Hmm.” Linxel frowned. “The purge that you gifted to Songli… There was an easier way to do that, than with whatever magics you possess. Clan Green Grass regularly asks our people to disclose their full Status under truthstone. We didn’t actually need your help to carry out that [Cleanse], which is why we denied your help when you offered it the first time.”

Erick frowned, and he let it show upon his avatar. “What you did works for the vast majority of cases, but it never works against the people you need it to work against.”

“That might be true when it comes to living life inside of a city, where no one speaks to their neighbors and no one knows each other’s business.” Linxel said, “Which is why Green Grass is wholly against the integration planned by Pale Cow and other integrating clans. We will lose our individual identity. We will become vulnerable to face stealers, and the other plagues of organized society. Like money and property.” He scowled at his own words, then he thought of something and his expression changed to cautious hope. He said, “So I have a different idea to get you to renege on your agreement with Pale Cow. Since you are after dragons and face stealers: What if Green Grass spoke to other True Traveler clans and we got them to agree to your desire to counter-hunt? We could even start today, with Green Grass itself. I am confident that we have no face stealers or Hunters in our midst, so there will be little upset aside from that which comes from a normal clan-wide Status inquiry, which we have already just finished doing.

“If such an event happens exactly as I think it will, then will you adjust your counter-hunt toward the integrators? Will you forgo participation in our upcoming debates at Ooloraptoor?”

“… Eminently reasonable. But if you find no dragons, which you don’t think you will, then if I agree to this then I will be losing my opportunity to poke at the entirety of your civilization, to see what falls out.” Erick said, “And besides that: You do not have pull with every single True Traveler clan out there, do you? Please understand that I am not after you, or yours; I want what is specifically not a part of your society. I want the dragons.”

Linxel sat back in his chair, regarding Erick. “I will ignore your insult that I cannot deliver what I promise.” He added, “But you are correct in that I cannot deliver the scrutiny of the entirety of our civilization unto you. I would not do so, anyway. You have no place to stand in our society, Archmage. That I am doing this much is a boon to you, and I would appreciate you seeing it as the boon that it is.”

