That they were so clearly forgiving him for what he had brought to their doorstep… It was a surprise. But it shouldn’t have been. The people of Veird had been dealing with Shades since the Sundering. Those monsters or their envoys could appear wherever they wished to appear, and it was up to everyone else to push them back. When it came to the Shades, everyone else was on the same side, and animosities were discarded.

Erick said, “Then I and my people will continue along this path. Do you wish for us to maintain a distance from your clan?”

“Please join us for meals and community,” Niyazo said, “But maintaining a kilometer distance at all other times might be… reasonable. If you do not mind.”

“Acceptable,” Erick said. “Agreed.”

Koori spoke, “As far as our conversation: I am aware that you might not want to continue it, but I would like to.” She glanced upward at the sign Erick had made, then back to Erick. “Shall I make an appointment?”

Erick smiled softly as he grabbed a sheet of ‘printed’ paper. He handed it to Koori, saying, “I will make some time for you, but I also expect to have a lot of talks with other people, too.”

Koori took the sheet of paper like it was a dangerous object, then she nodded to Erick. She turned and hopped off the yurt, and began walking away.

Niyazo remained for another few moments, to say, “The caravan is continuing. Thank you for staying, Erick.”

“Of course, Niyazo.”

And then the warlord followed his wife back to their clan.

Things proceeded rather normally, from there. Not twenty minutes later, Erick was back in his chair, feeling the wind upon his face, as the cart trundled along to the north. To the left, Clan Pale Cow’s yurts trundled along just as they had been before, except now the nearest one was a kilometer away.

Jane sat down beside him, saying, “So what happened to being incognito?”

“I can still do that, just not right now.” Erick added, “Later, for sure.”

She glanced toward the mailbox. “Ophiel likes his new perch.”

Erick had constructed a perch upon the mailbox, above the glowing globe for Ophiel to stand upon. The little guy took well to his new spot, singing in small musical sounds while the wind rustled across his stretched out wings.

Erick smiled a little. “He does.”

“Anyone pick up a form yet? Invisibly, perhaps?”

“Not that I’ve seen. I’ve counted the papers a few times, too, and they’re all still there. People were willing to send messages, though, so maybe the watchers far above are just waiting till I’m not looking? I’m not sure.”

Near silence returned, but Ophiel was still chirping away in a jazz-like rendition of some music he had overheard elsewhere.

Jane asked, “Do you want to talk about what Goldie said? About what the dragons are after?”

He did. And yet, at the same time, he did not. For his feelings on what Goldie had said were complicated. He was still figuring out most of those feelings, too.

And so, Erick said, “Not yet.”

Jane nodded.

The caravan rode on.

- - - -

Sitting in his chair, feeling the wind upon his face, Erick thought of dragons and Wizards and Idyrvamikor’s curse, and what made one Wizard more ‘powerful’ than another… And Erick came to a conclusion that he already had, long ago: He did not know too much about Wizards, at all. Oh, sure, there were the easy deductions that he could make with existing knowledge, but joining together everything that he had learned from Goldie wasn’t going to get him very much further than he already was.

He was still going to do it, though.

Several days ago, Erick met with the Dragon Stalkers and they gave him specific examples of small ‘Illusion-based’ Wizardry.

Fake Kill Notifications. Casting spells without the need for mana. Sin Seeker Avoidance. Blue boxes for spells one does not have. Status Fakery.

And then there were the larger Wizardries which the Mirage Dragon has never displayed, which would mark that dragon as a true Wizard:

[Strike]ing as though a person had no Health. Taking a spell out of a person for one’s own use. Emptying a person of their mana. Casting spells faster than the Script Second.

If there was no trickery involved, and if those actions were exactly as they appeared to be —direct effects; not heavily nuanced magic that only appeared to be Wizardry— then they were the actions of a Wizard.

In the broadest possible sense of ‘what is a Wizard’, Wizards could cast spells outside of the Script, without care for the Bans and the structure that the Script imposed upon everyone. But that was a superficial overview of Wizardry.

Shades also cast spells outside of the Script, using the Old Cosmology methods of magic that were still taught inside Brightwater, inside Ar’Kendrithyst. Erick wasn’t too sure what that meant, exactly, but he was pretty sure that they shaped their souls and then cast spells that way; whatever that meant.

Shades were a special kind of monster, though. All other monsters cast innate magics that the Script quantified after the monster made their magics. Erick knew what that meant, though, when it came to the sapient monsters, or rather specifically shadelings. Shadelings were automatically matriculated into a specific, monster Script, every single time they came out of their fugue state, or were reborn into another incarnation. Shadelings, like other monsters, only had access to a curated Script.

That was getting off on a tangent, though.

Shades pretended at the power of Wizards, but they were not Wizards.

They were still subject to the Foundational Bans of the Script. They could not propagate spellwork to change the world, for the Propagation Ban prevented that. They could not open a dimensional portal back to the Old Cosmology, for that’s the Dimensional Ban. They could not do things to mana, itself, for that would be against the Infinitesimal Ban.

But a Wizard…

Erick was almost 100% sure that a true Wizard could break any of the Bans. Of all the things Erick knew of Wizards, which was not a lot, he was pretty sure about that fact.

(Another thing was that Wizards made a lot of mana, but understanding that was beyond Erick at this current time, so he let that lie.)

According to the Shades (And Quilatalap), Wizards fell into three categories: Creation, Destruction, and Paradox. Once a Wizard picked one of those directions, they were stuck with their choice. That was what everyone said, but was that true?

Creation and Destruction were very much opposites, if Erick was understanding that correctly. Creation Wizardry wasn’t about shifting one thing into something else and calling that ‘Creation’, after all. It was about actual creation. The manifestation of something from nothing.

Destruction was the opposite; the shifting of something into nothing.

Unless all of that was wrong? Did every lay person get it wrong? Erick had certainly never talked to a Wizard before… Except for Melemizargo?

Melemizargo didn’t count.

Perhaps the three choices were not a trinity, but a line? A line with Creation on one end and Destruction on the other, and everything in between was Paradox? No. Wait. That didn’t fit with time travel, which was a known Paradox Wizard ability.

The Creation/Destruction/Paradox was probably a true trinity.

Bah! Erick could just ask people for these answers. He could talk to the shadows under the grass or under his yurt, right now, and see what Melemizargo had to say about all of this. That seemed like asking for a bad time, though.

Anyway.

Wizards. And Dragons.

Whatever dragons wanted with Wizards probably had to do with using Paradox Wizardry against the Infinitesimal Ban, to change something about the dragon in question, to make them immune to the Dragon Blood Curse.

Was that correct? It seemed… yes?

Yes.

That had to be it.

The dragons certainly didn’t want their existence ‘created’ into a cure? That didn’t make sense.

They probably didn’t want their Curse removed, either, since the Curse was actually upon Dragon Essence itself.

Yes. A dragon likely wanted a Wizard to Paradox their Dragon Essence into something other than what it was, but which allowed them to retain their ‘dragony’ powers. That seemed like ‘Paradox’ all the way.

But…

The Dragon Stalkers were convinced that dragons were inherently Wizardly, but in small ways, and with Goldie’s suggestions about how Wizards could be classified by degrees of power, then, it was by these facts that Erick knew that the small Wizardries of dragons were not enough to break them of their curse. Or perhaps they could break each other of their curses, if one wanted to sacrifice themselves in order to do so? Most dragons probably weren’t about that.

So where did that put Erick, as a nascent Wizard?

Hunted by dragons, for sure.

And Tenebrae, too, now that he thought about it. That old archmage had asked Erick if he knew of any Wizards, because if he did, then they could go retrieve that Wizard, and deliver that Wizard to the dragons to learn the secrets of [Gate]. Which, according to Tenebrae, would not result in the death of that Wizard, but which, according to Goldie, would result in the death of that Wizard.

… Tenebrae didn’t seem like the kinda guy to sacrifice someone to gain power. Sure, he would let someone kill themselves, and he would certainly kill someone who was threatening him, but sacrifice? Erick did not think Tenebrae was like that.

Well. Whatever.

There were many reasons Erick had never told anyone that the gods had called him a Wizard. That there was a brand new, confirmed threat against him, because he was a Wizard, was not unexpected.

A lot of gods knew he was a Wizard, though. And so did the Shades.

Kirginatharp probably knew, right? Or maybe not.

Maybe the gods would keep something like that to themselves… unless they wanted Erick dead. Which…

Well.

Sininindi wanted him dead for messing with her storms, right? All she had to do was release one specific fact into the world and then Erick would be hunted by everyone. That Erick wasn’t being hunted right now either meant that she was waiting for the right time, or that she did not want him dead.

After a while of thinking and guessing and deducing, all without any true answers, Erick could only decide on one thing: He was going to ask the dragons about Wizards, whenever one of them showed up.

And he would never, ever, tell anyone that he was a Wizard, ever. (But he already knew that.)

- - - -

Clan Pale Cow had stopped for the night at a large riverside and Erick parked his yurt a kilometer away, as requested.

Jane offered, “We can go get dinner and bring it back, dad.”

“Or we can just cook here.” Teressa said, “We can [Grow] our own stuff by the river, too.”

They were thinking things were going to go poorly, which was expected, sure. But...

“No no.” Erick said, “We’re going to eat with the clan, and we’re going to be personable. We’ll be back here to sleep soon enough. Besides! Nirzir helped cook! I want to know what it tastes like.”

Nirzir said, “I’m sure it’s as good as they normally make it, but it is just stew.” Nirzir had gotten over much of her fear in the hours since Goldie’s appearance, spending much of that time talking to other people through [Telepathy]. Her voice was now that of a normal-enough teenager, “Though Waveni did promise other dishes!”

Erick smiled. He had already checked out the cooking yurt, so he could confidently say, “I think you’ll be surprised at what they have, tonight.” He hopped off of the yurt, saying, “Come on! Let’s go eat.”

Erick led the way through the trampled grass, and everyone followed. The sun was an hour from setting, and the sky was already awash in orange and gold, while the shadows upon the land seemed purple.

The yurts of the clan had been scattered in an organized manner, looking like white bumps upon the grasses, with people pulled up alongside their friends, or family, but most of those were on the other side of the cooking yurt. The cooking yurt itself was positioned toward Erick’s yurt, which was probably on purpose; Either to make it easier for him to approach, or because others were scared of him.

Probably both.

Zan and Solia, and their accompanying baby, had their yurt parked on this side of the cooking yurt, though. Those people were clearly okay with Erick, which was nice to see. The hawkery was similarly positioned toward Erick’s approach to the cooking yurt, and that was nice, too. Both places were emptied of their people, though, as those people were already at the cooking yurt.

The cooking yurt was visible for kilometers already, but once Erick got close enough, his people could see what Clan Pale Cow had done, and they relaxed. None of them had said anything too judgmental of the clan, but they were thinking it, for sure. Erick was thinking he was unwelcomed, too, but that changed when he saw what they were putting up for him.

Torches held upon poles all around the cafeteria zone, creating a perimeter to the party, while colorful streamers and fabrics had been pulled out of storage and draped over every table and over the sides of every nearby yurt. Clansmen played their drums and their cellos, beating out a cheerful song into the night as kegs were already tapped, and the beer was already flowing. It didn’t take them long to get this up and running; they were already 90% prepared by the time the clan stopped for the night, with people running back and forth between the yurts of the clan for the last few hours. That final 10% was just the drivers of the other yurts finally showing up for the party and the placement of torches stuck into the grassland.

The people wore their best clothes, and as an unorganized group, they stopped their chatter when Erick came into the wide circle of light.

Niyazo came out of the group, and spoke above all, “Welcome to Clan Pale Cow, Archmage Flatt. May the sun always greet you with warmth and light, and if it does not, know that there is always a place at our table for you and yours.”

Erick smiled.

As one, every clansman called out, “Welcome to Clan Pale Cow!”

The roar turned into a disorganized cheer, and Erick soon found himself with a beer shoved in his hand and an invitation to partake of the whole roasted cow, and all the other foods they had made for this feast. Breads. Rices of more than just the white variety. Sauces. Grilled vegetables of all kinds.

As he got himself some food, a young woman also in line for the food asked him if that sign above his yurt was for anyone. Erick happily replied that yes, it was, for now, but it might not stay that way. Another woman asked him if he was going to [Grow] some food with them, tomorrow. Erick had already planned on a little of that, and so he told them this much.

