The panic after Goldie’s departure had caused more damage to yurts and people than anything else, and so, once the loudness and disorganization died down and the threat was gone, Niyazo, Koori, and the cowherds and warriors were all gathered and informed of what had happened.

Erick watched it all from the seat of his yurt, almost a kilometer outside of the re-gathered Clan Pale Cow. Erick hadn’t moved his yurt away from the others; everyone else had moved away from him. But they hadn’t told him to leave; not yet, anyway.

From what Erick could see, they were still deciding if they wanted to ask him to leave, and Niyazo was pushing back hard against those scared voices who wanted the archmage gone. Surprisingly, when Koori gave an unbiased account of what had happened, she didn’t throw Erick under the yurt. The woman was actually standing up for Erick’s words and actions in the face of an unexpected Shade.

And that was nice.

Teressa sat on the edge of Erick’s yurt, her booted feet resting upon the plain as she looked toward Clan Pale Cow. In a relaxed tone, she said, “I had forgotten about how it felt to be around a Shade.”

Jane asked, “When was the last time you were around one? That close, I mean.”

“Three years ago, back when I was still on active duty.” Teressa said, “Cludolphis, the Shade of Mending. We were on a rescue mission to find a missing Healer after some adventurers had killed some monsters and wrecked some spires. We took too long. Cludolphis found us when she came to repair a spire. She required us to take tea with her, and then she killed one of the new recruits when they failed to sip tea properly.” She added, “The guy didn’t expect to get in that much trouble for he had heard that the Shades were lenient against new people. Well… Shows how much he knew.”

Nirzir held herself against the doorframe to the yurt like she was holding it for support. She hadn’t said a word since Goldie arrived and then left. Wide-eyed and all ears, she listened.

Poi said, “I met Crimsonair four years ago. He mutilated a teammate into a minor abomination for the transgression of speaking too loud.” Poi continued, “I went to the city side of the Army after that.”

Jane stared at nothing. “I expected more visits than that.”

Teressa smirked, saying, “You got a lot more face time with them than the normal person, Jane.”

Jane nodded.

Erick explained, “Both of those Shades are dead now. Cludolphis was on Tania’s side during the final battle. Crimsonair was on Fallopolis’s side. I saw them fighting. The Shade of Mending was floating inside of a crystalline Solid Ward to protect themselves, the Shade of Blood was a giant monster of red fluid. I think Crimsonair killed Cludolphis, and then he was killed in turn by someone else on Tania’s side. But it was all rather chaotic. I have no idea what actually happened there. At the end, I was just… Trying to survive, and ensure the good outcome.”

Nirzir broke her silence, asking, “The good outcome was millions of highlanders dead in a war sparked by the Shades?”

Nirzir’s tone was not accusative. She was just perplexed. Confused. She needed to know. Erick needed to know what the heck she was saying, though, because the cause and effect in what Nirzir was saying was rather spread out. But he understood her logical trail, soon enough.

And so Erick answered, “I think it was more that the Shades are trying to repent, and they knew of what was happening over here, and so, in Goldie’s mind, Songli ascending to Empire was the good outcome.” He explained, “As of years ago, Terror Peaks was already headed to war; it only erupted now because of the chelation treatments pioneered by Songli, and because everyone is looking to fill the power vacuum left by Last Shadow’s Feast. Terror Peaks tried to strike hard, and everyone underestimated.” He looked to the young girl, and said, “Keep in mind that the Shades might have been culled, and their priesthood dissolved by divine mandate from Melemizargo himself, but the base desire of the Darkness is to drive people to strength. That will never change. Do you understand?”

Nirzir nodded, a little.

Erick nodded in return, saying, “And so, to drive Songli to strength, Goldie and Queen set up some pillars, ready for your nation to knock them down and to build upon the bounty that followed. But they expected more out of Songli than Songli brought, and at the same time, they didn’t expect Terror Peaks to be as strong as they were…” Erick paused. He looked to Poi. “That part about the extra Extreme Light materials and the accusation against the Headmaster regarding [Duplicate]. What is your opinion?— Your opinion on the whole thing, actually.”

“I can’t read Shades, but professionally…” Poi stared off into the middle distance, thinking. He came back, saying, “The Shade’s view is twisted and you should never trust her, but I don’t think she was lying about her intentions, and how she thought the war would go. Her accusation against the Headmaster is unfounded, though.”

Erick let that lay for a moment.

No one spoke for a while.

Erick interrupted the silence, asking everyone, “What do you think is going to happen with Pale Cow?”

Poi said, “I have no idea. Clan Pale Cow seems to be getting hold of themselves and recognizing that their reaction was terrible.”

“These people are not prepared for what is going to happen around them if we stay.” Teressa said, “But they’re getting better.”

Jane remained silent.

Nirzir said nothing.

Erick watched Clan Pale Cow through Ophiel, while listening to the gathering with his own ears. The sound carried well on the plains.

The clan was gathered for a speech from Niyazo. The warlord spoke a patriotic message about knowing the monsters in their midst, and how Erick had already exposed those monsters once, and how he would do so again. There was light chastisement about how everyone freaked out, but then Niyazo sandwiched those words with compliments about how, during the actual Shade visitation, everyone was outwardly calm and everyone did everything as they should have done.

Teressa scoffed at that. “Only the people nearest to us actually understood what was happening, and that was only halfway through the visit. Everyone else remained perplexed the whole time. Some thought the Shade was an angel.”

“Yeah…” Erick said, “I’m not sure why the Shade of Assassination uses the biggest sword she can find. I would expect smaller weapons. Less angelic looks, too.”

Teressa said, “Bisecting is harder to heal from than brain stabs, or whatever.”

“The angel-angle has always been an oddity.” Poi said, “We don’t know why, either. It might be an affectation, or a real deal. Goldie has always been mostly-unknown to us.”

Erick said, “I got the distinct impression that she was going to get a dragon fight going even with my refusal. Did it look like that to you?”

“Yes,” Poi said.

“Maybe,” Jane said.

“I don’t know,” Teressa said.

Nirzir breathed out, “Yes.”

Erick nodded, then he said, “Well. Then. I feel I need to do something against that. A kinder way, perhaps.” He raised his hand and cast a wardlight upon the roof of his yurt, shaping light into a globe of Veird that rotated one way, while text slowly rotated the other way, like the ticker on a stock market. “Maybe talking will prevent an all out war.”

Erick’s main message read: ‘Let’s Talk About Solutions.’ And then in smaller text, below the main message, it read ‘Appointments available and preferred. Paperwork required – No [Telepathy]. Confidentiality assured unless waived. I can meet you through my [Familiar]. Violence is met with violence, peace is met with peace. Harsh words are fine!’

Jane glanced upward, then she frowned a little. “Isn’t that a bit much?”

“Oh yes. It absolutely is.” Erick said, “But the point is to talk to dragons, so I might as well try to discuss problems with everyone who has problems. It’s what I used to do, but this is certainly a larger scale.” He added, “Maybe it’s a bad idea, but there’s no harm in trying something new.”

Teressa lifted her head toward Clan Pale Cow, saying, “They noticed the sign.”

“It is meant to be noticeable.” Erick paused. He asked, “I could make it less noticeable?”

“It’s not like you made it as massive and as glowing as you could have.” Jane said, “It’s still a big damned globe of light and a very serious invitation to danger.”

“There’s always danger, Jane.” Erick said, “And besides, a lot of archmages have systems like this in place so that they can meet with clients and otherwise.”

“I’m not complaining, dad.” Jane said, “The Headmaster has a whole department dedicated to organizing how people approach him for help, but isn’t this a bit soon for you? I mean—”

Poi grunted out, “Er. Sir.”

Erick looked to the man—

Poi had about a hundred tendrils of thought invading his mind.

“Ah. Shit.” Erick said, “I explicitly wrote up there—!”

Poi exclaimed, “It’s fine. I can—” All at once, most of the tendrils of thought evaporated, leaving him with five. He breathed, then said, “I fixed it on my end. Uh. I told them that you would need a physical application for an appointment, dropped in a box.” Poi looked around. “A box made of the yurt? Is that okay—” He twitched as another hundred tendrils tried to touch him, and then were rebuffed. “Er.” Poi looked to Erick. “That will have to be okay. I instituted a feedback loop for all inquiries.”

Erick said, “I did not mean to put this on you, Poi; you are obviously not expected to fulfill any of this. And yes: I’ll put a box up over here.” With a wave of his hand, just so that people would know that he was doing something, Erick Shaped the front-right corner of the yurt, drawing the wood from the surroundings up into a large, double mailbox. With another cast, he added a spinning globe of white light atop the box, along with more glowing letters. “There. ‘Paperwork goes in the box. NO [Telepathy]’. That should be good.”

“Much better.” Poi relaxed. “They were all tiny inquiries, but they’re usually not all piled up like that. I think most of them wanted… I’m not sure.” He looked to the box, and said, “You need paperwork, now.”

“Yes, I do.” Erick got up from his chair, saying, “I did not expect something to happen so quickly.”

Nirzir whispered, “People always watch from the sky.”

Not a single person glanced upward, for they did not need to physically look up to see what might be up there. Everyone except for Nirzir was already behaving as though they were under scrutiny. And then Nirzir seemed to realize her words, and her stance of holding onto the doorframe, and how weak it made her appear. So she let go of the door frame, straightened up, and stood strong, banishing her fear.

Jane glanced to the young girl, and held back a gentle smile.

Erick, meanwhile, nodded to Nirzir, and said, “I’m always popping [Scry] eyes when I’m out and about like this. Or, rather, Ophiel pops those eyes. I can’t do a thing about the far-away ones, though—” He had a thought. He said, “I once saw the Headmaster clap a [Scry] eye and I think it hurt the person on the other side. Do you know how to do that?”

Nirzir said, “I would love to know how to do this magic. If you find out, will you please tell me?”

Erick smiled. “Of course.”

He guessed it was [Scry], but inverted with Destruction, or something. He didn’t actually know, though.

Nirzir bowed a little, then straightened.

Erick looked to the ground, saying, “And here’s the paper.”

Erick had Ophiel running a job in the background, but now that job was complete. Exactly where Erick was already looking, a stack of white paper, bound in brown paper and twine, appeared in front of him, plopping onto the eternal stonewood. Nirzir only jumped a little bit; everyone else had been prepared. One second later, a pot of ink [Teleport Object]’d right beside the papers, while off to the side, a block of scrap metal plonked down onto the cart. They were the three objects necessary to make paperwork; Ophiel had done well. Erick patted the little guy on his shoulder and Ophiel twittered in response.

With a controlled sunform and precise [Metalshape]ing, Erick constructed a stamp that would fit the paperwork. When he was done, the resultant metal looked a bit like a branding iron, but much, much larger; it was sized to fit the paper. Erick smiled as he applied ink to the iron, and stamped out his first page. And then he frowned. The words were splotchy and illegible. A minor tweak to the metal fixed that. The next page turned out much better.

There wasn’t much to the text; just the normal stuff. Name, topic of discussion, desired outcome, desired time of meeting (along with second and third desired time), some caveats to the whole thing that all favored Erick (which amounted to him saying that he might not even meet the petitioner if he didn’t feel like it), and a few other things.

One of those ‘few other things’ was a box for a thumbprint of the petitioner, done in their own blood, inside the provided space. Asking for the blood of a person was a nefarious enough demand to weed out most casual inquiries, but more than that, it was a good way for Erick to locate the petitioner. This reasoning was even stated right beside that box, too.

Erick printed out a good fifty pages, drying them with heat and light as he went, and then he set those pages into a holder beside the appointment box. A final application of Shaping upon the paired boxes informed anyone who saw the two boxes to ‘Take One’ and ‘Leave One’, and ‘Thank you’.

By the time he was done with that minor job, Niyazo and Koori were walking his way. After a minute they reached his yurt and hopped aboard. Both looked serious. Both were putting on a show for everyone else watching from the rest of the clan, a full kilometer away.

“Welcome to my yurt.” Erick asked, “Are you revoking clanfriend status?”

Niyazo blanked for a good half second, as though he could not believe what he was hearing, then he recovered. He said, “Not unless you wish to leave. The disorder after the woman’s departure was something I did not think we needed to work on, for apparently the stories of danger told around the cauldrons are not good enough preparation for when the shadows truly appear.”

Koori said, “We know who you are. We know what you have done. Some people forgot that. I, even, forgot that. With great discipline, Clan Pale Cow can weather this storm. We are prepared.” She added, “I formally apologize for my rudeness today, and yesterday, Erick.”

