“Let’s hope so.” Yorila breathed in, smiled, and said, “This was a very nice talk. I’d love to have another talk with you when I have some other problem that needs solving, or if you’d like to talk about the weather sometime— Ah. That was a saying, not a specific ask toward your magic. Anyway.” She stood. “Thank you for killing those threats, Erick.”

Erick stood with her, saying, “Anytime, Yorila.”

Yorila hopped off of the yurt and raced toward Clan Pale Cow in the distance, moving like she wasn’t one of the oldest women in the clan.

Erick went back into his yurt, into the safety of [Prismatic Ward], and then he sent Ophiel out to check on Clan Green Grass. Linxel might be ready with an answer by now.

- - - -

White light flickered high above the Twin Rocks. Three Ophiels stepped onto the air, two of them carrying chairs, one of them carrying a perch. Down below, Clan Green Grass was exactly as Erick had left it. He had his Ophiel descend to the prearranged spot, next to the large rocks.

The clan instantly recognized Ophiel’s arrival.

The thing wearing Linxel’s body came out of his yurt and went to Ophiel.

When the face stealer came near, he said, “Our deals are done. I have decided against seeking your assistance against Clan Pale Cow’s Integration schemes, for I have decided to block your clanfriend status with the Elders of Ooloraptoor. It shouldn’t take much of a debate to get your participation blocked. Goodbye.”

And then he turned and left.

Erick had to hand it to the impostor. The manner of voice was the same. The straightness of Linxel’s back was the same. The man was physically and emotionally as large and as powerful as he had been before.

The soul was a different color, though. Not much different. But different enough. Instead of being dark blue, it was just blue. That, by itself, was not enough to mark the man as fake. Maybe someone just soul-fucked him between then and now—

Hopefully someone just soul-fucked him! That would make the sudden hole in Erick’s heart feel less like a sudden abyss, and more like a temporary problem.

—But Erick tried to [Telepathy] the man, and all he got back was static.

Erick came back to himself and looked to Poi, who had such a terrible guilty look that Erick could only put two and two together, to arrive at the doorstep of a horrible truth.

As the impostor walked away, Erick realized he likely would have done something to ‘Linxel’ had he had full control of his emotions, but he did not. He decided to take a minute to think about what he was going to do before he decided to do it. ‘Linxel’s yurt was only 50 meters from Ophiel. The killer was eminently reachable. He would keep for a while.

Erick could call out to him right now and drag him back for more talking, too.

There were a lot of options, right now.

But Linxel was already gone.
