“I see that. I see all of that. And this is why I am making a place for myself with Clan Pale Cow, so that no one needs to give me a boon like you wish to give.” Erick said, “But if you do go ahead with your offer, and if you do find dragons before the debates, and if they are the ones I am looking for, then I might not need to be involved in your society at all. So how about that? You do your normal Status inquiry, with my assistance, and if you find a dragon, then I will take care of it and then go away. But if you don’t, then I will continue as planned, to participate in three of Pale Cow’s debates at Ooloraptoor.” Erick added, “You have three days before we get to the lakeside and a few more days beyond that before the debates start, so there is time for you to think about this.”

Linxel sat in his chair, thinking heavily, and scowling just as hard.

Erick waited.

Linxel said, “I will not need your assistance with this counter-Hunt. In two days I will have new inquiry results of every single member of our clan, and that of twelve others; possibly more. Once they know what my request is for, then they will surely agree. In return, I demand that you not participate in the single debate of my choosing. One of three.”

Which would, of course, be the debate that Pale Cow could possibly lose without him, and that would not work for Erick. And besides that—

“In return for you doing nothing different? For as you have already said, you expect no face stealers or dragons.” Erick asked, “You know you can fool those truthstones, yes?”

Linxel flinched. His voice was briefly unsteady, but solidified rather quick, “You— You can fool those truthstones?”

“It is not easy, but yes.” Erick continued, asking, “And how do I even know that you will do as you say you will? Or even that your Status inquiry is a functioning inquiry that actually works?”

Linxel took offense at this, but he was still reeling from the revelation that truthstones could be faked. He harshly said, “We ask people if they have the [Polymorph] spell, or some other shape changing ability, and if they do, then we ask to see their Familiar Form list. Since there is no way to fake or change that particular Script box, this is a fine measure, since every form is always listed there. Face Stealers never get rid of their original form, so if we see another person-form, then they are killed on the spot.”

Erick had a tough time holding back his vitriol, but he did. The separation between him and his lightform helped.

Erick kept his voice perfectly personable, and said, “The primary way in which a dragon integrates and hides in a new society is to abandon everything they had before, and this means that they only have the one Familiar Form. Your tactics do not uncover the actual problem. Your tactics actually help the dragons and others hide among you, for some Hunters do not hold onto extra person-forms. Some go all the way into their new life. Your methods are flawed, and I can tell that even you know this much.”

And now Linxel was full-angry. He roared, “Then let me be clear: if there are dragons here then WE DO NOT WANT TO KNOW OF THEM!” He threw his arms wide, exclaiming, “Gods above! You cannot expect us to go against dragons!”

Erick was glad that they were finally talking about the actual problem. He said, “You are correct, I do not expect this of you. Which is why I am approaching this problem like I am. So you know: I will try to keep the collateral damage to a minimum, but I will still counter-Hunt those who have Hunted me.”

Linxel lost all his anger. He crashed back down into his chair, looking gutted. “Do not do this to us, Archmage. Please. People will die.”

Erick understood the man’s fear. Collateral damage and direct damage was a valid concern when one was going up against dragons, or against any large power. Collateral damage was even a concern when going against some of the smaller, more insidious powers, like face stealers and Hunters. Erick had compassion for Linxel, for the warlord was fully aware of the problem, but to do anything about the problem would be to invite disaster upon himself, and others.

But to do nothing about those hidden powers was to let them kill and kill again.

It was a choice between horror today, or horror tomorrow and for forever afterward.

Erick said, “People are already dying, Linxel, and you are choosing to ignore the shadows instead of fighting them.”

Linxel sighed.

Erick waited.

Linxel said, “I will need to think on this. Give me three hours, then I wish to speak with you again.”

Erick nodded. “I can do that. But before this conversation ends, know that I am very willing to help you search for the fake people among you.” He asked, “Would you like to talk a bit about that?”

Linxel breathed deep, his massive chest expanding his leathers, as he tilted his head back and stared briefly at the sky. “I can see why you suggested a Privacy spell.” He turned back toward Erick, and said, “I would hear how you would assist in a counter-hunt.”

Erick nodded, then began, “I can Scan where people have been before, and it is through this method that…”

Conversation continued. Linxel listened. He asked questions. Erick informed the man of how some of his other counter-Hunts went, before going on to explain how he would want to implement such an action among Clan Green Grass, and others.

By the end of it, Erick understood that Linxel was not happy, but it was the sort of unhappiness that one got when they saw a terrible thing looming ahead of them, and they were unsure of how to proceed, though they knew they had to. It was an unhappiness that many warriors, mages, and warlords were accustomed to feeling. It was just another day on Veird.

The conversation wrapped up from there, with Linxel going back to his clan and Erick taking back the chairs and perch back with him, for now. He’d bring the furniture back in a few hours to have another conversation with the warlord, but until then, he had other people to meet.

- - - -

The caravan was underway with Erick’s yurt rolling alongside on the eastern flank of Clan Pale Cow. He had returned to his captain’s chair where he could oversee his summoned cows as they plodded along, matching pace with the rest of the caravan. He was proud of that spell; those cows barely needed any instruction at all beyond the initial ‘Keep pace with the rest of the caravan’. They wouldn’t listen to anyone else, though, and that was kinda funny.

Urshao, the young man from last night who asked Erick about magic, thought the cows were marvelous miracles. He had come aboard at an invitation from Erick and now he sat on the chair opposite of Erick’s own, staring at the cows, trying to understand them.

He was mostly just working up the courage to speak about magic, though. They had gotten through the pleasantries, and now they were stuck here.

So Erick prodded along the conversation, “You’re looking for magic tips, correct?”

Urshao whipped his head around to look at Erick. He went, “Uh. Yes? Sir?”

“Do you plan on harming other people with magic?”

Urshao startled again. And then he forced himself to calm down. He spoke clearly, “Only if those people threaten me or my people.” He deflated a bit. “The main threat is always monsters, though, and if people actually threaten us then Koori or Ibahka or any of the cowherds would step in and take care of the problem. I just need to be able to tow my own weight, sir, and magic is how I want to do it because… Because I went for Scion of Focus when I was young and dumb. I didn’t even go for Balance.” The blood drained from his face, as he said, “I made a mistake and I’ve never been able to fix it.”

The kid wasn’t lying. Good. He passed the first hurdle, and then he went on to pass a few more hurdles beyond that first one.

Erick relaxed. “I wish to have the rest of this conversation in private. Do you mind?”

“Not at all, sir! Do what you must!”

With a thought, a [Sealed Privacy Ward] blossomed around the space. The exterior world remained visible, but anyone looking in would only see empty chairs. If observers used a magic sensing spell they would see a white sphere, which indicated something was happening here, but there was nothing that Erick could do about that right now.

Urshao looked around, his eyes going wide as his heart slammed a harsh beat inside his chest. He was not only nervous, but giddy with excitement.

With a tempering voice, Erick asked, “How do you normally go about making magic?”

“I’ve got—” His voice cracked. Urshao continued, “I’ve got Mana Altering and about half of what a man needs to get into arcanaeum, but… Not the full set. That was another mistake I made.” Urshao deflated. “I don’t expect to be able to defend from a Shade, but I want to be able to make a [Fireball] that doesn’t cost three hundred mana and only does Willpower in damage.”

“Why haven’t you joined Speaker Yorila’s yurt? Even if you are in an orthodox clan, you still have a magic teacher.”

Embarrassed, again, Urshao said, “I don’t have leave to tutor under Speaker Yorila. She’s only allowed three apprentices and I aged out of every opportunity I had with her. I was just never good enough.” He looked to Erick with hope in his eyes. “I could abandon my home and travel to Songli and maybe join their army, but… I want to be here, at home, to help my family. They’ve supported me and my decisions all this time and I have to support them, too.” He added, “I’m good with [Grow], though, which is the usual thing I do; [Grow] foods for everyone and treats for the cows, too.”

Erick had been evaluating the young man using [Soul Sight] and [True Sight] and all of his Perception-enhanced skill, this entire time, exactly as he had done with Warlord Linxel. Urshao was alright. A bit sad. A bit lonely. A bit ostracized. But he was more or less exactly who he appeared to be.

Erick decided to help. He asked, “How good are you with wardlights?”

“Oh…” The kid’s face fell. “Not very. We don’t use those around here.”

“Let’s start smaller, then. How do you put together your spellwork?”

“Uh. Visualization and casting the spells at the same time, with an intent toward the desired outcome.” Urshao tentatively asked, “Same as everyone?”

“Have you ever heard of gridwork?”

“… Never?” Urshao looked up and away, thinking. He turned back, saying, “Never heard of it.”

The lesson on gridwork lasted a good 45 minutes. Toward the end, Erick had Urshao conjuring wardlights that showed, in a very scribbly sort of way, how to make a [Fireball]. To make sure that the kid took the lesson home Erick grabbed a pebble from the ground outside and attached to it a simple, by-the-book [Fireball] grid of his own working. The boy took the wardlight like he was accepting a great treasure.

Erick sent Urshao off with a pat on the back, saying, “Good luck. Don’t blow up anything that you don’t want to blow up.”

Urshao solidly said, “I thank you for your help. I will never abuse this trust and power. If I am ever able to repay you, I will.”

Erick smiled at the earnestness in Urshao’s expression, saying, “Just don’t hurt anyone that doesn’t deserve it.”

Urshao bowed. Erick canceled the Privacy around them, and then Urshao left, hopping off of Erick’s yurt, to run back to his own yurt where he lived with his parents. He’d be okay.

Erick moved on.

He sent Ophiel over to Speaker Yorila’s yurt and invited the woman over to his own.

Yorila arrived with a smile on her face, and a bottle of wine in her hand, saying, “Welcome to Clan Pale Cow, Archmage Flatt; Erick.” She handed over the bottle, saying, “This is for you, but for later, if you wish. For now, I only wish to know if your needs are being met by the clan, if I could try some of that coffee that I heard you like, and if you wouldn’t be opposed to ending some long-standing threats both monstrous and animal that exist here and there upon the plains.”

Erick smiled as he accepted the bottle, saying, “I would be happy to take care of some threats. I’d like to ask you about some other clans out there, too. Please, sit, and let us talk. Do you wish for a Privacy?”

Yorila sat down saying, “Oh no no no. No need. We’re far enough away from the clan, and truthfully, I get a kick out of teasing my people with ~scary magic~ Ha!”

Erick laughed, and sat down across from the old woman.

Teressa served them coffee.

Yorila spoke of large, worm-like animals that lived deep within the ground, which only came up when herds of cows trampled along, to gobble up cow and man alike. She spoke of airborne threats that lived far up in the clouds, but which dropped down invisible threads that snagged upon any living thing and yanked those meals high into the sky. There were elementals made of stone, each the size of a small mansion, that lifted from the ground like great hiding spiders to chase down whatever had disturbed them, and from which clans had to run, but from which some always failed to escape.

Erick found them all. He found more than Yorila expected, too.

In a short hour, many outsized threats were ended. Traveling along the grass was made that much safer.

The conversation moved on to other clans and of face stealers, and of how justice was carried out when Pale Cow found face stealers amongst themselves.

Yorila said, “The problem with face stealers is that they are so very good at hiding, and barely anyone knows what to actually look for. Some clans make do with truthstones, which is a fool’s idea of justice. Some ask for Familiar Form lists, and this is a bit better. Clan Pale Cow does [Telepathy] testing, but only in the most dire of situations as what happened with Amasar and all the rest. That test fails about half the time because true face stealers become their stolen body. The [Telepathy] test works very well when you’re in an active face stealer situation, though, for it takes longer than a day to acclimate to a new Form.” She frowned, saying, “All of our face stealers were well acclimated.” She tossed that emotion away, saying, “The way your [Cascade Imaging] can track where someone has been and what they have touched is about the only decent way to actually track a face stealer. Though I am sure they’ll come up with some way around that. It might take them a dozen years, though. One of them will become a Particle Mage and then they’ll figure out your spell and then we’re back to where we were before.”

Erick said, “Maybe. Maybe not. Might take a lot longer than a dozen years for people to figure out.”

