Extremely dense purple cores manifest in the man and woman that kneel before me.

Their natural Royal Grade Vibrations and Advanced Primordial Aura have evolved to an extremely potent level. Surrounding their forms, I see the invisible flawless-grade glyphs from Abby's Legacy shielding them from the outside.

However, below these glyphs, I see suppression seals of their own. Even without the automated shields, they would be capable of existing in any zone they wish without harming the balance of space and lives within.

From within Arie's form, I can feel millions of dark black obsidian hands holding ancient dark elven bows. The ether circulating through his soul energy core is nearly all extremely refined, high-quality ether. However, there is a very interesting phenomenon taking place where parts of it consolidate into flawless-grade glyphs when they interact with his dark black Advanced Primordial Aura.

Raven's aura is even more interesting. If anyone below Abby's strength were to look at her, she would appear as nothing but a mortal woman.

The fully advanced state of her Primordial Aura has taken on the traits of her stealth skill and molded with her true purple core's pocket dimension ability. The energy circulating through her body is completely invisible and untouchable.

Deep within this aura, I feel the sharp scarlet energy that originates back to the Berserker's Legacy she absorbed on Kelfar. However, it is only visible to me by peering through the fluctuations of laws in her consciousness. This power is a final trump card, hidden even deeper within her concealment.

Arie and Raven combined could easily defeat the full-powered Prime Chaos form Marcellus of the Purple Zone centuries ago. Their presence emanates enough danger to the point I believe the fight would be over in a single strike.

It makes me mentally compare their strength to Ava standing nearby, and it feels their innate strength is a few tiers higher. Though, this Goblin Queen could fend off the Imperial Family Head alone without being injured too badly.

The Warlords behind me are strong and have benefited greatly from the rise in technology in the Upper Realm. However, I think it would have taken all of them combined to take him down, and it would be a brutal fight of life or death.

This assessment is of their peak conditions without even borrowing stats or perks from the links of loyalty. Using the current growth in this galaxy's strength, any of them could kill Marcellus with a single glance from the opposite side of the zone.

I smile and use a wave of silver threads to bring them to their feet.

"Rise. You are the founding generals. In private, these formalities are not necessary."

Even though I raise their heads, the look in their eyes still feels as though they're looking up in reverence to an unfamiliar god.

Maria and I step forward to hug and greet both of them.

Their physical forms do not appear as though they've aged much, but their eyes show that they have watched their many children, grandchildren, and over ten generations after that grow old. They are far more rooted in the present; there is an acceptance and sense of fulfillment in their gaze that I never saw before in these wandering souls.

Once I tether the room together and void step up and down to the Lower Realm, I'm met with the same scene over and over.

There is an enormous artificial, solar-system-sized planet that would make Brymia appear as a speck. It is built from the remnants of thousands of abandoned Noble Grade Worlds. Over one hundred white stars are fused into this base as its power source to make sure all functions remain continuously stable.

Billions of fast travel points merge into its docks, and quintillions of True Yellow Cored system users reside here from many races.

From the surface of the artificial planet down to the core, there are towers and facilities for business, living, and training.

At its very center, there is a private cultivation chamber where Bri, Rodrigo, Alveron's Puppet, and almost half of the Knights on duty bow their heads and drop to one knee when they see us.

I void step across the galaxy a few times, greeting other pockets of Knights.

They are all Purple Cores, and many newly hired guards keep the peace in this Lower Realm. They range from Green to Cyan Cores and number in the tens of millions, watching over many star sectors and managing the fast travel highways.

There are two more enormous artificial planet bases that are almost half the size of the one run by Bri. They too are crafted from the remains of Noble Grade Worlds and are powered by the leftover stars from solar systems without life. Yet, they are far more private and do not allow any normal citizens to enter like the Galactic Core.

One is dark black and purple, where I greet Pluto and his Earth Dragon, bowing their heads as we stand atop an enormous black mountain at the center of his demonic world.

This is where many of the demons left within labyrinths have come home to, as among the hundreds of billions of planets across the galaxy, many still held demonic seeds when the war was over.

It is a sanctuary with a growing population; yet over the centuries, many have grown more docile.

Those that still held allegiance to the old eras were eradicated by Pluto long ago.

The next stop in the Lower Realm is the enormous artificial world almost entirely filled with humans.

This is the main ascension point where I sensed humans arriving in the Mensa Citadel when I was in the Green Zone.

When we appear here, we are not in its core; instead, I void step us to the tallest tower on an artificial orbiting moon that is powered by thirty-six stars to meet its two leaders.
