“Don’t tell Elsynthene that I told you this, by the way. I might be mad at her on your behalf, but she’ll be a terror if she knows that I’m warning you about her indiscretions.” Myntheria winked after she finished speaking.

Meanwhile, Ranthia was trying not to blush from the feeling of her friend’s warm breath against her lips. They were so close together that a single careless movement could make their noses touch!

It seemed that she had more to think about while she finished preparing than she’d expected.

She was falling. It’d been a simple step, just like any other in the dance—except the petal that her foot landed on turned out to be a flake of hot ash. The moment her sandal touched it, it disintegrated, and she found herself plummeting. With the momentum of her dance ruined, she plowed through the other flower petals and leaves on the wind, unable to catch herself upon them.

There wasn’t enough time to shift. There were probably other options that she could have tried with her images. In fact, there was a good chance that her image could catch her if she powered it up to the maximum extent that she could. But she stubbornly refused to manifest a single image.

Instead, she rolled as she made impact, then sprang promptly to her feet.

“I concede the match; there’s no recovering from that at this level!” Ranthia called out, with a false grin on her face.

She was seething, yes, but she could address the crowd and pretend to be a good sport. Sure, she hated losing. Yes, it was her second attempt to challenge for Rank 24—and her first against Nylko. But she could still smile at the crowd and make the proper noises.

“You were doing well. And if I find out who was letting smoke flow into our dance, I’ll have stern words for them, I promise you that. Are you certain that you are alright?” Nylko landed gracefully next to her, his vividly red hair splaying out around him as he twirled to bleed his momentum.

The man was well-spoken and the crowd loved him, but Ranthia knew better. When she was in the middle of her competition to claim Rank 31, she’d heard his snide commentary. He found her unattractive—fine, whatever. She had no interest in the male gaze anyway. But he had disparaged her images. He called them a gimmick that had no place in the art. Which, first of all, she actually had to dance with her images, so of course they had a place in the art!

Second, she had been competing against a woman that used Mirages to provide illusory backdrops and pops of color while she danced! And he hadn’t said a word about her eye-catching tricks that were unrelated to dancing!

“I’m fine, thank you. And I’m pretty sure that whoever was burning something didn’t mean to cause any issues.” Ranthia hoped her grin wasn’t too stiff.

Or murderous—visibly murderous was also a problem.

What frustrated her more than anything was that Nylko was actually, legitimately good. She even out-leveled the man, but she still had to push herself to her limits, just to keep up with him. And that was why she made such a stupid mistake—she had been wholly focused on her dance, just to compete with the man.

Even if she hadn’t screwed up, there was a good chance that the crowd would have favored him. And that stung.

For all that she disparaged the idea of competing in the arts, it seemed that she developed something of a competitive streak somewhere along the line. Arguably though, the loss was for the best. She had successfully defended her current rank, and Singarri seemed to be unlikely to be unseated any time soon from Rank 26. So, in a way, she had confirmed her place in the rankings, which was as good a place as any to leave the city for several months. And so long as she returned within two years, her place as Rank 25 would be maintained.

She would have rather won.

“And you didn’t think to bring this up any sooner?” The barkeep continued to glare at Ranthia across her counter. She was still wiping the same long-dry mug with a hand towel that was in no way properly scaled to her impressive frame too.

“I figured I’d be able to borrow or pay for some cargo space in the caravan. But now that it’s here, the foreman told me that they’ll be completely full.” Ranthia hurriedly explained. She wasn’t being foolish; she had just made a completely reasonable assumption! And she was tired of being treated like an idiot. Even if she was inexplicably attracted to the emotionally distant woman, she had her limits.

She owed the barkeep a lot and she trusted her deeply, but she was worthy of at least a little acknowledgement!

“Dumbass.” With a single utterance, the barkeep dashed Ranthia’s hopes. Not that she stopped there. “Of course the supply caravan stays full! The entire point of the damned thing is to deliver what one city needs, while retrieving that city’s excess to move to the next. They’re the only reason reason we have flour here, even without a single fucking wheat or rye field anywhere nearby.”

“I… huh. I’m guessing the excess from our fruit trees and maybe some of the meat from the Lodge is what they’ll be taking on here?” Ranthia indulged in her curiosity.

“Decent guess. Incomplete, but decent. And you can bother someone else with the specifics; I have better shit to do.” That almost sounded like praise!

…Gods and goddesses, just how attention-starved was she?

“Right. Anyhow, seriously, do you have any suggestions about where I can borrow a Spatial storage container with a strong enough enchantment to carry everything that I need to bring to the armorer?” She even tried to tap into the wellspring of her charm. She had asked her friends already, but none of them had a Spatial storage device that could hold her remaining containers of preserved wyvern parts. Though admittedly, the barkeep still wasn’t her last hope—she hadn’t asked Elsynthene and she really hoped that she wouldn’t have to. She’d expected the barkeep to rake her over the metaphorical coals, but even that was preferable to the Maestro’s benevolent generosity.

Ranthia was starting to feel far too indebted to the scarred elf to be even remotely comfortable with it. No matter how she tried to convince herself that it was reciprocal, the fact that her curse-breaking Aura hadn’t had any visible effect for years suggested that it was either smaller in range than they hoped or insufficient to the task. And if she wasn’t holding up her end of the bargain…

“Ugh, fine. Just stop with that ridiculous pouty stare before I punch you. Fucking idiot. I’ll loan you a spatial storage box that you can wear on your back. But I need collateral. Because you’ve proven time and time again that you’re too fucking stupid to be concerned about my displeasure. So, I’m going to see if you can scrape enough damned foresight to remember that you care about something precious to you!

“That dumb mistweave garment you’re always wearing—the white short dress thing—you’re leaving that with me. And if you ruin my box, you aren’t getting your damn garment back. Your lack of fashion sense will hamper the resale value, but I can probably still recoup most of my losses if you manage to destroy my box. Just bring it by in the morning; the caravan won’t be departing before noon, no matter what the fool in charge of it told you.” With a final grumble passed through her limps, the barkeep turned away from her to deal with actual paying customers.

And with that, almost every task Ranthia had on her to-do list was done. She was more or less ready for her trip. …Just as soon as she finished packing.

The day wasn’t beautiful. Spring was well underway, sure, but the sky was filled with heavily laden clouds that promised to deliver ample amounts of rain. It was unseasonably dark for noon, and the air smelled of the coming showers, even within the City of Arts’ protective barrier. Not that Ranthia was about to let that bother her.

She had a bright and sunny smile plastered on her face as she bade her friends and family farewell.

“You sure you don’t want to come with me, sweetling?” Ranthia asked as she shamelessly nuzzled her protesting bunny.

Ever since she’d returned from helping Anthelleon and Neyvern with Mahvel, Clover had been stubborn about excessive physical affection. Not that Ranthia was about to stop just because of the moody whims of her Bond—she could somehow tell that Clover still loved it, even if she was putting on a front.

Alas, Clover was still steadfastly refusing to leave the City of Arts. According to her, Lumornor was in the midst of some sort of research project and she was focused on doing what she could to support it. Ranthia felt more than a bit weird about leaving her behind though—even the months she spent in the stone tower had been hard, with Clover a short walk away. But while she was in Ithil, there would be a significant distance between them, one that even Ranthia couldn’t cross on a whim.

Their [Companion Bond] had no maximum distance—elven literature was extremely confident about that. But it still felt wrong.

Clover escaped her arms with a sudden forceful kick, just in time for Anthelleon to embrace Ranthia instead.

“I shall miss you, my sister. But do not worry, I’ll make certain that Mahvel remembers you and looks forward to your return.” The elf squeezed as hard as she could, shamelessly exploiting Ranthia’s improved resilience.

Honestly, she was a bit surprised that Anthelleon was willing to part ways with her son for long enough to see Ranthia off. For all the fear and uncertainty that her sister had expressed during her pregnancy, she had seized motherhood with relish and tried to spend every possible moment with her infant. After all, “I am well aware that they grow up all too quickly, so allow me to have my tenderness for the scant years that it shall last.”

Neyvern was tending to their son, and Solareon was cooped up at the facility she was boarded at. Ranthia was still half-convinced that the griffon really wanted to accompany her to Ithil, but that was a terrible idea for a variety of reasons. Bonded predators were generally tolerated in elven society so long as their partner was present, but Ranthia wasn’t Neyvern—she had no Skills associated with the oversized avian-esque feline!

“Now, now, don’t go crushing the poor dear before she gets to leave.” Next up was Elsynthene—who hadn’t been there a moment ago. “Do take care. And remember that there are those here eager for your return.”

With a final smile, the white-haired elf vanished once again, without waiting for a response.

“She is such a busybody. There’s a meeting going on, so she just schlepped out in the middle of it, just to say the obvious. Absurd!” For a rare change, Myntheria was fully dressed and without a single lick of paint anywhere on her skin. She was a bit darker of skin than Ranthia had ever expected. And while it was strange to see her without her daily body paint, she was no less beautiful in her dress—one that was the exact same shade of blue as the dyed tips of her blonde hair.

Once Anthelleon finally released her, Ranthia gingerly hugged her other friend.

“I’ll be back before you know it. With new armor and ready to hunt!” Ranthia offered the two elves a fierce grin once she separated from her final hug.

“Wearing a suit of armor that is made from something you killed. I truly have made a Hunter out of you, haven’t I?” Anthelleon pretended to wipe a stray bit of sentimentality out of her eye, blithely ignoring the facts that Ranthia became a Hunter before they became friends and that she herself wore a suit of armor made entirely out of market-sourced materials.

But there was no time to linger, because the caravan’s foreman at last called for them to get underway. Ranthia delayed long enough to stick her tongue out at her sister, before she grinned one last time and offered them both a wave. After that, she sprinted to catch up with the surprisingly swift train of wagons.

The sky opened up shortly after they got underway, but the rain hardly slowed them down. Enchantments—or perhaps just clever design—kept the elven roads from accumulating too much water and prevented them from becoming treacherously slippery, which meant the caravan kept up its brisk pace as they traversed the forest. Well before nightfall, they passed through one of the tunnels carved through a mountain and continued their journey to the southwest.

Ithil wasn’t the caravan’s first destination—they had five other cities and an isolated farm to visit before they arrived—and Ranthia was looking forward to seeing more of the nation that had become her home. Most elven caravans were fairly lackadaisical and were prone to prolonged delays, just because the weather was too nice or too foul for travel, which was why Ranthia had waited for that specific caravan. Its stringent schedule kept it moving at a brisk pace, which suited her.

It was too bad that she’d have to celebrate her birthday during the journey, but that was a small price to pay. She was finally on her way.

A short time after sunset, the caravan came to a stop for the night. The wagons were drawn into a cluster and the campgrounds bloomed around them as each elf efficiently assembled their tent and necessities. Ranthia found a place on the outer edge to erect her own tent, though she immediately abandoned it to volunteer to help make dinner.

And less than an hour later, she backed away from the four cauldrons of stew that she had helped to make and manage.

[*ding!* [Home Cooking] has leveled from 141 to level 144!]

[*ding!* [Soups & Stews] has leveled from 68 to level 79!]

Meh, it still refused to merge. Still, not bad gains from such a short bit of work. Cooking in such vast quantities was a novel experience for her, and there’d been no small amount of pressure to do it right. She was determined to enjoy her journey, and helping to provide a tasty meal for everyone was an important first step in that.

Ranthia used her arm and traveller’s cloak to protect her own bowl of soup and her generously thick crust of buttered bread as she made her way back to her tent to eat. The weather was too foul for anyone to gather to socialize. Instead, Ranthia settled in to eat, then made herself comfortable in the fur-lined “sleeping cocoon” that she bought for the journey. With high expectations for the coming days, she allowed the pitter-patter of rain against the waterproof cloth of her tent to lull her to sleep.

Weather aside, it was a great first day for her journey.

[*ding!* The shimagu have gone extinct.]
