“And you advised me recently to go to one of your family parties.”

“We have them all the time, and the catering is always perfection,” said Lute. “Just go say hi to Grandma, act like a typical teenager who’s at least mildly interested in rubbing shoulders with the super rich, then vanish…and don’t engage with Hazel. That’s my only advice for dealing with her.”

“I don’t think I’ll go at all. Unless Natalie is the one catering, then I have to ponder it.”

“Suit yourself.” Lute got up to drop his bowl in the sink. “Did you like the tutoring session?”

“Yes. Thank you. It’s really helpful to have an in-person teacher.”  It was going to decrease the time it took to learn by a lot.

“And you still want to master this wordchain?”

“If you don’t mind tutoring me more and getting permission from your boss.”

“Cool! In that case, what time does your class end tonight? The PE that you’re all stressed about.”

They were all a little stressed. The very brief course description said it was just physical education and magic development, so there was no real reason to be. But everyone in the group was anxious about it being something intense…because the last time they’d been in the gym had been so intense. Even the ridiculous and fun hour Alden had spent with the B-List hadn’t quite been enough to take the edge off his nerves.

“It’s over at 7:00 PM.”

“And it’s almost one o’clock now,” said Lute. “Perfect. I’ll bestow Self Mastery on you. It lasts a little less than six hours, so it’ll carry you through the rest of the day and most of your class. You can see what it’s like to live with it.”

Alden was startled. He didn’t know why it hadn’t occurred to him to ask Lute about that. He had a skill that let him bestow wordchains on groups of people; it would be weird if it didn’t work on a single individual, too.

“Can you give me the debt, too?”

“I can give you the debt later if you’re willing to accept it,” said Lute. “I don’t mind just giving you the good part…”

“I’ll pay my own bills,” said Alden. “And it’s great to be able to know what it feels like before I commit to learning it.”

And there was the gremlin to consider. Alden didn’t think it would care about this, since someone else was responsible for the missing half of the chain. But if it was offended by the process, he’d need to take both halves to make it shush.

Lute smiled.

A second later, Alden felt himself being targeted. That, he had expected. What he hadn’t expected was to suddenly have a very clear sense of Lute Velra’s power, reaching out toward him and stopping just short of touching him, like he was politely waiting for Alden to start up an authority control exercise.

That’s not it. I think this is just his skill bringing us closer. It must be—

[Accept Wordchain from Lute?][Primary Wordchain Effects: heightened awareness of body, heightened control of body, heightened spatial awareness]

[Approximate Wordchain Duration: 5 hours 49 minutes][Yes/No]

He hadn’t expected giving permission through his interface to be part of it either.

“You should be getting a notification.”

Alden was suddenly nervous about what was going to happen when he accepted. Not about the effects of the wordchain itself, but…what was Lute going to do to him to give it to him?

Alden couldn’t ask because the answer was just going to be, “What do you mean? I’m just going to use my skill. Duh.”

But Lute being close in this way implied that some kind of metaphysical touching beyond simple targeting was about to take place. And while Alden was almost positive it wouldn’t be damaging to him in any way, he really wished he knew if the bestowal skill was about to give him a Kibby-sized friendly pat or a sharp stab or what.

Also, Lute was noticeably strong. Nothing at all like the overwhelming forces the Primary or his sister had been. But Alden could still sense that a more powerful presence was right beside him, taking an interest in him.

Oh fuck it. It’s getting more awkward and nerve-wracking the longer I wait to do the obvious thing.

He commanded himself to hold still, accept the skill, and not authority smack his helpful roommate in a panic if anything weird happened, then he selected YES.

Lute’s skill brushed against him.

Alden had a split-second impression of something being passed to him, and either he’d gotten it right when he told himself to be accepting or Lute’s skill was really great at its job, because there was no resistance when it became part of him.

The skill withdrew, and Alden couldn’t find any evidence of what had happened at all. Authoritatively.

I guess it’s subtle? Or not, and I’m still too much of a beginner when it comes to understanding what goes on with myself in this way.

He hadn’t even been able to identify the carriage geas in his affixation until she told him to look for it, so it wasn’t that surprising.

Still it’s odd that someone can give me something, and I can’t find it.

“You look really tense. It’s over. You can relax.” Lute’s expression was amused.

Alden felt himself start to blush. He didn’t want to. He stopped it.

Oh. “Oh!”

The mild feeling of embarrassment didn’t leave, but a blush was banishable? It had taken thought and effort, but thought and effort had never worked that way for him before.

“Dude! How strong is this wordchain?”

“Neat, right? Just a warning…there are some inconveniences. You’ve got amazing control over your body. Anything you should be capable of doing or noticing on your best day ever will suddenly be much more natural for you. On the flip side, a lot of things that go on with your body aren’t actually enjoyable, and heightened awareness of them is either maddening or disgusting.”

He glanced at Alden’s empty plate.

“I’m not someone who does a lot of exercise, but I think it’s going to be great for performance in your hero PE class. And I suspect it’s good for developing muscle memory? But it can make everyday stuff hyper-annoying.”

Alden suddenly realized what he meant.

“My own breath is burning me,” he said, fanning his face. “The garlic is everywhere.”

Lute snickered. “Yeah. I’m not sure if you actually taste it better, but you’re definitely better at being constantly aware of it. So have fun with that! If you can’t stand the side effects, call me, and I’ll come take what’s left of the chain back.”

“What would that involve on your end of things? Do you just save it in a special Chainer box for later? Or do you delete it from the universe?”

Lute slapped his own butt dramatically.

Alden blinked. “Is that your new way of indicating your family tattoo?”

“If you’re going to keep asking lots of questions about Chainer, I need a quicker method for blaming Aulia for my non-answers. Like I said, if you assume it’s common sense, you’ll be right most of the time.”

“Well, I suspect you’ve got some kind of chain-saving magic because you delivered that one without actually doing the chain yourself. So you probably banked it somehow? That’s cool.”

“Lute Velra—very cool guy. Now, if other people would just fall for my trap, too…”

*
