He’d decided that was better than blaming the System and saying it had chosen and applied the points in an unusual way without his input. Doing so would imply that this particular stat allocation was important for his skill. It might send people like Instructor Plim on a wild goose chase in an attempt to figure out what it meant.

I don’t want to lie to Lute, though.

This weekend had been fun. Last night had been fun. Lute had volunteered to tutor him.

Well, so what if you don’t want to? You don’t know him well enough to tell him the truth. You don’t even know him well enough to let slip that you’ve got something mysterious going on.

Was there any part of the truth he could share without potentially ruining his life?

“I like it,” he said finally. “I know all of us in the hero development program are supposed to be brutally practical about our stat allocation and talent selection. Especially if we’re not S’s. But I decided to boost my hand speed and dexterity for personal reasons at first, and now I like it so much that I’ll probably do it again the next time I get the chance. For more than the original reason. It’s an aspect of my powers that I enjoy in little ways all the time. I made a typo on my laptop the other day, and I suddenly realized I’d been speed typing for over an hour without a single one.”

Lute nodded. “The points I’ve got are fully baked now. All the hand-head stuff is refined and settled. I basically never miss a note on any normal composition…it makes it feel like the years I spent practicing prior to affixation were a waste, but if I’m not agonizing over that, it can be really fun. And I’ve learned a lot of card tricks. And I bet I’d be a great pickpocket.”

“I got all the high scores on a pinball machine in intake.”

“That’s cute. There’s a secret arcade on the Li Jean campus. The games are weird since they’re all custom made, but you should come with me sometime and watch me dominate the uni students.”

“How fast are you?”

“Not the absolute fastest compared to a bunch of uni gamers, but I don’t lose much at all. The System wants Chainers to be very good with our hands and with pattern memorization. It barely gave me any points to spend how I wanted.”

Well, yes. Those would be the enhancements that make you better at chaining. Plus something for his voice, too, I bet. Maybe his hearing as well.

Chainers would be amazing spell casters if they had authority senses. And also…

“It’s a perfect class for a musician,” Alden said. The microwave beeped, and he pulled out his vegetables.

“In some ways.”

There was an undercurrent of sadness in Lute’s voice. Before Alden could ask about it, he cleared his throat. “But about your hands…since they’re way better than I thought they were going to be, and since you’ve actually got a surprisingly good memory for signs—”

“Did you think I was dumb?”

“No, but I thought we’d spend several hours going over the macro gestures. And you’ve almost got them already. So we can finish those off while you…eat a can of beans and entire bag of cruciferous vegetables with a bunch of raw garlic on top. Are you punishing yourself or the people who have to sit beside you in class?”

Alden kept mincing his garlic. He was having mock Thunder Lettuce for lunch. “It’s healthy.”

“Not socially or spiritually.”

“You’re about to eat noodles flavored with something that looks like an alien dragonfly.”

“They’re nutty.”

Over their lunches, Lute went through the signs for the chain again, and in between slurps of noodles in a suspiciously gray broth, he corrected Alden’s form. The wordchain had no official English translation. Lute was calling it Self Mastery. The Artonan title was more like My Body Becomes my Assistant.

“I’m pretty sure Keiko calls this one Gracefulness,” said Lute, reaching across the table adjust two of Alden’s fingers. “Unless she’s using that name for a slightly different one. Are your arms getting tired?”

“No, I’m good.”

Lute sat back down and watched him. “I tried to teach a couple of people some wordchains when I first started school here. My roommates. And they were both mad when they got them almost right, and the chains still only worked like ten percent of the time. Even though I warned them. Those weren’t even difficult like this one. You’re not going to blame me if you spend a couple of weeks studying and it’s a bust for you, are you?”

“Nah. The first time I actually did a wordchain right, back in February, I had a pissy fit about what a pain in the ass they are. I thought I’d been doing them correctly before and they just didn’t have very noticeable effects. I was in a class to learn them and everything. Then I actually nailed it, and I realized they were supposed to do a very obvious magical thing.”

“You must have had a terrible teacher if they didn’t warn you.”

“She had cheek implants, and she’d had her hairline lasered back a little. So I’m sure she was trying to be authentic.”

Lute’s expression turned pained. “Wellll…anyway, what was the chain?”

“Peace of Mind. I’ve got it down now.”

“That’s a good one to learn. It’s weak, but it’s good because it’s weak. The higher level chains that do similar things can really mess you up.”

Alden did not doubt it.

He paused again so Lute could show him a specific flicking motion, then he said, “I was saving the peaceful half of that chain for myself, and Hazel made it snap back on me. I’m ninety-nine percent sure it was her.”

Lute’s lips pursed.

“So it was her,” said Alden.

“Due to the tattoo above my butt I can’t share—”

“It was totally her,” said Alden. “I knew it. It was too much of a coincidence for her to be standing right across the street when it happened, and then she was all smiles and, ‘Hi, Alden!’ And I…ugh, why?! I gave her the class. I haven’t done anything to make her mad at me unless it was leaving her to affix by herself, and I’ve thought about it way too much, and it was weird of her to expect me to hang out with her longer when she was already interrupting my friend’s funeral! She didn’t even say ‘sorry for your loss!’”

Lute was cupping his chin in his hands and nodding in overly dramatic sympathy.

Alden suddenly realized how he must sound. And his hands were still in the air, halfway through Blossoming Tentacles. He shoved down his annoyance and lowered his arms.

“Sorry. I didn’t mean to rant. I’ll shut up about your cousin.”

“No!” Lute cried. “Don’t shut up. You’re just getting started!”

“I want to focus on practicing. And I know it’s not a huge deal. It’s just…her pressing the debt due button on my wordchain felt so childishly fucking mean. It’s like she saw I’d spent hours building a sandcastle for myself, and she walked over and stomped it. Only the sandcastle was a magical effect I’d prepped for my mental health.” He sighed. “Am I a clueless jerk? Is there some friendly reason to call in someone’s wordchain? In public. Without asking.”

“There’s a list of skills possessed by my family members I’ve agreed not to disclose. I can talk about some partially, others fully, and others not at all. We have this Aulia-ordained brand to uphold. Ninety percent of it is just secretive bullshit for the sake of secretive bullshit. Which she loves. I mean…being ‘bound to secrecy’ is part of our mystique at this point. So don’t buy in to the drama. Wordchains are common sense compared to most magic. And so in a lot of ways Chainer is a common sense class.”

Lute stirred his noodles. “When I finally affixed and got access to the deep dark powers of the Velra line, I said, ‘That’s it?’ And I don’t think I’ve ever offended my grandmother more in my life. Which is a shame, because I wasn’t even trying right then. I was just surprised that we were so much less spooky than I’d been led to believe.”

“Spooky?”

“‘Chainers always get more than they pay for,” said Lute. “‘Your chain failed? Did you make a Velra mad?’ And my personal favorite is probably, ‘Fate always smiles on the Chainer last.’”

“Are those…common sayings?” Alden couldn’t imagine what it must be like to have family-specific cliches.

“You don’t hear them every day, but you do hear them. So I was somewhat underwhelmed when I actually became a full-fledged Velra.” He shivered. “And then I let my guard down and walked face first into the ten percent of being a Chainer that actually is insane and spooky. Anyway, that’s a humiliating story for never. You asked if there was a friendly reason for someone to, hypothetically, call in someone else’s debt without asking them first. And my answer is the common sense one—nope. Unless your friend is bound and gagged and the beach police are coming, why would it ever be nice to kick over the sandcastle they spent three hours four minutes and eleven seconds building?”

I suppose a Chainer would know the duration of common chains down to the second.

“Wizards can do it, by the way,” Lute added. “I can tell you that. I don’t know if all of them can, but my boss and his…coworkers…can complete other peoples’ chains prematurely and by force.”

“Not friendly at all,” said Alden.

“It’s usually not. But when they do it, it’s also not without purpose. He’ll almost definitely tell you what that purpose is when we call him together. And if not, you could probably ask any wizard who you feel comfortable enough around. Aulia’s got that particular wordchain wrinkle on the Do Not Disclose list because, like I said, cagey for the sake of caginess is her modus operandi. But it’s just a fact of life for Artonans who use major chains.”

They finished their lunch and went through the signs for the chain several more times.

While he was correcting Alden’s positioning during the last repetition, Lute said, “You said Hazel tried to talk to you. I have no comment on her powers, but Aulia probably told her to make friends with you and bring you over for a visit. Or Hazel heard her talking about you and decided to get in on it by herself.”

“I guessed that,” Alden said flatly. “She failed.”

“She might have failed on purpose. Or she might have tripped over her own personality. She might really still be mad at you, too. For the funeral thing.” He adjusted Alden’s wrist again. “Hazel grew up devouring my grandmother’s attention, and ever since she started getting a lot of Aulia’s time instead of all of it, it’s like she’s starving.”

He placed his hands on the table and watched Alden finish the set. “She wanted you to see her faint.”

“What?”

“When she affixed. At the funeral. She wanted someone there to see her faint.”

“Was she scared of that happening? It hardly ever does.”

“No, she wasn’t scared of it happening,” Lute said. “She wanted it to. It happens more often to S ranks. The System needs additional time for whatever reason and knocks you out for it. Sometimes it talks to you.”

I am very familiar with that.

Lute continued, “Fainting during affixation and getting a meeting with the System doesn’t mean you’re going to be a better Avowed, but it has specialness connotations. Hazel grew up…okay, she had a messed up childhood. But she grew up sure she’d be a fainter, and she wanted witnesses. Definitely not me, but I was who was closest when you left. She called asking for an affixation buddy, so they made me go back to look after her until her parents could get there.”

His eye wasn’t focused on Alden’s face anymore. He was staring across the room toward the window.

“She faked it. When I walked up, she was lying there on her side like she’d fallen off the bench she was sitting on. I wasn’t surprised. I was really used to her being special, too, so I just thought she was an idiot for not going to sit on the grass before she gave the System the okay. And then I saw her rubbing her cheek on the gravel below the bench to give herself scratches. To make it look more like she’d fallen.”

Oh my god.

Alden felt embarrassed just hearing about someone else getting caught doing that.

“What on earth did you say?”

“You know,” Lute said slowly, “I think I was going to let her get away with it. She oscillated between ignoring me and tormenting me when we were kids, so I didn’t feel sorry for her. But me getting the Chainer S was soul-crushing for Hazel. It had been saved for years especially for her. The family paid a different new Avowed every couple of months to sit on it for her and then pass it off, just waiting for the day when she’d be selected.

“I actually have another cousin who got S, wanted Chainer, and had to take another class instead. Because even though Hazel had just turned sixteen, everyone still thought…maybe. Probably. Sometimes the System picks you late.”

Lute’s frown deepened.

“So I wasn’t going to say anything. Because even though I didn’t want it, I did end up with the toy that we all thought had her name on it. And I wasn’t nice about it because Hazel was never nice to me…and then there she was rubbing her own face in the dirt. It was enough. I didn’t feel the need to grind it in any more.”

“But you did?” Alden guessed when Lute went quiet.

“A couple of days later we were having a party to celebrate her affixation. A big family bash in her honor. She decided to cap the festivities off with a reenactment of one those times she tormented pathetic little Lute.” He shrugged. “I should have left it alone. But when she did it, she was trying to set me off. She just didn’t know I had such humiliating ammunition to send back her way.”

