“Didn’t I mention that being cuter-than-thou is an ancient, feared and devastating Fae skill?” Ali declared, putting up tiny fists.

“Thanks!” Mato called over, leaving them to their amusing bickering.

Excited, he carefully plucked four glowing mushrooms from the planter and hopped back to the cookfire. He rinsed them in a bowl of water and then sliced them up and dumped them into the stew. By the time the ladle had gone around the pot twice, his nose already knew. Oh, my… Trembling just a little, he scooped up a taste and popped it in his mouth. The burst of mana-infused flavor was far beyond his wildest dreams. For a moment he was transported to a realm where all that existed was the flavor. Savory, mana-rich, earthy, and … sparkly? It was a flavor he'd never imagined going with stew, but somehow it worked.

Cooking has reached level 6.

Aah, he sighed. Dungeon-grown food is so good!

Ali sat quietly beside her tent in the soft golden light cast by the hovering domain-bound barriers she had created yesterday, and the gentle blue glow of the mana grass she had summoned in planters created from her stone imprint and the versatile Domain Mastery skill she was still learning to use.

It seemed like it was early morning – before dawn perhaps – but it was hard to tell in the unchanging underground library.

I can probably afford a clock now, she thought. There had been a time when that would have been beyond her means, but those days seemed well behind her now. Especially with all the gold they had found in the vault.

I hope the others are better today. They had been worried about it – especially Malika and Calen. But she wouldn’t know until they woke, so she busied herself checking on her class growth earned from the battle against the monstrous undead Wights that had been the final boss of the Ruins of Dal’mohra dungeon of bone and death. She had been so tired last night that she had simply ignored her notifications and passed out as soon as she had the chance.

Grove Warden has reached level 37 (+5).+50 attribute points.

Arcane Insight has reached level 20.Arcane Bolt has reached level 19 (+3).Barrier has reached level 27 (+2).Martial Insight has reached level 20 (+3).Empowered Summoner has reached level 18 (+3).

Identify has reached level 11.Inspiration has reached level 7.

Five levels!

The Twin Wights had been dangerous – there was no doubt – and, as she had discovered afterward, the life drain had made it significantly more dangerous than she had even imagined at the time. As expected, most of her skill growth was in her combat and minion enhancement skills. Judiciously, she assigned her attribute points, allocating twenty each to wisdom and intelligence, and putting the remaining ten into perception. Then she pulled up her status, studying it carefully.

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: Ancient

Active Buffs: Empowered Summoner

Class: Grove Warden – level 37- Arcane Insight – level 20- Arcane Bolt – level 19- Barrier – level 27- Grimoire of Summoning – level 21- Runic Script – level 15- Sage of Learning – level 14- Martial Insight – level 20- Empowered Summoner – level 18- Domain Mastery – level 4- [Locked]

General Skills- Reading – level 8- Identify – level 11- Sculpting – level 3- Inspiration – level 7

Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal'mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common, Draconic, Goblin- Mana (Affinities): Nature, Arcane- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Domain (Class): Your mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain Sense

Attributes- Vitality: 54- Strength: 4- Endurance: 15- Dexterity: 25- Perception: 73- Intelligence: 169 (+44)- Wisdom: 144

Equipment- Body: Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 25- Hands: Wooden Bracelet – level 11- Ring: Bronze Guild Ring – level 10

Resistance: 360Magical Damage Reduction: 25.78%+21% to mana regeneration.

Health: 270/270Stamina: 150/150Mana: 3334/4320 (986 Reserved)

Grimoire Imprints1- Moss2- Arrow3- Armor (Body)4- Dagger5- Wolf6- Mushroom7- Stone8,9- Kobold10- Sword11- Tree12- Creeper13- Ooze14- Goblinoid15- Shield16- Elemental17- Grass18- Book19- Bone Bracelet (Hands)20- Bow21- Poison Wyvern

Am I doing well? She didn’t have a lot to compare against, other than her friends, but she decided she was happy with her skill growth so far. She had come to realize that the others often gained more total skill increases per fight, simply because they had more applicable combat skills to use. It was rare that Ali found ways to use Runic Script, Sage of Learning, or her Grimoire of Summoning in critical ways during a fight. Especially if she didn’t have time to set up.

Those skills seemed to require study or training out of combat – or took far too long to cast in battle. But she had found ways to grow them too, and she was quite happy to see most of her skills seemed to be keeping pace. Her biggest limit, as always, seemed to be her Grimoire of Summoning skill level. Too often, she had to skip or bypass potentially useful imprints because her Grimoire simply didn’t have enough space.

“Morning, Ali.” Malika’s greeting was quiet and somber as she came over and sat down beside her.

“Hi Malika, how’s the drain this morning?” But simply by her mood, Ali could already tell nothing had changed.

“Same.” Malika sighed. “I just hope Vivian Ross knows something that can help us.”

“I’m sure she does,” Ali answered. “Or she can tell us who to ask.”

“I hope so too.”

They sat together in silence for a few minutes. Malika seemed worried, but her breathing seemed calm, and she didn’t seem nearly as frantic or scared as Ali remembered herself being when she was struggling with her domain withdrawal for the first time.

“Are you ok?” Ali finally asked, not able to quite figure out what Malika was feeling.

“I’m not sure…” Malika sat quietly for a few moments longer. “I feel like I should be more anxious, but my mind insists on remaining calm. I’m not sure how much is me and how much comes from Clarity. I’m still trying to get used to it.”

“You’ve always been calm and rational. I think your skill is just strengthening a quality you already have, not changing you. We should talk to the Guildmaster before we decide if we need to worry about the drain,” Ali said, trying to console her friend. While she knew how stressful it could be to have your health torn away and not know when or if it might return, Malika seemed to be also struggling to process the mental changes that came with her new skill. Ali was certain the skill would be great, but she also appreciated some of the difficulties in adapting to a new passive skill.

“Thanks, Ali,” Malika said quietly, and judging by the small smile, Ali knew she had recognized Malika’s primary worry.

“Oh, before I forget,” Malika said, pulling four swords from her ring and laying them down on the ground beside Ali. “Can you learn these?”

Bone Sword of the Wight – level 41 (Bone)Bone magic enhances the sharpness of this blade.Damage: Slashing, Physical+27 Dexterity+5% Critical Strike chanceRequirements: Dexterity 144One or Two Handed – Longsword – Bone

Ali instantly recognized the four matching swords the Bone Wight had wielded. The long slender bone blades gleamed in the soft light, polished to a deadly-sharp sheen by the bone magic enchantment imbued into the blade. Ali studied the lattice of the magical formation, fascinated to see how the permanent enchantment was woven through the bone, resulting in a sword that exuded the deadliness of a tool for violence, honed to perfection by magic.

“Are you sure? Don’t you want to sell them?” Ali liked to think that she wasn’t much for swords and armor, but even she felt the powerful desire to have swords like these for her Kobolds. She was certain they would fetch a high price.

“I think our treatment might be expensive,” Malika said. “These swords will be an incredible source of income if you can make them. Critical strike and dexterity on a longsword will make it highly sought after for many warriors, rogues, and fighters that specialize in accuracy and precision.”

“I won’t be able to actually make them until I reach level forty-one, though,” Ali reminded her. She wasn’t even certain her Grimoire would let her learn them yet.

“Still, I think it’s worth being able to make them in the long run. Our potion use is getting more and more expensive. I can use the gold coins we found to tide us over until you can make the more valuable weapons to sell.”

“Ok.” Ali was convinced, and it sounded like Malika had thought this through carefully. Besides, she might find a minion that was high enough level to wield it effectively at some point. It took only three of the swords before Ali’s Grimoire appeared and sucked up all the magical runes inscribing the variant sword onto its pages.

Variant: Bone Sword of the Wight added to Imprint: Sword.

“I got it,” Ali said, breathing a short sigh of relief and pushing the last sword back toward Malika. “Perhaps see if Weldin is excited about the last one?”

“I know he will be,” Malika said, storing the gleaming weapon. “Commander Brand’s people will buy this in a heartbeat.”

“Don’t forget to try and identify her,” Calen said as they emerged from the sewers and Mato replaced the heavy iron grate. He looked over his notes in the notebook before putting it away, satisfied that he had everything organized correctly, and stepped out into the main street leading toward the Adventurers Guild. The air felt still and quiet, and the light was beginning to brighten as the sun’s rays cast long early-morning shadows.

“I’m wearing my best resistances,” Ali said.

Calen nodded approvingly. If Mieriel was truly messing with their memories somehow, he might forget that they had made this plan. But he wouldn’t forget to check his notebook and the notes he had written to himself. Failing to remember – and knowing it – would be evidence of a kind.

He scanned the rooftops and the dark alley entrances automatically, noting just how little his eyes were bothered by the bright morning sunshine or the shadows, while practicing his control over the motes of light he had floating along with their group. It would probably have been a happy morning, but for the fact that he still felt weak, drained, and hollow inside. He had woken up early and checked at once, but his life drain had remained unchanged from the night before, and that had done nothing to ease his anxiety. The mystery surrounding the guild administrator was merely an additional complication amid a sea of problems.

He tried to dismiss his worries, instead focusing on the happy chatter between Ali and Mato discussing food and spices, and making his motes track the roof line to hover over the various windows and doors as they walked by.

It was as they turned the corner onto the street right in front of the Adventurers Guild. He was getting better at tracking the motes of light along the edges of the buildings and as it traversed the gap to the next building, he suddenly caught sight of a shadowy figure, barely visible, and crouched behind some boxes in the darkness of the alleyway.

Crossbow!

Calen dove forward, ramming the palm of his hand into the middle of Ali’s back, sending her flying with a surprised shout. The crossbow bolt punched clean through his elbow, shattering bone and sending blood spraying up against the wall. He viewed it all with a bizarre kind of detachment in the moment before his brain registered the pain.

He crashed to the ground, struggling to grasp at the rapidly fraying edges of his consciousness as the pain hammered into him with relentless fury. Must… save… But he heard Mato’s roar, and the instant golden light of Ali’s barrier appeared, and he saw Malika’s foot somehow springing away into a wave of darkness…

The burning rush of healing magic jolted him back to consciousness as the shattered bones in his elbow twisted and writhed back into shape with a gruesome, cracking wrench. Calen screamed in agony.

“Alright,” Malika soothed. “Give it a second.”

Calen swore between his clenched teeth as the healing finished up. He glanced around urgently, but the street was quiet, and Malika had her hand on his arm, with Ali and Mato looking on with concerned expressions.

“That guy really wrecked your arm,” Malika said.

“Crossbow assassin,” Calen answered, relieved to see that Ali was unharmed. It had been clear from the trajectory of the bolt, that the center of Ali’s back had been the target. If Calen hadn’t disrupted the stealth, likely they would have been looking at an Ambush. Even with the disruption of the Ambush itself, the assassin’s attack had packed enough of a punch that the critical damage had almost removed his entire arm at the elbow. He flexed it a few times, suddenly far more appreciative that it was working.

“I couldn’t catch him,” Mato said, clearly angry. “Too fast, he got away.”

“Thanks, Calen.” Ali looked paler than usual.

The real question was why she had been a target at all, in what looked very much like an organized assassination attempt.

“Let’s get inside,” Malika said, moving forward with a determined stride. “I’ve got a few questions for our Guildmaster!”

“Damn right,” Mato growled, his tone making Calen glance at his friend in concern. The big Beastkin was nothing if not protective and it sounded as if he was taking this attack on Ali personally. That was fair enough, but they needed to keep Vivian on their side if at all possible.

This promised to be an entertaining meeting.
