The Ahn Khen elders tell of a legendary ancient warrior who trained day and night for many years, striving to perfect the Nine Paths. This nameless warrior became so skilled his story began to be told across the land, even in his own time. Many people would travel great distances just to challenge him, however, he would always turn them away, rebuffing their pleas, taunts, and even sometimes underhanded attacks with ease, always saying he simply desired to practice.

One day, a capricious celestial arrived at the warrior’s home and declared that he would raze the entire village, sparing no one, if the warrior could not win a duel against him. Fearful for the lives of his family and fellow villagers, the warrior reluctantly accepted the challenge.

The battle raged across the mountains for three days; the superior strength and power of the celestial being perfectly opposed by the supreme mastery of his martial arts. Early on the fourth day, tragedy struck. The warrior, who had not rested since the battle began, stumbled and the celestial took his eyes, leaving the warrior blinded and bleeding on the ground. Pausing the fight to gloat, the celestial taunted the warrior describing how he would now destroy the village and everyone in it. Everyone the warrior had ever loved.

However, the warrior calmly resumed his stance and beckoned the celestial to continue. Such was the power of his resolve and the composure in his heart, that the celestial was forced to resume the fight. Blinded and exhausted, the warrior still fought the celestial to a standstill, and by sundown, the celestial was forced to declare the duel a draw.

As a reward for his peerless skills, the celestial granted the nameless warrior the ability of Soul Sight, but as soon as he received the boon, it was transformed into a Bloodline that was passed on to all his descendants.

There are many recorded variations of this oral legend. Some describe a demi-god instead of a celestial or claim a different duration for the battle. The less charitable versions substitute a demon instead of the celestial, but the essence of the story remains. The Ahn Khen bloodline was won by training and inner resolve. This legend is taught to Ahn Khen youth even today to encourage diligence and perseverance in their martial arts training.

- Excerpt from Cultures of the Modern-Day Kingdoms by Evanna Quillmore, the Scribe.

Alexander stalked deeper and deeper into the dense forest, hiding his discomfort and sense of vulnerability. Bringing his undead bodyguards would have made him safer but would obviously have undermined the Druid disguise he was wearing, courtesy of his Amulet of Natural Deception.

His mind slipped into his storage enchantment yet again to inspect the tiny vial of innocuous-looking clear liquid.

Potion – level ???

His mind’s eye shifted to the instructions Roderik had provided along with the potion – which fortunately included the potion’s identification written out.

Corrupted Essence of the Endless Nightmare – level 232 (Death / Mind)Distilled from the essence of the Devourer of Dreams, Baaoht Yll’shuum, every drop of this small vial of clear liquid is imbued with a vile mental curse and necromantic corruption.Consume: 100% chance to inflict level 214 Nightmare Slumber corruption on consumption. 100% chance to inflict level 221 Mana Severance curse on consumption. Charges: 5/5Quality: UniqueCreated by Nevyn Eld.Potion – Corrupted, Cursed

A potion crafted by the Master… his eyes lingered on the crafter attribution. Roderik had been right, this was far better than mere Dreamcloud extract. As he approached the glade, he transferred the vial to the pocket of his jacket and steeled himself for his task.

“There you are, Alexander dear. I was beginning to worry you’d forgotten all about me.” Lirasia’s voice resonated softly through the dense woods, sounding like it was carried to his ears by the unnatural rustling of leaves.

He turned, schooling his face against the revulsion he felt on seeing her form rippling and twisting out of the heartwood of a thick oak tree. Somehow, he couldn’t get over her transformation to her humanoid form. It was like sharp fingernails scraping their way down his spine.

But he smiled. Here, in the depths of the forest, he was a Druid, and he loved nature. His life and his plan depended on it. His fingers brushed across the smooth, cold glass of the vial nestled in his pocket.

“There you are Lira, my love. I couldn’t stop thinking of you for even a moment, how could I ever forget about you?” The lie came naturally to his lips, spoken with practiced fervor and passion. He had been so worried about this part of his plan, knowing that the Dryad was so ancient and supposedly wise. But she had fallen for his practiced charms, like so many other older and lonely women. All he had needed was a few kind words, a thoughtful gift, and to listen to her worries with a sympathetic ear. She had fallen for him, and in way less time than he had ever expected.

“Did you bring it?” she asked with a girlish excitement that belied her reputed centuries of age, alighting on the mossy ground, her bare feet causing an eruption of wildflowers among the sparse grass.

“I did, my sweet.”

She clapped her hands in delight and pressed her leaf-clad body up against his in anticipation. It took all his control to prevent his body from communicating his disgust at the monster touching him, but he saved his disguise, and with an act of will he returned her embrace affectionately. After all, he was a Druid, and Druids loved nature. And he could take a bath later to rid himself of the earthy stench and the overwhelmingly cloying fragrance of new growth. Give me a zombie troll any day.

Quickly, he retrieved the blanket, spreading it out upon the ground at the base of the tree, and began laying out the tea set, along with the expensive Elven tea she had requested. He had been stumped by her refusal of his prior offers for picnics and food, preferring to photosynthesize her sustenance, but her weakness was for tea, and with that discovery, he had finally found his way in.

Quickly disarming her with the small talk of the newly enamored, he distracted her while he set the tea to steeping. Surreptitiously, he added two nearly invisible drops from the vial to her cup. Considering his mark and her supposed high class level – she was a three-mark monster, after all – he decided to make sure and added a third drop, carefully marking which cup it was. He shuddered to think what would happen if he mixed them up.

“Why are you so tense?” Lirasia asked, moving to massage his shoulders.

He almost jumped out of his skin.

Did she see me? He had been convinced his acting was perfect, but here, at the most critical moment, she had seen his tension.

“Aah…” he said, racking his brain for ideas. Not knowing what else to do he went with, “That feels so good.” Then he continued, using a tried and tested technique of sharing something personal. “I’ve been stressed out lately. One of my friends seems to be having trouble controlling his temper and ends up hurting the people around us.” He didn’t mention that Roderik’s massacre of the village of Lyton had been his idea in the first place, and that temper had little to do with it.

It was the best he had on short notice, but Lirasia seemed to buy it, continuing to massage his shoulders with fingers that, unbeknown to her, made his skin crawl. But he made himself lean into it and close his eyes, moaning softly in fake pleasure.

“Why don’t you tell me all about it?” she asked.

“Are you sure? I’m sure you don’t want to hear my problems,” he said, finally moving to pour the steeped tea into her cup and offering it to her, before pouring one for himself into a clean cup.

“Of course, you can tell me, I want to know everything about you,” she said.

This was the most critical moment. If she sensed the Corrupted Essence lacing her cup, he would be unmasked – and alone without his zombies in the middle of an angry Dryad’s forest was not a healthy situation.

“Ok,” he said, timing his response to the moment she lifted the teacup to her lips. “His name is Roderik, and he had a rather rough upbringing.” He was making up a story, he had no idea what Roderik’s upbringing was like, but his distraction seemed to work, and she drank.

He stared into her sparkling dark hazel eyes while he continued fabricating his story, watching with inner tense anxiety while she sipped again and again at the tea.

Is it not working?

He stretched the story longer and longer, becoming more and more worried as she continued sitting there, listening to him with rapt attention.

Slowly her eyelids drooped, and he felt a surge of relief. She had almost finished the tea, with three drops of the Corrupted Essence, and only now it was beginning to work.

Suddenly, she snapped her eyes open and sniffed suspiciously at her cup.

“A curse? Alexander, what is the meaning of this?” she demanded, rising to her feet.

All around him, the oaks creaked, branches twisting, growing, reaching toward him. Light fled the dappled clearing and vines sprang up from the ground wrapping themselves around his arms and legs, and he called out in pain as they bound him tightly.

“Explain yourself!” she demanded, eyes flashing angrily, but then she stumbled, barely catching herself, looking at him through drooping eyelids. And then, all at once, she collapsed to the ground, and with her fall, all the branches and vines receded.

Shit, that was close. He got to his feet, legs trembling with the rush of fear from his near brush with death at the hands of a vengeful forest spirit. The deception of the powerful always carried risk, and he had been willing to take it for the elevation of his status in the eyes of the Master, but in hindsight, he should have used the entire vial. He needed her alive, but risking her death would have been smarter than risking his own.

“Come!” he commanded, calling one of his giant troll zombies.

Mato was worried. More… concerned, he decided. He sampled another spoonful of the meaty stew bubbling over the fire and wrinkled his nose.

It’s bland. A disaster.

He hadn’t done anything different with the spices. The only real issue was that he had run out of pepper, and he was annoyed he’d forgotten to get more the last time he was in town. But bland wasn’t exactly the right description either – all the proper flavors were there – rather, it seemed as though he had just noticed his usual recipe had been lacking something all along.

Maybe it’s my Survival Instinct? He hoped he wasn’t losing his touch. The others all seemed to be sitting around drooling, but they had all just come back starving from a boss fight, so that wasn’t the best indication of proper culinary prowess. It was his potent perception skill that granted him an uncanny sense of incoming attacks, but it also enhanced all his mundane senses. And that included his taste.

Normally he would have guessed that his taste being enhanced would lead him to require less flavor to be satisfied. Still, somehow it enhanced his ability to understand the subtle balance of umami and vegetable flavors in the dish, and this one had simply come out somewhat lacking.

I just need to get better. While he would never get as good as those who had pure cooking or chef classes, there had to be someone in town who could give him lessons so he could level up his skill. And then mom will give me that wink and start talking about having four strapping Beastkin grandsons to help about the place – yeah. He grinned ruefully. Are all mothers so obvious? At least she hasn’t started on Malika or Ali, yet. Not too much.

He put the ladle back into the stew to stir it and took a deep breath. What’s that? A touch of an aroma reached his sensitive nose – something earthy, intoxicating, yet so familiar he had ignored it. He sniffed again, catching another whiff of it. Where’s it coming from? He glanced around – it certainly wasn’t his stew pot.

His ruminations were interrupted by Calen taking off on wings of light and flying around the campfire. Ever since Mato had known him, Calen had dreamed of flight. Mato had never understood his passion for it – vastly preferring to have his four paws firmly planted on solid ground. But after Calen’s near brush with death, Mato couldn’t help but smile, sharing in the uncharacteristically obvious joy and excitement as, for a few moments, his friend shed his typical reserved quiet nature, swooping around with his new magic.

I guess I got some levels, too. He tossed another pinch of salt into the pot and stirred while he consulted with his notifications.

Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 36 (+5).+50 attribute points.

He quickly divided his points. Ten to vitality, twelve to strength, and thirteen to endurance. That should take care of tanking. Then he added five points to perception to help out Survival Instinct and dropped the remaining ten into wisdom to help Arboreal Sanctuary, Natural Prowess, and Brutal Restoration.

Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 18 (+2).Swipe has reached level 23 (+2).Brutal Restoration has reached level 24 (+3).Bear Form has reached level 24.Bestial Combat has reached level 24 (+3).Natural Prowess has reached level 15.Survival Instinct has reached level 15 (+2).Battle Trance has reached level 6 (+3).

Not bad, he thought. But then his nose caught that tantalizing scent again.

His eyes roamed around the camp. Malika and Ali were over by the tents cheering Calen on as he tried out his new wings. Nothing seemed to be out of the ordinary, just the old library with some moss growing on the floor. Ali had made some lights with her barrier magic that hovered up by the atrium. Jasmine and ivy grew up the walls where once there had been ladders leading to higher bookshelves. A big improvement. Some of the Blue Mana Grass and Common Glowcap mushrooms grew in planters, adding a little welcome glow to the ambiance.

Wait. He glanced over at Ali. If she’s a dungeon… does that mean… He skipped over to the planter and bent over, sniffing at the mushrooms growing there. His nostrils filled with a thick earthy aroma that made his stomach grumble and his saliva glands begin to work overtime. This is it!

“Uh, hey, Ali,” he said, standing up. “Can I have a couple of mushrooms?”

“Huh? What for?”

“Dinner!”

“Sure, but don’t take too many. They’re making my domain and I’ll have to replace them.”

Miming a punch to her shoulder, Malika said, “Come on, Ali, you can grow mushrooms in your sleep. If Mato’s that excited, you can spare a few.”

“Yes, you don’t want to meet me when I’m hungry!” Ali threatened humorously.

“What are you going to do, cute me to death?”

