Notice!

You have successfully transformed into a Marilith demon (Level 83) and can now benefit from all of it's advantages. Your multiple arms can attack without pause in a relentless flurry. Your tail can grab and crush those unlucky enough to be caught with it, or you can lash out and strike opponents like a whip.

Damage Resistances: Elemental - Ice, Fire, and Lightning; Physical - Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing from both magical and non-magical attacks.

Immunities: Poison, Acid

Inherent Abilities: True Sight (can see as if daytime in any conditions, and can Spot anything within your sight, hidden or not), Multi-attack, Multi-weapon Fighting, Telepathy (Range: 100 feet), Damage Reduction, Spell Resistance, Natural Armor.

Permanent Conditions: Corrupted, Combative (loves fighting)

“This feels really weird.” Ren said and lifted his right hand to look at it. The other 2 hands on that side moved at the same time, and he looked at them. “I guess that's appropriate, since I'm only supposed to have 2 arms normally.”

“You... you're really real.” The Marilith demon said and he felt her shock. “You're just like me.” She said, then she remembered what Ren had said about the polymorph helm and it's 5 minute limit. “Oh, dear one!” She slithered over to rest on top of him, and matched her body to his. “Hold me before you have to change back!”

“I thought you said...”

“I lied, you ignorant fool!” She said and kissed him as her arms picked his arms up and placed them around herself, because he couldn't do it himself. Ren hugged her, and she moaned as he kissed her back. Now that he had a mouth as big as hers, they matched up well and she lost herself to the sensations. They still shared their Heat Sense Aura, so they could both feel how the other felt. She knew he would never go any farther than this, and Ren felt that she accepted that. He broke the kiss when he had the chance and looked at her.

“I'd like to try and stand up, if that's okay.”

“But... we only have... mere... mere moments left.” She said, and he felt her deep sadness. Ren tried to cup the side of her face, and his other hands moved to do that as well, and he sighed.

“I told you this would hurt you.” Ren said.

“I know, I... I just...” She started to cry.

“Let's move over to the Warming Pad.” Ren said. “This ground is freezing.”

“I... okay.” She said and helped him turn over.

Ren tried to move like he still had legs and was on the ground, and didn't go anywhere.

“Don't try to walk or push with your foot.” She said, wisely. “It's a tail, not a leg.”

Ren chuckled. “What do I do?”

“Wiggle.” She said.

“Wiggle?”

“Pretend you're a worm, and just... wiggle.”

Ren thought about it, and with some encouragement from Teepo, started to wiggle the end of his tail.

“Good, good.” The Marilith demon said. “Now do that with your hips.”

Ren did so, then did the logical next step and added wiggles in between. He felt the dirt churn underneath his tail and used his arms to lift himself up, then his tail slithered forward and pushed him up into an upright position. He picked up his last two hands that held him steady, and he shot forward 10 feet and flopped onto his side in the dirt because he couldn't keep his balance.

“REN!” The Marilith demon exclaimed as she slithered over to help him up, and felt how overjoyed he was.

“Bwahahaha! Did you see that?” Ren asked as she picked him up and set him on the Warming Pad. “I actually moved forward without legs! Hahaha!”

She slithered around him and held him steady, then tucked herself around behind him. “Lean back a little.” She said, and Ren did. She wrapped her arms around him, between his own, and caressed his chest. “You could have seriously hurt yourself.”

“Is that concern I hear in your voice?” Ren teased, and she turned her head and bit his ear. “By the gods!” He almost yelled as a thrill went through him, right down to his tail. “What was that?”

“Your time is up, and I couldn't let you go without a little bit of foreplay.” She said, then kissed the spot she had bitten. “Why would you think I wouldn't want to touch such a handsome specimen when you offered it to me?”

“I guess I really need to stop trusting villainous monsters.” Ren said, and that made her laugh.

“You are too amusing for your own good.” She said. “What am I going to do with you?”

“You can give me passage from here and let me leave.” Ren said. “I've given you what you wanted.”

“And more, dear one.” She said and kissed him. Their long tongues played with each other in their mouths, and when she broke the kiss, she sucked on his to draw it out.

“Bay, lash ma money. (Hey, that's not funny)” Ren mumbled, which made her laugh and let it go. He tried to pull it back in; but, he didn't have the motor skills to do it properly, so he had to use his hands to shove it into his mouth. He fumbled it because his brain was still using all 6 hands as if they were two, and the Marilith demon laughed and laughed at his comical appearance.

Ren had hammed it up a little to make her laugh so much, because he knew she would be sad when he left; so, he wanted to leave her with a smile on her face.

“Oh... oh, you... get... get out.” She said, and turned to look at a different section of the cavern. It shifted slightly and opened up to reveal a very steep exit tunnel. “Leave before I hurt myself from laughing so much!”

Ren laughed with her and deactivated the Marilith demon form. It didn't hurt as much as he transformed back into his normal self, but he could feel the depression take a hold of her as he repaired his armor bodysuit.

“Everyone! Up the tunnel!” Ren said.

The 20 succubi left their hiding places and flew across the cavern and up the tunnel, and the skeleton knights marched over and up it with the two skeleton-like Phantom Steeds right behind them. He called over his own Phantom Steed and mounted it's saddle.

“I am going to miss you.” The Marilith demon said.

“I know you are.” Ren said, then stood up on the steed. “Come here.”

She slithered close and he hugged her around the neck. “Are you sure you won't stay?” She asked, and hugged him back with all 6 of her arms.

“You know I can't.” Ren whispered in her ear, then did something naughty and bit it.

“AHH!” The Marilith demon yelled as the thrill went through her, right down to her tail. Ren let her go, and she let him go, and he sat down on his steed.

“Goodbye, ma'am.” Ren said.

“Goodbye, dear one.”

Ren had the Phantom Steed trot over to the tunnel entrance, then turned around. “Before I go... I need to clear something up.”

“You are still sharing an Aura with me.” She said. “I've felt everything you've felt, so what could you possibly have to clear up?”

“It's nothing much.” Ren said, and she felt the distinct feeling of naughtiness from him, and it stirred things inside of her.

“Wh-what is it?”

“The 5 minute limitation? That was on the old helm recipe. I made a new one and changed it to over 4 hours.” Ren said and grinned. “Bye!”

“RENNNNNNNN!” The Marilith demon yelled at the top of her lungs, and Ren took off at the Phantom Steed's fastest speed up the tunnel to the safe zone.
