Liora stared at Renir. Renir stared back. His eyes shone so prettily as did the prismatic surface on his body. He was trying to make a serious face, but Liora could only find it adorable.

"Okay!" Liora announced and snatched Renir before Caspian could protest. "You haven't been polished at all. Look at this stain!"

Liora hurriedly withdrew her polishing cloth and started cleaning him off.

"Hey, stop it! Do you really have nothing else to say? Do you only see me as some shiny prize to feast your eyes upon? You lecherous magpie!" Renir complained.

"Stand still. You little legs are really dirty. We have to restore you to your proper shiny self!" Liora declared, polishing him relentlessly. "Is there perhaps a spell for this? I would be willing to spend glimmerstones to purchase it."

"We are not wasting a precious skill slot for a cleaning spell!" Renir said, waving his little arms angrily.

Cee laughed. "Seriously, you two… Was this dramatic breakup even necessary? You're acting as if nothing had happened."

Caspian laughed too. "Not going to lie, I expected you two to have a more serious argument. What did you even fight about?"

"About my brother. Gah, I still can't believe you saw him. Where were you this whole time?" Renir asked suspiciously.

Liora twitched nervously. Should she lie and say that she was just flying around? No, these were the people Liora didn't want to lie to. She already felt bad about deceiving Caspian.

"I might have been hanging out with Aenir…"

"Liora…" Renir growled.

"Please don't start fighting again!" Cee exclaimed.

"Hey, I had a good reason. The people in this desert kingdom are really suffering. Their river dried up some time ago, and they are basically starving now. The situation is really bad. Aenir told me that they were attempting to get the water crystals from the antkin to restore the flow of the river," Liora said.

Renir sighed dramatically. Well, as dramatically as a gem could without a proper respiratory system and mouth. "Okay, and did you never stop to think that there was a reason that antkin had those water crystals? That maybe it was necessary for them to have a large amount of water crystals. Because where else would they get water in the desert?"

"Oases?" Liora guessed.

"And how would ants carry all that water to their anthill with literally thousands upon thousands of ants? Did you see them running around with water bottles?"

If Liora could sweat, she would likely be dripping right now. All of a sudden, she felt like quite the fool.

"No…"

"This is why I got so mad at you about approaching Aenir so casually. He might seem like a good guy, but he is no saint. Aenir is not afraid to take drastic measures to achieve what he believes to be the greater good. Why does a dry river in this country even concern him?"

"He's the royal mage or something akin to that. Madly in love with the princess," Liora said.

"I have a question," Caspian suddenly raised his hand.

They all looked at him curiously.

"How can a birdkin become a royal mage of the human kingdom? I was fairly certain that humans hated beastkin of all kinds," the merman regarded them suspiciously, his eyes narrowed.

There was a moment of tense silence as Liora, Cee, and Renir all shared a glance. Shit! Caspian didn't yet know that they were actually all humans in one way or another.

"Well, you see… Renir's brother is actually—"

"Enough lies," Cee suddenly said, interrupting Liora. "If Caspian is going to travel with us, I believe he deserves to know the truth."

"What truth?" Caspian narrowed his eyes.

"Let's get to an oasis first. We wouldn't want to fry alive out here," Liora suggested.

"Very well," Caspian agreed, but his usually mellow demeanor was much more tense.

What a mess!

Liora didn't even know how to deal with all of it. There were just too many things going on. As she transformed into her dracoryx form and picked up Caspian, she could feel her legs trembling a bit. All of it was too much. She was nothing more than a magpie.

It felt like Caspian catching them in their lie was the straw that broke the camel's back. The situation with Aenir and the human kingdom, the war threatening to break out between it and the antkin, the dry river, the possible annihilation of the antkin. Not to mention, Renir's seal. Liora just wanted to run from it all.

Even as she took flight, she felt unsteady. She had to flap twice as hard to get airborne, and all of a sudden the air currents seemed to evade her. Even Smokey seemed to have less difficulty flying.

"Liora, are you alright?" Renir whispered, having been secured on a thread around her neck.

"I… I don't think I am…" she admitted.

"It's okay. We'll work through it, one problem at a time, okay?" he soothed.

"Okay…"

Soon they reached an empty oasis. It appeared like a regular stop point for antkin, as their footprints were visible in the sand by the oasis. That explained why there were no monsters here, only a few small animals.

"Now then, let's hear your explanation. Why is Renir's brother able to take the position as royal mage in a human kingdom?" Caspian demanded as soon as Liora had placed him in the water.

He actually looked a bit scary while angry. Perhaps it was because of the stark contrast. Normally, he had a calm and relaxed expression. Even when he had been exiled from the merfolk city, he looked only a bit sad, maybe nervous, but not angry.

Now it appeared as if a thunderstorm was brewing over his head.

Liora looked nervously at Renir, then at Cee.

"We have to tell him the truth," Cee insisted.

"Yes, I suppose it is fair. Just so we are clear, it wasn't that we lied to you specifically. We were lying to all of the merfolk simply to ensure our own survival," Renir clarified.

Caspian's expression relaxed a little, but he still appeared stern. "Go ahead then. Explain the truth to me."

"The thing I said about me being a birdkin is a lie. I am not a birdkin. Neither is my brother," Renir paused for a moment, as if he didn't even mention Aenir. "I am a human mage. In fact, I am one of the most powerful mages, the Pillar of Lost Magic, and I—"

"Okay, we don't need a lecture on your whole life story," Liora interrupted.

"Ahem, sorry."

"You are a human!" Caspian blinked several times. "But what about the whole thing of you being experiments and being chased by your master?"

"Yes, that was also a lie. The guy chasing us is actually my enemy. One of the people who put me in this form. We just said he was our master doing experiments because it sounded like a sad story," Renir said.

"So what about you three?" Caspian asked, looking at Cee, Liora, and Smokey. "You are not some experiments of a mad mage?"

"No, we are actually humans too," Cee said.

"What?!" Caspian exclaimed.

"We were humans. WERE. From a completely different world, mind you," Liora corrected. "But we were reborn as monsters. Well, Cee was reborn as a monstrous spider. I was just a magpie until I stole Renir from the evil mages, and he installed the system on me."

"Installed the system? Reborn as monsters?" The merman went slack, clutching at his head. "None of this makes sense."

"Yeah, we're a weird bunch. But ultimately our goal isn't really different. We just want to free Renir," Cee said. "Oh, I would love to gain a more human-like form. Do you know that it is rather difficult being a spider? Everyone is afraid of you. I can never show up in a human city!"

Caspian still clutched his head. "So this whole time I have been travelling with four humans."

"No, three humans. Smokey really is just a wyvern," Liora corrected.

"Isn't he the goodest boy?" Cee cooed, patting the wyvern's head, who wagged his tail happily, sending sand flying everywhere. He was getting more like a giant dog by the day.

Caspian looked up at Cee, stared at Smokey for a while, then started to laugh. "It's just my luck ending up with a group of humans…"

Cee stopped patting Smokey and looked at Caspian. Liora couldn't quite tell what the spider was thinking, but her legs trembled slightly. Was she afraid of what Caspian would say?

"Do you hate us now?"

Caspian stopped, looking at Cee. After a long while of them just staring at each other—there was something suspicious going on between the two—Caspian sighed.

"No, I don't. I hate that you didn't tell me the truth earlier. But I am still extremely grateful that you took me along. Believe it or not, I don't really hate humans as much as my brethren."

Cee jumped into the water and actually pulled the merman into a spidery hug. It honestly looked a bit horrifying. As if she was preparing to eat him.

"I promise we're the nice kind of humans!" Cee said.

"You've been nicer to me than my own kin, I'll give you that much," Caspian said. "But no more lies!"

"No more lies!" Cee agreed.

"Excellent. With that out of the way, let's move on to other pressing matters," Renir said, looking up at Liora. "Tell us exactly what you have been up to this whole time. Or rather, what did Aenir make you do? That opportunistic bastard would definitely try to use you in some way."

"Well…" Liora muttered and began her story.

She told them about her time in the capital, stealing jewelry to train up her Theft skill. As a result, she had actually improved a lot of other skills too, which made the time worthwhile even if she hadn't gained any levels or glimmerstones.

She told Renir everything Aenir had said, including his offer to help him, and his threat to annihilate the antkin if Liora didn't manage to steal the water crystals.

"What a jerk!" Cee exclaimed. "He was blackmailing you!"

"I mean… Now when I've said it that way, it really does sound like blackmail. It didn't seem that way at the time. He always appeared amicable," Liora said.

"You let your guard down too much around him just because he's my brother. But I don't even blame you for it. It's how Aenir is. He's always been good at manipulating people to get exactly what he wants. That is why I got so angry at you when I heard that you had spoken to him. You know… I…" Renir suddenly trailed off, going uncharacteristically silent.

"What?" Liora cocked her head.

"No, never mind!" He suddenly exclaimed. "Continue your story!"

Liora finished her story with the disaster at the antkin council. How were they now convinced that invading humans first was the only answer to the problem?

"You really made quite a mess," Caspian pointed out.

"Shush!" Cee chastised, but after a moment added. "Yeah, this is quite a mess… What do we do?"

"Nothing," Renir said nonchalantly.

"What?" Liora looked at him indignantly.

"You might think this is your fault, but think about it carefully. The humans had already made attempts to steal the water crystals. It was only a matter of time before they would escalate the conflict. Antkin finding out about it first might actually be a good thing. They have time to prepare. Perhaps they can figure out a way not to be wiped out this way."

"But what about the civilians?" Liora questioned.

"Killed by antkin or starving to death. The first option might actually be mercy rather than a slow, agonizing death," Renir said.

"How can you say that?" Cee accused.

"Look at us!" Renir shouted all of a sudden. "I am rock! You are a spider. Liora is a bird, Smokey is a wyvern, and Caspian is a fish."

"I'm more like a seahorse," Caspian corrected.

"Whatever! The point is, there are just five of us caught in the middle of conflict between two nations we are not even part of. What are we supposed to do? Tell the antkin not to defend themselves? Tell the humans to just die of starvation? Both sides have valid reasons for doing what they're doing," Renir said, frustration clear in his voice.

"I wish it wouldn't be this way, but the world is often a cruel place…" He added after a moment.

There was a moment of heavy silence as everyone mulled over Renir's words. He was right, Liora realized. She was nothing more than a speck in the wind, carried around by the gales. She couldn't change the gale no matter how hard she tried.

"I guess we should focus on breaking Renir's seal and getting out of here," Caspian said after a while.

Cee and Liora nodded. They should focus on the things they could influence. Focus on what they could do.

But Liora wasn't happy with this conclusion. There had to be a solution.

"No! That's not good enough!" Liora suddenly announced. "We are going to go up that river and see whether there's anything we can do to restore the river flow. Don't we have a spider with a divine core within her? She is supposed to be able to drown the whole planet!"

"Hey, the divine core integration is only at 3%!" Cee grumbled.

"But we should at least try!" Liora insisted.

Renir wiggled his arm angrily. "You infuriating bird! Why is it you always create trouble?"

"Do you disagree with me?" She challenged.

"No… But we shall break my seal first. I know which ingredients we need. You merely need to gather them."

Liora nodded. She felt like herself again. Maybe together with her friends, she would be able to solve this whole mess.