Alas, despite their pretty decent teamwork, there were simply too many Deathstalkers for them to constantly address them all. One of them slipped away and used its eerie movement skill to get behind the isolated warrior who’d just finished off the Monitor and managed to lacerate the frog in the back.

The Warrior quickly fought back, but three more Deathstalkers rapidly descended and tried to take advantage of the situation. Jake and the Shaman both successfully stopped one each, but the third one still made it through and landed another nasty attack.

A spiritual spear fell upon one of the attacking Deathstalkers, pinning it to the ground and allowing the Warrior to smack away the second Arachnec attacking it. With a moment’s reprieve, the Venusian cracked something she had hidden inside her mouth, looking like such an act was incredibly painful. Not because of actual pain, but because of the conceived value of the item just consumed.

The Warrior’s wounds rapidly started healing as the frog had just consumed a health potion given by Jake. As if wanting to prove that using such a valuable item was worth it, the Venusian jumped forward and landed a solid blow on a Deathstalker, before skillfully dodging the attack of the one who had just been pinned by a spear prior.

Jake, for his part, managed to kill another Deathstalker, with the Shaman also rapidly getting close to finishing one off. The Virumancer was also clearly winning that one-on-one duel, with the two remaining Warriors rapidly wearing down the Corpsemender.

While things did get dicey for a moment there, the tide rapidly turned fully in Jake and company’s favor, and with every death among the Arachnecs, the easier things got, and not long after, the final undead spider creature was slain.

By now, they had been in the territory of the Arachnecs for nearly a full month, killing many of the damn things during their stay. It had taken a month, but finally... Jake’s very first class level in B-grade.

’DING!’ Class: [Arcane Hunter of the Boundless Horizon] has reached level 351 - Stat points allocated, +125 Free Points

“Good fight,” Jake said, especially giving the still pretty heavily injured Venusian Warrior a nod. She had taken quite a few more hits during the cleanup, but stood strong till the end, and only allowed herself to relax now.

“Indeed,” the Shaman nodded as he put down a circle of glowing light that looked reminiscent of a lake’s surface. Jake sat down on it, enjoying the benefits it provided for his recovery. The other Venusians did the same, as they all sat in silence to recover for nearly a full hour.

At that point, Jake was feeling close to being in top form once more, but suddenly his eyes shot open. The Shaman also quickly stood up as he looked towards the horizon, following Jake’s gaze. He was holding an item in his hand that had clearly warned him, the frog’s eyes opening wide.

In the distance, Jake felt an aura approach, and before he could get a full read on it, the Shaman clapped his hands together and summoned the robed frog projection, applying a buff to all six of them that increased speed as he yelled:

“Run!”
