Aelorika said, “Erasure has been legal here in Margleknot for a while but only because we can’t really catch it, because we don’t do that sort of grand oversight here like they have on Veird. We will be removing the possibility of it happening here from now on, though.”

Eldraki scoffed. “It’s not true Sundering. It’s a very narrow Sundering. I think it should stay legal—”

Aelorika scowled at the man, almost saying something—

But Eldraki continued, “— and yet, I see that I will be losing this battle, so I digress. Let’s classify Erasure as a Violation of the Sundering Laws here on Layer 0.”

“Done.” “Aye.” “Accepted.”

A Fractal touch passed through the room, and then was gone.

Erick wasn’t sure what that Fractal wave was about—

They all looked to Erick, to see what he had to say.

And Erick suddenly felt as though on solid ground once again.

His search for allies had been a complicated thing, revealing a great many truths and histories and sizes of the universe that Erick had never thought to touch upon. But he had touched upon those truths. And now he was here. Out with Malevolence, in with Benevolence.

Erick said, “I look forward to a prosperous relationship with the people of this land.”

- - - -

Three days later there was an announcement, taking place after a short trial which Erick did not attend, but which he did view in recording. The trial had been a public spectacle, with everyone wearing their absolute best and Nothanganathor looking not-tired at all. All of the participants had spoken a lot nicer than they had during the hearing and inside the Non-Combat Zone. It was most of what had already been said, but in flowery terms and then solid outcomes, as though they had all been following a script. They probably had been. The recording had probably been edited, too.

The announcement was simple.

Erick and Nothanganathor would be locked in combat in the Veird System, with the outcome of that combat determined by the winner in that space. They would retain connections to Margleknot, but it would be a one-way connection for Erick and Nothanganathor. Others could leave, but Erick, Nothanganathor, and Melemizargo would remain.

And that was it.

Erick slept in on the fourth day, waking slowly and then all the way. The light of Margleknot’s Sky illuminated the white eternal stonewood balcony. Jasmine flowed on the air, into the room, smelling great. Erick got up out of bed, stood for a while at that balcony, just looking across the land, and then he began with final preparations.

With a short walk of lightning, Erick stepped down to the white Core underneath House Benevolence of Tir Geal. The manaminer hovered in front of him like a diamond the size of a tournament space, over a hundred meters wide. Its surface whorled with white that sunk inward and then raised outward like the flowing of solar fuel on a sun, but trapped underneath diamond that was not diamond.

Veird’s ‘sun’ was not a manaminer, or at least the one pointed at Veird was not. There probably were some Nothanganathor-manaminers in that space, though. Somewhere.

Erick put his thoughts on what he wanted to do next.

“House Benevolence Miner.” Erick added, “Stackz.”

The air flickered with power. A blue-cube entity pulled itself together from the manaminer, and then appeared outside of the Core. When Erick had installed this thing, and to cement a relationship with Powerminer Incorporated, he had needed a castellan of the House to hold and deal with the miner. He had asked Powerminer’s resident AI, Stackz, if he wanted the job.

Stackz had jumped at the chance.

And now House Benevolence had a separated-fragment of Stackz running this manaminer and pretty strong Reincarnation-tourism sector. It was pretty great.

The blue cube spoke, “Hello, Erick Flatt. Is it time for you to head to Veird?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “I need to give you some more magics, and I want to enable the leveling system we spoke about.”

“Understood. Awaiting input.”

Erick conjured forth several crystals of Benevolence, all tuned toward granting flavors of power to their users. The miner here couldn’t install magics into people’s souls, but it could Awaken those people in specific ways and enhance them in ways that only magic could do. Soon, Erick had conjured crystals for every major Elemental Aura type, of all the ones he approved of. Purity and Destruction and things like that were not present, but Fire, Stone, Air, and the like, were readily able to be imbued into people.

Erick handed those crystals off to Stackz, saying, “Basic enhancements of Mind, Body, and Psyche, accretion help, and still all the Awakening stuff.”

The crystals flowed into the miner and Stackz opened up a blue box in the air, asking, “Like we talked about, like this?”

<Name> , age

Inclination: <Elemental Description, % of accretion>

<Possible Variants go here>

<Once full accretion is achieved, the rest of this opens up>

Progress to next point: < % of overabundance of accretion goes here>

Points:

Mind: <Starter Position><Points go here to increase this number><natural limit detected goes here>

Body: <Starter Position><Points go here to increase this number><natural limit detected goes here>

Soul: <Starter Position><Points go here to increase this number><natural limit detected goes here>

Erick said, “Yup. You can reorganize that to make it all easier to read, but yeah. That’s it.”

Stackz said, “Being able to increase the Darkness in a person is taking up almost all of our capability, and there will be hard limits to that which we cannot increase with a manaminer. Mind and Body are much easier, comparably. There will still be natural limits that people have that they will have to figure out how to break themselves. We might be able to improve our ability to empower people if we get access to the Script, and if we learn about how Rozeta broke those limits. The infinite-depths of your own situation is impossible for us to replicate. Moving along: We might be able to have a collective shared-mana situation like you have on Veird, but this is doubtful. The organization we have now is a sort of power that is transferable everywhere, though. I truly do feel this is the best option.”

Erick nodded. “It’s more than enough.”

“We wish you luck on Veird, sir.”

Erick smiled a little. “Good luck here, too.”

- - - -

Erick’s next stop took him to the staging area, near the Valkyrie Command Center.

A wide white area stood open to the sky. Thousands upon thousands of people milled around, getting things ready. There was Shivraa, Erick’s secretary and head valkyrie heading to Veird with him. She was talking with Reena and Xai, who were staying here as a firm part of Tir Gael’s valkyries, under Querkooda.

The Overseer of Enforcement of Tir Gael, Querkooda, was over there, talking with Shadow about war preparations. Querkooda was not going to Veird. He and the other Overseers were staying here, for this was their home and they wanted to defend it. Erick wished them the best of luck.

Shadow stood with Witch Aragathara. Great Mother Caa stood with them as well, but she was staying. Caa was occupying Shadow’s Queenliness while Shadow was away.

The Overseer of Magic, Ta’Kamoil, and Engineer Tris were over there, talking about some Awakening Machines that Erick was bringing to Veird, along with some undeployed Manaminers, which were currently just 10-meter-sized dull spheres in very special crates meant to protect them from all influences. Erick had 9 manaminers in those special crates. Rozeta should like them.

The Valkyrie Squadron coming with Erick were all around, either helping to move the thousands of boxes into place upon the field, or sitting to the sides and doing what soldiers usually did; hurry up and wait. They were all packed. Some were sharing final words with loved ones standing to the sides, who were not going.

Lanzoil, the Overseer of Governance, was right beside Erick, overlooking the whole thing.

Erick said to the man, “Looks good.”

Lanzoil said, “Hopefully it’s enough. The Valkyrie Squadron you tagged are all ready and have been for 5 hours. Some of them are taking naps, but it looks like they’ve noticed you now, so they’re moving fast now.” Lanzoil turned to Erick. “I know you have to do this. I wish there were other ways. I wish you luck. When you win, you will come back and check on us now and then.”

Erick smiled wide, and then he took the man into a hug, patted him on the back, and let go. Lanzoil was not prepared for that, but he looked happier for the gesture. Erick said, “I’ll be back to help and do everything that is needed to be done, for I’m kinda replacing Nothanganathor some. Shadow will be back too, now and then. She’s arguably more able to move back and forth for a little while, during this war. Afterward? I have no idea.”

Lanzoil smiled a little, looking relaxed. “I was afraid of working with her at first, but she’s… She’s pretty good at this, when she wants to be.”

Erick laughed. “Yeah. She is.”

Shadow stepped to their sides. “You talking about me?”

Erick smiled. “Only good things.”

“Then that’s fine.” Shadow smirked as she turned to the display of wealth and power and people, saying, “It’s finally happening, Erick. I’m finally going to get justice.”

“He probably has specific counters for you,” Erick said, “So be wary of that.”

“Oh yes he does. I’ll tell you about what to watch out for when we’re on Veird and that sort of information isn’t considered disastrous to talk about. Fae don’t like to talk about how to kill fae.”

“Okay.” Another lesson added to the pile, then. Erick looked around. Someone very important was missing. “Yggdrasil?”

Yggdrasil stepped out of the air to stand next to Erick, saying, “I need an estimated time.”

Erick nodded, then he began to project his voice far and wide, casting his sound to every part of Tir Geal, “Attention, everyone. I’m departing for Veird. It was great to meet you all. We’ll meet again.”

As the soft thunder of his voice passed, Erick’s Lightning Path coalesced.

With softer thunder, Erick spoke to everyone on the field, “Three minute warning.”

Soldiers started to move fast, to get into position. People not going to Veird got off the field, some of them racing to leave fast. The valkyries lined up in squads; all 25,000 of them, all of them wearing all that they wanted to take with them. Some had giant backpacks and luggage near them. Others had just small bags on their shoulders. In 2 minutes everything was ready, and Erick had done his final checks on various sealed crates and specialty products.

The Nothor Beast that had come out of Erick’s [Cleanse] was safe and sound in one of those sealed crates. After finding out that it would be the best possible magic focus to enact an Anti-Erasure ritual, Erick knew he hadn’t killed it for some reason; he just didn’t know what that reason was until Aelorika had explained how to do the Anti-Erasure ritual. The Red Lightning Nothor Beast was coming along with Erick, back to Veird.

A lot of fun stuff was coming back to Veird, too, like reson-cultivation manuals and glowthread spiders all packed on hibernation ice — Jane was going to love that— and some ‘How to Make a Computer With Sticks and Stones’ books. Erick wasn’t bringing actual computers to the masses, but he was bringing some computers for personal use and, more importantly, the information on how to make your own.

Erick finished looking at everything, and then said to Yggdrasil, “It was really nice to be here, Yggdrasil, to see your over-self.”

Yggdrasil smiled softly, sadly. “I’m keeping the mask on, Father.”

Erick chuckled. “Your eyes are gold.”

Yggdrasil’s eyes flickered to green… and then he let them relax back to gold. “I’ll see you again. Soon. When you come back here.”

Erick hugged Margleknot once more, and then let go. “I want a stockpile of resons for my own bank account here, but you can have more of the Benevolent Sun. 90%? Make sure House Benevolence gets some, but they have their dungeons.”

Margleknot nodded. “Of course, Father.”

Erick nodded once more, and then he stepped down onto the wide, white field.

Shadow stepped to his side.

The Overseers of House Benevolence and a whole bunch of other people stood on the podium or to the sides with Margleknot, but everyone here on the field was going. There were 26,000 people going. A good 3,300 people stood off of the field, waving, saying their final goodbyes, or their see-you-laters.

Voices rose in farewells and well-wishes and other, more personal words to people on the field. Some people panicked. Some people held in their panic.

“Ready!” Erick said.

And then Erick cast a white sphere into the air that gradually began to turn red, to cycle through the rainbow to blue. Soon, it would hit black, and then it was go-time. The light sphere was the Reincarnation Timer, used for a different purpose.

There was sobbing on and off the field. Fervor, too. Wishes to kill Nothanganathor and return victorious. Wishes for so very many things. Some people in the crowd on both sides raced to the dividing line, to change their mind and hop across, destinies denied or seized in that moment.

And then the timer sphere turned black, and vanished.

Margleknot waved a hand—

- - - -

Everything was green and gold.

And then it was blue skies and soft clouds and a land made of white roots that was mostly flat, and a whole lot of water beyond those roots. Yggdrasil grew over there on a watery, real horizon, instead of the vague sort of horizons that existed in Margleknot. Erick felt his heart beat hard as he knew where he was, once again. That blue sky up above was an illusion, for there was another layer of Veird up there, and this land here was no longer ‘the Surface’, but it was still Veird.

Far, far overhead, Erick looked more, and saw the illusions that had been put up there, at the former Edge of the Script. They were pretty good illusion matrices; dense and variable with the hours of the day. The sun was pretty soft, though; they couldn’t quite replicate the strength of the sun, so they had opted instead to just make the whole sky glow some.

It looked great, really.

Erick looked around himself. This was Candlepoint Lake, and over that way was the north, where the Gate District of Candlepoint glittered with a node network in the air, and those tiny bumps of white were House Benevolence—

