Something connected to him, in a way that Erick had dearly missed. He felt out that connection, gauging how it worked and then allowing it to touch him barely. Just enough to work somewhat. Not enough to work for real. Erick might allow the Script to connect more fully at some later date, to be able to see what his Veird-given Status looked like, but not today. People just needed to know he was back.

A blue box appeared.

Erick smiled. Some of the blue box was like the time he had left Ar’Cosmos and reintegrated. The rest was different. Other people all around Erick began getting boxes, too, no doubt, because a lot of them were exclaiming about this or that.

Erick read his blue box, too.

Possible known entity detected!

Initializing mana reintegration…

Partial connection reestablished.

Hello, <Erick Flatt, protean>.

Commencing full reconnection…

True Wizard detected.

Full reconnection disallowed!

Upgrading threat assessment!

Special exceptions found.

Reorienting scan…

Scanning for unapproved influences…

Scan disallowed by integrating entity.

Scan finalized.

Finalizing reintegration <as much as can be finalized>...

Welcome back to Veird, <Erick Flatt>!

Erick chuckled at all that—

And then Rozeta appeared, shifting into the space on Yggdrasil’s roots right ahead of him. She was exactly as Erick remembered; a white human wrought wearing a professional pantsuit and an expression of annoyed awe. That expression rapidly lost all annoyance as she looked around the space, and with the senses of a god, figured out pretty much everything.

Erick had included about a thousand history books and a bunch of other stuff like that in the very first case, right behind him, just for that reason. That was only part of the treasure trove, though.

Also Shadow was here.

Shadow’s presence garnered a weird sort of reaction from Rozeta, like Rozeta was trying to figure out a miracle oddity. Shadow was enjoying the moment. She was also subtly gathering shadows all around herself, as though she was finally home and letting her hair down, which she did, in truth, her black hair cascading down her shoulders she sighed, and seemed to gain a whole new sort of agelessness to her.

Erick was glad to see that the Fae Bands of the Script wouldn’t impede Shadow; he had wondered about that. Shadow had told him not to worry, and she had been right.

Rozeta’s eyes went a little wide as she finally figured out what was going on.

Shadow smiled brighter.

“Hello, Rozeta.” Erick said, “I brought reinforcements and power and a whole lot of explanations.”

“I see that,” Rozeta said, her face turning from Shadow, toward Erick, and then softening. She smiled beautifully. “Welcome back, Erick.”

And then Aloethag, Goddess of Beauty and Brutality appeared, all white and red and happily exclaiming, “You brought elves!”

Fairy Moon appeared next, shouting, “You’re betrothed?!” She looked to Erick, her voice going high, “To Erick?!”

The waters darkened as Melemizargo lifted his head up out of the waters, eyeing everyone. He took one look around, and then ducked back into the waters, saying, “We’ll talk later.”

Erick put on his best kingly impression and began, “Melemizargo! We have information for everyone including you.”

Erick reached for the trunk of books and information and rapidly multiplied them as Melemizargo rose from Candlepoint Lake again. More gods appeared, with Phagar and Koyabez showing up fast, and then came more, including Sumtir, God of Righteous battle, who was very interested in the valkyries. Erick handed out information by the trunk-full.

All while he did that, Erick started opening up [Gate]s to get a lay of the land, feeling wonderful that he could actually [Gate] again. His [Telepathy] wasn’t working very well right now —or at all— and he talked to Rozeta about that as one of a hundred different rapid-fire topics, including the manaminers he had brought to Veird. Erick shuffled his valkyries through a portal to a land he built from scratch out in the former Crystal Forest at a wave of his intent, all the while talking with Rozeta and the other gods and goddesses.

All that took the first 20 minutes.

Once the powers of Veird were vaguely alone, Erick handed them all some copies of the reports on Veird that Nothanganathor had submitted over the years. The Old Fae of Margleknot had required reports, after all, and now those reports were in the hands of the powers of Veird.

“They’re all highly doctored and full of twisted truths, but they’re all there.” Erick said, “Nothanganathor was responsible for Idyrvamikor’s twisting and the Dragon Curse, as well as a thousand smaller injuries. And the Sundering, of course. We’re pretty sure we know how he did that, but we’re only 90% there. I’m pretty sure that Veird survived because of all of you working to make it survive, just as I’m sure that I exist out of my own actions and probably my own Establishment. Nothanganathor is pretty fucking horrible, and he is a grandmaster plotter, but he also takes advantage of other people’s work and claims it as his own.” Erick gestured to Witch Aragathara. “Witch Aragathara is a former companion of his from well over 13,500 years ago, or something like that. She’s Shadow’s Second right now, here in this space. She’s compiled her own reports for you all.”

There were attempts at questions from every single god and power present, with Fairy Moon suddenly gasping at the mention of Idyrvamikor and Rozeta going hard, while Melemizargo hummed.

Erick said, “Okay! A lot of stuff here! More meetings later! It’s going to be a full-world press against his incursions, and I need to do some rituals to ensure that he can’t just Erase us all. Please depart! Rozeta, Melemizargo, Fairy Moon or Shadow or both. Please help.”

Yggdrasil appeared, stepping into the group for the first time. He went to Erick and hugged him first, and Erick smiled wide and hugged his son. Yggdrasil softly said, “It was so much better seeing you from here, father. It was weird seeing you through Margleknot.” He pulled back, “Also, I need to help with that ritual, and we need to do it fast.” He said to everyone, “Me in the south, Melemizargo and Rozeta to the north, Fairy Moon and Shadow to the west, and Erick to the East. We can do it right here, as soon as everything is cleared away.” And then Yggdrasil swallowed everything that Erick had not already portal-ed away with white-rimmed Gates of Benevolence, moving all the stuff to the House, except for the Red Beast’s cage. He said to everyone, “We need to move fast, please!”

Reorganization happened quickly, with Erick telling everyone that he would see them later.

He’d probably be seeing Aloethag first, though, because Erick was pretty sure that she was headed toward the Valkyries. The elf valkyries. The elf valkyries that have a whole lot of experience with blood magic, some of which is innate. That was going to be a whole thing, Erick could tell.

Meanwhile, Yggdrasil handed out slips of paper containing words and the intent of the ritual to everyone.

Erick read the ritual and smiled as he took his spot on the east—

Benevolence mushrooms suddenly sprouted from the white ground. Moss spread. The glowing mushrooms began to glint in every color of the rainbow as they grew most strongly in a wide circle of power, tens of meters away from the Nothor Beast’s cage.

In the east, Erick stood within a ring of mushrooms sized for him, which was only about 4 meters in diameter. The southern and northern circles, of which Yggdrasil grew a good several kilometers away and Melemizargo was still a big black dragon, had their edges go off the edges of the platform. Fairy Moon and Shadow stood hand in hand on the west, in a circle more Erick’s size—

Benevolence lightning glinted from mushroom top to mushroom top, like tesla coils, and soon a sparkle of power raised into the air from the ritual circle, like magic breaking upward, spreading fast. Mushroom spores, perhaps? But also the breaking of a magic. The breaking of Nothanganthor’s magic.

Yggdrasil softly spoke, “This is a Grand Wizardry that will alter the Script. Keep that in mind.”

Melemizargo softly said, “Easily doable. This isn’t even that hard.”

Rozeta nodded, though it appeared she was still wary of her father, standing behind her like a looming Darkness.

Fairy Moon and Shadow held hands.

Erick focused, his gaze upon the Nothor Beast that had come from the [Cleanse] in his own soul.

The air stilled.

And then the air roared as the cage broke, temporarily waking the Nothor Beast—

The gathering intoned,

“A boon granted to Script;

“this indelible marking.

“Malevolence gripped

“to keep it from sparking.”

The Nothor Beast dissolved into pink ribbons that then turned to white lightning and then faded on the breeze, caught upon the rising glitter-sparks lifting off of the entire ritual circle. Yggdrasil in the south began to glitter, too, and power spread, into the wind, rising from every part of Veird.

Erick cast his gaze wide and saw the water effervesce, and the city in the distance, and through tiny portals, all the rest of the world began to shimmer with white. And then the white settled. It vanished. There and gone, the magic had changed the Script.

Nothanganathor’s Erasure Magic should no longer be possible, because everyone here was now Established to Exist.

Rozeta sighed, and then chuckled once in relief. “Oh! That’s good. That’s… That’s useful.” She paused, her relief rapidly turning into concern. “I need to fix some things. It’s all good, but that wave of magic just— I’ll talk to you later! Thanks for the manaminers and all the rest!”

Rozeta vanished.

Yggdrasil was a lot more calm as he said, “We have some time before the war truly starts, but not much. There’s a lot to do. I suggest we fight a defensive war; gird the ways in, and protect what is here. This will not be fast, until it is. Hopefully we can wear him down and strip him of all his power before going in for the kill. He will not do the same. He will come at us at 75% strength and then ramp up to 100% when Erick doesn’t give in. We need to be able to survive that. If we survive, we can fight back.”

Erick said to Melemizargo, “I’ll talk to you later?”

Melemizargo nodded, and then he vanished from sight.

Shadow said, “I’m going to visit Ar’Cosmos with Father. See the family.”

Erick nodded. “See you later.”

Fairy Moon eyed Erick, saying, “We’re going to talk of this betrothal later.”

Erick smiled. “Sure.”

The fae departed.

And then it was just Yggdrasil and Erick.

Erick went over and hugged Yggdrasil again, saying, “You look good with green or gold eyes, but here the gold is in the background instead of the forefront.”

Yggdrasil held his father, saying, “Gods, it’s so much better to be just me. I was honest up there, father; I am Margleknot. But the universe is too big up there. I have too many responsibilities up there. Sorry I couldn’t help more. But here? Here I can do everything I need to do. I can be present.”

Erick let go, still smiling. “We’ll talk about defenses soon.”

Yggdrasil hugged Erick again, then let go. “See you soon.”

Erick opened a lightning-ringed portal, feeling great that he could do that again, and then he stepped through into Benevolence itself.

Ophiel squealed and tackled him, five of him coming in for sudden hugs, a whole bunch of voices happening all at once. In the background, Quilatalap stood, looking tense, yet relieved. Jane, Abigail, Bethany, Candice, and Evan, were there too, looking like warriors or captains or leaders of industry, and like they had all rushed in from elsewhere. Jane still had some blood on her pants. She also seemed to have a few new adamantium swords. Solomon stood to the side with Destiny at his side, holding hands with each other. Now those two were certainly King and Queen of something, but Erick hadn’t gotten the full details on that yet. Poi and Teressa waited to the side, waiting for Erick to show.

A little orcol girl in a basket on Teressa’s back jumped in that basket, holding on to her mother, saying, “He’s here! He’s here!”

Erick was home again.
