The Non-Combat Zone was the only place that Erick was willing to meet Nothanganathor, so that was where he was going to suggest they meet, but then Nothanganathor suggested it first.

The room was the same as when he met with Shackle and his Underlings; a basic grey stone box of a room inside a grey void. In theory, violence of any sort was not allowed. If violence was detected through any hundreds of different ways, the location would break and both sides of the meeting would return to their chosen starter locations; wherever they came into the Zone in the first place.

And so, Erick stood with Shadow on one side of the grey room.

And Nothanganathor stood on the other.

To Erick’s right side stood Blighter and Seabass, while Lawyer Prime Hadrago stood to Nothanganathor’s right side; Erick’s left. The lawyers were in the center-ish space in the grey room and they already had papers out, sitting on a relatively small, shared table.

And then there was the unexpected person on Nothanganathor’s side. He was tall, dark haired and with dark eyes. He looked rather human, but slightly more refined, with an air of easy power around him that few could match.

Morbion Blackthorn, Emperor of Wraithborne, spoke first, “Greetings, Erick. It is a shame that we have had to meet like this, for I truly do wish to work with you in the future, in ways that will become apparent once I lay out the universe thusly:

“Nothanganathor is willing to take all of the universes beyond the Fractal, starting with the Dark.

“You can have the Fractal with your Benevolence.

“In the short term, to enforce this sort of shift, and only if necessary, Nothanganathor will declare himself as Evil, and I’ll be ripping the Evil out of Wraithborne and replacing it with Benevolence. This will cause the Balance here in Margleknot to radically shift toward Good and Nothanganathor will be radically empowered to do anything he needs to do to repair the Balance. This ‘anything’ means rolling over Margleknot here, Yggdrasil on Veird, and taking what he wants, before escaping to the New Painted Cosmology and discarding his Evil, to become a God of Magic. I’ll have my hands full and some sort of New Evil will rise to fill the void of power left by Wraithborne, and that new power could be anything. This would be what we here in Margleknot call a ‘Grand Trial’, an Upheaval, or any number of other words for it.

“Or,” Morbion said, “You can accept your place as a large power here in the Fractal, Wraithborne converts to Benevolence slowly and safely, and Nothanganathor gets to make the New Painted Cosmology and eventually take over the Small Universes at his leisure.

“We win either way. The only question is the amount of collateral damage.”

Nothanganathor watched Erick.

Erick watched him right back.

Shadow asked Erick, “Shall we entertain this more? Or are we done here?”

Erick said, “Just a bit more entertainment.” He asked, “Will we keep the battle confined to the Veird System?”

Nothanganathor tiredly said, “Powers and people may enter, but none may take this war outside of the Veird System.”

“I agree,” Erick said.

Nothanganathor said, “I want you to know that when I win, these terms will not change. They’ll work to strip Malevolence from this universe after this war. Therefore, this universe needs something anti-corruptive, and your Benevolence is that measure. I always intended to build a True Opposite who can truly ascend to great heights of power and civilization, and keep out the corruption. I will not be stepping in your way beyond this war, and I will attempt not to harm you overmuch. I will still do everything I need to do to win.”

Erick said, “And for the crime of the Sundering, you will be Sundered in turn, Nothanganathor.”

Nothanganathor’s ever-present exhaustion faded a fraction. “I always wondered if someone like you could come out of my plans for a True Opposite without losing someone dear to them through a Sundering event. You almost made it, but then I took your false daughter of Debby, but only because I had to, and only to hit you obliquely, through that false Erick from the dungeons. I tried to strike as soft as I could. Melemizargo and Shadow did not go soft on me at all, when they took my wife, my Ara.”

“People choose who they are all the time, Nothanganathor.” Erick said, “I chose to accept Debby as my real daughter, because she is. You chose to be like this, instead of giving up on your vendetta.”

Nothanganathor frowned. And then he made a decision. He began, “Just as it’s impossible to forgive them for sundering my wife, it is impossible to forgive them for cursing me to Obscurity. Even now, the only one truly Seeing me is you. I am glad for that, Erick. You can see who I really am. That is such a rare thing. So watch this.” Nothanganathor took a knife out from his robes, and even though he was several meters from the man, he stabbed Blighter through the heart. Nothanganathor had moved without moving, reaching without reaching, and Erick’s lawyer exploded into Red Static that faded into nothing. “Blighter no longer exists. I could have taken him into my Sign of Power, but I have not. He is gone, just like Debby. Just like Ara.” Nothanganathor held up the knife, showing it was plain and boring… Except it had a red glint to the edge that betrayed Red Depths far beyond the simple metal. “If I need to, my opening move will be distributing enchantments like this across all of Veird. Butter knives, forks, paper that has been cut too sharp. Anything with an edge can take this enchantment. And I can do worse.”

Erick was worse than appalled, and in too many ways to count. No one else seemed to notice the absence in the room. No one else seemed to notice how the Red wiped away some of the papers on the small table; the ones that Blighter had brought. Seabass was still there, and his clothes looked finer, which probably meant a change of history… An Establishment? Yes. That’s what had happened.

To be sure, Erick asked, “No one saw him Sunder Blighter, did they?”

Lawyer Hadrago and understudy Seabass both tensed at Erick mentioning someone they didn’t know.

Shadow just watched.

Shadow had noticed Nothanganathor’s knife strike. She didn’t do anything to stop it.

To be fair, Erick didn’t do anything either. He didn’t think…

He didn’t think that Nothanganathor could do that here in the Non-Combat Zone.

He already knew he couldn’t reverse time here… And that wouldn’t bring Blighter back, anyway. When Nothanganathor Sundered people, he truly erased them from existence. Just like he had done to Debby.

Morbion looked only a little perturbed as he said, “Nothanganathor. Please. We’re close to winning this, and you go and Erase one of Seabass’s understudies?”

Nothanganathor huffed out a tiny, hateful laugh, saying, “I actually Erased your top lawyer, Morbion. Seabass was the understudy. He’s gotten a promotion! I am sure he is happy. Aren’t you, Seabass?”

Seabass said, “I live to serve, Nothanganathor.”

“Quite right!” Nothanganathor added, “You didn’t have to add the comma between my name and your actions, though. It’s almost like you don’t serve me. Which is true enough. You’re Erick’s lawyer. Quite a violation of interests, there.”

Nothanganathor whipped the knife into Seabass’s heart, exploding the man into Red Static. Red Sparks touched across the table again, eating away at all the papers that Seabass had set forth. Now, only the papers from Prime Hadrago remained, and his papers took up the entire small table.

It was as though Erick had never had lawyers from Wraithborne at all.

Nothanganathor’s knife retreated to the inside of his robes.

Morbion looked to Erick, and said, “You really should have taken me up on my offers of lawyers. We could have settled this amicably.”

Erick had watched all of that casual display of power, and had a think. Nothanganathor could undermine everything here in Margleknot, couldn’t he. According to Querkooda and other people Erick had spoken with, this Non-Combat Zone was breakable by Ascended, but not by anyone below that. And yet here was Nothanganathor breaking rules like they didn’t matter.

Fair enough.

What was an Ascended, anyway? A person who was unassailable; that was the typical answer. Perhaps Nothanganathor wasn’t technically Ascended, because there were so many ways to attack him, but he had enough individual powers to make himself a Power-in-effect, if not in-truth.

Erick asked Nothanganathor, “Doesn’t Erasing the lawyers I got from Wraithborne ruin your plot to have Wraithborne turn not-Evil, and thus empower yourself to Evil? Now here’s Morbion, thinking that I don’t want to work with him at all.”

Morbion tensed this time, frowning heavily as he looked to Nothanganathor.

“Erick, Erick, Erick,” Nothanganathor said, “I have also Erased all your talking contact with the Enclave. That is worth more than Wraithborne knowing what is going on, because I can fix Wraithborne easily enough. Now watch this:” Nothanganathor turned toward Morbion. “You’ll be turning Wraithborne to Benevolence and helping Erick take over this Fractal Universe with you probably at the head of that power. I will be turning Evil, officially. Figure out the rest.”

Morbion frowned slightly, but he controlled that expression away. “Yes, Nothanganathor.”

Nothanganathor smiled. He didn’t look tired at all. “See, Erick? This is what you have to contend against. I suggest you accept my offers.”

So it was like that, eh?

Erick countered, “The simple fact is that if you do this too much then I have nothing left to lose, Nothanganathor.”

Nothanganathor chuckled once. “Just like me in so many ways! The only difference is that I have everything to gain when I win.” His eyes glinted Red amongst the white, as he said, “I’ve calculated the most damage I can do to you, and it’s that mayor Silverite, that mentor Al, that inquisitor Kromolok, and of course, Poi. If I Erase those pillars, then all of that God Pact world falls around you like a tunnel caving in. You think you’re the first Wizard I’ve had to undermine completely? No, you are not. You’re just the first one to make it up here to Margleknot, to prove that they’re actually capable of following my own plans.”

Erick was practically beside himself, outside looking in, for the threats were too real, the pain was too close, and the war was almost here.

And then he focused.

Erick said, “You’re already turning Evil. On purpose.”

“Ah ha!” Nothanganathor said, “I wondered about that Intelligence Stat; where it would lead. Most of you delved into paranoia, but some turned out like you. Yes. I am already turning Evil right here and now. Understand that I do not want to, but I must come at this from every angle possible, and that includes exploiting the Balance for my purposes.” He asked, with a deadly tone, “Are you turning Good? You should! It might help!”

“It might help you, you mean.”

For when Wraithborne turned not-Evil, it would create a vast Need for the Balance to reassert itself, to fill the hole left by Evil, thus empowering all Evil people and diminishing all Good people until the Balance returned. It was Fate Magic on a grand, horrible scale.

“Ha!” Nothanganathor grinned, and it reminded Erick of Lord Eldraki’s grin, all Cheshire and deep-knowing. “If you turned Good, it would be even easier to fight you. You should turn Good.”

Would Nothanganathor’s plan even work if they kicked him out of Margleknot? Put him ‘Outside of the Balance’?

Surely he would have accounted for that.

He probably accounted for that.

Erick said to Morbion, “You should take your Prime and leave before your malevolent ally decides to Erase you, too. Good luck with your transformation to Benevolence.”

Morbion said nothing. He simply walked backward. Lawyer Prime Hadrago followed rapidly, leaving the papers on the table between Erick and Nothanganathor. They were soon gone.

Shadow spoke for the first time, “The Dark will never accept you.”

“Sure it will.” Nothanganathor said, “It’s mindless until it has a mind and soon it will have my mind guiding it to a new Creation.”

Shadow looked down her nose at Nothanganathor, and then she turned around and left.

When they were alone, Erick asked Nothanganathor, “So what’s the second twist?”

Nothanganathor turned tired again. Was the show over? It probably was. Why was he putting on a show for Shadow? No. Not just Shadow, but also for Erick.

Nothanganathor said, “I’ll give you a week once they throw you back to Veird. See your loved ones. Make your plans. Try to overcome my magics, for you’ll have lots of opportunities to try. And then make the smart decision and help me kill Melemizargo. If, however, you think of taking his Mantle of Magic for yourself, then I will have to do things I do not wish to do. If you make the smart decisions then you get this Fractal Infinity, and I get all the rest.”

Erick stared at Nothanganathor for a long moment.

Nothanganathor breathed in and stood a bit taller, as though waiting for something to happen and preparing to counter it.

Erick said, “There’s no way to get your Ara back, is there? Not even through side realities?”

Nothanganathor sighed out, his eyes clouding. “No. There isn’t. I’ve tried. She’s gone, Erick, completely. When Melemizargo tortured her for information against me… His destruction of her was Complete. All I have of her is a fragmented corpse that is more made of imagery than anything substantive.

“Erick. Please understand this: I was not wrong to kill my mother, or to fight Melemizargo, or to plot to take the Painted Cosmology. Dragons like them are all horrible people. Too proud by half. Too consuming by all. But if I could do it over again, I would not. I lost too much going up against good odds. I would not make such a gamble a second time. Don’t make the same mistakes I made. Take the win, help me get Melemizargo’s Mantle, and live a good life.”

Nothanganathor walked away.

Erick was alone in the Non-Combat Zone.

He took several moments.

And then he left.

- - - -

Erick stepped into his offices again.

Shadow was there. She looked angry. Yggdrasil stood to the side. He also looked quietly furious.

Lady Seraphaka stood to a different side of the room, wearing her usual black and white and gold, but with tiny earrings made of Erick’s black scales he had lost in his first bloody encounter with the Fae Council, with hearing the voice of The Fractal Fairy. She was sad.

Lady Aelorika was closer to the center of the room. She wore flowers and vines and soft green fabrics. She was angry.

