“[Cameraman], pull the scrying spell back by 50%. Direct another one at a ninety degree angle to the first for a horizontal image. Then create two more for close-ups on both angles.”
“Er, yes, that!”
Sir Relz was affronted as the crew leapt into action. Grimalkin nodded at Pryde as the images gave him a better view. He pointed.
“Thank you. Now…observe the two styles from Wistram’s Archmages. Amerys has never lost a formal duel, to my knowledge, since becoming a member of the King of Destruction’s Seven. But then, no one wishes to duel her. She is rapidly repositioning thanks to [Lightning Step]—if that is not the exact spell, I will call it that. She is firing [Lightning Bolts] to wear down Valeterisa’s shields and alternating elements to bypass any elemental resistance. A classic skirmishing tactic employed in three-dimensional space.”
“Yes, and the Archmage of Izril isn’t able to hit her! See?”
Noass pointed out angrily as Valeterisa shot a flurry of spells in every direction in what seemed like a desperate move before diving under a [Lightning Bolt]. Grimalkin’s lips moved.
“I’m counting…excuse me, [Speed].”
He touched his own chest.
“[Enhanced Flame Spray], [Caustic Acid Orb], [Firestorm]—these are a series of panic-casts. She’s certainly unprepared for this battle. But see! She’s cast [Field of Suppression] again, and she’s negated the spells coming her way!”
He indicated the lightning unmaking itself. Grimalkin spoke as Amerys flickered out of view.
“This is one of the spells where she clearly has the ability to negate Archmage Amerys’ magic except for a Tier 5+ spell or repeated bombardment. But who is losing more mana on the exchange? I would say Archmage Valeterisa, but if that is her best defense…she is in danger of losing her barriers. Whenever she casts an area-of-attack spell, she is warding off the Archmage of Lightning. If she is reduced down to zero shields, her body will be struck by the [Lightning Bolts].”
“Instant death.”
Lady Pryde commented, and Grimalkin nodded. Sir Relz was trying to find a moment to break in.
“So where’s this expertise you’re hinting at, Magus?”
He half-turned, glaring. Then stabbed a finger and roared.
“There!”
All three of his co-casters jumped. Valeterisa had blinked backwards and vanished into a cloud of magic. Pale scythe-blades were shooting out of it, and she sent sickles of pale light high and low before following up all the magic with magical [Light Arrows] that spun after Amerys.
Valeterisa caught a bolt of lightning on one shield, dove into the clouds, and Grimalkin spoke.
“I cannot even speak the spells fast enough to commentate. This is a chained combination of magic cast at a speed beyond belief! Reposition to cloud control spell and denial spells on the corners—and she predicted the rearward spell and countered with the correct barrier type! This is the height of modern Wistram dueling technique! Observe—she’s using the clouds for cover, and there are attack and trap spells woven inside. Archmage Amerys is hesitating to get closer, but this duel is stalemating without her willingness to commit.”
Indeed, Amerys’ move-and-zap strategy was yielding far fewer results than at the start. She seemed to make a choice and zipped in close. Grimalkin whispered.
“Ball lightning. She’s blown the cloud apart with pure force.”
“Doesn’t that imply it was useless?”
“The mana expenditure on Amerys’ side was far greater. This is feint and counterfeit, Noass. Occasionally, one just uses a move of great exertion to land a blow.”
Pryde nodded, speaking coolly.
“Like a flying kick. Risky, but it worked. Her instincts as a [Battlemage] are far better than Valeterisa’s. Grimalkin, is there a chance for Valeterisa?”
The Sinew Magus was whispering.
“Let’s see. Another cloud spell. She’s daring Amerys to blow it up. Which the Archmage of Lightning does! Only, she’s hurled the [Ball Lightning] this time—a trap! It’s exploded—the clouds are covering the area. She’s dodging between then—no! Remotely-fired [Light Arrows]! Those wouldn’t be a danger unless Amerys hits them at the speed she’s going! Delayed-action spellcasting, emplaced magical trap spells—”
 
——
 
“—personal cloaking magic, and she’s casting this while flying and within a ten second window! No matter where the Archmage of Lightning goes, she’s at risk of hitting a spell at speed, and they’re likely to have mass!”
“Meaning?”
Pisces Jealnet was half-shouting as he sat in the Court of Silks, and everyone, from his team to Queen Yisame, was listening. He half-turned to Yvlon.
“Mass means Amerys feels them at the relative speed she’s hitting. So if she uses that [Lightning Step], even a [Light Arrow] might hit her hard enough to break every bone in her body. Ceria, am I missing anything?”
He was keeping pace with Grimalkin. The half-Elf was fiddling with her circlet, nibbling on it as she spoke.
“Big spells. Neither one’s throwing down their biggest, though.”
It sounded inane compared to Pisces’ terminology, but the [Necromancer] nodded.
“Neither one is giving the other time. The only moment Amerys had was when Valeterisa was panic-casting and Relc saved her. Valeterisa can do this! Wait, see? She’s hovering.”
Everyone saw the Archmage of Chandrar halt in the pouring rain as the clouds closed in, eyes darting left, right. Magical arrows spinning through the air like traps. No sign of Valeterisa—
Then the Archmage of Izril fired a [Valmira’s Comet] spell straight out of a cloud. Pisces roared along with Grimalkin.
“Decoy!”
Amerys thought so too; she dodged the trio of lasers that shot from another cloud at her, but [Valeterisa’s Complex Seeker Projectiles] missed. She spun—the comet exploded into a trio of [Lightning Bolts]. At her! She dodged back into one of the clouds, and it detonated in a plume of ash and heat and—
 
——
 
Magus Grimalkin was on his feet, staring at the scrying orb. He whispered.
“That was one of the most elegant traps to catch an aerial [Mage] I have ever seen in my life. An attack pattern Archmage Valeterisa has used in duels, I am certain. I, genuinely, do not believe Archmage Amerys saw through the trap.”
Silence, a pause as the thunder stopped ringing. A weary shape was fleeing as a bolt of lightning cracked down from the heavens after her. Noass spoke.
“Then…how did Archmage Amerys dodge it, Magus?”
The Sinew Magus’ head turned as the camera zoomed in on his face. His voice was genuinely unsettled.
“Instinct and reflex. That is one of the world’s most experienced [Battlemages] to live. Archmage Valeterisa…”
He clenched his fists as he gazed at the scrying orb.
“She is a superior duelist. Far better than Archmage Feor. If you had showed me her spellcasting, I would have put her at the top of Wistram’s rankings. But Amerys is too fast. She’s going into close-quarters combat.”
“How is that worse?”
The Sinew Magus turned to Pryde as the streak of lightning caught Valeterisa as she fled past Liscor.
“She’s chaining a [Lightning Bolt] to her hands and feet. That’s a barrier-breaking technique. You press it against a magical field and pierce it at point-blank range. And the kinetic energy…”
The scrying spell was trying to follow them as a figure dropped from the skies. The bolt of lightning following her down had hit her six times.
 
——
 
“Is that everything?”
Archmage Amerys sounded…disappointed as she gazed down at the spiked cocoon shielding Valeterisa. Her opponent was healing; Amerys guessed she’d broken Valeterisa’s leg. Certainly, she’d pierced the barriers.
Valeterisa was fighting back fiercely, but it wasn’t at the level that Amerys expected. She side-stepped the nigh-indetectable bolt of magic aimed at her head. Drew back a fist.
“[Glacial Grand Lightning].”
The cocoon burst. Amerys hovered in the air as Valeterisa teleported. Turned—raised her wand and fired eight shots.
[Great Arrows of Lightning] crackled past Valeterisa, missing as she performed an impressive aerial roll. She could fly, unlike the other Archmages. Only Nailihuaile might have given her this much trouble…or perhaps Uenoix if she gave him time to cast and hide. Or Verdan in his prime?
Even so. Valeterisa’s hair whipped around her, and she was bleeding from a scalp wound. She shouted.
“The city!”
Amerys glanced over her shoulder; the arrows had hit Liscor’s walls. They hadn’t destroyed the enchanted stone, but they’d left a mark.
“What of it? The worst we’ll do is leave craters.”
“If it loses its magic, the waters will flood it!”
Amerys understood and eyed Liscor with amusement, realizing how the waters surrounded it.
“Ah, that sounds like a design flaw.”
“Then don’t—”
The Archmage of Izril was pointing to a place where their running battle would not endanger the walls. Amerys inspected her opponent. Then her eyes swept to the city, where the Drake had gone running towards. She put a callous smile on her face.
“If you want to save the city, stop me. [Thunderbolt of the Lightning Giant].”
She reached up, and the Tier 6 magic began coalescing. The Archmage of Izril realized that Amerys intended to hurl it at her with Liscor as the backdrop. If she dodged, the city’s walls—
A feint. Amerys had no intention of flooding that city. She just wanted to see if the other woman rose to the bait. She saw Valeterisa’s head whirl and readied her wand; she was casting the Tier 6 spell with her non-wand hand, a clear sign she wasn’t going to actually use the spell.
Now, what are you made of? 
The Archmage of Lightning didn’t expect Valeterisa to cast a [Burst of Air] spell behind herself. Nor for the other woman to charge at her, screaming spells.
Mad—
They actually collided. Amerys had a sword of lightning in her hands. She drove it into the barrier spells, tumbling. Magical fangs closed on her arm, and she ripped them free. Blew the spell away.
A shiv of ice as cold as Cenidau—a kick infused with lightning. Tumbling; Valeterisa hit the waters as she blasted Amerys with flames. The Archmage of Chandrar threw a quartet of lightning bolts and backed away, extinguishing the flames.
Blisters on her skin. Chilblains from the frost slash. She was grinning. Her opponent was hurt far more than she was, but so close—
Don’t let her come back up. Amerys pointed her wand down. No more games now. She whirled her wand upwards.
“[Tempest of Thunder].”
The air bulged as she compressed a sonic shockwave into a pinpoint. Aimed it down at the waters. With her free hand, she concentrated, sweating. This was difficult to free-cast.
[Bind Spell: Disintegration Ray].
One or the other. One, two, three—
She spun and pointed her wand. The [Tempest of Thunder] blew apart the stone hand before it swatted her out of the air. The [Disintegration Ray] shot down, and a figure leaned out of the way and dodged it.
“Who dares?”
She shot downwards, a lightning bolt flashing from her wand at the interloper who’d interrupted her casting. A second stone fist rose from the waters and swatted at her. Ridiculous! She dodged it, fired again.
The figure didn’t move. She saw the distant [Mage] raise a hand and block her second [Lightning Bolt]. Amerys’ eyes narrowed. She glanced into the waters where Valeterisa was regrouping.
Leapt up; the grass snatched for her as it roiled.
Green magic. That’s no [Druid]. The only [Green Mage] in this area is a Viceria Strongheart. He’s way too big. 
Dullahan War Walker? The Sinew Magus?
The world spun as she stepped a clockwise dance, firing [Lightning Bolts], which he blocked with his staff or hands. Closed in with a [Grand Lightning] spell with his name on it. Whomever he was. Then she saw his figure as he turned, his beard dripping with water, planted like the very hills.
Half-Giant? Her eyes widened.
I thought they were all dead on Izril. 
Now, they are.
[Inferno Grand Lightning]. She stepped past him in the air, aiming for his back. The Archmage of Chandrar took one step, and her body turned to lightning. Not fully; the electricity shot through the air in a moment, taking her to the place she desired.
She—
—slammed against the air, her arms and legs pinned against something. Where? She was in the wrong place. She saw him then, barely ten feet tall. Eyes glowing with more magic than all of the Nomads of the Sky combined. She couldn’t move. What—?
 
——
 
Lord Mireden punched Amerys into the ground and counted.
Nine ribs. He rubbed at his chest, wincing. She’d gotten him with a [Lightning Bolt] even when he’d caught her.
“Faster than I thought.”
She was already gone. He inspected the crater in the earth. Saw a trail of lightning flickering away. When she stopped, she had a healing potion in hand.
The [Stone Spear] spell was lazy and off-target. Never meant to actually hit her. The half-Giant fired one, then another, arcing them past her as she drank, clutching at her ribs. Then he beckoned with one hand.
Her eyes narrowed, and he saw her coming at him seriously. The half-Giant saw bolts of lightning arcing up and flashing at him. He whirled his cloak.
“[Dome of the Twisted Vine].”
Colorful vines blooming with flowers of red and black rose around him, forming a dome that absorbed the barrage. The half-Giant hummed to himself as his barrier shuddered and counted.
“…two…three…”
Now. He undid the spell and pivoted a hundred and sixty degrees counterclockwise. Right on target. He fired the [Hastened Spear of Light] before the trailers of electricity showed him where she was appearing.
Hit.
She twisted, screaming in fury, and fell—but she didn’t fall back. She came towards him, and Lord Moore raised his fist again.
[Hand of the Stone Giant]. That was the obvious spell that conjured massive blocks of earth and stone into a hand that could crush a foe or sweep aside enemies. The trick that caught her twice was the second spell.
[Create Element: Magnetized Iron]. A core of it in the palm of the prepared spell caught Amerys. Her lightning was still just…electricity. She slammed into place, and Moore closed the hand.
He began reinforcing the cage—then sensed her mana amplifying. Grunting, the half-Giant tried to squeeze the hand tighter, reinforce the seals. It should be locking her mana! It—
The spell exploded. The half-Giant shielded his face as the blowback of the spell rocked him. He swatted a piece of magical stone away from his head.
“Well, that’s unpleasant.”
That worked in the future, damn it. Had she somehow figured out what he was doing from the first time? Or was he just not the right level? The half-Giant grunted.
“The hard way it is.”
