Menolit Zifroflen was a rich businessdrake these days. He ran a good company that hired [Veterans], he had money to spend, and he was popular in Liscor and known beyond it. He had everything he wanted, except for love, and he credited it to The Wandering Inn.
No matter what anyone said about Erin, he knew what she had done for him. That he hadn’t found someone to share his success with, well, he just said that even Erin couldn’t work miracles all the time.
But he got asked, quite often, how, uh, his business worked. As in, how did anyone actually enjoy or sign up for Liscor Hunted? The entire premise of the event was suffering. Sir Relz and Noass had advertised it to the world, true, but that had been by the pair nearly getting eaten by a Rock Crab! Menolit had one answer for the doubters, the haters, the skeptics, and the fools:
“Recordings.”
Liscor Hunted had six scrying mirrors in the huge glass windows outside the hunting-lodge themed building with trophies and dangerous bestiary entries of local wildlife tacked onto the walls. Oh, and mugshots of successful winners.
Getting your name on Liscor Hunted’s walls was prestigious. Proving you had the grit, the real grit to survive one of their intense ‘levels’ was a mark of pride for a lot of Pallassians with comfortable, safe lives. Like Pallass Hunting, Liscor Hunted catered to a richer class of people who wanted to prove they were wild predators in the ‘outside world’.
…For its citizens, it was an endless source of entertainment and daredevilry, because Liscor Hunted recorded everything these days, and they displayed it on the scrying mirrors.
You could opt out, but even the most embarrassing moments were usually allowed by clients, who regarded themselves screaming and fleeing nests of Shield Spiders with a kind of chagrined pride.
Look at me, I survived that! They even sold highlight reels of the most insane escapes or escapades.
One of Menolit’s top items was a mishmash of clips he’d personally put together. It had the famous Sir Relz and Noass scene where the noble Drake told Noass to take his monocle if he died, a Wall Lord of Pallass getting chased around by a huge Shield Spider, and the famous Lyonette-Bethal fish slap fight.
But it wasn’t just failure, see. He’d show it to a crowd of skeptics, and right when they were laughing, they’d see the screaming Drake from Pallass get backed into a wall. One of the [Hunters] that was there to save him from actual death would call out if he needed rescue, and the somewhat overweight Drake would look at the Shield Spider that was four feet high, mind you, check for weapons, which he had none of—then raise his fists.
Two and a half minutes of watching a pampered Pallassian Wall Lord bare-knuckle fighting a Shield Spider—and win—and you were thinking, ‘damn, that could have been me’. The triumph of him running the Shield Spider off? The fact that he had that clip of himself and, apparently, it had totally revolutionized his popularity in Pallass and his own self-confidence?
That was gold. That was also what Menolit wanted to see. Sure, it was funny to watch some rich idiots suffer, but one in, oh, forty times, someone just buckled down, gained a combat or [Survivor] class, and came out actually looking changed. That was why he thought Liscor Hunted was more than the funny marketing scheme he’d come up with.
Anyways, Menolit was voting for Lism in the elections. No questions asked. He didn’t like Lism given his relationship with Erin, but it was better than the old Councilmember Lism was up against. Menolit had been asked several times to put Liscor Hunted in the elections. To give some of the candidates of the ‘Traditional Liscor’ party a good sheen.
He’d refused. Nor had he given the current Council an option to have an ‘easy’ version of Liscor Hunted; they had wisely decided not to use that to enhance their image after one of Elirr’s competitors had had to retire due to falling into a Shield Spider nest. However, Menolit was hardly apolitical, and that was why, today, everyone was gathering around Liscor Hunted to watch the latest clip, which was going in the hall of fame.
The Lurkersnatch was one of the nastiest creatures in the Floodplains and an ‘honorable quit’ as far as Liscor Hunted was concerned. Like a Rock Crab, they couldn’t guarantee you’d be okay if you ran into it. You signed a waiver about knowing you might die; if one came at you, the advice from the organization and former participants was to quit. Lurkersnatches had huge tentacles and could crush a head and drag you into the water where you’d be drowning and being torn apart.
That was why seeing a half-Giant dragging one out of the water and punching it until it was rolling onto its back was a sight. Lord Mireden actually put one arm around the Lurkersnatch’s body, grimacing as it bit him with a beak, to keep it from getting into the water. Then he threw it into another hill, and, well, that was Hall of Fame material right there.
Someone who survived Liscor Hunted had to get some admiration from people voting. Not only that, the half-Giant wasn’t even done. He’d gone off after his dawn performance, and now he was back!
Lord Mireden turned as Menolit marched out into the awning where people were watching his clip, and he offered the Drake a salmon burger.
“Caught this not five minutes ago. Burger?”
“For free?”
Menolit eyed the burger but took it because free was free, and the half-Giant flipped another cut of fish onto his grill. He’d brought a damn grill and was wearing his t-shirt as people stared at him. Menolit had had to get it specially tailored!
The bastard genius of it all. He wasn’t even hiding what he was doing; the [Lord] winked at Menolit and the crowd.
“Well, I’m not offering any condiments besides salt and pepper. That’s how you know it’s free. The fish doesn’t need it, anyways. Fresh. With some of Baker Garry’s free bread. A loaf big enough to feed a half-Giant, which I was quite touched by so I elected to share the wealth. Doesn’t cost me a copper coin. Anyone want some Quillfish?”
 
——
 
You had [Marketing Strategists] tearing out their neck-spines trying to deal with him. The half-Giant had presence. He had style. He had gold and a damn aura and levels. He’d defended Liscor…the one thing he didn’t have was full household name recognition, and that connection to the inn was hindering him.
He could be beaten! They juuust had to find his weak spot. His vulnerability. Like stepping on little children, but no matter how many you pushed in front of him, he just helped them up and gave them bandaids!
The monster. Plus, he might have support from that inn, wherever it was! No one knew where The Wandering Inn might strike from next. Even the Watch Captain was compromised!
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara cuffed the protesting Drake from Zeres.
“Stop pushing children! If I catch one of you doing it again, I am arresting everyone here until the election’s over!”
She barked at the campaign team, who gave her offended looks. The Drake snorted smoke as she nodded at the Watch officers, who kicked the [Strategist] into a wagon for lockup. Then she rubbed at her face.
“These are not the mysteries I thought my new class would entail.”
“Well, until we get another Watch Captain, you’re stuck with us, Captain Zevara!”
Guardswoman Jerci shouted cheerfully, and the Watch chuckled. Zevara just rolled her eyes.
“I’m off on more cases. Senior Guardsman Lens not having any trouble?”
He was filling in at the Watch House in her district since Relc was on a day off. Everyone said that Lens was doing fine, so Zevara stomped off.
“People pushing children, stealing water—if I have to rescue another damn cat, I’ll kill someone.”
The things people came up with when they realized your entire job was to look into their delusions. After a moment, she came back.
“…Anyone check if it’s really Lens?”
Jerci gave Zevara a thumbs-up.
“I pinched his cheek in case it was a mask right before I left. He’s getting sort of annoyed by all the jokes.”
“Jokes, right…what else is on my docket?”
Zevara checked the list.
Water thievery. Someone trying to hire Liska? Missing dog. Prove the Brothers stole all the gems. Where is The Wandering Inn…
Zevara hadn’t been to the inn since her celebration. Well, she smiled to herself. At least she had some fun challenges.
This was not a story about Zevara either. Or Menolit. But as such things happened, like Kevins, a story about the Halfseekers was never just about them. Greater things were coming to Liscor, like storms on the horizon. Lightning amidst rain. But for now, Zevara investigated water thievery.
 
——
 
“I’m back. How much for water per gallon?”
The [Scribe] in City Hall gestured at Zevara helplessly as the person at the front of the line leaned on the counter. The Watch Captain rubbed at her head.
“Huh. That’s a new one for me. Excuse me, sir!”
She headed over, and the figure turned. He was a Garuda, probably from Pallass, and leaned on the counter.
“Yes? Watch Captain, am I in trouble?”
“Not at all. Just—are you trying to buy water? From our wells?”
“No, not at all. Just out there.”
He gestured to the window, and Zevara and the [Scribe] turned.
“…You mean from the Floodplains of Liscor?”
“Yep. I asked yesterday, but no one gave me a straight answer and told me to come back. So, here I am. How much per gallon? Per barrel?”
The Watch Captain hesitated. You know, this was a great question. Maybe he needed it for some project? She eyed him.
“Do you have a wagon team or, uh, that many caravans or Chests of Holding, sir?”
“Nope. Just a bag.”
He indicated his side, and she scratched at her neck spines.
“Well then, we’re not going to charge you to take water outside the city, sir. It’s not exactly the cleanest. You could probably get well water in most places without any problems. Too much might be an issue…[Scribe], do you disagree?”
“No, Watch Captain. Just, given how odd a request it is…I think you’re the same man who asked about taking water from the Merchant’s Guild, sir?”
“I went around, sure. It’s a nice city. I wouldn’t want to take water without asking. So…it really is free?”
The Garuda man seemed genuinely perplexed, and Zevara wondered if Pallass charged for drinking water. Probably. She smiled.
“Free. Thank you, sir, for your patience and time. Just watch out for monsters as you get the water. Oh, and undead! They’re more placid now due to circumstances, but there are areas with strong death magic; that has to do something to the water. At least the taste.”
He smiled as well.
“Well then. I thank you for your time and consideration, Watch Captain. It is a fair answer and one of generosity. I shall not forget it.”
He bowed, wing-arm to his chest, and she nodded back, off-put by his formality. Then, with a twinkle in his eyes, he turned to the [Scribe].
“Very well, thank you for your time. Just one more question. Where can I buy barrels around here? If those are free, I’d love to know.”
They were not free, but he got directions to where he’d be able to purchase barrels that an [Innkeeper] or [Tavern Owner] might use and strolled off. Zevara scratched at her head. She did represent the concerns of the city, and Watch Commander Venim was feeding her intelligence—they had actual intelligence now—
But even so, water?
She supposed it was because other people had poked around the wells too. Ylawes Byres, apparently, and Lord Mireden…
The Wandering Inn. Which reminded her, one of the next items on her list was intelligence from the Free Queen’s Listeners. That she wasn’t supposed to have. That she actually admitted it was them and that she had passed the information onto Liscor’s Council showed how much the Antinium and the current Council got along. And, perhaps, how much the charade of pretending they didn’t know what each side was up to felt silly.
The two groups were closer to allies in actual truth, perhaps, than they’d ever been. The Free Queen had proposed amending some aspects of their agreement without the Walled Cities overseeing the negotiations. But that would only occur if the current Council survived their elections.
Changes weighing on this showdown in Liscor’s populace. Regardless, since the Free Queen had no idea where the inn was, she’d said to watch out.
Someone was trying to hire Liska. And Zevara had put it on her list, because, well…
It sounded really funny.
 
——
 
“Liska Coresh Silverfang.”
“Ugh, I hate that when you say it out loud.”
“…Your name?”
“Yeah. I was thinking I should change it. Get a real last name instead of Silverfang, because I don’t really remember my tribe. Liska…Hydrabones. That’d be cool. Liska Hydrabones. Or how about Liska Slickfur? Wait, that’s bad.”
The interviewers had to take a moment. This was already an unusual occurrence because Liska was a VIP-candidate, a rarity when they normally interviewed people with stringent protocols to ensure quality. She was a shoe-in for citizenship as long as she passed basic criteria…but still.
She was so young. A Dullahan on Pallass’ panel was trying to write down Liska’s proposed names until he decided it wasn’t worth doing. A Drake next to the Dullahan leaned over and spoke into the microphone.
“We’d need your actual name for, ah, citizenship, Miss Liska.”
“Oh, okay. Um. Liska Silverfang’s good. Yeah.”
“Your, uh, level, Miss Liska?”
“Uh…Level 32.”
“Level 32?”
It was practically twice her age! The panel glanced at each other, and one of their special members, an Eye of Pallass, sat up slightly in his chair. He nodded as he ticked something on his clipboard. Liska wavered.
“Er, shoot, I’m not supposed to really talk about my level and class. I think it’s 32? I lose track!”
“Of—of your level?”
“Well, it keeps going up. I thought after the Goblin King it’d stop, but nope! I swear, I pee hard enough and I just level.”
Liska folded her arms, sighing. The panel was now in debate, and they whispered to each other.
“Is she lying?”
“Detect truth says not…but it’s telling the truth about her forgetting her levels.”
“This is inane. Are we supposed to let her into Pallass? And give her citizenship, a house? We have waiting lists with actual [Merchants] on them who don’t have this level of treatment or priority!”
“Are they Level 30+ at seventeen years old?”
“They’re not from the inn.”
The panel members were interrupted by the Eye of Pallass, who spoke in a gravelly voice; he was a Gnoll familiar with the situation.
“This young woman is hand-picked by multiple officials of Pallass. Treat her like you would normally. [Enforce Mundanity].”
