Another one cracked down, power from the heavens. A charge in the clouds—it was all very scientific, and Earth had figured it all out, but for all their grand talk, there was something primordial about this force.
In this world, it was both electricity and magic. Lightning was infused with a kind of potential that few elements were. Even a wildfire’s hottest couldn’t come close to it. Upon this one element, another world had powered everything. Faster than anything Humans had made.
Brilliant—the flash that lit the blue-black skies. The second bolt traced a zig-zag line across the sky, arcing towards the top of the High King’s palace.
She caught it before it could touch the roof. People watching from the streets gazed upwards, mouths open as the lightning bolt froze in the skies. The High King watching from one of his balconies slowly retreated inside.
The Archmage laughed. She held the lightning in one hand as her magic transmuted it. Absorbing the killing power, redirecting it. Using the power to hurl herself at a speed nothing could match. She pivoted and threw the bolt of lightning across the sea. Until it was a blinding ray vanishing into the horizons in moments. And she?
She was gone with it. Not as fast as it would have been alone, streams of power trailing behind her, zig-zagging northwards, but flying. Her every step thunder, her green hair crackling with magic.
And her eyes, like electricity themselves, gleamed. The Archmage of Lightning became a bolt crossing blue-skies, an impossible flicker that made [Sailors] far below her peek up—but by the time their heads rose, she was already gone.
That had been this morning.
By midday, she had already hit land.
She passed Pallass two seconds after Magus Grimalkin closed the window.
 
——
 
Even with the power of the storm in her, crossing the ocean wasn’t easy. Archmage Amerys had to slow down once she reached Zeres, and she navigated well around it; they could detect her.
They probably had detected her, but what were they going to do about it? She blasted past the City of Waves before their alarm spells had finished ringing. And she kept going.
It was all about the storms. She moved from lightning front to front—that was the fastest way to travel. Across the Great Plains, into a huge thunderhead—out of it as Gnolls gazed up at her.
The Weatherfur Tribe. She paused just long enough to signal she meant no harm, and the [Shamans] raised their staffs—onwards.
Laughing as magic drained out of her. This was reckless, even for her. She hadn’t done this since Flos had been awake the first time. They’d probably forgotten she could do it. Thought it was some ritual.
All it took was a mana potion and the will to dance. 
Her feet were tired. Her body wasn’t healed from her long captivity in Wistram for all her rehabilitation. But this was the best exercise; her form arced as she appeared in the air past two surprised Wyverns with riders.
A woman in green robes, her hair floating around her, posing like a dancer mid-step—then her body crackled, and she became an arc of lightning that flashed onwards.
A mile a step. Or thereabouts. A lot of steps, then—so much slower than it should be. Barely three times as fast as a [Lightning Bolt] spell, really.
That was the secret. Lightning magic was slow. It was nothing like the speed of real lightning. Even [Grand Lightning] wasn’t as powerful as a true bolt from the skies. Even with all her magic, Amerys was a woman.
In her fifties, aged, not the heaviest, especially after being imprisoned for a year and change, thank-you-very-much, but so much matter. Lightning was just particles. Even with her mastery of it, she was so much slower than a true bolt…
But she could still do this. 
She slowed once for the Bloodfields of Izril. Because she’d never seen them before. She’d either gone around the High Passes due to the danger or just not needed to go this far north. The woman admired the splotch of red from above, then she saw the storm gathered around the basin.
“The Floodplains of Liscor. At last.”
She drank the second mana potion and tossed the vial down. The empty glass glittered and spun towards the Bloodfields. Amerys took another step, and then she was there.
 
——
 
A jagged streak of energy crossed into the air above Liscor, and Archmage Valeterisa looked up from her meal of seared fish. She turned.
“Apprentice? You felt that. What—?”
 
——
 
Lord Mireden turned off his watch. He gazed upwards as a spot of green appeared amongst the clouds, suddenly lit up by a flash of lightning headed horizontally across the sky.
He reached for his staff.
 
——
 
She’d actually overshot her target. When the Archmage of Lightning saw the city below her. She laughed.
“So this is Liscor! I must take a picture for Flos!”
Now, where was she? And that inn? It had vanished, but Amerys had a feeling she could find it. She sent tracer-magic in every direction; she and Mars had agreed it would be near Liscor, no matter what they were doing.
She hovered in the air then, panting. Smiling, floating downwards as the confused city began activating some alarms with no visible reason why.
There were no armies at the gates. No monsters coming from the waters. No breaches in the city.
So why…?
She was still just a speck in the sky, but as she fell to earth, she gathered her magic about her in preparation for what was to come, and it was both magic, aura, and her class.
They said of Archmage Eldavin that he was the greatest Archmage since Zelkyr, and perhaps that was true. She had never gained his measure and was wary of this stranger.
All Amerys knew was what she was. And her level.
She was Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, one of the King of Destruction’s Seven. And her name was both truth and joke. Her skin was dark, tanned like Chandrar’s folk, and her hair was leaf-green, like the plants she had never seen before leaving her homeland. Her eyes glowed like a Golem’s or Drowned Woman’s when she was casting magic.
So they were always sparking. She wore the most traditional garb she had: The robes of the Archmage of Lightning. Cloud-patterned sky blue and silver clouds, mixed with the royal red of Terandria.
Now the air was charged around her, and lightning was sparking off the rain, flickering from spot to spot despite the impossibility of it. Below her, people in the city standing on carpets began to swear as static electricity shocked them out of nowhere.
The air was brightening. But at first, the Archmage just observed. Wishing she could see the Antinium Hive below…she focused on the ones on the walls. The countless peoples below her.
Drakes made such a fuss about the bug-people, and they all looked like insects to her. But her gaze was sweeping right and left.
“Strange. Does she have a guest? That Sinew Magus?”
She’d sworn she’d sensed another great spellcaster here. Amerys’ gaze passed down a street where a group of children were playing and stopped.
She fixed on a little Drake girl waving a wand and wearing what seemed like copies of her robes.
Could it be?
The little bolts of lightning. The gleeful way the girl leapt, as if she could fly—Amerys blinked in disbelief, but she had long known her legend.
So then she smiled and pointed down at the chance thing today. For such things mattered. Because of that, Amerys halted a moment and decided thusly it was now. She waited as the girl raised her wand.
 
——
 
Visma Hilcevr was laughing and chasing her friends, who kept shouting at her she wasn’t playing fair. But she knew she was right.
“I’m Amerys! Run! Run, cowards! I’ll fry you! Zap, zap!”
Her wand was out of magic from being used so much, but the girl didn’t care. She swung it down like she felt an Archmage would at Ekirra as he tried to dodge backwards, shouting. Her wand shone with the memory of magic—
Krakthoom.
The bolt of lightning, real lightning, touched down just off of Liscor’s walls, and Visma shrieked more in surprise than fear. She whirled and stared up at the storm.
Lightning? As a native, Visma knew that lightning during the spring rains was actually not that normal—but after that heart-pounding moment, she decided it was amazing.
“See? Fear my power!”
She shouted at Ekirra. He whined.
“My ears! That was loud!”
Ow.
Mrsha and the other Gnolls came over rubbing their ears. Visma stopped for a moment as Mrsha frowned upwards.
That’s weird. Lightning doesn’t normally come from the storms, right? The weather’s…off.
“Maybe it’s a summer storm now? Who cares? Run, run or I’ll zap you! [Lightning Bolt]!”
Visma threatened them, and Ekirra grumbled.
“I’m tired of running. You should run from us!”
“I don’t run from anyone! I’m Amerys! I said run—”
Visma swung her wand down to point it dramatically at Ek—
THWOOM.
This time, her heart definitely skipped a beat. The Drake girl flinched. Everyone cowered as another bolt of lightning touched down on Liscor’s other side.
“Whoa! That’s so close! Maybe it’s a bad storm? We’d better get inside!”
Kenva was nervous; Pallass sometimes had bolts of lightning hit the walls, but Visma was shouting. It was raining real hard suddenly. She squinted up at the sky.
“No! It’s proof! Look! I have the power!”
She held her wand up, and Mrsha produced her own wand to write.
No, something’s really weird. Visma, maybe it’s a magical storm. We might need to get inside.
“Don’t be a wet Gnoll, Mrsha!”
I am already.
Ser Dalimont appeared out of nowhere to speak.
“Miss Mrsha, my instincts also say something’s amiss. We may have to return to the inn, everyone.”
Visma wouldn’t hear it. She pointed her wand at the [Knight].
“Silence! I’m—”
Kkrooom.
This time, Visma remained frozen where she was. Everyone else did likewise. They were mid-flinch, all of them. Staring at her. At her wand. Visma’s earholes hurt. She gazed at the little wand, and Ser Dalimont’s eyes slid sideways.
“Mrsha. Did you help get Visma that wand? From the inn?”
Everyone turned to Mrsha, and she raised her paws.
Not me! I swear!
“It’s just a coincidence. Just swing it again, Visma.”
Kenva, the logical one, urged Visma. The Drake nodded. She lifted the wand tentatively and gave it a little shake. Just a tiny one. Not that she was afraid. Just…
Nothing happened. Everyone relaxed and smiled. Visma laughed nervously despite herself.
“Yeah. Hey! You ruined my best magic yet, Kenva! That was so cool! I just did this and—”
KRACKOOM.
Nobody moved. Visma stared at her wand as the world turned black and white. Then they gazed up. The little Drake girl didn’t know what she was looking for as her head craned up to the dark skies, but she knew it.
It wasn’t her.
There, hovering in the skies, so still they’d missed her as a mere blotch against the rain, was the woman. She hung in the air like an image in a painting, the wind failing to move her. Posing, one arm raised. The other grasping a tiny wand.
Like…one of Visma’s dolls, but so detailed that the [Puppeteer] knew it was not. The figure didn’t move as Mrsha slowly wrote in the air.
Dalimont? Inn, now. Everyone, come with me. Visma, Visma—
The girl didn’t hear her friend. This was a daydream or something. One where she could fly…only her heart was pounding way too hard. Still believing this was a lie, Visma raised her hand and waved the wand once, tentative.
High in the skies, the Archmage of Lightning moved. The air flashed, and Visma lost sight of the world for a second.
A bolt of lightning struck the waters a thousand feet past the walls. It illuminated the woman overhead, and she was suddenly in a different pose. She hung there, unmoving, and now…
Now it seemed as if she was gazing down. Straight at Visma. The girl eyed her wand. But it couldn’t be, right?
She waved it again—
Thunder rolled across Liscor, and citizens cried out. They hid under their canopies of mere cloth, gazing skyward. This was no storm they had ever known! Like Visma, their cries turned to silence.
They saw her.
But the Archmage of Lightning had only eyes for the girl. They held each other’s gazes as Visma held the wand in an arm suddenly trembling, as if it had all the power in the world.
The power to call down lightning. She was afraid to move it. She couldn’t tear her eyes from the woman above her.
“V-Visma?”
Kenva was covering her head, shaking. The Drake girl said nothing at all. The wind was raging around her. Rain spattered her dress from all sides, which was good because she was pretty sure she’d wet herself.
Then the Watch’s bells joined the alarms blaring from Liscor’s walls. Visma still did nothing. If she moved her arm—
“The inn! Everyone else, get to your homes!”
Ser Dalimont roared. He grabbed Visma up in one arm, and Mrsha was running as he held his shield up. That broke the spell. At least, between Visma and the Archmage. Visma could finally lower her arm as, above her, she heard faint laughter.
Then the lightning truly began to fall.
 
——
 
Amerys laughed. She hoped she hadn’t traumatized the little Drake girl. It was just a tribute to someone who remembered her name.
She hung in the air, sweeping her hair back, and her eyes followed the [Knight] in golden armor. And the white Gnoll girl. They were headed to the inn, she had no doubt. But first?
She snapped her finger, and six bolts of lightning hit the Floodplains. Amerys swept her arms around her, and a clear area opened in the storm now lashing Liscor. It shielded the city as she turned.
“Where are you, my dear colleague? Where is that inn?”
She drifted in the skies until her tracers came back. Her spells reported settlements across the Floodplains. But she was searching for concentrations of mana.
Not much anywhere. Low-level enchantments. A stronger source coming from one of the farms, but probably just an artifact or something.
A village of death mana? That was further out.
Interesting…there was powerful death magic in patches too, but naturalized. Where—?
Then she sensed it. A far, far stronger patch of mana. Amerys almost missed it. Despite knowing what she was looking for and her level, it was like the conclusion escaped her. She snapped her fingers.
“A—”
 
——
 
“—ha.”
She appeared in the air in a corner of the Floodplains of Liscor and cast around.
“Damn. No inn.”
The village was right there, though. And Amerys’ instincts were telling her…she narrowed her eyes.
“This is some Skill. I’m starting to second-guess myself even now. Does it get…stronger?”
The mana-detection spell was detecting less mana each passing second. That was unnerving. Something was beating her spellcasting? Adapting?
If so, she’d not get a second chance. The Archmage clapped her hands together. Then she dropped a bolt of lightning out of the clouds and threw it at the water.
