He eyed the [Spearmaster] and half-Giant. Warriors both. With Amerys, he could make a fight of it, but he didn’t want to. It left a bad taste in his beak after the city was generous with its water.
“I don’t want to fight the [Spearmaster]. He just capstoned or I’m a peacock’s uncle. They’re always feeling themselves when they capstone, even before they level.”
Amerys was gritting her teeth.
“She just unlocked [Autocasting]. I have to have it, Takhatres. It’s going to change everything—! I have some of her notes, but most of them are in that bubble.”
She pointed, and the Lord of the Skies raised his brows.
“I’m not jumping to grab it. Too much. You think you can pop it and grab the lot before she fries you?”
“I’m thinking. Shut up!”
The two’s conversation was so much faster than normal people were used to. Valeterisa pointed at him in alarm.
“It’s Takhatres, the Lord of the Skies, Relc! One of the King’s Seven! Get back!”
The Garuda bowed to her.
“Finally.”
Lord Moore slapped his forehead.
“Damn, I forgot all about him in the excitement.”
“You knew he was—?”
Relc and Valeterisa rounded on Lord Moore, and Takhatres reckoned he could have tagged one or the other. Maybe not; the [Spearmaster] seemed pretty quick.
“Amerys? Time’s running out.”
She glowered at him.
“You’ve been fighting for ten seconds. I knew I should have brought Mars.”
“And how is she going to get you out of here?”
The Archmage of Lightning ignored him. She floated upwards and gestured to the Garuda.
“As you can see, I brought backup. Shall we call this a draw?”
Valeterisa gobbled at her.
“You—you beat me up, stole my papers—give them back!”
“Nooo….no. Don’t be silly. You’ve achieved a grand discovery of magic. I’m the outraged one. And your paramour capstoned.”
You had to admire her. Takhatres grinned again; Amerys was acting like she was the one who had every reason to be outraged. Certainly, she seemed to have stunned Valeterisa into having trouble breathing.
The half-Giant struck the ground with his staff, and the waters rippled; Takhatres eyed him warily. He hated foes who could change the terrain.
“Further conflict benefits no one. Try Liscor again and you will not just face us, but the inn. There is an [Archer]—two [Archers] who could clip even the Lord of the Skies’ wings.”
Amerys’ eyes narrowed as Lord Mireden thundered.
“Oh, don’t think I’ve forgotten you, half-Giant. Was it you who provoked me?”
He nodded his head to her.
“One should fall for bait less easily if they are outraged at being treated like a fish, Archmagus.”
“Hah. Fish metaphors. What a strange continent.”
The Garuda shifted from foot to foot, waiting impatiently. If they were going to scrap, they might as well…but no, [Mages].
They just had to float at each other. The angry Archmage of Izril and the Archmage of Chandrar circling each other, trading insults. Takhatres rolled his eyes.
“[Mages], am I right?”
He tried to strike up conversation with the [Spearmaster], but the Drake just jabbed a spear his way. The Lord of the Skies sighed and listened to them fight.
“I—I won’t forget this! You thief! You thug! Brigand!”
“Oh, please. You do the same thing. Turnabout is fair enough.”
“Calling in help to run away! Cowardly! Despicable! Craven! Pusillanimous!”
“Says the woman too afraid to fight me until her [Apprentice] and lover stepped into an Archmage’s duel.”
“How would you know? You have neither!”
Ooh. That one landed. Takhatres saw Amerys grin; but she did that as a reflex whenever someone got her. She glanced down at Relc, then her voice became oddly…conversational.
“Yes, well, we all find lovers. I envy you the joy of it until it flickers out. That one is a [Spearmaster], but has not a whit of magic about him. You cannot speak to him of magic, can you? Just as he cannot touch you unguarded but break you.”
Her eyes focused on Valeterisa, searching her for cracks—but unlike the [Princess], Valeterisa just blinked owlishly at her.
“I…what? Naturally, I speak to Relc of magic, which he does not always understand.”
“Ah, so.”
The Archmage gave Valeterisa a knowing, even superior, smile of weariness. Valeterisa tilted her head left and right.
“But he listens and provides much Relc-commentary. A delightful listening experience even my apprentice enjoys. Just as I listen to things I do not know. Like fishing.”
That made Amerys blink in genuine surprise. Relc glanced up.
“Uh, Valley? Is this the time?”
Both Archmages ignored him. The Archmage of Chandrar was glancing down at Relc and speaking slowly.
“There will come a…power is one aphrodisiac. Magic another. That he has some parity in your levels is perhaps enough. But you and I are old. How many little illusions do you cast? In private or public?”
“Good question, Amerys. You never tell me.”
She flicked jolts of lightning at Takhatres as Valeterisa blushed.
“I—I don’t cast magic! It’s very disconcerting to him.”
“Ridiculous.”
Now, Amerys glared at Relc, and he cast around as if suspecting there was some kind of cunning ambush occurring. He protested.
“Wh—we’re fighting, right? I can’t stand illusions. Makes me feel like someone’s about to mug me. [Prostitutes] used to beat up lads in—and there’s [Rogues] and—what are we doing?”
Amerys was thinking hard, hmming, as Montressa debated putting her fingers in her ears. Valeterisa seemed to snap out of this odd conversation she rather suspected she was winning somehow.
“I—I will not put Montressa or Relc in danger. I am aware of the Lord of the Skies’ danger. If you so much as raise a hand, I will hurt you. Badly. Begone from Izril!”
She shoved at Amerys, with her mana, and the Archmage of Chandrar resisted, then glanced down. She exhaled, and Takhatres saw how much she was bluffing to keep them from realizing she was tired. The two Archmages locked eyes—then dropped.
Valeterisa landed in Relc’s arms. Both glared at Amerys; Takhatres stepped to the side as she slowed to hovering just above him.
“Alright, [Levitation] and make sure you’re chained to me.”
He produced a…rope and tossed it to her. She hung in the air, rather like a balloon, as he tied the other end of the rope to a harness he wore for this purpose.
It was a trick to let him carry her at speed. She did tend to resemble a bouncing pillow being dragged along by him, but it was efficient. Amerys stared at Valeterisa being princess-carried by Relc. The Archmage of Izril glanced around, then gave Amerys a triumphant smile.
The Archmage of Balloons blew a kiss. Relc glanced down at Valeterisa.
“So they’re running away?”
“They have to. The longer they stay, the more the Drakes will try to capture or kill them. They have to make it all the way to Chandrar.”
Valeterisa seemed only mildly happy at the journey, and Takhatres’ feet hurt just thinking about it. He whispered to Amerys.
“You had better have leveled or I’m burying you headfirst on the beach when we get back.”
She whispered back.
“I’ve stolen her theorems! I’m on the path to greater magic! This is a victory—though I feel like I’ve lost.”
She glared at the Drake and Human couple. Relc was scratching his chin.
“So…we won? And they’re just gonna run off?”
“Yes.”
Lord Moore ratified this series of events to Relc. He stared at Valeterisa, turned his head to Montressa, then peered at two of the King’s Seven. The Gecko of Liscor nodded.
“Right. Valley?”
“Mm, Relc?”
“Blast them with everything you’ve got. Montressa, you too. Lyonette, if you’re listening, tell Bird to open fire. Relc to Watch Capta—Watch Commander? Fire the wall spells.”
The Drake glanced around as the Garuda and Human froze. He turned as Valeterisa sat up in his arms.
“What? They’re running. They just scared the shit out of our city, kicked the hell out of you, and ate my pizza and they get to just walk off? They said they’re retreating. Get them!”
He grabbed his spear and threw it; Takhatres was already dashing away, but he had to come back because Amerys had forgotten to tie the rope around her leg. She dodged as Valeterisa raised her wand, then fired a flurry of [Light Arrows] at her.
“Damn it, Takhatres—run!”
“I’m trying t—quail eggs!”
A ballista bolt came out of nowhere, and he jumped on top of it, then backflipped a [Stone Spear] from the half-Giant. An arrow shot towards his face. Takhatres bit the arrow and grabbed Amerys.
“Get them! Get theeeeeeem!”
Relc was roaring as Montressa hesitantly shot a bolt of lightning at two of the King’s Seven. Then realized they really weren’t firing back. Both were dodging—Montressa’s eyes widened, then she began to vent her anxiety and terror in spell-form.
 
——
 
Relc Grasstongue’s face was all over the scrying orb as Liscorians stared at him. He was standing on the hill, roaring.
“Where are the wall spells? Someone activate them! Let them have it! This is Liscor, our home! Nothing takes a swing at us and goes back unhurt! Get me another spear to throw!”
He was hurling rocks at the retreating duo. The Liscorians turned to the silent walls. But they were the King of Destruction’s Seven.
 
——
 
Watch Commander Venim was gazing in horror at the scrying spell, much as he had been for the last thirty minutes. He sat back at his desk as his [Receptionist] and Liscor’s Council gazed at him.
He didn’t touch his speaking stone. Who’d be mad enough to—
Venim’s heart jolted out of his chest as a female voice roared from the speaking stone.
“You heard him! FIRE THE WALL SPELLS.”
Watch Captain Zevara was shouting across all frequencies. Venim scrambled for the speaking stone. The Council began arguing, half for, half against—
“Zevara, are you mad?”
At least there were sane people on the w—then he heard a calm voice clicking on the other end.
“This is Sergeant Brassbadge. Order acknowledged. Firing, Watch Captain! Aim for the Garuda.”
 
——
 
Liscor’s walls lit up, and Takhatres swore as he sensed incoming artillery magic. It might just be wall spells, but it could hit them across the Floodplains thanks to a certain Archmage’s upgrades.
Who had the stones in that city—?
He jumped a long-range rune which exploded upwards in fire.
“Reimarch’s tits, Amerys! I hate dodging spells cast by decent casters!”
She was deflecting spells coming at them too—another arrow took out a tangle of her hair, and she yelped.
“Faster, you idiot! I nearly got killed! Who shot that?”
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger lowered her bow and touched her heart for a second, utterly blank-faced. She turned to Bird, who was firing her bow and commanding the ballista unit.
“I thought she had barrier spells.”
“Oh, I think Relc clipped her with his new spear. You nearly murdered Amerys. Right when the King of Destruction would have seen it too. That would depress him so much he’d go to sleep again. Good job, Elia.”
Bird clapped Elia on the shoulder. The Named-rank adventurer lowered her bow and went for a walk.
 
——
 
They were on the outskirts of the Floodplains of Liscor, and the arrows kept coming. Archmage Valeterisa was throwing them down from above. So many that it was like a meteor shower; the two were dodging left and right, taking hits—not strong hits, but the arrows hurt if you took too many!
“[Lesser Spellsh—ow! [Lesser Spellsh—stop jostling me you idiot!”
“Just cast a moving umbrella, you dumb [Mage]!”
“No one has that! I can do a personal barrier, but not a moving barrier!”
“I saw the half-Giant do it! You incompetent spark-mage! You—incoming!”
Another bolt of lightning from Liscor’s walls was coming down, and now, Takhatres thought, the Walled Cities were going to let them have it. They were running out of Liscor’s range straight into the Bloodfields—then Pallass’ aegis. If they somehow made it past that, every podunk Drake city would think they could take a shot at these two thanks to that Lizard guy.
What was his name? Takhatres would look it up later.
The two of them were fighting, Amerys being dragged along like a lightning-filled balloon in the sky. Dodging attacks. And then…
Laughing. Their faces filled the scrying orb, even at a distance, as the Garuda and Human woman started giggling. Despite the attacks coming at them. Just…guffawing like they were having the time of their lives. Then the Archmage of Chandrar peered up and blocked the [Scrying] spells.
But that was how they left. That, perhaps, summed them up the best.
Madfolk. The King of Destruction’s Seven. As insane as he was. An Archmage who had crossed a continent to throw down the gauntlet at another peer and been sent packing.
Archmage Amerys, defeated by the Archmage of Izril.
Archmage…Amerys. Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, defeated by Archmage Valeterisa Imarris. The Archmage who had lifted the City of Incantations had bested Chandrar’s greatest [Mage].
Wait—then you could see Valeterisa catch herself in the air, panting, and realize the same thing everyone else did.
She’d won?
She’d won.
 
——
 
Fierre val Lischelle-Drakle was stronger, tougher, and sexier than she’d ever been in her life. The power of the old blood ran in her veins.
She was still having trouble breathing, because Lady Ieka Imarris was holding her so tight even the Vampiress felt her ribs groaning.
 
——
 
“Well, well, well. This era has a [Mage] capable of grand discoveries. It’s one thing to learn ancient magic. Another to figure out how it’s done.”
Magus Tserre refused to say anything else nice about the duel. She’d been running a critique the entire time and really ruined the entire affair for everyone in earshot…only Prildor was in the room with her. Everyone else had switched scrying orbs.
Tserre glared around as she realized she had no audience. Then she went to drag Princess Vernoue away from the cheering people to lecture her on exactly how many things had been stupid about that duel.
 
——
 
“Yes.”
Grimalkin of Pallass made a fist and bumped it against Lady Pryde’s. He stood in Channel 1’s studio, and his voice roared over the scrying orb.
The Drake you needed to end it all. His neck muscles bulged, and he roared that word so loudly it imprinted itself in the minds of small children and adults across the world.
“TESTICLES. That’s what true magic is! That’s what grit and determination do!”
He was slamming his hands on the table. Lady Pryde, far from trying to calm Grimalkin down, was so energetic she was lifting her chair up overhead.
“Izril! Izril! The superior continent! Do you see that, King of Destruction?”
“Sinew Magus, calm down—the set—”
