Right there. He pivoted as Amerys vanished and threw. She appeared on a hilltop to the right of the one she’d been standing on, and he heard her swear as she had to throw herself out of the way of his spear again.
“Yes! I can do it!”
He pumped a fist, then grabbed another spear from the cluster he’d planted in the ground. He looked up and dodged as Lord Moore landed next to him.
“Relc, are you mad? Valeterisa, barriers!”
They were throwing up shields, and Relc panted at Valeterisa.
“I can’t let you get hurt—alone. Don’t worry, she’s tired, and I’m fresh! Sorry it took so long! I stole Tekshia’s spears. I couldn’t find enough!”
He felt guilty about that, but she’d let him have ‘em if he bought her more. Valeterisa was just shaking him.
“Relc, we can’t beat her! She’s inexhaustible! Even with my new magic—”
“‘Course she is. She’s just bluffing. I’ve seen it before. Every [Mage] always says that when they’re tired. ‘You’ve forced me to use my real power’. I nicked her. It proves she’s out of mana.”
Lord Moore was blinking at Amerys, who was watching them, eyes narrowed as if she were confused.
“That’s true. Those are unenchanted spears. How did you hit her, Relc?”
He seemed confused. The Drake pointed at him.
“I’m just doing what you did, Moore.”
“What, me?”
“Yep. Seeing where she’ll appear. You did it at the start of the fight. Took me a second to figure it out, but I knew I was seeing it. Just like those damn [Scrying] spells. Looks like a fishing net in the skies. See? There!”
He pointed as Amerys flickered left, and she visibly jumped as he pointed. So did the two [Mages] next to him. Relc grabbed another spear.
“All we gotta do is hit her once! Just—like—this.”
He didn’t know what was going on. It was just sort of…clear. When he raised the spear, drew it back, threw, it was like he was aiming both at Amerys and something else. Relc cursed.
“Nearly hit it.”
“Hit what, Relc?”
Amerys had ducked the throw. But it had been closer than any before. No one was seeing what he was doing?
To the Gecko of Liscor, it was obvious. He could see the magic that Valeterisa had to point out to him and make more visible, like fishing nets in the air. All the little components of a spell strung out. It wasn’t as if a [Fireball] was just a ball of fire. It was a bunch of little strands of fire; even he’d noticed that. So, just like that…
[Scrying] spells were so much more than just an eye in the sky. There were all kinds of little bits and threads that made up the spell itself. He didn’t understand it, but he saw it. And he wondered if you sliced one of the little threads, what might happen? But the Drake was no mage.
Amerys…Amerys was easier. When he lifted a spear, it was clear. He could not follow the speed of her lightning. Nor her movements with the naked eye, but it was like…fishing. You had to gaze beyond the dim shape of the fish underwater, if you could even see it. It was like a line he followed, moving from where Amerys was pivoting, taking a step, towards where he knew, suddenly, she’d end up. All he had to do was hit it—
There. Her finger blew the spear out of the air a foot from her face. Relc sighed. He’d never hit her with a spear, even if he was on track. So he glanced down at the water lapping at his boots. Another problem.
“I need [Waterwalking] if I’m gonna fight her, Valley. I’ve got to get close up. Mireden, if you’re using [Mark Target] or whatever that is—keep doing it. The squiggling lines are hard, but I can touch her. But is the water…?”
He squinted at Valeterisa, then at the water. Then turned to the other two.
“That’s not magic or where Amerys is moving next. Who’s doing that? It’s beautiful, but all I want to do is cut it.”
Valeterisa and Lord Moore were exchanging glances and staring at the things he was, but they didn’t seem to see it. Relc gazed down into the water, and he swore…he could see something under the dark, muddy surface of the Floodplain’s water. Like he swore he was when he was fishing sometimes. Or spear dancing. Like a layer under the surface of the world…
His head rose as he whirled another spear up. Then, Relc glanced at Valeterisa. Her eyes were focused on him. On the way he drew his arm back to throw, and Amerys was watching him too.
Warily. No longer smiling, but with respectful eyes. As if she might blink and die. And Valeterisa? His beloved Archmage was gazing at Relc as if she had for a moment forgotten the magic now visible in her own eyes.
Like someone gazed upon a painting come to life. A work of art; a gaze he had never known, but longed for all his life. For the pride in it. The pride and satisfaction.
The Drake caught himself. Lord Moore had exhaled, like a witness to great miracles, and bowed his head. He clasped a fist to his chest as a man praying.
The Archmage of Chandrar was waiting, a woman possessed by the desire to see. The Gecko of Liscor lowered his arm, and the scars on his bulging muscles glinted in the rain.
He inspected his arm, as if he had never seen it before. Then, suddenly, tilted his head back like a man hearing a story he had once told. He closed his eyes and breathed in and out.
A dreamer wishing to see the end of this, even if it was just his imagination. Relc Grasstongue stood before the eyes of the world and saw no Archmage of Lightning. No Floodplains filled with rain.
Just…a grinning old Gnoll, long in the tooth, hunched over a worn spear as he chatted with a weary [Soldier] on the side of the road. The [Spearmaster] laughed, then swung his spear and parted the grass.
But that was not, truly, the amazing part. Relc told that story so many times to his students, to other people, and they focused on the two hundred and thirty-eight steps he had taken to find the end of the place the spearmaster had cut. As if it were about mere distance.
No…Relc had thought that if the old Gnoll had wanted, he could have cut the field as far as Relc could see. Because it wasn’t about the grass. He hadn’t cut the grass. He’d cut something…else.
Now, the Gecko of Liscor saw the same thing. A layer under the world he knew, no less real, that he had touched so many times in the moments when everything was perfect. That feeling, as if you could leap into the skies if you jumped right or catch a piece of the air itself. Sheer instinct, mastery, and longing.
So, the [Spearmaster] opened his eyes and copied the gesture he had tried a million times to remember. He looked around and gazed at the water.
“Oh, there it is.”
His spear, the simple practice spear placed by Tekshia Shivertail’s shrine, cut through the rain. It cut through the air as he slashed across his chest in a straight, horizontal line.
The waters before Relc splashed softly. A spray of liquid; Amerys Retoiber gazed down at what the Drake had cut.
“Ah.”
She sighed, and the mirror of her reflection showed her a smiling woman, battle-worn, but standing in quiet awe for a moment in the rain. Water landed on the water that Relc had caught and pooled over the top of it.
As if…the water below were no longer a liquid. Valeterisa gazed down at the mirror’s finish of the water. A patch of clear space, not much longer than Relc was tall. Still liquid, and yet not liquid. Captured, controlled.
Still. Then Relc’s feet landed on the water.
“Huh. It’s flat.”
He stood on the place he’d cut, blinking down—until the mirror’s edge wobbled, and he leapt back onto the hill of grass. The oddity in the world collapsed, and water rushed around before returning to normal.
Relc gazed at his spear. Then slashed the water again. And this time, he saw what he was doing more clearly. It wasn’t half as graceful as the old Gnoll. Relc had missed his mark, cut something else instead of space. He’d cut…
Motion? The water went still again, and there was a peace from the patch of the world Relc had…silenced. A quiet calm that let other parts of the world touch it and not yield.
Once more, when the spray of water cleared, there it was. A mirror’s edge. He failed when he tried it a third time, but when he glanced up at Amerys, she understood why her barriers had vanished.
That spear cut through the hum of magic. Through the rush of waters. It brought only quiet where it touched. She was lucky he didn’t have mastery of it.
Amerys felt at the gash on her ribs and addressed him directly.
“[Spearmaster]. There are such laws as physics, you know.”
His teeth shone as he gave her the sharpest smile she’d seen in her life.
“That’s what everyone tells me, but I forget them all the time. Neat trick, huh? Okay, Valley, Lord Raithland. Think we can take her now?”
Amerys was calculating what he could do. Break her magic with the spear? Create improbable surfaces? He couldn’t fly—but he’d be running over the water.
“Gecko of Liscor. How appropriate. You know, some geckos can run on water?”
Relc opened his mouth, frowning.
“Are you…trying to hurt my feelings? Because it’s working.”
His tone was casual, but he’d lowered himself into that attack stance, and Amerys was eying the half-Giant and Valeterisa. Valeterisa with her new magic…Amerys felt at her belt pouch. She glanced at the bubble of Valeterisa’s sacred texts being shielded by Montressa, a dedicated [Aegiscaster]. Stared at the sky.
“I’ll have to reroute around Pallass this time, and Zeres…mhm.”
She checked her mana pool and nodded. Then she raised her hands.
“I concede defeat. Today. Next time, we shall duel properly, Valeterisa. No outsiders.”
All three, Drake, Human, and half-Giant, didn’t move for a second. Amerys floated backwards, smiling beatifically. She pointed at Valeterisa and nodded to her.
“Cowardice does not befit you, Archmage of Izril.”
She floated backwards, still facing the others—until the spear passed through the place her head had been. Then Amerys zipped back down and landed on a hill.
“Damn.”
That sometimes actually worked. Relc grabbed another spear.
“She’s running! Get her!”
“Wait, she is?”
Valeterisa was so surprised she forgot to attack for a second as Lord Mireden slammed his staff into the ground. Amerys lightning-dashed away, heading southwards—
The half-Giant crashed to the ground and swung a blade of iron down, cutting off her path. She swerved, cursing—
Relc leapt off a hill, threw a spear, and it met a [Lightning Bolt] and exploded. He landed in the water, swearing, and Amerys did an aileron roll—then saw the [Light Arrows] coming. Too slow. She was grinning until she slammed into an invisible forcefield.
“Ow. What the—”
“You—you think you can just run away after all you’ve done?”
Montressa du Valeross might not be a fighter, but she was great at walls. Like, say, one that kept someone in a bubble. She hid as Amerys’ eyes sparked at her.
“Good job, Apprentice! Get her, Relc! Attack! Attack!”
Amerys moved along the inside of Montressa’s bubble, kicking it, punching, dodging a slash from Relc, and commenting, breathlessly, but surprisingly cooly given the situation she was in.
“I’ve lost. You don’t want to see me fight to the death, and neither do I. Besides, this isn’t my first duel. We both know how you do them.”
Valeterisa frowned. Mindgames? Amerys was desperate. She began shooting [Light Arrows] through Montressa’s one-way barrier at the Archmage of Chandrar. Then she began to analyze what Amerys had just said. Wait…no good [Mage] went into a duel without a backup plan if they lost. Only idiots did that, and her hero, Valmira.
What if—her head turned. Scanning the Floodplains of Liscor, the rain and battle-damaged hills. But Valeterisa was too slow. Even Amerys sometimes was.
 
——
 
A blur raced up Liscor’s walls. The [Guards], focused on the distant magical firefight and their [Spearmaster], didn’t even see him. There was only one millisecond when you would have even caught a glimpse of him.
A Garuda, one foot clutching the edge of the wall for support as he tensed to leap. Then he was gone.
You could see him then, but not fully. Just—the spray of water. If you were following that, he was hundreds of feet ahead. He raced across the churning waves caused by Amerys’ silly little duel.
The footing sucked. He envied the Drake. Solid ground would be an asset. If they’d been friendlier, Takhatres would have asked for a lesson to see if he could learn it.
They were both [Warriors].
“Ah, well. It was a good break. And they don’t even sell water here. Amazing. [The Great Desert Kicks].”
Dust over the waters. Sand—a surreal sight. Comforting; all the water unnerved him. His clawed foot hit the barrier imprisoning his friend and drinking buddy.
Takhatres went through Montressa’s spells and struck the half-Giant twice in the chest; peeled away, shaking his clawed hands out.
“Hard as a rock.”
“What was that?”
Archmage Amerys leapt with him, a bolt of lightning and the fastest Garuda in the world, onto a hill. There he could stop moving. Takhatres slowed down his voice.
“I said, ‘hard as a rock’. No wonder you weren’t cracking him. Shoddy work with the [Spearmaster], though. I’ve never seen you appear that rattled.”
“I have witnessed a miracle of magic. And that Drake just earned a true mastery of the spear!”
Amerys glowered at him. She was panting; he smiled, his lower beak curving upwards. The Lord of the Skies wore a simple traveller’s clothing, not his beautiful regalia when he was upon Chandrar. Amazing how often that worked.
He’d been in Liscor, oh, all of two days. He’d stopped to check out the New Lands and some other places, like the yodelling Drakes, when Amerys had dropped him close enough to Izril’s shores to run the rest of the way.
He couldn’t cross the entire ocean by running; it was too tiring. But he was not one of the King’s Seven for nothing.
Of course, it took the other Archmage, [Spearmaster], and half-Giant time to process him. Then the Drake swore.
“Oh shit, it’s that guy! That other guy!”
“‘That guy’? Is that all my name is in Izril?”
Takhatres was insulted. They knew Amerys by her hair alone! No one had even recognized him once! He’d gone into Pallass without so much as them arguing over his passport!
“You have to attack one of their Walled Cities to be famous. Were you planning on letting me die out there? You saw my signal!”
Amerys was nattering. She was shaking her hands up and down, and Takhatres rolled his eyes.
“The moment the Archmage of Izril started firing those [Light Arrows], you should have fallen back. Now, are we going to fight a bit more before leaving? They’re going to be on us like ticks on Flos Reimarch’s ass after a swamp battle now that they know it’s both of us.”
