The rain was slackening. The sheets of water falling from the High Passes still rippled across the Floodplains, but nothing could last forever, and no matter how furious the storm, the citizens of Liscor knew it was ending.
They had been rained on for ages. Leaks had infiltrated the city, bringing with it streams of muddy siltwater, and the dripping damp had molded every available surface.
So why…did they seem so wistful? It had to be mold in the brain. That was what Archmage Valeterisa suspected.
Non-Liscorians like Lyonette, Mrsha, the Goblins, and herself were sensible. The Gnoll girl had once written to her mother that if she had to endure another day of damp fur, she’d shave herself bald like one of Baron Regalius’ cats. Nanette had vouchsafed that she’d be drier with her hat raining down her sadness on her back in Riverfarm.
And they were able to use the [Door of Portals] to go somewhere dry! How did you live before this?
It boggled the mind, and she said so, because she was 72% certain that it wouldn’t earn her censure for expressing her opinions. No matter how much he loved it, Liscor’s rains were stupid.
—The huge Drake just turned and grinned at her as they sat under her barrier spells in a rocking boat of all things. Valeterisa hated boats. She preferred to fly, but here she was, rocking precariously in less than a few inches of wood between her and the very cold, very deep waters.
“Relc, this is unnecessary. I can simply cast [Detect Life] and chain a [Stone Dart] spell to a [Magic Rope] spell and reel in any fish you want. No, wait…perhaps it would be more optimal to cast [Seeker Arrow] given fish can dodge. They can dodge, correct? Or perhaps a net. [Net of Nired], perhaps, but to mitigate the drag in the waters, a [Waterproofing] spell might let it efficiently move. That would last eight minutes if cast at full mana, but a reusable [Stone Dart] spell might yield far more returns assuming…”
She got distracted by her own mind halfway through her statement and began to compare spells for efficiency in fish-catching. Not because Valeterisa was so insane that she’d love to just field-test magic all day. She’d get bored after only an hour.
No, it was that she was that bored of this. Which was hard to fathom, because she was in Relc’s company, and she had once posited that she could watch paint dry and not be bored with him.
I fear our romance has ended its course. My infatuation with him is ending; our relationship is unsalvageable. Or fishing is that boring.
She was getting in touch with her emotions, and all of them said this sucked. The Archmage of Izril saw Relc glance over as he swished his line back and forth.
“I’m telling ya, Valley, it’s fun. Just wait until I catch something, huh?”
“What could be fun about putting a line in the water and waiting?”
He chuckled deep in his chest and shifted so she could grumpily lean against him. She’d gotten a day off from her taskmistress’—Montressa—workload and after working on her transportation magic, the academy, outwitting Fissival, and Eldavin’s new magical items quota, what were they doing in their spare time?
Fishing!
True, it was Relc’s turn to suggest an activity, but she’d been hoping to do puzzles or go for a walk somewhere dry. Anything but this.
Grumpily, Valeterisa swished her fishing pole. Relc was almost melancholic as he sighed at the skies.
“Even the fish can tell it’s going to stop raining soon. It’s so sad. Right when you get used to the rains, they go.”
“Relc, would you mind if I analyzed your brain and body for fungal parasites?”
“Hm? Sure, go ahead.”
As she did that, the Drake adjusted his fishing line, then gazed at Valeterisa. The Archmage of Izril, his romantic partner, normally was rather happy to do most things with him. And the [Spearmaster], the Gecko of Liscor, was not blind. So he coughed into a fist.
“Look, give it fifteen more minutes, and if we can’t catch anything, we’ll head inside, huh? But I’m telling you, Valley. There’s a lot of joy to fishing.”
“Like what?”
She was grumpy and wondered if it was due to Relc being a father. She’d heard fathers developed strange habits like this. Puns, fishing…she adjusted the new robes she’d commissioned that he’d said nothing about. Not that you could really see them in the rain—she’d really been expecting that walk.
However, the Drake’s answer surprised Valeterisa.
“Thinking. An hour or two in the rain really lets you think things out. I’m not good at focusing unless I’m practicing with my spear or walking with nothing going on in Liscor. Or fishing.”
It was an unexpected answer if you thought Relc was some muscle-headed idiot. A common misconception. But for Valeterisa, it was doubly fascinating, so she listened, forgetting her uncomfortable seat and dislike of the damp boat as the Drake went on.
“I used to do this all the time when I was younger. Years ago, right when I first came to Liscor.”
“Is this a Relc story?”
“Wh—yeah? Aw, are you recording?”
“I like listening to them sometimes when I am flying. Montressa likes them too.”
“Valley, I told you not to share them. Okay—”
Relc adopted a slightly more official tone of voice as he cleared his throat. Then he just began to ramble as he gazed across the waters. Every now and then, he’d twitch the fishing pole, and she noticed his movements were less random than hers. She’d thought you just waited for fishes to eat the bait, but he wasn’t doing that.
“Fishing was the only way I could get some spare time to myself in the spring. Well, spring and summer; you can find mudpools for a long time afterwards and the rivers are great for a while. Not very pleasant with the bugs, but I did it when I was starting in the Watch. A lot during those first five years.”
“Why?”
“Well, I had this new partner that the Watch Captain had assigned me. Zevara—she saddled me with an Antinium of all things. Not just any Antinium: the Slayer. I wanted to kill him, but I wasn’t sure if he’d get me. I had retired so I wouldn’t be in danger, and here I am being told I might have to kill one of the Centenium if the Free Hive erupts!”
Relc shook his head, and Valeterisa put her chin in her hands, fascinated. This was a historical record that few people had considered. Liscor when the Free Antinium had been an unknown…this city was extraordinary even before Erin for so many reasons. The Gecko clenched a fist as he spoke.
“And he was so damn annoying. He was all rules back then. You think the Klbkch of now was bad? He’d come by like a Golem and point out all the things I was doing wrong. Plus, citizens hated us. We had Aberrations, and Soot’s gang was so bad, and there were attempts on Zevara’s life…and I was raising Embria until she ran away, and she hated my guts. So there wasn’t anywhere to go.”
“Oh, Relc. I’m sorry.”
“Nah, it got better. And fishing was one of the ways I figured out that Klbkch wasn’t that bad. I could think and stop getting mad—if I was so heated up I couldn’t even sit still, I’d jump in the water and punch a Rock Crab. When you’re stuck here, all you can do is think. And that means your brain makes more interesting stuff, y’know? Whenever I’m not fishing, I know I can do something better. Here? I know I’m stuck, so I think.”
“That’s…a good insight. But still, isn’t it rather monotonous?”
“Fishing? Nope. See, Valley, you’re just leaving your rod in the water. Here, see what I’m doing? Tugging it like this?”
“Simulating the movements of a fish? I have read books on the subject, Relc.”
He chuckled as he shook his head.
“Doing it is different than books, Valeterisa. There’s an art to mimicking how fish move. Even reeling them in. Sure, you can get an enchanted rod and just pull or use magic to heave ‘em up, but making sure your line doesn’t break, tiring the fish out? It’s something you have to practice. A skill.”
“I see. So that’s why you didn’t let me enchant the lines and we’re using rented poles.”
“Well, that and I’m cheap. I just like something where I’m concentrating and can think. Body does one thing, mind does the other, Valley. It’s like…spear dancing.”
He lost her. She could do the mind, but her body was uncoordinated as could be. Yet she’d seen Relc practicing with his spear; he did it daily for incredible amounts of time. He wore the same expression now. Absent concentration.
Not absent grace; everything he had was earned. But the fishing pole seemed to be imbued with an elegance completely other than her clumsy attempts with her rod. She knew that was just an illusion due to their skill levels, but the Drake murmured.
“I can’t even see into the waters. But sometimes, I swear, I can almost feel the fish down there. If I could only make ‘em leap onto my line, huh? I never got [Fisher] as a class, but I wonder if that’s how my [Spear Dance: The Fish Leap] appeared. That’d be funny.”
He drew his line across the waters left in a slow motion, then faster. Valeterisa stared into the waters, magic shining in her eyes. Relc pulled faster—then sighed.
“Damn. I thought I was luring something big. See, I do that too. I should just do fewer movements, but then I feel like I’m actually about to catch a fish. And it turns out I’m hallucinating.”
“Or something else eats the fish before it can bite your line.”
The Archmage of Izril gazed into the waters, and Relc snorted.
“Thanks for making me feel better.”
“Hm? Oh, yes. Go back to fishing, Relc. I believe in you.”
Absently, Valeterisa picked up her pole as Relc reset his line. She peered into the waters, and the Drake chuckled.
“You getting into it?”
“I could…watch for a while longer. Once I am thoroughly numb to the wet and cold, it is less painful than I thought.”
“See? You’re getting the hang of it! My old man liked to fish. That’s what one of my relatives said. I wouldn’t know; I don’t remember him much. But I wonder if I could’ve done this with him. Now, if I can get something nice and fresh, we’ll have it for lunch. Even a Quillfish! Calescent does a mean Quillfish grill.”
Liscorians and fish. It really was a sign the city had made you its own. Valeterisa and Relc were fishing close to The Wandering Inn for convenience’s sake, but she had seen private citizens fishing more than once while flying to and from the city.
Oh, and Liscor Hunted, whose springtime challenges included being handed a rock and told to walk for a thousand feet while fighting whatever came your way…while on the Floodplains’ floor, underwater. She wondered who paid for that kind of thing.
As the two sat, the water sloshing at the boat pushed them past a large hill with a few bridges across it. The two saw a solitary figure standing in the rain, ignoring it pounding over him in a squall. They turned, and Relc blinked, then raised a hand.
Lord Mireden Raithland, Lord Moore, was standing with a fishing rod in hand. Valeterisa opened her mouth as they floated by; he was reeling in a Quillfish.
“Hello, you two. Good fishing?”
“Nah, I haven’t caught anything yet! You?”
Relc eyed the pile of fish next to the half-Giant, and the man chuckled.
“Years of practice.”
“Hey, what about me? I’ve been fishing longer than you!”
“Well, you shouldn’t keep going after the most energetic fish then. The others can’t keep up to the challenge.”
Lord Moore nodded at Relc, who was darting his line back and forth with little jerks of his hand. Relc paused and glanced at his hand.
“Oh, right, but I’m being naturalistic.”
“Fish will eat dead bait without much reservation. Still, I admire your skill. Archmage, I apologize in advance for disturbing your date.”
“Not at all! It’s not disturbing and, um…”
She eyed him, a [Mage] of such caliber that she would be hard-pressed to find his equal in great numbers, even in Wistram. A man from the future with a terrible burden and weight about him. Valeterisa hesitated, wanting to ask about all this, but settled on—
“Shouldn’t you be running for office? I would imagine that requires a great deal of attention.”
It did in Wistram. It was always politicking for support. Lord Moore chuckled again.
“Ah, but that takes many forms, Archmage. Being likeable is as hard as being known, and having good policy, good messaging, these are all facets of winning an election.”
“Yes. So…”
He winked at her, then turned slightly. Both Relc and Valeterisa now saw his usual robes were gone. Instead, the half-Giant had a lovely stone grey cloak and a jacket that neatly framed a bright white shirt upon which was written…
‘I Survived Liscor Hunted.’
Huh. They glanced at each other, then Relc got a bite.
 
——
 
That half-Giant. Much could and perhaps would be said on Liscor’s election, which were hitherto largely unremarked upon by The Wandering Inn’s folk. However, they were nearing a zenith of intensity, and they were predominated by several factions.
Liscor’s current Council, which had much enduring support, and Liscor’s old Council, who had run their own old members on a platform of bringing Liscor back, both to its roots as well as undoing new measures like the rent control that was destabilizing, nay, ruining Liscor.
There were other factors, of course. Walled Cities putting their thumbs on the scales to get candidates they wanted, non-Drakes and non-Gnolls having voting power, and random outsiders like Lord Mireden.
The half-Giant had put his name into the race far too late to be a threat in his 3rd District…or so both sides had assumed. But now he was neck-and-neck with the Human candidate and one of the ‘Traditional Liscor’ candidates, who had moved into that area just to win a seat!
Outrageous! It was due to the new charms from Esthelm that had plastered his name over. He had even bought a store where all of them were being sold due to the intense demand and limited supply, and he attracted attention just by walking the streets! He broke up fights, talked to children and adults whenever anyone asked a question. Acting like some kind of—of leader of this city!
The nerve. Real Councilmembers didn’t have time to waste on the public; they were running campaigns to serve the city! All the gold they were spending on fliers and advertisements were having an effect on the current Council; it was neck-and-neck races for every district including even Krshia Silverfang, who had her entire people’s support!
But even with [Spectaclists] from Manus and [Propagandists] from Zeres coming in to put their support behind certain candidates, they were in for a nasty shock, because Mireden Raithland was vying for his seat with the savvy of an experienced [Politician].
Just today, why…that bastard had done it again!
 
——
 
