He waited as the water bulged upwards. The Archmage of Lightning emerged, no longer looking like the graceful dancer. Water dripped from her robes, and her hair was dishevelled. She locked eyes with him.
“Before I kill you, your name?”
He planted the staff cut from Oteslia’s tree and spoke.
“Lord Mireden Raithland. You threaten my city, Archmage of Lightning. I intend to punish you for it.”
The waters moved, and Archmage Valeterisa erupted upwards. She was encased in a swirling orb of magical chains and whirling air. Some kind of advanced defensive barrier. She seemed surprised not to be dragged upwards. When she saw him, her eyes widened. Lord Moore just nodded to her.
“Both of you. No one is above the law.”
“What? Lord M-Mireden, thank you for—”
He clapped his hands together, and the [Shockwave of Air] spell blew both Archmages into the water. The half-Giant swept his staff around, and an [Earthen Spire] carried him higher. He stepped off it onto a second one as his footrest exploded from below. Walking as he swung his staff left.
[Thornspray]—a Tier 1 spell magnified a hundredfold. It hit the Archmage of Chandrar, and she rose and whirled, firing a [Lightning Bolt] at him. He caught it and shook out his hand. As if it didn’t hurt like all hells.
“Mireden! [Dispel Illusions]! It’s me! Desist your attacks!”
Valeterisa rose from the waters, and the half-Giant felt bad, but she was a wide-open target. The [Hammer of the Mountain King] hit her back into the waters and produced a second shower of rain. He swept the hammer around, and it blocked another [Lightning Bolt]. Then the hammer’s face exploded outwards.
Another spray of [Stone Fist] spells this time, heavier and homing. One caught Archmage Amerys and visibly clipped her. Physical enchantments or not, he saw her shoulder pivot with the blow and knew it had hurt.
Valeterisa rose from the waters a third time with a six-layer shield on her. She was still confused; Amerys zipped backwards, charging up a spell. Lord Mireden felt all the scrying spells focus on him and smiled for the cameras.
He could not deny the ebullience was genuine. He was still a bit of a child. Still an adventurer.  His every nerve was straining, waiting for the next attack, but he spoke, voice booming.
“The law of Liscor applies to everyone! No one, not [Archmage] nor [Innkeeper], stands above it! Without the law, we are anarchy! I am Lord Mireden of Raithland. As a sworn member of Liscor’s Watch and citizen of Liscor, I demand you both surrender and cease your magical battle. Refuse and I will pull both of you from the skies.”
The effrontery. The gall. When Valeterisa realized he wasn’t here to help her, but blaming her for the battle, her gasping outrage and genuine hurt left her speechless.
Amerys’ reply was more concise.
[Thunderbolt of the Lightning Giant]. A spell of such magnitude it parted the very waters. Cast everything into stark relief, white and blackness—
Like the damned [Heroes] of his time. Lord Mireden gritted his teeth and planted his staff in front of the bolt he’d known was coming. He leaned forwards and parted the spell with his staff.
The flash of the Tier 6 spell spread across the Floodplains, twin snakes flashing from hilltop to hilltop, trying to ground itself, and then, against the convention laws of physics, rising upwards, streaking back towards the sky to magnetize the very clouds.
All of it in a single, eye-blinding flash of power. But the target of this spell had not moved. He had cut the spell in half with his staff. A single spell.
“[Blade of Adamantium].”
His entire body was moving slow. Half-paralyzed despite the [Greater Lightning Ward] and the [Damage Shield] he’d used. But Amerys didn’t know that. He saw, on her face, genuine alarm for a moment, and the half-Giant smiled.
He cracked his neck once.
“Is that all? My turn. You invoke my forebears lightly, Archmage. This is real lightning. [Thunderbolt of the Lightning Giant].”
He fired the same spell back in her face and watched the skies divide. She dodged it, and he doubted it did much damage; she was probably practically immune to most lightning spells. But it was enough to see her face. For them to see her face.
Movement from the side—Lord Mireden swung his staff, and a wave of water rose, forty feet high, and slammed Valeterisa down. She cried out, and he thundered.
“Surrender or face me, Archmages of Wistram! You are not the only [Mages] in this world. Nor the finest.”
He saw her rolling upright, surrounded by four layers of shields, and then there was ire in her eyes. And hurt. Mireden avoided her gaze, for he was guilty, but it must be done.
Valeterisa retaliated with a [Siege Fireball]. Since his [Blade of the Adamantium] hadn’t expired, he cut it in half, and the flames baked his clothing and skin dry. He replied with an oversized [Stone Fist] spell as Valeterisa darted back. She was staring at him, probably thinking he had some kind of ward spell up.
He did—but it was mostly just his skin.
A small part of the power of Giants. Lord Mireden heard a voice crackling down from the skies.
“Half-Giant.”
Ah, good. She was losing her temper. He smiled superiorly as Amerys shot down from the clouds and braced. She dodged wide of him this time, skimming over the waters, keeping away from the iron that could lock her down—she passed over a hill, and an [Earthen Spire] punched up, almost taking her out—Lord Moore grunted.
Archmage Valeterisa popped out of the waters, and the second [Siege Fireball] hit the half-Giant in the back. The roar of flames as the spell burst against his enchanted cloak and clothing was a symphony with the strikes of lightning Amerys called down on both.
The half-Giant turned, brushing magical fire off his shoulders. Amerys and Valeterisa eyed him. No barrier spells, they realized. Just a [Body of Mithril]. His features glinted metallically for a moment. The half-Giant said:
“Ow.”
 
——
 
It was a three-way battle, not a duel. Another tradition as old as the duels of magic was the potential for a third party to enter the fight. Backstabbing treachery or the gall to take on both parties.
But against two Archmages? Noass’ and Sir Relz’s mouths were open.
“Who—who is that? A half-Giant? I thought the last one had perished!”
Grimalkin of Pallass was just as stunned, but for different reasons than the Drakes. He, of course, recognized Lord Moore. But what was the man doing? He had stated he intended to lay low!
“That half-Giant is brave, but he’s made a mistake. I don’t care what level he is, he is against the two greatest [Mages] we have ever seen.”
Sir Relz asserted, and Grimalkin responded instinctively.
“Once again, incorrect! If there is anyone who can fight these two, it would be…him.”
“Inconceivable, Sinew Magus! Against one, nay, two Archmages? Who is that?”
Sir Relz spun in his chair, and Grimalkin shook his head, eyes on Lord Moore. He was conjuring earth magic to his defense. [Earthen Pillars], thorns, and the evergreen—it was a pure contrast against Amerys’ lightning magic. Archmage Valeterisa was the only generalist of the lot, throwing any spell she found worthy into the three-way fight. However, it seemed both she and Lord Moore were focusing on Amerys, who was now dodging constantly, pressed by both spellcasters.
“He can do it. He’s…”
Everyone watching leaned in, Sir Relz and Noass with their eyes wide, the audience’s. They saw the Sinew Magus hesitate, mouth open. Then he cast around.
“…er, name?”
He didn’t know the half-Giant’s name? Sir Relz and Noass turned, calling for the same. And the embarrassed Sinew Magus held his tongue, because he knew Lord Moore’s name—just not the one he was adopting.
It was Lady Pryde who snapped her fingers and leaned over.
“That is Lord Raithland. Lord Mireden Raithland, the uncle of Moore of the Halfseekers.”
“Right, of course. Thank you, Pryde.”
He nodded in relief at her, and Sir Relz sniffed. He glared at Lady Pryde, then looked at Grimalkin. The Sinew Magus ignored the stare.
“What is he thinking? He can’t take on both of them. They’re pressing the Archmage of Chandrar, but she’s…”
Even he could tell from afar: Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, was losing her temper.
 
——
 
Magic duel. Magic duel.
Much would be said and picked apart afterwards. The battle would be picked apart and analyzed in classrooms, where [Mages] who had never seen combat would lecture students about how each [Mage] should have moved properly or made the correct decision in the microseconds of reaction and intuition between life and death.
The spellcasting, the analysis of their attack patterns and positioning, had one of the finest commentators in the world: Magus Grimalkin. Those who observed the battle, from House Shoel to the Blighted Kingdom’s battlemagi to Az’kerash, could find little fault in the Drake’s impromptu callouts and measure of the battle.
Yet all of it was meaningless. For those outsiders would never know what the three [Mages] saw in each other. Locked in mortal strife, their magics colliding, they beheld something far different. Each one was a different kind of [Mage], and they could not outmatch the other two in the first frenzied minutes of combat.
Amerys, the challenging predator, swept across the Floodplains in the air, never-ceasing her movements, each action deliberate and deadly. Like some kind of wren or strange bird in truth.
Her wings were lightning, and her steps resembled that of a dancer; a deadly bird who struck and struck again, but found her first true opponent in the half-Giant.
If she was the everfleet, uncatchable advent of storms, he resembled one of the creatures of the Floodplains. A stubborn Rock Crab, perhaps, hiding behind a shell. Immovable; he did not fly and would merely scuttle from hill to hill when he needed to. But where the other two dodged, he would endure.
His hand alone blocked their magic, and his magic seemed lumbering and cumbersome at times, but each blow might be deadly if only it landed. Whenever they dodged too lightly, a spray of needles piercing their barriers would remind them that flightless though he was, he could easily bring them down.
And how were you supposed to bring him down? They tried, striking him with Tier 4 spells, Tier 5, but he allowed no greater magic. Each time a spell touched him, they felt it.
Like fighting a hill itself. They barely chipped his body, let alone his resolve. The two swooping Archmages were loath to close with him…and his presence made this three-way battle a stalemate. Attack one foe and the other would have your back.
But, then, if Archmage Amerys was the bird of lightning and Lord Moore the wrath of hills hurling stones at the sky, what was Archmage Valeterisa? The Archmage of Izril, who was neither [Green Mage] nor [Lightning Mage]?
She was…a hermit crab, maybe? Or a flying rolly-polly?
It was hard to say. The other two were beings of dedicated magic. Amerys was the focused culmination of battle-magic. Lord Moore a combination of both his class as [Lord] and his nature as well as his green magic; an unshiftable warrior skilled in might as well as spellcraft.
But what was Valeterisa? They saw it between her spells that undid their magic. The elegant [Scholar]’s spells that unmade one of Lord Raithland’s hands of stone, that parried a [Lightning Bolt] with a mirror.
Here was someone who loved magic itself. Who had studied so many avenues and means of it she was no one thing, like them. It was rare to find someone who did not specialize in a single idea at their level.
If she was any one thing, Valeterisa was like…a multi-headed edifice, some artificial building built higglety-pigglety, going in strange directions where its creator had gotten side-tracked. Or, if she was like a hermit crab, some kind of hoarder of knowledge. Shelled; her barriers protecting her, but ungainly with it.
A hermit crab with a knife, to be fair; her spells had the sharp edge of someone able and willing to kill, but she was not the same as them. Yet she was exchanging battle with the two, a brave crab waving its knife at a hill that walked and thunder’s wings sent from Reim.
Just one thing, though. Lord Mireden paused, breathing raggedly as his shards of iron-infused arrows tore the air, collecting Amerys’ lightning and forcing the Archmage of Lightning into ever-more-convoluted dodges.
She was no longer unwounded; Valeterisa had realized the potential of earth-magic to counter the Archmage of Lightning. She and Mireden regarded each other warily as Amerys flickered back into the air, high into the sky.
Amerys’ teeth were bared, and she was grinding them together as she felt at the cuts on her cheeks. She clutched at the ribs that Lord Moore had broken, then nodded.
“I don’t know who you are, half-Giant. But you brawl like a hidden legend. I’ve met your kind before. There’s always a retired [Hero] or an old man with Torreb’s strength. Which tale is yours?”
“One not yet told. Will you surrender peaceably, Archmage?”
The half-Giant retorted, and Amerys chuckled. Her voice went gravelly, then deep.
“Surrender? Oh, you do annoy me. There’s nothing I hate more than superior [Mages]. We’re all of us such a ridiculous lot. None worse than hybrid caster-warriors like you.”
“I prefer caster-lord. I have noticed the Archmages of Wistram cannot take a punch. Two, in your case, I suspect. Would you care to prove me wrong?”
He was smiling up at her, needling the Archmage of Chandrar. She began to chuckle. Then giggle.
“Uh oh.”
Valeterisa had been floating backwards, hoping the two would forget her when she heard that familiar giggle. She remembered that. She began casting barrier spells as Lord Moore frowned.
“Something funny, Archmage Amerys?”
He didn’t know. However he had such knowledge of Amerys, enough to seemingly predict how she moved and counter her magic—he’d never heard her snap. Valeterisa had seen that happen twice.
First, the Archmage of Chandrar giggled. She grinned, blood running from the corners of her mouth, humbled and wounded. Then her eyes flashed, and she snapped. And went calm.
Everyone thought her title was a joke given her inability to keep her temper or control of her tongue. But like the Titan of Baleros, there was a truth to the name. Amerys exhaled, and the rumbling of thunder died down. She gazed up at the rain soaking the Floodplains, then she lifted her hands.
A tempo began to pulse in the background of noise. A strange, racing sound, like a heartbeat going too fast.
Lord Mireden hesitated as, above him, Amerys planted her feet in the air. She stopped floating like a dancer and stretched out one hand. The other dropped with her legs, lowering her center of gravity.
