She halted only when the Archmage of Chandrar stopped moving in the bubble of anti-gravity. When she suddenly, for no reason Montressa could see, darted upwards. Up—then Montressa clutched at her chest?
“Montressa? Speak to me, kid.”
Someone seized her shoulder, panting. But Montressa was—gasping. Tears were streaming from her eyes, but not of remorse.
“It can’t be.”
Suddenly, she was smiling. In disbelief. The [Apprentice] fell to her knees as the Archmage of Lightning took a fighting pose. Lightning crackled around her, and she conjured a shield of yellow electricity. The first she had called on—
The water exploded up in a geyser. It rained past Montressa, but it never touched the papers; they were encased in glowing bubbles of violet light. Montressa felt a [Message] spell reach her as a familiar figure flew upwards.
Apprentice, protect my papers. 
 
——
 
Valeterisa shot skywards, shedding water, magic surging in her veins. She was no less weary, no less battered than before, but she didn’t care.
She felt like Amerys, as if she had touched the root of something real. The foundation of…everything.
She spotted her opponent in the skies, and the bolts of lightning crackled towards her. Valeterisa’s thoughts scrambled.
 
Valeterisa-Shields: Barriers up! One, two, three—
 
The [Lightning Bolts] bounced, three different types, each one meeting a differently calibrated [Lightning Ward] spell. That was easy. So easy. But flying and fighting? Flying, fighting, calibrating spells?
It was so hard. Valeterisa never had time in a fight to do everything, even with a hundred [Parallel Thoughts]. She began to fire spells back.
 
Valeterisa-Manacheck: Out of mana. We’re burning on empty, Captain!
Valeterisa-Main: Don’t tell me the numbers. Get her! What spells do we have?
Valeterisa-Spellbook: Working…[Autocast] requires pre-prepared spells! We don’t have any ready! Use—use [Light Arrow]!
 
“[Light Arrows]!”
Valeterisa thrust her wand forwards and began firing [Light Arrows]. The most basic combat spell known to [Mages].
Amerys’ eyes widened as the spells flashed towards her. In an Archmage’s Duel? Had Valeterisa lost her mind? They came out in a spray, a hundred tiny comets, so negligible that Valeterisa could cast them all day. Each one hurt as hard as getting punched in the head—but the Archmage of Chandrar just drifted left a meter, and the leftwards edge of the spray of arrows passed her by.
 
Valeterisa-Analysis: Full miss on 173 arrows! We have no homing nor aim precise enough at this range!
Valeterisa-Sarcasm: No shit! Look, even she can’t believe it!
Valeterisa-Main: That…didn’t take any concentration.
 
It was true. Even for [Light Arrows], throwing one took the effort of shaping the spell in your head. Of course, even a lower-level [Mage] could work up to hundreds or even thousands with dedicated practice and Skills. It was a visualization exercise: keeping the images in your head—like imagining five apples spinning at once, in detail and color. Or even spinning in different directions all at once.
Valeterisa could do hundreds—but she hadn’t felt the concentration of casting any of these [Light Arrows]. She’d just…
[Autocast: Light Arrow]. And all her concentration was in making one regular [Light Arrow]. But she could keep firing them nonstop.
 
Valeterisa-Research: It works. Ancestors of Sky and Flame, it works! We’re doing it!
Valeterisa-Threats: She’s coming! Do something!
Valeterisa-Spellbook: Quick, apply [Spell: Homing] to the [Light Arrows]!
Valeterisa-Analysis: She’s just going to dodge them, she’s too quick!
Valeterisa-Sarcasm: Not if she’s marked! But how do we do that?
Valeterisa-Manacheck: We don’t have the mana for a hex…and we don’t need any! What about Milaw’s magic? Light rays don’t cost anything!
Valeterisa-Doubts: Can we cast the [Seeker] spell mid-combat?
Valeterisa-Spellbook: Yes! I know every part of that spell! I made it! Help me!
 
Her thoughts were all working at the speed of, well, thought. Everything Valeterisa knew about magic was unravelling. Was a spell just something you cast?
No! It was made out of component parts! And what if you had the building block, the tool to automate parts of magic?
Then you were like that thing Kevin kept rambling about. Or his bicycles. With one inciting lever, you began to do a hundred different things.
The Archmage of Izril took apart her spell and reconfigured it, automating the calculations. Archmage Amerys was circling her, not understanding what Valeterisa was doing. Her eyes narrowed.
 
Valeterisa-Threat: She’s coming at us. Are we ready!?
Valeterisa-Spellbook: Three…two…one…now!
 
She raised her wand and pointed it.
“[Valeterisa’s Lightning-Catchers]!”
The Archmage of Izril blinked; she hadn’t realized she’d renamed the spell until it came out of her mouth. But the rays that came shooting out in every direction were green flickers of light.
Familiar—Amerys paused. She began to zip backwards, searching for an opening to dive through, then realized—
The [Seeker Projectiles] kept coming out of Valeterisa’s wand. Not one or a dozen, but hundreds. Just rays of light, zig-zagging, searching for targets to report back on.
“Impossible.”
Amerys knew Valeterisa’s spell. Even a [Grand Mage] could barely cast forty without a day-long headache. Let alone sort the information that was coming back—
 
Valeterisa-Analysis: We’re getting too much feedback! Eliminate all inputs that don’t have magical residue!
Valeterisa-Sarcasm: Still too much! Sort by targets above a resistance level of—
 
The data deluge washed over Valeterisa’s mind, then faded away. Her mind was…clear. She wasn’t being overwhelmed by her own thoughts!
In fact, Valeterisa had time to actually watch Amerys waver, then try to dance a path through the storm of tracers.
Was that an expression of uncertainty? She began flicking from point to point, divining a path through the storm, like a single flower avoiding a storm of raindrops. Amerys burst out of the deluge of hundreds of tracers, panting, but teeth bared. She gazed up—and Valeterisa slowly raised her other hand.
“[Valeterisa’s Lightning-Catchers: Storm of Analysis].”
She dual-cast the spell, and a thousand tracers shot from her fingers and the wand. Then another thousand.
“That’s not fair—”
Amerys dove into the magic, dodging, whirling, trying to throw lightning bolts to diffuse the tracers. Then—Valeterisa felt it.
 
Valeterisa-Analysis: Target locked! We have her!
Valeterisa-Spellbook: [Autocast: Homing Spell]. [Autocast: Light Arrows]! [Autocast: Speed Spell]!
Valeterisa-Doubt: Don’t stop there! [Autocast: Diffuse Trajectory]! [Autocast: Invisible Spell] on every…6th arrow!
Valeterisa-Barrier: Altering the velocity of arrows on a 1-400% randomized scale! Are we ready?
Valeterisa-Main: Fire! Fire all spells!
 
She raised her hands and shouted.
“[Arrows…of…Light]!”
Around her, magical theorems flashed into being. The very spell matrices were moving, assembling, like some—some—factory of magic automating everything. Amerys gazed down at Valeterisa and finally saw what she’d done.
“Autocasting. You—”
Then the [Light Arrows] began shooting upwards. Like fireworks. They were different colors, sizes, and were coming at countless different velocities, some so slow they appeared to be orbs in the air, some arrows flickering towards Amerys.
Each one was homing. The Archmage of Chandrar tried to evade—a blow against her barriers made her twist.
They were invisible, too? She looked up as the cloud of spells followed her.
 
——
 
On the ground, Lord Moore’s mouth was open. He whispered as the skies lit up with Valeterisa’s magic.
“She did it. Not Montressa. She actually did it.”
He paused and thought about it.
“And I helped.”
A smile spread across his face, of disbelief and pride. He saw Archmage Amerys fleeing in the opposite direction and just trying to outrun the arrows pursuing her, because how was she supposed to dodge everything?
But the Archmage of Izril was chasing her. Lord Moore was about to shout at her to be careful—she only had one spell, albeit so many! Then he blinked.
Wait, was a cloud of those arrows splitting off? It was coming at—
“Ah.”
He began to raise his cloak as Valeterisa fired arrows at him—then tried to count how many were coming his way. The half-Giant spun and began to run, throwing up [Walls of Stone]. He glanced over his shoulder and saw the first one shaking nonstop—before [Light Arrows] punched through and kept coming.
“Hells—”
 
——
 
She had them on the run! Valeterisa stopped hammering the half-Giant after the first thousand or so arrows; he was a stationary target, shielding his face.
Amerys was still dodging. She was taking hits, but Valeterisa was finding tagging the Archmage of Lightning a real challenge.
You couldn’t even fire a swarm of homing [Light Arrows] at her; Amerys would just keep outrunning them. You had to fire the [Light Arrows] into the air, create a moving minefield of arrows in every direction for Amerys to run into, and even then she was blasting through them.
Valeterisa had never admired another [Mage] more. She had never wanted to hit another [Mage] more.
Revenge! She was generating higher-tier spells with [Autocast], but it was hard. If she had a day, more, she’d come up with a truly dangerous spell using this formula. Right now, she was pinning Amerys down with [Light Arrows] and—
“[Spear of Light Volley]!”
One of them hit Amerys and sent her plummeting. Valeterisa clenched a fist.
“Got her!”
The Archmage of Chandrar caught herself—then the [Light Arrows] began hammering her into the water. Geysers rose as the rest of the arrows followed her down, and Valeterisa made a note.
“Apprentice, write this down: autocasted magics very susceptible to flaws in system. The issues of [Parallel Thoughts] magnified. Automation of magic may lead to efficiencies in many ways. Idea: arm a [Shadow Familiar] with an autocast function? Like, say, [Cleanse]? Simplify cleaning…”
Master! Watch out!
A [Message] spell hit her, and Valeterisa blinked. While she’d been pontificating, Amerys had been in the water. But surely she was beaten. After all, Valeterisa…
She flew up, firing [Light Arrows] as fast as she could. And she saw a blur breaking through the storm. Coming straight at her.
“How—?”
It was Valeterisa’s turn to be stumped until she saw the crackling lightning shoot past her. Amerys was panting. Her hair was hovering around her—
And she was just charging through the [Light Arrows]. No counterspell, no elegant magical tricks. Her hands blurred as she shot at Valeterisa, and the Archmage of Izril saw Amerys punching a [Light Arrow] out of the air, her hands shrouded in lightning. She was just attacking so fast she cleared a hole in Valeterisa’s magic.
“Th—that’s not fair—”
“Valeterisa! Get down!”
She dove, firing frantically, more than just her autocast spells, towards Lord Moore. He threw a gigantic boulder at Amerys; she had to dodge around it. Valeterisa landed next to him. Smoke was still rising, and he was covered in soot marks, but he just pointed up.
“Unbelievable. She’s still ready to fight? Quick, show me how to [Autocast]. We can fight her back.”
“You don’t know the magic?”
She shouted at him, and he bellowed back.
“It’s complex and locked up at Wistram! Even the Blighted Kingdom didn’t know it! Hurry, she’s—”
They saw Amerys shoot down and hit the Floodplains of Liscor. She landed on the water in an instant—then the water heaved upwards. The shockwave of air hit them a moment later; a wave blasting both [Mages]. Then the waves of water crashed over the hills. Valeterisa stumbled.
“Oh dear. Was that a faster-than-sound—?”
Lord Mireden threw himself forwards. He stumbled—fell to one knee. Valeterisa gazed up, and Amerys’ foot was buried in one shoulder.
The sonic boom struck her less than a second later. The Archmage of Chandrar vanished as the half-Giant tried to grab her. She was a thousand feet away, and the sonic boom cracked across the Floodplains, creating another wave.
“You’ve got to be kidding me. I think she broke my shoulder.”
He was gasping, blood drained from his face as he clutched at his shoulder. Valeterisa stared at him. She only broke his clavicle bone?
Instinctively, Valeterisa conjured more [Light Arrows] and made them stationary. If Amerys hit one of them at the speed she was going…but the Archmage of Chandrar just stood there a moment, panting for air. Studying her foe.
Now they saw each other. The hermit crab with her strange plans and machinations had made something that the hill of ancients and the fierce bird had never dreamed of. Just like a silly hermit crab was a silly foe until it started firing needles and [Light Arrows] from its shell…
The analogy fell apart. It didn’t matter. Amerys wasn’t done. Lord Moore and Valeterisa tensed, raising their wand and staff. Amerys vanished. Where—?
A flicker of lightning arcing up. She appeared with a Tier 6 spell in hand, ready to throw. Valeterisa raised her wand, eyes shining with magic’s truths.
Amerys was grinning. Blood and soot on her face. Both of them heard her voice.
“We would be such great enemies.”
The [Thunderbolt of the Storm Giant] pulsed in her hands, and she hurled it down towards the two [Mages]’ barriers.
It exploded halfway towards its target, and the shockwave kicked Amerys in the chest. She backflipped in the air before halting, surprised.
“Huh?”
That wasn’t a spell. Had Valeterisa put an invisible landmine in the air? Clever—then the Archmage of Chandrar twisted.
“—gods!”
The tip of the spear slashed across her ribs and would have laid open her flesh but for her robes. She dove, and the second spear nearly hit her—she blasted it with lightning and saw it shear through the lightning.
And her barriers?
The training spear hit the waters, and Amerys watched it fall like the water were but air. She turned. Then she saw the Drake standing on the hill. He was already drawing another spear back to throw.
Relc.
 
——
 
The Gecko of Liscor heaved, and the training spear from Liscor’s Watch House flew straight as an arrow. He was no [Javelineer], but he had practice. And [Recall Weapon: Spear].
It was no good on his destroyed spear, but he yanked one of the spears out of the water; it nearly hit Amerys as she dodged it and it boomeranged back.
“Relc! Get back!”
Valeterisa was screaming at him. The [Spearmaster] ignored her. He’d seen Amerys coming in for a second pass, and he hadn’t been able to join the fighting in the skies—but he thought he saw it.
