Did anything about Amerys look like she had come for civilities? In fact, the eyes upon Amerys was the thing.
Her presence had been noticed by the Walled Cities, of course, and powerful mages across Izril. Her advent in Liscor had set off every alarm, literally, and while it took Wistram News Network precious minutes to locate her and begin broadcasting, there was another kind of resonance going on worldwide.
A familiar one. It had been a moment or two since the last time, hadn’t it? But the moment people heard about it, they felt that sensation. Like the King of Duels fighting the King of Destruction. Like other moments—but this one was special.
An Archmage’s duel in our times? When they heard that, they stopped, dropped everything, and listened.
 
——
 
“Amerys has found Valeterisa? Oh no. Tell her to run.”
The first person to speak in Wistram Academy was Archmage Viltach, who paled and reached for his wand with his new arm. Reflexively—the memory of Amerys tearing up the banquet hall he was sitting in was vivid. He had nightmares about it.
“She’ll kill her. Amerys, I mean. Valeterisa doesn’t stand—is she headhunting [Mages] in Izril now? Tell anyone who’s Wistram-affiliated to take cover!”
Another [Mage] squeaked. Half the ones in the room were buzzing—not fully with sympathy, for Valeterisa was not well-loved. But Amerys? Viltach whirled.
“Scrying orb. Is this on television? Should we cut the broadcast?”
“Cut the broadcast?”
That question was derisive, and Viltach flinched. For like so many moments, it was Archmage Eldavin who spoke as if his fellow Archmage were a fool as well as a dullard. He sat at his own table and turned.
“If they do battle, or Valeterisa loses, would this not affect Terras’ reputation, Archmage Eldavin?”
The cool question came from Archmage Feor, the second-most important half-Elf in Wistram. Maybe soon third if Eldavin kept elevating his own people in levels and magic. Eldavin’s mismatched eyes were icy as he raised a finger to his temples.
“It would, Archmage Feor. But are you suggesting we visibly sever a live broadcast of such magnitude? While other news networks, doubtless, will prove our censorship and make us seem like fools?”
“That was not my assertion. I was merely asking a question to Archmage Viltach’s point—”
Feor glowered, but Eldavin was already conjuring a massive scrying spell in the air. He spoke dreamily to everyone, and Viltach felt his skin tingling. As he occasionally did, Eldavin’s words seemed to be older than this room itself.
“This is a battle of Archmagi. A Mage’s Duel. I am attempting to contact Valeterisa, and if aught can be done…this is a sight worth witnessing, children. Such moments have defined entire eras. Not just in spectacle. Not just in terms of victors and losers. Magic witness it: you shall rarely ever see two experts strive against each other thusly. And thus, seldom see finer spellcasting.”
His words were that of an immortal. That of a great spellcaster, and, Viltach realized, he could also not take his eyes off the image hovering in the air. Nor was it mere entertainment.
 
——
 
Consumed by vengeance, castle abandoned.
Not cold…he had begun forgetting what cold was, even in memory. The Lich of undeath, Az’kerash, stood in an empty field where dying Landsharks gazed up at glowing-eyed undead. Then fell limply.
Rose.
But the undead merely waited, and the Chosen, who had fought this battle, were shifting. For their master, who had pushed them harder than they had ever been tested these last few months, was different. Today no less than others.
He was…
Digging.
A literal shovel in hand, ignoring the offers of his Chosen to do the work for him, heedless of the literal Bone Giant he could have used for the same purpose. Digging a hole already three hours into the making, carefully.
Very carefully.
Az’kerash only paused in his labors when he received a brief spot of information across his networks of informants and compromised magical spells that fed him knowledge of the world. It cost a great deal of mana—here at least—but it was worth it. For he put the shovel down and floated upwards.
“Two Archmages have met in Liscor? [Cloaked Scrying]. All will halt. Children: observe.”
He sat cross-legged on the grass, abandoning his task for a moment. He barely knew either woman as they met in the rain. They were not [Archmages] worthy of the name…well, one wasn’t. The other might be close.
It did not matter. Az’kerash watched, and some Human part of him stirred in remembrance. But even the Lich watched.
“Master? What does it matter if two mortal magi die? Unless their bodies…?”
Venitra was trying to puzzle it out. The Necromancer replied softly.
“To learn, Venitra. The spellcasting of the modern era, the level and techniques used. And yes, to know who falls and where they are buried. But to see…”
His mind flashed back to a living heart beating, and Perril Chandler whispered once.
“To see whose vision of magic is truer. What [Mage] would not witness it?”
 
——
 
Not just [Mages]. Flos Reimarch halted his ride towards the next battle.
“Amerys did what?”
He gazed at the scrying orb that Death Commander Ytol was holding. Disapprovingly, Death-General Losve growled.
“She has abandoned her front? It explains the failure of her forces and others! Your Majesty, shall I contact her and order her retreat?”
Flos wasn’t listening.
“Liscor…? And she didn’t take me. Outrageous!”
Of his many vassals, the Rustängmarder and Gazi were present. And of the many groups that had served the King of Destruction, they were some of his most ardent followers, Death General Losve being much like Gazi in that respect. However, Losve had never quite understood Flos like the rest of the Seven.
“Did she not inform Your Majesty of her actions? To make war on Izrilian cities without permission is treasonous, Your Majesty.”
The slits in her vizor blazed a wrathful green. However, Flos just kept staring at the orb, dismayed.
“No, she told me she was going off to beat another [Mage] senseless and needed backup and Gazi’s help—don’t be overdramatic, Losve. She used to do this all the time. But she didn’t say Liscor. Probably because she didn’t want to carry me, and Orthenon would put up a fuss! Gazi! You conspirator!”
The half-Gazer ducked her head, smiling as he glowered at her. Flos groaned.
“I could have eaten one of those blue fruits! Someone send her a [Message] to get some for me!”
The Death General’s ire wavered out like a candle blown by a breeze. Flos was only mad he’d missed out! She hesitated.
“Shall we continue our advance, Your Majesty…?”
The King of Destruction threw up a hand.
“No. Halt the army. We watch.”
He smiled, a too-eager, envious grin flashing across his face, and the Rustängmarder shifted, aware that the King of Destruction’s focus had been sapped by this flight of fancy. Yet the army was already gathering, eager to witness this moment from their beloved Archmage.
Only Losve and her people were unmoved. She cast a glance southwards.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen may not honor this moment as others, Your Majesty. If they should bid to attack?”
He turned his head, and re-focused a moment, frowning. Flos stroked his beard.
“If they should, I will do battle. But it is a fair point, Death-General. Take your pick of officers unwilling to yet die. Bring the battle to our foes of today if only to buy us an hour’s reprieve.”
“As Your Majesty wills. Have I leave to rout them?”
“Yes.”
The green glow from the Death-General’s eyes matched her smile as her helmet rose.
“Have I leave to raze them if they resist?”
“Yes.”
He wasn’t paying attention. The King of Destruction watched before turning his head once.
“Gazi? What set Amerys on this particular quest? I would have thought she’d challenge Nerrhavia’s Fallen before setting off to Izril.”
“Apparently, she was challenged, sire.”
His brows rose in frank incredulity.
“Truly?”
“The image was suspect to my eyes. But you know Amerys.”
“Hah. Yes. She likely needed little more than that. So that’s why…the Archmage of Izril seems to be a far frailer woman than the being who lifted the City of Incantations. She may well run rather than duel. Who is that Drake? I feel as though I know him.”
Gazi’s eyes fixed on the scrying orb where a Drake was following Valeterisa, albeit at a remove.
“That would be a [Spearmaster]. The one from Liscor. Relc the Gecko. They appear to be coupled.”
“Interesting.”
Flos Reimarch went still, then, watching as the two Archmagi drew closer.
 
——
 
Belavierr the Stitch Witch understood science. Not in the same easy way of a physicist who conversed with numbers as if they defined everything, but in the way of a [Numerologist]. As someone who understood what people believed so she could manipulate it. Who studied the box so she could shake that which was inside.
She understood, then, the oldest adage of physics. A lever. With a simple lever, one could move…
Anything.
Building the lever was difficult. Some tasks were too weighty even for her. Still…the work went on. She was taking step by slow step upwards. It was hard work. Gruelling.
Even so, the dead Kraken straining upwards, its ruined body ensnared by vast strings—that helped. One of four, the largest by far. Smaller, living Krakens strained next to it, terror giving them strength. For if they died…she would still have a servant.
Belavierr did not watch the image of the two women approaching each other. Well, she did, but she watched many things.
She watched the faces of those observing this conflict, so many threads converging on a singular moment, proof of this changing world. She observed the strands of fate that drew these two women together. She watched two different kinds of magic meeting…
“Strange. Not a traditional duel then. A variant.”
She knew them all. This was virtually as primordial as the first. The Stitch Witch took one step.
The seafloor shook.
 
——
 
The faint tremor didn’t reach the deck of the ship that the King of Myths sat on. It was merely a slightly larger wave from further away.
Magus Tserre’s arms were folded. She was giving commentary as Princess Vernoue watched almost as raptly as the King of Myths.
“So these are modern Archmagi. The one with green hair wins.”
“Magus, you cannot issue such boldfaced proclamations before they’ve even begun. Are they both not great [Mages]?”
Nuvityn protested. Indeed, Archmage Valeterisa was seen to be protesting vehemently with her equal, and her body language suggested a fight was not in the works.
The old half-Elf just turned her head.
“They may be, but one is a battlemage. The other is not. And before you speak, Commander Voreca, yes. I have caught up to modern events. Archmage Valeterisa might well serve as a [Battlemage]. It is not the same. It would be like sending Prildor forth as an [Archer General]. Serviceable, but entirely different to the King of Bows.”
“Hey! I resent that! Er, which King of Bows is it? Itrei-who? Dead gods, they’ve died again. How good is this fellow with a bow? The last one, well, she could barely hit a fly’s wings from four hundred paces.”
Nuvityn just watched, heart beating too quickly. Tserre appeared bored, but her eyes never left the vision of the two approaching. Then she grimaced and whispered.
“She’s definitely watching. She enjoys this thing, though she has sent more [Mages] to their graves since anyone save for Valmira herself.”
Once more, Nuvityn turned his head as that piece of Tserre’s puzzle revealed itself. But then he focused on the scrying orb.
 
——
 
Tserre was right.
The Death of Magic had a bucket of popcorn.
 
——
 
By the time the two met, they were aware of the scrying spells hovering in the air like a vast tangle of overlapping ‘eyes’. Though that was, Valeterisa considered, mind a-jumble of thoughts and emotions, such a simplistic way of thinking of it.
“It’s more akin to a tangle of cones. In most cases, traditional [Scrying] is, um, a bounded field of vision akin to a cone. It is based on actual eyes in some way, I understand. That is how it can be disrupted; manipulation of said cone in the air easily distorts the image. More adept spellcasting is far more advanced and does not necessarily have the same shape. A way one can observe superior spellcasting without even identification of the magical amplitude, Apprentice. As so…”
She was highlighting some of the scrying spells until the young woman whispered.
“Master, please! She’s right there.”
Valeterisa knew that. She just didn’t want to meet the other woman’s eyes. Valley licked her lips.
“Strange, you know. It feels like being a new [Mage] all over again. They say you never really leave your academy days behind, and we were both in the same place…she always was very intense. Not that she bullied me, per se…”
Relc and Montressa were exchanging glances as they [Waterwalked] towards Amerys. They had offered to come with Valeterisa for moral support and because this was not a fight. Valeterisa had clarified that to Lyonette, though she had asked if maybe the inn would consider posting Bird in the tower. And they had a ballista!
The [Princess] had rather unhelpfully told Valeterisa that the inn was ‘not getting involved’ and to take it elsewhere. Which was very hurtful to a paying guest!
This was all some huge misunderstanding, and once Valeterisa cleared this up, they’d all laugh and laugh…
She recalled Amerys’ laughter being distinctly unsettling. Valeterisa fiddled with her big moon-shaped glasses and reminded herself she was, in fact, the Archmage of Izril. Just…
Just not like that.
Amerys really was unfair. Valeterisa knew for a fact that the other woman wasn’t that much younger than she was. Amerys had already been famed before the King of Destruction. Yet Amerys seemed decades younger. Was it just good alchemical products or illusion spells?
Then again, Amerys had always been taller and more graceful. Valeterisa was keenly aware of her grey hair, which only had faintly blue roots of the Imarris bloodline. Her robes were a slash of grey over green; respectable, but not like the cloud of distant magic adorning Amerys’ frame. And her eyes did not shine with the depth of magic. They were merely clouds into a distant vista of incantations she longed to one day uncover.
When she halted, and Montressa pushed her gently, Valeterisa stumbled forwards over a stupid little wave of water, and she and Amerys were not at a height. The Archmage of Lightning was floating off the water in a showy move.
