They twisted out of existence before touching the Archmage of Izril. Her barrier spells shuddered, overloading at diffusing that much mana. Valeterisa’s wand rose.
Amerys flickered—appeared behind Valeterisa. Her kick shattered a barrier, and Valeterisa—
—skipped over the waters like a stone—
Mind aflurry, tumbling. Had to put kinetic blockers on—
The Archmage of Lightning drop-kicked downwards, and a bolt of [Grand Lightning] drowned everything out. She turned, aiming.
Pop. Valeterisa’s [Rapid Teleport] made her appear in the air, and the trio of lightning bolts struck her. Didn’t diffuse; she reeled as her secondary barrier spells overloaded. Down to personal shields. She was gasping as Amerys spoke.
“They told me you bested Eldavin when he challenged every Archmage. Let’s see it.”
The Archmage of Izril stopped thinking of ways to make peace. She abandoned every thought not on survival or spellcraft. She aimed her wand and began firing spells nonstop as the duel began. All except for one little thought in the back of her head.
Oh no, oh no, oh no…I can’t beat her. Not her. 
But she couldn’t run. Amerys was too fast.
 
——
 
It was happening too fast. Even for him—both in the escalation and the conflict. This was not a Solstice event. This was something else, and it had the sharp tang of war to it.
This was…Flos Reimarch’s myth. The King of Destruction’s phenomena. If Erin’s was chaos, with levity and blades, this was far sharper. The unsheathed sword.
The air was filled with so many sounds and the light too blinding at first, so Relc Grasstongue focused. He was standing on the water as Montressa covered her eyes, her barrier spells absorbing stray particles of magic. But she was still a kid; perhaps Relc alone fully saw the first moments of the two Archmages’ duel.
He still didn’t understand what he was seeing, not the magical nuance of it. His eyes only tracked the two women, not the unseen spellcasting. But what was visible was enough.
Relc had never encountered anyone as fast as Amerys. Not even Zeladona had been that fast—not that she’d needed to be or been pushed. This woman?
He was the Gecko of Liscor, but his [Lightning Run] seemed like a joke of a Skill compared to her movements. Each step carried her dozens or even up to a hundred feet in the air. It was something beyond [Flash Step]; she could move about the skies in jolts of lightning and reposition around her opponent with ease.
He couldn’t imagine outrunning or catching her; she danced in a sphere around her target, Valeterisa. When a flurry of magical arrows came her way, she’d just step aside or swerve under the spells. Dodging.
Valeterisa was blocking, the far harder task. When they talked about magic and she explained things to him, or tried, he always brought it back to things he knew, like a fistfight. Easier and less painful to dodge than block, right? She had said he was ‘reductive’, but accurate. Every spell you had to absorb with your barriers took mana—and she was doing that now.
Not that Valeterisa wasn’t mobile; she was flying in an erratic pattern, surging upwards, diving, even dodging as well, trying to throw Amerys off. However—her [Fast Levitation] wasn’t at all comparable to Amerys’ speed. He saw floating shields like a [Knight]’s heater shield, made of green magic, circling her under a bubble-barrier and magical armor; layers upon layers of magic.
Each time Amerys threw a bolt of lightning, one of those layers vanished, and Valeterisa had to replenish it. She was trying every technique she had to diffuse the magic. Barriers were a game of sword-scroll-rock according to her. Each one worked differently. He assumed she was casting [Lightning Ward], but it wasn’t…working.
As he watched, Valeterisa dove, and he saw eight different Tier 4 spells shooting outwards from her wand. [Double Fast Fireball], [Ice Spike Spray], [Invisible Silent Sickle]—Relc could see their outlines in the rain—[Shattering Stone Lance]—
Each one an upgrade on regular spells. Only one was aimed at Amerys; the others were fired in a pattern around Amerys as she twisted, trying to catch the Archmage of Lightning where she appeared.
Amerys dodged the two [Fireballs], stepping down into a place where the [Stone Lance] spell exploded, showering her with deadly [Stone D—
—She was already a dozen feet back and threw a [Lightning Bolt] as the [Stone Darts] hit the water. The bolt of lightning struck one of the glowing knight-shields and bounced.
“Deflection! She’s doing it! Master, [Lightning Ward] your barriers! All of them!”
Montressa was screaming, hands cupped to her mouth. Relc doubted Valeterisa could hear; the Archmage of Izril whirled, saw Amerys tilting her head, and fired a [Spear of Light]. Then cast around, anticipating Amerys’ next move…
The Archmage of Chandrar dipped slightly, and the [Spear of Light] passed just over her head. She caught Valeterisa looking the other way and pointed her wand.
Blue lightning. Valeterisa’s knight-shield spell exploded, and Montressa stopped yelling in horror.
“That’s a dual-element spell.”
Of course. Relc tensed as he saw Valeterisa doing a loop, firing more spells that Amerys flicked out of the way of. If you were known as the Lightning Magus, then everyone would use that trick on you. That explained why Amerys’ lightning changed colors. She was cycling the spell types. Or just—
He saw her dive into the waters, or seem to. Illusion. Valeterisa pointed down, and he shouted.
“Valley! Above you!”
Whether she heard or not, Valeterisa’s head snapped up too late. She saw Amerys taking aim—
Whatever hit Valeterisa, it wasn’t [Grand Lightning].
Relc knew that because one of Montressa’s [Arcane Barrier] layers imploded from the shockwave. He staggered and saw Valeterisa falling. She caught herself in the air, woozy. Then he heard her speaking.
“[—Whiteflame Jet], [Thresk’s Steel Warspears], [Tidal Wave], [Firestorm], [Windstorm of Karaz], [Expand Spell]—”
She was casting faster than he’d ever seen. Area of attack spells—winds howled upwards as a sandy veil enshrouded her. It met flames raining down, and the two storms met in the air as the waters rose. Steel spears and white-hot fire flashed out of the defensive storm.
The Archmage of Chandrar laughed as she halted out of range of the amalgamation of magic. She didn’t try to push her advantage; she just readjusted her grip on her wand, murmuring.
“[Bind Spell: Forked Grand Lightning]. [Bind Spell: Greater Dispel]…”
She was breathing deeply, in and out. Not good; not at all. She had the same atmosphere about her that Relc was familiar with. Like a [Veteran Soldier] would do, like he did, she was waiting between bouts, gathering her breath, even with the battle right in front of her. The flashing spells from within the storm told Relc that Valeterisa was still casting defensively, assuming she was being attacked. Trying to buy time to reset.
Everything about Amerys was familiar to Relc. They were no way on the same level, but he recognized her patterns. She was a speed attacker. Like him. All her spells were long-ranged bolts of lightning; she didn’t alternate spells. She didn’t need to.
She just needed to hit someone hard enough, and they were dead. Now, she raised a hand, and he knew she was going for a big one.
“[Bind Spell: Thunderbolt of the Lightning Giant].”
That one wasn’t instantaneous. He saw lightning trickling downwards from the clouds and forming over her head as it wrapped down one arm. Montressa moaned.
“That’s not…that’s Tier 6 magic! She can bind that?”
Relc had never seen that spell cast by a single [Mage]. He’d seen a Tier 6 spell go off in war once. It had blown a hole through nine ranks of Antinium during the Second Antinium Wars. And she was binding it; she’d be able to throw it in a second once it was done. His teeth gritted.
This is a legend of the King of Destruction. One of his Seven. It would be suicide to get between her and Valley. Can Valeterisa match her? 
He pictured the silly, sometimes befuddled woman blinking over her cup of tea. Then flashed to the Archmage lifting Fissival overhead. Which one…?
Amerys pivoted, breaking away from binding the Tier 6 spell. She swatted something out of the air.
“This is a mage’s duel, Drake. I don’t feel like killing you. You aren’t at our level. I’ll ignore that once.”
Relc had thrown one of his blacksmith’s puzzles at her. He was outside of Montressa’s barrier spells. She froze.
“Relc? Don’t—”
“Valeterisa doesn’t want to duel you. Back down, Archmage. You’re in Liscor’s territory.”
The response amused Amerys. She floated back as Relc lifted the spear that had killed more [Mages] than he could count. The whirling storm of magic subsided, and Valeterisa reappeared, barrier spells doubled. She froze when she saw the Drake standing on the waters.
“Relc?”
But for her [Waterwalking] magic, Relc couldn’t even face Amerys. He knew that. Even so, the [Spearmaster] set himself. Amerys tilted her head.
“Liscor. Now that is funny. King Perric of Medain hasn’t the stones to threaten me with his nation’s sovereignty. Are you Liscor’s champion…what is your name, paramour?”
“It’s Relc. I’m a Senior Guardsman. Fly off before I arrest you.”
Wow, he was as stupid as everyone said he was. The Gecko saw Amerys’ lips quirk. She pointed her wand at Valeterisa.
—He saw her other hand point a finger at him—
The [Lightning Bolt] was fast. Relc’s spear blocked it, and he felt the jolt run down his legs into the water. It still hurt, but the magic diffused as his spear whirled.
Faster than Valeterisa’s [Lightning Bolts]. Way more powerful. Valeterisa had never fired them trying to kill him. The Drake swore. Amerys’ head turned.
“Oho. You are a [Spearmaster]. And that spear…anti-magic tip. Mage-killer.”
“I’m warning you. [Officer Headhunter Mode].”
He sank into a killing stance, ready to dash. But—she was so high up. He could throw his spear, but even if he called it back, that would leave him exposed, and she was so damn fast. How the hell did he hit her? He wasn’t even sure his Skill would work on her.
“Relc! Get away!”
Valeterisa shouted. She was flying towards them, and Amerys pointed a finger at Relc, her wand at Valeterisa.
“Let’s see how fast you are, [Spearmaster]. [Lightningbolt Volley].”
She started blasting spells at him and Valeterisa. Vanished—shot another [Lightning Bolt] down from sixty feet up, twenty feet to the right of where she’d been, pivoted, fired two more [Lightning Bolts] at him, unleashed her bound [Grand Lightning] at Valeterisa—
The Gecko of Liscor parried the first four [Lightning Bolts] faster than he’d ever moved in his life. His spear was whirling in a defensive pattern. He pivoted, and the waters shook underfoot as the diagonal one made him stumble. He didn’t know this terrain. Turn! T—
The fifth one hit him. The [Spearmaster]’s anti-magic spear sang, a high-pitched keening of its enchantments deflecting the lightning bolt as he slashed away from his chest. Diffusing the spell before it could fully electrocute him. The butt of the spear blocked the sixth bolt. But the impact still tossed him across the water.
He rolled to his feet, head ringing. A huge scorch-mark was on his chest. His bare chest; he didn’t even have armor on, just clothes Valeterisa had bought him.
Good…it wouldn’t stop lightning anyways. I’m barely fast enough.
His arms were trembling from the electricity. He gripped his spear tighter, and it was still shrilling from that much magic. He’d only heard it do that twice.
“Valeterisa?”
A geyser of water and flames. Then a spark of fleeing lightning. The Archmage of Izril was bombing the area with spells as Amerys backed off. But the flicker changed-course—she was back, just out of reach, thirty feet up.
He still jumped and slashed. He had to try—
She backed up a dozen feet as he landed. Fired a seventh lightning bolt. He blocked it, but it knocked him to the ‘ground’, and he skidded on the water.
“You are good. But she didn’t make that spear for you. I’ve seen the like before.”
What did that—? Amerys pointed at him, and her other finger crossed her chest.
“[Fourfold Arcane Barrier]. [Empowered Spell: Dragonling Spark Dance].”
He’d never heard of that one before! Relc’s spear spun as Amerys conjured a barrier; Valeterisa’s magical spells began to slam into it as miniature little jolts of lightning that looked like they had the silhouettes of Dragons fired from her wand.
One dozen, two dozen—he lost track as his spear whirled.
[Defensive Whirl]! [Spear Flurry]—[Whirlwind Dodge]—
He began stabbing the lightning bolts, then dodged away, but they followed. The Drake was dancing backwards, spear shaking in his clawed hands, untouched for a moment.
His spear was shaking?
It was vibrating, he realized. Thrumming, and that keening sound was too loud. He gazed up as Amerys’ spell ended. She pointed.
“[Burning Lightning].”
Flames burst over her shields, and she cursed. Vanished. He raised his spear and blocked the bolt of red lightning—
 
——
 
“Relc? Relc!”
The Drake rolled up. His scales were on fire. But it was just flames. He gasped; Montressa was standing over him, hands raised.
“My spear—”
It had exploded. His mind caught up with his memories as the Drake looked around. The explosion had hurled him into the waters; it had deactivated his [Waterwalking] spell. Montressa had pulled him up.
Bag of holding? Gone. A charm Valeterisa had made for him? Fallen to pieces. His spear’s enchantment…the Archmage of Lightning had destroyed it.
Relc was still holding part of the shaft. He gazed at the spear that had been with him ever since he’d made [Sergeant]. Then he let go of it.
“Valeterisa.”
 
——
 
Montressa had pulled Relc out of the water when she’d seen him fall in. She stood over him, reapplying her barriers as he stared skywards.
The clouds were lighting up. They’d taken their fight skywards, possibly because Valeterisa was trying to use the clouds as cover. Or because she’d feared endangering Relc and Montressa?
He saw lightning bolts shooting through the cloud—then coalescing. They flashed, and a figure fell. The bolts of lightning followed her down.
“She’s losing. W-we have to help!”
“I need another spear! Don’t fight, get to the inn!”
Relc shouted at Montressa. He began to run—she wavered, then pointed her staff upwards.
“[Hundredfold Arrows of Light]! [Seeker Orb]! [S-Siege Fireball]!”
Her own magical abilities were far greater than they had been at the Bloodfields! Even with her barriers up, she could fire spells through them! Relc raced away, and Montressa saw her spells shooting skywards…
