Again, Lady Pryde hesitated, uncharacteristically or characteristically if you truly knew her—like Lady Bethal and Lady Magnolia, who both still called her friend, even if the reverse was not true. But Pryde would always stand. So she did and took Grimalkin’s arm with a grip gentler than anyone else’s.
But he halted.
“Grimalkin. No. You cannot. You’re not prepared. You…don’t. Please, don’t.”
Her voice was husky, barely audible to the cameras. Sir Relz glanced at her as Grimalkin turned, and his normally-booming voice had gone silent. He swallowed, visibly, as he tried to say something to her, and the [Commentator] made his mistake. This time, he moved between the two and shoved Pryde back.
“Sinew Magus! May I ask who this—this Human [Lady] is to you? This is a Pallassian matter, not for outsiders!”
He glowered at Pryde as every eye in the studio swung to Grimalkin. And here, Noass opened his mouth, because he had realized something Sir Relz had not.
Peer pressure. Social pressure. The weight of the consequences of his actions.
What of it? It was mere weight to the Sinew Magus. His shrug of the shoulders was a lift and curl as he drew them back. He spoke with a clear voice as he placed a hand on Pryde’s shoulder and hugged her.
“Lady Pryde Ulta is the recipient of my affections and admirations, Sir Relz. She has every right to speak to me and ask me anything in the world.”
He paused. And Noass closed his eyes and sat back as Pallass, nay, Drakekind stared at Grimalkin, who was…the Sinew Magus rubbed at his chin.
“Hm. I realize I often dance around the truth. We are…dating. Which sounds too juvenile. We are romantic partners? I love her. And, ah. I do not want to lose her.”
He looked into her eyes then wavered as he glanced at the scrying orb. Noass reached over and slapped a magical rune.
The image of Grimalkin and Pryde holding each other’s hands shut off across the world. Commercials started playing on the news. The complaints began pouring in by the thousand the next minute. Half Drake, half Human.
But the Drake and Human that mattered didn’t move. He was bent over, gazing into her eyes; she refused to let him go, and his resolve wavered in that moment.
This was a love story.
But this was not the time.
 
——
 
There was something…righteous about the way it ended, Valeterisa thought. It was not fair, but it was. Even in magic, the stronger one dictated events.
It was savage, an antithetical system to the one she wished for. But it was the one that existed and had played out throughout history. And wasn’t it an honor?
It was her. Amerys. The being who they had all looked up to, for all her infamy. The [Mage] who was pride and power on the battlefield. The closest one to what they were supposed to be, but for Zelkyr.
Oh, she was beautiful as she descended, a strange wren made of lightning. She struck Valeterisa, and the Archmage of Izril cried out, but no one could help her.
Not the inn, not the distant Mireden trying to catch them, or the running Drake crying her name. Amerys was too close, darting around. Unassailable in her supremacy.
Tired…yes, that too. Valeterisa knew her opponent did not have forever to spend her energies, but like the veteran she was, she had calculated the point of no return, and she had not hit it yet. Now, she was doing what Valeterisa did.
Looting a random encounter. Or maybe a <Quest>. That was funny, ha-ha, just not right now.
<Heroic Quest — Beat the Archmage of Izril! (And possibly some half-Giant from the future.)>
It wasn’t a <Mythical Quest> she was pretty sure. Alas…
The stray thoughts jumbled together as Valeterisa hit the ground. She cried out. Her [Parallel Thoughts] were going nonstop. It was that or face the pain, the exhaustion, the burning mana in her veins.
Valeterisa-Movement: Body not working. Get up, get up—
Valeterisa-Analysis: Her positioning is superior. Without preparation, we cannot strike her. If we only had time to cast spells which could account for her magic.
Valeterisa-Bravery: Montressa and Relc made it out. Job done. Go out swinging.
Valeterisa-Cold: Overload your mana circuits. Take her with you.
Valeterisa-Emotions: I’m afraid. Maybe…
A blow scrambled everything. She was reaching for her wand, but the Archmage of Lightning was chaining her kicks and punches. No time for Valeterisa to mount a counteroffensive. She was…after her goal.
Then, the Archmage of Izril saw it. The belated realization as she wondered why that last round of blows that had destroyed her barrier hadn’t killed her. She was a limp ragdoll being tossed around, but Amerys had enough force to make Valeterisa literally explode with a kick.
Aside from not wishing to get her feet dirty, why prolong the risk? The answer was simple.
Amerys was a liar.
 
——
 
A [Message] spell came in as the Archmage of Chandrar concluded her hunt, circling her weakening opponent much like a predator in the wilds. She refused to lose concentration in this moment; this was where a mistake would cost her greatly. But if she made no mistakes, the outcome was clear.
Hence, the [Message]. There were hundreds who might try to contact Amerys in this moment; she would have ignored even the King of Destruction’s words, but not this one. It came from the inn, and Amerys’ eyes flickered as she swept past a desperate hail of light-shards coming from below.
Lyonette: You’ve won. We have a ballista, and Bird the Huntress does not miss. Nor does Elia. Kill her, and you won’t draw a second breath.
 
Many had threatened her. But this one she would have taken seriously…if it mattered. For Amerys had never intended to risk the inn’s wrath.
She wasn’t…targetting Valeterisa’s life. She was flitting around Valeterisa as the Archmage of Izril pivoted, trying to fly, kicking, slashing with a small blade made of lightning. At Valeterisa’s side. She even tried to grab—
“No!”
Valeterisa’s fingers sprayed deadly shards of crystal, and the Archmage of Lightning vanished, but she was on the attack again. Towards the only thing that mattered.
Valeterisa’s bag of holding. Her life’s work. Her notes, her spells…all collected in the one place that would always come with her. As Amerys had said, it was there.
So much was in Valeterisa’s head. But even she could not encompass it all. Now, like the hunting bird she was, Amerys had come for the true treasure. She was a thief! A dirty mugging thief, no wren or even magpie, but a swallow made of thunder and electricity!
“Nonono. Please…don’t—”
Valeterisa was holding the bag of holding in her hands. Trying to shield it with her body, forgetting it would be so much easier to kill her. But that was who she was. A [Mage] who loved magic.
The Archmage of Chandrar saw it all. Her eyes were locked on the bag of holding as she thrust a tiny object forwards, darted away as Valeterisa swept flames across the Floodplains at her. And Lord Moore had stopped chasing, perhaps considering this a small price to pay to avoid death.
The needle made of lightning was attached to a crackling string. Amerys yanked, and Valeterisa felt her bag of holding coming undone. The precious dimensional space she had enchanted herself wavered…and she felt it begin to disgorge its contents, the emergency failsafe to avoid wholesale destruction.
“Stop!”
She reached out, and the magic of the bag of holding wavered. For a second, she held the dimensional space together, and Amerys drew in a breath. But the Archmage of Izril’s control slipped—and then it began to spill.
An Archmage’s treasures began to fly upwards into the air and rain. Not what you thought: artifacts or precious reagents. Montressa had all that in her bag of holding or the Chest of Holding they used.
Valeterisa only kept what was most precious to her: paper. Enchanted scrolls of ancient vellum. Magical hide, scavenged pieces of faded writings. Re-copied notes on pieces of simple paper written with a neat clear hand.
Her notes. Her theorems. Her formulas, the magic she had yet to uncover, or things she thought she understood. Everything, oh, everything.
Not just thousands of pieces of paper. Tens of thousands…even more. Fluttering upwards, then falling in the rain. How much could you cram into a bag of holding made by an Archmage?
Valeterisa reached for it with a cry like her chest was splitting open. She tried to call them back to her—but there was a flicker of lightning. Pages vanished.
Amerys swooped around the wailing Archmage of Izril, collecting her notes. When Valeterisa tried to stop her, a blow to her chest sent her crashing into the waters. She reached up as she surfaced, trying to protect it.
Glowing magic written with such delicacy that no picture from any device could ever encompass it was floating down, ignoring the rain trying to bring the paper into the water where it would be lost forever.
The water had stopped falling. Gravity…Amerys had cast a gravity spell. She was darting around, picking the papers up, but there were more than she had dreamed of. Valeterisa’s lips moved.
My great work. Amerys was not just grabbing everything; she was targeting what she knew was the most valuable, what could not be copied because it was the language of spells itself, writ on paper.
Her notes on the lost magical art she had spent eight years of her life—no, decades pursuing. They were hanging in the air, a tapestry of glittering hope and despair.
Valeterisa couldn’t breathe. She was reaching up, forgetting she was an Archmage. Just a girl pleading for the Archmage to give her life’s work back. Eyes streaming with water trying in vain to memorize all she was losing.
So close. It was all so close. The future had said so. She had been given all the hints, had worked for years without sleep or rest, knowing the conclusion was there. Just unable to make that final leap of genius with all the pieces assembled.
Like a blacksmith’s puzzle, she had told Relc once. Only, the hardest in the world. Imagine a puzzle beyond complicated that you had to solve. But all in one move. And if you didn’t do it perfectly…you couldn’t understand it.
A part of her raged at Amerys. Take it, then, and be damned with it! But even that part was sobbing the wrath.
The worst part? The very worst was that there was so very little malice in Amerys’ eyes as she hovered there, collecting the notes. She could have killed Valeterisa, but she had never come for war.
I greatly admire you. I misjudged you. We could have been great friends. Greater enemies.
There was no true rage, just the heat of battle. No hatred. Just a strange desperation in Amerys. The desperation of one of the world’s greatest [Mages] who had seen the ceiling of her ambitions. Who saw Eldavin rising, the moon cracking, and knew she had to improve or die.
She was framed above the spiral of notes hovering in the air. In her, Valeterisa saw a door opened in that [Palace]. A place where the two might have been those things. A lifetime of regrets, of things she had not done.
Found Relc sooner.
Found Montressa sooner.
Been kinder.
Been wiser.
Done more for the people she loved.
Sacrificed less.
Saved more.
But she had sacrificed it all, all of it, always, for the thing she had told Montressa was worth it.
Magic. Magic alone. Now it was stolen. Hanging there.
It was not fair that you could steal that of all she had. Valeterisa’s eyes were wide, her glasses missing. Even Amerys halted, an expression of surprised guilt on her face. For the Archmage just lay in the waters, gazing upwards.
She could remember writing every word above her. Every symbol. Not…not consciously, but she had done it. The symphony of notes that no one but magic’s children could hear. The stairway to the future she had built out of nothing but thought.
Valeterisa had never seen it all like this. Never unspooled, exploded into the skies. A bubble of her thoughts surrounding her, presented in a way she had never thought of. Her grey eyes swam with tears, blurring the magic. Distorting it.
Clouds as lovely as the rains of Liscor, Relc had once said of her eyes, which had hurt her feelings until he clarified that was a compliment. Not very magical eyes, really, not like Amerys’. Just grey. Distant fog obscuring a realm beyond imagining. Like the mists of the secrets she had tried so long to unravel.
Amerys, meeting that gaze with effort, saw in the swirling vortex of Valeterisa’s irises the lines of magic coalescing, like an idea of ten thousand pages coming together to a single meaning.
Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, hung there a moment like a bewitched predator seeing a hypnotic pattern. The lights flickered in Valeterisa’s tear-studded eyes, and then…Amerys saw the grey clouds part.
“What…?”
A ray of color she had no words for, the color of magic, shot from those eyes. Just a sliver of radiance that Amerys thought was her imagination. A hallucination. Then the eyes blinked…and the color brightened.
“Oh. Is that what it is? I wrote a circle around it.”
The faint voice from below was audible in the stilled rains. Amerys glanced around at the papers hanging there. Then down.
No.
It couldn’t be. The other woman was in denial. Valeterisa had hit her head too hard; snapped from the stress of losing…her eyes.
The sliver of magic called to Amerys. The Archmage of Lightning reached down.
“What…what do you see?”
She had never beheld that gaze among the living. Not even the image of Archmage Eldavin, that smug genius. Nor even in the rare records of Silvenia Ettertree’s eyes. Just once, Amerys remembered seeing that.
Just…once. In a picture of that Drake that someone had found before it had been confiscated by his last servant. That monstrous, arrogant fool who had still done the impossible. Archmage Zelkyr, the Drake who had rediscovered what was lost. Reinvented a truth of Golems, of magic.
The same eyes. Someone who had found it, not been taught or stolen it. Who had uncovered it by themselves.
Down, the Archmage of Chandrar reached, gasping, breathless, trying to steal something she knew was unattainable. Until she caught herself. Until those grey eyes glowing with magic’s insight focused on her.
Archmage Valeterisa Imarris tore her eyes away from the vision of magic that she beheld so…so casually. Because it was in her. Then, the woman floating on her back narrowed her gaze and focused on the woman who had brought battle to her. Who had tried to steal everything.
Amerys heard an alarm like [Dangersense] ring in her head.
“Uh oh.”
 
——
 
Montressa du Valeross was screaming her master’s name, trying to run towards her over the water, heedless of the danger. Only trying to protect her Master’s work.
