But she was smiling because she wanted to see about the Liska thing first. There were two scenarios: either she said no, which would be funny, or she said yes, in which case, drama!
That was Zevara’s assumption, but when she saw Liska sitting on her couch, mechanically sending people from city to city, the Watch Captain’s grin faltered.
“Er, hello, Liska.”
“Hey, Captain Zevara. Need to go anywhere? Need to find the inn?”
Liska didn’t turn to her. She was staring at the ground. As if weighed down by something. Shame, perhaps. She was so uncharacteristically unhappy that Zevara hesitated, then coughed.
“I, uh…I was actually searching for you. I, erm, heard you got an offer to live in Pallass.”
The [Doorgnoll] twitched slightly. She turned away.
“Everyone to Esthelm, go. Wait for your turn to enter. Oh, I didn’t know it was that important. Ishkr says I was stupid for agreeing to it, but it’s fine. I failed the interview.”
“You…failed the interview? How?”
That surprised Zevara. Unless the people interviewing her were idiots or Liska had told them to eat their tails, Zevara was sure they’d accept her given her level alone! Liska didn’t answer for a long while, and Zevara’s new [Detective] instincts began to ping her.
Wait. Wouldn’t they do a check on her? What was the most controversial thing about Liska? Not her attitude. Oh…
“I guess I’m just too nasty to live in a Walled City. It’s okay. I’ve got my rooms.”
The girl was facing a wall now. She wiped at her face.
“Everyone to Celum, go. Wait your turn—”
There was a slight catch in her voice. Zevara saw people moving past them without glancing at Liska. She hesitated, then tapped on the barrier that protected Liska. The [Forcewall] opened. Zevara sat down on the couch.
“Hey. I know I’ve…I know the Watch has arrested you before.”
“Yeah.”
“It’s the law we’re enforcing. We don’t—it’s my job to enforce the rules, even if I disagree—I can interpret—”
The young women didn’t respond. She called out another destination, and Zevara lowered the claw she was reaching out with. She sat for a long moment, then coughed.
“Pallass is full of idiots if they turn you down. I’d approve you in a heartbeat if I was interviewing you for Liscor.”
Liska half-turned. Her drooping features turned into the smallest smile.
“That’s a nice lie, Watch Captain.”
“I don’t lie, Liska. I mean it. That was the dumbest decision I think they’ve made since General Edellein sent 2nd Army into the High Passes. And maybe I am the fool, because I—the Watch—why are we wasting time and gold hauling you in unless you actually hit someone with a brick?”
That was a good question. Zevara blinked, and Liska blinked, and it felt like they both heard the question in the open air for the first time. They stared at each other, and then Liska swivelled around a bit. She peered at Zevara curiously.
“Um…everyone to Riverfarm, go! Do something. Do you mean that?”
“I think I do. At least, I’m questioning it. That’s my class.”
Zevara was thinking, but it sounded right. Liska hesitated, then glanced at the door.
“Now to Pallass. I guess I got fooled by them talking about how fancy it is. Everyone wants to move to Pallass. My mother used to talk about it when we were small. That’s sort of why I got excited. She lives in this really crummy place, even though it’s nicer now. And Ishkr does all the work so…”
Ah, her mother. Zevara’s treacherous memory pulled up a file. She closed her eyes.
“Yes. That’s very considerate of you, Liska.”
The girl pulled her knees up to her chest.
“I know she’s sick, and it’s her fault. Lyonette’s planning a war to help Tessa. Not a real war, but it’s gonna be big. Do you…do you think maybe if she can help Tessa, she could help my mother too?”
Ah. There was a question that made Zevara pause. She didn’t know. But it seemed to her that despite Liska’s unhappiness and the silly nature of her own ‘investigation’ that had been thoughtless…it seemed to her they’d asked one truly important question. She placed a hand on Liska’s shoulder and smiled.
“You know what, Liska? That’s a fine question to ask. Do you know where the inn is? Let’s ask Lyonette.”
The [Doorgnoll] hesitated.
“But the door! I’ve gotta keep moving people through!”
“Let them wait. If you don’t matter, then Pallass can wait all day.”
Zevara shot that one at one of the [Guards] on duty, and the Drake lifted his claws at her as if to say, ‘who said that? I’m not an idiot’.
So, the Watch Captain rose, and Liska led her to a door. They marched down the hallway towards an inn. Little things, small things. After a much more understanding [Princess] had asked for more details from Ishkr and sent Liska back with a milkshake and orders to get Asgra to fill in if necessary, Liska was perked up. She sat, smiling, as she directed people through the door to every city except for Pallass for twenty minutes.
Zevara sat with her. After a long moment, the [Detective] coughed.
“Well, uh, Liska?”
“Yeah? Long enough or should I keep them waiting more?”
“What? No, no. I’m not in charge here. Not my jurisdiction. I was just wondering…would you introduce me to your, ah, girlfriend?”
Liska nearly choked on her drink. Zevara took a nervous breath. She meant everything she said, always. She just hoped that in the course of her investigations, she didn’t have to kiss anyone.
And this moment? These little events, the quiet day?
All of it was just…chance meetings on the wind. Events that interconnected and wove themselves ahead of the coming storm.
A prequel.
 
——
 
So what was actually coming?
Lord Mireden Raithland stripped off his t-shirt and dressed himself in his magical robes. Then he walked back into the inn where Liska and Zevara were chatting together and a huge crowd of people waiting for Pallass were grumbling. But the Gnoll girl just barked at them.
“Pallass pisses me off, so it’s once an hour, not every five minutes! You want to take it up with the boss?”
“Yeah!”
She jerked a thumb at her chest.
“You’re looking at her. Eat shit!”
Lord Moore smiled as she caught his eye.
“Oh, hey, Lord Mireden. You want Pallass? I’ll do it for you.”
“No, not at all. Just Liscor. And I’m perfectly content to wait; I’ll be doing a lot of that. Thank you.”
He took a place in line, then tapped his watch. A magical image, clear as crystal, appeared before him. A few people in line turned at the crisp sound coming from the watch until Lord Mireden tuned it to his hearing only. When they asked to hear, he changed it back.
Wistram News Network, Channel 1. It was still a Pallassian-dominated broadcast; there had been lots of talks to change the nation and location of the broadcast, but because Sir Relz and Noass had started the broadcast, there was now industry and levels here, so Wistram was loath to go elsewhere.
They had a few Wistram-exclusive broadcasts from their academy, and they were flirting with ‘buying’ a channel from the competition and adding it to their network, but the big ones were still Pallassian.
Channel 1 News did Sir Relz and the disgraced Noass hosting big events, political and trade news. The ‘adult’ channel. Lord Moore knew for a fact that everyone in the inn and most young people preferred Channel 2.
Channel 2, which was ‘entertainment’, but Drassi would still cover news, just more cultural stuff. She had on high-level people and hosted a much wider range of activities like cooking or gossip on events; a different kind of news that you could disparage, but was no less important.
There were more channels now, of course. Channel 3 was just music from every continent. Channel 4 was sports…Channel 5 was magical lessons from Wistram, a new addition.
One look at Magus Rievan teaching classes and Moore changed channels, commenting to people in line.
“They have to replace that man. Just utterly uncharismatic, no? Oh, what’s this new segment?”
Channel 1 had a little description of upcoming segments as Sir Relz broke the day’s news: it was raining toads in Desonis, a magical storm had begun in northern Terandria, Bloodfeast Raiders strike in Izril, and so on. He pointed at a broadcast titled, ‘I Hate Everything with Noass’.
One of the Gnolls in line rolled her eyes.
“Utter trash. I watched it with my husband yesterday, and he loved it. It’s just thirty minutes of that Drake insulting something he hates.”
Lord Moore’s intelligence-gathering about this timeline had led him to believe Noass had been in trouble for insulting everyone but Drakes just a bit ago. It seemed the Drake had turned that into an asset. He grimaced.
“Let’s see what Drassi is talking about.”
The door to Liscor opened as he watched the news, and Lord Mireden stepped into Liscor. He wandered the city, occasionally stopping to talk to someone, but really, killing time.
He wasn’t the only one. It appeared school was out, because Lord Mireden halted reflexively as someone ran past him.
“Visma, watch out! Don’t hit anyone!”
A familiar gaggle of kids ran past Moore, and he raised his voice.
“Careful where you’re running! Don’t go into the street!”
The giggling Drake girl barely seemed to hear him. She had a birthday present in her clawed hands. A wand for magic classes. And she was currently firing spells from it.
They looked like bolts of lightning in arrow form, but they weren’t even [Lightning Arrows]; the illusions were Tier 0 and bounced off panes of glass and the ground as pedestrians recoiled, then shouted at the kids.
“I’m Archmage Amerys! Fear me!”
“Nuh uh! I’m the King of Duels! Hah! Take that!”
Ekirra slashed at her with a sword. For all his warnings, he was more in danger of hitting one of the kids and turning their play into a crying episode, but the other kids were just as enthusiastic.
Even the white Gnoll girl was running around with a broom she was using to swat at people. Lord Moore smiled at Mrsha as she teamed up with a Drake girl to attack the boys.
“We’re [Witches]! Run or we’ll sweep you!”
Rinni was shouting as she and Mrsha chased Golly and the other children, who yelled.
“No fair! You can’t broom us! We’re Named-rank adventurers!”
“Then fight!”
Children at play. The funniest part was one of the Drake boys shouting.
“I’m Saliss! I’m gonna explode!”
He tried to rip off his pants and got tackled—meanwhile, Visma was having the most fun. She chased the other kids, screaming.
“I’m gonna lightning you all! I’m invincible!”
She was laughing as the rain amplified the very, very weak lightning magic, giving the spells enough energy to cause fake sparks and make hair rise ever-so-slightly.
And that was it. The half-Giant walked on, then glanced up. He blinked into the rainy skies and frowned. Then shaded his eyes.
“Hmmm?”
 
——
 
Archmage Valeterisa was done fishing after quite some time with Relc and more fun than she’d thought. But she had cast a warming spell to heat up, and she was wondering if she could hint to him that some snuggling would not go amiss.
She was watching him brag about his biggest catch to Bird, with whom he apparently had a fishing contest.
Something was bugging the Archmage. She couldn’t tell what. She kept glancing upwards towards the sky. It was like…a premonition.
Or…she peered out the window, then unlatched it and poked her head out. Squinted upwards.
“Apprentice? Is there something odd with the weather? A storm is coming, I think.”
“Really? Well, if that’s so, I’ll tell Miss Lyonette, Master. Don’t get wet, and close the window, please? How bad is it?”
“I don’t…know.”
Valeterisa wasn’t sure about her instincts. It wasn’t like she predicted the weather. But this…she squinted upwards. Was someone sending bad weather this way? It seemed aggressive. But whatever it was, it wasn’t actually here. It was like energy before a storm.
She pulled her head inside, and those two were the only ones who noticed anything at first. At least, in Liscor.
 
——
 
Four hundred miles south, in Pallass, Magus Grimalkin was reading a book on intimacy. It had a lot of detailed positions in it, and he didn’t know why he had it in his collection; probably to study the various forms of species. He was reading it, uh, for different reasons these days.
Even now, the Sinew Magus couldn’t believe his luck. And he was highly distracted; Lady Pryde had been discussing the benefits of their various exercise regimens with him, and they had gotten onto the subjects of hot tubs for invigorating the muscles. Spas.
And private baths. She had vouchsafed he might wish to partake of one, and he had indicated that he’d love to set up a test group to compare that with hot baths and saunas and public spas. Lady Pryde had given him a buffet from her aura that he had begun to pick up meant he was thinking too academically. She proposed an alternative. What if they had a bath in a very un-scientific sense?
He had, of course, agreed. Now, the Drake was distracting himself, but he kept glancing out the window. Peering at the blue skies and frowning.
“Feels like a storm. But why?”
The fact that he’d even picked up on it despite the tracksuit on the ground and Lady Pryde splashing around in the heating bathwater was commendable on his part. The Sinew Magus went to the windows and gazed out of them. Then he cracked one open.
“Grimalkin? Prideful as I am, I don’t quite intend for us to have an audience. And the bag stays on.”
Pryde called at him, and he hurriedly shut the windows and blinds, mindful of the moment. But he kept peering at the window until he was fully distracted.
“Strange…”
 
——
 
There was a storm, actually. Not just the one forming on Terandria’s southern coast; that was a magical storm that would shoot down southwards at speed, soon. One of those would have made it all so much easier.
This was a more mundane storm, not worthy of any astrological note, except for people caught right under it. Mere lightning and rain, no swirling mana that could produce a magical storm that created tornadoes and waterspouts with ease.
But a storm was all you needed, even a mundane one. It just had to have the right components. Lightning flashing down, whipping winds, the howl of rain as it bathed the Kingdom of Medain in water.
Even on the coast, Chandrarians loved the rain. They stood in it, smiling, and the crackling lightning boomed strongest on the dry continent. One bolt forked downwards, splitting, and the peal of thunder roared across the High King’s palace.
