It looked like…a stance? Lord Moore wavered and glanced over his shoulder. Valeterisa was using him and his hill as cover. The half-Giant tugged at his beard as he held his staff warily.
“Is this dance-magic? You may have us in that. I have two left feet.”
His comment failed to elicit a flare of temper this time. The Archmage of Chandrar’s face was cool as she focused on him.
“No.”
The rain pattered down as Moore prepared another iron spell. He shifted, uneasy. He didn’t remember this from his memories of seeing her fight.
“What do you call it then?”
The Archmage of Chandrar murmured as she closed her eyes.
“Pomle.”
The half-Giant’s eyes widened. He raised his staff. Falling Giants, not—
She kicked him. He even saw it coming, albeit so fast he was still tracking her as she shot straight down and flashed over the waters. Her kick went under his quarterstaff, and the half-Giant felt the most novel of sensations.
He flew.
—Landed, ribs singing how much that hurt, coughing, and lashed out with his staff. She wasn’t in front of him. She’d gone around—
“Ulp!”
Valeterisa hit the waters as Amerys pivoted. She threw a punch—then danced back before his quarterstaff could land.
Feinted? Or had she seen the blow? He couldn’t tell. She spun one leg out in a circle, hopped—
He blocked this kick, and his boots skidded in the mud. The force! The Archmage of Lightning hopped backwards. His staff struck high-low, but caught only wisps of lightning. She was standing on another hill.
“Moore. Lord Moore—”
Lord Moore was no longer smiling. He spoke, as Valeterisa rose, panting.
“Raithland. Truce, Valeterisa?”
“Truce. She’s casting something big.”
They both felt it. The half-Giant murmured.
“Then it’s time for a capstone Skill. [Aspect of the Stone Giant].”
He did not grow in size. Nor did the magic swirling around him intensify. His skin just turned to stone. Amerys tilted her head.
“Strange. [Disintegration Ray]. Ah.”
She pointed a finger at him, and Lord Mireden Raithland didn’t move. The spell touched his cheek, and the tiniest pock-mark of stone vanished. His voice rumbled as Valeterisa stared at him, then floated backwards.
“Try again.”
Her answer was a smile. Valeterisa pointed her wand.
“[Arcane Disjunction]!”
She tried to halt whatever Amerys was doing, but the ray just…missed. The woman reappeared in the air, and Lord Moore swore under his breath despite his Skill as he felt the entire Floodplains around them take on a charge.
He gazed down, and the half-Giant wearing the face of his forebears saw a little creature fluttering upwards. A…butterfly, perhaps. If one could be made of electricity. It lit on a blade of grass, turning the sodden plant matter black, and it was one of thousands of little insects made of sparks. Valeterisa twisted around.
“Oh no. She’s—I’ve heard of this.”
The half-Giant spoke as Amerys exhaled.
“[Battlefield: Fields of Blooming Lightning]. The books said it looks like flowers blooming.”
He eyed the static discharges of lightning dancing over the water.
“It’s more abstract than I thought. Be careful. She can appear anywhere in this field. And she’s using physical attacks. I will counter her.”
He trusted to his Level 50 Skill that he had earned from slaying the Mother of Graves. The Archmage of Chandrar was smiling down at him.
She appeared behind him without so much as a flicker. Thunder boomed off his back, and he felt the stabs of pain faintly. How hard were the blows—?
[Staff Art: Storm of Lances]. One blow clipped her, and she staggered, but her odd swaying dodges were quick. Valeterisa shot flames at Amerys, cutting off her retreat, but she just…vanished.
Lightning—she drop-kicked Valeterisa from above, and the half-Giant pointed his staff at the hostile Archmage. She was gone before he could even unleash—then she was under him.
Palm strike.
He heard the cracks of his transmuted skin and grunted. He just had to grab her! Grab her and not let go and—
His fingers closed on sparks. He whirled.
Skill. His staff rose. [Twenty-Foot Sweep]. [Swift Strike]. And [Wall of Metal: Iron]. Lock her down and hit her.
He conjured the wall of metal and put his back to it, disguising the metal to look like rocks. He didn’t care if she realized it was a trap. Either she switched to magic again or she came at him.
The half-Giant saw Amerys appear on a hilltop. She tilted her head at him and nodded. He tensed; now. He was prepared to barely see her coming. But he wasn’t prepared for her to speak.
“[Overdrive: The Marionette’s Rebellion].”
Oh no. He felt that familiar sensation he’d observed so many times. A crawl across his skin—not of unease, but of time itself warping.
Something being unleashed. A box opening. And he saw the Archmage hanging in the air for a moment. Arms suspended. Like a puppet hanging from invisible strings.
Or a woman in chains.
Weapon art. He had t—
Another skill was on his lips and he was lifting his staff when Amerys—flickered. The green-haired woman, suspended in the air, vanished. Appeared before him.
Mireden took the first four blows to his chest before he realized she was there. Another seven as his arms bulged and he swung the staff. He never roared any words; they were choked with pain and the impacts punching the very air from his lungs.
Lord Mireden swung his staff desperately, but her combination of blows and punches was a Skill. An art; she swung under the staff before lashing out, a rhythm of strikes and kicks to every part of his body she could reach. She hung in the air, striking his chin with repeated kicks until, with a roar, he finally clubbed her.
She wasn’t dodging. But despite the desperate blow, she merely—rotated, twisting, limbs askew, as if he’d hit that puppet. Then she twisted her head around. Turned towards the second target.
Valeterisa’s barriers exploded so fast the shockwaves hit Mireden as he staggered. Then Valeterisa slammed into his side. He tasted his blood. But how…?
His [Aspect of the Stone Giant] had deactivated.
That can’t have been five minutes. Did I pass the damage threshold? He tried to breathe, and his ribs creaked. His skin was punctured. She’d broken a rib, and the bone was protruding through his skin.
Amerys’ jerking movements came to a halt as the half-Giant raised a wall of stone to shield the two of them. The Skill ended. Mireden’s back was still against the far wall of the dome, and Valeterisa was drinking a healing potion. Eyes wide.
This insane—
Amerys’ voice came from beyond the wall, husky. As if the Skill had done some damage to her, if only mental. A skill made out of her experiences.
Suffering—the insane wave of attacks from someone who had been unable to move, unable to so much as twitch for months, over a year.
Those fools at Wistram had just made her even more deadly.
“I’ve always thought it was funny. Every [Mage] I’ve ever met trusts to magic. So few of them have an attack Skill except hybrids. As if we can’t invent our own.”
“Well…”
The half-Giant rasped, but he had no more smart replies. Valeterisa tried to get up, then clutched at her stomach. She nearly puked before halting it with a spell. There was a crack-thwoom of magic; Amerys had either kicked the wall or hit it with magic. Lord Moore raised the walls and encircled them until a dome of stone was protecting them. He sealed it with iron and then grabbed a healing potion and drank it.
“I knew that was coming…but not the attack Skill. I thought—with ten years, she was within reach! What a monster.”
No wonder she was undefeated in her time. Valeterisa was leaning on one of his legs; she looked worse than he felt by far. She’d had to battle Amerys alone until he’d stepped in. Dizzy and sick; she must be nearing mana burn. The Archmage of Izril’s eyes narrowed. She adjusted her cracked spectacles and stared up at him. Then recoiled.
“You orchestrated this?”
The half-Giant winced as a rib snapped back into place. Their shelter shook again as Ameys hit it.
“It’s nothing personal. It just seemed to be the most convenient option. For the election.”
She was staring at him, open-mouthed, as if she hadn’t also manipulated events for personal gain. Although—the half-Giant glanced up.
He’d really thought it would be easier than this! They were all the same level! Two of them versus Amerys—she hadn’t even needed to call in backup! He turned to Valeterisa.
“I’ll buy time for you to use your highest-tier spells. We will discuss this later, Valeterisa. Valeterisa, she will try to kill us both. You’re a rational woman. D—”
 
——
 
Amerys was calmly firing [Grand Lightning] at the dome, waiting for an opening. She expected a unified counterattack.
Even in her ‘calm’ state, she didn’t expect the dome to explode from the inside. A huge chunk of earth landed behind Amerys in the water, and the half-Giant went tumbling out of the inside, covered in flames.
“Huh. That’s pretty funny.”
She was running out of mana, and she had only two potion’s worth left before she was in mana burn. Her kick took Valeterisa off her feet.
Time to finish this.
 
——
 
“Dead gods, she invented a combat art?”
Even Grimalkin had gone quiet after they’d seen Amerys unleashing one of her trump cards. That was the only thing Noass could really think to say.
That…
It was fair, in the sense that of course a [Warrior] who had a [Sword Art] was capable of feats on par with magic. He’d heard of people like Orjin of Pomle pulling the same stunt off. But letting Amerys invent a combat-Skill…it just seemed sort of like cheating!
“She is the Archmage of Lightning. The King of Destruction’s Seven. That is no idle boast. She was always thought to be the closest person to the [Archmage] class in Wistram. Lord Mireden and Archmage Valeterisa are supremely talented magi. But we are seeing the pinnacle of the Waning World.”
It was Magus Grimalkin who spoke as the fight reached its turning point. He never took his eyes off the scrying orb as Sir Relz whispered. His scales were white.
“No wonder she was able to battle Zeres to a standstill. W-what a monster. And there are, what, five more like her? I—I feel like I have been unfair in my commentary to Chandrarian nations. No wonder it takes an army to hold one of the Seven at bay! How can any nation hope to curtail the King of Reim? Countermeasures of some kind must be taken against her! She’s too powerful for this era!”
He was babbling. Grimalkin didn’t appear to hear Sir Relz, though. For his next words made no sense as a reply. Or perhaps they did, but only to himself and few others.
“Yes. She must be so lonely.”
Lady Pryde’s bagged head turned to him, and the two Drakes goggled mutely. Grimalkin’s eyes were locked on Amerys’ serene face.
“I wonder…yes, now I wonder how it must be to hold back an entire Skill and modality of fighting simply because no foe has forced it out of her. She did not do this in Wistram. She is supremely alone, even amongst the Seven. The only living spellcaster among them. But she is not alone, is she? I see it now. In Reim, she has the only peers in the world. In another nation, even one such as Pallass, she would be, what, one of two? Saliss and Chaldion and, perhaps, Pelt.”
He shook his head.
“Moreover, she has a [King] who is a peer, who does not fear her, as they once feared Perril Chandler. Yes. I wonder…does she associate with the other Seven? What do they do to relax? To have fun? Perhaps this, as much as Flos Reimarch’s charisma, is what drew them together.”
He was pontificating. As if this engagement nearing its end were but an idle scrap. Yet he was not oblivious. Lady Pryde touched Grimalkin’s arm. Or tried to; Sir Relz saw her doing it from behind the table, and his hand shot out.
He knocked Pryde’s hand down before it was visible on camera. They stared at each other, and she hesitated. Grimalkin didn’t notice the strange oddities behind him. He was just…nodding.
“Yes. That is an apt comparison. They said that when both were alive…it is speculated that the Archmage of Golems, Zelkyr, and the Archmage of Death were this level when they made their ill-fated attempt to slay the Demon King. It is speculated that for most of their lives, they were this level, and it has been argued Zelkyr never reached a higher capstone.”
Every eye turned to Grimalkin, and Noass croaked.
“What? What level?”
The Sinew Magus gave him a slow blink, as if Noass were an imbecile.
“Level 60, of course. It is possible they reached Level 70, especially Az’kerash, but this is the level she hangs upon. Or do you disagree, Noass?”
He nodded at the image of Amerys. The Sinew Magus locked eyes on the Archmage of Chandrar pursuing Valeterisa, who was fleeing. Back towards the inn.
“She is closer than not to that level. But not, I think, Level 60. Archmage Valeterisa and Lord Mireden are of parity with her, but she outlevels them in combat experience and levels, I suspect. See; Lord Mireden is leaping from hill to hill, but he cannot keep up with the other two. Valeterisa cannot best Archmage Amerys. I thought she could, but—”
He whirled.
“Torreb, the greatest [Warrior], was above Level 60. Mars is the only confirmed member of the King’s Seven who can boast of the same. To compare her to the other Seven is a laughable notion. Not all levels and classes are equal, regardless. This is a mere academic distinction. If I live, I will present my conclusions drawn from personal experience.”
He was trying to navigate around the tangle of chairs and the film equipment when Noass and Sir Relz realized what he meant. The Drakes gasped.
“You’re going to—Sinew Magus, you cannot! This is madness! You’re not Level 50!”
Relz’s jaws snapped shut since that was a military secret, but the Sinew Magus just turned back once.
“This is true.”
“Then—”
“Archmage Valeterisa is a friend, and Lord Mireden is one I hope to call friend. I must go.”
There was an echo in his voice that an Eye of Pallass, watching the broadcast, heard. The simple statement as the Sinew Magus squared his shoulders. Sir Relz shot to his feet.
“Stop him! We can’t lose—”
He tried to tackle Grimalkin and just slid down his torso. Noass was on his feet, and the film staff tried to stop the Sinew Magus. They hadn’t a chance; he just moved them aside gently but urgently.
Someone was hesitating. Not Grimalkin, but the woman who stood there, looking at the Archmage of Chandrar. Then the Drake resolved to fight or die. She reached out, and Sir Relz knocked her hand away again.
