They missed Amerys and Valeterisa by thousands of feet; the two were already fighting across the air far from her spells. Valeterisa was moving faster now, darting from spot to spot with some variant of [Flash Step]. But Amerys just kept hammering her with [Lightning Bolts].
She’s trying to tire Valeterisa out. There was a hard limit to how much mana Valeterisa had, and even with mana potions, she’d enter mana burn too fast at this rate. If they could just hit Amerys and force her to defend…Montressa tried again.
“[Tenfold Homing Speed Light Arrows]!”
She reduced the spell immensely to upgrade it. Only ten arrows appeared, but they shot towards Amerys with a velocity unmatched by her previous attack, and they twisted after her as she turned…
Then lost their target as Amerys zipped downwards. The arrows spun into the air, and one actually hit Valeterisa’s shields as the Archmage zoomed after Amerys. She didn’t even seem to notice; her face was locked in a grim mask of concentration.
No! How was she supposed to…? Montressa didn’t study duelling magic. Pisces might know, but unless you could catch Amerys with conventional spells, what was there?
Curse and hex magics? That requires getting a lock on her and overwhelming her protections. I can’t just [Remote Blind] her. Even homing spells are too slow. I’d need some kind of permanent lock on her…or an area-of-attack spell so big it catches her. Either fast, wide, or a trap—!
Wait, was that why Amerys was staying back from her master? She never got too close to Valeterisa, only firing pinpoint spells. Valeterisa might be throwing invisible spells around her, forcing Amerys to keep at range. Montressa couldn’t see them if so, and nor could she copy…
I have nothing that can catch her. No spell’s that fast. Except for…
Wait, there was one spell she’d seen used as a way to target foes. She couldn’t cast it and a homing spell, and even then, Amerys was moving so fast they’d barely catch up. But maybe…Montressa concentrated, and an entire minute passed as the fighting grew worse. Then she cast a single spell, her head aching with the complexity.
“[Valeterisa’s Complex Seeker Projectiles]!”
A ray of light shot from her staff’s tip and zig-zagged skywards. Unlike other spells, this was no [Mana Arrow] spell, but a tracer of light itself. Fast beyond belief—it also followed no straight line, but bounced in the air, seeking its target.
It flashed towards Amerys, and the Archmage of Lightning—
Dodged.
She twirled sideways, glancing down, and the [Seeker Projectile] zipped upwards, missing its target and entering the clouds. Montressa’s heart sank. But then she realized Amerys had dodged it. She looked down and pointed—
[Grand Lightning].
The bolt blew four layers of Montressa’s shields apart. She screamed and cowered, and Amerys shouted down with a magnified voice.
“Apprentices have no place in a war between masters. Begone or die.”
Montressa wanted to try again. She was shaking; her barriers were still more than half-full. But she heard a mental order from her master.
V: Montressa, fall back. Get Relc to safety.
Montressa used her [Apprentice] link to shout back silently.
Master! What about you?
She heard no response. Then she could only run as lightning began to strike her. She didn’t know how much of a fight Valeterisa was putting up; she only knew she couldn’t help, only hinder if Amerys used her as a target and Valeterisa had to protect her.
Only as Montressa ran did she realize she could see all the scrying spells in the air following Amerys and Valeterisa, a tangled web of magic that the two Archmages were blowing to bits, forcing people to recast the spells. She could see the magic.
She was getting better, just like Valeterisa had said. Montressa was crying. She stared upwards.
They were just watching.
 
——
 
This was a love story—but it was not the time.
Fifteen minutes before the Archmage’s duel began, Channel 1 News was playing a new segment.
I Hate Everything with Noass.
He was dressed up with a formal suit and tie, and the Drake glared into the camera-orb as the lights came on in his studio. He had a corkboard behind him with his target of the day on it.
“Welcome, gentlemen, ladies, to today’s topic: Liscor. I am sick of hearing about Liscor this, Liscor that. Yes, they’re having elections. Yes, there’s a magic door…so what? Everyone talks about the war in the High Passes, and you know what I think? That’s a Pallassian affair, not a ‘Liscorian’ one.”
Air quotes with his claws. He went on.
“We’ve covered rumors about a ‘Goblin King’ with Channel 2 news. Did it affect you? No. Were there [Dangersense] alarms? Yes. But where, in this entire affair, does Liscor matter? Not. At. All. You know what does matter?”
His fist hit the table.
“Pheislant! The Lighthouse Kingdom! Pheislant has a population thirty-three times larger than Liscor’s! It has an economy that produces more gold in a day than Liscor in a year! Why are we giving coverage to a single city more than a nation? And that’s one nation, and I’m Izrilian!”
He wasn’t even getting started. The Drake’s voice began to rise as he got into his gripes with Liscor. And it was everything from Acid Flies to Rock Crabs to their stupid roads—and when he got to the Antinium or their worse decisions, oh, that was when he’d be started.
Thirty minutes. Shouting. Life was strange. Noass had been on his Channel 1 news show with Sir Relz until a moment when he’d been caught insulting, well, everyone. They’d tried to keep him on air for a while. Business as usual. But public outcry and letters, tens of thousands of letters to the studio, had meant changes so that it was frequently just Sir Relz. Noass had become a [Reporter]. Disliked.
They’d even been discussing firing him. Until he’d asked for a segment. Decided if he was going to be hated, he’d go down swinging. The opposite had happened.
His new broadcast was controversial. People loved to write in. He read the best ones out on air. Being hated got you views, and that’s what Wistram liked. More views meant more attention. More views meant more sales of scrying orbs and more views of advertisements, which they ran every thirty minutes. More to come…and Noass’ segment was liked by many, despite the hate.
He had some popular segments.
Things I Hate: Taxes. 
Things I Hate: Humans. 
Things I Hate: Pineapples on pizza.
Things I Hate: Immigrants. 
Things I Hate: The King of Destruction.
Things I Hate: Crelers.
He had an endless list. Plenty of material. Someone asked him where he got it from. Noass’ off-the-cuff reply was keeping his eyes open for five seconds.
This was promising to be another great episode. But d’you know what Noass really hated?
He hated…being alone on this segment. True, he was popular. True, he was back, baby. But you know what he missed?
Sir Relz. What had happened to the good old days when it was just them, a scrying orb, and that door? When they were just…[Commentators]? The lights shone over him as he ranted, but he missed his friend.
That’s what he hated. But of course, he focused on Liscor—right until the door slammed open.
“Excuse me, I’m sorry, but—excuse me, breaking news!”
“—sewers. I—what’s the meaning of this!? Sir Relz?”
The nobleman was panting. His monocle was nearly popping off his face. He didn’t even have makeup on. But he ran forwards.
“Pull the set. We have a breaking news story. Noass, it’s the Archmage of Chandrar.”
He stood behind the desk, and Noass rose.
“Wh—Amerys? The Calm Flower of the Battlefield? Is she dead? Hurt?”
“She’s just crossed into Izril. Noass, she’s challenged Archmage Valeterisa. Do we have a scrying spell? I’m not ready—we’re live! Go, go!”
Relz shouted at the staff, and Noass grabbed his collar, adjusted it, brushed at his neck spines.
“Here, the chair—”
Someone brought another for him as Relz glanced around. A scrying image appeared of two women meeting in…
“The Floodplains of Liscor? Oh, come now!”
Noass groaned. Sir Relz was grabbing pieces of paper being handed to him by one of the staffers.
“Noass, this is just in—she appeared on Medain’s coast during a storm and used it to cross the ocean! [Sailors] reported seeing jagged lightning—that was this morning. Zeres signalled an alarm, but she was headed north so fast…”
Noass sat down.
“Ancestors. Sir Relz, this morning? How fast is that? She’s crossed half the continent and the ocean that fast? How many hours?”
“It can’t have been more than four.”
“Then we can do the math! Someone get me a map—that speed is—and we’re looking at Archmage Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril. Famously part of the Terras faction of Wistram. Relz, is that what I think it is? Are we looking at…an Archmage’s Duel?”
They stared at each other, and Sir Relz’s mouth moved.
“One of the hallmarks of old magic? Famous for taking place between countless [Archmages], from Zelkyr to Valmira? Though I note that Zelkyr popularized duels by proxy with his Golems—”
“What could have started this, Sir Relz?”
“Noass, your guess is as good as mine. Oh, they’re talking, but we can’t hear anything. We have only scrying spells and are remote, but working on better angles. Noass, are they standing on the water?”
“Amerys looks to be floating. Archmage Valeterisa is just standing…who’s the Human and Drake?”
“That’s…her apprentice, Montressa du Valeross, and, I think, Relc Grasstongue, the Gecko of Liscor? Aren’t they dating?”
“Ancestors, are they?”
The two [Commentators]’ mouths never stopped moving. They were chattering on instinct, playing off each other, using their knowledge—which was fairly wide—as well as each other’s ignorances to inform the viewers what was going on in a natural style.
And oh, he was scrambling for commentary, he was stunned by the news, his suit was disordered, and the production staff were shuffling behind him as the broadcast went on, but Noass’ heart was leaping.
They were back, baby! This was what he lived for. Noass and Sir Relz. The duo of duos. The best of friends. He could see the other [Commentator] trying not to grin as they sat side-by-side.
Then, of course, the duel began, and they fell silent. The first volley of lightning and the way Valeterisa made the strands of magic just…vanish? Noass was trying to speak.
“I—that is magic on a level no [Mage] can match in this era, surely, Sir Relz. I can’t count how many spells we’re seeing fly!”
“That’s Tier 5 magic. [Grand Lightning] is Tier 5 magic. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that [Fireball], a destructive spell, is Tier 3. [Siege Fireball] is Tier 4, and we use that to bust down gates. This is Tier 5 magic—though I think it’s not as destructive as [Siege Fireball]?”
“Surely it has to be.”
Sir Relz was shaking his head, finger claws pressed to his temples. He knew magic.
“No, no…it’s on parity, but the speed is incomparable. How could anyone dodge…?”
Noass gazed at their mage in Archmage Valeterisa and whispered.
“She’s not dodging. She’s getting destroyed. Gentlemen, ladies, give it to the Archmage of Izril. She’s taken enough shots to kill a company of [Soldiers], and she’s still alive. But she’s not landing a hit on her foe. This is horrific. Someone get ready to cut the feed. Are we on a delay? We might see a murder live.”
“It’s not a murder if it’s a duel, Noass. Legally, it’s an unsanctioned death—oh, Ancestors! That Drake is mad!”
They’d just seen Relc trying to interfere. The two watched his spear being blown apart, and Noass murmured.
“I don’t understand it. He must have had some kind of anti-magic enchantment, but how did she destroy it?”
“Overloaded it? I, uh—and they’re in the clouds. That’s a bad move for someone fighting a [Lightning Mage], surely? Oh! She’s hit! She’s falling!”
Noass was shaking his head as Montressa fired some spells. He could commentate on that, but the rest? He turned to Sir Relz.
“Sir Relz, if I were the Archmage of Izril, I would be running—if I thought I could escape. I know we talk a bit down on our Human Archmage, but I’m hard-pressed to say anyone could beat that monstrous woman. Calm Flower of the Battlefield…it’s like watching a [Soldier] fight a child! She’s got no chance! Wistram, if you’re hearing this, save her—she’s about to die!”
He turned to the cameras, actually serious. And perhaps because this was the first time both [Commentators] actually couldn’t keep up with the action, or because it was incensing to hear Noass talk—he did have [Provocative Statement]—or maybe just because he couldn’t sit still, there was a response.
“INCORRECT.”
The voice was not a mere bellow. It went in one earhole and out the other, and both Drakes flinched. The [Cameraman] spun the camera on reflex and earned his first level of the day—Magus Grimalkin strode into the set.
“Sinew Magus! We’re broadcasting! What is the meaning of—”
Grimalkin thrust Sir Relz’s chair back and planted himself behind the desk. He towered over the two Drakes.
“It is a disservice bordering on criminality to malign this as a one-sided duel. You [Messaged] me for analysis. I am incapable of giving it at anything less than verbal speed here and now.”
Someone else entered after Grimalkin, who’d barged through the security without a second’s pause. Noass was affronted, outraged—he and Relz scooted left, and he stared at a woman with a bag on her head and a…yellow tracksuit? But his mouth kept moving, the treacherous thing.
“Er, gentlemen, ladies, we have Magus Grimalkin as a guest analyst. And some Human?”
She hesitated, but Grimalkin made space for her instantly, and Relz spoke slowly.
“Lady Pryde Ulta. Of House Ulta, I believe.”
“Yes, my co-founder of Grimalkin’s Training Gymnasium. [Magical Stool]. [Magical Chair]. Pryde?”
Grimalkin produced two seats. Noass blinked; could he do that? Then he was sitting, dominating the frame. His eyes on the scrying image.
“Amerys and Valeterisa. Two legends of our time. This is disastrous for magic no matter who loses. If one should kill the other—it is a disservice to call it a one-sided battle, Noass!”
He barked and the Drake spread his hands.
“Well, you tell me what I’m seeing! All I see is one whiffing the air while the other strikes her with [Lightning Bolts]!”
That was what the blur of action was showing. The Sinew Magus grunted.
“I have my own [Scrying] spell, but it’s chaotic. If only we were at the…we’d have a better view from Liscor’s walls. No time. I need more vision of the field!”
Lady Pryde Ulta spoke behind the hemp sack on her head, voice authoritative.
