Valeterisa-Analysis: Not [Levitation]. She’s actually flying, but it’s not [Flight]. I knew it wasn’t—it’s some kind of spell based on her lightning magic. Probably less mana-intensive.
Valeterisa-Ego: Still too showy. We should levitate so we’re of a height.
Valeterisa-Doubts: No, wait, that will make us look insecure. Which we are.
Valeterisa-Analysis: She’s got her amulets up. No static barrier spells deployed, naturally. She intends to be mobile. But she could still probably weather several [Siege Fireball] before her shields go down. Could we even hit her?
Valeterisa-Doubts: We’re not fighting her! We’ll die!
Valeterisa-Ego: We can’t look bad in front of Relc and Montressa! We—we can take her. If we had to. Right?
Valeterisa-Panic — Oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no…
Valeterisa-Analysis: I calculate her velocity to reach here from Chandrar must have been in excess of…my math cannot be correct. How does she have that much mana? Replaying memories of her duels.
Valeterisa-Doubts: We’re so dead.
 
She knew her [Parallel Thoughts] were going out of control. She couldn’t help it; she was, as the children might say, mildly freaking out.
As she halted on the water, Amerys stopped her dancing and hung in the air, one foot resting against the other, her toe floating an inch above the water, arms folded. A pose she seemed able to just…hold.
Valeterisa stood there. After a second, she bounced on her toes. The [Waterwalking] spell made the water feel like jello. She belatedly realized she hadn’t cast any magical spells to avoid getting wet. She was getting soaked.
“Erm…good morning, Archmage Amerys. The time now is 11:14 AM. Which would mean it has been, um, about nine years and twenty-six days since last we conversed. And five hundred and twenty-two minutes. Give or take. So good to see you. I did not send any challenges or insults, and any assertions to the contrary are not wrong, but perhaps, um, misinformed? How is the faction doing?”
Valeterisa’s mouth was acting with one of her thoughts, not quite in sync with the rest of her. Amerys chuckled softly.
“Valeterisa. I forgot how you talked. We met in the skies above the Meeting of Tribes, or have you forgotten?”
“Oh, um. Yes. Quite. Yes, we were on the same side!”
The Archmage of Izril brightened up.
“In light of this common event, I congratulate you on your escape from Wistram, um, and your King’s reawakening. Quite a lot of wars in Chandrar. I hope you’ve levelled?”
Amerys said nothing. Relc and Montressa were staring at Valeterisa, and she was trying very hard not to sweat. After a moment, she gestured.
“This is my apprentice, Montressa du Valeross, and, um, Relc.”
“The Drake? Who is he?”
“My…a person of interest to me. R-romantically?”
That did surprise Amerys. She did a double-take, and her eyes stopped focusing on Valeterisa like unthrown lightning bolts. She blinked and inspected Relc. He fiddled with his anti-magic spear.
“Now that is fascinating. You, the one Archmage I thought would find love after Feor? Ah, but he clings to his pretentiousness. I have heard the new Archmage, Eldavin, is not so…discreet. Funny, between us all, it makes Viltach seem the most normal. He is the only one who has actual children who speak to him and an ongoing marriage.”
Oh, they weren’t going to discuss the threats? Valeterisa smiled weakly. This was small talk. She could do that.
“Yes, Archmage Viltach. Very good with children. Have you had any pleasant conversations with him of late?”
Amerys tilted her head.
“Let me think. Well, the last time we spoke, I was trying to rip his heart out. Feor’s too.”
Ah. Valeterisa’s small-talk projection model exploded in her head. She bit her lip.
“Yes…quite regrettable.”
“I’ve quit Wistram. Whether or not they acknowledge it, I do not entirely care. But as I am sure you know, I serve Flos Reimarch. It is war with Wistram, even if neither side cares to make full battle of it, and though I do not know this ‘Archmage of Memories’, he has not deigned to make peace for Wistram’s imprisonment of me for a year.”
Now was an excellent time for some disclaimers. Valeterisa lifted a finger.
“I wish to clarify that I had no notion of your imprisonment at the time. I was sadly occupied with my own work and had no input into the matter.”
“Oh, I know. You were always too apolitical for that. Obsessed with magic for magic’s sake. I always admired that of you, though we were never allies.”
Because you’re very scary. Valeterisa nodded.
“And I quite admired your spellcasting and, um, zeal. So…we may consider this regrettable rift between us closed?”
Montressa winced as Amerys put her hands together like some [Monk], smiling beneficently. Before shaking her head.
“No. You are Wistram’s Archmage. I am wroth with the Academy of Mages. I did not lie, Valeterisa. Every Wistram mage that I have met is either surrendered or dead. So many claimed apoliticality, and perhaps that is fair. The institution they belong to has still committed acts they are responsible for. That is what affiliation means. That is what nationhood means.”
“A—very good point, though I would posit that some of us object to the acts of our larger institutions?”
“Oh, naturally. In my sweeping claim, I did not point out that I spared anyone who would be simply too young to account for their actions. I do not battle children unless they give me no choice.”
“Thanks for the clarity, yes, this is a very valid distinction.”
“You do not fall under that exception. I came, per your challenge. An insult was given, and I am here to settle the score.”
Oh, Amerys’ small talk was rather like a hurricane. It whirled and whirled and came to the point with more force than it began. Valeterisa swallowed.
“Upon truth spell—”
“Hah!”
“Upon, um, various lie-detecting methods, I would like to swear I have no knowledge of any challenges or insults given, Archmage Amerys. And if this is by way of my faction or my silly apprentice—”
“Master!”
“—I disavow and apologize for any such incidents.”
Amerys paused, regarding Valeterisa. She frowned, then produced something. Valeterisa activated a dozen barrier spells instantly and cocooned herself in magic. Amerys paused with a little image hovering over the palm of her hand.
Valeterisa blushed, but she only edged a bit closer as Amerys made the image big enough for Relc and Montressa to see. The audible voice was…familiar if distorted since your voice did not sound quite like it did in your own ears. But it was definitely—her?
Archmage Valeterisa was sitting in a scrying orb image, speaking with her eyes slightly off-center, which happened if you were conversing to multiple people on a call.
“Yes. I would like to, um, note that my transportation magics are not quite ready for disbursement, but our progress is quite satisfactory. It will be a highly cost-efficient method compared to [Teleportation]. Whereas I understand the appeal of the latter spell is considerable, it is not, mm, practical for bulk transport, Fissival’s case being a notable exception due to centuries of work, and I cite the current disrepair of the system as another issue. Individual teleportation is a different service I can discuss after the next question? Thank you.”
Valeterisa remembered this. It was from just last week with her investors. She blinked. How had Amerys…? Then she saw her eyes flick to the scrying orb, and the image wavered slightly as she brushed at her hair.
“Archmage Amerys? That is an interesting question, thank you. With respect to her, I, um, believe she is quite inferior to current Terras [Mages]. Her lightning-based magic is very showy, but she has not created any transportation networks, which indicates the flaw in her own spellcasting. If she had the ability to do more than do battle, I believe Chandrar would be a far different place. Not that I consider her not to be an Archmage, ha-ha. But I can assure you, any [Mage] of Terras will be far more magically competent within a year’s time…”
Archmage Valeterisa’s mouth stayed open in horror as Amerys tsked softly.
“I do believe it was meant only as an internal boast. But such things have a way of reaching me.”
“I—I did not say that! That is not a statement I uttered on call!”
Was it? She was almost positive, but Valeterisa initiated all the memory spells she had to make sure it wasn’t something she’d just blocked off or let a [Parallel Thought] say. But she was positive!
It didn’t even sound like her. She didn’t disparage other [Mages]! Well, at least not to anyone but Montressa or Relc! And never Amerys. But there was a good point about the lack of any magical works…
Valeterisa peered at the image.
“Can you replay it?”
Amerys did, and Valeterisa raised hurried fingers.
“Firstly, I believe this is some kind of advanced illusion, though highly, highly competent. Note the flicker in my features before I begin talking? Second, my voice registers as 11% higher than my regular pitch, which is almost imperceptible but indicates a mimicry spell not perfectly calibrated. Finally, I believe the cadence and my grammatical structure are off in ways I can cite—”
“Probably, yes.”
Amerys vanished the recording, and Valeterisa halted, her flurry of thoughts and clarifications cut off again. It was always like this with the two of them.
“Y-you understand?”
“I thought it was oddly said by you. We have known each other for years, and you may make political statements, but you do not insult my magic. Moreover, one of your investors having the wherewithal to record and send this to me seemed odd. I suspected it might be an Ullsinoi prank, though they usually have some benefit in mind…Gazi observed all the things you did.”
Valeterisa relaxed. She smiled and stood straighter before waving at Relc and Montressa in relief. They just stared at her, and Relc jerked his chin at her urgently.
“Well then! I am very grateful for clearing up the misunderstanding, Amerys, and in the future, if you would like to communicate any such apprehensions to me, I would be delighted to—”
“Oh, I didn’t really care if it was fake or not. I thought it was excellent timing. We are going to duel, Valeterisa. I’ve wanted to see what you were made of for a long time.”
The Archmage of Izril froze, and then she finally caught onto the moment. She peered up at Amerys, and a wand appeared in her hand where she’d been concealing it with a cantrip.
“I…don’t believe that would benefit us, Archmage Amerys. I am against a duel of any kind, even in friendship.”
“It’s not friendship, Valeterisa. There are many reasons to duel. You are Terras. I’ve been bored; the only [Mage] I know of in Nerrhavia’s Fallen with levels to match mine is hiding, the Silken coward. I wanted to remind Wistram how far I roam. I intend to steal your magic. But mostly, I want to.”
Amerys was famous in Wistram for picking fights with [Mages] for no reason. From the [Cryomancer], Illphres, to other [Mages], her duels in the banquet hall and elsewhere…but she’d never tried Valeterisa.
Possibly because Valeterisa had avoided her and she’d had all the sport she wanted. But now? Valeterisa’s mouth was dry.
“And if I refuse?”
“I’ll just hit you in the back. I have sworn not to attack the inn, but you are quite a ways away from it. If you can reach it without me taking you out, I would consider that a defeat in and of itself. Or…you could hand me all your magic and I will leave.”
Valeterisa’s mental alarms were peaking. She tried to smile, as if this was a jest.
“Archmage Amerys, most of my grand magics are at my mansion or other lodgings. Even if I were to wish to hand them over, I could not. What makes you think magic is something you can just steal?”
The Archmage of Lightning swooped down, and now Valeterisa felt Amerys’ lightning magic trying to overwhelm her own mana pool. Amerys grinned as she glanced down.
“This is technically true, but you haven’t been back to your mansion in half a year, Valeterisa. I checked. And you stay at that inn, and I hear rumors you’re building quite a lot. But no capable [Mage] would dream of leaving her theorems and spellbook in an inn, even The Wandering Inn. No, you’d keep it all on your person. Everything you know. Everything that the Archmage of Memories might have taught the only peer he has in his faction.”
Oh no. Valeterisa could almost feel the spellbook with the spells Eldavin had scry-copied for her burning in her bag of holding. And Amerys was looking right at it. She had always been a peerless debater. She was a battlemage, but her insight and reasoning were still that of what she was. A Wistram [Mage].
“So you see, Valeterisa. You may thank Archmage Eldavin’s many wondrous inventions and all the magic he boasts no one else has for this. What are we to do when one magical school has more magic than any other? History teaches us a simple solution.”
Magical war. Loot their spellbooks. Valeterisa’s lips were moving, but her mind was a flurry of thoughts. Spells.
She was not ready for this. Relc, Montressa, they were in danger. Lightning magic. Feor had said even [Greater Lightning Ward] had failed against her. She was the fastest [Mage] in the world.
I can’t beat her. Talk my way out of—
Keep the apprentice safe.
Who made the—?
Got to be a way out of—
“Amerys. I would like to make a personal plea to our fr—acquaintanceship over the many years we have known each other. I do not desire strife.”
For a long moment, the Archmage of Lightning stepped back. She flickered onto the waters and thought, genuinely thought, and Valeterisa waited, breathless. Troubled, Amerys stared at the waters below her, the sky, then settled her gaze on Valeterisa.
“That does trouble me, Valeterisa. I said, once, to His Majesty of Reim that I regretted two things.”
“Which were?”
“Firstly, that we had never been great friends. For I admired your magic at Fissival, and determination, and I felt I had underestimated you.”
“Thank you. I…appreciate the sentiments greatly. I have always admired your talents myself.”
Amerys nodded. Her eyes shone brighter.
“Secondly, Valeterisa? I regretted that we had never been enemies. We are all but peerless. We exist at the height of our levels, except for the strange old monsters like the Archmage of Memories. Too low to be called true myths, too legendary to continue climbing. But my class tells me—if we battle, I level. So.”
She flicked her hand up, and she was holding a wand whose length crackled with blue lightning, and red and green and—Valeterisa’s eyes went round. Archmage Amerys fired three bolts of lightning twining together at Valeterisa.
