Noass and Sir Relz were trying to stop him, but the Drake just pointed a shaking finger at the scrying orb. He roared at Noass.
“This is what happens when you people stop caring about what happens outside of your walls! An Archmage lifts your city skywards! Did you think that was an illusion? Did you think she could only do it once? Fissival could have had her. We could have had her.”
He clutched at his head, then gazed at the Archmage of Izril firing spells without end into the sky.
“She is going to clear a path to the heart of magic. I swear, I will be there when it happens.”
He stooped and gazed around, the light of what she had seen reflected in his eyes. The Drake whispered.
“I want Pallass to see it too.”
Then he kicked the news anchor desk over.
“Gonads!”
He and Lady Pryde stormed out of the room to exercise the adrenaline out. With actual weights. Nothing like endorphins for pushing your limits.
 
——
 
Then it was done. Lyonette du Marquin stood there, watching the two Drakes trying to pick up their news desk, then switched to Channel 2, where Drassi was racing to Liscor to interview the heroes.
After a few moments, the [Princess] realized no one had actually invoked The Wandering Inn or was even coming here for a party. They were all at Liscor, which was mindful, and it was excellent the inn was safe, but…
She couldn’t help but feel that they’d forgotten Amerys had come here first. No, it was fine. This was the point! Just—
It was an odd feeling. Surreal. Mrsha turned to Nanette and Visma.
I keep thinking the inn is going to explode or this is where the Elder Creler pops out. Huh. Knock on wood?
“I’m going to be an Archmage!”
Visma shouted, throwing up her clawed hands. Nanette whispered to Mrsha.
“Think we can get Valeterisa to teach us autocasting?”
The two girls rubbed their hands together as Lyonette relaxed and smiled in relief.
There, that was better.
 
——
 
One last thing. Oh, there was much more. The King of Destruction’s reaction, both to the battle and to his vassals’ return.
Levels…so many levels. For so many, and one sneaky Gnoll [Server] who was trying not to appear smug as could be as he cleaned tables.
The changing nature of magic. Archmage Eldavin reassessing his ‘junior’ Archmage both in popularity and magical ability.
Valeterisa, hugging Relc, and the [Spearmaster] of Liscor’s return to his city, where they cheered for him harder than the Archmage. His surprise and gratitude as he laid the spear he had taken on Tekshia Shivertail’s altar and saluted it.
Gecko of Liscor.
Archmage of Izril. Perhaps they needed a better title for her.
And the half-Giant of Liscor, who had cemented his name in the city’s eyes, despite the potential cost. He didn’t meet a certain young Gnoll woman’s eyes as Arrema scowled at him, the one dissenting face in a crowd of admirers.
But one…small thing.
 
——
 
Takhatres, the Lord of the Skies, waited until they were in a safe area between danger zones as he slowed. Amerys needed to rest—and use the bathroom—and heal and replenish mana.
Long way back. A level for her would make this all worthwhile. He cricked his neck, sighing.
He hadn’t gotten much, but he’d at least gotten lots of free water, and his bag of holding could hold a lot of the stuff. The water was worth hundreds of gold pieces, even if he needed to purify it a bit. He spat something into one hand and inspected it idly.
“Takhatres? What was that? You hung onto it.”
“It’s the arrow some bastard shot at my face. Good shot too. I noticed it had this attached to it.”
The Garuda flicked the arrow at Amerys, and she shrugged.
“Just some arrow. Nice fletching.”
“Right? Not enchanted; they weren’t trying to kill you, except for that one arrow. But what’s this?”
The arrow had a little piece of string attached to it and a sodden note. Takhatres unfurled it and read. The note read:
 
Hello, I am Bird. I have a question. If you cannot fly, are you a bird or not? I am very confused.
—Bird the Huntress
 
The Lord of the Skies stared at the note for a long moment as Amerys read over his shoulder. He slowly crumbled the note up, then shredded it.
Of all the things he’d go through on the way back home—
That one hurt the most.
 
 
[Class Change: Spearmaster → Spearmaster: The Spear of Silence Level 40!]
[Spearmaster: The Spear of Silence Level 40!]
[Skill – Cut of Mirrors Learned!]
[Skill – Magebane Armaments Obtained!]
[Skill – Spear Dance: Catch the Lightning Obtained!]
[Skill – Summon Temporary Weapon: Spear (Mundane) Obtained!]
[Skill – Thrown Weapon: Angler’s Weave Obtained!]
 
[Grand Magus of Mind and Studies Level 57!]
[Spell – Autocast Rediscovered!]
[Skill – Supreme Spellcraft Obtained!]
[Skill – Create Automagic Spell Obtained!]
[Spell – Ninvet’s Continuous Generator Obtained!]
[Skill – Dimensional Note Storage Obtained!]
 
[Title – A Glimpse of Magic’s Truth Obtained!]
[Title Skill – Eyes of Magical Truth Granted!]
 
[Dancing Magus of the Fulgur Bloom Level 58!]
[Skill – Sorcerous Transmutation of the Elements: Lightning Obtained!]
 
[Green Lord of the Cured City Level 52!]
[Skill – Increased Velocity: Earth Magic Obtained!]
 
[Title – Protector of Liscor Obtained!]
[Liscor – Reputation: Famed Granted!]
[Title Skill – Convincing Smile Granted!]
