At his words, the panel blinked, and they felt more professional, more…relaxed. One of them tapped the speaking stone.
“Miss Liska, please be accurate with your answers. This is a serious matter, thank you.”
Liska jumped and sat up nervously as they frowned sternly at her.
“Right, sorry. I, uh—I didn’t know it was such a big deal.”
“Citizenship in the City of Inventions is highly sought after by cities in our aegis, Miss Liska. It is not guaranteed and very prestigious.”
“Whoa, really? I thought I was in trouble. Are you…maybe I should get my brother. This is a pretty big deal, right?”
The panelists wavered, and the Skill slipped, but the Eye of Pallass spoke smoothly, growling into the speaking stone with a smile for Liska.
“[Please Relax], Miss Liska. This is an excellent opportunity for you and your family. Your older brother, Ishkr, I believe? He has—declined our offer, but we can certainly inform him if you accept our citizenship offer. There are perks to our program, such as the housing lottery.”
Her ears perked up, and she sat up.
“What, an entire house? For free? Do I have to pay rent?”
“Not at all.”
“I’ve got a room at the inn, and food’s free, but a house. I could bring friends over. Have a party. Bring my…”
Liska hesitated. One of the panelists made a note and handed it to a flunkie.
“Can you bring a file on Miss Liska over? A more complete one. I have her Liscorian record, but run this through one of our [Investigation Specialists].”
Presumably the Eye of Pallass had all her files, but he wasn’t sharing. The panel continued after a moment.
“Class?”
“Er, [Doorgnoll].”
“Is that your exact class or general?”
“G-general.”
“Can you list your location of birth, affiliations, and cities or tribes of residence hitherto your current one? And jobs or classes obtained?”
“What, all of them? Okay…”
Nervously, she did, and the panelists found she was an unremarkable candidate in their eyes, especially for this prestigious position. However, her level and class…they muttered amongst themselves as Liska shifted.
“If you were admitted into Pallass, what would you say your contribution to the city would be, Miss Liska?”
“I dunno. I open and close the [Door of Portals] a lot. I’m really good at that. I guess I could man the gates? That’s a door.”
They stared at her. One of the [Interviewers] coughed.
“Miss Liska, in your free time, what do you like to do?”
“I dunno. Eat? Sleep? Go out and party?”
“Do you…have any hobbies? Any artistic passions?”
“I like Tales of Adventure and Woe. And watching the scrying orb! Did you see the comedy show on Sir Relz and Noass’ channel last night? I think those two are idiots, but they come out with some good stuff now and then. I turned it off when Noass did his special on ‘Things I Hate’. Boooring.”
Liska seemed to be aware she was losing the panel and flushed under her fur. Her confidence and swagger that availed her well when she was at work was vanishing here in this official space with the glass window between her and her interviewers. It was meant to make her feel small, and she was, in the end, just a young woman.
All her interviewers were twice her age at least. One panelist gave Liska a sympathetic, if searching, smile.
“Miss Liska, can you tell us…anything that would substantially contribute to Pallass in any meaningful way aside from your class?”
“Well…no. Sorry. I’m not a Lyonette, let alone Erin.”
The name of the [Innkeeper] made the panelist shift. They read their notes. One covered the speaking stone, and they whispered.
“That’s a no from me.”
“And me.”
“Agent, what are we looking for?”
The Eye of Pallass was frowning. Agent Zemize had told him to pursue this line of inquiry, but she was all over Troydel and the Earther connection…he didn’t have to back her. Struck by a thought, he tapped the speaking stone.
“Miss Liska, I have a question. Regarding the Goblin King…”
Her expression grew instantly guarded.
“I can’t, uh, talk about it. I don’t know anything. I wasn’t there for most of it.”
He’d expected that. The other panelists just regarded him, highly skeptical; most didn’t even believe it had been the real Goblin King. Even the agent, with all of his intelligence and reports, felt skeptical. But he went on.
“I won’t ask for those details. Just…you were there when the Goblin King emerged, were you not? I have you, Alchemist Saliss, Magus Grimalkin, Ishkr, Witch Thallisa all listed as engaging the Goblin King before he appeared on the scrying orb. Is that correct?”
Even a ‘Numbtongue’, a Hobgoblin, but that wasn’t pertinent here. Liska rubbed at the side of her head.
“Yeah, I think so. It’s all a blur. It’s not like we stopped him. He went through us like…like…”
“A hot knife through butter?”
One of the panelists suggested. Liska frowned.
“I dunno, I’ve never tried that. But really fast. I didn’t do a thing, really. I tried my Skills, but he just tossed me. Then my head turned into a pancake, and I would have been dead except for Saliss. That’s all I did.”
Again, the sheer incredulity of the panel pressed down on Liska, and she hunched her shoulders. The agent frowned. That was what he was curious about. She didn’t seem to be like the others. She didn’t have some background of subterfuge or training like the [Princess], she was no adventurer…
“Well, that ties nicely into my question, Miss Liska. May I ask…if you knew the Goblin King, a horrific monster—let’s say, just for the purposes of visualizing this—if you knew he was coming, why didn’t you run? You were by the [Door of Portals]. Reports have you locking it down. You could have fled and locked it from the other side, couldn’t you? Why would you stay? You’re no combat class.”
It was a good question. He suspected the answer was that she’d panicked, been needed to operate the door, or someone had told her to. The panelists glanced at the agent, and Liska frowned.
“Why?”
“Yes, Miss.”
She sat there, thinking for longer than it seemed she should have. As if the question were particularly confusing or perhaps too odd? Because when Liska looked up, she frowned and spread her paws.
“I dunno. I guess I didn’t think about it.”
Now there was incredulous laughter from the panel.
“You didn’t think about the Goblin King, Miss? As in, it wasn’t the actual…Goblin King.”
Liska replied somewhat uneasily.
“No, it was him. I was scared so bad I think I peed myself. But…I dunno. Ishkr kept telling me to go, but I couldn’t. Not if it was him.”
“Why not, Miss Liska? Fear? It’s quite understandable.”
The Agent of Pallass sat back in his seat, and she responded clearly.
“No, because I knew if he got out, he’d start killing people. Like, my city. Or Pallass or…there’s no door that could stop him. He could go anywhere, even rip open the door, I thought. So someone had to try to stop him. Just…try. Even if it only helped a little bit.”
She cast around in the sudden silence.
“You know?”
The interviewing panel sat there, and Liska grew embarrassed and uneasy, as if she’d answered the question poorly. But the assorted members—one of each species, Drake, Gnoll, Garuda, and Dullahan—glanced at the Agent of Pallass, then the truth stone shining white in front of them.
Then they saw the reason she was here. Several of them marked items on their checklists. After a moment, one of the panelists asked in a far friendlier voice—
“Miss Liska. Pallass has room for everyone to move ever upwards, ever higher. We’ve even been known to elevate outstanding members into the Walled Nobility. It is highly, highly rare, but there have been two cases this millennia! You may be familiar with one—Grand Strategist Chaldion. With that said, do you envision a path forwards for yourself in your class that is greater than where it is now?”
It was a question they asked all people, and Liska’s face lit up as if this, ironically, was the easiest question.
“Oh yeah! I can definitely see myself hitting Level 40. Level 50 sounds crazy, but I want to level!”
“And what would a [Doorgnoll] class give you, Miss Liska? More…doorknobs?”
They were having trouble with her class, so Liska smiled and sat back.
“Nah. More places for the door to go, and I can charge it up with mana!”
“You can charge a door with mana? Someone else’s Skill?”
“Sure can. And block whomever I want! I used to train on that asshole [Lord]. You know, the one with the face like a block of stone?”
“Lord…?”
The agent hit the speaking stone.
“You mean Lord Tyrion Veltras?”
“Yep. I mostly lost, but I got him a few times! I figure that I could probably beat him a lot more if he doesn’t cheat and get help. Plus, there was this doorguy from Invrisil I met, and we got to talking, and I think I could hold off a lot of stuff if people tried to break down my door. You know, reinforce it? He said he could hold off a full battering ram, and I’d like to try that! On my time off. And…I dunno, that’s the big stuff. I get tired sometimes, but I’d like to hit ten thousand people through the door.”
“Ten thousand people through the [Door of Portals]?”
“Yeah. I mean, I’d hate working that much, but it’s a good number. Round. Sounds impressive. Ishkr said he’d buy me all the food I could eat at Wishdrinks if I did it.”
The panel regarded each other. Now, they were giving each other subtle nods or thumbs up under the table. This…this was a teenage prodigy. One with ties to the inn. This was an asset.
The agent himself was nodding as he smiled down at Liska.
“Miss Liska, I think I can speak for the panel when we say we’re pleased to accept you as a citizen of Pallass.”
“Oh. Whoa! That’s cool? But what if I’m, you know, Liscorian? And I work for Lyonette, and I dunno if I can just change jobs.”
He smiled smoothly as the others gasped a bit.
“Dual citizenship is acceptable, Miss Liska. As is working at an inn! It only requires an oath to the city and some paperwork, which I can certainly have someone fill out for you—because of your unique class and level, we are prepared to offer you not only a house, but a stipend. Gold, connections, exclusive perks—”
She was brightening up, eyes growing round, and he bet the inn didn’t pay her as much as it should. Or give her luxury treatment; they didn’t want to spoil her. But if it meant getting her on their side…The Wandering Inn might object, but it couldn’t beat Pallass in a gold-pissing match for pampering someone. Heh. Heheheheh.
Wait. The Eye of Pallass paused and blinked.
His [Warning: False Assumption] Skill had just gone off. Why had it…? He made a hurried note, rattled, as Liska bounced slightly in her chair.
“Really? My own house? Can I—I’ve got a mother who lives by herself, but she’s in her own place. Could I get, like, a separate room or something for her? And I could hire a [Carer], right?”
“Absolutely, Miss Liska. We could get you two homes—and help for family. And your brother.”
“Whoa. Really? You’re sure?”
The panel was nodding, and the agent was checking the time. They’d gotten Liska during one of her breaks; even if the inn was aware of what they were doing, they wouldn’t get a chance to talk to her before the panel swore her in at this point, and citizenship was more than just a word. You could enforce loyalties sworn if you wanted to get unpleasant, but mostly—it was about making her feel Pallassian. He stood.
“Why don’t we get you a copy of our national oath and we can get your paperwork done, Miss Liska? You can tour a place for potential homes if you can extend your break?”
“No way. I could ask Asgra to take over—you’re sure? This isn’t a joke?”
She was sold. His Skill, [Lowered Guard], had multiple uses in a fight and in these situations. The Agent of Pallas turned with a triumphant smile to the panel, not anticipating any pushback because they saw what he did.
But to his surprise, and then horror, the Drake panelist had a hand raised.
“Excuse me, agent, I’m so sorry, Miss Liska. But we might have to, ah, reverse our decision.”
Two of the panelists were nodding, and one, the Garuda, wavered and began to argue with them. The agent turned as Liska’s smile faltered.
“Wait, why?”
The Gnoll Eye of Pallass strode over to the others and whispered as they cut the speaking stone again.
“What’s going on? You can see she’s an asset!”
He hadn’t expected them to disagree with him; most people didn’t! But the committee were sighing over something. The Drake pushed the paper in front of her towards the agent with disgust.
“We just caught this—good thing too. Look.”
He stared down at the piece of paper, then up at her.
“Ridiculous. Approve her!”
“Are you mad?”
All but one of them gave him a look as if he were talking crazy. The Eye of Pallass whirled.
“She’s a Level 32 asset from the inn!”
“And this is Pallass. We have standards. I can check, agent, but—excuse me, Miss Liska?”
The Drake keyed the speaking stone and smiled with sudden, icy politeness at Liska. The young Gnoll woman’s wagging tail slowed as she picked up on something being off. Or recognized it.
“Yeah? What’s wrong?”
“We have, ah, just one issue with your file on record. Could you clarify for the panel a few counts of public indecency leading to your arrest with the Watch? We do not, normally, count small misdemeanors or past actions. But it says in your file…”
The Drake woman drew back slightly as if reading something, then peered at Liska, whose ears drooped. The Agent of Pallass was biting his tongue. The [Interviewer] coughed, then smiled.
“Tell us about your significant other, Miss Liska.”
The Agent of Pallass saw Liska hesitate, then fold her arms and clam up. He turned to the panelists, and only the Garuda shot him a pained glance. The Eye of Pallass opened his mouth to argue, then furiously began writing notes in his clipboard.
An Ancestors-damned Saliss of Lights. A second one. We have one shot at her, and this damn city is going to toss her back. 
He stared at his clipboard, then at Liska. Then the Eye of Pallass had the thought for the first time in his head—
How many are we losing like her?
It was an uncomfortable thought. He stood after a moment and strode out of the interviewing booth; there was nothing to be gained here. He needed a word with Zemize.
She was not going to be happy.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara didn’t, obviously, get to enter Pallass, but she snuck into the portal room where Liska was working. She had a feeling The Wandering Inn was close by. All her instincts told her that Lyonette had pulled a fast one, and if she maybe…tried the other doors?
