A warning shot, all volume, not enough electricity to even kill the fish in the water. Amerys projected her voice using a spell.
“Residents of The Wandering Inn, I have come in peace! Not to make war; kindly show me where you reside. You and I know I am unlikely to find you twice if you keep your trick active. But I am the King of Destruction’s [Mage]. I have come from Chandrar. I beseech you: let me in. It is a meeting of stories. And what are we without stories?”
Her eyes glittered, and she spun in the air.
“I swear upon my magic I mean you no harm. I shall endanger this inn not at all! On Gazi’s eyes, I promise; on my [King]’s head, I swear it.”
She did like a bit of whimsy and elegance to her address. Once more, Amerys froze in the air like a dancer captured by time, and then her head twisted around. She smiled.
“Especially not with that aimed at me. Have we an accord?”
She stepped, and she was standing upon the waters. Now she could see someone. It was as if the young woman with red hair had appeared out of nowhere. She had a weapon in hand, and a [Knight] in golden armor stood next to her.
“Archmage Amerys. I don’t believe we have invited you. What do you want?”
From the first words the [Princess] spoke, Amerys loved her. And she thought—if anyone could have caught her [King]’s eyes when he was that age from noble, simpering Terandria, it might have been her.
Who had given one of Calanfer’s [Princesses] a spine? Amerys bowed.
“I have no invitation. Are they issued, then? For I would find one, if so.”
Lyonette du Marquin hesitated, then handed her weapon to Dame Ushar and folded her arms.
“No. But most of our guests do not come throwing lightning and bringing storms.”
The Archmage drew closer, her feet leaving ripples on the water as she skipped forwards, light as a floating bubble. She scrutinized the [Princess]’ face and understood.
Something is greatly wrong with her. But ‘twas impolite to comment on such matters at first meeting, so she did not address it.
“Yet. From all that I have witnessed and seen and heard tell of, the [Innkeeper] will bring more of my ilk in time. I envy you. I pity you.”
She meant every word. Her [King] had expressed the desire to visit. But the [Innkeeper] was gone. Amerys knew this. The inn was only half of her visit, and the smaller half by far.
 
——
 
Lyonette was shivering as Archmage Amerys approached. The closer they got, the more rattled she seemed, though not perhaps by Amerys’ level and nature alone. She raised one hand to her cheek, then lowered it.
“Your Highness, your daughter is safe and well along with Visma. Both your daughters are now in the [Garden].”
Ushar whispered, and Lyonette never took her eyes off the woman hovering there. Amerys’ robes were rising around her, and she looked like a character from a children’s book Lyonette had once read to Mrsha.
A true Archmage.
“What do you want, Archmage Amerys? Just admittance?”
“If that will grant me the phenomena of the inn, yes. If you can start the event without needing me to sit in the inn, then please, by all means begin. I shall not take unneeded time. Soon, my enemies will swarm, and I have business in Liscor.”
Her tone was refined, a court-mage’s, a scholar’s, but she had a directness as well that reminded Lyonette of adventurers. A Wistram-trained [Mage] who could fight actual battles. Lyonette felt her blood rushing. Something was wrong. She nearly touched her cheeks again.
“Inn phenomena?”
“Yes. What is the term? Ah, ‘Solstice Events’. I have heard it said that this inn provides miracles and tragedy. That it changes one’s life in a day. I wish to experience it myself. I hunger for change. Oblige me and I shall thank you with the King of Destruction’s generosity.”
“Eternal Throne.”
Ushar whispered. One of the King’s Seven knew the phrase ‘Solstice Event’? Lyonette wanted to laugh, but Amerys was drawing closer, and the rushing agony in her blood was getting worse. It wasn’t just the pain of her cracked soul…it was thrilling. Like the power to do anything. Agony of the same.
“We cannot just…create such moments, Archmage. Nor do I wish to draw more attention to the inn than I already have. The fact you found it is alarming.”
“Ah, well, my method will not work twice. Your Skill unnerves me, [Princess]. It is growing stronger. Will you at least let me walk the inn’s floor? Admire the [Garden of Sanctuary]? I confess, I will bring strife. I do not come in peace for some. Your inn I have vowed to spare, and I shall, though I know its location not at all, even now.”
The woman was peering at Lyonette’s face, and the [Princess] was gasping. She felt static-electricity buzzing from her teeth, across her cheeks.
“Your magic is too powerful, Archmage. If this is peace—”
Dame Ushar was staring at her in horror.
“Your Highness, your skin. The cracks—”
Only then did Lyonette realize lightning was crackling from the cracks in her face. Between the red, angry lines hidden by makeup, electricity was jolting outwards. Even across her cheeks, as if she were a copy of Amerys. The Archmage of Lightning drew back a step, and the terrible energy in Lyonette’s chest reduced.
“Fascinating. You are echoing my power. Truly, this inn would make him laugh. I only found this place due to my level, didn’t I? And it was Mars who had to point out the obvious. Mars.”
She shook her head ruefully, then held a hand up as Dame Ushar extended a shield between her and her ward.
“I withdraw my request. I can see my very presence is causing you agony, [Princess]. I hope your affliction can be cured; I am no worker of miracles. But I hear there is a great [Healer] in Izril. Perhaps she can aid you.”
“I intend to visit her shortly.”
Lyonette rasped, and Amerys paused. Her smile flashed over her lips, as fast as her magic.
“How dearly I would wish to witness it. But to business, for I hear the Walled Cities panicking. I have no intention to bring one to heel again…today.”
Lyonette gasped. Such words! She was in pain, but her class and pride refused to let her step back. She wouldn’t have, not for all the gold the inn had. This was still…Amerys.
“Bold words, Archmage. For a woman that Zeres alone held back at the height of the King of Destruction’s power.”
She was ignorant of how Ushar gaped at her. So focused on Amerys’ words and the woman herself that she didn’t realize how she spoke to the woman who terrified armies. Amerys’ face was too delighted to make Lyonette second-guess herself. She threw her head back and laughed.
“Is that how they say it in Izril? Held back. I failed to breach Zeres’ walls; this is true, and the fault is that I was too weak. Yet I did not see that city of countless millions storm over me like the waves. If one woman were indeed held back by an entire city…yes, fair enough.”
“I see. I do apologize for any discourtesy I implied. Merely that Pallass is an ally of the inn at times. I would not wish strife on either party.”
“So very well said, Princess. I take no offence at all.”
“Lyonette. I am no [Princess].”
This time, the Archmage’s chuckle was so rich that Lyonette’s lips had to quirk. She sketched a curtsey, then spoke.
“What else may we oblige you with, Archmage? I could at least provide you with refreshments for your long travels. Anything else?”
Amerys snapped her fingers, and the clouds rolled. It might be her one main trick…but it still made her like a [Storyteller of Legends]. There was no way to overcome the primal awe of her power.
“I shall have an Amentus juice and pizza slice, if you please. Merely to brag to my lord I did. Second, an autographed card of one ‘Mrsha’. That is not for myself, though I might as well request two. The last request is the trickiest, if simplest.”
“Mrsha?”
Lyonette’s reserve broke here, and she spluttered. Amerys nodded.
“It is a fancy of my peers. One of them; Mars to be exact. She is a great lover of fluffy and cute things, and the child fits both bills. It is also Mars’ opinion the autograph is appropriate for reasons she will not tell me.”
Amerys paused as Lyonette held her tongue, and the Archmage’s eyes glittered.
“She is the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar, perhaps the entire world. Her instincts do not fail, you see. She knew where the inn was, though it took days for her to think it out. It was that which prompted this occasion along with the provocation.”
At this moment, Ishkr came out the door to the inn, and Amerys actually recoiled in shock. But he had the requested items on a serving tray. She laughed at him.
“Who are you, stranger? The three of you could be His Majesty’s vassals all. And that funny Drake on the television says this inn is ‘inconsequential’ now. Does he not have eyes? Well, he has that stupid monocle.”
She knew Ishkr’s levels. He bowed as she took a bite of pizza, a sip of the blue fruit juice, and swept the cards off the tray. She handed him a diamond as fat as his thumb. He proffered her several autograph cards.
“Would you care to sign these, Archmage…?”
Laughing, she did. Then caught him before he turned.
“Should you desire work, seek me out, [Waiter]. Or His Majesty.”
He bowed and retreated with a smile for Lyonette. She sighed and then spoke. One of the [Necromancers] hidden around the new inn was gesturing for Ishkr to get more autographs; Lyonette glared Master Elosaith back into his hiding place.
“Archmage, it has not been long, but I think you are a woman who appreciates swiftness, and the attention of the world is crackling, if you will excuse the pun, towards us. I am loath to be on the scrying orb again so soon. What do you desire for your final request?”
Amerys bowed. She swept herself upwards, and now, she seemed wearied. Lyonette noticed the wrinkles on her face, probably hidden by makeup, and a certain weakness to her delicate movements.
“Forgive me. It has been a long trip, and though I have leveled, I am weaker than my raging youth in so many ways…I delight in our conversation, though it is true: without the [Innkeeper], I did not come for the inn. Thank you for indulging my fancy. I shall remember you to the King of Destruction.”
“Please don’t.”
A smile flickered across Amerys’ lips. Then she leapt backwards into the air and hung there. Her voice grew and boomed across the Floodplains of Liscor.
“It is not for the inn that I made this journey, nor shall it be the inn that sends me whence I came. All here know me; they know of my betrayal at Wistram. I have strived with every Archmage who was responsible for my capture. The [Mages] of Wistram I hold still in contempt for their treachery. Forty some lie dead that were too unwise to flee me. I have lost count already.”
Her head turned, as if regarding the [Scrying] spells now finding her. Amerys addressed the air and her audience on the ground.
“This…Archmage of Memories I shall meet on the battlefield in time, I have no doubt. But you? You surely knew the moment you heard my thunder who I was here for. They say you duel; I challenge you to one now. Defend the honor of the Academy of Mages or I shall drag you wailing into the sky. I have received your mocking challenge, though you doubtless did not expect me to bring it so swiftly to your face. You who have slumbered half as long as my King of Destruction have clearly forgotten who I am. So, face me, Archmage Valeterisa.”
Her head turned, and her eyes shone like spotlights. Lyonette slowly turned her head towards the inn, and inside, a very upset woman tried to duck beneath the windowsill.
 
——
 
Everyone was staring at her. Archmage Valeterisa’s voice quavered as she looked at Relc, Montressa, and for a way out.
“I-I sent no such challenge!”
But it occurred to her that even if this were true and this was some laughable misunderstanding—which it was—
She was going to have to go out there and tell Amerys that.
Amerys had always scared Valeterisa. And that was before the King of Destruction had woken up.
Montressa gazed at her master and the Archmage of Lightning hovering in the storm she was conjuring. They were both Archmages…in title. But one of them was trying to get into the [Garden of Sanctuary] as the three girls inside tried to eject her.
 
——
 
The Archmage of Chandrar twirled on the waters, her feet tapping on the liquid surface of the Floodplains like a marionette in a surreal glass world of watercolors. If that alone was too much for you, do not meet her eyes.
She trailed tracers of lightning, afterimages of her body flickered from place to place like some gigantic firefly. She was warming up. The same odd, swaying dance that was both slow and combined with the speed of a [Lightning Mage] was her battle style.
She had not come here to eat pizza and sip blue juice. The very mana in the air was turning to the lightning element; the feeling like the tingle in the air before lightning struck. Everything was taking cover.
Fish were swarming away from her, causing visible currents in the water. A herd of Rock Crabs scuttled over a hill and down the other side. Even a few skeletons decided to hotfoot it into the water.
Amerys waited for her opponent, and this…this was familiar to her. The world had changed so much in the year of her imprisonment that had felt like far longer. A hellish aeon of confinement and helplessness defined only by her will to refuse to suborn her loyalties. Then, the disappointment of both foes who fled her king’s legend and great events seeming to miss her; an Archmage out of nowhere, magic produced like a [Magician]’s tricks that had not been there when she was young. Frustrating, in short.
This made her feel young again. The Archmage threw her hair back in a spray of rain, and it hovered as she watched the droplets of water turn into miniature orbs of lightning. This was older than she was, old as the dawn of this world. Older than that, in some ways. It was the thing that all those who believed in magic knew.
A mage’s duel. Like the challenge of warriors, there was a calling to it. Here were two Archmages of Wistram. Two who were ideologically opposed. Valeterisa, a traditionalist for all she was a recluse, part of the Terras faction.
Amerys, the servant of the King of Destruction, who had openly cut ties with the Academy, thought to be the greatest living battlemage in Wistram…until Eldavin.
How could it not be war? Oh, certainly, when the timid Archmage of Izril finally did appear, seeming rather as though someone had shoved her out a window, her first move was to conjure a white flag and wave it before levitating towards Amerys, requesting parlay, a truce, clarity, and non-aggression—but you knew.
Just look at her.
