“I mean…” Erick was uncomfortable with Slip’s level of zeal, but he said, “Acceptable. Thank you, Slip.” Erick stopped walking forward, since they were close to their destination, and turned to the three members of Candlepoint, “And be sure to contact me if any large monsters come for Candlepoint, too.” He gestured to Poi, saying, “Or contact Poi. I don’t think you have met, but— Mephistopheles, Ava Jadescale, Slip, this is Poi Fulisade, my head guard, and one of my closest confidants. Please treat him as you would me. He already knows who you are. A lot of people do, actually, but it’s past time for certain bilateral information exchanges.”

Ava, Mephistopheles, and Slip, each bowed to Poi.

Poi took a half-step forward, coming to stand beside Erick. He barely bowed at all, before righting and saying, “Greetings. I am a Mind Mage, and if I may be so bold: I humbly suggest less talk of propaganda, and more consideration to honest trade.”

All eyes widened.

Erick barely held himself back from flinching. Poi just came out and said that he was a Mind Mage? And then he offered an opinion?!

New things happened all the time, apparently!

Erick recovered, and said, “I agree with Poi. So let’s come up with some ideas for industry that don’t involve food.” He added, “Or unique magics. Or propaganda. Something that isn’t a valuable resource of the area, either. Something that is only purchasable through the people who live here.”

A small silence descended.

Ava suggested, “Adventuring guides? Every shadeling is a Classed individual at level 55 or higher. That’s almost four times the worldwide average. Power leveling youngsters was good for goodwill in my previous life.”

“Yeah. But that’s the Underworld,” Slip said. “And even that has fallen out of favor in recent centuries.”

Erick frowned at Ava’s suggestion of violent work, but he said the word to see how it felt, anyway. “Mercenaries?”

“We wouldn’t be calling it ‘mercenary’ work, Erick! Guides. Not mercenaries.” Ava said, “It’s a rather unique service that brings a lot of prestige with it, as long as behavior is maintained, of course. High level insular communities do that all the time in order to showcase talent and honor and the like. Guides were particularly prevalent over in Nelboor.” She looked to Slip. “Is that still true?”

“Yes.” Slip said, “Somewhat.”

“But… Mercenaries?”

“Monster-only hunts, of course.” Ava said, “It’s something that Zaraanka and I have spoken about a few times.”

Mephistopheles said, “I’m not sure.”

Ava frowned at the man.

Erick did not like the idea of mercenaries— Or rather, ‘Guides’… And yet, there was something about it that sounded… Almost good? Shadelings as guides would allow the rest of the world to see them as agents against the darkness of this world… And yet, Erick’s frown only deepened, killing the conversation in the process. With a few deep thoughts rattling around in his head, Erick resumed his walk toward the minotaur encampment. The other four followed, in silence.

Erick reached the minotaur house not one block later.

It was a rather ordinary series of buildings, three total, shaped like a U with the northern winds flowing into the center of the three structures. It was only ten small houses, and with a quick glance inside, Erick recognized three bedrooms per house. There weren’t enough rooms. Some minotaurs were sleeping on the ground, or in the same beds as another. A quick count showed at least 45 people, all of which looked mostly the same, but with slight variations.

They all had bronzed skin, either almost shiny as gold, or as deeply brown as stained wood. Cloven hooves for feet. Reddish hair, but only on their heads… And none on their arms or legs? Erick wasn’t about to violate anyone’s privacy any more than he already had, but from what he saw, they did not have normal mammalian hair distribution. Most of them wore conjured armor, which was a bit of a shame. Maybe no real clothes fit them? At least not yet, anyway. All of them had horns similar to those of incani, but more to the sides, and with about as much variation as incani horns, too. Some had no horns at all, but Erick saw bald, hard spots on a few heads where their horns should have been. Some of them had already carved off their horns.

And now, as he looked, he saw some people crying into mirrors and touching their hair, or the rest of themselves.

Erick hoped the body dysmorphia wouldn’t be that bad, but it obviously was. These ‘minotaurs’ were a people created from all of the various races of Veird, save for the wrought, and each one of them had been soul and blood warped into mutant magical cows, then mutated back into mostly-bipedal bodies, and then changed again into what and who they were right now. Though the Shrouds of their souls seemed strong as steel, with all that body and soul modification, there was going to be mental trauma, too.

But even knowing a bit of what to expect, Erick still felt his heart lurch hard when he spied a woman trying to cut scales into the golden skin of her muscular forearm, while a second woman desperately tried to stop her from hurting herself. The second woman almost needn’t have bothered. The knife failed to cut more than a thin red line into the gold woman’s skin. There was no blood.

Erick turned his attention back to his surroundings.

Slip gave a nod to a pair of shadelings in guard uniforms, stationed outside of the minotaur compound. Those guards bowed toward Erick as Erick’s small group of people walked past them, toward the communal part of the central building. Slip slipped to Erick’s right side, while Mephistopheles and Ava held back a bit, and Poi stepped to Erick’s left side.

Most of the minotaurs had crashed out, sleeping, or trying to sleep, but as Erick approached, a few industrious and wide awake cow-people caught sight of him. Events proceeded fast. Someone yelled out about ‘company coming in’. This call repeated twice through the compound, rapidly becoming murmurs as everyone who wasn’t totally wiped out quickly hopped to attention, coming out of their homes to stand at the doorway to watch, or coming all the way forward into that communal space in the front.

As Erick stepped onto the dark stone under the central pavilion, others were already waiting for him to speak, or for someone else to come forward and demand Erick explain his sudden presence among them.

All before him, Erick saw strong people in a weird situation.

Except for a few particularly large guys and girls, every one of them was still shorter than an orcol, but they stood tall all the same, providing a more united front against Erick’s intrusion than he had expected to find.

“That’s him!” came the startled voice of a bronze-skinned man taller than Erick, with curling white horns on his head. “That’s Archmage Flatt!”

Murmurs erupted as recognition and shared words enlightened everyone to Erick’s identity. And then, like a switch flipping, the entire gathered group of twenty-odd people casually dropped to their knees. Tears fell. They prayed several different ways. Some with their hands clasped together, others with their heads bowed and arms to their sides, and still others who kowtowed, going as low as they could.

Shocked to silence, Erick said nothing. And then he got hold of himself. Words rushed out, “Please! Don’t do that. Stand, please.” When they didn’t immediately comply, he stepped forward, almost ready to lift them off of the ground himself, but the first people he approached shuffled backward, their eyes going wide. Erick stopped. He stepped back, and they seemed to relax. Still, he said, “Please don’t do this worship thing.”

“It’s not worship.” A strong-looking man got back on his cloven hooves, saying, “It’s honor. We honor you for what you have done for us.”

Another stepped up, a woman, saying, “We honor you.”

“Honor to the Archmage!” said another, and then another.

Soon, they were all standing again. Most of them took up the call, “Honor to the Archmage!” But a few remained quietly reverent, their amber eyes sparkling in the light.

Erick felt their emotions wash over him like a warm wave in the ocean. As it passed, he asked them, “Are you all physically okay? Is there anything I can get for you?”

The strong-looking man stepped forward. “Is there anything we can do for you, good sir?”

“Nothing I can think of, but—” Erick instantly asked, “How did you get here? Where is Hollowsaur?”

At the mention of their torturer’s name, the entire crowd turned ugly. Some spat on the ground. Others openly cursed the Shade’s name.

The strong man said, “That Shade is gone! And good riddance!”

A woman said, “We couldn’t kill him, but we tried. Sorry for failing, sir.”

Before the gathering turned more ugly, Erick said, “Don’t worry about it. You’re all okay, and that’s what matters.” As some people frowned at that, Erick added, “Or at least you will be okay, now that the danger of that man has passed.”

That seemed to restore some of the relief on the faces in front of him.

The strong man said, “That Shade tossed us through a [Shadow Gate], dropping us here, telling us all the while that he was sorry.” He glanced toward Slip, then back to Erick, saying, “Some of us already knew this place and its people, and so it was easy enough to get temporary housing. We are making the best of it, and hope to be out of here as soon as we can. But some of us won’t ever be welcomed home as we are. I know I will not be welcomed back home, and I know several of my fellow people won’t be welcomed to their homes, either.”

Ah. It was time for more politics.

Erick picked up what the guy was putting down, saying, “If it were up to me, I’d offer you permanent residences here in Candlepoint, but—” He gestured to Mephistopheles, silently asking the mayor of Candlepoint to come forward, as he said to the strong man, “Mephistopheles is the man in charge around here, along with his other contemporaries. They have final say on any immigration.”

Mephistopheles immediately accepted Erick’s approval of his position by cementing himself in that position, by saying, “Of course they can stay.” He turned to his new people, and said, “You will be bound with the same rules as any citizen of Candlepoint, and you are encouraged to find or make jobs. We’re a growing city, and could use all the help we can get.”

Relief passed through much of the minotaur crowd.

And then Erick had an idea. He sent to Poi, ‘What I’m about to offer does exist, right?’

‘Yes. A lot of us specialize in this for our own communities, though the help you’re thinking of is considered beyond extreme by almost every culture except the Mind Mages.’

Erick suddenly felt a lot better about the broken, yet strong people he saw before him. He spoke, “If anyone wishes for some Mind Mage emotional support or therapy, I will be looking into that sort of assistance not only for you—” He said to Mephistopheles, “But also for the shadelings of Candlepoint. I really should have done this sooner, and so I can only apologize for not acting in your interests faster.”

Even though Mephistopheles grinned at Erick’s side, and then wiped that expression away, the relief of the previous moments became something more spiky, and worrisome, as grumbles passed through the gathered minotaurs.

And then the strong man spoke again, playing a role that he saw needed to be played, “Thank you, Archmage. I will be the first in line for such a service, and I can only hope that some of my compatriots will follow my lead.”

With that simple statement, the strong man seemed to lose a lot of his support all around him. One suddenly-disgusted man stepped away, deeper into the crowd.

But Erick couldn’t help but smile. “I’m glad to hear that, and I can safely say that after all that has recently happened it would probably be good for me, too, to see a therapist.”

A few awkward chuckles passed through the group. And that was okay. Erick was fine with putting himself out there like that, exactly as the strong man had done.

Erick asked, “What’s your name? I’ve just been calling you ‘strong man’ in my head.”

The man smiled at his moniker, then said, “Danarin Longtusk. Former orcol, newly-created ‘minotaur’, and unexpectedly finding himself overjoyed at the true beauty of life ahead.”

Every single large person in the group smiled at that, and even a few of the smaller ones. Erick recognized the sentiment Danarin expressed; by saying ‘true beauty’ he was referring to a life lived outside of Aloethag’s divinely-imposed standards of beauty, and outside of the goddess’s control over any part of him, even if that part had been his empowering Rage. The man had even crouched his language in common idioms instead of directly calling out Aloethag, and that, more than anything, let Erick know that he actually had been an orcol, before all of this soul mutilation. With that revelation, Erick turned a slight attention to the smaller minotaurs, and wondered if the Angels or the Demons were still talking to the former humans or incani, telling them of wars to be fought against their eternal foes, or not. Erick guessed that those smaller minotaurs, too, had been severed from their usual divine overseers. Probably.

Maybe.

