As Erick looked over his Class Ability, Blood Mana, which allowed him to spend Health in addition to Mana to cast a spell, he thought to cast a Healing Spell on himself using Blood Mana. Using this methodology, he could theoretically cast massive heals on himself for a fraction of the mana cost.

Erick’s mana costs were already fractioned, but this was new magic! It had to be explored! So Erick did just that.

Erick triggered [Healing Word] for the cost of 1 Health and 1 Mana, and almost launched out of his bed at the surprising pain. A series of phantom bee-stings tap-tap-tap’ed across his chest and arms. The pain passed as fast as it had come. Okay. That was strange. That hadn’t happened when Erick had experimented with Blood Mana before. As another experiment, Erick cast a [Cleanse] with Blood Mana, again spending 1 Health and 1 Mana for the spell.

No bee stings that time.

Ah. Well.

Pain for Blood Healing, or whatever, was either sadism on the part of the Script, or some weird interaction between healing magic and Blood Mana. Maybe both. Erick filed away that question for another day, and cast [Healing Word] on himself, normally.

He flickered with white light, and then it was gone.

… He cast [Healing Word] again, instantly. And then five more times in super-fast rapid succession.

A wide grin plastered itself to Erick’s face. With all his bonuses, [Healing Word] only cost 1 mana. It had actually cost more to cast the spell with Blood Mana. Ha!

Erick rapidly transformed a thousand mana into a thousand casts of [Healing Word]. He watched as a white glow suffused his skin, like a life magnified. He continued to smile, as he fell back in bed, and relaxed, feeling a lot better. [Healing Word] was great. Was there some ‘feel good’ component to it? Or was this just the niceness of being hale and clean? Ah! A question for the healers. Not a question for the mages.

Oh! But this rapid-cast function! How amazing!

Oh. This rapid-cast function… How… Troubling.

Rozeta had been right; being allowed to ignore the Script Second was a slippery slope. Erick had tasted freedom, and he wanted more. But he also recognized that no one should have this much power.

Ah. Whatever. Erick ignored philosophy for the moment as he rapidly cast enough [Healing Word]s to level the spell to [Healing Word X]. When that single second passed, Erick discovered that the spell did not change from level 1 to level X. But that was fine. It was already powerful enough.

He held one hand out, and channeled mana through [Healing Word].

— And was suddenly entranced by the complexity and joy of ethereal words without meaning, and yet full of meaning. Like a sudden orchestra in his bedroom, [Healing Word] played in the white light of his hand; a voice echoing upon itself to reinforce the way, to enable more of the song to come again, faster and faster. A staccato song that only stopped beating when Erick desired it.

Erick cut the channel.

“Ah.” He said to himself, “Healing magics are complicated, and that one is much more than it appears to be.”

Knowing he would likely have to try multiple times, and thus take multiple days, to pull the magic he wanted out of [Healing Word], Erick threw away his first attempt with an offhanded, experimental cast.

[Healing Word]’s staccato beat came away from the orchestral music and a blue box appeared.

Quick Spell, instant, self, 10 mana

Cast Quick Spell as soon as you desire.

Erick balked.

Was that a success? Had he done it on his first try?!

Maybe… Maybe it was? Erick wasn’t quite sure what ‘success’ looked like, in this particular case. [Quick Spell] might have been the best possible outcome? He cast a few hundred [Quick Spells], just to see if it worked, and it did. A hundred no-effect spells splashed out of Erick like so many puffs of white light.

Ah. Well. Maybe this worked? Whatever the case, there was no time like the present to try for something else. What other spells did Erick have that he didn’t mind experimenting with? How about… [Force Wall]? Yes. That sounded decent. Suddenly erecting a dozen walls across a battlefield wouldn’t stop Spatial magics, or whatnot, but a dozen sudden walls would be great for controlling minor monsters.

And now that he thought about it for more than half a second, there were actually a lot of ways that instantly casting a dozen [Force Wall]s could be useful.

With a happy smile, and an almost childish joy, Erick channeled a song of delineation in one hand and a staccato of rapid beats in the other. Combined, they formed something new. Erick cast a different kind of [Force Wall] against the side of his room. As a mostly transparent wall of white force appeared, so did a blue box.

Quick Wall, instant, medium range, 65 mana

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Absorbs 50 damage before breaking. Lasts 1 minute.

You may cast Quick Wall again as soon as you desire.

… Okay. That looked very wrong. [Force Wall X] was much, much better than… than whatever [Quick Wall] was supposed to be.

Force Wall X, instant, medium range, 50 MP

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Absorbs 500 damage before breaking. Lasts 10 minutes per level.

Yeah. Erick had screwed up somewhere. Perhaps [Quick Spell] was the problem? He channeled mana through [Quick Spell], listening intently to the staccato beat. Hmm. There might have been a problem, there. He held out his hand toward the Ophiel currently roosting on his headboard.

“What do you make of this, Ophiel?”

Ophiel, who had been quietly watching, now took up the staccato song, amplifying everything about it, filling Erick’s bedroom with a beep-shh-beep-shh-beep-shh.

Oh. Drat.

“Ohhhh.” Erick said, “Now I hear it. That ‘shh’ shouldn’t be in there.” Then he looked at the belt around his waist, and wondered why 200+ Perception couldn’t help him out with the sound, here. He took off the belt.

… Nothing really changed.

He looked to the belt, asking himself, “So why couldn’t I hear the magic?” He thought for a moment. He looked to Ophiel on his headboard, and asked, “I know my soul is damaged… Could that be the problem?”

Ophiel shrugged his little eye-filled wings.

Erick certainly heard as someone stepped down the hallway, outside of his room, though.

Jane asked, “Dad? Are you awake?” as she fully opened his bedroom door. “Ah. You are awake. Are you feeling okay?”

Erick briefly considered putting the belt back on, but he decided against that. Instead, he held it out, considered his daughter, and decided now was as good a time as any. “I’m doing fine, but since you’re here, I want to talk to you about this.” He set the belt on the nearby dresser. Jane’s eyes turned toward the silver, cable-like construction. “This belt allows the user to unlock all of the New Stats. It also shifted my Status to ‘human’ with a question mark. Unlocking all of the New Stats also made me rather odd for a good while. Maybe five to ten hours; I was inside a liminal space at the time so I don’t quite know how long that lasted. And that’s another warning against the New Stats. There’s also a horrific reaction if someone has a New Stat outside of the other New Stats. Like if you already have Charisma and then you gain Perception; it rips your soul and body apart. But anyway: There don’t seem to be any downsides right now to my human-question-mark Status, or to the Stats themselves, but who knows what will happen later. Melemizargo is trying to get his Stats into the Script, but that might not happen. So here. Take this belt. Don’t wear it right now, and maybe not ever. And especially not if you already have one of the New Stats.” He said, “But the choice is yours. You’re already smart enough, and strong enough, but maybe you’ll need something more one day, and this could be it.”

Jane thoroughly ignored the belt and pulled over a short reading chair to Erick’s bedside. She sat down. She looked her father in the eyes, and said, “I’m worried about you.”

Erick sarcastically said, “Me too.”

Jane continued, “And though you’ve always done what you could to support my choices, this belt and an offer of the New Stats is a bit much, even for you. I’m not going to wear that belt. I’m not going to risk myself like that, but I will take it, if it makes you feel better. I’m sorry you risked yourself like that, too.”

Emotions swelled behind Erick’s eyes, and came out as tiny tears rolling down his face.

Jane put a hand on her father’s hand, and said, “You want to talk about it?”

Erick sobbed, once. After a while, he said, “I want to talk about it.”

“I’m here. Let’s talk.”

And so they did.

“So many people died, Jane. So many… So many awful things happened...”

- - - -

Hours later, and over tea and chocolate chip cookies, Erick finally got through much of his story, told from a much less tactical perspective, and a much more emotional one. Somewhere along the way, Erick asked Jane of her night, and she shared her own experiences of the last few days.

The first day of the Triumph of Light had been more than hectic for Jane. It had been a killer. Monsters inhabited Forward Base. Adventurers flooded the Dead City. The people of the Brightwater showed themselves to the world. Adventurers flooded the Brightwater, and the Brightwater fought back, easily turning away every single person that tried to invade.

“They failed to stop the Headmaster, though,” Jane said, bringing the horrific recounting down to a personal level by naming a specific person.

Erick’s eyes went wide. “He went in there? Personally?”

“Oh yeah. Him and about five hundred of his Elites. They hit three places over the course of one hour early this morning. The Library is now gone, in its entirety. Where once were towers full of books, there’s now a scoop carved out of the horizon.” Jane said, “Then the same thing happened to the Palace District, and a part of that Truedark Arcanaeum. He entered the city as a dragon, dad. Nearly a kilometer long! Bright gold the whole way down from nose to tail, with a halo of light twice as large as that.”

Erick whispered, “Wow.”

“Oh yeah.”

Erick suddenly said, “You need to work on your magic, Jane. You need a Domain. You will die if you don’t have a Domain. The Headmaster’s halo was likely his Domain; I think I have close enough to the same one.” He rapidly said, “I’m going to teach you how— I need to teach Kiri, too. Holy shit. You don’t even know how bad it could be— If you don’t have a Domain then you’re less than a bug to—”

“Dad. Dad.” Jane set down her drink and stared into her father’s eyes. “Dad. Relax. Please.”

Erick breathed in, then out. “It’s not over yet, Jane. Shadow’s Feast was just the start. Something is going to sweep in to fill in the gap left by Melemizargo’s Clergy. And now that Converter Angel is here, too!”

“And that’s not okay, but we don’t have to worry about the power vacuum or the Angel right this second.” Jane said, “Right now, we’re just talking. There’s no need to worry about magic or the future right now.”

Erick tried to sum up his fears, trying to keep his words from turning into a rant, as he said, “Okay. Fine. But let me say this: You need a Domain. It’s the only thing that will stop someone from fucking you over at their whim.” He added, “And maybe you should put on that belt, but I’ll never forgive myself if it does something bad to you. But I think I’m fine, and I gained a mana sense due to those New Stats, as well as a lot of the Sight spells. They were the only things that allowed me to see through the various illusions inside Shadow’s Feast. Also, [Healing Word] is a spell that the user can cast as fast as they want, skipping over the Script Second, but I think I screwed up my first attempt at extracting that ability from that spell. I managed to make [Quick Spell]—” He pushed the box for that toward Jane, along with [Quick Wall], saying, “But [Quick Wall] is nowhere near as good as [Force Wall]. Just before we started talking, Ophiel showed me that I messed up extracting [Quick Spell] out of [Healing Word]. I think I failed on the first try because my soul has been damaged by what I had to do to win that final fight with the Shades and I can’t hear the magic so well...” Erick said, “And I’m worried about you. I know I try to let you do whatever you want. But I’m worried about what comes next… And I’m rambling.”

Moments passed in silence.

Jane said, “Hello Rambling, I’m Jane.”

Erick just blinked. And then he laughed. And then he cried. Jane got out of her chair and grabbed her father into a hug.

Erick mumbled against Jane’s shoulder, “I should be the one supporting you. I’m the parent here. I’m sorry I can’t be stronger for you.”

“I’m only strong because I have the best dad of two worlds.”

Erick laughed again, and this time Jane joined him. Time passed, as father and daughter embraced. After a short while, Erick pulled away from Jane. He sniffled. He threw a [Cleanse] into the room, ridding himself of the mess he had made of his face and of Jane’s shirt.

He breathed, and then he glanced to the side, to a window. “When did that start?”

Jane did not need to look out the window to answer. “Last night.”

On the street, and on the nearby empty lots, just past a short wall that was not there the last time Erick looked, there were guards. They wore the silver armor of Spur’s Guard, and stood outside of the new wall, to keep the people beyond from coming too close.

