People of every race and sex and type of dress had been coming by all day long, and though only a few of them stayed longer than five minutes, all of them brought something with them. Something special to lay upon that wall, or upon the land just beyond. There were tiny painted portraits of those who had died because of Ar’Kendrithyst, and the Shades. Mementos of broken swords. Broken staves. Tiny rings. Flowers and candles. Some people came with small stacks of stone books and left those relics of Rozeta amongst the other mementos. Some came with tiny carved-stone slimes, or little Silver Stars, in honor of Phagar, or Koyabez.

Incense spilled into the air from dozens of small bowls of rice, scattered among the display.

Erick had avoided looking at most of the memorial, or thinking about it all too deeply, until now, until he had disgorged some of his worries. Until he was able to take on more. He sat down again, and gauged himself. He was ready to take on more.

Jane sat back down in her own chair, and continued, “It started about three hours after you departed the celebration. Good speech, by the way. Was that your idea?”

Erick shook his head, then sat back down in his own chair. “Silverite had that whole thing planned out. A lot of political talk is happening around me and I’m mostly just going with the flow. I met the minotaurs yesterday, you know? Ah. Wait. I already said that.”

“You did. But go ahead.”

“Danarin, their ‘spokesperson’, for lack of a better word, got that title because he spoke up when everyone else was silent. I think he’s a good guy, but he definitely saw an opportunity for power and took it.” Erick glanced at the air, briefly checking Candlepoint like he had since he woke up, and said, “I’ve been checking on Candlepoint since I woke, and that guy is already throwing people into groups and organizing with Mephistopheles— That’s another guy that stood up and took control when he could, and everyone else let him… I let him. But he seems to be alright, too.” Erick paused. He asked, “So where is everyone else? Except Poi.” Erick looked through the light, to see Poi sitting in the Library, reading to himself.

Poi looked up, and waved.

Erick smiled.

Jane said, “I asked them all to give me and you some space when you woke up. Kiri, Teressa, and Justine are all at Forward Base. Kiri’s helping with Sunny to clear up some of the larger problems while Teressa has already explored the Swamp twice now. Justine is just there to help Killzone find targets of opportunity. I was helping with that for a while, too. But then you woke up and Poi alerted me, so I came here.”

Erick sat back in his chair and looked to the chocolate chip cookies and the cooling coffee. He asked Jane, “What do you want for dinner?” He added, “And do you want to come on my vacation to Treehome? Has Teressa figured that out? I thought she would have been on that. She still wants to go, right?”

“I want burgers and fries for dinner, and I do believe that Teressa does still want to go to Treehome. She’s already organized all that, as far as I know. I heard you’ve got some very fancy reservations at a very fancy hotel, too. So I’m looking forward to the full spa treatment.”

Erick giggled.

Jane smiled, adding, “You know: If they do that sort of thing on Veird.”

“Ha! Oh. Wait! We could provide luxury spa treatments at Candlepoint!” Erick said, “That’s an idea.”

Jane continued to smile, as she said, “Yes. It’s an idea, for sure.”

Erick got up from his chair, saying, “So smash burgers and fries?”

“Good choice. I love it already, dad.” Jane got up from her chair, and hugged her father again, saying, “I love you.”

With a smile, Erick said, “I love you more.”

- - - -

The next day, Erick set an appointment with Spur’s Registrar, Irogh, and then attended that appointment, using Poi to dodge the very-full Courthouse hallways. Even still, some people in the hallways had recognized Poi, though they did not approach until Erick lightstepped into the room and slid past the woman coming out of Irogh’s office. He disappeared beyond Rozeta’s Script-blue doors and shut those doors, just as the people in the hallways had started to call out for ‘just a moment of his time!’ or some other desire.

As blessed silence filled the room, Erick felt a sudden tension drain from his shoulders. He said, “Hello, Irogh.”

Irogh was the same man he remembered; orcol, very handsome, with short salt-and-pepper hair. The man smiled, showing off his large lower fangs, as he said, “Welcome, Erick. How can I help you?”

“Hi! Yes. Sorry for trying to be quick and rude about this: How long till these New Stats are real? Did I fuck up [Quick Spell], or is that the good version? You probably won’t answer that, but I’m trying, anyway. And with my Intelligence dropping most spell costs down to nothing, which Class Ability would be better to replace for Quest Board: 10% Spell Cost Reduction, or Force Savant?”

Irogh let out a small laugh, then said, “I’m not sure about any of that.”

Erick paused. “Uh. What?” He narrowed his eyes, questioningly, saying, “I expected some denials of answers, but to not know any of them?”

“I know that my memory got blanked the last time you were here, and I’d prefer for that to not happen again. To that end:” Irogh announced, “You’ve been approved as a Minor Entity of the Script. Congratulations! That designation means this:”

As Erick was still trying to process the sudden event unfolding before him, a blue box appeared.

Welcome, Erick Flatt, to the roster for Minor Entities of the Script.

What this means, is that you now have the ability to act as a Registrar for yourself. Questions you would normally pose to a Registrar will now be directly answered by Rozeta, if such answers are possible. Please note that due to operational security, Rozeta WILL NEVER answer questions about how the Script works, but she will always explain your newfound magics or abilities to you.

You have NOT been granted power.

You have NOT been granted legitimacy.

You have NOT been granted a vote.

You will be denounced as a Minor Entity if you abuse the access you have been given.

Thank you for understanding.

Irogh said, “All you have to do is send a small prayer and Rozeta will answer you, directly, allowing you to work your Status however you wish. You still need to provide grand rads if you wish for large alterations, though. That part hasn’t changed.”

It seemed like a whirlwind of events was happening all around him, and all Erick could do was hold on and weather the storm. It had only been three days since the Shadow’s Feast, and now this was happening, too? Whatever ‘this’ was, anyway. Erick had heard of ‘Minor Entities of the Script’ before; one of the authors of one of the Headmaster’s large tomes had been a Minor Entity.

But what did that actually mean? Was it just a self-Registrar ability? Really?

And yet, Erick only had one problem with what was happening right now. He said, “I feel like I’m going to miss our interactions.”

Irogh smiled again, saying, “I will too, but I won’t miss the mind wipes. Don’t go abusing what you’ve been given. I suggest you only use this new ability when you’re in a secured and private location. Operational security is real, Erick.”

“… Okay.” Erick deflected that problem to another hour. He focused on Irogh, saying, “There’s going to be more parties, and I might have one in a few months. Silverite has asked me to leave Spur for a little while, so I’ll probably do that, but do you want to come to that eventual party?”

“Maybe I will.” Irogh smiled, and said, “Thank you for the invite.”

Erick nodded, then turned back toward the blue door to the room. “There’s people waiting out there for me, isn’t there?”

“I’m sure you’ll survive the attention.”

Steeling himself, Erick said, “I’ll see you when I see you, Irogh! Thanks for everything.”

Irogh said, “Thanks for coming to Spur almost a full year ago.”

“Thanks for the welcome reception almost a full year ago!” Erick braved the door, opening it wide. A dozen voices called out to him, but guards had pushed the crowd back while Erick was meeting Irogh, leaving him with a clear path to Poi. “See you!”

Irogh waved from his office as Erick touched Poi with a light tendril, and the two of them lightstepped away, back home.

The crowd voiced their disappointment with ‘Aww!’s and ‘Dammit, I wanted to talk to him!’s and various other annoyed words.

- - - -

It was time to get gone.

Erick set down his two packed bags onto the floor of the foyer, then called out, “Where is everyone! Aren’t we ready yet?”

Kiri shouted back, “Check in isn’t till noon!” She rambled into view atop the grand staircase, carrying two bags with her. “What’s the rush?”

Erick smiled. “I have an announcement!”

Teressa stepped out of the kitchen, saying, “Ah? Boss?”

“Nothing to do with you— Well. Maybe slightly to do with everyone. But this is personal.”

Poi walked out from behind Teressa, asking, “Do you really feel it necessary to spill this secret, too?”

“What secret?” Jane stepped out of the shadows under the staircase. “What’s going on?”

Kiri plopped her bags onto the ground next to Erick’s as she eyed him.

Justine stepped into view atop the staircase, then took several steps down. She did not join the group gathered around Erick, though; she held back.

With everyone more or less there, Erick announced, “I know how to get [Gate], and— Yes, yes, Kiri. I see you all excited. You know the Quest? Yes, you do. I already showed you.” Erick handed out the box to all of them, just so they could see again.

Special Quest!

The Worldly Path 0/1

OR

10 Points

Reward: The ability to cast Gate

He said, “It involves a trip around the world, done without Spatial Magics to make the trip shorter, for there is no actual destination, because the journey is the destination. Which means this small vacation to Treehome is just the start, for me. Everyone else can make their own decision about if they want to come all the way with me around the world, or not, but there will be no hard feelings if you just want to get on with your own life, or plans. I honestly have no idea how long this is going to take.”

Silence filled the room.

Erick added, “I’m keeping the house in Spur, and will be turning the weather nice around here whenever necessary. If you choose to only come part way, you’re still part of this household. This is just an extended vacation, for me. And maybe for you, too, if you want? Planned locations include the Songli Highlands, the Orrery of Rozeta, and the Core.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide again. “Holy— The Core?!”

Jane smiled wide.

Poi frowned.

Teressa looked pensive,

Justine looked… Hmm.

Erick said, “Nothing will change in the long run. I’ll be back to Spur eventually. But this is my plan going forward. I also picked up this Class Ability called the Quest Board, though I’m still debating how to use it. I’ll probably get some Quests from some Relevant Entities and knock those out as I’m traveling, but hopefully they’re not too arduous.” When no one spoke, and Jane just smiled wider, Erick added, “It’s just something for everyone here to think about.”

Justine said, “I won’t be going.”

Everyone turned toward her.

Justine added, “You said I could stay here as long as I wished, but, I think this is a good spot to break this temporary arrangement. I wasn’t even coming with you to Treehome.” She stood tall. She said, “I’m level 57 again. I snuck off into Ar’Kendrithyst to kill some known monsters. I’m ready to go back to Candlepoint, and I will be doing this, today. Now is a good time.”

Erick said, “I’m happy to have helped you when I could, Justine. You’re welcome to come back whenever you wish. Are you packed up, too?”

“It would take but a moment to do so.” Justine bowed at the foot of the grand staircase. She rose, saying, “Thank you for everything. Could you please remove my prismatic permissions in a few hours? I should be gone by then.”

“I’ll do you better than that. I’ll keep your permissions active for a day, okay? If you have to come back for the night, I’ll know with Ophiel, and I’ll keep your permissions active even longer.” Erick said, “You don’t have to run off because I’m running off for a while. I mean that.”

Justine smiled, faintly. She sniffled, held back her tears, and said, “I am eternally grateful for everything you have done for me, Archmage Flatt. If I can ever repay even a portion of your goodwill, please do not hesitate to ask.” She bowed again. She rose again, saying, “I’m… I’m going to hurry up with that packing. Goodbye, Archmage Flatt.”

His heart broke a little to hear her call him something besides Erick. He said, “Please. Call me Erick.”

“I cannot. That would be too informal.” She bowed again. “If you will excuse me, I must prepare. You have been extraordinarily kind in ways I did not deserve. Thank you, for everything.” She blipped away; just upstairs, not wanting to wait for Erick to say another word.

He could tell that leaving was hard on her, but also that it was something she had to do. Erick wished her the best. She wouldn’t be in the house when they got back from Treehome, and that was an emotional blow, but Erick could visit her in Candlepoint, anyway. She’d be fine.

This was okay.

Jane glanced at the spot where Justine had been, then looked to her dad. With a smirk, she said, “This ‘Worldly Path’ sounds pretty darn awesome to me.”

