Erick felt a rush of warm joy flush through his body. He said, “I’m glad to hear you say that.”

“Well shit yeah, dad!” Jane said, “Let’s see the entire world! Fuck yea I want to see the Core!”

Kiri said, “You have no idea what that means, Jane.”

“It means I get to kill a level 90 monster, Kiri!” Jane playfully demanded, “Where’s your sense of adventure!”

“Dead and buried so that I can stay alive, thank you very much.”

Jane laughed.

Teressa brought them back down to the moment, saying, “Let’s see Treehome first, please.” She added, “And I need to get my bags.”

Jane rushed off, saying, “Me too!”

Poi silently went to his own room, to grab what he needed.

Five minutes later, they were all gathered back in the foyer.

“Okay!” Erick held out tendrils of light, touching Teressa, Kiri, Poi, and Jane, as he said, “Getting around Ar’Kendrithyst without blipping was kinda difficult, at first, but then it got really easy toward the end. Poi, Teressa: We should probably go by that Light Dungeon I made and get you [Greater Lightwalk]. It’s very, very useful.” He deployed his [Lodestar], turning the light around all of them all up to eleven, as he said, “This first step is gonna be big, but it won’t be bad—”

- - - -

Erick stepped once, and moved a hundred kilometers to the north of Spur, and a good twenty meters off of the ground. Light glowed like a platform underneath everyone, easily supporting their weight in the afternoon sky.

Teressa exclaimed, “That wasn’t a [Teleport]!”

Poi smiled.

Kiri said, “Holy crap you can do that? How much mana was that?”

“Negligible.” Erick said, “Maybe 3? Without the Intelligence cutting spell costs it would only be 10, anyway.”

Jane stared at her father. “How did you do that?”

He smiled. “Domains are important, Jane. You need one.”

She frowned at him.

Erick admitted, “It’s called [Lightwalk] for a reason. Just walk on the light! And then use the light to help you walk faster, and a Domain to walk even faster than that! Simple.” Before anyone could interrupt again, Erick said, “But we’re delaying the trip. Hold on! Here we go again. A lot of steps this time, each one faster than the Script Second!”

Erick stepped once, and moved his whole party another hundred kilometers. And then again, and again. Before long, Erick stepped the five of them to the edge of the Crystal Forest. A few more steps brought them over the Wyrmridge Mountains, into the airspace of the Forest, and within sight of Treehome.

Teressa looked down upon the vast green world ahead, and smiled.

Erick looked down upon the vast green world ahead, and wondered if he could talk to the particularly large trees that dotted the sprawling community of Treehome. They were Arbor trees, after all. Giant, massive, former [Familiar]s, each one reaching a thousand meters into the sky. Some, even higher than that.

And then another thought occurred: Maybe the whirlwind would calm down a little bit.

This was supposed to be a vacation, after all.
