On the stage, Danarin’s voice was already amplified by the [Ward]s cast in that space, but when he spoke, it was even louder than before, “On this Triumph of Light, we honor those who we lost along the way. We honor those who are here with us now. And we honor those who led the way through the Darkness, and brought us into the light. And in this last case, we honor one who has done more than most ever have. Thank you, Archmage Erick Flatt, for the rescue, the transformation, and the new home. We wish you well in the years to come.” With one hand holding a mug of beer and the other gestured forward, toward Erick, he declared, “To long life, and battles won!”

The crowd took up the cheer, “To long life, and battles won!”

As Danarin and the rest of the people on the stage took a drink, Erick did, too.

This was a good night.

It took half an hour to extricate himself from the party, but it happened soon enough.

- - - -

Erick stood at Silverite’s side on a much larger stage, overseeing a much larger crowd. This crowd was mostly contained to the Human District, but bright festival lights and animated images of cute slimes and cutesy dying monsters had been scattered all across Spur. The entire city was a land of lights, without a single visible shadow anywhere in sight.

In the south, in the distance, atop Ar’Kendrithyst’s walls, white wardlights each easily twenty meters tall flickered like massive bonfires, illuminating the walls and the night like a line of miniature suns. That was an impressive sight, too. Erick preferred the Dead City this way, compared to its normal darkness-on-the-horizon.

Silverite finished her speech with, “So thank you, Archmage Erick Flatt! Thank you for eradicating the Shades of the Dead City. Thank you for coming to Spur. Thank you for dropping onto our world.” As a bit of a joke, she added, “And thank you for leaving some of Ar’Kendrithyst for the rest of us.”

The crowd roared for Erick.

Erick tried to smile, as he responded more or less as Silverite had asked him to, saying, “I’m glad I could help. It’s still dangerous there, as proven by the fifty-nine confirmed dead from just today. Don’t think you can just walk in there now that the Shades are dead. Only one person out of every fifty used to die to the direct machinations of those particular monsters, while most died to the monsters, but now the monster-keepers are gone. We have no idea what will come out of there—”

Right as the audience was starting to lose its mirth, and right on cue, Silverite interrupted Erick, saying, “The dangers are still there! But we know how to deal with them, so please stick to the normal channels when attempting to enter the Dead City.” She raised her voice, and her own cheer, as she said, “But that’s all for later! Enjoy the night! Enjoy the day! Enjoy this new development of Ar’Kendrithyst, and what might very well be Veird’s most special Triumph of Light, ever!” She gestured behind her, adding, “And now, back to the band!”

As the crowd cheered and the music resumed behind Erick, Silverite exited stage left, and Erick followed.

She whispered to him, “Let’s meet in your house.” She extended him a hand, “Can I get a lift?”

Erick took her silver arm, and was both surprised and not. It had been a long time since he had physically touched a wrought, and though he knew her to be warm and firm as flesh and bone, he had expected her to be cold and hard. With a tug of his readily-kept sunform, Erick picked up Silverite and flew the both of them over the crowd, his orby form sparkling with rainbow hues more vibrant than the other prismatic light all around them. The crowd cheered at his passage.

Erick set down inside the foyer of his house; only a few kilometers from the music, and the crowd.

Silverite immediately turned to Erick saying, “I need you to take a vacation. A long one.”

Erick felt a tender sort of angry-joy in his chest.

“Understand me: This is NOT me kicking you out of Spur.” She practically glared right into Erick’s soul as she spoke, “I want you in Spur. I want you here. Never forget this.”

“I know.” Erick said, “I can tell. I want to stay here, too.” And because he knew he could get away with it, he said, “But I’d like Candlepoint to receive some help while I’m away, if you could.”

Silverite seemed to judge Erick for a long moment, then she said, “Good. As long as you understand I’m not doing this to you.” She added, “And of course I’ll help Candlepoint when I get half an hour without an emergency. Might take a month, though.”

“That’s fine. I understand this, too.”

Silverite slowly nodded, then said, “You say you understand, and I believe you, but you’re agreeing too fast. I expected a bit more anger. That would at least allow me to explain myself.”

Erick smirked. He faked an angry voice, “How could you?! After all I’ve done! How awful.”

“Thank you.” Silverite said, “This is not about you. This is me needing to restructure absolutely everything Spur does and is, without the archmage that caused it all attracting a thousand ‘messages of grave importance’ from the various leaders of the world, each of which I have to answer ‘right now or face political sanctions’, with every single one of them demanding I make you accountable to them. If you’re on vacation, I can tell them that you’re out of your office and I have no idea when you’ll be back. Watch out, though. Some of them will contact you directly. If someone tries to steal you from Spur, let me know and I can make you a better offer.”

Erick appreciated that, and he said so, “I appreciate that, Silverite.”

She nodded, then said, “I need you to know that the ‘59 number’ I told you to say was less than half true. It’s more like 200, and the numbers are still pouring in. Killzone is grinding his ass off trying to keep up with the shitstorm it seems practically every idiot youngster is committing in trying to enter that death trap of a Dead City.”

“… yeah. I know.” Erick said, “I suspected something was up when you gave me my script. Didn’t think it was that bad, though.”

Silverite softened a little. Mostly around the eyes. “How are you feeling, Erick?”

“Busy busy. Not as busy as you, but still. Busy busy.”

“That’s not what I meant, and I can tell you knew that already.”

“Ah. Yeah. I’m avoiding my feelings for now. It seems to be working.” He jokingly said, “I thought that I would come home and crash and cry for a week. That hasn’t happened.”

“I know the feeling.”

“… And I believe you.”

“I like this idea of you working with Candlepoint to open new markets.” She said, “This is a good thing to focus on. I’ll help you with this, too, as I have said. There’s no more need for you to focus on the monsters or—”

“Aside from the Converter Angels and the Ancients still out there and the random monsters that kill people every single—”

Silverite stepped forward and put a warm hand on Erick’s shoulder. “It’s not okay, but it will be.” She softly said, “There will always be monsters, and you have done your part, Erick. You’ve done more than most ever will. It’s okay to retire after only one year on the job.” She smiled, saying, “That’s what Champions usually do.”

Erick felt his eyes tear up, and he couldn’t stop the flow. Silverite pulled him into a hug, and Erick fell into her embrace. He cried. It wasn’t pretty. Silverite still held him, anyway.

Halfway through with the heavy emotions tumbling through his head and heart, Erick pulled away from Silverite, mumbling, “Thank you.”

Silverite still held Erick’s shoulders with her hands, squeezing gently as she said, “Take a vacation.”

“Yeah.”

“Considering what you just came through, I’m not too worried about you out there as long as you keep a low public profile. But Poi will stay with you, right?”

“Yeah.”

“Good.” She released his shoulders, and stepped back, saying, “I’ve got people to meet and work to finish. I’ll see you later, Erick.”

“… Yeah. I’ll see you later, too.”

- - - -

Erick gave a small nod toward Teressa as he headed off toward bed.

Teressa stood strong, saying “Boss,” with an almost reverent tone, as Erick passed.

- - - -

The afternoon sun shone down from Erick’s windows, waking him as its warmth touched his hand. He startled, fully awake. Worries shot through him like bullets. Where was he? What happened? Who died? Is Jane hurt? And then, he answered those questions himself, almost as fast as they came. He was at home. He slept a full night and all of the next morning. No one was dead; a quick activation of [Greater Lightwalk] confirmed Teressa, Poi, Kiri, Justine, and Jane, were all alive and in the house, doing various things from using the bathroom, to poking around at plants, to baking bread, to ensuring that the people outside…

Erick glanced out his window.

He shut the curtains. He would deal with that later. They were just people and… and a lot of stuff.

Erick would deal with that later. For right now...

Not even half a second had passed, before the thought of being unprepared caught Erick completely unprepared in its ferocity. It would take him a good three seconds to put together all of the magic necessary to ‘be prepared’.

That was too long.

But he could fix this problem!

Erick looked up [Healing Word].

Healing Word 1, instant, medium range, 10 MP

Speak, and heal a target for 25 + ½ WIL.

You may cast your next Healing Word as soon as you desire.

Purchase Healing Word 1? Yes/No

… That clause of ‘next [Healing Word]’ practically screamed that it would take an expert hand to extract it into usefulness. Erick spent the point and bought [Healing Word 1], giving up easy access to all other healing spells in the process. You could only buy your first healing spell for free, after all. All subsequent healing spells required a Registrar-assigned Quest.

A worry Erick had thought he had laid to rest, came clawing forward.

Erick’s own brief idea of an Immortality spell in the beginning of his time on Veird was just a passing fancy, but it was still a bright goal on the horizon. But mostly, it was a desperate clawing at the world by a man who thought he was going to die very soon. He had suspected, yet never confirmed, that buying a healing spell would have taken up his single attempt at [Immortality]…

There were more than a few ways to live forever, anyway. Erick need not invent an entirely new path. Besides: Fights in this world both started and ended within the span of a handful of Script Seconds. If he was able to extract [Healing Word]s ability to avoid the Script Second, then he would likely be able to string together a full activation of all of his necessary spells, like [Greater Lightwalk], [Lodestar], and [Hunter’s Instincts], all in the space of a single flashing Script Second. Living right now was more important than living forever.

But… Still.

No. Erick discarded those wasteful thoughts.

But as he considered future needs, Erick realized he had more points that needed allocating. He opened his Status, and considered the numbers.

Right away, he noticed his Regen was shit, but at least only his Mana Regen had been broken by [Death’s Approach]. His Health Regen worked fine, and because of Rozeta’s Boon of Recovery, practically doubled his resulting Mana Regen.

Therefore, his Mana Regen was acceptable… Somewhat.

… His Mana Regen was only acceptable when his Intelligence was considered. That Stat dropped almost all of his spell costs down to nearly nothing, and was even making him rethink some of his Class Abilities. Was 10% Spell Cost Reduction actually necessary, anymore?

Erick Flatt

Human?, age 48

Level 90, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 2.32 e20 /7.54 e20

Class: 10/10

Points: 25

HP

6,930/6930

13,878 per day

MP

17,460/17,460

13,878 per day

Strength

20

+211

[231]

Vitality

20

+211

[231]

Dexterity

7

+211

[218]

Constitution

20

+211

[231]

Perception

19

+211

[230]

Willpower

80

+211

[291]

Focus

80

+211

[291]

Intelligence

20

+211

[231]

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Right away, he noticed that did not like having uneven Stats, and that he was likely going to be putting his belt somewhere safe and out of the way. Perhaps. Or maybe not. He could work out something better than the clunky silver thing he had gone to bed wearing around his waist.

To a proper mana sense, his belt was practically a firework strapped around his waist. It screamed ‘steal me’. His rings were like minor lights compared to the belt, but he figured he could get away with the rings. If he were forced to abandon everything, though, it would be better if he weren’t the clumsy oaf he had been before Dexterity came along. Eh. He was likely still a clumsy fighter, even if he evened out his Dexterity, but… Whatever.

… He put 3 points in Dexterity and 1 in Perception.

Nothing really changed for Erick, lying in bed, and that was fine. Things would likely change a whole lot if he decided to abandon his rings and belt, and go incognito on his ‘forced’ vacation.

Five points went into each Willpower and Focus. That dropped him to 11 points left over, and that was as far as Erick was willing to go. He would probably find a much better use for those points outside of his inflated Stats. New health cost skills, perhaps? New ‘forbidden spells’ like [Duplicate] that stripped points from you if you managed to make them? New basic spells he had never heard of before? All of those were possibilities.

He briefly considered more Intelligence, but he rapidly decided against putting more points there.

Oh!

An idea!

