Erick waved off the need for such a concern, saying, “I’m not here for anything drastic, and nothing is changing with regard to how you want to run things. I had originally planned for Justine to take a role as the non-shadeling face of Candlepoint, but she’s—” There was no need to spill Justine’s fragile emotional state all over the Crystal Courtyard. Justine was still picking up the pieces of her life and her self from the tragedy that had been her life as a shadeling, and Erick wanted to let that happen. He said, “I don’t think you have anything to worry about with Justine. She might be going on a lot of missions for Candlepoint, though. I just came here so quickly because I needed to get a very fast jump on everything, before other people started making decisions for me and about me and about what all of this might mean, going forward. I am here to stabilize anything that needs stabilizing, to fix up this Crystal to see what it can do since I will likely be traveling for a while, and to check out to see if any Shades are hiding in this town.” Before anyone’s visible emotions spiked too high, Erick told the truth, “I already put an Imaging out over the waters of the lake. I can’t find any Shades in this town. So that’s good news, right?”

Mephistopheles’ politician-face barely cracked. But it did crack.

Oh? Was he expecting a Shade to be in Candlepoint? Who?

Erick had expected Slip to be a Shade, but that was not to be! The Guardmaster of Candlepoint really was telling the truth this whole time; he wasn’t a Shade. The man in question stood to the side of the Crystal Courtyard, almost out of sight. According to all the sights and scanning Erick had, the man was just a normal shadeling with a normal rad inside his chest, atop his heart.

Erick added, “I do want to know if you guys like the name of the town, though. We can certainly change it from ‘Candlepoint’ to something else now that there’s no Shades to care about. Also, I’m going to try and open some talks with the Wasteland, to see about getting trade routes. Gotta strike while the iron is hot, after all! Maybe I can throw Justine at that? Eh. Her choice.” He spoke up again, “Also! Do you guys want another party? I hear that’s what we’re supposed to do on the Triumph of Light.”

By now, there were a good forty people standing a good distance from Erick, Mephistopheles, Ava, Poi, and Willow. With Erick’s final words, almost everyone’s eyes brightened.

Ava said, “We still have all of those other beds and blankets and food that you gave to us just yesterday.”

Erick smiled. “Yeah, but you can always use more, right?” He gestured to the rest of the city, saying, “Where are those minotaurs? Let’s go meet them. And whoever else you want me to meet. We can walk and talk and then come back and assign users for the Summoning Crystal.” He added, “I already talked to Baroness Pirazel Xelxex, and she said that no one was willing to do food trades with Candlepoint, and I sort of agree with that. I don’t like it, but I can see the point of not disturbing established markets too much.”

Mephistopheles nodded, then gestured toward the north, saying, “Then let us walk this way, and speak of possible products.”

Erick walked north, and others followed. Willow stayed behind, her eyes firmly locked on the Summoning Crystal. Erick turned away from her to focus on the people around him.

Ava began with, “Textiles is always a profitable business. With the controlled weather, we could easily raise silk spiders or cotton fruit.”

Erick asked, “People would be comfortable working with spiders?”

“It’s actually quite easy for a shadeling to work with monsters like silk spiders.” Mephistopheles said, “I’ve done a lot of work with those types myself. If Tania is dead, we could even rush in and grab some from the Weaver’s Quarters. She had some specialty spiders that she never let anyone have.”

Erick winced. “That place was on fire, last I saw.”

“That just makes them mad.” Mephistopheles smirked.

“If you guys want to do that?” Erick said, “Sure. I don’t care. Like I said when Bulgan went away: I’m just your support. Everything that this town is and could be is up to you.” He added, “But if all goes well, then in a hundred years when my World Tree has grown to be an actual World Tree, or maybe before, then Candlepoint could be a stepping stone to the stars, with [Gate] travel happening right here in this city.”

If he figured out [Gate]s before then, then maybe Candlepoint could become a hub-town; Erick did not voice this idea, though.

Mephistopheles’s eyes went wide as he stopped in his tracks.

Ava recovered faster than him. She laughed, loud and happy, then asked, “Truly?”

“It’s the truth. Yggdrasil is growing out in the lake right now, and I expect him to be the size of two stacked mountains in a hundred years.” Erick pointed to the air above, at a particular [Scry] orb. “That’s him. Hello, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] orb bounced in recognition.

Mephistopheles and Ava stared at the hovering ball of invisible intent.

Ava waved, and happily rolled with the situation, saying, “Hello, Yggdrasil. I’m the Sewermaster of Candlepoint, and I like pretty things. Can you use [Telepathy] yet?”

Erick was taken aback at Ava’s casual attitude. It was kinda nice. It would also be nice to see what Yggdrasil would do.

But… apparently what he would do was ‘nothing’.

Ava looked to the air, waiting. After a moment, she said, “Ah. Shy?”

“Maybe.” Erick said, “I know arbors advanced at a very fast rate, and Yggdrasil is more than that. Ah. He hasn’t talked to me yet, either.”

Mephistopheles asked, “Do you wish for us to protect your… He’s still a [Familiar], then? He hasn’t split from your soul yet?”

“No need for any of those concerns. Thank you, though.” Erick said, “It’s all very new to me, but I’m a hundred percent confident that Yggdrasil can protect himself, and he’ll eventually protect you all, too. All I can ask is that you be polite, but don’t coddle him. I heard that was really bad for arbors, and I bet that goes double for World Trees.”

“Usually…” Mephistopheles said, “Usually, they have to become real beings before people consider them arbors, and no one considers their still-[Familiar] tree [Familiar] as a World Tree… How sure are you of this fact?”

“Fully and completely sure.” Erick said, “It’s just a matter of 100 years.”

“And this time table? You seem sure of that, too?”

“Yes.”

Mephistopheles scrunched his face in thought, as he looked away.

They walked in silence, toward the north. They passed houses and apartment buildings, where large trees lined the roads providing shade to all, but very few people were out and about. It was a nice walk.

Ava changed topics. “Back to trade, then? I am interested in all the finer things in life, so I want theaters and music halls and the international connections to make those happen, but the basics come first. I’ll help with whatever is necessary, but where do we start? I was hoping for some sort of food trade, but if that is off the table, then I really do think that textiles would be a good primary market.”

Mephistopheles said, “Food is sorted, thanks to Valok, so we can accept Xelxex’s warning away from the food trade. But not everyone is happy with the options of this city, for we still have a ways to go with the normal necessities, like bakers, clothiers, cooks, cleaners, meat farmers— Now there’s an odd problem. We needed cattle and otherwise, and I understand that you promised Valok’s man, Mister Ooragh, to procure such goods. But now we have the minotaurs.” He looked to Erick, saying, “They just… showed up! I’ve spoken to them all, and they seem perfectly nice, but… People want beef and goat and some even want spider, but when the first minotaur overheard the farmers talking about some of our plans for the future and the inclusion of cows in those plans, there was an altercation.”

Erick frowned.

Mephistopheles said, “It’s sorted, for now, but the problem is here.”

Erick decided, “I’m not having a conversation with them about how they feel over nearby cattle farms. Let us avoid the issue for now and stick to chickens and fish.”

“My thoughts exactly,” Mephistopheles said.

Ava said, “Everyone is learning to live differently. The problem with the minotaurs is that they’re still in the middle of their war response, so we’re walking on dragon eggs. Some fool boy got up in their face when they first got here— the boy is fine, but these people are all high level adventurers.” She added, “Luckily, shadelings are high level, too.”

Mephistopheles pointed forward, saying, “We put the minotaurs in their own compound, across the street from the orchard. Most of them crashed out once they were out of danger, but we should be able to find a few still awake.”

- - - -

Erick glanced ahead, and all around, with the help of his Ophiel, his [Greater Lightwalk], and several senses beyond the norm. Mostly, he liked what he saw.

Dark-walled apartment buildings were scattered here and there, with some in clumps and others on their lonesome. Most were occupied by people who looked like they just moved in; Erick didn’t investigate those places more than a cursory glance through the windows. The empty houses, however, all had plumbing and kitchens and all of that, ready and waiting for someone to move in and turn the place into a home.

Glass in the windows, chimneys for fires at night if it got cold, thick doors for safety. Locks. Erick readily noticed crystal panes in some of the walls that seemed out of place, but upon putting a tendril of light down into those shadowed depths, he understood them as shadeling pathways; something for someone to [Shadowblend] through, similar to the crystals of Ar’Kendrithyst.

With a touch deeper underground, a smile crept upon Erick’s face. There was an entire second layer to the city of Candlepoint, just below the surface.

Erick turned to Mephistopheles and Ava, and said, “I like the underground crystal areas.”

Mephistopheles said, “They’re mostly bunkers in case of attack.”

Ava lightly complained, “Not everyone can get into those bunkers, or take part in the markets that are growing down there.”

“When did that start, anyway?” Erick asked.

Mephistopheles said, “The first crystal roads were laid a week ago.”

“They’ve been expanded, since,” Ava added.

Erick let that conversation drop as the four of them walked down the street, and a fifth separated from the shadows of a tree to join their party. Slip, the Guardmaster with bright white eyes who everyone thought was a Shade. He certainly looked the part, with black skin, horns, and bright white eyes. The man had never done anything to dissuade those rumors, either.

Erick greeted him, “Hello, Slip! How goes the fishing?”

“Sir.” Slip bowed his head a fraction, then righted himself. “It’s only been a day since last we spoke. Nothing much has happened, except for everything, apparently.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I suppose that is true.”

“The lake looks good, though.” Slip said, “It’ll take a while for the new plants to spread and restore a balance to the waters, but that’s just a matter of time. Just a matter of time for more fish to spawn, too.”

“Got any ideas for various markets for Candlepoint to take part in?” Erick asked.

The guardmaster surprised everyone, saying, “News and printing machines and various other propaganda to ensure that we aren’t attacked out of some misguided attempts to ‘cull the last Shadow holdouts in the world’.”

Erick froze. “Please tell me you are exaggerating for effect.”

“Only a little.” Slip said, “That Summoning Crystal will go a long way to ensuring safety, and I like that you rid it of all those shadows, but we will be attacked. With your help, I feel we can defend ourselves from all but an archmage attack. To that end, I am asking for permission to contact you in the case of such oversized threats.”

Erick was startled again. “Of course you can contact me for such a thing! Have I not explicitly said as much? I feel like I might have… Or maybe not?” Erick returned to what the man had originally said, “But propaganda machines? You all don’t want a society built on false ideas, do you?”

“We wouldn’t be dispersing lies.” Slip said, “But it would be good for Candlepoint to be seen as the world healing from the atrocities of the Shades, rather than as a holdout of shadows.”

Well. When he put it like that… Erick could agree… To a certain extent.

Mephistopheles said, “Being under the auspices of the man who ended the Shades should be good for that.”

Slip said, “Which is why his appearance here is good for us, but it is not enough.”

Erick suddenly saw what was going on between Mephistopheles and Slip, though it appeared Ava was slightly out of the loop. Perhaps the two men had had this conversation before, and were just now including Erick? Whatever the case, Erick smiled, and played along, “I will be telling people that Candlepoint is still under my protection. I only hope that when I send people here that you treat them well.” He added, “I’ll tell you before I send people here, of course.”

Slip allowed himself a smile, as he said, “Candlepoint is one of the safest places on Veird, and I aim to keep it that way. Invite whoever you wish, and the Guard will ensure their safety with our very lives.”

