Soon enough, the [Domain of Light] brushed through the entire black Crystal. All the shadows inside became little more than Gloom that sprung from the solid surface of the artifact like steam from a kettle, to filter away on the morning wind. Soon, the shadows were gone. The Crystal was a bright white and yellow-gold structure of quartz or maybe some kendrithyst derivative. Maybe it had been mined from the Brightwater District? Whatever the case, the Crystal looked a lot better like this, Erick thought.

His next thought was that he would never openly call what he had done a ‘[Cleanse]’, for that would have implied that shadows were an evil that needed to be cleansed, and that would simply not be right; Candlepoint was full of shadows that deserved life and liberty and all that, after all. But Erick had certainly shifted the Element of the Crystal.

Back in that first day of the Shadow’s Feast, Fallopolis had said a curious thing to him, asking him why he hadn’t played around with this Crystal yet. As of right now, with the Crystal realigned to Light, Erick realized why Fallopolis had asked him that. He had seen the other Summoning Crystals in Brightwater, but this one was much different than those other, mass-produced artifacts. It was much larger, for one. For another, it had a much greater inner magical signature than the other Summoning Crystals he had seen.

Maybe it had more self-defense options than simple summoned guardians?

There was another option, though.

Since this whole ‘reintegration of Shadows into the Script’ plan of Melemizargo’s pivoted around Erick taking control of Candlepoint, that Dark Dragon had probably either made this thing able to explode, at the worst case, or to accept all sorts of variable inputs, at the best case. Since, according to what had happened since then, Melemizargo’s plot didn’t seem like an initially destructive one, Erick was betting that this thing couldn’t explode at all.

Or at least not without a great deal of overrides.

… Erick was rather confident that he could mitigate any explosions of the Summoning Crystal’s size.

The three people had barely fallen out of the Crystal when Erick reached for the interior of the artifact with a tendril of light, with his mana sense, and the senses of several Ophiel.

The woman had done nothing but watch, until Erick started touching the Summoning Crystal with light tendrils. She yelled, “What are you doing?!”

“Being proactive.” Erick found the enchantment in the Summoning Crystal. He offhandedly answered the woman, “It probably won’t explode, but be prepared to run.”

The woman said, “Don’t touch it! I almost had it figured out!”

She almost figured it out, eh? All the more reason that Erick was here, now, working on this as soon as he could. He ignored the woman, and continued to poke at the Summoning Crystal’s interior.

The interior was not just a single enchantment. It was a complicated spiral of enchantments, actually. Several dozen artifacts lined up together, in complementary structure, with each of those artifacts powered and maintained by soulstuff. Erick’s eyes widened. These were real artifacts. Greater Artifacts.

… And this woman here had almost figured them out?

Hmm.

Erick looked to the two people who had fallen out of the Crystal. A human man and an incani woman. The man stood as still as stone, not wanting to draw attention to himself, while the woman glared hatred at Erick, her grey eyes swirling with shadows. She had very quickly gone from disturbed to disbelieving to angry, all in the span of the last few seconds. She wasn’t hurt, though, and neither was her partner. The third one had run away upon being ousted from the Summoning Crystal, but he peeked out from behind the edge of a far-away building. He noticed Erick noticing him. He quickly returned to the shadow.

Erick told the woman, “I didn’t break it.”

“Yes you did!” She continued, “I was just about to solve it all! And then you flooded out the miasma! How’s it supposed to make suits of armor for us now! SHIT!”

The man at her side touched her shoulder. The woman barely calmed at all; in fact, she probably got more mad, but she did regain a small level of self control.

She said, “Archmage Flatt, sir. I heard you were a support. Please allow us to support ourselves first, sir.”

“I am not going to stop you from supporting yourselves, but I need to know what this artifact does. People are going to ask me about the giant artifact in the center of this town, and I’m not going to lie to people when they do.”

The woman seemed to lose much of her anger.

Erick added, “And I really didn’t break it.” Erick said, “These things are pretty damn sturdy, and this one, I think, was made especially for me to play around with.” He tripped a few obvious switches inside the Crystal. “See?”

Three armored summons appeared a few short steps away from the four of them, each of the conjured armors made of matte white light and glows. The first was the warrior summon that Erick was already familiar with, and that had been set all around Candlepoint back when Bulgan was in charge. It was two and a half meters of thick armor, with a sword to match magically locked to its back. The second summon was a robe of similar size to the warrior, but this one came equipped with a staff. Erick suspected it had [Force Beam] spells, or something similarly powerful and cheap. The third summon was a meter-tall munchkin made of floating knives.

None of the summons did anything but stand upon the open ground next to Erick.

The woman almost spoke again.

But a person Erick had wanted to talk to appeared just down the street. Mephistopheles was already hurrying their way. As Erick’s eyes turned toward the new arrival, the woman followed Erick’s gaze, and also saw who was coming.

She whipped back around to Erick, gleefully smiling.

Ah. She probably thought she was getting her toy back, didn’t she?

… Maybe she would? She certainly seemed to be here on someone’s orders, otherwise she would have run away as soon as Mephistopheles appeared, but instead, she turned happy.

It looked like it was time for politics.

Mephistopheles was exactly as Erick remembered, but without the over-the-top flamboyance of his previous position as Master of the Garrison. His lacquered red horns and fancy clothes, which were just a touch nicer than everyone else’s, still set him apart from the rest of the shadelings within sight, while his grey eyes wholly marked him as a part of the people here. He wasn’t alone, though. He had brought another.

Ava stood a woman apart. A shimmering stripe of green makeup had been slashed across her eyes and face like someone had taken a pearlescent green paint brush to her visage, while her bright green dress billowed in the morning breeze. She looked at Erick with hungry green eyes, and aside from Poi, she was the only other person here who was not a shadeling. While Mephistopheles rushed toward Erick with the stride of a man in charge, Ava lightly walked forward, her bare feet helping her along her chosen path as though the very ground wanted her to be where she wanted to be.

With the appearance of those two, others came out of hiding. All around the Crystal Courtyard, people stepped out of the shadows, into the light. Almost all of them looked upon Erick, and the bluescaled dragonkin behind him, with questioning looks upon their faces. Only a few spoke in hushed tones, ‘That’s Archmage Flatt’, as though the presence of the Ophiels above weren’t already indication enough.

Mephistopheles approached, and said, “—”

“Hello, Mephistopheles!” Erick spoke before the other man could, “I hope you’re ready for a new world order.” He announced for the crowd, too, saying, “In case you haven’t heard, almost all of the Shades are dead. That includes Bulgan and Tania.” The crowd, while not gathered close at all, heard what Erick had said. Some gasped. Others exclaimed, ‘It’s true!’. Mephistopheles and Ava did not flinch; they must have already known. Erick said, “I can set up some defenses for Candlepoint with this Summoning Crystal by appointing certain people as users of the Crystal, but I’d also like to talk to you about the minotaurs and whatever is going on there. But first: Are they doing okay? Are you doing okay? The city looks great, by the way.”

Mephistopheles frowned a little, then said, “—”

Ava spoke first, “The minotaurs are like young shifters; barely able to control their form. They will learn, or likely seek out the Lifebinder. Rumor has it that she was active in the region not several months ago.”

“She was; that rumor is true.” Erick almost frowned. Would some of the minotaurs actually do that?

… Of course they would.

Duh.

Ava’s composure solidified.

Mephistopheles frowned at Ava, then pointed at the less-angry shadeling woman who Erick had kicked out of the Crystal. “I already had someone on figuring out the Summoning Stone. You did not need to do this Archmage Flatt.”

Erick acknowledged the woman, then said to Mephistopheles, “I know I did not have to. But I’m being proactive while everything is in turmoil and I needed to see how this worked, myself. Other people are going to ask me about the giant artifact in the middle of Candlepoint. Everything is going to go weird, and fast. Even if the Shades were evil, the Shades were the most stable, powerful force in this world. I have no idea what is coming, but I must act upon the world before it acts upon me, and that includes certain things like this Crystal, here.” Erick returned his eyes toward the Crystal, then asked, “In that regard, there’s options here to appoint people who can then control the various summons. You’d be one of the appointed, of course. As well as Ava here, and then Slip, and Zaraanka, and maybe Valok. We can appoint whoever you wish, later, after we talk.” He added, “I’m not too sure how the Summoning Crystal works in practice, but you could use them, yes?”

Mephistopheles said, “Of course, Archmage.” He gestured to the unknown woman, and said, “When we get around to it, I wish to also appoint Willow. She’s quickly become my second-in-command.”

Erick looked to the not-so-angry incani woman. “Oh?” He narrowed his eyes. “You were not near Mephistopheles until today.”

Willow weathered Erick’s gaze with her own strong visage. “Correct! I only came out of the fugue yesterday. I’m not sure why, but I used to work under Shade Lapis five years ago, and now I’m here.”

Erick withheld judgment, but silently vowed to check up on Willow every now and then. He turned his attention back to Mephistopheles and said, “So why do you trust her?” He rapidly added, “No. Nevermind. I’ll not pry into your business.”

Mephistopheles said, “Thank you for your consideration.”

Erick got back on track, saying, “A lot of things are going to be happening very fast— Ah. I sound like a broken record. Anyway. Stuff is happening. I want you all to be safe. I don’t think it’s a good idea to throw around too many shadow magics, if possible, which is why I turned the Crystal to Light magics.”

“I can appreciate the sights we’re sending with such an artifact, as well as the timing. This is fine. Thank you, archmage Flatt.” Mephistopheles bowed, then said, “I’m also glad to finally welcome you to Candlepoint, in person. We have been informed of your accomplishments—”

“I really don’t mean to interrupt you, but I was only barely involved. I have to clear that up, right now.” Erick said, “Melemizargo denounced his Clergy. That was why the Shades died.”

More murmurs went through the crowd.

With unbridled and quiet rage, Willow whispered, “Good riddance.”

The force of her conviction almost caused Erick to derail the conversation again, but he did not.

Mephistopheles nodded, then said, “It is how you have said, then, Archmage Flatt. But I digress: While we are happy to welcome you here, finally, why are you here, in person?”

Ah.

Erick might have made a mistake in coming here so fast. Not only was it rude, but it had caused a misunderstanding.

Mephistopheles wasn’t asking that question with regard to current problems or solutions. He was asking that question because he was scared of losing his current level of power over Candlepoint. Eh. He didn’t need to worry about that. Erick could see that the town was doing fine, and no one seemed to be too angry at Mephistopheles. The guy was doing great, and Erick wanted nothing to do with managing a town.

Though, with Justine waiting in the wing, Mephistopheles had probably been wondering at his expiration date for a while.

