Erick considered how to bring a bit more joy to everyone here, and tried, “So as you all know, it’s the Triumph of Light.” A few of the orcol-sized minotaurs gave a quick ‘whoop whoop!’ leading Erick to smile again, as he continued, “Keep in mind that Candlepoint is a city of refugees, though, so our ability to party as we should is a lot lower than it usually is, but even so, I will be trying to supply some good cheer and beer and all of that before the end of the day. Has anyone spoken to all of you about the various people in power around here? And the various help that everyone is trying to give each other? I can’t direct you around much, since I am just an assistant here to help everyone else get back what was taken from them, and so in that way, people like Mephistopheles here should prove much more helpful to you and yours than I.” Erick ceded the floor to the mayor.

Mephistopheles spoke up, “We’ve not gone over much more than the preliminaries.” He turned to the crowd. “But if you’re all willing, then we can begin to integrate you into Candlepoint, as guests or residents, or whatever you want.”

Danarin, who was still a step more forward than anyone else, said, “We’re glad to receive assistance, and to help, and more than ready for the celebration of the Triumph of Light. We’re all well over level 50, too, with many of us having many different skills from classical Arcanaeum training, to warrior training, to self-sufficiency training.” He acknowledged Mephistopheles, then turned to Erick, saying, “We will not be a burden on Candlepoint or on your good graces, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick couldn’t help but continue to smile. “I look forward to it.” And then he conjured images of the various other people that were in charge of Candlepoint, and said, “So this person is Valok Greentalon. His home is over that way, and he was the head man of Spur’s Farmer’s Council before he was assassinated and then resurrected as a shadeling, here in Candlepoint. He is my friend. You can probably seek him out in order to get work at the Farm over there, or to find food.” Erick conjured another person, saying, “This person is Zaraanka Checharin, a competent woman who is currently in charge of the various rad gathering and other adventuring-ish forces of Candlepoint. If you’re into that, seek her out.” He gestured to the other people with him, except for Poi, and said, “And these people can introduce themselves.”

Ava went first.

Soon, small groups of minotaurs were talking in small groups with Ava, Slip, or Mephistopheles.

Erick hung back, and let others come to him, if they wished.

And they did.

He spent an hour talking to various minotaurs, while he had Kiri run around in Spur, searching out caterers and such, while Poi also, but remotely, helped organize a Triumph of Light feast that Erick would surely need to [Duplicate] to make work for an entire town.

Two more hours passed rather fast, with Erick talking more to shadelings now, than the minotaurs. A lot of people just wanted to talk to him, to either thank him, or submit a request for certain items that they thought everyone should have.

Somewhere in all that, Valok showed up.

Erick saw his friend, and smiled wide. “Hello, Valok!”

Valok smiled back, as he walked closer. “I heard you fucked up more shit.”

“I did indeed do that, and more.” Erick grabbed the man’s offered hand and pulled him into a one-armed hug. “Glad to see you in person. Sorry I didn’t show up sooner.”

“It’s okay. It’s okay.” Valok quietly asked, “My daughter isn’t with you, is she?”

“No.” Erick said, “I wouldn’t spring that on you. Not after what you said last time.”

Valok’s white-grey eyes turned slightly whiter, and brighter. “Good.”

Somewhere in all of that, Erick heard the grumbling stomachs of some of the people around him. He started asking what people wanted to eat, knowing full well that he had most of a feast on its way, eventually. He was just gauging the crowd. But Valok heard Erick and rushed in, saying that they had Triumph of Light supplies, but the cooking wouldn’t start for another few hours.

… Erick still had Poi and Kiri continue to find some bulk food sellers. It turned out that the people Erick used before, Palasio’s Caterers, were already booked for the entire week. Most caterers were booked, with those bookings mostly taking place in the dawn hours of that very same day; it was bad luck to make plans for the Triumph of Light before the Triumph of Light, after all.

And then Danarin threw a wrench into the whole thing by coming right up to Erick and saying, “I want beef.”

Erick’s face became a mask, as talk around him seemed to end. “Really?”

Danarin glanced around, then promptly declared, “Everyone is too freaked out by it, but—” He opened his mouth wide, and showed Erick some impressive pearly-white chompers, saying, “Oo hee hese?”

Erick’s mask broke, as he saw what he saw. He smirked, saying, “I see those; yes.”

Danarin spoke normally, “I may have molars, but I still got incisors and fangs. Grass ain’t gonna cut it with me; no sir, archmage sir.”

Erick couldn’t help but chuckle. “Okay— Then! A normal feast. I’m already working on it, but I can ask for some beef, too.”

Danarin cheered up, smiling wide, saying, “I can cook! Just need some supplies! A lot of us can cook.”

Valok interjected himself into the conversation, saying, “We got grills that need manning, if you’re up for it.”

“After the torture I’ve been through, I’m up for just about anything!”

A few happily shared Danarin’s sentiment, with cheers and joy. A few others just gave small, hard smiles, as they tried to keep from breaking all over again.

- - - -

The sun set as a party of unique proportions began, in a land claimed by shadow but liberated by light. There were more musical instruments now than there were hours ago. There was more food than there had ever been before. Songs from a hundred different homelands raised to the sky, as different people got up on impromptu stages that had been scattered all throughout the cosmopolitan city of shadelings.

Erick asked an innocent question, “What about music? How does that work on Veird? I never really investigated any of that.”

Mephistopheles had one answer, “You hire people to sing or play for you.”

Ava had another, “There’s song crystals, but those are only for people with too much money and not enough sense. They burn out after a few dozen days, so they’re only really good for listening to new plays when you can’t see them in person.”

Zaraanka had another solution, “Hire a songstress. They telepathically play music for everyone in the area, and over long distances, too.”

“That fad didn’t die out?” Ava wiggled her fingers beside her head, glancing at Poi as she said, “There was a whole problem of Mind Magery back in my time.”

Poi silently sighed.

“It died out and came back several times,” Zaraanka said, sipping a beer. “Mind Mages probably culled them a bit, but the versatility keeps bringing them back.”

Poi chose to enter the conversation and give Erick the answer he was looking for, “Music does not exist on Veird how you know music.”

Ava’s eyes brightened. “Oh! A new way to listen to music? How?” She turned her attention fully away from the players in front of them, to Erick, saying, “Do tell?”

“Maybe. I’m thinking, now.” Erick smiled, as he sipped his own beer, and watched Danarin, shirtless and sweating on stage, belt out a deep song about returning home. “I think I’d have to invent plastics, too? Oh! No. I can make records out of glass, I think.” He added, “Or metal. Or anything. Need to invent the recorder first. Hmm. Now how would that work...”

With a smirk, Ava said, “Let us know if you have a breakthrough, okay?”

Erick nodded, as his mind went off in a direction he hadn’t considered. Soon enough, his head started bobbing up and down to the sounds and joy in front of him. Others danced. Erick almost wanted to get out there and do the same. But. No. Not right now. Not yet. No dancing in the crowd for him.

Maybe later.

- - - -

The party was good, and then it got great. As the sky turned from blue to red and gold, celebrations spread across the city. Erick duplicated many, many things out of sight of everyone else, ensuring that no one went hungry. A few guards, organized by Slip, began handing out raw goods and prepared food at various stations around Candlepoint, for those who did not wish to take part in the larger festivities.

Beer flowed like water.

Some people happily lost their shirts.

Some lost their pants.

Erick did none of that, but he did have a good time ensuring that everyone else had a good time. Mostly, he stayed on a short VIP stage area erected on the other side of the minotaur compound, a short distance toward one of the main song stages, while others came and left Erick as they wished. Erick felt kinda funny, as people came by his ‘station’ and bowed or kowtowed, but when they just honestly thanked him? He felt great about that.

He felt less great about no one else willing to come to Candlepoint, in person, besides Poi. Erick even offered! But no; Kiri, Jane, Teressa, and Justine were all busy.

As the three crescent moons took to the starlit sky above, each of them barely a sliver of light, and the bands played loud just a short distance away, Poi quietly broke the news, “Silverite wishes to honor you at Spur’s ongoing festivities.”

“It’s that time already?” Erick had been suspecting something like that would happen for a few hours, now. According to everyone back home, Spur was in the throes of a party in the Human District that was much, much wilder than the tame thing happening all around Erick, in Candlepoint.

Danarin, who had chosen to stick around near Erick for most of the evening, asked, “Are you going?” He didn’t wait for an answer. “We’ve got to honor you once more. Just give me ten minutes.” And then he was off, back into the crowd.

Erick had wanted to tell him that there had been way too much ‘honoring’ by then, but Danarin knew this, and thus didn’t wait for an answer. Erick was beginning to suspect the man had a few of the new Stats, or perhaps he was just that adroit. He was pretty sure that every Minotaur had Constitution, at least.

Poi continued, “While we are waiting, there are many others who also wish for your presence as soon as possible.”

“… Others?”

“Yes.” Poi said, “On the personal side, there’s Guildmaster Zago and Guildmaster Mog, who wish for a detailed account of what happened. There’s the populace of Spur, Kal’Duresh, and Frontier, who are clamoring for definitive answers. You might consider writing a book to field much of these sorts of queries.

“On the less personal, and halfway to the political side, there’s the Baroness, who has decided to openly support you to get into your good graces. Archmage Syllea Wyrmrest has expressed a deep interest in hosting you for a trip to Treehome; she has likely intercepted Teressa’s attempts and successes for booking rooms and such in that Forest city. The Headmaster has formally requested your presence for a full accounting of everything that happened. In return, he is willing to throw in a Favor, as well as a bargain of trade, as well as access to his vast resources.” Poi waited.

Erick did not speak his concern; the Headmaster’s offer seemed too good, didn’t it?

Poi continued, “But from the rest of the world, there are demands to know— and I’m paraphrasing here: ‘What the fuck did that fucker do now!’ ahem.”

Erick erupted with laughter.

Poi continued, “From most to least rude, those demands come from the Pearl King of Portal. The Viridian King of the Greensoil Republic. Many different kings and queens of the Wasteland Kingdoms. Various states, provinces, and democracies of Nelboor. Eidolon, of Nergal. And even two wrought geodes. Stratagold and Titanite.”

“Democracies? Those exist on Veird?” Erick shook his head, ridding himself of that concern, for another concern was much more interesting just for the novelty of it all. “Stratagold and Titanite? I’ve heard of the first, but not the second.” Excitement entered his voice. “Could I actually get to go into a wrought city? That’s an impossibility for most people, isn’t it?”

“No. That is not what is happening here.” Poi frowned a little, then said, “They’ve both formally invited you to their embassies. You would not be allowed inside the cities themselves.”

Erick waved that off, saying, “Then I won’t be doing—”

The stage ahead lit with lights, brighter than those that had come before. The current singer was a young and happy human woman shadeling, who cheered to her friends in the audience, then bowed to Danarin, who had taken the stage from behind. She hopped off the front, into the crowd, like so many revelers that had come before, as the shirtless, bronzed minotaur walked forward. From behind Danarin came several other minotaurs, along with Zaraanka, Ava, and Valok, and a few other shadelings.

A quiet filtered across the crowd.

For the first time tonight, in the brief silence that followed Danarin’s proclamation, came the sound of the wind. That wind flowed from north to south, and it was getting a bit chilly already. Winter was technically over as of this morning, but the Crystal Forest was always cold in the dark.

A few people in the crowd turned back, toward Erick, briefly, before turning back to the stage. This was obviously something special happening and they had no idea what it was. Erick had no real idea, either, but he smiled anyway.

