The cat tried to jump Erick on the water-choked path between buildings.

Erick had not seen the critter when he stepped out of the previous building, but the cat had been waiting for him, and Erick had been ready to counter.

The cat leapt out of the broken trunk of some burned-out tree, aiming right for his chest. Erick stepped backward and smashed down with his rod, cracking the cat in the skull and sending it slightly off its original trajectory, and himself up and away. Erick landed on his feet, easily recovering from the surprise of the weight difference between the two of them. The cat landed on its feet, its tail raised in furry fury as it meyowled at Erick, its talons more velociraptor-sized than housecat-sized at that particular moment, its mouth open up all the way to the base of its neck.

It darted off, into the shadows at the base of the burned-out tree—

You have cleared a part of The Arcanaeum of an unknown threat! 2/13!

MP up! +50 mana production per day!

Erick held up his slightly-bent and scratched-to-hell rod, and saw a few things happen almost simultaneously. First, mana popped into existence inside of himself, and then flowed into the rod. And then the rod straightened, regaining much of its luster.

“Status, rod,” Erick said.

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 50/300

“Ah. Shit.” Erick frowned. “It was completely depleted by hitting that cat, wasn’t it.”

… At least he knew it couldn’t be destroyed in that way. Good to know!

“Full status.”

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 365

Meta-Irons: 400, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 1/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 99/100

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 51/300

Unused Meta-Diamonds: [Murky]

- -

Erick had vaguely desired a [Meditation] metamond and the accompanying metiron, but now he needed one. This low regen was tolerable for a while, but not long term. And yet… That would be complicated, wouldn’t it? As Erick walked toward the next building, he thought of what a [Meditation] metamond would even look like.

He couldn’t just manually meditate, for Erick tried that, and it failed, so he needed a [Meditation], for sure.

“But [Meditation] isn’t an Elemental construct…” Erick muttered to himself as he pushed aside the broken door to what appeared to be a building full of lecture halls, and stepped inside the front hallway. “[Meditation] isn’t even a Force construct. It’s a way of looking at the world and dilating one’s soul through the mind… Somewhat.”

Erick considered the problem of [Meditation] and made his way into the next building.

Three of the four amphitheater-like lecture halls were filled with lights, while the fourth one was part of the destroyed part of the building, so there was nothing there. Of the illuminated rooms, each of them held a 3-meter cube of blue light down in the lecture pit. Erick picked a room and went down the amphitheater walkway, toward the cube—

Writing appeared on the cube before Erick reached it.

Break the cube to fight a monster of dubious origins.

Erick went up and tapped the cube with his rod.

The cube shattered like a mana construct and a flying spiderwasp the size of a person rolled into the air, spread its wings wide, and came right for Erick with its trio of stingers. Erick swatted the damned thing out of the air and then kept smashing down on it when it wouldn’t die immediately. Soon, though, it died. His rod had bent again by the end of it, though.

MP up! +25 mana production per day!

The rod straightened again.

And Erick allowed himself a shiver. “Fucking spiders and wasps now? Gods above.” Erick shivered again. “ ‘Dubious origins’ my ass. What the fuck…”

Erick went to the next room.

Break the cube to fight a monster of abyssal origins.

Erick broke the cube.

A tentacled thing oozed across the floor, slapping the ground with its ooze-covered limbs, its main body a collection of open maws that snapped and bit at the air. Octopuses were a lot better than spider wasps.

“Smashy smashy,” Erick said, and then proceeded to do just that.

The messed-up octopus was a lot more resilient than most other animals Erick had encountered here in the Glittering Depths, save for that cat, of course. Erick guessed that the octopus was part ooze.

It still died.

MP up! +25 mana production per day!

“Not too bad. The rod even survived this fight mostly intact. Wonder what the next room contains.”

Break the cube to fight a monster of forceful origins.

Erick tapped the container with the rod and the container broke into motes of light.

A cloud spilled out of the broken blue mana and then proceeded to shoot Erick with [Force Bolt]s.

Fighting an immaterial cloud was difficult.

Erick’s clothes ended up with a lot more holes in them than he would have liked, and he was bleeding a bit from where [Force Beam]s caught him at a bad angle, but the fight ended with Erick as the victor. Erick eventually managed this improbable feat by striking parts of the cloud’s body away from the main structure.

MP up! +25 mana production per day!

Special fight option unlocked.

A chime echoed from the hallway outside of the lecture hall. Erick could already mana sense what had changed, but he didn’t actually see what had changed until he went to the bombed-out lecture hall. There, in the bottom of that darkened space, half filled with water and half with rubble, with lights flickering above, sat a blue sphere about two meters across.

Erick approached.

Break the sphere to fight a monster of special origins.

Erick’s rod was down to 36 mana out of 300, so he was rather sure that if a monster similar to the black cat should appear that he would not be able to kill it…

He took his chances and tapped the sphere with the rod. Blue light fluttered away, briefly revealing a normal man of brown skin, amber eyes, and a familiar face. A face that Ashes had seen every single day at the guardhouse, and had laughed alongside since they were kids.

“Markie?!” Ashes exclaimed.

And then Markie’s clothes peeled away, his hands turned into claws, his eyes ignited with a golden flame that spread across his body like lava appearing between cracks in stone, and he attacked.

- - - -

George whispered to himself, “Holy shit how the damn did that happen.”

Quince looked over at him. “… What?”

“I’m busy!” George rapidly began moving through menus, pulling up event diagrams to see where Ashes would have heard that name before. He pulled up everything he could, and yet... “… Shit?”

Quince scowled, got up off his chair, and went to see George. “What,” he demanded.

George showed him the event diagrams, and made the screen with Ashes larger. As Ashes fought with Markie, George explained what he could see, “Events conspired to create a story, which is normal with all the plotlines. Ashes Woodfield is on the guardsman plot. All the names in all plots are randomized, so even if he knew the plotlines from talking to other delvers, he would not know the names of the characters.” George jammed his finger at the spawn diagram, right at the space where the name for the current mob on the screen was. “This one is ‘Markie’. And Ashes called out that name when the mob spawned.”

Quince stared at the screen with the fight. Ashes was on the defensive, trying to understand what was happening in front of him, even asking the monster why he was here. Ashes would receive no answers, though, because the creature was a fake thing. George had already arrived at an alarming hypothesis. He waited to see if Quince felt the same way.

“… He has a core,” Quince said.

George nodded slowly. “Yes. He has to. His mana has leaked into the dungeon, the dungeon latched on, and produced a result which only he would truly know. Depending on how much mana he leaks into the dungeon…” George didn’t want to continue, so he fell silent.

Quince trilled his fingers through several screens, popping them and causing more to pop up with each tap. “… I don’t see a core anywhere.”

“He must have a Domain, too. He can still use his magic here, at least a little. This explains why he spent so long inside that mana container. He was genuinely relaxing. Like monsters do inside high mana environments.”

George had one more thing to say, about the color of Ashes’ mana. That iridescent white glow was not unique in the world at all, but it mostly occurred with Benevolence Dragons. Others also had that color of white, but... The simplest explanation was probably correct.

They had a dragon in their dungeon.

George began, “And his mana is white—”

“Stop talking,” Quince said.

George stopped.

Quince frowned a little, then he made a decision. “… Whatever magic he has hiding his core should be exposed in the next floor, and Greensoil demands to know when cored people come through and especially when... dragons…” Quince paled a fraction, but he maintained decorum, as he always did. He ordered, “We have a duty to this Second Script and to Atunir that is larger than Greensoil’s demands, so we’ll hide him. Stop watching so closely in case the inquisitors should come around for an inspection. Scrub the logs. Step away from him as much as you can. Hands-off, eyes-off. We have no proof he has a core, and Atunir willing… He’s good enough to keep that hidden.”

George whispered, “I could increase his chances for an illusion item to drop.”

“… No. That’ll be noticed. If it happens, it happens, but we won’t interfere that much. The dungeon might line that up for him anyway.” Quince said, “Get to work on the rest.”

And so George did.

- - - -

Ashes stood over the corpse of Markie, but not the Markie he had known all his life. This Markie was a monster. The Markie that Ashes knew never had bones at those horrible angles, only half of which were due to Ashes’ weapon strikes. This Markie’s wrists were triple-jointed, and—

Erick blinked out a dampness in his eyes as he sniffled.

He stared down at the body below him, wondering how this whole scenario had happened.

He stared down at the broken corpse at his feet, at the broken arms, and at the bones protruding from shoulders and elbows and other joints. Most of that damage was not from him at all. This looked like a monsterfication; like what would happen to any normal person who was unable to expel mana shards from their body. Those mana shards would always collect somewhere in a person, and then make their way to the heart, where they would consume the person’s soul and grow like a tumor, like a rad.

Markie had been monsterized—

Erick took a step back.

… And then he took a step forward again, and dove into the past, to mana sense—

- - - -

Ashes stood over the corpse of his oldest friend, in the middle of a lecture hall on campus.

After a terrible moment filled with sorrow, Ashes took a step back, and began to analyze the situation. He was a guard of Iben, and he had a duty to understand what had happened before him, and why… Why had he been targeted? Because he had been targeted. There was no doubt about that.

He was here, at the school, and a monster like this should happen to be released upon him? To go right to him?

Maybe this was his fault. Ashes had planned to wait a week after seeing Sofie before he started asking questions.

He had started early, after only 5 days, because Markie and Sofie had left without warning on day 4, over three days ago, without telling anyone at all that they were leaving. The week’s dinner had been a somber affair, too, with Sofie breaking out the big meals and the very good plates, for everyone knew that Markie and Sofie were leaving, but Ashes had to pretend that they were not. Markie and Sofie were gone the next day.

And now, Markie lay dead at Ashes’s feet, having become a monster that needed to be put down.

Ashes had an appointment with the administrator of finance today, inside the man’s lecture hall, which is why Ashes was here, at this specific time. That appointment was one of many such appointments Ashes had had over the last few days, to ask questions of various people about Wizards and crystals and permanent magics, and about Sofie and Markie’s whereabouts, and about a bunch of other topics to throw off any potential trail.

Ashes studied Markie’s body. Those bone growths. Those teeth. The body was mangled from the confrontation, but nothing about Markie was orderly. Everything that was growing from him was growing in odd directions. That meant rapid monsterization over the course of a few hours.

Had Markie stepped into a mana stream? That would have caused monsterization like this.

But there were no more major mana streams on Insten. Not since Riam capped all the major mana rivers with their Siphons. Monsters themselves were becoming vanishingly rare, too, which wasn’t exactly a bad thing, but all the sacred beasts and spirit beasts were vanishing, too, which was less than great. Those Siphons were the cause of the Emptying, too…

Had Markie assaulted a Siphon?

… And then come here on his own?

No. That was an absurd suggestion. The nearest Siphon was a quarter of a plane away. There would have had to be a trail of bodies for Markie to end up here, and even with cannibals focusing on people nearest to them, to eat them first… No. The more Ashes even considered that possibility, the more he realized how impossible it was.

Markie had become a monster here. Somewhere close.

Or he had been monsterized and released locally. And very close.

… The Resistance wouldn’t do this to people who wanted to go to them, as Sofie had seemed to want to do… Maybe. The Resistance was largely underground and political right now. Sure, they broke into places and stole shit and tried to upset a lot of people. But there wasn’t open war. Not yet. The Resistance hadn’t actually killed anyone on purpose, as far as Ashes knew. There were a few widely known cases of deaths being blamed on the Resistance, but…

Riam purposefully killed people all the time.

As for cannibals…

Cannibals sometimes went after people they cared about the most, so in that way, it was not too surprising that Markie went after Ashes. The location of the attack was… Strange. But Ashes didn’t know enough to make any judgments on that right now.

Would Riam set loose a cannibal, to find… conspirators for the resistance?

… Ashes had trouble reconciling that ephemeral thought with what he knew to be true, as a guard. He hadn’t heard of any cannibal attacks recently, or at least none in Iben. But was that true? There had been a rash of murders north of the Arcanaeum, but that was well outside of Ashes’s district.

