[Benediction] was not a violent thing at all… But Erick was using Veird-understandings of that spell. Maybe in the dungeon [Benediction] meant something else? Erick hefted the weapon in his hands, thinking. [Benediction], of all flavors, was normally a divine-class Buffing Magic, meant to generally empower those who use it, generally with doubled damage or a generalized damage reduction. Specific gods empowered people differently. A goddess like Zephyrspray, the goddess of travel and luck, would make a [Benediction] that granted the caster extra speed and luck.

When a god granted [Benediction], it was like granting a person perfect buffing magic, that would never harm the wielder like normal buffing magic always did. But people could make a [Benediction of Fire], or a [Benediction of Air], or whatever, and achieve the same sort of empowerment outside of divine forces. ‘Benediction’ was generally divine in nature, but it was actually just a classification of buffing spell; a ‘perfect’ buff spell that didn’t harm anyone with extra downtime, or whatever, after the spell ran out.

And here now was a [Benediction] created using Erick’s generalized Benevolence-flavored mana. But then again, he was using dungeon mana to do this; not his own, not really. So the dungeon’s mana was buffing-Benevolence flavored?

Which was kinda fun to think about.

And not actually ideal at all. Not for his weapon.

The thing looked rather flimsy right now, but maybe it wasn’t? … No. It was flimsy. But what was worse, was what if Erick struck an enemy with the rod and it empowered them? That would just be… really bad.

Actually. Erick tested that out.

He held up the weapon, and said, “[Benediction].”

The business end of the weapon glowed, and Erick chuckled a little bit, as he could already see what was going to happen. And then he tapped his leg with the feathery end, and felt a buff settle into his body. Everything suddenly felt a whole lot damned easier to him, from breathing, to moving, to everything.

It was a very good buff. Very good. Erick had trouble understanding just how good because he had no [Identify] metamond, nor did he have any blue boxes to give him clues. But he could already tell it was a great buffing spell. It seemed like it would last a long time, too.

And this wasn’t going to work at all. A rod that empowered what he hit? Even if he could hit himself with the effect, this was just a bad, sub-optimal arrangement. If the rod would have empowered Erick automatically, and kept its original weapon shape? Now that could have been workable.

This feathery thing?

No thank you.

No offense meant, Ophiel.

Erick sighed as he chuckled, and flicked [Meditation] back on. Soon he was pouring mana back into the room, and at a much, much faster rate than before, and trying to pull the gem out of the rod as soon as the rod became a little looser. Soon, mana began to slosh in the center of the room like a floating liquid, but the gem still wasn’t coming out of the rod.

So Erick resorted to some extreme measures, as outlined in the spell tome.

He grabbed one of the little hammers he had brought into the room with him, when he thought he would be using those hammers to smash the already-broken gems. A few strikes upon the white gem in the rod of benediction and the white gem shattered, and then promptly dissolved into so much extra mana.

Rod of Benediction ~/500 –> Rod of the Guardian (depleted) ~/300

The rod ‘healed’ itself back into its original length of steel, with a ball-end business end.

White mana instantly coalesced back into the center of the room, ready to reform a crystal, but this time Erick was ready for it.

With the mana density of the room so high, his aura easily expanded past his skin, into the room, into the collection of mana densely churning in the center of the room. Using his aura directly, Erick stopped the full condensation back into a gem. Then he reached over to the Air and Light broken gems, sitting on the ground. With a hammer, he smashed both of those remnant gems, and the dust of both came apart in the mana density of the room, each of them turning into a splash of mana, flavoring the room with brilliance and with wind.

That brilliant wind collected on the concentric-ring pillars, then flowed into the center of the room, where Erick manually molded the resulting gem into something more akin to what a Benevolence Dragon did when they were angry.

Working in mana crystals was quite similar to working with a manacycler; that toy that Tenebrae had shown off that could be used as a whistle, alongside an expression of mana, to create a [Force Bolt], or a [Force Wall]. Erick hadn’t done much of this kinda work, but he had done enough soul work and mana work and all other kinds of enchanting to be able to figure out the Shaping required of a single gem, which was mostly a matter of imbuing his intent into the crystal.

As Erick pulled back his aura, the gem finally flowed together.

The resultant gem was brilliant white and crackled with inner lightning.

Erick smiled as the gem hovered there.

He glanced up at the air.

… He waited?

… It was taking a while for the dungeon to say anything?

Ah.

Erick stuck the depleted Rod of the Guardian into the center of the cube, the length of glowing white metal seeming to ripple as it touched that mana dense space near the gem—

Once again, the gem slipped into the rod’s ball-end, to slip through the center of the rod, to pop out right above the metal grip.

You have joined a meta-diamond to a meta-iron!

You have revived a depleted magical item!

Rod of the Guardian (depleted) ~/300–> Rod of the Lightning Guardian ~/1000

Erick hefted the rod in his hands, and smiled as he flicked his aura through the item. Once again, the head of the rod lit with power, but it was a crackling, dangerous sort of power. It was perfect.

“No gains for making an even better weapon than before, eh?” Erick asked the dungeon.

Milestone MP ups only occur once, and at the dungeon’s discretion.

“Fair enough.”

Erick proceeded to make a few more gems, because he could, even if he didn’t have any metirons to put them in. He rapidly ran out of extra resources, though, even if all of his gems began with a dungeon-Benevolence starter. He did not use [Murky] in his experiments, though. The expression of power within [Murky] was complex, for it had at least 4 different Elements therein and some Particle Magic, too, in order to create real matter, and that would be hard to work with. Erick was absolutely sure he could make something good out of it, but [Murky] could wait until Erick found some actual good use for it.

He needed some metirons, now, which he would probably find if he killed enough shit around here.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 2,265

Meta-Irons: 1150, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 3/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 99/100

Rod of the Lightning Guardian, 509/1000

Necklace of [Meditation], 49/50

Unused Meta-Diamonds: [Murky], [Benediction], [Flaming Ooze], [Shadow Bolt]

- -

[Benediction] would come in handy later, as soon as Erick found something to stick it in, or maybe when he was willing to risk his [Self Rejuvenation] in an experiment to make that item better. [Shadow Bolt] was just because he had the Shadow gem and he had to use it. [Flaming Ooze] would work well in a wand-type weapon, as soon as he found a metairon like that. It wasn’t [Fireball], but when the mana density in the air became a void instead of an ocean, a touch-type napalm-like spell would be a lot better crowd control than an indiscriminate explosion that would puff away into broken mana faster than one could blink.

There were a lot of positive things to say about napalm when it came to warfare against monsters.

As for the rod...

Erick hefted his rod, and marveled, a little, at the thick, yet flat celtic-like knot work that adorned the very top of the ball-end, and which the hilt had transformed into. The whole thing evoked the idea of lightning and blackened trees, and from Erick’s small tests of the weapon on himself, it worked exactly like he expected it to.

It had taken him five minutes to heal the lightning burn he had done to his own leg.

With one final check on himself and his gear, Erick exited the cubic room. Mana burst out of the space like uncontained fog, a moment before Erick burst out of the room like a man on a mission. The spell-creation lab remained lit behind him, remaining usable, which was great, but Erick did not expect to need to return unless he absolutely had to.

As Erick left the hallway behind, he happily said, “That cat is in for quite a shock.”

- - - -

Erick found the cat sitting on a broken stoop, leading up to the next building. The building itself looked to be administration. The cat’s tail swished behind it, and its eyes got wider as Erick got closer, before narrowing down equally fast, to take in all that it saw. It mostly looked at the rod in Erick’s hand, and its tail stopped wagging.

It stared at him, eye to eye, waiting for Erick to get closer, and for the battle to start.

Erick stopped twenty meters away. He called out, “Is your name Fyuri?”

The cat froze in complete non-comprehension—

Suddenly, every single hair on the cat’s body seemed to rise as its eyes went super wide in complete, unexpected surprise. It bolted, running away into the shadows as fast as it possibly could, hissing just before it got out of sight.

You have cleared a part of The Arcanaeum of an unknown threat! 4/13!

MP up! +50 mana production per day!

“… Well okay then.”

Erick went inside the administration building, killed four different zombie-amalgamations of the administrators, and then he looted three complete metamonds and a wand-shaped metairon. All of that went onto his Status, and since Erick had a good reason to go back to the mana cube lab, Erick decided to go back to the mana cube room to fix it all up, into proper, working power.

Before that, though, Erick took some time to [Witness] history.

Ashes was working for the Adjudicators now. He called himself a spy, but he had no Resistance contacts. It was the only way to stay alive, and to put himself between the people of Iben, to protect his fellow countrymen from Riam.

Or at least that’s what he told himself.

He could not protect the administration of RAU from Fyuri and her Adjudicators, as Fyuri took mana crystals and stabbed them into the hearts of those people, turning them into monsters right before Ashes’ eyes.

Erick spent some extra time than strictly necessary, inside the mana cube, just to relax a little.

An hour after going into the cube, Erick came out. He felt had done a lot with floor one. But had he done enough? Yeah. He had done enough. He could hunt down quite a lot more monsters and whatnot, and he probably should go looking for an [Identify], and a bunch of other utility spells, hidden inside RAU. But for now, Erick stuck the tip of his new wand into his mouth, and activated the magic therein.

A thick, warm gruel trickled out of the tip of the wand, making Erick think quite a lot about that fabled [Conjure Food and Water] spell, but different. The metamond Erick had found in Administration and then stuck into a wand he had also found there was sustenance, and not much more. It sort of tasted like oats, if one wanted to be charitable, but it was really just warm slop which was… Fine. He supposed.

The manner in which Erick imbibed the food was, perhaps, a bit degrading, but whatever. That was neither here nor there. What was here and now, was that it was damned weird for this spell to be here. This spell had almost turned Atunir Dark, which had directly caused the Fall of Quintlan, which had directly led to Rozeta Restricting [Create Food and Water] and stripping it from everyone except for her Registrars.

It was weird for this spell to be inside Atunir’s dungeon, even if the name wasn’t exactly the same, and even if the effect wasn’t the same, either.

Perhaps the story behind [Create Food and Water] was more complicated than Erick was led to believe. He had never asked Atunir directly about any of that. Maybe he should?

Anyway.

Finally eating something and drinking something did a lot for Erick’s mental state, since he hadn’t done either in the last several hours. After getting his fill, Erick went hunting for that cat, and for more loot.

He was rather sure he needed to kill that damned cat to proceed to floor 2.

- - - -

Erick approached building #5, ready for a fight.

… And the cat was not there.

… Erick stepped inside the building—

Words appeared.

You have cleared a part of The Arcanaeum of an unknown threat! 5/13!

MP up! +50 mana production per day!

You have cleared a part of The Arcanaeum of an unknown threat! 6/13!

MP up! +50 mana production per day!

. . .

You have cleared a part of The Arcanaeum of an unknown threat! 11/13!

MP up! +50 mana production per day!

You have cleared a part of The Arcanaeum of an unknown threat! 12/13!

MP up! +50 mana production per day!

Red lightning shot across the sky like the rending of night into crimson day, followed by a world-rumbling quake. The rumble did not stop. Buildings fell. The roar magnified and turned into the exploding bellow of a great beast.

Red lighting crashed down into the coliseum in the back of the arcanaeum.

Words appeared, rimmed in red light.

Challenge the Beast of Destruction!

Make your way to the second floor!

Red lightning flickered within the coliseum, sending up shadows of black tails and claws and eyes into the sky, onto swirling clouds of mana that drained down, down, down, into the red space beyond Erick’s sight. The earthquakes slowed, and then stopped.

Water began to drain from everywhere, and red glows illuminated the deeper parts here and there. The meta-item creation lab suddenly collapsed behind Erick, along with a few other arcanaeum buildings. Erick leapt back from the one he had almost entered fully, and not too soon, for it teetered and slipped backward, crashing, sending a cloud of debris Erick’s way.

He hurried to get behind a low wall, just in time for the dust to wash over him.

As the dust settled and Erick poked back out from behind the wall, a horrible yowling echoed across the city.

“… Well okay then,” Erick said, as he faced the coliseum. “... I guess I’m ready for that? And I didn't need to use the Spell Tome?” Erick had left the tome back in the metamond lab. It was probably buried under a thousand tons of building. “… Eh. Status.”

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 2,965

Meta-Irons: 1350, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 4/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 99/100

Rod of the Lightning Guardian, 1000/1000

Necklace of [Meditation], 49/50

Wand of [Drinking Food], 156/200

