Either way, he would need to take this up with the captain. This was a cannibal attack and those must all be reported to the guard, so that the guard can track—

“Guard Ashes Woodfield, I presume?”

Ashes turned around, and every lingering bit of normalcy suddenly vanished from his life, as though it hadn’t already vanished when Markie and Sofie left. But now… Now, Ashes knew what an Emptying truly felt like.

It was a squadron of adjudicators, all dressed in sleek black and grey and gold. The enforcers of Riam. They had fanned out from the student’s entrance, at the top of the lecture hall. A woman of pale skin, bright red lips, and brilliant gold eyes, was the leader. She stared at him like he was an insect.

With a hateful grin, the woman spoke again, “Did you know that Markie Greenbelt was a rebel?”

Ashes flinched as though struck. “What? Markie wasn’t a rebel!”

Ashes surprised even himself at the vehemence in his tone.

The woman’s grin faltered. “Hmm. That’s a ‘no’, I suppose. A pity.” She gestured to her people, then toward the body below. “Clean it up.”

Ashes regained some of his wherewithal. He stepped over the body. “You don’t need to get involved here. I have ended the cannibal and I will be taking him home and burying him in the family plot.”

The woman smiled, once again hateful. “Please do resist, darling.”

… Ashes stepped away from the body.

They bundled Markie into a bag and took him away.

Finally, the lead adjudicator smiled again, then whispered to Ashes, “I hear you’re asking about mana crystals, so a friendly warning: Don’t go experimenting with that which is best left to others, dear Ashes. It leads to death in many different ways.”

Ashes felt his body heat as a spark of rage took hold. “Thank you for the advice, ma’am.”

The woman grinned, then took her time walking away, looking like a cat who had gotten all the cream. She turned around once more, her eyes flashing gold.

Ashes heard a purr.

- - - -

The purr continued as Erick pulled back into himself.

There, standing on the night-cloaked rubble where an exterior wall should have been, stood the black cat. Its eyes gleamed gold as its tail swished back and forth. It smiled. And then it —she— vanished into the rubble under her paws, the mana void of her existence rapidly vanishing beyond Erick’s senses, into the deeper night.

Erick breathed deep.

The cat was gone for now, but Erick would get to that cat soon enough, because he had to kill that thing. Erick had no real way to connect the cat to the ‘adjudicator’ in the memory, but he was sure they were the same. Somehow, someway, they were the same…

Erick snapped back to himself, in a different, more solid way.

This dungeon was just a dungeon, right?

It wasn’t a real memory… Right?

Erick shook his head. Even if it was a memory, everything about this place was already dead and long, long gone. Nothing Erick did could change any outcomes here, for the Old Cosmology was unmade in the Sundering. All of this story had been unmade, and Erick had merely stumbled into the part of that old story which naturally fit the choices Erick had already made inside this dungeon. And Erick had pursued ‘Ashes’s’ story, too, so of course more of that story had revealed itself to him.

Erick put Ashes, Markie, Sofie, and the adjudicators out of his mind.

He looked at the words floating above ‘Markie’s’ body.

Choose one:

Attack. Defense. Utility.

Erick had a weapon and some self-healing, and he was a big proponent of utility, so he said, “Utility.”

Markie’s body broke into motes of mana and became a necklace, hovering in the air in front of Erick. It was a simple thing of meta-iron chain, with a larger central piece that looked like hands clasping hands, surrounding a golden gem. The item floated gently toward Erick, and Erick raised a hand to catch the falling jewelry.

The necklace touched his skin, and words appeared.

You have cleared the lecture halls (Special)!

MP up! +175 mana production per day!

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 615

Meta-Irons: 450, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 2/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 99/100

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 126/300

Necklace of [Meditation], 50/50

Unused Meta-Diamonds: [Murky]

- -

“Oh. Meditation, eh…” Erick whispered to himself as he ran a finger across the clasping hands of the necklace, and the golden gem they contained. He put it on. Nothing happened. And then Erick said, “[Meditation].”

The golden gem activated and the world seemed warmer. Like a friend was there beside him, helping to guide him on the path forward; helping the mana move through him, and into every one of his items.

“How strange,” Erick muttered to himself.

Speak of [Meditation], and it should appear.

… Erick was on the path of the mage, anyway, so this wasn’t too unexpected.

As Erick’s various items filled with mana, he thought about what had just happened, trying to understand it from any angle he could grasp. Eventually, his various items were once again topped off with mana, and a few moments later, the golden gem quieted, its glow faltering in the gloom. Erick still hadn’t sussed out what had happened back there, with ‘Markie’, but he had a few ideas.

Dungeons were spaces in the Dark. Dungeons were subject to a great many different forces that were more primeval than the ones on Veird where magic itself was (mostly) fully controlled by Rozeta and the Script. The only true exception to this fact was when individuals with a great lot of personal mana production came into the picture. Meaning Wizards. But also dragons. More than a few people these days were so enamored with dungeons that they delved all that they could, and those forays into the Dark had gained them a great lot of personal mana production, too. Those people joined dragons and even a few archmages on the list of people with their own personal mana production that was large enough to upset the local environment. They were still far, far away from a Wizard’s natural production, though.

A normal person might have 10 mana per day. A dragon? 5000. A very good delver? 3000-7500.

A Wizard? 100,000 to a million. Erick was currently at around 5.5 million on an off day. 10-12 million on a busy day.

So this mutation of the dungeon was his fault, somehow.

… Erick put the nuances of his current situation out of his mind, hefted his fully-powered Rod of the Guardian in his grip, and stepped out of the wrecked lecture hall, across the rubble, into the night. He made his way across stepping stones made of broken walls, headed toward the next building.

Erick stepped back onto proper land and the cat attacked, snarling and slashing and full of fangs. Erick called out [Meditation] and sent the cat slamming into the ground at his feet, cracking its skull but failing to do any real damage to the feline. The Rod of the Guardian glowed brightly as it absorbed more mana from him, for it had gained several large gouges on its surface and was rapidly healing those wounds, even though the cat had not attacked the rod at all.

As those gouges healed, the cat slashed at Erick’s legs with claws too large for its body, and Erick nearly broke his rod over the cat’s skull. The rod gained even more gouges, even though cat claws hadn’t gotten anywhere near it.

The cat tried to slink away after three such exchanges, but Erick rushed at it and brought it back around for another three hits, his gem necklace glowing bright gold, as his bracelet glowed bright blue.

The unwounded cat finally decided it had had enough, and turned to shadows to get away.

“COWARD!” Erick shouted.

The cat did not come back.

You have cleared a part of The Arcanaeum of an unknown threat! 3/13!

MP up! +50 mana production per day!

Erick sighed out, into the night.

And then he went into the next building.

It was a cafeteria.

It was filled with bodies that had not been there until Erick had stepped through the doors. Some of the corpses had great big bites taken out of them, or large claw marks. Most, however, had distended jaws filled with razor teeth, and human-sized bites taken out of necks and legs and arms, or they sported burn marks, or large lacerations as from [Force Beam]s, or pock marks from Bolt spells. Erick instantly identified every single way in which all 87 people in that room had died, for he had seen it all before.

They had died screaming and in fear.

He guessed what was going to happen next, and a part of him welcomed the coming carnage.

Right on cue, words appeared.

The dead rise. Kill as many as you can and be rewarded for your efforts.

Erick’s new necklace flashed gold as he tickled it with his aura, manually flicking the [Meditation] into an active state. As the dead stirred to life, some rising on arms since their legs had been cut out from under them, some rising on legs but with an arm or both missing, Erick limbered up.

They came for him.

And Erick started swinging.

Ten minutes later, Erick came out of the building covered in blood that was not his, with another 100 mana to his Status, and holding a small book. Once the last zombie had died, words had appeared, and a Tome of Spell Creation had fallen into his hands. This book actually had words inside of it, unlike all the other books Erick had found. He had already read some of those words, but mostly he had thought about what had happened back there.

For now, though, it was time to go back to the first building he had cleared, to make a new magic inside that spell creation lab, and to revive his Rod of the Guardian. Maybe then he would go on a proper hunt to kill that damned cat.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 765

- -

Erick had stuck around after the carnage long enough to [Witness] the past of the cafeteria…

But it was just another horror that may or may not have been true, and the scene had taken Erick a good half an hour to work through, since only some of that scene happened in the cafeteria itself. The [Witness] had started with Ashes confronting his captain in the guardhouse about cannibal sightings. The captain had given Ashes the runaround, and when Ashes pressed the issue, he finally got a very stern order to stay away from it all, and not to write anything down in any records.

And then the scene had moved along, to Ashes going back to the Arcanaeum, to join an open meeting of students concerned with the cannibal problem happening just north of campus. Some fliers had gone up around campus, asking people to come to talk in the cafeteria. No one knew who put the fliers up, but Ashes had to find out, no matter what.

Ashes had to know about Markie and Sofie.

The meeting had been a trap.

- - - -

Ashes walked through campus, headed toward the designated location.

Night had fallen, and campus security was nowhere to be found anywhere at all, but especially not at the cafeteria, where the posters had said to come to ‘Speak about the horrors of Riam!’. Ashes had expected to need to show his badge when he stepped on campus, or at least to show his hand-in-hand necklace that was his blood-bound oath of office. But. No. He just walked into the campus, like he wasn’t supposed to be able to do, walking past empty guard stations, and followed the crowd, toward the cafeteria.

A lot of students had good enough sense to not get anywhere near the meeting at all.

Ashes saw dorm room windows shut and the wardlights off, and more than a few kids staring out between blinds, their eyes open on the night, on lookout for danger. Those were the smart ones. Or cowardly. Ashes wasn’t sure yet.

A lot of students were angry enough to get together and see if they could do anything. That cannibal appearing last week, when Ashes had been on campus, had managed to kill two students before it got to Ashes. Those deaths, and four more as Ashes had found out, had been the last weight for a lot of the kids here. They wanted answers, and they were going to get together and force the administration to talk.

A lot of kids saw Ashes walk through campus and instantly knew who he was; he was the guard who had put the cannibal down. Some of them asked if he was going to talk tonight.

“No. I’m here for answers, too,” Ashes said to the two kids who spoke to him, “And you two shouldn’t be inside that meeting at all. It’s dangerous.”

The larger kid, an 18 year old first-year based on the insignia on his coat, puffed up, and said, “My family lost the farm to Riam two years ago. I know the problem here. I just want to see if other people finally know the problem, too.”

Ashes thought it idiotic for him to wear his affiliations on the outside, so he said, “You need to take off that pin and put it somewhere else. Don’t go to meetings like this and make yourself easily identified.”

The kid huffed a disbelieving laugh. “We’re not resistance! We’re just talking about shit that needs not be shit anymore.”

The smaller guy, with no identifiable markers, good boots, and who looked ready to run, said, “We know it's dangerous. But we all live here. We’re never-leavers, and we know it’s dangerous.”

… This event was happening in the middle of campus, so they were probably safe.

But Ashes didn’t believe that at all. He couldn’t just force the kids to turn around and go the fuck home, though. If something should happen, he wished the kids luck. Hopefully nothing would happen, but...

Ashes got into the meeting just fine.

There were no faculty anywhere. No security. Nothing.

The pit in Ashes’s stomach seemed to grow.

There were about a hundred kids. Maybe 125. Everyone was talking about all the rumors and facts they knew, most of them working in small groups, some in larger groups. The crowd was getting heated.

The meeting time started, and nothing official looked to be happening. No one got on stage. No one spoke up. And that was too much.

Some angry girl got up on stage, and yelled, “If the organizers ain’t gonna start, then I am! We want answers! Our faculty won’t give them to us, so it’s time to take matters into our own hands! We’re going to write letters to the capital, and we’re going to speak to our noble leaders, so let’s organize this now! Ideally, we can either get the capital to respond with inquisitors, because all of us know that the guardcaptains ain’t doing their jobs! None of them are willing to talk about cannibals at all!”

“Yeah!” “YES!” “Absolutely!”

The audience surged with emotion, and the air charged with mana. That was what every single one of them wanted to hear. A simple, actionable plan—

Someone yelled, their voice too loud to be mundane, “Talking don’t work! We gotta hurt people! Kill the Riamites!”

