The girl on stage instantly raged, “WHO THE FUCK SAID THAT! WHO SAID THAT! We ain’t no rebels! We do this right! WHO THE FUCK SAID THAT!”

The crowd could do nothing but look around, trying to find the source of the voice, as the girl on stage rightfully raged. They would find nothing, though. Ashes already saw the script playing out before he got into this room, and now, the play was happening, with none of the actors knowing they were being played. A few students on the edge of the crowd, and a few in the center, suddenly realized what was going on, too, but they were either too used to non-violence, or they were too surrounded to move.

Ashes quietly saw three people try to leave through an open side door, but they hit something standing behind the door, where Ashes could not see. Those students slowly backed back into the room, their eyes full of terror—

An adjudicator in black and gold followed them into the room, and then shut the door behind them.

Every single door to the cafeteria gained an adjudicator—

Someone screamed, and panic rapidly took hold. The girl on stage shouted about how they were going to do things legally—

Power washed across the room.

Silence.

And then a feminine voice, “My, my, my! Such naughty little children, getting up to such revolutionary thoughts. Perhaps it's time to revoke RAU’s right-to-teach.”

The girl on stage was furious. She tried to yell out counterclaims, and she flexed the air with her power, but aside from a bubble of force that was quickly squashed back into the girl, there was no resistance at all to the power of the woman adjudicator.

The shadows near the stage flexed next, and the woman with the gold eyes stepped out onto the stage, her voice filled with clarity, “Resistance will be lawfully executed. Now be good children and line up to be taken away to jail, or to the Siphon. Your choice.”

One kid resisted.

He was killed on the spot.

Panic ensued. More murder happened.

And then it devolved from there. Instead of a few kills quieting all the rest, the crowd surged with as much violence as it could manage. It was not enough.

Ashes would have stepped in and sided with the students, but the woman with the gold eyes had slipped through the shadows, to stand next to him, there in the back of the room. She had put a hand on his shoulder, and then wrapped her arms around one of his, and told him simply to stand down or they would ‘adjudicate’ his garrison and town square, too.

“Or you could take up that rod and try to strike me down right now, Ashes, and throw your lot in with these kids,” said the cat-like woman. “I don’t believe you’re actually with the resistance, which is a bit sad for me, but what’s the life of one more guard added to the pile? Not much. I’ve already killed so many, including Markie and his horrible wife Sofie.”

Ashes felt rage unfurl inside of his soul and expand to fill every single part of his entire existence.

And yet, he did nothing. All he could do was watch the carnage in front of him, and steel himself against the evil hanging onto his arm.

“… What? No fight?” asked the hateful woman, as she dug her claws into his arm. “I was sure that would get you to try something.”

“I’m no fool, ma’am.”

And none of this was normal.

Ashes dealt with people trying to filch coins from farmers, or people getting into animated fights over the price of whiteroot. Not murder. Not cannibals. Not the end result of horrible politics. Ashes only knew how to fight because every guard was required to know how to fight, and he had gotten into several scrapes over his life. He had even seen dead people before, and he had killed two men in the line of duty, when they were in the process of killing a third. Ashes knew what death looked like.

But this was the first time he had ever seen a student uprising and a massacre.

He knew what he wanted to do, but he also knew that he couldn’t—

“It occurs to me you don’t even know my name.” The adjudicator purred, “Please, call me Fyuri. I have a feeling I’ll be taking you in for questioning soon enough, as soon as you stop being such a little mouse.”

“… I’m no fool, ma’am. These kids were all traitors.” Ashes lied to save his skin, “I heard that one yell out for…” Ashes couldn’t finish the lie. He had tried to lie. He had failed.

That attempt had been enough for Fyuri to grin. “Well now. That’s interesting, too. Iben won’t look the same when Riam is done with it, so it is rather smart of you to jump ship as soon as you can. Say, little guard? You want a job?”

“I’ll take the paperwork and see what the pay is like before committing here and now.”

Fyuri laughed, and then she snapped at one of her lessers to go get Ashes an application.

As Ashes took the paperwork, he hated himself for not fighting against her right then and there, but this battle was bigger than just him, and his need for revenge. This was much larger than the already-dead students inside the cafeteria. This was a battle for the very soul of Insten.

It was a battle he would win.

After the initial horror was over, Ashes scrubbed the arm Fyuri held many times.

- - - -

Erick closed the Spell Tome and set it on the lab table in front of him.

The little book had two possible uses, and it explained those uses well.

The primary use was to be consumed as a magical item; to be used to make a spell. To do that, the user would open the book, and then pour some metamonds of all types onto the blank pages in the middle. Then, some menus would pop up and a person could select what spell they wanted from the components they had placed on the spell tome. Excess metamonds would be discarded from the spell creation. This function consumed the tome.

Simple. Effective. That primary use was how one passed the major test of Floor One.

The secondary use was as an instruction book, to teach the reader how to use the large cubic container at the back of the meta-diamond lab, to achieve the same thing as the primary use of the tome, but without consuming the spell tome. The drawback to this method is that one would need to supply all the mana necessary in order to increase the density inside the mana container all the way into a solid state.

Using the mana-diamond chamber would not consume the spell tome.

Erick opted for option #2.

To work with mana crystallization was to work with mana density, and Erick already knew a lot about what was written in the spell tome.

The density of mana in its ‘ocean’ state was considered ‘1’ on the mana density scale, which was not an easy thing to measure at all. Mana was easily compressible and expansive, and also 4th dimensional, so that ‘1’ was under very specific circumstances; sea-level, 24 degrees temperature (Celsius, but actually called Yols), and with minimal disturbance. ‘Minimal disturbance’ was near impossible, though, because of the whole ‘fourth dimension’ thing.

Anyway.

The lower-end density of a mana crystal was about 1.05, depending on the specific element, but the minimal density for a mana crystal got up to 9 to 12 for some Elements, like Air. Elemental Stone was rather darned easy to turn into a crystal, requiring the minimal 1.05-times density in order to crystallize.

Once crystallized, though, the mana density of a crystal could go way, way up.

So Erick didn’t need to bring the density too much higher than 1 to start a crystal, but he would require a lot in order to make a good crystal, and for certain elements, he would require a lot to even start the crystallization process.

Elemental Benevolence could crystallize at around a 2, and could get much, much denser than that; like stuffing a never-ending flow of clowns into a car.

Since the current density of the current manasphere was .8, being at 80% of the normal density of 1, Erick guessed that the cubic room required... at least 200 mana to get back up to 1, and then a lot more to actually make it all the way to a crystallization phase.

Luckily! Erick had a [Meditation] necklace. His mana problems were nearly solved with just that one item, and some frugality on his part.

To finish floor one, all Erick had to do was to use the Spell Tome and whatever random shit he wanted to pile in there, in order to generate a spell, any spell at all, and that would be enough. But Erick wanted to go a lot further than a simple [Bolt] spell. He was pretty sure that he could do a lot more than that, too.

His first hope was that if he simply put enough of his ‘dungeon mana’ into the air, that it could make a gem. And then he could do something with that. Perhaps. Other than that, there were 6 half-gems here in the lab, one for each Primary Element, and he had [Murky], too. He could break those and make them into something new, using the mana cube chamber. And he had 10 more buildings of RAU remaining. There were probably some fun things out there, just waiting to be won.

Even if these first experiments didn’t work, Erick just wanted to play around with mana crystals, which is something he had only done a few times, and not much at that, when his attempts to become a Full Wizard fell flat. He had a nation to run, after all.

There had been some time for spell creation, but mana crystals had been a branch of magic that didn’t have much tangible use, since mana didn’t really crystallize on Veird without a lot of effort. This was because of the Script.

… Erick thought, once again, about [Onward], and him ‘not really being there’ as a reason he failed to become a Full Wizard. But the Script's restrictions on freely created mana crystals was also a possible excuse.

Eh.

Erick grabbed the small containers of broken metamonds and a few tools to break them up, and happily went to the vault, where he set them to the edge of the room, as far away from the center as he could. Then he took off his bracelet and set that down, away from the actual focusing parts of the chamber. The necklace would stay on, but Erick took the thing and turned it around, so the gem was on his back, instead of on his chest; it would still work like that, but it would be a bit further away from the experimental center of the chamber, and it should be fine.

That exact center of the chamber was where the magic happened, and Erick wanted to keep his important magic pieces away from it.

And then Erick shut the door, and grinned.

He turned on [Meditation] with a flicker of his aura, and the gem began to glow on his back. Erick flicked his aura through the Rod of the Guardian, too. Erick began to rapidly regain mana, and the rod sucked that mana away, before it promptly spilled white light into the chamber, gradually raising the level of mana in the room. Erick relaxed. And waited. He only had 765 mana regen per hour while using [Meditation], so aside from the initial spill of mana into the air from making his rod release that mana, it would take some time for the chamber to reach full. And then his rod would be taking away half that mana until it equalized with the pressure in the room.

Eventually, after maybe half an hour, the manasphere rapidly ticked up to ‘1’ on the mana density scale.

And that’s where the density stayed for ten more minutes, as the concentric rings on the floor, walls, and ceiling began to appear, and as ripples in the manasphere began to coalesce, like pillars slowly forming between each of the opposing concentric circles.

Eventually, those three pillars slowly formed a cross beam area in the center of the small room.

Erick maintained his [Meditation] and the flow of mana from himself, to the rod, to the room.

Another half hour later, something changed.

“Finally,” Erick said, staring at the intersection of the three mana pillars.

The white light in the room had begun to flicker at that intersection, as the underlying mana began to flex and shift, as though it was thick water. The switch from that, to more, happened faster than Erick had been ready for it. Almost right away, the innate condensing power of the cube, whatever that might be, was enough to cause a condensation in the center. A drop of brilliant white liquid mana rapidly formed, and then condensed into a spherical gem.

The mana density of the room rapidly faded back to lesser levels. The room was still rather packed with mana, but all of the action happening inside the pillar intersections was gone; reduced into a single, white gem, filled with fractals.

It floated there.

“… Ah. Hmm.”

Erick had expected to need to put some of the gem shards into the liquid mana, or to break them and release their elements into the room. But no? The room and enough mana, on its own, was enough to cause a condensation into a crystal?

Well of course it was. Erick hadn’t expected it to work so fast, though.

Erick wasn’t sure what to really do right now. He had no ‘extra’ metirons to use with the Benevolence bead.

… He stuck the ball-end of his fully-charged rod into the center of the room—

The white gem zipped into the rod, like it was metal falling upon a magnet, and then buried itself inside the metal. The gem rapidly moved all the way through the length of metiron, all the way to the hilt, where it popped out of the metal and held there just above the grip. Metairon wrapped around the gem, securing it in place.

A rapid series of words appeared.

Congratulations!

You have created a meta-diamond, and inserted it into an item!

MP up! +1000 mana production per day!

Meta-diamond: [Benediction]

You have completed the major task for the first floor!

Find the floor boss, and make your way through them, to the next level!

Followed promptly by:

You have revived a depleted magical item!

Rod of the Guardian (depleted) ~/300–> Rod of Benediction ~/500

MP up! +500 mana production per day!

That was all fantastic!

… But.

Erick looked down at his new ‘rod’. It was exactly the same shape as before, but the ball-end had turned into a bunch of open wings, and even more wings had unfurled down the length of the rod.

… This was not a weapon. This was a wand.

“Not sure about this specific creation.”

Erick scrunched his face. He had not expected the transformation, nor had he expected the Rod of the Guardian to even accept the Benevolence bead at all. The rod seemed like it would have wanted some sort of… Electrical, stunning enchantment. Or something more violent. Not... Whatever he had made for it. Wasn’t it only supposed to be able to accept whatever meta-diamonds actually fit with it?

This winged transformation was not a ‘fit’ at all.

