Grinding his teeth, Rain continued following after Nicket, composing another update for Ameliah to distract himself from the sudden anger burning in his heart. It didn’t really work. He was tired. Beyond tired. “I’ll fix it,” he muttered. “I have to fix it.”

“What was that, Rain?” Jamus asked.

“Nothing,” Rain replied, correcting himself. WE’LL fix it. Fix this stupid world. One starfish at a time if we have to.

Forty minutes later, Rain was feeling...not precisely better, but at least more composed. It turned out that Jer was a pretty-okay dude. Better than that, actually. His tavern—though calling it that was a stretch—was just as shoddy as the rest of its surroundings, and Carten had determined the beer to be even worse. None of that mattered. What mattered was that Jer looked out for Nicket and the other kids like her. He set aside scraps for them, most days, or even full meals when he could spare them. In return, they ran small errands for him and brought him whatever new customers they could find. It wasn’t exactly charity, but it was something. People helping others as best they could. The way things should be.

True to Jamus’s prediction, Jer hadn’t been too happy with the particular customers Nicket had brought this time, but he’d gotten over it quickly when Rain had started dumping copper on the counter. Not where anyone else could see, mind, lest anyone get any ideas about robbing the place. Still, it was enough to ensure that neither Nicket nor her friends would be worrying about an empty stomach for a while, delivered with a promise that he would be checking back. It was a promise he hoped he’d be able to keep.

Now slightly better armed with information about the city, Rain’s party was making its way toward Riverside, which was what the locals called the commercial shipping district south of them. Their true aim was Hightown, as the city’s large central district was called. The trouble was that there was no way to get there from Northshore directly, short of climbing the wall. Like Fel Sadanis as a whole, Hightown was closed to those without proper papers, be they locals or foreigners. Also like Fel Sadanis, their Guild plates would theoretically get them in.

Besides the teleport platform, which was in the Bank complex further up the river, everything Rain was interested in at the moment was in Hightown. That included the Citizen’s palace in the center, the Guild branch beside the city’s delving to the west, and the small Watch outpost on the north side. Which of those they’d visit first depended very much on their reception at the gate. Neither Jer nor Nicket had rubbed elbows with the Citizen personally, of course, so they hadn’t been able to tell them much about his temperament. They hadn’t even known much about the conflict with the Empire beyond that it was happening.

Now they did. Rain had made sure of it. They deserved to know what was coming.

In any event, Ascension would be going into Hightown blinder than they would have preferred, but they couldn’t just hang around gathering information forever. While there’d still been no motion from either the DKE frigate or the Goldship, that wouldn’t last, and there were other factors to consider. Velika’s patience for one, what the Empire would do next for a second, but also, more simply, how long their provisions would last. Water, they could deal with, but the food they’d been so careful to secure for their journey had been mostly stowed on the decks where Halgrave had fought the Incarn. Breakfast this morning had been a sad affair. The situation wasn’t life or death or anything, but the clock was ticking.

“Would you look at that...” Jamus said, stopping with a note of wonder in his voice.

Rain looked up from his musing, halting as well to follow Jamus’s gaze. The road they were on had been growing busier with traffic for a while, but now they seemed to have crossed an invisible line, passing into the harbor proper. Ahead of them on the left, right at the harbor’s mouth, was a particularly large warehouse, painted white and gold. From it, a vehicle of some sort had emerged. It was a fancy horse-carriage-type thing, painted in the same ostentatious colors as the warehouse and with a team of majestic horses to match. The carriage would have been striking enough on its own, but there was also the minor detail that it was floating.

As Rain watched, the driver sitting on the bench at the front snapped the reins. The horses began to walk, towing the fancy hovering vehicle behind them.

“Well,” Carten said after a long moment. “That’s a new one.”

“Mmm,” Rain said. “Hovercart.”

“Is that the real name for it, or did you just make that up?” Jamus asked.

“It’s the real name,” Rain replied, starting to walk again. “Or a name, at least. Ameliah mentioned them when I was telling her about...” he stopped himself, having been about to use the English word cars. There was a good chance someone was listening to them right now, so he coughed to cover his lapse as he continued. “Anyway, she says you see them in big cities, sometimes. They’re supposed to chew through Arcane Crysts like you wouldn’t believe. Whoever’s in there has more money than they know what to do with.”

“Banker, maybe?” Jamus asked. “Given where the Goldship is anchored, that warehouse is probably theirs.”

Rain shrugged, looking both ways before stepping out onto the road paralleling the river and turning west. The traffic had reached the point that they’d need to watch out or be run over, though perhaps not. As he led them along the wide street, a pocket seemed to form around them all on its own. Feeling bad, Rain nudged them further over to the side to avoid a stout-armed fellow hauling a cart of heavy-looking bricks.

“Lot’s of folks ‘ere,” Carten said, his head wobbling around as if it was on a swivel. “Lots an’ lots.”

“You are not wrong, Carten,” Jamus agreed, speaking slowly. “You are not wrong. It’s like a festival day, except with more...stench.”

Rain smiled. Oh, what I’d give to show these two what real foot traffic looks like. Plop them down in Tokyo or New York at rush hour or something. It would break them. Though... I probably shouldn’t talk shit until I’ve seen the City of Lights or Ter’Karmark.

He blinked, his musing interrupted by a blue-lacquered cart trundling after its owner all on its own.

“Journey Cart,” Jamus said, pointing at the object in question.

Rain, starting to feel a bit uneasy, reached over and gently pushed Jamus’s arm down. “Don’t point. It makes you look like a yokel.”

“How many people live here, do you think?” Jamus asked, unbothered. “Do you think they’ve ever counted?”

Rain just shook his head, then increased his pace. He’d never particularly liked crowds, and this one... There seemed to be a weight to the sea of people around him. Either all of the unawakened were adding together and triggering his soul perception somehow, or there was someone strong around, watching from a distance.

Or it’s all in my head.

He increased his pace further, making the others struggle to keep up as the street grew busier still. Warehouses became less common, replaced by inns, taverns, shops, and endless lines of merchants selling diverse goods out of carts. Still towing his increasingly bug-eyed friends behind him, Rain plowed on through the press, no longer quite so upset about people stepping quickly to get out of their way. The gate, when they found it, was less busy than the market it adjoined, but there were still a good number of people lined up waiting to get in.

Rain stopped, breathing evenly to calm himself as he counted the guards, or constables as Jer had called them. There were twelve of them, distinguishable by their matching leather caps and uniforms. Those were quilted jacket affairs, though not quite as bulky as proper gambesons, dyed DKE green and with Citizen Barstone’s crescent moon embroidered on the backs.

“What now, Rain?” Jamus asked in a low voice.

“I guess we get in line,” Rain said softly. “Remember, leave the talking to me.”

“So you’ve told us,” Jamus said. “We aren’t going to give anything away. Stop worrying so much.”

“Might as well tell the sun ta’ stop shinin’,” Carten said loudly, laughing while a donkey cart rumbled to a stop behind them. At his outburst, the donkey brayed out a tired ‘haaw.’

“Shh,” Rain hissed—at Carten, not the donkey—seeing one of the constables breaking from the gate and jogging toward them.

“You, there!”

“Ah, shit,” Carten muttered.

“Yes, shit,” Rain agreed. “Looks like they were on the lookout for us, after all.”

Stepping out of line, he moved to meet the oncoming constable, raising one finger as he prepared to recite his rehearsed statement. The shorter man, though, didn’t stop. He marched right up to Rain, grabbing him by the shoulder and pulling him roughly forward. Rain was so shocked that he actually allowed himself to be moved, more focused on stopping himself from frying the constable out of his boots. Jamus reacted strongly too, though the constable either didn’t notice the Mage’s raised hands or simply didn’t care.

“Stop blocking the line!” the man shouted in Rain’s face, proving it to be the second as he stepped past him to likewise shove Jamus toward the gate. “Adventurers don’t need their goods checked, you idiots.”

“I, uh—” Rain said, turning, still caught on the wrong foot. He found his eyes drawn involuntarily to the man’s mustache, which reminded him of nothing more than an inverted Reese’s peanut butter cup. “Sorry? Don’t you want to verify my Guild number, or—”

“Move, you armor-plated pillar!” the constable said, giving him another hard shove, and when Rain didn’t so much as budge this time, he spun away in frustration. “Fine, stand there all day if you want, so long as you don’t block the way.” He pointed sharply. “You there, with the donkey, what’s in the cart?”

Stunned and with his single finger still raised, Rain stared, looking from Jamus, to Carten, then back to the constable, who was busy accepting a hurriedly-offered sheaf of papers from the donkey cart’s owner. Retracting his finger at last, Rain let his hand fall, then took a hesitant step toward the gate, then began walking with more certainty as another of the constables—a stout woman with red hair—waved him on.

As he neared, she gave him an apologetic smile. “Sorry about our lieutenant. He’s had a busy day. Week, really.”

“He’s gonna get himself killed,” one of the other constables said, crossing his arms.

“So?” said a third. “I could do with an afternoon off.”

“Quiet,” snapped the female constable, shaking her head at the speaker, then fixing Rain with a slightly forced smile. “Welcome to Barstone, travelers.” She swept her arm toward the tunnel through the wall invitingly. “Please have a peaceful stay.”

And then, before Rain had wholly come to terms with what had just happened, they were through. He found himself in a wide-open square, paved with neatly-squared stone and with a wide fountain in the center, featuring some god or other spewing shimmering water from his hands. The wooden buildings surrounding the square were white-washed and spotless, their painted shutters and awnings lending them an almost modern air. One of them was clearly a restaurant, the scent of spiced meat tickling Rain’s nostrils with diners sitting at tables outside.

Huh.

“Soooo,” Carten said, drawing the word out and letting the bottoms of his shields clang to cleanly-swept stones. “I think tha’ went pretty well. Say, anyone else hungry? No? Just me?”
