It may sound like I was on vacation, but I used bits of freetime I had that others didin't. I worked with a team, and they needed breaks. During those downtimes, I explored these parts of this world. If anything, I enjoyed being here more than Giess. Though dark and brooding, the world held an edge that interested me.

That exploration was also how I found signs of our losing war effort as well. The Vagni once feared the albony as tyrants. Many Vagni watched those same tyrants be eaten alive. Having their territories taken and retaken over and over also put the neutral Vagni in a prey centric state of mind. They wanted order at any cost, and with the frequent setbacks the Empire experienced, the Vagni preferred Elysium's rule.

That was a general theme I'd seen so far. The Empire's efforts, while valiant, weren't comparable to Elysium's. This explained why the Vagni and the Adairs rebelled when they did. They enacted Torix's rendition of their plan precisely, overwhelming the Empire with an endless swarm of Hybrids. The Adairs kept meaningful casualties to a minimum, and over time, those lack of losses manifested as gains in territory.

These factors made Elysium confident in their victory here. By the end of the day, they weren't the only ones who understood who would win this war either. The Empire was simply giving up too much ground. Even though we succeeded yesterday, the Hybrids regained almost more than we could reconquer.

Those results left a bitter taste in my mouth as we finished fighting on Blegara for the day. As we warped back to Mt. Verner, I dwelled on the results of today. Our plan was the albony's only hope of keeping their planet, which left me peeved a bit. I expected better fighting efforts from Obolis. If anything, the Empire was more of an economic power than a warring one.

Our brand new guild, with its limited resources, was outdoing their planetary efforts for Blegara. That might not be the case elsewhere, but it was evident on the sea planet. This changed my mindset regarding the Empire. My approach up until now was one built on trusting them. After having seen the results of their battles, I now understood why Obolis offered to contract my guild in the first place. We provided a more valuable service than I first thought.

That wasn't to say my approach failed until now, but to make sure our guild got its worth, I pivoted my strategy here. As I paced up towards Torix's office of sorts, I resolved to get more out of this deal with the Empire. I was all for alliances, but I wasn't big on getting taken advantage of.

That left me thinking. Bartering for more of Obolis's treasures was a method of achieving my aims, but that left the Emperor with enormous control. He knew which pieces were valuable and which ones weren't, leaving me in the dark. I preferred a deal where I wasn't hoping he'd treat us well.

Those thoughts bounced in my head as I paced into Torix's everchanging lair. He situated himself on the third floor, expanding his many graphs, charts, and maps into a hallway leading to his residence. At this point, his pacing left stone rubbed raw, Torix's common walking paths evident.

Meandering along one of those blemished walkways, Torix walked up to me,

"Ah, it's good to see you again, disciple."

I gave the guy a nod, opening up my dimensional storage, "Yeah, it's good to see you too."

Torix locked his hands behind himself, "I believe you've some sort of sample or specimen to show me. I was wondering what it was."

I pulled out one of the alien crystals I found along the bottom of Blegara's many underwater trenches. With my other hand, I generated a stone table and pillar beneath it, giving me somewhere to set the gemstone,

"You and me both."

The crystal glowed with a magenta hue, magnificent and vibrant. Torix locked in on the crystalline structure, his fascination apparent,

"Ah, I understand why you wanted us to inspect this. There's little in the way of mana signatures resonating from these glowing structures. They lack any notable, geometric, or crystalline structures I'd see in most minerals as well."

Torix peered back, "There's no mind in these things either, though they seem to be...Hm, alive? Perhaps not. It's hard to say." He looked up at me, "It's no wonder you brought them to me. I can barely make sense of these at all."

Torix cackled, "Hah, interesting. Very interesting. I say we test these crystals and their reactions to a few specimens under my wing. What do you say to that proposition?"

I shrugged, "Eh, it can't hurt."

Torix's fire eyes flared, "Not the both of us, at least. For others, well-" Torix scoffed,

"I'm sure they'll live."

-Althea-

I walked onto a different plane, peering onto the place where our team traveled. It was always strange going here. Nothing else lived in this place, yet I could view into the other world while here. That let me traverse without anyone knowing where or who I was.

I held my breath as I did, and I used the ring Daniel gave us for flight. He used a remake of some model he gave to Ophelia, and it gave us a few things we could do. Flying was the most useful, but the other options helped a lot too in the right situation. It reminded me of him when I looked at the ring as well, and that was always a nice bonus.

I smiled as I hovered around the others. Isa, Lester, and Alexander all traveled together while serving as the visible team. Hod and I kept on their tails, keeping hidden in the back. We all agreed to lay low until the right moment arose, and that stopped us from being found out. Security was the most crucial factor for this mission, anyways. The last thing I wanted was another situation like the one on the Nebula Drifter.

Daniel ended up fighting Lehesion on his own, and we all just...ran away. My chest burned when I thought about that. I helped where I could with what the guild needed, but despite my efforts to the contrary, I wasn't able to do anything to help the people I cared about.

That, well, sucked. Real bad.

I took a breath, calming myself down and falling into a different state of mind. I'd gotten good at this since my solo missions out in the enemy's territory. It left me without any presence to speak of, even after I warped in. It was as if I stilled my mind until it was left unseen. They couldn't connect with what they couldn't sense, you know.

Hod's defense was similar. After talking with Other Hod, I learned it since we had plenty of time to chat during our many missions together. Other Hod used his push and pull with Hod's mind to his advantage. He pushed back as much as normal Hod pulled. This put them at a net-zero output of any thoughts, which their mind mages used to find us.

It was pretty smart, and that wasn't the only thing I learned about Other Hod. He was sweeter than I thought an eldritch could be, actually. He was terrified of Daniel, and he wallowed in guilt because he tore Hod's mind apart. It wasn't his fault or anything, even if he felt like it was. Other Hod gradually manifested in Hod over time as eldritch energy pooled in him. Neither of them could stop that.

I was just glad Hod was still around. He was funny, even when he didn't mean to be. Some other people hated how he talked, but I could relate since a part of me was eldritch too. Well, I guessed so. My eldritch half wasn't quite as talkative. It was, uh, more monstrous.

That's why I could be a monster so easily. I didn't like killing, but it was second nature to me. I mean that literally too; I allowed the eldritch part of me to manifest more. It stopped my guilt a lot of the time, and I wanted that part of me to take over when killing civilians. If anything, I relied on my eldritch half as much as Hod did, just in a different way.

Either way, I had plenty of time to think about all this stuff as we traveled South.

We were crossing a countryside that was split apart by the eldritch. Humanity didn't do poorly against the eldritch relative to what I'd seen elsewhere, but they didn't do particularly well either. The main problem was technology. Most of Earth was centuries behind several critical scientific breakthroughs, which left them reliant on more physical means of beating eldritch.

That worked for Daniel and a few others, but most people weren't able to handle the monsters consistently like that. People kind of congregated around the few individuals that could, though. That was the general theme outside Mt. Verner's immediate vicinity. People managed here because of our guild's influence. The tech and weapons we gave out helped a ton, too, making a positive influence present even many miles away.

However, the further we went from our base, the weaker Mt. Verner's positive influence was. Eventually, it waned to nothing. It was sad seeing communities turn from warm houses into ghost towns and isolated homes. That isolation was one of the hardest parts about a world overrun with eldritch - you couldn't travel anywhere.

If you did, you'd face so many monsters going anywhere that it left you vulnerable. People ended up bunkering down and trying to wait out the eldritch. That never worked since the beasts grew stronger every day.  In the worst areas, ghost towns littered giant expanses with no humans left living. It was a different kind of hellscape than most, one where the eldritch fought each other in abandoned cities.

Dungeons clustered in those places, and the initial townspeople failed to hold back the hordes. The eldritch devoured them, and now they devoured each other. In some ways, these places were more alive than before with how dense the monster clusters became. That's what happened when rifts were left unmanaged. The intense fighting of monster factions took over entirely as various eldritch vied for dominance over the others.

All that gloom and doom makes it sound pretty awful, but it wasn't all bad. We passed a few communities as we traveled South that, while paling in comparison to Mt. Verner, still served as sanctuaries for people. These were strange places built to last despite the post-apocalyptic nature of Blegara now.

These refuges cropped up in bunkers, military bases, and even refurbished dungeons. The bunkers carried weaponry and food that let people organize after the culling. As for the military bases, their weaponry lasted long enough that they out leveled the eldritch. I'm sure anyone that went into a dungeon and used it as a home was probably like Daniel, a fighter through and through.

It left me smiling after I saw those places, but not just because they reminded me of Daniel. Sometimes, children ran around and played in those places. Seeing those little guys run around and laugh, it warmed my soul more than I'd admit. I'd like to think that warmth stemmed from how cold my own childhood was.

I spent most of it in a lab, Yawm overseeing my development. He kept a noose of sorts around my neck, and that guaranteed I'd never escape. I was so reliant on suppressants to stop my eldritch energy from overwhelming me. I was lucky to meet Daniel and Torix when I did. I don't think anyone else could've or would've saved me from all that.

But yeah, seeing children grow up here without having to survive like that...yeah, it was pretty nice. I wanted more children to be raised like that, or bare minimum, better than what I went through. It would be a way of preventing other people from suffering, and to me, that sounded, I don't know, fulfilling?

Those ideas bounced around in my head as we began seeing signs of the Adair's village. I silenced those thoughts, knowing a misstep meant these three's deaths. Besides, the Adair's rebellion left me pretty busy with missions, so I didn't have time to make something like an orphanage anyways. Despite all that, it was fun to daydream about. It would be more fun than killing people.

I knew that much for sure.

Speaking of people, we saw more of them as we neared the Elysium camp. It didn't take long to travel a couple hundred miles when you could fly after all. Their presence wasn't as large as Mt. Verners, but it was still notable when compared to the no man's lands we passed by on the way here. This difference became very stark as we discovered Hybrids roaming various forests, hills, and mountainsides.

They culled eldritch, and espens followed them as they did. These people acted as forest rangers, making travel far safer in their immediate domain. It was a potent service, letting people handle a lot more moving around. This meant communities connected more, trade flourished, and rallying was actually a thing here.

Otherwise, people became isolated, and hope dwindled. These hope-giving routes etched out paths along old roads and forest trails. Along the way, we met caravaneers going from town to town, selling people rare goods as they did. Hybrids kept them secure, and this allowed people to form economies.

All of Elysium's peacekeeping efforts made me feel guilty about our own. The Legion did our best given our own circumstances, but we could afford to do more stuff like this. Keeping that in mind, I jotted down some of Elysium's practices on a note app in my status. I even took a few pictures to show Daniel and Torix. They pretty much decided most stuff in the guild, but I could get my say here or there when I needed too. With that in mind, I was sure they'd think this kind of thing was a good idea.

Getting within a few miles of the Elysium camp, we found farms guarded by Hybrids. At this point, they kept their community locked down and airtight. No eldritch roamed about. The land had been cleansed a while back. People could even travel along forested roads, many using carriages pulled by Hybrids.

It was a strange scene since I was so used to those monsters killing mercilessly. Here, they offered mercy instead of taking it.  It was...I don't know, just odd to see.

