Either way, we couldn't just float over the forests and roads here. We joined one of the main roads, leaving us walking on foot. As people passed by, they'd say hi, and Isa or Lester did most of the talking in those situations. They kept conversations short and sweet, questioning where work was nearby.

And of course, everyone in this area suggested going to the Elysium camp. They always needed competent dungeon clearers, and having three of them coming was always welcome. No one mentioned mind screenings either on our way here. To me, that sealed the deal on the Adairs not knowing where the guild was.

They thought of Earth as a place to establish a presence early on in their rebellion. It also made it clear they really intended to help people and make up for what they did to Giess. That wasn't something done so quickly, and what they did to the gialgathens and espens was unforgivable. That being said, all of this was a pretty good start to an apology. If they kept at it, I wouldn't know who was the bad guy anymore.

It sucked when things weren't simple, but that's just how life was.

I didn't have time for any more of those thoughts as we neared the camp. Alexander wore an eldritch leather garb we bought from a shop in Mt. Verner's lower floors. The hand made outfit, knives, weapons, and satchels of different eldritch acids made him look like an alchemist. And, well, he was one, though his magic was definitely his strong suit. Right now, we couldn't have people knowing he was a wizard like Torix. No one knew much magic yet.

The other dungeoneers wore what they usually did. Isa stuck six or so spears on her back, each one ending in a vial of glowing green fluid and a sharpened piece of metal. These were bottles of acid, and they let her kill regenerative eldritch. The spears were for aiming the bottles at a farther distance than she could lob them. It also allowed her to hit fast eldritch too.

Lester stuck with bottles full of gasoline and styrofoam. He called them napalm bombs, and they worked a lot better than the Molotov cocktails I'd seen others use against the eldritch. On our way here, Lester used one against a handsy eldritch that came near him. The gunk in those bottles stuck to the monster, and it burned through the bones because the slop wouldn't come off.

They also wore handmade, eldritch leather wares. This kept an authentic, everyday look we saw from others here. I breathed a sigh of relief, thanking the craftsmen back on Mt. Verner. Florence helped with making them look authentic, the albony diplomat knowing a thing or two about appearances. His family treated him poorly despite all his skills, but of all the albony I'd met, I liked him and Caprika most.

I prayed these disguises would work as we walked into the visual range of the Adair's site. It rested just beyond a hill, nestled in a valley. As we passed one of the surrounding hills, we got a nice, overhead view of the entire place from above. It made sense why Torix's scouts found this place since they weren't exactly hiding. Besides that, I was immediately impressed and put off guard.

What impressed me was the amount of construction, time, and freedom people had. It was night and day compared to the other towns near here. The dungeons nearby worked as farming grounds for collecting eldritch and leveling up individuals. Hybrids walked in open daylight, but their owners covering them with robes to keep their bodies hidden. Children played and laughed in fields past the city, and they had a few places set out for them too.

However, what put me off guard was the portion of metal spires lifting up from the center of the encampment. They let the silvers manifest here, though I didn't know how exactly. Earth lacked the mana pollution Giess did, and without it, the silvers would starve. That didn't stop the silvers here, a few of their alien, disgusting forms looking our way from atop their spires.

They didn't so much as think of getting out of their prison, however. The Adairs used electrified wire to keep the silvers in place, the fences rising high into the sky. Surrounding this silver prison was a town composed of many materials, especially metals. Espens with Hybrid servants walked up to the silvered territory and stripped it of its steel. Using that metal, mages would sear the iron into usable lengths for building purposes.

With those pieces, they worked on making homes for refugees pouring into the place. The farms on the outskirts here sold their goods to the city, it seemed, and they dispensed food as needed. They even had established schools. It was...developed, and more than I expected at that. I didn't know what to make of it, but I made sure to take screenshots of everything I saw.

Beyond those initial, large buildings, smaller wooden ones sprinkled about. They used mud and sod for making the homes, and people piled into the safe zone to keep their children and families safe. Many looked like they were volunteering for the Adairs, lines leading into various combat training zones.

These wooden houses gave way to cleared fields, and past that was a perimeter of fences and Hybrid guards. We paced up to that line before standing in a line leading into the city, the three adventurers exposed while Hod and I stayed hidden. Holding our breaths, we waited until we reached two remnants. They both had white hair and were highly leveled, each over 5,000. Elysium suited them up with armor similar in style and fashion to Sentinels, but neither wore helmets. They did carry some dangerous spears though, the violet, antimatter blades crackling about.

The burliest of the two guards spoke in a rough voice, "Who are you three, and what's your business here?"

I let out a mental sigh of relief. The remnants didn't notice Hod or me. At least not yet. Isa answered for the group, gesturing towards Alexander and Lester,

"We're just dungeon clearing specialists looking for work. We heard about this place a couple dozen miles back, and we were hoping for somewhere to settle. I'll tell you what though, this is more than I imagined it would be."

Isa spoke with a very matriarchal tone in her voice. It was a bit jagged, but in a way that commanded respect. I was glad she was doing the talking as the remnants stared at each other. The burly one reached out a hand, and they shook hands as he grinned at her,

"It's good to have you then. We can always use more fighters. Head over towards the fighter's guild. They'll get you sorted and put to work if that's what you're wanting."

Isa nodded, "Damn straight. It's chaos everywhere but here, and we aim to fix that." She gave a sly grin, "Though a bit of compensation never hurt."

The other remnant scoffed, "You'll get plenty of rewards. Trust me on that."

They pointed their spears past an opened gate, and we all walked in. It wasn't a futuristic set up by any means, and they'd only been here for a month at most. Noting those details, we walked into the wooded town area right past the perimeter. We paced past a few people before moseying our way through the site.

Of those people, most were espens. A few remnants and humans sprinkled about, however. Some of those humans even carried Hybrid companions. After walking further in, we got lost in alleyways and streets, so Lester knocked on one of the doors to ask for directions. An older man opened the door, and his son and wife waited in their home behind him.

A remnant doctor placed a palm on the wife's forehead, both their eyes closed. Lester frowned, tilting his head to get a better look at her,

"Is she alright?"

The man at the entrance answered, "Not really. We were trapped in our farmhouse ever since the culling, and Margret was scrambled up bad by some strange eldritch. This here alien is seeing if she can't help her."

Lester winced, "I'm sorry about that. I hope she gets better."

"You and me both. What are you knocking for?"

Lester pointed behind him, "We're looking for the fighter's guild, and we got lost. Do you know the way?"

Phil put his hands on his hips, "I do. I can take you there real quick if you want. It's really no trouble."

Lester grinned back, "That would be great, actually."

The man stepped out, reaching out a hand. As they shook, he said,

"The name's Phil. Yours?"

"Lester. This is Isa and Alexander."

Phil gave them a nod of acknowledgment before walking down the steps into his home. As he did, his own Hybrid walked out with him. It stepped past Isa and Lester, Alexander eyeing it with suspicion. Phil turned to his Hybrid then back to us,

"Oh, you three must be new. These guys aren't so bad. I've already managed to get a lot of use out of this thing, and he wasn't so hard to get either."

Alexander's eyes narrowed, "Wouldn't that exile you from Schema's system? That might not be the best long term move."

Phil shook his head, staring at Alexander with sad eyes,

"Boy, you might not know this by now, but this world's a hard place. It got a lot harder after the culling too. Now I know I might get stronger one day, but my family needs me. I'll do whatever it takes to keep them safe. If that means getting exiled from Schema's system, then so be it."

Phil stared forward, "It's like this - we've got to survive today before we can start thinking about tomorrow."

Lester cut in, "Don't we know it. Are you ready to go?"

Phil pointed in a direction, "Right this way."

Before they sauntered off, the Hybrid stared faced in my direction. Its orange pustules pulsed under the membranes holding its orange gunk in. A chill ran up my spine before they walked off. They looked like they had this situation under control for the most part. Sending a message to them, I split off from the group and explored a few nearby homes.

From peeking my head through the windows, I found people resting, setting up meals, and preserving food. Sometimes, Hybrids assisted with these tasks, even regular civilians using them however they wanted. Children even played with them at times, the Hybrid presence entirely normalized.

It left me unsettled. The mechanical monstrosities were powerful beings, and our team could kill them, but most couldn't. If one of these things went running through the streets eating people, no one would stop it. The best bet would be the occasional remnant that guarded certain critical areas of the city. Outside of that, no one stood a chance.

Those weren't the only unsettling details lying under the surface of this utopia. I discovered several lines of people leading to different places in the town. Most of these lines ended in administrator work for organizing people. I kept checking just in case, however.

After an hour or two of searching, one of these queues ended in the entire village's largest building. It was a brick building without windows, and as I walked nearby, the smell of a sterilized hospital leaked out. I walked past two guards, each a remnant heavily armored with a Hybrid at their side. Passing brick reinforced with metal, I found orichalcum and runic configurations tracing this place's inner sanctum. It reminded me of the prison Thisbey placed me in. Unlike that place, this center was more technologically realized.

The main floor kept a clean, open look that stopped the lab from seeming stuffy and ominous. They even kept the lights less fluorescent, making it homier than usual. Well, homier than most labs, at least. It creeped me out still, mostly as I walked past a wall covered in vials full of a clear liquid.

I wondered what they were for until a person from outside walked in. The older woman stepped past me, the wind off her walk brushing past my hair. As she stepped up, a remnant doctor paced up to her. He put a hand on her shoulder,

"Are you sure about this?"

She gave the nod, and they went forward. The older woman selected one of the vials, and after getting it from its case, they walked towards the back of the lab. I followed, pacing past two more guards. As I walked into the next room, chills ran up my spine.

This was...disgusting.
