Sleeping was not a skill. Sleep skills did exist, such as Vampiric Slumber, one that some vampires used to stay alive for longer and effectively put themselves in stasis, which nicely proved Jake’s point that they could clearly do more than just regular sleep.

When something became a skill, it meant that the system directly stepped in and provided assistance, allowing one to earn even greater rewards at the same cost. Jake’s Serene Soul Meditation had the system help Jake calm his mind while meditating. Perhaps there was some minor cost in slightly reduced regeneration, but whatever the cost, Jake knew he wasn’t paying full price.

If all Jake wanted was to make a super meditation skill that allowed him to regenerate resources far faster and even amplify the soul-enhancing effects to allow the skill to passive heal his soul, he could do it right now. However, he was far from satisfied with this but wanted something more.

Going by the Legacy of the First Sage, Jake also knew there was more. A deeper meaning to the Meditate skill that Jake had yet to realize. One that went beyond merely enhancing regeneration… perhaps even beyond his own soul and Truesoul.

That day, with Jake floating in his Soulspace, he felt that he was closer than ever. He felt as if he channeled the Records of the tome through himself and that he understood more than usual. Perhaps it was his own delusion speaking from having spent too long going over the same things repeatedly, but he remained determined.

Closing his eyes within his Soulspace, Jake focused on the sensation of meditating and the faint stream of Records from the tome being channeled through his soul. His breathing calmed, and in the outside world, Jake’s body relaxed more and more.

He tried to delve as deep into the Meditate skill as possible, trying to cut off everything and connect with the skill to fully understand every aspect of it, and as he did… he felt something. Realized something. His instinct took over, and he jumped at it, all hesitation gone. With this epiphany, something finally seemed to click into place.

The Tome of the First Sage responded, giving off a subtle glow as the pages within lifted themselves up before tearing off and turning into streams of pure Records that entered Jake, who couldn’t even feel what was happening. In fact, he couldn’t feel much of anything anymore.

His perception of his own Soulspace had completely faded. He’d retracted his sphere to nothingness. Stopped feeling his own body. Severed everything he could to seek as deeply into himself as possible.

Soon, the only sign he was even alive was his stable breathing. When that stopped, Jake sat in complete stillness. His mind was empty, his senses gone, and even his Bloodline was silenced, seeking toward the depths with him. He had entered a state far more profound than any meditation he’d ever heard of. Gone deeper than the deepest sleep. What was left of Jake’s existence sought toward his Truesoul, what was commonly believed to be the deepest core of one’s being… and through that, one layer further down. To somewhere perhaps no C-grade had ever gone before, with Jake’s only guide being his subconscious instincts born of his Bloodline and the Records of the First Sage.
