Sweep struggled to her feet. Temperance had a hold of her hand and dragged her through the garden, toward their window. But Sweep could hear heavy whispers and booted footfalls gaining ground on them. When she was grabbed around the waist and lifted her off the ground, she screamed—but only for a moment, because a thick-fingered, heavily-callused hand covered her face, muffling her voice. She tried to bite him but he didn’t seem to notice. She squirmed and kicked, but the man held her fast. She was trapped.

“Little wench,” growled her captor, voice rumbling against her back through his chest.

“Just gut her and leave her, we’re supposed to be raiding the place right? What’s one more dead serving brat?” The new voice was thin and oily.

“Mine. He said they was mine.”

“Right, fine, whatever. Just be quick about it. We’ve got a job to do.”

“Give me the other one too.”

“Gods Wounds, Raimy. Why—“

“Give her!”

The man’s shout rang in Sweep’s ears and his embrace tightened, squeezing the air from her. He removed his hand from her mouth, but she couldn’t scream. She couldn’t think. She could only blink in the moonlight. Temperance whimpered somewhere to Sweep’s left and below her, but Sweep couldn’t make herself turn to look for her. All she could do was hang rigid in the man’s grip, held tight to his chest.

“Be quiet you idiot. Do you want to bring the guards down on us?”

But the large man holding Sweep didn’t respond. He was walking now. He was walking back the way Sweep and Temperance had come from, where the window to their bedroom stood open. Seeing that open window reminded her Father Vytal wasn’t far away, and Sweep hoped that if she screamed loud enough, Father Vytal might hear and come to their rescue. But with the man still holding her as he was, he’d be able to cut off any shout just by squeezing. So she waited.

“Piety, call to Father Vytal,” Temperance said, her voice strained with fear.

“Quiet,” rumbled the man, “or I’ll break your arm.”

Temperance whimpered piteously

Sweep almost discarded the suggestion because, as she’d just reasoned, shouting would only get her squeezed; she’d have to wait until the man set her down before she shouted. But, of course, that wasn’t what Temperance had meant, and it took Sweep several moments before she realized it. In her panic, she’d forgotten the room in her mind and the well of power. She closed her eyes, slowed her breathing, and imagined a small room with a grey chair patterned in black and white and a full bookcase and a desk bearing a quill, a pot of ink, and a pack of playing cards.

And she was calm. And from her calm, Sweep could reach her power. She sought out Father Vytal with her telepathy and she shouted. She did not shout in words, but in pictures. She pictured the butler and his thoughts, she pictured her capture and Temperance’s, and she sent a desperate, wordless cry for help.

When the breath was knocked from her, she lost her calm, lost her hold on her power, and her mind shattered like a dropped mixing bowl. She lay still, unmoving, unable to access the world around her, caught in her broken thoughts, without trying to put them back together again.

She was worried about Temperance; her friend was in trouble, but the spring garden smelled of grass and earth and water. And the stars spun madly above her head though surely she must be still as the water soaked through the back of her nightdress. But dreams of chessmen chased nightmares crawling from the shadows with papery skin and sharp fingers and insatiable hunger. And she screamed.

The man struck her across the face, cutting off her scream. Sweep was brought back into herself. She remembered where she was and that she was in immediate danger. She lay on her back, the man standing over her. He was a hairy brute, coarse black hair covering his cheeks, chin, neck and his bare, tree-trunk-like arms. His eyes were open wide, his lips between his teeth making his beard bristle.

He held a knife.

There were shouts: surprise, anger, pain. Metal clashed. And the man looked away. Sweep didn’t wait. She rolled to her left and scrambled away, praying the man would be distracted long enough for her to escape. She was almost to her feet when he grasped her ankle and she fell with a pained cry.

“Mine!”

Sweep kicked blindly. She felt her right heel connect and her ankle was released. She got to her feet, but her left ankle was sore and she almost fell again. Someone grabbed her from behind and she almost struck out.

“Piety, it’s me.”

Temperance’s voice provided a flood of relief, and Sweep almost fell again. Leaning on Temperance’s shoulder, she managed to get to the manor house wall.

“Think you can climb in?”

Sweep looked at Temperance, confused, and blinked slowly. Temperance pointed and Sweep saw an open window, the window to their room. It seemed like forever ago that they’d snuck into the garden. Then she nodded. Despite her affirmation, Sweep couldn’t manage it on her own. Temperance gave her a boost up and through, climbed in after her, then closed and locked the window.

Even from within their bedroom, they could hear the sounds of armed skirmish. They huddled together on the bed, holding each other tightly. Sweep struggled against the relief flooding her with exhaustion, struggled to keep her eyes open, struggled to keep her body alert, but even as the sounds of fighting erupted and died away and erupted again, she felt safe next to Temperance, like a secure harbor in a storm, like a hearthfire during a blizzard.

She was awoken by a firm knock at the bedroom door.

Sweep sat up in bed and found herself alone. Sunlight streamed in the window. There were no sounds of combat.

The knock came again.

“Just a minute,” Sweep called. She slipped out of bed and replaced the covers so the bed looked neat. Then she found her travel clothes still folded and stacked in the wardrobe. She pulled on the clothes and brushed her hair back from her face. Presentable, she opened the door. Father Vytal stood on the other side clad in simple grey pants and a white tunic. Temperance and Father Shane sat in the common room behind him.

“Congratulations, Piety. You saved House Putnam. Care to join us for luncheon?”

“I slept until noon?”

Father Vytal put a hand on her shoulder and guided her into the suite’s common room. “Your psychic shout woke the entire household. You probably didn’t exhaust yourself as you did at Rauf’s farm, but I thought it best you get some extra sleep.”

Sweep sat next to Temperance on the red and cream patterned couch and availed herself of the rolled ham slices and spicy mustard. “So, it wasn’t Consort Putnam after all?”

“No,” said Father Shane, cracker crumbs stuck in his beard. “Tristam was right on that account. It was the butler, which is cliché.”

“Indeed,” added Father Vytal. “Your decision to follow the butler last night saved us all. He had quite a horde of brigands ready to storm the manor house.”

“It was dangerous is what it was,” Father Shane barked. “What in all nine hells were you thinking? What did you think you were going to do? You should have woken me or Tristam. I’d smack your little bottoms except Tristam would object.”

“Strongly object,” said Father Vytal firmly.

“He wouldn’t really do it,” Temperance confided quietly. “He’s been grumbling at me all morning. He was just worried about us.”

Father Shane grunted.

“Why are you so sour, old friend? You’ve caught your traitor and not a demon in sight.”

Sweep poured herself some tea and indulged in some sugar. She realized she preferred tea with lots of sugar and only moderated herself out of habit. Temperance offered her a small bowl of stewed vegetables and she took it with a smile. All the while, Father Shane munched at his lunch and didn’t say anything. But Father Vytal was patient and his patience won out.

“David, the butler’s name is David, confessed last night that he’d been given money to pay for those sad excuse for mercenaries. He said the money came from the south, a merchant who operates out of Sunslance in Kempenny Province. Says they call themselves the Alicorn Raiders.”

“I see,” said Father Vytal. “So now you go hunting demons in Kempenny?”

“Indeed. I told you they were real, Tristam. Thing is, I was going there anyway. The mayor sent a request to the Church Council and I am to go to Sunslance just as soon as I’m done in Riverton.”

“I think I shall come with you, Jack.”

Father Shane smiled. “So, you do still have a taste for adventure. We can get an escort to take these brats to Kinswell and be off tomorrow morning.”

“No,” said Sweep at the same time Temperance said, “We’re going too.”

Father Shane chuckled. “You can’t be serious, girls. Don’t you remember what happened last night?”

Sweep cleared her throat uncomfortably. “What happened to him? The one who…” The moon-silver knife flashed in her memory. “Was he captured?”

“He’s dead,” Father Shane said bleakly. “And going to Sunslance is going to be just as dangerous.”

“No Jack, they’re right. They’ll be coming with me.”

Father Shane stood and clenched his fists at his side. “You can’t be serious, Tristam. They’re children by God’s Eyes. We can’t take them on what may well be a deadly mission. What happens if they’re attacked again?”

“Have you heard the rumors coming out of Kempenny Province lately?”

Father Shane shook his head. “Just the usual stuff. Governor Kempenny is a dark witch. She’s drinking the blood of her people and so on. What has this got to do with anything?”

“I hear rumors too, Jack. Rumors are that Kempenny’s raised a real army and that their general is a girl little older than my apprentices. If a girl can be a leader of soldiers, then a girl can go to investigate her. They’re coming with me, Jack, and I’m going to Sunslance.”

Father Shane relaxed just a bit, his shoulders no longer taught, his fists no longer white-knuckled, and he cocked his head at Father Vytal.

“What do you know that I don’t, old man?”

Father Vytal smiled. “A great many things, old friend.”

• • •

They spent a week at House Putnam’s manor house. Father Shane groused and stomped and mostly stayed to himself. Father Vytal spent several hours a day cloistered with the Nobles Putnam, but he wouldn’t talk about what was said in those private meetings. Sweep and Temperance spent much of their time in the suite. Often, Temperance would wander the gardens and talk with the gardeners.

When she was alone, Sweep went to the room in her mind. There, while playing cards or sitting with a book in her lap or considering her next chess move, she thought about what had almost happened in the garden. The man called Raimy had meant to kill her. And she couldn’t help but think the Mother Superior had warned her about this, about the world outside the walls of Sacred Heart and how dangerous it was.
