Father Vytal raised a questioning eyebrow. “Seriously?”

“Bah.” Father Shane waved dismissively at Father Vytal. “You old skeptic. How can you be a man of God and not believe in demons?”

Sweep was shocked. That Father Vytal, a Son of God, might not believe in everything the Scriptures described, hadn’t occurred to her. But then again, she reminded herself, there was that alternate version describing the genesis of creation. Perhaps there was an alternate story about demons not existing?

“Have you ever seen a demon?” Father Vytal asked. “In all your assignments for the Church, have you ever seen one?”

“Just because I haven’t seen one doesn’t mean they don’t exist,” Father Shane persisted.

“I agree,” Father Vytal said. “But I have seen demons. I’ve seen them in the jealous man coveting another man’s wealth, in the woman who indebts herself to show off for her neighbors, in the haunted eyes of a man addicted to drink. I have seen men and women who do not struggle against the evil in their hearts. Those are the real demons, Jack.”

Father Shane shifted uneasily. “There’s no reason to bring up my drinking, Tristam,” he growled, glowering at Father Vytal.

Molly arrived then, carrying a tray with a bowl of soup and a pitcher of foamy beer. She set it down in front of Father Shane with a wink and a smile. When Father Shane did not return the knowing look, she frowned, then pouted, then stalked away.

Father Vytal leaned forward, reaching a hand halfway across the table. “I’m sorry, my friend. You are right. You have conquered your demons and I should trust your judgment in such matters.”

Father Shane took a breath and reached out to take Father Vytal’s hand. “Thank you, Tristam.”

He turned his attention then to his meal, eating heartily of the stew but only sipping at the beer. Sweep turned her attention to her own meal and Temperance followed suit. Father Vytal and Father Shane chatted about things and people the girls didn’t know. The interesting conversation was not resumed until after they’d had their fill and Noble Putnam stood to bid them all goodnight. Soon thereafter, much of the great hall emptied.

Sweep expected to be tired, but the potential excitement in Father Shane’s mission involving demons, kept her alert. Next to her, Temperance looked just as interested.

“In truth, Tristam, I suspect treason.”

“Noble Putnam has designs on the throne? I wouldn’t have thought it of him.”

“Not his Nobleship, the lady.”

“Callista? No, I do not believe that.”

Father Shane shrugged his massive shoulders and swirled the last of his beer in its mug. “You’ll believe the best of anyone, even our High Cleric.”

“Don’t start, Jack. Marcus Radden is a good man.”

“You never served with him in battle. But you’re right, we shouldn’t start that again.” He tapped his mug against the table, looking thoughtful. “She’s a bare slip of a woman, Tristam. I don’t want to have to haul her to Kinswell for a trial, but I’ve been watching her. She’s acting suspiciously, furtive, nervous. Did you know she goes to secret meetings at least twice a week?”

Father Vytal nodded. “I do.”

Father Shane laughed quietly. “I shouldn’t be surprised. How do you know?”

“She told me. And if that’s your only evidence for suspicion, prepare to look elsewhere.”

“All right then, what has she been doing?”

Father Vytal frowned. “I can’t tell you, Jack. She told me in confidence and as her spiritual advisor, I have sworn to keep her confessions a secret.”

“And I would never ask you to break the seal of confession.”

But Father Shane had a mischievous smile hiding behind his beard, and despite herself, despite that Sweep didn’t like how Father Shane had no respect for Father Vytal, she found Father Shane fascinating and was curious what he would do next.

“So, you say she’s not a traitor. She’s not really summoning demons, is she?”

“Jack.” Father Vytal’s voice held a warning.

“You don’t have to say a word, old friend, your face tells all.”

“Jack, don’t do this.”

“Perhaps our dear Consort Putnam is a smuggler?”

Father Vytal frowned and sat back in his chair. He crossed his arms and his face went blank.

“Slave trade?”

“There’s no slave trade in Khulanty.”

“Don’t pretend to naiveté, Tristam. It doesn’t suit you. And I’ll not be distracted. Does she have gambling debts? No. Taken up with one of those fanatical cults? A dalliance with a nice young man?”

Whatever it was that changed about Father Vytal’s expression, whatever it was that gave away the secret, Sweep didn’t see it. But Father Shane did.

“Really? Little Callie Cross is an adulterer?” Father Shane’s expression had lost its mischievousness in favor of grave concern.

“Callista is a young woman in an arranged marriage who has always loved someone else.”

“God’s Beard, Tristam. You are a hopeless romantic.”

“I’m a counselor and friend to Consort Callista Putnam nee Cross. And I’ll thank you not to blaspheme in front of the children.” Father Vytal nodded pointedly at Temperance and Sweep.

Sweep blushed.

Father Shane looked at them as though he’d forgotten they were there. Sweep had been unabashedly watching the conversation unfold but now felt as though she’d been caught intruding.

“My apologies, young acolytes.” Father Shane bowed his head solemnly.

Sweep blushed further, not least for being mistaken for an acolyte.

Father Shane smiled gently at them before turning back to Father Vytal. “So where does that leave us, Tristam?”

“I don’t know where it leaves you, Jack, but I’ll be staying here a while to council Consort Putnam. Your search for demons and traitors is none of my affair.”

“Bah! What happened to your sense of adventure?”

Father Vytal stood and bowed to Father Shane. “Good night, Jack.”

Sweep and Temperance stood as well.

Father Shane spread his hands. “Oh come on, Tristam, don’t be mad. Besides, you can’t tell me you’re not worried about a potential traitor. You’ve got more invested in the royal family than anyone not Royal. For their sake you might try to help me a bit.”

Sweep almost spoke. She almost told the clerics about the chief butler skulking around the gardens. But she was just a little girl; surely Father Shane would have already investigated the butler. It would be presumptuous to suggest otherwise. So she hesitated.

“We can talk more in the morning,” Father Vytal said.

Sweep and Temperance clasped hands and followed Father Vytal from the dining hall.

“Which do you think it is: demons or traitors?” Sweep asked telepathically.

“I think Father Vytal’s right. I’ve never seen or heard of anyone seeing a demon in real life. Not in modern times anyway.” Temperance’s voice was clear, like she spoke aloud.

“Do you think Father Vytal is going to find the traitors? Do you think he’ll let us help?”

Temperance shivered. “Sounds dangerous.”

“What do you think of Father Shane? I never expected a cleric to act like that.”

“He’s a Sword of the Church. They’re given some leeway, or so I’ve read.”

They chatted telepathically all the way back to their room and into the night.

• • •

White chalk on shiny black stone inscribed a circle crossed with lines and lined with markings she did not understand. She stood in the center of it, waiting, though for what she could not remember. Above, the sky was black pinpointed with shimmering stars. And from within her welled an uncomfortable swell, as though she had lost control of her power, as though the comforting well of still water bubbled like a pot too long on the stove.

She took a deep breath and tried to calm her thoughts and, in turn, the well of power.

Around her, the chalk markings glowed. Dimly at first, but quickly intensifying into a bright light that shone off the black stone and lit the sky, obscuring the stars. But it was within the shadows between the lines she focused her attention. And from those shadows, figures emerged: the crook of an elbow, the swell of a back, the glint of an eye. The sudden stench struck her like a gusty wind, plugging her nose and mouth and eyes, and she gagged.

The light dimmed, faded to nothing and was again just chalk, but the creatures had been summoned. She could see them clearly now, in the starlight, pale, starving creatures that once were human, shambling on paper-dry feet, raising ragged hands like claws, reaching for her. She could feel their thoughts. They were consumed with hunger, a pain that drove them to seek sweet warmth within a living body. And she knew they could smell her, could smell the blood within. She knew no matter how far she ran they would follow that smell.

• • •

“Piety?”

Sweep had her back pressed hard against the wall. Her eyes were wide looking for any sign of the demons with rotting flesh. Temperance sat upon the bed, staring at her through the shadows.

“Piety? Did you have a bad dream?”

Sweep nodded, but stayed pressed against the wall. The creatures in the dream had exuded rank thoughts that made her shoulders itch like stale breadcrumbs in the bed sheets or rotten meat lingering in the corner.

Temperance struck a match, producing a brief flash and sulfur stink. The light and smell helped banish the dream. Temperance lit three small candles on the bedside table, then slid off the bed and walked to Sweep. She put her hands on Sweep’s shoulders.

“Piety?”

“I’m fine. It was a dream.”

“About…”

“No,” Sweep interrupted. “No, it was, do you remember Saint Esther and the Dread Necromancer?”

“Sure. Saint Esther defeats a necromancer from the north.”

“I was… in my dream… there were rotting demons,” Sweep shivered.

“Yuck. And a dread necromancer?”

Sweep nodded. “It was me.”

Temperance laughed, not the sort of comfort Sweep was looking for.

“I’m sorry, I shouldn’t laugh at you, but there’s no way you could be a necromancer.”

Sweep smiled and a small chuckle escaped her lips.

Temperance nodded. “That’s better. Why don’t you come back to bed?”

Sweep nodded though it was several moments more before she could push herself away from the wall. Temperance waited patiently, quietly.

Once Sweep was sitting on the bed, after Temperance had blown out the candles, a noise caught Sweep’s attention; the muffled creek of rusty hinges.

“Did you hear that?” Sweep asked.

“Hear what?”

But Sweep was already creeping through the shadowed room to the window, the dream banished.

The moon shone brightly on the garden beyond, and Sweep could make out the small garden shed and the glow of a candle flame from within.

“What’s going on?” Temperance whispered as she approached Sweep’s shoulder.

“I don’t know.”

But a few minutes on, they saw the chief butler emerge from the storage shed, clad in his workman’s clothes. He looked around and Sweep froze, Temperance gasped, but he didn’t seem to see them. Then he headed into the garden.

“He’s probably going to that side gate we saw him at earlier today,” said Sweep.

“I wonder what he’s doing.”

Sweep was gripped by sudden resolve. Father Shane was looking for a traitor, and Sweep suspected the butler. Earlier she had said nothing because she’d been afraid of being presumptuous. But now she saw an opportunity to gather some proof to present to the Sons of God.

“Let’s follow him.”

“What? No, it’s too dangerous. Besides, he’s probably just going to see his lady-on-call.”

“You don’t have to, but I’m going.”

The window opened easily and silently. Sweep pushed herself upon the sill and dropped onto the other side, the flagstone by the wall was cold on her bare feet. She took a moment to search for the man and found she could just see the candle lantern bobbing through the bushes. He was probably already at the gate. She hurried after.

“Piety!” Temperance whisper-yelled.

Sweep paused to look over her shoulder. Temperance hurried after her, carrying a pair of slippers, her own already on her feet. Sweep smiled.

Moments later, they crouched behind the same bush as when Tam the gardener had spoken to them just that morning. The chill of the spring night tickled Sweep’s legs under her nightdress. Next to her, Temperance rubbed her arms through her sleeves. The butler stood at the side gate in the garden wall, his candle lantern gripped in one hand. There was someone on the other side of the gate and the two conversed. The butler occasionally gestured emphatically.

“What are they saying?” Temperance asked.

Sweep shrugged. “I can’t hear them.”

“Can’t you…” Temperance tapped her head.

“I’m not supposed to read minds without permission.”

“I thought we suspected him of treason. Not reading his mind might get a lot of people hurt.”

Temperance was right. Father Vytal had told her to trust her judgment. If she could stop one man from hurting many others, a bit of telepathic snooping was warranted.

Sweep took a breath and closed her eyes and a moment later she had achieved the calm she needed to touch the still well of power within her. Then she spread her awareness, like spreading a blanket upon the ground. She could see the people in her mind’s eye as faintly glowing light. She focused on the butler, a dark red and sharp white aura, and his thoughts opened to her.

Yes, you fool, bring your filthy marauders around to this gate, yes this gate and don’t worry about them, once I’m Magistrate of Riverton the guard will answer to me and we’ll round them up and put them back in that prison where they belong. Yes, tell them they may have whatever women they like. But not the Consort Putnam, that luscious little slut belongs to me. No! Now, you blithering idiot! I’ve taken care of the guards, poison in a kindly flask of tea. Just a touch bitter you see. Yes, now, bring them now. You may tell the insatiable brute there are a pair of girls that will be to his liking just beyond the lilac hedge.

Sweep wrenched her thoughts from the chief butler’s mind with a despairing cry. Her head hurt and her stomach roiled. She fell to her hands and knees and vomited.

“Piety, Piety please get up. He’s coming this way. There are men with him. Get up! Get up!”

