“Now that I've experienced it.” Yllana said and put her arms around his neck instead. “I'd rather be carried.”

That made Ren laugh, and then so did she as he scooped her up into his arms and ran down the stairs and outside, deactivated the tower and stored it, then estimated how far to jump to make it to the third spire from the left. They were on the first spire, so he guessed well and then jumped. Yllana kept laughing as they flew through the air, and Ren revelled in her joy. As he approached the ground with her in his arms, he used his Permanent Air Walk to gently land right in front of the Grand Meeting Hall.

“Thank you, M'lord.” Yllana said and Ren eased her out of his arms and stood her up on her feet.

“It was your pleasure, M'lady.” Ren said and grinned.

Yllana giggled and then shook her head. “You make me forget my decorum, M'lord.” She said, then put her arm around his elbow and rested her hand on the back of his. “I haven't felt this young since....” She smiled. “Is it impolite to say that I miss Allynna's father, right after our shared experience?”

Ren pat her hand, and escorted her into the building. “M'lady, you can say whatever you want, and I won't take it personally.” He said. “Unless it's something bad, or makes you lose your Honor. Things like that you should keep to yourself.”

Yllana laughed. “You are wise beyond your years, M'lord.”

“M'lady Arthion, and the Unnamed King!” Someone exclaimed, and they looked away from each other to see everyone inside the Great Meeting Hall take notice of them, and then everyone knelt.

“What's going on?” Yllana asked, and then Ren received a popup.

Notice!

The elflings within your Aura acknowledge you as a ruling class, and thanks to your title The Unnamed King, you have gained Honor worthy of this.

3,000 elflings x 10 Honor each = 30,000 Honor

Notice!

Your Honor of 225,000 (125,000 + 100,000 from your Important Bracelet of Unbelievable Magic) has been maxed again at 250,000.

Notice!

Excess Honor has been converted to XP.

5,000 Honor x 10 XP = 50,000 XP

Yllana gasped as she received another Honor boost to what she already had and what she had gained from Ren. “What... what... what are you doing?!?” She said to the elflings in front of her.

“I believe they are giving you your due.” Ren said and pat her hand, stepped around, and knelt for her as well. “As am I.”

“Ren!” Yllana gasped as Ren's gesture maxed her own Honor and she received a popup. Her hand slowly reached out and touched it, and it disappeared. “M-M-M'lord!” She took a deep breath. “You... why did you...”

“I need a powerful ally here in the High Elven Kingdom, and who else would be better to help me than The Unnamed Queen?” Ren asked, then stood up and turned to the elflings. “Come and greet her again for the first time.”

The elflings stood and efficiently formed a line, then started to walk by her and shook her hand. Yllana started to laugh as elflings she had known for hundreds of years greeted her. She started smacking the ones that joked about her lofty heights, and the greeting devolved into a joyous and playful event. Once everyone had properly greeted both her and Ren, they all sat down to share stories with each other. The gathered elflings enlightened Ren to some of their history, and he awed them with the retelling of his adventures.
