The [Merchant] smiled at Erin while he made a face at the non-Humans passing by on the street. Erin sipped the lukewarm beverage from her mug and made a polite noise to agree with him. The adventurer nodded, chomping down on a baked potato filled with spices.
“I swear, they’ve raised prices just because they knew we were coming. No love towards us Humans, and the local Watch has been picking fights with the adventurers all week. To make matters worse, it seems there’s a Human [Thief] that came in with one of the caravans.”
“Really?”
Erin hadn’t heard anything about that. But then she’d been—busy the last few days. The merchant shook his head and made a noise of disgust.
“Of course, it could be a local Drake or Gnoll, but of course, we Humans get the blame until the culprit is found. Lousy lizards and their damn suspicions.”
Erin blinked at the merchant, but the adventurer was nodding in agreement. She changed the subject quickly.
“Hey, do you know anything about that new adventurer? Gazi?”
Two blank faces were her answer. Erin tried to elaborate.
“She was getting a lot of attention this morning. She’s, um, she looks sort of Human, but she’s got one big eye in her head and four small ones…”
“A Gazer? Gazi? Do you mean…Gazi the Omniscient?”
The ball dropped, and then the [Merchant] and adventurer were giving Erin a look as if she had just sprouted wings.
Erin shrugged.
“She’s a famous adventurer, but that’s all I know—”
“Gazi the Omniscient is in Liscor? I thought I saw a Gazer, but I didn’t dare believe it was her—dead gods, and I missed her?”
Goeln leapt out of his chair. Cervial’s mouth was open so wide he could have inhaled an Acid Fly. Ten of them.
“Adventurer Gazi? I almost missed—did you call her ‘Gazi’?”
“Well, yeah—”
“Put some respect on her name! Adventurer Gazi at least—she’s a Named-rank adventurer!”
Cervial looked so horrified Erin began to get a sense that maybe she had been way too informal with the woman. She gulped.
“I, uh…yeah. She’s here, and I met her on the road. Long story. Is it—is it bad I invited her to my inn?”
The two men were practically about to run off to find Gazi, but they turned back at Erin’s words.
“You have an inn? Here? Really?”
Goeln was incredulous. Erin nodded.
“Yep. Well, it’s small, and I just started—it’s just a few miles outside the city.”
“Really?”
Both men leaned over the table. Goeln gave Erin a smile in return.
“If you’ve got room in your inn, I’d be glad to pay for lodging. It’d be a nice change to see some Human faces rather than all the scales and fur around here. Not to mention the smell! All these non-Humans really don’t know how to wash properly, do they?”
Erin’s smile froze on her face as she stared at the [Merchant]. He hadn’t even tried to lower his voice. She sensed rather than saw the other Drakes sitting at nearby tables slowly glance over at her and the other two Humans. They didn’t seem to notice, nor had Cervial done more than glance at his companion—he hadn’t said a word. Neither had Erin but… 
The adventurer coughed into one fist.
“I’d love rooms too; my team’s just here for reconnaissance, but if we come back, a good, friendly inn would be lovely.”
“Oh. Um, well…I’d love to have you over. But, ah—the upper floors are still under repairs, I’m afraid.”
Both looked disappointed.
“What was the problem? If it’s simple repairs, I could introduce you to some skilled craftsmen…”
Erin waved her hands quickly.
“No—no need. I’m working on it. It’s just that we had a very bad incident with disappearing skeletons. And—I should get back there to make sure more aren’t missing.”
Hastily, Erin got up and excused herself. The adventurer and merchant bade her farewell and stared after the young woman as she disappeared into the crowd. When she was gone, they exchanged a look. The [Merchant] took a long draft from the fresh mug the Drake had served him and grimaced. Like everything in the city, he could swear the ale they served him was the lowest gutter-scrapings.
“Disappearing skeletons…?”
 
——
 
Far below the surface of Liscor, or at least as far as the Antinium were allowed to dig by their contract with the city, the Queen listened to a report. She was not happy.
“Humans in Liscor? They come seeking the ruins, no doubt, to unearth treasures and seek their fortunes. Good. As for Gazi the Omniscient…she is dangerous. But not a threat to the Hives. She may still be a forerunner of what we desire. Post Listeners on her, but do not gainsay her in any way.”
The Antinium addressing her bowed his head crisply. He was perfectly balanced upon one knee as he faced his ruler.
“Yes, my Queen.”
She waved a feeler at him.
“Such matters are inconvenient, especially at a time like this. Deal with the Council until I have finished. I must not be disturbed at any cost. To complete the project so quickly necessitates all of my attention. Is that clear?”
“Entirely, my Queen. I will handle all of your affairs with those not of the Hive.”
“Good. And investigate the Aberration while you are upon the surface. If he is truly Individual, I would speak to him afterwards. If he is not—”
The Antinium touched the blades at his sides. The Soldier Antinium standing guard made no move despite his proximity to their Queen.
“I will dispose of any Aberrations I find, my Queen. Worry not.”
“I will place my trust in you. Go, then, my Prognugator.”
The Antinium bowed and stood. He whirled, and the twin swords at his waist moved smoothly with him as he walked upwards towards the surface. His Queen’s voice rumbled through the cavernous tunnels after him.
“Go. Ensure that Human does not bring about further ruin. Protect the Hive and carry out my will. Go and do this in my name…”
The Queen paused, and then her mandibles clicked softly.
“Ksmvr.”
