At first, the laden cart rumbling through the northern city gates attracted little attention. This late in the day, the traffic going in and out had thinned, but there was nothing odd about two passengers sitting on the back of the cart while a Drake [Farmer] brought his merchandise into market.
The expression on the cart driver’s face and the way the guardsmen at the gate reacted when they inspected the bulky objects strapped under the tarp attracted some attention, however. So perhaps one or two [Merchants] made a note to inquire about any unusual shipments, and the extremely bored people-watchers might have drifted that way. But many things passed through Liscor, sometimes objects considered illegal in Human lands or very illegal in every land. Those were usually confiscated.
A wise [Merchant] with illicit cargo skipped Liscor’s annoying gate checks altogether and just sent someone to buy enough food and supplies to continue south or north. This was an odd route, this bridge between Drake and Human lands.
For one thing, you could only run it during two seasons out of the year: fall and winter. Spring and Summer were far too dangerous because of the Bloodfields.
Liscor was definitely no trading city like Pallass, the closest Walled City, but it occasionally got high-profile [Merchants] making a journey that essentially locked them into one part of the continent for a year. Unless they took a sea route to mitigate the High Passes issues.
“Not a lot of business in Liscor these days, huh? Is this route even worth it?”
A local Drake [Trader] was commenting idly to a Human busily buying up more hay and bundles of food for his pack animals. They’d have to go just past the Bloodfields…which were probably safe…and it would be a while before they’d reach a settlement again. 
“The Bloodfields run? It’s not something I’d do often, but I have a bunch of ore from Esthelm and Invrisil’s latest fads. It’ll be gold for copper—if the Bloodfields are quiet. I’m bound straight for either Hectval to unload the ore or, if they don’t want what I’m selling, Pallass’ steelworks.”
“Anyone coming up north?”
Any important [Merchants], the question meant. The Human resisted saying ‘for what?’ He was one of a few Humans who came to Liscor, and they were all traders, travellers, or adventurers.
The city wasn’t exactly fun to be in, and he wanted to be at least cordial with the locals, so he shrugged.
“Not much call for trade overland. The only one I could think who’d even make the journey is…the Silver Trader. I heard she might be heading north, because of her family.”
“Oh? Isn’t she from one of your [Lord]-type families?”
“Mhm. Well, that’s all I need. Can you load them in my wagons?”
“Sure, I’ll call some [Laborers] over. Hey! I need eight…”
The trading area just past the northern gates was fairly busy due to the [Merchant], so the farmer’s odd wagon was unnoticed as yawning Drakes and Gnolls walked over.
The two passengers didn’t attract much attention either, at least to begin with. One of the two was a humanoid figure concealing her face with a casual woolen hood. That was normal, although anyone who actually saw the face hiding underneath the hood had a very definite reaction. But because they had to go through shock, denial, and optionally fear/awe, the wake of her passing attracted little notice. Again, at first.
The Human was another matter. For many of the Drakes who saw her, she was just another annoying Human arriving as part of the massive influx of adventurers, merchants, and all those seeking to profit from the ruins. At best, she was exploitable and had lots of coin; at worst, the Watch would throw her out if she caused trouble as Humans so often did.
Still, some of the Drakes recognized the Human girl and remembered that this was the girl who had beaten Olesm in a game of chess and was rumored to have met the Antinium Queen. Not least, the Antinium bowed to her, which was disturbing. So she attracted the most attention, but only in the form of vague interest at most from Drake observers.
Among the few Gnolls in the crowd, however, Erin’s appearance was entirely noticed and significant. Several immediately began walking away through the crowd to find a certain Gnoll shopkeeper, and the rest followed Erin and the mysterious cart.
The Human [Merchant] brightened at the sight of another Human face—most of his workers and caravaners for this haul were Drakes and Gnolls, going home. He was about to see what this young woman was doing here when he spotted her companion—and froze. Then he noticed the mysterious cart too.
Well, mysterious was the wrong word. For the Gnolls, who could smell better than they saw, the contents of the wagon were deeply disturbing. It was only because the contents were also definitely dead that they were willing to get near to the wagon at all. Even then, several wrinkled their noses at the burned smell.
Crowds had a flow and instinct of their own. Despite themselves, passersby felt drawn into the wake of the crowd as they sensed the flow of pedestrians shifting one way. And as a few people in the crowd shouted out the identity of Erin’s companion, and some children peeked underneath the covered wagon and ran away screaming—
Well, at that point, Erin really wished they would all stop looking at her and Gazi. It wasn’t that she minded the attention…
Actually, she did mind the attention. But more than that, she really needed to pee. But she didn’t want to start squirming in front of the nice people, so she suffered in silence. It really was a long way to the Adventurer’s Guild. And it got longer each time more people joined the crowd. She had a feeling that around 10% of the excitement was due to the dead spider corpses packed in the cart, but the other 90% was definitely Gazi.
 
——
 
When Selys saw Erin walk through the doors of the Adventurer’s Guild she couldn’t help calling out.
“Erin! Thank goodness you’re okay!”
Selys went from behind the counter to go up to Erin, but she quickly retreated as a flood of people poured into the room behind Erin. She stared at the crowd of pedestrians and then at Erin. Her eyes narrowed suspiciously.
“…Erin? What’s going on?”
Erin smiled awkwardly.
“Hi, Selys. Um, I’m here to collect a bounty? That’s how it works, right?”
“Bounty…?”
The Drake stared blankly at Erin until she realized everyone was now looking at her. Then she blushed, or rather, the scales on her face changed color.
“Oh, of course! You can turn in—you have a bounty?”
“Yep.”
Selys looked Erin up and down. The Human didn’t appear to be carrying anything in her hands or at her side.
“Is it…Goblin ears?”
“No…I think they’re called Shield Spiders. Is that right?”
Erin looked at a hooded person standing next to her. Selys’ eye was caught by distinctive features of the half-Gazer as she pushed back her hood. In her mind, an alarm bell went off, but it was temporarily silenced by something Erin had said.
“Shield Spiders? Erin, that’s not a good—you’re mistaken. Or is this some kind of joke? You can’t be serious.”
Erin shook her head.
“No, really. There’s a cart of them outside. I didn’t count how many but—”
Erin broke off. Selys was giving her the flat, incredulous look she’d only seen in TV shows before.
“Shield Spiders?”
“Uh, yeah.”
“You. Killed them.”
“Yeah.”
“You. Erin Solstice. Killed Shield Spiders.”
Erin felt like she was in a comedy routine, only it was more awkward than funny. She pointed towards the door.
“Look, they’re right outside. I can go get one if you want.”
Selys’ gaze shifted over Erin’s shoulder. She appealed to the Drakes in the crowd, many of whom were watching the interchange.
“Shield Spiders?”
Erin sensed multiple heads nodding behind her. One of the Drakes—this one an adventurer by the sword on his waist and chainmail armor—jerked a thumb at the door.
“They’re piled up in a cart. I saw them—over sixteen adults, dead and covered in soot. The Watch is trying to get some Workers to unload them, but there’s a huge crowd in the way, and the Workers don’t want to do it.”
Now that she was listening, Selys could hear the shouting outside. She was still focused on the Erin-factor however, so she kept staring at Erin.
“How? Did an adventurer do it? It can’t have been just you.”
Erin frowned, dignity hurt. Since she agreed with Selys’ incredulousness though, she was only partially indignant.
“I totally did it by myself. I burned their entire nest. With wood. And fire.”
She didn’t know why she felt the need to add that qualifier, but at least it shut Selys up. One of the Drakes—the one with the chainmail—nodded at Erin and flashed her a smile.
“Fine work. I’ve never seen you around the Guild before. Are you one of the Humans from up north?”
“What? No. I’m not an adventurer. I’m an [Innkeeper].”
He stared. Erin was sort of getting used to that. Selys pulled at the frills at the top of her head.
“How did you—you know they swarm over anyone that falls into their nest and tear them apart, right?”
Erin nodded.
“They did that swarming thing—you know, where all of them climb up at once? Wasn’t fun.”
She stared at Selys. Selys stared back. After a few moments, Selys threw her hands up.
“Okay. Okay, I guess—I’ll have to inspect them. And then we’ll need to weigh the bodies. It’ll take all day probably, but if you sign for them, I’ll have your bounty waiting later.”
She reached under the counter and pulled out a logbook and handed Erin a quill and inkpot. Erin frowned down at the paper and began scribbling.
“Do I have to find a place to get rid of them after you’re done? Because I really don’t want to have to dig a hole, and the nest is far away.”
“No—we’ll definitely take them. Do you even know how valuable Shield Spider bodies are? With the right skills, a [Blacksmith] could create shields, armor…”
“Really? So the bounty—”
“Four pieces of silver on average per Shield Spider slain, but we’ll pay you more for their bodies. Especially for the bodies.”
“I don’t want them. But you might have a tough time getting them down. None of the Workers want to go near them.”
Selys glanced towards the door.
“The Antinium hate spiders. No wonder the Workers are freaking out. I’ll have a few [Porters] do the work instead.”
Selys put her face in her clawed hand for a second before she looked up at her Human friend again.
“Erin, how did you kill a nest of Shield Spiders? Even if you burned them, most adventurers would rather run than pick a fight with a Shield Spider if they’re not Silver-rank or higher.”
“Really? They’re that tough?”
Selys nodded seriously.
“Incredibly. Steel blades can’t even crack their shells.”
Erin blinked. But then she pointed to the adventurer standing next to her.
“Well, she cut one in half.”
Every eye turned towards the Gazer standing next to Erin. Or—as some including Selys recognized—the half-Gazer. A rare species made even rarer by her mixed blood. So rare, in fact, that the odds were if you met one—
Selys’ scales were usually a good indicator of her mood, along with her tail. Erin watched now as Selys’ tail stiffened like a cat’s, and her light green scales paled until they were nearly gray.
“Oh. Excuse me.”
The half-Gazer looked at Selys and gave her a polite smile. Selys was reduced to nervous stammering.
“U-um. You wouldn’t happen to be—I mean, are you…?”
“I am Gazi of Reim.”
Dead silence. If Erin’s comment about taking down a nest of Shield Spiders had inspired quiet hubbub, Gazi’s name brought awestruck silence. Silence—and a kind of fear or intimidation that swept through everyone.
In fact, Erin realized she’d been talking to Selys mostly unmolested because the people who had noticed Gazi had turned into virtual statues. Now—at her voice, someone whispered.
“The King of Destruction’s vassal.”
A shiver ran through the audience. Erin glanced around at the staring crowd. She didn’t get it, but she saw even the biggest, toughest adventurers blanch—and then Gazi smiled, and her face was full of teeth.
Erin really wanted to know what all this meant, but she had a pressing concern…and this seemed like a really good time to take care of it. As Selys began stammering something and the adventurers and civilians around Gazi backed up to give her room, Erin pushed her way through the crowd and into the bathroom.
Curiously, Liscor’s architects didn’t use the stick-man symbols to mark the men’s rooms and the ladies’ rooms apart. Rather, they used tails. A long, straight tail marked the male bathrooms, and a curly tail marked the female bathrooms. It was quite simple when you got used to it. Curly tail, straight tail.
Even so, Erin peeked inside before she entered. She’d had enough of seeing unwanted genitalia, especially since the equipment the Drakes and Gnolls carried around were definitely different than the ones guys in her world had. Not that she was an expert or anything, but—
After a few minutes of relief and ruminating on biological differences, Erin emerged from the restroom. Thank god for plumbing and soap. She saw Gazi was still at the heart of the crowd of people, fending off questions politely. Her large eye didn’t move from the Gnoll speaking earnestly to her, but one of her smaller eyes swiveled Erin’s way the instant the young woman exited the bathroom.
“Now that’s creepy.” 
Erin muttered.
“Don’t be rude!”
Selys hissed at Erin and nearly made the young woman scream. The Drake was heading to the bathroom, probably to relieve tension-induced pressure. She pulled Erin aside, and the two began to whisper furiously in one corner, although only one person in the room was watching them.
“Erin, how do you know her?”
“Gazi?”
“You’re calling her by her first name?”
“She has a last name?”
“Pathseeker! And it’s Adventurer Pathseeker! That’s how you should be addressing her. Or Gazi of Reim. Or…Gazi the Omniscient! That’s her nickname!”
“That’s confusing. She’s got three different titles? That last one’s sorta cool, I guess.”
Erin was making light of this, but Selys was staring at Gazi in horror, as if afraid the woman would hear them and take offense.
“Erin! She’s a really, really important person! I could lose my job if I make her mad!”
“Really?”
Selys nodded rapidly.
“Gazi the Omniscient. That’s what they call her in other continents. She’s rumored to be over Level 40.”
“Um. Wow…?”
“Erin! How are you not impressed?”
“Well, isn’t Relc level thirty-something? That’s only a difference of ten levels, right?”
