The look Selys gave Erin was a mix of incredulity and pure indignation. Not for the first time, Selys wondered if Erin Solstice wasn’t a bit slow or at least strange. But she’d said she was from…a different country? Either way, she tried to explain the obvious.
“Erin, she’s a famous adventurer! You know; the kind people write down if they make a list of the top one hundred adventurers in the world!”
“Oh.”
“Don’t you get it? There might be more powerful adventurers, but few of them have ever visited Liscor. And she knows you. Did she save you from the Shield Spiders?”
“No, she only cut one of them apart. But she lent me money to hire the wagon to bring them into the city.”
“She lent you money!?”
“Yeah, and I’ll pay her back, so stop grabbing my shirt, Selys. Look, she just seemed interested in me, but I don’t know her that well. But why do you think—”
Erin got no further because Selys’ claws dug into her arm. She yelped and tried to pry the Drake’s fingers out of her skin.
“Oh Ancestors! She’s coming this way!”
Like a shark moving through a shoal of fish, Gazi’s presence seemed to literally part the wall of bodies. She approached, smiling at Erin.
“I fear we must part ways for a time, Erin Solstice. I must greet the master of this guild and the local ruling body. But I hope I may visit you at your inn for your promised meal.”
Selys’ goggling expression was slightly hard to ignore, but Erin smiled up at Gazi anyways.
“Sure thing. I’m going back to my inn right away, so you can come over whenever works best.”
Gazi gave her an amused smile that included the petrified Drake at Erin’s side. One of her smaller eyes flipped over, so Erin could only see the light orange-pink of her eyeball.
“That may be slightly difficult at the moment.”
Someone was shouting outside. Or rather, someone was outshouting the shouting already going on outside. It was a familiar voice, too.
“Hey! Clear the way!”
Relc’s voice was irate, and he seemed to be yelling at the adventurers and other people trying to crowd into the Adventurer’s Guild. He was also on the verge of losing his temper, which wasn’t usual, but definitely wasn’t helpful at the moment.
“You lot are causing a disturbance! Clear the street I said! Move it!”
Everyone inside the guild heard a thump and then a shout and a crash. For all Gazi was their main focus, their attention quickly turned to the outside.
“What’s going on? What’s happening?”
Selys beat Erin to the window and nearly tore her hair-spikes out. Erin still wasn’t sure what to call the crest of hardened…scales or hair each Drake had at the top of their heads.
“Oh no. He’s picking a fight with the adventurers! That idiot!”
Erin peered out the window just in time to see an adventurer being lifted off the ground as Relc propped up a guardsman and shoved him into the arms of one of his fellows. It looked like tempers had flared and a guardsman had been knocked down by an adventurer. Possibly it was the other way around, but Erin saw both parties were all-male, so she had a pretty good idea what was going to happen next.
Gazi joined Erin at the window as six of the adventurers squared up and surrounded Relc and the other two guardsmen. Relc glared at them and tightened his fists, but didn’t draw his spear. Gazi stared at him and smiled.
“Ah. A warrior among civilians. A rare sight in peaceful Izril.”
One of the adventurers took a swing at Relc, and he dodged. The Human attacking was nearly as big as the Drake, a muscle-bound giant who looked like the guy who bench-pressed three hundred pounds for fun at the gym.
Erin nudged Gazi in the side. Selys stopped agonizing over the fight long enough to stare at her, but Gazi only looked down. She was wearing armor anyways, so Erin was sure she wasn’t bothering her.
“Hey, you’re supposed to be strong, aren’t you?”
Gazi nodded. She kept her larger eye trained on Relc while two of the smaller ones flicked towards Erin.
“Some have called me so, yes.”
“Why don’t you help him? It’s six against one.”
Erin pointed to the adventurer. He was still missing Relc, but now, another one looked like he was about to sucker-punch the Drake. Relc’s eyes were narrowed, but he seemed to be focused on dodging for the moment.
Gazi smiled down at Erin. She shrugged and indicated the sword at her side. The listeners peered at her, and the half-Gazer’s eye swung around.
“I do not fight with my fists. If I draw my sword—people die. I would prefer not to.”
Again, that shiver, and Erin thought her boast wasn’t much of a boast—but a promise. Gazi nodded at Relc as the big Drake swayed back.
“Besides—he is not the one who needs help.”
Relc had just jumped nimbly back when the big adventurer’s friend moved forwards. He was another Human not nearly as big, but when he swung at Relc’s back he cut the air with his fist.
Still, he was far too slow. Even as his fist flew at Relc’s face, the Drake’s bent sideways and hit the adventurer back with an uppercut. Erin thought she actually saw the man’s feet leave the ground before he crumpled in a heap.
Relc spun around and backhanded the first adventurer, who was still swinging at him. The big guy flipped over and crashed to the ground. Two of his friends came to his aid, but Relc picked one of them up—armor and all—and threw him into the crowd.
Open-mouthed, Erin watched as Relc began thrashing the other adventurers. She looked at Selys. The female Drake was covering her eyes and groaning.
“He always does this. There’s going to be a huge mess because of this, and he’s probably hurt a lot of them badly enough for healing potions!”
“How—”
Erin blinked and pointed at Relc.
“I thought—he’s just a guardsman, right? How is Relc tossing those adventurer guys like flies?”
Gazi studied Relc thoughtfully.
“He is over Level 30 in the [Spearmaster] class. That would be enough. The highest level among the adventurers is Level 21—the one he has just knocked unconscious. A [Spearmaster] is not an equal to a mere [Warrior], regardless of levels.”
Selys nodded glumly. She tried to explain to Erin in a way the Human would understand.
“If we’re just talking about active members of the city guards—then he’s the strongest on the continent, by far. Perhaps the world.”
Erin blinked at her. Twice.
“The world. As in…all of it?”
Selys nodded.
“Most people of his level, well, they either become adventurers, personal bodyguards, or soldiers. Being a city guard doesn’t pay much, but Relc likes it. Probably because it’s so easy.”
Erin paused. She didn’t notice Gazi watching her with one of her eyes. The large one. It studied her with its yellow contents, yellow not white—a shadow-black pupil. But the iris shimmered, blue and green, violet and turquoise, a shifting pattern around the black center. It held Selys’ gaze and hypnotized her a moment, before flicking away.
“But Klbkch—”
Erin paused and forced herself to go on.
“He was a Senior Guardsman too, wasn’t he? So weren’t Relc and Klb the same level?”
Selys shook her head. She watched glumly as Relc threw an adventurer wearing plate mail into the side of the building and winced as the outside plaster cracked. Gazi’s head turned, and her eyes focused on Erin. All five of them.
“Klbkch was the fourth highest-level guardsman in the city. In terms of strength, though, he was probably second to Relc. He was the Slayer, but during the war—look, Erin, both had more levels in other classes, which is why they’re so tough, understand? But even Klbkch was ten levels behind Relc.”
“Which is a lot, I get it. But how’d Relc get so strong?”
“He was in the army. But he quit to become a guardsman. Thanks to him, we haven’t had to worry about monster attacks for a long while. I’m not sure why Relc quit, though. He was famous as a soldier too.”
Gazi shrugged. Her hand covered the pommel of her sword, and her eyes unfocused for an instant.
“Many have reasons to leave war. I, too, was a soldier once. As I am sure many know. But I left my position to become an adventurer. It is only worth being a soldier if one has a cause to fight for, a leader to follow, and a reason not to die.”
Both Erin and Selys looked up at her. Gazi smiled at them.
“It is hard to understand, I suppose. But I believe your friend Relc enjoys the quieter moments. Anyone can tire of war. Believe me.”
Then, suddenly, she looked sad, and Selys gave Gazi another look of awed ‘I know what this is about, and it’s so amazing’. Erin just glanced out the window.
“Even a street-fight against a dozen guys? Have you done that before?”
“Many times. That is quite restful compared to war.”
The fight was over. Relc planted his foot over a pile of adventurers and raised his fists into the air like a boxer. The cheer he got from the crowd only served to make him preen even more in the spotlight.
Gazi turned away from the window and nodded at Erin.
“Well, I have not lacked for entertainment since travelling to these lands. I will seek lodgings within the city, then. Good day to you, Erin Solstice. We shall meet again.”
Erin raised a skeptical eyebrow.
“Oh? You’re so sure?”
Gazi smiled at her without baring her teeth.
“I foresee it.”
The half-Gazer opened the door and strode out. It was so quick that all the tension she’d brought into the room left it in an instant. Selys breathed out hard as she returned to the counter, leaning on it and panting as if winded.
“I can’t believe that just happened.”
One of the adventurers flexed his hand and looked down at it.
“I shook her hand. And when she looked at me—it was like she knew my thoughts. The King of Destruction’s vassal. Here. No one’s going to believe I met her.”
“Amazing.”
One of the adventurers agreed. Others nodded their heads as they talked, all in a flurry.
“What an incredible experience.”
“We’re not dead. I mean—the King of Destruction’s asleep. But that was—do you think any of the other Seven are here? The Architect? The Lord of the Skies?”
“No, we’d have heard of it. One is bad enough. Two? I bet the Walled Cities would be escorting them everywhere with an army.”
“Unbelievable.”
“Eh.”
“Eh?”
Erin shrugged.
“I wasn’t too blown away by her. She’s got that ‘mysterious aura’ vibe going on, but it’s all because of her eye, right? I remember seeing this street magician—David Blaine. You ever see—?”
Too late, she remembered her audience. Selys was giving her an incredulous look along with the other adventurers.
“What?”
Selys shook her head slowly. At this point, she wasn’t even that annoyed, just impressed more than anything.
“You are an amazing Human, Erin. Or an oblivious one. Does nothing faze you?”
“Lots of things.”
Erin propped her hands on her hips.
“Why are you all so impressed to see her anyways? She said she was a wanderer.”
“Yeah, but to see her so far from her home continent—I suppose she really is done with war.”
The other adventurers agreed. They began talking all at once, arguing, debating in a noisy, confused mess.
“I wonder what she’s doing away from…? I mean, Chandrar’s still her continent.”
“I hear she goes through continents looking for challenges. But to come this far—is it because of the new ruins?”
“Perhaps, but how’d she get word of them so soon? Unless—do you think she was heading to the north already? Terandria, overland? Maybe join in a war as a [Mercenary]?”
“Doubtful. Adventurers don’t like wars, even the former soldiers. It’d take something truly great to get her to go back to being a soldier. And hey—where’d the Human go?”
Everyone looked around. The Human, conspicuous because she was a Human, was missing. Selys stared towards the door. It swung closed.
“Erin!”
 
——
 
Erin heard Selys call her name, but at that point, she was out the door and had no intention of going back in. She appreciated gossip and learning new things as much as anyone, but this wasn’t the time. She was hungry, tired, and sore. And the last thing she wanted to do was have people ask her more questions and stare at her like…like…
Like a Human.
They were all over the place. Well, not all over, and in fact, there were very few Humans in actuality—perhaps one Human for every four hundred nonhumans, so the odds of seeing any were remote. But to Erin, seeing one Human was enough to make her stop in her tracks.
Two men, a tough-looking adventurer guy in his mid-twenties and a paunchier, richer-dressed merchant, were sitting at an outdoor tavern of some kind, talking to each other. Erin wasn’t sure whether to call it a restaurant. She hesitated and then wandered over, unable to keep away.
“Uh, hi there.”
The adventurer and the [Merchant] looked up. They seemed annoyed to be interrupted, but their expressions cleared as they saw Erin. The man who’d been loading up his wagon smiled genially.
“Oh—hello! Can we help you, miss?”
“I’m sorry to interrupt. It’s just—I haven’t seen any Humans in a while.”
The [Merchant] raised his eyebrows.
“It’s a surprise to see anyone but an adventurer or a fellow [Trader] in Liscor. You’re a native here?”
“Something like that. I thought I was the only Human around here, but suddenly…here you all are.”
“Ah, well, I’m headed past here, south. On business—Merchant Goeln, a pleasure. Goeln’s Caravans. But I had to see these new ruins before I went off.”
The adventurer stood up and held out his hands.
“Cervial Dermondy, adventurer. Captain of the Flawless Flights, a Silver-rank team. I’m a [Ranger] by trade, scouting out these new ruins that were just discovered. Pleased to meet you, Miss…?”
“Erin Solstice, um, [Innkeeper]. Mind…mind if I sit?”
“Oh, of course.”
The merchant moved his chair, and the adventurer pulled one close so Erin could sit down. Before she knew it, the merchant had ordered her a drink and they were talking. At first, Erin was surprised, but she fell into the conversation easily. It was just like talking to someone back from her world.
It was so normal Erin could have wept.
Cervial and Goeln had been talking about their grievances with travelling so far to get to Liscor. It seemed everything from wagons breaking down to people getting lost had plagued their caravan, and they’d also found almost all of the inns in the city crowded to the rafters, much to their displeasure.
“It’s nice to know that there are some Humans living around here. I’ve been dealing with stubborn Gnolls and haughty Drakes all day.”
