Ranthia seasoned her soup as her whims directed, enjoying its aroma. She’d set several items from her bag into the snow outside of her shelter—close enough that she could lean over and grab them—to help keep the produce fresh. She added a few leaves of spinach to the soup once it was ready (no point in letting the greens turn to mush), then tied the bundle closed again and leaned over to set it in the snow.

She was so hungry. There was zero chance she was going to wait for her food to cool before she began to—

Vlip.

Ranthia had never heard anything quite like the sound. Sure, snowscapes were infamous for generating some unusual noises, but the wind had died down to almost nothing. Ranthia peered about, only to finally spot movement that was far closer than she would have ever expected.

[Rabbit – Spatial] level 81.

The tag was as incongruous as the presence of the animal was. Ranthia never truly relaxed her guard, yet a rabbit had managed to get within arm’s reach?! It was oversized, oddly proportioned—as though it was still immature, despite being larger than any rabbit she’d ever seen—and its fur was a brown tone that was wholly unsuited to the snow.

Animal and Adventurer froze as they assessed one another. Then the rabbit snatched the bundle of spinach as it braced its legs—and vanished.

Vlip.

A level 81 Spatial user that could actually teleport was almost as weird as a caster monster rabbit. Of course, the limitations were stark. The rabbit had only travelled about as far as it could have moved in a single hop.

Bemused, Ranthia sent an image in front of the rabbit. It immediately crouched as though it planned to jump, and—

Vlip.

It vanished again, but Ranthia had such an advantage in stats that she had a new image placed in front of it before the rabbit seemed to be able to parse its surroundings. To its credit, the rabbit tried to crouch again, though no strange sound came.

Instead, the bunny faceplanted into the snow—clearly surprised that it’d run out of mana.

Ranthia reached it before the rabbit could recover. She snatched the creature by the scruff of its neck and held it up to her eye level—at a safe distance, she wasn’t stupid—and eyed it warily. The rabbit gave a few performative kicks that failed to connect with anything, but it finally seemed to accept its fate and just dangled in her grip.

Ranthia started to form a knife… but she finally just sighed and returned the adamantium sand to its bracer form.

The rabbit had gained five levels just from that brief, desperate attempt to abscond with a little food.

“You’re just trying to survive, aren’t you? Besides, I already made dinner, so consider yourself lucky.” Ranthia tried to keep her tone soothing as she sat back down.

She leaned around the fire and set the rabbit down on the far side, scattering several leaves from the bundle of spinach around the animal before it could react.

“I won’t hurt you, but you should probably stay near the fire. Your fur coat’s way too thin for this kind of weather.” Ranthia offered, while the rabbit tried to figure out how to react to the new situation it was in.

She focused on eating her own soup. The spinach had turned into mush in the brief time she’d dealt with the thief, but the food was hot and flavorful—which made it wonderful.

The rabbit started to hop away, then returned to eat the spinach she’d left it. It even let her give it several more leaves, though it wouldn’t take any from her hand—she had to set them down first. She had no doubt that it’d leave at some point though, especially once she finished her soup and settled in to get a little sleep while she could.

Ranthia was surprised to see the rabbit was still there when she woke up to tend to the fire. It immediately hopped out of the shelter when she started to move and grab more wood, but it stayed just outside. And a similar set of events happened every time she woke up throughout the night.

The next morning, Ranthia woke up alone. And that was for the best, she really didn’t want to wrestle with her own sense of ethics about if the rabbit could still be food after she fed and sheltered it. Instead, she broke down her camp and cleaned the cook pot as best she could with snow. And with her—slightly frozen—traveller’s cloak back around her body, Ranthia grabbed a travel biscuit and some sausage from her bag.

…And finally noticed the rabbit in the snow, just behind a fallen tree branch.

Ranthia swallowed the laugh that nearly passed her lips and just wryly set out the last of her spinach for the rabbit. She could have sworn that it was eyeing her sausage covetously, but the rabbit emerged and began to eat the leafy greens while Ranthia walked away.

The morning was hazy, but she could see enough of the sun through the thick clouds to guide her way to the north (also, she could see the mountains again, but it never hurt to verify things more than one way). It was still cold, but the going was infinitely easier than it’d been with the snowstorm.

Still, Ranthia wasn’t moving as fast as she could—she was all too aware of the rabbit hopping along in her wake, even if it tried to dive for cover any time she turned toward it.

She’d acquired a tagalong, of sorts.

Elencor’s estimation of four to five days was probably overly optimistic.

Ranthia had no idea how far off course she’d veered, but she never found the parallel road that he’d spoken of. The mountain peaks even looked different, not that Ranthia wasted the inordinate time [Chest of Experience] would have required just to compare. She just kept moving to the north.

Travelling through the snow was harder and slower than she would have preferred. The cold slush wasn’t too treacherous, not with [Rhythmic Grace]’s assistance. But each movement required quite a bit of effort, and her body heat was leeched with every step. Her winter lining kept her own sweat from freezing her skin to her armor, but the sandals designed for Remus’ climate were little better than going barefoot through the snow.

Sure, she could have danced across the top of the snow if she moved at speed, but for whatever idiotic reason, she felt obligated to keep her pace to one the wild animal could follow. She even tried to point out places that [Divine Eyes in the Void] warned her were dangerously deep—as if the rabbit understood anything she said to it.

Unfortunately, Ranthia knew that she’d feel guilty if the rabbit died because of her. It plainly wasn’t built for the terrain—the creature was probably fifty percent leg by volume, and it was struggling to get through the snow, even following in her wake. She took to sliding her legs through the snow, rather than trying to step over it, to ease the rabbit’s passage.

Which was absurd. When she’d fallen asleep that first night, she was half-planning to make the rabbit into her breakfast, yet there she was, trying to keep something she’d eaten hundreds of safe. By night, the rabbit was visibly nervous, yet it stayed near the only sources of warmth and food that it had. The creature wanted nothing more than to survive and…

…Godsdamnit, the rabbit reminded her of herself. Or at least the girl she’d woken up as, after Xaoc gave her a second chance. Like her younger self had chosen Tatius and Pupius, the rabbit had latched onto the best—only—hope it had.

Each day, it followed her a bit more closely. Each night, it moved a bit closer to her for warmth.

But as Ranthia neared the mountains, two unexpected worries were blooming in her troubled mind. The lack of a road or path was the first problem—if she couldn’t find one, she’d have to climb a mountain. And she somehow doubted that Elencor had been joking when he explained just how foolhardy it would be to do that.

The second problem was food. She had plenty, but she hadn’t exactly expected to need victuals for a rabbit when she gave the caravan a list of things she wanted in lieu of her final payment. She’d never really looked into what rabbits ate, but grass seemed logical, given their usual environments. Unfortunately, she hadn’t seen any form of grass that was even remotely salvageable ever since the snowstorm. What little she found beneath the snow was soggy and brown, and the rabbit hopped right past it without even giving it a moment’s consideration.

Presumably giving a wild rabbit dried meat or soup was a poor idea, but she was running out of leafy greens that the bunny seemed to be interested in! She still had a couple of apples, but she had no idea if they were safe. Could she truly just rely on the rabbit to know what it could eat? …Given the thing’s transparent fascination with sausage, she suspected the answer to be no.

Haunted by her fretful thoughts, Ranthia continued her journey. The City of Arts was closer than any other source of civilization, and she had no idea where the caravan was even going—trying to catch up to it was probably futile.

The second problem came to fruition before the first. By the end of the fifth day, Ranthia still hadn’t reached the base of the mountain she was approaching, and she’d doled out the last of her bunny-approved produce. Even her own provisions were looking dicey. Each day of travel through the snow was hard work that left her hungry, but she probably needed to reduce her intake. If she ended up trapped by another intense snowstorm…

Ranthia eyed the travel biscuit, topped with cheese she’d melted over the fire, with some regret.

But with dinner sorted, she was out of food she was confident that she could feed to her tagalong. She wasn’t about to indulge its interest in sausage and even giving it travel biscuits felt like a terrible idea. But the rabbit wasn’t even level 100—there was no way it could survive without food for very long.

“I really shouldn’t have let you follow me to the north, little one.” Ranthia whispered apologetically.

The rabbit had taken to remaining within arm’s reach—it’d even snuggled up to her leg last night when it thought she was asleep, though it moved away at the slightest hint of movement. She was even mostly convinced that the rabbit had grown a little bigger during their time together.

It was a child that would grow into a downright massive bunny—or at least it would have, had it not had the misfortune of ending up in such a hostile environment. Had it not had the misfortune of meeting her.

Once she was confident that the night’s fire was in good condition for a while, Ranthia curled up and cocooned herself in her traveller’s cloak. She had nearly drifted off to sleep when she sensed movement.

The rabbit cautiously crept over and ultimately cuddled up near her belly.

Ranthia’s guilt surged, but a smile still overwhelmed her face. Glacially and gently, she carefully lifted the edge of her cloak and partially covered the bunny to help keep it just a bit warmer.

The snow had picked up again overnight. The wind still wasn’t too bad, but by the time Ranthia was done packing her camp, the snow was over her knees—it was twice as deep as it’d been the day before. She’d set up camp atop a boulder just because the fire made the rock nicely warm, and it had helped to keep them safe as the snow piled—

The rabbit, blissfully unaware of the risk, hopped next to her and collapsed gracelessly into the loosely packed snow. There, it began to panic and kick, which only made it sink deeper into the fluffy hazard.

Ranthia carefully extricated the rabbit from its snowhole, then carried it back to their former campsite. With the bunny safely set down, Ranthia began to rearrange her backpack.

“You know by now that I won’t hurt you, right? This is too deep for you to follow me, and this way we can move faster. I can’t keep at your pace; we might both die out here.” Ranthia begged an animal, as if that was a rational thing to do.

One of the rabbit’s erect ears twitched, as it watched her with its cute, beady eyes.

Gods and goddesses, how was she ever going to make it understand?

“Here goes nothing.” She grumbled to herself, before she put her backpack back on and reached for the rabbit.

It, unsurprisingly, hopped away from her hand.

“Come on, just trust me…” Ranthia pleaded, but the rabbit continually avoided her hand.

Ranthia’s impatience bested her before the animal decided to go against its nature—she used the tyranny of stats to seize the bunny and gently set it into her backpack before it had time to make sense of what was happening.

“There, see, you’re safe. You’re secure. And it’s got to be warmer in there than it would be at the bottom of the snow. I won’t even close the bag, so there’s no reason to get scared.” Ranthia promised.

The rabbit seemed to be staying put for the moment, so Ranthia started to move. She built speed gradually, until she stopped sinking into the abominable snow. She didn’t dare to dance while she had a passenger on her back, but she had enough speed to—

Splat.

She felt the shift in weight, and the impact and resulting thrashing were unmissable.

The panicking bunny managed to bite one of her fingers—though it failed to breach her vitality-reinforced skin—before she managed to pull it out of its self-induced snowhole. Ranthia fought down the urge to curse and carefully returned the thrashing bunny to her backpack.

“I’m trying to help you!” She wasn’t sure if she was complaining or pleading.

Vlip.

Splat.

Ranthia buried her face in her hands while the bunny created a new snowhole, a hand’s breadth away from its first. She was sinking into the snow too, as she stayed put.

