The less said about the process of convincing the rabbit to stay in the backpack, the better. There might have been a few tears, and Ranthia’s abused hand was still throbbing from the onslaught of bites and kicks that she’d endured.

But the rabbit was in the backpack, and she was progressing across the mountain. Either it had come to accept that the backpack was safe, or it had exhausted itself—and frankly, Ranthia was struggling to care which explanation was the truth. It was already well after noon (probably, the cloud-cover was too thick for even [Divine Eyes in the Void] to catch a glimpse of the sun), and Ranthia kept her gaze fixed on the closest mountain.

Ranthia had lost track of more than time, it seemed. When the sun set—unnoticed thanks to the cloud cover—it took Ranthia’s sight with it. She hadn’t even found a viable campsite, let alone fodder for a rabbit, and she hadn’t consciously realized it was the moonless night because she’d assumed she’d be past the mountains before she had to worry about it!

Ranthia shared a litany of choice strings of profanity with her little slice of snow-muffled Pallos. They weren’t directed at White Dove though, no, of course not. It would have been stupid to do that. It wasn’t like it was the bloody divine-created bird’s fault that she felt compelled to curse Ranthia with a stupid, dangerous curse that was definitely going to get her killed sooner or later—quite possibly that very night! These sorts of things just happened.

Okay, yes, she was mostly just mad at herself for losing track of the moons’ incredibly consistent cycle. She knew better!

With willful effort, Ranthia pried [Divine Eyes in the Void] back “open” for a moment while she looked around. There was no sign of a viable place to shelter, and after hesitating for a moment, Ranthia chose to press on. She’d spent the bulk of her life not being able to see on the moonless nights, and she’d yet to see any sign of predators emerging from whatever den or hidey hole they’d retreated to when the snow began. So long as she was careful and took peeks to confirm that she hadn’t drifted astray from her destination, she was fine.

Probably.

The lack of shelter was just the final straw though—she was more worried about finding something the poor rabbit could eat. She’d ignored the intermittent sounds of the rabbit chewing on something inside her backpack—there was nothing edible in there, but she could worry about whatever had been damaged later. For the moment, she was willing to let the rabbit do whatever it felt it needed to do to endure its hunger. She could always replace things in the City of Arts.

The return of Ranthia’s sight heralded the arrival of dawn, not that the terrain was affected. The clouds were just as thick as ever.

Ranthia was a touch battered and bruised from her overnight journey (rocks and tree branches were not her friends), but at least she had almost reached the mountain itself. Which meant she’d somehow passed or missed the promised road. Unfortunately, the snow made it hard to say which was the case.

The rabbit was still asleep in her backpack, and the morning marked a full day without food for the poor animal. She had no idea how often rabbits had to eat, but as a high-energy prey creature, Ranthia suspected that going without sustenance was a major problem. Vitality could only do so much, and it wasn’t like she could ask the rabbit what Skills it possessed.

With her sight restored, Ranthia put [Divine Eyes in the Void] to work trying to find anything that might be safe for the rabbit to eat. Through the [Divine Eye] the world swirled wildly, but Ranthia had to rely on [Submind] and [Adamantium Will] to keep herself from growing nauseous.

She had no intention of eating until she found food for her rabbit.

Thank you! Ranthia sent a frantic prayer to her amused and uninvolved patron deity, as she scrambled across the snow.

It was probably close to sundown, but [Divine Eyes in the Void] had finally found some greenery! Safely sheltered between a few trees and some sort of thorny bush that Ranthia plowed heedlessly through was a small field of clover that had endured the cold.

Ranthia gingerly removed her backpack and lowered it to the ground. The rabbit seemed lethargic and Ranthia’s heart ached when it didn’t immediately respond to the sight of food. Was it already too late?!

And then the rabbit yawned lazily—before it immediately launched out of the backpack and tore hungrily into the clover.

Ranthia found herself laughing with relief as she leaned against the tree. Her tagalong was okay!

“Looks like you really like those.” Ranthia wryly commented a couple of minutes later, while she busied herself with shaking the rabbit droppings out of her spare armor lining. Once that was done, she opened her woven bag and pulled out some slightly squashed food for herself. A small bit of sausage, a little cheese, and half a travel biscuit were all she permitted herself to take. The bag had gotten a bit abused during her time spent blind—and her deference to her backpack—but that was fine.

The bunny continued to gorge itself, even after she finished her own carefully rationed meal.

“I think I’ll call you Clover.” Ranthia whispered, careful not to bother her rabbit.

There was no space for a fire, though she didn’t plan to stay there for too long anyway. Still, even with the cold, she felt warm enough to rest until Clover was finally done eating. She had no idea what the future would bring, but for the moment everything was okay. …At least so long as she ignored the problem that loomed above her—a peak she had been warned against climbing.
