Chapter 492

Aster panted as she finally let out the breath she was holding as Matt passed by the closet she was hiding in. That earned her a glare from Allie, who was cramped inside with her, but she felt that was unfair given the teleporter's normal level of theatrics.

Allie gave her no chance to argue. “I’m usually the one to avoid my problems until they become large enough that they become other people's problems too, but this is getting ridiculous. You need to talk to him.”

Aster so very desperately wanted to speak the truth, but she knew that was a terrible idea. Some things could never be unsaid, and the fact that her bond with Matt screamed that he wasn’t himself any time she got close to him and that she needed to help him, was one of them.

Using what little space they had in the closet, Allie kneed Aster as hard as she could, causing them both to wobble slightly when Aster didn’t reply. “Okay, be silent if you want to, fine! But now it's becoming my problem, so you have to deal with it.”

Aster had no easy off the cuff reply. She knew Allie was right, but looking at a familiar face while every single part of her screamed that something was deeply terribly wrong with Matt was too much. Avoidance was a whole lot easier.

Matt would be fine when the armor was finished and they’d never need to speak about this again.

She just needed to make it a decade. Maybe two.

Thinking about all of the million and one other things she needed to do today, Aster glared at Allie. “Alright, get us out of here.”

“Are you going to stop hiding from Matt?”

When Aster couldn’t respond, Allie smirked as she wiggled as if settling in for a long wait.

Sighing, Aster tried her best once more. “What about our trip? I still want to talk to Balfa and Siska. They are the only two twins I’ve been able to identify that have spirit space Talents, and I want to pick their brains about them while we are so close. These are the perfect first people to talk to.”

“You need to talk to Matt.”

Gripping at her hair, trying to bottle up the roiling emotions she was already struggling to contain, Aster glared at Allie, letting a hint shine through. “Drop it.”

Allie flinched backwards hard enough to crack the wall. Rubbing at her head, she pouted silently but Aster had no sympathy to give.

Instead, Aster kicked at the spatial barrier Allie had created when she hid them in the closet. One precise blow was all it took to unravel their hiding space and eject them at the same time.

Allie didn’t push any further, and Aster sagged in relief when her connection to Matt dimmed to nothingness as they teleported out of the star system. They hadn’t gone far, three jumps by planetary count, but that was enough to let her pretend everything was normal.

The screaming was only a dull echo.

Thankfully, their goal for the visit was interesting enough to distract her.

Balfa and Siska were two of the people she’d identified when they returned to settled space who ‘publicly’ had spiritual space Talents. It was rare for twins to have shared Talents, though such things had been known to happen. Being in the Corporations, the pair had used them more publicly than most. That meant their early obfuscation had enough holes that she was able to piece together the truth of their Talents.

Checking the time and seeing they were early, Aster sighed after seeing Allie’s quiet stare, knowing she couldn’t avoid the conversation any longer.

“What do you want me to do? Tell Matt, who let me remind you, can’t even comprehend his own name, that he feels like a half dead alien? Is that what I’m supposed to do? Give him even more to worry about? Tell him to cancel the armor? To not grow stronger? Even if I could ask that of him, I wouldn’t because I’d never say no in his place, and if he did agree I’d hate myself. Therefore, there is nothing I can do!”

Realizing she was panting, Aster took a moment to compose herself and to regain control of her body.

Opening an eye, she saw that Allie hadn’t immediately responded, instead just looking as sad as Aster felt. “Keeping it bottled up isn’t doing you any good either. And I think Matt would understand.” Shaking her head, but not in their usually jovial manner, Allie shot her a withering look. “And don’t give me any push back. Matt wouldn’t want you to deal with that alone even if you don’t tell him. Stop bottling it up. Talk to me or Liz or anyone else. You are like a leaky pressure cooker right now and you need to do something.”

Aster wanted to say that complaining was all that she could do, but didn’t. Like the argument itself, it was pointless. The past couldn’t be undone, and the only way through was by staying true.

True to what, Aster didn’t know.

Bumping into Allie, Aster didn’t verbally apologize but the atmosphere was clearer between them by the time they flew down to Balfa and Siska’s home. Being rich Tier 36’s in their own right, they lived on the Tier 21 world rather than in space around it. That put them firmly in the Corporation's upper crust, socially speaking, as few ever settled planetside with the enormous costs involved. The close distance to the capital system at least explained their residency, given the Tier disparity.

Finding the well secluded villa half built into the mountain it hung off, Aster had to admit that having such a low planetary population had its benefits. The planet around them didn’t just feel natural, it was nature. There were only three other residences within a ten mile circle, letting things feel wild.

A growing part of her was seriously tempted to transform, go for a sprint around the forest, and maybe find a rabbit or two to nibble on, but she gave the idea up after a moment of consideration. That would leave Allie bored and they were already here for Aster Talent research.

She’d only raised her hand to knock on the front door when it opened of its own volition and a masculine voice called out, “Come on through. We are in the back.”

Shrugging at Allie, the two of them walked through the tastefully decorated house, seeing pictures of both Balfa and Siska scattered throughout. Sometimes they were alone, but more often than not, they were together.

Aster wanted to get sentimental about that, but ruthlessly crushed that thought before it could lead her to danger.

Their unguided tour came to a quick end as they reached the secluded valley the house had hidden.

Balfa and Siska were near identical twins drinking tea on their back porch, but their Talents interested her more than their appearances. Starting as Tier 1 pocket spaces according to their autobiographies, they’d been shipping moguls before their sudden retirement three thousand years ago, and Aster was fairly confident their Talents related to spirit spaces. There were too many inconsistencies and oddities that lined up to her Talent for it to be mere coincidences.

Or so she hoped.

After the introductions and niceties were gotten out of the way, Aster tried to bring the conversation around to spirit spaces, but every time one of the twins deflected or skirted around the topic. Seeing she was getting nowhere, she couldn’t help but flex her spirit space, chilling the air around her. Not wanting to be destructive as well as rude, she controlled it so it didn’t spread and damage their garden, but she wanted to make it very clear she wasn’t speaking out of her tail.

“What do you guys know about spirit spaces? Are you willing to talk? I can pay if that's the hold up, but I can also go away if you don’t. Our earlier correspondence indicated you were willing to talk, but if that’s changed I can leave. This place is lovely, but I don’t have the time or patience to be led around by the nose for hours.”

Siska shook his head sighing, “Chosen Wraith, we do—”

However, before he could continue, Balfa waved him down. “Speaking too openly about one’s Talents is a hard to change habit, forgive us our reluctance. However, to answer your question, I don’t know. Spirit spaces, as you call them, aren’t a strictly recognized category of Talents. In fact, there are thousands of types of Talent given pocket spaces, each with their own oddities. Why look so hard into something that is personal, when your particular case might just be specific to your own Talent?”

Aster used a trick Cynthia had taught her to channel her inner reactions into what she needed in the moment rather than her true feelings.

Nodding along as if she agreed with everything, rather than acknowledging what they said, she smiled. “Because I don’t think things are so simple. I used to believe the same thing as you, but recent events have indicated that might not be true. I’m willing to share if you are, but not before.”

The two brothers shared a look before Siska levered to his feet, where he moved to a free area farther from the house.

“Much of our hesitation comes from our own lack of understanding. We’ve looked into our Talents, but like we said, very little is actually known about what distinguishes a spirit space versus a Talent given pocket space. As best we can figure, a spirit space is unique because they seem to advance and grow regardless of the Tier they are gotten. We got ours at Tier 1 and they were only a few feet across, but they slowly grew larger all on their own, even when we didn’t advance.”

The tidbit about how their spirit spaces grew being so vastly different than her mana pool locked growth, nearly caused her to interrupt, but she held herself back and was glad she did. The moment Siska finished, Aster felt a blueish black spiritual space wash over him and into the yard around them. Through any of her training, Aster would have had no problems in resisting the overlapping of space, but she also felt something unique.

Something new.

Her spirit space resisted it too. Like an angry dog barking at a fence, it begged to be let off its leash so it could clash with the other spirit space. It wasn’t actually alive, there was no will behind the desire, instead she felt like it was closer to a puzzle snapping into place.

Spirit spaces were meant to interlock and… clash.

Aster didn’t have a better word for it. It wasn’t a life and death duel. It wasn’t even inherently hostile any more than two apex predators vying for territory.

Instead of following that instinct, she inspected the world Siska overlaid, trying to savor the flavors he was projecting. The dimensional rules of the spirit space felt both restrictive and malleable at the same time, in a way she knew Matt would love to play around in. It wasn’t just gravity, but size, direction, dimension and about every other way to describe the immaterial she could think of.

Allie, having more experience inside spirit spaces, noticed an oddity first. “You can’t have living things inside your spirit space, can you?”

Balfa laughed at his brother's sour expression, seeming to take great pleasure in his begrudging agreement. “I only do living things. Siska only does inanimate goods. We each have our own strengths when it comes to our spirit spaces.”

Walking a few steps to the side, Siska picked up what looked like a toy portable fortress, inspecting it before tossing it back into the darkness. Reaching back into his spirit space in a different spot, he withdrew a tiny space ship before tossing it back.

Balfa grew tired of the show before Aster did and called out, “Just pick something!” As if considering his words, he quickly clarified, “Something small.”

Those two final words halted the withdrawing hand and resulted in Siska continuing the search for a full minute, to Balfa’s quiet grumbling.

Finally, he withdrew a small thumb sized cube and tossed it to the ground a few feet away from their table. As he withdrew his spiritual space and the world returned to normal, the box grew from a toy into a waist-high shipping container.

A spatially expanded shipping container.

That surprised her, and a quick look to Allie showed she felt the same way.

Aster had believed her ability to store spatial items was because her spirit space was from a Tier 25 Talent, but now she reconsidered that. Was it a general ability of spirit spaces?

Balfa’s following words returned her confusion, while he had a reminiscing look on his face. “Impressve right? He was able to store spatially expanded items even at Tier 1. Our first travels only broke even because we were able to smuggle an extra backpack worth of goods through the ship's scanners. I, on the other hand, couldn’t store spatial items until I could hold the entire additional space, like normal extra spatial items.”

Siska walked back over shaking his head as he added, “Not like you can put too many items inside at all. Where I can only carry material goods, he can only carry things that are living, or were once so.”

Following his brother's words, Balfa released his spirit space without getting up.

His spirit space felt alive. It… sensing the area around them, Aster understood where that extra hint of wildness had truly come from. It may have been made possible because of how sparsely populated the world was, but the majority of that wildness came from interactions with Balfa’s spirit space.

His spirit space was life in its rawest form. Not healing, rather feral life that would kill and be killed. Except, as she tasted it more, she changed her mind. It wasn’t that wild. Indiscriminate if generic ‘life’ infused everything inside the space.

As the space spread, the non-wooden furniture vanished, excluded from the spirit space.

