Looking at her spatial rings that now weren’t visible, Aster felt how Balfa’s spirit space rejected the immaterialness of the rings. It may have been made by natural metals, but it was not, and had never been, alive. That inherent conflict effectively banished it from the spirit space.

Aster was confident she could break through the restriction with her own training, but another part of her told her that she had a much easier answer. Throw her spirit space against his and meet his reality with her own.

The feeling was new and combative, but she liked it.

Smiling, she continued to observe, wanting to luxuriate in the feeling, but before she had her fill, Balfa retracted his spirit space.

Grinning, Siska handed both her and Allie a pot of freshly made tea he’d plucked out of Balfa’s spirit space as he said, “Many former bonds and those others who grow up non-sapient often feel a connection to his spirit space. Have some tea. His spirit space keeps foods perfectly preserved when inside. It's not a true time stoppage like high Tier rings can have, but rather a property of the space itself. It keeps things fresh… somehow.”

Aster nodded but couldn’t help but ask her own question, “Do your spirit spaces want to clash with each other?”

Balfa and Siska both shook their heads in unison, but Siska was the one to speak. “No, but that's more likely because our spirit spaces were interacting with each other from day one. We do know what you are talking about though. We’ve encountered someone else with a spirit space and a clash seemed inevitable. Given that she was a Tier 25 mercenary while we were Tier 10’s, we preferred to go our separate ways rather than talk as we are now.”

The put-upon look he shot Aster almost made her feel guilty, but they had agreed to meet in exchange for a small favor. She hadn’t pushed, and so the puppy dog eyes were ineffective on her. Besides, he wasn't that good at them.

She could do ten times better on a bad day.

After getting the mercenary in question's name, Zonta Lou, and filing it away for later, she asked, “Have you ever experienced anything unusual with strange realm rewards?”

“We’ve never left settled space, Chosen. How could we encounter a strange realm?”

Unable to argue with that, Aster explained the purpose of her visit. “Well, I have. And while we were out there, I encountered a strange realm related to space. When we all got a reward, the strange realm tried to give an additional reward to my spirit space. It didn’t work, because Talent, but do you know what that means? What that implies? Strange realms don’t interact with Talents, that means it has to be possible to have a spirit space without one.”

The brothers shared a long look before Balfa asked her, “That would be very interesting, but what does it matter to us? The three of us would be excluded from that group by definition.”

“An increase in the power or utility of your Talent? I’d reckon that’s a large enough reason why, but if you need another, I think you were right earlier. Spirit spaces can grow and change, though it's hard. Before the strange realm, I hadn’t thought about it deeper than that, but now? I think we’ve all been given seeds of something and we are all content with tiny saplings, when we could be growing them into great trees. I’m not asking or suggesting anyone share deep secrets, but I’m hoping to get as many people with confirmed spirit spaces together and talking. Maybe, just maybe, we can see if we can learn. I don’t know what we will find, if we find anything at all, but ideas rarely form in a vacuum. As for our main, or at least first goal, should we find easy success… I want to understand the framework of what a spirit space is. Ideally, both the Talented and the non Talented, but I’ll settle on understanding ourselves first.”

Siska’s look to Balfa turned into a questioning head tilt that was returned with more confusion. After excusing themselves, the two returned inside and sealed themselves off while discussing her offer.

Aster didn’t mind and took the opportunity to speak with Allie. “Think they bought my pitch?”

Allie waggled her hand back and forth. “Hard maybe. Siska’s for it but Balfa is far more reticent.”

Her words proved prophetic when the brothers came out a moment later.

“We aren’t entirely sure we agree with your conclusion. Siska thinks there is merit to the logic, but I’m not sure I buy it. Yes, our spirit spaces can grow physically, but that isn’t that unique with Talent-given spaces.”

Aster had an answer, though she wouldn’t have before arriving. “What about the clash?”

Balfa opened his mouth to say something, but closed it with a sigh.

Seeing a chance, she pressed slightly. “Let's pop into a rift and have a little interaction with our spirit spaces. You said you didn’t last time because of the Tier difference, but now you are the ones with the advantage. How can you pass this chance up? Aren’t you a little hopeful I’m not wrong?”

“I’m not sure our small Tier gap is enough to beat a Chosen. We aren’t combatants.”

Rocking in her seat a little, Aster urged him. “We aren’t fighting, so that's perfect. We are just trying to feel what our Talents want us to do. Let's at least listen to them.”

That finally won him over and they flew to a nearby rift.

It was guarded by a Tier 20 who looked frightened to have two Ascenders and two Tier 36’s visiting him out of nowhere, but he handled it well between furtive glances at her and Allie. When he heard they were simply there to do a little testing in the rift, he was downright accommodating.

There was another team scheduled to take the next instance, but she solved that by paying the price of three full delves with the promise they weren't going to intentionally kill the monsters. Combined with the mana she was going to leave in the rift, the rift would be near-full when they left, making the delay a boon for the bumped team.

Once inside, Aster wanted to be polite and offered, “Do you want to test my spirit space first? Get a taste for it?”

Allie groaned as she withdrew a special cold weather onesie she’d gotten made after leaving with frostbite on an exposed bit of flesh one to many times. Her actions earned strange looks from the brothers, which earned them warnings to do the same.

Contrary to Aster's expectations, they followed Allie’s advice unlike most people, grabbing a set of exquisite cold weather gear out of Siska’s spirit space.

Once everyone was ready, Aster spread her own spirit space, letting the cold creep outwards.

Allie immediately rushed over to the evergreen planted at the center of the space and gave it two quick pats before teleporting out of Aster’s influence.

The twins weren’t so skilled, and shivered as they took in her vast landscape of winter.

It looked pretty good if she said so herself.

Out of the dozens of plants she’d bought in the various auctions, only a few had succeeded in growing in her spirit space. Those that did were mostly pseudo-Natural Treasures, with none of the normal herbs surviving. Though some of the Natural Treasures proper did end up surviving, like the icicle Natural Treasure that had taken over a snowdrift.

Things were looking far more lively, with non magical plants starting to be edged out by the new addition, though she kept the lone Ice Rose hidden behind an illusion. One of her oldest Natural Treasures, Winter’s Embrace with its energy absorbing vines had taken to the spirit space physically.

Using the spiritual connection and instinct, she’d been able to plant the Natural Treasure, letting it take root and grow. And it had certainly grown. While not large enough to cover the entire spirit space in vines, the rose’s hidden tendrils had crept under the snow for miles in every direction.

With guests she kept them dormant and quiet, which proved to be a good thing. Balfa and Siska took their time investigating and sensing her spirit space, not seeming to mind the cold, before they signaled that they were ready to withdraw it.

Once she did, they retreated in different directions, creating a triangle.

Balfa spoke as he started moving, “I’ll wait this one out.”

Siska seemed eager and unleashed his dark spirit space without needing to be prompted.

Following suit, Aster imposed her space onto reality, changing the open fields rift into a winter forest. Across from her, the lively forest descended into darkness, but in the middle where their spirit spaces touched they seemed to clash like hot oil and water. Both of their spirit spaces tried to expand into the other, but it was like pushing into a similar magnetic field. The deeper she pushed, the harder it was to make further progress until she was repelled and flung back.

The same seemed to hold for Siska. Anywhere he pushed resistance increased, but it was in those clashes that she realized his spirit space seemed deeper. It wasn’t solely based on Tier, though she was sure that was helping him, his spirit space simply felt more solid than hers. Where she struggled to make a foot of progress, he was able to push in two or so feet before he really started to strain and struggle.

Aster also swore she felt a skill being cast using the spirit space itself, allowing the skill unheard of range. She hadn’t yet identified the skill, but it was contributing to his space's solidity. She thought it might be some variation of [Stabilize Space], but the flavor felt wrong.

Feeling no issue in satiating her less invasive curiosity, she asked, “Do you know how you increased the depth of your spirit space?”

Balfa was the one to answer, though he did so by adding his own spirit space into the mix instead of words. Facing the two of them, she would have struggled, but they didn’t press their advantages. Instead the three of them kept that equilibrium, carefully sensing each other’s spaces without making too many waves and interfering.

However, when she didn’t understand, Siska spelled it out for her. “Chosen or not, we’ve had our spirit spaces for a lot longer than you, no matter what metric you measure by. We’ve grown with them on every step of our journey. When we awakened, I would have said my spirit space was about compression or maybe shrinkage, and while I don’t necessarily think that's wrong, I do think that was only a starting point. Your sapling analogy struck a chord with me because it's close to what we did. By pushing our spirit spaces to do new things, we added what you call depth. Though we typically call it flavor, because we don’t like the implication that some additions are better than others. Maybe some are, but that's how we start bickering. It's better to avoid some issues between siblings.”

Aster shot Allie a look, but her friend refused to give her a hair of leeway, mouthing ‘bullshit’ where only Aster could see her hiding in Balfa’s shadow.

Sharing some of her own insights, Aster told them about her attempts to grow plants inside and how few successes she had relative to the failures.

Balfa even had an interesting observation. “If spirit spaces aren’t inherently Talent derived, then maybe they are typically spun up from a singular idea. Chosen Wraith, your spirit space is related to cold or maybe winter. When I feel your spirit space it's like it’s alive, but it's not. I’m not sure how to describe it. There is life, but it's all cold and draining. It's not a place for my life, but it's still life. I—”

Cutting himself off, he shook his head, but Aster urged him to continue. “Please don’t hold back if you are worried about offending me or something. These are exactly the type of talks I want to have by getting similar people together.”

Acquiescing, he gestured vaguely off to the side where her tree had been. “There is life that I can interact with, but it's more like an exception than the rule. Or that’s the feeling I get. My intuition tells me that if I worked really hard, I might be able to expand what I consider life so I’m not so at odds with your type of life, but I'd be going far out of my way, so to speak, if I wanted to encapsulate your definitions of life in my spirit space. I’m not sure if that’s true, or how I’d even start going about such an expansion, which was why I wasn’t going to mention it. If I had to guess, getting more plants to grow would be similar, but much harder than trying to get my spirit space to preserve food without it rotting. I found a single thread that was close to what I wanted, preservation, and used that single thread to slowly weave a tapestry. You have things growing, propagate them while continuously trying other plants new and old alike. As you expand, you might find ways to incorporate them.”

Siska added his own insight, giving her more to think about. “I did the same with expansion and layering of space. However, as much as I hate to admit it, our Talents might be bad representatives of what a non-Talent spirit space might be. Speaking frankly, our entire Talent sets revolve around the spirit spaces. Talent crafters are often the worst teachers for good reason, and I can guarantee we aren’t the exceptions to that rule.”

Aster actually agreed, but she verbally denied the claim, not wanting to let them wheedle out of the club she was trying to make. She knew that tactic all too well, having used it herself more than a few times, and wouldn’t let them pull that move over on her.

They were joining her… club.

She really disliked the word club, but she didn’t have a better idea in mind as she enchanted contact information.

