He glanced over his shoulder. Bast was going up against someone he didn’t recognize, but he definitely wasn’t going up against Laurent or Anabel. Having sensed almost every student’s aura during his stint selling potato chips, he knew Laurent was legitimately one of the strongest students, and Anabel, likewise, was powerful in her own right, maybe stronger than Laurent, maybe weaker. Since Bast was fighting neither of them, his second guess was more likely to be correct, that this was a way of measuring the unknown students’ strength, rather than that the bracket wasn’t putting high seeds against low seeds.

The boy in green cleared his throat. Rhys checked the board one last time to learn his name, then stepped onto the stone platform opposite the boy. He bowed.

“Rhys Foundling. Well met.”

Rather than return his bow, the boy harrumphed and tossed his hair. “Archem Lostses. Let’s make this quick. I belong in the top of the bracket, not down here with the trash.”

“I am trash, but it sure is funny to hear someone called ‘arch them lost it’ talk down to me. I’ve at least got a name for a name, not a random nonsense phrase,” Rhys pointed out. “What did you lose, by the way? I can help you find it. I know all about where to find lost trash.”

Trash Talk 5 > 6

Archem’s face flushed. His hand darted to his sword, gripping it so tight his knuckles went white. “You’ll regret those words.”

“Really? A level? That wasn’t even some of my better work,” Rhys muttered to himself. Kid must’ve been sensitive about his name. Well, fair enough; it was a doozy of a name. Still, if he was too weak to take it, he should know better than to dish it. Rhys had been perfectly civil with him until good ol’ arch-‘em-footballs-put-some-spin-on-it-kiddo had decided to get mouthy.

“A level? You got a level… how? What?” Archem stared at him in confusion, utterly lost.

Rhys chuckled. “If that’s too much for you, then I’ve got bad news, buddy. You belong right down here in the trash with me.”

With a shiver, the sword slid from Archem’s sheath. He pointed it at Rhys, his hand shaking. “Take that back.”

“Don’t think I will.”

In the distance, a bored-looking official glanced at a sundial, then drew back her hands. Balling them up together hammer-fist style, she slammed them into a giant bell. It rang out, and Archem leapt, swinging his blade over his head at Rhys’s crown with a savage shout.

Guess that’s the starting gun. Rhys grinned and stepped forward, lifting his hand toward Archem’s bared blade. If arch ‘em cowboys was this easy to antagonize, this was going to be a fun fight.
