Thrysalid. Loamwright. Forgeclaw.

Iron and salt. Star and Stone.

Makers of miracles.

The boreds of the dock creaked beneath the tread of eight, pronged limbs—each step clacking flatly against the river’s smooth surface. Wind cut across the cavern, warmer than Harker expected, carrying with it the smell of greenery and the damp must of waterlogged stone. His new keeper carried him across thirty feet of wooden dock, up to a wall of cut granite interspersed with strips of some sort of russet, ochre, and quartz. The result was a complicated pattern that Harker found difficult to view, even through his Talent.

“Welcome, human, to my home.”

The crustacean’s voice was a basso rumble against Harker’s side, ricocheting sharply from within their carapace. Before Harker could say anything, the stone shifted, capturing his attention entirely.

A door formed within an expanding crevice. Round and at least ten feet in diameter, it opened at a touch from the creature’s claw. Pieces tumbled against one another, pivoting around greased bearings and odd, jagged bits of metal—things Harker could make little sense of—and it was all silent.

They passed through, the clack of limbs quieter now. The floor was made of seamless stone, as if a single massive block formed the foundation of the house. Perhaps it did, as the walls rose up in smooth, almost organic arcs toward a distant ceiling, and Harker could not perceive joins or cracks anywhere. Moss clung to those walls, thick as curtains, and even the rafters could not escape their grasp. Small firebugs flitted between them, their abdomens lighting intermittently as they flocked between moss and fungus—the same mushrooms that had impersonated the stars earlier. They lit up the house like clusters of bright candles, filling the vast stone chamber with a warm glow.

Cabinets filled every vertical surface, some of them subsumed by the moss, but all of them made of polished wood and brass hardware that gleamed in the fungal light. A series of low, cushioned platforms dotted one end of the large space, while the other was filled with pots, knives, and all the evidence of a kitchen. Dominating the space, however, was a massive fireplace that had been carved to resemble the snarling visage of a wolf.

No. A forge.

An open pit filled with charcoal and various brass implements sat below the open maw. Above, the interior and upper mouth was stained black with soot.

Strangest of all, the sound of the river had not abated. For good reason; the waters lapped against the stone floor only a few strides away from the forge. A series of steps descended into the waters, dipping low enough to submerge and pass beyond the outer wall of the home.

Ironwine turned, and Harker found himself deposited into a wide, enameled basin. He slumped against it, unable to hold himself upright, until a pair of small hands adjusted him against the sloping back and a small ledge—a seat, built into the basin.

The creature said nothing as it turned away, quickly busying itself in the cabinets near the kitchen. Harker tried to say something, anything, but his voice would not come. He tried to reach out, but his limbs wouldn’t so much as twitch.

Sovereign Sight still ran strong through him, a bloom of awareness that marveled Harker to no end—but he was relegated to a silent observer.

Clattering, empty pots stole his frustrated attention. Across the chamber, Ironwine pulled free a massive, ancient copper cauldron from a lower cabinet. Wider than Harker was tall, it was a big belly of a pot. Its tarnished surface was beaten into bright facets, and the entire lower half was covered in a colony of pale blue barnacles. Ironwine handled it with ease, carrying it to the river before submerging himself to the chest. Water bubbled around him, sucked into the cauldron’s void in great gulps before he emerged, river and muck streaming off his dark carapace.

The copper cauldron was filled with a thick, black sludge. Mud, silt, and unnamable organic matter from the soft banks of the river. Ironwine lifted it onto the bed of coals before one of their legs depressed a copper step at the base. A deep clunking was followed by a guttering rore and fire kindled amid the coals.

They’re…cooking…?

Ingredients emerged from the cabinets, pulled by their smaller, more nimble arms. Salt-encrusted shells that glittered in the fungal light. Silver scales the size of dinner plates. A handful of long, flexible branches mottled with leaden spots. The last was a pair of soft masses scraped out of a spiked shell—they clung to the creature’s fingers, but the Thrysalid scraped them off and dropped them into the pot.

Thrysalid. Right.

Stillwater had called the creature by that name. Harker was familiar with it, though the meaning skittered away from him like a smooth stone on ice. Ordering his thoughts was getting harder with every passing second.

Forgeclaws. An old memory flickered against the backs of his eyes. Loamwrights. The makers of the Eidhrin.

His mother had told him many stories of those ancient, dangerous people. Unlike the Mosskin, Tidelings, or Whisperfolk, the Thrysalids were powerful crafters. Heroes would Bargain their souls away for a weapon or armor forged in the poisoned blood of a Loamwright, and always the artifacts would be more than worth it. At least, until their Bargain came due, and the artifacts turned on them.

Carapace of iron, claws immune to flame, and eyes that saw all the turnings of your soul. His mother’s voice echoed through him, soft and gentle as sleep beckoned him to bed. They are the kindest of the Eidhrin. But never confuse that with nice. Poisoned blood has little room for a human’s civilities.

A splash of warmth ran down his back. Blood…?

Dripping from his wounds, it dribbled across his torso to pool at his hips and legs. The metallic tang of it was sharp, a vibrant crimson against the smooth stretch of white enamel.

He is dying.

The Thrysalid’s words cut through his warm memories, and Harker turned his attention inward. It took several tries as his Talent fought against his control, but soon enough his skin gave way to his burgeoning awareness. His body was a mess of broken bones and open wounds, many of which were inflamed already. His internals were far worse. Blood-filled muscle fibers, a racing heartbeat, and veins that wouldn’t quite fill up properly. Just as bad, his tributaries were full of Water, no matter that his Talent was pouring out of him at a steady clip. It roiled beneath it all, a torrent that put pressure on all the rest, like a weight atop already broken bone.

Six torn ligaments. Four broken bones and three hairline fractures. Low blood pressure. Erratic heartrate. Irritated skin. Inflammation. A litany of ailments rattled through his mind, sharp and insistent. Herbane brew for rash. Sixteen different mixtures for inflammation. Dovetail root for the heart…

Buried beneath his words was a growing horror. The feeling was distant. Muted, as if it were happening to someone else.

I’m in shock. The separation of his thoughts all but confirmed it. There were treatments for such things, cures that he carried in his supplies, even. If he could reach his pack, he could even snag—My pack!

Harker remembered it falling off the cliff. His awareness speared outward and stopped. Cool relief slid across his chest. The pack was set next to the basin, its torn sides and splitting seams propped up on a round pedestal. If he could get to it, he could get his reagents, his cauldron, even the vial of Last Grace.

No matter how he strained, however, Harker couldn’t move.

Someone screamed.

High pitched and endless, it poured from the forge. The contents of the copper pot were boiling now, and the barnacles along the bottom had turned a brilliant cherry red and gouted steady clouds of steam. Ironwine snagged the pot with a claw, hefting it without apparent effort, and the screaming stopped.

They scuttled closer. “Human. I know you can hear me.”

Harker’s attention was fraying, but he could track the approach of the Thrysalid. They loomed over the basin, steaming pot held to the side.

“I cannot be sure what you have witnessed, so allow me to be clear. Stillwater’s debt to you is now mine, as is his duty to save your life.” Ironwine held up the pot. “I have prepared a medicinal bath to air your recovery. Do I have your permission to aid you?”

Harker tried to speak, but he could no more lift the river itself.

Black eyes peered at him, and two fuzzy antennae leaned closer, as if listening.

Yes, he thought. You have my permission.

Ironwine gave a nod, those dark eyes never flinching from Harker’s face. “Very well.”

…He heard me?

Something plunked into the pot. Harker almost missed it, but it added a heavy cloud of steam into the already foggy air. This, however, was cold enough to drive a chill through Harker’s exposed limbs.

“Heart of ice,” Ironwine said by way of explanation. “You humans are more fragile to extreme temperatures, yes?”

The Thrysalid added another blue-white chunk into the pot, then, with exacting care, they set the copper lip against the basin and tipped it. A thick, blue-black mud poured out and onto Harker’s legs.

It was hot. Unbearably so, yet Harker could no more shift his legs than he could scream. The mixture kept coming, gallons of it streaming into the basin. It coated his legs, rising up his hips, and each wound it touched was sparked into a conflagration. Literal flames sizzled against the sludge, though they were soon smothered by the rising tide.

Obscenities rattled through Harker’s head, each new gallon adding fresh agonies that he struggled to cast away. Pain was an old friend, but this was beyond pain. It seared his skin, bypassing clothing like knives through paper. Ironwine didn’t stop. They kept pouring until the concoction reached the bottom of Harker’s chin.

“There is corruption in your blood.” Antennae twitched around Harker’s face. “The mudbath will draw out its ill humours. Endure.”

Unable to escape—to even clench his teeth—Harker had no other choice.

The deep sludge bubbled, still hot enough to be near boiling despite whatever the “heart of ice” had been. Unable to stand it any longer, Harker did the only thing he could—he pulled inward. Sovereign Sight folded into himself, huddling away from the harsh basin…only to witness the cocoction soak through his skin and muscles. Already it had penetrated through his wounds, but now it filled him stem to stern, until he could feel his bones. They burned, heated iron rods stuck through his flesh, and the broken ends blazed all the hotter.

His heart hammered harder than before, and his blood rushed, swift but thin. The sludge filled his veins, stretching them to bursting as liquid fire poured across limb and chest in equal measure. Small bursts detonated, each time squeezing his muscles into clenching spasms. For all the pain, however, the sudden bloodflow drove some of the fog from his mind.

Corruption, they said…It’s a blood infection. The symptoms all lined up. Harker pressed his awareness deeper, beyond bones and blood vessels to the organs that coiled within. Damaged. So many of them.

His kidneys were punctured and his small intestine was lacerated. It only got worse as he looked further. Clearly the fall had injured him far worse than a few broken bones. The blood infection was only the start…soon, his organs would fail.

Except, his heart was slowing. His blood pressure was rising too, boosted by the presence of the mudbath. The detonations that wracked his body were getting more frequent, but they weren’t hurting him—instead, he felt a vague sense that something was departing.

Harker focused, fighting the brain fog. He couldn’t see the infection really, it was far too small, but there was an undeniable sensation of…foulness. It had spread through his abdomen, down his legs, and stretched up his throat. A dark corruption that despoiled all it touched—and one that, with every burst of the concoction, was reduced. Each pulse sent his blood racing through him like a second heartbeat, and with it came a cleansing wave.

Through agony and boiling skin, the infection was on the retreat. Until a wash of untenable heat scoured from neck to knee, and it was eradicated entirely. He was–-

Around him, the mudbath writhed. Bubbles coiled along his limbs, skewering his open wounds like fingers made of molten metal. Unconscious or not, his body wrenched open his mouth, and a scream shook the rafters.

Everywhere within him, all the places that the mudbath touched, buckled in sudden, debilitating cramps. Organs, nearly stitched closed, opened once more. His blood thundered, stronger than before, and his heart rattled off a beat louder than any scream. It roreed inside of him, a tide that could not be stopped or denied.

Flesh rebelled.

The mudbath…!

Since the very start, it was too much for him. Now, it’s first foe defeated, the medicine turned on the host. Flesh broke down, bits of skin peeling from Harker’s arm as the rest of him convulsed. His head tilted, barely above the surface.

This—!

Clarity swept through him, driving an icy wedge through his burning spine. Like the Last Grace, this wasn’t meant for him. It was Thrysalid medicine.

He’d been poisoned.

Again.