Chapter 477

After a decade of campaigning Matt, Liz, Aster, Allie, Zack, the contingent of dukes, various CEO’s, guild leaders, and lower ranking nobles slowly but surely climbed up the palace's stairs in sync with sunrise. They were following customs older than the Empire itself, but that didn’t make them any less important. With not one, but two teams of Ascenders leading the procession they could have broken the tradition, but opening themselves up to unnecessary critiques so late would have been foolish.

Letting his spiritual perception sweep the surroundings as he and the other Ascenders reached the top of the steps and halted, he found representatives of every news station with an Imperial pass at the edge of the palace grounds, but he didn’t indicate he noticed them at all. In a rare show of unity, both them and their opposition had wanted to keep the press out of the proceedings, which meant that was as far as they could approach.

Instead of thinking about the media, he watched as everyone in their party stopped on their respective station’s step as the star completed its slow ascent. The moment it fully crested the local horizon, they continued forward, even as the palace doors opened upon their approach.

Having been to the palace on numerous official and unofficial trips, Matt was more than familiar with its layout, not that he needed it. One of the staff members was already there to escort them to the throne room and prevent ‘stragglers’ from ‘getting lost’ and going somewhere they weren't supposed to.

Trying to probe ahead only gave him a slight feedback thanks to the numerous wards layered on the palace, but he’d expected that and didn’t try to push deeper. Deeper than the wards, the palace’s very spatial layers were twisted and folded in on themselves as both a means of expanding their limited area, as well as a way to make intrusion harder. Anyone who tried to forcefully go somewhere they weren't wanted would find a headache to be the least of their concerns.

What Matt hadn’t expected was to be led to the main hall. The Emperor hadn’t returned yet and as such they shouldn’t have been using it, but when he saw who was waiting for them he understood.

Carissa sat on her own slightly smaller throne, the perfect image of poise and elegance, silently waiting for them to arrive.

When they did, they collectively bowed until she commanded, “Rise!”

Her voice hadn’t been raised, but the careful construction of the room meant the sound was perfectly carried to every corner even without a magical effect.

Standing, Matt straightened his robes as Carissa met his eyes before continuing to go through the expected formalities.

When it was finally his turn to speak, Matt didn’t mince words. “We come before her Imperial majesty to address a grievance, but we do not come before the throne empty handed. We come with both answers and an agreement. Behind me are forty percent of the aura related businesses, and they have already agreed to our proposal. What we present to the throne today is what we believe is the Empire's best solution to permanently solve the aura crisis. We ask for an Imperial decree codifying this into law. If we can not secure the decree, we initiate an official Imperial Petition."

Seeing Carissa twitch at his final comment, Matt let himself smile even as she shook her head.

“As per his Majesty's decree before he left, none of the Royals may interfere unless this matter impacts the long term viability of the Empire. Anything else must be handled by the lower Tiers. Do you wish to change your mind and retract your Petition? If you can’t come to an agreement about the Petition internally, I cannot force one."

Instead of taking her words at face value, Matt declined immediately, knowing anything else would waste all of their efforts, “No. We wish to proceed with the Petition as is. We’d love to handle things without Imperial interference but as it stands, we cannot get in contact with the rest of the aura representatives through our own power. That is why we seek support from the throne."

Carissa twitched at the wording of his request but didn’t comment on it. “Who here disagrees with Ascender Titan’s call for support and does not wish to back it?” When no one answered, she tapped the air twice before sitting down. “The summons have been sent.”

Officially, anyone contacted by the summons had an hour to arrive, but the longest took just over a minute. They’d made their opposition and the entire Empire aware of the chosen date over a year ago, and anyone who still chose to linger deliberately wasn’t challenging them but the Imperial Palace itself.

Arriving last but still within an acceptable time, Mackenzie Harrington walked in step with Killian and the New Horizon’s representative, Andrea Yka. For all her strengths and faults as a businesswoman and aperologist, Mackenzie was the highest Tier and therefore the natural leader of the three, despite being the smallest business.

They’d expected and planned around that but they’d hoped to be wrong.

Mackenzie, a noble in her own right, was the best and worst opponent they could encounter. Their main advantage was that they’d prepared for her to lead, but they also had wanted either Kilian or New Horizon to pitch a fit at being placed under the smallest business of the three and weaken the core trio.

They weren’t so lucky and the three were a unified front as they went through the various formalities and counter arguments.

When they were through, Carissa waved to them.

Matt originally thought it was a simple permission to continue but a cone of opaque light surrounded her and Manny’s throne, which was when he realized she didn’t want to listen to them argue back and forth for possibly hours.

He didn’t blame her.

The moment they had the room to themselves, or as much as was possible with the palace's various higher Tiers roaming around, he wished he could copy her.

The respectful silence ended as everyone started to talk over each other.

Various smaller companies leaders from either side of the fence started trying to convince their rivals or friends who’d chosen the other side, or commenting about those who had switched sides last minute.

Allie shot him a glare as she had half a dozen people using the opportunity where she couldn’t leave to talk about topics unrelated to aura potions. To her credit she didn’t leave, putting on her best smile and making small talk politely. However what no one except Matt could see was her constant stream of ‘+1’ messages increasing how many unique pastries he owed her.

Aster, on the other hand, rolled up her sleeves and brawled with anyone who tried to argue about the morality of their proposed change. She hadn’t been there for the majority of their planning or work, but no one would be able to tell with how expertly she worked people out of their defensive stances and eventually into changing sides.

He appreciated her trying so hard for his sake, even when he knew she’d rather be in her lab with Zack working on her ‘Space Ice’. They had reached a point where they’d figured out the base mana types they thought might make a stable mana type, but from there it came down to repetition. They might succeed in their next test or in the thousandth.

As Aster so wisely put it, “Matt’s paying for it, so better to just go ahead and test all thousand possibilities.”

Not that he minded paying for the testing, but seeing her work so hard mollified the petty part of him that had been paying her with the smallest mana stones he could make.

Looking at the other Ascender being swamped, Matt saw Zack surrounded by the Talented aperologists who wanted to entice him into working with them. When he made it clear he had no interest in working with Matt on rifts, let alone with them, they started asking him various mana related questions, trying to get an advantage over their competitors.

Zack might not be sending Matt messages but he made a note to do something nice for the mage.

Not that Matt got an opportunity to chat with anyone, as he and Liz beelined for the three people they hadn’t been able to reach since their campaign started.

Proffering a hand, he smiled as if they weren't the three biggest obstacles to finishing. “Mackenzie, Killian, Andrea, good day to you all. Have you had time to look over our proposal? Any initial thoughts you care to share?”

Andrea smiled as she took his hand, not showing even a trace of distaste towards what he was doing, which he thought was a positive sign until she replied. “I have, and I do have to say, it's one of the more egregious examples of Ascender overreach I’ve seen in my lifetime. We are here to stop you from ruini…”

The Tier 40’s words continued until she finally paused waiting for a rebuttal from Matt. Instead of responding he took the opportunity and physically turned himself from her and onto the next.

Killian, on the other hand, carried himself with an easy confidence that recordings showed hadn’t been there before his fortune turned around. True or false, he was at least outwardly polite to Matt.

“Ascender Titan, a pleasure to see you in the flesh.” Leaning in and grinning, but having to look up slightly due to their height difference, he continued with a false whisper, “I don’t mind too many of your measures, but don’t tell the others I told you that.”

Laughing as if he’d told the funniest joke, Killian slapped his own thigh as he put on his show.

Matt spent a moment considering how much of the performance was an act, but ultimately decided he didn’t care all that much. If Killian was willing to work with him then they theoretically didn’t need the other two.

Unable to be rude to the smiling face, Matt gave a smaller and more realistic smile, “That's wonderful to hear. I knew someone who climbed their way up from the bottom would understand why our stance is what it is.”

While technically true in the details, Killian had never suffered a day in his life. He was the first and only child of two Tier 14’s who had simply wanted to have a child when it was easier before immortality. While referencing that in front of everyone might have risked alienating the other man Killian only laughed and agreed preferring to keep his persona intact rather than make a scene.

Instead Matt looked at the largest opposition where she stood. It was almost funny how even in the crowds a small gap remained clear around her where no one was willing to get close by accident thanks to her Tier.

Seeing his and Liz’s gaze on her, Mackenzie bowed marginally as required of her as a peer, “Ascender Titan, Ascender Legion. How… nice to see you two.”

Having reached out personally, Liz shot right back, “If only we had been able to get in contact sooner. Pity, but I think this works too, don't you?”

Matt was mildly surprised when instead of shooting back, Mackenzie lowered her head slightly but Killian stepped forward, pulling his attention back to the side.

“Ascender Titan, as I said earlier I’m not against a number of your proposals but some simply go too far. Is there any way we can talk about some of the numbers? If we can tweak a few things, myself and the companies that look to me for guidance would feel much more comfortable.”

Knowing he was probably wasting his time, Matt gestured, allowing Killian to launch his spiel.

Matt was mid conversation with Killian, slowly getting the man to come around to the advantages of their new system when Mackenzie stepped beside him.

“May I have a private word when you have a moment, Ascender Titan?”

Seeing that Liz was talking with Andrea and feeling like they might finally be making progress, he could only agree. Anything else would be foolish, given that she'd taken the opportunity to publicly ask him to talk and declining would be an insult after how many times he’d attempted to contact her.

As he turned back to Killian, the man waved their prior conversation off with a jovial smile, “Don’t mind me, we can resume our talks when you return.”

Matt and Mackenzie moved to one of the private alcoves that lined the throne room while the alchemist walked away to join Liz and Andrea. They’d barely sat down when Mackenzie activated the privacy barrier and proceeded to check it over herself. Only when she was confident they were alone and only Carissa or one of the other Royals could penetrate their barrier did she speak.

“I want to make a deal.”

Hearing her words, Matt resisted the urge to sigh and roll his eyes. He’d made it very clear in the last decade of campaigning that they wouldn’t carve out company specific caveats. It had been one of the major sticking points in the last few years as they slowly chipped away at their opposition. Matt and Sciath had convinced the other nobles that caving on that point would be worse than letting things remain as is, as such they’d remained a unified front and he had no interest in changing that now.

However her next words halted his train of thought. “I want amnesty.”

Seeing she wasn’t going to continue, Matt hooked a thumb over his shoulder. “Then I think you need to talk to a Royal. Or possibly your own conscience if it still exists.”

Mackenzie looked like she wanted to spit fire at his snark but after a moment she sighed as the heat left her. “If you agree to my amnesty, I’m willing to agree to your current proposal and break the current deadlock. I can probably get Killian to agree as well and make it a political coup, but I want your word.”

Mind racing a million miles a minute, he asked what he considered the most important question, “What for? I’m not going to agree to a blank check for anything, let alone amnesty.”

