Instead of responding immediately or even looking into the future, Emmanuel just silently looked at Matt as if trying to figure out if the news he wanted to share was a good or bad thing solely based on his expression. When he saw it was a good thing, he then struggled to make the decision whether he should accept or tell Matt to come back later.

After several seconds of silent staring, Emmanuel sighed and walked down his dais with heavy steps that echoed through the throne room with his displeasure.

When they arrived in front of his office and found miniature clones of all of the Royals already waiting, the Emperor sighed once again, this time glaring at Matt as if he’d personally caused all of his frustrations.

Which was incredibly unfair. Matt hadn’t even told him the projected price for his theoretical best growth item yet and he was already mad. Having had five hundred years of time to think, plan, and iterate, he’d reached for the stars.

Sitting behind his desk while everyone else found a spot to stand, Manny didn’t hesitate, “What?”

Opening his shirt, Matt pulled the still sparkling gem out of his chest, but before he could say anything, Manny spoke with a strained voice.

“Is that what I think it is?”

His breathing sounded labored but Matt shrugged while grinning right back at the Tier 50.

“Are you thinking this is a strange realm reward that can turn any item into a growth item, captured and preserved for the last few hundred years? If so, good guess because yes that’s exactly what this is. What gave it away?”

Instead of being pleased, Emmanuel looked like he wanted to throw up even as the Royals, Ascenders, and Carissa enjoyed his discomfort. Sighing for the dozenth time since he’d arrived, Manny started massaging his temples.

After a dozen deep and hopefully calming breaths, he asked, “Would I be incorrect in assuming that you already have a plan on how best to use this item?”

“I do!”

His exuberance caused a flinch as he sent Manny his top fifty designs.

Seeing the man's eyes go wide, Matt tried to start speaking but was slower than the Tier 50.

“Please tell me this is a joke? A set of paladin power armor? Oh look, it's a set of sub-dermal power armor, why didn’t I think of that from the outset. And it has the very common effect of stabilizing and expanding your spirit so you can cast spells of any mana amount. And, and, is it also a top notch defensive layer? Is this all? Nope! A third requirement that would allow the armor to link with other normal armor and your sword. Oh you just want it to act as a power conduit from your spirit to the outside world? How novel and easy to make… Cheap too, I’m sure.”

Peeking through a gap in his fingers, Emmanuel sighed as Matt nodded readily. To help mollify the man who’d need to pay for it all, he made a liquid mana gem and tossed it to him, forcing the Emperor to sit up.

“Capturing the reward allowed me to invent a new type of mana storage too. The working name is liquid mana gem, but I don’t love it.”

Looking at his royals, who were thoroughly enjoying themselves, then to the other Ascenders who each showed off their new growth items, Manny said the words Matt had been waiting five hundred years to hear.

Sitting up slightly Manny spoke in his normal voice, “Okay, honestly this is clever but we are going to need to go to JR to finalize anything because as impressive as this design is, you are severely underestimating the abilities of a Tier 50 who is solely focused on crafting.” Before anyone else could say anything, he met Matt’s eyes with a hard gaze. “You realize this type of item would require JR to be read in on your Talent? There is no way anyone can make such an item without working directly with your spirit. Are you okay with that?”

Having thought long and hard about exactly such a choice, as well as sought advice from everyone in this room, Matt nodded without hesitation, “From my understanding, you already intend to try and ally with the Corporation’s for the true war. If that’s the case, then we are just speeding things up a bit. I can’t be afraid to use my advantages. Maybe Madam Renaissance can make something ninety percent as good but —”

Emmanuel cut Matt off with a wave. “Renaissance can’t do a quarter of this to an acceptable standard, it’s JR or use one of your alternative ideas. Are you sure you are okay with this?”

Not letting himself hesitate and start second guessing decisions he’d long rationalized, Matt simply said, “Yes. I’m sure.”

Emmanuel put his face in his hands for a second time but it was clear he was thinking rather than stressing.

“Putting my own cards on the table, I intend to use this—” he gestured at the gem still floating over his desk without looking up, “to get JR to agree to a meeting and make your armor but I have no confidence in anything after that. I can probably pay him to keep his beak shut if he declines an alliance, but I have little tangible leverage over him. There is a risk we go to him, he refuses, and then turns around and spreads the word about your Talent. It would take a heartbeat. Once we do this, there is no going back. Are you sure, Matthew?”

Instead of speaking, Matt just met and held the Emperor's human colored eyes.

It wasn’t a question of the future, Matt knew as well as anyone else that Manny couldn’t see the future of the other Tier 50’s, but a question of trust.

While this circumstance hadn’t been what Matt intended, it was what they had. Unless he was willing to stall below the strange realm’s Tier, he needed to use his reward sooner than later.

It was a risk but one Matt had come to terms with it.

“Yes.”

Standing, Emmanuel brushed his hands. “Then fill up your mana pool and let's go. Soonest started, soonest finished, and I want this over with as fast as possible. I’m going to vomit.”
