“Nothing major. Nothing that would see more than a fine or two if they came in front of a judge.”

Hearing her specific wording, Matt tried to skip the games and flat out asked her, “What exactly are you talking about? Cut to the chase and use a noun or two, or no deal. But if you really did so little, I don’t see why I wouldn’t agree?” After a moment he added, “Please. I hate politics and talking in half measures.”

Mackenzie drummed her fingers on their table still undecided, “And I have amnesty?”

Knowing he couldn’t throttle her, he compromised as far as he was willing. “I’ll tentatively agree but if you were killing low Tiers or something I will consider our deal forfeit.”

Instead of looking worried, the Tier 45 rolled her eyes, “I’m no barbarian, simply a woman trying to carve out her own place in the world.”

His own eyes narrowing into slits, Matt had a feeling he knew what she was about to say but didn’t interrupt her, no matter how good a [Mana Beam] to the face would have felt.

“When you originally published the aura rift recipes I was… angry. Talented aperologist struggle, or struggled before that. Our Talents were rarely considered better than non-combat Talents, unless you had an exceptionally strong Talent like being able to directly manipulate the drop tables or monsters that spawn, but that's never been what my faction has been about. We’ve always been interested in the rifts themselves and learning about them. We want to do the thing our Talents let us do. You must realize the draw there?”

Shaking her head, Mackenzie refocused, “Before you brought so much attention to the field it was damn hard for any of us to find well paying work. It's a catch twenty two, as no one cared about special rifts beyond the highest Tiers and we were too poor to make rifts for no reason on our own, if we legally could at all. Not to be arrogant but there were few clients who were willing to pay for failed rifts at all before I came around, and I changed that standard by demanding it in all of my own and my peoples’ contracts once I became influential enough to make the change.”

Matt knew that while what she said was historically true, she’d been more than willing to turn around and ostracize Talented aperologist who weren't willing to join her faction once she rose to a position of power.

Seeing something on Matt’s face, she shook her head, “I’m not painting myself as a savior or anything so grandiose. I don’t think I’m a bad person, but I do admit I’m more greedy than most and want to protect what I see as mine. I’m no monster and I will defend myself against accusations of such. However, when you released the aura rift recipes, I believed you had killed my entire faction in a single move. As such, in my anger, I agreed to join a group dedicated to stopping you from ruining everything I cared about. So I want amnesty. In return, I’ll share everything I know but I won’t lie; one and all, we were careful to protect our real identities so I don’t know that much. Adding to that, when it became clear that instead of destroying the aperology field, you’d revitalized it, me and mine mostly fell out of the group as we simply had no time or desire to participate. The only thing I did was share information at the start and I can swear on that.”

Matt took a long and deep breath before asking, “And in return for your changing sides, I… forgive you?”

Mackenzie looked shocked, then laughed, “I won’t say no to your forgiveness but I want your word you won’t try to kill me when you reach my Tiers. I have my Aspect and can ascend at any moment, so if you don’t agree I can always leave before you reach Tier 40, but I’d much prefer to stay in this realm and learn more about my Talent. That has always been my primary goal and I see no reason to leave simply because of a past dispute.”

Matt wanted to say no, to make her pay for joining the Cabal, but he forced himself to think logically rather than emotionally.

After almost a full minute of contemplation he spoke, his voice icey, “I can tentatively agree, but let me make this very clear. So long as I learn you did one single thing more than what you said here and now, I’m not going to wait around to kill you myself. I’ll get Lila, Luna, Carissa, any of the Royals or even the Emperor himself to kill you immediately. No second chances to explain yourself, no keeping an eye on me and planning to escape before I’m strong enough to do it myself. If you did more, I suggest you ascend now. I have no sympathy for people whose first reaction to having their interests encroached on is to try and tear everything down.”

Shaking her head, the Tier 45 reached down and patted her seat without breaking eye contact. “I’m quite comfortable where I am.”

Matt couldn't know if Mackenzie was lying or telling the truth, but if she was being honest he thought he was okay with letting bygones be bygones.

Mostly.

“Then I’ll tentatively accept but my price won’t be cheap.” Seeing hope light up in her eyes he grinned to himself, “You want to stay around in this realm? This is my price, ten thousand rifts. Out of your own pocket.”

Mackenzie closed her eyes and her jaw worked before she slowly nodded as if it physically pained her. “If you send a list of the rifts you want created, I can agree to that.”

Waiting for her to open her eyes and look at him, Matt finally finished explaining, “Don’t think it will be quite that easy. I don’t want rifts. I want you to make ten thousand rifts for other people. My deal? Once a year, go to a new, preferably low Tier, world and solve a problem. I don’t care what it is, if you need to make one Tier 1 rift or a billion Tier 50 to fix the issue, it's the same thing to me. But let me be very very clear, I want you to solve real problems. Nor do I want you to knock out all ten thousand at once. One or two a year; but I also realize our work schedules don’t make for clean easy requirements. So long as you keep to the spirit of the deal, I’ll consider it fine if you owe and pay back a few years at once. If you agree to that deal, I won’t hold a grudge or try to murder you myself, or get you murdered by the people I know.”

Mackenzie didn’t quite seem to believe his payback method but he felt it was fitting for someone as selfish as her. Making her have to create not only the rifts for free but forcing her to use her hard earned skills without compensation of any kind would hurt her almost as much as killing her would feel good.

That made it feel like a fair exchange for her life and she could tell he was serious and didn’t try to argue.

“Deal.”

Shaking over the table, they both stood up, not wanting to remain so close to each other for any longer than necessary. Exiting with an agreement in hand, they instantly shattered the deadlock as the highest Tier player swapped sides.

At the same time the white protective veil around the thrones dropped.

However, instead of Carissa sitting in her throne, they were greeted by Emmanuel looming over them as he stood in front of their thrones.

The Tier 50’s presence was made unmistakable by his cultivation, as even the Capital’s reality started to show minor signs of instability as he crossed his arms.

Everyone bowed and held it as the Emperor surveyed them, his eyes starting to emit a soft golden light. It took almost a full minute, an eternity for the higher Tiers who no doubt hadn't lowered their perception unwilling to risk missing something, but Manny’s eyes dimmed, though his expression remained neutral and hinted at nothing.

Use of his Talent implied Manny had just returned but was far from a guarantee as Matt had heard him talk about faking it for theatrical effect more than once. Rather, most of his confidence in the Emperor's return status came from the ever so bloodshot and sunken eyes that spoke to even an immortal desperately needing a break. He recognized the look because he’d seen the same thing after their own return from the breach.

Matt flinched along with everyone else, even the carpet which twitched under them, as Emmanuel clapped once startling them all.

“I formally accept your Petition. You may now rise.”

Having said his peace, the Emperor smiled down at them all and it looked like an honest smile, but all Matt could see was how tired the Tier 50 looked.

Matt also wanted to show off a little and see if Manny had gotten anything potentially useful for his new growth item. With the other explorers estimated to return in less than a decade themselves, he’d collected any and every Natural Treasure he thought might be even remotely useful. He’d planned to do the same later when the higher Tier explorers like Lila returned, but as it turned out the Tier 50s had returned before the Tier 45s.

Not that Matt minded at all.

He had a gem in his chest and he… wanted it back in his chest, preferably as a completed growth item as soon as possible.

Realizing the Emperor might have teleported back via Allie’s Talent, Matt felt his stomach drop when he imagined JR still flying his way through chaotic space.

Could he get Manny to go get the bird? Was that even possible? Not via Allie’s Talent but surely the Emperor had some super niche but very practical Talent he could use to get the crafting raven back to settled space as quickly as possible.

Emmanuel must have noticed something as he shot Matt a brief but inquisitive look as his gaze went to Mackenzie and lingered on her.

“Bring the provided list of people to the palace in two weeks. Someone will inform you of the exact time.” His words caused Mackenzie’s hands to tremble as she worked really hard not to look at Matt, Liz, or Aster.

Not that he minded her fear, given what he’d just learned, but that didn’t seem to be Manny’s reason for singling her out.

“Your majesty? I—”

She tried to protest but Emmanuel shook his head, “I have no interest in interfering with the affairs of my nobles so long as lines aren’t crossed. I have a few higher Tier aperology tests I wish to conduct and while I can copy your Talent, I can’t copy your years of experience, both new and old. I can look elsewhere if you aren’t interested?”

Hearing that it was a business offer and not an execution seemed to take a weight off Mackenzie’s shoulders, but she didn’t lift her gaze from the Emperor's feet as she acquiesced. “His majesty's will is my command.”

Emmanuel watched for a few more moments with a flat expression, causing the atmosphere to turn cold, before he smiled at the other nobles, dissipating the gloom that had started to settle in.

“I’m glad you all came to an agreement, even when I wasn’t here to meddle. Additionally, I appreciate that taking a step back isn’t always easy and that it takes both trust and a strong stomach to risk such things. Everyone here can be proud to know they represent the rebirth of a new industry, the likes of which the Realm has rarely seen before and might not see again for some time. Separately and together, you will help keep the Empire ahead of its peers and rising faster with each and every day along with every new invention. To that end, and to ensure this new transition goes smoothly, the crown will be offering a tax credit to allow you to defer half of your imperial taxes so long as that money is being reinvested in the company. I won’t be overly restrictive and more detailed plans will follow in the coming weeks.”

After letting his praise and rewards sink in for a moment, Emmanuel dismissed them. “Now that this is settled to your own satisfaction, you all may go but not too far as I will be calling upon you one by one in the coming days as I settle back in. I’m quite happy and as such news of the new law will spread at the top of the hour from the palace, but you may share it yourself sooner if you choose too. Implementation will begin in…” Manny looked to the side but his eyes never changed color as he finished a moment later, “two months time.”

That wasn’t the timeline they’d originally developed but there wasn’t a hint of complaint as everyone else funneled out of the throne room.

Sighing, Emmanuel looked at Matt, “You wanted to talk to me?”

“You didn’t see it already?”

Instead of understanding, Emmanuel only looked more confused as he squinted at Matt. “Didn’t see what? I saw you wanted to talk to me about something, but I didn’t look too deeply a moment ago. I only went back a few weeks of the Capital’s history to make sure I hadn’t missed anything vital about this deal. I was more focused on what I walked in on if I’m being honest. I hadn’t expected this to be a problem so soon at all, but given the invention of aura enchanting it isn’t too surprising the timeline was moved up.”

Imagining going through an ecumenopolis worth of history in seconds staggered Matt, but also sent a burst of excitement running through him at the idea of being able to surprise the Emperor. He knew Manny could be lying, but having known the Tier 50 for so long, he doubted it.

“That said, let me reiterate how happy I am with how you guys chose to handle this situation. Same with the nobles, though I’ll let them know that in the next few days personally as I call them in to talk one on one. Honestly, after everything that’s happened, I was far more nervous about coming home and finding a mess or some large issue I need to fix immediately. So imagine my surprise when the largest problem is already being fixed by my nobles. I… What? Why are you guys looking at me like that?”

Turning to Carissa, the Emperor found zero support or answers, so Matt decided to push things along. “Maybe we can go to your office? Your most heavily warded office?”

