For their other abilities, they'd have registries of individuals with specific skill sets. If appropriate, the golems got certain people together to create synergies and enable specialization. By connecting skilled people at the correct times, these golems made the most of the people here. They then made those skills shine by creating the vision of whoever took them to task.

Blegh, I sounded like a salesman.

Anyway, they'd be economical and artistic powerhouses. Furthering that goal, I smoothed their lines out, making them less harsh looking. Once settled them into a shape, I thinned them further, making them sleeker and taller. I also made their legs end in points rather than feet; they'd move with gravity wells anyways.

Lastly, I made their heads like polished helmets, each faceless with a split halo floating over their heads. This gave them an avant-garde bearing, like beings too elegant to exist here. I hoped that would inspire the people who spoke with them and dissuade anyone that may try to use them. This project took another two days, but they hummed to life as the Keepers had.

I called them - the architects. They were online, and a go before one of them walked over, its steps precise.

"It is great to see you, creator. Your day goes well?"

I nodded.

"Eh, it's been pretty solid. How about you?"

"It is both the greatest and worst day of my existence."

I leaned back. It gave me a gentle bow.

"It is my only day."

I snapped my fingers.

"It's a joke. Ok, sorry, my golems don't do that often. You caught me off-guard."

The golem steepled its hands.

"Would you prefer we didn't enable humor?"

I brushed my hand.

"What? No. I'm just behind the curve. Anyways, you all will be reporting to Torix like the Keepers."

They peered at each other. A short conversation passed, and they turned to me.

"As you design, creator."

They hovered off before bolting across the sky toward's the underbelly of Mt. Verner. Before they got too far, I inspected one.

The Fourth Architect | Enabled Zone: Mt. Verner | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion | Level: 30,000 - This is a mighty golem created by the Harbinger of Cataclysm. It is designed to enable the prosperity of its citizens, and it does this in many ways.

It can create different kinds of matter in somewhat intricate patterns and forge artifacts of variable qualities. It can assist with designing structures, cities, plans, or anything else you desire. It can dismantle structures and debris, and it's even capable of creating high volumes of its own body as material, similar to its creator.

It does all this while showcasing a tremendous fascination and investment in its enabled zone, Mt. Verner. In time, it will know every building, person, and conflict in the region. It will fully support the city after some time has passed.

When put against an enemy, it is fully capable of defending itself, but it would rather use the opportunity to support guild members. It's a powerful and well-connected foe.

The golem owned the same absurd level that the other ones had. Peering around, I found a Keeper golem in the distance inspecting something underground. It turned to me, finding my gaze before bowing. I couldn't believe it noticed me so fast, but I saluted it before the golem returned to work.

It was good seeing them already doing their thing.

With the two builder types of golems made, I changed gears for the next golem type I wanted. These would be the golems of war. Beginning with a previous model, I would make a variation of the assault golems from L-7. Instead of being designed around ascendant mana, these would be a mix of that and quintessence.

The assault golems had acted in violent, difficult-to-predict ways, often fighting each other and breaking things. That wasn't a problem on L-7, but it would be devastating here. To temper those inclinations, I put a quintessence core within them. This quintessant mind focused on security, mainly from external forces.

This directed that violence outward and channeled it into something productive. In that way, these golems would act as another side of the Keeper golems. While the Keepers kept the citizens in check, these golems would keep outsiders from assaulting us. I ensured their psionic abilities and general combat were top-notch to make that happen.

They needed to look the part for intimidation purposes. Making that happen, I accentuated the spikes over them, giving them a menacing, dangerous feel. I gave them thin armor, including a helmet that could grin as my armor did. For the last piece, I included two swords. Each blade siphoned power from them, giving them an ascendant edge capable of slicing things apart via telekinesis.

These guys would patrol outside the city's perimeter, ensuring nothing deadly got close. At the same time, they'd relay scouting information that detailed movements from anything nearby. Staying in the city's frontline, these guys acted as the first defense against anything trying to kill us. I called them vanguards.

Clicking online, they vibrated the air nearby with a mixture of manas. One eye glowed white and the other red. A thin aura of their mana oozed from them like maroon lightning and white waves. The four stayed still after coming to life, choosing not to move.

I walked up to one, and the vanguard raised a fist.

"What needs to be destroyed, creator?"

I frowned, hoping they'd be less violent.

"Nothing, right now."

It lowered its hand.

"Good. Shall we head to the lich and ask for our routes?"

They showed more initiative than most golems but less at the same time. I pointed at the tunnel entrance of Mt. Verner.

"You'll find him in there. You'll be coordinating with the Keepers to keep Mt. Verner safe."

They crossed their swords over their chests, flaring the edges with ascendant mana and telekinetic constructs. After slicing the blades out, they flew straight into the ground, molding their bodies into thinner shapes. Before they'd left, I inspected one status.

[The First Vanguard | Guarded Zone: Mt. Verner | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion | Level: 30,000 - This is a golem created by The Harbinger of Cataclysm. It is a powerful psionic warrior capable of ripping armies apart in its wake. Its propensity for rapid combat and destructive magic is unmatched among its brethren.

It is steadfast in assessing future threats and can discern intention with a degree of accuracy. Resistance can often spell disaster, as this lethal being can instantly eviscerate almost any criminal or enemy of its home. It also coordinates with the Keepers stationed at its mountain, giving it a tremendous ability to enable its defenders.

Prepare for war when facing one of these golems, as the other three are not far behind. They can coordinate well together, oftentimes employing multi-fronted attacks across several domains of magic and combat simultaneously.

Fear them.

Aside from you, Harbinger.]

It was a basic rundown of warnings for these guys, which made sense. In fact, they sounded far more sinister than the other golems had. Either way, I sent Torix another message before planning a date with Althea. I'd been designing and creating golems for six days already. Short of time, I spent the rest of the evening and night drafting up the last golem.

This was an evolution of the director golem. While the previous one worked well, they lacked an ambitious edge. At the same time, the golems fought each other for dominance when more than one director golem handled a city. Wanting the director to have more oomph without focusing on other golems as much, I went with an ascendant and primordial core.

It left me uneasy imagining the personality that may manifest, but I gave the model the benefit of the doubt. So far, mixing cores has resulted in smoothing out the edges of their inherent mana types. I hoped that would happen here as well. To that end, I modeled the body. It had fewer spikes than the vanguard while incorporating some smoothed lines. This made it look like a well-armored mastermind.

After getting the many sub-minds created and binding them together for each core, I set up its responsibilities. This would act as the director golem had, but it would attempt to take the initiative for specific simple tasks. It would also handle many administrative burdens for Torix, though his personalized AIs probably mopped up much of that work.

The last part this golem handled was managing the other golem systems I implemented. By refining the structures and strategies of the others, this golem would enable them to output more work. Like the others, I put a few hard caps on its actions, ensuring it couldn't do anything too crazy. Being the final golem type, I made only one of these golems and called it the executive.

When it clicked online, it peered around before grabbing its chin.

"Forestry? Beautifully laid out. Perhaps we could add a few different kinds of trees for variety. Hm, the creator."

He saluted.

"Anything you require of me at the moment?"

I pointed to Torix.

"You know the deal."

He swung his arm with animation and gusto.

"Absolutely. I'll get this place running spic and span before you know it, creator. Figuratively speaking, of course...As you are a quick thinker. Acting faster than you can think? Impossible!"

He ran to Torix on the ground, inspecting the undergrowth and his surroundings as he did. I was glad it seemed more like a goofball than anything nefarious. Before he disappeared, I scanned the last of my new golem types.

The Executive | Managed Zone: Mt. Verner | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion | Level: 30,000 - This golem was created with flesh and blood from the Harbinger of Cataclysm. It is an overwhelming psionic warrior capable of launching mind-rending assaults on groups. However, combat isn't its central concern.

It focuses primarily on the administration and efficiency of its currently managed zone. This Executive is stationed at Mt. Verner, the capital of The Harbinger's Legion. It's able to make decisions regarding resources, and it can effectively identify inefficiencies before rectifying them.

It can also assist with coordinating parties, events, or anything that requires organization. This gives it flexibility that other golem constructs lack. However, constraints are put in place to prevent overzealous action, as this golem would turn the entire mountain upside down for extra gain.

It will turn nearly all minds it faces into indiscriminate mush. Be prepared should you choose to face it. All should fear this being.

All aside from you.

Once the executive was gone, I checked the time. It was midday, and the sun beamed down from overhead. I bolted across the skyline before finding Althea clearing an area just outside Mt. Verner. One of my architect golems already helped her out. As I landed beside her, the architect bowed, its presence almost alien.

"Creator, it's tremendous to see you again."

I raised a hand.

"At ease."

I turned to Althea.

"How's it going?"

She smiled.

"Pretty good. I found one of these guys and got them to work. They're much more helpful than I expected."

The golem nodded.

"I was searching for meaning, and she offered it."

Althea jumped up to my shoulder before spreading her hands.

"Can you see it?"

With a section of the forest already cleared, I did. I put my hands on my hips.

"It looks like it will be a pretty large space."

Althea nodded.

"Yeah. I'm going to have to get several businesses set up nearby."

I smiled.

"You ready for another date night?"

She fell back off my shoulders, flipping to her feet.

"Oh yeah, I forgot all about that. Uh, hm, I have nothing planned. I'm so sorry."

I smiled.

"I do. Let's go."

We flew past where Springfield once was, most of Yawm's funguses and whatnot already long dead. A bit of it remained but mixed with the typical wildlife for a yellow tint on everything outside the remade cityscape. Passing all that, we explored and scavenged for pre-Schema gear in ruins beyond the city.It was weird seeing ordinary buildings, their size and their scale so small. I couldn't fit in anywhere, which became a nuisance. Settling to handle that problem later, I spent the afternoon exploring with Althea. A couple hours later, we returned to our suite with many magazines, media, and other random junk. I explained much of it before Althea and I had time alone at our place.

After she fell asleep, I pulled myself out, feeling refreshed. I got back to work on mass-producing basic cored golems. I handled this in the golem creation facility I made a while back, though my new method of making the golems put out less residual heat than before. Halfway through making a batch of twenty, a pile of insects crawled up the wall.

They formed a smiling face, and they echoed out.

"We've made strides with the Omega Strain."

I put my grimoire back in my pocket dimension.

"Does it need my attention now?"

The insects cackled.

"There are decisions to be made and consequences to be wrought."

Plazia oozed.

"Who else is there to dictate them, Harbinger?"
