It left a spike of fear in me.

If this was Lehesion's eclipse attack, could I save this place in time? I stretched out my arms, imagining a singularity storm over the stars. I'd destroy the entire mountain in my defense. At the very least, I'd turn this place from a small mountain to a broken hill. Before that could happen, I flowed through Mt. Verner and inspected it from the top down.

It was time to turn this place into a fortress.

Chapter Begin

I flowed through the environment, remaking my head to view everything with more detail. The five floors worked well, and I didn't want to dismantle the work everyone put inside. This was my guild's home, and everyone developed a way of life here. However, a few more simple adjustments could be made with ease.

I headed out of the mountain before coursing to its peak. Nearby, Chrona's void ice castle spread out. At the very tip of Mt. Verner, I erected an enormous pillar of dimensional fabric. It took minutes, my bodily regeneration speeding the process along. Once composed, I pulled out my grimoire and got to work.

I wanted to remake the city buffing runes I created here while using Leviathan-7's cities as the framework. Shifting to my primordial being, I settled into my work. Except I didn't. I leaned against the giant monolith I had just made before condensing my wake over my hand. I'd forgotten to even check out what the primordial one did.

Dimensional Wake - Your reach as a dimension has manifested. It extends outwards like an aura, currently known as Perfection's Provenance. Depending on your current mana type, this aura can be altered to one of six: Origin, Dominion, Augmentation, Ascendant, Quintessence, and Primordial.

Perfection's Provenance - You gain the ability to manipulate the construction of reality to your liking. This affects all within your current radius.

Current Radius: 3,342 ft/1.082 km | Size of the aura can be increased by your mass.

The Origin of Perfection - Doubles the learning speed, creation speed, and efficacy of any skills used within your wake. This effect also affects allies.

Arbiter of Ability - You dictate the ability of all within your domain. Halves the efficacy of skills and techniques used by enemies within Perfection's Provenance.

Primordial Maker - Your creations are precise, foolproof, and perfect. +200% to creations' abilities, skills, mental complexity, psionic capacity, and obedience. When in Perfection's Provenance, anything you've created will obey your words without fault, regardless of their previous directives.

When I finished reading, I scratched my head at the bonuses. They explained many of the aura's effects but also carried many uses I had never taken advantage of. In particular, halving an enemy's skill effects had immense combat potential. It didn't help against raw displays of power, but it dampened any technical combat someone tried against me like mind magic.

I also guffawed at the size of my dimensional wake. It covered a vast area, giving me lots of leeway with using it. Once I considered its benefits, I put it as my default mode. Doubling my skill gains netted more results in the future than the stat bonuses from the Rise of Eden did. However, I would alternate between wakes as needed.

After clearing that way, I got to the runic carving. My Primordial wake saturated the area, and I considered my prospects. I had three primary fears for Mt. Verner: world destroyers, Spatial Fortresses, and the Old Ones. World destroyers were people like Lehesion or Valgus. They could wipe a planet with enough time.

I could show up well before they did, but they could dish out plenty of damage in the meantime. A strong barrier and a few golems gave me that time, so I scratched that off the list. On the other hand, a Spatial Fortress was something I couldn't stop. I could probably kill one, but it could kamikaze into Earth well before I did.

Every inch of the planet would be glassed, but with environmental protection, blue cores could protect the populace of my cities. Getting the city out of the wasteland was simple from there. We opened a warp, and I heaved the circular chunk of secured metropolis through it. While not a permanent solution, Spatial Fortresses weren't a permanent problem.

As for the Old Ones, that would require...I didn't know yet.

Sticking to problems I could solve, I brainstormed what the cities needed. Air, water, etcetera were a must, like the ones on L-7. That stopped the environmental destruction of a Spatial Fortress from killing the citizens within a city's barrier. I copied those from Leviathan-7's rune augments, though I refined a few for efficiency.

After that, I drafted a few runic designs for improving the city buffs.

I sent them over to the council of Daniels, and we debated their merits. They recreated them, broke them down, and made them new once more. After many iterations, I got the plans back. They looked more akin to my primordial rune across my back and chest than anything else.

I etched it into my grimoire, taking up another ten pages. The sun rose when I started charging the runes with mana. I watched the beautiful star rise up before the sigils clicked into place. I floated the complex aggregation of etchings over to the column, setting down one mark at a time.

Once set up, I implanted twenty-five cores into the central pillar. I connected everything and watched it click online.

Blue core menu activated. What would you like to do, sir?

Exchange blue core for fifty red cores? (Y/N)

Establish city and defensive aura? (Y/N)

Sell blue core for resources? (Check out galactic rates!)

I clicked the establish city and defensive aura button. Before it snapped online, I shopped through the options menu. I stopped the setting that vaporized low-level eldritch. I didn't want this to destroy the petting zoo I checked out with Althea. With that in place, it cranked into high gear. I watched a palpable psionic web scatter across the city and pass far into the distance.

Well beyond Mt. Verner, the barrier reached the edge of the core's protection, about three miles away. It left a large swath of territory utterly protected, the icy hexagonal tiles forming overhead like Saphigia. It arrived with the freshened air, muted radiation, and controlled gravity of my L-7 runes. I appreciated the difference and slight buffs before rubbing my hands together.

It was time for the golems.

Instead of going with an army, I stuck with a smaller, more elite unit for Mt. Verner specifically. I pulled my mind out of my body four times, keeping the corpses afloat in a gravity well. I pulled one aside, adding additional plating and changing its facial shape. I looked more jagged and dangerous than I wanted this golem model to appear, so I got rid of all the spikes and made them sleek.

The flat, angular design oozed professionalism and density. After getting the look right once, the others took less than half as long to adjust. I got the four of them covered in armor and equipped with shields and maces, keeping the same aesthetic. Once I finished the bodies, I took out my runes and planned another rewrite.

Unlike the older models, I wanted these guardians to take a more active patrolling role. These golems would check around the city, manage entryways, and check out psionic scans of people. They'd stop individuals with strange mental signatures before having them reviewed by actually trained psionics.

I didn't want to do it, but it was required at this point because of Elysium's tactics. Managing who entered and left Mt. Verner would stop most illegal activity and prevent their schemes from taking hold. It also let us handle the population with an actual census and understand more of what happened here.

Because, even with my hands-off governance style, I knew there was crime here. Everywhere had criminal activity to some extent, but outside Torix's occasional lock-ups, Mt. Verner was close to a free-for-all. My golems helped with that, and my guildmates' widespread presence didn't hurt, but people would always find ways of hiding what they did.

These golems would police the area, making all of that much less convenient for would-be criminals. They'd handle that daily task while being ready to defend the city at a moment's notice. That required some finesse, so I took a moment and attempted something new - a dual-cored golem.

I'd implant two personalities based on different mana types, like the ones on L-7. Once made, I'd weave them together. In this case, it would be primordial and quintessence mana. The quintessence rounded out the primordial's edges, letting it take on a more constructive role rather than a controlling one.

However, I'd leave the administrative and psionic aspects to the primordial core. It gave it a level of finesse the quintessant part lacked, which helped with general decision-making. To make all this function smoothly, the minds needed to work in sync and not argue. Preemptively eliminating that concern, I assigned specific tasks to different cores based on aptitude.

I created a lengthy list of responsibilities these golems would handle and assigned them to different cores based on aptitude. After following a logical assortment, I added stabilizing thought processes like empathy and hesitation. If anything fell outside their limits, they needed a dual-core consensus.

These could kill in a moment, so some discretion was important.

After drafting the core's sigils, I spent hours and hours carving out the runes. It took a long time since each dungeon heart carried several independent minds. I had to organize them into different operations before integrating how they worked together.

Once made and charged, I plopped the blue dungeon hearts into their socketed spaces. Marveling at them, I found two days had passed already while I set these guys up. It was all worth it as the new golem type hummed online; I called them keepers.

One of the four keepers peered at me, a dark blue eye on its right side and the other a brilliant white. It approached me, my height and size but with added plates. Runes glowed over its surface, the spear arm's sigils like snow and the shield arm like the ocean's depths. It planted its spear into the ground before lunging to a knee.

"Creator, we are ready for our responsibilities. Thank you for these lives. We will not waste them."

The others followed behind, planting spears and lunging. I gave them a thumbs up.

"You're going to listen to Torix Worm and give him weekly reports about what's going on and what you're doing. Understood?"

They psionically spoke in tandem.

"Yes, creator. As all, as one."

They boomed out, and I smiled at their strength. Taking a moment, I analyzed a golem.

[The Third Keeper | Protected Zone: Mt. Verner | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion | Level: 30,000 - This is the third Keeper of Mt. Verner, the current capitol and capital of The Harbinger's Legion. This individual is an immensely powerful guardian who can use many kinds of magic with high proficiency levels.

It lacks nothing in its physical abilities, either. Its body is robust enough to traverse space or tread stars. It can recuperate from devastating injuries if given time and its mind is vigorously defended. It even carries the ability to use tactical maneuvers of magic with its other Keepers, making for a devastating foe for any that faces it.

It obeys the Harbinger of Cataclysm without question and will enact law and order within the domain of his cities. Should you break the dictates of its maker, it shall unmake you. Fighting this creation is something few are capable of, and it will battle with its fellow golems.

To fight one is to fight many. Be careful and tread lightly, as all should.

All aside from you, Harbinger.]

I rubbed my eyes before inspecting the level one more time.

"What the hell?"

The golem looked over itself.

"Is there an imperfection? What may I rectify?"

I waved my hands.

"No, I mean, you're a higher level than me?"

The golem looked up before peering back at me.

"It would seem so, creator."

I let my hands flop on my sides.

"Are you kidding me? I'm...I'm actually kind of jealous."

The golem grabbed its spear with both hands before pointing it at its head.

"I may destroy the object of envy at a moment's notice, sir."

I shook my hands.

"I'm not that petty. You guys go report to Torix."

They bowed before turning and jumping in sync. I sent a message to Torix before they arrived, letting him know about the new help. Before moving or going anywhere, I got to work on the next golem type. This one would be an evolution of the constructor. They built up any place I put them while assisting in maintenance and construction.

However, they acted like powerful janitors and workers rather than anything genuinely breathtaking. With that in mind, I put them together with a primordial golem core. Instead of mindless drones, these would help out with planning and innovating the landscape of Mt. Verner and anywhere within the barrier's radius.

I set up the plans for four of them. After getting the golem bodies from my own, I designed them as opposites to the Keepers. These golems would focus on giving opportunities rather than trying to restrict behavior. To prevent that from spiraling out of control, I kept strict contingencies on what they could do to guildmates or guests here.

Enemies? Well, they'd do what my golems did to all enemies.

The responsibilities of these golems included incorporating spaces for parks, businesses, economic development, and connecting people. I referenced a few art books while making these guys; even a cursory glance let me put in a few techniques I found. E.g., rules of composition, color theory, and a few overarching sentiments of aestheticism like gravitating to natural materials.

