I rub at my face. A sweet drink. It shouldn’t help, but it does. Immensely. I’ve been living off of water and dry rations for the last…it must be eight days. Not exactly fun, but I’ve had worse.
But this makes things a little better. A little. And it restarts my brain a bit, takes me off the spiral of guilt. The Horns of Hammerad can wait. It hurts, but they’re gone. However terrible it might be, there’s something that takes priority even over that.
The call. What in the name of non-existent deities far and wide was that? I—
Everything has changed. I feel it. This world is different now, and the stakes have suddenly gotten a lot higher than my single life. Someone has walked into the small sandcastle of my understanding of the world and given it a damn good kick.
There are more people than just me in this world. From my world, I mean. There are more interdimensional travelers, more people from Earth*.
 
*Assuming people don’t call this place Earth, obviously. Stop belaboring the point. I know what I mean.
That chat. A—a messenger chat with magic? How is that possible?
Magic. Duh. Focus! Think. Try to think of what happened.
Well, it’s a good thing I used to read Youtube comments or I wouldn’t have been able to transform myself into an egotistical thirteen year-old with delusions of grammar. [batman] was a good foil, but I probably gave myself away there at the end. No matter; it had to be done.
First things first. In that conversation, a few important elements stood out. And above all the rest?
Kent Scott. Whoever that person was, he wasn’t from our world. He was…fishing for information. First and last names. No one else seemed to get that, but thanks to Teriarch I know that he was trying to use a [Scrying] spell.
And he got three names. Or was it two? In any case, that’s really bad. Can he teleport right over there? Is that even a spell? But if he knows the names, there’s nowhere in the world those people can hide, right?
Who is he? He was using Kent Scott as his name, which means he either tortured or killed the real Kent Scott. But how much does he know in that case? Enough to be hunting the rest of us down? Could he have figured out our locations from the magical chat? And if so—
“Oh hey, just wanted to let you know the pasta will be done in around ten minutes.”
The innkeeper pops her head out of the kitchen. Damn it. Who cares? But my stomach rumbles. Traitorous body. I nod at her. She’s exactly the kind of person I don’t really like hanging around. Just a bit too friendly and bubbly and clearly not that focused.
Okay, okay. What was I thinking about? Kent Scott. One part of the puzzle. What else? Oh yeah. Summoned heroes? People with a [Hero] class which hasn’t been heard of in centuries? That’s odd. Could we all have been summoned as a—a byproduct of that spell? Accidental side effects?
If so, it would explain why I appeared out of nowhere like that. But that guy was a Level 26 [Knight]. Is that fast leveling? It seems so, considering Calruz was only around Level 22. So one guy who’s been here for a month or two already leveled past a Minotaur who’s been fighting all his life?
Damn. Is that cheating or what? But how—
“Do you want meat and onions on your pasta? Or something else? I’ll change the recipe if you want.”
Who cares what—just answer her.
“That’s fine. Thank you.”
I am trying to think. Ignore the stupid innkeeper. Think. There’s also the fact that most of the people in the chat were American, but people from all over the world were taken. One Australian, one person from England.
But almost all spoke English. Does that mean mostly English-speaking nations were affected? Or—or does it mean primarily Americans were affected? If this was a spell, did it only hit a certain radius? If I could call the chat back on my iPhone I’d know more, but going only off of memory—
“Oops. Forgot to put the spoon out.”
Spoon? SPOON? Who the fuck eats pasta with a spoon? Italian cuisine survived for hundreds of years without a damn spoon.
…Calm down. She’s just trying to be helpful. I’m probably just making her nervous. I should smile.
My lips twitch. No go. Okay, okay. Just—what does it all mean? Here I am, with the first sign of how I got here but already there’s a serious threat. I have to anticipate what’s coming next. Do I warn someone? Who? Magnolia might be just as bad. But Wistram—that’s where [BlackMage] is. I think that’s the isle of mages. Could they help? Will he call again, or would he consider that to be too risky?
And—oh my god she’s coming back.
 
—-
 
The blank look Erin got when entered the common room was somehow worse than the stare of the Antinium. They at least had the excuse of being bugs. Her guest was just…creepy. And silent.
When she told the girl she was making a fire, she just got what sounded like a sigh. The tall girl went back to staring at the table and drinking blue juice and Erin put a log in the fireplace and tried to make it light.
Erin got the fire going after two attempts, all the while trying to ignore the eyes on the back of her head. It was an uncomfortable, prickly sensation, being watched.
The other girl looked down when Erin turned around. But she had been watching, Erin was sure. She was just so silent. And unfriendly. Would it kill her to talk a bit?
Well, who said a guest had to be nice? If she didn’t want to talk, Erin could just serve her food and wait for her to leave.
But there was something that drew her to the other girl. She was a guest. The first human guest—well, the first human guest she’d had that wasn’t a group of adventurers or Pisces. And Erin was a bit lonely. She hadn’t talked to a human, another human, for a long while.
So she stood up, walked over, and took a seat. The other girl glanced up. It was a flat look, but Erin ignored it.
“So. How’re you?”
Glance up, glance down. After a moment, the girl looked up again.
“I’m fine.”
“You know, we never got to really chat. My name is Erin. What’s yours?”
This time the other girl had to answer or—or Erin would leave her alone, she guessed. But although her guest made a face, she eventually answered.
“…Ryoka. I’m a Runner.”
Erin seized on that sentence gratefully.
“Oh! A Runner! I get most of my food and stuff delivered by a Runner. He comes every day from the city. That’s like your job, right?”
Ryoka’s left eye twitched.
“No. That’s a Street Runner.”
“Oh?”
“I’m a City Runner.”
“Ah.”
Erin didn’t know what to say to that. She was vaguely aware there was a difference from what Krshia had told her but no more than that. And the conversation’s flow was ebbing.
“That’s cool. So I guess you travel around a lot?”
“Some.”
Erin grinned weakly. Perhaps it was time to cut her losses and get the pasta. But she had to make one last attempt.
“You know, when I saw the glowing light orb I thought you were an adventurer of some kind.”
“I’m not. I just know magic.”
“Oh, okay. I, uh, I knew some adventurers, too.”
“Did you?”
The other girl’s tone was subzero. And not just frosty, more like Antarctic.
“Yeah, but they died. A few days ago, actually.”
Erin swallowed the lump in her throat. She didn’t see how the other girl looked up at that.
“Who did you know?”
“Oh, just a group of them. They were nice people, but they got killed when—”
“Who?”
Erin looked up. Ryoka’s eyes were fixed on her, intent. For the first time, Erin thought the other girl was looking at her, really looking at her.
“Who?”
“The Horns of Hammerad.”
 
—-
 
I don’t believe in destiny. Or if I did, I’d spend all of my time rebelling against it. And I don’t believe in talking to people either, as a rule.
But this—
“So I called him bull guy after that. Bull guy, Mr. Cow, Captain Udders…although I don’t think he really got that last one.”
“You didn’t do that.”
The girl sitting across from me, Erin Solstice, smiles and laughs.
“Okay, I didn’t call him all those names. Just bull guy. But it made him really mad. You could practically see the steam coming out of his ears!”
I shouldn’t, but I laugh. Calruz is dead, and it’s wrong to make fun of him. But this—
This is about what he was. What he did. And Erin telling me the stories is somehow special. Precious.
A lot can happen in fifteen minutes. You can find you have more in common with someone than you think, for instance. Fifteen minutes. Enough time to eat three plates of pasta, drink blue juice, chat…
And learn that the Horns of Hammerad stayed in this inn the night before they died. Enough time to hear their last moments from the innkeeper who’d served them meals.
I’m glad I came here. I’m glad I changed my mind and decided to stay. Because against my expectations, I’m feeling better. A belly full of hot food does that, and the conversation—
Well, it’s actually fun.
“You really called him that? Bull guy?”
“Yes! What, don’t you believe me? Ceria started calling him that too until he threw his drink at her.”
I laugh again. I can’t help it. I’ve been listening to tales of the Horns of Hammerad, but somehow Erin also managed to get the story of how I met them out of me. It’s so odd. But I want to talk about them.
“So you met them while you were delivering healing potions, right? That sounds pretty dangerous.”
It was, incredibly. Dodging spells from a Lich is probably one of the dumbest things I’ve ever done, and there’s a long list. I shrug.
“It was risky, but it’s part of the job.”
“None of the Runners around here do stuff like that. They just deliver stuff in the city and to my inn. But I guess that’s a City Runner for you, huh?”
“Yeah.”
I want to keep talking about the Horns of Hammerad. But Erin’s leaning over the table, eyes alight with curiosity.
“What’s it like, being a Runner? Do you get sore feet from running around all the time? And how much does it pay? Do you see a lot of interesting stuff?”
Well, here’s the part I don’t like about talking to people. I open my mouth to give her a bland response. What should I say? Running is hard, but fun? It can be rewarding, but you just have to put the hours in? Some bland, useless reply like that so I can change the subject back to the others.
But I stop. I hesitate. Do I have to say that? It’s a stupid line that won’t mean anything. I hate that kind of conversation. So why should I say it?
Running. Is it fun? Sometimes. Running is fun, but being a Runner isn’t. The petty rivalries, my shattered leg, and the way Runners seem to be more cowardly than adventurers—it’s hard to just gloss over that.
So why not tell her? What was it Louis C.K. said in one of his monologues? Screw the ordinary conversation, the meaningless chatter. Let’s just have a real talk.
What’s the worst that can happen? I lose my friends? I don’t have any. It’s awkward? We’ve already had enough awkwardness to fill two swimming pools.
It’s not me. I don’t chat with people. I don’t talk. But today—
Today is different.
So I begin to speak. Erin blinks as I begin talking about running, frankly, and without sparing the details.
“You had your leg shattered? By a moving—”
She glances down at my leg. You can’t even see the scars. That’s magic for you.
“And you went to the High Passes? Where’s that?”
“It’s the other gateway to the southern part of the continent. Haven’t you heard of it?”
“I uh, don’t know much about the local geography. Or politics. Or…anything.”
Huh. Sounds a bit like me. I keep talking. Somehow, she’s pulling the words out of me.
“You fought a Silver-ranked Adventurer? Barehanded? No way.”
When did I say that? My face is getting hot. She probably thinks I’m bragging but—Erin leans over the table, eyes sparkling.
“That’s so…cool. Tell me another story!”
I blink. She’s so interested. It’s just life to me. And depressing, at that. I remember what happened afterwards, my mistakes. How can I feel proud of that? But then, why not explain that bit?
I try, but Erin shakes her head. Her smile flickers and she looks me dead in the eye.
“That’s not bad. I mean, it’s not good, but I’ve done worse. Way worse. I…got a friend killed.”
“How?”
For once, I want to know. Erin pauses, and sighs. She grabs the cup she brought and drinks long and deep. Somehow, we’ve run out of blue juice and there’s several empty plates in front of both of us.
“It’s a long story. It starts with—well, I guess it starts with Goblins.”
“Goblins?”
“Goblins. And there’s acid flies, you know, the one of the menu? And talking bug men and—okay, do you believe in Dragons? Krshia—she’s a Gnoll—she says they don’t exist, but I saw one, I swear.”
Erin begins to talk. It’s a confusing story, but I listen, asking the right questions. Not just the right questions. The questions I want to know, the little details. It’s not a boring conversation. It’s not trite dialogue. It’s real. It’s engaging.
She knew The Horns of Hammerad before they died. She was there. And she’s not just a boring person. She’s someone.
It’s—odd. Her story is bothering me. Erin Solstice. Is she—it’s an odd story. But I’m too tired to think straight. I’ve been running all day and I’m tired. But her story calls to me. There’s something about Erin. I’ll think about it later.
“Have you ever seen a Gnoll? They’re like giant hyenas that get really angry. And they sniff you. A lot. Have you ever heard one of them sneeze? So weird.”
I listen. And I’m smiling. It hurts because I’m out of practice.
But I’m smiling.
I wish I could stay.
 
—-
 
“I should go.”
Ryoka said it reluctantly, but it had to be said. Erin glanced up from her table and the pile of dirty dishes and glanced outside. It was night. Midnight or later, and the sky was as close to pitch-black as it ever came.
“What? Why? I can make up a bed for you. I’ve got a bunch of—well, every room upstairs is open. And it wouldn’t cost too much. If you want—”
“No.”
The other girl said it flatly, and then tried to modulate her tone.
“No. I’m sorry. Thank you, but there’s something I have to do.”
“In the middle of the night?”
“I need to start running. I’ve got something that can’t wait and it’ll take me a day and a half to get where I’m going.”
Erin’s face fell. And she’d been getting on so well with Ryoka, too.
“If you’re sure. But it’s a long road and you look tired. What would one night matter?”
Ryoka wavered, clearly torn. But eventually she shook her head.
“I’ve got to—I need to go back. North. To Celum. There’s someone…someone I have to talk to. Something I have to do, now.”
“If you’re sure…”
“I’m sure. Sorry.”
