“It’s nothing,” he replied quickly, looking back at the trail. He had known Mato for years, and his typical approach to the emotions and feelings of others had all the finesse of a stampede of blind oxen. However, at times he could be annoyingly perceptive – usually, exactly when Calen appreciated it least.

“Hmph,” Mato snorted, heavy on the disbelief.

“Your comment was a little unkind,” Calen finally admitted.

“What, the legendary hunter?”

“Yes.” Sometimes he wondered how his friend could be so dense. Or at least consider that others might take his comments a different way than he did.

“But you have a godly patronage. Nobody else does.”

“Yes, and I can’t figure out how to use it.” And there it was, the surge of embarrassment and shame. Yes, he had done the unthinkable and earned the patronage of the Wanderer. And now Mato had forced him to admit he wasn’t smart enough to figure out how to use it. It stung.

“I’m sorry,” Mato said, sounding so remorseful Calen felt as if he had kicked a puppy. Aargh, Mato! Honestly? “I didn’t know.”

“Just… forget it,” Calen answered, turning on his Explorer skill to see if there were any monster tracks he might have missed earlier, though he had carefully studied the ground both ways.

“What happens when you try it?” Ali asked.

“Nothing, my mana just vanishes.” Now everyone was curious, and the subject would be impossible to avoid.

“What did you offer?” Malika asked.

“Whatever I have in my ring,” he answered. He could tell they were just trying to help, but he really wished they would just let it drop. “I think I’m just unlucky, and the Wanderer is a patron of the Luck trait.”

“Why don’t you flip a coin?” Ali asked.

“What?”

“Didn’t you say that’s how you activated the shrine?”

“I…” It can’t be that easy, can it? He pulled out another of the Dal’mohran gold coins, glancing at the gleaming coin with its ancient imprint still fresh on its surface. Flipping it into the air, he channeled his mana into the patron enchantment.

The coin flipped end over end, easily tracked with his heightened reflexes and enhanced perception, but as it reached the apex, it simply vanished with a barely audible pop and a shower of sparks.

You have gained the Blessing of the Wanderer+12 to Dexterity.+8% to Movement speed.Blessing – Duration: 3 hours.

It worked… It was such a complicated rush of conflicting emotions that he struggled to unravel them for quite a few moments, staring at the notification and the spot where the gold coin vanished. He felt his face heating up so fast he’d start leaking steam in a second.

“Nice!” Mato brought him back to reality.

“Did it work?” Ali asked, with barely suppressed excitement.

“It worked,” he answered, sharing the buff he had just received.

“That’s impressive,” Malika said. “I’m jealous! I want a movement speed enhancement too.”

“I feel stupid,” he admitted finally. The relief that his achievement would be useful warred with his frustration that it had taken Ali to figure out the trick.

“Why?”

“Because I couldn’t figure it out myself.”

“You would have figured it out soon enough,” Ali responded with a casual confidence that he certainly didn’t feel.

“You don’t know that.”

“Brain that size?” Malika scoffed. “Please.”

“You figured out the shrine itself, and that had even fewer clues,” the Fae explained earnestly. “I’m sure it wouldn’t have taken more than a day or two without help. You would have systematically worked through everything you knew, and you would have ended up with the shrine and tried that.”

“I guess so,” he answered, surprised at how well Ali knew his mental process already. He had been about to get out his notebook and start enumerating everything he had heard or experienced related to the Wanderer, so she likely would have been proved correct too.

“It’s an expensive enhancement though,” he finally added. A gold coin each time would bankrupt him even faster than his need to fund his mana potions.

“Seems worth it,” Malika answered. “Not for everything, but for the harder fights.”

As usual, Malika had a clear insight into the tactical value of these things. One gold in his storage wouldn’t do him any good, whereas the movement and dexterity boost on a challenging fight might save his life. But now he had more questions than he had started with. Can I use smaller coins? Are the enhancements random? Or can I influence them? Either way, it was likely to be an expensive ability to test.
