"Maybe," Shiv said. "Maybe not. They still want to be System-favored. They still want to fight by my side. We have that, if nothing else. Look, take Uva and the others back into the gate. I'll talk to the orcs. See if I can get them to pretend to have some basic ethics."

"You think you can do that?" Adam asked, doubtful.

Shiv snorted a humorless laugh. "No, but I'm a Pathbearer, so I'm going to try anyway. If shit goes wrong, maybe they kill me, and I get some Rhetoric levels.”

Adam nodded in appreciation. "Give me Sijik. I'll take him back with me. Uva might be able to dig out some useful information from his mind."

"Oh, before I forget." Shiv looked off to the side where an unmoving time dragon lay. "Take Choki there with you."

"Choki?" Adam said, confused for a moment. Then he followed Shiv's gaze and saw that he was staring at the dragon. "Choki," Adam repeated. "You named the dragon Choki."

"Yeah, because I choked it out, you know." Shiv laughed.

Adam's jaw fell open. "And I'm going to let you try to become the moral heart of the orcs."

"Yeah," Shiv said, without any sense of irony whatsoever.

The Gate Lord inhaled a long and deep breath through his nostrils. "The things I do for Blackedge's safety.”

“Oh, before you go, that arrow earlier..."

"That arrow," Adam began, his voice tense, "is charged by killing a hundred terrible people. And Shiv, I can feel you right now. My sun feels you. And its glow on you is getting darker."

"What does that mean?" Shiv asked.

"Please don't become one of the hundred people I can kill to charge that arrow."

Shiv thought about that for a beat. “Wait, if I turn into a horrible bastard, could you charge the arrow by killing me a hundred times?”

“Shiv…”

"Alright. Relax. It's a joke. I’ll stay good, Adam. Now let me talk to the orcs before they finally give you an aneurysm."

“Thank you. Just… have them end the Inquisitors’ suffering and tell them to enjoy their time on the surface. Let them be a nightmare for the Necrotechs instead.”

The Deathless regarded Adam for a moment. “Hey, Adam. How do you know the Necrotechs have it coming? That they deserve to die ugly deaths at the hands of the orcs?”

“They were going to—” The Gate Lord froze.

“The Inquisitors were coming for Blackedge too. But I guess they’re of the Republic, huh?”

Adam flinched.

“Forget about it, Adam. I’ll deal with it. You handle the other stuff.”
