The power was still too much. A bare percentage of the original spell’s energy broke through Nathan’s aura. It cut through Stella’s shielding like a chainsaw through fabric before running into the spike of divine power called by Khachi’s prayer. Divine mana fought with corruption and was pushed back, inch by inch, as the magic rushed onwards. It wasn’t a single strike but a continual deluge of death. Stella tried to help, but every piece of mana or wizardry she threw out was subsumed. Khachi’s divinity flared with renewed power, but it was pushed back and crushed under the mana until it washed over the Heirs.

The tide started to wane, and Nathan struggled to cut off the flow of death getting past him. He finally managed to block the corrosive energy, but the amount of energy had snarled his magical senses. He opened his eyes to look worriedly at his allies. They were hunkered behind a huge mirrored kite shield Aarl had pulled out, which was slowly flaking away as black corruption crawled across its mirrored surface.

Aarl shook the corroding metal from his arm, letting the once-priceless relic fall to the ground far below. “Harpy’s tits, it would have been nice to know about that beforehand.” He stowed the vaselike artifact that was the source of the Shield of Solemnance. “I don’t think we were supposed to survive it.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 10

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 3

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 6294/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 6

Inspiration 9

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 9

Forewarning 7

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 9

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Control 10
