A simple concept in theory, until you try to scale it up for use in an army over a million soldiers strong, but so far, it appears Liu Xuande has yet to make a mistake.

The battle lines shift like the ebb and flow of the tides, with the Enemy pushing in from one direction and the Imperial soldiers forming up to meet them, only for the Defiled to flow away in search of an easier target while avoiding the bolts raining down upon them from overhead. This happens six times in succession as the Enemy probes the Imperial defences and responses before committing to an attack on the left flank. Shifting over in the blink of an eye, I pick my beloved wife Yan out of the crowd with little more than a glance, for her striking figure makes for a heroic sight as she unleashes a torrential Sanguine Whirlwind upon her clustered foes. The Chi attack whips up a storm of sand and blood as it drives deep into the Defiled lines, leaving naught but a swathe of corpses behind. A valiant effort, but even as I mentally note that it seems a bit early to come in swinging for the fences, my beloved wife takes a step back from the fighting and takes charge as her soldiers barrel into the breach left by her Elemental attack. The Imperial Warriors roar in challenge and victory as they drive a deep wedge into the Enemy forces, only to pivot and throw themselves upon the smaller half from all sides. Divide and conquer, a tried and true strategy for sure, and the Defiled tribesmen die in droves beneath the coordinated slashes and thrusts of her retinue’s sabres and spears.

Yan has done wonders training her rag-tag band of soldiers to work in concert on the battlefield, and it warms my heart to see her succeed. On the micro scale, her efforts helped her secure an easy enough victory, but more importantly, now she has the freedom to send troops to support the retinues stationed around her. The minor advantage she claimed by acting quickly and decisively then snowballs into a larger advantage as the Enemy finds themselves facing a foe far more united and coordinated than ever. Yan has quickly learned to think beyond her immediate surroundings and look at the battlefield as a whole, doing her part to live up to the potential Chen Hongji saw in her all the way back in Sinuji. Every time my wife acts, she makes a big move that doesn’t seem like much in the grand scheme of things, but has wide-spread implications for the battle as a whole. Shifting forward to secure a flank, shoring up a weakness in the line, moving in response to the Enemy adjustments and more, Yan is proving herself as a standout talent not just in the Martial Path, but in tactical command as well. The only thing really holding her back is her lack of a proper Domain, though I notice she’s Formed her Natal Palace in my absence. Pride and joy well up from within as I watch my wife excel in her chosen field of work, and I watch for longer than I should given the circumstances, but I can’t help it. It took a lot of courage to leave home and follow her dreams, so it’s gratifying to see how far she’s come since.

Maybe I should give her a hand and help her with Domain Development. I did it for Rustram, and I haven’t seen it affecting him adversely in any way, so why shouldn’t I do the same for my wife?

Before I can act, I become aware of Buddy tugging at his leash beside me. It’s an adorable sight to behold, the black strap clenched firmly beneath his somewhat crooked teeth as he scoots backwards with every tug, growling up a storm to remind me that I’m not supposed to take action. “Sorry Buddy,” I reply, loosening my grip on his leash to pat his head and smiling as he leans into the touch. “I forgot. Good dog.” Pursing my lips, I gesture at Yan and ask, “Can you help her Develop a Domain?”

To which my dog simply tilts his head, with visible confusion etched across his adorable expression.

You know... I’m not entirely sure why I thought Buddy would be helpful here. Miracle though he might be, at the end of the day, he’s still a dog, which I already pointed out. In fact, I’m beginning to suspect Lin-Lin knew as much and only told me to send him out so she could suggest I make a Natal Soul go along to protect him. If she framed it other way around and said I should have Buddy watch over my Natal Soul, I would’ve balked at the implication that I need supervising, especially from a dog no less.

But... she’s right. I do need a supervisor, and Buddy is doing a damn fine job.

Accepting that Yan will just have to figure Domain out for herself, I stay and watch her work for as long as I feel appropriate before turning my attention elsewhere to see how things are going. The battle continues unabated as the Enemy commits more and more forces to the offensive, but every opening and weakness they try to exploit turns out to be a cleverly crafted trap laid out by Liu Xuande. Some are deviously cunning, like leading an entire contingent of Chosen into an ambush led by Ryo Da’in, whose elite soldiers tear through their unsuspecting foes from behind. Others are just a clever use of resources, like dispatching Exarch Gam to topple an entire dune and bury a flanking force, or tasking Yong-Jin and several other young Central Officers to feign a retreat to pull the Enemy out of position. Then there’s the tactic of sending Grandpa Du out to kill, which I can really only describe as bullying the weak, because he’s finally gotten a handle on a new and interesting skill which I gave him the idea for. A pressure bomb essentially, but rather than a single orb of contained and compressed air I’d initially envisioned, he’s created a multi-layered bomb that is technically demanding in terms of time and skill but highly efficient in Chi usage. Every time he acts, he opens up by killing an important tactical target with his bomb, whether it be a Chieftain, Officer, or even a Demon threatening the forces on the ground. The explosion is not as widespread as I thought it’d be, but after unleashing his Air bomb eleven times in total, he has yet to fail to kill his target in one strike as his Chi skill creates a directed explosion that pierces through Domain, armour, flesh, and bone with equal ease.

A very impressive achievement, but I know he can do better. If he was willing to ease up on the Chi efficiency, I think I could help him cut down on the time and skill needed to craft his seven-layered Air bombs and simultaneously increase their power, because he’s going about it too directly. He’s creating an orb of Domain and forcing Air Chi into it before forcibly sealing it shut, but all it would take is an application of push/pull mechanics to increase the efficiency and pressure. If he sets a negative pressure wind loop to slowly pull air out of the bottom of the orb while simultaneously pushing air quickly in from above, he can probably double the pressure in each layer. He’ll have to be quick about it, but seeing how much control he has over his Air Chi, I doubt that will be an issue, but I have no idea how I can pass the message along.

A slight tug from Buddy precedes his growl of warning, but I still manage to Send out a message to Grandpa Du. Not so much in words, but more of an impression and idea, the essence of which can be distilled down to ‘push and pull’. If I told him in words, he might not understand, but the impression should leave him feeling like he’s forgetting to exert all possible force in his attacks, and he’ll quickly figure out where. Giving my disapproving dog an apologetic smile, I give his chin a good tickle before signalling that it’s time for us to go, because Nian Zu and Liu Xuande have things well in hand. Much as I would love to help Yan too, I have faith in her abilities as well as Grandpa Du’s teachings, so I might as well let nature take its course.

Besides, teaching Grandpa Du is the same thing as teaching Yan, since he will happily pass on everything he knows to her. And it’s not like I did much either, since Grandpa Du would’ve figured out the push-pull thing soon enough.

Heading over to the city proper, I cautiously poke around in search of Mao Jianghong, but none of the buildings really stand out and scream ‘command centre here’. Which makes sense since the catapults and Nian Zu could easily reduce it to rubble in a single volley, but I figured I’d try anyways. With nothing else to do in Shi Bei, I set out in search of my beloved Mila and find her more or less where I expected, deep in Enemy territory southwest of Tian Zangli, which has been reduced to blood and ashes behind Akanai’s army. Her cavalry focused forces move through the desert at a brisk and frankly unsustainable pace, but my Grand-Mentor knows better than to demand more than the animals can give. The issue is there’s several armies of Defiled hot on her heels, and while none are large enough to truly threaten her forces on their own, they will catch up eventually and leave her no choice but to deal with them on the field of battle, slowing her progress even further and buying time for other Defiled forces to box her in.

While Akanai commands the overall army, my sister holds command of the Sentinels, and she is a sight to behold as she weaves her quin archers to and fro to bleed and distract the Enemy. A single volley is all it takes to enrage the targeted Defiled forces, and she is quick to draw them out and away from the rest of Akanai’s forces. A quick jaunt through the desert shows a large number of scattered Defiled lost and dying in the sands, separated from the bulk of their allies and unable to find their way through the sea of dunes. Clever that, using the terrain and climate to whittle down the Enemy numbers, for without water, the Defiled won’t last twenty four hours before collapsing on their feet. Some try to drink the blood of the allies and mounts to help assuage their thirst, but little do they know that the salt content makes this unsustainable even for those with Defiled constitutions. The only escape is no true escape at all, but to give in to despair and Demonize in order to survive, which is really no escape at all. Though there is always hope so long as one still lives, I cannot imagine a world in which living on as a Demon is preferable to death.

Much as I would like to free those poor souls from their torment, Buddy is quick to warn me not to act, for my greatest defence from Zhen Shi at the moment lies in obscurity. Since he has yet to discern my existence, he won’t intentionally act against me, but once he learns of my involvement, I doubt he’ll remain still for long.

Which means if I intend to make any big moves, I need to make it count.

Returning to Alsantset’s riders, I scour the Sentinels for my beloved Mila, but she is nowhere to be found. Panic threatens to overwhelm me once more, but Buddy quickly calms me down, and soon enough, I find my wife not riding with the Sentinels, but seated in a wagon beside her father. Bloodied, battered, and beaten are the only words to describe him, and it pains me to see Husolt in such poor condition, but at least he still draws breath. Surprisingly so, considering the massive, gaping, scabbed over wound on his chest where a spear went clean through. Just missed his heart by millimetres, it would seem, though the blade could have nicked it coming out. His other injuries are superficial at most, meaning he was fairly evenly matched with his opponent, and with Akanai laying claim on the Mataram Patriarch, I can’t imagine Husolt stepping on her toes to challenge him instead. So who else could have injured him like this? Even though he’s a blacksmith first and a Warrior second, Dad once told me that Husolt’s weapons are always in high demand because he is one of the few blacksmiths who understood how to wield a wide variety of weapons with no small amount of expertise. A question for later I suppose, and seeing how his life isn’t in any danger, I seat myself across from Mila and wish I could take all her pain away.

Unable to stop myself, I reach over to stroke her cheek, but there is no warmth or texture to be felt. At least I can’t pass through her like an ethereal ghost, since her Domain keeps me from doing so, but that’s all there is, a solid, invisible barrier that simply blocks my fingers from touching the soft, freckled skin beneath. Even this much is enough to set Buddy to tugging his leash and growling up a storm, but I cannot help but try again. This time, there’s a response as Mila looks up and glances around in confusion, and much as it pains me to leave her in distress like this, Buddy’s protests grow too insistent to ignore. Giving into his tugs, I let him led me away not just from my wife, but from the entire army itself, and no matter how I plead and cajole, he refuses to head back over. He’s a stubborn dog, he is, resisting my attempts to pick him up and enjoying every second of our game, running off as far as his leash will allow before turning back to see if I’ll follow with bright, brown eyes so full of life and tail wagging at the speed of light. It’s impossible to be mad at him, so I take one last look towards my wife and wish her all the best before setting out to our next destination.

