Sliding off my lap, Lin-Lin sits herself down across from me and crosses her arms with a frown. “Hubby,” she begins, looking adorably troubled with her lips pursed and brows furrowed, “You’re being silly.” Or stupid, as Mila would put it, but sweet Lin-Lin is too kind to tell it to me straight. “I thought as much when you mentioned wondering why Spectres have agency, but I wasn’t sure if you were just joking.” How is that a joke? Then again, I suppose I do have an odd sense of humour, so she probably got used to shrugging off my nonsensical remarks. Seeing my confusion, my sweet wifey sighs and puts on her serious face, which she usually only uses while studying Healing. “You should already know the answer hubby, it’s the same answer as always. Balance in all things, ya?”

Much as I would love to claim that the veil parts and understanding dawns upon me in an instant, it takes longer than I’d care to admit to pick up on what she’s putting down. “...Right! Spectres have agency because they lack Balance, so the urge to correct that is what drives them.” Frowning, I add, “But Demons don’t seem like a very Balanced outcome...”

“That’s because they aren’t hubby.” There’s no frustration or impatience in her tone, just love and tolerance a plenty. “Spectres are fragments of a Soul created when people shed unwanted emotions, like anger, sorrow, hatred, and other sad, yucky feelings, right? The intent is to be rid of them, but the Spectres don’t wanna fade out of existence. That’s why they attach themselves to Defiled, because they wanna be whole again, but since they’re all full of yucky emotions, they end up unbalancing their host too.”

“...Making Demons the end result of extreme Imbalance. Right, right. Makes sense.”

Feeling a little silly for not seeing the obvious answer sooner, I’m reminded of what Mahakala told me on his deathbed. “Our world is imbalanced, and it is the Brotherhood who strive to fix it. No longer trapped by the cycle of samsara, itinerant souls seek to break through the barrier of existence and end it. If everything is in nihility then time and space become meaningless. An end to suffering yes, but an end to all else, the desperate last effort of the lost and destitute, Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

Translation: The Spectres want to find Balance, but are unable to do so by any natural means, so instead they drive the world further towards extreme imbalance in order to... what? Overturn the board and start fresh? Or maybe I’m putting too much thought into this by giving the Spectres an actual unified goal. Maybe they’re just doing as their nature dictates, and the consequent plague upon humanity is just an unintended consequence.

“Okay,” I declare, sort of by not really understand it all. “So Maybe that’s why my ‘good’ Natal Souls all eventually get used up, because my Intent was for them to help and they knew their continued existence would be counterproductive to that. Except... how does this change... anything?”

Stifling her giggles so I don’t feel bad for being dumb, Lin-Lin reaches out and pinches my cheeks. “Now I get why Mi-Mi always gets so frustrated when you ask questions. You aren’t even trying to think for yourself hubby. Balance isn’t about good and evil, you know this already. The Defiled are just one end of the scale, while the Empire the other. To me and you, the Defiled are evil but Balance doesn’t care. Sheep see the wolf as evil, and shrimp probably see Pong Pong as evil, but Balance just is. All it sees is humans on one side of the scale, so it puts the Defiled on the other end to even things out. That’s all there is to Balance.” Seeing that I still don’t get her point, Lin-Lin deflates and asks, “So if your problem with Natal Souls isn’t about whether they’re good or evil...?”

As Lin-Lin falls silent to let me fill in the rest, I slowly voice my uncertain answer. “It’s about Balance, which means... I need to... make sure my Natal Souls... are Balanced?” Upon seeing her smile and nod in confirmation, my next question freezing the expression on my sweet wifey’s adorable face. “But how?”

“I dunno hubby,” Lin-Lin replies, shrugging ever so sweetly before pointedly turning to look at the floofs playing by the seaside. “But I think you already did, and he’s become more than just a Natal Soul.”

This time, I immediately know what she’s talking about, because there’s only one answer available, my sweet, silly dog whose ears flap about as he runs with mouth wide open. “Buddy? I mean... I guess he sorta is, but he’s not... I can’t like... control him. He’s a dog, and not a particularly smart one either. If I send him out into the world, all he’ll do is run around sniffing things and maybe incite a squirrel genocide.”

“Then just go with him, ya?” Leaning back on her arms, Lin-Lin rocks side to side while staring up at the sky, clearly yearning to go paragliding soon. “You said Buddy helps keep you Balanced, ya? Then won’t he do the same for your Natal Soul?”

Somehow, it doesn’t seem like things will go so smoothly, but I can’t come up with any arguments to refute her. Mulling it over as I summon a hang glider into existence, I load up the floofs and consider my options while Lin-Lin brings us soaring through the air, and her delighted laughs bring a much needed smile to my face. Even though she’s no Martial Warrior, my sweet wifey understands Balance the best, because she is so in touch with her emotions at all times. While she has her secrets, she wears her heart on her sleeve and follows her heart’s desires as often as she can, a true free spirit who refuses to be bound by customs or other expectations. If she wants to climb, she climbs, and when she wants to run, she’ll run, and she won’t let anything stop her from doing as she pleases. That’s her Dao, a cheery, breezy, carefree Path that leads wherever her heart desires, which makes her the most Balanced person I know.

Meaning it would be stupid of me not to at least consider her advice.

Of which she still has more to give, but not until it comes time to leave. “Bye hubby,” she says, pouting as she stifles a yawn and clings tightly to my waist. “You better wake up soon, okay? Everyone’s busy and I’m lonely, so focus on getting better quick. Also, you’re too focused on getting stronger, but I think you’re plenty strong already, so you should just get better at not falling asleep every time you use your strength, ya? I dunno if you’re right about all that body, mind, and soul stuff, but you’re probably making it more complicated than it needs to be. In the end, all three of those things are you, so instead of focusing on one part at a time, maybe try making yourself better as a whole? Then you don’t have to worry about not being able to fit your soul into your Core or whatever.”

“I’ll do my best.” If only it was that easy, though she does make plenty of sense, especially given my propensity to over-complicate things. I like breaking things down to the smallest possible denominator, because that generally makes them easier to understand, but thus far, I’ve found little to no success in doing so. Not because the method is flawed mind you, but because I don’t know enough about anything to really explain things.

“And your best is all you’ll need.”

Kissing me goodbye one last time, she waves as I send everyone off to their sleeping selves for a good night’s rest, leaving me and Buddy alone once more. Glancing at my sweet doggy, I decide against acting right away and head back to bed for another nap. Not much I can do in the dead of night anyways, so might as well wait until morning to start. Somehow, Buddy senses my intent to bring him out for a trip, because rather than laze in bed for as long as I will let him, he wakes me none-too-gently as soon as he feels he’s waited long enough. Stifling a sigh even as I grin at his innocent excitement, I sit up and close my eyes while focusing on me, myself, and I. Balance is the key, so what I need is not an agent of good or evil, positive or negative, but a Natal Soul who is me in every sense of the word. A true Natal Soul mind you, not just a bundle of emotions I don’t want anymore, but all of my emotions, good and bad, along with a heaping helping of my perspective to boot. In short, what I need is not a puppet or snapshot of myself, but a reflection who shares a portion of my soul and is part and parcel of the whole.

And when I open my eyes, I stand before another me, who inspects me even as I inspect myself. I still think I look a little off, like my physical self doesn’t entirely match up with the mental image I have of me, but appearances don’t matter too much. At the same time, we both shrug our shoulders and utter, “Good enough”, only for us both to wince at the sound of our own voice. Not because it’s loud or unpleasant, but because it sounds so weird when hearing it from this newfangled perspective. Deciding it best to move on, a black leash attached to a red harness appears around Buddy with little more than thought, though I find it mildly concerning me when I can’t figure out if I created the leash and harness, or if my Natal Soul did.

Not that it matters. One with the Self, and One with the Natal Soul, for I am me, and he’s me too.

...Or maybe Buddy made it. I don’t know anymore.

Finding it all too confusing to keep track of, I take a seat at the computer and turn on the stream so I can just watch things from my other perspective. I’m not sure how I knew it would work or why it does, but I’m not going to look a gift horse in the mouth. “Alright. Bye for now. Don’t lose my dog.”

Scoffing at the absurdity of my own statement, I roll my eyes at how much of a worrywart I can be while petting my excited doggo’s head. “I know just as well as you do that Buddy is not an off-leash dog.”

“Don’t talk back to me,” I snap, feeling annoyed by my sass and a little ridiculous for talking to myself. “Also, try not to directly interfere with things. You’re a part of me, but a finite part, so every time you expend Chi, you’ll lose some of yourself and risk becoming unbalanced. If I’m right, Buddy is a fully-fledged Soul all on his own, one capable of sustaining himself through his own emotions, so he should be better equipped to handle things than you are.”

“Yea, yea, I know.” Brimming with impatience at all the delays, I try to ease up on the attitude and tell myself, “I’m you, remember? I know everything you know.” Well, I did, right up until we separated for this mission, so now I know a little more because I’ve learned firsthand how much of a pain in the ass I can be.

“You know I can hear your thoughts right?”

“Good. Then you can hear this.” An image of a bald man in a grey suit with a scar running down the right side of his face appears in my mind and tells me to ‘zip it’.

Stifling a smile, I give myself the finger and say, “Get outta here, dumbass. Don’t fuck this up.”

“No promises.”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Grinning as I let Buddy drag me out into the world, I run alongside him as he dashes through the desert with unbridled glee.

There’s something just so incredible about how an animal expresses pure glee and delight that has me grinning from ear to ear. Buddy has his tongue out, tail wagging, and nose wiggling as he sniffs this and that, and I have no doubt he would be peeing over everything even remotely interesting if he still needed to pee. He’s loving the freedom and so am I, because even though Cloud-Stepping is cool and all, moving around as a Natal Soul is just the epitome of freedom, not bound by gravity, stamina, or any other forces of the world. I have no idea how we’re moving, because Buddy just took off running and I followed along without thinking, but I don’t regret it even for an instant. I’m just a Natal Soul, which means the only real threats to my existence are Zhen Shi and the Spectres, but I’m fairly certain I can Devour them both if they challenge me out here in the real world, or at the very least evade capture. If not, I only need to make sure Buddy gets back to my Natal Palace safely, which shouldn’t be too difficult to manage. I mean, he’s a dog right? Dogs are great at finding their way home, even ones that... are maybe not so smart and have never been out on their own before... right?

Okay, so I have some regrets. I probably should’ve done some testing before diving in head first, but let’s be fair. Most of my outstanding achievements were accomplished while flying by the seat of my pants, because as much as I love to ponder and plan about things, things rarely work out as intended.

The kilometres melt away as we zoom through the desert and we arrive at our first stop without incident. A feat worthy of celebration if we weren’t in a warzone, which is exactly what the area around Shi Bei has turned into. Keeping a firm grip on Buddy’s leash, I keep him close by as we make our way through the Imperial camp and see how Nian Zu’s siege is going, and the only words that come to mind are bloody and boring. Situated on a sandy dune that overlooks the city, the Irregulars toil away with their crossbows and catapults while soldiers sit in a defensive formation and wait for the Enemy offensives. From above, Liu Xuande’s troop deployment looks near flawless at first glance, and upon further study, I pick up on the few flaws he intentionally left behind so as to better predict where the Enemy might strike. A weakness is only a weakness if left unguarded, so the Enemy will be in for a rude awakening if they end up taking the bait.

