All this is just some of the issues involved with Aura Condensation, but I still have plenty still sitting on the back burner, to say nothing of all the unknowns regarding the other milestones along the Path. So where does this leave me? With a whole lot of questions and precious few answers to work with, which I should probably be used to by now. Even if I were capable of putting all my questions and doubts aside, and could accept that I have, for all intents and purposes, successfully accomplished every milestone short of Void Shattering and a few extras just for kicks, I’m still stuck on what to do next. Technically, I should be prepping to tackle the ‘final’ milestone, but the problem is, I can’t help but feel like that’s the wrong move and that I’ve left some steps unfinished. The Abbot claims I’ve set my sights too high and spurn the ‘false Divinity’ so many others have achieved in favour of true Divinity, and he’s not wrong. Even if I truly Shatter the Void, I won’t become a literal god, just a really powerful Martial Warrior on par with Ancestral Beasts, but what fucking good is that?’

Now I’m not saying ‘false’ Divinities are weak. It’s the opposite really, because they’re so damn strong they can’t keep themselves from destroying the everything around them when they fight. I’m not talking about massive craters and toppling buildings strong, because that’s just Nian Zu or Mitsue Juichi strong. I’m talking about wiping an entire city off the map in one exchange strong, like what happened in Sinuji. Thus, if I were to take the next step and join their ranks, I would then be subject to the same limits all other Divinities are bound to. I’m not talking about the Treaty, which is worth less than the paper it’s printed on, but rather the inability to control my own strength. A clash of Divinities is synonymous with cataclysm and calamity, where the only guaranteed outcome is the destruction of everything in the area, so how is becoming a ‘false’ Divinity supposed to help me now? I need strength, but usable strength, not the empty strength of a nuclear option everyone knows I would never take, so false Divinity is no real solution to all my woes since all I’d be able to do is stand by and watch others fight in my place.

Course, I only know all this because Dad sat me down and spelled it all out, but I knew I was holding back for a good reason, and not just because I’m dumb and indecisive.

Frustrating as all this lack of understanding is, there are a few useful tidbits to pick out from all my musings, namely that the Abbot might be onto something. In order to truly successfully Shatter the Void and achieve True Divinity, it is likely that one must first refine their body, mind, and soul. The reason I believe this is because of what I personally experienced during the withdrawal from JiangHu. I’ve never really stopped to consider what happened on the fields of Central that day, but in my defence, after dealing with the consequences of that day, I woke up and found a squad of Enemy Divinities literally standing across from me, and I’ve been scrambling to keep my head above water ever since. Given the circumstances, it’s really not my fault I didn’t set some time aside to consider the implications of everything that went down, but the best time to correct mistakes is right now.

So what happened in JiangHu? After foolishly allowing Zhen Shi to lure my soul out of my body and into his Natal Palace, I suffered through an agonizing eternity of suffering which I cannot even think about without shuddering. I was a broken and beaten man when I finally made my escape, and I concluded that since life was suffering, and death merely a new beginning, the best way to avoid suffering was to achieve Nirvana and escape the cycle of life and death. A twisted and jaded take on the Four Noble Truths, but logic need no apply to the mentally anguished. To do this, I needed to divest myself of the Three Desires, the craving for sensual pleasures, existence, and non-existence, which I would do by following my fundamentally flawed take on the Noble Eight-fold Path and live my life without living my life.

And so I retreated inwards and sought to sever all emotions in a desperate bid for nihility and oblivion. I closed myself off from my body and mind, leaving it alive but non-responsive so that I wouldn’t die, but was wholly unable to live life in the flesh. Then, I created the Call Centre of the Void instead, a bleak and cheerless place where dreams go to die, because the familiar sights of my Natal Palace were too warm and comforting for my quest for nihility. This allowed me to ‘live’ my life and fix all my mistakes through the computer monitor like I was playing a game, insulating me from the pain and emotions on the off chance I was still stuck in one of Zhen Shi’s illusions.

Fucked up? Most certainly, but hey, that’s trauma for you.

How was I able to create a Natal Palace with a shattered Core? No idea, but it worked, and I didn’t think twice at the time. Why? Because I was in the midst of a total mental breakdown for one, and two, because I’d somehow acquired a limited omniscience that provided me with everything I needed to know in order to fulfill my desires. From that monitor, I watched as Yan, Lin-Lin, Li-Li, Alsantset, and Mom gathered around my unconscious body while praying I would soon wake, with all my cute floofs hanging about as well. Pushing their pain aside in favour of ridding myself of mine, I sought Balance, but to an extreme degree which no human should ever try. Emptiness within to match emptiness without, that was the goal I set for myself and the Path I sought to take. Forget love and affection, friendship and family, sever all of that away and embrace apathy, indifference, and true neutrality in order to remain unaffected by my human failings.

Stupid.

But also surprisingly effective.

With the power of those severed emotions, I soothed the emotions of my sweet floofs and bade my loved ones farewell. I warned the Death Corps of approaching danger, and I watched Green 87 and dozens others die in the blink of an eye as a cadre of Half-Demons emerged from Concealment. I split my consciousness between a million and one Natal Souls and sent them out into the world in a desperate bid to affect the outcome, and in doing so, I watched the battle unfold from a million different perspectives. Seeing the Half-Demons unleash their Dread Aura, I helped Li-Li Condense an Emotional Aura of her own, and stay behind to counter Zhen Shi’s dark whispers and give her hope for the future. I teach Yellow One how to Heal so that she can survive her otherwise deadly wounds, while encouraging her to hold fast to hope for a better tomorrow. My other Natal Souls spread the knowledge of Panacea as well, and one even finds a pleasant surprise while teaching Li TieGuai and encourages him to complete his Mentor’s abandoned work on body refinement. I help an Imperial cavalry Officer named Koga find his courage, which leads to his unfortunate death, but not before he leads his warriors to dispatch an entire force of garo riders who were poised to run roughshod over the Irregulars. I help Lang Yi come to terms with his hatred of the Defiled and find proper Balance once more, and Liu Xuande rekindle his ambitions and unravel the intricacies of battlefield command. I even try to convince a Defiled Westerner named Santosh to accept the truth and return to the light, but find that he is too far gone to save.

Unbidden by me, I watch as thousands of weak Irregulars throw themselves at the Half-Demons because they believe their lives will be well spent so long as they save mine, and when I realize I cannot convince them to stand down and retreat, I realize what I need to do. Since I lack the power to outright win the battle from the Call Centre of the Void, I must empower my allies to win it themselves. Mila, Huushal, Hongji, Binesi, Ghurda, Tursinai, Tenjin, Wu Gam, Eccentric Gam, these are but a few of those who benefit from my assistance, but then Mitsue Juichi takes the field and Mitsue Hideo reveals himself to deal a crippling blow to Imperial morale. My efforts to sway him drive him over the edge until he all but shuts down, but there is nothing more I can do for him if he will not listen. All the while, the storm clouds have been gathering overhead, and when the clouds finally break and the rain falls, I let go of all my emotions and use them to fuel my million Natal Souls before setting them loose on the world so that they can work while I remain isolated from the emotional burden of watching it all unfold.

A series of events that happened as easily as turning a hand, all because I Willed it and the Energy of the Heavens responded.

At JiangHu, I was never in the driver’s seat. I just gave general directions from the side while the Energy of the Heavens handled the rest. Even though I remember doing everything I did, trying to remember how is like fighting to hold onto a dream only for it to fade that much quicker as you return to consciousness. Limited omniscience gave me all the information I needed in the moment, but that knowledge faded the instant it was no longer necessary. Sounds handy, but while I could set my sights on replicating that state of existence in an attempt to find answers regarding the Martial Dao, I don’t feel like it’s the right way forward. Even though I don’t remember much of Ping Ping’s ascension, I remember knowing, I mean really knowing and understanding what I was doing at the time, a state of comprehension I never experienced during the whole kerfuffle in JiangHu. Forgetting what happened there felt so natural, because the knowledge was never mine to begin with, but in contrast, losing my memories of Ping Ping’s ascension left me feeling like less of a person than I once was.

Imagine waking up one day to find yourself missing a third arm, except you can’t remember ever having a third arm aside from its absence. That’s what it was like waking up after Ping Ping’s ascension, because even though I know I played a pivotal role, I can’t remember shit about what I did. Something with Panacea, I’m pretty sure, because I remember having an epiphany about how I should be calling it something else, and something to with nuclear acid as well, whatever that is. Either way, if given the choice, I would rather follow in Ping Ping’s footsteps than rely on the Energy of the Heavens to fulfill my Will, because I have issues when it comes to matters of trust and control. Alright, maybe the Abbot’s right and I’m being too picky about my next step, but so what? If I try to Shatter the Void with anything less than one-hundred percent conviction, then failure is all that will await me, so I might as well try to do it right.

That being said, even though I don’t think the steps I took in JiangHu brought me down the right Path, that doesn’t mean I can’t learn from the experience. I surrendered control over to the Energy of the Heavens not because I wanted to, but because I lacked the ability to control it. If I refine my body, mind, and soul however, then it’s possible I will meet the necessary requirements to process all the information the Energy of the Heavens has to offer while retaining control of my Will, meaning I will have all the power of a ‘false’ Divinity without the downside of destroying my surroundings every time I cut loose. That’s why I am so adamant about refining my body, mind, and soul before taking the next step, because I believe that will offer me the power I so desperately desire with none of the drawbacks.

Why do I believe a refined mind and soul will offer me control? Well, because I’m fairly certain I’ve seen what happens when you train them, or at least train the mind. There are two people I know who have exhibited some sort of achievement in the area of mind refinement, namely Taddy, who is a Divinity himself, and Chen Hongji. I once likened my Teacher’s abilities in Healing to weaving a complex tapestry with a thousand needles at the same time, which is downright impossible for a normal human mind, while the good Brigadier made some real big brain plays during Bai Qi’s siege of the Central Citadel when he single-handedly took command of every Imperial unit in the field like some omniscient mind playing a real-life game of real-time strategy.

I believe these two examples show the benefits of a refined mind. How they achieved this, I don’t really know, but you’d think refining the mind would fall under the same umbrella as refining the body. The brain is a physical organ after all, but somehow, it also seems right to separate the two. The mind is more than just the human brain after all, because even if you could take all the information stored in the brain and place it in a different medium, that doesn’t mean you’ve copied a human mind. We are more than the sum total of the information we’ve gathered, because how we interpret that information is a large part of our identity. Each and every person possesses their own unique perspective, even two twins who grew up in the exact same environment and experienced the same trials and tribulations. I think, therefore I am, a fairly straightforward statement as far as philosophical declarations go, meaning that the mind is pivotal to the human condition, for how can you know you exist if you are without thought?

And the soul? That also has something to do with one’s ability to process information, as evidenced by how I went full derp after my soul got too big for my Core, but how it all comes together is still a mystery...

