To my dismay, I realize Dad doesn’t know Bai Qi’s Awakening is new, but it’s too late for me to do anything to help him. All I can do is watch as he fights to retreat and slowly loses hope, but he only needs to hold for a little while longer. Giving everything I am to the working I envision, I stand firm and await the death I’ve feared for so long, and though I am glad I got to see my wives and friends, I wish I could’ve gone to see Mom, Luo-Luo, Charok, the twins, and everyone else as well. There’s no time anymore, but I’m sure the real me will make up for it, even if we stopped being the same person the second I came into existence.

I’ve been alive for all of a few hours, and yet I am still deathly afraid to die. Funny that. I know I’m not exactly real, but I feel real, and I know this death will be real enough, but none of this enough to shake my conviction. I think the real me could do this without dying, assuming he can leave his body and get back before it’s too late, but I also believe that after today, Zhen Shi will be watching him closely to avoid a repeat performance. I mean, I’m essentially free Heavenly Energy which Zhen Shi could have easily trapped in his Keystone robes, but the real me has figured this all out as well.

A thought strikes me in a moment of clarity, and I cannot help but voice it. “Hey,” I say, speaking to myself, namely the me watching things from afar. “I think I figured something out. Blobby is a font of Heavenly Energy right? Being an Elemental Spirit and whatnot, he brings Heavenly Energy into this world somehow, probably by eating Spectres and Demons and whatnot. But if you look at things the right way, then aren’t Ping Ping and Pong Pong also fonts of Heavenly Energy? They literally turn food into fertilizer capable of sustaining Spiritual Plants, which is something worth looking into right? Not the process itself, but the fact that Ancestral Beasts and Human Divinities don’t have this same characteristic.” Grinning, I add, “Go shit on some plants and see if they turn Spiritual. For science. I’m sure Taddy will love that, and you can figure out the rest from there. That’s all I’ve got for now. Give Buddy a belly rub for me.”

Giving this one final burst of satisfaction over to the Heavens, I realize there is nothing of me left to give, and all I can do is smile as the cold nothingness of oblivion which I yearned for so long rises up to greet me.

And as I go quietly into the darkness, there is no fear or regret in my heart, only the tranquil peace of quiet acceptance.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Even though I know he was only a Natal Soul, I cannot imagine the complex thoughts going through his head as he gives his life for a good cause. A ‘Balanced’ Natal Soul is really no different from a regular Soul, save for the inability to generate the stuff of emotion on its own. That’s why Buddy kept trying to drag the other me away, because every time he felt sad, happy, angry, or frustrated, he lost a little more of himself as he went. We both recognized that too late, and it casts a shadow over the question of whether we can do this again, because even though they’re technically a part of my soul, I don’t know if I can stomach sending parts of me out to experience death.

Luckily, the stream continues even without my Natal Soul to anchor me in the area, for he is not truly gone just yet, only transformed into something else. He was a construct of emotion, and he gave his life so that the people of Pan Si Xing would have a chance. I gave my emotions over to the Heavens in JiangHu to create a storm to wash away the Defiled, but my limited Natal Soul only had enough to call a light rain over Pan Si Xing. The clouds gather overhead as Dad and Bai Qi push one another to the limits, and just as the Lord of Martial Peace gains the upper hand, my Natal Soul’s life’s work brings the battle to a crashing halt. The rain fall is light as a breeze as the stones and sands of the city drink it all up in an instant, but wherever it comes into contact with Demons or Half-Demons, the raindrops eat away at their life-force and threatens to Cleanse them to oblivion.

Given that it has this effect on their physical manifestations, the hidden Spectres of Pan Si Xing stand no chance, and they set their hosts to fleeing out of sheer terror of non-existence, while the tainted Westerners turn their eyes to the Heavens as an invisible burden of malice and hatred is lifted from their souls. The collapse is instant and without delay as the Enemy abandons Pan Si Xing in droves, and Bai Qi stays only a moment longer to shoot Dad a hate-filled glare before Cloud-Stepping away. Within minutes, the only people left in the city are Imperial soldiers and citizens, save for a select few Defiled who have all but given up to await death. Some are taken away by monks of the Brotherhood, but most resist any attempt to leave and throw themselves upon Imperial blades because death is easier to accept than the truth. The rainfall dies out within minutes, but already, Dad’s soldiers are moving the liberated westerners out through the tunnels, yet haste is not entirely needed. Zhen Shi will not risk his Demons and Half-Demons until he figures out how I managed to pull this off while still comatose in Meng Sha, but once he realizes the truth, my value as a resource to harvest will skyrocket in his eyes.

And having seen what I can accomplish as a Natal Soul, I’m not so sure he’ll be so hell-bent on capturing me alive anymore...

Even without taking a shit on any plants, I know my Natal Soul was right. I am a font of Heavenly Energy thanks to my merger with Blobby, which caused a fundamental change in the quality of my soul. That’s why it was possible for me to create Natal Souls that retain agency once set loose on the world, and use those Natal Souls to help Irregulars Create their Cores. It’s why I can seize Authority from the Heavens and grant it to others in my name, helping them Develop their Domains which endure beyond my survival. It’s why Bai Qi can use a severed shard of my soul to Awaken the Blessing of Sand, and why Zhen Shi so desperately wants to turn me or capture me alive. I am not just any font of Heavenly Energy, but a font of usable Heavenly Energy, without any need for growth or transformation, and what a difference that single word makes.

I think it’s time I went to Blobby for answers. I’ve never been all too comfortable going to him for help, not after he showed himself capable of feeding on my Natal Souls, even incomplete ones like Baledagh. Sure, it was for my own good, but it doesn’t feel great sharing a space with a predator, which I now realize is Zhen Shi’s name for Blobby, rather than a cool name for me when I turn the dial up to 11. Regardless of my reservations, it’s possible the Heavenly Tear will have answers for me, so I intend to ask Lin-Lin to bring my body out to sea the next time she comes to visit.

Finally, a possible path reveals itself, but the cost was higher than I expected, for I find myself unable to mourn the loss of my other self, even though my dog is clearly distressed and crying. To Buddy, the other me was just as real as this one, and he is saddened to sense him disappear, just as he is sad to see the mini-me remnant merge with me without so much as a wave goodbye. All the scritches in the world aren’t enough to console my mourning dog, so all I can do is hold him close and let him know he is loved while staring at my monitor as it goes dark and silently contemplate if I would’ve made the same decision as my Natal Soul did if I didn’t have a back up in place.

And the answer is...

I don’t know.

Which scares me more than I'd care to admit. It should be an easy yes right? My life for the lives of my father, friends, comrades, and so many soldiers and citizens, and yet...

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 41 -
