For the longest time, I thought I lost the little droplet of Heavenly Water, but I eventually realized he was with me all along. Well, part of him was, but I split most of him off to bind the Azure Sea because I realized I could not keep him. I was lacking the capacity to carry him around all the time, and truth be told, I still am, because even though he’s only a tiny little droplet in reality, Blobby is a literal force of nature and font of Heavenly Energy, meaning he has a huge metaphysical presence. Whether it’s the mind, body, or soul, I am unable to bear his weight, but he’s chosen to work with me for reasons beyond my understanding. I assume it has to do with my Devouring Talent, but the benefits of our partnership go beyond the Cleansing of Spectres. What if he’s the reason I could ‘seize’ authority from the Heavens? Because he himself is a source of Heavenly Energy, so maybe having Blobby is like having one of those Imperial Sigils which let you give orders in the Emperor’s name.

What else is the little droplet responsible for? He taught me to Hone my Aura, so maybe he enabled me to unlock Emotional Aura too, an ability I passed on to Li-Li. How do the monks do it then? Do they have an Elemental Spirit too? What about the Half-Demons? Ugh, so many questions. That’s the problem with accidental success, the inability to pinpoint the factors which led to success in the first place.

Wait...

Is Blobby the reason why Zhen Shi went to so much effort to convince me to sever off parts of my soul? I mean, at the time, I thought I was severing fingers, but it’s clear there was more to it than making me take an active part in my own torment. It wasn’t cruelty for the sake of cruelty, he wanted me to sever my own digits for some reason or another, but until now, I never understood why. If Blobby is a font of Heavenly Energy that is bound to my soul, and emotions are the product of the soul, then it’s possible that my emotions are more desirable to Heavenly Energy by virtue of proximity to Blobby. Maybe there’s another better reason that would be so, but I feel like I’m on the right track. It would explain why I was able to create the Call Centre of the Void with a shattered Core, because the Energy of the Heavens was happy to carry out my Will in exchange for my emotions. This is the same thing most Martial Warrior’s do, mark Heavenly Energy with emotion, but the important distinction here is that I was somehow able to do the same process without the Heavenly Energy turning into Chi.

Thanks to Blobby. Probably.

Not a definitive answer, but it’s a thread I can pull at, and doing so reveals Zhen Shi’s motivation. He wanted pieces of my soul in order to directly harness Heavenly Energy, which would explain why he’s been going to such great lengths to break and recruit me. See, the soul is a powerful thing, responsible for a person’s innate Domain that renders all foreign Chi ineffective, which means Zhen Shi lacks the ability to just take portions of my soul for his own use. That’s why he needs me to surrender to his will, or failing that, chop off pieces of my soul by my own free will, because in doing so, I was essentially giving up ownership of whatever portion I lopped off. I have no idea why that would be. I guess it has something to do with Intent? But how is me chopping off a portion of my Natal Soul any different from creating a Spectre? I mean, they’re both severed fragments of soul, but I guess a lost finger lacks... agency? Why do Spectres even have agency in the first place?

...I’m getting off track again.

Pausing to indulge in another emotional reunion with Mama Bun, I assure her that we can play again soon, though I’m pretty sure I’ve made the same promise at least two-dozen times already. Thankfully, she is a sweet, guileless soul and harbours no doubts whatsoever, but I would rather not test the limits of her trust. Spurred on by my love for Mama Bun, I still my thoughts and reach for Balance for the first time in a long while, and I am rewarded with the calm comfort of my bed and the warm presence of my best friend rising up to greet me. Opening my eyes, I find myself tucked under the covers of my bed while Buddy runs roughshod over me, all tail wags and happy yips as he tackles me with aggressive affection. When the storm of doggy kisses finally abates, he snuggles up in my arms and peers up at me with his expressive brown eyes, so full of love, concern, and joy. I think... I think he knows I shouldn’t be here just yet, which I also figured out a little too late. There’s a glaring disconnect with the Natal Palace around me, like everything is covered in a haze that obscures anything more than a few meters away, the consequences of giving too much of myself over to Heal Dad from his injuries.

A price I’d pay a thousand times if necessary, because I don’t know what I’d do without him. Or Mom and my wives, alongside the rest of my family, friends, and floofs.

Though eager to head over to the computer and check on my loved ones, Buddy’s reassuring weight upon my chest keeps me firmly anchored in bed. It’s not that he’s heavy, but he’s just heavy enough that I can’t muster the energy to sit up. Instead, I sink into the warm comfort of my too large bed and cuddle my sweet pup close, not really sleeping, but not entirely awake either, save to respond to my sweet floofs whenever they check in to visit. Time passes, and then without warning, instead of just saying hi from afar, Mama Bun pops into my Natal Palace and greets me with an enthusiastic flurry of kisses, which she stops only to greet Buddy in the same way. Ping Ping and Pong Pong join us soon after, but try as I might, I cannot connect with what I know must be Lin-Lin’s bright and cheery presence to tell her I’m alright.

Ah well. I’m sure she’ll come visit on her own later.

Even though I’m well enough to accept visitors, I’ve still not recovered enough to bring them out to play. Using their visits to mark the time, another eight days pass before I am well enough to get out of bed, which is a hell of a lot longer than I expected. The first thing I do is carry Buddy over to look out the window, and though much of it is still hazy and indistinct, my Natal Palace looks exactly like I last left it, with the village, the lake, and the void outside. Seems like I really pushed myself Healing Dad, which means I need to learn my limits quickly if I want to avoid falling into comas all the time. I can wield tremendous amounts of power, but not without cost, as I am limited by my lacking body, mind, and soul. That’s why I keep passing out, because my... existence can’t handle all the Heavenly Energy passing through me, but I don’t know how to upgrade my stats to better... handle the... burden.

Hang on.

Did I go into a coma after JiangHu?

I mean... I abandoned my body to hide inside the Call Centre of the Void, but I don’t remember passing out for even a minute, much less days, weeks or months. No, I was conscious the whole time, which I know because I kept checking in on my friends, family, and floofs. Hell, I have a steady stream of Mama Bun snoot-selfies to prove it, but... how? I must have used a metric butt-tonne of Heavenly Energy that day, so how come I didn’t have to pay a price? Because I wasn’t using my Core? That’s it, isn’t it? The Core is the medium through which Martial Warriors harness the Energy of the Heavens, but my Core was shattered so I had to use a roundabout method to do what I did. Can I replicate that? Probably. I went all loopy and disconnected after JiangHu because everything I built up was too big to fit inside the Core I eventually recreated, but I can probably work around that. Why can’t I tack on an extra sun-room to my Natal Palace, somewhere connected to my Core but situated outside of it, where I can freely connect with and utilize the Energy of the Heavens?

Moving even as the idea occurs to me, I appear at the edge of my Natal Palace and lift my foot to step out into the Void, only to find Buddy no longer curled up in my arms but pulling at my pants’ leg and growling up a storm while trembling from head to toe. My heart aches just seeing him so scared, so I quickly scoop him up and return to my bedroom while cooing in wordless apology. That was probably a stupid idea, but I still wanted to try it even if there were Spectres waiting outside to tear me to shreds. Let’s be honest, after Devouring so many of them, I’ve pretty much completely lost my fear of Spectres and see them as more of a nuisance than anything else, but it seems like Buddy knows better. Why though? Why would they pose a threat to me out in the Void?

Oh. Duh. Because I’d be outside the innate protection offered by my soul. Even though I’d be out there as a soul, which doesn’t make sense. Oh, maybe I’m wrong, and the inviolability of souls isn’t a unique feature of the soul itself, but a product of the bond between body, mind, and soul. Balance right? Damn, I can feel myself getting smarter already.

Oh right. Also, my body and mind need a soul to... you know... live. Pretty sure I almost died when Zhen Shi tricked me out of my Natal Palace and into his, so I think I just narrowly avoided a big oopsie. I don’t feel so smart anymore, but luckily, I have the best boy Buddy here with me. Maybe I can send a Natal Soul out instead, which is probably what I do when visiting other Natal Palaces. That’s why Zhen Shi thought the term Natal Soul was apt, but the problem is I can’t trust my Natal Souls anymore. They’re essentially Spectres by another name, so what happens if my Natal Soul goes rogue and runs off to tell Zhen Shi all my secrets just to spite me? That’s totally what I’d do if I was sent out into the Void as a test subject, so I’m not sure it’s such a great idea.

Having exhausted all other avenues of thought and come up upon dead ends in every direction, I head back to bed to rest and cuddle Buddy until Mama Bun and the others return for another visit. Finally feeling good enough to bring them out and about, I bring everyone to the lake to have a grand old time, swimming and splashing about. When it comes time for them to leave again, I bid them all a fond farewell before bringing Buddy to the computer, because I feel like I can finally afford to turn it on without straining myself too much. As the PC powers up, I take a moment to bask in my brilliant, idiot-proof method of using Chi, because this is a Keystone that surpasses all others. To be completely honest, I have no idea how this PC keystone works, but that doesn’t matter because I don’t really know how a regular computer works either. It just does, but it’s a sort of magic I am familiar with, making it the perfect medium through which to interact with the ineffable Energy of the Heavens.

For example, when I open up a browser to watch a live stream of what happening around me, I know that I’m using some sort of Scrying and I guess Listening to see and hear what’s going on in the world around me, which is then displayed on the monitor in my room. If I’m not meditating in the physical world, the PC transmits that image to my eyes, where I see a picture-in-picture view of whatever I’m scrying in the corner of my perspective. Useful, but saying I’m using the PC keystone to Scry is the same as saying you use a remote to turn on the television. Technically correct, yet utterly lacking in any and all scientific or technological information, but if all you wanna do is watch tv, do you really need to know anymore? This isn’t a bad thing, because my obsessive need to understand Heavenly Energy is really holding me back, so it would be great if I could just go along with what works for now, and leave the understanding and comprehension for later. Right now, I need power, and my Keystone PC provides it in spades.

Thank the Heavens for PC master race. Even though it’s more or less the same sort of technology, I can’t imagine I would’ve ever made the same connections if I was a console peasant in my previous life.

As the monitor comes to life, I’m greeted by the all too familiar sight of my boring desktop, with the journal.txt icon sitting in the middle of the screen. Double clicking it on reflex, I review everything I’d written inside it before and continue adding all my new thoughts, forming a long, sprawling narrative of my scattered musings and revelations that almost make sense, but isn’t quite there just yet. One thing that stands out is that there’s a lot more One’s than I remember. One with the Sword, One with the Self, One with the World, One with the Heavens, One with the Core, One with the Blobby, just so very many Ones. Other than that though, I already touched upon most of the important bits already, but I’m still unable to make the necessary connections needed to understand what’s going on and figure out a way forward from here.

