I am not a smart man.

This is known.

I’m educated, but education and intelligence are not the same thing. I know a little about a lot of things, but knowing things doesn’t make you smart. Being smart means knowing how to apply said knowledge in a useful or favourable manner, but despite having all the information I need to make an informed decision, I’m still not sure what to do next.

Well, that’s not true. I know what I need to do next, namely take the next step along the Martial Dao. I just don’t know how. The why is simple, because might makes right. Using my authority as Legate, I set North, Central, and South on the warpath to retake the West and free the Imperial citizens suffering under Defiled rule, but these orders stand in direct opposition to the Imperial Edict which closed the borders in the first place. Thus, I need more strength not just to free the people of the West from the Defiled threat, but also to ensure their continued freedom and security on the off chance the Emperor decides he wants to purge all Westerners to be safe.

That’s why I need strength right now, and partially why I seek strength in general, to help defend those who cannot defend themselves. No, that’s not entirely true, because that makes me sound like I’m some noble, self-sacrificing hero hell-bent on protecting the world. I’m really not. I just want to be strong enough to protect the people I love, do as I please, and live life according to my own ideals. Making the world a better place is mostly a selfish endeavour, because as it stands, this world sucks donkey dick which makes me sad inside. Yea, I said it. This world sucks. It has a lot of great things going for it, like my family, friends, and floofs, as well as lots of interesting people, beautiful scenery, delicious dumplings, and more, but when you look at the absolute pros and cons of the world as a whole, the cons easily outweigh the pros, and here’s why.

This is a world that sucks so much, it’s catchphrase is, “Trials and tribulations without end.” Might as well say, “Get fookin’ rekt, bitch.”

Anywho, that’s why I want to make the world a better place, so I don’t have to be so sad about it all the time. My personal loathing for this world aside, a smart man who knew everything I know would have long since figured everything out by now, but as I’ve already pointed out, I am not a smart man. I know and accept that the time has come for me to take the next step, and I also know why I seek strength, but even though the Abbot seems to believe that these two separate revelations are supposed to magically come together and show me the way forward, I still haven’t the faintest idea of what I’m supposed to do. Rest and recuperate I suppose for now, but the unique manner in which I’ve expended my efforts has left me in a strange state of quasi-consciousness. The quiet unknowing of oblivious slumber is denied me, and I am left in this half-suspended state between asleep and awake without ever wholly committing to one side or the other. I am unable to open my eyes and wake or still my mind and sleep, nor am I able to find Balance and retreat to my Natal Palace, leaving me with nothing to do besides mentally twiddle my thumbs and reflect upon my Path and see if there’s anything I’ve missed.

So... quick refresher. Martial Warriors are humans who have successfully Created a Core. The Core is the medium through which we harness the Energy of the Heavens. We do this by taking Heavenly Energy in and branding or possibly altering it with our souls and emotions, thereby turning it into Chi. We guide Chi using our Will to do all sorts of cool and magical stuff, but mostly to hit each other harder and faster because even though we humans like to think we’re above animistic instinct, the truth is that deep down, we are all tribal by nature and only marginally more evolved than apes.

And that’s it. All this is the sum total of what I can confidently say I know about the Martial Dao, which really isn’t much. Everything else I ‘know’ is mostly guesswork and observations rather than indisputable fact, more of a bunch of working hypotheses rather than any verifiable theories or immutable laws. There are also plenty of mysteries which I have yet to solve, like why do animals interact with Heavenly Energy using a similar but different system? Or why is Chi so limited in function when Heavenly Energy is the power of creation and destruction and able to do seemingly anything? Why are hot dog wieners sold in packs of ten, but buns sold in bags of eight?

Okay, that last one was kinda tongue in cheek, but still a valid question. The real issue I have now is the fact that I have deviated from the tried and true Martial Path that everyone knows and am now in uncharted territory in my quest for strength. With a little help Taddy’s body tempering baths, I reforged my shattered Core and dispersed it all throughout my physical body in order to fit my Natal Palace back inside. While my refined body isn’t quite a Spiritual Heart just yet, it is analogous to one and might well be a new milestone along the Martial Path. The benefits from all this have been staggering to say the least. Even though there’s nothing physically different about me besides a bit of added durability, my Chi is more responsive now than ever before. I can’t easily explain the fundamental concepts of Honing, Cloud-Stepping, Sending, or most other Chi skills, but I can use them with little more than a thought, though I’m not entirely sure if this is due to my refined body or because I created a PC keystone with a bunch of programs to help automate the process. I can use more Chi than before, though not nearly enough to suit my needs, since I keep overdrawing my reserves and coming down with a big case of insomnia. Hell, Healing Dad took so much out of me that I went full on comatose, and I still can’t fucking sleep, which really goes to show how far I still have to go.

There’s more benefits too. Not only was I able to reforge my Spiritual Weapons through a liberal use of Panacea, I can control them like my own limbs now. How, I’m not entirely sure, because I just Will it and it happens, because I am the weapon, and the weapon is me. Then there’s the whole Blobby thing wherein I bound a large portion of the Azure Sea, which I’m still not entirely sure is a good thing considering I can’t carry it around with me. Oh, also my Aura keeps leaking out and sharing all my emotions, which is really embarrassing most of the time and only fun when I’m playing with floofs. When all is said and done, I honestly have no idea what I’m doing, just like the dog with the goggles and science equipment. Par for the course really, but the unique nature of my Path also means no one can really answer my questions, and the stakes are too high to rely on failing my way to success. I need answers and I need them now, but as I have already established, I am not a smart man.

Circling around back to the start, I go over it all again to see if I missed anything. I like starting at the Core because it is the first step along the Martial Path and the most difficult step in many ways, because it’s a pass-fail hurdle that ninety-nine percent of humanity is unable to cross. In contrast, one-hundred percent of Defiled succeed at Core Creation, but only because they accept help from external forces, namely Spectres which are severed fragments of human souls made up of all the emotional baggage their former owner wished to be rid of. Somehow, I feel like the Defiled method is the inferior method, even though I myself utilized the same principles to help nudge the Stormguard over the threshold between commoner and Martial Warrior. Why is it inferior? No idea, but the facts speak for themselves. Despite there being more Defiled than Martial Warriors, they don’t have as many Experts and Peak Experts in comparison, which I assume is due to the defects left behind by their non-standard Core Creation. Then again, it could just be the result of meddling Spectres hoping to keep their hosts weak and reliant on their assistance. Give a Defiled too much strength, and they might not need the Spectres any more, which runs counter to their goal of inciting Demonification and paving a path for their return to the material world.

See? Even when discussing what I think I already know, there are so many uncertainties to account for. How is any of this uncertain, unverifiable, and unconvincing information supposed to help me on my new Path to the Peak? Aura Condensation, Natal Palace Formation, Domain Development, and Void Shattering, these constitute the rest of the universally accepted milestones along the Martial Path, but there are simply far too many unknowns regarding each of them for me to comfortably claim any sort of understanding. Take Aura for example, the basic kind rather than the emotionally adjustable sort the outer provinces only recently learned about. Standard-issue Aura is done using Chi to to project a field of pressure onto your enemies or counter an opposing Aura suppressing your allies. That’s all it really is, a one trick skill with no real depth or complexity. Martial Warriors tend to achieve Aura Condensation fairly early on in their Path, usually during a short period before or after Natal Palace Formation, yet animals leave it until after Void Shattering. Seems odd doesn’t it? Why would they do that? Then again, why wouldn’t they? What purpose does Aura really serve if you’re an animal grubbing around in the dirt? A Natal Palace allows one to practice Chi without expending it, and a Domain enables us to use Chi Externally, while Shattering the Void supposedly enables one to freely manipulate the raw Energies of the Heavens in an explosive fashion. That last bit is up for debate, considering I’ve yet to see a Divinity actually use Heavenly Energy in any meaningful manner, but the important take away from all this is that each milestone along the Martial Path sets the foundation for the next one, a steady progression of steps that lead to the Peak.

For most, the only time Aura comes in handy is when fighting Demons and other Aura users. Animals don’t go to war, and they also develop their own defences against Aura independent of Condensing one of their own, so they don’t really need Aura at all. In fact, that brings me back to the issue of timing, and makes me wonder what the prerequisite for Aura Condensation is. Core Creation, pretty much, except not only does an Aura have no real requirements, it also serves no purpose in furthering a Warrior along their Path. You need a Natal Palace for a Domain, and don’t even think about Shattering the Void without both of the above, but Aura? Ping Ping proved you can ascend to Divinity without one, which is curious to say the least. All this is without mentioning the addition of other mysteries surrounding Aura like the aforementioned Emotional Aura, which thus far only Li-Li and I have been able to pick up. I’m pretty sure I helped Li-Li with that too, though I’m not entirely sure how, which is yet another mystery which plagues me. Then there’s the matter of Luo-Luo’s ability to project her emotions through music, which is similar to Emotional Aura, except she can do so without having Condensed an Aura of her own. This then ties into the whole concept of power in art, because art is the means through which the human mind connects with the soul, and somehow offers a glimpse into the Dao.

Or at least that’s how it is according to Monk Happy, which is why the Brotherhood are so keen on making art, and why the most popular Defiled pastime is making arts and crafts from the corpses of their enemies. Somehow all this ties in to Runes and Spiritual Weapons, but honestly, I feel like I should really limit my focus and avoid so broad an approach. I should figure out my Path first, and then I can study the extra-circulars like Rune Crafting, Divine Blacksmithing, and playing the zither or whatever.

Going back to Aura, Monk Bones said regular and emotional Aura only works because they target the mind and soul through empathy rather than the physical body, which is protected from foreign Chi by an internal Domain. Everyone enjoys this protection, mind you, Peak Experts and base commoners alike, the reason being is that souls are generally inviolable, which is what your internal Domain is made of. I say generally because there are exceptions, like when I helped Rustram Develop his Domain so he could Heal Sai Chou, and when my Natal Souls helped a few thousand Irregulars spontaneously Create their Cores. Initially, I thought the thing with Rustram and Sai Chou worked because they’re in love, and love is a union of both body and soul, which is an explanation I still stand by. The problem is, much as I like the Stormguard, I’m pretty sure I don’t love them, so I don’t know how my Natal Souls were able to meld with theirs. Whatever, it worked, so why stress about it? The important thing about internal Domains is that the Abbot believes that in order to achieve True Divinity, one must first refine the body, mind, and soul, as opposed to merely focusing on the body like most Martial Warriors tend to focus on, and I’ve an inkling suspicion that Aura and Kukky’s Dream Coo-coo-cachoo are pivotal to how he trains his mind and soul.

I would love to pick his brain on the subject, but it feels like the Abbot is trying to compete with me for most time spent in a coma. I mean, c’mon man. You can have the title, I just want some answers...

