On the way over, I study my dog in an attempt to figure out what’s setting him off. I understand him stopping me from helping Yan with her Domain and getting irked when I Sent a helpful message to Grandpa Du, but why did he stop me from trying to console Mila? I didn’t do anything with Chi, I just wanted to stroke her cheek and offer a little support, let her know she wasn’t alone and that things would be alright, but Buddy’s reaction was far more intense than when I tried to help Yan. Why? I have no idea, but I assume he has a valid reason. While I’d never call him smart, he’s a natural companion who only has my best interests at heart, so he’d really only drag me away like that if I was truly in danger.

Was the mere desire of wanting to help Mila enough to risk losing Balance? I don’t see how, but I suppose I should be more careful moving forward.

As we arrive in Pan Si Xing, we find a storm of absolute chaos and bloodshed just waiting to break out. Dad’s forces quietly move into place in tunnels underneath the city, while specialized scouting teams have already made their way in. Homing in on a familiar face, I follow Siyar as he makes his way through the streets unseen with skill unlike any other. MuYang is almost as sneaky, but would have long since been spotted if not for Concealment, while Ravil and many of the other scouts are getting by on sheer luck, meaning it’s only a matter of time before it runs out. I can’t help them, but I’ve always wanted to know how Siyar does his thing, and all I can do is marvel in awe because I sense no Chi at work in his stealthy ways. All he has is a lifetime of skill and habit to keep him unseen, shifting through the shadows around the Enemy blind spots as if they’re all clearly marked and updated in real time.

So engrossed in his efforts, I am just as surprised as he is when he runs into a captured Westerner on the stairs, and it is both laudable and heart-wrenching to hear her warn him against moving too soon. A few minutes, she tells him to wait, because the guards will soon change shifts, so she gives up the prospect of safety and freedom so that the Imperial soldiers will stand a better fighting chance. She doesn’t know how many soldiers are in Pan Si Xing, or what their mission is. All this poor, battered woman Winoa knows is that Siyar is an Imperial soldier, which means his life is more important than hers. It takes tremendous courage to go willingly into the arms of your slavers and away from potential salvation, but Winoa is determined not just to escape, but to pay back her slavers with interest aplenty. The fire in her heart burns low and slow as she files out for her shift in the mines, a single, smouldering ember that could have gone out at any moment, but now it pulses brighter and brighter as she seizes hold of hope.

While watching Winoa leave and wishing her all the best, I realize too late that Siyar has lost himself to anger as he charges down the stairs to engage his foes. He puts on a tough front, but he’s not as indifferent as he appears, because otherwise he would’ve never asked for her name. What comes next happens by sheer reflex as I grant Siyar Authority over the Heavens in my name, and his Domain billows out in the blink of an eye, freshly Developed and deployed without blinking. An orb of silence settles in around him as he throws himself into his bloody work, moving faster than I’ve seen anyone short of Peak Expert move and dispatching his foes one by one. There’s no fancy footwork or embellished movements, with each blow aimed to kill as quickly and quietly as possible. Nine die before they even notice there’s a Warrior among them, and the last three die choking on the daggers embedded in their throats and unable to raise more than a gurgle.

All this happens in the blink of an eye, and though Buddy is quick to react, the harm is already done. Though I feel no different from before, I expended a significant portion of myself to help Siyar, and Buddy is none too pleased. He comes from a place of concern, as to him, I’m no different from the real me, but I knew from the start that my existence would be finite even if I survived to make it back to myself. I’m not the sort to leave a copy of myself running around free as a bird, because I am a jealous man and I just know my Natal Soul will eventually resent my real self. All I can do now is pray Siyar regains control of his temper as quickly as possible and give Buddy a conciliatory pat on the head before picking him up to hold in my arms. Though he squirms at little bit, he quickly settles into my embrace as I scritch his head until he rests his chin on my shoulder and sighs.

Perfect. So long as I keep the scritches going, I no longer need to worry about his well-intentioned intervention, which is good because I doubt I can hold myself back any longer. Soaring into the sky for a better perspective, I watch as battle breaks out all over the city, starting from where Ravil’s scouts were discovered and emanating outwards in all directions once Dastan incites the people of the West to rebel. Though I wish he hadn’t done it, I know in my heart of hearts that even if we could slaughter every last Defiled in the city, the people of Pan Si Xing would not be whole. No, they have been victims for too long, and just like my sister recognized I needed to strike back at my oppressors when she rescued me from the slave camp nearly a decade ago, these poor people need to fight for their freedom, else it will mean nothing in the end. I can Cleanse the Tainted of Spectres, but left unchecked, then there’s a good chance most of these slaves and prisoners will pick up new Spectres soon enough thanks to the traumatic stress incurred from their ordeals. Now, even though many will die in battle, some survivors will be cleansed in the fiery heat of battle and bloodshed, able to to stand tall and take pride in their actions this day, which at the bare minimum will give all the Imperial forces a fighting chance against the Father’s minions most foul.

Dastan did what needed to be done. This much I know. Victory without cost will never be cherished, and without the people of the West, there might be no victory here to be had at all.

Much as I would love to help, Buddy eyes me from the side and growls before I can even think to act, as even scritches aren’t enough to distract him from his duty. My doggy’s disapproval is a powerful threat indeed, because even though I’m not scared he’ll bite, I don’t think I could ever forgive myself if I made him upset, because he’s just a sweet doggo who wants the best for everyone all the time. Even then, there are times when I can’t help but interfere, though I do my best to limit myself as much as possible. For the most part, everything is going fine until Bai Qi deploys his heavy hitters, the Demons, half-Demons, and Peak Experts alike, and then panic sets in. First up is Li-Li, who Yaruq simply dumps into the middle of a chaotic engagement without anyone to fight alongside her. The idea is to forge her in the heat of battle, as I can see Yaruq keeping an eye on her ward at all times, but I also see the Wraiths slip past the half-gazelle’s perception and bee-line straight for Li-Li. There is no thought given to the action as I warn Li-Li of danger, again not in words but sensation alone. With Emotional Aura and her newly re-created and reinforced Core, Li-Li is so close to Domain that I barely need to even nudge her to set her along the path to success. I grant her no Authority, not like what I did with Siyar, because I cannot afford to. I simply bring her attention to what her unseen senses were already telling her and trust her to figure out the rest. Though Mila and Yan are both stronger than Li-Li, the half-cat fights with the grace and coordination of a Warrior with twice her experience, her new Spiritual Weapon flowing seamlessly from one movement to another. Mastery of the Forms and a burgeoning Domain are enough to see her through the danger, albeit with an assist from Yaruq who pulps the half-Demon seeking to end Li-Li’s life, but that’s all I get to watch before Buddy jumps me away with a pulse of Aura warning me to take care.

Because like I warned myself earlier, every time I take action, there is less of me left to give, and though I still have my wits about me, there is a fine line between Natal Soul and Spectre which I dare not cross just yet.

Zian’s battle with the Demons, Rustram’s clash with Chosen Peak Experts, XinYue’s duel against a Half-Demon, Ravil’s efforts to clear the streets of citizens, Fung’s struggle against Chieftains and Wraiths alike, I watch all these struggles and more unfold before my eyes with the utmost of restraint, but it is difficult to do nothing while my friends fight for their lives. The assistance I lend is minimal, a gentle nudge here and a subtle direction there, but that is all they need to evade death. And yet, this is not enough, for I can see the writing on the wall if things continue to go this way, so I heave a small sigh and sever off as small and Balanced a portion of my Natal Soul as I can. A tiny me pops into existence, one barely larger than my hand, and it is almost comical to see him grab Buddy’s leash in both arms. “Go home Buddy,” I tell my sweet dog, and he woofs softly in defiance before pulling out the big guns and whimpering in sorrow, his eyes wide and head lowered in adorable sadness. He ruins it by raising his head to see if it has any effect, but even then, it’s difficult to see him in distress. There’s nothing I can do however, except harden my heart and kiss his head before repeating myself. “Go home. Good boy. I love you.”

And goodbye. Sorry Buddy, but you still have the real me to look after you.

Mini-me is not exactly the brightest bulb in the box, but he knows his mission and will carry it out well. At my nod of farewell, he tugs gently at Buddy’s leash and brings him away, but only as quickly as my doggy will move, which is not quickly at all since he keeps stopping to see if I’m coming with. Fighting the urge to give in to fear and survival instincts, I wave goodbye and turn away before consoling myself with the truth. “You’re just a Natal Soul,” I tell myself, even though I feel as real and alive as ever as I set into motion a series of events that will culminate in my death. “Nothing to be afraid of.”

What happens when you make a copy so perfect it is virtually indistinguishable from the original? At that point, does it really matter which one is real and which one is a copy?

Of course it does. The real me is watching all this unfold from behind our Keystone PC. The me in Pan Si Xing is finite and would’ve disappeared eventually to rejoin the original, so there’s no sense in mourning my loss.

The battle for the city continues unabated, and I try to hold back as much as I can for the grand finale, but there is precious little I can do to stop myself when seeing people in danger right in front of me. Chu XinYue, Bulat, Huu, Tam Taewoong, even Winoa who leads the miners to overthrow their overseers, I offer a bit of myself to each and every one of them to warn or help them along, and countless others in passing. Then, Bai Qi reveals himself in all his glory and Dad rises to the challenge, and their battle is breath-taking to behold. Fierce and cunning, my father, my idol, my hero Baatar faces down his foe without fear, for even if he dies alongside every other Imperial in Pan Si Xing, he believes it will be well worth the price so long as he brings Bai Qi down with him.

Me? I’m not so convinced. Powerful and brilliant though the Lord of Martial Peace might be, he is little more than a piece on the board, while Zhen Shi manipulates everything from behind the scenes, a fact he reveals by pulling strings from the shadows. I sense more than see his hand at work, whispering lies and slander into my father’s ears as he fights for his life. Oh how terrible it is that you never got a chance to say goodbye to your son, and now he will wake from his coma to discover that the father he worked so hard to save threw his life away like a fool.

“Bullshit,” I exclaim, and Dad’s wolf ears perk up at the sound of my voice, but that took all the strength I had left to muster, and I’m left shivering in place as Zhen Shi’s dark Intent sweeps over and discovers me. Unwilling to waste any effort on communicating with the monster, I raise my head high and grin in defiance before promptly ignoring him entirely in favour of watching Dad beat the shit out of Bai Qi. There’s nothing Zhen Shi can do to me anymore, because soon, I will be less than dust in the wind, my entire existence having been given over to this working. Even Bai Qi’s reveal of his Blessing of Sand is not enough to bring me despair, mostly because I see the truth of the situation. I can feel the Blessing there on his Core, an out of place, patchwork addition that screams unnatural and incomplete. Zhen Shi’s shoddy work, I assume, using my severed shards of Soul to help his minions force an Awakening, but that was a dumb decision. Blessings are not easy to use, so Bai Qi would have been better off using my severed soul for almost anything else if he wanted a quick power up, but then I suppose he wouldn’t have been able to make his dramatic reveal.

