“I don’t know. I should’ve done... something.”

Taking a long draw on his pipe, Orgaal raises an eyebrow and asks, “Like what?”

Designed better bullets maybe, or tried my Honed Aura, though I don’t know how I could’ve coordinated it with the others. Maybe I could’ve touched the Demon and jumped into its Natal Palace to kill it, even if I don’t have Blobby anymore and an actual Defiled host probably won’t be as accommodating as Bei was. Or I could’ve vomited water at it and... “I don’t fucking know.”

Having said his part, Orgaal smiles and pats my shoulder. “There was nothing you could’ve done to make a difference, and it is time you accept it. I did not join in against the Demon, not because I am a coward, but because I know my limits. Learn yours and work within them.” Gesturing at the medical tent, he says, “Now enough moping and meandering about. Go visit the wounded and show gratitude to your Healers, but also remember your own contributions. Many still live because of this camp you chose, the armour you provided, the training you taught, and more.” Chuckling as I stand, he adds, “And remember to smile, lest your grim disposition make everyone forget: Last night’s battle ended in victory, young Rain, a slaughter of thousands in exchange for hundreds of wounded and dozens of deaths. A fair trade, I’d say, and it’d be a mad man who disagrees.”

Sheepish at having been caught out but still not entirely convinced, I thank Orgaal for the advice, put aside my inferiority complex, and head over to the rarely assembled medical tent. Offering a few quiet words of encouragement to the conscious patients and hearty thanks to the staff, I eventually make my way to the back where both my Healers are still hard at work. Lying on neighbouring cots, it’s hard to say whether Jochi or Tenjin looks worse, but neither of the powerful Experts are in the best of health. Though it’s been hours after the fact, Jochi’s complexion is still disturbingly pale after his double amputation, losing most of his right leg and the bottom half of the left to Abjiya’s not so tender ministrations. As for Tenjin, his smile is still bright but horizontal, as the vigorous and spirited Khishig is unable to sit up because his spine is in a bunch of itty bitty pieces, with Jibari hard at work keeping shards of bone from entering Tenjin’s brain.

Two months of non-stop victories, but one Demon shows up and fucks everything and everyone up. Unfair.

Keeping Orgaal’s advice in mind, I smile and stick around for moral support, laughing at Jochi’s joke about using his tail as a third leg or Tenjin’s complaints about his father nagging him to practice more Healing. Soon enough, both injured Experts fall asleep and Abjiya chases me out, making passive-aggressive remarks about how ‘proper Healers’ need ‘quiet and concentration’ to work, though why she chose to emphasize those specific terms is a mystery.

Rescuing a beleaguered Song from the chatty trio and collecting Mama Bun and Blackjack on the way, we head over to an unoccupied area by the pond to stand in comfortable silence and watch the turtles and quins splish splash in the water, a much needed floof break after a hard morning’s work. Wishing I could steal Mama Bun from Song, I sigh and turn away before I make her uncomfortable. Having recovered from yesterday’s Demon birthing, the pond is back to its regular water level and the river flowing as usual, though its fish and lizard inhabitants are being hunted to near extinction by a hundred and fifty odd quins.

Watching the animals frolic only buys me a short reprieve before my mind turns back to more important matters. Terrifying as last night’s ordeal was, it raised a few interesting questions aside from ‘How the fuck am I supposed to survive?’. For starters, if I drain an area of Spectres, does that mean no Demons can be birthed? Does more Spectres = stronger Demon? Is there some sort of critical mass of Spectres required before Demon birth takes place? Did it become a Water wielding Demon because it was formed around water, or because the host had strong feelings regarding water? If the Defiled host had slipped on ice before his transformation, would he have become an ice Demon?

It also revealed a little more about water manipulation. The Demon only used a finite amount of water in its attacks, which is in accordance with Elder Ming’s notes about binding physical water with Chi, i.e Chi-infused water. Bullets were drawn from the shield and the whole thing melted away to form tentacles, and I can’t imagine it would’ve done that if it could use the ambient water to attack instead. It’s also different from what Tenjin and Lei Gong do, using Chi to mimic fire or lightning which is supposedly easier. Why couldn’t the Demon do the same with water? Why was it limited to the water it had bound? Maybe it’s time to put more effort into figuring out how to use Chi-infused Water instead of feeding it all to Pong Pong and Ping Ping for no gain whatsoever aside from their cute turtle smiles.

Bah. I’m doing it again, making baseless speculations. Didn’t I just agree to stop reaching beyond my grasp and let nature take its course? That doesn’t mean I won’t experiment, but I can’t devote too much time to it. The Forms is where the bulk of my efforts should be focused towards, that and... Ugh. Learning strategy from Daxian. The man literally jumped in front of a bullet to save me, but I still can’t bring myself to like him. When I thanked him last night and joked about how I didn’t think he even liked me, he straight up said, “I do not like you, but you are my superior officer. Thus, it is my duty to keep you alive.”

It’d be so much easier to hate him if he wasn’t so... right all the time.

“Pei. Pei. Pei!” Suddenly sitting beside us, Guan Suo bristles with indignation and says, “I’ve had enough of your groaning and moaning, like a damned bellows with a leak. Shut it or get gone and leave an old man to smoke in peace.”

“Sorry, didn’t know you were here.” Though to be fair, if you hide yourself so well people can’t even see the clouds of pipe smoke, you shouldn’t get so upset when people accidentally intrude on your privacy. Besides, if he wants privacy, then he can go home to Ping Yao or whatever. Not like he’s even remotely useful, didn’t see him once during last night’s battle. Probably slept through the whole thing. “Song and I will get out of your hair.”

“Hmph. The girl can stay if she wants.” Lying back down in the grass, he adds, “I like her. She’s quiet and respectful, unlike a certain mouth-breathing brat who fakes good manners while thinking rude thoughts. What’s the matter? See your first Demon and shit your pants? Regret your decision to play soldier?”

“I’ve seen Demons before,” I reply, more annoyed than I probably should be. “Killed one too, though I’ll be the first to admit it was more luck than anything else.”

Guan Suo’s snort of laughter is infuriating to the extreme. “You? Kill a Demon? What’d you do, smack it once before it died and now you’re claiming credit?”

“Ran it through, actually.” And sent a droplet of Heavenly Water directly into its Natal Palace, but he doesn’t have to know that. “I figured I hit a vital organ or something, because it died.”

“Pei. Now I know you’re lying.” Deigning to sit up and look me in the eye, Guan Suo empties his pipe while we speak. “Demons don’t have vital organs. You saw it yourself, that thing had a Spiritual Weapon clean through its skull and kept on moving. A damn fool is what you are for thinking your piddly little dagger could’ve changed things. Even if you cut its head right off it would’ve made no difference, and you almost got yourself killed trying.”

...Okay, so he watched the battle. Still doesn’t absolve him from staying out of it. My protectors, my friends, they almost died and he did nothing. “...So how do you kill a Demon?”

Finished packing his pipe, Guan Suo fixes me with a knowing stare. “You don’t. Neither do I. I ain’t here to fight your battles, boy. The Protectorate is help enough. Me, I’m just looking after the big girl there and keeping her safe from the fool she’s hellbent on following around. Next time you see a Demon about to kill your protectors, you turn and run away, you hear? Ain’t no point throwing yourself on the Enemy’s swords, especially not if you bring the big girl with you. Leave the Demons well alone and live to fight again another day.” Laying back down in the grass, his pipe glows with heat even though I didn’t see him light it. “Now quiet down or get gone.”

Quietly turning to go, I pause at the sound of Song’s voice. “Rain is no coward and he did not lie, Venerable One. He killed a Demon in Sanshu, though I do not know how. A single stab and it died, as I and others in camp have witnessed. By your leave.” Stalking away, she motions for me to follow and whispers, “The only way to kill a Demon is to inflict massive trauma to its body or starve it of corpses until it weakens and falls.”

“Ah. Thanks. Good to know.” Surprised she would come to my defence, I hesitate to correct her, but in the interest of honesty, I add, “Truth is, I was terrified last night. Still am. How am I supposed to fight such a creature?”

More slipped out than I’d intended, but Song takes it in stride. “There can be no courage without fear. You struck at the Demon while all others, myself included, stood idle. That is enough. If you mean to face the Demon, then you must train until such a time when you can defeat it. Such is life.” Almost as an afterthought, she adds, “We can discuss training methods together, if you’d like.”

...Is she trying to console me? “I would. Thank you.” Throwing caution to the wind, I ask, “Song, you don’t have to answer, but do I make you uncomfortable?”

“No.”

And that’s all she says as we move to another unoccupied area around the pond, but it’s good enough. I don’t make her uncomfortable, and even though we took a bloody nose last night, we still came out on top. Don’t get me wrong, I’m still going to get anxiety attacks thinking about fighting Pudge again, not to mention the sheer despair of knowing my guns didn’t do shit and how insurmountable a difference in true Martial strength really is, but er...

Fuck.

I forgot the point I was trying to make...

Chapter Meme
