He started walking into the city while her team scrambled to keep up. A break sounded good. Spending it hanging out with Matt, Liz, and Aster sounded amazing too.

Baxter said over their still open channel, “Besides, you can take advantage of Matt’s abilities when we get out there.”

Melinda’s hackles rose. She and her team had already talked about that, and decided not to take anything else from Matt.

“No. I'd rather go our separate ways if that's the plan. We need to stand on our own.”

Her team backed her up in a chorus of agreements, but Baxter just turned and walked backwards to face them. “I don't mean you’ll be mooching free shit off him. I mean that you’ll delve the rifts he can power. It will do you guys good to delve blindly and often. With him there, you can all stay full of mana too. You can condense years of training into months. If you really feel that bad, just don't absorb the essence and give the rewards to him. But your little team needs the practice. Fighting people is great training, don't get me wrong. But delving blind is its own type of equally good practice.”

Melinda hated to admit it, but she agreed with his reasoning. She wanted to say Matt couldn't afford it, but the man was a literal mana fountain. He wouldn't miss the mana it took to keep them topped off and delving often.

She even agreed that it would be good training.

As her team followed Baxter into the city, they had a rapid conversation through their AIs.

Sam was all for it. “This is perfect. Liz told me how she got the ingredients for the mana concentration potions. If we can make one for general herbs, I can advance my craft a ton. And I know she'd be all for it.”

Tara poked her as she rebutted. “We already took a ton from him. It's not fair to use Matt for items. If we do this, we need to be independent.”

Kyle scoffed, “Yeah, maybe you and Vinnie took a ton, but the rest of us didn't get growth items.” He held up his hands. “Not that I think we’re owed growth items or anything, but even with the skills, we got a lot less than you two.”

Mathew interjected, “Speaking of skills, the war is over, so even though we died, we can cash out and not take a loss. Better to buy skills and items now, before everyone else realizes that.”

That distracted them as Melinda sighed. Of course, now that she finally had the half-million points needed to buy the upgrade orb, they were all long gone. Disappointed, she went with her backup plan and bought the Tier 20 directed healing skill, [Mend Flesh]. It was like [Directed Heal], but specialized in mending muscles and skin. The individual skills [Mend Muscle] and [Mend Skin] would be better, but they were even higher of a Tier. Still, this would let her cheaply stop bleeding in combat situations, while being useful for hospital work.

The skill had an incredibly low mana cost, while being even more effective at its specific task than [Directed Heal], which could do anything. It also caused less healing cooldown than undirected healing spells.

Normally, she would need to save over years of hospital work to afford it. But the rewards for the war were generous, and you needed to be a registered healer to buy directed healing skills from the store. Which meant that she was one of the few people on the planet who could and would purchase it. Unless the army healers didn't already have the skill, for some odd reason.

With less than 100,000 points left over, Melinda sent them to the groupnso the others could use them to get what they needed.

Kyle, in the end, needed the points the most, and bought a weapon charm growth item that increased the connected weapon's weight at the wielder's discretion. The only reason the charm hadn't been bought yet was that it only increased the weight of the item, and couldn’t lower it.

For Kyle, who had more strength than he knew what to do with, it was nearly perfect. But even with the limitation, it was still pricey at 400,000 points.

Mathew bought a new Tier 8 shield that he insisted he could handle, despite the spiritual strain, as long as he didn't use the embedded [Expand] skill.

Eventually, they returned to the topic of going with Matt.

Mathew shrugged. “I don’t think we should take anything from him either, but free unlimited rift access would be amazing for a little while.” Her husband promised, “We really do need the practice, but I don't think it should be forever.”

He looked at Baxter. “I assume we wouldn't be allowed to use it forever, would we?”

The older healer grinned and winked at Mathew. “Nope. Not a chance. But while you’re at Tier 6, if you stall there for a bit, I'm happy to let you do it for a year or two.”

Melinda had to nod to herself. That made sense. They were nearly at the peak of Tier 6, and they could advance with little effort with normal delves. Their team was also well ahead of the curve, so their stalling would put more pressure on them when they did advance.

They would have to balance practicing in unlimited rifts while at Tier 6, and learning while eating into their buffer.

Vinnie asked, “Hey, I can’t help but notice you didn’t mention what Tier of rift we can delve.”

Baxter laughed. “Color me surprised. I didn't think any of you would catch that immediately. Yes, if you want to delve up a Tier or two, then I'm all for it. If you can beat Tier 8 rifts at Tier 6 and farm a bunch of skills, I won't interfere at all. Fighting up is why we have The Path after all.” His grin became positively evil as he added, “If you really feel that motivated, I can even ask a dear old friend to give you some pointers. She just loves mentoring the younger generations, and I'm sure she’s been taking notes.”

He refused to elaborate further, only chuckling to himself as they collected the few belongings they left in their room, then waited for Matt at the teleporter. Baxter said that they were going to arrive soon, and Melinda just wanted to get out of her armor and into something comfy.

As she leaned on her husband and chatted with her family, she thought back to the past year's events. They had come a long way, getting out of the rut they had fallen into, and honing their combat skills in real danger. Their individual skills and teamwork had increased tremendously as a result.

Melinda had even gotten over her phobia of using her Concept, even if she didn't like it.

She had no idea who the person Baxter wanted them to meet was, but was confident that her family could handle it. And traveling with friends would make anything they encountered a challenge, instead of an impossible task.

Seeing Matt and Liz holding hands as they walked in, with Aster prancing around their heels, she smiled.

Things would be ok.

She would make sure of it.

Healing took on many shapes, and she would master them all.

Eventually, she intended to even master death.

Eventually.
