Kyle and Mathew fought a pair of Tier 7’s to a standstill, and to her pride, were now gaining ground. It would take them a bit of time, but they each were holding their own, and even pushing the Kingdom reinforcements back. Until a full group of Tier 7’s arrived, and shifted the odds heavily against them.

Outnumbered, their team started falling back.

The situation deteriorated further when an arrow sprouted from Sam’s chest.

Her teammate crumpled like a puppet with its strings cut, and Melinda called out for cover.

Discovering the issue only took a moment; the arrow had nicked her friend’s spinal cord. Sam didn’t even say a word, simply trusting Melinda to make her whole again.

She called out, “Hold for me! I got her.”

Healing something like this was a delicate job. Were it not for her Talent, Melinda would have needed to go back and perfect the area later. But she extracted the arrow enough to free the spine, and delicately stitched the broken nerves back together, with her overhealth guaranteeing perfection.

Sam gasped for breath as function returned to her body. Melinda left the rest of the arrow in her after breaking off the fletching. It had missed everything else vital, and she didn't have the time with their retreat.

Standing together, Sam tossed a potion at their feet which produced a dense, grey haze.  With the woman's Talent, the gas completely avoided her side, and created a deadly zone for the counterattacking Kingdom troops.

Melinda dodged out of instinct as a Kingdom man attacked her after taking out part of the team next to them. He seemed unconcerned with the poisonous fumes around them.

She took the first strike on her armor, but her AI registered that the blade had pierced through and bit into her flesh. She struck out with her mace, forcing the man to step back. He tried to lunge forward, but she used a backswing to strike his arm, which broke under the weight of her weapon.

Using her shield, she blocked the next two attacks, feeling them get stronger each time. In between each strike, she realized that he was holding his breath to avoid inhaling the poison, yet he didn’t seem to be slowing down with lack of oxygen. Luckily, heavy wounds taken from the last team were wearing on him, or else she’d have been gone by now.

Reeling backwards to desperately create distance, she saw Vinnie ping her AI, “Grabbing him.”

When the man moved to close in on her, only to sink into the stone down to his knees, she was prepared. Her blow that the man clearly intended to take on his shield landed directly on his armored head instead. He was gone before she could identify how bad the damage truly was, but she knew that it had to have been a fatal blow.

With the team next to them fallen, Melinda checked her mana, and found that she had half a pool. She decided to use [Jolt] to help clear out a portion of the enemies who were rushing to attack their flank.

Baxter had repeatedly recommended that she never exhaust her mana pool below the cost of an emergency offensive skill. Those words proved their worth, as her rarely used attack extended from her. The energy ripped through three people before fizzling out. It bought them enough time to disengage.

Or at least, for most of them to disengage. Tara was locked up, trading shots with another archer.

Melinda wasn't sure if she was showing off, or having trouble taking the other archer out, as they were shooting each other's arrows out of the air.

Finally, Tara lost her patience, and her next shot split into five copies before the other archer could shoot it, and several copies made it through. Mathew was there to block the final return arrow, but the explosions of fire in the distance told Melinda that Tara had used the skill on one of the elemental arrows.

Exposing one of their trump cards was an unfortunate outcome, but she agreed with Tara’s usage of the skill.

Most human enchanted arrows couldn't be easily duplicated with skills. They either didn't work, or lost most of their power. With each copied arrow’s explosion being the same size, anyone who noticed could deduce that their team had either a supply of rift enchanted arrows, or a rift item that made them.

She hoped that everyone would assume the former, if only because they’d all try to steal Tara’s quiver if they knew it was the latter.

With half the secret out of the bag, Melinda gave Tara leave to use three more arrows. That should be just enough to imply that they had a supply, but were using them very sparingly, as if they were few in number. Hopefully, they could get ahead of the information with some incessant complaining about the loss of irreplaceable arrows.

Two more fire arrows were launched to cover their retreat as they raced away with the rest of the survivors of their unit. There was no order, and the surviving formations ran together while trying to dodge the incoming fire.

As they neared Tara’s maximum range, a lightning arrow crackled out from her bow and created an instant of daylight in the pitch black of night.

The flash ruined their visibility, but that same lack hampered the Kingdom defenders on the walls, as most of their ranged attacks went far off target.

When the team were back in the Queendoms encampment, Melinda pulled Sam to the healer's tent and extracted the arrow that was still inside of her.

Baxter had to volunteer information on how to extract the arrow from the sealed wound without doing excessive damage. Her Talent had healed the wound around the remnant of the arrow perfectly, locking it into place. That was great on a battlefield or in a situation where her Talent was counted, but she could send Sam into a long healing cooldown if she did too much damage while removing the projectile.

Or a simulated healing cooldown.

They were pretending that her Talent didn't exist, which felt unfair in this case, when she was dealing with it doing its job too well.

Even still, after she gave Sam a pain killer, she managed to gently cut the arrow free and reheal her friend. All without sending her over the threshold for a mandatory healing cooldown. It was close though. Close enough that if Sam stubbed her toe too hard, she might end up teleported out.

Begging off pleas for a shift at the healing tent, Melinda crashed with her team.

Their fight only lasted an hour, but they were all drained of mana and exhausted.

The siege continued on, following a similar routine for the next four days, until they heard news of the other besieging army finally taking their city. Even with their own lack of progress, the encampment celebrated the victory and its implied hope that Amber, with her infamous new spell, would come to assist them in battering down the Kingdom troops still holed up in this city.

Then the news came down that Amber had been killed in an ambush by Matt’s remaining troops. The cheery atmosphere faded away in a blink. As the surviving troops escorting their fallen hero arrived, things in the encampment turned even grimmer.

More than one squad ended up in a brawl, as frustrated fighters mocked and threw insults at the portion of men who failed to protect Amber. With both Sara and Amber dead, internal strife began to spread. Melinda felt that this was an ironic turn of events, as she remembered how this very army had celebrated the death of Prince Albert and Juni, which led to a similar situation.

Orders came down demanding that they take the city in the next two days, casualties be damned.

That soured the mood, but everyone prepared to comply nonetheless, and readied themselves to take the city.

Melinda's team was in the third wave and watching from afar, when there was a blaring alarm override in her AI.

“Halt all fighting and prepare for emergency transit.”

The message repeated three times, then Melinda and her team saw the world around them change.

Baxter stood with them in the all too bright sun around the neutral city, staring up into the sky.

A death notification shocked Melinda as much as the rapidly teleported people.

“What the fuck was that!?”

Baxter pulled his gaze down at her and smiled. “Want to watch the show?”

Melinda had no idea what he was talking about, but nodded.

A second later, her team hovered over the rapidly emptying city.

Then, in a flash of purple haze, everyone remaining vanished.

Melinda opened her mouth to ask what was going on, when the world turned white.

She worried about going blind when the air in front of her team went dark.

Melinda grabbed the nearest hands she could as an enormous fireball engulfed the city and turned into a mushroom cloud. But they were perfectly fine as the blast of compressed air smashed the nearby forest, and stripped the top layer of a nearby mountain off.

Then, everything seemed to reverse as the air rushed inward to the epicenter, dragging the debris inward to cause more destruction.

When she thought things were over, Melinda watched as a smaller, secondary explosion fired something into the air through the dust plume.

The city which had resisted their attacks for the last week was just gone. The encampment where they had stayed was similarly destroyed, but there were more remnants of it tangled in the mess of trees and stones.

Melinda turned to Baxter. “What was that!?”

He laughed as he pointed off into the distance, where she could see another plume of dust rising. “That, sweet child, is the end of a war.”

At his words, a message greeted her.

‘Kingdom Victory by surrender of Queen Diana; weep as your side has lost.’

That made even less sense.

Tara pipped in, “Yeah. I don't get what happened.”

With a flash, they were in the neutral city’s shadow again, as Baxter explained, “If the light show didn’t make it obvious enough, the Kingdom planted bombs in all their cities from the beginning. Traps. It was the main part of the King's overall plan.”

Mathew huffed, “That hardly seems in the spirit of a training war.”

The rest of her team chimed in while Baxter shrugged. “The Queendom could have and should have noticed them. But they were disgracefully sloppy. The bombs were hidden under the teleportation pads, but you never settle yourself in former enemy territory without a thorough search first. This was an ameture strategy working against an even more amateurish opponent.”

He pointed up. “Besides, the Queendom had their own little ploy to end the war. It even worked for the real war, just not here.”

The drama playing out in the air above them was broadcast to everyone present. Together, they watched the King and Queen face off. Melinda disengaged from Sam and Vinnie to hug Mathew.

Seeing Albert publicly degraded caused Melinda’s fist to clench, until she felt her own knuckles pop around Mathew's stronger hand. That was a humiliation no one should suffer, and it was being broadcast to everyone. Normally, she disdained anyone that didn’t appreciate still having their parents around. But watching Albert’s father, she couldn’t help but feel that his son would be happier as an orphan.

Baxter maintained a carefully neutral face throughout, which Melinda found unacceptable. “Why don't you stop him? He's hitting someone so much weaker than himself.”

Her mentor let out a sigh that felt tired, even to her. “I wish I could. I do, but familial discipline is an exception to the Tier laws. If he killed the boy, I’d have cause to act. But he's careful, and didn't even break anything.”

Melinda’s teeth clicked as she held back a retort. Baxter didn't like it either, and if he refused to act, there was nothing she could say to move him. And he clearly wasn't happy about it either.

As Sam cursed under her breath with something Melinda didn't quite hear, earning a laugh from Baxter. “Why yes, that jackass will get his comeuppance. If you remember Liz’s mother, you even know who will probably do it.”

Kyle asked the question they were all thinking first. “Um. I don't get it. I know who you’re talking about, but I don't see the relationship.”

Baxter sent a group voice message in reply. “Mara and Leon are well-known oddballs. She likes to collect planets where important events of her children happened. Liz made a lot of friends and grew a lot here, with both the golem incident and Pather war. I’d bet everything I own that she's coming to collect this place as we speak.” He looked at them, “Which means that we want to be out of here sooner rather than later.”

Tara leaned forward to peer around Vinnie. “But still, how does that equal anything?”

Baxter smirked. “Those bombs were packed full of depleted copper. The planet is going to need years of work to be made clean again. And how can a collector have a dirty prize? She's gonna be royally pissed, and I’d bet she’ll take it out on him.”

Melinda scanned her team to confirm that they didn't have any depleted copper in them, and concluded that Baxter must have shielded them.

She guessed it made sense for Mara to be mad, but the resolution still felt empty overall. The end of the war was so unsatisfying. They had fought so hard to secure a win, while bleeding and sacrificing everything they had. All for it all to suddenly vanish through the machinations of two Tier 35’s and a sudden surrender.

She couldn’t say if she would do anything different. With most of the Queendom forces dead for two weeks, and a good portion of the planet now poisoned, the war was as good as over.

Dropping her mace, Melinda asked, “So what now?”

Baxter stretched. “Whatever the hell you want. Personally, I’d suggest you kiddos tag along with Matty and Beth-Beth out to a more remote location of the Empire. There’s someone out there I think you would do well to meet, Melinda. Plus, you can have a nice relaxing break after working so hard during the past few months.”

