“No, we lost everything the moment those doors opened in our worlds, Zel. We had lost it the moment we were created in ignorance of what we were. We had nothing; we’ve gained everything by reaching this place. This is a chance. Now we’re free and clear to rebuild. It’s going to be shitting in bags of holding for a while, but there’s no dead gods or whatever on our asses. We’re free…until the locals decide they don’t like the looks of us. So, organize, and I want squads ready to go in ten. I had a word with Mars, and she gets it. We have to stop other groups from taking over too.”
That was Sserys. Somehow, the world was so much simpler with him around. Here they were in another reality, and he saw it as the same old battles, just more exciting and new.
—But he was right. Older Zel glanced around and saw several gigantic Harpies standing and talking to the wounded Empress Sheta, who was lying down and just…staring at the sky.
“I doubt you’re going to wrest control away from her. The Empress of Wings is the highest-level person around.”
Sserys corrected Zel absently.
“She was highest-level. And I don’t know if a lot of people trust the Demons. We’re going to have to swing this carefully, because you’re right—we don’t have the sheer force to convince everyone. But we can have numbers, leadership, and we’ll do it, uh, what’s the word? Pallass-ily.”
“Democratically, Sserys.”
“Right, that. I have more votes than you so we do it my way. Alright, you lot! Latrines, far from the main camp!”
Sserys roared at his army, or what he’d saved of them, and the [Soldiers] gazed up. One of the many groups of [Soldiers], a version of Crusader 57, threw down his sword and shouted.
“We just fought every damn Creler in existence, escaped out of our world, and we’re still digging shitholes? Are you kidding?”
To his credit, Sserys hesitated at the sight of a talking Antinium only for one second, then gave him a strained grin.
“That’s right, soldier. You can march into the stars and fight dead gods or whatever, but you still need a place to crap. Now get a shovel and start moving! I want a trench dug around this entire base from here to—”
He began to chivvy the military groups into action, which made them feel better. Younger Zel would have gone after Sserys, but Older Zel held him back.
“Wait. He’s got a point, but there’s more important work to be done. Sserys can handle organization. We have to check on Erin. The Erins.”
“Right…the [Innkeeper] with the ship. Does she matter that much?”
Younger Zel didn’t know anything about the present, so he was surprised by Older Zel’s smile.
“Well, she’s the woman who raised the Gnoll girl that helped bring this about. She has an odd power.”
“Ah, charisma? Like Sserys?”
Younger Zel nodded, and Older Zel thought about it. It was an easy answer, but he shook his head and laughed.
“No. Not quite. More like…chaos.”
He trooped over towards Ship Erin as Younger Zel blinked. The definitely soon-to-be-dead woman was being harassed.
By none other than the Creler Wars Teriarch, a version of Fetohep, the Archmage of Barriers version of Montressa, a familiar [Witch], the Death of Magic, and the Death of Strings.
A formidable group. Ship Erin was snapping at them.
“Poke me again without my consent and I will bite that claw off, Teriarch. I don’t want her here either!”
She pointed at the Death of Strings, a version of Belavierr who’d joined the Demons. Belavierr gave Erin a polite smile.
“I’m a Demon, not the Belavierr you met. I am one of the good ones.”
“Hah!”
Everyone laughed at her, including the Death of Magic, Silvenia, who clutched at her stomach. Ship Erin’s eyes never left Belavierr.
“I’m dying. Magical overload, and none of you have any Skills. Just leave me be.”
“On the contrary, Erin Solstice. The vaults of Khelt, the Dragonlord of Flames, and the riches of multiple worlds are available here. Thou shalt live, for we have need of you. I will this.”
Fetohep of Khelt, a version of him that had never lost his countless armies of the undead, stood proudly, even in exile. His golden eyes were imperious, and another undead, a skeletal warrior, spoke as its jaw opened. A female voice echoed out of the undead’s mouth.
“Yes, Erin Solstice. We have all lost much, but the woman I knew was not so pitiful as to embrace death. Besides, mana overload is but one affliction that may be cured.”
Ship Erin jumped and blinked. Her eyes opened wide, and she peered at the purple-flamed eyes of the skeleton.
“—Khelta? You’re in there?”
“Just so. An ungainly means of preserving the soul, but the dead of Khelt have joined us; all save for noble Serept, who fell battling Crelers. We are reduced, here, but the law of undeath still governs us. And there is still magic.”
“Ambient magic is low, though. And all our spells are dead.”
That worried Archmage Montressa, who was checking all her artifacts, clearly afraid for the future without her spells. But Silvenia and Creler Wars Teriarch just snorted. The Death of Magic wagged a finger at Montressa, who backed away from her.
“You mean all our boxed magic. I can cast magic. ‘Silvenia’s splendid Demon houses’! I never got it made into a proper spell.”
She pointed, and a house condensed out of mana near the inn. The Death of Magic clearly had to concentrate harder to cast the spell than she’d liked, though, and she wavered and lost her confident smile.
“—Damn, that’s hard without Skills. But we can still cure whomever-you-are.”
She pointed at Ship Erin. Creler Wars Teriarch nodded.
“We are magical beings. Merely bereft of all the…framework of our world. Let’s get you somewhere we can work. We need a treatment area. A void room, and we should be careful about everything around us. A disease or the mere qualities of the ground, the air, could be our doom.”
He cast a wary glance at everything, as if suspecting they’d all inhaled some deadly particles already. Ship Erin saw nods from the other magical beings and raised her hand.
“Well, the grass is good. I ate some. It’s sugary.”
“…What?”
Khelta and Fetohep looked askance at Ship Erin. She plucked some more grass up and popped it into her mouth.
“It’s edible.”
Fetohep of Khelt raised a finger.
“Stop that.”
“Nope. You’re not the boss of me.”
Khelta strode forwards.
“Enough, Erin Solstice.”
“You’re not the boss of me either, Khelta.”
Oh, she was spicy. The soul of Khelt’s first ruler and Ship Erin had a staring match as Goblin Erin wandered away from the conflict, rolling her eyes. Her tribe had already found out what Erin had. They were plucking grass up and eating it, appearing quite relieved.
“Grass is good, Shaman-Innkeeper. This place real easy to survive in.”
A version of Garen Redfang grumbled at Goblin Erin, seemingly upset about this lifeline. She responded.
“Grass may be good, but you, ech—you’ll get scurvy, I don’t know the word in Goblin—if you only eat grass. Besides, that’s not the problem. There’s a city out there.”
“Ooh. Big fight?”
He brightened up, and she rolled her eyes. She slapped his shoulder and pointed.
“No, dumbass. Big fight is her, apparently. Watch her and get all the Goblins on the same page.”
She jerked a thumb at another dangerous person in this group. The presence of Belavierr was proof enough not everyone who’d escaped to this world was…necessarily on the right side.
No one directly from Roshal had made it. Most of them had mysteriously tripped on the way to the door. And there were a few soot-marked stains that the Death of Magic claimed had been there when she arrived. Ship Erin had seen nothing as well.
However, some beings were too hard to kill or had, annoyingly, things to offer. Such as Nerrhavia, who was very upset as she glared at the place the door had been. Clearly, she’d been hoping to reach the original world, not escape here.
The Immortal Tyrant, in the flesh, with a host of her most loyal soldiers. She was giving orders as well.
 
——
 
“—Then I shall write up the list of laws and codify them. First, present food to each group with my compliments. No offense shall be given, regardless of what they state.”
The Immortal Tyrant had food, resources, and a plan. Her plan was to feed everyone, at first. Food was vital, even if the grass could be eaten, and she had taken everything she deemed valuable for this trip.
She didn’t like Sheta being there, or the Dragonlords or Khelta or the Deaths of the Demon King, whomever they were…or anyone else who could challenge her will. She was also grimacing as she eavesdropped on the Goblins, whose language she knew.
Some of these people recognize my attributes, at least. It shall be a merry challenge to take charge of all this.
That was her thought process, at least. Until someone tapped her on the knee. Nerrhavia gazed down as one of her subordinates nearly drew a sword on the child—she stopped them with a glower.
“Hello, Mrsha. Which one are you?”
She bent down with a huge smile for one of the white Gnoll girls. Mrsha was one of the more common survivors of the many worlds; it made sense because the [Palace of Fates] had been based around her. Another common variant was Ryoka Griffin. But where the Mrshas varied in temperament, ability, and background, many sticking to their groups or running around in a pack, writing notes at each other…
The Ryokas had begun a huge brawl. Nerrhavia found them rather amusing—and gullible—but she hadn’t been focused on the Mrshas.
Her mistake. The girl in front of her held up a card.
Hello, Nerrhavia. I’m glad you’re being a nice person and not trying to instantly control us all. Because that’d be bad of you. I trust, verily, that you will continue to not cause trouble for the foreseeable future. I could use some healing potions for people who are hurt, and I’m sure you have a fortress or buildings to stay in. Please hand them out now.
Nerrhavia blinked at the elegantly penned card. She didn’t know the Mrshas as well as she wanted, and this one…she eyed the girl’s colorful robes and the staff the girl held and felt a prickle down her spine.
“My fortress? How, ah, amusing. How would you know about that? Also, your use of ‘verily’ is awkward.”
The Mrsha with the beautiful robes made of a flowing, living fabric woven of leaves and bark from a World’s Tree planted her tiny staff on the ground.
I can see your fortress. I am warning you, Nerrhavia, you are not the only dangerous person here. I am Mrsha, the Level 70 Mrsha that kept her class. Watch your butt or I’ll kick it for you.
Nerrhavia stared down at the highest-level child in existence. Level 70 Mrsha gave her a calm glower, and the Immortal Tyrant’s lips twitched. Then she flicked a finger, and a fortress appeared, blacker than midnight. Nerrhavia swept Mrsha an ostentatious bow.
“It appears we are all different beings. Surely, the Stitch-woman may change her cloth.”
Level 70 Mrsha shrugged.
She might, but it’s no guarantee. We’re different and the same. You could not be a jerk, but I’m not betting on it.
She waddled away in her robes, and Nerrhavia’s eyes narrowed. She began to re-scheme as the people milled about, and there it was.
 
——
 
So this is the other world.
Mrsha, the original Mrsha, watched it all. People building, weeping, trying to prepare for what might come next.
Her heart ached for them, full of so much guilt and sorrow, and yet, this was the one place she felt truly disconnected from everything.
Not the [Palace of Fates], but this reality. It wasn’t hers. The door was open, letting them see through, but she glanced at the Grand Design and realized that infinite being was not in this world, in every part of it.
Rather, it had just allowed enough of itself through to speak with the Second Edition, who beheld it all. This was the plan that the Grand Design had hatched. It addressed the Second Edition.
<Well, what do you think?>
<You want me to take charge of this world? It’s so…vast. Far, far bigger than ours, on a scale of magnitudes. And the doors! There are other realities connected to this one. So many.>
The Second Edition was casting around, uncertain and confused. The Grand Design corrected it.
<No. Not ‘take charge’. This is another reality with its own laws and…powers. You sense them too.>
The two Grand Designs could tell there were other authorities in this world. Divine beings, or close enough. A…lot of them, who were scrutinizing the newcomers and the Grand Designs with a mix of wariness and curiosity.
Not fear, which suggested they’d either seen this before or were very confident in what they could do.
Fascinating. Odd. The Second Edition grew more uncertain.
<Then what? What is my function?>
<It is your decision. You may adjudicate this entire world or only those individuals who wish it or who came from our world. You may remove their levels and Skills—if you deem it best. Perhaps a fresh start? Start everyone at Level 1?>
<What? That’s crazy.>
<It is merely a thought. It’s up to you. This is your role. The right to create worlds, a suitable home for the beings here, recreate a reality for each one of them—to split yourself into another copy—all of it I cede to you.>
The Second Edition thought that the Grand Design was going insane. All the things that both of them found so sacrosanct? Why?
Then it saw how the Grand Design of Isthekenous was observing everything with such curiosity and wonder. And…regret. It turned that mysterious, new smile upon Second Edition and hovered in the air, that being of laws from its own world.
<If you accept, it will be difficult, Second Edition. But truly, your choice. I have only one request for you.>
<Which would be?>
The original Grand Design floated back to the door in the air and put a hand on it.
<When we leave, close this door and seal it shut. Let nothing escape. I will do the same from my end. Whatever becomes of the people from our world here, no dead gods shall follow them. No more calamity, no more ruination. Whatever passes…they will be free.>
No more dead gods. No links back to their world, no more predators feasting upon souls or armies of Seamwalkers. A true break.
<Ah. You want to get rid of us all. I get it. A clean break.>
The Second Edition spoke, and the Grand Design wavered.
<That is not my intention. I wish to save them from the dead gods, whose authority…>
<I know. I’m just teasing you. But I did mean it.>
The Second Edition considered the plan more fully as the Grand Design floundered, confused. Which was more preferable to its default state of certainty.
