<This was my attempt at humor. And an insult. If the Faerie King objects, he may state his complaints directly to me.>
The fake Oberon vanished with an ‘oh no!’ as the Grand Design waved its hand. Mrsha wondered…what the reaction of the faeries were if they’d seen that. The Grand Design seemed pleased with itself at any rate. Then it drew Mrsha closer.
<In truth, Mrsha, there is a part of me that considers the Faerie King is truly so intelligent and able to play fates that he set all this into motion. The dead gods…you understand the divine?>
Mrsha knew more than most, thanks to Erin and Ryoka talking about the subject, but the Grand Design handed her a dictionary from Earth and showed her the definitions of omnipresent and omnipotent.
<This is one frame of belief around gods: they know and see all. If we assume they are so powerful and all-knowing, we must suspect Oberon orchestrated every moment. However—my suspicion is that the gods and Faerie King are not as smart as they think they are.>
What’s your evidence for that?
The Grand Design smiled, an unpracticed curve of lips made out of the rules of the universe.
<If they were, they would not be in the predicament they are now. The Faerie King was marked for death by Kasigna. He lost his consort, Titania. Ryoka Griffin’s anecdotes describe a damaged Land of the Fae and a waning faerie population. The last six gods of this world are dead, rotting husks. Do they seem in control of the situation to you?>
Mrsha felt like that was excellent logic. Even if you could play a masterful game, taking this many bad losses or accepting you were a dead corpse for a hundred thousand years seemed like a really stupid play.
Okay. He did something, but he’s not all-knowing. So he probably made some of the [Palace of Fates] happen. But I did the rest.
<Yes. How much of it is your fault? I will not weigh your perceived sins, Mrsha, because it is subjective. You wished to save a life. You did not realize, at first, that they were their own people and the horror of what you intended. You were aware of the risks in some ways, but you tried to take safeguards. If you had known it would come to this, you would not have done what you did.>
That was true. The Grand Design pulled up more of recent history and showed it to Mrsha, reminding her.
<In fact, the inciting incident that led to all this disaster was not your fault at all. It was the Draconic Titan in the mountains that forced you to seek out Rags. Had that not pressed you for time, things may well have turned out differently.>
True! This was true, and it made Mrsha feel a tiny bit better.
They had all died, though. Worlds. People’s homes and everyone they loved. She bowed her head and sat next to Isthekenous, and the Grand Design made a sound like someone clearing their throat.
<…So what role does the Faerie King have, and how do I judge him? I would put it like this, Mrsha du Marquin. From the tales of him in other worlds, from the evidence we see in how he has approached this world, I view him as a king who sits at the hearts of stories. Those who come to him, or those he judges worthy, he arms. He is the being who gives magic swords to children and lets them fight monsters.>
Mrsha nodded, remembering those green eyes. Not emotionless. Not dispassionate. But literally distant. Sympathetic—but entirely aware this battle wasn’t one he could fight.
So he’s doing his best is what you’re saying.
Like some kind of multi-reality Erin Solstice, in his way, giving someone a magic sword from her [Gardens of Sanctuary] so they might survive. Giving Gershal his magic blade.
The Grand Design seemed slightly displeased. It spoke.
<Not quite. Consider what I said, Mrsha du Marquin. I said: he gives children magic swords and allows them to battle monsters they feel they must overcome.>
Mrsha didn’t get what the Grand Design meant. Then she focused on what it was saying.
Right. Right, you mean he’s like Niers.
<Yes. In more ways than you imagine.>
That was…a curious response. The Grand Design wasn’t being insulting here. It spoke.
<I think, Mrsha, that in assigning credit to the Faerie King’s plans, there is something we must consider from his perspective. The flawed planmakers. Perhaps he did intend you to use the [Palace of Fates], but not as you did. Roots Mrsha used one of the doors to simply acquire magical items from Warmage Thresk. A plan you had conceived of.>
Mrsha squirmed, embarrassed.
Yes. But only after we saved as many people as possible. It’s so…
<Selfish? Indeed, she only did it to aid Taletevirion.>
Oh, that’s okay, then.
<That is how you feel, but consider, Mrsha…the Faerie King’s logic. Is it not more sensible to retrieve a magic sword than a life? It would have had so fewer consequences if you had used the [Palace of Fates] to steal from Archmage Zelkyr or retrieve copies of the Heartflame Breastplate.>
Yes, but I don’t need those. I mean, they’d be useful, but I…I guess it would have made things better. Even if I stole from other worlds.
Mrsha saw the logic, but it felt so entirely childish. And she sensed the Grand Design’s satisfaction at the thought.
<Childish indeed, Mrsha. The Faerie King knows children. He is a being of stories. Perhaps he even knows you too from his observations of this world. Or perhaps he fell for it too.>
Him? Fall for what? Mrsha didn’t understand until she heard what sounded like a laugh in the Grand Design’s voice.
<Mrsha the Great and Terrible. Mrsha the Adventurous. Mrsha the Thief of Realities. Perhaps even the Faerie King was tricked by your reputation.>
Perhaps, just maybe, Oberon had expected a child who would steal treasures, not lives. The thought whirled around them, mere speculation that neither one could confirm. Mrsha’s head rose, and her heart ached.
If so…what a mistake. But regardless, the Faerie King had placed the power to do that in Mrsha’s path and let her choose.
Then, Mrsha thought of the Faerie King. Did he mourn all the worlds that had been destroyed? Yes, probably. She imagined that face and could see the sympathy there.
Just as he had in the lands of the dead, when he’d watched the ghosts making their last stand and contributed to helping them. He was on a side, and he did what he could.
…But like Niers, he would damn a city to strike a blow at the dead gods, because he saw the totality of the war and made his choice, like a [General]. Only, Oberon would sacrifice countless worlds and Mrsha herself. He would let her try and achieve her dreams. That was the monstrous part of him.
Maybe someone should stop him. Or maybe he was needed. But the Grand Design’s point was that you could be angry at him. Mrsha wasn’t sure…how she felt.
So that’s it, I guess? He did his thing, I made my choice, and I didn’t know the future, but it still ended up like this? I wanted a hug, and I killed a trillion people for it. I saved some of them or gave them a choice. Maybe I made it so they won’t be created and destroyed again. But that’s it. There’s nothing good that happens without a bit of pain.
That was how she saw it anyways. Mrsha sat there, and the Grand Design inspected her. It…hesitated.
<I do not see the world like that, Mrsha. There is no overriding good force, nor evil. Just me. But even without myself, the dead gods, or Oberon, what happened is not necessarily inevitable.>
She turned to the Grand Design, hungry for some kind of answer.
Then what? What caused all this? Just bad luck and chance?
She hated that answer too. The Grand Design took a longer moment to reply.
<While you were in the [Palace of Fates], Mrsha, I was researching other realities. Not just the ones Kasigna dwelled in. The world Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin come from, Earth—well, one version of it. Presumably, there are as many as stars in the heavens. What I have observed across species and peoples is that the world is capable of great deeds and horrific ones. However, small deeds add up in odd ways and ripple across entire continents. One person’s actions may change the fate of nations. On Earth, they call it the ‘butterfly effect’, where the smallest butterfly beating its wings can cause a tornado.>
Mrsha almost said that was silly until she thought that Erin was that butterfly. She’d appeared around Liscor one day and changed so much. Mrsha nodded, agreeing with this. The Grand Design drew a line across reality and showed Mrsha the world below.
Thousands upon thousands of souls, each person going about their daily lives.
<Everyone is selfish, Mrsha. Every person acts how they think is best. Random chance is not why the [Palace of Fates] turned out the way it did. What seems like chance to you is subjective, because you have only your eyes and viewpoint. Butterfly effect? All I see and hear are the flapping of countless wings around me.>
The image made Mrsha smile. She pictured it, a giant menagerie of selfish butterflies, and thought that if that was how the Grand Design pictured everything, well…it was funny. And terribly sad.
So it was just chance?
The Grand Design was shocked by her question. It raised a hand, vaster than worlds, written with the countless rules that made up a pawed hand like hers, and drew it across the void, and there were butterflies. Glowing motes, made of flame and light and everything imaginable except for life, fluttering around her, creating little currents of air, pushing each other until the entire universe seemed to shake.
<Chance? Oh no, no, no, no, Mrsha. That is not what I meant. I am telling you that everyone has their own plans and desires. Everyone is meddling, from the dead gods to the Faerie King. They all had designs on the [Palace of Fates], and each one failed to get exactly what they wanted, I believe. You were a tiny butterfly, but you flapped your wings and set it all into motion. You did this. For better or worse, that is what I believe. In this sea of desires, yours changed this entire world. It changed countless worlds. It changed…me.>
Mrsha gazed about the universe of flying butterflies and saw the tiniest white butterfly, covered in fur, flapping about, pulling everything with it, making it react to her. She gazed up at it solemnly and saw wings cascading to the ground as other butterflies broke apart under the waves of force as the entire universe destabilized. More swirled higher, borne aloft, and she saw worlds dying. Her eyes filled with tears.
—But she was dead. Mrsha had been relieved in her death that it didn’t hurt so much, that it was all faraway. When she’d been facing the Deaths, it hadn’t hurt.
Now, it did again. An overwhelming feeling that washed over her and left her empty. Numb, until she was trembling, and the butterflies vanished. The Grand Design gently spoke to her.
<That is my answer. Does it satisfy you, Mrsha?>
The little Gnoll child sat there, head bowed, for a long time. Eventually, her tears slowed and she could raise her head.
All it took was time. A moment of time, folded over and over, as long as it took her ghostly tears to stop falling and for her to slowly rise and stand.
Eventually, after a long while that only the Grand Design counted, a second and an eternity, Mrsha stood and dusted herself off. She nodded to the Grand Design.
It does, thank you. That makes a lot of sense. I don’t feel better, but I’m ready. You’ve been really nice to me. It’s time, though, I think.
Time to face the music for what it had planned for her. Mrsha thought she knew, so she spoke to the Grand Design.
If I could…I’d rather go with the Deaths than to where I think you’re taking me.
<And where is that, Mrsha?>
Hellste.
The Grand Design actually appeared surprised, but Mrsha wasn’t. It made sense. She was a being of this world, and there were rules. The dead went to Hellste; she had come to the conclusion she was being re-filed. Which meant she might see everyone again, even get to talk to the living if Erin ever got the [Palace of Fates] reactivated.
But still…she would prefer to take their hands and know what truly came next. Mrsha squeezed her eyes shut, bracing herself for the worst. But she couldn’t help but peek at the Grand Design.
The Grand Design floated there, clearly surprised, but not for the reasons Mrsha assumed.
<You are oddly correct and wrong. Hellste is a place I must address, and it will be difficult. But it is not where you are bound. If we fail to seek resolution, I will take you back, Mrsha.>
Mrsha opened one eye.
You promise?
<I have never broken my word. However, we are actually still waiting for the moment to come.>
The Grand Design didn’t check a watch or timekeeper, but Mrsha was aware time had been passing in the world below during their conversation. She did a double-take.
You have to wait for my fate and whatever comes next? What kind of super Grand Design are you?
<A patient one with a sense of gravitas. Some things come at appropriate times. Think and you’ll figure it out.>
Mrsha peered at the people moving around The Wandering Inn, still talking, cleaning up damage, and then she glanced at the Grand Design.
Well, if you’re gonna make me wait, can I put in a suggestion?
<A what?>
Feedback?
<To me. From you.>
Yes.
<I am not turning off causality.>
Mrsha scratched at her head.
…I don’t know what that is. But please, just one suggestion? I feel like I have to say it, especially since not many people will ever get the chance to speak to you like this.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous considered this for a long moment.
<Very well then. Go on.>
There were a lot of trite things Mrsha could have asked for, like adjustments to classes or asking why there weren’t actually Skill descriptions, but all of those were silly and superfluous. She was actually fairly happy with the world of levels and Skills as it existed. People in it? Sucked sometimes. But Mrsha took a huge breath—even though she didn’t really need it—and spoke-thought at the Grand Design.
You see, it’s about the [Palace of Fates], how it ended, and well, everything. It’s the dead gods. They made this world, I get that. And the Elves stopped them and there’s some kind of weird Halfling and stuff…I’m not that smart.
<I could prepare a timeline of the history of the world, but go on.>
Mrsha shook her head. That sounded like too much work. The important thing was this! She held up a paw.
The dead gods made everything. Even the ground is theirs. You’re their creation. They made the world, like that guy.
She pointed, and the Grand Design turned.
<Isthekenous, the God of Designs.>
Exactly. But they eat souls! They don’t die! They don’t have levels, but you saw what they did to the [Palace of Fates]. And the deadlands! They’re not fair. So…
The girl spread her arms out.
