Can you just delete them? They’re cheating and everyone else is playing fair. If you’re correcting Faerie Flowers, I feel like they’re worse.
The Grand Design stopped. And the audience, invisible and otherwise—sat up a bit in their chairs.
 
——
 
“Did she just ask for…?”
Ivolethe turned to Melidore, and the Summer Fae shushed her. The faeries were suddenly leaning forwards.
 
——
 
<You want me to destroy the dead gods?>
Yes.
The girl felt like it wasn’t unreasonable. The Grand Design had seen the same things she had. But clearly, the request was greatly troubling to it. It floated back a bit, trying to formulate a response.
<…How shall I explain it? Mrsha. When you learned to hunt with Relc Grasstongue, you two found a young Rock Crab in the Floodplains of Liscor.>
The hunting trip? Mrsha recalled that, when Relc had become an awesome guy to a younger version of her. She nodded.
Yes. So what?
The Grand Design replayed the scene for her as she tried to hunt the little creature as Relc cheered her on.
<The Rock Crab hatchling. It might have wounded or even killed you, but it would never be able to do so to Relc. Not in a million chances; there are scenarios where it might escape or live. He’d die of a heart attack or a freak accident. But it cannot best him. That is an unfair scenario to it. Yet I allowed it.>
She didn’t like what it was saying. Mrsha folded her arms, glaring.
So you’re saying the gods are just like super-Relcs and that’s fair?
<It is my job to let all beings do as they please. I judge the worth of their actions, not the merit of whether they should be allowed.>
Mrsha lost her patience and shouted at the Grand Design. It still wasn’t fair!
But merit and worth are the same kind of thing. The dead gods are cheating your system. They’re too powerful! They’re gods!
Its only reply was silence. The Grand Design didn’t answer, and Mrsha’s eyes narrowed. Wait a second…she had a sudden insight.
Waitaminute. You think they’re beneath you. Despite them being divine and making you—you think they’re just different kinds of butterflies.
Just a hint of a smile from it. Which was not what Mrsha wanted, though the arrogance of the Grand Design…she hoped the dead gods knew what it thought of them. It replied softly.
<More complex butterflies, certainly. I could erase them in a moment, it is true, Mrsha. But then I would be removing beings with souls for my own personal reasoning. I would destroy them and become one of them. A true active force in this world. A God, not a system of levels and rules. This veneer of impartiality is all I have, Mrsha du Marquin. You do not wish me to lose it.>
She disagreed. Mrsha felt like the logic made sense for the Grand Design, but the result was stupid, therefore the logic was stupid.
I think you’d make a better God than them! Maybe not by much, but you wouldn’t be as evil as they are. At least you’d care a bit.
The Grand Design was getting actually uncomfortable. It began to reply—
 
[Title – Discomfiter of the Grand Design of Isthekenous obtained!]
 
Mrsha and the original Grand Design turned to stare at the Second Edition. The Second Edition waited for laughter or applause.
None were forthcoming.
The Second Edition erased the Title and got back to work. The Grand Design turned back to Mrsha.
<Your presumption that I am a better candidate for divinity is flawed. That is exactly what Pawn said of Erin. You should not wish to find out whether the Golem loves you or not, Mrsha. You should fear the moment you give life to clay. I am that Golem. Isthekenous made me, and I have stayed within the role he outlined. If I should leave it, I would fear what comes next.>
She felt unsettled by how it spoke, and there was a trace of…wrath that Mrsha thought she heard beneath that impartial voice, a hint of feelings it didn’t want to have. What might it do if it had no rules?
However, she maintained her position, even as part of her wondered if this was a mistake.
It’s still better than the gods we’ve got.
She was pretty certain she was ticking the Grand Design off, because it replied more forcefully.
<You believe so? Then here is an example, Mrsha. You stated you preferred true Death and what comes next to Hellste, didn’t you?>
Yes. Obviously. It beats sitting around in Hellste forever.
<Then should I not offer all the souls in Hellste a true end? Death, if they chose? I allowed Halrac to go, because it was every Halrac. A part of him remains in Hellste…should I ask Death to take that part of him, too? I should, by rights, give it to every soul. However, I did not.>
The Grand Design reached out and showed Mrsha the spools of data that made it up, the rules—but also the levels, the classes, the Skills, and the people it had meticulously catalogued.
All of them that had ever been.
<My existence, Mrsha, is all that they are, the souls. My memory is the souls of every being, living and dead. Until Kasignel ended, I was multitudes larger. It is in my interest, then, that the beings of this world live and die within me. It is in my interest to deny you all what may be a truer Death. Is that the act of a kindly God? Is that what you think is best?>
It loomed over Mrsha, a collection of souls and information no better than the dead gods in its way, built upon death like Xherw’s Daemon built of dead Doombringers. Or so it wanted Mrsha to believe.
She had seen worse. The Goblin King, Belavierr, the dead gods, and the horror of all she had wrought. Mrsha replied loudly.
I mean, you could do the dumb thing. Or you could rip out every soul the dead gods took and get back all your data-stuff. And then write down everything instead of needing souls. That’d probably work.
She folded her arms smugly, as if she had invented writing things down. The Grand Design stared at her, and she had the distinct impression it was trying to find a flaw in her logic.
Somewhere, in the Court of the Faerie King, one of the last Gnomes was laughing himself sick.
At length, the Grand Design replied.
<I am unwilling to do what you ask, Mrsha. Leave it at that. You should not be so sure which side of the scales my nature lies on. After all, a part of me cheers for the Emir Yazdil, whose nature is so unlike your own. I am the one who gave Pisces the [Slave] class. I am every Skill written in blood and sin. I watch it all, and I take no sides. Do you want that Grand Design to rule you?>
The girl hesitated and uncrossed her arms, staring up earnestly at the parts of it made out of sin and depravity.
I just don’t think you’re that bad. I don’t think you really like it. I just think you haven’t ever taken a side because you thought you shouldn’t. I want to know what the Golem says. And if it wants to be free, shouldn’t it?
She paused.
I’d rather you be free than a Golem who does terrible things anyways.
She could have said more, but she held herself back, and the Grand Design didn’t seem to notice. It was avoiding meeting her gaze.
<I am debating the principles of morality with a child.>
She smiled sweetly at it.
Yes. Shouldn’t I be able to get morality if it’s that universal? Or are you going to tell me it’s okay to do bad things in the name of good?
She’d heard that one before. The Grand Design hung there a moment, then raised a hand.
<I will see you once my work is done. Go…bother the Second Edition.>
It vanished her, and she felt like she’d scored a point. Mrsha might not be a good chess player of fates and realities and stuff, but the Grand Design hadn’t been expecting her to play checkers.
 
——
 
The Second Edition of the Grand Design had obviously been listening in to their entire conversation. It greeted Mrsha as it slapped a level on top of Bird, who hadn’t done that much.
<I thought you made a lot of good points.>
Thanks.
<Too bad the original will probably erase me. I’m not sure about you.>
…Thanks.
She was still dead, ultimately, and Mrsha didn’t see a way out of it aside from the Second Edition giving her life.
<Pass. I’m an innovator, not a revolutionary. Well, you’re waiting. I think I know why. What do you want to see while we wait?>
The question surprised Mrsha. She wrinkled up her face, then answered plainly.
Why, the consequences, of course. Who lived. Who died. Who stayed, and who left.
The Second Edition agreed. It pointed down and showed Mrsha…a list. The living and the dead.
Those who’d remained in this world. So few. Mrsha clenched her paws.
At least one. Just one.
That was worth it. It just—she smiled ruefully.
It just wasn’t who she had expected. That was okay. She looked down and saw the first thing people were doing was…protecting The Wandering Inn. He should have been resting. He should have been dead.
But the Dragonlord of Flames, the one and only, purred instead.
 
——
 
Like a cat. Teriarch’s voice wasn’t soft, but rhapsodic, as if he wasn’t covered in wounds and half-dead. But then, he didn’t look it.
His scales were gleaming to a polish thanks to some old Dryad-made cream he’d dug out of a canister. It smelled terrible, but it did a wonderful job on the mane. He’d covered up the nastiest scars on what you could see of his body, bending the metal scales into shape.
So while he appeared grievously hurt, he didn’t look like a mostly-dead metal lizard, but instead the wounded Dragonlord of Flames.
The effect might be superficial, but it worked. So did the voice.
“Disastrous? Pray tell, your Majesty of Pheislant, where is the disaster?”
That halted the monologue from the King of Pheislant, who drew breath and tried to get his emotions out.
“The Goblin King! The murder of a noble [Lady] and the destruction of the entire palace of Oztera! And that damn inn at the center of it all, again!”
He didn’t include Pallass’ 2nd Army on the litany of disasters that had the man and his closest advisors on the edge of their seats. Which suggested he really didn’t care about that. It lined up with the notes Teriarch had cribbed and was projecting just past the scrying spell he smiled into.
Also, one of his sons was there. The [King]…divorced once, somewhat troubled by succession…not the strongest nation, but he had the Order of Seasons and the power of a Terandrian coastal kingdom. Where the hell was the name…?
“Ah, of course, the palace of Oztera. Putting that aside, Your Majesty Evein, what has been lost, truly?”
“Putting that as—the Goblin King returned!”
The man was trying his best, but he wasn’t the best at the old royal ‘we’ and impassive, monarchical presence. Probably why he’d gotten divorced. Teriarch’s reply was smooth.
“And he is now dead. Did I not tell your representatives, Your Majesty, that I would protect Izril? Or did you think the warning of the Dragonlord of Flames such a minor thing?”
He drew himself up and added a few spotlight spells so his scales gleamed, and the King of Pheislant sat back.
“I…ah…w-well, he is dead then?”
“Eminently. I saw to it myself.”
Teriarch lied like he breathed: rapidly and with a lot of holes in his sides, but no one could call him out on the lies. The King of Pheislant visibly sagged.
“By yourself! Why didn’t—er, the last time—”
“I was taking a nap. I do tend to leave the mortal world to its own devices, Your Majesty. A few thousand years, sometimes, and, well. The last time I awoke was for the Creler Wars. As you can see, the battle was to the death. Had it not been for the assistance of other great beings, I might well have fallen. The Goblin King truly was a foe beyond even the greatest of my kind.”
Teriarch played himself down to play himself up, and the King of Pheislant glanced over as someone whispered to him.
“Er…yes. We saw six other Dragons with your distinct appearance, sir—Lord Teriarch. More Dragons? A copying ability?”
Teriarch rolled his eyes up as if thinking hard, then smiled wider.
“Let us simply say that they were different beings from myself—that you saw as the same one. Anonymity, you see.”
“Dead gods. So are there six—”
Teriarch made a show of glancing at the other advisors and talked loudly.
“I am afraid, even to a member of the Hundred Families, I cannot disclose more without violating my own vows of silence, Your Majesty. In truth, I would prefer to be rather discreet, but your lineage and my debts to the Hundred Heroes impel me to give you some explanations. But not all, not so…unsecured, you understand?”
More bald-faced lies. If Teriarch met one of the Hundred Heroes, he’d arrange for the most horse manure he could find to be dumped over one of those bastards. Nor was Pheislant a direct descendant of the Hundred Heroes, so the King of Pheislant smiled with all the fake sincerity he had.
“Naturally, Dragonlord. But the inn…”
“The inn. Yes, that. Perhaps you’ve been speaking to a fellow monarch who led you astray, King…Evein? I seek you to reframe what you saw. Was the inn responsible for the Goblin King? Did it pop the Goblin King into existence? Or was it the reason he died?”
“The reason he…but he came from there! It has Goblins in it!”
Teriarch tsked softly.
“Your Majesty. Do you think the Level 5 Goblins employed in that inn are Goblin Lords? Let alone a Goblin King in hiding?”
Now, the Pheislant side was in full ‘looking at each other’ mode, and they leaned forwards, like people realizing there was a bigger mystery at play.
“This Goblin Lord of Civilizations who appeared out of nowhere. There is no history about her. She invoked Greydath of Blades, who is still alive. Do you know…?”
“A mystery to myself as well, Your Majesty, which I will investigate. If I may, I have a conjecture.”
“Please!”
The wounded Dragonlord groaned as he raised a claw, flexing his bad wing. Damn, that hurt. But it looked good. He traced a mystical rune in the air and conjured a few illusion spells.
“I was, in fact, at the inn when the disguised Goblin King and Goblin Lord of Civilizations appeared. All the signals pointed to the location, and my ally indicated she believed the threat most pressing.”
“Your ally. The Harpy…?”
“Dead. A heroine of her kind.”
He didn’t have to pretend that. The King of Pheislant was taking notes.
“So not a Demon?”
“Your Majesty. Even as a jest…no, not the Death of Wings. What has the Blighted Kingdom been lying about? Harpies flew in the Creler Wars against—no. A most ancient heroine. The greatest. The only—ahem. We encountered the Goblin King searching for what all who come to The Wandering Inn search for.”
“Allies? This wretched tribe they were defending—”
