[Skill – Summon: The Pink Carriage of Magnolia Reinhart created!]
And…
[Skill – Vehicle: Gigantic Impact obtained!]
 
It added a few more Skills to make the carriage stronger, then metaphorically stepped back and dusted its hands.
<There. Try stopping that.>
It showed Mrsha a simulation of Reynold trapped in the moments that had defined him before. Like when the [Assassins] had used wires to flip the carriage.
This time—the magical carriage blasted almost all the wires off their moorings, and Reynold kept it moving despite the ambush. When they managed to slow it—he called a second pink carriage down on them.
In that moment, in that alternate vision of what might have been—Sacra would have lived. And that was what he wanted. Mrsha’s excitement faded as she saw Reynold holding his friend in his arms.
Then she understood. This was what the Second Edition, what the Grand Designs were. They didn’t lie. In this moment, as it considered Reynold’s Skills—the Second Edition wasn’t thinking about the rest of the world.
It wasn’t trying to ‘balance’ Reynold’s Skills in a grander sense against other people. Second Edition was aware of the Skills and classes around Reynold, and was attempting to not make too many Skills overlap, as well as giving him everything it was allowed. The cheerleader on your side handing you a knife if it thought you needed it. Or a magical Skill that allowed you to fly if you were going to jump off a cliff.
—And it was moving faster. Mrsha saw levels and Skills flashing across the inn as it passed over the staff and people who’d survived.
Not just for those who’d stayed and fought—every Goblin and Antinium who’d gone to the [Palace of Fates] still deserved levels.
People got levels for doing their jobs. Like—it flicked to Pallass and assigned a level to a Drake who was sitting in jail. Mrsha saw the cell doors open, and a furious Sergeant Kel raised his head.
Kel? Yes—the Drake had been tossed in prison after throwing a riot against the soldiers of 1st Army not taking The Wandering Inn’s orders seriously. He was, incidentally, in the cell across from a [Mathematician] giving the very nervous wardens a flat stare.
Yelroan had never made it to General Edellein.
Those poopheads.
<They aren’t levelling. Some of them are losing their class, like Major Uraike. Or rather, it’s changing on him.>
That impressed Mrsha. She turned to the Second Edition, amazed.
That’s your decision?
<Mine and his. And Alchemist Saliss’ words will haunt him until the moment he can redeem himself. [Condition – Words of Disgrace assigned.]>
Mrsha shivered. She saw the other side of the Grand Design, and it scared her. The Second Edition noticed her discomfort.
<…Not all of this will be pretty. Why don’t you check on the original Grand Design? Tell it that I’ll leave the weird levels to it.>
Like who?
<The original Rags. Roots Mrsha.>
Then it moved her through reality and—
 
——
 
The original Grand Design was aware of the Second Edition’s actions, but in that vague way. It was concentrating. Stripping all possibility of this disaster from happening twice.
Altering the [Palace of Fates] to…avoid making souls.
It didn’t have to. That was the problem. The Grand Design could easily create souls and unmake them; if it were a being like Kasigna or the other dead gods, it would just leave the systems in place.
But if Death truly came for them—it did not want to continue to make beings with souls only to erase them. So it labored to create a way to replicate the effect without the consequence and wondered, in the back of its mind, what Isthekenous would have done.
Isthekenous. His corpse was still here. A…body. A reminder.
His memories.
It was a useful tool; with it, the Grand Design could, in theory, rewrite its own nature. It was prohibited from doing so, but Isthekenous was beyond any rules. Here was a…way out.
A way to alter its own rules. If it so chose.
Such a terrible thing. But that was not what the Grand Design thought of now.
It inhabited Isthekenous’ body briefly, and his eyes glowed golden. The rest of him was just the same. That image of a kindly, intelligent dice-player. A man sitting and designing a board game.
No warrior-prince, no aged academic or weighty king.
Just a God of Designs. What the Grand Design called forth from his memories was only this:
A memory repeated many times, a million times over the God of Designs’ life, where he sat hunching his back in a chair, wearily rubbing a hand over his face. Massaging the edges of his eyes, his entire face, as if to change his very features.
A gesture the Grand Design copied now. Because it had no body to perform this action it needed. It sat in its creator’s corpse, rubbing its forehead. The only thing Isthekenous had ever given it aside from life.
A little girl appeared before the Grand Design as it spoke to itself.
<“Levels are not what matter now. There are far weightier consequences. I do not wish to interfere, but my hand has been forced. A compounding list of actions, each more drastic than the last. But the first? It must be done.”>
Mrsha stared up at Isthekenous as the dead god raised one hand. Then she saw the first spell appearing over his head.
A perfect copy of an idea. Magic in a box—that’s what some people called it, because it was based on an idea. Once, someone had made this spell or performed this action, and the Grand Design had copied it, made it into something that could be given to those that levelled.
The ultimate cheat. The ultimate insult to those who achieved miracles by their own hard work.
Isthekenous’ Grand Design, which had caused war amongst worlds, raised his hand, and the first spell glowed overhead.
[Raystorm of Disintegration]. A Tier 8 spell.
Then—another spell.
[Spark of Divine Flame]. [Hand of Death]. [Heart of the Storm]. It copied each one and then doubled that number.
A hundred spells, each one replicating until they hung overhead, a storm of magic that no being in the world, in any time, could have ever cast. Mrsha trembled as those eyes swung to her.
<“I’m sorry, Mrsha. I have no choice.”>
She saw the hand point towards her, and the first spells flashed down. Not at her.
Down. Into reality below. Mrsha gazed down and knew what he was aiming at.
The Faerie Flowers.
 
——
 
The flowers in the [Garden of Sanctuary] were mostly dead. Their roots had been dug up. What blooms had remained had been burnt black by the fire of hatred as the Goblin King passed through them.
Yet some had lived. Yellow, innocent flowers with a power that defied any expectations, glittering like golden coins among black earth. Growing, blooming, feeding on fate itself.
They had spread through the many worlds, like any good flower did, seeding themselves and finding unique ways to sprout. After all, lesser flowers reproduced by using insects or birds to carry their seeds, by making unique fruit, or flying their own spores skyward. And that was nice, but the real survival mechanism was escaping your reality for another one altogether.
These Faerie Flowers were the greatest flora of this world, and their powers were manifold. They had created the Minotaur’s Punch, cured pain, transformed people, and so much more.
But too much. Too much—they could pierce any Skill, those roots.
They had to be removed.
So the first ray of pale light touched a Faerie Flower, and it turned to dust. Then the dust was swept up and vaporized, even the air destroyed. Matter unmade entirely.
The [Raystorm of Disintegration] touched down, a precise volley which took out each Faerie Flower in the garden. And it was but one of countless targets.
The Faerie Flower roots had survived even the nothingness of the [Palace of Fates] vanishing. They twisted through the air, innocent flowers that could become blades to wound gods.
A flash of lightning. The [Heart of the Storm] pulsed, pure electricity crashing across the roots, and the destruction swept outwards.
The Grand Design knew where they all were.
Each and every one.
It did not want to interfere. But it had to.
 
——
 
[Gardener] Mossul had been heading to the private greenhouse where his most important plants were, shaken after watching the news.
An entire army of Pallass laid to ruin. The Goblin King presumed dead—he wished he had bought a portable scrying orb to continue watching the news, though the Gnoll felt better not hearing the news as well.
The flowers would make him feel better. They were riches beyond compare; everyone was still demanding them, and growing them was so damn hard.
—When he saw the lights dancing in the greenhouse, he dropped his tools and ran. There shouldn’t have been light in there. He was the only one who had access.
Thieves? Or—
He burst into the room and howled. Then he grabbed a bucket of water and threw it, but the water did nothing at all. He wavered, paws outstretched—
“No. Nononono—please!”
They were burning. A spark danced over each flower. A flame so brilliant it hurt his soul, but not his eyes. A flame consuming each flower perfectly, leaving the other rare plants intact. Mossul fell to his knees as the Faerie Flowers, nearly a third of all that existed in the City of Growth, burnt to ash.
What was this? Sabotage? It was…that magic was beyond anything he’d ever seen. He didn’t understand. He thought of The Wandering Inn, where the flowers had allegedly come from.
Tears were running down the Gnoll’s face. For flowers, yes, but for what they were. Medicine! They were damn painkillers, and the [Alchemists] had been raving they might heal injuries far worse than that!
Scorchling burns or…
“Stop. Please!”
He reached for a burning flower, to try and save it, even if it burnt his fingers off. But when he touched the flower…the flames avoided his fingers. As if someone was carefully adjusting the world around them. Mossul held the flower in his hands, trying to brush the flames off it.
It burnt to dust in his paws.
 
——
 
Every flower.
Every last one. King Fetohep’s single bloom. Flowers stolen from the inn.
Xif’s and Saliss’ supplies. Preserved flowers in alchemy shops. It missed nothing as the Grand Design unleashed the spells until not a trace of them was left.
Not in this world.
Not in the Realm of the Fae.
It understood the trick, now. The Faerie King had sacrificed his flowers to let the [Palace of Fates] function as it had. Only when the last flower was scourged from the world did it turn to Mrsha.
The girl was weeping again. The Grand Design spoke through Isthekenous’ voice.
<“It had to be done.”>
I understand why. But Erin’s drink. The—the good things they did. I’m sad for that.
Yes. That was why the Grand Design hesitated. Not for the flowers; for the people like the weeping Mossul. So, the Grand Design spoke.
<“I have never interfered so openly. It is the first time; it shall not be the last. This action is necessary. But unfair. I am the balance. This is my decision.”>
It lifted a hand and pointed. Mrsha’s eyes widened as she beheld creation.
 
——
 
Gardener Mossul was kneeling in the greenhouse filled with burnt plants. Tears were running down his furry cheeks, dripping off his hairs onto his dirt-stained apron.
He knew he had to call this in, to tell someone what had happened. The irony was that all the spells for thieves and fire in this greenhouse hadn’t even triggered. A perfect destruction.
So lost was the Gnoll that he didn’t hear or see anything. Not until he heard a voice.
<“Mossul. Look.”>
It was the first time he had ever heard a voice like that, which was beyond sound. So familiar. But different. The Gnoll’s head rose, and he jerked back. Fell onto his behind, scrambling backwards—then halted.
Unfair. That was what the Grand Design’s decision was. It had destroyed the hard work, the hopes, the potential of so much. Because it was necessary. But it was not fair.
However they had come, the Faerie Flowers had been used. Creatively, by those who found them. It was not Erin Solstice’s fault she had found these magical flowers. She had tricked the fae, and a part of the Grand Design believed that the Faerie King had simply taken advantage of that one, chance moment rather than planned it all.
Regardless. There should be fairness, not cruelty. So the Grand Design bent down, and in the greenhouse, before Mossul’s eyes, it planted something in the soil.
The first thing the Gnoll saw, blooming in the soil where the Faerie Flower had been, was a mushroom. It was a fat-bellied thing growing from a speck upwards, swelling, and an orange cap rimed with flecks of blue that blossomed into strange, turquoise flowers along the top of the mushroom twitched…and the turquoise flowers opened.
It grew in a second—and the Gnoll saw a cactus, the thinnest he had ever seen, rising in another plot of soil. A complex network of thin strands of grey-green plant walls, and then more flowers opened. But these contained pale green flames that burnt, produced by the magical cacti.
Another flower sprouted with petals so incredibly thin and rigid they formed a corset around a spicy-scented heart filled with pollen like a dandelion’s fuzz, bright yellow and so lightweight that a breeze from the open greenhouse doors blew the pollen across the ground.
A dozen magical plant species bloomed in the greenhouse, each one replacing a bed where Faerie Flowers had been growing. Mossul gaped around.
“Who’s doing this? Why—who…?”
There was no answer. But the Gnoll felt his body shivering. He reached for the mushroom and sensed how full of magic it was.
He had never seen anything like this. Not in any book—nor accounts from other [Gardeners]. Somehow, the Gnoll knew these were new plants. Growing and filled with promises.
He didn’t understand. Something, someone had decided to destroy the Faerie Flowers. Then replaced them.
A strange kindness. The Gnoll’s head rose, and he stared at the cracked, rising green moon. But there was nothing to stop that feeling growing in his chest. Belief. He believed in something, and he had never…felt this before.
“Thank you.”
He bowed, awkwardly, and wondered to whom or what. The Gnoll didn’t hear a reply. Only, perhaps, the faintest sound of an exhausted sigh.
 
——
 
The Grand Design touched the world and replaced it all. Value for value. Piece for piece. Not always with the same thing.
In some places, a sample of Faerie Flower petals in a vial became a glittering gemstone or another alchemical reagent—or just a pile of gold in a [Merchant]’s coffers. It swept a hand across the world, only stopping in one place:
The Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
A child had noticed the flowers burning. The dreadful, dangerous roots. Weapons beyond compare. The cause of all this. Even the death of the original Mrsha.
