“A tribe, Your Majesty. One I would suggest not taking on. They are the most peaceful Goblin tribe I have met. It would make sense the Goblin King was searching for Goblins to ally with. But the inn contains…mysteries. Or have you not heard of the Winter Solstice battles? Seen one of the [Gardens of Sanctuary] on television?”
“So…he was looking for weapons or allies, Lord Teriarch? And you chased him from his nest?”
The [Prince] cut in, a touch more skeptically and sharply than his father. However, he too was facing down a Dragon, and Teriarch smiled at him.
“Exactly, young [Prince].”
“It seems hard to credit! The [Innkeeper] called herself the Goblinfriend, and she took Greydath of Blades’ hand. She is responsible for the death of Prince Iradoren—”
“Whom Pheislant mourns so very deeply, as with Oztera’s monarchs?”
Teriarch raised a brow, and the [Prince] and his father exchanged glances. Yes, they were upset, but more in the ‘we shouldn’t let royalty die’ sort of way rather than any personal attachment to the two monarchs.
“She simply seems to be a common link.”
Teriarch shrugged again.
“You may inquire about the event. However, staff and friends of the inn were the first to fight the Goblin King. Given the size of the hole he left in the inn, I rather doubt the theory holds water. And I repeat…”
His eyes glinted.
“The inn is under my protection. As is Liscor. I slew the Goblin King with great cost. One of my fellow Dragonlords perished in that attempt, along with the Harpy…the heroine of wings. This was not your battle. You were not there, and while I do not request help rebuilding the inn nor reward for my efforts, I do request respect for my battles.”
He fixed King Evein with a level stare that had the man nodding—again, his son was made of sterner stuff.
“Dragonlord, we see and honor your deeds and sacrifice! But may I at least know why this inn is so valuable given the deeds we can lay at the owner’s feet?”
He sat forwards, and Teriarch smiled.
“No place nor person is perfect. Let us simply state that the inn that developed the cure to the Yellow Rivers disease is worth safeguarding.”
“The Yellow Rivers…?”
Teriarch nodded.
“Among other events. But mostly, Your Majesties of Pheislant, my warning is simply for your own protection. After all—I do not know what might come back at you should you force The Wandering Inn’s hand. It could b—”
He interjected a grave expression of concern here and bit off the rest of what he was going to say. Then he closed one eye and checked the reactions of his audience.
And scene. He had them. Then it was just a few more mysterious comments, a bit of grand flattery, and a few more illusion spells. Teriarch closed the scrying spell, then lay down.
“My wing! Argh!”
He screamed to himself, then an alarm rang, and he found a comb and re-did his hair. Teriarch cast a few timed flame spells, took a fortifying gulp of a keg’s worth of vintage white wine, and sighed. Then he let his eyes flash as a [Darkness] spell gave the impression he was appearing out of it.
“Ah, I see the rulers of Samal have not faded in greatness…”
Defense. It was all he could do. No amount of armor or spells would shield the inn from hostile magic. But you could do a lot with a smile.
If you were a Dragon. He was just relieved he wasn’t the only one trying to help.
 
——
 
It was hard to talk down a foreign ruler who wanted to blame someone or something for being scared to death. Let alone a nation.
However, most nations didn’t have any strength on Izril, let alone the time to get to the Floodplains of Liscor during the rainy season. They did have spell scrolls and gold for [Assassins], but every moment they delayed, they thought better of wasting what they had on an inn and a neutral Drake city.
Even one that had Antinium in it. The key to buying time was knowing who to talk to.
Ideally, it was the monarchy, the [Minister], or top dignitaries. But unless you were someone like a literal Dragon, you couldn’t.
So you went through the channels that worked, if you knew they existed. Like an embassy.
Embassies were wonderful. Any powerful nation had them in major cities. Like, say, Invrisil or Pallass. Enter the embassy and you found the top [Diplomat]. Now, they might not be the highest-placed, but they were an access-point back to their nations, and they did occupy channels that could be used to buy said time. Convince the embassy and you had a nation wavering long enough to breathe, take stock of the situation, and see what the other nations were doing.
“Now, at this point, you may be thinking to yourself how you enter the embassy and get the [Head Diplomat]’s attention.”
“No, I wasn’t thinking that. I was asking, again, who the hell you are.”
The buildings of Invrisil were far taller than Liscor’s were—at this point in time. Broad, sprawling streets and more casual opulence than the humbler border city. Invrisil also had actual embassies, come to that.
The group standing outside one of the largest embassies for the Iron Vanguard was small. It was a single squad of [Guards], Watch Captain Zevara, and a really tall man. The gated compound had low walls, and one main building; the man could see well over the walls, because he was taller than they were.
As in…insanely tall. As in a half-Giant, but that couldn’t be, because the last one on Izril had died. And they weren’t together. Zevara was, rather, following the half-Giant around. Mostly because he refused to stop. Though he did seem to think he was explaining himself well.
“Try not to overplay your position. You should be unyielding, but not arrogant. Act as if we have more assets than we do. They think of the Free Hive as a powerful force connected to the other Hives, able to overwhelm nations.”
“I am not taking orders from you! I’m here to detain and question you for breaking into the Council’s meeting and insisting that you’re taking charge of the situation! Identify yourself!”
Her answer was a mysterious smile, which Zevara hated. Now, in her boots, her next step would be to just cuff this idiot and toss him in prison until he talked. Which Watch Commander Venim had done.
Or rather, he’d gotten the cuffs on, and this stranger had snapped them off like they’d been made of tin, not enchanted. Indeed, when he turned to the gates of the embassy, the Dullahan [Soldiers] behind the bars tensed.
The Iron Vanguard’s embassy was, in fact, a place where several powerful representatives were meeting. The head of the local Mage’s Guild, several other [Diplomats]—and their security. The stranger turned to Zevara and stroked his beard, and she averted her gaze from his face.
He looked like Moore. But he couldn’t be, because Moore was dead. And this stranger was older by a decade or more; he had grey intruding into his beard, and he was taller.
“Liscor’s not a powerhouse of a city.”
“Yet we have fought three cities to a standstill. And we have a door to Invrisil, the Free Hive under our boots, and the dungeon. We act like the beings we wish to be, Watch Captain Zevara.”
“And who are you? The [King] of Liscor?”
She snapped back, and his smile wavered. He gave her a distant expression, one of exhaustion and terrible sadness, but also—hope. The man drew himself up, and the half-Giant’s head rose above the top of the iron bars.
“No. I am simply a [Lord] with Liscor’s best interests at heart. You may call me Lord Raithland, if you wish.”
Her eyes narrowed further.
“That’s Moore’s last name. Who are you?”
“Related. Now—”
The half-Giant turned, put a hand out, and pulled the gate off the wall. It tore out as people shouted, and the [Soldiers] raised their blades, calling the alarm—
Lord Moore of Raithland strode past them, skin turning hard as diamonds as they charged him. He stomped down—and the earthquake made the entire building beyond tremble.
“I thought you were going to negotiate with them! Stop! Stop!”
Zevara shouted, and Lord Moore’s eyes gleamed.
“Does one stop when one’s city was attacked by artillery spells, Watch Captain?”
She stopped—and remembered the spells that had nearly hit Liscor but for Valeterisa, the ‘Archmage of Barriers’, and this stranger conjuring walls of stone. But for him, citizens of Liscor would have died, and she felt that the city owed him a debt. She did, for doing her job when she could not.
—But right now, he was breaking into a nation’s private territory. So, even if he was part of the Solstice event, had saved lives, and resembled an older version of Moore…
The half-Giant was taking a step forwards, past the [Guards] ensnared in vines, when he stumbled and nearly fell over. He leaned on his staff, as if all the strength had gone out of him, and turned his head.
“Huh. I forgot you could do that. This isn’t Liscor, Watch Captain.”
“[Freeze, Criminal]. The law is the law, no matter where I go. I won’t let you rampage into a [Diplomat]’s abode. You are under arrest.”
The squad of [Guards] with Zevara gazed at their Watch Captain with both mixed admiration and chagrin. They didn’t even have any more enchanted handcuffs!
Moore’s eyes flashed, the brown gleam intensifying, like plain earth compacted into something far more primordial. He pushed himself up slightly, and Zevara had to control herself to not step back.
Aw, hells. He can shake off the paralysis effect? Not fully—but he stood, and his voice grew genuinely angry.
“I’m doing this for Liscor.”
“I don’t recall voting for you. I am the Watch Captain of Liscor. You’re a mysterious [Lord] who decided to conduct diplomacy in the name of Liscor. Your intentions are entirely doubtable.”
“I’ve given more to Liscor than you could dream of.”
The half-Giant swung around, and the Watch fell into formation around Zevara, pointing their spears at the half-Giant, who appeared…even taller. Could they do that?
Her eyes narrowed, and she spat out a guess.
“You’re Moore’s uncle. Or a relative or something else. Related to The Wandering Inn. That’s no excuse. I don’t let Erin Solstice speak for Liscor. She can cause as much trouble as she wants as the [Innkeeper] she is. Not you, not a nobleman with no position.”
Her words seemed to offend this Lord Raithland terribly. He was standing, looming over her, but her Skill seemed to have a significant effect on him, even so. He was also, clearly, exhausted. Battleworn.
“I have given up everything to come here. Everything, because I am needed. You won’t stop me any more than—”
He broke off and swung around. Between their argument and Zevara’s Skill, the guards at the Iron Vanguard’s embassy had broken free of the spells restraining them. One swung a sword at the half-Giant’s back.
It bounced off his robes, and he growled. With great effort, he blocked a halberd and stumbled before shoving the Dullahan away; the swordsman aimed for Moore’s face, stabbing.
Zevara parried sword, and then disarmed the surprised [Guard]. She kicked out a knee and shouted.
“Halt! This man is in Watch custody!”
Predictably, the Dullahans didn’t listen, so Zevara blew a whistle.
“Arrest them!”
Her squad hesitated—then rushed the disoriented guards. They dropped the three Dullahans; the rest seemed to have fallen back to the embassy itself. The Lord of Raithland seemed as bemused as the Watch, who were more ‘terrified’ than bemused.
“You don’t have the authority to do that either, Watch Captain.”
“My city was just attacked by foreign nations. That’s an act of war. In lieu of the army, I’m Liscor’s last line of defense. I have the authority to arrest or repulse any lawbreakers.”
Watch Commander Venim is going to kill me. But Zevara had the sudden urge to go back, grab four squads of the Watch, and just arrest every idiot in the embassy.
That would be beyond the scope of her duties. That would make her…some kind of insane Watch Captain, kicking down doors to arrest any corrupt noble or [Merchant] she pleased. Or arresting armies, which was ludicrous, even for someone used to Erin Solstice’s antics.
In this moment, Zevara wanted to be that kind of Watch Captain. Someone who could arrest the Goblin King and toss him in a cell, not a helpless Drake staring up at lightning bolts raining down over her home.
She was breathing hard as the Dullahans demanded to be freed, citing their status as diplomatic ambassadors and their links to the Iron Vanguard. She was in a world of trouble, now—but her attention was only for Lord Raithland.
He was watching her, curious, eyebrows raised as if he hadn’t expected her to do any of this. Which was fair…but the half-Giant murmured.
“It really is different.”
“Who? Me? We’ve never met; I would recall, so I can only assume you’re going off what Moore told you.”
“Moore. Yes. He and I are quite close—but different. That’s why I’m here. I’ve…I’m being presumptuous. You don’t know me, but I wish to help Liscor, Watch Captain. I swear that.”
He was giving her such an earnest stare…Zevara hesitated. She leaned on the tip of her sword, thinking out loud.
“I cannot be party to you storming an embassy in front of me. Even if this is what you consider good negotiations. Even if Liscor has been attacked, you are an unaffiliated civilian at best. A high-level noble or adventurer with no background I can trust.”
He heaved a huge sigh.
“So I’m to be thrown in jail? If it means I don’t make an enemy of the Watch, I’ll go. But they bombarded our city. Wistram—I think I saw a few spells coming from the Academy of Mages. I can tell the [Guildmaster]’s in there. He might try to take the law into his own hands.”
Zevara’s eyes narrowed, and she snorted some flames out her nostrils, which looked impressive, but hurt like hell. She jerked her head at him.
“Wistram barely did anything. You seem to have all the answers; why weren’t they slinging spells straight at the Goblin King?”
The Lord of Raithland stroked his beard as alarms continued to ring inside the embassy. The Watch turned from Zevara to Raithland, but there was that strange quality about both of them.
You are from the inn, because you’re just like me. Slightly insane from all the [Innkeeper]’s put me through. Zevara had this stupid urge to smile at him for some reason. Or weep. He really did look like one of Moore’s relatives. And he gazed at her, then swung his eyes away.
“Wistram…ah, I intercepted some of their [Messages].”
“Intercepted?”
“Well, yes. They’re not that good at magic right now, even with Eldavin. They had a full stand-down order when the green moon appeared. I’m not sure why, but I suspect they knew what was coming and decided to avoid the consequences.”
That made sense. Zevara licked her lips.
