Of course, Roots Mrsha had the rest in her bag of holding. All those not lost. When she’d seen the flames consuming her bag of holding, she’d pulled them out.
The last of the Faerie Flower roots had burnt away with the flowers. Roots Mrsha stood there as the shouting died down. Lyonette, Nanette, and the rest of the crowd stared at the place where the flowers had been.
“No. They’re gone. Erin’s flowers. It’s not fair. It’s not—”
Nanette was digging in the ground, searching for something, anything. Her head rose, and Roots Mrsha simply exhaled.
Consequences. They had already taken far more than the flowers were worth. The rest of the onlookers murmured. Worried, aware that something important had been lost. But none of them…cared. Not in the face of so much death.
They were just flowers.
Just flowers.
The only person who’d care about what they did or what they could do would have been a [Gardener]. Or an [Alchemist].
Saliss of Lights’ eyes gleamed as the last flames winked out. The [Alchemist] was wounded; he had a bandage across one shoulder, and he did not know all of what had happened in the [Palace of Fates]. But he beheld the end result of Mrsha’s battle with fates.
“Saliss.”
Mirn, Saliss’ only friend, stood there, the only person to understand what had been lost. The crucial ingredient for Saliss’ potions…gone.
It didn’t stop Onieva. Couldn’t, but Ancestors, it would hurt worse now, Mirn knew. The Faerie Flowers had been a miracle shortcut that saved time, expense, and difficulty; the original potion was so costly and taxing that Saliss had barely been able to make more than one every two weeks.
Now, the Faerie Flowers had vanished. They were completely gone, both Drakes understood. Utterly. There was something very final about what they had just seen.
The [Alchemist] of Pallass said nothing as Lyonette asked Roots Mrsha what she thought had happened—as the people inside the [Garden of Sanctuary] searched around for clues. Then there was a shout.
“Boss Lyonette! The inn! L-look!”
Peggy appeared, pointing. Everyone turned around.
On one of the destroyed tables, something had appeared. A glass tankard full of yellow ale. A little, handwritten card was propped up, and when the [Princess] gazed at it, the elegant handwriting said:
Minotaur’s Punch.
Below it was a little list of instructions and ratios. You ground up a bit of dried clover and added it to any ale you wanted. And right there were a handful of weirdly yellow clovers. And a packet of seeds.
“Dead gods.”
Everyone gathered around the drink that had come from nowhere, and presently, a discussion about who should try it began.
Just to be sure. Saliss of Lights didn’t join in; he was thinking. He had a feeling he knew what had happened to every single Faerie Flower in the world.
Transmuted into value, a replacement. Or in his case…
“[Check Stockpiles]. Hmf.”
A whole host of magical ingredients. Phoenix Feathers. Nice. Unicorn horn dust? He hoped that was ethically sourced or he was going to have a problem with someone.
No miracles beyond the magical ingredients. No…
Mirn was watching him. Nervously. The [Alchemist] stood there, weary, wounded, and naked, and then turned.
A little Gnoll girl stood on top of the hill, staring at the ruins of the flowers that she had grown and which had caused it all. She jumped when a clawed hand fell on her head.
Saliss of Lights just ruffled Mrsha’s hair gently.
“Good work, kid. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise.”
She gazed up at him with huge, uncertain eyes, and Saliss offered her a huge, toothy smile. He patted Mrsha on the head, then turned away.
—Mirn caught up with Saliss halfway towards the [Door of Portals]. The [Alchemist] was sauntering along, visibly cheerful, an unconcerned smile on his lips.
The [Protector] only spoke after a good long look around to make sure no one was within earshot.
“I’m proud of you, ‘Niev.”
“For doing what? What’d you think I was going to do, shout at a kid who just saw all that happen?”
Saliss punched Mirn’s arm, irritable, and the [Protector] didn’t reply to that. Saliss took a breath.
“—Anyways. The potion was always a crutch because it played with memory.”
“Absolutely.”
“If it took true, purely miraculous miracles to do anything—then there’d be no use trying anything else.”
“Yep.”
Mirn felt at one shoulder, which was clicking as he massaged it. Saliss stomped towards the door to Pallass.
“I was taking it easy with the simple way out. I’m back to leveling. Let’s get a drink.”
“Sure. I leveled up, by the way. Or rather, I’m going to. Mind if I put my head down for one second? It’s sort of exciting, for once.”
The two headed for Pallass and Tails and Scales as Saliss groused gently.
“It’s been one of those days. I don’t know how the inn is going to survive when I’m gone…hey, kiddo, you’re coming with us.”
He reached out and snagged someone wishing to participate in the inn’s drama. Rose squeaked, then went sliding after Saliss as he dragged her to the door. Mirn eyed her oddly.
“You look a bit different.”
“Er—maybe a bit?”
 
——
 
They left, and the original Mrsha turned to the Grand Design, who sat, still wearing Isthekenous’ body.
Can’t you help them more?
<“Saliss is right. It was a crutch. The Faerie Flowers played tricks. I offer a chance. Nothing more. Now…shall we speak of why all this has come to pass, Mrsha?”>
She flinched, and the Grand Design abandoned Isthekenous’ body. The girl stood there, breathing hard.
Yes. You said you had a purpose for me. I guess that’s the next thing you have to do. I mean, I know I’m not that important.
The Grand Design offered her that smile, golden lines of text curving upwards in the air as its figure sat next to her.
<Oh, no, Mrsha. It is the second of the great tasks before me. But let us speak first. You have a question for me.>
She did. It had been weighing on her a while.
Dying had been freeing in some ways. The certainty of meeting the Deaths had been one thing. But now there was hope…a chance…
Mrsha couldn’t stop remembering Lyonette’s face. Her mother was walking about, giving orders, restoring order out of chaos as she always did.
But she’s not alright. She knows I’m gone.
Was…there a way she could beg the Grand Design to send a message? Maybe not this one, but the Second Edition might do it.
Hope. Whatever it had planned for her…the girl was ready. She deserved a lot of it, but her question wasn’t about that.
She had to know, so she stood before the Grand Design and the corpse of Isthekenous, who sat next to her, head bowed, legs dangling over all his dream had created, and asked her question.
I…I have to know. You’re the only person whom I can ask who can give me a straight answer, besides Death, and they don’t seem to talk much. Was all of this, this [Palace of Fates]—could I have stopped it? Was it all my fault?
She knew it was a bad question, a silly one that tried to get rid of the blame that was hers. But she had to know exactly how much of it was hers. No matter the answer, she’d believe it.
The girl stared up at the Grand Design of Isthekenous, waiting for it to weigh her soul against her deeds. It wondered how Death or gods did it. Poorly, perhaps. Did they standardize their units?
For an answer, the Grand Design conjured something into existence. A face—an image—a staring man with antlers growing out of his head, resting heavily upon a throne.
Even the image of the Faerie King made Mrsha recoil, and the Grand Design spoke.
<To answer that, Mrsha, we must first ask who was the architect of this moment? Many events, such as the dead gods’ escape or return, were accidental or longer-laid. However, the Faerie Flower roots, the way in which souls escaped their worlds? Even the fall of Kasigna, twice, has its origins in one being. Oberon.>
Mrsha knew the name. Ryoka had told stories of her visit to the lands of the fae and the mysterious Faerie King, who appeared in stories, the ruler of the capricious people like Ivolethe and Shaestrel.
She’d…seen him watching. Seen his court, and she understood that his folk had been involved in the fall of the dead gods. This was a war, and it seemed like his group was one of the few still actively meddling.
The Faerie King? He’s still watching us, right? Isn’t it bad to say his name, to invoke him?
The Grand Design’s reply was flat.
<Perhaps it is. Perhaps I should be cautious. Or perhaps he assumes I will do nothing. I am the product of a host of gods. I have never opposed anything or anyone, for I have never met anything antithetical to the system I enforce. Him? Perhaps he should be cautious I do not open the door to his realm and throw a million spells or the force of universes being created through.>
Mrsha saw flickering spells appear and felt a chill run through her. She spoke-thought hurriedly.
You wouldn’t do that though, right?
<I have never warred before. I have only fought the Second Edition of myself. I do not know what kind of warrior I would be. I warn you, Oberon, a third time. Interfere, and it will be hostilities.>
The Grand Design’s words made Mrsha shiver. It felt like this, too, was a natural consequence. Whatever the Grand Design was regarding, it returned to Mrsha and resumed its explanation.
<Is it your fault? Consider, Mrsha, the Faerie King’s influence. He is the meddler who had thrown his Faerie Flowers into my world and led to all this. You could not have entered the [Palace of Fates] without that gift. Whether or not it was intended, I believe he set the wheels in motion.>
How?
For an answer, it pulled up a moment, a memory of the world, and shared it with Mrsha. She saw snickering Frost Faeries paying Erin Solstice for her meal she’d worked so hard on for them.
<Inciting incident. Winter Sprites on their annual pilgrimage to this world. An ironic thing in hindsight. This world has weather patterns, but it relies on Winter Sprites for the abundance of snow they bring. Clearly, Isthekenous and the designers of this world intended the fae to be welcome guests. In this moment, do we assume the faeries knew what they were giving Erin Solstice?>
Mrsha sort of doubted it. The fae had been shocked by Erin’s plans. Then again…
Maybe the Faerie King knew it was a trick they liked to play? So the odds were probably good?
<Yes. In which case, consider each and every world where the fae use this…trick, Mrsha du Marquin. How many worlds does he have a hand in altering, then? In how many worlds has he hidden this secret weapon that appears so infinitely adaptable?>
Oh. Uh…the Grand Design let her digest that, then continued.
<The inciting incident is, in fact, irrelevant. The moment when he interferes is clearly visible. Exhibit A. The Summer Solstice with Ryoka Griffin.>
Mrsha’s ears perked up. Wait, she remembered this one! When Ryoka had sworn to find a way to cure Erin and hosted Riverfarm’s events…she hadn’t been there, but the Grand Design replayed the events for Mrsha.
I see! When she opened the door, or when he sent her back, he activated them?
<Close. Observe these two moments. Clearly, Ryoka Griffin is part of some kind of prophecy. The presence of Sikeri, the Wyrm, indicated she both knew of Ryoka Griffin’s later meeting with Duke Rhisveri and the prophecy. Time is subjective in the lands of the fae. But that is not the interference. These two.>
It highlighted two individuals in the gathering of the fae that instantly made Mrsha suspicious, for they stood out, as they had to Ryoka at the time.
<Silverpine, one of the great tree spirits, and Melidore, a member of the Spring Court. These two beings may well have activated the Faerie Flowers. Certainly—>
It skipped ahead to the present and showed Mrsha the moment when Lyonette had confronted the Gladefolk, distracting her from the [Palace of Fates].
<—This is the direct effect of Silverpine’s presence. He reactivated the Gladefolk Puppets. Plans within plans.>
Mrsha was nodding, amazed and pleased to see the Grand Design doing detective work like this. It seemed to be enjoying this forensic analysis as well, but then her stomach fell.
None of this changes my role in the [Palace of Fates], though, Grand Design. I know what I did.
<Did you? Let us look at what you did, Mrsha.>
It pulled back time and showed Mrsha finding the roots in the [Garden of Sanctuary], then getting a spell from Valeterisa to figure out how deep they went. Falling into that hole they’d caused.
<This was not your fault. You had no idea you were entering the [Palace of Fates]. In fact, you discovered Roots Mrsha and the other trapped Mrshas and then retreated. From this moment, you have done nothing but survive. Already, the Faerie King has damned countless Mrshas to their fates. That is his sin, and if he were part of my classes and levels, I would already judge him for it.>
Dying of starvation, alone, in the [Palace of Fates]. Mrsha…felt unwell, despite her presence as a soul. She thought of what Ryoka said of Oberon, how much she liked him, and felt compelled to defend him.
But—but he might not have expected this. Maybe he just took a gamble.
The Grand Design’s voice was still cold, and Mrsha realized it was truly displeased with the Faerie King.
<True. Perhaps he rolls the dice with fates rather than plans it all out. I have tried to anticipate his line of thinking. Would you like to speak to him?>
Mrsha felt another moment of unease despite being dead. She suspected that since she was a ghost instead of truly dead and meeting the Deaths, she was more grounded in, well, reality.
Him-him? The real dude?
<No. A copy.>
You can make copies of the Faerie King?
<I can do anything I please. It will not be perfect, of course. But let us see what I believe Oberon’s nature to be.>
The Grand Design lifted a hand, and the Faerie King appeared before Mrsha, before the watching Court of the Fae, and before the true Faerie King himself.
Mrsha saw a man in green, tall, antlers coming from his forehead, shimmer into being. He looked like her, she realized, with sable fur and a cloak of leaves—like a god, he was a concept that was much of what you believed.
The King of Green, the Trickster of the Fae, the King of Avalon, raised one vast hand as his eyes shone with the power of myths and opened his mouth.
“Heeeeeeey, kids. I’m Oberon, the big dumb idiot who likes messing around in other people’s worlds! I think sitting on my throne and not speaking makes me look smart!”
His distinguished appearance took on a suddenly sock puppet-like appearance, and a high-pitched copy of Rhissy’s voice came from his mouth. Mrsha’s mouth opened and stayed there. She turned silently to the Grand Design.
