“And you know what the moon was? And the Goblin King?”
“Moon? No. That was unexpected. Goblin King? Yes. I’ll tell you as much as I can; he’s not coming back from the inn. No one is. The crisis is…over.”
Another bitter tone. Zevara nodded slowly, and her eyes flicked down the street. The Watch was slow in this city; there should have been three squads here already, arresting her and Moore. Disgraceful. She made up her mind, lifted her hand, and deactivated her Skill.
It was running out time, anyways. Lord Raithland grunted and rolled his shoulder as he straightened, unburdened. He gave her a quizzical look and held out one hand.
“Arrest?”
“Possibly not. We are in Invrisil. But as I see it, the Iron Vanguard, Wistram Academy, and numerous other nations have launched an attack on our city that requires redress. Possibly a fine. In lieu of orders from Watch Commander Venim or the Council, I am empowered to address the situation. You aren’t permitted to interfere, as a citizen.”
Her squad was giving her incredulous looks as they eyed the embassy, full of [Mercenaries] and the Guildmaster of Wistram. They’d get minced. The half-Giant instantly objected along the same lines.
“You’ll be incinerated in a second! Let me—”
She put out a claw, and he halted. He didn’t want to, but her glare made even the Lord of Raithland stop and wait. She appreciated that.
Everyone stepped over the line. That was just life. But some people at least gave her the respect of knowing she was the person who had to hold the line in place. She hoped…he was one of those sorts. Zevara took a deep breath.
“No citizens are allowed to interfere in Watch affairs…good samaritans may of course assist the Watch. But certainly not for this. Which is why I’m ordering you, Junior Guardsman Raithland, to lead the arrest—negotiations.”
He blinked at her. Then pointed at his face.
“Me. A member of the Watch?”
“Yes. You should go through probationary training, but this is an extraordinary situation.”
It was amazing, really, how her mouth could keep moving independently of her brain. Even the other [Guards] were slack-jawed, and Lord Moore was as astonished as everyone else. But then…she saw him blink and smile.
Zevara’s heart was pounding.
“Watch Commander Venim may have words for me. Or my badge. But you raised a good point, Junior Guardsman. No one attacks Liscor and gets away with it. So let’s lay down the law. Squad? Fall in.”
She turned to them, and this was the point where she realized she should really let some of them go home if they wanted to. However, after a glance at each other, one of the Drakes threw her a salute.
“Aye, Watch Captain! Relc’ll be upset he missed this.”
“Beilmark, too.”
They were as mad as she was. Zevara sighed. She’d done her best, but Erin had gotten to her after all. She strode down the walkway as the half-Giant walked with her.
“I’m going crazy.”
She had to lean against the secured doors for a second, and the half-Giant smiled at her in a knowing way. He put a hand on the door, and she heard a click, then a muffled curse from inside.
“We’re all mad, Watch Captain. But you’ve always been the heart of Liscor for me. I want to see how you change.”
That sounded like a threat, or…his eyes were so pained and so happy at the same time. Zevara averted her own gaze and didn’t understand this stranger. She stood there, uncertain, afraid for the future. But then she sighed, cursed—and kicked open the doors to the hall where the [Diplomats] had taken cover.
“Liscor’s Watch! You are all under arrest!”
The [Guildmaster] of Invrisil’s Mage’s Guild raised a staff and aimed it at her chest.
“[Chain Lightning]!”
Zevara dove for cover, and Lord Raithland walked past her.
“[Greater Dispel]. [Mana Purge]. [Achenite’s Magical Shackles].”
Her head rose incredulously, and [Guildmaster]’s spell and barriers went out, and magical chains snared the [Guildmaster]. Only then did the half-Giant halt as the [Bodyguards] aimed blades at him.
“I am the Lord of Raithland and protector of Liscor. Junior Guardsman. With me is Watch Captain Zevara of Liscor. Your nations have attacked my city. I am here to speak. Or have we all lost the ability to use our tongues? Not a single [Message] for Liscor’s Council, and fire from above instead!”
His voice boomed and cracked, and Zevara was conscious of the multiple nations’ worth of diplomats who jumped and stared at her and the half-Giant. Her head craned up as the half-Giant spoke. All Zevara could think was—
This is so silly. The [Diplomats] had heard the ‘Junior Guardsman’ part, and were trying to parse past that and get to the rest of what he’d said. Someone raised a crossbow; the half-Giant lifted a hand and blocked the crossbow bolt with one hand, then massaged his palm.
A high-level person on Liscor’s side. A half-Giant walking Izril once more. It turned out the Frost Faeries had lied.
He was right here. Larger than life. The ground was still shaking, and he leaned upon that massive quarterstaff heavily.
“I am Lord Mireden Moore of House Raithland. And I have come to set Liscor’s troubles to right. If you war with my city, you war with me.”
His eyes shone with terrible, weighty determination. This time—he would not fail his city.
 
——
 
Voices spoke for The Wandering Inn and Liscor. From many corners, from friends across the world, and allies. Another voice was speaking in Invrisil at that very moment, but it was doing the opposite of helping.
After all…the Guildmaster of the Runner’s Guild of Invrisil, one of the most powerful [Guildmasters] in Izril, couldn’t believe his eyes.
The audacity. He nodded at a pair of veteran City Runners, who flanked him as he strode forwards. He’d been personally speaking with Mayor Curle, trying to get answers about what was going on.
It turned out the answers had been in his Runner’s Guild all along. Only, the answers were a person, an impossibility. The worst part was, he looked right.
“I am a Courier of Izril! I want word sent out to every Runner’s Guild with ears! Don’t badmouth the damn inn or say the Goblin King came from there! What is so hard about that? Do you not recognize this?”
He was currently trying to shove his Runner’s Seal up the nose of the poor [Receptionist] at the desk. She was from Celum; the portal door meant Invrisil had been able to headhunt some talent from the local Runner’s Guilds and reorganize their systems.
“Sir, I recognize that seal, but you’re no longer on the list of Couriers.”
“I’m not? Why?”
Guildmaster Xalanch, or ‘Firefoot Xalch’, strode forwards as the other City Runners turned to him. Many were confused, but all the ones who’d been here longer than four years were just staring.
A perfect, spitting image of the young man, black hair, even the slightly crooked nose and his tanned skin. As if he’d jogged out of a memory. He had the same footwraps that Xalanch remembered: straps of enchanted leather wrapped over the foot and up the leg to grip below the knee so they’d never come loose when running.
That just made Xalanch madder, so he grabbed the young man’s shoulder as he swung a fist.
“Because Valceif is dead, you bastard.”
His punch was fast and fiery—Xalanch had been intending to clock the fake Valceif across the face. But the Courier spun and dodged the right hook. He took a step back and went back twice as far.
“You—”
He was fast. But Xalanch was a former Courier, and his jabs left trails of flame in the air. He threw a hook as Valceif stepped backwards, then grabbed Xalanch’s arm.
The young man threw Xalanch. The [Guildmaster] blinked—and then he hit a table. It was such a smooth throw, a pivot, grab, and—
He did that to me last time I—he leapt to his feet, and Valceif Godfrey raised his hands.
“Guildmaster Xalch! What’s gotten into you? I—whoa!”
That ‘whoa’ was as one of the City Runners tried to grab him. But instead, Valceif just jumped straight over the tackle, landed on the back of the Runner, and blocked a second swing.
“Get him!”
“Wait—”
Xalch wasn’t as certain now. The spitting image of Valceif spun, and he had the same moves. With one foot, he kept his weight on the City Runner’s back he had pinned. Then he pivoted and kicked a club out of another City Runner’s hands.
“Come on—I—know—I’m—stop that!”
His feet and hands lashed out as he kept his position, kicking other Runners off their feet or weapons out of hands. He was so damn fast.
[Quick Movement]. [Doubled Step]—he dodged a thrown chair with a single heel pivot. If you didn’t watch how far he could move, he’d trounce you.
It was…exactly him. You couldn’t copy that footwork or fighting ability. Xalch stared. Valceif was cursing; he was still surrounded by City Runners, and then one of them came at him with a blade.
“Wait! Stop!”
The [Receptionist] shouted, but the Courier turned. Mihaela Godfrey’s son saw the sword coming at him and drew his own sword.
He disarmed the Runner in a second, then whirled, sword in hand. Xalch saw the second veteran City Runner strike out.
“[Flash Strike]!”
He missed. Valceif Godfrey vanished, and Xalch heard a familiar tune. A note of music.
“[Sharpsound Slash].”
Valceif reappeared, and a line of blood marked the cut in the other Runner’s armor. Not deep, but the Courier turned, a dangerous look in his eyes.
Deniusth the Violinist had taught him that Skill. They all had. Every former adventurer and teammate of the Guildmistress of First Landing—living and dead. How did you imitate—?
“Stop! Stop!”
Xalch roared, and the Runners stopped. The [Guildmaster] strode forwards, pointing at the man who couldn’t be alive. He was dead. He had to be.
Had Mihaela ever found the body? Or had it been the wrong…?
That dreamcatcher. It was hanging by Valceif’s waist. Xalch stared at it. Then his eyes swivelled up, and he saw that confident smile.
“Colth taught you that throw.”
“No he didn’t. Larracel did. Losing your memory, Xalch? I told you those hair tonics addled your brain.”
Xalch’s hands flew towards his hairline, which was a respectable level—and Valceif lowered his blade. He took a deep breath; he was panting, tired. There was a terrible weight to him, as Xalch well knew. The eyes of a Courier who’d gone on a bad delivery. A hard run. But they were still determined.
“I’m…here. And I have to make sure no one else dies over a damn misunderstanding. It’s me. Can’t you send a message?”
“I—yes. But how?”
Xalch signaled to the [Receptionists], and Valceif gazed at him.
“A long story. I was on a run with everything on the line. Everyone else who went with me is dead or…”
He gazed back.
“…someone had to run after the Goblin King. She told me I was needed here. I don’t know how she knew.”
“She? Who?”
“Ryoka.”
Valceif shook himself and turned. Xalch was entirely confused. Rumors aside, he had it on good authority the Wind Runner was in Baleros.
But if Valceif had been alive this entire time…he stepped forwards and lowered his voice further.
“Where the hell have you been, Valceif? Why haven’t you sent word? I was about to smash your face in as an imposter. I said I would only to prevent her from running here and doing it herself.”
“Which her are we talking about now…?”
Valceif blinked, and Xalch closed his eyes. His heart was leaping and sinking—no, it was rising more than it fell, but he spoke one word as he grabbed the young man’s shoulder hard, fingers searing with heat.
“Mihaela.”
Then the Courier’s face slackened with understanding. He closed his eyes briefly.
“Oh. Oh…I never made it out of the ambush, did I? Those bastard Raiders got me.”
“The what? The Bloodfeast Raiders? It was a random [Bandit] group!”
Xalch’s grip tightened until he realized Valceif’s shoulder armor was smoldering. Valceif glanced around and leaned over.
“Everyone hates Couriers. But few people can cast [Sleep] on a high-level Courier at range. Let alone who’d know I had potentially lost my magical protection against it. My mother’s kicked the hells out of everything. Even the Bloodfeast Raiders. But for this, I’d have died.”
He patted that impossible object that he shouldn’t have. The broken dreamcatcher that had been found on his corpse. Xalch stared at it, then at Valceif.
“I don’t believe it’s you. Until we get a [Mage] or—or someone to look at you, you’re a fake. You understand we buried you. I cried like a baby. The Haven wasn’t the same for—it’s still not.”
“…That sounds like you. And them.”
Valceif was staring up at the ceiling, and Xalch was warring with anger and hope. He seized Valceif’s arm, hurrying him towards his office.
“Don’t go anywhere or I swear I’ll knock your head in myself.”
For a moment, the Courier hesitated. Then he glanced past Xalch and shook his head.
“I don’t have anywhere I’d rather be.”
Then, he looked as lost as his mother had been. Before he smiled and followed Xalch to explain why the dead were walking around. And Xalch feared being tricked more than anything else. For he would tell Mihaela Godfrey only one thing.
So it had better be damn true.
 
——
 
Mrsha watched as Valceif developed that familiar expression she knew full well. The pain of another world being so close to yours—and so different. She commented to the Second Edition.
I didn’t expect Valceif Godfrey. I don’t even know him. But Ryoka does. What a mess. How will the Grand Design fix it? Is there a plan?
<It claims there is. We trust in that.>
Mrsha nodded. She’d seen Lord Moore and Valceif so far.
Lord Moore, not the original. Her heart hurt for the loss of the Moore she had known, for the sacrifice of Lord Moore. For the vanished worlds. Just a lot of guilt.
Who else made it?
The Second Edition counted.
<Beach Kevin. Older you. And—>
Wait, what? Show me!
It did. They were suddenly back at the inn, and Mrsha saw a young man. Or rather a young man sitting in the [Garden of Sanctuary] with all the koi fish, throwing pieces of bread into the pond.
No wonder she hadn’t seen him. He was speaking to a young Gnoll woman whose brown fur had developed white splotches on it.
Older Mrsha from the world where Erin had been dead. They were talking.
 
——
 
“—going back?”
“My world’s dead.”
The older Mrsha answered shortly, and Kevin glanced over his shoulder.
“But your mother’s there. And everyone you know.”
“Same with you. Why are you staying, then?”
Beach Kevin shrugged. He stared past the older Mrsha at the fish begging for food.
