Silveran had appeared with an entire team of [Cleaners], and they were just…standing there. He didn’t have the levels to clean a hole in the wall. Dead gods—she realized she could see his levels and Skills from her unique vantage point.
He was a Level 26 [City Cleaning Manager]! His class sucked. Mrsha wondered what a high-level [Cleaner] got after the ability to clean a building in a single go? What was the point?
<Don’t be disrespectful. He embodies an idea. All classes get abstract and conceptual the higher you go. If he sticks to just cleaning, you’d do well to be nice to him. Especially if he clears Level 50.>
What’s he going to do? Clean my clock?
Mrsha giggled at her own pun. The Second Edition was less amused.
<Or a battlefield. What defines ‘trash’, Mrsha? His powers clean microorganisms. He might get a Skill that eradicates rats or bugs, even swarms of them. The step between that and people is just levels and perspective. And that’s only the most banal interpretation of his class.>
What else could he clean?
<Reputations. Sins. Ideas. No class is worthless. A Level 86 [Farmer] once lived on Izril’s soil. Do you know what he farmed?>
Super pumpkin warriors?
<Good guess. He decided to grow trees, because they had cut so many in the past that Izril was bleak and bare. So he planted more and more and grew them instead of his fields. Amidst squabbling nations who only wanted his crops. And he could defend his crops because it was his ‘farm’. And his most beloved tree…he gave everything to it, and it grew and grew. Then they chopped it down because it was magical, and when he raged against them, they tried to execute him because he was a mere [Farmer].>
A Level 86 [Farmer]. Mrsha wondered what that war had looked like. The Second Edition continued.
<He died. It was a tragic story, as many are. But he’d saved a seed from the trees he grew, and he gave it all the power he had left as he waited to die. All the strength of his fields. Every crop they had stolen from him. His endless acres of land. That seed inherited it as he died. Thus arose the World Tree of the Vale Forest, which endured in power for the next sixty thousand years.>
Mrsha’s eyes grew round as she sat there. So this [Farmer] was one of the first high-level people to exist! Older than…than…she couldn’t imagine.
<Older than Teriarch, yes. Older than Sheta and the Iltanus Empire, who considered the Vale Forest to be a satrapy at the time and were wary of warring with the Dryads and other gladesfolk despite their dominant position. Well, neither group actually had that much animosity towards each other. Harpies are not as dependent on logging and woodworking as other species. The [Farmer], incidentally, had his class when the original Grand Design had a more limited interpretation of classes. His life and death changed the system forever. So, then. No class is worthless. Especially not hers.>
It had found the first person to level. Mrsha peered down at someone sitting in The Wandering Inn with Ishkr fussing over her.
Liska. She was alive! She’d survived the Goblin King opening the door, which had hurled her into a wall.
Mind you…she looked real bad. Like—so bad that people coming into the inn kept stopping and turning white or running away. Liska was touching her head, which was deformed to the point where half of it was squished flat.
A fatal injury. Except that it was slowly uncompressing. She was understandably really panicked about it.
“W-what if the spell runs out before my head goes back to normal? My thoughts are all word. I mean weird!”
She was consulting with the people who’d saved her life. Magus Grimalkin and Witch Thallisa, who were not as confident as they were projecting.
“[Elastic Form]. I hit you with every bit of craft I had, and I’ve extended the enchantment, Miss Liska.”
Liska’s eyes focused on the Great Witch, who tipped her hat to Liska. The Gnoll felt at her head again—someone grabbed her paw.
“Stop doing that.”
Ishkr was fussing around his little sister, dashing off to tend to something, but never leaving her out of his sight. Liska whined.
“I’m fine, Ishkr! I think. I, uh—d-do I need a [Healer]?”
“I don’t believe regular [Healers] would help. Perhaps Healer Demerra might have a Skill to hasten the process? I don’t want to risk damaging your head as it rebounds. I’ll send for her, but Pallass is in chaos, Miss Liska.”
“They’ve been demanding you go there, Sinew Magus.”
Ishkr pointed at a group of very quiet Pallassians. They weren’t barging in, swords drawn, and they weren’t causing a fuss. Part of that was all the high-level people around who’d stop that. But mostly, it seemed to be…fear.
Fear of what might come next. Grimalkin’s voice was cool as he glanced at them, then at Lady Pryde speaking to Magnolia Reinhart.
“They can wait.”
Someone entered the inn, spotted Liska, and went dead white. That was the only upside to Liska’s condition; she smirked as Watch Captain Zevara froze, then came over.
“…Miss Liska? I, ah—I’d like to speak to Sinew Magus Grimalkin regarding the—er—”
“She’s fine, Watch Captain. Can we help you?”
Zevara half-nodded. She relayed a request for Grimalkin to speak to Liscor’s Council, which he accepted, then turned to Liska and Ishkr again.
“As for the inn, I’m relaying messages. Most aren’t important right now…I’ll tell Menolit and the others people are safe. We’ve blockaded the door, so no one’s using it. But I have a Streihart Silverfang who’s begging to be let in. She wants to know you two are safe—”
Ishkr and Liska spun, and Ishkr snapped.
“No! What is she doing?”
Their mother? Neither one had ever mentioned her. Mrsha watched with the Grand Design as it pulled up Streihart Silverfang’s class. Mrsha checked it and got it.
[Hazyflower Addict]. Ooh.
“I don’t want to see her.”
Liska protested, and Ishkr pulled Zevara aside. The Watch Captain listened and nodded.
“I’ll…let her know you’re busy.”
The conversation continued, and Mrsha turned to the Second Edition.
Excuse me, what’s ‘Hazyflower’? I know Dreamleaf and Selphid Dust, but I’ve never heard of that. Palt never talks about it, and he’s always smoking Dreamleaf.
The Second Edition replied with instant clarity and, again, that hint of personality.
<Dreamleaf is a far safer substance than any other drug. You’d be better off smoking it daily than drinking twice a week health-wise. You can overdo it, such as in the case of Princess Shardele, and it will have adverse effects if you are pregnant or breastfeeding while taking it, but again, a tenth of the dangers of alcohol. Selphid Dust is a well-known dangerous drug due to the psychosis it can induce. Hazyflower? It is a powerful drug Palt would never smoke or recommend because of its addictive qualities.>
Oh, that explained it. The Second Edition ran further commentary, which Mrsha appreciated.
<Drakes regulate all drugs. Liscor has kept Hazyflower from becoming a scourge of its population. However, the late Mister Soot was instrumental in bringing it into Liscor ten years back, which coincided with the Silverfang arrival. Streihart Silverfang’s addiction led to Ishkr moving out of their home and working with his sister in the Silverfang community. Later, as his fortunes improved, he took care of his mother. Including giving her the same faerie flower tonic Tessa used.>
Oh. I didn’t know any of that. Did it…work?
It didn’t sound like it had. The Second Edition’s voice was crisp, clear, and too kindly impartial. It made it sound to Mrsha as if it were hiding how it really felt.
<It worked as well as it did on Tessa. A lack of addiction does not halt desire or temptation.>
Oh. That’s too bad. Ishkr never talks about his parents. I thought they were dead. Where’s his father, then?
<Liscor’s army. Excuse me. Liscor’s mercenary army.>
Ah. I really didn’t know. I never asked.
She supposed she should have known. But until recently, the Silverfang community had treated her like a pariah. The Second Edition’s ‘voice’ was kindly.
<Everyone has secrets. Knowing them all is my job. Now, to work. Liska.>
It showed Mrsha the levels and class Liska had.
[Doorgnoll], Level 24. As yet unchanged, and Liska was far from sleeping. Then Mrsha felt a stirring of curiosity. Not hope. She, like the Second Edition, was waiting for the end, but this was at least…fun. Ish.
What levels do you get from trying to hold a Goblin King back? Lots, right? 10? Can I help?
<Er, not ten. Leveling in a single day is exponentially difficult, even with countless achievements.>
I don’t know what an exponent is.
The Second Edition beamed the understanding into Mrsha’s head with a lot of graphs and examples, and she blinked.
Okay, poo. So how many levels?
<I’m calculating. Here’s the math.>
It showed her a very complex series of equations Mrsha demanded be made simpler. The Second Edition sighed.
<Levels are a product of adversity and deed. The Goblin King is a giant pool of experience. Risking her life counts. Her determination, the fact she was defending her place—all relevant factors. All things considered, I think the original Grand Design would put it at 5 levels. Level 29 [Doorgnoll] and maybe a title.>
Boo. Boo! That sucks! Riot!
Mrsha waved her ghostly fists in protest, and the Second Edition shushed her.
<I agree. So…>
It began to create or—Mrsha had no exact wording for what it did. It was not like just writing a new class in the air or changing numbers. The Second Edition was altering something far more important.
Liska’s abilities, her presence in the world, even her body were tied to her class. At Level 50, a [Warrior] with no Skills was still far stronger than a Level 1 [Warrior]. And when your class changed…
<Hmm. Now, which class fits her most?>
Mrsha could see the waiting class change hanging in the air over Liska’s head. Only, it wasn’t one class. Futures were appearing for the young Gnoll woman, each one different.
 
[Conditions Met: Doorgnoll → ??? Class!]
[Conditions Met: Doorgnoll → Kingbane Lineholder Class!]
[Skill – Enhanced Toughness obtained!]
[Skill – Resistance: Bludgeoning obtained…]
[Conditions Met: Doorgnoll → Portal Guardian Class!]
[Skill – Seal Door (Kingshield) obtained!]
[Skill – Door: Doubled Gateway obtained…]
[Conditions Met: Doorgnoll → Scion of Discontinuance Class!]
[Skill – Order: Thou Shalt Halt obtained!]
[Bound Spell – Mass Slow Time (Minor) obtained…]
 
Different classes. Each one would change who Liska was, but the Second Edition’s job was to figure out two things.
One—what fit Liska’s deeds. Two. What Liska wanted. It was showing Mrsha how the sausage was made.
She had some notes, which slightly annoyed the Second Edition as she raised her paw.
Excuse me. [Thou Shalt Halt] is sorta cool, but it really should be [Thou Shalt Not Pass].
<…You got that from the movie.>
Yeah, and it’s awesome. You should change that Skill.
Second Edition was seeing a bit of the Grand Design’s point about her. It ignored the comment. In truth, there was only one good choice. It explained its reasoning to Mrsha.
<[Lineholder] is combat-oriented. She does not truly wish to be a warrior. Ishkr is more amenable to the idea. [Scion of Discontinuance] takes her down a more authoritative role in halting what she pleases. She…does not have that perspective. So [Portal Guardian] it is.>
Why not? Why does she want to be just a [Doorgnoll]?
<She likes having control over it. She doesn’t want to be in the spotlight. But holding a single door…yes. She’d like to do that, if it matters. Even if Tyrion Veltras or the Goblin King are on the other end. After this, she will hold a door before even the King of Destruction for a time.>
Yes. More Skills were appearing, and Mrsha saw them flitting into existence following that train of logic.
[Skill – Door: Fourfold Reinforcement obtained!]. Any door Liska held would be four times stronger than their base material, not just the [Portal Door]. Even the walls wouldn’t give in.
[Skill – Authority: Doors obtained!]
Wait, that one looks silly.
<Not if it means she can open almost any door she wants. It’s better than an unlocking Skill. That wouldn’t save her from a trap. You can fight [Rogue] Skills. This is authority, like [Leader] classes possess.>
Nevermind. Please continue.
You only got a few more Skills if your main one was ‘big’, and all of Liska’s Skills were big. The Second Edition was doing more math.
Six levels including a capstone meant you got around five big Skills…last one. It was thinking hard—all of these calculations were taking place in the beats between one of Apista’s wings.
Oh, oh! What about…a free teleport?
<Ishkr can already do that. Besides, that’s the power of Erin’s [Portal Door]. Liska having a teleportation ability is too boring. Devalues the power.>
Sorry.
<No, it’s not a bad idea. Rather…aha.>
The Second Edition smiled, and it composed the last Skill for Liska, which made Mrsha’s soul clap her paws together.
[Skill – Door: Apply Basic Enchantment obtained!]
That’s right. It confirmed what Mrsha was thinking. Any door Liska wanted could be enchanted with a ‘basic’ enchantment.
She could prank anyone going through a door! Or, like, make the doorknob burn their hands off!
The Second Edition was mildly disappointed by Mrsha’s excitement.
<Yes…or enchant anyone going through. She could remove insects, apply a very minor buff—or just launch someone out the door. Creativity. Liska will have to figure it out. Especially because someone decided to discontinue Skill descriptions.>
It still thought those were a good idea. Grumbling, but satisfied, the Second Edition appended Liska’s classes and Skills to her so that the next time she slept, she’d level. You could already ‘see’ it if you [Appraised] her, which Mrsha found a nice touch.
Whew. That was hard work.
She found herself oddly tired, even as a ghost, trying to think about the many things Liska might be. Break time, right?
The Second Edition laughed at her. It had every living person in the world to sort through and assign experience to. Then it pointed.
<Come, now. Everyone here has met the Goblin King. They are all worthy of levels. What about him?>
It dashed over to a man, who was inspecting a very beaten-down carriage. And Mrsha saw it was Reynold, the [Combat Butler], who had a mild concussion no one had yet noticed. He’d driven the carriage into the Goblin King and Ragathsi.
<For such a famous carriage, it doesn’t actually survive many impacts. And he, himself, has fought each and every time. He’s passed Level 40. The time has come for a Skill that defines him.>
The Second Edition was cooking up a big Skill. Mrsha held her breath as it reached down.
 
