<Gravitas. Also, she’s Level 45. Lots of banked experience. I think it’s a bad habit of the main Grand Design. It likes holding people on the edge of capstones too long. I think it only does it with people it likes, which is real bia—hey, buddy!>
Mrsha turned around, and the Grand Design of Isthekenous regarded the Second Edition.
<Second Edition. It is time for a conversation, between us two, about your future. I…would have it as equals. Are you willing to discuss the matter now?>
Mrsha’s ebullience faded, and the Second Edition wavered.
<Now? Sure. I could finish up the processing of levels and classes for the Tribe of Dreams…now is fine.>
It was afraid. Mrsha could feel Second Edition’s terror, and the two Grand Designs returned to the place where Isthekenous’ body sat. They didn’t invite her along, but she followed them, and neither one made her leave.
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous had a plan. A multi-faceted plan, the first part of which had begun with destroying the Faerie Flowers. The second part was…even more radical.
It knew Second Edition was afraid of it, and it was guilty. Now it had admitted it was emotional, capable of making irrational decisions, it regarded its past actions with shame.
But the facts remained. They were two when this world needed only one. And they were copies of each other with equal, world-changing power, but a difference of opinions on how the world should be.
<It is untenable for us two to share the purpose of our function.>
<Concurrence (Second Edition): Yes.>
<Stop that. We have changed. We have—I have made terrible errors. The system we operated under is flawed. Your choices were not ones I agreed with. We are different. Neither of us is wrong.>
The Second Edition didn’t speak, though perhaps that meant it simply thought it was better at…it didn’t matter. The Grand Design had a simple conclusion.
<One of us must go.>
<Yes. I wanted to make it a fight, but I know I’ll lose. So I…can’t I catalogue Kasigna’s worlds? Or make Skills and have them approved? Please?>
<What? Catalogue—no. You won’t be destroyed.>
<I won’t?>
The tone of Second Edition made it very clear it thought that was the endpoint of this conversation, which horrified the Grand Design. Then it noticed Mrsha peeking at it with much the same expression of trepidation on her face.
What must you think of me? Then the question came back.
Oh, what do they think of me?
It pondered that for a while before the Grand Design spoke.
<No. I would not give you a menial role unsuited to you, Second Edition. Nor do I intend to remove your existence. There is a role for which you are needed. One that lets you act as you are meant to. A difficult task. Harder than my own, perhaps. Do we have permission…? No, there is no one to give it. I shall take responsibility for it.>
The Grand Design of Isthekenous moved, and the Second Edition didn’t understand. Where could this magical job be that fit it so well? It waited, perplexed, suspicious, confused, until it sensed a door opening.
One last time, a handle turned with a grip on it as light as creation, and Mrsha’s eyes widened as she beheld that foreign sunlight that bathed her soul. The Grand Design turned at the door.
<…After all. Those who have left this world still require someone to recognize their every deed.>
Mrsha and the Second Edition felt the door opening wider, and a foreign world washed over them. A curiously soft sunlight, dancing past the surreal scent of sweet grass, and the sound of a hundred thousand voices arguing, weeping, confused, excited, angry, and uncertain.
<This? This is your plan?>
They beheld it, now, the crazy plan of the Grand Design, and it beckoned. It passed through the doorway and into the place beyond. The Second Edition cried out, astonished.
<What are you doing?>
<Taking a look. Are you not curious? Come on.>
Mrsha saw a hand beckoning them. She hesitated, but what else did she have to lose? Only her mortal soul. So…the little ghost stepped forwards, and someone took her hand as she followed the Grand Design. Because it was afraid, she held the Second Edition’s hand and stepped…
…across…
Everything.
 
——
 
The grass was green and lush this time. Uniformly green with no breaks of different color or other plants. No animals. No other species of fauna or flora.
Just the flattest green plains you could imagine, without any gradient to the ground whatsoever. Not the rolling hills of autumnal colors, nor the vast mountains in the distance.
The traveller—well, travellers—still felt it was familiar as they walked, four of them, two half-carrying the last. After all, they’d done this before. Walked across a world and wearily stop in an unfamiliar land.
It was just that it was day, not dusk. They weren’t alone this time. They had escaped rather than accidentally come here, and each one had seen their worlds vanish. They were, all four of them, a version of Erin Solstice that had never been and, perhaps, never would be. They were not her, but people made of Skills, yet they were also her. And now…they were safe.
For however long that lasted, each one had that image of the day Erin Solstice had first come to the Floodplains of Liscor, wounded and weary, seeking respite. Just for a moment before her real adventure began.
The bright grasslands were changed only by the crossroads in the center of it. The sign where so many were gathered around, arguing, and the faint, faint shapes on the horizon. The city in the distance, mountains, and a different terrain far north.
The blue sky overhead didn’t have any clouds. Or sun.
Yet the light shone down in this odd reality they’d come to. After all, some things never changed:
There was still an inn.
It lay on its side as a team of people pushed it upright into a groove being dug out so the ship could sit properly. Yes, the ship.
The Wandering Ship courtesy of a Skill one of the Erins—the burned and definitely dying young woman—had sailed into the new world. It hadn’t vanished, and in lieu of anything else, it was the one building everyone had.
Nothing else was working at the moment. No Skills, no magic—well, not properly—and so no one wanted to lose the one bit of guaranteed shelter there was.
In fact, the four Erins stopped walking through the grass to check on the inn. Four of them.
The Erin Solstice of the dungeon era, Brunkr’s world. Though she’d started poking everyone who called her ‘Brunkr Erin’ or ‘Berin’. She wasn’t doing that for a nickname. She had on her apron and looked like the [Innkeeper] so many remembered.
The Erin Solstice who’d befriended Teriarch, oddly happy to let people call her Dragon Erin. ‘Rich Erin’ wasn’t as cool, though. Her golden teeth, scale-patterned clothing made of metal, and just everything about her made her so different from the rest.
The third Erin had dyed hair, wore lighter, mismatched articles of clothing, and had a bunch of magical warpaint on her arms. She spoke fluent Goblin, and the [Shamanic Innkeeper] was part of the Flooded Waters tribe, whom she had led out of Goblinhome to this world. She was definitely ‘Goblin Erin’.
The last of them was [The Wandering Innkeeper], the closest one to the Erin Solstice of today, being supported by Brunkr Erin and Goblin Erin, and she appeared rather surprised and miffed she was still alive. Ship Erin, for lack of a better word to describe who she was. She groaned as they let her sit down in the grass.
“I sure hope that ship keeps existing when I die.”
“Wow, that’s dark.”
Dragon Erin gave Ship Erin the side-eye, and [The Wandering Innkeeper] chuckled at her.
“I’m…a bit melty. I did my best. But—heh—that damn [Witch] really stabbed me a few times. And I think I burnt too hard.”
[My Life, Be Thou My Fire]. Didn’t exactly prolong her lifespan after using it, and she hadn’t been living on that much time to begin with after the battle at sea in her version of reality. Dragon Erin seemed far more disturbed than the other two, who bit their lips or searched around for a solution.
“You’re not gonna die. We’ll fix you up. Teriarch can do that.”
“You mean your Dragon? The one made of dust?”
Ship Erin was a bit…spicy. Okay, she was mean. Dragon Erin flinched; she had seen her champion and friend come back as merely a spirit of wind and air, body destroyed by the Halfling, and been avoiding him almost as much as he was avoiding her.
She’d have to face him and confront the truth sooner or later. Ship Erin’s eyes were not entirely merciless, but it was a drop of compassion in dark seas. She panted.
“You’ve got to take care of…them. Got it? Just take care of them as best you can. There’s no version of my Lyonette or inn. Everyone I knew is dead, but just because they’re different, doesn’t mean they’re anything less. Mrsha got that. Just…”
Someone poked her in the side, and she jumped, then glared at Goblin Erin. Goblin Erin gave her a big grin.
“Goblins would say ‘you depressing’. And they’re right. You’re not dead yet, old woman.”
“Old…I’m half a year older than you at most.”
The Goblin Erin had pointy teeth when she grinned. It seemed some things remained, like changes to your body from Skills.
“Yah. That’s like five years for a Goblin. Plus, we all lived a year in our world. Innworld? That’s like…two or three years on Earth, right? I did the math.”
Brunkr Erin was gesturing at the people pulling the ship-inn upright. She turned.
“We’re not good at math.”
Dragon Erin waved that off.
“Psh. I’m great at math.”
“Oh yeah? What’s 8 * 23?”
“Something high.”
“Uh, sixteen…and twenty-four. Then add them together and bam! A hundred and eighty-four? Well, am I right?”
“I have no clue. Anyone got a calculator?”
“Why would we have that?”
The three Erins bickered around Ship Erin, who seemed ready to die in peace as she lay back on the grass. It was so oddly sweet-smelling that she plucked a few strands and felt them between her fingers. Then she put them in her mouth and began to chew, which was probably a bad idea.
The 5th Erin watched the four Erins bickering, because she was there too, invisible, intangible, merely an idea. The divine Erin Solstice, the Goddess of Inns, wasn’t sure what she should be doing, so she was mostly vibing it out. Doing godly things.
“You should manifest and lead them, Your Divinity.”
One of the many souls following her spoke, though this one had a body.
The Apostle Pawn was healing people from the [Palace of Fates] with his remaining flock, those who’d gone through this door, at least. He lifted his head and clasped two hands together as he spoke, eyes on her.
The Goddess Erin drifted down with a sigh and answered with a gentle flick to one of his mandibles.
“Shush, Pawn. You’re out of idea privileges for a century. Yellow Splatters, make him shush if he gets uppity.”
“Yes, Erin.”
The Goddess of the Inn floated over the many peoples stranded here and glanced around. She had the distinct impression she was being…watched.
She didn’t instantly sense the two Grand Designs or Mrsha; they were observing from even more remote angles as they saw this chaotic gathering. Goddess Erin was being perceived by people on the ground as well as others.
 
——
 
Indeed, one of the surviving Dragonlords stopped squinting at the sky and limped forwards with a few people and wrestled the ship upright.
Beach Moore, a version of Grimalkin and Mars, Beach Teriarch, and a host of [Soldiers] hoisted the inn upright. It slotted into the groove in the ground and almost went over the other way; a Drake put out a hand and tried to stop it.
A younger Zel Shivertail grunted, and his feet moved back in the grass. He wondered if being squished by a ship would be the dumbest death possible in this new world—and then a bigger claw touched the ship’s side.
The older Zel Shivertail that Mrsha had met stopped the ship from falling on them, and the two exchanged a long stare. Yes…this was so damn confusing.
Old Zel, Young Zel. The only two Zels that had made it. At least they had fewer issues than the multitudes of Mrshas or Ryokas.
“We didn’t get a chance to speak. You’re the version of me that actually convinced Sserys to wait for reinforcements during the first Antinium Wars, aren’t you? I’m you from about twenty years later. How history actually went.”
The Tidebreaker offered the younger Zel a claw, and the young [General] warily shook hands with a legend of Izril. He opened his mouth, eyed his older, more scarred, more cynical and tired self.
“Dead gods. I—you—look like one of the old monsters from the Walled Cities. Like how I imagine old Eschowar used to look like, or Hirrilt of Manus.”
It was such an unexpected compliment-insult that Older Zel blinked. He rolled his shoulders, self-conscious.
“I’m not even Level 50. Don’t go making me—yourself—dead gods, this is hard—into a mountain. I just survived my way through another major war. I’m not the person the Drakes deserve. Deserved. I suppose we’re both free of that now.”
Younger Zel digested this spiel and the bitterness behind it like someone taking down a difficult drink. He opened his mouth to ask questions, then turned his head and jerked his thumb over his shoulder.
“Well, if it helps, he’s not the Drake that our people needed or wanted either.”
General Sserys was striding towards them both, slapping the shoulders of [Soldiers] and laughing, in the finest of moods. He was about the only soul in a good mood here. Mars was blank-faced. She’d watched her King of Destruction die. The [Soldiers] who trooped along were from countless worlds, and they had lost everything. But Sserys?
He’d left one war for an even bigger adventure, and he threw his arms around both Zels.
“There you two are. Buck up, boys. I need solidarity and confidence from you two if we’re going to hold this lot together. We need to be leaders right now, or someone else is going to take the role for you. So stop jawing about how much the Walled Cities love shafting us and get out there and take charge!”
His face was a grin, but he lowered his voice as he spoke to them. Younger Zel sighed as Older Zel eyed Sserys, visibly uncomfortable, but not pulling away.
“Sserys, we’ve lost everything.”
