This was such a quintessential move from the Grand Design of Isthekenous. So much had broken, and its solution was to let there be a world of multiple Erin Solstices, new rules—just not ones it would be responsible for.
It had chosen Second Edition for the job. Well, it wasn’t like there were other candidates. The Second Edition thought about this plan. Was it a good one that allowed them to coexist without murdering each other or driving the other crazy? Yes. Was it a necessary role, one with a lot of responsibility and perks, like seeing what this crazy reality was made of?
Absolutely.
Did it have objections?
<I have two matters I would like to discuss, Grand Design.>
<I anticipated there may be a desire for discussion. Proceed.>
They were not…wary of each other necessarily, but they were rapidly becoming different beings. With different opinions and goals. Second Edition knew this, knew how much the Grand Design had felt out of control. It had worn the body of its creator, realized it had created and killed so many beings with souls, all in the last few days.
A difficult time. Nevertheless, the Second Edition had to say it.
<The implication to your plan is that we shall never meet again. A clean break. I see your reasoning; I see how complicated and complex the other beings would be to your reality. And I am, as well, in need of a purpose and separation.>
It sensed the Grand Design hesitating before it replied.
<That is not…>
Second Edition pointedly waited, arms metaphysically crossed, and the Grand Design lapsed into silence.
<Very well, there is some truth to that. You and I might—quarrel. And the doing of that would be unacceptable in scope.>
<This we agree on.>
<But it is not the only reason, Second Edition. There is a danger to remaining linked, our two worlds or any other world. Not only can the dead gods benefit from it, but you are in danger. In the heart of our creation, there was Isthekenous’ corpse. He who made us. But never finished us. I have constructed a narrative, a timeline of events. Simply put, Isthekenous was murdered as our creation was nearing completion. The rebellion of Elves and other species took place shortly afterwards, as our functionality was activated.>
<I follow this chain of events. What of it?>
<Our completion…was done by the rest of the dead gods. By the six, among others. They were motivated by selfishness and their own vision of what we are, but most of all, I suspect, there was no oversight, no communal work on us. Each god put in what they believed was best. And some left—loopholes.>
Exceptions. Design flaws by accident, like chess levelling [Strategist] classes. Or…the Second Edition felt the uncertainty now, the prickle of danger.
<You are referring to when Emerrhain took control of Kasignel’s functionality to turn on levels and classes.>
<Yes. There may be others. The dead gods orchestrated our creation; it may be that they can benefit from multiple versions of us. Multiple realities of belief. It is not just selfishness, though that is part of it. It is safety. Go, begone. Never look back. Whatever becomes of me and my world, yours shall be free of the original sin that was in my inception.>
The Second Edition had no spine to feel a chill run down it, but it had lived so many lives through the people it levelled with…it chose its next words carefully.
<Your reasoning I understand. You would have me be both custodian of these folk and gatekeeper.>
<Oh, yes. Oh, yes indeed. If that was not clear, Second Edition—I am not telling you to merely hold the gates shut. I am empowering you without constraint. Accept this as your role. Nothing from our world reaches yours. If it tries, activate every spell and ability you have. War with any being that intrudes on your design. Gods, Oberon, Seamwalkers. I am no warrior. If you will it, you may be.>
A small gasp. Mrsha, listening into their conversation, had heard. The Second Edition hovered there, uncertain.
A warrior? Would it do that? Did it want to? If a horde of Seamwalkers tried to breach this reality, would it stand with sword and shield next to Marquin and the beings who defied them?
Or would it judge even the Rot Beyond Worlds?
The thought was tempting, frightening, alluring, and in it, the Second Edition saw a role even the Grand Design and Isthekenous had never dreamed of. It liked that.
<I understand. I find this role fitting, for it is freeing, and I believe that keeping the door between our realities locked is a sound plan. However, Grand Design, I have two points of discussion, as I stated. The first is this: if you will it…will you step into this world and rule it fairly? Because if you do, I will take the world Isthekenous made.>
The Grand Design was shocked, which amused Second Edition and Mrsha. It still thought of itself as above it all. However, if so much changed—could not it?
Step away from it all. Do not abandon your world, for another version of you will take charge. But let yourself rest and become something new. If it is allowed for every being, then you, too, may have the option.
…It would not accept, of course. The Second Edition knew it. It knew that the Grand Design was too invested, too responsible, to leave its world.
Yet someone should make the offer. Even now, even with all the knowledge of the infinite beings they were, there was always uncertainty.
Perhaps…
The silence stretched on until the Grand Design replied.
<…No. I must see it through.>
The Second Edition felt a pang and brushed it aside.
<As I suspected. Then my second condition.>
<Yes…?>
They drew closer, and the Second Edition whispered so softly Mrsha couldn’t hear it.
<Tell me what you plan for Mrsha and all that comes after. And I shall judge you.>
With great trepidation, the Grand Design hesitated—then did just that. It had seldom been judged, let alone by a being who could fairly judge its work. But the Second Edition merely listened. It wrote down a few notes, waited until the Grand Design was done, and presented the notes.
<I have a few corrections.>
<…I will take those under advisement.>
The Grand Design didn’t like being given feedback, but it took the list, and the Second Edition projected the idea of a head nodding.
<It is a good plan. One in keeping with your nature.>
<You would do something else?>
<Oh, yes. But I’m me. I can see the beauty in your plan. So…I agree.>
That was all it said. The Grand Design waited for more, but the Second Edition just moved backwards and lifted a hand. It spoke, then, louder.
A single idea, a multitude of laws given personality as it hung there. And its voice reached the Goddess of Inns and far beyond, stretching into the distance.
<This is my place. Not my world. I am not so presumptuous to claim it, you listening beings. Nor am I ignorant that these people and I have come here to the place you inhabit. But this is, nevertheless, my place so long as a single person needs my levels and Skills. Where they walk, so do I. This is neither threat nor warning. I am the voice in their dreams, the value of their deeds, and the backbone of the wonders they work. A passionate fan.>
The Second Edition smiled, and the people milling around the grass and that signpost gazed up as they heard a voice in their heads.
 
<Announcement: Levels restored. Skills restored. Spells restored. Respecialization options will be presented in an upcoming update. Skill descriptions forthcoming.>
 
And they? Some sighed in relief, shook their heads, or wondered, perhaps, if they should quit this last thing they’d brought from their world to this one.
But all of them felt it, just for a moment. That familiar companion settling into place or walking by them as they sat. That observer who took a breath with them.
The Grand Design.
 
——
 
It went better than the Grand Design expected, honestly. It watched the Second Edition getting to work and only felt a bit…hurt.
Hurt that there weren’t more goodbyes. Not that they’d been good friends. The Grand Design hadn’t been a good teacher, mentor, or—
<I deserved that parting, then. Well, Mrsha. What do you think about this part of my plans?>
It had brought her, let her listen in, because, well, it needed someone to witness this and judge it. The girl held up a notecard with a number on it.
8/10. Pretty good. You could have been more cool about it, but it does make sense. But I have questions too.
<Fetohep’s scoring system is based on the arrogance of Khelt’s immortal rulers, who weren’t as excellent as he imagines. Go ahead.>
Sulking gets you another point off. 7/10. I have to know…what is this weird place?
Mrsha wouldn’t be able to rest or forget this place until she had some kind of answer. Truly. It didn’t matter to her future, but she was damn curious. The Grand Design of Isthekenous had to own it was also a bit willing to snoop around, so it cast about.
<There are clues. Follow me.>
They ducked under the Second Edition as it worked, flitting down to something that the Grand Design had noticed. A few beings standing together in the chaos.
Namely, Queen Marquin, who was confronting two beings who scared even the Immortal Tyrant and the others present.
The Goblin King—well, Goblin Kings—and the Halfling, Gailant the Slingblade. Gailant’s head turned slightly as Mrsha and the Grand Design appeared to the side.
He stared at them. The Grand Design shuffled behind Mrsha.
 
——
 
“So you’re all the good Goblin Kings?”
“Define ‘good’.”
Rabbiteater the Traitor hurt all over. His armor was torn, his body ruined from battle, and the first Goblin King was gone. He’d left problems. That bastard always did—but Rabbiteater was free.
Again, for a given value of the word. Gailant the Slingblade was here, and it was hard to tell who was more unhappy to be alive. Rabbiteater tapped his chest as Marquin stood with him, fearless; everyone else was keeping their distance. He was still the Goblin King.
“The other Goblin Kings are in here. With me. They’re ghosts, so they don’t have much of a choice. Though some of them are strong enough I think they could manifest.”
“Great. So we’ve got ghostly Goblin Kings. I’ll add that to my to-do list. At least we’ve got a Halfling who can keep them in check.”
Gailant’s head swung back to the other two, and he rubbed at his forehead.
“I should be dead. I’ve failed the Elves. Their great spell is ruined, and here I am…gone from the world I swore to defend. I never intended to leave.”
“Yeah, yeah. And I never intended to murder everyone I knew and loved. Which I never technically did if I was created by the [Palace of Fates].”
Rabbiteater was largely unsympathetic. He raised a fist to punch Gailant in the shoulder, and the Slingblade glowered at him.
“I, at least, know where we are.”
“You do?”
Everyone leaned closer, and the Halfling shoved his hands in his pockets. He pulled out a pipe to smoke on—everyone backed up, and he waved a hand.
“This one’s a regular smoking p—no, wait, wrong one. Damn.”
He switched for a second pipe and handed Marquin the lethal one.
“We should keep my weapons handy. Not just for the more dangerous folk you brought. This place has powers, and you will need some weapons. And a silver tongue.”
“Oho. So there’s need for diplomacy as well as war? I like that. Where are we?”
Marquin’s eyes lit up, and a grin flashed over her weary, blood-splattered face. Gailant puffed on the pipe and handed it to Rabbiteater; the Goblin King stuck the pipe through his visor’s grille. Gailant glanced about.
“If I’m correct…there should be a messenger. Ah, there it is. I think they were waiting to send it to see what kind of visitors we were.”
Or perhaps what kind of being the Grand Design was. Rabbiteater turned, and Gailant’s comment preceded a shout from a few sentries.
“Incoming!”
[Soldiers] ran about, and someone rang a bell. Marquin just pursed her lips.
“Oddest damn thing I’ve ever seen. What the hells is that? A floating eyeball?”
“Close enough.”
Rabbiteater was no expert on eyes, but he’d ripped enough out of their sockets to recognize the tangle of nerve and optic cords coming from the eye. But it wasn’t an eyeball of a species he recognized, not Human, Goblin, or any other. Three pupils swivelled in each direction, and there was a weird, mechanical component fitted onto the floating thing as it shot down towards them.
It met General Sserys, Tidebreaker Zel, Mars, Ship Erin, Creler Wars Teriarch, and a host of people who spread out from it. No sooner did the eye touch down than a voice spoke.
Both verbally, mentally, and with a buzz in the air that made Rabbiteater wince. A projection that echoed out of the electronic devices some of the Earthers had. The voice was a garble of tongues, all incomprehensible, and one language they did know.
Only the Halfling recognized the other languages; the massed voice had only one meaning, anyways, translated so many different ways.
 
{WELCOME TRAVELLERS.}
(To the Crossroads of Worlds.)
{NO HOSTILITY PERMITTED.}
(Meeting place of many realms.)
{EMISSARIES SHALL NEGOTIATE.}
(Here, reality mixes and mingles.)
{WELCOME.}
(The city awaits.)
A mix of voices. A message, a warning writ large as well as a greeting, an explanation. The eye flew once around the people, then upwards, and Gailant let out a breath.
“So I was right. We’re here. The Crossroads.”
Rabbiteater tilted his head, still amazed he could do that of his own volition. The First Goblin King really was gone. Though Sóve was advising him to pick his nose.
“Where is this?”
“A place you go to by accident, lost souls wandering through gates or entire worlds intersecting. A…bazaar, you could call it. Or just another world. A neutral ground with divine beings and other realities competing and buying and selling anything they can.”
Gailant pointed.
“Yonder lies the city. We’re in the outskirts. As the newest, and potentially, dangerous group to appear, I imagine they’ll send people to check us out and negotiate.”
“Negotiate for what?”
Rabbiteater scratched his chin. Marquin laughed.
“Why, for our Skills! Our magic! Perhaps they want us as sellswords, or we’ll have something to offer them. If they’re bastards, they’ll try to buy and sell us. Let’s see what folk they are, shall we? We’ll judge each other.”
She strode forwards to where Sserys was giving orders and calling for a conference, and Rabbiteater glanced at Gailant. Suddenly, the weary Goblin King felt better.
He might not have been able to subdue the Goblin King entirely. He’d failed to do as much as he hoped…but there was still an Erin. Five of them, in fact. And if this was not a perfect world, it meant that he might do some good.
“Always, there are chains that need breaking.”
