Velan commented in Rabbiteater’s head, and the other Goblin Kings argued, some opting for patience and to survey the scene. For Rabbiteater to figure out a way to give them bodies. The Goblin King just grinned behind his helmet.
He felt young again. So, he turned his head and stared at the little ghost watching him. He nodded to her, and she waved once. Then his head rose, and he followed her arc upwards.
 
——
 
<So that’s what this place is. Funny. You think you’re at the center of the world, or the Realm of the Fae is. This place is actually a nexus of realities meeting.>
The Grand Design of Isthekenous carried Mrsha through the air, away from the small camp in the middle of the flat crossroads, and she understood.
Oh. This was some kind of artificial reality as well. Someone had made it. As well as the edible grass so no one starved.
There was no sun, because there hadn’t been. The atmosphere, the…everything else? Created. An entire world made out of nothingness by the peoples who’d come here.
Older than her world entirely. And inhabited by beings on scales she couldn’t comprehend.
The city was bigger than a continent, though it was so far away that even the Grand Design took a moment to approach it. It contained so many multitudes Mrsha’s soul hurt trying to drink it in.
Buildings of vast technology sharing space with salvaged material from every reality. People selling goods; literal aliens and, amongst them, lost people that were trying to survive in this world.
Goods you could buy, and services. Mercenaries, technology—
Gates back home to your world. For the right price. There was a trade in anything and everything here. You could sell your dreams, organs, or learn how to make technology out of the junkyards—fight in the turf wars for the city, or just leave.
<Factions indeed. There are gods here. And…stranger things.>
The Grand Design could see more than Mrsha, but it seemed as fascinated as she was. The girl queried it.
Like what?
<Seamwalkers. Or whatever’s closest to them. They’re, ah, watching us.>
For once, Mrsha realized that the Grand Design was not the invisible, omnipotent being it was accustomed to being. Their presence had been noticed.
Bright eyes and beings far more powerful and real than Tamaroth or Kasigna glanced upwards, flashing with authority. But they weren’t the sole power here. Mrsha felt scrutinized by a logical intellect from one of the towers, a multitude of minds made out of machinery and data. Then, she and the Grand Design turned and saw an eye staring at them.
Or rather, a lot of eyes. Part of the city began to boil with eyes that popped out of buildings, the streets, bulging upwards as the people fled. Each one staring at…them.
What is that?
Mrsha pointed at the mass of eyes, and the Grand Design whispered back.
<I don’t know. Don’t stare at it, and maybe it’ll leave us alone. I think…we should go.>
What? You’re stronger than it is. Right? …Right?
<I’m not a [Lover] or a [Fighter]. We’re not here to interfere. That’s the Second Edition’s prerogative. I’m more concerned they can see us. Come on.>
It backed up fast, carrying Mrsha with it to the door they’d opened. The sea of eyes moved across part of the city until it ran into a technological section controlled by the vast intellect. Mrsha heard a screech of static and glanced back to see chaos on the ground.
A fight? A territorial dispute?
She didn’t know, and part of her wanted to, but the rest of her saw the danger and wondered if the people here were in trouble. Thankfully, the roiling sea of eyes stopped there, and nothing followed them back.
They came to the door and found the beginnings of a base under construction. The appearance and warning from the eye-thing had unified the people below, at least, temporarily. They were getting ready, and Mrsha sighed as she saw something familiar.
No way.
She pointed, and the Grand Design, fussing with the door, turned and saw it.
<Of course. It is only practical. If anything, this is what her true calling is.>
A quartet of women were clustered around the entrance to the marooned ship, and one was hammering a familiar sign into the ground. After all, the Erin Solstices were reasoning—if this was a crossroads between worlds, everyone needed a drink and a place to sleep.
They were [Innkeepers], and their inn was open for business. One of them adjusted the sign that read ‘No Killing Goblins’ and high-fived the others.
Mrsha’s heart hurt. She smiled with true joy and then regret, and she bowed silently to the people below. Then she turned.
Okay. I’m ready to go. Thank you for showing me this.
<Thank you for witnessing it. I don’t see the Second Edition. It may be in negotiations with the other powers. It has a hard job. I wonder if it will speak to any who wish to level or just watch over this group. I can imagine how it could disrupt everything…ah. I wish I could linger. But we have our world to attend to. Come on, Mrsha.>
The Grand Design lingered at the door as it drew Mrsha back towards the breach between worlds, and the two hesitated there. They wanted to say something.
Goodbyes. Something to wrap it all up. But who could say anything to them? One was the Grand Design of Isthekenous, the other was a ghost of a Gnoll child.
Invisible. Intangible. An idea in the sky. Mrsha gazed down at Ship Erin and saw the young woman’s head rise. The weary woman’s hazel eyes flicked up and found Mrsha standing there. Ship Erin blinked—and then her hand rose.
“Mrsha?”
She turned, and Mrsha heard her voice clearly. Ship Erin stood far away—and then right in front of Mrsha. Her discolored hair and scars were fading under the soft sunlight, being healed by the combined magic and Skills of a dozen experts. She appeared so tired—but grudgingly, haltingly alive again.
Erin. Not Erin. A fake? A real version of her? It wasn’t clear, and Ship Erin didn’t look like she’d made up her mind who she was. But she lifted herself up and smiled.
“Whatever I am—I’ll keep this, because it’s nice.”
A flaming hat flared to life as she tipped it at Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl realized that Ship Erin had heard her thoughts. Ship Erin spoke.
“You did your best. Well done. Now…I would have told you that this is it. But I guess you keep going and live with yourself. That’s the hard part.”
She glanced around, and Mrsha saw someone else step forwards.
“Hey. I’m sorry. Sorry that I didn’t live up to whatever you wanted of me. But you also helped everyone I love survive. So—thank you.”
Brunkr? He was staring at her too. Mrsha jerked back in shock, and the Grand Design of Isthekenous didn’t understand either.
<What’s going on…?>
“Hey. Hey, you asshole. Where’s my Skill? Where’s my Skill?”
Beach Relc threw out a fist and shook it at the Grand Design and scared it more than any being had in the history of its inception. The Grand Design vanished behind Mrsha, and she realized they could see it. And her.
All of them. They were standing there, and she saw a golden hand pulling back the veil between them and the intangible world that belonged only to the Grand Design.
Second Edition winked at her, with eyes that resembled that of the God of Designs. Did they really think they’d go without farewells?
“Relc Skills! [Relc Kick]! [Relc Punch]! I deserve at least one! Put that in there! And—and—”
Beach Relc was shouting at the Grand Design. He glanced at Mrsha, flinched, and she saw scars on his cheeks. He held his version of Valeterisa in his arms, but his Erin was dead. His entire world.
The [Guardsman] of Liscor kept shouting, tears in his eyes, about his silly Skills. Because what was he going to do? Shout at the girl that it was all her fault?
Even if it was? That silly Drake was too kind for that, so he shouted as tears streamed down his eyes.
“—And you’d better give Klbkch a Skill or two! And Mrsha! Got it?”
The Grand Design peeked out from behind Mrsha’s shoulder, too astonished and—shy—to reply. It had never had words with beings it governed on their terms. And now, they had a chance to say exactly what they thought to it.
“Excuse me. I believe my Level 50 Skill was never quite satisfactory compared to my achievements. As a King of Khelt, I, naturally, made do, but I wish to bring up the issue.”
King Fetohep raised a finger, golden eyes flashing. A host of Mrshas and Ryokas threw shoes and dirt at the Grand Design.
We deserve to be Level 70! Give us our class back!
One of the Ryokas cupped her hands to her mouth and shouted.
“Yeah! And why the hell do I get nothing for not taking a class all this time? Do I get anything now? Should I get a class?”
Silly…until Mrsha saw someone standing there. Witch Califor and every Nanette she’d managed to save. Mrsha heard a scream.
“Give me back my world! My people! Everything!”
The girl flinched. That voice was Lyonette’s. One of them—until it cut off in the crowd. She waited for more. She deserved it. But Witch Califor merely lifted a hand, and her eyes caught Mrsha’s as the chorus of voices rose in farewell, complaint, grief, and…
“Take care of Nanette for me, Mrsha.”
The original Mrsha nodded. If she could…Califor’s eyes fixed on the Grand Design.
“You have erred once, Grand Design of Isthekenous.”
<Yes. I have.>
It mustered a reply, still hiding behind Mrsha. Califor’s chin rose, and her eyes flashed as she gave it the deepest tip of her hat.
“Then, consider if you have made any others. Good day to you. Mrsha, I salute you.”
To the girl, she swept the hat from her head and bowed with the Nanettes. And the girl stood there, listening to the farewells, each one, the wishes, the regrets—and the pained voices. She took it all in, needles and blown kisses, the burdens of so many lives, thanks she didn’t deserve, for an [Immortal Moment] and turned to the Second Edition.
Thank you.
It nodded to her and then to the Grand Design of Isthekenous. The two walked back to the door, and the Second Edition spoke.
<Farewell forever. Farewell for now. We only knew each other for a bit, but I think we’ve changed each other for good. Whatever that means or whatever it’s worth…let’s not forget each other. Goodbye and best of luck.>
It took the form of a white Gnoll girl waving both paws, merrily skipping around, with the eyes of the God of Designs, and took a bow. Waving until that door closed, and then the Second Edition let out a breath.
<And now…we find out what comes next.>
It turned and sat down, excited, nervous, and filled with anticipation as it turned its back on the closed door that sealed itself shut.
Farewell. It wondered and would wonder forever—
What had happened over there.
