“Well, maybe because I feel like the world still needs a Kevin. Or…fuck. Maybe because I’ve got a score left to settle on behalf of all Kevins and at least one Erin. Something to prove for all of us. Besides. My world’s gone too.”
The older Mrsha opened and closed her paw.
“That’s why I’m here. This is familiar. I care about this. I could run after my mom and ask how many people are dying. But look at me. Did you see me taking out the Goblin King with that Tier 5 spell?”
“Uh…no.”
Older Mrsha clenched one paw into a fist.
“That’s right. I didn’t do shit. I’ve been preparing for this all my life. I tried to save Erin—and I would have, but I messed up. I have to do something. This is all my fault.”
The watching original Mrsha felt like that was her line, but she supposed guilt and her were a common thing. Kevin shrugged.
“Well, just don’t poke your head into the inn. You and I will draw too many questions. Hell, I think your Moore is out there. I don’t want to hurt people. And Mrsha’s dead. I mean, this world’s Mrsha. Fuck me, man.”
“Yeah. What are you going to do? I…have something I need to do. A few things, actually, to make the world better.”
Adult Mrsha didn’t seem like she quite knew, but she was staring at the water. At the wiggling carp, and her eyes had sharpened and narrowed. Kevin pulled something out of his pocket and studied it.
“Oh, I don’t know. I have a few ideas. I guess I am the main character of my own story, huh?”
“What?”
He was staring at a round cylinder of plastic capped by metal on one end. A shotgun shell from the future. Kevin spoke.
“I thought it was a story where you go to another world. Turns out it’s a reincarnation story. Y’know? ‘I Thought I Was Dead After Making Bicycles in a Fantasy World, But I Came Back With a Shotgun’. One of those stories with the entire description in the title.”
“…I have no idea what you’re talking about. But I’m game for anything but focusing on reality. What the hell is that?”
Adult Mrsha fiddled with her pouch and pulled out a spliff of Dreamleaf. Kevin took it, and they lit it on her wand. Then they stood there, two survivors, before he took a puff.
“Okay, so there’s tons of stories in my world. Fantasy stuff. They have stories about literally being pulled to other worlds. It’s an entire genre. You get hit by a truck and bam, you’re in another world. But you also have ones where you get to do your life over by coming back from the dead, right? And sometimes you have stories where you do both.”
“That’s stupid.”
“I know, but it’s sort of like eating popcorn. You can’t stop. Rhaldon had this story on his iPhone and I copied it to read. So listen…here’s this one about this dude who got pulled into a world of martial arts. But get this, he doesn’t want to become a hardcore martial artist. So he starts this farm, and it turns out he has like super-herbs that give him tons of cultivation powers. And his pet rooster too. So you’ve got this kung-fu rooster who can fight like a Level 34 [Warrior], and you’ll never believe what the story’s called…”
 
——
 
Mrsha watched another version of herself sitting, smoking Dreamleaf, and trying not to cry as she listened to a story from Kevin.
Was that worth it? She touched her heart.
If only it were more than just a few. If I hadn’t hurt them so much…then I could say it was entirely worth it. If I could have saved one person without any of the loss and death, oh, it would have been.
Not many people lived, then.
She commented to the Second Edition. It made a neutral sound.
<I wouldn’t know about that. There are a number of interesting…stragglers. But if we wish to discuss the density of population that came here, it is rather high.>
…Really?
Mrsha didn’t get it until the Second Edition waved a hand, and she remembered. Wait.
Wait, she thought they’d left.
But they were right here instead. Crowded around Student Rags, weeping, crying, and speaking, an army of…Goblins.
The Tribe of Dreams. She turned to the Second Edition and gasped.
But—is this allowed?
It grinned at her in a way so unlike the Grand Design.
<I don’t see any rules. Do you?>
 
——
 
The Flooded Waters tribe had lost Goblinhome. Oh, they might have saved it now, but the entire world had just seen 2nd Army die outside of it. The location of their home was out in the open, and Pallass would remember this.
Ragathsi was dead. So many people had died in the [Palace of Fates].
But not a lot of Goblins had died. They had when the siege began and 2nd Army attacked, and the Goblins who’d been fighting the Titan had also taken casualties.
However, there were more Goblins than not for once.
…A lot more. As in, all the Kraken Eaters and eight hundred Goblins from the Tribe of Dreams, from the future. Most of them were young; all those who didn’t have high-level combat classes had stayed behind.
But they were here.
Right. Here.
“Why?”
Chieftain Rags addressed the crying [Faithful], Roithe. The young Hobgoblin had found Roithe leading her people out of the mountain with the incredible news that the Necromancer and the Draconic Titan had been ended by the Goblin Lord of Dreams.
So he was dead too. And Chieftain Rags had done nothing of consequence.
She sat as Goblins milled around the remodeled Goblinhome, walking through huge corridors made to perfect specification by Ragathsi’s Skill. Big enough for Fomirelin to wander around shoulder-to-shoulder and have space, as well as the Trolls. Smooth stone laid by cement mixers, not hewn out of rock.
It was a lovely home. A shame they had to run. Roithe answered Chieftain Rags with a bowed head.
“She said…she said that there should be some great good that came of all this. Not just one or two. She wanted to come herself. To be that army that Erin Solstice, that Goblins need. Lord Rags just couldn’t—”
Her eyes welled up, and she wiped at her face as she sobbed. Chieftain Rags bowed her head, guilty that she was so numb that she didn’t mourn Rags of Dreams, Redchild, or Future Gothica properly, let alone all the others.
It was at this time as she sat, side-by-side with Student Rags—who was staring at her opening and closing hands, unsure how she was alive—that someone interrupted this solemn, painful moment.
Chieftain Naumel, appearing rather fresh-skinned and humbled, but still determined to reassert his reality on the world, reached out and poked Roithe with a huge finger.
“Goblins don’t cry. This Rags of Dreams must have been weaker than Rags of Civilizations, huh? She had to be, if she died killing a single undead.”
Roithe jerked—leapt up to her feet, and her eyes flashed as Rags put a hand over her own face.
She really, really didn’t need the Kraken Eaters here. Roithe screeched at Naumel. In perfect Goblin, no less, far more fluent than he was.
“Lord Rags was a hundred times stronger than you! Eat shit and die! [Miracle: Big Kick]!”
Her tribe screamed in outrage as Naumel snorted. He didn’t even move to block her as his Kraken Eaters looked up.
They were depressed after being defeated in seconds by Ragathsi, confused as to their purpose, and questioning their entire ethos. Seeing their Chieftain go flying as a Hobgoblin an eighth of his weight kicked him as if he were light as a feather probably didn’t help their egos.
But it made Chieftain Rags smile. Naumel went flying out a window, rotating as his eyes went round, and he began flailing his arms. The miracle punted him forty feet, not including the drop.
Student Rags eyed the panting Roithe.
“Miracles, huh? Seems like they have an outsized impact compared to magic. More power for less reliability.”
Chieftain Rags nodded.
“Seems so.”
“But of course, not many people in this world have anything like a faith class.”
“Nope.”
“And Rags of Dreams just gave you a tribe’s worth of faith classes—and [Mages] who know magic from the future.”
“Yep.”
Another Goblin thrust out his chest.
“And me! The smartest Goblin in the world!”
Both Ragses turned to stare at Chambersoot, and Chieftain Rags reflected he might actually be the world’s best engineering expert. Then again…he was still covered in soot from his makeshift blunderbuss exploding in his face.
“So we have guns.”
“We have capacity. Shame Goblinhome’s going to be destroyed.”
“Huh?”
Roithe swung around in a panic, and some of the other listeners glanced up. Redscar was squatting with Fightipilota, and they both turned to Rags. Chieftain Rags nodded, face blank.
“Destroyed. Vanished. Fortress empty or decommissioned. Nothing but rubble. The tribe’s gone and dead. Goblin bodies everywhere…or maybe just blood. Graves. No longer a threat. Adventurers got there first.”
Student Rags nodded, glancing at one wall.
“I bet you they wrote it on a wall. That’s how you’d know.”
“Exactly. And all of this death. Ragathsi, Rags of Dreams…Mrsha.”
Chieftain Rags swallowed, hard, trying to keep her tone steady.
“It buys us time. Time—so this won’t ever happen again. Seriously, this time. Because the next army that comes at us? Pallass? Tyrion? I’ll have faith and gunpowder, and no one knows. No one understands what we have here. It’s so ideal. It’s—”
Her voice broke. She covered her own eyes and wondered if the other versions of her had seen the plan and acted on it, even without discussing it.
An advantage. Something that wouldn’t vanish. Something real. The Kraken Eaters, the Tribe of Dreams. And…someone cleared her throat as both Ragses wiped their eyes and gazed up.
The Troll Queen, Dulat, spoke somberly.
“I do not know what happened. All of it must be explained. It is a thing of the Chosen Peoples. This, I know. If Goblins lose their homes, they will join us in ours. A debt is owed for killing the Weapon of Drakes.”
Her Trolls thumped their chests, in a steady rhythm. Chieftain Rags nodded back. She rose to her feet and took Dulat’s hand.
“Thank you. Allies?”
“Allies until the end.”
Dulat’s voice was steady, and Rags half-bowed to her. Good that came out of so much ill.
But she…she just stood there until Student Rags nudged her.
“They left the hardest part to you, you know. And me, I guess. But I don’t think they expected me to make it. And I don’t think I want the job. I don’t know what becomes of me. But I’d like to go back to school.”
Chieftain Rags nodded at Student Rags.
“If it can be done, I will make it happen. Though do you think the Titan knows you’re alive? Or…if this version’s willing to take you as a [Student]?”
Student Rags shrugged. She was as weary and heartsick as Chieftain Rags, but she managed a small smile.
“I don’t know—but I did get a grade on my essay. B-. More citations needed, and I pretty much proved how the thesis was really stupid on live television.”
Chieftain Rags blinked, and then she threw her head back and laughed, one huge exhalation of humor. Then she shook her head. Someone was roaring in the distance.
Naumel had gotten over his shock and was coming after Roithe. She ran over to hide behind Redscar, who got up, sword in hand. When Fightipilota did likewise, all the Kraken Eaters stopped reaching for their blades and backed up.
Chieftain Rags waved them off. She stepped over to the window and called down.
“Naumel! Stay where you are!”
“Raaaaagh! I am going to beat that stupid Goblin!”
The Kraken Eater’s Chieftain roared at her. Chieftain Rags felt empty. Mrsha…she smiled, and he halted, despite his towering fury.
“No. You’re going to wait there. Because I know you, Naumel. You were beaten by Ragathsi, but she’s dead. You’d like to pretend it didn’t happen, but your Kraken Eaters are now part of the Flooded Waters tribe.”
“You certain?”
His eyes narrowed dangerously, and the Fomirelin tensed as Student Rags, Fightipilota, Snapjaw, and Redscar came to the window. He eyed them warily, but covetously as well. Snapjaw wanted to hop out the window, but Rags waved her back.
The first Fomirelin of the Flooded Waters tribe was new to her powers and eating constantly to refill her energy supplies. But she was ready to fight. Chieftain Rags shouted to Naumel in front of all his warriors.
“You’re going to stay there and wait, Naumel. Because I’m coming down to show your tribe who the stronger Goblin is. It’d be smart to come up here, right now, and fight me, but you won’t do that.”
Naumel’s eyes widened, then narrowed again as he tried to work out the conflicting sentence.
“Why’s that?”
She grinned at him, and her eyes flashed.
“Because I’m going to go to sleep. And when I do—you won’t have a hope of beating me. Level 40 is waiting for me. We fight at dawn, Naumel, for both tribes. Or you could try to take me now. It’s your only chance.”
If his entire tribe began to fight—they might have a chance against the Goblins in their new Goblinhome, against Redscar, the Tribe of Dreams, and the Trolls. Or rather—they’d have more of a chance against all that than Naumel had against Rags.
It took the Kraken Eaters a moment to work that out, then their heads swung back to Naumel. He was growling. But she met his gaze, and he saw a younger version of the Goblin Lord of Civilizations standing there.
He hesitated. The Kraken Eater’s Chieftain clenched his fists. He tried to come up with a retort, but since it essentially boiled down to ‘no, you’ll lose’, he fell silent.
He stood there, and Chieftain Rags turned away. She forgot him entirely, in fact, and walked off with Student Rags. To plan a future and wait for answers.
“Student Rags?”
“Yeah?”
“I think one of us needs a new name.”
“Sure. How about Ragathsi for me? Egh…maybe I’ll think of something cooler.”
“Mm. And I think they also need a statue or something. At least a painting.”
“…Yeah. Me too.”
Student Rags glanced sideways at Chieftain Rags.
“So. What kind of Goblin Lord are you going to be?”
Every Goblin watched the Hobgoblin walking forwards, and Chieftain Rags turned her head.
“I don’t know what the name is, exactly. I think I’ve already made up my mind. Not about the name. I’ll just wait to see what I get. I will become a Goblin Lord. But I will never let him win. The Goblin King and I are foes.”
Her tribe sighed softly as she made the decision that Goblin Lords had chosen again and again.
Behind them, the Troll Queen smiled.
 
——
 
Mrsha watched Rags, smiling, her eyes full of unshed tears and pride. Then she nudged the Second Edition.
Well?
<Well what?>
What’s her class?
<Not my call to make.>
Mrsha glared at the Second Edition.
You definitely know! Spill it!
