But it made the three freeze up for an instant, and Ranthia wasted no time capitalizing on it—she lunged straight at the woman she had mockingly propositioned. She danced around the globe of Ash and unleashed a rapid barrage of cuts. Her goal was simple—she needed to erase as much Ash as she could with [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation]. She had to strip away the woman’s protection. She had to—

There was no warning, even [Combat Awareness] stayed silent. A flash of indescribable light, then it felt like a Lightning-infused shockwave slammed into her. Her muscles spasmed and seized, even as her flesh and armor sizzled. It didn’t even hurt; it felt like every possible feeling all at once raced through her body and cancelled itself out into just… noise.

But that attack blew away the last of the woman’s defenses.

And a heartbeat later, the air cracked. The woman’s lovely head disappeared into a crimson bloom, just before some grand impact slammed into Ranthia’s shoulder and sent her spinning. Ranthia struck the ground and bounced as she tried to focus on [Reflections of Reality].

[*ding!* Your allies have slain a human [Electrifying Elegance] (Lightning, level 622), [Ashen Asylum] (Ash, level 546), [All That Glitters] (Gemstones, level 216)//a shimagu [Honeyed Words] (Ooze, level 587), [Venomous Barbs] (Poison, level 561), [Mending Touch] (Light, level 349)!]

In a fresh body, the notification was one of the most beautiful things she had ever seen. Not that she missed that the winged ogre was closing in on her. With a hateful snarl, he tried to bring his club down on her.

There wasn’t even enough time to activate a Skill, but Ranthia met stone with adamantium and twirled sideways. And tried not to dwell on the fact she felt the club slide through her hair as it passed harmlessly behind her. Gods and goddesses, that had been entirely too close.

The dullahan was looking for the new threat, but the winged ogre seemed to be especially determined to kill her. She wasn’t even sure if she had any other images up—she couldn’t let him injure her too badly. He swung again, as if he hoped to bisect her with a chunk of rock.

Ranthia dropped down and sprang forward. It wasn’t an instantly fatal blow, but her opponent had practically given her a gilded invitation. So, she stabbed him in the kidney with a Void-kissed knife.

The ogre howled and drove her back with powerful beats of his wings—and likely a Gale or Wind Skill—but he never even noticed the image that she threw to the side. Segments of her armor failed before she could escape, but the shift freed Ranthia from his onslaught. [Adamant Commander] tore her knife out of his side and the ogre snarled as he grabbed for his bleeding wound, wobbling higher into the air as he did.

Which—frustratingly—probably saved his life. A second crack echoed and meat exploded from the winged ogre’s thigh.

…Into Ranthia’s hair. Ugh! She knew that she—wait, she had worn a helmet, when in Xaoc’s glory had she lost it?!

The winged ogre was hurriedly flying higher into the sky to escape, which was the only reason she allowed herself a moment of distraction before she turned to face the dullahan.

“Well, that changed quickly.” Her final opponent muttered in accented Creation.

“I can’t complain.” Ranthia answered in good humor. At that point, she wasn’t even surprised he spoke her language, same as she did his (sort of). Instead, she let a savage grin split her face as she approached him. Each step felt like she was approaching a forge of improbable power, but she wasn’t about to let heat stop her from killing her last adversary.

“Oh, you will still die.” The dullahan’s tone was hard to read beneath the accent and the metallic twang.

Her opponent stepped forward and cleaved his sword down at her—eerily reminiscent of the favored overhead strikes the winged ogre kept performing. Ranthia didn’t even hesitate. His blade warped the air around it with a haze of heat, yet Ranthia trusted [Higher Power]. He might be stronger than the troll was, but she had learned the Skill’s value. She caught his blade between her knives. [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation] activated an instant before impact.

Her left wrist and palm broke.

But his thermally abused sword failed too. As she pivoted and cleaved through it with her right knife, the upper third of the blade flew past her. Where it smashed into Remera’s walls—oops. Her opponent staggered at the unexpected outcome.

She wasn’t one to miss an opportunity. Her right hand was still good, so she drove her knife into the Lava that surged around him, straight for his neck.

It didn’t even hurt as badly as she expected, but her strike failed. The dullahan’s eyes widened and he stumbled back, but Ranthia’s arm just… came undone. Her flesh cooked and ablated away, and the knife slipped from her grip, straight into the molten rock around his feet.

Ranthia could only curse as she hurriedly shifted to a nearby image while her opponent recovered. Her momentary advantage had been erased, but at least she hadn’t paid a permanent price for her failure. [Adamant Commander] even plucked her knife from the Lava and pulled it back to her hand.

Curses spilled off her tongue as she hurriedly released the blade. Segments of skin peeled off her scalded hand and followed the blade as it descended from her grasp. The metal wasn’t glowing or anything—it looked just fine—but it was hot.

Fortunately, with the woman and her parasite quite dead, Ranthia was finally able to call her first knife back from the scattered ashes around her feet. The twin had been dragging it around until her timely demise, but that blade wasn’t anywhere near as heated as the first. Her damaged hand hurt, but it moved as she needed it to—she could endure mere pain.

Another crack rang out. A plume of lava scattered into globules that splattered across the dullahan’s armored body, but nothing else seemed to happen. He was still ignoring it all as he eyed his ruined sword.

She couldn’t read the expression on his face—especially not through the lava that raged around him—but she imagined it displayed some flavor of displeasure.

“Next time then.” The dullahan finally announced, before Ranthia could come up with a viable attack—[Sustained Chaos] was going to be the crux of her next attack, but she needed slightly more of a plan than “throw knife.”

[Combat Awareness] went positively nuts. Ranthia began to dance away from the dullahan, and the ground trembled after her second step. It was as if Pallos itself began to rage beneath her feet.

A full, broad geyser of Lava erupted beneath the dullahan. Liquid death scattered everywhere, forcing Ranthia to shift to an image she threw atop Remera’s walls. She and the other defenders hurriedly leapt off, into the base, even as the walls began to smoke and sizzle from the proximity to so much Lava.

As unlikely as it sounded, the geyser moved and carried her adversary away—not that she could watch. She and the other defenders were busy trying to beat back the flames that erupted on nearby tents.

“Grace!”

Ranthia blinked at the call from the other side of the damaged wall. It was unexpected, but it didn’t take her long to ascend once again.

Sentinel Mirage was limping closer, supported by a woman in tattered Legion armor. The woman was almost as severely wounded as he was—though at least she had both legs. Mirage’s left leg ended shortly below his knee, and he had a leather cord wrapped tight just beneath his armor’s skirt to try to help stop the flow of blood.

“I hit you, didn’t I? Damnit, I knew I should have waited a hair before I took that shot. Want the kill credit to make up for it?” He called up with an easy grin on his face.

That was impressive unflappability. Or, quite possibly, delirium from blood loss. Ranthia sent an image down in front of him and shifted to it.

“Nah, it’s all yours—you saved my ass.” She answered upon arrival, before she walked over to her abandoned, superheated knife.

Still too hot to touch. She broke it down to sand—careful to not actually touch any of it—and used her Skills to spread the sand out.

If adamantium didn’t want to cool off, she had a major problem she needed to solve.

“Appreciated. But, uh, once you’re done playing around, maybe between the two of you, I can get a boost over the wall? That entrance of yours didn’t look like it was going to open any time soon.” Mirage asked, as if the wall wasn’t higher than she could ever hope to throw the man—even with his weight reduced by half a leg.

Ranthia eyed him.

“What, my arms are good, right Octavia?” He looked to the silent woman, but she just answered him with a grunt. “See, she agrees with me.”

For all Mirage’s jokes, Ranthia went back for a rope ladder as soon as her adamantium was cool enough that it wouldn’t burn through a leather pouch. Between the two of them—and some additional help from the legionaries that were supposed to be posted to that section of the wall—they managed to get the injured Sentinel inside Remera.

The crisis was far from over, but Remera was still standing—okay, a significant majority of Remera was still standing—and that had to be good enough for the moment.
