Once she finally started to encounter ogres and more exotic specimens of life on Pallos, she caught snippets of orders and conversations. Tertia wasn’t her only quill pal (hey, it was cute, even if she still preferred to write with charcoal), Ranthia also kept in touch with Paulla. Her expert on the shimagu language had become a star member of the Coalition’s language team in the year and a half since they escaped the Unbreakable Image. Between her updates and Ranthia’s efforts to learn High Elvish (the languages bore nothing in common, but Ranthia finally was properly grasping just how different sentence construction could be between different languages), Ranthia’s understanding of the shimagu tongue was better than ever.

She was able to grasp the general gist of much of what she heard.

None of it was particularly helpful—and much of it was horrible—but it was somewhat novel to have such a breadth of comprehension.

And then, on the opposite side of her damaged stone tower, she finally found them—two targets that stood out like sore thumbs, in part because of how much distance the shimagu masses kept from them. A human woman somewhere in her forties, clad in vibrantly dyed robes and enough gaudy jewelry that it was practically a garish form of armor. A dullahan man—which raised serious questions about how in Xaoc’s glory a parasite managed to get inside of his natural armor—almost glowed with heat. The two stood a comfortable distance apart while they conversed in the shimagu tongue.

The woman was complaining. Ever since she was… small, her… something wouldn’t something about… Wait, that word she knew, it was the one the shimagu had used when they saw her. And the ‘Remus’ was in Creation.

…She was complaining that Ranthia had died so easily to her opening strike.

The dullahan’s voice had a decidedly metallic bent to it, as if he was speaking into an empty helmet. He accused the woman of whining or complaining or something—the word related to mood and speaking, given its roots. Then there was that word that Ranthia was increasingly convinced meant Sentinel and the word for block and negativity, which she assumed meant he was saying that there was no sign that she had blocked or evaded the attack. Another word purportedly meant ‘missing,’ so he was writing her off for dead.

Neither had noticed Ranthia quite yet, but she was definitely hesitating. They had to be the two twins that routed the Legion.

[Mage – Lightning] level 620, [Mage – Ash] level 542, [Mage – Gemstone] level 210 for the human woman.

[Mage – Lava] level 780, [Warrior – Lava] level 599, [Warrior – Inferno] level 486 for the dullahan man.

The elements and levels were already major problems, but only the gods knew what their parasites were capable of. They were both horrible matchups with elements that plainly countered her.

To attack was tantamount to suicide. But there was no one else that could do it. Neither of them was likely to be uniquely vulnerable to the other ‘high level’ classers in Remera. A useless piece of her mind was spinning strategies that involved her people from the Unbreakable Image, but even if Amphea could have stalled out the Lightning [Mage] that wasn’t doing Ranthia a single godsdamned bit of good!

Ranthia just hid nominally out of sight and tried to still her mind as she reached for her battle potions set. She just needed a plan. That was all. A great plan would somehow erase the tremendous disadvantage of fighting an equal and a higher-level opponent that both hard-countered her. There had to be something. There just had to—

The feel of liquid coating her hand brought her back to reality. Her hand was shaking so hard that she spilled some of the potion once the wax seal was broken. It felt incongruous. She didn’t shake like that, she never had. She was terrified when she fought the kraken or… no. That was a lie—her anger had overwhelmed everything back then. It had blinded her and led her to take stupid chances, but she had never really appreciated how much of a crutch it was, too.

She would have almost preferred it.

Ranthia drank the potion, followed by the next. Tiny advantages that piled up. She reminded herself that she was making assumptions about her opponents—for all she knew, their Skillsets were poorly balanced and didn’t properly counter her, same as her Mirror [Mage] class failed to counter Radiance. There was a real chance the woman had blown her entire mana pool on that opening strike.

And that was the crux of her plan—hope.

Panic spiral aside, Ranthia had never been one for convoluted strategies that were unlikely to survive the first move her opponents made. She was no master [Analyst] that could inexplicably predict the chaos of others; she set herself to simple directives and acted as the rhythm demanded. She just needed to do her best to kill the Lightning [Mage] with her opening attack, easy.

She had no concept of dullahan anatomy—it had never been covered when she was in the Ranger Academy. She couldn’t be confident in her ability to remove him in a single blow, but the Lightning [Mage] was a human. As horrible as it was, she was something of an expert at killing her own.

Hey Xaoc, watch this—it’ll either be great or terrible. …And hey, if I fail… I hope you’ll watch over Avyna for me in my stead, at least until she’s safe again.

Xaoc’s response felt like a nudge, a push to stop wavering and act. Which was fair—cowering behind a rock was about as far from chaotic as she had ever been. The mana Xaoc took was seamlessly replaced by her mana regeneration nearly immediately, and Ranthia took that instant as her prompt.

She threw an image behind the duo, seemingly unnoticed. And the moment her shift concluded, she drove her fully empowered adamantium knife straight for the back of the woman’s head. It was a perfect strike, poised to pierce the brain and carve down to the parasite. Her strength was sufficient to pierce the skull of a [Mage], but the invisible edge of Void that coated the adamantium would make the kill instant.

And then sixteen tendrils of Ooze intercepted her attack. The greenish gunk formed a buffer between her blade and the woman’s head, even as the thorns that tipped the tendrils wrapped around Ranthia’s arm and punctured exposed skin. Her lethal attack was reduced to the shallowest possible cut—thanks solely to [Echoes of Devastation] extending the blow through the surprisingly resilient Ooze—that did more to mess up her impractically long hair than it did to damage her skin.

Her other knife cleaved through the tendrils as Ranthia pulled away with an angry snarl. The woman hadn’t bothered to turn to face her yet, but her arm was already burning in pain—with dark discolorations spreading across her skin. Ranthia retreated back to the body she had just abandoned.

“Poison, of course.” Ranthia muttered as she stepped into view, shaking the lingering discomfort out of her arm.

The woman and the dullahan turned to face her, before said woman began to speak to him—she was asking if Ranthia was the same Sentinel and, if Ranthia understood her correctly, was commenting that all humans looked the same to her. The human woman thought all humans looked the same. The dullahan seemed to confirm that she was, but Ranthia couldn’t follow what he added after—none of the essential words were familiar.

The woman smiled at Ranthia while her Ooze-tendrils splayed out around her—the effect was eerily reminiscent of a flamboyant bird trying to attract a mate with its vibrant plumage. Facing them directly was not the plan, but it wasn’t like Ranthia had any better ideas. She just needed to learn what they could do and adapt, same as with the troll and—

[Combat Awareness]’s warnings basically felt like instinct after so long. She felt a need to move, she threw herself to the side, even as she began to spread images out throughout the area. A moment or so later, another powerful bolt of Lightning tore through the sky and struck the place she had been. Remarkably, despite the proximity, the blast didn’t arc to her, it just peppered her with flecks of molten rock—a minor detail, at least comparatively.

Twice more, the infested woman called Lightning from the clouds above. Ranthia started the process to shift immediately, and it concluded a heartbeat before the second bolt obliterated the body she had narrowly escaped.

Gratingly, the two continued to just… casually converse while Ranthia struggled. The woman seemed to be having fun and was praising Ranthia, but the dullahan was plainly unimpressed with her performance. Which… gratingly, was fair; Ranthia had done nothing but defend thus far.

But the attacks paused and Ranthia didn’t wait to see what came next. As one, she and her remaining images began to dance, even as more appeared around the twins. The duo seemed to be momentarily thrown off by the change.

Which meant they were vulnerable. The swarm of Ranthia went on the attack, closing in with chaotic, graceful movements. Then, once the first images reached the pair, the knives came out. A barrier of Ash erupted from the woman—which forced the dullahan to lunge away from her, though he drew a massive single-edged sword from his back in midair and began to attack the images within his impressive reach.

But they were just images; they shattered beneath the force of his strike, even as the woman’s pyroclastic barrier destroyed every image that touched it. The true Ranthia watched and adapted—she switched targets. A pivot and a twirl brought her in range of the dullahan, even as her opponents continued to chat (the woman was impressed, he wasn’t—she recognized “<Weak>” easily, it was one of the first bits of the shimagu tongue she learned). The dullahan’s sword shattered an image and met her true knife. Void-kissed adamantium bit into vitality-reinforced steel, but her blade deflected off—much like when she had faced the troll. She damaged the sword, but, given its scale, it was scarcely more than a nick—she would have to do a lot better than that to disarm him.

Still, he seemed surprised. He stepped clear of her with broad, confident strides even as he verbally mused that she might not be as weak as he expected—then there was something about… distance? The woman urged him to move further away and said that she didn’t want… godsdamnit multiple languages were annoying. The two bickered briefly, but the dullahan continued to move and Ranthia couldn’t even be certain which opponent she was supposed to be leery of!

She felt ready to scream. Having her opponents just… continue to casually chat while she fought them grated on her more than she would have expected. Deep down, she knew it was better that they underestimated her and weren’t using their full strength, but… Still, she had enough wisdom to keep her mouth firmly shut. They had no idea that she could… kind of understand them, which gave her a possible edge—and maybe an opportunity, if she was crafty enough.

But for the moment, she needed to choose which opponent to stick close to, and she had confirmed that the dullahan would be an endurance battle. Which was fair enough, she had another defense to test. Still, Ranthia followed him for the moment while she prepared to shift. A false stumble on the frozen terrain didn’t go unnoticed. The dullahan committed to a strike meant to bisect her.

And she replaced an image a heartbeat before the Ash barrier could destroy it. Adamantium and Void tore a massive rent through the Ash, but it closed before she could capitalize on it—which was fine, that meant with greater speed, she could kill the woman. Even better, she didn’t seem to even notice the near incident; the infested idiot was focused on the dullahan.

And then she spoke again, there was a permissive root behind her words, but something about distance too, perhaps? Not that it stayed a mystery for long. The damned dullahan erupted like a volcano made of metal-coated flesh. Plumes of Lava shot outward around him—erasing all traces of every image in a solid vicinity of him—and he stood there while the ground around him glowed and melted.

At least the shimagu woman plainly underestimated his range—she screeched, a universal sound of panic, as she stumbled away from him. Blobs of Lava clashed against the Ash of her shield, but the molten slag flew slow enough that it was trivial for Ranthia to dance around them.

It brutalized the population of her images though, even as the temperature spiked. The bitter chill fled the area as rocks shattered from the sudden shift. The dullahan began to walk toward the images that were just out of his range, the eruption of Lava moving with him. Each time one broke, his gaze found the next and his leisurely stroll continued.

Ranthia had few other moves. She threw more images out as she reassessed the situation. The woman’s Lightning, contrary to her expectations, wasn’t too big of a threat. It built up in the clouds before it descended and, somehow, she was able to sense that enough for [Combat Awareness] to save her ass. It didn’t fork or arc like she would have expected, it was just like a spear from the heavens that obliterated whatever was below. Her parasite’s Poison tendrils of Ooze weren’t immediately lethal, which meant that Ranthia could all but ignore them—so long as she didn’t get careless. The Ash shield was a larger problem—it was likely mana efficient and Ranthia knew she had seen the glow of arcanite amongst the woman’s excessive jewelry. Bands of silver, copper, and gold covered much of her body and gemstones or arcanite were embedded in most of it—which made her Gemstones class all the more ominous.

