Still, she was convinced that a big attack could pierce through the woman’s shield, not that she had such an attack. But her opponents plainly had no idea what she was capable of, despite the troll spending years training himself against her. There were opportunities there, plus she was still confident that she could tear through the Ash with enough speed and focus.

The dullahan was more immediately dangerous. The heat that assailed her was already climbing high enough that sweat was proving to be a problem—her images didn’t sweat, and she had no idea how to make them do it. It wasn’t something she had ever concerned herself with; she was too used to being able to renew her physical state at will. The dullahan was slow, but he was undeniably powerful. His strength just might be greater than the troll’s had been, and the Lava was an obstacle that she lacked a clean answer to. Worse, she was pretty sure that—like the woman—she hadn’t seen what one of his classes did, unless his Inferno class was dedicated solely to managing his own heat. Unlike her though, he hadn’t shown anything of his parasite’s Skills.

Fine, it sucked, but she had her answer. Ranthia pulled from her armor’s arcanite and tapped [Reflections of Reality]; she just needed to keep the woman between herself and the dullahan hotspot while she found a way through her defenses. All she needed was momentum.

[Combat Awareness] screamed an instant before her shift concluded.

It wasn’t an ideal pick anymore; had she more time, she would have aborted the process and chosen another. Poison tendrils were launching out of the Ash barrier and one of them bit into her leg before she could dodge it—but it still fared better than the image she had just abandoned. The winged ogre growled as he pulled his stone club free of the ground.

“<I was so sure that was the one.>” He grumbled, one of the first things that any of them had said were Ranthia was pretty certain of every word—and how their interactions worked.

Not that she could appreciate the novelty, a single thought seemed to swirl through her mind.

Three twins.

It was absurd. No one had a firm count of how many twins the shimagu had, but there were increasing whispers that there were more Coalition elites than there were twins—yet they saw fit to send three just to kill her?! But there was no time to dwell in her outrage or panic.

Ranthia concluded her shift to an uninjured image—one of the precious few that was left, she had lost almost all of them in the moments she was distracted. She couldn’t panic; she just had to accept the situation as it was.

She just had to accept that she wasn’t going to survive.

But hey, if hope was denied, she was old friends with revenge. She preemptively welcomed it back into her heart and mind, and her plans pivoted. She couldn’t win, but she could carry them kicking and screaming to Black Crow alongside her.

The too-familiar cold venom of hatred flowed through her veins as Ranthia roared back into action. Images bought her time, even if [Submind] was taxed beyond its limits managing images that were broken and replaced in rapid succession. It made her unoccupied images sloppy, as if her opponents couldn’t readily tell that the sweat-soaked body was truly her. There was nothing else she could do about that, so she refused to worry about it.

She had already assessed how to kill the woman, so she set herself to it. Her dance carried her to the ball of spinning Ash that her target occupied. One blade culled the tendril that came at her, even as she spun and built the momentum for a grander strike with its counterpart. Void consumed a swath of Ash, and the force of the strike dispersed more—exposing the woman within for a precious heartbeat or two.

Plenty of time to come around again and release the knife with lethal momentum. [Sustained Chaos] carried [Void Edge] and [Echoes of the Void], while [Adamant Commander] imparted greater force than her momentum and her strength could ever hope to achieve. Hitting the center of mass wasn’t ideal when dealing with a twin, but she could kill the host and find a way to make sure the parasite died—the certainty of a single kill mattered more than trying to be perfect.

A dazzling burst of color—one bright enough that it might have blinded lesser eyes—erupted from the countless tiny gaps in her defenses, and the woman shrieked a heartbeat later.

But in the final instant Ranthia could see inside, before the barrier sealed the wound she had inflicted, her knife dropped after it was stopped by layered defenses.

Naturally, the woman kept fucking chattering once she was done screaming. “<That,>” some curse or another, “<just made me use four of my>,” oh look, the word for gems, probably. That would have been neat, had Ranthia learned it at some earlier stage of her life. Instead, she didn’t even bother to try to memorize it.

Xaoc take skill gems, first they were denied to her, then they denied her a rightful kill?! Godsdamnit all. The winged ogre was already inbound—unsurprising, she had more-or-less stayed still for a few heartbeats.

He swung his club down at her and, instead of shifting away, Ranthia met it with her [Void Edge]-enhanced blade. Stone never even got to meet adamantium, it ablated from her Skills, even as she danced clear and lashed out with a snap kick.

The impact didn’t seem to hurt him much, instead her foot hurt. The winged ogre—still airborne—barely even moved, but Ranthia was forced to activate [Reflections of Reality] again. The brief pause in creating images was costing her; her safe harbors narrowed in the moments it took to shift.

She only narrowly completed the shift before the winged ogre crushed the image she had abandoned.

Being down a knife would have been a problem before, but Ranthia had more adamantium bonded than she possessed during her days at the Unbreakable Image. She lowered her empty hand to her belt and called the dormant sand to form a replacement blade—her third knife.

The dullahan was shouting something—orders, by the tone; not that she understood any useful words in what he said. If he was able to give the other two orders, she needed to prioritize him.

Ranthia danced away from another blast of Lightning as she tried to form a plan. She had no idea if she had enough vitality to survive the Lava for long enough for her knife to reach him—even from so far away, the heat felt as if it would sear her skin.

Avyna. The thought felt like it came from nowhere—as if some distant piece of her more rational self had finally escaped its bonds to whisper the name into her very soul—but it still brought Ranthia up short.

Which gave the winged asshole just enough time to reach her. Ranthia was still flatfooted by the revelation that she had almost willingly thrown her life away and her knives were out of position. The only thing she could do was throw herself backwards while she raised her arm to take the strike. His stone club crashed into her flesh with brutish force, but Ranthia hit the ground and flipped back onto her feet.

Her arm was bruised, but it hadn’t broken. [Adamant Commander] brought her knives back into her grasp, even as she lunged at him. Her opponent fled into the sky, out of her nominal reach. But rather than pursuing him, Ranthia returned to her dance and refocused on creating images—the trio were able to destroy them at a worrying rate.

Love and determination chased the fog of revenge—and the helpless terror that had birthed it—from her mind. She rushed to review the situation again, even as she felt another Lightning bolt forming above her. It necessitated another shift—and she needed to pull more mana once it was done.

The dullahan’s Lava had to be a mana sink—she refused to believe he could conjure or add so much heat to that much material indefinitely. She had no real insight into the Lightning bolts’ possible costs, but the Ash shield was probably mana efficient—unless she could keep deleting material from it. The winged ogre presumably hadn’t even used much mana, but she had never even seen him attempt a prolonged fight—he was a wildcard.

The shift concluded and Ranthia pulled from her arcanite stores. The dullahan… turned away from her when he saw her do it and approached one of her unoccupied images instead. What…?

Her opponents weren’t stupid—foolish, perhaps, but not stupid. They were dissecting her Skillset, the same as she worked to figure theirs out.

She couldn’t be confident who could hold out longer in a defensive battle—her [Covenant] made her far more mana efficient than she should have been, but she was only mostly confident she could outlast the dullahan. Still, it felt like her best chance. Especially since she hadn’t even touched the fused chunks of arcanite in her belt pouches—each of which held far more mana than her armor did.

Ranthia’s dance adapted. She and her images spread out further and [Ideal Reflectance] ceased to copy her Skills—an image’s [Void Edge]-infused strike was just too weak to properly threaten her opponents. She focused on conserving her mana and preserving herself, as she watched her opponents and tried to bait them into reckless expenditures.

As important as the rest of the battle that raged around her was, she had no room to pay a single whit of attention to it. [Submind] needed every bit of extra focus she could give it, to keep her images dancing and to make them harder to break.

Especially because all three of her opponents had suddenly focused on destroying them. The dullahan stopped spouting orders after they did, which answered what he had wanted from them.

The dullhan’s pace was glacial, the winged ogre’s was frenzied, and the woman fell somewhere in between. But, as a trio, the three were damned effective at breaking her images. Lava flowed and splashed over them. The club crashed through images and shattered stone into perforating sprays that made his devastation almost as widespread as the dullahan’s. The woman kept her Lightning focused on the body Ranthia occupied—proving that at least she had learned how to spot the true Ranthia—while Poison-tipped tendrils of ooze snapped around her like gooey serpents, eager to bite into her images.

And through it all, Ranthia danced. [Rhythmic Grace] carried her around their attacks and [True Grace] kept her at her best. But her best wasn’t enough; she was losing the battle of attrition. Even with her best efforts, her opponents were able to destroy her images just a bit faster than she could replace them.

And every time she used [Reflections of Reality], her options collapsed. Which meant she had to dance better. She pushed her body for every bit of speed, anything to keep her ahead of the irregular attacks that came her way. Every time she had to shift, not only did it cost her images, but it also put her in danger of shifting into an image that was under attack.

Time and time again, Ranthia was forced to roll the dice.

But she had to persevere. If at least one of them ran out of mana, she had a chance.

It wasn’t a stalemate in any sense of the word, even if no true damage was being inflicted by any participant in the battle. Her opponents seemed to be growing cocky that she couldn’t attack, but there was no way to capitalize on it. After all, they were right.

She couldn’t allow herself the smallest distraction as she and her images danced for survival. Her mana was fine, but her margin of safety narrowed as the farce dragged on. No matter what she tried, the number of images she could keep active continued to diminish.

Distance didn’t help her. Lightning found even those that she sent to the edge of her range, and she had no idea how the damned woman even knew where they were. Too much was unknown; a single brief battle only provided insight into the obvious, but the details were going to kill her.

She had enough battlefield awareness to know that her opponents were driving her toward the walls of Remera. It would limit her movements even further if they got there, but it was just as possible that the base’s defenses might turn the situation around for her. She wasn’t so stupid that she refused to involve others—no legionary or dwarf was ignorant of what war meant.

A new conversation sprang up between the three. She couldn’t follow most of what they said, but the bit of context she could make sense of was clear enough: they were arguing about who would kill her. …And somehow this resulted in the winged ogre making a disgusting mockery of a lecherous grin at the woman.

The enthusiastic moan that came from the woman in response was entirely too much. Ranthia was running out of time—she was barely able to keep six images active at a time anymore—and her opponents were flirting?! Not that outrage was doing her any good; it was becoming increasingly obvious that her gambit had failed.

It was hard to find the space to properly think. She had to do something, but what? Rushing for the wall felt like her only option, but—

What was that? There was a glint in the distance, and it seemed to be focused on her position.

Had she been more rational, she would have written it off—the smart bet was that it was nothing. The next most likely option was that it was some sort of shimagu plot or attack. But Ranthia was so focused that she hadn’t even noticed the familiar headache she got back when she manually controlled her images for too long or tried to do too much. She was so desperate that she decided it was a signal.

“<Instead of him, why don’t we have some fun?>” It was horrendously difficult to infuse a glib tone into the guttural sounds of the shimagu language. Her throat was sore enough after that she had to suppress the urge to cough, and yes, she was only mostly sure the sentence made sense.

