I closed my eyes, "Elysium can't seem to stick with even remotely reasonable methods. They'll do anything for their end goals, and I don't even want to imagine what they would do with the psionic liquid."

Obolis twitched, "They'll...They'll tear my empire to shreds." Obolis turned around and walked to the edge of the ruler's room.

He gazed at one of his gauntlets, inspecting the cipheric markings on them. He clasped that hand into a fist, "I've spent my entire life building a sanctuary for my people, and it will be torn apart within a year's time. It's as if I built a castle of stone, but it has now become sand. Each grain of it was a soul under my wing, a sapling in my shadow."

Obolis's breathed deeply, "A wave has come to take it from me. All of it."

Obolis froze in place. His eyes widened as he growled. He flung a steel chair, and it slammed into one of the monitors as he snarled, "I will become a king of nothing...An owner of memories that are feeble and fleeting. And the albony will be left barren."

I let Obolis have a moment before I shook my head, "You won't have to worry about that."

Obolis raised a brow, "And why is that, exactly?"

I rolled my shoulders, "I'm killing them all, every last one."

Obolis rolled his eyes, "How would you even go about doing that when you can't even scratch Valgus?"

I shrugged, "Valgus knows nothing. It's the Elysium spies who we really need to get rid of. Once their information network is gone, we'll have to get rid of all the evidence of the psionic liquid as well."

Obolis grimaced, "Ah. Instead of cutting the head of the serpent, you're pulling off each of its scales."

I leaned back, "Huh, I guess so. Either way, I'll try to destroy Valgus, but it doesn't seem necessary for now. He's not the sharpest tool in the shed. We'll find out a way of hurting him eventually."

Obolis sneered, "Everything can be destroyed. We simply need to find his weakness...Or create one."

Shalahora pulled up one of Valgus's ripped-off arms, "I stole this as they ran. It should be useful for uncovering his defenses."

We leaned away from the arm before Obolis murmured, "Ah...Do you make it  a habit to steal limbs?"

I raised a hand, "Man, I have to hand it to you, Shalahora. That's helpful. Handy even."

Shalahora and Obolis stared at me. The shadow threw the arm onto the ground, "I don't even want to take credit for this anymore."

I picked it up, tossing it into my dimensional storage. It was a tight fit, but it worked out. With that awkwardness handled, we glanced towards the rushing rulers, most of them within my city already. Iona Joan flew with her wings from the bottom floor as they left. She carried a few injured rulers with her, sweat beading off her brow. With a swoop, she went into my city's sanctum.

With no one left, the three of us flew towards the warp leading to my city.

Obolis stepped through before raising his brow at us, "Are you not coming?"

I shook my head, "I'm getting what I can first."

Obolis pointed down, "We've gathered the files from our research already. As for the physical resources, the uncovered gear and rainbow bones remain here. Good luck gathering it all."

I gave him a knowing grin, "You won't be worried about the rainbow bones after you arrive in my cities."

"Why is that?"

"Let's just say it's in plentiful supply."

Obolis peered around, seeing the buildings left behind by my golems, "It's in the buildings themselves even...Remarkable." He waved, "Good fortune to you both then."

I picked up the teleportation panel, the grafted steel snapping under my grasp. Shoving it in my pocket dimension, a spike of discomfort waved through me. That was the limit of my storage for now. Not having time to think about it, Shalahora and I raced toward the vault before I tackled into the colossal doors.

They dented, though the graphene held. Shalahora sent out blades of darkness that split the gray substrate, and my final charge slammed the door down. As it fell, an enormous kinetic pulse radiated through the entire building. It sent a shiver through the steel and graphene, hinges on doors snapping and panels shattering nearby.

I winced, "I'm guessing that wasn't you?"

Shalahora jeered, "The crimson idiot is here, it would seem."

Shalahora sent out dozens of shades to gather supplies. I piled balls of supplies that could fit through the door in a gravity well. I got several bunches of them, and we dove through the collapsed doorway. Chaos erupted above as we crossed the inner hull of the survivor's sanctuary. Valgus and the primevals dented and destroyed everything they came across, the entire area leveled in seconds.

The booming thuds and echoing throngs mirrored the breaking hull of a ship. The rays of Leviathan's radiation pierced through the building once more, the waves of warping gravity returning with the warmth. They easily minced my dimensional fabric before a primeval eroded through the roof above. The star beast turned its eye at me, its form bright enough to blind anyone peering its way.

I stomped my foot, a panel of the floor lifting between us. I dove down as the star beast pierced past the steel barrier. It destroyed one of the balls of gear I carried along with several of Shalahora's shades. Swooping the equipment with me, I pulled the panel down as the shimmering primeval gazed around in confusion.

Before it discovered us, I squeezed my palm towards the floor. Gravity wells crushed the steel together, sealing the hole we left behind. Before it found us again, we dove into the medical bay again. Surrounded by medical machinery, we darted over and around various sick bay supplies. The star beast above decimated the floor above, tearing it apart.

Getting the hell out of there, Shalahora and I reached the wall. Shalahora sliced through it before stabbing several fingers into the steel. He grasped the metal and wrenched it away, the cut steel decaying into ash as the umbral flames burned it. I expected to see the stony earth of Leviathan-7, but we found a small room stuffed with storage pods instead.

I jumped into the cubbyhole, cipheric markings covering the entire room from head to toe. I frowned at Shalahora, "Could you sense this room at all?"

Shalahora put a palm on the wall, "No." Shalahora sliced and wrenched the steel wall once more, the familiar rock of Leviathan-7 coming into view. Shalahora shrugged, "This is where they store breathable air."

I shook my head, "Wait a minute."

My gravitational sense told me the tubes weighed too much to be full of pressurized gases. I stabbed my arm into one of them, and a wave of energy fired up my arm like energized needles. Fear roared in my chest before I tore my arm off while scrambling away. I fell onto my back before jerking myself out with a gravity well.

Rainbow bone spines splintered from my amputated arm in mass, the limb destroyed in a moment. The shards ruptured the other tanks nearby, liquid rainbow bones flooding at us. I siphoned it into a ball before the star primeval found us. It launched itself into the room, and the nearby steel liquified instantly. A flood of psionic liquid erupted out, and Shalahora sent out a shadow slice at the chaos.

The star beast dispersed around the attack while the liquid flowed towards us. Before the beast rematerialized, I jerked myself upright and stomped forward. A telekinetic wave shoved the primeval into the psionic liquid, and the beast flared for a moment, its eyelid smiling at us. It bent down to charge before rainbow needles erupted from every square inch of its glowing body. Its internal plasma slimed off the spines of its body, the dead husk falling down.

Nothing remained but growing shards of rainbow bone covered in ooze.

Before even more of them arrived, I melted the exposed ground into magma and flooded the room with it. That created an opening in the rock, and we both slid into that opening with our gear intact. After growing the pocket of air for a while, I fitted the psionic liquid and the supplies too.

Sealing the tunnel behind us, I kept the pocket of air moving underground. I melted and solidified the earth at will, getting us several miles away before we shot out of the ground with most of the gear left. Staring at it, the majority of the equipment would need to be cleaned of ash and solidified rock, but it would survive.

At the surface, we turned behind us, the survivor's base being a small pyramid in the distance. The graphene tendrils of the base thrashed at nearby primevals. The eldritch snapped, cracked, and crushed the gray supermaterial, turning it into crumbling refuse. Valgus exploded out of one of the walls, his laughs booming as he decimated what took months to build in seconds.

So much for his promise not to tear the place apart.

We peered at the destruction for a moment, a sense of silence overcoming us. It passed before we darted away, Shalahora casting his stealth magic over us both. The darkened veil cast another silence over us, the layers of calm compounding into a killer kind of quiet. We reached the ossuary several minutes later.

We converted a few primevals as we passed by, knowing their power would be necessary for the future. I also had nowhere to store the psionic fluid from earlier, and I'd rather we got rid of it then rather than later. With several dozen primevals dashing in with us, we reached the base. Once there, a crowd shy of a hundred survivors was waiting for us.

We left the converted primevals outside the city limits, many of the rulers letting out yelps of terror at the massive army. They gawked at the piled bones and layered algae, no one having seen the ossuary's horrors. As I floated down, I raised my arms,

"You'll all be fine. We even got most of the gear back with us."

As we floated the cores and gear over,  Obolis stopped speaking with the director golem and walked up to us. The Emperor scoffed,

"I now understand why you left the rainbow bone behind."

I shrugged, "You could say it's in plentiful supply."

He grabbed his arms in front of himself, "You also arrived with the monstrosities in tow, and by the looks of it, this isn't the only settlement you've founded here. This is quite the bastion you've made."

I nodded before raising a hand, "I need a moment to talk with everyone." I stomped my foot, a wave of kinetic energy erupting through my city. The blue shield warbled in duress, silencing every ruler present. I lifted my hands and boomed,

"It's time we had a long, hard talk about what the hell's going on here."

My golems arrive in mass behind me, and the twitching primevals skulked outside. The rulers huddled somewhat, hiding behind the guards who were hopelessly outgunned. I let a silence pass over them before announcing,

"You've all been poisoned by this." I opened my pocket dimension and pulled some rainbow bone liquid out. I swirled the beautiful fluid in a gravity well while mouthing,

"And I will figure out who did it before anyone leaves this city."
