“Esh is an <<incorrigible>> seeker of amusement,” said Veln. He was the one who made a point of glancing at the fruit basket with one eye every time Stuart was freed from wevvi duty for long enough to take his seat beside Alden. “And he amused himself right into the happiest and most surprising <<pairing>> anyone could have imagined. Stu, did you really bring snacks into the room just to tease us with them? We’re two cups beyond the point when you should have offered to share with your elders.”

“He’s trying to fill us up with wevvi so we’ll take less,” one of the others replied.

“I am not!” Stuart was over at the cart, about to start another chanting session over the boiler. “The <<occasion>> is formal enough to serve the wevvi without—”

“This house has raised a cruel child, Alden,” said Olorn. “As you can see.”

Little bowls full of pristinely sliced fruit got them through the rest of the meeting without incident. Alden managed to shoehorn in one mention of Connie and another about his time with Alis-art’h and her companions on Thegund, hoping to show everyone that he was capable of talking around his own bombs without setting them off.  The conversation stayed shallow, but the tone warmed up enough that it was no longer painful.

He tried to get a sense for everyone’s personality and how they really felt about him, but except for Olorn and Veln maybe being a touch friendlier and one of the Primary’s wives hardly saying anything at all, there wasn’t much to glean. They were probably used to presenting themselves however they wanted in front of audiences more discerning than him.

In the end, he was full of wevvi and welcomed, and he followed Stuart up to the second floor so that he could check in with Emban-art’h before they left.

“She’s doing well?” Alden asked.

“She’s fine. Although she has started thinking of things she wants me to do, and it always seems to be a few glet before I need to leave for a class.” He glanced down at himself. “I dressed for school, but I never actually made it to campus today because I didn’t want to arrive during instruction and cause an interruption.”

“Am I keeping you from classes?”

“No, they’re over for today. There’s a presentation of <<a traditional type of summoning>> I might attend tonight while you’re with Healer Yenu.” He cut his eyes toward Alden. “If that’s all right? I’d be able to teleport back to you very quickly if you needed me.”

“It’s fine,” Alden said, as the hallway bent to avoid the trunk of one of the trees the house was built around.

Emban-art’h’s room was near the end of the hall. An unusual spell was active in front of her door. At first Alden thought it was a floating wreath, and he wasn’t entirely wrong about that. But as they approached, he saw that the wreath was a single strand of vine, shaped into a circle, and the bulk of the decoration was created by small items corkscrewing slowly around it.

Most of them could have been symbolic in some way—flowers, leaves, a few things that looked like soap carvings. But the presence of a couple of decorated pouches and a shiny metal capsule the size of his thumb made him think some of the items were probably gifts rather than part of the spell.

“I made that,” said Stuart, pointing at the vine. “It took much longer than I thought it would.”

He didn’t knock. Instead the two of them just stood there beside the wreath, Stuart’s eyes so fixed on the door that he didn’t notice Alden shooting him questioning looks at all.

A string of whistling sounded. Alden barely had to time to notice that the noise earned itself a strange translation— <<Caughty-caught you, yummythingy!>>— because a blink later the whistler was standing right beside them. Short black hair with a braid on one side, an excited grin, pale pink eyes.

Alden had seen her quite a few times through his interface, including standing near her little brother. He was still thrown by the fact that she was the exact same height as Stuart.

“Hn’tyon Evul-art’h,” he said, “it’s good to finally meet—”

“Human Alden, you look so good today. I like it. You might want to take the pretty pezyva off when you play with Red Alden, but you could wear it to all kinds of fun places I go to.”

“Evul,” said Stuart, giving her a cautious look, “he’s not going to fun places with you. He’s going to Healer Yenu’s as soon as I finish <<standing ready>> for whatever Emban might need.”

“I know. Of course. Don’t worry about what I said. And you’re actually doing the votary thing too properly, don’t you think?” She turned an eye to Alden. “Only <<stern>> old people stand around counting their breaths after they’ve been told to go away.”

“I am keeping my part of the agreement,” Stuart said. “If I were really a votary to Emban, or any of you, I would stand ready for you to change your minds during times of <<uncertain mood>>.”

Did Emban tell us to go away? He must have sent her a message instead of knocking.

Evul pulled one of her rings off and poked it toward the wreath. It joined the collection, floating upwards beside a soap carving of an animal that looked like a long-tailed bear. Then she turned to Alden, “You should call me Evul since you’re going to be spending so much time here. Or you can call me Number Two Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-one, to <<inspire>> me.”

“Don’t call her that,” said Stuart.

“Or you can call me Beast in the Flock.”

“You can call her that, but it would be odd to do it most of the time.”

Alden was wondering if it was okay to ask for clarification on that one when the door slid open.

“Which one,” Emban-art’h muttered, “is banana?”

She was wearing a velvety blanket, nothing but one arm and her head sticking out. She looked tired and irritable, but her purple hair was up in the most elaborate braiding job Alden had ever seen in person. Jeweled pins and rainbow ribbons galore. He wondered if doing her hair was her version of insomnia pinball.

“It’s this yellow one with the speckles,” said Stuart, handing it to her.

“We don’t usually eat the peel, Hn’tyon Emban-art’h,” Alden added.

She looked at him. He was reminded that she thought he wasn’t interesting enough to be the cause of turbulence in the house. “Stu said you offered to have conversations with me late in the night and use your Avowed abilities on my behalf…”

“What?” said Evul. “You did? He did?”

“I did,” Alden said, wondering if this was going to bite him in the ass somehow.

“Thank you.” Her eyes flicked to the commendation. “There’s no need for you to use the title…and you have my well wishes for your healing.”

She let Stuart scoop all the gifts out of the wreath and carry them into her room. From what Alden could see of it from the hall, it was full of luxurious furnishings that seemed to have been chosen for their individual merits rather than because they matched or made sense together. And there was a large floor desk covered in stacks of hexagonal white cards. One on the center of the desk was being decorated with dizzyingly intricate colored lines of ink.

Art project? Or are they some magical tool she’s prepping for when she feels up to casting again?

He couldn’t figure it out before Stuart came back and the door was closed.

Evul poked Alden in the arm. “Why didn’t you ever offer to call me and talk to me in the night? Stu and Aunt Alis can be first and second, but shouldn’t I be your third favorite?”

******

They escaped from the house in a series of bursts interrupted by people they encountered. None of the reactions to Alden’s presence were negative, but he was definitely getting the sense that the spouses weren’t the only ones who didn’t quite know what to do with him.

One of Stuart’s cousins asked, “How is it being human?” Then a look crossed his face like he hated himself a little, and he made an excuse about needing to run an errand, hurrying away while Evul laughed.

She finally got peeled off by Rel-art’h. He acted like he’d just run across them accidentally, but Alden was betting he’d hunted them down, because he arrived ready to ask probing questions about whether or not Alden understood how to behave when Stuart left him at the House of Healing. Once he seemed mostly sure that the human wasn’t going to do whatever it was he feared—eat the furniture, pretend to be a member of the staff, coat himself in a layer of dirt—he wished Alden well, thanked him for his exceptional bravery in the absence of obligation, and told him to call immediately if he had any difficulty communicating with Yenu-pezth or selecting his treatment options.

“Rel used to take me to some of my appointments,” said Stuart as soon as they’d made it outside. The trees were rustling overhead in a breeze that didn’t reach them here on the forest floor. “He must have decided that you might need him there, too. That’s helpful of him, but you can just call me.”

“What does Rel do?”

He had given Alden permission to call him Rel, but only while at the siblinghold.

“Mostly he teaches at the Rapport school and directs newling squads on missions.”

Alden had actually been hoping to find out what, specifically, his skill was. He thought it involved telepathy, since Rel had used it to talk to his brother on the day their sister had died. And the fact that Stuart’s mother had been mentoring Rel before she went to help the Primary seemed to indicate that his powers had to do with the mind.

“His role is one to be proud of,” Stuart continued, “but I think he is one who does not let go of the role. I am not currently his student, and still he insists on checking that I have remembered to do the most obvious of things.”

“Was Evul his student, too?” Alden asked, thinking of the critical look Rel had given her when he saw her poking his arm again.

“No. Though I understand how she might appear to be a much younger person than him, they’re both from the same birth set. The one before the last one.” He seemed to mistake Alden’s surprise for alarm. “Don’t worry. Evul is only lax about small matters. So she says. She actually wasn’t here much when I was growing up. Always busy. But it’s been nice to become closer to her over the past…you don’t have your suitcase?”

They were almost at the summonarium’s entrance.

“You said that I’d probably be walking with her and talking with her today, and that if she wanted to see me again in the morning, I could stay here at the cottage. Should I be carrying it?”

“I would if I were you,” said Stuart. “She sometimes decides patients need to <<steep>> in contemplation. Depending on how long she leaves you there, you might be happy to have your own comforts…telling you that is an obvious thing I should have remembered to do.”

“You would come rescue me before I was trapped with her for weeks…right?”

Stuart snorted. “I said you might need to steep, not that she’d keep you as her prisoner.”

They went back for the bag. The big blue suitcase was where Alden had left it in the mudroom nook. He had his hand on the top handle, and he was lifting it toward him carefully rather than dragging because excellent guests didn’t scratch the possibly-sacred wood cabinetry with their suitcase wheels, when a voice said, “It is a treasurable moment to hear Stu going out the door to see Yenu again, knowing it is not for his own hurt.”

There were a couple of quiet agreements.

At least three people together, in the room where Alden didn’t get to bleed on the hearthstone. He really didn’t know their voices well enough to be sure about who they might be, especially when they were talking softly. He thought the first speaker might have been Veln.

Bag in hand, breath held for no reason other than how awkward it would be  to be caught in a position that might look even remotely like he was eavesdropping on the people who’d just welcomed him to their home, he turned to Stuart.

And found him smiling slightly.

At least it wasn’t a bad thing to overhear.

He smiled back and gestured for the exit. They crept toward it.

“…a polite young person, at least,” one of them said.

“Don’t let Alis hear you praise him <<with half-certainty>>.  She’ll finish off her Thegund trip at speed to come argue in person.”

A response so quiet that Alden wasn’t sure it was fair of the translation to let him read it came—about how of course Alis felt that way; the human boy had tried to make her feel better for not saving him and only asked for her help making a will.

They’d both frozen again. Stuart slowly looked around.

Alden thought Boe, Jeremy, and the people he’d been getting to know on Anesidora would all be giving off horror, sadness, or exasperation upon hearing that. But he was almost being blinded by the pride and admiration on Stuart’s face.

The Primary’s son also seemed kind of smug.

What the heck is that look?

Was there some little cheerleader in Stu-art’h’s head, wearing 99.9 on their little cheerleader uniform and shouting about how his new friend was the coolest for facing down death while asking for nothing but some legal assistance?

I might need to talk to him about how he imagines—

“We’ve seen how Stu is around him. We’ve met him. I think we can—”

“Do we have to argue about this again? Stu is ours. To <<raise to adulthood>>. Of course we need to help him change his path, but talking about using a new companion he’s found to manipulate him can’t be the only way.”

That was the one who Alden thought might be Veln.

