Alden’s stomach dropped. And then it dropped once more at the sight of Stuart’s spine stiffening and his face shifting. There was a moment when his expression was only startled and confused, and something about that moment of genuine surprise made what followed worse.

“We can’t waste this chance,” the one who was, apparently, arguing in favor of manipulating said.  “You think we can still persuade him. I think he hasn’t been willing to truly consider anything we say since Jeneth gave his approval. If we had a few more years…but we don’t.”

There was a pause. Alden drew a breath. He tried to nudge Stuart forward with a smile and an elbow because he absolutely wanted out of the house now. He wanted them at the summonarium and then away from here.

Stuart didn’t seem to see him. He had once tried to convince Alden he was okay with bleeding out for a while longer; it couldn’t be clearer that he wasn’t okay with this. He was standing there with his mouth slightly opened, face drained of color.

“The friendship,” said the voice that didn’t belong to the possible Veln or the one arguing, “…is unexpected. I don’t believe it can last for more than a season of their youth with everything that will weigh on it. But this is its season, and Stu so wants it to be strong. I see no harm in letting them grow closer. Something good might sprout even without our <<interference>>.

“A word of doubt or <<sincere plea>> from someone who knows him only as he is now and not who he was as a child, might be exactly what Stu—”

Alden didn’t know what motion of Stuart’s or what panicked impulse of his own made him suddenly throw his hand in front of the Primary’s son’s face. Something like, No, please don’t make it even worse by yelling or going in there!

But Stuart was taking a step toward the other room, and Alden’s hand was moving backward, and the combo resulted in a soft headgrab-slap thing. It couldn’t have been too painful, but it was weird enough to make Stuart’s focus shift.

He mouthed something at Alden that was impossible to lip read. Probably, “What in the name of the Mother is your problem?” Or, “Did your finger just approach my nostril?”

He seemed able to read the message on Alden’s face, though.

He whirled and left, and Alden hurried after him as quietly as he could until he was out the door. Outside, Stuart was jogging toward the summonarium, and so Alden was almost running to catch up. Any faster and it would have been a chase scene that ended with some votary whipping out a wand and shooting the crazy Avowed for threatening Jeneth-art’h’s favorite child with a giant piece of luggage.

The identical twins he’d once delivered third meal to were coming out of the summonarium. Stuart swept between them. Alis-art’h’s daughters, thought Alden, trying to smile in a way that assured anyone looking that nothing was wrong.

“They must be late,” he heard one of them say to the other as he passed.

“Are you all right?” Alden asked as soon as he reached the spot where Stuart was standing—ramrod straight, jaw clenched, and rust-colored eyes straight ahead.

“We’ll be routed through the capital and then to the road that leads to the House of Healing. Approaching that way is traditional.”

The teleportation notice appeared before he’d finished the sentence.

“That’s good with me. But, Stuart…no matter what some person or people in your family think, I would never let any of them talk me into doing that. Into discouraging you from doing what you think is right.”

“I knew most of them were still hoping to persuade me,” Stuart said in a voice that was high and sharp. “I agreed to do things that might ease their worries and prove my certainty. I agreed to serve as a votary for a trial period even though I know more about being a votary than most people my age who are planning to—”

They were suddenly standing in the most gorgeous teleportation alcove Alden had ever seen. It was a nonagon-shaped room with a floor that shone a lustrous, soft white. Like a pearl. The walls and ceiling overhead were filled with clouds so realistic he was only sure it was a room, and not some kind of sky platform, because of the notification asking him to stay in the chamber and welcoming him to the capital of the known universe.

“—said that she didn’t like how things had gone and that if my <<ultimate decision>> was different from what they wanted, they would still like for me to go to my first binding feeling supported by them, and couldn’t I allow them time to show that support even as I <<gave concession>> to their concern?”

I think I missed a little of what he said there.

“I don’t think a…a…<<plot>> to use the person I am weaving friendship with to weaken my confidence is something they should…it’s bad!”

He spat the word “bad” so harshly that it felt like it might have the power to reach his parents up north in Rapport I.

“I think as soon as I have introduced you to Healer Yenu I will go back home and tell all of them that our agreement must need to be contracted since they can’t be trustworthy without—!”

And then they were standing in a humbler, grayer alcove.

Stuart stalked out the door, saying things that made the Artonan who bowed to them as they exited give him more glances than Alden.

Alden didn’t know where to stare or what to pay attention to. The building they’d arrived in was basically a small house, and when they stepped outside it, they were standing on a dirt path, surrounded by scenery that would have looked like it was imported from at least three different, widely separated time periods if they were on Earth.

Behind him was a gate made of wood—the kind of thing that would keep cows in a pasture, not people from climbing over. Beyond it was a narrow road with no signs or markings. To his left, a structure that was either a partially finished building or a spaceship larger than any he’d ever imagined rose from the trees, blocking the sky. Ahead of him, in the far distance but a completely straight shot down the path, was a building that was probably the House of Healing. He doubted it was as small as it looked. That had to be the jumbowhatever messing with his perspective. Finally, to the right, an idyllic field full of some kind of bushy crop, rolling away toward a city skyline.

Stuart issued a few more outraged sentences but his anger was flickering, eaten away and complicated by other emotions. As he bent to collect a couple of foggy green pieces of something that looked like sea glass from a bucket by the gate, he said quietly, “I did think Veln was close to approving of my choice. Over the past few days, especially, it seemed…but he said ‘Of course we need to help him change his path…’”

He was staring into the bucket.

“I’m very sorry, Alden. How…what an embarrassing…I don’t know what to say about you hearing that from my parents, on the day they welcomed you to our house.”

“It’s all right. It wasn’t that bad. For me. All they really said was that they hoped they could convince—” Convince was a nicer word than manipulate. “—me to convince you to do something that they think will help you. They’re wrong. But they also said I was polite, and that your aunt likes me a lot. So I’m not hurt.”

I’m not the one who has most of the people I love knocking me back every time I try to take a step forward.

Stuart seemed really committed to staying bent over that bucket.

Alden stretched his arms and took some breaths, trying to figure out what to do.

“You’re strong,” he said at last. “You can make any choice you want. The path of highest onus is supposed to be hard, but your family is making you fight so many little battles on your way to where you want to go. Maybe you’ll be the first knight ever to get there and think it’s actually easier than your choosing season.”

Stuart finally straightened back up.

Alden stepped over to join him by the bucket. “What are these?”

“Those seeking healing carry them down the road. Alden…”

He waited, but Stuart only shook his head.

Alden reached out with three fingers and touched his shoulder. “I see you.”

The Artonan chirped and ducked out from under his hand. “That’s for knights wearing certain honors for the first time! You can’t do it to me.”

Of course it is. “You did it to me.”

“Well…but…an Avowed is…and I wanted…”

“I see you,” Alden said again, waving the fingers at him. “Let’s go. And I’m sorry for sort of grabbing at your face back there. I thought, ‘No, Stuart!’ And my hand shot out.”

“That’s the second time you’ve done it. Is it a human reflex?”

“Not usually,” Alden admitted. “It only happens to you.”

******

******
