Lyn seemed to miss his expression, continuing. “Anyway, Car-whatever recruited some helpers. They’ve been making bulbs pretty much non-stop with the extra tungsten wire, plus panes for the roof, too. The codes pay well for that kind of thing. It’s been a great draw, actually. Most of the artisans from Vestvall have joined us.”

“Awesome,” Rain said, his smile returning. He’d deliberately set up the codes to reward not just combat prowess, but also creation. It seemed to have worked even better than he’d expected. As they passed through the walls into the compound proper, he looked up, inspecting the completed roof, then back down. The tavern seemed to have been converted into a barracks, the other room Ameliah had made for that purpose clearly not having been sufficient for the number of people interested in sleeping out of the rain. A few people had been hanging around inside, Mig among them, plus a few more familiar faces. Rain waved, then turned as he heard motion behind him. It looked like some of the crowd was interested in following them in, but his eyes snagged instead on a bounty board hung on the wall near the entrance, choked with bills.

Glancing at Lyn, he gestured at the board with his chin. “Those are all mundane stuff, right?”

“Yes,” Lyn said, nodding. “Don’t worry. The board for Entrusted is tucked away in Engineering.”

“Entrusted?” Rain asked.

Lyn blinked. “Oh, right. Entrusted is what we’re calling full members now. We voted on the name. I hope you don’t mind what we picked. We’ve got ‘Trusted’ too, which is a middle rank, mostly to do with access to the company hall and the supply room. They’ve got their own board in there. New members come in as Aspirants.” She gestured to the board. “They get the shit work.”

“I see,” Rain said, reserving judgment. The addition of a third rank was actually something he’d been planning, but going through whatever changes had been made to the codes in his absence could wait. He stepped closer to the board, looking at a few of the bills. The ones he saw were all for things like gathering resources or making mundane items in exchange for credits. There was also a posted list of names that looked like a watch rotation. He nodded to himself, then turned back to Lyn. “Looks like it’s working. How about the credit system? Are people using it?” If Romer’s really been burning through Tel to keep stuff charged…

“Amazingly, yes,” another woman’s voice said, and Rain looked to see Vanna approaching them from his left. She wasn’t smiling, wearing a businesslike expression instead. If anything, she looked stressed. She wasn’t wearing her white cloak, but she had a golden pin on the breast of her jacket, worked in the shape of Ascension’s rising arrow. Tarny was at her elbow, and rather than a standard gambeson, he wore a surprisingly sharp outfit of blue fabric beneath his Ascension cloak. It made him look less like a conscript and more like a young noble. He’d also grown a short beard, much like Rain’s, and the dark whiskers did wonders to make him seem less baby-faced. The cumulative effect was ruined by the way he was practically bouncing with excitement.

“You can thank Atyl,” Vanna said, coming to a stop. “It was his idea to split the Council of Finance off from the Council of Administration. Turns out he’s really good with this stuff. He spotted a flaw in the credit system that would have sent the entire thing up in flames within a few days of you leaving. He even managed to explain the problem well enough to get people to vote on fixing it.” She glanced at Ameliah. “Nice armor. Also, you’re late. You promised me you’d have him back by four days ago.”

“Hello to you too,” Ameliah said, raising an eyebrow.

“Sorry,” Vanna said with a sigh, then forced a smile, including all three of them. “Welcome back. Rain, as acting captain, I officially return Ascension to your command. Mayor Stupid-Face is your problem now, thank the gods.”

Rain blinked, bemused. Mayor Stupid-Face?

“Captain Rain,” Tarny blurted, stepping forward and bowing deeply. “Congratulations on your successful delve.”

“Thank you, Tarny,” Rain said, shaking his head. “Nice threads. The beard looks good on you too.” He turned back to Vanna as Tarny struggled with the praise. “Clearly, we need to catch up. Before that, though, we’ve got stuff.” He hefted the cases slightly. “More than just these, too. I’d like to stash them out of sight, preferably underground, and then we’ll need to organize another trip or two to get the rest.”

“Stuff, huh?” Vanna said. “Very vague.” She beckoned to one of the groups gathered around them. “You four, come take the cases and bring them to Engineering. Get someone inside to bring them down. You’re not to go in.”

“No,” Tallheart said, rumbling deeply. “We will carry them.”

“It’s fine, Tallheart,” Ameliah said, having set down her cases. She laid a hand on Tallheart’s shoulder as Rain nodded in agreement, setting down his cases as well and stepping back to make way.

A white-cloaked man stepped forward, then grunted as he tried and failed to lift Ameliah’s cases. “Gods above and monsters below, what’s in here?!”

“Bung to that, how strong are they?!” said another man, likewise struggling. He gave up on lifting both of Rain’s cases, focusing on just one and managing to get it off the ground.

Rain smiled. The cases were full of ingots. Silver, mostly, but also iron, aluminum, copper, lead…basically everything that they’d found or brought with them. There were more piles of resources below, stable deepstone—though the stability would need to be tested—Ashen Jungle wood, various fruits and plants—some of which might have Chemical or Alchemical uses—monster bones, spare equipment, and more. Tallheart’s cases had the good stuff, and that was probably why he was unwilling to give them up.

“Fine,” Tallheart said after a moment. “But I will supervise.” He turned, carrying his cases toward the passage that led deeper into the compound. “Come, humans. I must see how many of my tools the goat has destroyed.”

“Tallheart, wait,” Rain said, making the smith pause and look over his shoulder. Stepping forward, Rain brought his arms to his sides, bowing formally at the waist in the cervidian fashion. “Thank you, Tallheart. Without you, we wouldn’t have had a chance at success. I owe you more than I can ever repay.”

Tallheart paused, then turned silently, setting down his cases. He stepped forward, then returned Rain’s bow, meeting his eyes. “There can be no debt between family.”

Rain’s eyebrows shot up, stricken by Tallheart’s matter-of-fact tone. Overwhelmed and unsure of how to respond, he was saved by Ameliah.

“Stop it, Tallheart, you’ll make him cry, saying something like that.”

Tallheart rose, then turned and bowed to her as well, just as formally. “Do not mock.” His expression softened, and he chuckled. “Or do. Perhaps it would be appropriate, for I consider you to be family as well.”

“And we, you,” Ameliah said, her voice becoming serious as she bowed back.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, sounding satisfied. The two of them rose together.

“Well,” Lyn said, looking from Tallheart to Ameliah and Rain. “That was touching. Nothing like a trip to the murderous depths to really bind people together.”

“Tallheart, I—“ Rain began, but Tallheart cut him off, turning to retrieve his cases.

“Do not make it awkward. I will speak with you both later.” Rumbling to himself, he made for the passage to the company hall. After a moment, the unfortunates Vanna had voluntold to help began hauling the cases after him, grunting and swearing with exertion.

Shaking his head to dislodge the feelings that he’d suddenly found it stuffed with, Rain cleared his throat. He caught Vanna’s eye, then gestured to the struggling men in an attempt to change the subject. “I’m pretty sure that’s a workplace safety violation.” He pointed to a wire running straight across the center of the tavern floor. “That, too.”

“Yup,” Vanna said in a tone that said ‘no shit’. She sighed, gesturing at the wire. “There’ve been incidents, but I’ve got too much to manage to do more than remind people not to stick their fingers in the sockets. No deaths, amazingly, here or in Vestvall. Tahir and Mereck have been earning their keep. They’ve had their hands full between the electrocutions and the monster attacks and honor duels… We need to talk about the Vestvall nobles.” She shook her head, then waved at the crowd and pointed at the four struggling with the cases. “Oh, go help them, would you? Aspirants, you can enter the company hall, but don’t go down to Engineering, and come right back once you’re done or we’ll have words.”

Rain shook his head, then glanced at Ameliah.

“Family, huh?” she said, smiling mischievously. She continued in a husky tone, speaking softly so the crowd wouldn’t be able to hear. “So, should I call you husband now?”

“Uh—” Rain stammered, his mind skipping several gears while his heart simultaneously tried to catapult itself out of his chest. Marriage didn’t exactly translate well across the culture barrier. In Fel Sadanis, and possibly Vestvall too, it was more of a common-law type thing outside of the nobility, where it was more about politics. As far as Rain was aware, people would either hold ceremonies or not, depending on their personal beliefs. He wasn’t sure where Ameliah stood on the matter, obviously not having discussed it with her, as they’d only known each other for a few months.

Mercifully, Ameliah laughed, freeing him from the need for a response. “Kidding, kidding! Your face! You haven’t turned that red since—”

“Hey!” Rain interrupted before she could make it even worse. He could feel the eyes of the crowd on them. While most probably hadn’t heard what Ameliah had said, Vanna and Lyn sure had, judging by their amused expressions.

Damn it. She got me good. Unless she didn’t, and she was being serious and just SAID she was kidding because of how I reacted, in which case—

Vanna clapped her hands, interrupting Rain’s rumination before it devolved into internal screaming. “Okay, come on, love ducks. There’s work to do.” She chuckled one last time, then sighed and ran a hand through her hair. “Let’s talk in my office. We’d better get in there before someone like Carten turns up. Hells, or Kettel. Lyn, can you take care of things out here, please? Wait, you didn’t leave Del in the crack alone, did you?”

“Of course not,” Lyn said, still with laughter in her voice as she looked between Rain and Ameliah. “I made him come up with us. I left him with the other sentries at the top of the elevator. They’ve got their crossbows. They’ll be fine.”

“Good, good,” Vanna said, already walking away. “Tarny, go find…where did he go?”

“Right here,” Tarny said, appearing with a tray bearing an assortment of sliced cheese, meat, and fruit. Bread, too, smelling fresh from the oven, sitting beside a lump of butter and a pair of steaming cups.

Rain’s entire focus narrowed in on the divine aroma that was wafting from that tray, even his emotional distress falling to the wayside.

Tarny gestured to the plate, continuing. “I figured they might like something to refresh themselves after being in the deep wilds for so long.”

“Rain,” Ameliah said, laying a hand on Rain’s shoulder. “If I kissed him, would you be upset?”

Rain shook his head. “Hells, move over. I might kiss him first.”
