“Do you even know how long we’ve been up?” Tabitha asks a seemingly simple question.

I scoff, "Of course I do. It's been—" I start counting the hours in my head, only to frown when I realize we’ve been up for over twenty-four hours.

“That’s right,” Tabitha interprets my silence for what it is. “The last time you stopped to rest was after you hammered out the dents in my armor. Since then, you’ve opened the chamber, helped me slay the undead guarding it, helped me bury it, picked up an unknown magic artifact, got your soul sucked into a statue.”

“Hey,” I try to protest that last point, but Tabitha ignores me and continues as if I didn’t interrupt her.

“Got a history lesson. Unlocked access to said unknown magic artifact,” she continues to count off. “Studied it for the last eleven hours. Did I miss anything?” Tabitha looked at me like she was daring me to contradict her.

“When you put it like that,” I lower my head and grumble.

Once again, Tabitha places a hand on my shoulder, but this time, she waits for me to look up and meet her gaze before she continues. When I do, she gestures for me to sit back down. I do, and Tabitha plops down in front of me.

“You’re letting your emotions get the better of you,” Tabitha flatly tells me. "I could see it all over your face these last three hours."

“Then why didn’t you stop me?” I ask, a hint of sadness leaking into my voice. If she saw me struggling, why didn’t she do anything to help?

"Because this is something you must overcome yourself," Tabitha informs me seriously. "I can't tell you how to feel. All I can do is make sure you don’t burn yourself out and remind you that you aren’t alone. We’re in this together.”

“But the bracelet,” I weakly protest.

Tabitha struggles to glance at the piece of jewelry on my wrist as if it were invisible, but when she does, she reaches out and taps it with her gauntleted right hand. When her gauntlet makes contact, it doesn't sound like two metals hitting each other; it sounds more like metal touching stone. "This does not guarantee us victory." Tabitha’s words are like a bucket of cold water being dumped on me.

“If it’s useful, then good. If not," Tabitha shrugs lazily. "We'll figure it out. What won't help us is you hyper-focusing on an unknown.”

"Then why let me examine it at all?"

Tabitha shrugs again. "As I said, it may help us, it may not. You seemed excited to try, so I let you.”

“But I failed,” I mumble in defeat.

“You did,” my head snaps back up when Tabitha doesn’t deny my shortcomings. "Maybe you'll learn some humility for a change," she smirked at me for a split second while my mouth hung open in shock. "But I doubt it," she playfully adds. Tabitha chuckles to herself, and after a second, I join her.

Laughter really is the best medicine; by the time the two of us finished giggling, my headache was gone, along with the pit in my stomach.

"That was mean of you,” I playfully retort.

“You deserve it," Tabitha quickly fires back.

After the two of us had sufficiently calmed down, I hesitantly asked Tabitha, "So, does this mean I can't work on my bracelet anymore?"

“I didn’t say that," Tabitha fixed her posture as she returned to her serious persona. “You can keep working on your bracelet, but sparingly. Don’t forget, you said you’d try to craft me a shield, and we have much to discuss about how we'll deal with the lesser dragon above. You can do neither if your head is filled with runes.”

I nod along, seeing the logic behind Tabitha’s words. It would be unwise to put all my eggs into one basket. I should have multiple baskets and spread my eggs equally. My time is the eggs, the baskets— my various tasks. You know what? Screw the analogy; I need to manage my time better.

“You’re right, as usual," I say, the second half barely above a whisper, but I knew she heard me.

“I know,” Tabitha proudly sticks her nose in the air like a proud teacher.

I can’t help but smile at how silly she looks, but I notice a few things while Tabitha is lording her superior intellect over me. She wasn't moving very much, and while Tabitha rarely made unnecessary movements, I could tell she was keeping movement to a bare minimum even by her standards. Was she still injured?

Tabitha’s left arm still looked like a mess, but she was moving it okay. Her breathing was shallower than usual, but she didn't look like she was in pain. It almost looked like—

Of course! I’m such an idiot. It was clear what was wrong with her; she was exhausted. I wasn't the only one who'd been up forever; Tabitha’s been watching me this whole time without rest.

Wait, hasn’t she been watching me even longer than that? That's right, she stayed up while I rested after fixing her armor. How long has she been up? Thirty hours; more? It’s hard to keep track of time down here, but I know she's had almost no sleep since we woke up after the soul horror incident.

Crap, I was only thinking about myself. I was struggling, but I never even considered I might not be the only one. I’m such an ass.

Ashamed, I pretended not to notice Tabitha's condition. Instead, I let my body relax, and as soon as I do, I feel the urge to yawn. Usually, I'd hold back so as not to appear weak in front of Tabitha, but this time, I allowed myself to let out a long yawn, hopefully shifting the topic back to sleep.

My plan works. Tabitha snorts in amusement, like I expected her to. "See, tired," she continues, looking down her nose at me, but not maliciously.

“Yeah, yeah,” I pretend to be annoyed, but in my head, I’m trying to think of a way to take the first watch to let Tabitha get some much-needed rest.

“You should get some sleep,” Tabitha suggests before I can devise a good excuse.

"Tabitha, maybe you should—," I begin to broach the subject, but stop when I see Tabitha putting up a strong front.

"Should what?" Her eyes narrowed, trying to decipher what I was about to say.

I desperately wanted to suggest she sleep first, but the words refused to leave my mouth. I like to think I knew Tabitha pretty well after spending so much time with her, and if I know her as well as I thought I did, then I’m correct in assuming she’d only feel insulted if I offered to take the first watch.

I’d already not considered her position once; I wasn’t keen on doing it again. Activating Sense Mana, I scan our surroundings one more time. Again, there wasn’t so much as a brick out of place. We could probably both sleep without worrying about anything, but Tabitha would never go for that.

It was funny in a morbid kind of way. With the winged serpent above us and the ruins cleared of undead, we were probably in one of the safest spots in The Endless Forest. And yet, it was still one of the most dangerous.

Should I respect her wishes and say nothing, or should I offer to take the first watch?

Letting out a deep sigh, I bite the bullet and hope I don't appear rude. "Are you sure I should go first? You've been taking the first watch for a while now; shouldn't we switch it up?” I purposely ask in a joking tone with just a hint of seriousness so as not to appear like I'm pitying her.

“Please,” Tabitha brushes off my questions by rolling her eyes. "You should sleep first," she insists.

"Fine," I relent before she gets suspicious, letting out another yawn. I don't say anything else as I crawl to a nearby wall and lie against it. But before I close my eyes, I secretly glance at Tabitha. She had already closed her eyes and started meditating.

I don't look long because I know she'll sense me staring. As I close my eyes and feel myself drifting off to sleep, I can't help but think about how great a person Tabitha is. Behind her rough, battle-hungry exterior was a genuinely thoughtful person. I wasn’t going to forget this any time soon.

I’ll make this up to her, I silently vow to myself.

I’ll catch a few hours of sleep and switch places with her then. And I won't take no for an answer. After that, I’ll make her the best damn shield I can.

I can hear the ringing of metal already. I might not offer much in terms of Strengh against the winged serpent, but I'm a damn decent blacksmith. Those are my final thoughts as everything goes black.
