Wearing new robes and looking none the worse for wear, Wu Gam sat cross-legged on the platform, immersed in quiet meditation. Leaning against his... axe, Rain waited across the stage from his opponent with a bored, inattentive expression, watching Wu Gam with half lidded eyes and drumming his fingers in impatience. After their long absence, Yan was surprised by how much he’d changed, plumping up rather nicely in all the right places from what she saw while he changed in the streets. While she appreciated the free show, she was still miffed he’d forgotten to smile for her like he’d promised to before she left. Instead, he treated her to a vacant, confused expression like someone trying to remember who she was, not at all how she expected their reunion to go.

How frustrating. She should have taken action when he had no working arms to defend himself. Surely he’d remember her then, but now it was too late...

Even now as she caught his attention, all he did was smile and look away. No lustful stare or suggestive smirk, no concealed wink or mouthed message, just a stupid, polite smile. It was probably her makeup, or those jewels she’d worn in her hair. They didn’t suit her and he was too polite to say so. Ugh, she wanted nothing more than to head over to his camp and catch up on old times, but Grandpa couldn’t afford to publicly side with the People. Doing so would cost him his last few remaining allies, and he needed them on his side for a chance to prove himself during this First Imperial Grand Conference.

Yan wished she could do more to help, but her only chance just slipped through her fingers when Wu Gam refused to fall.

Choking down her bitter defeat, Yan sighed and waited for the final match to begin. Unfortunately, although she wanted Rain to win, after seeing how poorly he’d fared against Dienne, a victory for the North seemed unlikely. Stupid, arrogant idiot, Rain should have gone ahead with the final match without giving Wu Gam time to rest. Pride was one thing and victory another. He was too clumsy with the new axe, unfamiliar with how it handles and unable to use it to its full potential. While his reputation was greater than ever and there was the whole spectacle with him Awakening in the bay, it seemed like Rain’s progress was lacking compared to her own.

Which made her feel a little better about losing, but not by much. She’d been looking forward to sparring against him again, although she’d prefer a more... secluded venue.

After another quarter hour of waiting, Wu Gam stood and indicated he was ready to begin. Flashing his insolent smile, Rain tilted his head and asked, “You sure? I don’t mind waiting until you’re fully rested. I wouldn’t want anyone claiming I had an unfair advantage.”

There it was, Rain’s casual conceit which naturally oozed from his every pore. It wasn’t the haughty disdain or smug hubris other nobles shared, but a more subtle, cheeky presumption he couldn’t contain. Thinking everyone was as talented as him or selling medicine to his competitors, and now stating he wanted a clean, unblemished victory, this was just the sort of charming arrogance Rain was full of.

“This one has rested enough,” Wu Gam replied, taking no offence at Rain’s statement.

“All right then. Let’s do this.”

Both men bowed and took their places, Wu Gam with his staff and Rain with his axe, neither one the least bit nervous as the Crier announced the start of their match. In the opening seconds, both men stood in place, neither one in a rush to exchange blows. Fiddling around with the haft of his weapon, Rain smiled and said, “I had some time to think while you rested, and I’ve a few things I’d like to share. You’re an impressive rival and your Awakening is so practical I’m bursting with envy. Easily the most formidable youth I’ve come across in all of Central.”

Yan couldn’t resist smiling as Wu Gam asked, “Only Central?” So the lunkhead had some pride after all, but too bad for him, he would always be second best to Mila.

“Yep.” Unstrapping his shield, Rain slung it around his shoulder and pulled on a loose strap, tightening the shield against his back. More arrogance. If he intended to put a weapon away, why wait until the match began? “Personally, I’m more impressed by Dienne and his two comrades from the South. They train to kill Defiled. That’s what they do, it’s all they train for, it shows in their movements, and I respect that. You, on the other hand,” Rain said with a shake of his head, “you’re more talented and stronger than I am, but your basic skills are a little lacking and your performance far from overwhelming. Do you even have an Aura?”

“I do.” Wu Gam’s voice was a little strained, Rain’s taunting finally getting through.

“Oh. Good for you.” Thank the Mother the audience couldn’t see her smile as Yan enjoyed Rain’s needling. “Your Mentor did you a disservice focusing so much on your Awakening at the cost of your foundation, which is the only reason why I can still beat you.”

Wu Gam snorted softly. “Prove it.”

“Oh I will. Watch.” Stretching his arms out to either side, Rain lowered his defences and closed his eyes, standing in place and inviting Wu Gam to attack. Wary of a trap, the fox-eared warrior settled into his stance and waited, but nothing came of it. Peeking out from one eye, Rain grinned and said, “See what happened there? I gave you the perfect opportunity to strike but you didn’t take it. You didn’t even think about taking it, a costly mistake. Was it because you’re afraid? Of course not, you’re Wu Gam! You think you’re going to win regardless, because you’ve always won before. To you, victory is a foregone conclusion, merely a matter of time. That’s why you let chances pass by, why you don’t seize every opportunity, and why you don’t fight with everything you have. You don’t hunger for victory, you believe it will always come to you, a mistake you won’t make again, not after I defeat you today.” Lifting his axe from the ground, Rain flicked it to the side and Nan Ping gasped as the blades slid up the shaft and clicked into place, transforming from axe to glaive in one smooth motion. Waiting for the crowd’s surprise to die down, Rain shrugged apologetically as he took his stance. “I’m going to charge and stab you in the stomach now, so try not to die.”

And then true to his word, Rain did just that.

Balance on Windy Leaf into Pierce the Horizon, a combination she’d seen Rain practice countless times before, but today’s Rain was a whole different beast. Leaving shattered wood in his wake, he dashed across the stage in the blink of an eye and pierced through Wu Gam’s defences like they didn’t exist. Flying back in a spray of crimson blood, the half-fox crashed into the soldiers of Hideo’s retinue, bowling over a dozen people before coming to a stop. Healers rushed in to tend to the wounded and for long seconds, Yan and all of Nan Ping stood in silence, eyes wide and mouths open in utter disbelief as they watched Rain casually flick the blood off his glaive before bowing to the Legate.

And just like that, the match for the title of number one talent of the Empire came to an end, the victor decided in a single exchange.

Fucking. Unfair.

Chapter Meme
