Today was a very special day.
You could not tell, at first.
Fall was coming to Liscor, but it wasn’t obvious. A chill in the air. A certain lack of summer’s clear skies. Old [Veterans] grumbling about aches in their bones.
However, Liscor had no forests, so the glorious flare of color and light was entirely absent from the canopies. No one admired Boombark Trees up close. The few trees in the city did change color, but the largest indication of the season was…
The grass. Some of the many grass species of the Floodplains changed color with the passing of seasons. Why? It was unclear why grass emulated leaves, but the effect was to create entire rivers and swathes of the green landscape in orange, yellow, and even a purple hue.
Like a vast art piece. Or…rivers of color, fading into winter.
The [Guards] on Liscor’s walls were tired of seeing it already. When you had battlement-duty, you quickly lost patience with the beautiful landscape and found yourself wishing for better boots or a chair. However, the Watch Captain had them marching, checking their corners, and, of course, watching for monsters.
The newbies didn’t get that bored. The Humans were willing to work harder to impress. As for the Antinium? They would stare into the changing world around them like it was the first and possibly last thing they’d ever see.
So maybe you did appreciate it a bit more, when you realized that and heard the stories.
It was a special day. The [Sergeant] on duty knew it the moment an Antinium wearing the guard’s uniform waved an arm and rang the tiny bell the Worker carried.
Across the wall, heads snapped up. [Guards] grabbed their weapons. Antinium never rang the alarm lightly. The Worker had seen something.
“Helm, what are you seeing?”
The [Sergeant] jogged across the battlements, sweating already. Helm, or Iron Helm, denoted by the customized [Guardsman]’s helmet the Worker had been given, pointed. And spoke; they just didn’t like to all the time.
“Convoy, [Sergeant]. Danger?”
Three words. Which might be all Iron Helm said that day. The [Sergeant] cursed as she peered down. Iron Helm wasn’t an idiot. He’d been treated like that until the Watch realized he wasn’t stupid, just quiet. Antinium could tell apart a caravan from [Bandits]—and Liscor had had [Bandits] for the first time in living memory.
Bastards trying to prey on the outlying farmsteads and new villages. The [Sergeant] had a list of problems that ‘convoy’ and ‘danger’ could mean. Bandits, Bloodfeast Raiders, Hectval…
Raskghar?
She followed the Antinium’s finger down and frowned. She had a standard-issue seeing-glass, enchanted with doubling-vision. She pulled it out now, swore, and, after a gut-churning moment, the [Guards] on the battlements saw her pull her hand away from the alarm-horn and laugh.
“[Sergeant]? What’s up?”
“Stand down. It’s not an attack! Someone get me a Street Runner!”
Below, the figures at the gate winch took their hands off it. Liscor was now used to attacks, such that if the [Sergeant] had shouted, sworn loudly enough, or made that gurgling sound that suggested someone had shot an arrow through her throat, the portcullis would be down and the alarm would be going up across the walls in a heartbeat.
Instead, a figure who’d been half-asleep, lying on a bench next to the stairs, jerked, and shot up the stairs.
“Message, [Sergeant]? Who?”
The Human boy wiped at his nose as the Drake glanced at him.
“Watch Captain Zevara. Tell her to get to the battlements. Ancestors, tell the entire barracks!”
She pointed. A Gnoll shielded his brows, stared at the odd procession moving their way, which could be danger, an army in miniature…and then laughed. The [Sergeant] grinned as the Antinium and Humans looked blankly at her.
“Tell Watch Captain Zevara that Senior Guardsman Relc is back.”
She pointed at a tiny figure leading hundreds, maybe thousands of people across the Floodplains. It was hard to tell; they kept vanishing as they went up and down valleys, and many were riding covered wagons. Most were Gnolls, too, but there was no mistaking that huge Drake marching with a spear in hand. She even thought he was singing.
[Guards] flocked to the walls and pointed. They shouted and waved, and the Drake looked up and shaded his brows as Cellidel’s Gnolls slowed. Relc raised one claw and smiled.
He was home.
 
——
 
Vok stared up at a foreign Drake city with higher walls than Cellidel. Nothing like Cellidel’s Prelon orchards; there were virtually no trees, and the odd landscape? Much less the Bloodfields they’d passed in the distance—
It was all so strange for a Gnoll who’d lived his entire life in a single city. There had been danger, but not much. Mostly, arguments. Drake cities, wanting to know what a Gnoll tribe was doing, having to be talked down. Buying food, and once a monster attack—quickly quashed by the power of Relc kicking a giant fanged termite-thing about twenty feet.
Strangely, this was the most frightening thing of all. Hickery looked nervous as she and the Guard-squad, the nickname for the Gnolls and Drakes who’d banded together during the riots, marched alongside the caravan. Not that they’d fight alone. Most of the adults had bows or a single weapon, but they’d stuck to trade roads, pooled coin and resources to hire Bronze-rank teams for escort.
At last they were here, and it was nerve-wracking. Vok looked ahead at the back and tail he’d followed with his family all this way.
Senior Guardsman Relc. Gnolls had left their city by the thousand, and some others had left their cities too, hearing of the exodus to Liscor. Not many; many had stayed, and those that left had not gone for Relc alone.
They had left because of how Cellidel had been. But they had gone together because of him. For Liscor’s promise, yes.
But mainly because he told them this was somewhere that had what they wanted:
A fair chance.
It had been nearly a month and a half of travel. Not bad progress for a group like this, even on the trade roads. They’d been wary as they passed the Bloodfields, but the instant they came to the Floodplains, Relc had relaxed.
“All that we’ve got here is Rock Crabs, and you can beat one at a time. A group’s trouble.”
He’d pointed out the giant scuttling rocks in the distance, and Vok had decided that was a Relc concept, to beat one of those monsters solo.
The Drake turned, now, and grinned as the weary travelers looked up. He pointed, like he’d done the last three hours.
“Almost there! I think they’ve spotted us! That village did. They’ve got villages now. I bet that’s a pain to patrol.”
Indeed, the gates were fully open, and, in the distance, Vok saw a number of figures in armor gathering. He felt a moment of instinctive apprehension at seeing [Guards]—then frowned, shaded his eyes, and sniffed.
It was too far at first, but a chance gust of autumn wind brought a scent to his nose. Hickery pointed.
“Look. Lots of Gnolls.”
Her parents shaded their eyes too.
Senior Guardsman Relc looked ahead and blinked.
‘Lots of Gnolls’ turned out to be three. Three, loitering around with a Drake and six Humans on the southern gates, and a few on the walls. But yes, that essentially constituted all of the Gnoll-[Guard] population in an entire district of Cellidel.
It was almost unheard of to see a group of Gnolls in a patrol in Cellidel. Relc just shrugged, then he grinned, slowed, and clapped Vok on the shoulder.
“I told you we’ve got Gnolls in the Watch. I don’t think Krshia’s back from the Meeting of Tribes, but it’ll be great. Trust me.”
“I see bug-people on the walls. Antinium.”
Someone whispered. Relc glanced up.
“Klb—no.”
He shaded his eyes. Cellidel’s convoy slowed as people pointed up. Of everything, the sight of the dread Antinium stopped them. But Relc raised his arms.
“Hang on. It’s just a Worker. One of the painted ones, I think. Don’t worry—they’re peaceful. Remember the stories I told you?”
He had told them so many tales of Liscor, not all reassuring. Vok half-expected ice cream to be dripping out of the walls while Humans ran around causing riots and spitting blood and doing wondrously silly things.
“It is?”
Relc smiled reassuringly. His pointing claw shifted.
“Yep. That’s a Soldier.”
Vok’s gaze moved to the huge Antinium staring down at him and quailed. Relc glanced at the Gnoll’s face and realized he’d made a mistake.
He forgot how the rest of Izril and the world saw Antinium. He tried to rally the convoy and realized half of them looked ready to turn around and march back.
“Come on, guys. It’s just a few Antinium. You outnumber them, right? Let’s just get through the gates…they’re friendly. See?”
He waved a hand at the walls with a grin. Relc saw the Antinium stare at him. Vok, Hickery, and the Gnolls looked at Relc, but then saw a [Sergeant] waving down. Relc grinned in relief as a voice shouted down.
“Senior Guardsman Relc, as I live and breathe! Did you have to bring trouble while I was on duty?”
The Drake grinned.
“That’s Mudsa. Hey, Mudsa, who promoted you to [Sergeant]?”
“Go shove your tail right up your—”
Mudsa hesitated as she realized she was shouting to a few thousand Gnolls and children.
“—er, come on in! The Watch Captain’s on her way!”
She beckoned, and Relc stepped forwards. He looked back and saw the wagons begin to roll forwards once more. Relc was relieved, and wondered if Mudsa had gained a new Skill like he had—until he realized why the fears were partially alleviated.
He looked up and saw the Antinium Worker with the iron helmet and the Soldier waving all four hands. They did it carefully, and you couldn’t see them smile—their faces were alien, bug-like.
But they were waving.
Relc grinned up at them and saluted with one claw. Then, he walked towards the gates of Liscor. The [Guards] on duty stared at him.
“Hey. How’s it been, Rudell? Vrik, right?”
The [Guards] Relc recognized glanced at each other. Rudell snorted. ‘Vrik’ pointed at his chest.
“That’s not my name. Literally no letter in ‘Vrik’ matches my name. I’m Calog.”
“Right. Sorry. I’ve, uh, got visitors. I mean, new citizens.”
Relc jerked a thumb over his shoulder at the Gnolls and people slowly stopping for an inspection. The [Guards] peered over Relc’s shoulder. Calog, Rudell, and the other [Guards] looked at each other. Calog rubbed at his face.
“…You’re definitely Relc. What are we doing? Entry checks on…dead gods, there must be thousands.”
“They’re not monsters or fugitives. Most are civilians.”
Calog glowered and leaned forwards.
“I know that, but you can’t just let them in! Where’s Sergeant Mudsa?”
“Right here.”
The [Sergeant] was storming down the steps. She strode over, raised a fist, and bumped it into Relc’s.
“You big idiot, Relc. It’s great to see you. Where the hell were you? Some Drake city?”
“Cellidel, actually—”
“Tell us later. I think we’ve got to split up. [Detect Truth] crystals on each gate and we just cycle them in with a basic question in groups. South, East, West?”
“Better make it South, East, and North gates, Mudsa. West is too far.”
The [Guards] conferred as Relc stood there, blinking. It was so familiar. And different. This was the kind of thing [Guards] had to do. Mudsa slapped her forehead.
“Human district. Right. But isn’t there an auxiliary gate…? Let’s just get them in, but they have to meet in one place, right? So we need extra [Guards] to escort them to—what—Shivertail’s Plaza?”
Relc interrupted as Rudell began adding up numbers.
“Where’s that?”
“Center plaza in front of City Hall. They renamed it in honor of General Shivertail.”
“Oh. That’s—”
Then Calog caught sight of one of the Guard-squad.
“Are those Gnoll kids holding spears? Dead gods, Relc!”
Vok, Hickery, and the other young Gnolls started uneasily. They had drawn close enough to hear the discussion at the gates. Relc saw uncertain faces peeking at him, and he waved a claw, trying to smile.
“They’re alright. I taught them some tricks. Cellidel was nasty.”
Mudsa nodded.
“I heard. But look, let’s get them split up. We can sort the rest later…”
At this point Relc interrupted.
“Hold on. They’re going to all need housing. I know Liscor’s offering them resettling fees, but I was thinking they needed a place to rest first off. Put things? Is there a place they can all stay together while we sort that out? The new place Hexel’s building? Even a plaza would work; they have tents and they can park the wagons. We’ve got enough food for meals, so if we keep them together, we can roll them into the city and sort it out later. Can we just pull all the [Guards] here so they don’t feel worried about splitting up? We can just line up and send them in. They’ve had a bad run with Cellidel’s Watch.”
Mudsa, Calog, and Rudell, all the veteran [Guards], stopped and turned to Relc. They stared at him, agog. Relc looked from face to face.
“What? No good?”
“No…that would work. Hold on. Do we have anti-doppelganger gear? Calog, you heard that?”
“I think I did. I might be sick. Did Relc just come up with a plan?”
The Gnoll felt at one ear. Relc folded his arms.
“I’ve been thinking on how to get them into the city for the last three days, guys. What?”
“Relc is making plans. Relc.”
“You’re hurting my feelings. We’re wasting time here.”
Relc mock-glared, but Rudell put up his spear.
“Excuse me, sir. Please tell me something the real Relc would know.”
“You have warts on your tail. Come on—”
The [Guards] were laughing, and the newbies were grinning. So was Relc, but he was conscious of the nervous Cellidel people. And, sure enough, a Gnoll walked forwards hesitantly.
“Guardspeople. I am [Jeweler] Reson. Can I assist you in any way with the entry process? We’re quite willing to wait if it might take some time…”
He held his hands slightly to his sides, and he had divested himself of his weapon, a simple club. He waited for a truth crystal to be produced. Instantly, the [Guards] stopped laughing and Calog raised his brows.
The Gnoll [Guard] gave Relc a quick glance. Relc raised his brows in a silent ‘right?’, and Mudsa glanced at him. After a second, Calog stepped forwards. He offered Reson a paw. The other Gnoll blinked at it.
“You don’t need to be searched, Artisan Reson, sir. Apologies for the delay. We’re simply trying to expedite the entry process. We’ll summon more [Guards] and have you all into the city within the hour. My name is Guardsman Calog, on gate-duty for this day. Can I assist you all? Are any of you hungry, in need of the privy?”
Reson blinked. He took Calog’s hand uncertainly.
