Researcher Dromenl, Oteslia: Yes, hello! I am very gratified by all these experts. Very gratified. I would love to talk about any spells anyone might have an understanding of—we have to teach and cast the spells ourselves, you see, and there are few dedicated [Cryomancers] with ice Skills. Any help would be greatly appreciated—and I also would like to know more details on the live people’s trials, Cryomancer Ulea. Apparently one lived but shortly expired?
Fetohep: Enough. Desist, Researcher Dromenl. Some details are not to be m—
Windy Girl: The WHAT
GSNF: Uh oh.
Alchemist I: May I hear more about this.
Eldavin: I believe this requires an explanation.
Fetohep: Standby.
 
He did not return to the chat, incidentally. Something about having that read aloud might have caused…
Issues.
Yet here it was. Ice magic. In Fetohep’s absence, the chat room cast around for good spellcasters…and found more than you could shake a dead body at.
 
Eldavin: I am the most senior [Mage], so I will list five spells which might possibly be of some use: [Iceflesh], [Rune of Warmth]—if applied correctly, of course. Is the rate of warming essential? [Greater Resistance: Cold] for the opposite qualities. [Heated Room]. [Solar Ray: Wide Diffusion]. Each one creates a powerful warming or anti-cold effect.
Researcher Dromenl: We’re aware of all five, but these are all very potent spells…which we cannot cast. At least, [Heated Room], but [Rune of Warmth] would require a Fissival-trained expert, and we were unsure of the efficacy. Can you please elaborate?
Eldavin: Ah, of course. The ‘healing’ aspect of warming the flesh intrigues me. Enough for a Potion of Regeneration to work but avoiding the trauma of the injuries?
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I believe all those spells may fail.
Eldavin: Really? You base this on…?
Magus G: He may be right, with great respect, Grand Magus. [Iceflesh] and [Greater Resistance: Cold] are based on a living target. Which is disqualified in this case. Moreover, simply warming flesh still creates intensive damage.
Eldavin: Ah.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Significant damage on a low level. Degradation of the flesh.
Eldavin: These were simply the five most accessible spells.
Rhis: Utterly juvenile. Is that the best spellcasting of a Grand Magus of Wistram?
 
Ryoka Griffin’s head slowly rose. Viscount Visophecin, resting in the moving carriage while the rest of the Lucifen argued, glanced up at her.
Azemith sounded smug as she flicked her fingers, casting a spell.
“Someone’s trying to find out where you are, Ryoka Griffin. They keep trying to locate you. Wistram.”
Ryoka gulped.
“Visophecin. Do you think…?”
“He is an adept spellcaster. He must have noticed the [Message] linking spell.”
They both stared down at the scroll.
 
Eldavin: I find your tone insulting. I take it that this is Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus?
Rhis: None other, Grand Magus Eldavin of Wistram.
Eldavin: Well met.
Rhis: Indeed.
Eldavin: And I suppose you know instantaneously which spell will be most efficacious?
Rhis: I would not stoop to mediocre spells. Cast [Blessing of the Winter Warrior] and begin from there. 
Archmage V: That is a lost Tier 6 spell!
Rhis: For some.
Eldavin: Quite a bold claim. And you suggest a [Researcher] in Oteslia can cast this spell because…?
Rhis: Do spell scrolls not exist in your understanding of the world?
Eldavin: No more than politeness lacks in yours, apparently. I would not fortify Miss Solstice’s flesh. If I were to skip to advanced spells, I would cast [Room of Paradise], which would, as a byproduct of the spell, instantly remove all ice and cold from her body.
Viscount V: That is quite a…powerful spell.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Indeed. This is beyond me, greatly. Which spell school is this?
Rhis: Transmutation.
Eldavin: Transmutation.
Rhis: You also lack finesse. [Room of Paradise] simply removes and maintains an environment; the actual removal of said cold and ice is done poorly. I would venture [Inferno Skin] for the most instantaneous change possible.
Eldavin: You forget Miss Solstice is neither animate nor inanimate. Your spell would lack grounding.
Rhis: In the hypothetical situation.
Eldavin: Mhm.
Hecrelunn: You can alter that spell to target inanimate objects. Or do neither of you practice spell theory?
Archmage V: Wait, would you elaborate on that? Which method is this…?
Viscount V: That is an old style of spellcasting.
Eldavin: I am quite aware of that. I wondered if Duke Rhisveri was…?
Rhis: For someone who thinks runecraft on a frozen body wouldn’t take into account her natural magical field and leylines, you are quite thoughtful.
Queen R: This is astonishingly unhelpful, you fools.
Eldavin: Excuse me?
Rhis: Oho.
Hecrelunn: And your name is?
Queen R: I am someone who actually practices ice magic. None of these spells focus on what matters. Which is maintaining the person affected by the spell. Speed is not as essential as keeping them safe. I knew a fellow spellcaster who froze her own flesh, and she was a [Cryomancer].
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I concur with that theory. If you could apply [Greater Resistance: Cold] to the young woman…that is a working theory. If someone could experiment? I might be able to cast it in a weaker version. Hold on.
GSNF: That’s not going to work.
Eldavin: There are quite a lot of unverified claims flying about. Your expertise and classes?
Queen R: Private. I am an expert, however. At least, in this area. Ice Squirrel, you’re silent.
Ice Squirrel: Thinking.
Viscount V: We are trying this. 
 
Ryoka grabbed for Paxere’s arm.
“No, no! Stop!”
“It’s a bunny.”
The squealing rabbit looked terrified as the amused Lucifen girl held a cold hand towards its face. Viscount Visophecin glanced at Ryoka, puzzled.
“Ah, ethics. Paxere, enough.”
“Mortals. This is to help your friend!”
The Lucifen girl sighed—then tossed the rabbit out the rolling carriage. Ryoka pointed and the wind caught the bunny—
 
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I’ve already trialed this.
Viscount V: Really?
Eldavin: That’s remarkably quick.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I may know my way around this theory…the problem is that the [Resistance: Cold] spell applied to all of the frozen sample. Including the actual ice, and, I would imagine, clothing…
Magus G: This is true. Damn. Can you re-focus the spell…?
Hecrelunn: In my age, any [Cryomancer] would be able to affect such changes instantly. They have frozen and unfrozen people.
Rhis: Historically? Yes. What you neglect to mention is that such individuals, aside from the highest-leveled [Warriors] or those possessed of great recovery magic, expired in less than a month from the trauma—and only those immediately unfrozen. Those frozen for any period died within days or a week at most.
Hecrelunn: …Perhaps.
Queen R: Listen to me, you don’t need a higher-tier magic, but a specific one. Even something as simple as [Ice’s Caress]—if you could cast it on this person despite them not being alive—combined with [Warming Touch] would work.
Rhis: [Warming Touch]. What are we, children?
Queen R: You are irking me, little man. Stop posturing.
Witch A: So says the girl who can’t even hide her location. XD
Rhis: Hah! True.
Viscount V: I do not know if ‘Queen R’ is fitting. Without identity checks, I am leery of the concept…
Queen R: You are all getting on my nerves. I will remember this. I am among the finest spellcasters here, I have no doubt.
Rhis: What amazingly misplaced confidence.
Eldavin: With respect, my dear, I am the Grand Magus of Wistram.
Queen R: I am not your dear. I am over Level 40 in my magic class and—
Mri: Pshaw! Is that all? Come back when thou art of proper age, child. Have a goat’s milk.
Rhis: Hilarious. It was worth coming here.
Eldavin: Heh.
Witch A: XD XD XD
Queen R: I will remember this. All of you. All of you are upon my list.
Mri: I shake in my boots.
 
Queen R left the chat, much to the amusement of the others, but in that moment, someone began to write.
 
Ice Squirrel: I remember freezing the skin off my hand.
Witch A: :O. Painful.
Rhis: Wonderful. Is this an example not to learn from…?
Hecrelunn: Hm.
Ice Squirrel: My master always warned me about that backlash. [Cryomancers] survive cold magic by having natural resistance to cold, don’t they?
Magus G: That is standard theory, yes. Where are you going with this, Ice Squirrel? Glad you’re alive.
Ice Squirrel: Thanks, Testicles.
Rhis: What.
Mri: HAHAHAHA
YlawesB: I get that reference! I think?
Ice Squirrel: However, [Cryomancers] have to cast magic around…other people. Normally we restrict the area of casting or just cast frost protection spells. However, if you do need to thaw flesh…does [Cooling Wind] make sense to anyone?
Eldavin: Hmm!
Archmage V: That is odd. That is a Tier 1 aeromancy-cryomancy spell, more focus on aeromancy, with little efficacious effects. I cannot see why you would mention it.
Ice Squirrel: Something my master once said? I don’t recall. The theory is…well, I can’t quite reach it. Can someone help me out?
Rhis: Interesting.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I believe I am grasping what she’s talking about.
Eldavin: Oh? I think I understand.
Rhis: Enlighten us and we will check your theory.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: [Cooling Wind] has little use as a spell for…anything. Aside from temperature regulation. However, it is so low-level that it’s closer to Tier 0.
Archmage V: Yes! But it has one interesting feature. It does not generate any cold.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Precisely. It removes cold from one target to create cold air. Which is why it is not even that cooling…however, on a fundamental level, it’s different from the generation of heat.
Rhis: Of course.
Viscount V: I begin to understand. This is similar to [Void Room] in theory. The removal of something rather than…
Ice Squirrel: Yes! That’s it! She said there was a way to remove cold rather than heating and…hurting the flesh? 
Eldavin: Magus G? Your opinion?
Magus G: In theory, removing the cold itself is less traumatizing than heating skin and creating two opposing elements. It would certainly be the smoothest method of thawing Miss Solstice I could imagine—if you could scale that up for a body-wide, seamless induction of heat.
Visophecin V: Ah. Adjust this spell in that manner? Quite possible.
Magus G: …I don’t believe it is that simple. Most spells cannot be altered at a fundamental level.
Eldavin: I believe you may be ‘putting egg on your face’, as the children refer to it, Magus G.
Mri: Children do not say that.
Rhis: It’s beyond possible.
Magus G: I will leave it to experts, then. 
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I will test this theory on a rodent or two if I can find one. This…seems plausible, but I would like suggestions as to spells and the methods.
Ice Squirrel: [Frost Vortex] but you pull the cold out and chain the effect to one spot?
Rhis: Inefficient. It could work, but use [Zone of Absolute Chill]. Or [Hidden Spot of Deep Freeze].
Archmage V: Oh! Ambush magic? You walk into it and you die? Do you actually know the spell, or is this an example?
Researcher Dromenl: Er, this is all very helpful, but some of these spells might be beyond our capabilities here. Cryomancer Ulea?
Cryomancer Ulea: No. Absolutely not. How would you use the effects of [Cooling Wind] on another spell?
Rhis: Unbelievable.
Eldavin: I will begin writing up a lesson. Ice Squirrel, do you have any other insights into this?
Ice Squirrel: Not…too much for projecting sheer cold. I have an aura.
Rhis: Of course. Auras. That…could work if someone were there. However, for spells—
Hecrelunn: [Void Air]. Tier 4. Even amateurs can use it.
Ice Squirrel: Oh! Oh!
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Thank you, Vizir. Testing…
Ice Squirrel: Me too! I just need to find something. Uh—I’ve got bugs?
Viscount V: Searching for rats.
Mri: I can get a rat. Not sure about the magic. I am passing glad we are all working together to find a solution so effectively. Let’s all pat ourselves on the back.
 
It was surreal and strange. This was only one of the conversations happening, but for those reading it, it felt like something was happening.
So many things coming together. So many plans. So many…conversations.
 
Yvlon: Go to Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I have allies.
Ice Squirrel: So do I. Uh…where’re our boys?
Yvlon: We’ll find them.
YlawesB: Do you need help?
Queen R: They have help.
GSNF: Indeed. 
 
The [Princess] wrote with trembling hands as the Thronebearers shielded her back.
 
Lionette: I will find you.
Mri: I know.
Krshia: She is here and will be protected. I promise.
RainyEarl: Do you need…help?
Wall Lord Ilvriss: They will have all the help they need.
RainyEarl: Good, but if you need it—call.
Windy Girl: What’s going on now? Do you need assistance?
Viscount V: I represent some power within my kingdom. Is there an issue?
Lionette: I…believe we are not all on the same page.
 
Not all of it was friendly. Indeed, ‘Rhis’ and ‘Eldavin’ were trading barbs. There were wildcards like Hecrelunn in chat, and rivalries like Witch A and so on.
Someone was trying to find all of them, and there was an invisible magical war going on that half the Lucifen travelling with Visophecin were involved in.
What was more shocking—or so it seemed to Ryoka—was that they found they weren’t the undisputed masters of this chat room, even discounting Rhisveri.
It was all working. Or sort of working. People were discussing spells and saying, ‘this might work’, or ‘this will work.’
But Ryoka and the others had heard them saying that before. These grand hopes could be dashed, or go stale.
The chat rooms moved faster or slower depending on how quickly people wrote. As the others converged on the three main discussions, funding and organization, alchemy, and magic…a new person crept in around the outsides.
Chatting. Moving from room to room, learning, like all the others. But different.
Almost like they were searching for something.
Much like a creature.
A…spider.
 
Belavierr: Hello. I see that you are looking for something with ethereal qualities. I have a spool of thread to sell. Are you interested?
Saliss: Who is this now? Are we [Weavers] or something? Wait…that is interesting.
Belavierr: I am a salesperson. I have many objects for sale. Alchemy related and otherwise. Hello. 
Alchemist I: Is this…a joke?
GSNF: Wait. That name.
 
Two users disconnected. Saliss left the room too. It was quick. Lightning strikes of realization.
 
Belavierr: Is someone interested in a spellbook?
RainyEarl: No. No!
Archmage V: Don’t be hasty. Spellbooks are always welcome. What kind are we referring to?
RainyEarl: No. Do not respond to this person.
Magus G: Agreed. Is this real? Grand Magus Eldavin, into this chat now.
