The others did. Infinitypear, Grass Shell, Touma the Great…and the Goblins chattered. Telling stories. The others listened, the Ghostly Hand tribe, to the Cave Goblins who told them of the leader of the Redfangs.
Salvation from the Raskghar. Rasktooth showed the tooth and waved his claws. Trying to get them to see it.
Cookies. A poofy hat from the luckiest Goblin ever. Five Hobgoblins and a cave. Another time.
A little bee buzzed about the heads of the Antinium, flying through the sky and remembering when she’d first come out of that little jar, and the world had been terrifying until that big blob with the red stuff fed her. And there had been that other blob too.
She missed that blob. Everything had been simpler, back then. She missed the white one, too. Apista didn’t smoke any Dreamleaf.
Niers didn’t either. But he had lit a bit of actual tobacco. He smoked it, sitting with an expression like thunder such that not even the biggest Gnoll fans quite dared approach him.
Failure. The [Strategist] counted each one. Listed it out, exactly in every mistake he’d made. Overconfidence, a lack of awareness. Preparation.
He worked backwards in time and his list had countless entries. He went back, then started again. The list had names and places. People. He smoked furiously. An angry Fraerling glaring at nothing.
Numbtongue just sat there. The Antinium stared at the sky. Only the Crimson Soldier looked ahead. The world was far better. If she came back, she came back.
It was far better even so, and she joined the fallen.
Garia and Fals jogged ahead, not really saying anything. Fierre scribbled furiously, sending little [Message] spells, checking the news, and not really processing anything she did. Gna and Salkis looked about. Gna knew part of it and was silent.
Salkis was impatient, fidgety, but aware this was not the time to interrupt. Pivr and Xeu looked about, wondering what everyone was staring at up above them and what they were missing.
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, like their comrades, held their hats in their hands, walking along solemnly.
As for Ulvama? She sat in the wagon, pretending to be sleeping, as Octavia listened to Numbtongue’s songs and occasionally shed some tears. Upon which, she’d uncork a vial, let the tears roll into it, and hurry to start a potion or grind some ingredients. Then…her hands would slow until she was wiping at her eyes again.
Ulvama just stared up at the sky, one eyelid cracked open. Listening to the Goblins talk. Gothica added another spike to her parasol. Apista flew up, showing a Screaming Hawk her stinger.
Come on, bring it. Bring it. No? Why are you flying away, buddy? Huh? Huuuh?
 
——
 
There were more, of course. Many people knew her, and wanted to help. Griffon Hunt. The Halfseekers.
Some knew her, but didn’t mourn. Not fully. They had never known her.
Almost. A few more days and he would have.
The [Emperor] thought of that, now and then.
But not this day.
If you grieved, properly, you had known her. Like the [Strategist] pushing forwards with blood on the ground. Pursuing the one foe he had no forgiveness for. For two deaths.
However. Grief went hand in hand with glory. And it was that first story, that even the Cave Goblins didn’t know, that Rags told the Goblins of the Molten Stone tribe.
Anazurhe, the Goblin Chieftain [Witch], listened to the first tale of Erin Solstice. A Human who had every reason to hate Goblins because they had not been kind to her. Who had earned her first nickname.
Destroyer. She had killed a Goblin Chieftain. They had tried to kill her, more than once. They had killed her friend.
What was astonishing, why she mattered so much, was not that she had extended a hand in mercy and kindness to Goblins. Others had done that before. What mattered was that she had done that after it all. Despite it all. Because not all Goblins were alike.
Perhaps that was why the little Goblin, Rags, sat there in the great halls of the Molten Stone Goblins, dining with rich foods that were bought or obtained from far off. Calescent sat, munching happily on the food and trading secrets with the [Chef] here—so he could bring them back to the inn.
Yet Rags? She could have ordered anything she wanted, or trusted to the Molten Stone tribe to provide her with an unforgettable meal, like the giant, cooked roach they had placed in front of the Healer of Tenbault.
Actually tasty, if the woman bothered to try it.
Yet Rags had not. She poked at the plate in front of her, which was almost offensively plain…
Spaghetti. Anazurhe kept glancing at it, because Rags was eating.
“Ah. Is that why you eat that?”
She pointed a finger at Rags. The Great Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe glanced up and nodded. She took another bite.
“It tastes like memory.”
 
——
 
How many? The Players of Celum raised a glass, and performed with a tribute to the inspiration behind their play, the ‘Innkeeper of Solstice’, that night.
[Lords] and [Ladies] who had met the strange young woman, seen her at Lord Toldos’ funeral, remarked on the tragedy.
People of Liscor told stories about the really interesting times, when Liscor had begun to change, to the newcomers.
A Dwarf [Smith] worked furiously at his anvil.
Kevin stopped climbing back towards the resting Wyverns and looked around, before sighing hard and continuing his march.
Imani checked out of work early to go for a walk with Palt.
The Free Antinium stood silent and listened to a [Priest].
And there were far more. A [Baker] who baked bread and passed out loaves of it within his Hive. A Sinew Magus who pushed his apprentices so hard they collapsed because he had seen better and braver.
A couple who ran a bar in Pallass.
A young man in Wistram, who looked at all the magic and wondrous artifacts and felt something was still missing.
 
——
 
A [Knight] paused as he rode swiftly through a forest, evading [Scouts]. He looked around, and remembered an inn. A vision. A [General]’s strength.
Rabbiteater felt a hand on his shoulder, pushing him, so he straightened his shoulders. As weary [Knights] sagged around him, he sat up and rode ahead. Wondering how he would tell her about this part of his adventure.
 
——
 
But for those who had never met her—the people who interacted with these scattered folk, each one acting a different way—how did you describe her?
Hyperbole? That she was the one, the only person who had ever made a difference?
No. Yet—you could do it wrong, too.
Emphasize the mundanity of her, the silliness, and leave your audience thinking that was all she was, someone with no head for money, easily distractible, bad at managing a full team, and with a high weakness to crossbow bolts.
Which, to be fair, was a common vulnerability.
That wasn’t Erin Solstice, though. The true ‘her’ lay between myth and laughter. To capture that essence of her…you had to tell stories of what she’d done.
Or perhaps it was you. How you said it. How you looked, as you clenched your hand and stared at the three fingers and scars.
That despite everything, as the wind blew around you, blowing your raven-dark hair into the air, and you shifted from bare foot to foot—
You talked about her like that. A Courier, describing someone incredible.
The Wind Runner, friend of the fae, talking about someone who could do things she never could.
Her eyes shining, watering, as she stumbled over her words and kept going back.
To her friend. How they had met. Silly antics.
Glorious fire.
How did you say it? She tried.
“I…came here for her. Because it matters. Because with everything that’s happening and going to happen—we need her.”
“Who?”
Ryoka Griffin turned.
“Everyone. People do. She’s the reason why the Antinium are changing. She’s…she’s not invincible. She makes mistakes. She can’t stop a war on her own. But she meets people and connects with them. Because of her, a city didn’t fall to siege. Because of her, I saved two kids. She matters, so much that I came across the world.”
“Enough to risk your life?”
Ryoka looked up and met a glittering stare. Two dark eyes. An amused audience—half amused or curious or indifferent. The other half sympathetic, understanding, teary themselves, though they had never known her.
A few others. Yet Ryoka met each and every eye as her head moved about. She put her hand on the hilt of a sword from another time.
“Yes. Enough to walk the lands of the Tuatha Dé. Enough to seek a boon from the Faerie King, and challenge a Wyrm’s wrath. If it could be done, I would do it. Not because she is your salvation, or mine. Or that of nations. However. She will make someone’s life better. Many people’s. That is goodness.”
“Well said.”
Two peoples stood before her, and a gathering of other immortals. Gilaw, Menorkel, Fithea, Nemed, and more. Yet on one side sat Agelum—the other, Lucifen.
One side saw why. The Lucifen stirred, regarding their cousins.
“Goodness. Temporary, frail deeds. Explain it to us, now, why she matters.”
Ryoka Griffin saw a mocking smile. Paxere, one of the younger ones, who attracted disapproval from the more stately elders. They were better at hiding such things. Visophecin just tapped his lips as Ryoka glared—then relaxed.
She looked so rarely confident it took the younger Lucifen unawares. Ryoka turned back to the capital, where the Singer of Terandria was drawing her back—and Menorkel as well. But she looked Paxere straight in the eye.
“Because she broke the Assassin’s Guild in two and held Tyrion Veltras and his army back from Liscor. She is the world’s finest chess player, and Antinium and Goblins consider her a friend. She is the best at something. That is something no one here can boast lightly. Not even the ageless.”
She looked around, daring the Lucifen or Agelum to claim they were the finest in the entire world at…what? Being old? Magic? Breadth of knowledge? She knew a Dragon who had a far better claim than any of them to that.
She saw flashes of red ire from the Lucifen. Wide grins on the Agelum’s faces as they watched the Wind Runner rile their cousins up. Visophecin dipped his head to Ryoka with a slight smile.
“Well said. Although Lady Fithea could lay claim to expertise in earth magic.”
“Only in this world. Only…”
The Dryad’s murmur was background. Ryoka looked around. She was trying, oh, so very hard…
Not to cry. Not in front of them all. Half might care, but the other half would just quietly smile, delighted by her suffering.
Nor in front of Rhisveri, who wouldn’t care. Ryoka Griffin spread her hands helplessly. She was out of words. Only the burning desire. How did she describe that?
No. They knew. Each and every one of them here. Even Rhisveri.
They knew what it was like.
To want someone back.
That was why, across the world, it was not difficult to explain. Oh, immensely difficult, impossible to explain her with mere words.
But not that. Not needing someone. Ryoka Griffin had her explanation at last.
“I want her back. There are other people I want back. So many…but it’s impossible.”
Or if it is—just one—
She pushed the scroll out of her mind. Because that was the point. Ryoka looked around. Visophecin, Gadrea, Fithea, Gilaw…
They understood. The Wind Runner took in a shuddering breath.
“If it were possible? So many. The difference is—Erin—there’s a chance. It’s so slim, but it’s there. What would you do for a chance?”
Ah. They exhaled slowly. That, they understood. Ryoka closed her eyes.
If death were something you could fight—they would all, every living person, make such war as was never dreamt of before or since. But you couldn’t.
This was the lone battle. For one person she loved. Her friend.
She was not dead yet.
 
——
 
All the pieces were falling into place. 
Yet something was missing.
Someone did not grieve, for she had never seen the person named Erin Solstice. Though she owed her a grave debt.
However, she fought for that chance like she would for anyone else. It all was so close. So close—
But there was something else.
So Geneva Scala fell. Into the depths of the Mind.
It was a void into which a hundred thousand different scenes repeated themselves. She could look around and ‘see’ it.
Geneva Scala stood over a dead young woman. The features kept changing because she didn’t know them. Skin tone, height, weight—but always a young woman.
Skin frosted over. Or completely ice.
Crossbow bolts sticking out of her chest—sides—barbed, poison still dripping from the tips as she removed them, or enchanted.
A hundred thousand Genevas worked. With a team or alone, with magic or Skills. Casting spells she had no access to in life, pausing time, walking about. Fighting…
She was grateful. The [Doctor] was so grateful despite it all, for the Mind.
Because this would have been a lesson learned on the bodies of countless patients in the real world. She would have had only theory there.
Here? She saw the effects of each spell. Saw her failures repeated without consequence.
To the living. But in each room, Geneva Scala fought, sometimes cursing, desperately, crying out with frustration. Chasing after that spark.
Almost. It was entirely theoretical. Heresy in modern science, to actually freeze someone and expect them to come back to life. They’d do this to rodents, not people.
There were so many factors. Cellular degradation from the freezing, poison, the crossbow bolts themselves, the sheer trauma…not to mention reviving her.
Impossible, Geneva would have said, even for modern medicine on Earth. Here? She had magic. Magic and Skills and it was still not enough.
Oh—she had pieces. Geneva Scala saw the Minds providing them to her.
Ethereal antidote. It seeped through the skin, neutralizing poison as it ran through her. Imagine how effective it could be! Imagine healing an internal wound with that precision? Removing a kidney stone? Or would it harm the tissue…?
So many possibilities. She was learning. And the Minds had insights few living people had.
A Potion of Regeneration. So powerful, even in her visions, individual Genevas recoiled from the sheer potency in the air, that made her hair grow in real time and fingernails lengthen.
Antidote, healing—and a spell to defrost the young woman without killing her. All three factors were in flux. Geneva tried different combinations of each; could you do it with a [Restoration] spell? How did you warm her consistently without turning her into a pile of meat and bone?
How did you keep her alive?
“Heartbeat.”
She heard it. A beating, fluttering heart, one out of every four attempts. Then—three out of five. Geneva Scalas tried compressions, even shocks to keep it moving. They refined the process. Made sure the antidote hit the poison and neutralized it completely.
She heard the heart beat. Then flutter.
Then silence.
