“The Village of the Dead. Oteslia. Even people I have never met. Everyone’s trying something and it doesn’t—work. So I bet everything on this and I might have to walk away.”
“That is wisdom. Better to walk than lose everything.”
“Is that immortal wisdom?”
Ryoka snapped, tired and grumpy. Visophecin didn’t smile.
“No. Observation of how all peoples die. They cling to what they love. It has killed every species in existence. I have not yet found the way out. Perhaps because I do not search.”
Ryoka’s head moved left, and she and the Viscount exchanged a long look. The Lucifen went on, after a moment.
“You may indeed fail, and I would caution you not to risk Rhisveri’s wrath. Yet you have trusted House Shoel with your quest. You have done what few do, and attracted the attention of both Lucifen and Agelum. And with respect to my fair cousins—the Lucifen are the far more difficult of the two to sway.”
“Thanks. I know it is an achievement, but…it’s one of those days. I’m just tired. I could have used an easy win.”
Ryoka stared up at Ser Tubeliges. Visophecin glanced upwards. He stared at the smug Sariant Lamb, and Sarathine, trotting around looking for love from the Agelum, and his eyes burned for one second.
“Four hundred and twelve gold pieces.”
“Hm?”
Ryoka glanced at him. The Devil muttered.
“The price of having the statue sculpted—discounted due to previous works commissioned and a template to draw on. Because Sariant Lambs look alike. Generous overpayment from House Shoel. Rush work, and granite from the Erthine mines. Even so. Four hundred and twelve gold pieces.”
He raised one long, perfectly manicured finger. Ryoka saw Visophecin half-rise and push at Ser Tubeliges’ feet where they met the base of the statue. She saw him press so hard his pale-grey skin turned white with the strain—then heard a faint cracking sound.
The Wind Runner stirred. Visophecin pushed at the other set of legs with his other finger, and there was another crack. He looked at Ryoka, and then, with a slight smile, pushed the statue slightly.
Ser Tubeliges’ statue went over with a whump onto the ground and nearly added Sarathine to the glorious ranks of the hereafter in this cemetery. The Sariant Lamb ran with a scream as she looked up. She stared up, and saw Visophecin and Ryoka glaring at her. The Lucifen pointed a finger, and a miniature arrow of flame passed over the Sariant Lamb’s head.
 
Sariant Lamb fact: like birds and other species, they void their bowels for increased speed when they flee. Or maybe just Sarathine does when Visophecin nearly blasts her with fire.
 
Ryoka saw Visophecin smile with genuine pleasure as he watched Sarathine flee. She glanced at the fallen lamb’s statue.
“How much would you call that?”
Visophecin regarded Ser Tubeliges and lowered his foot. He pressed and smashed the face into the flagstones.
“With [Repair] spells, perhaps cheaply. I consider that a four hundred gold reconstruction cost happily paid.”
He calmly kicked the statue into the grass. Ryoka heard a smattering of applause and turned to see Paxere and her two parents applauding Visophecin with great approval. He bowed slightly to them.
“Now, to business. You left so quickly, and the discussion turned to the Singer of Terandria such that I could not ask you more about the incident around Erin Solstice. Will you tell me?”
He turned to Ryoka. The young woman glanced up at him.
“Why? The people who did it are dead. And I…”
She hesitated. Stared at the Sariant Lamb’s defaced statue. Then at Visophecin. Ryoka spoke slowly.
“…Came to Ailendamus to find something to heal her. But nothing short of that has worked. I think they even tried a Potion of Regeneration. There are things she needs. A…an unfreezing spell. An antidote for the poison, and a healing mechanism. Or something more.”
The Lucifen looked down at Ryoka. He raised one eyebrow.
“It seems like an unusual problem and a grievous injury, especially for a Human. Yet, Ryoka Griffin. What is difficult or impossible short of a great relic for mortals is not so in Ailendamus. You stand in House Shoel, where some of the greatest spellcasters in the world gather. Lady Fithea is a magic user from an era where spells were created that used no conventional magic of today. I am Viscount of Ailendamus. Tell me about your friend. I care little for people with no value to me, or outside of Ailendamus.”
He extended a hand as he slowly brought out a dark glove to put on. Ryoka looked at it.
“…But we are allies. Whilst it is not in my nature—I know of more frost spells than any [Mage] of Cenidau or Archmage of Wistram living. I would bet upon that.”
Visophecin’s eyes glinted. Which just went to show how much he knew about betting. Ryoka looked up at him. Then her eyes widened. She rose, taking his hand, and he turned, as if they were dancing under the night sky in the shattered former palace.
The Lucifen and Wind Runner walked forwards, talking, suddenly with the young woman animated. The Viscount curious. Listening, casting a spell.
House Shoel turned as they heard the Wind Runner exclaim. Saw her eyes brighten. They listened—all aside from Gadrea, who paused in horror and stared down as she cried out.
“Ser Tubeliges! What happened to his statue? Did anyone see?”
 
——
 
It was a special day. But, you understand, it wasn’t really one day. It was a special day whenever it came to them, and you saw it happening.
“Do you see?”
“A thread?”
“Many threads. Drawing together. Good girl.”
A mother and a daughter sat, having a picnic in a forest, staring at some embroidery. The mother even patted the daughter on the head.
They stared past a swaying Zombie Giant, into the open facade of a castle of dark stone as the undead milled about. Powerful undead—who avoided the Stitch Witch on pure instinct.
A Necromancer sat in a smooth crater of dirt. It was just dirt, but something had scooped the most geometrically precise sphere out of the world. He inhaled—on reflex.
“I am alive. Have I lost any of my Chosen? Report?”
“N-no, Master.”
Ijvani was hiding behind the remains of a pillar. She sounded shaken. A few of the Chosen appeared. A wall had fallen on Venitra. Part of the castle was…
Missing. Not ‘knocked down’ or ‘scattered about’, but more in the vein of ‘disintegrated’. Or dragged into an entirely different plane. Which was why the Witch and her daughter, Maviola, were watching from a distance.
It was probably safe to return now the ritual was complete. Probably. So Belavierr hung back. She saw the Necromancer inhale again.
“Repairs. Ijvani, oversee them. I must—”
His eyes flickered.
“Pisces. Roshal has been left unchecked. Ijvani, see to it.”
The Skeleton [Mage] stared blankly up at the gaping wall and stone structure only standing because of the enchanted stone, not due to any laws of physics.
“Yes, Master?”
Az’kerash was striding towards the stairs when he was intercepted. An odd thing, that. No one got in his way.
Except for the depressed skeleton leaning on a wall, his violet eyes burning low. An anxious Healing Slime circled around him, but he was in a bad way. He had mold on his skull, and he was holding something in his hands.
The Necromancer barely paid attention to the undead after his harrowing battle with magic that threatened even him. He was also checking in on Pisces, so he did what he had done for a century in life: he walked around Toren.
Or tried to. Az’kerash absently realized someone was still in his way, so he spoke and stepped the other way.
“Excuse me.”
Only then did he realize someone was deliberately stepping into his path. The Necromancer refocused on the world around him. Venitra, Ijvani, Bea, Devail, and Wesixa all turned. Venitra’s eyes flashed with outrage.
How dare—
Toren ignored Az’kerash. He reached out, placed a bony hand on the Necromancer’s shoulder. Az’kerash stared at the familiar gesture. Ijvani’s jaw dropped straight off her skull in horror.
Listen, pal. I know you’re busy, but give me a second.
That was the attitude Toren projected. He handed Az’kerash something. The Necromancer took it blankly, and stared down at a young woman’s face.
Fake Erin’s head stared back at him. Or rather, what was left of it after being half-sucked into the void. Toren gave Az’kerash another pat.
See?
“Ah. The puppet. That is…completely fine. I am busy. I will return to—”
The Necromancer paused as Toren handed him something. Venitra was metaphorically frothing at the mouth as Az’kerash took it. It was…
A [Message] scroll. Toren patted him on the shoulder again. He meaningfully took Erin’s head and tossed it over his shoulder. Then he gave the Necromancer two finger guns.
Priorities.
He wandered off, leaving the Necromancer staring at the [Message] scroll. It had a copy of one of the open bounties on a certain cure. Someone had underlined it helpfully and circled it.
Belavierr watched Toren go. She turned to Maviola.
“You see? A thread.”
“He is a funny skeleton. I like him.”
Maviola smiled. Belavierr’s orange, ringed eyes narrowed disapprovingly.
“Do not emulate that one.”
“Yes, mother. Sorry, mother.”
 
——
 
It began with a [Message] spell. Or scroll, if you owned one of the artifacts that could auto-project a [Message] chain onto it.
Or an inquiry to the Mage’s Guild to source a particular conversation or open-viewing [Message].
It was actually a rather highly convoluted system that required a centralized location where all the relevant [Messages] were stored. They didn’t just…linger; someone had to write them down.
Highly inefficient, really. You could magically store data, and create an efficient, working system. But why bother to do that when you could pay for countless [Scribes] around the world to do it the hard way?
“Wistram mentality.”
The Grand Magus grumbled and added it to his list of things to fix. Yes, indeed, why bother learning magical data theory when you could just write down every [Message] and charge people to recover it? Some people said it was an economic boon. He, Eldavin, called that an excuse.
He was in a bad mood, so the half-Elf was going at twice the necessary speed as the [High Mage] and [Communication Mages] and [Scriers] in the group desperately cribbed notes.
“It’s very simple. The Walled Cities can do it. This is not even a [Communication] spell in terms of difficulty. You simply connect multiple [Message]-sending mages together. Like so, you see?”
They’d done it for a phone call, but inefficiently. He was showing the others how to do it with about a pound of soot, fifteen grams of magic-infused quartz, powdered, and your left foot in forty seconds.
The magical diagram shimmered as it ‘connected’ a group for this trial run.
“There. Does someone have it?”
“I think—I think I do, Grand Magus! This is extraordinary! Why, every Mage’s Guild could offer linked [Message]-casting—”
“Yes. Exactly. Group chattery, or whatever the Earthers call it. One of you teach the others. I’ll come back and teach you how to encrypt [Messages] later.”
“Encrypt—”
Eldavin pinched at his nose as he walked away. It really was just…infuriating. Gratifying, yes, but the umpteenth time someone goggled at you when you told them it was possible to do something as mundane as the magical equivalent of tying your shoes? It became more depressing than anything else.
He was overworked, understaffed—with intelligent, capable people—and he had been having odd problems health-wise of late. He had too many projects, but the Grand Magus took a moment out of his day between heading to teach [Green Mages] how to properly infuse plants with mana as he realized someone was doing something vaguely interesting.
A conversation he’d been monitoring in his mind suddenly pinged. Rather, the detection spell he’d set up told him someone was adding to a chain of [Message] spells that had gone silent. He put it on his mental notecard to review tonight. Then—the spell chimed in his head again, and then again.
“Hm? That’s odd. What’s…”
 
——
 
It began with the Great Sage Etrikah doing what [Sages] did best. Demonstrating the wisdom of her class.
 
Great Sage Etrikah of Nerrhavia’s Fallen requests the exalted honor of communication with the Eternal Kingdom of Khelt’s Illustrious Mage’s Guild in regards to a bounty and discussion of a cure marked within its listed bounties as of Althine, 12th, something something A.F.
 
It took about twelve minutes before a reply came, in which time Yvlon Byres was stabbing shrimp as she described Pisces’ anonymous contact. The Great Sage frowned and scribbled as Yisame peeked over her shoulder, and Yvlon broke off her discussion.
“Something?”
“Keep talking. There are formalities I need to get through.”
 
The Mage’s Guild of Khelt replies as follows to the Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, may tyrants rest uneasy. Herewithin lies the documentation of the will of no less than His Exalted Majesty of the Eternal Lands, Sovereign of Khelt as ordained by Khelta the First…
 
A lengthy copy of the bounty followed. Etrikah rolled her eyes as she wrote back.
 
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen requests further clarification on said topic, with all available information and attempted cures or progress. I, the GSNF, beseech Khelt humbly with all due praise to his eminence, King Fetohep etc. etc. as it is my intention to join my efforts to Glorious Khelt etc.
 
There was a pause, as the poor person on the other end had to both decipher what ‘GSNF’ meant and wonder if the Exalted Kingdom of Khelt was being slighted, pranked, or so on.
 
To the Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, in regards to your query. Such information is classified in partial relation to Khelt, but the Mage’s Guild will forward an information-sharing request to Oteslia for all pertinent—
GSNF: I don’t have time for that. Kindly inform His Majesty or whomever is leading this project I am willing to devote my time and effort to this issue, but I would like to communicate with someone who can speak to me on the issue at hand.
The Mage’s Guild of Exalted Khelt: The persons in question are currently occupied. The Mage’s Guild will petition His Majesty for a response upon the approval of—
GSNF: That will take weeks. Please inform Fetohep of Khelt that Queen Yisame would like to forward this matter to his attention.
The Mage’s Guild of Exalted Khelt: …As His Majesty is preoccupied with the rule of Khelt, the Mage’s Guild will lodge a—
GSNF: Queen Yisame will send His Majesty of Etc. Khelt a request to speak personally within the hour. In which, she may be displeased by the inconvenience of needing to intercede upon a simple request and highlight the issue. Your choice.
