Selys? Right, Selys, Drassi…he’d say hi. But they weren’t his closest friends. He would stop by the inn with…something. Check on Vok and Hickery—introduce them to Visma and Ekirra. That was a smart idea.
But that was Senior Guardsman Relc’s routine. His new routine, which was complicated and difficult, but necessarily so, and it mattered.
Relc? Relc was the same as he’d always been, and he knew it.
Alone.
Perhaps he’d go after Mrsha. Or Embria. It depended on if he was needed. He had been needed with Cellidel’s people.
Now? Relc strode over to stop someone having a panic attack, but was he really needed?
Apparently so, because there was a bevy of [Guards] standing around, even Liscor’s friendly citizens, and the shouting was continuing. A high, panicked voice from a Gnoll woman, pointing.
“Hey now, what’s wrong? I told you, the Antinium are friendly kids. Mostly.”
Relc tried to grin, but he saw a few hands on blades. What? And then he had a thought.
Aberration?
It all came into his mind a flicker before he saw what the problem was. The Gnoll woman backed away, running into someone else. She pointed a paw.
“The Antinium—the Antinium. It’s that one! The Prognugator. The—the—”
Relc’s head turned. He saw someone standing in the street, and even Captain Zevara looked astonished.
Xrn? Wasn’t she wounded in—
Then Relc knew. He gently took the Gnoll woman’s paws off his arm, and stepped forwards. At last, the words came out.
That famous name.
“The Slayer.”
Watch Captain Zevara started. She looked away from the slimmer, taller Antinium standing there. Watching her. She hesitated and spoke.
“No.”
“Yes.”
Klbkch the Slayer, Centenium, corrected Zevara. He stood in the center of the street, resting two hands on the silver swords sheathed at his sides.
Relc stared.
“Klb?”
The Antinium looked up. He was not the Klbkch that Relc remembered. His head was mostly the same, but every other part of him had changed.
He was lean, with a distinctly humanoid body, rather than the rounded shell of the Workers. His legs were oddly articulated, almost like someone had added a natural curve to the thin legs and feet. His chitin, the shell, was no longer the brown-black, but an odd, dark grey. It looked shadowy.
The real change, however, was in his arms. He had been using only two simple arms in his humanoid body before.
Now, the slightly refined movements had turned into something different. Klbkch seemed like he was balanced, standing at ease in the street. His arms had a reinforced look, as did his upper torso. He wore no clothing nor armor above his waist, and had a simple, kilt-like piece of clothing along his belt.
It was the same belt as when he had been a [Guard], with a little bag of holding added on. But Klbkch? He looked like his body was armored, shaped chitin moving smoothly as he turned his head.
He moved like a [Swordmaster]. He had always been good with his swords, but Relc had seen this one time before. That night Klbkch had lost his temper. He slid as he stepped forwards, as if any moment he could change direction to whichever he pleased.
As if gravity touched him less. Someone in complete control of his faculties.
Only the swords marked him as even remotely close to the Klbkch of old. But it was that—the famous blades that had marked him out in two wars—that the Gnoll woman had recognized.
Relc, and the others in the Watch, recognized Klbkch. Yet they all stood there, looking at him.
Because…
“Am I not how you remember me? Watch Captain Zevara, Sergeant Mudsa. Senior Guardsman Relc. Greetings.”
Klbkch’s voice was the same, at least. He shrugged, and the long traveller’s cloak around his shoulders moved slightly. He rested his hands on the shortswords and looked around.
“I appear to have interrupted the Watch in the course of their duties. Forgive me.”
“Not at all. Klbkch. Is that you, Klbkch?”
Zevara didn’t sound certain. Klbkch turned his head, and Relc recognized the slight head-tilt, as did Zevara.
“Of course, Watch Captain. I would like to inform you I have returned from my leave of absence. But I do not know if I will be quite able to return to my old position in the same capacity.”
“Oh, uh—I’ll check the schedule. We can discuss…”
Zevara trailed off, but Relc inhaled. Because he recognized it. Klbkch was as formal and precise as ever, but even Klb didn’t really expect to talk work the moment he returned.
He was, in his sly way, having fun. The Antinium’s head turned, and he looked around. He surveyed the cautious faces and nodded.
“Relc.”
“Klb, buddy. What happened to you?”
The Antinium turned to face the Drake as everyone else drew back. There they were. Relc remembered precisely the last time they’d truly met—and fought. Klbkch looked Relc up and down. He opened his mandibles, which had developed an odd, purplish tinge at the edges.
Poison? The Slayer shifted and so did Relc, moving his weight onto his right foot.
“Will we fight to the death, now? Watch Captain Zevara is within her authority to request my termination. As she always has been. I am Klbkch the Slayer of the Hives. I claim the authority of the Grand Queen of the Antinium. Well?”
The last note in his voice made the hair raise and scales tingle on a number of watchers, even his friends. Zevara’s head snapped up, but Relc Grasstongue just stood there. He had his spear in his claw, but he slowly reached out with his other claw.
“Klbkch.”
“That is my name, Relc.”
The Drake reached out—hesitated—and then grabbed Klbkch’s shoulder. The Antinium let it happen. He grabbed Relc’s arm, gently, just above the elbow.
The two stared at each other for a long moment. Then Klbkch opened his mandibles and raised them.
“I trust you have not gotten into too much trouble while I was absent.”
Relc looked around at the citizens of Cellidel still nearby. He looked at Klbkch, and then a grin spread over his face. He raised his claw, and then slapped Klbkch on his flexible back-shell.
“You have no idea, Klb, how many times I needed you to sort things out.”
The Antinium twitched his antennae and sighed audibly.
“Some things never change. I am quite glad I left, in that case. Then again…”
He looked around Liscor, and Relc saw something like his feelings flit over Klbkch’s face. It was so subtle. A shift in the way the light shone on his insectoid eyes. A movement, from foot to foot. The slow turn of his head and the way his antennae moved.
Even the other Antinium—Klbkch paused on them, and they stared at him. A stranger. Klbkch looked around Liscor, then seemed to focus on Relc, Zevara, and the Watch. He nodded to himself, slowly.
“I am back.”
 
——
 
Senior Guardsman Klbkch and Senior Guardsman Relc walked down the street. Off-duty, but word spread ahead of them like a storm.
They were back. The huge Drake with arm muscles second only to Magus Grimalkin, and his huge grin, strode along next to Klbkch, who had gained in height. Yet he adopted the relaxed swagger of a [Guard] on long patrol, nodding to people who stared at him.
For a moment, they just walked like that. As they always had. Walked, and the city of Liscor turned with them.
“Hey. Market Street’s the same as always. Does Lism still have his shop?”
“Evidently. Would you like to make a purchase?”
“Of what? Pork belly? He’s selling pork belly?”
“Am I to understand this is a particularly fine cut of meat? Pig bellies being desirable because…?”
“Klb. Klb. Don’t tell me you’ve never had pork belly before?”
“I have never inquired into the body parts I eat. That is a hamburger. Do you ask which nose went into it?”
A Human paused with a double-fish-pork burger and stared at it with a look of horror—trumped only by the look she gave Klbkch. The stall owner glared, and Relc slapped Klbkch on the shoulder.
“Now that’s the Klbkch I know. Ruining things for everyone.”
“I simply do not see why a belly is more desirable.”
“Taste, probably. I dunno. If something tastes better, everyone wants it, right?”
“Yes. This is simple fact. However, are all pigs the same in terms of belly-quality? Would not some pigs have…superior legs? Would, in theory, a pig’s ear not be better than your average pig’s belly?”
“It’s a belly, Klbkch. Don’t overthink it.”
“A statement perfectly at home with people who possess bellies and belly-buttons. I do not. This is all somewhat strange to me.”
Heads turned as the two [Guards] bantered back and forth. The metaphysics of belly-economics made half the shoppers decide to head to Lism’s stall, manned by a shop assistant, just to find out. Relc half-glared at Klbkch, but the huge smile on his face was too big to make it work.
“You’ve lived in Liscor for ten years, Klb. You need to stop being confused all the time.”
“And you, Relc, need to stop assuming the world is easy to understand. I highlight my ignorance, rather than assume I know everything erroneously.”
“Yeah, well…you could eat pork belly whenever you want.”
“But why would I?”
They turned a corner, and Relc laughed. He inhaled, laughed, and then nearly sneezed on Klbkch, who dodged.
“Please stop that.”
“Phew. You stink, Klb, buddy! I didn’t notice it before but—”
Relc sniffed, then went to plug his nostrils. Klbkch indeed had a fugue about him. Not entirely foul, but altogether so…
“It smells like you got musked—but not by a skunk! It smells like a butcher’s—but without the blood. It smells like—”
“Thank you for shouting how much I stink to the street.”
An elbow hit Relc in the stomach so fast he barely saw it coming. He grunted.
“And you’re faster. What happened?”
Klbkch raised one arm and apparently sniffed it, though he had no nose and didn’t make the same sound.
“Ah. I left so quickly the odor must still be on me. My body was just reconnected. Or rather—the ligaments were healed via a potion. The Birther sac must still be on me.”
Relc gave him a side-eye.
“What? Did you just get born or something? Birthers make Antinium, don’t they?”
“Yes. My body was remade. Hence my sudden reappearance; I am still somewhat stiff from the healing potions that were used to finalize the process. Inefficient, but effective. Incidentally, if you would like to eliminate me as a threat, now would be the best time.”
Relc stopped. He looked at Klbkch, who turned his head to regard him calmly.
“Klb. I just got back. You’re my best friend—or you were—and we haven’t seen each other for ages.”
“Ah. But you do have orders to watch me. And if necessary…if the Antinium of the Free Hive were ever to become treacherous, we both know your role.”
Relc nodded slowly.
“Yeah. But I just got back. If we’re going to kill each other, can we do it after we eat? Or tomorrow?”
The Antinium Senior Guardsman looked at Relc. The two stared at each other as every Gnoll on the street sweated under their fur, then Klbkch smiled and Relc laughed and slapped him on the shoulder.
They kept walking. Klbkch didn’t laugh like Relc, who chortled all the way down the street, but he smiled. For Klbkch…
They were back again. Klbkch pointed.
“[Pickpocket]. Left.”
Relc turned his head and saw a Human boy sneaking over. He raised a fist.
“Wait a second, neither of us are on duty. We’re not clocked in, even. I bet someone took my locker.”
“Indeed. So we are civilians with a Watch class, walking about.”
The two looked at each other. Relc raised a fist and shouted so loudly the entire street jumped.
“Hey, you! You brat! Get lost or I’ll break your legs! Wait, am I allowed to do that?”
Klbkch tapped at his chin as the [Pickpocket] looked up and ran for it.
“I believe not, as that would be assault on another person. However, if you witnessed the pickpocketing in progress, perhaps that would be aggravated retaliation against a criminal, in which case you might receive a warning. Threats are, however, quite acceptable.”
“Awesome. Not that I’d do it, you know. I am a [Trusted Sergeant of the Watch], now.”
Relc ran a claw through his neck spines. Klbkch came to a stop. He stared at Relc.
“You are a Watch Sergeant. You consolidated your class.”
Relc puffed out his chest.
“Yep. Twice, actually. [Guardsman of Trust] and then [Sergeant] from my army class. Nothing big. You, uh, level up any? Get some fancy new class?”
Klbkch didn’t reply. He walked forwards, then stopped and turned his head.
“You are a [Trusted Sergeant]. You.”
“Technically, I outrank you now. Not that it matters, Senior Guardsman Klbkch. But, uh, yep. New Skills too, by the way. Squad Skills, even. Probably necessitates a pay raise. And your new class is…you got how many levels?”
The Antinium’s mandibles slowly opened and closed.
“…I have received a new composite body at the height of Antinium form-shaping on Izril, with a multitude of unique capabilities.”
“Right, right. So no new class is what I’m hearing.”
“My mandibles are poisoned.”
“Yeah? And my farts smell. You’ve got nothing.”
Klbkch walked along for a few more steps as Relc grinned behind him. Then the Drake saw Klbkch turn.
“…I do not know if I will still act as a [Guardsman]. There is little reason for me to do so any longer. I returned to see Liscor. I did not know you had left until you returned.”
The Drake’s smile faded. He looked at Klbkch, and the Antinium stood there.
“You’ve changed, Relc.”
The six-foot-three Centenium with his shadow-grey body and lithe form remarked. The Drake checked himself, and tugged at his new chainmail and identical body. He nodded slowly.
“…I guess I have. Sorry for springing it on you, Klb. It just happened.”
The Antinium looked at Relc. He exhaled.
“I forgive you. Would you like to go for a walk, Relc?”
The Drake glanced about.
“I thought we were.”
Klbkchhezeim shook his head. He looked to the walls, and Relc followed his gaze. Slowly, the Drake murmured.
“Oh. In that case…sure.”
 
——
 
Two [Guards] walked out of the gates of Liscor and across the Floodplains, talking. Arguing, bickering sometimes, but just walking.
Off-duty. One had a spear over his shoulders, the other walked with twin swords at his waist.
One was Antinium, the other a Drake. They were headed towards a building.
An inn, on a hill.
That was how it always had been. For a year. Exactly one year, they had walked like this. Sometimes it had been one or the other. Or one hadn’t gone. Or…
But this was how it started.
It was not the same. They didn’t have as far to go anymore, and they were changed. One greatly; he was a [Watch Sergeant] now.
…The circumstances were different, too. Both kept looking towards the inn.
