Something was missing. Geneva Scala drifted downwards as the scenes replayed themselves, trying to figure out what the crucial element was. She almost had it.
What is missing here? The Mind was silent, using its entire, vast collective to generate these scenarios for her. It had no answer. Geneva Scala found herself at a loss.
Then—the Third Mind thought at her.
“What do you need?”
“Another perspective. Another…me!”
Geneva called out into the void. Frustrated. She shouted—then stumbled as she landed on the floor of the United Nations headquarters.
A woman sat across from her, fiddling with a cup. She looked antsy, and her brown hair, pinned back behind a white shirt and Lizardfolk-style sarong, swung as her head snapped up.
“You’re here. Good. Let’s figure it out.”
Geneva Scala blinked at…Geneva Scala. The [Doctor] gestured impatiently.
“Take a seat. Unless you want something to eat?”
“No. I can’t figure it out.”
Geneva glowered at herself.
“Neither can I. Let’s articulate the problem, as if we were attending a lecture. The cause of death was immediate exsanguination. Hemorrhage. Poisoned bolts.”
Geneva found herself fiddling with the same cup, a replica of the Geneva across from her. She stopped, spread her hands on the table. She needed—
A quill was in her hands, so she took notes, quill—no, pen—darting across the page.
“Then freezing, right. If we remove the freezing element, we are attempting to restart her heart. Provide blood, neutralize the poison.”
“The freezing complicates it. We cannot perform the necessary steps before warming her, and that alone is causing massive trauma.”
“Exactly. But the right spells and potions can account for it, in part. The lacking part is…”
Both Genevas stopped. They looked at each other and one balled up the paper and tossed it down.
“It’s not medical.”
“It is. It simply comes out in other terminology and processes. You’ve felt it.”
Geneva Scala nodded.
“It’s…her life.”
Not blood loss. Not her heart failing. Not the components—it was that sheer concept of her life. The individual body parts Geneva could fight to protect. Brain, blood flowing to organs, even the heart.
Yet the patient as a whole? She…died. The thing that medical professionals still couldn’t entirely grasp, the difference between someone who was ‘alive’ when hooked up to a medical instrument—
Life. It slipped away. The body was so badly damaged that all but the best scenarios, the strongest constitutions—had no chance.
“That’s what you’re missing.”
Geneva Scala told her mirror image. The [Doctor] across from her nodded. She put her hands on the table, rose—
And Geneva vanished. The Geneva across from her blinked at her copy’s dispersal, but then nodded.
“That’s it. That’s…”
Her eyes widened. She had a thought.
“Oh.”
Geneva Scala whispered. It was such a non-question for most medical practitioners. Of course the patient died. Of course they failed to capture life itself—that life was a function of many parts, so focus on that.
That was an Earth-solution. Yet she was not on Earth. So life itself? Geneva Scala breathed as something began to connect in her mind.
“That’s what I was missing.”
There it was. 
She found it at last.
 
——-
 
Like a good [Doctor] should, Geneva tried her theory. The Third Mind realized what she was doing and approved.
It made sense. There were even real-life examples that Geneva had put down to hyperbole, or the phenomenon of…well, it did happen.
This, though?
What might I do? How many more chances might I receive? Patients who died…Geneva’s brain was whirling.
“Now that is worth.”
The smug tone of the Third Mind was the last thing she heard. Then Geneva was dropping out of the air, gently landing in Idis’ arms.
“What are you doing? I can keep going. I need to prove it works. A thousand—ten thousand trials.”
Geneva felt limited, like she was squeezed into her body, the physical world where she couldn’t fly or summon whatever she wanted to at the drop of a hat. Such a dangerous place, the mind.
She almost forgot to breathe and that she needed to move to reach things. Idis helped Geneva stand as the [Doctor] protested weakly.
“She has pushed her every limit. Her theory is sound. It works. Enough. Few, even Selphids, have walked in the Mind so long. The [Doctor]’s will is strong when it comes to her medicine.”
The Third Mind was right. Even the [Psychic Guardians] in attendance and Calectus seemed surprised at how long Geneva had communed with the Mind.
“Did you do it, Geneva?”
Idis was patently curious. The other Selphids turned to the Third Mind.
“Is this a discovery which might cure the Wasting or be substantive?”
“Wasting? Perhaps. Perhaps not, but perhaps. As to substantive change…Geneva Scala has formulated a way to improve the efficacy of [Healers]. Experimentation is needed.”
“Yes. Yes…but also—it works. I know what they’re missing. I need to tell them.”
Geneva struggled to her feet.
“Who?”
Calectus looked at her, concerned. The [Doctor] looked at the floating Third Mind.
“Even if they gather everything, they’ll never cure her. Or the odds will be remote without it. I need…”
She trailed off as she realized what she needed. The Third Mind slowed in its sedate rotation.
“Can that be arranged?”
The [Doctor] looked up. The Third Mind deliberated with itself.
“There is a non-negative risk. This Mind shall take a poll of the others.”
“Please.”
The Third Mind seemed to regard Geneva.
“You have never met Erin Solstice. You do not know she is of your world, only suspect.”
Geneva Scala, the [Telepath], felt the force of the Mind’s intelligence. But she pushed back.
“I owe her a debt. So do Selphids, and all those who might have died of the Yellow Rivers disease. If not even that—she is a patient. If they succeed, it will prove I am right. For these reasons—please ask the others and tell them it is necessary.”
The Selphid composite listened to her argument much like an analytical computer, weighing the weight of each. Not like the Second Mind at all. But, eventually, it thought at her.
“We will see.”
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin sat outside, next to Ser Tubeliges’ grave, in the manor of House Lucifen. She knew the other [Knights] were about, but she didn’t talk to them.
Visophecin had brought her back for the rest of her visit after her meeting with Rhisveri, and the morning was bright and cheery, and the Agelum were amazing hosts.
Yet she lacked the daring, the sense of needing to win over immortals after yesterday. Nor would the visit be extended; the Singer of Terandria was here, and everyone wanted to go to the capital.
Even some of the Lucifen and Agelum, though the latter would most likely be denied. However, they were arguing.
It amused Ryoka, vaguely, even in her current state, to see how Paxere was arguing with Azemith and Igolze. The three stood together under the shadow of an aspen tree, and Ryoka thought the shadows seemed to move slightly off with the figures in the shade.
The faint glow of red across their eyes made her notice the slight movement along the ground. Oh. The shadows had tails.
The people just looked like well-dressed business-elites. Paxere was…what? Visophecin had described Azemith as Paxere’s guardian—which perhaps implied mother.
But none of them used that term. And, indeed, Paxere was angrily pointing to the Agelum, who were pestering Visophecin despite his best efforts to leave; one had a hold on his arm and he could not break free.
“She is a cultural phenomenon. Politically important—we have a file on her. As House Shoel, I could represent us to her. Besides which, her music is a significant force of her time, and artistic.”
“Vexatious. It is not proper music, and it abrades the hearing. I do not see your point. Moreover, you are still not adept enough to navigate even the Court of Masks. You needle when you could employ tact.”
Azemith retorted. Paxere’s eyes narrowed dangerously.
“Perhaps I do not employ tact when a needle is most direct. Especially around the quality of opponent found in closest company.”
Igolze chuckled, which earned him a narrow stare from Azemith. She and Paxere drew closer, smiling dangerously. Azemith’s fingers scintillated in the air, her painted nails flickering.
“That is a very bold claim. Need I remind you how young you are? Or shall I expect an apology?”
“Need I repeat it several times? Your hearing is clearly as deficient as your regard for the Singer of Terandria is.”
The two never blinked, and it was like if Ryoka had made the terrible, just completely wrong-headed decision of having a child and the two of them went at it.
On the other hand, it was objectively hilarious, especially as Igolze made an off-handed comment to deflect the tension. Language, setting, and identity of the two Lucifen aside, it sounded to Ryoka like the parents not getting the newest music and the daughter exasperated with the people who just didn’t understand.
“Funny. Some things never change. You know, I really thought I could do it this time. But I failed. I just keep going around like this.”
Ryoka Griffin spoke to the air. At first, the distant [Knight], Dame Chorisa, thought Ryoka was speaking to her, but her words weren’t comprehensible from so far away, and she wasn’t looking at Chorisa.
The Wind Runner sighed.
“I tried. Then Rhisveri just—twisted—my best plans. I wish I could just do something, take the victory, like saving Hethon and Sammial, and just quit. But I can’t. There’s always something else. If she hadn’t gotten hurt…maybe I’d be running from Tyrion Veltras giving me flowers or something. I wish that was my problem.”
She didn’t really expect a reply, though it wouldn’t be the weirdest thing that happened all week. Ryoka looked up again.
“It must be a simple life. A grand one. You save one girl from drowning, and you get a knighthood and food for the rest of your life. I envy you.”
The visage of Ser Tubeliges didn’t answer her. But the noble Sariant Lamb’s statue was a kind of inspiration. Look upon me, and know true happiness. Am I not the valorous lamb, who hath achieved both morality and the limits of hedonistic bliss?
Ryoka was just guessing. She stared as an actual Sariant Lamb mewled its way across the manor, looking for someone to pamper it. They were funny creatures, too. For instance, this one was searching for a loving pair of hands to feed, bathe, and comb its fur. It took one look at Paxere and the Lucifen and decided Ryoka was the most generous soul in existence.
A lamb actually did a little wiggle of its body as it trotted up to Ryoka. This Sariant Lamb had a pendant—not a collar, a pendant—and it had learned to do an approximation of a shy smile.
Ryoka glanced at the statue, at the Sariant Lamb, and flapped her hands.
“Shoo. Shoo. I’m not buying it, and you’re not a [Knight]. Come back when you are.”
She was rewarded with the Sariant Lamb nosing forwards, making a sweet little whining sound. It nearly ran into Ryoka’s bare foot and recoiled with clear disgust.
“Yeah, you like that? I’ll wipe my feet all over your wool. Back off.”
The lamb trotted back, crying with distress. It peeked at Ryoka as it covered its little face with a hoof—saw she was frowning at it—and the most amazing thing happened.
The Sariant Lamb, whose name according to her gold leaf pendant was Sarathine, realized Ryoka wasn’t going to be a pamperer, and her face changed. Sarathine’s innocent expression turned into a hostile glare, and the lamb made a ‘cheh’ sound and turned. It dug its back hooves into the ground and sprayed Ryoka with some dirt.
“Hey!”
Sarathine trotted off. Ryoka stared at its backside.
“No way. Are they really in control of—damn it. I better not have made an enemy of the Sariant Lamb cartel or something. Hey, that wasn’t personal! I’m having a bad day!”
Ryoka didn’t get an answer, but she caught herself and realized she was pleading with a lamb not to hold a grudge. She had low points, but could she go lower?
The answer was always ‘yes’, of course, but Ryoka hung her head with a sigh. That was, until she heard someone cough.
“Excuse me. Pretend I am not here a moment.”
Brimstone—the scent of forgefires.
A shadow leaned across the Wind Runner. Its owner stood against the lee of the statue. Viscount Visophecin adjusted his tie, and Ryoka saw, behind him, a bunch of Agelum casting about.
“Where did he go?”
“Inside? Anyone see Visophecin?”
A squad of wheelchairs and even a floating bed soared off in pursuit. The Lucifen held perfectly still, and Ryoka saw him peek around the statue. Then he relaxed and nodded to her.
“They should not visit the capital. They have a habit of exerting themselves. I fear they would take to the Singer of Terandria too well, and my cousins can be quite diplomatic and subtle—but only when they choose to be.”
“You think they’d dislike the Singer? Or trust her with too much?”
Visophecin sighed. He gave his garments a tug.
“…I fear they would attend her concerts and insist on dancing.”
Ryoka smiled. And she felt a pang for the Agelum. She heaved a sigh, and Visophecin hesitated, before sitting next to her.
“We will expedite our return to the capital. I understand Duke Rhisveri has complicated your efforts to save your friend. That you came to Ailendamus willingly for her sake is…interesting. I will discuss the nature of your theft with Rhisveri himself, as it is off-limits to you.”
Ryoka nodded wordlessly. The Lucifen looked at Ryoka.
“A noble decision, I believe some would call it.”
“What would the Lucifen say about doing everything to save someone’s life?”
The Devil smiled slightly. A bleak expression; not because he was hurt, but because he searched inside for any shred of empathy and found it was gone.
“Foolishness in the extreme. Especially given the odds. Especially for a mortal. House Shoel respects no altruism or friendship outside of our own. But if it was to cure someone else…”
His gaze rose, and he looked at Uzine, rolling about and calling for Visophecin. His odd stare of multi-faceted eyes found Ryoka and he smiled, seeing her, but Visophecin was somehow invisible.
Lots of practice. The Lucifen watched Uzine roll by, and paused.
“Yes. That is different.”
Ryoka nodded. She sat there, tired.
“I feel like a fool. I was so obsessed with what Rhisveri had…not to give it away. But I may have been chasing after the wrong thing the entire time. Everything else, though—nothing has worked.”
Viscount Visophecin saw Ryoka shake her head.
