Anonymous Spellcaster A: Truly? It seems old, even for my knowledge of Wistram.
Eldavin: Ah, well, some of us are older than others.
Viscount V: It must be very old.
YlawesB: Are you in need of help, Yvlon? Are you still in prison?
Alchemist I: I don’t recall anything of the nature.
GSNF: Go back to your discussion ‘room’. This is private business.
Mri: Upon my sword, I shall rescue you, Yvlon Byres! If rescue needs be the occasioned, you have my sword.
Joseph Ortega: AND MY AXE.
Windy Girl: Dead gods.
Yvlon: Thank you, Mri? Do I know you?
GSNF: GET OUT
Golden Gnoll: If you need transport, or anything, we can fund it. What’s the situation?
Yvlon: I’m very well set. I have allies in high places. There is some issue, but Prince Zenol, a Gold-rank adventurer, is here and helping me.
Ice Squirrel: Zenol!?!? Great!
YlawesB: That’s wonderful news. I will head out with my team at once to help you.
Golden Gnoll: YLAWES, ENOUGH
Yvlon: No. I am quite well Ylawes, and I will make my way home and recover my team on my own means, thank you.
YlawesB: Apologies…?
Beard Lad: Lad…
Fetohep: I will be overseeing the main discussion, what I believe is now referred to as Room A: Efforts unto a Satisfactory Cure.
Ice Squirrel: Anyone seen Bone Boy? That’s what we’ll call him.
Yvlon: He’s in trouble.
Queen R: Your friend is out of Roshal’s grip. More than that will depend on the future.
GSNF: Who’s this now?
Ice Squirrel: Friend?
Queen R: Friend.
Saliss: Saliss!
Sandquen: Oh, this is wonderful. So many powerful people helping towards one cause! Hello! I’m hoping I can help in some way!
GSNF: Sigh.
 
Hecrelunn was still arguing via the scrying orb. Fetohep heard voices. Hecrelunn’s, obviously, the Mage’s Guildmistress begging forgiveness, some of his own researchers who were trying to enter the chat, and more.
The living, the undead—
“I will return as I deem fit. Brief me on the situation and I may agree—”
And the dead.
“Fetohep, it is I, Khelta. We cannot read this scroll as it lies too much in the living world. Repeat what is being said to us, verbatim.”
“Ooh! Ooh! Did he say Lyonette’s there? Say hi for me! No, wait. Let’s play it cool.”
“I, His-Xe, have a solution to this conundrum. A verbosity spell to read the words aloud.”
“Well thought, His-Xe. I have always admired your reign.”
“Thank you, Serept. I believe the Vizir could cast it easily. Where is he?”
“Being stubborn again. He was always so. Why is Fetohep not speaking?”
It was the exact same. He thought he had escaped it in part, but it was playing out verbally and on the text. Fetohep spoke.
“Vizir Hecrelunn, you will return to the palace now.”
The sneering Revenant laughed in his face.
“Is this your paltry little display of command? I believe I will—”
Fetohep rose. His voice magnified, and the Guildmistress froze. The [Servants] working in the palace and every citizen within three blocks looked up as a heartstopping voice echoed out like thunder.
“In the name of Khelt Eternal, you will return now. Be silent, ‘Little Brother-King’.”
Hecrelunn faltered. His image in the scrying orb stared at Fetohep, and he made a choking noise. Fetohep slowly sat back in perfect dignity—only ruined by the gales of ghostly laughter in his ears.
No, wait. That made it better. The Vizir began casting a spell. Fetohep was writing when he popped into space outside of the capital proper and began flying in. Fetohep wordlessly tossed him a [Message] scroll.
“We will require a verbosity spell on my scroll, I believe. It is organized into…”
“I see it.”
The [Vizir] quietly cast the spell. He didn’t meet Fetohep’s eyes, and he was silent as he began to write. Fetohep rather thought he liked the Vizir’s new attitude. The words began to echo as he wrote.
 
Fetohep: With apologies, I introduce the Vizir Hecrelunn.
Windy Girl: Hi.
Vizir Hecrelunn of Khelt Eternal, In Service to Her Majesty, Khelta, Undisputed of His Class, Steward of the Lands Claimed by Undeath: It is my—
Joseph Ortega: yo, is it that guy I saw on the news? this is wild
RainyEarl: ‘yo’ yourself?
Vizir Hecrelunn, The Fire of Khelt’s Wrath, Face of the Limitless Armies of Khelta, Empowered of the Servants of Chandrar: I am the Vizir of Khelt and I will have—
ArchmageV: I am a huge admirer of Kheltian magics from that era. Do you have a full, working spellbook? I would love to compare notes.
Vizir Hecrelunn, Who Will Not Be Interrupted, Sovereign King in Lieu of—
Mri: I too possess some aptitude with magic. We should compare spellbooks.
ArchmageV: Are you a fellow spellcaster?
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I as well. I believe I know you, Archmage Valeterisa? Well met. I am able to cast Tier 5 magics; a handful of spells. It is my singular accomplishment in life.
Eldavin: Respectable, respectable. A Revenant aside from Fetohep of Khelt? Possibly Tier 6-7. I sincerely doubt he can manage a Tier 8 unlinked, but I suppose backup spellcasters are useful.
VizirH: What did you just say?
Eldavin: I am the Grand Magus pledged to restoring Miss Solstice to life, as Windy Girl is aware. It is a compounding issue, but I believe I can do it once my affairs here are done. Which reminds me, Windy Girl—your situation?
Windy Girl: Good?
Eldavin: Where are you?
Windy Girl: You can’t tell?
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Oh my.
Eldavin: It is difficult with so many connections, and I believe I was asked to be private.
Magus G: I am amazed this ritual can hold so many individual links.
Eldavin: Well, in truth, this is a completely different magical system than the one Wistram or the Walled Cities apply. Far more efficient.
VizirH: BE SILENT, MORTALS. I AM SPEAKING. MY MAGIC AND WISDOM FAR SURPASSES ANY PRESENT.
Saliss: Oooh. This is going to be hilarious. You’re new here, aren’t you?
Mri: Thou hast met many foes in your lifetime, Mighty Vizir Hecrelunn of Khelt, but you have not met Mri, the Great and Terrible. Many have known my wrath; few have escaped unscathed.
Lionette: Mri…
True Grit: What are you doing to my academy? This is ridiculous. These days of [Mages] and petty politics have begun again.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Haven’t they always been petty?
Rhis: Hah! Well said! They have always been petty and pathetic.
 
It was getting chaotic. Fetohep gave up on that room. The Vizir was so angry his [Message] scroll burst into flames, but the thing about being the immortal king of Khelt was that you had plenty of those.
Fetohep scribbled furiously.
 
Fetohep: Once again, I convene this to be Room B: Succinct Conversations Unto a Cure. Please focus your attention upon the issue.
Eldavin: Apologies. Frankly, this system needs work. Perhaps an overall moderator?
Saliss: And who’s that, Wistram? Funny how it’s always Wistram, huh?
Fetohep: We are getting off-track. Please remain focused.
Joseph Ortega: It’s off-topic.
 
The Revenant twitched. Fetohep’s quill paused, but before he could go on, more words appeared.
 
Windy Girl: Fetohep is right. We’re all here for the same reasons, aren’t we? You might need three rooms, though. Aren’t there three components? Healing, antidote, freezing spell?
Ilvriss: The potion has been taken care of. Healing, I mean. Unless a Potion of Regeneration at about one third dosage is not acceptable…?
Fetohep: Ah, this is commendable. A replacement can be arranged if need be, but I am assured it is effective. I shall ‘set up’ such rooms then and preannounce them.
Windy Girl: Don’t do that. I’ll write it into potions and tag…um, Saliss, Witch A, and Alchemist I. Anyone who wants can jump in. That’s efficient.
Hecrelunn, Vizir: You are insolent, whomsoever you are, before the rulers of Khelt.
Windy Girl: Hey, Hecrelunn. Shut up.
 
Which was a mistake, or so he felt—until he saw ‘Windy Girl’ disappear from that chat and appear in another room. The furious Hecrelunn followed her in, and their exchange of insults was joined by ‘Mri’, ‘Saliss’, and ‘Beard Lad’.
Impressive. He saw what this person was doing. Meanwhile—a kind of order restored itself. Yet even that was…beyond interesting.
 
Saliss: Alright, alright. Antidotes. Everyone keeps saying ethereal-type reagents are the way to go, but who has any?
Witch A: I have a few, but not enough to make a full potion out of.
Alchemist I: Or experiment. Sadly, my stocks would also be lacking, but I have the expertise to alter…any standard antidote. Is this some kind of advanced poison? Rotlung? Hetheic Death? Magical-vectors?
Saliss: It’s…a poisonous berry enhanced with some snake venom. Cosqe Stinger is the local term. About Intensity…14 on Relik’s Scale.
Alchemist I: I see…and the issue is? Not that I would trust Saliss of Lights to cure warts.
Witch A: Funny. :)
Saliss: You’re hilarious. Everyone must love you. Listen, I’ve made the cure. Liquid, gas—it’s for a giant ice cube, and that’s why it’s difficult. Understand? Do you need me to write down the exact ingredients?
Alchemist I: You may if you are attempting to alter a potion to interact with frozen flesh. What have you tried?
Saliss: Funny thing. You only get one chance. I think they’re trying the cure on squirrels.
GSNF: Regular squirrels, or is that a euphemism?
Saliss: Regular squirrels. I gave them a simple liquid injection, but ethereal-type potions aside, there’s no good vector.
Viscount V: Have you considered teleporting the liquids into the injuries…?
Saliss: What.
Witch A: That is not how potions work.
Viscount V: Apologies.
Archmage V: I have actually looked into a spell that would simultaneously redivide and redirect such potions like that—but the complexity and variance in each body makes it difficult.
Saliss: What she said. Listen, I don’t have another solution. Frozen flesh. Non-moving blood…
Alchemist I: Seeker liquid.
Saliss: Seeker…
Witch A: So smart. :o
GSNF: Hold on, can anyone actually make seeker liquids anymore? I’m only familiar with hostile liquids.
Alchemist I: I assure you, it’s possible. Seeker liquid antidote combined with a high intensity soak-factor.
Saliss: You’ll poison her with the antidote.
Witch A: Not if you use Skills. [Beneficial Tonic]?
Alchemist I: Exactly. I would also venture a guess that you could trial the ethereal-antidotes by replacing the missing component with a translucence-type reagent. Obviously, you would alter for the actual ingredient, but a sample antidote recipe lacking only for the exact ingredient could be formulated. I am close to my workstation and can attempt it tonight. Someone must, it seems.
Witch A: Brutal. :)
Saliss: I think I know who you are, ‘Alchemist I’. How did you get over here? I wouldn’t feed your ‘antidotes’ to Crelers.
Alchemist I: You couldn’t cure Creler poison.
Witch A: <3 :) :) :)
Alchemist I: Thank you.
Saliss: That’s it. I’m preparing a set of antidotes right now. I’ve created water-soluble liquids and I’m forwarding them to the [Researchers] and we’ll see how good my cures are.
Alchemist I: And I will demonstrate actual progress on my end shortly. Heading to my laboratory now.
GSNF: Dead gods. Sands save me from competing egos. Will someone start writing recipes? I’ll trial both.
Saliss: I’ll write down each successful iteration. You know who I have helping me? Alchemist Xif of Pallass himself.
Alchemist I: …Is that a net benefit?
Saliss: How dare you. Xif is the most hard-working, respected [Alchemist] in Pallass—aside from me. He is a credit to the City of Invention, and you will not slander his good name.
Witch A: Maybe I will make a cure too. I am good with ingredients.
Alchemist I: …That would be helpful, but I believe we have enough expertise on our end to formulate a cure if possible, Miss Witch A.
Saliss: Yeah, what he said.
Witch A: (ಠ_ಠ). I am a [Witch]. I am good at magic and alchemy.
Saliss: Yeah. Sort of in both.
Alchemist I: We are both [Alchemists].
Witch A: (ಠ_ಠ)(ಠ_ಠ)(ಠ_ಠ). I will hex you. I am better. I will make a potion. I have better Skills and levels.
Saliss: Listen to this. Let’s find out. Put your exploding bottle where your mouth is. I’ll have my first entry here in 15 minutes.
Alchemist I: 10.
GSNF: Sigh.
 
However, it still meant there were two, possibly three [Alchemists] competing. Not even that.
 
Sandquen: I have two [Alchemists] looking into these cures.
RainyEarl: I commissioned one a month ago.
Wall Lord Ilvriss: I, as well, believe I have at least ten in a research team undergoing trials.
Fetohep: I have eighty-eight. The issue is not the cure itself, but a new reagent or…spell. If anything, I believe the antidote is lesser to a more adept ice spell.
Wall Lord Ilvriss: True. We have had only standard [Mages] researching spells. Is there any capable [Cryomancer] here? Anyone with a passing knowledge of such magic?
Eldavin: You could say that.
Magus G: Perhaps. I also know about the body’s interactions with cold.
Viscount V: I too, am similarly proficient in ice magic.
Ice Squirrel: Me?
Queen R: I as well.
Rhis: Hm…
ArchmageV: I know in excess of three hundred spells, yes.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I hope to be of some small assistance with you all.
 
The Vizir’s head rose triumphantly. Fetohep smiled, and he heard the ghosts cheering. He bent over the scroll.
 
Fetohep: I am prepared to offer a prize for any spell that is most effective, whereupon I introduce ‘Researcher Dromenl’ and ‘Cryomancer Ulea’ who have led the issue. They may communicate more, but the issue as it is presented to me is that the body is damaged when heated unevenly. A superior, elegant magic is required.
Lionette: Thank you all for helping. I and Wall Lord Ilvriss will also contribute in any way if that is an incentive at all, not that I would dare to assume I can add to Khelt’s largesse.
Mri: Yes, thank you. Please help her.
Viscount V: Not to disturb those here, but I must ask: this young woman frozen is alive, is she not?
Lionette: Neither [Detect Life] nor [Detect Death] work on her.
Viscount V: That is not…entirely encouraging. An object would also fail to register on both spells.
Eldavin: I assure you, a dead body would have some residual death magic.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I would concur with that based on my observations.
Viscount V: Encouraging, then.
Fetohep: Erin Solstice is alive. I assure you of that. If she were here…she would be more concerned with the wellbeing of others. She is alive.
Windy Girl: That sounds exactly like her.
Magus G: How do all of you know her?
Ice Squirrel: Friends of friends or just friends. Let’s not get distracted. 
