TMGEK: Do not do that with great respect. We will immediately contact the palace. Please hold.
G̶S̶F̶N̶ GSNF: Thank you. I would like this information now, with a direct line of [Messages] or speaking stone if one can be arranged.
TMGEK: This may prove difficult. His Majesty has sealed the project—
GSNF: Then please add that to his request. Also, put me in touch with the person in Oteslia who is heading this project.
TMGEK: We are retrieving the name. Your contact is a ‘Lionette Solstice’, who is partially funding the project along with ‘Saliss Oliwing’, and the project’s research and information belongs to a [Researcher] Dromenl of the Institute of Inquiry in—
Wistram: Hello! I see you are conducting a multiple [Message] spell program. Could I interest the participants in a new, multiple-[Message] spell connection at a nominal fee?
 
The Fox Beastkin woman nearly spilled soup all over her [Message] scroll. Yisame looked up from writing down a scene involving the real ship—which was clearly when Ksmvr came to Zenol’s rescue.
“What’s wrong, Etrikah?”
“I have no clue.”
 
GSNF: What is this?
TMGEK: There is no [Message] from Wistram inbound. Please hold—
Wistram: We see that Khelt’s Mage’s Guild is conducting multiple [Messages] on the same topic. If one of the recipients would like to trial our new system, please affirm with a ‘YES’. We will take that as a signal for consent and apply a slight surcharge of four silver and two copper for the entire trial period, as this magical system is in testing.
GSNF: Stop reading my private correspondence. This is Nerrhavia Fallen’s business.
Wistram: We apologize for any intrusion. This is a generic message being written into every active conversation with multiple contacts.
GSNF: Rhir’s demon-infested hells it is. I am lodging a formal complaint. Who is the fool on the other end sending this?
TMGEK: Wistram, please desist with sending [Messages]. This is Khelt’s confidential business.
Wistram: This is an automated message. Please disregard any intrusin into your conversations.
 GSNF: You misspelled ‘intrusion’. Wistram can automate spells and I can use my tails to fly.
Eldavin: You are an embarrassment to the Academy. Apologies. I am shutting down Wistram’s end of this conversation. Prepare for [Multi-Message Link].
GSNF: That’s an advanced ritual. Wistram can’t just—
 
And then her [Message] scroll suddenly exploded with text. Etrikah yanked her paws away with an oath as an entire wall of text appeared that had hither-to not been there.
Someone else’s conversation.
 
Ailendamus: I believe our conversation is being intruded upon.
The Mage’s Guild of Eternal Khelt: That is an unusual claim. Please verify. We are rechecking our connection.
Wistram: Hello! I see you are conducting a multiple [Message] spell program. Could I interest the participants in a new, multiple-[Message] spell connection at a nominal fee?
Ailendamus: I would like to lodge a formal complaint.
The Mage’s Guild of Eternal Khelt: We deeply apologize for—
 
Etrikah’s page flickered, as more text skimmed across it, replacing the old words. Yisame was now leaning over.
“Etrikah, what is going on?”
“Someone’s using a linking spell for [Messages]. But it shouldn’t be easy. What’s…hold on.”
A few shimmering names engraved themselves at the top of her [Message] scroll. Etrikah eyed them, then saw the blank page begin to cross with words simultaneously. She read what looked like participants in…a group conversation.
 
Lionette: What happened? I was asking about the availability of Ghost Shrooms when the [Mage] at my guild started panicking. What is this? Is it Wistram?
Ailendamus: I believe this is a multi-[Message] link. Intriguing.
GSNF: Is this Lionette Solstice? Are you related to Erin Solstice?
Ice Squirrel: Whoa.
Ailendamus: Lyon LIONETTE is that you? 
Ailendamus: Apologies, there are multiple individuals present. Please disregard.
Lionette: Who is this, please? I am related to Erin Solstice, yes. I am her sister.
GSNF: Erin Solstice has no sister. Who is this truly?
Ice Squirrel: Ailendamus? Is that Ailendamus the nation? What’s a GSNF?
Viscount V: I apologize for the misunderstanding. I am representing Ailendamus in inquiry to the cure regarding an ‘Erin Solstice’ and collaboration between Oteslia and Khelt.
Ice Squirrel: Khelt is trying to cure Erin?
The Mage’s Guild of Eternal Khelt: We are deeply sorry for this misunderstanding and event. It appears the Academy of Wistram is employing a [Message]-altering spell via the magic linking us. We are unsure of how this is occurring and are trying to receive clarification.
Lionette: I would appreciate being taken…off…this spell, please. My information is confidential.
Viscount V: As are my affairs. I intend to lodge a formal complaint with—
SALISS: THIS IS SO INTERESTING.
Ice Squirrel: What.
GSNF (Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen): Is that Named Adventurer Saliss of Lights?
Lionette: Saliss? What are you doing? Where are you?
Witch A: Hello? I am inquiring about a cure for Erin Solstice. What is this, please? We are calling from the Mage’s Guild of Anazuland. Very confused.
Viscount V: This is entirely chaotic. Exalted Mage’s Guild of Khelt. Upon resending a [Message] spell, I am re-looped into this [Message] chain. Will you send me the requested information at a later date?
The Mage’s Guild of Eternal Khelt: With greatest apologies, we are still contacting Wistram for a formal explanation. 
Lionette: Wait, is everyone inquiring into a cure for Erin?
Ice Squirrel: Yes, it’s me, Lionette.
Viscount V: Yes.
GSNF: Yes. Wistram is mucking things up. As usual.
SAAAALIIISSSS: TELL ME WHEN THAT’S NOT WISTRAM. HAH.
Witch A: Why is that message appearing in capital letters? What is wrong with the name? What is going on? We are inquiring into a cure, yes.
TMGEK: Please hold, we are working on the issue.
Ice Squirrel: Who? Oh.
Lionette: Who is this now?
The Mage’s Guild of Eternal Khelt: We are shortening our address to TMGEK for clarify.
Lionette: That is clarity?
Fetohep of Khelt: I am exceptionally displeased.
Ice Squirrel: Oh wow.
The Mage’s Guild of Exalted Khelt With Great Apologies to His Exalted Majesty: We are attempting to clarify the situation with—
Fetohep of Khelt: Enough. Desist. I will take this matter over myself. To all those present, I am King of Khelt, who oversees the project in regards to a cure for an individual known as Erin Solstice. Direct such inquiries unto me and—
S.A.L.I.S.S: You’re in charge? Who put you in charge?
Fetohep: Desist in your writing. 
Sal-iss: I didn’t put you in charge.
Fetohep: Enough. You speak to the ruler of Exalted Khelt. Deference is required.
Not Saliss: Make me.
Viscount Visophecin of Ailendamus: It is our extreme pleasure to tender our regards to His Majesty of Khelt, regardless of war or the circumstances. To the sand eternal, may Khelt reign.
Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen: Greetings to Khelt. This is a disaster. Is Wistram just tossing around magic link spells? I don’t need every conversation to be like the Arbitration Council.
Fetohep: I greet you, Viscount Visophecin and Sage Etrikah, to whom I believe I am writing. In regards to this conversation, it is my understanding that Wistram has ignorantly applied its magic to a similar interest. In regards to—
THAT DRAKE WITH THE POTIONS: HEY.
Fetohep: —the cure for Erin Solstice as first attempted by Oteslia. Khelt has funded and taken over.
NAMED ADVENTURER SALISS: HEEEEEY~~
Lionette: Khelt has not taken over any project to my knowledge. I am Lionette, Erin’s cousin. I am attempting to work on a cure. I am exceptionally willing to talk to whomever may have information or aid regarding Erin Solstice.
GSNF: You said you were her sister.
Saliss of Lights: Did you know that the Demonsoul Skunk has a musk that can be smelled over a mile away at peak potency?
Lionette: SALISS. STOP.
Ice Squirrel: That’s Saliss, right? Saliss, it’s me! I’m not alone, though.
Saliss: …Clarabessa?
Ice Squirrel: No.
 
It was at this point a few things happened.
Viscount Visophecin sat back to pour himself a drink of water and watch while Ryoka stared at the scroll. The Lucifen looked amused and exceptionally interested by turns.
Lyonette du Marquin looked around, saw the naked Drake energetically scribbling at a counter next to hers, and threw an inkwell, which he dodged.
Half the [Rogues] around Ceria started taking bets on whether this was real.
Sage Etrikah decided she needed a drink as Yisame and Yvlon stared at the parchment.
And then the others began joining in.
 
——
 
Grand Magus Eldavin was only partly aware of Wistram trying out their new spell like a child with a wand. He had stopped in his progress back to eject the fool who had caused this trouble with multiple reigning heads of state from the academy’s nearest window because another fool was in his way.
“Grand Magus. I know we have spoken, and you are busy, but I hope you will hear my request.”
“Ah. I believe we have met. Now is not a good time.”
The interloper nodded.
“Nevertheless, Grand Magus. I insist. I hope you will hear me out. I am prepared for your displeasure.”
Eldavin considered ejecting this young man through the nearest window as well, but there was a certain set to his jaw and determination the half-Elf liked. So Eldavin pointed.
“Very well. I respect preparation. Goodbye.”
The giant hand grabbed the Human young man with blonde hair and, before he could move, tossed Ylawes Byres out the window. Eldavin heard a shout as he strode on, followed by the sounds of alarm from outdoors.
The [Knight] caught him halfway to his destination, panting. Eldavin eyed Ylawes’ wet clothing and look of grim determination, and nodded.
“You’ve earned five minutes. Speak.”
The [Knight] inhaled sharply.
“It’s about two things, Grand Magus. My sister is currently captive of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. She is a Gold-rank adventurer. That—and I came to Wistram with my team in the hopes that you could cure someone who’s…not dead, but not alive. Trapped in a stasis spell.”
“What, the kind that ends with a kiss? Do they still do that?”
Eldavin wrinkled his nose. Ylawes shook his head.
“No, Grand Magus. She was injured and frozen. Shot by poisoned crossbow bolts, but she survived and—”
Eldavin held up a finger. The half-Elf stared ahead of him, put a finger to his brow, and looked at Ylawes.
He had the strangest sense of…all three things. And one of his greater goals, that girl who kept getting herself into—
“Erin Solstice. You mean…Erin Solstice.”
Ylawes’ eyes widened. He looked at the Grand Magus. The half-Elf stared at him, then put a finger to his temple.
“Come with me. Find a Scroll of [Messages]. Oh—and if you see an idiot wearing blue robes, toss him out the nearest window. Or just stab him.”
 
——
 
It was at this moment when the little Gnoll girl shyly ducked her head in front of the oldest [Shaman] in the Meeting of Tribes. Perhaps the world.
Shaman Perbne, the [Chief Shaman] of the tribe, bowed as the old, old Shaman Theikha of Gaarh Marsh, semi-retired but most venerable of all, peered at Mrsha.
She had graciously come to their location, upon no less than Weatherfur and Ekhtouch’s request. It was highly unusual; even if two famous tribes asked, they should come to her.
However, Theikha was spry enough, and the odd request was curious. Now, she fixed Mrsha with a calm stare that had the nervous girl sitting up straight. Mrsha was no stranger to important people, but this old Gnoll woman reminded her of her [Shaman].
And…Mrsha needed her help.
“Shaman Theikha. I thank you greatly for coming. The circumstances are…odd. Such that we must trouble you. However, the long and short of it is that Silverfang and four other tribes ask that you give us your great wisdom in divining a cure for a deathly-ill Human. A great friend of Gnolls. This child has come so far and hopes you will help us.”
“Ah. I see.”
Theikha glanced at Mrsha, and the Gnoll shyly waved. An over-nervous Gnoll woman interrupted.
“Honored Theikha, I am Krshia Silverfang. This is Mri, and she is very shy, but wished to see you. May I offer you food, refreshment? Anything else?”
They had all of that placed in front of Theikha, but Krshia and Chieftain Torishi Weatherfur and Akrisa were all here. So were Gire, Shaman Cetrule, even Satar as a young [Shaman], and two of Weatherfur’s [Shamans].
Not just because necessity demanded honoring Theikha, but because they wanted to meet one of the oldest [Shamans] themselves. The old Gnoll looked at Mrsha again and nodded to Krshia.
“Let us hear your plea. We can do no less for brave Silverfang, who has unveiled dark truths to us in these times. Do you have details?”
“I do, and a first-hand account, Honored Theikha. There are many factors…a friend is in Oteslia, seeking a cure, and we are retrieving their work. There is an [Alchemist]—but I get ahead of myself, forgive me.”
Krshia stuttered with nervousness, but Theikha smiled and she relaxed a bit. Mrsha edged backwards towards the opening of the tent, where someone was poring over an artifact.
“Well? Can she help?”
Rose whispered to Mrsha. The Gnoll girl hesitated, but Gire shook her head.
“They’re explaining the situation. Where’s the details about the injury?”
She hugged Mrsha as the Gnoll girl came out. Tkrn, even Tesy and Vetn, were all huddled around the tent’s opening, but kept fleeing every time Akrisa turned to glower. An annoyed Gnoll with golden fur was growling to herself.
“I’m trying to get it! Dead gods, don’t any of you believe in prep-work?”
“What’s wrong? Doesn’t the Mage’s Guild in Oteslia have it?”
Qwera, the Golden Gnoll of Izril stared down at her [Message] Scroll as Mrsha peeked over her shoulder. So did a Human woman, a [Merchant], Ysara Byres, with her brows raised. Qwera shook her head.
“You will not believe this…”
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin was frozen. Saliss was half-eying Wilovan, who had his fist slightly raised. The calm Gentleman Caller looked like even his patience was fraying.
But they were all looking down at the message scroll. Because this?
Lyonette’s lips moved. There was only one effect she had ever known that could cause this. Her hands were shaking.
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss: Hello. Hello, is there an expert on frost magic in this ‘discussion room’? I am prepared to financially back any project with a verifiable cure. Payment on successful delivery.
Fetohep of Khelt: I am Fetohep of Khelt. No payment is necessary. One shall not want for fulfillment as Khelt is my witness.
Wall Lord Ilvriss: Is this…Fetohep of Khelt, Ruler of Khelt, the nation?
Fetohep of Khelt: No less.
Golden Gnoll: Buttered goat testicles, is this real?
