“Dark. It always used to look like that in that village, remember? A ghost inn, staying up when the rest fell to pieces. You always did say someone might squat there. [Bandits].”
“Superior construction to the other buildings. Perhaps the old [Innkeeper] had a Skill.”
“Yeah. Now…”
The windows were dark. Glass, dimly reflecting the sunlight. It wasn’t evening. The time was off. It should have been evening, and the fading sunlight turning the Floodplains to an ocean of orange and red.
But it wasn’t. Nor was there any light merrily shining from within. A telltale smokestack…
“Like the old days. She thought I was a Dragon, remember?”
“I believe you told me that over a hundred times that week, yes.”
“And she had those blue fruits. Dead gods, I asked about them when we got back to town and some people sold them, but everyone warned me about the poison.”
“Yes. They did.”
The Drake fell silent, because his companion gave him so little to work with. As if he didn’t care…until the Antinium spoke.
“Acid flies.”
“Hm? Oh, right. Her catching them and you eating them.”
“Such innovation. And I recall the high-grade Potion of Cleansing Wounds…”
“Yep. All on her hand. Good call, though. If it wasn’t high-grade, you’d have blasted her hand off. Wow, the hand-cut from the fish. I almost forgot.”
“Yes.”
Their footsteps slowed as they looked up the hill. The inn was dark. After a moment, Relc spoke.
“…Maybe she’ll be in there when we open that door. She’ll say something like, ‘I saw a Dragon!’.”
“That sounds quite like her. She will not be.”
“You don’t know that.”
Klbkch opened his mandibles. He looked at Relc, then slowly nodded.
“I do not. There is a chance, however small. A chance so minute, so incomprehensible, you would have to be a fool beyond saving to believe it—”
“Yeah, just watch it, Klbkch. I can still punch you one.”
The Antinium saw Relc raise a threatening fist. Klbkch looked up at the windows. He went on after a moment.
“…a chance so minute it cannot happen. But if there were a chance.”
“Yeah. Do you want to…?”
For an answer, Klbkch began walking up the hill. Slowly. So slowly. Relc followed him after a moment. They didn’t speak for the first few steps, then Klbkch did.
“Hectval is at war with Liscor. I did not realize.”
“Hm? Yeah. We sent the army out. The new army, I mean. Embria’s there.”
“Your daughter. Yes. Are you worried?”
“She’s alive. I’ll ask more later. What about you? I heard we sent Antinium to the front.”
Klbkch hesitated. He touched his swords.
“I could make a difference. However, if I enter the war, it will escalate.”
“Yeah. Do you know what’s happening, though?”
The Antinium nodded.
“Of course. What do you wish to know? The shape of the war? The military gains? The losses?”
“…Just how it is.”
Klbkch thought about the question. When he answered, it was simply.
“It is how you have always talked about Liscor’s wars to me.”
Relc Grasstongue looked up at Klbkch’s back. His eyes flickered.
“Brave kids. Heroes and bastards. Miracles and chance. A lot of dying.”
“Yes.”
They came to the front door. Relc hesitated. He craned his neck back and pointed.
“There it is.”
Klbkch nodded. He had seen it too. Hanging right under the name of the inn. And a sign hammered into the ground with the original lettering peeling slightly, but perfectly legible.
“Do you know where all the Goblins went? I expected the inn to be crowded, even without Erin.”
Relc started. He looked at Klbkch and slapped his forehead.
“Ancestors, Klb! You don’t know about Mrsha? I heard on the way back. Not about Mrsha or…?”
“I know about the Horns of Hammerad. Is that what you are referring to?”
“Dead gods. No. It’s—”
Relc hesitated. His voice trailed off as he raised a claw and curled it into a fist. He looked at Klbkch and then knocked. The Revalantor went still. The two waited.
“She’s not there.”
“Of course not. It would be silly t—I hear footsteps.”
The two stared at each other. Then Relc put one earhole to the door. He looked at Klbkch. Wordlessly, the Antinium stepped back. The two held their breaths and stared at the door.
The Wandering Inn’s front door opened slowly. Both Drake and Antinium stared at the figure in the shadowed hallway, holding their breath. Three hearts beat rapidly. It couldn’t be. But just maybe. Mayb—
“Guardsman Relc? Guardsman Klbkch? It’s you.”
Ishkr stood in the doorway. Relc exhaled in a rush, and Klbkch nodded.
“Ah. Ishkr. I hope we are not intruding?”
The Gnoll [Head Server] looked at the two. Then he smiled.
“Not at all. Would you like to come in?”
“Ah…no. No, we both just got back and…”
The inn was dark behind Ishkr. Relc looked at Klbkch.
“Erin’s not here, so…”
“She’s here.”
Klbkch murmured. Relc stopped. He stared ahead, down that long hallway. His voice lowered, and his hand grasped onto his spear tightly.
“…Yeah. Of course she is.”
The two lingered for a while, but then stepped through the entryway. The floorboards didn’t squeak like the old inn, and there was no dust because someone still kept them clean.
The [Grand Theater] was very big, and very dark, with only sunlight. It was echoingly haunted. Relc looked around the front of the common room, and it felt familiar. The bar and layout had changed slightly, and far more had been added.
He saw Lyonette’s work schedule pinned to one wall, an actual menu hanging up, chairs ready to be placed at other tables, even the giant mirror that Palt had enchanted to show the news.
There were menus hand-illustrated and sitting up as well, and someone had kept watering the flower boxes that held regular, beautiful flowers along each window.
…Yet the kitchen was dark and there was no white furry thing scurrying around. The stage was dark, without someone strutting their hour behind the curtain. No [Bard] sat playing guitar in a corner, and there was no bee or chatty [Bartender].
It was just like they remembered it. And not.
Klbkch sat down at a table. Relc trailed along one wall.
“They started putting up guest testimonials?”
“Miss Solstice did.”
“No way. Why—hey, that’s Magus Grimalkin. Why is his face up here?”
Relc pointed at the illustration and lengthy dissertation on the proper etiquette and form of using the weights room. Ishkr smiled slightly.
“Miss Solstice decided to put up a few illustrations, on the theory that some guests would appreciate it. She never…finished the project.”
“Oh. Right. The inn’s clean.”
Relc ran a claw over a table. Ishkr nodded.
“I clean it.”
“Obviously, duh. I just meant…”
“Silveran comes by now and then. One of the Workers.”
“Oh. That’s kind of him.”
Ishkr stood there, half in darkness, half in the sunlight leaking through the windows. He gestured to the stairs.
“Miss Imani and Palt moved out, as did Mage Bezale. Recently. Architect Hexel and his staff…my sister sometimes stays here as her landlady gives her issues and she doesn’t sign up for the new housing. Your room is still here. If you would like, I can give you the key.”
“Really. I…no. I won’t stay here yet.”
Klbkch looked up from reading the menu as Relc brushed at his neck scales again. The Senior Guardsman nodded to Ishkr.
“We’ll just…sit here, if that’s okay. For a moment?”
“As long as you need. I will get out of your fur.”
“Thanks. Uh—you don’t have to—thanks. Nice guy.”
Relc said that last part to Klbkch as he sat down. The Antinium nodded simply. Relc leaned on the table across from him.
Here they were. But no young woman came rushing out of the kitchen. Relc caught himself glancing at the doorway, and felt embarrassed…until he realized Klbkch kept watching the stairs.
“A lot’s happened. I missed it.”
That was all Relc said after a long while. Klbkch nodded.
“You were gone in Cellidel? On voluntary posting? Did you do something wrong?”
Relc’s head lowered.
“Yeah. I didn’t have you to talk me out of it. I went to Cellidel. It’s a long story.”
“In brief?”
The Drake hesitated and struggled for words.
“Nothing big. Just—idiots thinking they can beat on citizens and do whatever they want. Bad stuff happening. The Watch was a mess—nothing like Captain Z. That’s all of it. Riots—some [Painter] guy. But just idiots. What about you? How’d you lose your last body after…”
Klbkch shrugged.
“Largely similar. Incompetence uncovered on a fundamental level. I have yet to address it fully.”
“Huh. So you really are going to manage the Hives, then?”
“Yes. I believe I must. Xrn is wounded. She may never recover.”
“Really.”
Klbkch slowly opened and closed his hand.
“Not as things stand. They must change. You have made a change. Now I must. Not here. I do not know if I am needed here any longer.”
“Me neither.”
They exchanged glances, and then looked away. Relc looked for an open door. A garden. But it didn’t come, and he didn’t summon it.
It was too quiet. And Klbkch…Relc stared at the kitchen, then checked the sky.
“I promised to meet some of my people. And I don’t know if you’re busy—”
“I have over a hundred tasks to accomplish, yes.”
Which meant literally over a hundred, and Klbkch could list each one if he wanted. Relc nodded. He put his huge claws on the table to push himself back.
“We can—catch up later. If you want. I know…”
He had gotten up when Klbkch held up a hand. So Relc stopped. The Antinium hesitated. He sat there and hesitated, and it was an odd thing for Klbkch to do.
“I returned to the Hives, as you know. Incidents occured that meant I would receive a new body, but one of the things I did was to reestablish contact with the Queens of the Hives. Five Queens, and Wrymvr the Deathless. A fellow Centenium of old.”
The Drake [Spearmaster] stilled. He looked at Klbkch, and, aside from the [Strategists] and leaders who had dedicated their lives to studying the Antinium, and a few other people, he was one of the few who understood what that meant.
“Yeah?”
Klbkch drummed his fingers slowly on the table. His mandibles opened and closed. He made a kcrch sound, and then coughed.
“Wrymvr. It is difficult for me to express this properly, as I have never had to. However…Relc.”
He looked up into his friend’s yellow gaze. Relc just waited. Klbkch searched and spoke.
“I have known Wrymvr since he was created. I am the older of the two of us, but our existence reaches back to the beginning of the Antinium as a true species. We have served the same positions, and our goals are identical. We have experienced the same events, and we were created of the same Queen. Our history is a shared one.”
The Drake said nothing. At last, Klbkch looked at Relc.
“…Despite that. He was less pleasant to be around. I have thought of that, now and then.”
Relc blinked. Klbkch went on, as he looked around the quiet inn.
“It occurs to me, Relc, that over our career as [Guardsmen] of Liscor, you have asked me to go with you for a drink and/or meal over a thousand times. I can count the number of times I have done so on two hands. We have often had snacks together in an acceptable way as [Guards]. Seldom meals upon pre-arranged request.”
“Yeah?”
Klbkch slowly reached down for something and placed it on the table. Relc looked down, and Ishkr, like the excellent staff member he was, reappeared.
A single gold coin glinted on the table. Gross overpayment, of course, but you didn’t come here for the fiscal value. Klbkch looked up at Relc.
“As I believe it is customary, Relc, I cordially invite you to ‘have a drink’. Let us also have a meal. I will buy the first round. Tell me about Cellidel.”
The Drake’s eyes widened. He looked down at the gold coin, and then pulled his chair out. He sat down, and Ishkr hurried over.
“Can I get you two anything? The kitchen doesn’t have a [Cook], but I can do [Basic Cooking], and we do have stored foods. Any preferences?”
Relc glanced at Klbkch. The Antinium looked at him, and they both knew what they were going to order. Relc raised a claw and smiled.
“Do you have pasta? Spaghetti? And some blue fruit juice?”
Ishkr blinked. Then nodded. Klbkch raised his hand.
“I will have pasta as well, as I can finally metabolize it. Acid flies on mine, if you have any.”
“Aw, come on, Klb—”
“You can put meat on yours. Pork belly.”
“Oh. Yeah. Pork belly for the both of us! If you’ve got it. And, uh, I’ll have an ale with the blue fruit…”
The two began ordering. Ishkr ended up rushing out to see if he could get some pork belly, but he set them up with a bowl of acid flies, french fries, and drinks. Relc and Klbkch sat there. It wasn’t about the additions. It was the pasta and blue fruit that mattered.
The gold coin glittered on the table, catching the light as Relc fussed about the fireplace, and Klbkch eventually pointed a Wand of Flame Ray and lit it.
Some things were different. But then they sat, smiling, talking, and telling each other what had happened. They ate and drank in The Wandering Inn, the pair of them. Then, after a while…
They went to find Erin and say hello.
 
——
 
It was a very special day. Because it wasn’t.
Any day could be quite special. Extraordinary, even. All it took was a reunion, a new idea—and the mundane was kicked out of the way by the fantabulously interesting.
That was the lesson they’d all learned. Your boring every afternoon didn’t have to look like that. Of course, with that precious knowledge came the other side.
Terrible things could happen out of the blue. Disaster could be waiting around the corner with a crossbow.
It was a special day, because they thought of her.
Klbkch and Relc stood on a hill, chatting. No solemn silence. No flowers. It might have been that if they had come earlier. It didn’t…work.
Not today. Not for them. Klbkch pushed Relc slightly as the Drake joked around.
“…And I’ve been gaining classes. Klb here just has his new body.”
“With poisoned mandibles.”
“—So he can’t even kiss someone. He makes it sound good, but I think the Queens messed up.”
“This is not an issue that has ever been presented to me. Nor do I intend to seek the opportunity out.”
Relc gestured helplessly at his friend.
“You see? What am I supposed to do with…this guy?”
He trailed off. The [Innkeeper] smiled at him. Relc took a breath, and a bit of mist escaped his lips. The frozen bier was like it had been the last time. The flowers frozen and dead. The trinkets…
“So I might go off soon. I had to get the kids back from Cellidel. But after that, I’ll be after Mrsha. You know me. Kidnapping? I’m great at chasing and hitting people.”
Klbkch looked at Relc and nodded.
“I will also look into the matter.”
