Belavierr: I am prepared to make a deal. The means change and are unfamiliar. There are always those that want something.
Golden Gnoll: Who is this?
Wall Lord Ilvriss: I’m not sure. Everyone is leaving. Wait. Wait.
Witch A: You.
Belavierr: Me?
 
Almost as if the emptying rooms were like actual rooms, squeezing together. Until that name entered the chat.
 
Belavierr: Hello. I hope I am not interrupting anything. I followed someone here.
GSNF: This is an advisement: do not speak to this individual. Do not mention her name. Do not make any deals. It could be a hoax. If not…
Eldavin: I know that name.
Rhis: I do too…
Viscount V: Ah. I believe this is either a hoax or…the most significant event I can imagine.
Mons: Oh no. No, no, no.
Archmage V: I am hugely interested. Are you truly Belavierr? If so, I would greatly like to talk to you.
Belavierr: What do you have to offer?
Lionette: You? You?
Mri: Don’t talk to her. She’s evil.
Belavierr: Odd. What a strange thing. I know you? I do know you. I do know you. There you are.
YlawesB: What’s going on? My ink just turned red.
Mri: I’m just me. Go away, stinky. Stupid face.
RainyEarl: Stop talking to her. Grand Magus! 
Eldavin: I see it. The link isn’t breaking. It’s—
Lionette: Mri, leave, now. Krshia?
Krshia: I have her.
Eldavin: —stuck? I can’t sever the magic.
Rhis: That name.
Windy Girl: You.
Belavierr: I will find you.
Queen R: Who is this?
Ice Squirrel: I don’t know. I don’t like this. That’s not regular magic.
Alchemist I: Leave. I would advise you all to leave.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Belavierr. You are not welcome here. I would advise you to leave, much less make threats.
Belavierr: I will hunt you down, oath or not. You are my nemesis. I will not harm you. You will wish you were harmed. I see your thread. You. You.
Hecrelunn: Who is this interloper? Why does that name sound familiar, even now? You invoke violence in the presence of Fetohep of Khelt. Begone.
GSNF: Truly, begone. This has gone from amusing to chaos to danger.
Magus G: Your presence is unwanted. By the rule of three, begone.
Belavierr: Where is she? Tell me.
Windy Girl: That is a child. I will not let you harm her. Do not make me invoke my friends. You were warned.
Fetohep: What.
Eldavin: What.
Belavierr: Her battles are not yours. Do not involve yourself.
RainyEarl: You are hunted. Someone, trace her magic. I will send it to the Hunter’s Guild of Terandria.
Belavierr: No one can follow my thread.
Hecrelunn: Begone, [Witch]. Or I will scorch your frail hat with fire. You cannot threaten Khelt. 
Eldavin: Agreed. Wistram will not suffer magical interlopers.
Rhis: Nor Ailendamus, one supposes.
Viscount V: Not children. Nor the Spider of Terandria. Begone. You are marked, Belavierr.
Belavierr: I did not come here to offend. This is a personal matter.
Queen R: It becomes personal. Lose yourself, whomever you are.
Archmage V: In solidarity, I suppose. Begone. 
Rhis: You do not want me as your enemy. Trouble me not. 
Belavierr: Very well.
 
Then, like a spell was listed, her name disappeared. And the chat went back to normal.
Normal, but shaken. Like a cold hand made of water had doused the excitement.
Like frost.
Reality.
 
Saliss: Damn. You chased her off. Does no one think about tracing her so we can teleport explosive potions to her?
Alchemist I: You do not wish to attempt that. Not at range. Not with her.
Golden Gnoll: I’m suddenly less positive about this phenomenon.
Eldavin: That will not happen again. This is an aberration.
Wall Lord Ilvriss: I suppose we should discuss future meetings and efforts. This may not all come together perfectly.
GSNF: I doubt this will happen twice. Wistram was pestering everyone to get involved, for ill or worse. I will contribute my time. We made good progress.
Saliss: Progress…I hate that word. It’s slow.
Alchemist I: Sometimes, a project takes aeons. You must know that.
Saliss: It is too slow.
Windy Girl: Yes, it is.
Eldavin: It will not be long now. I will see you, Windy Girl. And you and I will discuss matters later, Rhisveri of Ailendamus.
Rhis: We may just do that indeed.
 
Acrimony. Different sides, even united across the same purpose. Fetohep sat in his throne, listening to a ghost cry out. Not for herself, but for the dead in her name.
The chat room didn’t end. That wasn’t how it worked. It just grew silent, as no one quite knew what to say, and they were busy. And perhaps they too stared at the blank bit of text, trying to figure out what to say, but not finding the right moment to continue. Wishing someone else had something truly meaningful to say, but they had gone into magic and alchemy and…done all they could.
What else was there? So the page stayed blank. For a while. Until something happened.
Into that day of hope, despair, sadness, and surprise…
Came the last person of all.
 
Geneva: Am I too late? Is everyone gone?
 
There was a long silence as fingers reached for quills. Then…a little entry.
 
Mri: No. Are you here to help Erin too? Can you help? She needs help, please.
Geneva: I think I can. My name is Geneva. I am a [Doctor].
RainyEarl: The Last Light of Baleros.
Geneva: Some call me that. It’s not accurate.
Lionette: You! I tried to contact you, but you were gone.
Geneva: I’m sorry. I have been indisposed. However, I did not forget my promise.
Hecrelunn: [Doctor]? That depraved class still exists? What mad sawbones is this? I doubt, Fetohep, that this is one you wish to court, even in this sorry excuse for an era.
Alchemist I: Ah! Greetings! A fellow practitioner of the craft?
Saliss: Oh, dead gods.
Magus G: No.
Joseph Ortega: No. It’s a [Doctor]. A real…?
Geneva: Hello to all. I’m sorry I’ve been out of contact. As I said, I am a [Doctor]. I have been working on the case of Erin Solstice. I must be brief, as I do not have much time, and I believe there is some issue about the security of these messages?
Eldavin: None at all, and your secrecy is assured, I pledge it upon my magic.
Geneva: Thank you. I will still be as direct as possible. I was the one who first drafted the possibility of a cure for Erin Solstice. However, I am not a professional in this field, and my understanding of cryonics this area is incomplete. 
GSNF: Oho.
Viscount V: Indeed.
Geneva: I formulated the cure in three parts. Curing the poison before or after thawing the patient without damaging her body, or doing so in a way that would allow a sufficient healing potion or spell to take over.
Witch A: Yes. But it does not work :(. Not properly. Healing is tricky.
Geneva: It is. Even with medicine and magic, healing someone whose heart is entirely stopped is…the most difficult thing. 
Windy Girl: Can it even be done? Restart a completely dead heart?
Lionette: Let her write, please, Windy Girl.
Geneva: I would consider it nearly impossible. There is a difference between a heart with an electrical signal and one…without. Someone who is functionally dead in all respects is not the same as bringing back someone who has suffered a heart attack or drowned, for instance. In those cases, clearing the airways, restoring blood flow, is enough to continue the body’s operation. Not here. 
Wall Lord Ilvriss: What is the answer, then? A Selphid?
Geneva: A Selphid can make a body move, but if the person is truly dead, they are only moving a dead body. Perhaps there is some way to move every part of the body, restore blood flow, artificially or with magic. I do not know if I could consider that life.
True Grit: Someone will answer you when that time comes again.
Eldavin: Yes. They will. Please continue, Doctor Geneva. Do you have an answer?
Geneva: Yes, and again, I apologize because I wish to explain this to those working on the cure. There is a way to fill that last part.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: The missing piece.
Viscount V: A piece was missing?
Geneva: It was. To heal Erin Solstice, I am confident of this: it can be done.
Mri: YES!
Fetohep: Hush, child.
Geneva: The process is nearly the same as my rough outline. There are streamlined elements regarding the healing, antidote, and cold spells. I have read the backlog here, and the proposed changes work close to my own solution that is most efficacious in projected trials. I will append my notes. However, one more thing must be present when the cure is administered.
 
They waited. Geneva Scala wrote swiftly, and they waited.
What? The soul? Something like that?
If it were so simple…that was beyond the [Doctor]’s purview, anyways. So perhaps it was five things, but there was something else. Something simple, which made sense.
 
Geneva: When you revive Erin Solstice, you will need a particular class. 
Lionette: [Priest]? [Priest]!
Windy Girl: wtf
Eldavin: Hm? What’s that?
Geneva: No. Please, let me explain.
Lionette: I’m sorry.
Geneva: When you revive her, it isn’t contingent on a powerful healing spell alone. If she truly is dead, she will die even as the healing is being administered.
Cryomancer Ulea: This is exactly what we have observed. Then what do we need?
Geneva: A [General]. You need a [General]. Or a leader, someone with a Skill that boosts and enables warriors and soldiers to fight beyond their limit.
Windy Girl: !!!
Witch A: Clever.
RainyEarl: Oh. 
Eldavin: Of course. Elegant.
Yvlon: I don’t get it. I think I do, but please explain.
Geneva: A [General]. With a Skill that enables someone to survive the shock and trauma of death—hold on for that healing to take place. 
 
Her quill trembled in her hands. Geneva Scala was breathing hard, but that was it. The thing every doctor from her world, every [Healer] wanted.
That thing you couldn’t really account for, and that was the will of the patient. How did you help them fight? Cling to life, start that heart? It was impossible. It depended on them.
On Earth, it did. But here…you could reach out and give them a hand. Now, her quill flew.
 
Geneva: That’s it. The most powerful Skill you can find.
Viscount V: You are referring to a phenomenon I have seen on the battlefield.
Geneva: Yes. But this will save them, not bring them back. Time. You are buying time. Perhaps even the most grievous injuries can be healed with…time. Another ten seconds. A minute. That’s forever, for us.
Fetohep: My [Healers] and [Mages] believe you are right, Doctor Geneva.
Lionette: It makes sense. It—makes sense.
Joseph Ortega: Is that it? Is that—I mean, it sounds good, but is that it?
Magus G: That is it. That may be everything. It may change a great deal.
Windy Girl: Yes. Is that what we need? I think I know someone who might be able to help.
Lionette: I do too.
RainyEarl: I can find someone to help.
Wall Lord Ilvriss: And I.
Mri: Thank you, Doctor. Thank you.
Geneva: Do not thank me yet. I have played a scenario out many, many times via a Skill. The chance is two in three with the best odds I can give her, the best spells and magic and Skills I can envision.
Fetohep: She will have the best this world can offer.
Mri: Thank you.
Krshia: Thank you, Doctor. We will do this. It can be done. A [Shaman] smiles; she thinks you have found something.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Something magic alone cannot provide. I agree. She has something. I hope for your success. I will help if I can.
Witch A: Yes. If only you have the right ingredients, the potion will come. Magic? You need a good [Mage]. I know one. But the ingredients are missing.
Eldavin: Can anyone locate these ethereal-type reagents? Wistram can transport them from around the world. Khelt, I am assured, can pay for them. That is what is missing. The rest is here, is it not? [Mage]?
Witch A: Yes.
Windy Girl: Potion?
Wall Lord Ilvriss: Done.
Saliss: So just the antidote.
 
They lingered there. On that last piece. Geneva Scala read through the chat, but only one person had offered it, and they had banished her for reasons she only partly knew.
A chat full of interested people. Each one who knew or was related to Erin. A few observers, and one very confused adventurer who was just there because she wanted the money.
So someone who had been silent up till now calmly picked up a quill. His eyes had narrowed when he saw the [Doctor]’s name. But he had read it all in silence. Now, he leaned over, and nodded to a pair of crimson eyes. And a wide grin.
That was Fierre, but Chieftain Shaik also smiled.
 
Tallman: You will get your mushrooms. Alchemist Saliss, expect a delivery into Oteslia with your name on it tomorrow or the day after at the absolute latest. Coordinate with Alchemist I and Witch A regarding the details of the antidote.
Windy Girl: Wha
Tallman: Transport will be needed from Oteslia to Liscor. A Courier can be arranged, which I believe Fetohep of Khelt can provide. Funding for all three can also be paid, I take it? Whereupon all that is needed is a spellcaster competent enough to affect the spell and a high-level [Leader]. Magus G may be able to source multiple spellcasters given Pallass’ proximity to the inn. Please contact Chaldion of Pallass regarding a proper [General] or [Officer].
Fetohep: Who is this?
Tallman: Will Khelt pay a research and production fee for the underlined, as well as transport.
Fetohep: By Khelta’s name, it will be done.
Hecrelunn: Witnessed by the Vizir.
YlawesB: Who is this?
GSNF: You ignorant child. Guess.
Mri: It is you?
Tallman: It’s me. Expect the mushrooms immediately. They’re definitely the ones you want. Three dozen.
RainyEarl: Well done.
Witch A: THAT IS ENOUGH FOR MANY POTIONS. GIVE SOME TO ME. HOW DO YOU HAVE THEM
Alchemist I: Could I also obtain some…?
Saliss: Eat your tail. I’ll make it. Thanks, Tall Guy.
Yvlon: But who is this?
 
Niers Astoragon kicked the edge of the [Message] scroll and it rolled up. Someone nearly flicked him off the table in return. The Titan looked up at Numbtongue, Garia, Fals, Gothica, Infinitypear…
Everyone. Fierre unrolled her [Message] scroll, but Niers was walking away.
He wasn’t smiling. He stood, with his hands on his hips, looking out at the halted procession of Gnolls.
An army indeed. The Lomost Tribe and the Ghostly Hand tribe. Goblins, Gnolls—and the group from the inn, who had all stopped to read the scroll.
Fierre herself had brought it to his attention. Niers Astoragon inhaled and exhaled. His heart was beating fast, as it always did when he saw everything on the table, or in the air.
He felt it too. But unlike them, the [Grandmaster Strategist] watched. He waited. Until the puzzle fit. Until the moment came to strike. And then…
The [Bard] Hobgoblin looked at Niers. He had strode away, but the Fraerling was so small that he was only to the edge of the table. Numbtongue pointed urgently at the scroll.
“What are you doing?”
“Stop unrolling that scroll and don’t reply. I shielded us via Skills from their magic game of tag, but those are some high-level people in chat.”
“But the cure. You said you’d give them all the mushrooms.”
