“Yeah.”
Relc knelt down, then decided to just sit. Klbkch kept standing…for a minute. Then, as if gravity were leaning on him, he sat too. They sat there, as Ishkr looked up from the door to the inn.
“You’ll be back. Right, Klb? She’ll be back.”
The Antinium opened and closed his mandibles.
“…If anyone could, it would be her.”
Relc nodded. They kept sitting there. Klbkch glanced at Relc and kept nearly speaking. The Drake just stared ahead, at Erin, at something else. They sat there, as frost crept over both, scales and chitin.
They didn’t move for a long time. It was that kind of day. That was how it began.
With memories. With…the thought of home.
How home should be.
Even if it wasn’t.
 
——
 
The problem was that the world was better. The problem was that the world was more interconnected. In the old days, which were the bad days, you couldn’t talk with people around the world.
Or, if it were possible, it was the kind of thing that took multiple Couriers or magic beyond the ken of most mortals and so on and so forth.
If something terrible or glorious happened, you’d hear about it in the news, and that was a grand and momentous—yet distant—thing.
Now? [Messages] were common and cheap, and the world was changing faster. The result was that you didn’t leave people behind; you could talk to them, talk with someone around the entire world, and that was glorious.
Sometimes, though—
It only reminded you that you were alone. Or that Erin wasn’t back yet.
Krshia Silverfang took a long sip of wine. One sip, and she put the cup down. She had business to do—[Chieftains] to meet, and she could not be tipsy when she was one of the faces of the Silverfangs, in the spotlight and grasping at the future with both paws.
But she took that sip, because she had to. She didn’t know if it was good, what she did. But Chieftain Torishi had advised her to tell the little Gnoll girl.
“She has had enough secrets. This is good news. Mourning and happiness are part of life. We must flee from neither.”
That was Weatherfur’s wisdom, from someone older and wiser. So Krshia told Mrsha.
“Relc has returned. And Klbkch, yes? Gnolls from Cellidel.”
The little Gnoll girl brightened up and smiled. Relc? He was back from stinky Cellidel? And Klbkch too? Great news! She began writing that Krshia should tell them she was well—until she realized Krshia would have to code that. Then she began to ask how many Gnolls.
Then she thought of Erin. And Krshia saw Mrsha look lost. The girl looked around for her mother, or Numbtongue, and recalled how far away all of them were.
On a quest—to save her. Not even Erin. She looked for Apista, or Bird, or Selys…then glanced up and kindly settled for Krshia. So the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] wouldn’t feel bad.
“We will be home soon, yes?”
Krshia hugged Mrsha tightly. The girl patted Krshia on the head.
Yes, we will.
Krshia wanted to linger, but Akrisa was already in a meeting. So she hugged Mrsha again.
“I will get word to them that you are well, so they do not run across the continent, hm? Do you want to go with someone?”
Mrsha held up a card with a big name written on it.
Gire.
Krshia nodded and took her by the paw out of the tent. She found the giant Gnoll waiting for her morning playdate with her best friend, and smiled. Gire sniffed the sip of wine on her breath, of course, but made no comment. Krshia saw Mrsha off, then turned. She strode, almost ran, to her first meeting, to shake hands and make complicated deals.
If she stopped too long, she would start crying.
As for Mrsha? The Gnoll looked solemnly up at Gire, who paused.
“Do you want to do something else today, Mrsha? Buy another lobster? Or we can go and see some sights? How about horse races?”
She was excited, and clearly doing sums in her head about how much food Mrsha could buy on the pretext of ‘snacks’. Normally, Mrsha would be raring to go as well. Today? Mrsha put up a paw, massaging at her back.
Not today, Gire. One moment, one moment.
She hobbled over to a table in the Silverfang camp like an old woman and sat down. Gire frowned as Mrsha searched around, made a groaning sound, picked up a cup, and headed over to the food tent. She came back, put the cup down, and cleared the space around it. Then she put a paw around the cup and…exhaled.
The cup was filled with goat’s milk, incidentally. However, the Gnoll girl began to nurse it. Taking small sips, exhaling.
“Mrsha? Is something wrong? Are you thirsty?”
Sit, sit. The Gnoll gestured with a paw. Gire sat. Mrsha stared past her. Around her, Silverfang’s Gnolls were bustling about, and a few Ekhtouch Gnolls were condescending about. Longstalker’s Fang, Greenpaw—and there was Rose, pretending not to see Adetr waiting for another chat.
Inkar and Tkrn. Even Feshi, glancing around for them with some of the Weatherfur Gnolls. Great and powerful allies. Interesting people, all.
Yet Mrsha didn’t run about. Not today. Gire poked her, and Mrsha slapped the finger down and snarled.
Not a friendly snarl either. Gire didn’t try it again. She saw Mrsha take another gulp, and finally recognized what Mrsha was doing. It was a copy of what Gire and Mrsha had seen—but Mrsha had been to more bars than Gire, and had seen this late at night.
A figure at a table or bar, slipping into their cups. Like Menolit, and an [Innkeeper] talking to them. She copied them, not because it was fun…
But because this was one of the ways Mrsha knew how to cry in public. She stared past Gire, and there were not enough words to write down to explain it.
Or just two.
Erin Solstice.
Gire watched as Mrsha began to sniff. The little Gnoll girl’s eyes welled up.
“Mrsha? What’s wrong? Does your stomach hurt? Don’t cry…”
Erin.
Mrsha wrote it down and pushed the card over. Gire turned the card over, but it lacked context, even for the [Paragon].
“Is that…your friend? The one who’s sick? Oh—oh—Mrsha, don’t cry.”
The girl began sniffing into her cup. Huge, blobby tears fell from her brown eyes as Gnolls looked at her. Gire—panicked.
“Don’t cry, Mrsha. It’s alright. See? I can juggle. Look! I can juggle eleven things. See? Isn’t it funny?”
She grabbed some silverware, cups, a plate, and tossed eleven objects up and did actually create a double-helix. Mrsha didn’t even stare at it. Gire stopped, not knowing what to do. Because she was young, and Ekhtouch didn’t teach you how to deal with tears.
Mrsha didn’t want Gire to do anything. She just cried into her cup as the others came over. Inkar didn’t know why.
Tkrn did. So did Beilmark and other Gnolls from home. So the Senior Guardswoman sat down, took off her helm, placed her badge on the table, and put Mrsha on her knee. Tkrn tried to explain, and Mrsha kept crying. For a bit.
She didn’t let Gire stop her, or anyone cheer her up until she was done. Because she was supposed to cry when bad things happened. She clung to Gire’s arm too, and rubbed her snot into Gire’s fur.
“Ew.”
Yet the [Paragon] didn’t pull away. She listened.
 
——
 
This was how it went. It was like…a stack of cards. A pile of painted wooden blocks. And someone had just kicked in one of the support beams.
Not maliciously, but in that Relc-way…it was him.
News of home.
It struck them all differently. Lyonette du Marquin looked up.
“He’s back?”
A figure nodded. Someone stirred uneasily. One of the Thronebearers glanced warily at her, but Ratici’s hat was off his head…and held between his claws.
It was not the same. Lyonette saw the Drake’s somber face.
“I’m glad.”
She put down her quill for a second. Cirediel and Rafaema, hovering there, looked at the [Princess] as she pressed the heels of her palms into her eyes. A [Princess] did not cry, though; that would ruin her makeup.
One second, two…and Lyonette took a deep breath. She looked up, and her eyes shone, but her jaw was set.
“That’s wonderful news. If you could send him a word—tell him that we will see him soon. I may—send him something else later.”
“Of course, Miss Lyonette.”
Ratici dipped his head and walked back. Wilovan took off his hat for a second. The two Gentlemen Callers went for a walk, hats in their hands.
They scared the living daylights out of everyone they met, but they held the hats. Talking softly, walking like gentlemen. If anyone stopped them…
That was why they held the hats. Not today.
Lyonette du Marquin looked around.
“Would you all…excuse me for a moment? I must freshen myself up.”
“What, the toil—”
Rafaema stamped so hard and fast that Cire doubled over, clutching wordlessly at his foot. She nodded, and Lyonette rose. Ser Sest held the door open as she retreated.
To shed tears in private. The others stood around, uncertain of what to do. Some people went around calmly.
 
——
 
Xif and Saliss glanced up when they heard the news. The Gnoll blinked and wiped at his spectacles. Saliss’ claws never wavered.
“Thanks. Shut the door on your way out. Semi-poisonous gas.”
They kept working.
 
——
 
Like Ilvriss. On such days, he kept writing orders to his company, Alrric, and the Salazsar forces. His quill scritched across the parchment, and Osthia Blackwing didn’t see anything different about him.
But on such days, sometime between her delivering [Messages] and correspondence, something would appear on the desk, carefully placed above the pages and away from the quill and inkpot.
It would be a little amulet with a clasp. The kind you could open. The Wall Lord would carefully angle it and keep working. He would never glance at it that she could see in the brief snippets when she saw him.
However, it was there. If you saw it, you’d put the nonsense about Lyonette and wedding rings behind you.
That little illustration he had found somewhere and put in the amulet was not of a Human. Not a [Princess] nor an [Innkeeper]. After all. When he thought of Erin—
He thought of her.
 
——
 
It might be resonance.
Or synchronicity.
The explanation might be Relc.
Or a memory of the fall. When she first came to this world.
Perhaps it was just time.
Realizing how long it had been. Again, it was different. Similar, but different.
Ceria Springwalker stopped eating, refused to play cards, and marched with the army of Savere. She took out a spellbook that Revine had gifted her and began leafing through it.
Her pale eyes held no tears. She just kept glancing up at the sky, north. And the air…
Grew colder. So cold that she turned the sand and dirt hard and frosty when [Bandits] followed in her wake. The wind behind her so chilled that a gap opened up in the army behind her.
It was so uncharacteristic of the Ice Squirrel that everyone noticed it more than if she had been crying. Ceria brushed at her hair and looked at her skeletal hand. She smiled ruefully, and went back to reading.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres sat and talked with Queen Yisame and the Great Sage Etrikah. She talked, as the [Queen] dabbed at her eyes and the [Sage] listened. She talked and paced and was restless.
Her hands clenched and roamed, touching silverware, checking her skin as if she were making sure it was pure. She sat back heavily, then stood. Resting her weight on the table.
Helplessly moving about. Frustrated with inaction.
 
——
 
It was the opposite of how Ksmvr did it. He rode along, so quiet that no one noticed for a while. Only until he refused to eat breakfast and lunch did Nsiia ride over.
“Is something wrong, Ksmvr? If you are feeling sick, tell us. Sickness can run through an army and leave it legless.”
Ksmvr looked at her thoughtfully, then shook his head.
“No, Nsiia. I am perfectly physically well. I believe I am sad, but I have not learned how to cry. I am uncertain what I should do.”
The Empress of Beasts’ eyes sharpened on Ksmvr’s face. His severed arm, his damaged antennae and exoskeleton…he had worn his injuries without noticeable pain.
Right now? He looked uncertain. As if moving would pain him, and he was afraid of it. Ksmvr kept touching his chest with one of his hands.
“Why are you sad, Ksmvr?”
“I do not know. It is unreasonable, so I would like it to stop. The person I am thinking of has already been in her present state for a long time. I am continuing to work towards her revival. Therefore, this sadness has no timing or reason. I…would like it to stop, now. How do you do that?”
Nsiia inhaled sharply. Domehead, walking by Ksmvr, turned, as the Empress of Beasts placed her arm on Ksmvr’s shoulder.
Rémi Canada hesitated as Leka Thri tilted his head. No emotion was visible on the Loquea Dree warrior’s beak, but he listened as Ksmvr tried to explain.
Rémi? He hesitated. Began to lower the camera. Then caught the motion and raised it to capture the Antinium’s face. Arguing the ethics of…
The Antinium [Skirmisher] looked around.
“It makes no sense. It does not feel good. I would rather be sick. Why is that?”
Nsiia looked at him.
“Because sickness goes away in time.”
Ksmvr leaned on Spitty as the camel glanced at him, pursed his lips, and decided against. The [Skirmisher] nodded.
“That makes sense.”
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet was practicing fencing when Eloque, Merr, Bearig, Rophir, and Qshom found him.
“Is something wrong, Pisces?”
“Why would something be wrong?”
He turned, genuinely confused. Sweat was running down his face, and some of the freed [Slaves] and [Rebels] were watching him. He had been performing an excellent fencer’s drill.
Eloque studied Pisces. He seemed perfectly befuddled, and his face was straight.
“You’ve been doing that for two hours.”
“I am keeping in shape. Refining my magic.”
“Yes.”
“And?”
A hint of a defensive tone entered the [Necromancer]’s voice. He frowned around. Eloque looked at him, and the look turned to hesitation.
“You haven’t said a word to anyone all day. What’s wrong?”
The [Necromancer] scratched at the scarred skin around his neck, snatched his hand down, and gazed past them all.
“Nothing. Just thoughts.”
His friends looked at him. The [Necromancer] glanced about and realized he hadn’t refined any of the undead into advanced versions and hadn’t he better do that? He hurried off, and they followed.
It took them nearly four hours to get the reason out of him.
 
——
 
The music grated on his nerves. Niers Astoragon sat on the little pedestal he’d had recreated so he could ride in the view of others.
It got on his nerves, yet he didn’t snap at the Hobgoblin playing it because he knew exactly why it was playing.
It wasn’t even a sad song. It was…
The Ballad of the Redfangs. Numbtongue played it, again and again, and added another verse. As he played, Antinium looked up at the sky.
