“I—that’s very good of you, Guardsman Calog. There might be some people, but we’re content to enter properly.”
He emphasized the word. Relc smiled slightly as Calog glanced at him. Mudsa whispered to Relc.
“You weren’t kidding.”
He nodded as Calog turned his head and whistled.
“It’s only a formality, sir. We have the Watch Captain on the way to meet you all. There’s no need for alarm. We only need to ask you, under truth spell, about past crimes and intentions…we’re a Gnoll-friendly city, see?”
Six more [Guards] walked out of their posts, trading with Humans, Drakes, and an Antinium with a baton. They were all Gnolls, and waved or smiled at the Cellidel crowd. Relc smiled as Reson relaxed at the sight of them.
Indeed, beyond the gates, citizens of Liscor had certainly noticed the commotion. And unlike Cellidel’s people, they had no problems walking out of the gates. Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans. Someone peered at the crowd.
“Oh, are these more visitors? People coming to Liscor? What a crowd! And—wait a second, is that Relc? I’d recognize you anywhere!”
A finger pointed accusingly at Relc. He turned and saw a Drake pointing at him.
“Where have you been all this time? Are these that horrible Drake city’s people I heard about?”
The Cellidel folk started. A group of Gnolls came out of the city and stared. They waved, and one even began to howl before someone kicked her. The growing crowd was murmuring.
“Oh, look. More Gnolls. Maybe we can put them in our district and win the vote this year.”
“Is that Relc? Where’s he been?”
“Why are we all standing here? Monster attack? New food? News?”
“Aha! This is the Cellidel group! They made it. Where’s a councilmember? They’re going to want to be here to take charge—”
More and more people were staring at Relc. He waved, recognizing faces, but his stomach lurched. There were people in that crowd who had fallen victim to the Golden Triangle scam. And he had not been gone long.
However, no one seemed angry. If anything…they pointed at him. Some even grinned. And then came a voice out of the crowd.
“You did it, you bastard.”
The others went silent. They turned, and someone called out.
“You got them from Cellidel, and showed that city what’s what. Welcome back, Relc. Well done.”
A Gnoll called out. The people of Liscor looked at him, along with the Watch, Cellidel’s people…Vok saw the Gnoll hesitate, grimace.
“What? Someone had to say it. It doesn’t sound right. Well done, Relc. Sounds wrong. But someone had to.”
People laughed, but more murmured agreement. A few even clapped, but that was going too far. Relc looked around and smiled. He was turning back to Mudsa to figure out the entry process when someone shouted.
“Senior Guardsman Relc! Stand to attention!”
Senior Guardsman Relc snapped up as a familiar voice rang out, and the marching sound of boots echoed down the street. Cellidel’s people froze.
Here came the Watch. But—the female Drake leading them had a mostly Gnoll army of [Guards]. She must have pulled every Gnoll on-duty and on patrol and switched them out.
Watch Captain Zevara, scales glinting light blue, strode down the street in full uniform. She came to a halt as citizens and [Guards] parted, and Relc drew himself up and saluted her.
“Watch Captain.”
“Guardsman Relc. I’m pleased to see you made it. Is this the entire Cellidel delegation?”
The Watch Captain halted in front of him, face impassive. Relc hesitated.
“Yes, Watch Captain. Two thousand, five hundred, and nine by my count. I was hoping to get them settled somewhere and, uh…I had the idea to put them in a plaza…”
He trailed off. The Watch Captain looked him up and down from head to toe. Relc was dusty from the road, and his light green scales were a bit sweaty from marching in his armor. He wore the chainmail he’d taken from Cellidel’s armory since it went well with his leather armor, and his enchanted spear stood at his side.
He was much the same, physically, as before. Even so, Relc was different. He even looked different. It wasn’t so much in the way he stood, with pristine military discipline when he needed to.
It was the way he glanced back, mindful of Vok and the others. Grinned at them.
Senior Guardsman Relc. [Trusted Sergeant of the Watch].
Zevara nodded. She took a deep breath, and spoke.
“I understand. Senior Guardsman Relc, well done. I will expect your debriefing and formal report on the Cellidel situation in person at two past dawning tomorrow. You are formally relieved of day-watch. Go sign out and have a break.”
The Drake [Guardsman] blinked at her. Vok and the others stirred, and Relc jerked his thumb at them.
“Wh—sign out? But the Cellidel people have to get in and—”
“On it.”
Indeed, [Guards] were lining up with truth stones, arranging themselves such that they could take entire families and do cursory wagon checks before they rolled into the city. Watch Captain Zevara saw Relc glance at them.
“What about lodging—”
“Councilmembers Elirr and Lism have been working on that. Miss Selys has kindly offered some of the new complexes being built, and we’ve temporarily opened some of the reserved spacing under construction for the investors. We have them in District 3—that’s the new city’s layout. They’ll all be together. Now that we know you’re here, I think we even have [Cooks] who can begin preparing the food. Some inns will also be serving for free—the Drunken Gnoll is close by, and their [Innkeeper], Timbor, has accepted a day contract.”
Relc blinked at Zevara. Then he saw a pair of figures hurrying down the street. One ran into the crowd, tried to part them like Zevara, and ended up having to push through. He was adjusting some formal robes, while the Gnoll followed in his wake.
“Who notified Watch Captain Zevara first? Commendable, but what about us? Have I missed them? Where’s my speech, Elirr?”
“I threw it away.”
Here came Councilmembers Lism and Elirr. The Gnoll was smiling and nodded to Relc; Lism’s claw was ready to shake every citizen’s who came through the gates, whether they liked it or not. Relc saw a puffing group of [Guards] and officials following—carrying a huge bag of what looked like coins.
“Councilmember Lism. Are you going to give away the money as they come in? I told you—”
“You get the money just as promised, Watch Captain. And who is this? Councilmembers Lism and Elirr of Liscor. Delighted to meet you! Come in, come in! Why are they standing around? Where are the refreshments?”
Reson jumped as Lism strode at him, purple-scaled claw thrust out for a handshake. Zevara exhaled a plume of exasperated smoke—coughed—then glanced at him.
“I’ve got this.”
“But—”
The Watch Captain put an arm on Relc’s. He looked at her. She met his gaze, and nodded.
“I’ll handle it. Take a break, Relc. If you want to help, you can help get everyone moving and answer questions. But you’re relieved of duty. This is my city.”
She smiled, and Relc felt like a huge weight had left his shoulders. He looked at her, and a slow smile spread from earhole to earhole. Relc slowly saluted.
“Thanks, Captain Z.”
She rolled her eyes.
“Some things never change. Alright. Councilmember Lism, to the rear! Excuse me, ladies and gentlegnolls! I am Watch Captain Zevara of Liscor, and these are Councilmembers Elirr and Lism. We will be admitting you into the city momentarily and answering any questions you might have! Please line up in front of the [Guards], who will conduct quick inspections! If you are hungry, in need of water or other facilities, please let us know!”
Like clockwork, the uncertain crowd found itself moving forwards, splitting into neat lines as Gnolls walked down, asked a few questions, shook paws, even talked and jested with the new people.
“Try the Drunken Gnoll. It’s run by a Human, but he employs a lot of our folk. You’ll get food from a bunch of places that want your business—but they have a very good [Chef] couple there. Imani and Palt. New food you’ve never tried before.”
Merka, a Gnoll, advised Vok’s parents as Relc hovered nearby. Another Gnoll he vaguely remembered called Geils, a Drake name, was passing Vok.
“Spear-skills and a [Guard] class?”
“Yes, Guardsman.”
Geils raised his brows. He gave Vok a toothy grin, which the young man didn’t know how to respond to.
“Well, if you want to apply for the Watch, we might need to account for your age, but you’re clear to move through the gates. Welcome! I think there are many Gnolls waiting to welcome you in, but we’ll get you settled before they come at you, yes?”
Vok glanced at Relc, and the Drake grinned. There was something in the air. The wariness was turning into the same thing that had propelled these people here. Only, realized.
Hope. Hope, that wasn’t an illusion. Hickery was hopping up and down. She felt it. She was excitedly staring at little Gnolls and Drakes and Humans who were running about. A little Visma was even holding up a Welcome to Liscor sign she’d hand-painted.
Cellidel’s people had mostly entered Liscor, looking at the coins Lism had put in each paw with some amazement, by the time Relc actually began taking a break. He took a glass of water, sipped at it, frowned at the lemon wedge attached to the glass, and looked around.
“Liscor’s changed.”
He had seen the expansion to the city from afar, and he had been there when it had first gone up. Yet the stone was creeping into an actual wall, and…there were a lot more Humans and Antinium on the streets.
Even a Dullahan, strolling about with an odd covering over their armor. Was that a shirt over the metal plate that said ‘I Survived Liscor Hunting’? Relc had absolutely no context for that, but he wanted some.
“You have no idea. Some of it’s great. What are you doing now?”
“Uh…”
Relc had been expecting to be settling people all day, but Lism and Elirr had an army of officials helping do just that.
“Go to my apart—no, wait. I don’t have one.”
“Then we’ll get you settled. Don’t worry, there’s cheap rooms everywhere.”
Mudsa assured him. Relc nodded; he had his bag of holding with all of his worldly possessions anyways. She jerked a thumb-claw.
“I can’t stay long, but you have to have a drink. Everyone at the barracks wants to ask what went down in Cellidel. Some Creler-crap, huh?”
“You could say that. What, you’re too good to say hi to me?”
Relc grinned. The [Sergeant] gave him a mock-glare.
“I’ve scheduled a date with my boyfriend for the last two weeks and if I miss it, he’ll give me ten Rhirs. We’re going on a walk to see the leaves. A wine-walk. You sip wine and, uh, stare at trees or something.”
Relc nodded, bemused.
“Wait. Trees? What trees?”
“Invrisil. No—wait. Somewhere north of there. It’s a special portal to one of those Human lands. It wasn’t cheap, and I had to reserve it right off.”
“A portal…oh. The door.”
Suddenly, Relc went still, and the jollity of the other [Guards] faded. Someone nudged Mudsa, and she hesitated.
“Yeah. They moved it to Shivertail’s Plaza. There’s a system and everything. Convenient—sort of. You have to have times and now they even want you to sign up on lists. But it works—for a fee. You can see it.”
“Right. How’s…the inn?”
The others exchanged looks.
“I haven’t been in, but we patrol around it and everywhere. It’s still standing.”
“Right.”
Relc glanced towards the gates. He had seen it, of course, but chosen to enter the city first. Now, though…Mudsa broke the silence by gesturing to the other [Guards] who’d been called down to help with the immigration.
“You’ve, uh, seen the new [Guards], right?”
“Oh. Yeah. Hey, I’m Relc.”
“Senior Guardsman Relc. He’ll be working once he sets in. He’s the guy you call to break up bar fights. Not that bright, but—”
Relc feigned a punch, then stopped and began to introduce himself. He shook hands with some Humans, and met Iron Helm, the Worker.
“Antinium in the Watch?”
“Yep. We even have an Antinium [Sergeant]. He used to lead the Antinium-only patrol, but Zevara started mixing us up. Yellow Splatters?”
“I know him. Wow. So…”
Relc was looking around, at a loss for what to exactly say.
This is how I remember it. But not. He remembered the feeling quite well. Relc looked for Vok, Hickery, or someone who needed him to reassure them they weren’t dreaming or being tricked.
There wasn’t anyone.
Suddenly, he was alone. A sense of terrible isolation washed over Relc—for a moment. Another familiar feeling, but he had a thought.
“Where’s my k—where’s Embria? Wing Commander Embria and 4th Company?”
The [Guards] fell silent again, and exchanged looks in a way Relc didn’t like. Rudell coughed.
“You didn’t hear about…? They’re engaged. 4th Company. And Liscor’s Volunteer Army.”
“Volunteer Army. Is that what they’re calling it? They’re fighting with the Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem alliance.”
Calog muttered. Relc’s stomach twisted up. So that’s why the letters stopped reaching him. He had assumed they’d been sent to Cellidel while he was on the march.
“How’s it going?”
“—Complicated.”
The answer no one wanted to hear. Relc had often been part of ‘complicated’. But he had seldom been the one receiving news. The [Guards] looked at his face.
“Let’s get a drink, eh? Maybe find some of the off-duty [Guards]? Jeiss will join us. We can visit one of the bars. The Drunken Gnoll. How about it?”
“Sounds good.”
Mudsa tried to reassure Relc as those nearing their cycle end made sure their replacements were here.
“4th Company’s been in the fighting, but I haven’t heard of significant casualties from them. We’d know if Embria were hurt.”
“Right. Then who has been taking casualties?”
“Let’s…start from the beginning.”
They were heading off when someone began panicking. Relc’s head snapped up as he heard a voice crying out.
“Antinium! It’s the Antinium—”
“Oh, dead gods. Is it a full march of Soldiers or something? Sounds like your people, Relc.”
The Senior Guardsman turned with the others. He was almost glad of the interruption.
For while he was sure he would be riveted by the discussion of the war, and he was glad to be among the Watch, it struck him once he realized Embria was gone. The inn was closed, of course. Watch Captain Zevara had promised to find him once her work day was over, but she worked day and night.
Maybe he’d find Menolit or some of the retirees, or see if one of the puzzle-heads, [Traders] or otherwise, was in the city.
