Fetohep: I’m Fetohep and I hate undead. Bleh.
Lionette: Dead gods. I am so sorry. I apologize without reserve—that is Saliss again.
Viscount Visophecin: It becomes clear that fraud is an issue. This system proposed by Wistram reveals more faults than benefits.
GSNF: True, but we are communicating multi-way. That’s something only a few groups like the Walled Cities can manage.
Wall Lord Ilvriss: I can verify this. Although the Walled Cities’ networks are encrypted. I believe this is an unsecured spell?
Fetohep: My sendings are secure. I cannot vouch for individuals elsewhere. Nor do I lack for such means.
Witch A: We’re just a Mage’s Guild in Anazuland. Hello! Please don’t spy on us, Wistram. :<
Saliss: Did that Witch just draw a sad face? This is amazing.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I also would find the intrusion into my personal life discouraging. Good evening. This is an intriguing event.
Saliss: Who this.
Alchemist I: Salutations to all and sundry. I too, would like to participate in this discussion as an interested party into cures. I am an [Alchemist] of some means.
Ice Squirrel: Oh snap. Is that you?
Alchemist I: Yes.
GSNF: I am getting tired of so many people dropping in. This is chaos. Wistram, what are you doing?
Grand Magus Eldavin: I have reprimanded the offending party. Excuse me. You should see your [Message] scrolls rearranging. If you have a telepathic link, I suggest you retrieve an artifact.
Golden Gnoll: WHAT IS HAPPENING TO MY SCROLL
Grand Magus Eldavin: You now see multiple ‘rooms’ into which each intrigued party may write. This may alleviate the effects of so many parties conversing at once. Once again, I apologize for the issue. I tender my regrets to King Fetohep, Queen Yisame and the Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Viscount Visophecin, Wall Lord Ilvriss, and any other parties.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Fascinating. You are the redoubtable Grand Magus of which many have spoken? It is an honor to meet with you.
Eldavin: And you are likewise intriguing. May I know your name?
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I am a simple [Mage] who was persuaded to look into Miss Solstice’s case by a mutual friend.
 
Visophecin looked at Ryoka. His fingers were twitching. Ryoka stared at the complex sigils that Azemith and two more of the Lucifen’s best were drawing. Fithea was frowning at a scrying orb.
“That is a lie. There are a few shielded spells, such as Fetohep of Khelt’s. However, I can pick up the details on most. Locations, even magical signatures.”
“Who is lacking, Visophecin? I count…they cannot be shielding themselves. They cannot! This is the Waning World!”
Azemith was frowning deeply. Visophecin was calmer.
“They can and do. This Grand Magus is a superior spellcaster, as we knew. Witch A…Fetohep of Khelt. And Spellcaster A. No…there is someone else, but they have written nothing. Interesting.”
Ryoka was shaking.
“I think I know who some of them are.”
Visophecin glanced at her.
“In that case…”
 
Windy Girl: Hello.
Saliss: Hey! You’re alive! Amateur.
Lionette: RYOKA?!
Windy Girl: No? That’s not me.
GSNF: Even I can tell that’s a lie. Hold on, I’m getting more snacks. This is hugely entertaining. Wait…someone’s having a choking fit. 
Ice Squirrel: IT’S ME! Ryoka, you’re alive! We’re here!
Windy Girl: Is this ‘C’?
Ice Squirrel: Yep!
Mons: You’re alive!
Ice Squirrel: MONS!?
V: So fascinating. Hello, Eldavin.
Eldavin: Ah, you too? Salutations, V. 
 
That was one chat which was going off the rails, into the water, and possibly through the Kraken’s maw. Another room was going ballistic as well.
 
Mri: …So unto you, I render the highest compliments of my personage, and a fine greetings to all parties not hither-to presented into this venerable estate of communications.
Fetohep: Your address is well-received, Mri. 
Lionette: Is that you, Mri?
Mri: It is, forsooth.
GSNF: I don’t think you know what that word means.
Golden Gnoll: How do you have a message scroll, Mri?
Krshia Silverfang: Hello? Is this Lyonette?
Mri: You are a damned fool, Krshia! A damned fool with little thought in your vacuous head of cotton! There is no Lyonette! There never was a Lyonette!
Krshia: I am sorry…Mri? Mri?
Mri: Oh dear. I must leave posthaste for a moment. I fear I am in some distress, but I shall rally and communicate my thoughts as best able in time.
Lionette: No, don’t go!
 
Much less the main chat.
 
Witch A: So how much is a cure worth? I submitted a recipe for the Ethereal-ingredient antidote, but there are not enough ingredients in Anazuland for a full recipe.
Ilvriss: That was you? I will pay you for any items you have at twice their market price.
Fetohep: I will receive those items now. A Courier will go to Anazuland at once.
Witch A: No! No! Please, do not trouble yourselves! We can arrange a Courier…Anazuland is not on many maps. Because we’re so small.
Saliss: Wait, you have ethereal-reagents? Is that their name? That antidote looked like it would work, but I’ve never heard of ethereal reagents. Who’s just walking around tossing out new alchemical ingredients.
Alchemist I: You have never heard of Ethereal-type reagents? My, my. Unexpected of Saliss of Lights. If this is Saliss of Lights.
Saliss: You’re a funny person, Alchemist I. And I suppose you’re good at alchemy?
Alchemist I: I have a passing talent, yes. What is this recipe? I would greatly like to peruse it.
Fetohep: My [Mages] shall copy it over to each one of you directly. They also vouch for its efficacy, although it is not perfect. That may be due to a lack of ingredients for even Exalted Khelt.
Lionette: It takes a reagent? Could one be growing in Oteslia???
Saliss: Probably not. I checked, but then again, it’s a reagent no one knows about.
Alchemist I: Once again, many people know of this ingredient, ‘Saliss’.
Saliss: Go eat your tail. Who knows about ethereal-class ingredients?
Witch A: Anazuland had a few.
Saliss: Well, obviously you did, but that’s one—
Alchemist I: I have used them from time to time. They are rare, but seaborn variants exist.
Saliss: Don’t make things up. I’m talking about real authorities, not [Charlatans].
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I am familiar with ethereal-type substances, though I am not an [Alchemist]. I regret that I do not have many…although there may be a thread that I could obtain? A spool of such material?
Saliss: Now you’re just making stuff up.
Viscount V: I regret to say that I too am familiar with the substance.
Eldavin: Are we discussing ethereal shrooms? Ghost Shrooms? I would like to pay for a few cultures if they can be spared. Wistram is out.
Saliss: I hate you all.
GSNF: This is an astonishing chat full of [Liars] or odd people. 
 
However, perhaps the best chat was the one where it was a bunch of ships passing each other in the night.
Or, in this case, a bunch of mad skateboarders zooming past each other butt-naked while jousting.
 
Golden Gnoll: Did I hear the Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen is in this? I would like to talk to her about a trifling matter.
Eldavin: I also, upon business regarding Nerrhavia and a matter of some import.
GSNF: I’m busy. What?
Ice Squirrel: Me too! I have a friend in need. She’s in Nerrhavia. My teammate? She’s falsely imprisoned. Is there someone I could speak to in authority?
GSNF: Hm? Interesting. That’s not really me, but I can pass on messages, I suppose.
Golden Gnoll: Wait, that is what I was going to discuss. I have someone I would like to pay any crimes or bounties on.
GSNF: That’s not how it works.
Eldavin: Would you consider some gesture a fitting act to consider a pardon? Queen Yisame and I did speak briefly; I would very much like to talk to her.
GSNF: Interesting. What would that be about? 
Eldavin: A certain young woman in some distress regarding crimes committed or not. I would very much like clarity on the issue.
GSNF: Dead gods, how many young women are committing crimes in this damn nation? I’m not really willing to discuss information that may be confidential and I don’t know anything about. Can someone write a name?
Mri: Often, the greatest act of redemption is the vocalization of an apology. Yet what spirit can endure such humility without losing some of its own self worth? Forgiveness without is a virtue among like-minded spirits of such nobility.
Fetohep: Intriguing sentiments. What class do you possess, Mri?
Mri: I have often been described as a [Druid], but my ambitions soar to [Wizard], [Adventurer] itself, and other passions.
Fetohep: Ah, there is a spirit long lost.
Eldavin: Indeed, indeed, but perhaps not on topic? Excuse me. ‘Offtopic’?
Golden Gnoll: Yvlon Byres is my name. I would like to pay her debts.
Ice Squirrel: Wait, that’s my person too.
GSNF: ████████████████████████████
 
That was actually more like a huge blotch of ink.
 
GSNF: Sorry. Did you say that was your ‘teammate’, Ice Squirrel?
Ice Squirrel: Yes…
Eldavin: Yvlon Byres is the person of my concern as well.
Mri: I have occasioned a passing regard for Yvlon Byres, and am willing to put down good coin upon her release for whatever misdemeanors she has incurred.
GSNF: I…may have it on good authority that Yvlon Byres was freed and pardoned of all crimes this morning. I may even be able to put her on this scroll.
Ice Squirrel: WHAT.
Golden Gnoll: That’s incredible. Incredibly suspicious. Can Yvlon give us some information her…sister might recognize?
Eldavin: Her brother is standing next to me.
Ice Squirrel: WHAAAAT
Eldavin: He appears to be having heart failure. One moment.
 
The best part—or most chaotic—was that they were still coming in. By chance and, increasingly, because Wistram was notifying people who had inquired into this subject before.
Some had no access to [Message] scrolls or willing [Mages]. However, this was a Moment, and it was being at least partly manufactured. By [Mages] who thought even this gathering was worth a big secret—until their own [Message] scrolls began catching on fire.
 
Eldavin: Enough peeking. Any links within the academy will be backtraced and burned.
Viscount V: Admirable spellcasting. Is this a new feature Wistram intends to offer, by any chance?
Eldavin: That is the theory, yes. You are familiar with basic message-linking?
Viscount V: Naturally.
GSNF: I assumed Wistram forgot.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: There is much Wistram forgets, with respect.
Eldavin: No offense taken. I am attempting to rectify the magical situation here.
Alchemist I: Very commendable, Grand Magus. If we are ever to meet, I should highly like to sample a vintage from the villages with you.
Eldavin: Intriguing. I may accept. That presupposes I know who you are.
Alchemist I: I believe I would make it a point to seek you out.
GSNF: Not ominous at all.
jort2003: lol
Viscount V: What is that name?
Eldavin: That expression…
GSNF: I assume someone sneezed on the parchment or that’s a word. 
Alchemist I: In which dictionary.
jort2003: srry. this is wild.
Eldavin: Correct your spelling at once. Name yourself. Pallass?
jort2003: !!!
Viscount V: Ah, backtracing. I would politely ask you refrain from doing so.
Eldavin: Noted, but I am attempting to understand if this is a literal child or fool.
Mri: One must take the child firmly in hand and feed them a cookie. For how will they not learn if they are not fed?
Joseph Ortega: Sorry. I’m not used to this.
GSNF: Oh, it’s that one. Why am I even surprised at this point?
Alchemist I: Fascinating.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: Beyond fascinating. Hello. I am an incredible fan of your televised performance.
Joseph Ortega: Oh, thanks. This is amazing. Who are you all?
Eldavin: I am Grand Magus Eldavin of Wistram.
Joseph Ortega: ヽ(°〇°)ﾉ
GSNF: He’s doing it again. Have they just…forgotten how to write in Pallass?
Saliss: It would honestly not surprise me. Believe me, sometimes I wonder if they know how to use toilet paper.
Eldavin: HAH.
Magus G: As a representative of Pallass proper, I can assure you, Saliss, that our hygiene is superior to most cities. As you might recall.
Saliss: And here come the [Fun Murderers].
Eldavin: Ah, is this Magus G? Have we met?
Magus G: Salutations, sir. Another achievement, however modest.
Eldavin: Mm. Only in reconstructing what is lost. Much like a [Historian]. But thank you. We must take wine and discuss magic.
Anonymous Spellcaster A: I am humbled. Is this the redoubtable Magus Grimalkin himself? I am a humble spellcaster compared to you all.
Magus Grimalkin, Pallass: You are exceptionally kind.
 
It was becoming so chaotic that even Fetohep with three [Message] scrolls floating before him was running out of hands. Much less the shouting ghosts behind him. He glared as he wrote.
 
Fetohep: I, Fetohep of Khelt, greet the following in brevity unbefitting my manner but the state of this hurried conversation—
Lionette: Mri, are you safe?
Mri: Though I confess to peckishness betimes, I have managed my salutary meals of leafed varieties with more wholesome peccadillos of sustenance, thank you. I eagerly await our meeting posthaste.
Lionette: I will come soon. If all is well.
Fetohep: Magus Grimalkin of Pallass, Joseph Ortega, the individuals referring to themselves as ‘Sandquen’, ‘YlawesB’, ‘Alchemist I’—
Krshia: All is very well as it can be. Is all well over there?
Saliss: Hey, someone show respect to Fetohep. He’s writing over there.
RainyEarl: Hello? Hello, can you see this?
 
Fetohep gave up. He looked around, glared, and then spoke into a scrying orb.
“There is a situation that requires your presence immediately. Return unto me at your quickest spell, Vizir Hecrelunn.”
A snide voice came from the scrying orb, replaced by a face with two glowing pinpoints of crimson light.
“You do not have more ridiculous speeches for me to write? Another army to wipe out as if I were a lap dog? Mind yourself, King of Khelt. You do not order your betters, but beseech.”
Fetohep’s golden flames flashed. He wrote, slowly.
 
Fetohep: I would like to remind those present upon the nature of this meeting.
GSNF: Yes, yes. But we have a situation and someone is about to stab me with a fork if I don’t—here.
Yvlon: Ice Squirrel?
Ice Squirrel: YV!
YlawesB: Are you well?
Golden Gnoll: It’s Ysara. Yvlon, is that you? Say something you said to me.
Yvlon: Belt over boots?
Ice Squirrel: ??
YlawesB: That’s her.
Golden Gnoll: Maybe…are you alright?
Fetohep: I am copying this message unto these separate rooms. The quarry is the revival of Erin Solstice.
Ice Squirrel: oop
Yvlon: Is something wrong, Ceria?
Ice Squirrel: No, Fetohep.
GSNF: I don’t think he quite understands how this works. I need to look up precedent.
Eldavin: They used to do this—albeit in different formats. I have removed the limitations of speed.
