Then again, intolerance rarely has roots grounded in good sense, so I’m probably just wasting brain cells trying to understand it.

“Hey,” I begin, reaching out to take Yan’s hand while Lin-Lin comforts Mila, who had a bit of an unpleasant reaction as soon as she thought about food. “You alright?”

“Just... eager to see everyone again,” she replies, squeezing my hand tight. “It’s odd that Grandpa hasn’t written back, especially after I mentioned not having received a reply.”

Meaning she knows that Grandpa Du would go to great lengths to let her know everything was fine, unless, you know, they weren’t.

“Well, I’m sure he has things well in hand, assuming Auntie Jeong even needs his help in the first place. From what I’ve seen, she’s not a woman to cross lightly, and if they suffered any losses, I will ensure the Ryo Family is made whole.” Even Shuai Jiao wouldn’t be so bold as to cross blades with the Ryo Family, openly or from the shadows, which means that so long as no one has died, I should be able to help them get back what they’ve lost.

“You don’t get it.” Smiling sadly as she leans against me for emotional support, Yan sighs and shakes her head. “You’re a man. How can you? You’ve gone on and on about how you’re sick of people underestimating you because you’re young. Being a woman is like that, except worse because not only do your enemies underestimate you, they also want to dominate and take control of you while others scorn you for not ‘falling in line’. Uncle Ryo’s ashes were probably still warm when Auntie Jeong received her first offer of marriage, and I doubt circumstances have gotten any better since then.”

Ew. That’s horrible. Men are the worst, and I’m not helping things much by taking so many wives. Honestly, the only fair thing to do would be to accept Yan’s request for a future husband harem of her own, but I don’t think I can. Even the mere thought of another man laying their hands on her is enough to send me into a murderous rage, because I am a petty, jealous, and insecure person who never learned how to share. I am also fickle, lecherous, and never satisfied with what I have, still intending to take more wives despite already having three wonderful women agree to share me between them. I ought to be happy even one of them was willing to accept me, but even then, I continue to act in a way that makes them wonder if there will come a day when they three or five or whatever are not enough to satisfy my greed.

And to think, I even kind of enjoyed Mila and Yan vying for my attention and affections... Disgusting. Thankfully, the addition of Lin-Lin to my harem has calmed things down, as she is the great equalizer and a wonderful mediator without having to work too hard at it. I still need to do better though, as I should never let my wives feel like they need to earn my love. Instead, I need to make sure they know that they will always have my love, if not my attention at any given moment. If only I could split myself into three copies so that each of my wives can have a husband to themselves, but depending on how triplicate me works, I would probably end up fighting myself to the death.

“My previous statement still stands,” I say, as soon as I shake myself out of my funk. “The Ryo Family has my full support, no matter what.”

Of course, that won’t solve the crux of the problem, that of the misogynistic nature of the world we reside in, but that’s a tough nut to crack which I have no idea how to approach. I’ll still try, but I have no idea what anyone can do to actually fix the issue and empower women everywhere in a meaningful and long-lasting manner. Yan seems to feel the same way, and it pains me to see her calm, accepting, yet pessimistic smile, as if to say ‘Thanks for trying, but nothing will come of it’.

On that sombre note, we all head off to our private dining room for lunch, though Dad, Akanai, Nian Zu, and all my other allies decline my offer to join us. A gracious gesture, since we all know how dire the situation has become, which means the days ahead will be full of trials and tribulations indeed. Alas, as soon as we arrive, Mila catches a whiff of Lin-Lin’s waiting pot of herbal tea and sets to gagging once again, a reaction I can’t really blame her for. The foul concoction possesses a strong and unpleasant aroma, not exactly stinky or disgusting, but unpalatable to say the least. It’s like smelling the food you hate most and physically reacting to the thought of eating it, which is not to say the food itself smells bad.

Like me? I hate mushrooms. Always have, always will, and I cannot stand the thought of eating one. It’s not the smell, but rather the texture, a gross, chewy, slimy sensation that’s like chewing on a chunk of solid snot. Also, they grow in shit, so why are we eating them? Nasty.

Point is, Lin-Lin’s tea is nasty as all hell, and she quickly brings it away to drink outside. I’ve never seen what goes into it, nor have I smelled this particular mix of ingredients before, but the aroma is so unsavoury I cannot bring myself to even try it. Thus, when she returns a few minutes later to find me rocking Mila back and forth to ease her discomfort, I cannot help but ask, “Hey wifey, what’s that tea for anyways? You drink it every morning, but you’ve never said what for.”

My query earns me a fierce gnawing as she fixes me with a glare so full of misery and condemnation that I cannot bear to see it, so I default to apologizing for no reason whatsoever. “Stupid hubby,” Lin-Lin huffs, and Mila and Yan chuckle along at this rare display of ire directed towards me, even though neither of them know what Lin-Lin’s tea is for either. “I’m drinking it for you, dummy, so just leave it alone.” Pulling Yan over for a group hug, my wifey sinks into our collective embrace and grumbles beneath her breath, though I don’t think she’s actually using words. That’s how bad that tea must taste, so I hope the effects are worth it, though I wish I could just magic away what ails her, while also fixing Mila’s delicate stomach and Yan’s anxious worries. Whatever, Lin-Lin’s tea is probably something silly, like some sort of beauty treatment or bust-enhancing miracle elixir, though she doesn’t need either of those effects. My Lin-Lin is a honey-skinned beauty with wide eyes and rounded cheeks, as well as more womanly allure than I know how to handle, and I tell her as much through Sending.

“Pervert,” she declares, sharing my message with both my other wives and setting them all to laughing. There’s something magical about Lin-Lin’s presence that just makes this four-person marriage work so much smoother, and I love her all the more for it. “That’s not what it’s for, silly. I just need to drink it, so just leave it be, ya?” Expecting me to agree without argument, Lin-Lin leans back to inspect Mila’s complexion and says, “You’re feeling better Mi-Mi?”

“Oddly enough, I am.” Taking a breath so deep it makes me self-conscious about my personal hygiene, Mila sinks into my chest and says, “I’m surprised it passed so quickly. Usually I feel terrible until I throw up, but this time, the feeling went away as soon as our pervert of a husband lifted me into his lap.”

Blinking a few times as her eyes glint with amusement, then speculation, and finally understanding, Lin-Lin looks up at me and tilts her head in a curious fashion. “Hubby, are you Healing Mi-Mi’s nausea away?”

“...I don’t think so? How would I even do that?”

“Mm, dunno. Seasickness is one of those things even Daddy doesn’t know how to fix, because it’s mostly something going on up here.” Tapping her head to indicate the brain, Lin-Lin continues, “But Mi-Mi said she felt better when you carried her outside earlier, and now she’s feeling better again while you hold her, so are you sure you aren’t doing anything?”

“Mm, not sure, but maybe it’s because I’m rocking her back and forth.” In response to their blank stares, I rock Mila a few times to demonstrate. “You know, like I’d cradle a baby or Mama Bun, to soothe them to sleep.”

“Idiot,” Mila declares, followed shortly by a laugh from both Lin-Lin and Yan. “You haven’t been rocking me at all.”

“...You sure?”

“Yes, because Concealment or not, I would’ve wrenched your ear off if you tried coddling me like a baby.” Nose scrunched in displeasure at the mere thought of such an action, Mila snuggles in close and kisses my cheek ever so playfully, her bright smile lighting up the room as she adds, “So thank you, beloved. You’ve been Healing my nausea away, even if you didn’t mean to, so you best keep it up or I’ll have someone to blame the next time I throw up.”

Even though I know she's joking, I can't help but momentarily panic at yet another happy accident, one I desperately hope I am able to replicate without too much effort.

Chapter Meme
