The gentle sway of our ship threatens to lull me back to sleep, but the pitiful groan of my beloved wife seizes my heart and squeezes it tight, because Mila’s suffering is my suffering, even if it’s from something innocuous as seasickness.

“Here, drink this.” Stifling a grunt of exertion as I help Mila sit up, I hand her a warm cup of ginger and chamomile tea I just finished preparing, having brought all the necessary tools and ingredients into the cabin last night for this very reason. “It should soothe your stomach and maybe let you get back to sleep.”

Offering a wordless grunt full of doubt and misery, my beloved wife nestles heavily into my embrace and makes no move to take the cup, but angles her head just enough to allow me to bring the cup to her lips. Not to make light of her suffering or anything, but I can tell she’s really milking her condition for all it’s worth, so I play along and make consoling noises while she drinks her tea. How she can get seasick on this massive, gentle river barge is beyond my comprehension, but it’s almost endearing to know this strong, domineering woman has this one debilitating weakness.

If only it wasn’t for all the vomit...

Two tiny cups of tea is all she can handle, but she accepts a bit of licorice root to chew on as I lift her into my lap. “Sorry beloved,” I murmur, rocking her gently while wiping sweat from her brow. “I’d hoped that spending the night on the ship while it was docked would help you acclimate to the movement, but it seems it wasn’t enough.” Again, Mila grunts in response, one laden with sarcasm as if uttering, ‘You don’t say?’. A versatile grunter, my beloved wife is, and it takes an effort of will not to chuckle. Kissing her forehead and hugging her tight, I ask, “How about we step outside? The cool breeze might make you feel better, and you can look out into the horizon and see if that helps too. I’ll even Conceal us so no one sees you, so what do you say?”

Her response is yet another grunt, one which I take to mean she doesn’t really want to, but will go along with whatever I say so long as it takes no effort on her part. Setting her back on the bed, I wipe her body down with a cool cloth before helping her into a set of clean, cotton robe. It’s difficult to resist the urge to tease or tempt her, but I doubt she’s feeling amorous in her current condition, not to mention the fact that sweet Lin-Lin is buried under the covers beside us and will not take kindly to us if we were to interrupt her beauty sleep. Unfortunately for me, Mila’s weakened state appeals to the ingrained predator lurking deep within my psyche, one that wants to push her down and have my way with her while she cannot resist, a sentiment that does not escape her notice as my emotions betray me through Aura and Chi. While she blushes in full force and responds with amused disbelief, it’s my turn to grunt in wordless apology as I try my best not get too too excited while seeing and touching her bared body.

Though sorely lacking in resolve, I soldier on and make it through without incident, which earns me a fond brush of the cheek as my sickly wife thanks me for my efforts and restraint. Briefly taking a comb to her tangled red ringlets, a new style she’s been trying out which works fabulously with her naturally curly hair, I do what I can to tidy up her appearance even though I wholly intend to keep her Concealed at all times, because I know she’s feeling self conscious and wouldn’t mind the extra bit of TLC. Despite her infirmity after a long and restless night, my beloved Mila is as beautiful as ever and I make sure to let her know this not only with my words, but my actions and emotions as well. It’s clear she doesn’t entirely believe me, thinking me a blind fool for being so attracted to her in this state, but I’ll keep telling her from now until the day I die, and maybe she’ll even eventually believe me.

One can only hope. It pains me to know I cannot wholly express just how much I love my wives in a way they understand.

Nuzzling her cheek to show her my melancholy is shallow and fleeting, I kiss Lin-Lin’s forehead goodnight before deploying my Domain in the form of a Shroud of Reinforcement, an action which has all but become second nature after a month of dedicated practice. Honestly, utilizing Domain Plating came so naturally that I wasn’t even sure about how to practice it, but Dad suggested I work on separating the defensive aspects of Domain Plating with the offensive ones. His reasoning was that while it’s easier to manage the various different effects by consolidating them into an all-purpose exo-suit of Chi, learning how to individually manifest each effect would allow me to grow more proficient at fine-tuning them, not to mention cut down on the overall expenditure of Chi. That being said, it was trickier than expected and it took a fair amount of practice to get right, especially with External Reinforcement. The mechanics behind the skills are more or less the same, enveloping myself in a Shroud of Chi that acts as a framework to assist my physical movements, but it takes more focus to ‘disable’ the defensive aspects I would include if using my Chi Exo-Suit. In order to turn off the auto-Domain Deflection and Reverberation, I first had to figure out how I was doing it in the first place, which in turn helped further my understanding of the mechanics behind those Chi skills and has allowed me to do all sorts of fancy new tricks.

Of course, I had plenty of help from Dad, Akanai, and my beloved wife who is currently nestled in my arms, for which I am eternally grateful. There are still many mysteries I have yet to unravel, like the nitty gritty details of how Concealment works, but that doesn’t stop me from using the strange and mysterious skill. Lifting Mila’s dainty form as I stand, I carry her out of our stuffy cabin and away on a long trek through the corridors and up the stairs onto the wide, sprawling decks. As I make my way slowly but surely past the sailors and other passengers, I do my best to counteract the swaying ship underneath us to help settle Mila’s delicate stomach. Difficult to say if it is my gentle efforts, the chamomile tea, the licorice, or just the cool breeze upon her skin, but my beloved wife’s sickly complexion soon shows a marked improvement in a matter of mere minutes, though I will continue to coddle and care for her until such a time as she asks me to stop. Upon arriving at the ship’s uppermost deck, I cradle my beloved wife in my arms and nuzzle her temple as we stare west over the horizon and take in the boundless beauty of the Central Plains.

When I first came to this province, I thought it boring and flat, but lately, I’ve come to see the charm in the local environment as spring and summer pass us by once again. The North has plenty of forests with towering trees and tangling vines, but the sheer variety of Central flora is truly breathtaking to behold. Given the moderate climate and lack of competing growth, there are flowers in bloom for a good eight months of the year, and these contested fields have flourished in the absence of Defiled tribesmen and Imperial soldiers trampling all over them. Every colour of the rainbow is represented somewhere in those fields, with clusters of bluebells growing side by side with cascading bushels of wisteria in a blue and violet explosion. Red roses, white lilacs, yellow sunflowers, and pink azaleas add even more colour to the mix, their vibrant blossoms dotted about the verdant green landscape in a wild and beautiful natural arrangement.

This is the sort of peace and serenity I would fight and kill to protect, so that future generations can appreciate the beauty this world has to offer, but alas, the powers that be are unwilling to leave me be to do my work and now see fit to block my way. In order to retake the West and drive the Defiled back, I need an army of Martial Warriors greater than any the Empire has ever mustered before, but despite our planned counter-attack scheduled to begin in twelve days, South and Central have yet to dispatch even a single soldier to the staging grounds in SuiHua. Staunch and valiant though the Warriors of the North might be, I cannot retake an entire province with them alone, and so I must make my way to Central and strong arm my political rivals instead of spending these precious few days before my grand campaign with my beloved family.

Which of course means I am in no mood to play nice. I intend to march into the Central Citadel with swords drawn and bows bent, and if I still do not get what I want, then I will not hesitate to spill blood.

Lin-Lin’s advice about showing strength has proven useful this past month, and I’ve garnered something of a domineering reputation in so short a time. The real estate kerfuffle was giving me enough headaches as it was, but then the merchants of Central started to band together and work against me in more aggressive ways, colluding to raise prices across the board through fabricated demand and artificial scarcity. This of course started literally the day after my wedding, and while Luo-Luo and Yuzhen suggested I take an even-headed approach, I was in no mood to get out of bed to meet with greedy merchants and war-profiteers. Apparently, they were kicking up a fuss because there were ‘bandits’ targeting caravans delivering essential goods to the Citadel, and they wanted to renegotiate our contracts to reflect the cost of increased security. The diplomatic thing would be to pretend to believe them and accept the increased costs as the price of doing business, but that was the old Legate, the kind and merciful Falling Rain who just wanted everyone to get along. Instead, I ordered Kuang Biao to lead the Death Corps out and search a number of warehouses under false pretenses, making up something about suspected Defiled sympathizers meeting in and around the area. Having ‘fortuitously’ stumbled upon caches of supposedly stolen goods, I then had the Death Corps ‘return’ said goods to their owners minus my 10% finder’s fee while Luo-Luo none too subtly implied that next time, I would not be so generous.

A warning made all the more threatening because I asked Dad to go along with her. Though Mother-in-Law Akanai is far more formidable a Warrior, she’s too beautiful to be properly intimidating, while no one looms better than Dad can.

That was merely the first of many such events as I geared up for my righteous crusade, but now, Central and South have decided to stop even pretending to play the game. By ignoring my orders to dispatch their armies to SuiHua, they’re doing the military equivalent of taking their ball home to sulk. This is technically treason, but as with so many things in regards to the law, might makes right in this twisted, backwards world I’ve found myself in. I could go to the Disciplinary Corps and ask them to arrest Shuai Jiao, Marshal Yo, Marshal Quyen, and all their lackies to boot, but even if the Justicars play along and the criminals go away quietly, which is unlikely considering Shuai Jiao’s backing, I would still be left with the monumental task of running three provinces and an extended military campaign while short on managerial and Martial talents.

Like it or not, I need Shuai Jiao and the two Marshals on my side if I want this counter-attack to go as planned, but if they’re hell-bent on opposing me, then I’d rather work with lesser talents than delay my plans too much. It’ll take time and effort to get things working smoothly under new leadership, but if I need to replace all three of those bastards to see my vision through, I’ll do it in a fucking heartbeat. The trick is to kill or neutralize them without sparking off a civil war, but I think I have a pretty good plan in place.

“So much anger,” Mila murmurs, drawing me out of my thoughts. Her gaze of concern is like a tidal wave of icy cold water poured over the smouldering embers of my pique, and I melt before her touch upon my cheek. “I know your heart is set upon saving the people of the West, but do not forget that the people of North, South, and Central need your protection as well.”

There’s plenty I could say to make my point. Going on the offensive is the best choice here, since it moves the lines of conflict further west instead of leaving it here on our doorstep. The people living along the border have suffered too much already, so a victory away from the Wall will do wonders for morale, as it will signify that they are no longer in so much danger. Secondly, an offensive campaign means we have the initiative and can fight battles on our terms instead of playing passive and only responding to Enemy movements. We don’t need to take and hold every Western port along the Azure Sea, we just need to fortify one and use the rest as rapid response posts, ones from which to launch raids against the Defiled supply lines or abandon as needed. What’s more, with Runic Cannons, trained Irregulars, and a host of new ranged weaponry to wield, we finally have the means to counteract the Defiled advantage of numbers in the field, and if we’re fighting in the West, then we can ensure most of the damage is done away from our fortifications, which even as we speak are being improved and reinforced in all manner of ways.

