Lastly, for every Westerner we free from captivity, we not only free a suffering innocent, we also deny the Enemy a potential recruit, and possibly even add another Martial Warrior to the Imperial Army, if Lang Yi and his cohorts are anything to go by. Major General Gao Changgong is also adamant that there are elements of Western resistance still fighting the good fight, and while I hope he is right, I am less than optimistic about their chances. He’s been out of the province for more than a year now, and to call the picture he painted of his time there ‘bleak and foreboding’ would be a gross understatement.

However, instead of going off about this and more, I instead nod and press my cheek against Mila’s hand to better savour her tender touch. “Of course, beloved. I’ve thought long and hard about this and have a long list of concessions I’m ready to make, so I’m sure I can come to an agreement with the Commander General.” Not entirely true and Mila knows it, but to be fair, it’s possible Shuai Jiao surprises us both and concedes for something silly like the opportunity to lead the invasion or something. I honestly have no idea what he intends to gain by forcing my hand like this, because were I anyone else, his refusal to heed orders would be tantamount to daring me to have him killed. This is not a move I expected from the otherwise level-headed Commander General, and while my orders were given in secret to preserve what operational security we could, certain peoples have already noticed something hinky afoot. I’ve been gathering Northern soldiers in SuiHua for some time now, which is not something you do lightly. It takes a lot of time and effort to feed and house so many Martial Warriors, not to mention the growing fleet anchored just outside the harbour bay. I made it clear I intend to head west at the head of a conquering army, and it’s obvious to anyone watching that I’m getting ready to make good on that promise, which makes it strange that South and Central have yet to act. It’s not just a lack of armies heading to SuiHua, they’re also not gathering soldiers or supplies in the Citadels themselves, or at least not any more than what’s needed to defend the border. There are plenty of other clues hinting that all is not well between the outer provinces, but hopefully, I can put out all the fires and convince Shuai Jiao to support my efforts to retake the West.

Unfortunately, while Luo-Luo’s reports still arrive every day without fail, many of my Central allies have also fallen suspiciously silent, such as the Marshal’s younger brother and my business partner Yo Shi-Woo, and the Ryo Family Matriarch Jeong Hyo-Lynn. Even Ishin Ken Shibu, Tam Taewoong, and Fung have stopped responding to my friendly correspondences, which means someone is either intercepting my messages before they arrive, or more likely stopping their responses from getting back to me.

Hence why I need to visit the Central Citadel in person to sort this all out, but that doesn’t mean I have to be on edge the whole trip there. Having received my Sending to come join us, Yan soon arrives nearby and I bring her into my bubble of Concealment alongside Mama Bun and Blackjack. The bicorn bunny is particularly enamoured to see me again, hopping about in a circle to chase her tail before flopping onto her back for belly rubs. Mannerisms she picked up from Buddy and their time together in my Natal Palace, so I reward her adorable efforts with plenty of the love and attention she so desires. Once properly greeted, she hops into Mila’s arms and graciously allows me to greet Yan and Blackjack as well, the latter of which is more than content to remain perched atop her head. His chubby cheeks are pressed so tightly in between her twin horns that I doubt he can even see, and the sight of his razor-sharp bucktoothed incisors does much to add to his goofy charm. After looking a little closer, I realize he’s actually fast asleep, though I’m not sure if it’s because he’s tired or because he has nothing better to do while wedged between Yan’s horns. He never perches on my head, or Mila’s either, and not even Li-Li can entice him to ride around in her hair, but now I suspect it has something to do with our lacking structural support. Only Yan and Lin-Lin possess the right attachments which allow him to stay up their heads without falling off, and it’s clear whose head he prefers, but at least he’s made the best of his situation and is getting in a few z’s.

“You can put me down now,” Mila says, her complexion much improved from when she woke up this morning. “You must be getting tired.”

“Not at all, beloved,” I reply, making no move to set her down and instead giving her thigh a cheeky squeeze. “I’d hold you in my arms all day and night, if only you would allow it.”

“Well I don’t,” she replies, wiggling away from grasping hand and mock glaring at me until I set her back down. “And you can stop Concealing us too. I want to play with Ping Ping and the quins.”

Despite her brusque tone, I know she’s only concerned that I’ll overuse Chi and wake up with a massive headache come tomorrow morning, or worse, be exhausted by the time we arrive at the Citadel later today. There’s plenty of work still to be done, and seeing how I’m gearing up to butt heads against a Living Legend, she wants to make sure I’m as fresh as can be, even if it means she’s stuck being miserable and seasick. Fortunately, the tea and licorice seems to have done the trick, and my fiery beloved is back in high spirits as she leans over the deck railing to call out to the quins swimming below. Soon enough, she catches big Mafu’s attention, who leaps several meters out of the water to latch onto the side of the ship and chitter happily for treats.

“Mother in Heaven,” Yan mutters, shaking her head with a grin as the wood creaks and groans under Mafu’s prodigious weight. “I swear he gets bigger and fatter every time I see him.”

Wrapping one arm around her slender, supple waist, I pull her in close and gently hip bump her as punishment for maligning my sweet, chonky quin. Okay, so he looks more giant sausage than water-weasel, and sure he can’t run as quickly or as far as he used to, but he’s still the same gentle, mild-mannered floof we all know and love. “He’s not that fat,” I lie, unable to do so without looking away from both Yan and Mafu to stare up at the sky, an obvious tell if there ever was one. “And I already strictly limited how many treats I give him every day.”

“That you did, but you failed to account for the treats everyone else feeds him.” Reaching out with her foot to prod Mila’s calf, Yan laughs as the other woman scowls with mock ferocity at having been called out, and only then do I notice the fistful of dried fruit she’d hidden away from my sight. Mafu’s chubby cheeks barely have to work before swallowing the delectable treat, and the sly beast even has the gall to pretend not to notice my glare, resting his many chins on the railing while rocking his otter head back and forth in supplication of scritches. Ignoring Mila’s pique, Yan reaches over to provide said scritches and adds, “Mila’s not the only one, nor is she the worst offender, so I think it’s high time you put this obese quin to work before he grows too fat to move.”

“Good idea. You hear that mister? Diet and exercise are coming your way, because I want you to live a long and healthy life.” Giving Mafu’s cheek a vigorous rub, I resist the urge to hug his fat head, if only for the sake of propriety. The Legate can hardly walk around soaking wet and smelling of wet quin for the rest of the day, and I’m not willing to risk waking Lin-Lin just so I can change. My sweet wifey is an amazing woman who I love and adore, but everyone treads lightly around her in the mornings. Only a fool would risk her ire, not because she’s particularly mean or vindictive, but her reprisal always arrives when you least suspect it, and never in any way you can predict. I myself experienced it first-hand when I bit into a freshly steamed dumpling and found the innards packed with foul tasting soap, which was payback for teasing her about her unladylike language while speaking about a gaggle of nagging merchants who kept making contrived excuses to bother me. Then she got me again with the same batch of dumplings after assuring me she only made the one soap dumpling. This was true, as the rest were filled with all manner of different, foul-tasting concoctions, just to make sure I’d be punished on the first bite.

The worst part? Lin-Lin couldn’t have done it without help from sweet Tali, who laughed harder than anyone else. Oh the humanity. My sweet, precious, innocent niece is now a dyed in the wool prankster and delinquent. Where did it all go wrong?

As lunch time rolls around, the mastermind herself ambles out of the bedroom to come find us, arriving just as I raise the bucket used to pull Ping Ping up from the waters below. Pong Pong needs no such help to get out of the water, but he enjoys the ride nonetheless. Even though both turtles are more than capable of feeding themselves without my assistance, I am sorely lacking in floofs at the moment as I left most back at the Citadel. With Blackjack fast asleep, the laughing birds content to fly about, and Mama Bun commandeered by Mila, who is once again looking a little green around the gills, Ping Ping’s lovable demeanour is the only weapon left in my arsenal to combat my sweet wifey’s morning blues. Shuffling over to sink into my embrace, Lin-Lin grumbles in wordless dissatisfaction while gnawing on my bicep, expressing her deep-seated ire over some grievance which I have yet to understand.

When the moon sets and the hour grows late, my amorous Lin-Lin is all smiles and sunshine as we retire to our marital bed alongside Mila and Yan, and she’s just as cheery when secretly visiting my Natal Palace later in the night, but come morning, she’s always in this dark and dour mood for some reason or another. Maybe she’s not getting enough sleep, what with visiting my Natal Palace every night. Does it take some effort on her part to come over? Maybe, but try as I might, I cannot convince her or my subconscious to take the night off, because it’s just too wonderful spending time with sweet Lin-Lin, awake or asleep. Inside my Natal Palace, I can do almost anything she pleases, and it’s been amazing bringing her around to see the sights, sharing with her my emotions and memories of all the familiar places we grew up around, as well as bringing her out and about to hang-glide, surf, para-sail, sky dive, and more.

Not to mention all her insightful help regarding the Martial Path, because she has a very unique way of looking at my problems, allowing me to see them from a different perspective and overcome them with little to no effort at all.

Cupping her chin and kneading her pliable cheeks with one hand, I gently extract Lin-Lin’s teeth from my bicep and stare fondly into her half-lidded eyes, so full of love and resentment as I hold her firmly in place. “Some day, wifey, you’ll tell me exactly what I’ve done to wrong you, and I’ll move heaven and earth to make things right.” It can’t be the sex, which was my initial worry, because she is only growing more enthusiastic and adventurous as the days pass, but I must be doing something to pique her ire between the time she leaves my Natal Palace and she wakes the next afternoon.

My joking tone earns me a fetching scowl and hard nibble on my fingers as my sweet wifey escapes from my grasp to throw herself into Yan’s embrace. “Yan-Yan, hubby is bullying me! Beat him up for me.” To which Yan handily responds by bonking me on the head with the blade on her hand, grinning from ear to ear and all but daring me to retaliate. However, in spite of her playful and challenging smile, I can tell Yan’s heart isn’t in it as she’s distracted by other thoughts, which of course Lin-Lin already picked up on, leading to her efforts to draw my attention towards it.

Yan’s worried, for me and for Grandpa Du, who we haven’t seen since returning to the Northern Citadel after the wedding, who stayed behind to help Jeong Hyo-Lynn stabilize the Ryo Family following the death of the Sword King, Ryo Dae Jung. Though he laid down his life defending the Central Citadel from Bai Qi’s besieging army, the memories of Central Nobles are short-lived and their gratitude even shorter, meaning many have long since started targeting the Ryo family holdings. Despite displaying strength above and beyond what most Peak Experts can match and earning herself the title of ‘Sword Saint’, Jeong Hyo-Lynn does not command the same respect and veneration her deceased husband once enjoyed. The people of Central are very... traditional, to put it politely, though chauvinistic would be more accurate. Being a woman is enough for most to dismiss Jeong Hyo-Lynn’s contributions in favour of men who are less powerful yet somehow more influential, once again showing how might doesn’t actually make right.

Ryo Da’in had the same issues, because despite her prodigious talents, no one in Central ever treated her like the Number One Talent of her generation, someone to befriend and empower to become the leader she so obviously could be. Instead, they all saw her as a prize to be won and a woman to be conquered, which is just all sorts of wrong. They treated Yan in similar fashion, and perhaps even worse on account of her half-beast heritage, but I never thought it made sense to treat female Martial Warriors differently from their male counterparts. Everyone can be equally strong once Chi enters the equation, and some of the strongest Martial Warriors I know are women, so why the big disparity?

