Distracting mama bun with some leafy greens, I leave her to terrorize my pets and hope Jimjam or Sarankho settle the issue for me, but it doesn’t seem likely. I trained them too well and they’re treating mama bun like an inquisitive, annoying toddler, with extreme indifference. Glancing around the table, I’m gladdened to see so many smiling faces, though Taduk’s absence and Guard Leader’s veiled visage ruins the atmosphere. I understand why my teacher isn’t here, he probably lost track of time while doing Runic research, but why is Guard Leader here and, more importantly, why does she eat with the veil on? I bet she’s hiding a disgusting deformity underneath and Taduk is helping her treat it. Can’t think of another reason an expert like herself would stoop to guarding my sweet little wifey.

After feasting on a sumptuous meal and belatedly remembering to send something to Gerel, I lean back for a post-gorging stretch and enjoy the foreign sensation of personal space. Tali and Tate are busy crowding Baatar and Sarnai while Lin’s been on her best behaviour today, acting all proper and ladylike. To top it all off, my pets are all too busy avoiding mama bun to come begging for food, leave me free to enjoy my meal in peace and quiet. She might be a dumb, floppy-eared, flea bag whose existence will paint a target on my back, but mama bun has her uses.

Tsk, look at me using all these speciest slurs against rabbits. Guess I’m a closeted hare supremacist. Then again, I still don’t know how to differentiate hares from rabbits. Maybe I should get a pet hare to pacify Taduk’s inevitable outrage, but oddly enough, I’ve never seen a hare before. I’ve run into plenty of exotic animals like terror birds, jatuyas, ursagons, carnugators, saurophages, and garos, but no hares. Then again, if Taduk is to be believed, the hares in this world run through the clouds and feed on flesh, so I’m not sure if I even want to see one, much less keep one as a pet.

...Ah who am I kidding? I’d keep a wolf or tiger if I could, so why not a hare? As long as it’s cute and friendly, I’m keeping it. I might have a pet hoarding problem, but if all my pets are clean, well-cared for, and don't maim anyone, is it really a problem?

Once lunch is finished and all pleasantries at an end, people begin leaving in ones and twos. Sarnai and Baatar are first to go followed by Husolt and Mila heading back to work. Intending to leave with Li Song for our daily group spar, Akanai asks me to stay behind. Taking it as their cue to leave, the room empties except for Akanai, Guard Leader, myself, and mama bun who wanders the room marking her territory with scentless poops and stinky pees. If it wasn’t for Guard Leader’s presence, I’d be worried this was a haranguing from Akanai for bringing this tiny little poop machine into her home.

I shouldn’t be surprised. Forget trials and tribulations; The true way of the world is food goes in, poop comes out.

Since neither one of these powerful women seems ready to speak, I busy myself cleaning up after mama bun, much to the little fur bag's dismay. Ignoring her attempts to batter me into submission, I patiently wait for someone to tell me what’s going on while scrubbing poop and pee off the stone floors, eternally grateful for mama bun’s dislike of carpets. I’ve been spoiled by quins, they’re so picky about where they do their business they house-trained my other pets.

Hey, maybe Pafu or Suret will eat mama bun. Then I don’t have to worry about taking care of a walking, breathing, Spiritual Heart.

After long, stifling minutes of silence, Guard Leader loses the challenge of who can keep quiet longer. “I still think it better to exile him. This boy brings nothing but trouble.”

...Wait, what? I’ve been in danger of exile?

“This boy,” Akanai replies, her tone curt and to the point, “saved your youngest Disciple.”

“Hmph. A weakling for letting himself be influenced so. I’d be better off without him. Exile him too.”

“Without Rain, we would not have known until things were too far gone. History might have repeated itself with Gerel at its head.”

“It still might. We only have the boy’s word they’ve been cleansed. He could be wrong or worse, lying.”

“Or he could be right and hold a weapon against corruption.” Sipping her tea, Akanai looks calm and in control, and although Guard Leader is veiled, her fidgeting betrays her anxiety. Does she really want me gone so bad? I knew the People weren’t happy with me but I didn’t think things were so dire.

Finding my voice, I ask “No one can overhear us?” Once I receive confirmation, I continue, “Is this because I was Tainted?”

Akanai hesitates for a split second, not long, but enough to be meaningful. “In part,” she replies, without divulging any more.

“By your own admission, you were a hair’s breadth from becoming Defiled.” Guard Leader chimes in and I can imagine the cold stare behind her veil. “You saw firsthand what will happen if word of your Taint spreads. The Empire will hunt us to extinction. If you truly cared about your family, you would leave now and never return. Whether you go south to live in seclusion or west to die fighting the Defiled, whatever you do, your family will be safer for it.”

“One step from Defiled?” After repeating her words, I stroll to the window and stare out before turning back. “Now I’m one step from death. Except like before I choose not to take that step.” Belatedly worrying she might shove me out, I move back to the centre of the room, with mama bun’s constant headbutts interrupting my stride and taking away all my gravitas. Stupid rabbit, learn to read the room. “The Spectres are a plague and I their victim. Yes, I came close, but I did not take that last step, nor do I believe I ever will.” Nor will Baledagh, not while I’m still in existence.

Sighing softly, Guard Leader shakes her head. “You say you chose, but I believe otherwise. You were saved by a fortuitous encounter. The Purge pushed you to the precipice and you ached to rebel, to smite your foes and impose your will no matter the cost. Had you the means, you would have killed the Shrike and damned the consequences.” Stroking my cheek in an oddly tender gesture, she whispers, “Your resolution and conviction make you dangerous in more ways than one. You humans shine so bright, like a candle on its last flame. You care so little for the future because you will not live to see it, but we must look farther.”

Unbelievable. “You think I was wrong to oppose the Purge? You believe inflicting pain and suffering on thousands of innocents the right thing to do?”

“A drop in the bucket compared to the lives lost should the Defiled find a foothold in the Empire.”

“They have one now don’t they? They took the Western Province.”

“Then the lives lost if the Empire turns on the People.” Sighing once more, Guard Leader turns to Akanai. “You see? He is stubborn and insubordinate, antagonistic and dissident. He’s already risked our safety for the lives of powerless strangers, simply because he believes he is right. He’s a danger to us all and must be dealt with before it is too late. You think he will sit idly by once he comes into power of his own? Already he is poised to rise to prominence, winning noble families to his side through his actions and training warriors loyal to his cause instead of our own. Mark my words, this one is a harbinger of chaos and disorder, a dangerous firebrand in a world filled with tinder. Exile him and be done with it.”

Akanai’s silence lasts an eternity as I hover between disbelief and outrage. Guard Leader’s accusations hit too close to home for comfort. I never thought about how my actions put everyone in danger. Though it felt right and just, by opposing the Shrike and the Purge, I came dangerously close to putting the People in direct opposition to the Empire, something which I can only imagine would end in tragedy. If it wasn’t for Yuzhen’s mediation or the Shrike’s insane attempt to take me prisoner, the whole debacle might have blown up in my face. Akanai’s always going on about retreating to the mountains but they only serve as a deterrent to the Empire’s armies, not a barrier.

Maybe I am selfish and stupid, too wrapped up in how things should be to accept how they are. A drunken taunt from my lips directly led to a massive conflict between the People and the Society. My actions during the Purge, no matter how well-intentioned, put everyone I know in grave danger.

Who’s to say I won’t do it again?

Guard Leader is right. The Bekhai are better off without me.

Before I can drum up the courage to speak, Akanai breaks the silence. “I have nothing to say. Exiling him is your decision, not mine.” Stepping over to stand beside me, she wraps an arm around my shoulder and smiles before continuing. “Know this: Rain is my grand disciple and grandson. Exiling him is the same as exiling me and the rest of my family. Make your choice woman. My grandson has an appointment to spar.”

I always believed I lucked out finding a family who loved me.

I didn’t know the half of it.

Chapter Meme
