Rain blinked, then quickly wriggled out of his pack. He dropped his shield too, as it was clear enough he wouldn’t need it, then hurried after her. Tallheart didn’t follow, busy removing his mobile forge.

Rain caught up to Ameliah right at the edge of the lake, stopping beside her to stand on the brittle crust surrounding it. He pinged with Detection to make sure there were no Lava Slimes lurking beneath the surface, then reached into a pocket and retrieved the Depth Gauge, wrapped up in a sock. Strapping the fragile instrument to the inside of his shield was convenient, but not the greatest idea in retrospect.

“Well?” Ameliah asked, watching him out of the corner of her eye as she monitored the Lava Slimes.

Rain clicked his tongue as he checked the gauge, finding that it still read fifteen. “Still the same,” he said, wrapping it back up and tucking it away.

“Oh well.” Ameliah shrugged. “Uh oh, looks like they saw us,” she said, utterly failing to sound concerned.

Rain looked up to see that the entire pack of slimes had started oozing in their direction around the lake, taking the long way.

“They can’t swim?” Rain asked, raising an eyebrow.

“Apparently not,” Ameliah said, raising her arm. She began casually Fireballing them, occasionally taking out two or three at a time. It was hard to take them as a serious threat after seeing that, so Rain returned his attention to something else that was bothering him.

He gestured at the lake, struggling to articulate his thoughts. “Why is this lava here at all? I mean, there’s no obvious source of heat. I would have thought it would have all cooled long before it made it this far into the cavern. It’s just flowing along the surface, not welling up from below or anything.”

“It’s the Heat mana,” Ameliah said, pausing her assault to glance at him, and Rain noticed that there were droplets of sweat forming on her forehead. “It’s everywhere. Also, aren’t you hot in there?”

Rain grinned beneath his helmet. “Not at all. Thermal Regulation, remember? It’s amazing how well it works with the visor down. The air’s just a bit warm coming in.” He paused, tilting his head. “Still stinks, though. The fumes probably aren’t great for our lungs, but Chem resistance should take care of that. Detection says there’s plenty of oxygen.”

He knelt, then carefully poked at the lava with one of his adamant fingertips. It felt thick and gooey, like molten marshmallow. Some of it stuck to his fingertip as he pulled it away, still glowing brightly. He checked his saturation gauge, finding that it hadn’t budged, which wasn’t surprising.

Environmental mana didn’t get absorbed by metal nearly as quickly as the mana that made up spells. If it did, the world would have been a much easier place to live in. All you’d need to do would be to pave your streets with iron, and then you could build a city anywhere you wanted without fear of monster spawns—that was if mana had anything to do with spawns in the first place. It seemed more likely that ambient mana and monster spawns were both symptoms of the same underlying cause, namely ambient essence.

Rain stood, thinking hard as he continued staring at his glowing fingertip. The heat had started to overwhelm the thermal regulation enchantment. It wasn’t painful, just a bit warm. He shook his head, looking back at Ameliah. “So it’s staying hot because we’re in a Heat biome?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said.

Rain didn’t jump, though Detection hadn’t given him any warning. He simply expected it at this point. He pivoted smoothly to find the smith standing right behind him.

“Such things are common enough,” Tallheart continued, sounding slightly disappointed at the lack of a reaction. He snorted, then approached the edge and knelt before plunging his hand fully into the lava. Moments later, he rumbled in satisfaction. “Iron. Good.”

“Oh?” Rain asked, glancing at Ameliah, who had just sniped off the last of the Lava Slimes. Rain used Detection to verify that she’d gotten them all, then pinged again at high power, trying to sense the iron Tallheart had felt. The entire lake lit up in his mind, and he smiled. Looking back at his finger, he gave it a little flick, attempting to dislodge the glob of lava, only now starting to cool. Irritatingly, it remained stuck. I shouldn’t try this without my gauntlets, Heat resistance or not. I mean, damn. Could an unawakened person even stand here?

Tallheart rose, freeing his own hand of lava by whipping it down through the air faster than Rain could see. “Hmm,” he rumbled, looking coolly out over the lake. “I will construct a full smelter and begin extraction. We must still gather the blade shards, however. The more adamant we find, the less iron I will need to condense.” He paused, scratching at the base of one of his antlers. “Even so, I believe we will be here for some time. This is a valuable opportunity.” He lowered his hand, then turned to face Rain. “We should not move on until I have constructed a full suit of armor for Ameliah and have added a layer of adamant to yours.”

“Awesome,” Rain said, unable to contain his grin. Struck by a thought, he used Refrigerate to solidify the clump of lava still stubbornly clinging to his fingertip. Once it was mostly cool, it began to crumble, and he was able to pry it loose with his other hand. “What about the cave, though? Shouldn’t we explore that first before we set up camp?”

“Yes, we should,” Ameliah said. She turned, then spread her arms wide, beckoning to them as if inviting them to a group hug. “Come here, you two. I’ll Airwalk us over.”

Rain grinned, eagerly moving to accept her invitation. Tallheart, on the other hand, snorted, then turned to walk back toward their packs.

“Tallheart, come on, we need you,” Ameliah said as Rain clung to her side, but the smith ignored her. After a moment, he turned to face the direction of the cave, then broke into a sprint. Just before he reached the lake’s edge, he jumped, shattering the brittle stone with the force of his takeoff. He soared through the air in a graceful arc, easily clearing the forty-odd meters to land on the island surrounding the stone outcropping.

“Oh,” Ameliah said with a snort. Without warning, she scooped Rain off his feet, shifting him to a princess carry with no apparent effort. “Easier with just one, anyway. Stop squirming.”

Rain smiled behind his helmet, relaxing into her arms after he recovered from the shock. I...don’t hate this.

Ameliah snorted, then jumped out over the lava. Zigzagging with each footstep, she bounded across, staying a few meters above the surface until landing safely on the other side. She straightened herself up from the landing, then looked down at Rain and raised an eyebrow. “No screaming?”

Rain laughed. “Of course not. You’d never drop me.”

Ameliah promptly dropped him.

“Enough play,” Tallheart said sternly as Rain continued laughing from his position on the ground. “We face the unknown.”

Rain closed his mouth quickly. “Sorry.” He got to his feet, then used Detection at full power, getting a response from the cave, diagonally down at the very limit of his range. He pointed. “Monster that way, about a hundred meters. Hang on.” Several pings later, he relaxed, shaking his head. “It’s just a Hababa. A regular one.” He pinged a few more times, then smiled. “The cave slopes down gently for about fifty meters, then there’s a vertical shaft and a passage below that. It looks like we were right about this being the way forward. The Hababa is at the bottom of the shaft, and it hasn’t moved since I picked it up.”

“Okay, wait here,” Ameliah said, turning back toward the lake. “I’m going to go get your shield before we say hello. Actually, I’ll get all our stuff. It will be safer in the cave than it is out in the open.”

Rain nodded. “That’s probably a good idea. I’d help, but, you know…” He shrugged. “Can’t fly.”

“Don’t worry about it,” Ameliah said, jumping away. She spun in mid-air, then, amazingly, seemed to perch there as she waved back to them, “Rain, keep an eye on Tallheart, would you? You know how he’s always running off.”

“Hmph,” Tallheart snorted, sounding amused. He moved to stand next to Rain, watching her as she spun away and resumed her progress toward the shore. When she touched down, he turned to Rain, smiling slightly. “She has improved.”

“At Airwalk?” Rain asked, smiling back. “Yeah, she’s really getting the hang of it, even with her boots on.”

“No,” Tallheart said, shaking his head. “That is true, but it is not what I was referring to.”

“What do you mean, then?” Rain asked.

“She has improved at managing you. She told you to watch me, but her statement was intended for—”

“I got it, Tallheart, I got it,” Rain interrupted, waving him off. “I don’t need...managing. It’s just hard for me to feel afraid of stuff when you two are around. You’re so strong that it’s ridiculous.” He pointed at the cave. “For crying out loud, I just detected a reaper-class monster, and it made me feel better, not worse.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled in acceptance. “It is true. The unknown is the greater fear.”

“Right, well, let’s see if we can do something about that,” Rain said, pulling out the Depth Gauge and removing it from its protective sock. He flipped open the cover, then sighed. “Still fifteen. Let’s wait till she’s back to check what it says inside.”

“Wise,” Tallheart said. The silence stretched for a moment, then he spoke again. “To be clear, I was joking. You do not require management, merely occasional guidance.”

Rain smiled and opened his mouth, but his response was interrupted by a heavy thud as Ameliah landed. She was wearing the Double Gamgee and was holding Tallheart’s mobile forge in one hand, his metal cases in the other, and her own pack in her teeth by one of the straps. She’d threaded her arm through the grips of Rain’s shield, wedging it high on her upper arm so she could manage everything else. She spat out the strap as he stared, leaving her pack to fall to the ground, then bent to set Tallheart’s stuff down more gently.

“What?” she asked, seeing them watching her.

Rain chuckled. “Nothing. I’ve brought in groceries before.”

Ameliah smiled, looking slightly confused. She didn’t ask, though, simply handing him his shield. “Here.”

“Thanks,” Rain said, accepting it. He verified that none of the potion bottles strapped to its back had slipped free, then slid his arm through the straps. Once it was secure, he looked up at his friends and gestured vaguely in the direction of the cave with the hand holding the Depth Gauge. “Shall we?”

Ameliah nodded, summoning her Lunar Orb and sending it zipping into the cave. She and Tallheart followed it inside, with Rain bringing up the rear. By unspoken agreement, the three of them slowed down as they continued, until they were moving at a cautious, near-silent creep. Rain, for one, was really feeling the cramped darkness pressing down on him. They’d been underground this whole time, of course, but it hadn’t felt like it back in the Ashen Jungle. Perhaps some of his unease came from his attention on the Depth Gauge, grasped tightly in his hand. With each step he took, the needle wavered ever so slightly from the motion. Slowly but surely, however, it was rising. “Sixteen,” he whispered, informing the others as it passed the next demarcation.

Ameliah nodded without looking back, speaking in a slightly louder voice. “I can see a drop ahead. We’re almost—”

“OOH!”

Rain froze, tensing as the echoes of the Hababa’s call rebounded from the tunnel walls. The others had frozen as well, and the three of them waited breathlessly until silence returned, then began to stretch. Ameliah cautiously motioned them forward, and they proceeded until she and Tallheart were right at the edge, looking down, with Rain lingering behind. She glanced back at him, then gave a slight shake of her head.

She can’t see it. Rain gestured to her quickly, using hand code. “It is still there. No other monsters that I can feel.”

“Lure it?” Ameliah replied, also in hand code. Rain nodded in agreement, and she tapped Tallheart on the shoulder, then repeated the first sign. “Lure?”

“Yes,” Tallheart said at a normal volume. The echoes of his voice were immediately drowned out by a booming cry that turned into a continuing stream of protest. On and on, the Hababa screeched and clamored, like the enormous angry monkey that it was.

“Nice work!” Ameliah yelled over the noise, summoning a Fireball above her palm and sending the Lunar Orb out over the edge. “Wait, did you actually know what sign I was using?”

“Yes,” Tallheart replied, just as loudly. “I did.”

Rain shook his head, his ears ringing from the continuing racket. “It still isn’t moving!” he yelled.

“If it will not come to us, we will go to it,” Tallheart replied, beckoning to Rain to join them. “Come.”

Rain nodded, tucking away the depth gauge. He moved up to the edge, then looked down. It was about fifty meters to the bottom, the same height that had almost killed him once before—had killed him, depending on your definition.

He felt no fear.

Ameliah sent her Lunar Orb down, and its light soon illuminated the Hababa, crumpled in a heap at the bottom of the shaft, still screaming at them. As the light washed over it, its anger seemed to double, the volume of its cries somehow rising another few notches. Rain couldn’t see its health from here, but it looked...not well.

“Something’s wrong with it!” Ameliah shouted.

Without warning, Tallheart jumped. Ameliah looked at Rain quickly, surprise on her face, then she jerked her head toward the edge before jumping off herself. Not wanting to be left behind, Rain followed without hesitation, activating Force Ward and drawing his mattock as he fell. By the time he landed, the echoes of the Hababa’s screams were already fading.

“It was left here,” Tallheart said, lifting his fist from the bloody crater where the monster’s head had been. “The others abandoned it. Hmm. Or they were the ones to cripple it in the first place.”

“You really think so?” Ameliah asked, Tallheart nodding in response. “I wonder what it did to piss them off.”

Tallheart shook his head. “That is not it. I believe it was left here as bait for something below.” He rumbled deeply. “Or perhaps as an offering.”

Rain felt a shiver run down his spine. The air was thick down here somehow. Cool, too, he realized. Thermal Regulation had reversed direction.

