“An offering for what?” Ameliah asked. “I’m not buying it. Stop trying to scare us. Rain, is there anything else down here?”

“Just tunnels,” Rain said. That had been the first thing he’d checked after landing. “No monsters, at least...” he swallowed heavily, “not ones that I can sense.”

“Did you use full power?” Ameliah asked.

Rain nodded, looking around. “Of course. What’s wrong with the air? It feels...weird. Thick. Are we in a new biome?”

“I can’t tell yet,” Ameliah said, shaking her head. “The ambient mana is neutral. I agree with you about the air, though. What does Detection say?”

“It’s fine as far as I can tell,” Rain said with a helpless shrug, having just checked exactly that. “Nitrogen, oxygen...no carbon monoxide. Anyone got a canary?”

“Come along,” Tallheart said, starting off down the continuing tunnel, stopping to look back at them when they didn’t immediately follow. “We are in a liminal space. It should not be much further.”

Rain nodded, glancing once more at the broken Hababa. He didn’t feel the need to use Purify, even though it was a grisly scene. With Dozer strained out of his soul, that particular compulsion was gone. Dozer, be glad you’re still asleep. I’m not sure how much you’d like it down here. Rain shook his head, then hurried to follow Tallheart and Ameliah, seeing that they were both waiting for him.

As they continued, the tunnel occasionally branched off, but Rain kept them from taking any wrong turns. It was a maze down here, it seemed, but so far, there’d been only one main passage. The other offshoots either ended in dead-ends or narrowed to impassability. Save for the sound of their footsteps, it was as silent as a crypt. The air seemed to grow thicker and thicker, too, dragging at them like they were wading through soup. Rain gradually became aware of pain from his hand, and he had to force himself to release his death grip on his mattock.

Tallheart’s right. The unknown really is the worst. Where are all the monsters?

Finally, Ameliah raised a hand, stopping them. “I’m sure now. There’s still a bit of a mix to the mana, but getting more Arcane the further we go.” Her voice sounded strange. Deeper than normal.

“Hmm, good,” Tallheart said. “The Crysts will be useful.” His voice was deeper too, and for him, that was saying something. When he rumbled, the noise was even more like an earthquake than usual. “Do you sense anything ahead, Rain?”

Rain shook his head. “Nothing new. I would have told you if there was.” Wow, I sound strange too. He cleared his throat. Focus. It’s just some Arcane bullshit. “The tunnel continues. No monsters or big chambers ahead. Let me check the Depth Gauge.” He slipped his mattock back through his belt, then fished the instrument out of his pouch. He flicked open the lid, then cursed. “Damn.”

“What is it?” Ameliah asked, glancing back at him. “It didn’t break, did it?”

“No,” Rain said, turning it toward her so she could see for herself. The needle was pressed hard against the stop at the end of the dial, right above the number twenty. “Looks like we’re on our own from here. I guess fixing it was a waste of time.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, turning and walking past Rain back up the tunnel. “Come. It would be best not to linger. We now know what we will face. The next biome will be Arcane, and it is at a rank nearing the wall. We must prepare.”

Rain nodded, turning to follow. A prickle ran across his neck, and he glanced over his shoulder at the darkness, then back down to the Depth Gauge, still clutched in his hand. His lungs felt heavy—like they were full of liquid instead of air.

Wordlessly, he opened his interface.

Arcane Ward it is.
