“… Wha—? Oh! You don’t believe me?”

“… It doesn’t look that impressive.”

“Are you looking with Meditation?”

“Yeah. Duh.”

“Okay. Uh. Here—”

Erick gently picked her up with a few dozen hands and set her a foot to the left. She sputtered a complaint the second she was moved, but not very loudly. When she was back on the ground, she sighed.

“Okay. Fine. I guess you won that round.” She muttered, “This isn’t fair.” Quieter, she mumbled, “I get a fucking archmage.”

Erick laughed. “I matriculated last month, too.”

“Yeah! Well. Your weird ideas certainly helped you get ahead. What the fuck am I supposed to do against an archmage?”

A few neighbors had looked over at Erick and Zimmy by now, but with that outburst, all of them took a small step away.

Erick smiled. “I don’t know? Try to have fun with it? I’ve played this game before, but much, much differently. One person would say a thing, anything at all, and the next would say something that conquered that thing, back and forth until one person duplicated an answer, or was stuck in a corner.”

“Phhhph! What’s the point of that!” She dissolved her [Conjure Armor], then said, “If you can’t prove you’re capable, what’s the point?”

“To have fun.” Erick added, “We don’t have monsters where I’m from.”

She muttered, “Lucky bastard.”

Erick said, “I’ll go next. [Call lightning]. I’m not actually going to show that, though.”

Zimmy stilled. She quickly relaxed, and said, “We’re in a building. Under trees.”

“Good! So then, [Force Shrapnel] Aura.”

Zimmy waited. “Well?”

“I’m not going to do that either. Why don’t we just trust each other’s capability?”

“Fine! [Blink] behind you and stab you.”

“700 point [Personal Ward].” Erick poked one hand against the other, ticking a point of damage from his white [Ward], revealing its existence; he had gotten much better at making it mostly invisible in the last week. “Does that mean I’m on the defensive, now?”

Zimmy frowned. “This is basic stancing.”

“Oh! So there’s advanced versions?”

“Yeah. But…” Zimmy shook her head. “And I can’t deal with that! 700 points? Damn.”

“Sure you can. [Force Beam] to the head? I crit a shadowolf one time for 350 damage that way.”

“… I don’t have [Force Beam].”

“Shaped [Force Shrapnel]?”

“… Shaped [Force Shrapnel]…” She looked away, muttering, “To the head.”

“There you go! You got it!” Erick spoke a bit softer, “Though this is mightily uncomfortable to talk about hitting each other.”

“… Yeah.” She breathed. She said, “My cous— Never mind.” She stared at Erick. “Let’s start from the top.”

Erick smiled. “Okay.”

“[Blink] at you and attack.”

“Handy Aura and slap you away.”

“Shaped Shrapnel.”

“[Blink] behind you and attack with a few hands…”

“Decay [Strike].” Her dagger glinted green. “It stops [Ward] regeneration and healing for about 4 seconds.”

“It does? Then I fly up with a handy aura.” Erick lifted a foot off the ground.

“I wait you out, keeping up with [Swift Movement] or [Blink].”

“Scion of Focus.”

“Phhhfh!” Zimmy dissolved her dagger. “I’m done.”

Erick frowned. “Why?”

“I can’t deal with that kind of flight, and if it’s an aura it doesn’t matter if I [Dispel]. You just cast it again. Or you could wait me out any number of ways.” She looked over at Draz. “And I think—”

Draz yelled, “SWITCH! Random seed.”

Zimmy said, “Just pick someone.” As she was walking away, she muttered, “I’m sorry about my cousins. They were real assholes.”

Erick watched Zimmy go. He had known there was some connection between her and the two that attacked the Sewerhouse. He hadn’t known they were cousins. Erick felt a pang of grief—

The greenscale who got chewed out by Draz appear before him.

“Hello, Archmage Flatt.” Greenscale bowed. “I’m Kiri.” She smiled full of teeth, and said, “Want to go ~theoretical~ with me?”

Erick laughed. “You’re much too young for me.”

She blushed, her cheeks turning deeper green. She sputtered, “I mean… Stancing without displays.”

“Sure. [Handy Aura] you away.”

“Call.”

“You ask for theoretical and then you call?” Erick gently picked her up and moved her a foot away, saying, “Not very sporting of you.”

“… You shouldn’t have been able to move me.”

“Why?”

“Because I have [Dispelling Aura] on.”

Erick looked at her with Meditation. There was something funky just beside her skin, like a gap in the manasphere. Huh. Odd.

“I do have a thousand of these hands and your aura looks rather thin. Can you use that at the same time as a [Personal Ward]?”

“… No. I just thought… Never mind. Let’s go strictly theoretical.”

“Sure. Handy Aura to move you away.”

“[Blink] out of range, [Invisible].”

“Invisibility Purge. [Force Beam].”

“… You have [Invisibility Purge]?”

“We’re just theoretical, aren’t we?” Erick added with a smile, “Careful now, I’m starting to get suspicious that this is not simple Stancing.”

Kiri paled, but quickly recovered. She stated, “… If you must know: I’m taking the tragedy of my forced recertification by pushing faux combat with an archmage. This never happens, and I am taking advantage in every way I can. I apologize for pushing too far.”

“Sure. We’ll go with that. So? What’s your response? [Invisibility Purge], and… [Fireball].”

“[Reflection].”

“[Blink], [Call Lightning].”

She smiled. “[Weather Ward].”

“On the ground or…?”

“On myself.”

“[Decay Tracking Force Beam].”

“… That’s a bit overkill, don’t you think?”

“Yes. I do think that.”

Kiri frowned.

They began again. Erick mostly stuck to what he had, but added enough variation to throw Kiri off and win a few more rounds. When it came time to switch, no one wanted to go to Erick; he was having fun with Kiri anyway, so Kiri gladly stayed. Eventually, she started winning, especially when Erick stuck to what he had. He wracked his brain for combinations of Force spells and Mana Alterings, but more often than not, met her absolute defenses and counterattacks. She did have one glaring weakness though: her flight spell was tied to her [Ward]. But as for himself? So many weaknesses. For starters, he just didn't have enough magic, and he wasn't fluent in magical combat either way. In a straight up fight between him and any other person on Kiri’s level, he would lose. The only way for him to win would be to run away and attack another day, or to rely on others to give him openings.

Which was why adventurers traveled in parties, so Erick didn’t feel too behind-the-curve; he didn’t need to be able to do everything himself.

Stancing didn’t seem to have much value when Erick began, but it showed its worth quickly enough.

After an hour of Stancing, Draz began the actual physical combat lessons; no spells allowed. Erick thought the term ‘lessons’ rather loose. Draz didn’t do much more than tell people to pick a spot, whereupon the people beat each other up for the rest of the day. Erick and Kiri both used staves, but Erick was the one who ended up with his face in the sand 9 times out of 10. Draz did come by and help once or twice, though. Those were the only times Erick won, and only because Kiri let it happen.

The damage from Kiri’s staff would occasionally cleave the whole way through Erick’s [Ward], and if that didn't give Erick enough of a fright the first time it happened: hitting 0 canceled the [Ward]. He had to recast it every time that happened, which began to happen with alarming frequency. More than once, a strike —not a [Strike]— got through both a full strength [Ward] and a few dozen HP. Kiri was pulling her strikes; she knew exactly how far to go, how strong to hit, to get through 800 points of damage.

Erick was reminded of what Bacci had said, weeks ago: ‘HP is an illusion; never trust it.’

The class broke for lunch, then came back together for more sparring. Draz mixed up some of the groups, re-pairing people as necessary, but he didn’t switch Erick or Kiri away from one another.

Erick ended the day with his face in the sand, and very, very sore.

But not dirty! Thank you, [Cleanse].

Goddamn, he loved that spell. Best spell ever.

After dinner, and because he saw exactly how much he needed [Teleport] thanks to the day’s Stancing, he leveled [Blink] to 10, then bought [Teleport]. [Blink] and [Teleport] were an odd pair of spells; linked to each other, but both tier 1 and you couldn’t buy the second without the first, there were a few other spells paired in this way, but not many. [Strike] had the most variants. Thanks to the day’s Stancing, he discovered [Blood Strike], which was vampiric in nature, and [Delayed Strike], which was as the name implied. There was also [Ward Strike], which did double damage to [Ward]s, and [Mercy Strike], which would do normal damage, but always leave 1 to 10 of the enemy’s HP remaining. Kiri never visibly showed any of those skills in the actual sparring, though, which led Erick to believe that Kiri was also lying a bit in the Stancing portion of the day. Or maybe Erick just didn't recognize [Strike] for what it was.

That second option was probably more correct.

[Strike] was a really weird attack, anyway. A warrior could use it against anyone with just a tap of their finger, but it would do damage based upon the full force of the weapon used, applied in the most damaging way upon whatever surface they struck. Using [Strike] with the lightest tap of a finger, against a person’s arm, would be like driving that finger ramrod straight against that arm, with the full force of a person’s whole Strength score.

[Strike] was a strange attack.

… Reflecting on his lack of skill, after dinner, Erick went ahead and leveled [Force Beam] to 10, and used [Swift Movement] as his HP would allow. [Force Beam] got to 10, and Erick discovered he could use multiple beams at once; this was why people used their fingers to point the beams, not their eyes. This was so they could fire and maintain five to ten beams at once.

[Swift Movement] leveled, but lagged behind.

With Jane’s help, Erick started really working on [Swift Movement]. The skill got a bit higher, but when Jane’s healing spells started to heal for less, and Erick started to feel a bit dumb, that was the start of Health Fatigue. It was time to stop.

Jane put Erick to bed just before midnight, kissing his forehead.

“Good night, Dad. I love you.”

“I’m proud of you, Jane. To do all this at 600 HP? It’s a… a word for … something. It’s inspiriting!”

Jane smiled. “I’m proud of you, too.”

- - - -

The next day, the recertification group was missing several people. In the same room as before, but much more open, Erick proceeded to get his ass handed to him by Kiri for the rest of the day.

By the time he made it home, Jane had a surprise waiting for him in the kitchen: She had learned [Polymorph] from Ramizi’s potion and cleared the center of the room. She promptly turned into a bear, but not a very good one. She was a great big, kinda funky, human-ish bear, with a great big mouth and sharp teeth and a fuzzy little bum with a cute tiny tail, with human feet and tiny little button ears that flicked back and forth. She was a cross between something very cute and very terrifying, and the whole effect was pure insanity. Erick laughed. Jane sat her cute furry bum on the stone floor while Erick laughed himself out.

Finally, Erick said, “Don’t you remember what a bear looks like!?”

“Ra raah ra roO.”

Erick laughed and laughed.

Jane ignored him and clawed the shadowspider into the center of the kitchen. Erick vomited at the first crunch. He rushed out of the room on the second.

When he returned an hour later, Jane was a giant black spider who had weaved a message in black spider silk on the side of the room.

‘It worked!’ read the message, along with, ‘Doo dee doo I’m a big ol’ spider, very very big.’

Erick vomited again. Jane turned to see him.

She was terrifying.

Erick asked, “What’s your Willpower, Jane?”

Jane-spider spoke in a crackling, chittering voice, “30, right now. Points go into Willpower from now on, like you said.”

Keeping his multiple terrors at bay, Erick said, “Good. Good. Now stop this, please.” Erick looked over to see who he could blame. He saw Teressa, standing in the back of the room, still not wearing her armor but more herself than she was the day before. She didn’t deserve what Erick was going to to do her. “Teressa is getting scared.”

Teressa immediately stared daggers at Erick, who just mouthed ‘Sorry’, as Jane turned to face her.

Teressa took the bullet, saying, “Yes, ma’am. Very scary.”

Jane reverted to human, quickly grabbing her nearby towel and wrapping it around herself. “Sorry, Teressa. I should be more aware about holding a form like that within a thousand miles of Spur. And… Your recent trauma.”

“Don’t worry about it, ma’am.”

Erick mouthed, ‘Thank you.’

- - - -

There were even fewer people at the Adventurer’s Guildhouse recertification course on Erick's third day. They had started with 30, but they were down to 15. Kiri and Zimmy were still there, though.

Draz said, “Another day of Stancing and Sparring. Have at it.”

For as simple as the instructor’s regimen was, Erick had never gone through basic training or anything like it before; he felt he was learning quite a lot. Everyone else who failed to show had probably had enough of Draz’s monotonous exercises; Kiri confirmed as much when the class broke for a Rest between the Stancing and the Sparring.

“Of course it’s designed more as a punishment than instruction.” Kiri said, “There’s more places to farm mimics than Spur, but people need to show they know their stuff before they’re allowed inside Ar’Kendrithyst. I hear Frontier is a lot more lax about letting people enter from their side, but that’s only because they don’t have the Spur’s presence and power in the Dead City.”

Erick had heard some of that before, but it was interesting to hear an outsider’s perspective. “How much of a presence does Spur have?”

