Kiri said, “I’ve heard they control a whole city block. A few square kilometers. The army fights the daily fights, but they evacuate when the Shades come around. Killzone stays. I hear Killzone has killed any Shade that ever attacked Spur’s Forward Base, even hunting them back to their own lairs.” She added, “He’s carved out his own niche in the Dead City, using the blood and bones of Shades to keep it under his control, when necessary.” She asked, “What have you heard?”

“The residents go in and kill monsters, rip out rads, and then get the hell out of there. Only transient adventurers go in further to look for treasure… I hear the Shades like to kill the shadowmonsters for their rads, too, then use those to enchant some pretty horrific things. But if you’re going to steal from a Shade you can only do it once; if the Shades don’t kill you, you better not come back to Spur.”

“I’ve heard that, too.”

Draz shouted, “Rest over! Time to spar!”

Erick grabbed his training staff, then moved to the sands, saying, “En garde!”

“… What’s that mean?” Kiri grabbed her own staff and moved to join him.

“A phrase to signify the raising of weapons and the joining of battle.”

Kiri smiled. “En garde!”

Erick was promptly flipped onto the floor.

He muffled into the sand, “I really should be using [Swift Movement] all the time.”

“Of course you should! And you should get a healing spell.”

Erick got back up. “Not yet.”

“Why the heck not?”

“… I have a specific reason for this, and that is all I am going to say on the subject.”

Kiri’s eyes glinted in the way that they did when she spotted a hidden truth. She had many of these moments the last two days, but this one was definitely the most prominent. Erick would have abandoned her as a partner if she ever pushed a subject, but every time, she backed off, giving a little nod; whatever subject Erick said ‘no’ to, became taboo.

Erick was starting to like Kiri; she was a bubbly, happy girl, driven to succeed, well versed in both magic and physical combat, and as understated as she could be without being a doormat.

Erick asked, “Where are you from, anyway?”

“Greensoil Republic. Tower Academy town. I came out here to—”

Draz interrupted, “Too much talking, not enough hitting.”

Kiri leveled her staff, nodded, and said, “En garde.”

Erick moved swiftly, his HP draining 1 point every second and more, as exertion demanded. He stepped to the side and pushed Kiri’s staff away. Kiri pulled her staff. She stepped to the side, swinging it wide. Erick blocked—

His staff snapped where Kiri struck; her staff clipping through to hit him in the thigh, sending him to the ground and carving deep into his [Ward]. Hundreds of points vanished, just like that, but they were already coming back thanks to [Ward X]'s regeneration ability.

Erick sighed out against the sand. He got up. He [Mend]ed his staff. He went back to Kiri and started the spar again.

Rinse, repeat, over and over again.

Somewhere in the middle of the afternoon, she stopped, and said, “You’re really bad at this. I expected some improvement. You’re getting the forms down a bit, but… You’re not executing them well. At all.”

Erick got up from the ground, again. He wasn’t surprised that he was this bad at sparring; he was surprised he was physically capable of sparring at all. He wasn’t young; but he wasn’t really in pain, either. Sure, there were bruises and blood, and broken calluses on his hands, but that kind of pain was normal, expected pain. There were no aching bones or sprained wrists, or a back that refused to bend properly, or knees that just ached for no reason at all. He wasn’t getting much better at this whole fighting thing, but he wasn’t in pain either. As he stood there, ready for another spar, he felt great.

Emotionally, he was winded; no one gets flattened to the floor by a person half their age for three days and doesn’t feel a bit inadequate. But physically? He was fine. He wasn’t good at this, not by a long shot, but he was physically capable, and that made Erick get back up, every time.

Erick said, “I think… I could do this all day.”

“Yes, well… Doing this all day and getting better at it are two different things.”

“Then I’ll do [Swift Movement], and you don’t.”

Kiri smirked. “Okay.”

Erick ended the spar on the floor again, but it took Kiri ten minutes to accomplish.

Erick stood. “Again.”

And again, and again, and again.

When the day was done, Erick said to Kiri, “I won’t be here tomorrow.”

“Everyone’s talking about it. A full day a rain, eh?”

“Yeah. The farms are prepared for a great harvest. A lot of people have tilled their own plots of land to see what kind of beans sprout. I won’t do this often; this might be the only time it happens.”

Kiri nodded. “How does it work, anyway?”

“A lot of nutrients plants need are already in the air. The spell converts those into usable form, and then provides everything needed for a good [Grow].”

“That’s what I’ve heard. I thought there might have been more to it.”

Erick smiled wide. “Of course there is. A lot more.”

“Such as?”

“A lot of magic.”

Kiri harrumphed.
