Someone tried to kill me with magic that I’ve never seen. The options are the guild, someone within the guild working for the demons, or the demons themselves. I don’t think someone planted anything on me, but I just don’t have any way to tell.

Every single aspect of my armor should have been checked over by dozens of people, which means all of them had to have been involved somehow. Hell, the head of the guild literally handed me the armor and confirmed it was prepared and ready on the day I set out for what should have been my final battle. He was the last one to check it.

Sure, something could have gotten changed while I was headed to battle, but I don’t think anyone got that close to me. I can’t believe I’m thinking this, but I think the guild – or someone with a lot of influence in it – must have been heavily involved.

But, if it really was them, then, my very existence proves their lies, and they’ll definitely kill again to keep me silent. Even if it’s just a few people at the top – I can’t handle them yet. When I was at the peak of my power, perhaps I could have. But now… I’ll need to lay low until I can regain my strength.

There was no more delaying it. He had to see how much had changed. Arwin finally reached out to the Mesh. The sentient magic that permeated the entire world, rewarding those who sought to advance their strength and sought challenge, had been one of the only constants in his life.

And, as it always had, the Mesh responded. Glowing golden letters, visible to only him, traced through the air before him.

Name: Arwin Tyrr

Class: Living Forge (Unique) (Tier: Apprentice 1)

Skills:

[Awaken] (Passive) – All items forged by your hand have the potential to Awaken. In addition, they have the potential to take on a trait, determined by [Unknown]. The potential for the trait to be detrimental scales inversely with your Tier. It is currently [80%]

Titles:

[Scourge] – You have faced an entire army in combat and emerged victorious. Your physical strength can be significantly intensified at the cost of magical energy.

[Indomitable Bulwark] – You have withstood a blow that would have leveled a city. Damage from all attacks is reduced significantly.

[The Hungering Maw] – An enormous burst of energy has permanently infused you with magic, but not without cost. You must consume magical objects or items to survive. Consuming an item temporarily grants you some of its properties.

Achievements:

[Broken Bearer of Last Light] – Awarded for meeting the conditions of [Sunset]. You survived an explosion that could have leveled a city. Effects: Class Changed to Living Forge. All other Achievements and competing Titles have been consumed. This Achievement will be consumed upon advancing your tier.

Arwin’s hand dropped. His class and skills were gone, replaced by what seemed to be some form of craftsman class. His Tier was back to Apprentice. The vast majority of his Titles – gone as well. He didn’t have any Achievements left, but at least that wasn’t a surprise, as they were consumable and weren’t meant to stick around. But, on top of everything else, he’d gained a new Title that forced him to consume magical items in order to survive.

And yet… the Class was almost exactly what he had once hoped for. A chance to create rather than to destroy. Even though he hadn’t actually chosen Living Forge, it was as if the Mesh had known what he desired.

Actually, that’s likely exactly what happened. The Mesh gives rewards that let you upgrade your class or skills whenever you get Achievements or Titles. This was my reward for completing the purpose I’ve been pursuing ever since coming here. The actual class must have come from that achievement, Sunset… but why this particular one? I’ve never had interest in Blacksmithing before, though I’ve always loved the idea of being a creator.

Perhaps it had to do with all the armor and weaponry that I had on me. I did have an extensive presence in helping make my weapons and armor, so perhaps that strongly influenced it. I certainly can’t complain.

I’m finally free. And, so long as the guild doesn’t find out I survived, I can figure out what happened. And, if they really did betray me, I can tear them down from the inside out… after I rebuild my own life. They’ll pay, but I’m not dying for a cause again. Besides, I need a damn break.

As for the Hungering Maw passive… it’s problematic right now, but it’s clearly tied deeply to the class itself. That means, if I get stronger, I’ll be able to upgrade the passive and get more out of it than just temporary boons. The potential is ridiculous.

For the first time in his twenty-five years of life, he felt unburdened. For everyone else, the war was still going. It bore the promise of power and riches, and the draw was too great to resist for many adventurers.

But, for him, the war was over. He’d done his part, and they’d turned on him. As to why, he didn’t know. At the moment, he didn’t particularly care. Arwin started to laugh. It was on that day, covered in mud and crouched in a dark alley cackling like a madman, that the true Hero of Lian died. The man that rose in his place was simply Arwin. There was only the man who would forge his new life one hammer blow at a time.

Arwin didn’t get to enjoy his newfound freedom for long, though. Even as his laughter echoed out, the burning pain in his stomach intensified. His face creased in pain and he doubled over, drawing in a ragged breath.

Through squinted eyes, he could just barely make out the glowing words of the Mesh taking form before his eyes.

[The Maw within you hungers for power. If you do not consume a magical item within 1 hour, your body will collapse.]

Arwin stared at the glowing words with dread. He shoved his hands into his pockets, but he already knew what he would find. They were empty. Arwin didn’t have a single thing of worth to his name.

In fact, the only thing he did have of worth was his name – and if he used it anywhere, the guild would come for him. He grit his teeth, waving the words away and turning away from the inn to stumble into a dark alleyway nearby.

I might be in trouble.
