“Yes and no.” Ren said, and explained about what happened at the mine, then told her about the stained glass windows he'd made.

“They're really pretty.” Barbara said. “Even the two that are all fire.”

“I'll have to check out the footage later.” Denise said. “I assume you'll have to go back to the mine first thing?”

Ren nodded. “Missing a day right after starting again was not the best thing to do.”

“Nonsense.” Barbara said. “I was really proud that you got out of there before anything happened.”

“Me, too.” Denise said and put a hand on his arm. “I'm glad you didn't try to go through with the examination.”

“You... you are?” Ren asked, surprised.

“Of course I am.” Denise smiled and took her hand back. “You didn't foolishly throw yourself into a traumatizing situation, Ren.” She said. “You didn't know how you would handle anything that might happen, and you did the wise thing and left instead.”

Ren took a breath and let it out. “Thanks.” He said, and looked at Barbara. “Thank you.”

Barbara smiled. “You don't have to be stupidly brave all the time.”

Ren chuckled, and shook his head. “Stupidly brave?”

“There's brave; like walking away from a bad encounter.” Barbara said. “Then there's stupidly brave; where you jump in and never consider the consequences... to either yourself or others.”

“Hey, when have I been stupidly brave?”

Barbara didn't say anything, and Ren looked at Denise.

“When that man broke your finger at the mall, for one.” She said, and Ren's eyes widened.

“Wh-what?” Ren said. “I thought you meant in the game!”

“It can be any situation, anywhere.” Denise said. “Not just virtual.”

“But... but if I didn't stop him...”

“You didn't have to grab his arm.” Barbara said. “You could have hollered, or waved your arms to get someone else's attention.” She sat by the bed and took his hand. “I'm not saying what you did was wrong.” She explained. “Just that there were other choices that you could have made.”

“But...”

“It worked out, probably better than any other choice might have.” Denise said. “But it could have been really bad.”

“Listen.” Ren sighed. “I can't promise that if any situation like that ever comes up, that I won't do the exact same thing again.” He looked at Barbara, then at Denise. “I won't second guess myself over what might have happened the last time, either.” He shook his head. “There's no point to that. What happened happened, and that's it. I can't go back and change it; and I wouldn't even if I could.”

“Ren...” Barbara started to say.

“No.” Ren said. “I'll take your advice. I'll try my best to not get into anything that could cause that type of situation; but, I also won't predetermine what my decision would be in some situation that might never come up again.” He said. “And that's all I have to say about that.”

Denise looked at Barbara, and then back at Ren.

“I'd like to have breakfast now, if it's not too much trouble.” Ren said. “I've got a bit of time before therapy, and I'd like to have the food in my stomach for a while before going in there.” He sighed. “I'm not looking forward to this session one bit.”

It was Denise's turn to sigh. “I'm not as good at intervention like Stella is, Ren.” She said. “I'm sorry.”

Ren smiled. “It's not your fault that Stella can handle men without them realizing she's handling them.”

“She's one of a kind, that's for sure.” Denise said. “I'll be right back with breakfast.”

Denise left the room, and Barbara still held onto Ren's hand.

“I can't intervene either.” Barbara said. “I'm even worse at it than Denise.”

“That's okay.” Ren said. “If I had a choice of dealing with the therapist or avoiding him, I'd definitely avoid him every time.”

“I know.” Barbara said. “We've talked to him several times already; but, he just doesn't understand.”

“I don't think he wants to.” Ren squeezed her hand. “He probably thinks he can cure me if he just keeps working on me.” He sighed. “It's just too bad that he's wrong.”

Barbara sighed. “I'm sorry, Ren.”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “Me, too.”

Denise came in with his breakfast, and Barbara had to let his hand go so he could eat. It didn't take long for him to finish, and Denise took the tray away. Ren slid out of bed and took his workout clothes out from the top drawer of the dresser. He changed fairly quickly and put his pajamas in the small hamper by the dresser, then climbed back up onto the bed to sit and wait. If Ren's guess about the therapist was right, and after Stella had kept the therapist at bay yesterday and barely let him touch Ren at all...

Today's physical therapy session was going to be pure hell.
