Calen blinked away the additional notifications. Not now! He grabbed his bow, aiming at the nearest rat while Mato growled and rushed forward.

“Oh no! Sorry!” The light voice that cut through the imminent battle had a strange melodic accent and sounded familiar.

To his astonishment, the two rats immediately stood down and retreated to flank Aliandra who stood near the shrine, her bare feet upon a new lush carpet of green moss and a chagrined expression on her face.

Calen stood on guard for a few moments, but the rats stubbornly refused to attack anyone. Lowering his bow, he stepped forward.

[Explorer] You have entered a dungeon.

Why is this skill so noisy?

“I’m sorry about that,” Aliandra said, allowing him to connect the source of the unusual accent.

How did she learn to speak so quickly? Must be a skill.

“You can talk now, little one?” Mato growled, as his form changed back to Beastkin, echoing Calen’s thoughts.

“Yes, I can.” The reply was accompanied by a frown. “And I’m not little, you’re just huge.”

Mato simply burst out laughing – a response that was so typically him that Calen almost rolled his eyes. The loud belly laugh startled both girls, but soon they were grinning, too.

“I like you. I’m Mato. Glad to finally be able to meet you properly.”

Calen had lost Identify when he had affixed his class, the general skill subsumed by Explorer, but he could still identify people by using the more advanced class skill.

Mage [Ancient] – Fae – level 4[Explorer]Race: FaeThreat Level: NormalDamage: Arcane, NatureMonk [Street Rat] – Human – level 4[Explorer]Race: Human (Ahn Khen)Threat Level: NormalDamage: Physical, Soul

Now, this looks useful, he thought, studying the new notifications. Must have happened when Explorer leveled up. There was some variation, the information his skill provided was a little different for the Sewer Rats – they had a ‘category’ and a ‘monster type’. Hopefully, it doesn’t get too distracting in battle.

Calen put his pack down on the clean mossy ground and pulled out the two bundles his mother had given him when he left earlier. He handed one to Aliandra and then the other to Malika.

“What is this?” With a look of suspicion flickering across her face, Malika opened it to reveal the shirt and pants his mother had crafted from a dark brown rugged cotton fabric. “I can’t accept this,” she said, trying to hand it back. “I have no money to pay you.”

Aah. He had sort of expected something like this after his mother’s strange suggestion. Doesn’t like being in debt? Or just dislikes charity?

“My mom is a Tailor, and she insisted on making you two something as a small thank-you gift for helping me survive the trial. She was very worried about me.”

The hard expression on Malika’s face immediately softened and she looked again at the clothing in her hands.

“I’m supposed to apologize that I can’t guess your sizes, so the fit is probably off. She wanted to invite you to stop by the store when you’re in town and she can make a better set.”

“This is really well made,” Malika said, running her hands over the stitching as she admired the craftsmanship. And then in a much softer voice, perhaps not intended to carry, she added, “Expensive, too.”

“It’s not like you have much choice,” Mato chipped in with his blunt directness. “What you’re wearing is about to fall off. And Aliandra’s shirt is more dirt and dried blood than cloth.”

The last remnants of reticence evaporated, and he and Mato turned around and sat on the moss so that the girls could change behind the shrine.

It was while he sat talking with Mato that he realized the strange discomfort and sense of premonition he had when he had entered the cavern had somehow magically disappeared.

It didn’t take long for Aliandra and Malika to change. The fit was clearly too big, particularly on Aliandra, but they both emerged with smiles on their faces, happy to have clean clothing that wasn’t hanging in tatters. Aliandra had simply put a big knot in the shirt so that it didn’t hang below her knees, and Malika had turned up the hem on her pants to shorten the length a bit.

Ouch. That’s why I am not a Tailor.

“So, what happened?” Calen asked, his curiosity burning inside him. At the surprised looks, he elaborated. “How can you control rats? How can you talk now? Where did all this come from?” He pointed at the moss they were sitting on.

“And you reached level four already!” Mato added. He was smiling, but Calen could tell his excitement for them was tinged with just a little jealousy.

“Ali is a summoner,” Malika supplied, and Aliandra nodded.

Ali? Calen glanced at Aliandra in surprise, wondering how the tiny Fae had managed to bypass Malika’s impregnable defensive walls, getting on friendlier terms in such a short time.

“I summoned these two,” Aliandra said, patting the rat that was following her around like a puppy, albeit a giant one that was nearly taller than she was. Then she sat and began to explain a little about her class, and all that happened, filling in the details of how she had gotten here, which Calen noticed Malika seemed to already know.
