“Do you think it will work that way?” he asked, hoping that his friend would agree. Calen preferred to downplay his intellect, but Mato knew from experience that he was extraordinarily smart.

Calen remained silent for a while as they continued down the dark sewer passage, with just the soft plinking of dripping water breaking the silence. Eventually, he answered. “Yes, it should work like you say. They should all benefit each other.”

“But?” Mato could tell that Calen had more to say, but probably wouldn’t share unless prompted.

“Mato, I think your Primal Rage is a dangerous skill.”

Mato sighed. Why does nobody like my most powerful skill? It’s really strong!

Surprisingly, Calen stopped walking and continued. “It’s a passive Berserker skill, Mato. You won’t be able to turn it off. I’m just worried you will lose control.”

“I’ll be fine. I’m used to being angry in fights.” Mato pressed his lips and frowned, bristling a little inside. Everyone thinks I can’t handle it.  So far, everyone he had shared his skill with had warned him about it. First his mother, and now Calen too. “I know what I’m doing. Besides, it’s the same as my dad’s skill.”

While Calen didn’t seem to be happy about it, he didn’t press the issue, for which Mato was grateful.

“What do you think of the bear and the wolf forms?” Mato asked.

“Those both seem quite powerful,” Calen said. “I think you should use the bear for now, until we have someone else to tank for you. Your wolf’s Pack Tactics and Hamstring will synergize better with a bigger group.”

They continued in companionable silence, their footsteps echoing through the dank tunnels as Calen’s magic held back the darkness. He guessed they were probably halfway to the rockfall before Mato finally broke the silence again.

“How are you liking your class?”

“It’s really strong,” Calen answered thoughtfully. “Eclipse seems like a powerful stealth skill, but I’m struggling to figure out how I will use the rest of my skills with it. Everything I have involves Light magic, which breaks stealth obviously.” He pointed up at the mote of light that floated up near the roof of the tunnel, silently following along with them.

“I’m sure you’ll figure it out,” Mato answered. “You always do.”

“That’s no help,” Calen responded.

“At least people will notice you with all the light magic,” Mato quipped. “You’re on your way to becoming as legendary as Lyeneru.”

Calen sighed, and Mato grinned.

Mato couldn’t help teasing him, but in truth, he was happy Calen had unlocked a class that seemed very powerful. It would do him good – and having a problem to focus on typically was what made him happiest in the long run.

Mato was still chuckling to himself when he turned a corner to find a lone spider roaming the tunnel, startling both of them.

Giant Spider – level 1 (Hostile)

“Spider!” Mato called out, alerting Calen, while he triggered his shapeshift. His body twisted and warped, pulling his muscles while his limbs changed shape. It wasn’t a painful experience, exactly, but having your bones twist and grow while still inside you wasn’t exactly comfortable either. His body grew heavier, pressing down upon the slick brick floor as the denser muscle and thicker bone of his new form settled onto large, clawed paws. As soon as he assumed the form of his bear, he used his Charge. Heavy though he was, an exhilarating sense of unstoppable power coursed through his body, accelerating him to an unbelievable speed as he tore across the broken, crumbling brick of the sewer toward the shiny, black Giant Spider.

It screeched as he smashed the spider into the wall using the full force of his weight and the momentum of his Charge. Pain burst through his shoulder as the spider lashed out sinking its black fangs into him, but he simply ignored it, his fur and heavy hide sufficient to blunt the damage significantly. He channeled a little stamina into his Swipe skill and lashed out with a heavy paw. Power and energy rushed through him, accelerating his claws into a horizontal sweeping attack. A satisfyingly loud crack echoed off the damp brick as his paw smashed into the spider with chitin-crushing force.

A spray of dark ichor drenched the side of his face.

He shook it off, grinning as he shifted a little to the side to give Calen a clearer shot and attacked again. This time, as he spent his stamina to power a second Swipe, he also spent some mana on his Brutal Restoration skill, attaching the healing support skill to the Swipe. He didn’t have a better explanation for how he did it, only that it felt intuitive, like asking the second skill to enhance the first. A brief flicker of green light burst out from where his claws connected, lighting up the tunnel, and reflecting off the shiny carapace. His claws tore through the chitin armor easily, ripping through it with sheer physical force and the additional burst of nature magic. As soon as the strike landed, warm magic flowed back through his body, beginning to heal the bite.

Hissing loudly, the Giant Spider lunged forward and sunk its sharp mandibles into his shoulder again. His thick hide and fur prevented it from penetrating far, which was a little disappointing. It felt like he could sense a little increase in power from his Primal Rage, but it wasn’t particularly noticeable yet, and his restoration magic was quickly erasing the damage anyway. He frowned, looking for some way to use his Arboreal Sanctuary to power his Primal Rage. But Calen wasn’t taking any damage, so there was nothing to steal.

Doesn’t matter, he thought, thoroughly enjoying the feeling of power that came from stacking his Swipe with Brutal Restoration, and how tough he felt with the additional armor and weight of his shapeshifted Bear Form.

A blindingly bright streak of light shot down the sewer tunnel, followed rapidly by a second and a third, as Calen joined the fight, firing arrows lit with magic that punched into the side of the spider. It didn’t last too long after that.

Your group has defeated Giant Spider – level 1.Swipe has reached level 2.

“That was much easier,” he said after shifting back to normal, recalling the first time he had faced one of these spiders.

“Yes,” Calen agreed, a hint of a smile playing across his reserved face.

He checked quickly but found that his Brutal Restoration had continued healing him, albeit slowly, and now that it was over, he was back to full health already. Well, that’s handy. It certainly would cut down on recovery time between fights.

Curious about the change he had seen with Identify right before the fight, he pulled up the description of his skill.

Identify – level 4Mana: Discern information about a creature or item up to level 5 [class + skill]. Synergizes with any relevant Perception, Knowledge, or Information skills. Synergy (Languages): Identify can display disposition for beasts.Knowledge, Perception

That explains it, he thought, realizing it was his new beast ‘language’ that had come with his class that was providing additional information on his Identify skill. Spiders were beasts.

Does that mean I could learn to talk to them? he wondered. Although, how intelligent could a level-one spider that lived in the sewer really be?

Calen

That was far easier, Calen thought, his eyes lingering on the ichor and crushed chitin of the black spider before searching the darkness up ahead for anything that might have been attracted to the noise. Quickly, he extracted his spent arrows from the corpse, wiping them clean of viscous green goop before returning the undamaged ones to his quiver. The rest he tucked into his pack for later repairs.

The contrast between this fight and the last battle they had fought in the cave against the wolf pack stood starkly in his mind. Yesterday, he had barely survived, and today, with a new class, he hadn’t even gotten winded, let alone hurt. It was really no contest.

With Mato taking the front line and tanking, and even healing himself, all Calen had to do was make sure his skills were all properly aligned and powered – and that he was using them correctly. It wasn’t even tough to use both Radiant Archery and Arrows of Brilliance simultaneously. The spider had died fast – faster than he had expected.

One of those wolves was level five, though, he warned himself soberly. And it led a group. This had been a solo level-one spider. The true test would come later when they faced a similar challenge together. But still, Calen was excited. His class fit him; in some indefinable way he couldn’t really articulate.

Up ahead, Mato began to move on down the dark tunnel, but Calen hesitated, frowning a bit. That berserker skill… It hadn’t seemed to be a problem in the fight against the Giant Spider, so perhaps Mato did know what he was doing. Still, it didn’t sit easily with him.

He stepped forward, putting his unease away for later, and followed his friend down the sewer tunnel, tracking the path by memory. It was a marvel: Explorer’s description simply said he had an enhanced spatial perception and perfect recall of the places he had explored. But the experience of it was something else. He could ‘see’ the sewers as if he was studying a map in his head. A perfect map, with depth and color. One he could mentally traverse in an instant. If he had his notebook and pencil, he was certain he could transcribe it in detail.

So it was that when he turned the next corner, he knew exactly where he was. The chamber with the cracked and crumbling floor that had collapsed out from under them in the middle of the fight against the rats, dumping them into the undiscovered cavern below. With a simple application of his will, he sent his Mote of Light on ahead, diving down through the hole to illuminate the rope still dangling there, and the trickle of foul sewer water pouring down onto the rock pile below.

As he followed Mato down the rope, that same prickling sense of unease returned, only stronger now.

What is that?

He had dismissed the sensation before as simple anxiety or unease at the dark cavern, but there was definitely something uncanny or strange in this space that had not been present in the sewer above.

Something like a premonition. Though he didn’t usually put much stock in things like that. It must just be the sense of age and decay.

His foot reached the rocks below and he released the rope. And on his next step, the sound of a chime startled him.

Explorer has reached level 3.

“What’s wrong?” Mato asked, shifting alertly as if reacting to some unseen danger.

“I’m not sure,” he answered, “I have a strange feeling down here.”

“Yep, it’s weird alright. Nature seems screwed up in here.”

It’s not just me.

Still, he saw nothing obviously out of place, so Calen dismissed it for now, instead turning on the tracking ability of his Explorer skill, happy to find their own tracks from before. Mato shifted into his Wolf Form beside him and then they headed out into the cavern with his magic lighting the way. He kept his bow at the ready, eyes searching the vast darkness beyond the light, always ready for monsters or danger.

Explorer has reached level 4.

He gaped at the notification. What’s making it level up so quickly?

He stopped, scanning his surroundings once more. But other than an enormous pile of bleached bones near a blackened stump, he couldn’t see anything that might shed light on his conundrum. He scratched his head and studied the tracks. As expected, they had grown more detailed and clearer with his skill level rising, but other than the prickling premonition growing similarly stronger, nothing seemed to be amiss.

Just as he was about to continue, his chime sounded again.

[Explorer] You have entered a dungeon.

He felt a sudden ice-cold chill as his premonition crystallized.

“Mato… I figured out what it is. This is a dungeon.” His eyes darted back and forth, scanning every single dark nook and cranny he could see, searching for the monsters that surely lurked just beyond his sight.

Mato’s body warped as he shifted back to his Beastkin form. “So?”

Calen stared at Mato blankly. Does he not know what this means? “What do you mean, ‘so’? Dungeons are extremely dangerous.”

“Yes, yes. They have monsters and stuff,” Mato answered, standing nearby and studying their surroundings before turning back to look at him. “I don’t see why you’re worried. We already know this place has monsters. I’m not surprised it’s a dungeon.”

Calen pressed his lips together, keeping his thoughts to himself. There were some things Mato was simply not interested in, and when he got like that, there was no convincing him. In Mato’s mind, the terrifying revelation that they were in a dungeon seemed to be a non-event, and Calen knew he would not be able to convince him otherwise.

He probably just sees it as more monsters to fight.

Calen continued, following the map in his head, and the tracks and landmarks across that dark cavern, deep in thought. He glanced at Mato, but the wolf seemed to move with a barely contained energy, almost like he was excited. Who can I tell? Likely this discovery explained many of the frequent monster attacks in town – the Kobolds and spiders, and sometimes slimes or rats that would appear somewhere in town, or the outlying farmlands, and cause chaos and destruction until someone found a high enough level person with a combat class to exterminate them. Nobody had figured out where they were coming from yet.

Also, wasn’t there something about the excess mana from a dungeon affecting nearby people?

He shivered.

***

They approached the small cave where they had sheltered from the wolf pack without further incident, but as they approached, Calen could clearly see that it was deserted. The dirt by the entrance was busy with a multitude of crisscrossing tracks.

That’s weird. There were quite a few tracks that must have been Malika and Aliandra coming and going. Aliandra’s tiny feet were quite obvious, but there were also monster tracks mixed in among them, fresh claw marks from the large Sewer Rats, and Calen couldn’t figure out which was hunting which.

“Looks like the tracks head to the shrine area,” Calen said, letting Mato know what he had found. “Keep alert, there are some rat tracks, too.”

His friend nodded and shifted back to his Wolf Form, and they headed out toward the shrine.

As soon as they entered the Grove area that contained the shrine, they were greeted with a hiss and a screech, and two monstrous Sewer Rats charged.

Sewer Rat – level 1-2 x2.[Explorer]Category: MinionThreat Level: NormalMonster Type: BeastDamage: Physical

