The air was almost dry in feeling, but it was also filled with different manas of all kinds, along with something like a Domain. Maybe tens of tiny Domains, actually. Erick had trouble understanding what he was feeling, but he rapidly recognized that his mana senses and various other sensing capabilities only went out to about a hundred meters in every open direction, and maybe a meter into the ground. Beyond all that was either a density of confusion that prevented all mana senses, or a Domain underground that prevented everything.

There was power here. Erick trusted his mana sense about as much as anyone could trust their mana sense in an unknown environment filled with odd Domains and strong powers, which meant not much at all.

Visually, the place was much more understandable.

Erick stood upon grasslands wide enough to build a city or two, but Erick wouldn’t really call it ‘grassland’. More like a forest clearing. Everywhere on every horizon there were trees of all colors and shapes, not a single one looking like the other one, except in the most general of ways. And then there was the ten-thousand kilometer tall tree that towered above all the rest. It was gold and green and shimmery, and mostly dark.

Crystal buildings rose in the distance, beyond much more normal-sized trees. The grass was soft under Erick’s bare feet while the lights of ten suns, each of a different color that added up to white, were warm upon Erick’s face. More suns shone beyond the canopy of that tree for sure, but they were beyond Erick’s sight.

The very second the ceiling evaporated and the walls fell to the sides, Jeremy’s personal spa space suit disintegrated and he sprouted wings and dashed fast into the grasslands, eager to get far away. Two people waited outside of the silver chamber. Other people were in the distance, completely disconnected from this event right here, with Erick. They flitted around like they were fairies, which they probably were. Only two people mattered right now, though.

A little pink boy fairy, about a meter tall, floated on pink sparkles beyond a corner of the room.

A shadowy girl fairy, the size of a normal person and wearing greys and blacks, stood on the grass beside pinkie. She had no wings. She looked almost normal, except her ears were pointed and her face structure was distinctly fae.

Pinkie announced, “I have your person right here!”

“You still owe me, Parando,” said the shadowy person.

“What! No!” Parando said, “I paid off my debt to you, too. This guy is an Ascendant arisen from your shitty little cosmology. I found him for you!”

Erick rapidly churned through that information and, assuming that what the guy said earlier was true, and since fairies never lie directly because it physically hurts them, Erick said, “He still owes you because he responded to a normal Call, as his duty requires of him.”

The shadowy person grinned wide and stared Parando down.

Parando went wide-eyed. He began to back away. “… n—”

Shadow ate Parando as one would eat something that was already inside one’s mouth. Erick wasn’t sure, exactly, how she did it, but that’s what she did. And then she looked at Erick. “You’re the real deal then. An Ascended risen from Veird?”

“Technically yes.”

“… I don’t like that ‘technically’.”

Erick said, “And I don’t like that Nothanganathor is apparently enabled by this ‘Margleknot’.”

“… I like that about you. You might work anyway. I aim to kill the bastard that unmade my universe, and you’re going to help.”

‘Her’ universe?

Ah.

Erick saw a familial resemblance now.

“Would you happen to be Shadow?”

Erick hadn’t said that name with so much emphasis; it had merely happened that way. Saying it like that had done something weird to Shadow. She puffed up a little bit, everything about her deepening and thrumming, and then she became herself once again. It was as though a cloud had passed overhead, even though there weren’t clouds anywhere.

Shadow looked at Erick, and… started to say something, but then she Looked at him, and said, “Oh. You’re a great grandchild, or something. Then I’m glad I ate Parando! Bastard should have seen that before I did. I should eat him again when he reforms… And I think I will.” She asked, “So are the dragons not doing the whole scales and wings thing? Base human-shape these days? But with the horns? I like the horns. Come on. Let’s let great granny gran gran get you settled into Margleknot. We got a lot of shit to cover to take down Nothanganathor, and most of it is the intractable bureaucracy of this shitty place.”

“… It’s nice to meet you, Shadow. I fear you are operating under some misunderstandings, but we can clear them up. Fairy Moon and Gregarious are doing well now, if you wish to know more about them.”

Shadow hummed, then said, “I probably am operating under misunderstandings. I put too much of myself into that universe and you didn’t return any power or memory to me like you should have... Okay. Well. Moving on. Good to know about mom and dad.” Shadow gestured at the city in the distance, walking, saying, “So who the fuck are you?”

Erick felt a surreal bit of joy as he walked with Shadow, the main creator of the universe that Veird had come from, saying, “Erick Flatt, Wizard of Benevolence, Apparent King, Gatemaster, and planar from Earth, not from Veird.”

Shadow froze. She said to Erick, “That’s all good, but that last part? Leave that out.”

“No. I’m not going to lie, and especially not to fae.”

“… Shit. Fuck.” Shadow scowled and walked, saying, “Okay. Okay. I can work with this— You’re still a part of my Old Cosmology, obviously, or else you shouldn’t have been able to reach Veird—” She rounded on him. “You’re not some space-faring human person who goes around mucking up other people’s universes, are you?”

“Not to my knowledge. Are you a space-faring fae who goes around mucking with souls and Darkness in order to create universes?”

“I have been known to do this from time to time.” Shadow smirked. “You got any other names? The only one unique to you is probably the Benevolence one and ‘Apparent King’ and your base name, none of which matter to me. I don’t know Urth.”

“People kept calling me Xoat.”

Shadow hummed. “He’s long dead. You’re probably not him. If you are then that would be good for us against Nothanganathor, but you’re probably not him.”

Erick nodded, then said, “So we sort of skipped past introductions back there and I assumed you were Shadow. But who are you, exactly?”

“Some fae will try to trick you like those ones back there, but I never will as long as we’re on the same side.”

“That’s not good enough. Claim the mantle on your own, if you can.”

“A task easily done.” Shadow kept walking, intoning, “I am the Daughter of the King and Queen of a Realm Beyond Mortality. I stole a painting of two possibilities from the Prince’s workshop and made a universe out of them. A universe which became a remnant. A remnant which became your genesis.

“I was not born Shadow,” Shadow said, her stride evening out, her back straightening, everything about her changing from commoner to Power in Truth, though nothing physically changed at all. “I became Shadow in the Truth of my own creation.

“I claim the mantle of your partial progenitor. I claim the mantle of creator of the Painted Cosmology, of the founder of the Radiant Depths, of the splitter of the Crack Between Worlds, of the spiller of the Blue Ocean, of the adventuring queen and scoundrel king, of the older prince and the youngest daughter and distant cousin who leaves a letter that starts you on an adventure, of the Warrior, the Mage, the Wizard, the Shade, the Priest. The mother of dragons. The father of leviathans. I claim the progenitor of your draconic shape, and of the founder of your ultimate rise to power as an Ascended.

“I claim all this for myself, and you would be wise to heed my words and my wisdom in our joint effort to erase Nothanganathor and his Malevolence from our reality, for in your Ascension you have tied yourself to myself and my cause. For this time, for this future, we are as one in purpose: To stoke the fires of our Shared Existence and spread into Infinity, while burning down all who oppose our Glory.”

The world had taken on a shadowy quality as Shadow spoke, which Erick suspected was either on purpose or simply a side effect of her expression of her True Self. When she was done, her clothes were finer. The suns were brighter and shadows deeper. Darkness loomed in the hidden gloom.

Erick said, “I appreciate the actual introduction.”

“Yes. We probably should have done that first but I am rather excited about you being here. Do you know anything of what is happening to Veird? In truth? Also, you’re handling this very well. Have you been Ascended for long? I can’t imagine you have been Ascended for very long. Nothanganathor eats everyone he can.” Shadow scowled, saying, “He is breaking all the rules of his stewardship by doing that, but I haven’t been able to prove it to the satisfaction of the Enclave. Hopefully you can prove it for me.”

Erick processed Shadow’s gush of information and said, “I know some of what is happening with Nothanganathor, but not completely. I have been ascended for maybe several hours, or months. Time got wonky back there. How does time work here? Depending on how time works here we can either have this conversation long, or short. I do need to get back with allies and erase Nothanagnathor from existence.” He stressed, “I do not care for the bureaucracy of this place, if it empowers Nothanganathor. If I need to, I will purge whoever I need to purge.”

Shadow smiled wide. “Love that attitude, but we’re not tackling the Big Problems right now. You have Ascended from Veird, and thus Nothanganathor is going to come back and try to smack you down once again, and we need to get ahead of that. I wish to save my universe and rekindle that fire to once again grow large and cast deep shadows. Do you agree with the general thrust of this plan?”

“… Tentatively.”

“Good.” Shadow waved a hand. “Time is relative; don’t worry about it. For us Ascended, we spend exactly as much time in Margleknot as we need. Time has been fluidly frozen for me ever since the Sundering. I have failed to win against Nothanganathor in the courts for ten thousand years, or maybe just a summer. Probably closer to the former than the latter. How long has passed on Veird since the Sundering? 7,400 years? More than 10,000?”

Erick relaxed a fraction, his tension fading slightly. With that sort of time dilation there was no true need to get back to Veird, because, yeah, he was a Paradox Wizard. Time was navigable now. Theoretically. “It’s only been 1452 years since the Sundering, though with the Forgotten Campaigns erasing memories and probably time, it might have been more than that.”

“Ah…” Shadow frowned a little. She looked at Erick. “What is this about ‘Forgotten Campaigns’?”

“I get the distinct impression that you are not allowed to truly see or know Veird. Is this correct?”

Shadow went silent. “… I suppose we should start with bringing you up to speed, and then you can tell me your own story. I’ve argued myself to every color of face against the Enclave, so it doesn’t really matter if I get news of My Everything until later.” She glared at Erick. “But mark me now, Erick Flatt. I will have complete news of Veird before we go into court.”

Erick usually had a position of ‘trust, and then let them break trust first’. But that was a bad idea with fae. They would always break trust at the worst possible time for you, which would always be the best possible time for them. Giving Shadow the trust of a true alliance was not on the table right now, even though Erick needed allies.

“You’ll have as much news as I feel like giving.”

“… I agree to this.” And then Shadow sighed. “I suppose I’ll give you a lesson on Margleknot before all the rest, too. We have as much time as it takes.”

“I assume that if this all works out in our favor, that we end up going back to Veird with some sort of army or mandate to eliminate Nothanganathor?”

Shadow smiled, cackling slightly, her fangs glinting in her wide maw. “That’s one of my major goals.”

“And what is your ultimate goal?” Erick asked, Lightning Path flickering, demanding to be grounded. “Are we truly on the same side?”

Shadow’s voice gained an eternal depth as she shared her very Truth, “To experience everything everywhere forevermore, with possibilities expanding or closing or becoming or ending, to help and harm, to raise and collapse, to bring forth and to banish, and to grow. To grow. To grow.”

A Dark wind flowed.

The suns shone brightly.

And Shadow stared into Erick’s soul, asking, “What is your ultimate goal?”

Erick stared her right back. “For the good of all, and every individual, we give assistance to those in need and do what we must to prevent apocalypse before it happens, to found and cultivate an evergrowing cycle of less war, less horror, and more hope, for now, and for all always.”

Moments passed.

“… Hmm.” Shadow said, “That’s a good one. Did my Father help you with that? Or did Mother? Sounds like something Father would say more than would Mother.”

“She did.”

Shadow smirked a little. “Nice to meet you, Erick Flatt. This is how you get around Margleknot.” She stopped walking and stood still. She raised a hand to the air, straight up, palm flat, saying, “Attention Margleknot. This one requests travel from this Timeless Forest to The Mortal Lands, just outside of the Dragon District.”

Words appeared.

Acknowledged.

Fairy Goddess Shadow detected. Unknown Ascended detected.

Priority Scan of new Ascended demanded.

Scan complete.

Request denied.

Orders: Shadow to depart. New Ascended to wait for the next portal.

The words faded and a portal of spinning green and gold appeared. Most of the land beyond was obscured by the swirling power of the portal, but Erick could see tall dark crystal buildings and bright lights and people everywhere. Erick had been walking with Shadow toward the very same arrangement of crystal buildings the distance beyond the grasslands of this forest.

So there had been no need to walk at all?

Was the walking just so that Shadow could talk to him before she summoned the portal? Probably. Whatever the case, it seemed that Erick and Shadow would be parting ways right now, due to whatever machinations of Margleknot were happening behind the scenes. Kinda surprising, but not too surprising in retrospect.

