So he turned mortal again, and breathed in air that was only there because he desired it. He breathed out air into the void, expelling a plume of frozen mist. The void between suns nipped at his body, touching his nudity, but otherwise did nothing. Erick floated there for a moment, breathing air that was not there until he made it exist, because of course it existed.

His Status was looking fine; tens of millions of Mana, Health, and Mind. There had been some time dilation in his escape, and probably in all of that entire encounter back there. How much time had passed? No way to know. Erick’s Status still had the same time readout as it had had all this time.

Erick was okay, for now. He almost considered going back to fight Nothanganathor, but that would be foolish indeed. It was probably only a matter of time before the Un-Dragon started making real threats and then following through with those threats, causing actual harm that Erick couldn’t escape.

It was time to proceed to the next phase, and hopefully this wasn’t jumping out of the pan and into the fire. Erick’s Lightning Path said that this was the proper way forward, but it was a weak sort of forward. He could go literally anywhere from here in order to fight Nothanganathor. He could even go back to Veird, to help them directly. Any decision he made right now, except going back to fight, could be the right one.

Erick “#17,212” had survived.

Nothanganathor would probably kill everyone else if Erick didn’t show back up with help.

And so, it was time to get that help.

Preparation first, though.

Erick held out a hand and plucked an iron chain necklace out of his blood, transforming iron into more iron and discarding the rest until he had something usable. He made it to resemble black scales, with a space in the center for a jewel. This piece of jewelry was much rougher than the one that had been his All-Seeing Eye. It still resembled Melemizargo’s or Erick’s own dragon eye, because Erick liked that style. It was a reminder of home.

With his other hand, Erick pulled a much deeper trick, plucking Yggdrasil’s Gift out of nothing, bringing it to himself, because of course it was always with him; Yggdrasil had said so. The white star of power shone with a radiance that was only as strong as Erick’s fingernail now, but Erick loved it anyway; it was a gift from his son. He put the little seed of power into the necklace, turning the Gift into an eye. Doing so dampened the outflow of light from the Gift into something much smaller; more ‘held’ and less ‘displayed’. He put the necklace on and it seemed like a much dimmer piece of him than all the rest, even though he was flesh and bone and nothing else right now.

Erick plucked a hair from his head and transformed it into a little thread of cotton; a minor transmutation, all in all. After copying and weaving that cotton, Erick had some decent clothes fit for a somewhat-king. The fabrics seemed to glow bright in the absolute nothing of the void, but maybe that was simply Erick’s fault.

He needed more.

So Erick shaved off a bit of fingernail and Wizarded it into platinum. One sliver of platinum became many buttons and embroidery and a few small pieces of jewelry. Erick did this because it was important not to appear like a pauper when greeting The Powers That Be.

Erick’s dragon horns were already out, all six points of absolute black jutting up around his head like a crown.

He was ready to make the Call.

He breathed deep the void once more, and then he extended his aura out of his body and began making a little lightward copy of the Veird’s solar system. There was the sun. There was Veird fourth from the sun. There were the other planets. And then he dialed outward. The solar system crashed down to a point of light, and in flowed all the galaxy, shaped like a ring of [Renew]—

The spell took itself over.

The universe crashed down to a uniform grey in every direction, and then it expanded, and expanded, and expanded, and expanded, and expanded, and expanded, and expanded, and expanded—

The grey parted, becoming cosmic strings and then galaxies and then here.

The spell flowed out into Everything and Elsewhere. The Call was made. It would hopefully be answered this time.

If Nothanganathor had seen this —which he probably had— he was probably mad. Good. Erick hoped so. Fuck him.

Erick only really worried about Veird and everyone he knew and loved. And yet, he trusted Veird to survive whatever might be coming their way. FENRIR was damaged, but it was still back there, back in the God Pact reality, and Veird itself was more protected than ever thanks to all those layers of adamantium and new magics surrounding it. Veird had the Lifeblood Heart. It had Solomon. It had dungeons, and soon dungeon slimes would spawn on the upper surfaces and those dungeons would fill with slimes, and fast, which would contribute a lot to any possible upkeep costs that the enlarged Script and Veird might demand.

They’d be fine.

Erick waited.

- - - -

He didn’t have to wait long.

There was a disturbance in the void.

A square of light appeared, like the cracks around a door.

The door opened slowly, invisibly, the ‘door’ not existent at all.

A cautious man appeared on the other side. He was blue-skinned and wearing what looked like normal clothes, except he had a fake half-cape of green leaves falling over his left shoulder. He was also wearing a spacesuit, but it was completely see-through. The suit reminded Erick of one of those home-spa infomercial things that people could buy for installments, wear once, and then promptly never wear ever again. Maybe they’d get to watch a movie while wearing it and it wouldn’t spring a leak, but it’d still be walking around wearing a good hundred pounds of water, and that just didn’t work out like you’d want it to work out.

The guy locked eyes with Erick instantly, but he also looked around, his eyes going wide, his heartbeat spiking. He spoke some words in a language that Erick didn’t know. Erick made a show of looking behind the guy, to the empty space beyond the open door.

The guy hadn’t stepped out at all. He didn’t like Erick looking behind him.

He looked at Erick.

He paused.

And then he bowed, saying something that was probably ‘sorry’, before he closed—

Erick flickered and moved inside of the room. While the guy suddenly panicked, yelling loud as he slammed the door shut—

And suddenly there was air in the room. Erick took a deep breath of real air. It tasted of a clean forest and subtle flowers. There was no manasphere, though. Erick tried to push through the walls and hit a very strong Domain. In the interest of peace, he did not test that Domain. His Lightning Path was telling him to relax a little, but not too much, so that’s what Erick did.

The greeter guy was not relaxed at all, even though Erick wasn’t making any threatening gestures. All these moments the guy had been yelling in some other language at the walls, and now the walls of the silver room were flashing pale red and the guy was freaking out even more.

Erick had thought that the people here would have translation magics, or something like that.

Obviously they did not, or they weren’t using them, so Erick decided to search himself for a spell that he had used many times in the past, but which he hadn’t needed to use much in recent years. It was still a part of his past, though, so Erick did a little ditty in his head, casting magic from another time and place onto himself.

I’m here on an important mission; so in with the clutch, [Language Acquisition].

It’d take a while for the words to start to make sense, but probably not that long—

And now the room was filled with angry words and small ports opened up in the walls and tubes came out and pointed at Erick, while the guy with the leaf half-cape rushed around Erick as much as he could, avoiding the ‘dangerous person’ in the room to bang on the other wall of the room. There was obviously a door on that wall, but it was a seamless door.

Erick just stood where he was. He waited.

More angry words.

Erick said, “Hello. I mean no harm unless you are Nothanganathor’s enablers, and then I mean you all the harm. Or perhaps I can free you from his oppression? I’m probably operating under a lot of misconceptions here, so how about we figure out how to end these misconceptions?”

The red lights stopped flashing somewhere around Erick’s ‘all the harm’. The guns pulled back. Erick finished. The guy stopped banging on the closed door.

An intercom came on and a person with a deep voice spoke in heavily accented, slightly excited, and broken Ecks, “Greetings. Is Veird have Ascended? You Veird? Or not Veird?”

Whatever the person was intending was not coming across much at all. Erick guessed they were enthusiastic about Erick being here? Hard to say.

The guy stuck in the silver box with Erick was not excited at all. He had slumped to the ground, on his knees, his head against the wall. Looking him over again, the guy’s clothes were nice, but not super nice. He was likely a guy thrown out here to the wolves, to whatever had made the Call, which they were —probably— forced to respond to; they did not choose to respond to the Call because it was the right thing to do.

Erick had envisioned the Call as some sort of ‘call up the people in charge’ sort of thing, but the Call was looking more like an emergency SOS, maybe, which required people to respond? These guys were just… normal people. Maybe.

Erick wasn’t going off a whole lot here, so he decided to be truthful. “I am a Wizard who Ascended with the help of Veird.”

The voice was truly excited now, “You Ascended Veird! Okay! You fight fight? Or talk talk?”

“Talk talk.”

“OKAY! Talk talk time! I hand you better talker. You speak Margle? Fluent? Tabarikia? Draconic?”

Erick easily switched to draconic, saying, “Is this the language you mean? This draconic?”

The guy huddling on the floor calmed down and turned. “Oh. Sorry. I—”

“Excellent,” said a third voice. “Hello, greetings, and welcome to the Margleknot Emergency Response Communication Yorddle. MERCY.”

Erick almost asked what a Yorddle was, but he decided to go with the flow.

“… And that answers our first question. You are Ascended; otherwise you would have asked what a yorddle was. To answer your unasked question: a yorddle is a thing that invites communication and responds similarly. It is the mechanism by which you summoned that star map and then ended up pinging us, here at Margleknot.

“There are many cities like Margleknot, but we consider Margleknot the center of the universe.

“You are currently on Layer 0, which is where you are right now.

“The layer you came from is Layer 789, at the location of Nothanganathor, Arbiter of Veird. Please keep this name in your personal records should you wish to return to this land. We have already left your previous layer behind.”

Erick blinked, feeling a hateful wrath coil within at the mention of Nothanganathor and ‘Arbiter of Veird’ in the same sentence. He pushed that feeling aside, as he focused on the fact that he had already left Veird’s general location in the universe.

All Erick could really say was, “Okay.”

“Excellent. You appear to be non-hostile. Would you say this is true?”

“I am very hostile toward Nothanganathor and would like help erasing him from all universes. I am also hostile toward all evil, but otherwise I am rather benevolent.”

The formerly worried guy was now sitting on the ground, his back to the not-door, looking at Erick and frowning, his eyes saying a whole lot of ‘really?’.

The intercom voice said, “Violence is permitted in Layer 1. Here in Layer 0, the main city, violence is not permitted. Do you agree to this?”

“… Tentatively, yes.”

“That’s all we can really ask from Ascended, so your acknowledgment of the main rule is appreciated. Know that as an Ascended, we cannot control you, but you are a single person, and we have a lot of Ascended here who like the peace, and a lot of normal people who would simply die in a real fight, so keep that in mind if you get angry.” The voice said, “Please keep your various forms of mana, magic, resons, syth, usurpage, kindling, smoke, fire, breath, pulse, cultivation, accretion, talents, powers, and all other forms of reality altering inside of yourself at all times. The Dragon District is the only place where you can freely let yourself be a dragon, and all that that entails. Do you understand?”

“I do understand.”

“Appreciated. Moving on—”

“Pardon me, but I have some questions of my own.” Erick looked at the guy sitting down. “Was this man in this space suit a sacrificial pawn in case I turned out malevolent like Nothanganathor?”

The guy nodded, whispering, “That guy is a fucking psycho.”

“Ah-hem,” said the voice. “Our greeter here is fully soul-sleeved here in Margleknot; he would not have died if you had killed him. Other people are not so fortunate as to have this job, Jeremy.”

Jeremy —whose name was probably not spelled how Erick was thinking it was spelled— waved a dismissive hand, ignoring the voice, whispering, “Glad you hate him, too.”

Erick felt a weight leave his shoulders. He almost chuckled at the relief. These guys weren’t evil. They were just papershapers and call-responders; normal people.

The intercom voice said, “Ahem. Death is painful, of course, so we ask that you refrain from causing it. May I have your name?”

Ah.

It’s like that, is it?

Erick wanted to see them try.

“Erick Flatt.”

A little wind passed through the space. They had tried to affect him with something when he said his name. It was fairy magic, though, which, of course it was, which Erick had been prepared for with a question like that. ‘May I have your name?’ Really? Fairy Moon had helped Erick get over all of his fae magic weaknesses long ago, even if she wasn’t actively trying to help; she still helped through opposition.

Jeremy raised an eyebrow at Erick.

And the voice said, “Ah… So. That’s the other major question. Uh. Fuck. You. Uh… You felt that, didn’t you.”

“I did. Hello, fairy.”

Jeremy’s eyes went wide and terrified.

The voice on the other side of the intercom didn’t fare much better. “Uh… Will you… Uh. Forgive?”

“I demand to speak with someone who can help me erase Nothanganathor from all worlds, and who would want to help me do that.”

“I can do that!” said the voice, once again excited.

And then the silver walls fell away like the prop walls on a movie set falling, the ceiling and floor vanishing in the very same moment.

Aside from seeing what he was seeing, which he would get to in a moment, Erick checked the manasphere first.

