“Yes and no.” Fork dismissed the box, then laid his hands together, and sighed. “Sorry. I was not ready for this. I have met several archmages in my time, and each time they pull off feats of magic that seem impossible… It is surprising each time it happens.”

Erick glanced over to Poi, to see the man school away a smile.

Fork continued, “I don’t have access to the Quest for [Gate], as I have said before. I will get this information into your hands as soon as I can, but even as the master of a Guildhouse this will still take me a week. There’s bureaucracy to check off, you understand. This knowledge is not just lying around anywhere for anyone to look at, and because of that bureaucracy, the paperwork is also not complete. The lawyer should be done with it in a few hours, so I will ask her to hurry up, if that is alright with you. I can have it dropped off at your house, if you wish.”

Erick said, “I need to get a lawyer, too, so I’m not really ready for the paperwork, either. But if you trust me, then I’ll trust you, and we can start working on the theory right now. Or maybe just an overview.”

Fork thought for a moment. He said, “Okay. Here’s most of my understanding of the non-divine [Gate].” He continued, “[Gate] is the decrease of distance between point A and B, without interfering with the space between those two points, such that anyone can travel through this clipped space. The activation of the spell is between 500 and 2500 mana, with a Variable component of between 100 and 1000 mana per 1000 kilometers between [Gate]s. It has a ‘well’ of power that is used up as people or objects travel through the [Gate]. Air travels through the [Gate], so a large differential in altitude means natural air pressure will kill the spell early; I always thought that piece of information quite important, but I’m not sure. And finally: [Gate] is only usable between two locations that the user knows very well. It is a Basic Tier spell.” He added, “That’s all I know.”

“That’s more than I knew.” Erick asked, “The divine version is different, I assume?”

“Yes. Fundamentally.” Fork said, “Champion Yetta used [Gate] to get around, but she’s no mage, so I assume the cost was paid entirely by Atunir, bless the harvest.”

Erick almost said something, but his train of thought derailed with Fork’s casual prayer. Instead, he said, “I haven’t had much experience with the gods, but Yetta and Atunir did a lot of good work fighting the Daydropper, and Planter. You know, I tried to give them some enchanted—” He paused. He said, “They took a lot of my enchanted gear with them into the Dead City, courtesy of the Army, but when I tried to give them more afterward, they had to break it to keep their contracts with Portal and Caradogh.”

Fork smiled sadly. “That was a nasty business, all around. I was sorry to see the Farms go. It was nice to visit an actual temple to Atunir without needing to travel to another city.” He said, “The Interfaith Church is acceptable, but not where I go.”

That reminded Erick. He needed to send a care package to Yetta.

And to Jane, too!

Erick asked, “So the rest of your understanding of [Gate] will come when the paperwork is finalized?”

“Yes.” Fork added, “It would be better that way, if you don’t mind. I’ve already broken ranks with the Guild for telling you as much as I have, but time will prove my decisions as correct.”

Erick said, “There’s no need to send the paperwork to my house. Just tell me when you get clearance for the actual [Gate] information, and then we can deal with the lawyers.”

Fork frowned a little, as he said, “That’s not what we agreed upon.”

“I understand. And we’re working well together. But if I have to deal with an organization to get information, I want to know that the information will be made available for me before I sign any binding paperwork.”

“The Wayfarer’s Guild would never do such an underhanded—”

“I wouldn’t think you would. But now you’re telling me that you’ve broken ranks with your guild to speak to me like this, and that is worrying. I’ve known many stories of people who sell the rights to something, thinking that it will get used for everyone, only for that information to get locked up in a vault and never seen again.” Erick added, “I wouldn’t want some higher-ups deciding that they don’t like the idea of a [Gate] network and them locking me in to giving them financial control, while they decide to not assist in the creation. I’m sure it would be rather legal for them to do so, too, and then what recourse do I have?”

Fork was frowning, but now he paled, his brown scales turning bronze. He said, “No one would want do that to you.”

“Very good.” Erick said, “So let’s continue when such an event is sure to not occur.”

- - - -

Over the next few days, Erick rained as needed, made rings, and prepared to make magic.

Fork had yet to get back to him with clearance for the Wayfarer’s [Gate] information, but a runner dropped the paperwork off, anyway. Erick read it over, and everything seemed aboveboard and easy to understand, but he still wasn’t going to sign it until he got his own lawyer to read it, and the Wayfarer’s Guild showed a willingness to help produce Gate.

Erick went to the Courthouse and spoke to some lawyers. Mostly, they seemed okay.

When he was in the middle of speaking to some incani who sweated as he read the paperwork, Silverite and Hera came into the room. Hera would be his lawyer, if he wished. The incani man just mumbled a ‘thank you’ before rushing away.

That was… fine? Probably? Yeah sure. That was fine. Erick liked yellowscale Hera. She had done right by him with the payments from the Farm and otherwise. This was good.

The paperwork turned out to be perfectly fine as a boilerplate for non disclosure agreements meant for future interactions. It even had an ‘out’ for Erick, if the Wayfarer’s Guild chose to sit on their [Gate] and never use it. So Erick signed the paperwork and sent it to Fork.

Fork was happy to take the paperwork and report that the ‘Remote Offices’ were excited, and their collected information on [Gate] should be arriving shortly.

Erick talked to Phagar twice, ensuring that his own ideas for Particle spells were sound, and yes, they were.

He even started to channel Mana and Health into the Ability Slot increase quest, when he wanted a break. It was not relaxing, in the slightest. He couldn’t simply pump his resources into the blue box, in 7400 Mana and 2000 Health increments. He had to forcefully channel his Regeneration into the blue box, and the blue box soaked up his resources like a man dying of thirst, who was already full of water. It was a task to force mana into this Quest; it was not fun.

At the end of his first hour, Erick was sweating. Somewhere in his second hour, he fell asleep; exhausted. After a short nap, he woke, and tried setting Ophiel to channeling Mana into the blue box, but that just didn’t work. Ophiel squawked, and Quest remained at 95,223/100,000,000.

He tried channeling Health only and then Mana only, just to see if that was easier, and it was. He even stepped outside of his house, outside of the Restful dense air, and channeled his normally regenerating resources into the Quest. This was still a task; it was not like flipping on an aura, at all. But it was easier than before.

But it would take soooo much longer.

Ability Slot Increase Quest!

10 Points

OR

95,257/100,000,000 Mana and/or Health

… Spending 10 points to just complete the Quest looked mighty attractive. He could not imagine doing this for… 1650 more hours, or whatever it was. It was somewhere around there. And that was the ‘at Rest’ number! The normal Quest time, without a Restful area, was 1,666 days! FULL DAYS! 24 hours of constant channeling!

But Erick had another way to gain points.

So he was maybe just going to do that.

- - - -

In the first of what would undoubtedly be a lot of experimental magic, Erick stood under the bright blue sky, on a floating platform, above a sandy nowhere in the Crystal Forest, and cast his protective spells. First, an Ophiel expended themselves to cast a [Prismatic Ward] over the platform. And then, with a twist of his hand and a thoroughly thought out intention, Erick surrounded himself, Poi, and Kiri, with a lightmask that cut out all light outside of the visible spectrum. The only hint that anything had changed, was that the sun seemed a little colder, and the sky a little darker.

A blue box popped up.

Lightmask, instant, close range, 50 mana

Deny all harmful light in an area.

Erick smiled at the box, saying, “Ha. It made a spell that time,” then dismissed it. He walked to the edge of the platform, to the edge of the lightmask —he wasn’t about to start calling it [Lightmask]— and put his hand just outside the space. He steadied himself, as he aimed at a stone tower a hundred yards away and twenty yards down. He had shaped that tower and a few others with another Ophiel, a little bit ago.

And then, it was time. He had prepared. He had secured himself. Erick emptied his mind of all outside thoughts, then filled himself with a goal.

He thought of the horrors he had seen, and the pain he had witnessed. Of mutated people rescued from Ar’Kendrithyst. Of Jane, sleeping off a curse laid down millennia ago that was created to chop down dragons. Of darkness overwhelming, and the need for a brighter future. Of where the world was, and how everything was cyclical, because no one could break the darkness. But there was still hope out there.

A candle held against the storm.

It was time to make that candle shine.

Erick called to the day, to the mana, to life itself, hoping to break what deserved breaking,

“A radiant sight to sunder the night, a time of stars brought down to fight!

“Power dances an endless turn as brilliance catches fire and yearns

“for radiant sights to sunder the night; a time of stars brought down to fight!

“A pearl set hard, a focus kept, a track laid down, and darkness wept: [Burn].”

Time seemed to stand still, as a tiny white dot formed in front of Erick’s outstretched hand.

That dot blossomed forward, becoming a line of white radiance, barely visible in the day, that swept forward. Where the light touched the stone towers, it carved and burned, lopping off tops and spilling the remnants into fire, as Erick dragged the spell across the ground, carving and burning and splashing droplets of lava at his discretion. His hand felt hot, but barely. The light had been trained forward. After a short forever, the spell ended, like a smokeless candle snuffed. Blackened lava cooled in its wake; a line of darkness drawn on a desert canvas.

Erick promptly fell on his ass as Poi tapped him with the rod of [Treat Wounds].

Kiri shouted, “What the FUCK was that!” She pointed, “Was that the Red Dot!?”

Erick chuckled as he got back to his feet. A few boxes appeared. There was the ‘congratulations for making a new Basic spell’, box, of course. And then there were the others.

Luminous Beam 1, instant, super long range, 500 mana

Conjure a coruscating, tightly controlled plume of severing light that deals <massive damage> and lasts for <1 second>.

Particle Mage Only.

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+3 ability points.

The name I picked is obviously wrong considering what the spell does, but I’m keeping it that way. ~Rozeta

Erick joked, “It wasn’t the Red Dot, because it was white, Kiri.”

Kiri nervously chuckled, as she looked on across the wake of the spell.

Erick added, “And it only lasted a second. Seemed a lot longer— Oh.” He looked at the spell box again. “Level 3 already, so it lasts 2 seconds. Pattern of one more second every other level, maybe? Still no Red Dot, though.” He asked Poi, “What magnitude was that?”

Poi instantly said, “Seven. Same as [Call Lightning].”

Erick smiled. It was nice when Poi could just answer the question. He asked, “What about the rest of my spells? Any of them been higher than seven?”

“No.”

Erick paused. “Really?”

“Really.”

“Then I got to keep going! Bigger, stronger, better!” He added, “But first! Those normal Script spells, just to see the difference.”
