“This is where I am conflicted. I don't know if I should dissuade or encourage you. You are very clever, and it amuses me. No more oil of course, the benefits do not outweigh the risks. Your poison, while effective, is limited in usage. The crossbow is powerful, but any single expert archer can match it, so make sure your troops continue to practice their archery. The bow is far more versatile, the king of all weapons. Do not be so shortsighted and remember to plan for the future. Other than that, I have no qualms about your tricks, but I do have one question: if it is options you are after, then why have you given up on your awakening? Charok tells me you stopped asking him about it weeks ago.”

Uncomfortable with the question, I squirm in my seat, unwilling to admit my abject failure. “I didn't exactly given up, but it's been months since I "awakened" and still nothing has happened. Everyone told me to continue meditating and wait. What else am I supposed to do?”

“I don't know, your plight is unique as far as I know.” Pushing his empty teacup towards me for a refill, he seems wholly indifferent. “What confuses me is that you are so compliant in this single instance. Knowing you, I'd expect you to pester anyone and everyone for advice, or do something insane to learn how to better control your chi. The story of you ripping out your own teeth is repeated almost every day, so why do you not work towards understanding your awakening with the same enthusiasm? Instead, you spend your time studying the mundane, which leads me to think you don't believe you will master your chi, so you spend your efforts elsewhere.”

“I understand the mundane. It's ordered and structured, things make sense. With chi, it's mystic and unfathomable, guesswork and vague feelings. It's bullshit.”

“And there it is.” Slamming the table, he leans forward, grinning wolfishly. “That is why you fail, you've no faith. You try to affix it to rules and formulas, when instead you should let it be. Take for example your healing method. You were unable to understand how to heal traditionally, which is full of the rules and guidelines that you so claim to need. Instead, you conceived your own method, which was allowing the chi to do all the work, without any guidance from yourself. You've so much potential, yet you waste your talents coming up with tricks and toys. It's disheartening.” Throwing his hands into the air, he leans back once more. “Think on it. Regardless, we leave for the Bridge in two weeks and the Chief Provost will make her decision on how you will serve.”

Lapsing into silence, I mull over everything, barely tasting my meal when it arrives. He's half right, if I want options, chi gives me options. What happened to my dreams of throwing fire and lightning, splitting the earth and calling the winds? I still want crossbows, poisons, explosives and more, but why can't I have it all? What Gerel said makes sense, if I can't learn their methods, why can't I come up with my own? Baatar always says, learning to manipulate chi is a journey of self discovery. Every person is different, and I'm more different from most. I need to actively start trying to figure out what works for me, no more of this waiting for enlightenment bullshit. It's time to experiment.

I'm gonna science the shit out of magic.

Chapter Meme
