The troll collected himself with a deep breath. “Tell me, how is it that he has the book, then?”

“I copied it for him,” Ali said softly, “in exchange for him allowing me to copy my mother’s book.” She reached over and tapped Clarence’s cover where he sat quietly, resting on the table.

“Then you must trade with me,” Tol’zerath declared. “What I can offer is of far more value than anything that self-important elf gave you – the purity of trollish magic has never been surpassed by anything produced by the lesser races.”

Not likely, old troll, Ali thought. Matching her mother’s work would be impossible, even for the vaunted reputation of the trolls. However, she stopped short of saying anything as he summoned a meticulously crafted book bound in purple-tanned leather of a texture and lightness that made Ali hesitant to ask where it came from. Yet, despite his arrogant declaration of trollish superiority, his manner seemed surprisingly tentative as he placed the tome on the table beside Clarence. The words on the cover were written in a script she could not understand.

“Tol’zerath is the realm’s foremost visionary on the subject of divination,” Lira said, surprisingly injecting herself into the discussion right at that moment. “The reputation of any library would be greatly enhanced by boasting his work.”

“Exactly,” Tol’zerath said, drawing himself up to his full height while his mana flickered along the backs of his hands and across his shoulders, leaving a brief dusting of snow to float down to the table. “My work on divination is groundbreaking, and there are few left alive who can even comprehend its significance.”

Should I? Can I afford to let him see my Grimoire? Ali studied the powerful troll sitting across the table from her, masking her scrutiny under the guise of considering his words. Despite his arrogant superiority – or perhaps because of it – she found herself more inclined to trust him. Besides, I already showed this ability to Nathaniel Sunstrider.

“Very well, you have a deal,” Ali said, and choosing to follow Lira’s lead, she flattered the troll leader further by adding, “But I will owe you a favor for your great generosity.”

By the grin that creased his leathery face, she knew she had chosen her words well.

Ali glanced at Ryn, but her friend’s eyes were glued to the divination tome like it was the only thing in the room. I’m going to have to learn to read and write Trollish soon. Ryn will need a translation, Ali thought as she listened to Lira and Vivian quiz Tol’zerath about his vision and the implications for the Troll kingdoms. It didn’t take long for her to duplicate Nevyn Eld’s book again, but Tol’zerath’s tome had to be copied by imagining the words to be pictures – a far more difficult undertaking, and one she would not have been capable of till recently.

“Oh!” Ryn exclaimed as soon as the duplicated divination tome appeared, and Ali could instantly tell she had leveled up. Twice!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
