The arena cleared of flame, revealing a slightly scorched Kamus patting out a fire on his beard and looking at Nathan in surprise and admiration.

“No more free shots!” Nathan yelled as he ran towards the Questor. He got the impression that Kamus would be happy to experiment with Nathan’s antimagic all day, and Nathan had to choose between letting that happen and forcing things too hard. He figured that at least being upfront about it might prevent the other Questor from pulling out his biggest guns. If nothing else, he thought there was a chance Kamus might be able to directly transmute antimatter, or use that edict of his on a nuke spell.

Kamus didn’t seem offended, shaping his own domain into a pair of projections springing forth from his hands like blades. “Then let us exchange in close combat, and decide the true primacy of magic and its opposite!” The elderly man seemed to be having the time of his life, looking like an old master finally able to indulge in his truest passion centuries after he'd outstripped everybody who could give him a challenge.

Nathan eyed the blades warily. They would be invisible to anybody without a magical sense, but to Nathan’s eyes they shone with power. Kamus had total control over the mana within and could probably control it to do anything he wanted. Nathan didn’t let that slow his forward progress, and he condensed his aura down until it formed a projection of his own. He didn’t bother forming it into a blade, since giving his antimagic a sharp edge wouldn’t do anything, or tethering it to a body part. He could move it faster with his mind.

Kamus slashed at Nathan, and Nathan interposed his magic-annihilating aura. The two powers clashed, ultimate magical might against its utter denial. There was no physical force involved in the collision, but a ripple of power crashed through the aether, visible in the physical world as a prismatic shockwave. The other blade of magic came around and he flickered his antimagic to block, sending another pulse of raw magic snarling through the arena.

The fight continued, Kamus attacking and Nathan defending. The Questor had withdrawn his domain from his own body to empower his blades. Nathan felt the strain at every clash, and he knew his Focus was dropping fast with the effort of keeping his aura so tightly bound. But he couldn’t help but mirror the grin on his opponent’s face. This didn’t feel like a duel to the death; this felt like an exhibition match where they both were able to push their powers to the limit and explore untested interactions.

“What is the purpose of antimagic, but to beat magic?” Nathan asked, posing the question to himself, Kamus, and Davrar. “You can destroy cities. All I can do is deny you.”

Kamus paused on his next blow, dipping his head in acknowledgement. “But does that mean you win this contest?”

“It does,” Nathan answered with confidence, chopping down with his hand and guiding his antimagic with it. Kamus interposed both shards of his domain, catching the metaphysical blow. But this time, Nathan leaned into the technique physically and spiritually, committing all of his antimagic to the impact point with confidence that he would win the contest. After all, which should come out on top? The omnipotent tool, or the weapon that was specifically crafted to defeat it? This moment was a test of Davrar, of magic itself. If Kamus won, then magic stood supreme over all. If Nathan did, then magic had a counter.

Nathan's antimagic smashed through Kamus’s domain and shattered it, then swept through the man’s body. It stripped away a number of self-empowering spells but did no additional damage. Nathan closed the distance and grabbed the Questor, though not as aggressively as he could have.

Kamus didn’t resist. He quirked his mouth and let his arms hang limply at his side. “It is so. Magic does not hold unchallenged dominion.” He gave Nathan an acknowledging nod and closed his eyes in anticipation of the blow.

Nathan tried to make it quick and painless.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 10

Permanent Talent 2: Distributed Immortality 2

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1337

Bottomless Stamina: 113755/134700

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 951

Limitless Focus: 3829/9610

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 7

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 8

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 7

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
