Gal’Meth was just a moment away from crushing my soul’s clone. I closed my eyes, bracing for the pain.

But it never came.

When I opened my eyes, I realized Kaelor had dashed toward Gal’Meth, pushing him away from the clone of my soul. Meanwhile, Meriel fought off the living bodies lunging at us.

“Stand, Allene! I need your help!” she shouted as she cast a gust of wind. It surrounded us before exploding, sending the living bodies scattering across the realm.

Kaelor continued fighting Gal’Meth head-on, doing everything he could to keep the demon away from my soul.

I gathered myself and helped Meriel fight off the living bodies.

“We need to keep him away from the clone no matter what!” I shouted. “I don’t know exactly how it works, but it’s somehow connected to my actual soul!”

As soon as I said that, the living bodies shifted. They weren’t attacking us anymore.

They were heading for the clone.

“Maybe you shouldn’t have said anything,” Meriel said.

“Oh, come on. It’s not like they could actually understand me. I think.”

I flew toward the clone, fighting off the initial batch. Meriel appeared beside me to help defend against them.

“You should help Kaelor,” Meriel said. “He won’t be able to handle that demon by himself.”

I turned, briefly watching their duel. No matter how much Kaelor attacked with his dagger, none of his hits landed. It was as if Gal’Meth knew his every move before it could even happen.

Of course, Kaelor wasn’t the only one on the offensive. Whenever Gal’Meth gained enough distance, he retaliated. He drew several slashes in the air, threatening to attack Kaelor’s soul itself.

But Kaelor had learned from the last time he was hit with such an attack. Whenever he saw Gal’Meth making strange gestures with his fingers, he took that as a sign of an upcoming attack, using the winds to propel himself sideways to dodge it.

But at some point during their duel, it happened.

Gal’Meth tapped Kaelor’s forehead. My soul’s clone completely disappeared. Instead, it was replaced by a different clone that reappeared just in front of Gal’Meth.

A clone of Kaelor’s soul.

Gal’Meth drew another slash in the air, aiming it at the new clone. Kaelor reacted fast. Now that he knew the clone was connected to his actual soul, he wouldn’t let Gal’Meth hurt it. Kaelor did everything he could to push the demon back with his dagger.

“We have to help him,” Meriel said, gritting her teeth. “But these living bodies are relentless… No matter how many we kill, they don’t stop coming.”

“Not unless they’re hit with divinity,” I said.

I jabbed Dawn Sunderer into the closest living body’s head, and it collapsed onto the bodies below. But unlike Meriel’s attacks, the soul didn’t leave the dead body. Dawn Sunderer killed the soul right then and there, which could only mean one thing.

“All of these wandering souls are considered demonic,” I said. “Since this entire realm was created by Gal’Meth, I would assume all these souls are also a result of his magic. Even if the bodies look just like people, they’re just soulless husks.”

“Soulless? Even when we clearly see their souls?”

“You know what I mean. These souls aren’t real. But I think I have a pretty good plan to take care of all of them at once.”

Meriel was confused at first, but only briefly.

“You don’t mean—”

“Yup,” I said right away. “It’s explosion time. Do you think you could shield all three of us?”

She cast another gust of wind, blowing away all the nearby living bodies.

“I can, but… I’m not so sure if this is a good idea,” she said.

“Do you have any better ideas?”

She thought about it for a moment. “Not really.”

“Then it’s decided.”

I raised Dawn Sunderer into the air, letting fire magic seethe into the sword’s divine light. A fiery, holy ball formed at the tip of the sword as I poured every bit of my mana into it. The ball grew larger every second, and after a certain point, I felt the air around it starting to tremble.

At the same time, Meriel raised both of her hands toward me before tapping herself on the chest. Barriers formed around us. She turned and raised a hand toward Kaelor, who was still fighting Gal’Meth in the distance, giving him a barrier as well. Now that I was looking in his direction, I realized that the clone of his soul was gone.

Kaelor quickly flew back to our side.

“What happened to the clone?” I asked.

“I think it disappears after a while,” he said before glancing at the divine fireball forming at the tip of my sword. “Anyway, why do I have a weird feeling that something horrible is about to happen?”

I smiled at him. “Yes… but more for our enemies than for us.”

Once I felt the divine fireball becoming unstable, I aimed the sword at the ground. The last time I did this was back at the manor’s courtyard. Reina had to take cover behind the manor itself, while I had simply cast a barrier around me and hoped for the best. Honestly, it sounded pretty stupid now that I was thinking of it, but it did work pretty well back then.

Let’s just hope a similar outcome happens now.

The moment I unleashed the divine fireball, the explosion engulfed the entire realm with a light so bright it felt as though we were in a completely new dimension. I glanced over in Gal’Meth’s direction, but by then, it was already too late. I was blinded by the light and had no other choice but to shield my eyes. Meriel and Kaelor were forced to do the same.

“Are you trying to kill us?!” Kaelor cried over the explosion.

“It’s a lot scarier than it looks,” Meriel said. “We’ll be fine with the barriers I cast around us. Though I will say—the last time I saw Allene cast this was back in the dungeon’s Inverted City. That was when she killed me with it.”

“Let’s not talk about that,” I said.

Once the light settled, I lowered my arms and opened my eyes. The outcome was immediately clear.

There was nothing left. No more bodies.

Both the ones that were attacking us and the ones that made up the entire ground beneath us were completely gone. Instead, a mist replaced the ground. Somehow, we were able to stand on top of it as though it were solid ground.

Up above, all the floating souls that had looked like clouds were also gone. Only the stars far above remained, which the explosion—of course—didn’t reach.

“Huh,” Kaelor said, scratching the back of his head. “This turned out a lot better than I thought.”

We turned to where Gal’Meth should’ve been. Since he was a demon, this attack should’ve been highly effective against him, if not fatal.

But something was wrong.

He was nowhere to be seen.

“Where…?” I began.

“Above us!” Meriel shouted.

As soon as Kaelor and I looked up, we saw Gal’Meth hovering above us with a smile. His wings had carried him high into the air to avoid the divine explosion entirely. I was impressed by how his wings even worked properly, considering how tattered they were. But this was no time to be impressed.

He snapped his fingers. I’d already witnessed this enough times to know that something even crazier was about to happen. An enemy snapping their fingers was never a good sign, after all.

[TROPE COMPLETED: SOMETHING CRAZY HAPPENS AFTER THE ENEMY SNAPS THEIR—

I swatted the message away. Let’s not complete a trope in the middle of a life-or-death battle.

The realm shifted, but only once. Everything went still right after.

Gal’Meth continued hovering in the distance, calmly looking down at us. Was that really it?

Fine. If he wanted to waste time, I’d make him regret it.

I leaped into the air, spreading my wings—

And immediately crashed onto my stomach.

“Argh!” I groaned.

The impact knocked the wind out of me, yet my body felt… different. Heavier. Broader.

“What are you doing, Kaelor?” Meriel asked, looking at me.

I frowned.

Kaelor?

“What do you mean?” another voice answered.

I froze. That was my voice.

But it didn’t come from me.

I looked toward Meriel, realizing that the person standing beside her…

Was me.

My body. My sword. My wings.

She was staring back at me with the same horrified expression I was probably making.

I lowered my gaze. A dagger rested in my hand, and I could tell right away that the fingers gripping the dagger weren’t mine.

They were larger, rougher, and calloused. And not just that, but I only had one hand. One arm.

“You’ve got to be kidding me…” I muttered.

I had Kaelor’s voice.

“Allene?” my body said.

“I’m pretty sure we just swapped bodies,” I said.

“What?!” Kaelor shouted—with my voice.

Which meant that the realm didn’t actually shift earlier. That was just the exact moment we swapped bodies.

“I’m so damn short!” Kaelor cried.

“Is that really your concern here?!” I yelled.