It was made of flagstone or granite or marble or... something expensive. Thomas wasn't a rock guy, but there was a lot of rock. The mansion was set on a huge estate with a circular driveway, a fountain, and far more landscaping than should've been possible at the edge of a desert.

National Guardsmen swarmed all over the place in brown-and-tan uniforms, all with slightly stressed expressions.

Upon arrival, he and Zach were quickly escorted into a temporary canvas tent filled with folding chairs and card tables. Apparently, this was the conference room.

"The first thing you should know," Martinez said, "is that this dungeon has been here for over fifty years."

"Oh," Thomas said. Suddenly, the mansion made more sense. "This was one of the people who got access to the System before the announcement?"

"Yes, exactly. They're generally referred to as the 'Old Families.'"

Zach asked, "If they were caretaking the dungeon, then why aren't they... caretaking the dungeon?"

"Because they're gone. Not dead," he quickly added. "Our best guess is they left the country." Martinez shook his head slightly. "They took anything worth taking. Closed all their accounts—and I mean all of them. It's hard to get rich people to part with investment accounts, but those are gone too. Meanwhile, they've left their old dungeon to fill with magical energy. That issue spiked once the System announcement was made. By all accounts, if it's not cleared soon, this dungeon is going to blow."

While Thomas was low-key spiraling, Zach only nodded slowly. "How many people have gone in?"

"Three groups. None of them came out, and no one else was willing to go in."

Another solider nearby, who was acting as a security guard, shifted uncomfortably. "Wish we could just drop a high-yield nuke in it," he muttered under his breath. "Problem solved."

That snapped Thomas out of his gonna die gonna die gonna die spiral. "Doesn't work," he said automatically. "Explosives and modern weapons don't function properly inside dungeons."

The younger guardsman looked pained. "I know. I just..." He shrugged helplessly. "I wish it did."

"Yes, thank you for your contribution, Worthington," Martinez said dryly.

Chastened, the guard straightened up and resumed looking professional.

"So you don't know what's in the dungeon?" Thomas asked. "No guide? No clue what we'll face?"

"We have no idea, and believe me, we have searched. The Old Family took all that information with them, and others we have contacted have refused to lend assistance. Unfortunately, they're too high-leveled for anyone to make them see reason." He cleared his throat. "So that's the bad news. Upon completion of the dungeon, here are the rewards you will receive."

Applebaum came forward and opened a box. Inside was... well, a thing that looked like a small lava lamp in a thumb-sized pendant. The inside was filled with goopy, multi-colored liquid that oozed around each other without quite mixing. That was Zach's reward.

The second item was a skill shard. It was labeled 'Living Architecture' with a bare-bones description: Reshape and build living tissue with intent.

Thomas frowned. That... might work? He looked at Applebaum. "You said someone has to be compatible with the skill? How will I know I am?"

"Put your hand over it," Zach suggested. "Feel if it resonates with you, sort of if it says, 'You and me are meant to be one.' You know?"

The guardsmen looked just as skeptical as Thomas felt, and Martinez said, "Don't attempt to absorb it before you finish your end of the deal and complete the dungeon. You will not like the consequences."

"Yeah. Obviously." Thomas placed his hand over the shard and felt a whole lot of nothing for a long moment. But then he forced his mind to quiet and felt... something. Was that resonance? Maybe?

Thomas realized his other hand had drifted over his stomach. No, over his core. It felt warm and buzzing, almost comforting.

He withdrew his hand. "Okay, I'm compatible."

He was really doing this. The comforting feeling had fled. Now, Thomas mostly just felt like he was going to throw up.

But what was the alternative? He could walk away right now, face his brother and the missing hand, knowing he hadn't even tried.

Oh wow, he really was going to be sick.

"Can I have a minute?" he asked quietly.

Surprisingly, the guards gave it to him and cleared out, though Thomas wouldn't have been shocked if somebody was listening through the canvas walls.

He leaned over the table, folded his arms, and rested his forehead against them.

Zach stayed silent, and Thomas appreciated that.

Finally, though, Zach spoke. "I'm going to do it."

Thomas lifted his head slightly. "What?"

"I'm going in." Zach's voice stayed even. "I mean, you don't have to. You've got your brother and your nephews, and you're..." He stopped, like he wanted to say something else. "You're not obligated."

Not like me, seemed to echo quietly in the silence.

A lot of things clicked into place, though Thomas wouldn't have been able to make his guess without that confrontation with the dude bros.

"Are you from an Old Family?" he asked.

"Not this family," Zach said quickly. "But, yeah bro." Then quieter. "It sucks."

Thomas nodded slowly and stared back down at his hands. He did not want to do this. He did not want to die in a dungeon that had been eating people and scaring the crap out of the National Guard. He was not brave.

And he wasn't sure if he could live with himself if he didn't. Not metaphorically, but literally.

If the dungeon overflowed and killed people, if he went home to his brother with the missing hand, if he never saw Zach again because the idiot died in there while Thomas walked away...

One thing was for sure. Thomas definitely hadn't asked for enough stuff to get paid for this.

"I'm going," he finally said. "I hate it," he added. "I want that on record that I think this is a terrible idea, I wish we'd asked for more, and I genuinely cannot believe this is my life. I was an assistant to a paralegal before the System integration, so I'm not built for this." He exhaled shakily. "But... yeah, I'm in."

There was rustling at the door, and Martinez and Applebaum stepped back inside, proving those assholes had absolutely been listening.

As promised, they were escorted to a secondary tent containing an impressive selection of weapons.

Thomas still had his dagger and penknife. He'd brought them in case he needed to sell them for something to heal Derek with. That seemed like a sad joke now.

They didn't exactly have mauls since Thomas had gotten his from a hardware store, so instead, he picked an axe. Blades on both ends couldn't hurt, right?

Zach grabbed a quarterstaff that looked ten times nicer and more polished than his old one.

Because the dungeon belonged to old money, it was housed inside what Thomas assumed had once been a garage. That was probably the point: to keep people who weren't in the know from looking inside. Since it was from rich folk, the 'garage' was made of stone and metal.

In the middle of the garage, pulsing with dark, ominous energy, was the dungeon entrance.

There were armed guards everywhere, probably waiting for the moment the thing overflowed. And likely as backup in case they chickened out and needed to be thrown in.

Thomas was almost certain he didn't look like he wanted to puke. (But he totally did.) Nevertheless, with their new weapons in hand and bags strapped on, they walked into the false-heat-haze dungeon entrance.

The entrance safe room was... uncomfortably tiny for two grown men to be stuck in.

Thomas stared at the final door, and a strangely giddy thought hit him. There has to be a shit-ton of loot in there.

And now he had the bag to carry it all. All he had to do was survive.

Zach must have been entertaining his own dark thoughts because he said, "We're going to be fine." He glanced at Thomas. "Power of positive thinking, right?"

"Absolutely," Thomas said, dredging up cheer from somewhere.

Neither made a move to enter for a long moment.

"After you," Zach said, nodding to the door.

Thomas couldn't help it. "Oh no, I insist. After you."

"Dude, this was your idea. You should go first."

"What? How was this my idea—" He stopped, seeing that Zach was grinning. With a roll of his eyes, Thomas summoned up his bravery from who-knows-where and opened the door.

They stepped in.
