—-please let us come to Khelt. If not, I can pay for my little brother to go to—
 
I saw you on the scrying orb. I think you’re a good man. 
I need your help.
They were—there were hundreds of them, and Fetohep wondered how many ships had delayed sending mail. It was still cheaper, far cheaper, to send a slow letter than a single [Message] spell. And there were [Messages] too. People with names, identities he could reasonably verify and look into.
He selected twenty for a [Spymaster] to verify and report back on. Fifty-eight letters in and Fetohep was assured that seventeen were real, the last three either false or harder to verify.
He had never considered this. In Jecaina’s scrying orb broadcast, even as prescient as he’d been—Fetohep had not realized that to invite the world’s eyes upon him was to also receive the world’s pleas.
Perhaps the other rulers had received the like. But they were mortals, with limited time and people who filtered their correspondence. Fetohep?
He read and read—and he saw the naked pleas, sometimes gagging with desperation. You could help.
He could. He could speak the name of that [Lord] who had attacked a girl, and an investigation would be launched. It would offend another sovereign nation’s dignity, but Khelt could do it.
The Greenpaw Tribe was not some vast group—a single group of a hundred undead might well scare away most forces.
He did not have a hundred undead to spare. He could not take in even a fraction of the people begging for citizenship.
Of course, Fetohep knew that. He had always been isolationist and placed Khelt’s people above all others.
It was just that he did not always see—no, he had never seen so many reaching out for aid. Nor had they ever spoken to him like this. Him, a Revenant, being begged above their sovereign lords and rulers for mercy, for a scrap of justice.
These rulers. So many letters had people who should have turned to local superiors of some kind for justice, aid, and relief. And so many impugned the character of these [Lords] and [Queens] and…
Too many were Terandrian. Terandria, that continent called so safe? Why were so many people starving or wanting for justice?
The King of Khelt stared at the pile of letters. He’d begun sorting them, unconsciously, into actionable and inactionable piles. Some people he could legitimately not help, unless he wanted to send a ship with undead across the world or hire mercenaries.
But some just required a word. A word such as ‘shame’.
Pheislant. He could address House Havrington within the hour on one of the broadcasting television stations. A five-minute address and the claims—without naming any victims—and it would be done.
But what if House Havrington retaliated? It could well become an issue with Pheislant, and they might fear Khelt. Yes, they certainly did.
…But one ship sunk and he would have to make a point. And he had no armies. He could hire mercenaries, make a show of—
The letters sat there and built up. And built up—until Fetohep had to stand away. Stand away, and stare across his city as he heard voices ringing upon his ears. He made his worst mistake, by asking one of his [Spy]-contacts to send him an image of one of the letter-senders.
Then he could think of nothing at all. Until a [Message] arrived from an important source, one directly to him. And never in his life had Fetohep ever been so grateful to be blackmailed.
 
——
 
Fetohep of Khelt looked—charitably—like someone had taken him, hung him up like a scarecrow, and beaten him with a stick for the last nine hours.
Oh, his garb was immaculate. His body unchanged. But something about the way he slumped, the vacant stare—and he was an undead, it was all technically vacant—
Something about all that had his servants fluttering to ask him if he needed something. Fetohep didn’t even have his perfect posture upon his throne.
He just…
Sat there.
Never once before, in Fetohep’s life as a mortal man or as ruler of his nation, had he ever felt so worthless.
Like the beetles the rat had devoured. This emotion, he realized, was shame. Such an odd thing to feel because they were not his people who begged him, who suffered.
Yet he was ashamed because he had the means to help and he did not. Or—had.
No, the King realized. He was ashamed for more than just the people and his inaction.
He was ashamed—outraged—that the men and women who ruled these suffering people dared to call themselves rulers. He was ashamed that their classes and levels didn’t fall from their worthless souls. They were unworthy, and if he could but punish them—
His eyes glowed, trapped lighthouses of glorious intention trapped in the sockets. He ignored his servants until Pewerthe came before him. Then the King stirred—but she just placed something in front of him.
Pewerthe, clever Pewerthe, said no great speeches to her King. The tongue of the [Potter of Secrets] had spoken enough when she saw his suffering.
Now, she placed before him a little stone that spoke, and a voice entered the silence of his throne room as his servants left.
“Hey…is this thing on? Fetohep? How’s it hanging, buddy?”
The King of Khelt’s head rose. He hesitated—and then the banked flames grew, like the fire, like a smile across the world as someone sat in her room and leaned over the speaking stone.
“Erin Solstice. You were not taught to speak to royalty?”
“Yep. But it never took. I heard from Kevin that you needed to talk. I told you—call me any time.”
“I had not thought to. Pewerthe, my heir, contacted you in my place.”
“Well, there you go, then. Smart. I told you I didn’t need to be a [Queen].”
Suddenly, Fetohep was leaning over his throne, speaking in such common parlance, even—chattily—that no one could quite believe it when they first saw it. But then, the King of Khelt had few people he regarded as equals. So no wonder Flos, Orthenon, the Herald of the Forests, the Blighted King, and all the people he had met never heard this side of him.
“I believe I had contacted you before our weekly meeting. Regarding the child.”
“What did Mrsha do this time? Is she still begging for money? Mrshaaaaa—don’t run! You know what you did!”
The exasperated [Innkeeper] made Fetohep chuckle.
“No. My apologies. The other child. Satar.”
“Wh—oh. Satar. Right. All them books you’re sending her. Er—as you were, Mrsha.”
Erin coughed into the scrying stone, and Fetohep decided to expand his lexicon when referring to people he was acquainted with.
“And your doings of late?”
“Um. Well, I told you the Albez stuff is mostly sorted. I just sorta laid Sprigaena down there the other day. Bam. I hit this half-Elf I know with it. She was pretty mad.”
“I believe the Claiven Earth, among other half-Elven enclaves, are in a frenzy. I did not inquire into the matter. Yet.”
“Yeah. It was a thing.”
She said that as if one said the name of Elves regularly. But despite her cheery, if not impertinent and casual tones, the [Innkeeper] and the Revenant were not silly gossipers. Fetohep did that with Kevin.
“What’s wrong, Fetohep? Your heir made it sound bad.”
He hesitated. Relating the entirety of this—of the letters needed a preface. So he began with the easier topic.
“I have just received my first—request. From someone aware of Khelt’s issues.”
“…Who?”
The voice became sharp and quiet, and Fetohep replied quickly.
“The same. The Quarass of Germina beseeched Khelt, in light of our mutual alliance during the Meeting of Tribes and the munificence of Khelt to its neighbor in the Shield Kingdom of Germina…”
“Yeah?”
“…to provide some small relief in the forms of what I took to be lumber, gold, and Water Gems—Ger’s oasis is strained by the increasing population, I gather.”
“So what did you do?”
Fetohep flicked his fingers.
“I answered her request graciously and immediately. It is a trifling favor that I am sure the Quarass will remember.”
Just like she was going to remember Khelt’s weakness. Erin Solstice huffed.
“She’s gonna keep asking, isn’t she?”
“Naturally. But as it comes to neighbors in aid…”
The Quarass was, ironically, the best and worst person to be blackmailing Khelt. Mostly because she was usually good at it. She would ask for whatever she needed—but not drain Khelt. By the same token, though—it was impossible to get her to stop.
The problem with an immortal ruler was that even if you killed her, the next Quarass would remember all your weak points and be holding a grudge. Nevertheless, as Fetohep related, that was the most pleasant part of his morning.
“I’d beat her up, if I were you. I’d be like, ‘hey! You can’t do that!’ And then she’d probably take revenge. Which is why I would have been a terrible Queen of Khelt. Like, a total Izimire.”
Fetohep actually twitched about that. His reply was thoughtful.
“That is your claim, Erin. I see how you would come to it—but I would have placed you as another Emrist. Or Heris.”
She started laughing at that, and he joined in. Because—obviously—the second and eighth rulers of Khelt had both been hugely influential. Great, glorious—and Emrist’s Scourgeriders had blasted entire nations. Heris, after Khelta had passed, had sent the Vizir Hecrelunn and her armies on a collision course with her neighbors and established Kheltian dominance for good.
It was a joke only the two of them and the Quarass would get—and the Quarass wouldn’t be laughing after what Heris had done to her armies.
Then, as Erin stopped giggling, Fetohep spoke.
“My—indisposition was not due to the situation in Khelt. Alked Fellbow was instrumental in assuaging some of my fears on that matter incidentally.”
“Told you that you could trust him. You can always trust archer-guys. Halrac, Bird, Badarrow—they’re my guys.”
Erin was smug, despite her method of vouching for people being entirely inane. Fetohep rolled the flames in his eyes, but he felt—relieved.
Relieved to talk to someone about this. The speaking stone was encrypted, but the two of them were careful to be somewhat secretive. Nevertheless, it was then that Fetohep decided he needed to tell her.
“I received letters. That was why I felt such a—dismay. May I read the first to you? It would illustrate my chagrin.”
“Sure.”
It was almost as if she knew what he would get before he did. No—it surprised her for the first few lines. He heard her gasp when he read the young Greenpaw’s letter. Then it seemed like she knew every line of why so many letters had poured in.
“It sounds like home. Only, there aren’t many Fetoheps. There are a lot of King Poos.”
“Please stop giving the High King nicknames.”
Erin chuckled, but suddenly her voice had the same strain as his. Fetohep regretted that—and more words came spilling out of him, though his lungs and throat were long since decayed.
“I regret it. I am sorry, Erin Solstice.”
“For galloping an army across a sea? For saving Mrsha’s life and everyone else’s? Don’t be silly.”
She sniffed—and Fetohep knew that these were great accomplishments. He still felt as alive as the day he had run across Chandrar, racing time to do what had to be done.
Yet now—he clenched one fist upon his throne, and his voice rose. He could not help it. The palace still echoed with his tones, and his subjects looked up. At their king’s impotent emotions. Those flames…
They were the colors that Erin thought of when she thought of Fetohep. More than glory. Not the same as happiness. Great purpose made manifest. Probably, in time—
She had yet to give that emotion a name. But it was his, in every part of his voice as he confessed.
“If Khelta had been wrong, Erin Solstice. If her prediction had not come true, I would have taken my armies and placed them across Izril rather than returning all I could to Khelt. The first thing I would have done would be to send to Magnolia Reinhart. For her, I would have built that bridge between north and south. Sent a hundred thousand laborers to realize that vision.”
He could see it, pointing his armies to march past the Walled Cities with their standards on high. Facing down the haughty Drakes, placing them around tribes and safeguarding the Gnolls’ lands.
“What else would you have done?”
Erin encouraged the undead king, and Fetohep went on, speaking from that dream that would never be.
“The next deed would be Liscor. An army—led by Salui or Hecrelunn.”
“Whoa, whoa. I don’t want—”
“As you have so pettily done, Erin Solstice, I return your ‘shush’. Silence a moment. I would pass by that inn upon the hill or tarry my forces only long enough to see Hecrelunn’s humiliation anon. Then—Khelt’s legions would pour into that dungeon and root out the last monsters. End that place and march onwards.”
Erin was just breathing, but Fetohep knew she was listening. He stared at that image. And then reality. Now, he hesitated, for even the off-chance of saying this next part was dangerous. So he couched his language and knew she understood.
“I would have used my forces to prepare for a war—that great war. I would have prepared by making Khelt the enemy of mortal foes. By destroying those it would be better never to stand with. No matter the cost—I would hammer out that alliance that even Khelta would admire. I would have done these things, you see. If only.”
His voice was so filled with regrets the [Innkeeper] was silent a moment. As if searching for things to say.
“I have let you down, Erin Solstice. And Khelta. I should have apologized to her.”
That was all he said. His head lowered, and the speaking stone threatened to slip from his fingers as Fetohep’s eyes and will faded—until a voice snapped through the speaking stone.
“Don’t be disgraceful.”
Fetohep jerked upright. The female voice who snapped at him sounded young—but older. It sounded—
Well it sounded a bit like Xierca, for all it was a tongue, not the tones of graceful undeath. Erin Solstice’s voice rolled around the throne room.
“Let her down? Let us down? When I despaired and the ghosts stood alone and even legends were afraid—Khelt stood with us. Khelt’s king rode across Chandrar. Not the Mages of Wistram. Not the Walled Cities. Not the Blighted Kingdom or any other. One kingdom fought alongside the dead. And you know something, Fetohep? Khelt’s finest hour wasn’t then. Your people are alive.”
“I have nothing to give them. Nor those reaching for help.”
How ridiculous. He should be encouraging her. But—everyone needed this. Erin Solstice’s voice was firm.
“You don’t? You’re Fetohep of Khelt. You are the last part of Khelt still standing—that’s more than they have. They know it. You’re better than their stupid rulers, and that’s why they’re asking.”
