ughts running through your ever so tender and fragile brain,” Luna said as she softly ran a strange tool around a large bowl, producing a hollow ringing noise that seemed to sink deeper than simple volume.Estal shifted in her pool; the suit she wore was made of some elastic rubber plant, it hugged her body but she was pleased to see it went all the way down her legs and arms. Luna had even given her some nice shorts to wear over it so nothing was revealed if she got out of the pool.There was little to be done about the upper areas, but they each had their own pool so Estal didn’t protest.The spring was just the right amount of hot to be deep and therapeutic, rather than uncomfortable. It was odd since Estal knew personally she had a rather finicky ‘just right’ temperature for baths and usually had to settle for near but never perfect.She looked over at Karn who wore the tiniest shorts he could, the cretin. She was curious about his back wounds, some of them looked like his skin had been torn by something with spikes repeatedly, but she refrained from asking.Karn had earned his secrets for now.Silver wore some sort of… bulky diving suit, but even then Estal could see how his body just wasn’t right.Hazhur wore baggy shorts, but she didn’t exactly look hard at her cousin. He seemed embarrassed by something though, so she checked for hilarious birthmarks or perhaps an ugly tattoo;she didn’t see anything, but nevertheless...“However, deep within all mortals is a... core. A point through which all your experience flows. This core... becomes a seed which emanates trauma, hate, pain, and more. This challenge is not to defeat this pain, but lessen its grip upon you. Strength can be gained from this,” Luna let the bowl ring one final time before putting it aside.“And a key, hopefully,” Estal muttered.“When is this drug added? I haven’t seen the dancing moon children in some time!” Karn called, making some drug reference Estal didn’t get.Children? On the moon? Karn was a fool.“Oh, I added them before you all changed,” Luna said conversationally. Estal stopped enjoying the cute little pink petals floating on the water, her eyes widening.“What?” Hazhur said flatly.Estal turned to glare at Luna, but the frog woman was floating, or perhaps her platform... The mist seemed awfully thick and the others seemed far away, as if they were drifting apart. A ludicrous thought until she remembered Rale.Oh, she remembered Rale alright.She made to stand up, but when she gripped the side of the pool, her hands met cold marble instead.The uneven rock marking the pool’s edge was now a weird mix of elegant bathtub and rough stone, the mist drawing closer and closer.“Damn it, I thought I’d see some colours or have minor flashbacks! This is too intense,” Estal complained, standing up.“Wow, I thought she was a boy with how awkward she is, but I was wrong,” came a nasally snide voice from behind her.Estal froze, every inch of her withdrawing into a cold steel sphere of ‘don’t look at me’.“She’s actually a goblin!” The voice finished and a dozen girls began to laugh around her. The... bathhouse was now a large communal bathroom.A very familiar bathroom.Estal turned to see Marby Hasenvane and her dozen or so followers wrapped in towels all crowding around Estal’s tub. Estal couldn’t be here.Estal refused to be here.She threw out her hand and was pitiful... horribly small wisp of smoke exited one finger. This eclited more laughter.“Common little Estie can’t even use common little magic,” Marby said with mock-sympathy before she flung out her own hand.A fireball ignited and flew towards Estal, flying past and igniting her towel and spare clothes until they were only cinders, flaking away and leaving her with nothing to hide her body.Estal sank back into the student baths, dread... shame... loathing filling her.“Hurry back, Estie. I heard the corridors are so cold at night,” Marby said and they all erupted into shrieks of laughter again.“Common Goblin Estie!” they chanted as they walked off.Common... ugly... Goblin Estie.Estal wanted to shut them all out, erect a wall so thick they couldn’t touch her, look at her... burn her.But… she had right? There was a horrible confusing moment of knowing she wasn’t this scrawny underfed kid anymore. She was a proud woman who was neither common nor a goblin.She was being courted by damn muscular frog men who could break her walls any damn day!“Marby?” Estal called and the girl turned, a smirk on her face, which died when Estal rose from the bathtub, a barrier so close to her skin it looked like a dress made of hexagonal panels that shifted.“You grew up to be mediocre and boring,” she declared and the girl’s eyes turned black.“At least I grew up, you’re still here,” Marby spat, her goons turning to shadows.“Yeah, if you’re my deepest darkest demon? I’m so ready to become a badass. Bye bye Marby, you were a second-rate bitch and a third-rate magician,” Estal announced, returning back to her full adult form and snapping her fingers, causing the illusion to explode outwards as Estal summoned a barrier inside them.“Is that all?” Estal bragged and a heavy hand landed on her shoulder. It was tight, slightly cold... and she remembered exactly the feel of those gold rings digging into her skin.“Estal, stand straight,” the man said and Estal was four, shaking like a leaf.“Father,” she greeted, voice so fragile.---Silver walked through gleaming halls of polished metal.He didn’t deserve the name, but the others call him Silver, so he would choose the name over ‘299’ for now. He would just never call himself Silver and there would be no issue... or consequences.Floor 44 was his home and it had been many years since the Great Silver One changed anything here or... even visited. It was the nature of Dungeons. They knew that and honestly, they didn’t feel boredom or loneliness... only passing curiosity of lower floors.In places, the silver was wrong and replaced by a simple human home of beds, kitchen tables, half-people, half silver statues.The illusion was impressive, but Silver was part-monster. It saw the mana making it all up.It didn’t stop him glaring with all his hate at the figure walking through the hall.Flowing hair, a body not suited for combat or being in a Dungeon, a gentle face with a soft beauty that was at odds with sharp silver; soft and supple, and a basket full of flowers in her arm.Silver glared at the woman who had doomed them all.The woman who his master had fallen in love with.The one who he chose over them all.“Kyrial... I will find you and I will kill you,” Silver whispered and the woman paused before him, eyes black and smile kind.“You’re hunting a ghost,” she said sadly.“Then the dead yet wander,” Silver replied.“Beast, cease bothering her,” came an order and Silver recoiled as he was forced back away from Kyrial as a bright silver orb came closer; its light opulent and all Silver ever wanted to see once more.How cruel of Delta... how kind of her.“Master...”
