“Don't bullshit me, we almost died from a corpse crashing into us and this guy is way more badass. You know how I know he's bad-ass? He has two fucking sabers in his hands and is wearing a shimmering breastplate! I haven't met a single other person who uses two weapons at the same time, and what the fuck is that armour made of? He's wearing a fucking unique purple gear while we're here dressed in common whites.”

He replies as if speaking to a simple child, his words spoken clearly and slowly. “We have two weapons, brother, and we are dressed in brown leather.”

“No, we have one tiny sword and a shield with an even tinier blade attached, that does not make two weapons.” Were I not an ethereal spirit without form, I would be trembling as I pace around, but failing to do so, I continue to chatter, healing the bruises on my chest where that giant oaf crashed into me. “You know Mila is like 10 times stronger than we are and she's probably pissed about standing on the sidelines, so we're going to have to deal with that if we survive, even Yan and Huu probably want a piece of the action, not to mention Akanai, who I bet wants her daughter up here to gain fame or renown or whatever, which is just the kind of fucked up, backwards, warrior culture that she ascribes to.”

“Brother, calm yourself. Trust in me and all will be well. Akanai will not punish us, not after our spectacular performance. Did you hear those cheers? Not only from Lin and our friends, but everyone applauding our efforts. Soon, they will cheer for us once more, so pay attention this time and try to enjoy it.” The easy grin on my face makes me want to take control and slap the shit out of myself, but that would be counter productive right now. I'll do that after this is over, assuming I survive. I should have taken control after he fell into the mud and high-tailed it out of here, stupid stupid stupid.

Akanai's voice sounds out in my head, and her message sends chills down my spine.“Rain, be careful, this young man is formidable, capable of condensing his aura. Fight well, Sentinel.” Oh god, that was a warning, she's worried about me. Akanai. Worried.

...

Oh god, I'm fucked.

No, no, Other me has a handle on this, he'll kill this punk without breaking a sweat, easy peasy.

“...Brother, what is aura?”

Yep, definitely fucked. “... I dunno.”

The Justicar announces the start of our match, and my body tenses as Other me prepares to receive the attack. Unlike the other two society warriors, this one is slim and lithe, with a girlish face peeking out from his open-faced helm. His armour glimmers in every colour despite the gloom, the rain petering off as the storm clouds move further away, a drizzle which plasters his helmet plume to the metal. His steps are steady and unhurried, his swords held crossed before him as he approaches cautiously, without a single wasted movement. No flourishes, no grandstanding, this guy is here to fight and it shows in his eyes that he views me as a worthy opponent.

Contrarily, Other me breaks out into a cocky grin, banging sword and shield together as he steps forward, loudly taunting my opponent. “Seems you're a little smarter than the other two. Makes this more fun, it's so dreary sitting through all their speeches and cheering for only a mere moment of pleasure. It's probably how your mother felt on her wedding night, all that build-up for a disappointing finish.”

C'mon man, mom jokes? Tasteless, especially since she's watching. And super hot. Like damn.

Seeing our opponent not take the bait, Other me continues to taunt him as we walk steadily closer to one another, still more than 20 meters apart. “But then again, I suppose it was good practice for further disappointments, seeing how she has a worthless son who will die young and without accomplishment. I heard it, you have no fancy title for yourself, no ranking or achievements, nothing but a rich man-child who's never suffered a day in his life.” Changing directions, Other me begins to stalk him in a circle, our opponent's steady pace unwavering as he continues his approach. “Is this your first fight to the death? I can see you quivering, ready to piss your pants, struggling to swallow your fear with every step. Did the Society run out of talented warriors so quickly, sending a little lamb to the slaughter? No matter, I am happy to kill you, and then I will find your mother and comfort her on the loss of a son.” Other me laughs loudly, a sneer across my face. “Perhaps I'll even put a child in her belly, let her know the joy of raising a true warrior.”

He continues to verbally jab at our opponent, the distance closing between us. “...cut your eyes out and...” 15 meters. “... my sword digging at your organs...” 10 meters. “...until your shit spe--”. His words cut out at 5 meters and I'm thrust into control, panic breaking out across my face as I try to understand what happened, paralyzed with indecision.

A victorious cry snaps me out of it, a saber slashing towards me and on reflex, my shield rising to block as I retreat, avoiding the second slash through pure luck, my cowardice saving my life. Settling into my stance, hiding most of my body behind my shield, my sword held close to parry, I wait for my opponent's next move, his frustration clear. Using the brief pause, I frantically message Other me. “Hey... Brother? You there?” Silence is my only answer as I retreat slowly from my opponent, watching warily as he stands shocked, staring murderously at me. “Helllooooo, earth to crazy me, we have a crisis here, please respond.”

A deep gasp echoes within my mind, startling me. “You cannot feel it?” His voice is weak and distant, as if muffled by a pillow. “Something is suppressing me, I'm unable to even breathe in his presence, like a weight pressing down upon my entire body. You will need to fight him, in this you are stronger than I. Find victory, or die well brother.” God dammit, you had ONE job!

Staring back at my opponent, he begins his approach once again, steadily closing the distance between us. My mouth dries in fear as I back away, my heartbeat hammering in my ears as my body begins to shiver, the young warrior terrifying me more than anyone I have ever met, despite his stately and dignified manner. My mind fixates on one tiny detail I missed in my earlier panic; Akanai called him 'formidable'. That's a compliment.

She's never complimented me, the highest praise I've received from her was 'barely passable'.

I could almost cry.

Chapter Meme
