“Calm the fuck down. Or you’re going to eat this pot,” Eppie said, conversationally, as if discussing the weather.

Her stamina dropped. Her stamina was restored. She lifted the pot an inch higher.

“What the fuck—” Kel fell into a fighting stance.

“You abused Kellie, tonight’s Grammy winner.” She said loudly, water sloshing as she breathed. “That’s going to cost you. But it doesn’t have to cost you everything. You can salvage your career still.”

The coldness of her logic seemed to give the man pause.

“I am Curon’s adopted daughter,” Eppie lied as she breathed, pouring water on the grease fire. “I am Julianna Vaughan’s student. I will have you removed from Sony so fast you won’t even be able to beg security for your… gold chains…”

Shit… was that racist… Eppie groaned internally.

“You crazy…”

“Oh yeah, bro…man.” Eppie hefted the vase, securing her grip. “I am loco… so unless you’re writing a Kel G eulogy for your next top 100, I want you to apologise. Apologise right now, and repent.”

Kel’s face grew grim.Finally, reality caught up. The rapper suddenly recalled that he had a career. Holy shit, Eppie couldn’t believe it. Was this going to be her first [Usurper] fixer-upper?

“Kelvin Grant,” her [Vocality] tolled Kel’s real name like a church bell. “Apologise—”

Before her thought even finished, Kel lunged.

Kellie screamed.

With a Herculean heave, Eppie delivered her [Noblesse Oblige].

As before, her sincerity displaced space with the tearing sound of silk. The flower vase crossed the distance between them with the unbothered velocity of a ripe jackfruit, and Kel, to his credit, understood the danger before his brain registered the absurdity of it. He got both arms up and actually caught it.

In retrospect, Eppie explained to her father later, this was the worst possible outcome for Kel. She reasoned that one simply did not halt the inertia of a hundred pounds of wet ceramic, flowers, and water moving at a velocity no barefooted, 5'1" girl could impart. And if one did stop the vase. One did not stop the sloshing water. Or the dying flowers. Or the slippage that followed.

Kel fell backwards like he'd been hit by a bag of liquid cement. His legs buckled, the vase detonating against the floor in a starburst of shattered clay, stems, and rotten water.

Quest Progressed [The Thief of Joy]

You have diminished a Karmic Parasite, a lesser Usurper. You have prevented misery, denigration and abasement.

Your act of [Noblesse Oblige] has prevented the Parasite from acquiring his first victim.

You have gained [Causality]

You have reaped the [Karmic Parasite] directly or indirectly without the application of [Noblesse Oblige]

[Karmic Balance] will take place.

The Usurper may reap the Karmic Parasite for [Causality] only through [Noblesse Oblige].

WHY THE FUCK DID YOU CATCH IT?! Eppie cursed her stubborn foe. Can’t you dodge like a normal person?

On the other hand, the post-balance penalty wasn’t that bad. Was it because last time, she had Valorie and Marie as collateral? The greatest penalty, it seemed, was reserved for trespasses involving victims.

Running on pure adrenaline and whatever alchemical means the boy used to maintain his pain tolerance, Kel came back up, wet and swinging, disoriented and deranged. He looked genuinely bewildered, looking less like a man who'd been in a brawl with a little girl and more like a man who had lost a fight with an Armstrong Garden Centre.

To her chagrin, Kel hadn’t stopped “playing”. The rapper grabbed a chair, a heavy, hotel-grade banquet chair, the kind built to survive decades of weddings—and threw it at her with both hands and his whole back behind it.

Kellie screamed and screamed. MY EARS! Eppie hurriedly shut down her [Perfect Pitch].

Her [Strength] and [Agility] caught it one-handed, even as she fell back from the momentum.

Kel’s eyes narrowed.

Not wanting to lose more [Causality], Eppie gently placed the chair beside her.

The rapper stared at the chair. Stared at Eppie. His mouth opened and closed like a fish's. He looked around suspiciously, suddenly realising that, maybe, he WAS in a dream.

Eppie wasn’t giving the man any more chances. Kellie was screaming for both of them, so she picked up the coffee table, the one that was strong enough to hold a hundred pounds of rotting water and flowers, pulled it from the floor with one hand, then launched it like a discus across the room.

Kel leapt and dodged, tripping over the eruption of miscellaneous items that came with a room used to store props, furniture and lighting.

And this was the scene that Curon and two security guards burst into:

Kellie screaming, pressed into a corner, cheeks pale, frozen solid; Eppie standing amid the ruins, makeup streaked, dress soaked, barefoot, breathing hard but upright; Kel scrambling backwards to the back of the room, half-drenched, looking like a wild man.

Her father’s face went to Eppie, then to Kel, then to Kellie, then back to Eppie.

A flap of her dress fell out. Eppie almost burst into flames. It was… her padding.

Curon turned to the security guard. “Sir?” the guard gulped.

“Give me your gun,” Curon said suddenly to the petrified young man with a hand on his holster. Her father’s face was beyond fury now; his expression was homicidal. He was staring at Kel with absolute intent to deliver the street justice of a man who had grown up in the Bronx in the seventies, a man who knew his colours and was far too imaginative for his own good. “Give it to me now.”

Eppie’s heart made a shattering noise as dewdrop tears fell from her eyes.

That's 9000 fucking [Causality] Dad… She wanted to say. And he's concert security… they only have Tasers…
