Kael relaxed and answered her questions.

"They are servants I hired to furnish the house and guard it from outsiders," Kael said, his tone light as he felt the weight of the world lift from his shoulders.

"Servants?" Stella pursed her lips. "I don't think I'll need any with Ao here," she gestured to the menacing-looking dragon. "Also, put all the furniture in storage or throw it out."

"Uh, why?" Kael asked in disbelief. He had dedicated the last month of his life to outfitting this place for her.

"I need space to build arrays and grow Fleshfruit trees. All this furniture will just get in the way," Stella said, and then turned her attention to Jared. "Who are you?"

Unlike Kael, whose mood had been greatly lifted by Stella's arrival, Jared had gone ashen with fear, which only worsened with the undivided princess's attention. Kael would never forget the terror in Jared's gaze for as long as he lived.

"I'm one of your servants," Jared replied, unable to hide the trembling in his voice. "I was just on my way out, actually." He tried to walk past Stella, only for the dragon to purposely step in his way.

"Do you take me for a fool?" Stella said, not bothering to move from her relaxed position on the couch.

Jared didn't answer. Instead, he mutely stared up at the humanoid dragon looming over him with empty eyes.

Stella shook her head. "I'm the owner of this house and all the formations that span throughout it. I saw everything, Jared," Stella said, and slowly stood up from her seat. "Kael, come on, follow me."

Kael did as he was told and came to Stella's side. She grumbled and led him out into the vast corridor. He could sense her displeasure and wondered what to do.

Clearing his throat, he spoke up. "I'm sorry, I should have handled it all myself rather than letting people inside your home—"

Stella came to an abrupt stop beside the doorway, making him almost walk into the back of her. "I don't care about that," she turned to face him. They were so close. "I'm disappointed in you."

"Huh?" His eyes widened slightly. "Me?"

"You need to grow a spine," she said curtly.

A sudden scream from inside made Kael flinch, followed by the sickening sound of bone crunching and abrupt silence.

"I was waiting outside to see how you handled things," Stella said, not flinching in the slightest at the sound. Raising her hand, she patted him on the shoulder. "I was worried for you, Kael. If you're going to be my sidekick here, I need you to fulfill your role a little better, okay? It reflects badly on me for you to act so meekly."

Kael stared at Stella's hand. "So we are friends?"

Stella laughed and winked at him. "Of course. Now, clean up here and kick everyone out. I'll see you in the main room later, after I've dealt with some visitors."

"Visitors?"

Stella clicked her tongue. "The Tessellate family has my house surrounded. Don't worry, I'll deal with it."

The humanoid dragon emerged from the room with blood-stained hands.

Kael looked into those empty eyes and realized this was what a servant to a princess looked like: unquestionable loyalty, ruthless strength, and a presence that looked suitable next to Stella. He didn't dare imagine what Ao had witnessed during his service to look so empty.

In comparison, Kael felt he didn't measure up. But that was fine. He wasn't Stella's slave or servant, he was her friend.

Ao didn't spare him a glance and simply made his way to the house's entrance. Stella was already gone in a flash of white flames, dealing with the Tessellate family.

Kael was left alone. Peering into the office, he saw the fate of Jared.

"That was a nice white fur rug," Kael grumbled as he stepped into the destroyed room. "Now it's ruined."
