"I've answered what you're deserving enough to know. In time, I may illuminate more about this place. For now, you must satiate yourself with your own musing."

I smiled, the expression as tight as a piano wire.

"Ah, well, I have a theory about this place. Want to hear about it?"

Etorhma rumbled.

"Perhaps."

I gestured to the area.

"I think this is a carefully curated space where you Old Ones can manifest with some measure of stability. Why? Because the other Old Ones will tear you apart unless you act with some reservation, and these spaces are a big part of how you do that. The thing is, without these domains, your influence probably drops off a cliff since your accord prevents you from destroying our universe."

Etorhma's presence shivered.

"Assumptions. Nothing more than meaningless conjecture."

I could feel Etorhma's hesitation. My smile deepened into a malevolent grin.

"Ah, but that's the problem, isn't it? You can take time to build these places up, and if someone were to tear them down, then you'd be in a pretty poor spot, right?"

Etorhma laughed.

"You cannot harm this place."

I nodded.

"Maybe not, but Baldowah could, couldn't he?"

A silence permeated. It loomed, growing into a kind of oppression. I shifted my body around the portal to Baldowah's dimension. With the opening resting on my palm, I raised my hand high.

"I actually have a way to put your dimensions on a collision course with his. I wonder if that insane war junkie would enjoy fighting for control of your domain? You know, get a little taste of finality and consequence."

Etorhma murmured in an immense whisper.

"If you do this, you will be my enemy."

I narrowed my eyes.

"I've been your enemy since you destroyed my hometown with your little avatar. Now, I want you to remember this - you can smash me all you want, but you can't touch Althea without consequences. That goes even for you, Etorhma."

I opened my palm, and a haunting laugh echoed from a domain of blood and destruction. Ascendant mana oozed out of the opening as blood drenched out into the domain of Etorhma. It clashed against the energy of Etorhma's domain, but Baldowah reached out in a growing wave of crimson.

Blood dripped from the pages of books. The stars in the distance reddened as they turned into bloodshot eyes. More sanguine fluid leaked from them, the tears flowing into a growing red sea. It expanded in the horizon, a puddle that swallowed stars by the second. The Seer snarled.

"Close that gap, smuggler."

I closed my palm.

"I need answers."

The Seer dashed towards me, its body a blur of light and stone. I reached out with my hand, gravitation permeating every ounce of my being. The Seer collided against me, weighing far more than any mountain. It carried a continent's force in its impact, and it created a kinetic ripple that dispersed across Etorhma's domain.

And yet, I remained motionless.

I grabbed its neck, the body of the Seer flinging forward like a trashbag caught on a branch in the wind. I crushed down as the Seer grasped at my hands. I dug my fingers into its neck. It murmured.

"Then your little woman will die."

I scoffed.

"I've cleansed the mana from her, and she's already hidden away. You're lucky she chose not to retaliate. Otherwise, you'd already be dead."

Etorhma rumbled.

"You wish to learn why you cannot harm our chosen avatars once more? I would've imagined Eonoth's beating would've left you humbled."

I cracked the stone skin as my fingertips embedded into it. I laughed.

"It's so ironic, isn't it? You all talk about how you want to experience this dimension and the resulting consequences of living here. You want impermanence. Death. Limitations. And yet, the moment you even get a taste of what that really means, you snarl like spoiled children."

My armor dug under the skin of the Seer. Its internal structure was a seafoam-colored magma, and my armor feasted on the energy. Event Horizon sapped its life away as my armor smiled. I stated my words.

"You can't stand to have a toy broken, let alone experience true loss. Instead, you parade around in some pathetic attempt to feel what we feel. The reality is, you won't ever truly experience our lives because each of you, deep down, is afraid. You all lack the courage to live with your life on the line. Even the smallest worm isn't that weak-willed."

The Seer gurgled out as its seafoam blood flowed down in cascades from its stone skin. It growled at me.

"Says a man who's lived less than a century. What do you know of loss?"

I pulled it closer. I remembered Althea collapsing as I snarled.

"I lost my hometown to you all. I lost my humanity to survive in BloodHollow. I even lost the sweet memories of a mother and a life I never lived."

I turned to Etorhma as I lifted one hand.

"And now you get to feel a taste of what that's like"

Etorhma roared.

"Enough."

The Old One's presence cascaded over us, tearing reality. My skin split as countless fissures spread over me. In my hands, the Seer's legs collapsed while Etorhma's pressure destroyed portions of it. The Seer let out a scream. Etorhma raised its voice.

"I...I am sorry. He is too close to you. It is difficult to isolate when you are both so...Diminutive."

I let out a gurgling laugh.

"That's right, isn't it? What you're experiencing is what we call a choice. On the one hand, you can smash me into oblivion. However, you lack the precision to keep your avatar alive at the same time. That, Etorhma, is a limitation. Tell me, how does that make you feel?"

Etorhma let out a low rumble.

"If you believe that will save you, then you have sorely misjudged my limitations."

Another coursing wave of energy rippled out. My bones shattered. My organs ruptured. Blood oozed out of my body by the gallon, but I stood unmoving. The Seer writhed in my grasp, its body turning into a glowing, crunchy porridge. I spit my blood from my mouth.

"And that's supposed to make me afraid?"

Below the Seer, its blood seeped into an open portal - my pocket dimension. Etorhma rumbled.

"Fine. Do as you must, but know that we are no longer on amicable terms."

I turned to Etorhma and seethed.

"We never were. I want you and the other Old Ones off my home planet."

It laughed.

"Then you will never have what you wish. And you will know the caliber of mistake you've made here today in time. I will guarantee it."

A pit of dread pooled in my stomach. At the same time, a rage roared over my fear. I glowered at the Seer, its body twitching in my arms. It was dying. My words boiled.

"For old time's sake with Etorhma, I'll let you be this time. Know that if you ever so much as graze a hair on Althea's head again, I'll break you until the pieces no longer fit back together."

I released the Seer. It hung on strands of my armor like a limp puppet on strings. I scoffed.

"Oh yeah, I forgot about that."

I swung my hand, and the Seer's body ripped as several strands tore it apart. I opened my palm, and Baldowah's laugh resonated across space and time. Oceans of blood and bones poured out in a condensed stream. Baldowah's laugh kept growing in volume as it echoed across this domain. Etorhma, the mad god, snarled.

"You still defy me."

Baldowah spoke, its voice full of joy.

"Ah, this is a bountiful harvest you have given me, Harbinger. I will award you further. Now, tell me, my brother. Will you fight?"

Etorhma scoffed.

"I don't care to live in an endless war."

Baldowah's presence expanded across Etorhma's domain. As galaxies faded in the distance, Baldowah's voice carried the smell of iron and the taste of steel. It waged war in its voice alone, and it fed on carnage.

"Ah, then you shall be dragged into one. Is it not beautiful to experience a battle? An experience of consequence and finality? Only one of us shall remain. Will you let me rob you of all you've made?"

Etorhma roared.

"No."

A weeping, eerie joy lingered in Baldowah's words.

"Then we fight until we die. An enchanting day, isn't it?"

A clash of concepts erupted as the books and pages opened. Blood streamed out of the stars and eroded the nebulae. Blood dried into dry scabs that faded into ash. Ash then reformed into pages. As the conflict neared me, I ripped open the portal before stepping back onto the George Washington Bridge.

I faced Etorhma's struggle as Baldowah's presence leeched into its domain, causing cracks to form over reality. I spoke into the portal.

"It was good talking to you both, and there's a taste of the struggle you wanted so dearly. Enjoy it, will you?"

I grabbed the edges of the portal I carried. I let the portal shrink to a tiny, minuscule point. Keeping a tiny slither of my dimensional fabric within, I walked up to where Althea had been, making sure I moved the portal around as I did. She returned to our plane, having recovered from the mana exposure without any permanent damage, thanks to Event Horizon.

Still, a pile of sour vomit and salty tears steamed beside her. A few people nearby lost their minds in the meantime, unable to move or think. Before they lost themselves in someone else's energy, I drained their mana dry with Event Horizon. They fell unconscious, and I caught them in gravity before their heads clapped concrete.

Within a few minutes, they came to. Althea let out a sigh.

"Gah. And right after, I talked about how much I hated mana poisoning, this happens. That sucked."

A snarling rage bit in my chest, but I smiled at her as I offered her a hand.

"It did, and yeah, I hate mana poisoning too."

She grabbed two of my fingers.

"Like you've ever experienced it. You're the guy that oozes that stuff out."

"Well, early on, I did feel its effects...But yeah, it's been a long time. Anyways, you ready to see New York City?"

She spat to her side before wiping her mouth.

"Sure, but where's the Seer?"

"Oh, it's still trying to get back."

Behind us, between the bridges, another spatial rip formed in the air. The Seer peered out of its portal, its stolen spatial spears glowing. It glared at me. Althea murmured.

"What's got it so mad?"

I grabbed the portal I wouldn't let close. I jerked it back and forth above my head.

"This."

Like Plazia warned, maintaining a moving portal demanded a lot of the spears. They kept shining brighter before electrical sparks erupted from their surfaces. In flashes of light, each spear ruptured from overloading. As they did, I placed a powerful gravity well inside the Seer. The shards of each spear funneled into the behemoth as it howled out. The portal closed, amputating both its arms.

I smiled.

"And that."
