I took one shaky step, and then another.

My bones clinked and rattled against the stone ground.

I splayed out my skeletal fingers in front of my, what I assumed would be a pretty skeletal-looking face, and I cried internally.

Why did I do this!? This was the worst idea ever!

But as the last of the day’s shadows stretched and disappeared to join the ground in darkness, I could hear the scraping and clinking of many other skeletons.

I looked down the street to see a few coming toward me, but they barely even acknowledged me. Actually, they didn’t acknowledge me at all.

Uh…

I waved a bony hand at them. “How do you do, fellow skeletons?”

Nope, they didn’t react to me at all! Not even to the fact that I was the only one of them that could talk. I clinked my way down the street, walking right past them. One let out a low moan as it dragged its sword behind itself, but it just continued to wander aimlessly down the street with the others.

I folded my arms with a clink and tapped my foot as I watched them.

“Okay, so this is actually working…” I muttered. I was still a bit shorter than most of the others, because I wasn’t a fully grown skeleton, I guess, just like I wasn’t a fully grown human. Nor did I hold a sword. So anyone with half a brain would be able to tell I wasn’t one of them.

Actually, that’s not the only difference.

I reached up to my mouth and felt around my teeth. I had fangs! And not only that.

I felt around the smoothness of my skull but found something up there that felt kind of like horns, but I knew they had to be skeletal ears and…

I popped my hip and looked behind myself.

A skeleton tail too!

Nice. So I was still a part-dog part-human skeleton.

Luckily, these guys had even less than half a brain, or I might have been in real trouble here!

And…

I looked down at myself once more and frowned. OR uh… I guess my jaw shifted in a sort of frowny way?

Anyway, the problem is, all of my new skeleton brethren wore loose armor and clothes… but not me.

I was a naked skeleton!

How embarrassing… How shameless.

I let out a skeleton sigh as I walked out to the next street and saw a few others walking by.

Most of these guys or gals carried similar-looking swords, but a few had daggers. It was hard to tell if any of the skeletons actually had a gender, to be honest. They were just skeletons, and it was pretty much the same for me. But anyway, skeleton or no, I wanted to at least be a skeleton with a little self-respect, so I decided I should go about solving the whole clothing situation.

Could I just steal the clothes off of one of these guys? (or gals?)

I followed after a skeleton dragging a sword, a faded black cloth hung around its waist, and it wore a cracked leather chest piece held together by a few fraying straps. It wasn’t exactly fashionable, but it was better than walking around with my pelvis out for everyone to see.

“Hey buddy,” I said, clinking along beside it. “You mind if I borrow some of your clothes?”

The skeleton continued walking.

“Well, you didn’t say ‘no,’ so…”

I guess I could just shimmy the cloth down past its hips, and it should fall to the ground and step out of it?

Yeah, that seemed like it should work.

Okay! Here it goes.

I reached down to his waist and tugged the black cloth down.

The skeleton’s free hand instantly grabbed on, holding it up, and its head snapped around to stare at me.

“Ah… uh…” I gave an awkward skeleton grin.

It opened its mouth and shrieked in my face, then raised its sword.

“Okay, okay! I’ll take that as a no!” I said as I ducked under the blade, hearing it whistle over my head as I barely got low enough in time.

I turned to run, and it started running after me. “Okay! Definitely a no! Definitely a no! I’m sorry, okay!?”

Luckily, none of the other skeletons seemed to care as I continued to run from my pursuer, the blade whishing back and forth just behind me as I tried to run. I was about as fast on my skeleton legs as on my human legs, which was much slower than my doggy legs.

I tried once more to defuse the situation and apologize. “Come on! I said sorry! Can’t you just move on with your day now!?”

But no, this was a very angry skeleton, and it seemed it was not willing to see reason and let bygones be bygones.

Finally, I ran into an alleyway and decided enough of this. I turned around to see it still running at me, so I charged back head-on. I got under the sword and wrapped my arms around him as I tackled him, then ended up straddling him on the ground. I grabbed the hilt of his sword and found this guy (or gal) wasn’t very strong as I easily kept it at bay. But how do I stop it from screaming and coming after me?

Also, I felt like I was in the process of committing at least four different heinous and unforgivable crimes. But uh… I mean, it’s just a skeleton, so I guess that doesn’t count! Unless you count it as grave robbing, I suppose.

Finally, I wrenched his sword from its hand… er… or so I thought. I actually popped the arm off at the elbow.

Its other skeletal hand tried to slap at me, but I just held that hand back as well as I tried to shake the now-severed hand off the hilt of my new weapon.

I wasn’t sure how to kill these guys. I already knew popping their heads off wouldn’t be enough. But there was that light glowing in its skull, so I thought maybe that would be a good idea.

Once I got the hilt free from the clingy clinky-clanky skeletal fingers, I grabbed onto it with both hands and plunged it down into the skeleton’s face!

It let out a last screech, its body shuddered under me, and then not only did it fall limp, it completely fell apart! The bones disconnected in a messy heap.

Undead Vanquished! Level 16 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

Wow! That actually counted for the Wolf among the Flock thing? I guess I was a pretty convincing skeleton after all. This sucker totally bought the act! I’d thought trying to steal his pants might have given me away.

Though, I doubted it was thanks to my amazing skeleton acting skills and more so my victim’s lack of brains.

But for now, I decided to reap the rewards that I had gone for in the first place and began stripping off the skeleton’s clothes. Again, I wasn’t sure just what kind of crime I was committing here, but I decided not to think about it too deeply as I slipped the black cloth around my waist and pulled the chest armor over my head.

Achievement! Bare-bones Wardrobe!

Indecent exposure charges have been dropped, but the fashion police have issued a warrant.

+2 Vigor

+1 Sense

Really, System? Did you really have to give me an achievement like that?

And okay! I knew my current outfit wasn’t exactly stylish, but fashion wasn’t exactly my biggest concern right now. Besides, this was armor! It had practical value. That had to count for something, right?

Though, if a somewhat nicer outfit were to randomly come along, I might be tempted over the principle of the thing. This is an abandoned city, though, so maybe it would be worth exploring a bit and doing a little looting? Surely something useful may have been left behind?

With a sigh, I picked up the sword and wiped some of the grime from the blade with my new waist cloth. Then I angled it toward myself, caught my reflection in the dull metal, and gave myself a skeletal, wolfy grin.

I still had my sort-of-wolfy human teeth, complete with a nice pair of fangs. The skeletal ears on top of my skull were almost certainly not anatomically correct, but they made me feel a little more like myself. The same went for the bony tail swishing behind me.

Not that the tail made any sense either. I was pretty sure that wasn’t how tail bones worked. Frankly, it didn’t make much sense that any of us skeletons could move around without collapsing into piles.

Heh. Us skeletons.

I guess I was adjusting pretty well.

Still, seeing my empty eye sockets with that faint glow of light in them was a little unsettling.

I lowered the sword and glanced at the pile of bones under me that I had stripped it from. “Uh… yeah, sorry about all of this.”

I stepped out of the alleyway, balancing the sword over my shoulder, and picked a wall to lean against as I watched the other skeletons wander down the roadway. I was glad that whether I failed at skeleton acting or not, it didn’t really seem to matter, but I was thinking, since it was unlikely I would find something decent to eat while I was here tonight, I might as well take the chance to at least do a little leveling up.

I mean, these guys could be pathetically easy to kill, right? And I was getting bonus experience points for it.

Yeah, the Black Pyre would surely have much more dangerous stuff for me to face, so I had better take some easy levels while I could.

Though these guys were pretty dumb, I didn’t want to take that for granted. I kept walking until I found a street with only two skeletons. One carrying a sword, the other a dagger.

I decided to test just what it takes to aggro these guys (or gals). Uh… other than trying to steal their pants, of course!

I walked up to the dagger-wielding one, hefted my sword up, and jabbed it forward, sticking the point right through its eye.

Undead Vanquished! Level 16 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

It let out a dying shriek as it then collapsed into a pile, but its friend was none too happy. I know, I know, I can’t blame him! I did just commit a random assault in broad daylight, and he was not having it!

It raised its own sword and swung it at me, and I raised my sword just in time to block the blow, and then I pivoted forward with a stabbing motion, hitting it in the face once again. This time I didn’t quite hit the eye, but it was enough to pop off its head, and its body collapsed into a pile of bones anyway!

Huh, so it’s not just about damaging their eyes that kills them. That’s good to know. Maybe it’s simply about doing enough damage? They probably have HP bars as well, after all. Maybe my next level of analysis will help with this.

Undead Vanquished! Level 17 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

You have leveled up!

You are now level 19!

+6 Vigor

+7 Strength

+7 Dexterity

+9 Attunement

+8 Sense

Yes! A level up already!

I tried to think, how many bandits had I killed after my last level up? Was it one of the last ones from my last quest? It was hard to say. But either way, a level up was always nice. I was just trying to gauge how much of a bonus Wolf Among the Flock gave me precisely.

But the System didn’t seem to be done awarding me for these impressively easy kills.

Veilform leveled up! 1 > 2

You can now take the form of other creatures with more precision.

+4 Strength

+3 Sense

+2 Vigor

Hmmm, so for all the times I used Veilform it only leveled up once I killed something while inside of a Veilform? I guess that makes sense. Using it simply to be able to talk more easily to humans wasn’t really the System’s intention, and as I have long figured out, the System is generally much more likely to reward you when killing is somehow involved.

I wonder how much more precise I can be? I suppose the Veilform wouldn’t trick someone with half a brain into thinking I’m human if they spotted my ears, tail, or fangs. So maybe as I leveled it up more and more, I’d be able to also avoid those non-distinctly human features?

Maybe I’d just generally be able to transform into more complicated thigns as well?

To be fair, I hadn’t really experimented with this Veiledfang Stalker Path or the Veilform skill very much yet, but I was starting to see its value a little more.

Anyway, I had a great chance to get some easy leveling in, so I made my way down the alleyway and started searching out my next victims!
