Zorm must have emptied his coffers to reach Monarchy. What was left was used to set up production lines and his private cultivation chambers. Beyond the Fiend Pill chamber, four more cave dwellings were designed to slowly refine C-grade cultivation resources. Considering how recently he’d advanced, there weren’t any finished resources for Zac to seize.

A rumble reminded Zac that it was time to go. There was nothing else to note, and he’d memorized the damaged runes surrounding the well of corruption. If Zorm had hidden some last-ditch method to elude death, he’d hidden it too deeply for Zac to find it in the little time he had. It wouldn’t be the end of the world if Zac overlooked something.

The token hadn’t updated his contribution since stepping onto the island, but what they’d accomplished so far had to be worth a hefty chunk. Should Zorm actually have prepared some unique method of survival, his strength would drop to the point of irrelevance.

Whole chunks of the continent were being swallowed by holes in subspace by the time Zac emerged from the mountain. Interestingly, those passages rejected the Lost Plane’s corrosion, preventing the taint from merging with the cosmos. All that ingrained corruption being released resulted in a rapid increase in the ambient concentration of Dead Dao, and he escaped back to the twin peaks.

Zac’s skills had deactivated during his quick exploration, and he got his first proper look at the valley since the battle started. The first thing he noticed was that the moisture had increased. The sky was once more overcast, and the first drops of rain were falling. The only thing holding back the downpour was the last traces of the magic circle engulfed by the clouds.

Sevona was reclaiming the whole mountain, and the Lost Plane’s invasion had been pushed deep into the newly formed chasm. Even the energy leaking out of Zorm’s Inner World was pushed down to become part of the pitch-black pond formed at the bottom. Just looking at it made Zac shudder, and he quickly averted his gaze.

There were no corpses, nor were there any raging battles. Even so, there was palpable tension in the air. Zac roused his spirits as he flew over to Idiche’s side, glancing at the huge bubble before her. It was an opaque mixture of illusions and spatial energy tinted by death. Zac couldn’t see inside, but the fierce fluctuations indicated that something was trying to break out.

“Finally! You could have warned me you would unleash that brute on the valley. I got sucker-punched along with the rest of them,” a battered Idiche said, her face full of grievance.

“Sorry, there was no time,” Zac apologized, looking at the sphere with surprise. “You’ve trapped the other Monarch?”

Idiche nodded. “Your toad is working from the inside, but we’re about to be overrun.”

“I’m not sure if I’m in any condition to deal with another one,” Zac said helplessly, waving what was left of his left arm. Truthfully, his right arm wasn’t in great condition either after getting hit by the Ocular Attack, though he’d spent some Creation Energy to make emergency repairs during the battle.

“No one’s expecting you to do that. The inner region is changing. We should be able to lose him inside,” Idiche quickly said. “But first, we need the key, and only you can get it.”

“Don’t tell me—” Zac’s question was answered when a burst of radiance pierced the roiling sea of corruption trapped in the crack.

Zac vaguely saw a familiar dagger embedded in the ground before it was once more covered by the tainted waters. It was the very same dagger that the members of Sevona’s expedition used to pinpoint the lodge’s location, so calling it a key was accurate. Zac sighed in resignation and emptied [Purity of the Void] of corruption. It would be filled up soon enough.
