Thomas bought freeze-dried meals that only required warm water; lifestraws that apparently disinfected water if you sucked it up through the top; flares, because he never wanted to be stuck in a pitch-black dungeon again even with his health sight (and one never knew when they would run into a T-Rex that only saw movement); a pamphlet on edible mushrooms that was hopefully not AI-generated; a more comprehensive first aid kit than the one he currently had; and a map of the local Reno dungeons.

The map had cost the most, but everything in total came out to less than $200. He had just finished paying when Zach came casually up to join him.

"Check these out," Zach muttered, while pretending to look at some waterproof jackets.

From his hand, he palmed what looked like... "Knockoff AirPod cases?" Thomas guessed.

"Nah. Low-level personal protective shields. Only good for bugs, but I thought they might come in handy."

Thinking of what he'd read about their next dungeon, Thomas nodded.

"The fire cloak sold to someone else a few days ago. Oh, right," Zach said, "and there are two guys following me."

Thomas immediately stiffened. "What?" he hissed, then started to turn to look but caught himself.

"Yeah, both wearing cardigans. We're in the desert, and it's like eighty degrees outside, so they kinda stand out. They've been tailing me since I came in but are pretending they aren't." He paused. "Anyone following you?"

"No. Why would anyone—?" Thomas started to ask, then paused and had to admit, "I haven't been looking. Give me a minute."

He activated his health sight and became aware of people all around him. Nobody looked particularly out of the ordinary, as they all just looked like flickers of life, but this way he could notice patterns.

"Let's split up for a few minutes. I'll take a look over at that crystal booth, and you ask that guide shop if there's any level two Adaptation mana dungeons around. We'll meet up next to... I don't know, the hot dog cart or something, in fifteen minutes."

"Heard," Zach said, then shifted away as if his attention had been caught by a leather apron for sale on a mannequin. Apparently, it protected against burns of all types.

Thomas did not have it in him to be so laid back. It felt like his hair was standing on end, and every movement felt stiff and unnatural as he walked to the mana crystal booth. Most of his attention was on his health sight, but he did notice that this booth was pretty interesting.

It had twenty or so different types of esoteric mana crystals arranged in separate glass boxes. Those boxes were then chained to the table to avoid five-finger discounts. But people could pass their hand over the mana types and see if they resonated or not.

There was nothing related to healing, but out of sheer curiosity, Thomas started to pass his hand over a dark purple crystal labeled as Void mana.

A wave of nausea stopped him before his hand got within a couple of inches of the box, and he hurriedly yanked his hand back.

"Anything interesting you're looking for, sir?" asked a girl who looked like she could be in her first year of college. Given her strawberry-blonde hair she shared with the other people chatting up onlookers, she was clearly part of the family who owned this booth.

"Uh... Adaptation mana? Level two or three?" he replied, though his attention was drawn to his health sight, and he did not like what he was seeing.

The girl shook her head. "Nothing local around here that I'm aware of, but I do have plenty of level ones."

"No thanks. What about this one over here?"

Thomas was being watched. He knew it and could "see" it now in his health sight, but he doggedly pointed to a sky-blue mana crystal he didn't actually give a shit about, on the other end of the long table.

His slight hope that somebody was just following Zach for Old Family bullshit reasons was quashed.

When he moved, they moved closer.

"Oh, that's one of my favorites," the girl enthused. "It's Sky mana, which is an aspect of air..." She went on, and Thomas tried to pay attention. He really did. Normally he would be super interested. Now her description went in one ear and out the other.

"Thanks, I'll think about it," he said with a cheesy smile that he did not remotely feel, and then stiffly turned away and tried to act like he wasn't freaking the fuck out as he walked to the hot dog cart, which was set up in a food court sort of area.

Zach soon joined him and even bought himself a hot dog. Thomas's stomach was roiling too much to think about food.

"So?" Zach asked, not so accidentally joining Thomas where he was standing next to the condiment table.

"There's seven," Thomas said tightly. "Five following you and two following me."

Zach's only reaction was a slight tightening of his fingers, which resulted in a burst of mustard over the bun.

"Shit," he said, as if commenting on the weather. "That's a full hit squad." Then he took a bite of his hot dog.
