What was likely happening here was that Rozeta had been open and honest, for she was not afraid of Erick, while these people here were scared of him, at least a little… Illustrious was scared of him, for sure… But then again. Illustrious was willing to speak more about accretion after he reached Second Foundation…

So maybe Erick was just being paranoid again.

Inferno Maw’s decision to not include any Wizard-core books was easy to understand, though; why would he talk of Wizards to Erick, when he did not know that Erick was a Wizard? Such a talk would just be needlessly giving away secrets. Or perhaps Inferno Maw was just being himself; he didn’t seem like a man prone to long speeches, like Kirginatharp.

Erick put his paranoia away after examining all the angles for a while. He decided that he would discover the discrepancy between Rozeta’s words and the teachings of Ar’Cosmos eventually. But not today.

For now, there was no reason to not try this method of cycling. Monsters and dragons and anyone with a core could achieve more or less the same results through a hundred different methods, though some were better at others for gaining the most in the shortest amount of time. Ar’Cosmos’s methods were geared toward that efficiency, and they had basically perfected these methods over many generations of accretion seekers and monster dissections.

Erick went to the accretion pillows, picked out a large, blue one, sat down, and relaxed.

Getting into the process was simple.

Flickering white glows seeped from his skin as he manifested his aura. Mana came next, flowing out of his core, into his aura, brightening the glow the faintest amount. With control, Erick pushed away the ambient mana floating around him, and inside his body. His aura expanded in all directions like a solidifying bubble. There was a strain, but he held on. He concentrated on breathing. With his mana sense, he saw the world around him, and especially the world inside of his body, for he was very much ‘one with the mana’ when it came to his own mana.

A smile crept upon his lips at that.

And then, he began to push his mana out of his aura, manifesting his power everywhere inside the bubble of his aura. He felt a slight weakness at this, but it was no more than how he usually felt when he got on low mana.

The books all explained the next part as mostly intuitive. Some called it ‘pulling the cap’, and ‘letting the bathwater drain back to the source’. Some called it ‘weakening the natural walls of the core through an application of aura control’. Some called it ‘opening the spirit’. All of them meant the same thing.

It took Erick a second to figure it out, but once he did—

It was instinctual. He opened the solidness of his spirit. Mana flowed inward.

The mana that was already inside of his flesh lit up like a bioluminescent sea disturbed by a great movement far below. For a long, yet brief moment, he glowed radiant white. And then that power was spent, instantly fortifying everything that it had been near. Erick’s heart beat hard twice in succession as a jolt of pure power quite literally filled his veins.

And then the initial burst was spent, and in the wake of relief and calm that followed, all of Erick’s carefully held-together accretion efforts fell apart like so much mist under the sun. His aura evaporated, taking all of its invested mana with it…

And yet, his core felt fine. It wasn’t full, by any means, but some of his mana had returned to him.

He had managed a small, proper cycle. Not a full one, but enough that he could go again.

And so he tried again, and this time he was ready for the jolt. This time, the jolt was a lot calmer…

As his body lit up brilliant white for the second time, and power flowed into his body, through his skin, many strange things began happening. Erick tried to categorize them all at once while he was in the middle of it all, but it was difficult to understand which was more interesting— And then he bottomed out on mana.

Which was another odd thing.

Erick was still categorizing everything else that he had witnessed, though.

Sweat dripped from every part of him, but he felt fantastic. He crashed backward onto his pillow for just a little while so that he could think. Ophiel hopped off of his own pillow to join Erick, now that he was done glowing, and so Erick put a hand on the little fluffy guy, petting him as his mana sense told him a very interesting story.

So.

A few things.

His body was not turning to crystal. Not yet, anyway. That was probably his biggest, current concern. So no worries there, for now.

His core, which had a good hundred facets and had been growing in number of facets, and getting a bit fatter and more round ever since Erick had been [Renew]ing himself, now had 125 facets, and was looking particularly plump. It was not at all like the marquis-cut, 10 mana rad that Erick had originally had… Weeks ago, by now? Yeah. It had been weeks already. His core was pretty far from being a perfect sphere, but it was certainly growing stronger, and this cycling method had pumped up that growth rate considerably.

Also, all of his muscles felt like he had been working out for a good 3 hours. Which was probably a good thing. Erick remembered this feeling well, from back when he was in his early twenties and always active.

He had even witnessed, briefly, how mana had begun to fall into the veins inside his body, to follow those on its way back to his core.

Perhaps the largest change, though, was that Erick knew how much mana he had in his core; 200 mana. It was the same amount of mana he had had in his core since the start of this whole thing. But he had spent all of that mana in this session, though he had only gained the benefit of about 140. He had fucked up that first time, after all, and released a lot of his power into the open air; that mana did not make it back to his core.

This was important to understand because cycling was not supposed to ‘use up’ mana unless it actually got used, which meant that Erick had managed to fortify his body and spirit with about 140 points of his own mana. Most people (mostly dragonkins and the descendants of dragons) only managed to fortify 10 to 50 mana per day. Dragons managed 500-5000, depending on age and circumstances and whatnot.

And here Erick was, fortifying all of his mana into himself.

Oh yes. This was his mana, for sure.

He was a Wizard.

And this felt like he was cheating.

His Maximum Mana was surely higher now, and he was probably stronger, too. But how much? He had no idea. No Script here to show how much he had actually progressed… if at all. Actually…

Erick went back to the books, searching for the answer to a new question—

Ah. Here it was. ‘How much mana does it take to fortify the equivalent of 1 point of Strength’ Answer: ‘Anywhere from 1,000 mana to 10,000 mana, depending on the person.’

This meant a few things. Erick had likely not fortified anything enough to achieve the equivalent of +1 of any of his Stats...

That was concerning. With some quick math…

Erick frowned. “At the far end it takes a normal person about 430 years to get 50 in every original Stat?” He made sure his math was correct. “Start at 10 in all Stats, means 160 Stat points, times 10,000 mana per point, means 1,600,000 mana. But at 10 mana per day this means 160,000 days, divided by 370 days per year, means… 432 years. Oh. Wow. The Script is the real cheater. People use a lot more mana than they make.”

But then again, mana never truly got 'used up' so the Script was just recycling mana.

… But if Erick truly did make between 1 to 1.5 million mana per day, and even taking into account that he would be raising eight Stats up to 70-ish instead of the normal four...

“Five days. That’s all this would take” Erick’s eyes went wide. “Okay. Maybe we’re all cheating but in different ways.” And then he realized he had made his assumptions too simple. “Wait. No… That’s not how it would work. I still only have a 200 mana cap and a 300 mana per hour regen, but only at Rest… Right?”

It was more complicated than that, of course. Erick went back to the books and found most of what he wanted to find about limits and bottlenecks on mana-to-accretion ratio. A First Foundation core could only hold so much mana (which for Erick was 200, for now) until one was deep into spirit fortification and their Script-delineated limits rose to an effective Willpower and Focus in the 50s, giving their core the ability to actually contain 500 mana, such a young dragon was stuck at a maximum accretion of 250 mana per day, or however much mana they had in their core, as defined by their Willpower.

It wasn’t till well into the depths of First Foundation, when Willpower rose to over 50 and Focus followed, that a dragon could accrete a few times per day, as Mana Exhaustion allowed, to fully take advantage of their natural mana production. These were limitations of the Script, and they remained even here in Ar’Cosmos. Those limitations only dropped away in very advanced circumstances which mostly had to do with allegiance to the Dark, or plots for self-created Wizardry, both of which caused the user to disengage from the Script. Disengaging from the Script was bad; the book firmly stated this several times over. Once a person disengaged from the Script they might never get it back, and though the Script was a pain in some ways, in others it was a massive boon. The boon outweighed the bad.

All of that seemed to line up with what Erick had already heard from multiple sources, which he was glad to see.

The day was full of information, it seemed.

As Erick continued to read in-depth, he found another important section regarding ‘bloodlines’. He had ignored that word the first few times he glanced over it, but then one of those sections caught his eye with the term ‘elemental alignment’. Apparently, Erick’s own Light-afflicted aura certainly qualified as a bloodline.

Erick was surprised to realize that his own mental wording for his ‘affliction’ was likely a cultural bias.

Dragons all wanted a bloodline, and they all naturally had one, so that worked out for them, but for half-dragons, or anyone else, bloodlines were something that they had to go out and acquire. Once one acquired a particular elemental bent to their mana, it would make those sorts of spells and natural abilities so much stronger. The strength of that shift varied, but 2 to 4 times as strong was a general expectation.

Once again, dragons had a claw up on the competition, for they had their bloodlines since birth, but as long as one got a bloodline before they started accreting, then that was fine. Adding a bloodline after forming your first core and reaching First Foundation was exceedingly difficult, and not recommended for the beginner.

Anything put in at the start only got better with time. Anything put in after the start sometimes got pushed out by what already lay beneath. It was more complicated than that, since dragons could shed their cores and make new ones, but that was considered an advanced technique and was only hinted at in a single, advanced book. The actual wording was more like ‘talk to someone who knows about this; do not attempt yourself. You will die.’

Anyway. The Script’s ability to allow anyone to gain an Elemental Body, if they tried for it, was perhaps the easiest and most widespread way that non-dragons added bloodlines to themselves.

But what actually concerned Erick, and the whole purpose of looking up this stuff on aura-taint, was due to the creation of magic when one had a tainted aura. In the manual creation of magic, one used their aura to make that magic, and if one had a bloodline, then all their magic was naturally aligned in that direction. This made creating magic that was not aligned with one’s aura harder than it would be otherwise. For instance, even the basic [Force Bolt]s Erick made with his aura were actually [Light Bolt]s unless he strained himself to make them normal [Force Bolts]s. It wasn’t much of a strain, but it was still a strain.

Four different books all told Erick that his concern over future magic creation prospects was a concern that many, many people had had before him, and that such a concern was not worth his time to consider. Any properly made core would be made with one’s own mana, so it would always respond to one’s need and ability, which meant that he could eventually learn to ‘suppress his bloodline’ and use his core for whatever magic he felt like making. Suppressing one’s bloodline was a technique outlined in four different books, each in a slightly different way.

… Erick read those sections rather thoroughly.

Two hours later, Erick was sitting on his pillow with his aura fully out and active, but it was colorless. No light. No glow. Not even a hint that it was actually active at all. A little bit of his mana had returned to him by then, too, so Erick formed a [Force Bolt] with his aura and aimed at the stone floor of his room.

A perfectly normal dollop of near-invisible Force smacked the stone with all the power of a tap from a particularly heavy staff. Of course, nothing happened to the stone at all. It was stone. Erick’s bit of Force was nothing compared to that solidness. And yet, Erick felt a giddy source of pride and surety well up within him. That small joy came out as a small laugh.

The strain of suppressing his bloodline was only slightly more difficult than opening his aura in the first place.

Erick smiled.
