And then Erick asked why they didn’t have public transportation, like a rail system. This entire place was made of fake materials, right? If so, it should be simple to include some moving carts, or maybe moving walkways. Illustrious explained how that, no, this place was made of real stone and real everything, and that they tried moving-systems twenty times since she ascended to the head of her house, 1100 years ago. They always broke down.

“One method that we all thought would last forever was the river system. It was clean, fast, efficient, and most of all nice. You could sit on a boat and watch the world go by as you got to where you needed to go. It was exactly that for about 20 years. There were problems, though.” Illustrious said, “People liked to swim in the water, too. Every year we would end up with two or three kids dead to drowning, and a fair number of adults, too. Every Triumph of Light we’d end up with at least ten or twenty people dead from drunken swims. What actually ended that system, though, was that the main man who made it was murdered over some alleyway deals of his, and no one else was willing to put in the work to keep the system up and running. Boats break down a lot. The riverways spilled water everywhere, and into some houses, too. The constant repairs and maintenance made it a mana-intensive system to maintain, and a constant headache. The thing had to be maintained ten times over, after all; multiple systems in each land.”

But [Mend] still worked here, right? [Stoneshape], too?

… Erick glanced through the manasphere.

The manasphere was still present, though it was a lot cleaner here in Ar’Cosmos than out there on Veird. Erick tried glancing backward in time, though, and he hit a pretty hard wall about ten minutes into the past; the mana was clean. No influences. While this was great for Erick, for he realized he could not be easily spied upon through his history...

Since [Mend] worked off of the history of an item, and since this place had little history…

[Mend] likely didn’t work. Huh.

To make sure, though, Erick asked, “Does [Mend] still work here? Boats should be easily repairable, even if [Mend] doesn’t work, though.”

“[Mend] works, after a fashion, but only if you get to the break as quick as you can. The mana here is a lot cleaner than back out there. [Witness] is pretty much impossible unless you are informed of an incident within ten minutes of it happening.” Illustrious said, “In the case of the maintenance of the boats, though, it turned out that the boatmaster was floating the whole enterprise due to his contacts in those alleyways, but those people were sabotaging the boats and screwing him over. That whole nasty business came out over the course of a year and the waterways were dead by then. Water drained out. Boats burned. The end of the waterways was a time of red for Ar’Cosmos, for its downfall had uncovered a great many unseen threats until that time. House Fae and House Carnage purged every single criminal in the city, all at once… Etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. You know how justice goes. Anyway. For the waterways: No one wanted to fix the water system or take up that mana and work cost, and so that system went away, following the same path as all the others before it. And so, we walk where we want to go.”

Erick frowned a little at that.

The conversation moved on.

Eventually, one of Illustrious’s guards showed up with a small suitcase of papers and other writing equipment, meant for Erick.

Eventually, they made it back to Fairy Moon Manor.

Illustrious’s guards stayed outside of the manor while the dragon woman, who took the writing stuff from her guard, guided Erick into the house, saying that she wasn’t going to leave until she personally handed him off to Fairy Moon, herself. Once the doors to the outside world closed, leaving Illustrious and Erick alone for the first time in several hours, her public persona dissolved; she smiled softly, and there were no sharp teeth. Her eyes were bright and happy. She was back to being the kindly woman she had tried to be this morning, but of which Erick was too blinded by his paranoia to see. Sure, Erick had very good reasons for thinking badly of Illustrious Moon (And Fairy Moon, of course), and he would continue to have those thoughts until he was allowed to leave Ar’Cosmos and interact with Illustrious and the others on his own terms, but he wasn’t blind. He saw that Illustrious was basically a good person.

Probably.

It wasn’t till the two of them had walked through four hallways and shut three grand doors behind them, that they reached Fairy Moon. The old fae was eating dinner beside Maid Maria, who was also eating dinner at the same table.

Illustrious relaxed fully, giving a happy sigh as she set down the briefcase full of papers and pens and ink, and other various things. “That was a fun little trip. No problems, either.” She said to Erick, “I hope that we have proved the truth of this land to you, at least a little bit.”

Fairy Moon spoke up, “The tour seemed to work out splendidly from my perspective.”

And it had.

No one had tried anything untoward the whole time. Erick had been waiting for it; waiting to unleash Ophiel and attempt to protect himself but probably fail. And yet, he hadn’t needed to do that.

But if Fairy Moon was watching the whole time...

Erick asked anyone who would answer, “Did anyone try anything untoward?”

“There were some people in some alleyways that tried to interact with you, and then they tried to follow with a long-distance [Scry].” Illustrious said, “But my people took care of it.”

In a way, Erick was glad that something had happened, and that Illustrious had stopped it. It would have been beyond strange if nothing unexpected had happened. Something always happened when Erick was out on the town, and it was usually only through the combined efforts of his mana sense, and, until recently, Poi or Teressa, that they managed to make nothing happen; usually by eyeing the people who tried to start whatever shit they wanted to start.

Most people usually only wanted ‘some of his time’ and to ‘tell him about this great offer’, though. Very rarely was there actual danger involved.

Fairy Moon said to Erick, “You have all the accouterments necessary to cultivate your core into something singular that will again allow you a 50-meter radius of rounded senses; the only reason you are blind for now is this lack in your life. I hope you are prepared to produce such growthful gains, now that you know we are not being betrayful or befuddling.”

Erick purposefully frowned at her for her attempt at hurrying him along, then he realized, almost sadly, that frowning wouldn’t ever register to Fairy Moon how he wanted it to register. He lost his expression at that moment, blinked a few times, and then said, “I know you are not being purposefully dishonest, but from my perspective this is all very sudden and unkind. But by that same hand, and in your favor, I understand that kindness is not always the best policy, especially when it comes to matters of grave importance, but…” Erick decided that he didn’t need to say anything else along those veins; Illustrious understood, but Fairy Moon was just playing lip service toward understanding. Erick cut to the end. “I’m going to start accreting after dinner.”

“Then the day was not wasted.” Fairy Moon said to Maria, who was already getting up out of her chair, “Please attend to our guest’s appetite.” She turned to Illustrious. “Will you be staying? I have words of wisdom about the audit.”

Illustrious stood tall, like she was ready to receive bad news, and said, “I would be delighted to join you for dinner and to speak of the house.”

And so, they ate. Maid Maria finished her own dinner in the other room, while Erick sat at the same place as before, and Illustrious sat across from him, and Fairy Moon spoke of everything that was currently happening in House Handinoi, and what needed to change.

It was basically administrative talk, and though it was informative into the nature of Ar’Cosmos, it wasn’t anything that Erick hadn’t already suspected. This place was just another city on Veird. Ar’Cosmos had more or less the same problems as any other. The solution of ‘banishment’ here, though, was a lot more involved than banishment out there, and usually involved a Fae Seal which stripped the banished-person of all their memories related to this land.

Which sort of explained the discrepancy between how many people seemed to live here, versus how little Erick had heard of this place before his arrival.

Dinner itself was great. Erick listened and did not speak. All in all, it was a rather normal event. Fairy Moon even agreed with Illustrious’s promise of allowing Erick to send letters back to his people… Which was apparently a thing that was in doubt, for Illustrious had made that promise, and not Fairy Moon, and Illustrious was very obviously relieved when Fairy Moon allowed her promise to be kept. When the meal was over, Erick bid Illustrious farewell, and Maid Maria came in with a load of books that had been delivered to the front door, courtesy of Inferno Maw.

Maid Maria helped Erick to carry the books back up to his room, and he was not accosted for that decision, nor was he told to do anything at all. This was also a surprise. A welcome surprise, to be sure, but a surprise nonetheless. He had expected Fairy Moon to demand something from him.

Maid Maria bowed as she left Erick to his room.

With paper products and a pen in hand, and the door closed and locked (though that probably wouldn’t do any good, but it was the thought that counted) Erick got down to writing a letter. He had to scrap it a few times when he felt he was being too angry, but the anger flowed easily once he was able to put words to paper. So he just gave into the anger for version #5, getting it out of his system. That worked. Once the anger was bled onto the page, Erick focused beyond his own emotions to get to the truth of this land…

That truth was what he put into his sixth letter, and when that turned out like shit, he reorganized it all into a seventh.

He explained the mind control, or whatever it was that had happened to him, and then he explained how further mind control happened, but then that was over, for now. As long as he didn’t cross any fae lines, then there shouldn’t be any more of that…

And then he realized that none of these letters worked. His goal was to inform people that he was safe, and under fae rules, and that Ar’Cosmos had Wizards, and with any luck, they could ‘solve the future Sundering problem’ by the time he got out of here. Yes. That was what he wanted to tell Stratagold and Oceanside and Spur, so he drafted a letter including that true message. And then, he finished.

… It probably needed to be reworked later, after he had a night to sleep on it.

Jane and Poi and Teressa and Kiri each got letters unique to them which were much easier to write.

All of those letters got a post script that he would likely add to the political letter, tomorrow:

‘Please don’t start any wars over this.’

… He wasn’t going to send them out right now, anyway. Erick set the letters aside.

He leaned back in the chair and had a think. The chair had not been there in his room this morning when he awoke, nor had the desk. A bookshelf that was mostly empty, save for a few history books and some accretion manuals, sat near the desk. That shelving hadn’t been there this morning, either. After adding Inferno Maw’s workbooks and such, that bookshelf got a lot more full. The last addition made to his room while he wasn’t looking were some accretion pillows sitting beside the window. Those things were great big bean-bag-like pillows that were both soft, and yet firm…

Erick almost went to the pillows, to cycle; to put into practice all the ideas he had seen that day.

First, though, he grabbed the books on accretion, set them upon his desk, and read up on the process for a while. All of the books came with warnings in the beginning explaining that the book would not be allowed outside of Ar’Cosmos, with the punishment for violating this rule being banishment. Other than that bit of scare tactics in the beginning…

The sun fell and the moon rose. Lights came on automatically inside the room, keeping the room bright while outside turned to night. And Erick studied.

After three hours, and after cross referencing seven different accretion manuals, Erick felt he had a pretty good grasp on accretion. There was only one problem.

But that problem might not be a problem.

Erick had read none of this back in the Core of Veird. He had heard none of this in his long discussion with Rozeta, about the process of becoming a Wizard. But then again, she had spoken mostly in generalizations of the process by which a nascent-Wizard became a true Wizard. That whole process basically boiled down to: ‘The Wizard makes mana and themselves at the same time, becoming a fully crystallized-mana being that is like a weight upon the world, while also maintaining a fleshy body; this is the first major act of Wizardry from any and all true Wizards. It is Paradox Wizardry, for sure, and if you actually try for Wizardry, you will get there faster than you expect, Erick.’

And yet!

All these books, even the advanced ones, did not even hint as to what Rozeta had explicitly said would happen to him. They all spoke of cores. None spoke of fully-crystal bodies.

Even the few advanced books among all the remedial books mostly spoke of things like Third Foundation and Final Foundation. Third Foundation was when one had achieved multiple cores, which doubled one’s safe mana-per-second spellcasting cap from 500 mana spent per second, to 1000. Final Foundation was where one increased their core count to anything beyond two cores, which usually meant that such a person could make as many as they wished, and could sustain.

This sort of explained why some of the wyrms that poured out of the Forest of Glaquin at the end of every Water Season, and which lasted pretty much all of Summer, had multiple grand rads. This explained why it was possible for a monster to have multiple cores at all.

But anyway...

Maybe there was no discrepancy.

Maybe becoming a Wizard is something more tightly hidden than what Inferno Maw and Illustrious Moon and even Fairy Moon were willing to share with Erick at this moment in time. Or, maybe Illustrious and Inferno Maw simply did not know how Wizards actually worked. After all, Ar’Cosmos had a certain view towards Wizards, and how best to use them. Perhaps their ‘best use’ of a Wizard would never allow a Wizard to actually achieve their full capability.

