Erick stepped onto what appeared to be the upper levels of Ar’Cosmos Arcanaeum. Illustrious Moon stood to his side, smiling a little as Erick took in the sights, but then she took notice of who was coming to greet them. Her smile took on a strained edge due to one of the newcomers, but she maintained her professional persona.

The people coming this way were a ways off, so Erick glanced all around at the school, first.

This layer of the arcanaeum was almost like a university campus, but the blocky buildings were separated by bridges and small green spaces, instead of by large expanses of green. The buildings were more like massive towers, though, for all the green spaces and bridges were actually the roofs of the next level down, where even more small green spaces and bridges connected the still-separated towers to each other. But then, further past that, was what appeared to be the third and final level of the school, with buildings separated by little more than large thoroughfares and hallways. Every floor was the roof of the next building below, and Erick would not be surprised if there was a fourth level, or even a fifth level, far below the solidness that he could see through Ophiel’s eyes.

External stairwells connected all levels to each other, in some byzantine organization that Erick could probably figure out if he wanted to, for there were signs everywhere, but he did not care to unravel the Escher-like architecture at this time. He did not doubt that there were internal stairwells, too, which probably added to the confusion. Lighting was ample, though, illuminating what normally would have been deeply shadowed spaces below. Instead of the spaces below seeming like dark holes, they seemed more like recesses full of daylight.

Students in blue and white uniforms, either robes or suits, walked everywhere. Most of them were young, and dragonkin, with tails or with horns or without, and in obvious cliques or study groups, with books set in their laps or between them as they read and conversed on the green spaces, or in gazebo-like structures. Many were walking back and forth between classes, with most of the visible people out and about on the second and third levels down.

There weren’t that many students on the top level, where Erick and Illustrious had arrived, but there were a few people who were obvious teachers, who wore shoulder capes in various colors.

Two of those teachers had finally reached them, to stand before Erick and Illustrious.

One was a man of average build with dark skin and a long red beard that he had split into two twisting braids. His hair was similarly long and braided, to fall back behind his robed self, while his horns were strongly red and curved to the sides like a ram’s, but not really that at all. He had a bright red cape over his left shoulder—

Ah. His horns were the same as Redflame’s horns? Yes, they were. Redflame, then? The Dragon Stalkers had said that dragons liked to keep their same horns in their forms, so it was easy to tell who was who even outside of their full selves. Therefore, this man was either Redflame, or one of Redflame’s close relatives. From his genuine grin and the way he made sure not to show his teeth when he smiled, Erick suspected this was actually Redflame, himself.

The other teacher was a tall, skinny man with pale, severe features and a grey shoulder cape. His horns went up and out, while his robe had a lot of long lines of gold from top to bottom, making the man’s height seem excessive, in Erick’s opinion. He was even taller than Illustrious.

Both of the people did not have tails.

Illustrious introduced the first man, saying, “I believe you already met Redflame the other day.”

Redflame smiled wider, saying, “I am pleased to see you showing interest in our ways, Erick. It bodes well for future cooperation, but news of the circumstances that have brought you here are starting to circulate, and I have had some time to think more since yesterday. Such appalling treatment is not good for our future relations, so I would like to know how to make this better for you. I apologize on Fairy Moon’s behalf, and will say that Fairy Moon is simply a great deal worried about the future, and I don’t blame her—”

The severe man sighed a little, directing his casual and long-suffering ire toward Redflame, who was still talking.

“— so I just wanted to say that I am for cooperation, and not for whatever containment is going on here— And my colleague is getting testy! So that’s what I wanted to say.” Redflame said, “Glad to see you again.”

Erick felt some warmth from the man for that…

He wanted to believe that this school was simply a normal school, and the city was simply a normal city, and that everyone here was just trying to live their lives, which most people often did. Everything he had seen so far made that belief easy. This boded well for future relations.

But the rulers here… the people who actually had an impact on Erick...

He didn’t know if they were lying to him. Aside from how Erick had arrived here in Ar’Cosmos, which was still a very large issue, everything here was Fae Magic, and that stuff was rather close to Illusion Magic… Could he trust them? Only as far as he could test them, he supposed.

So he would ask questions. He would investigate truths. If he found nothing untoward, then true cooperation might happen. That was what Erick had wanted, anyway, before Fairy Moon stole him away to this place. These people were all here because a terrible curse held them tight in its grip, and so they had done horrible things to survive, but they truly did seem to want to be normal people.

And that was good.

And so: Redflame’s words were nice, and it meant something important that he was willing to say them so openly instead of in the comfort and privacy of his house... Erick decided to believe him until proven otherwise.

He said, “I appreciate the sentiment, Redflame. I hope that such words will form the foundation for a long and peaceful cooperation in some manner or another. I have thought about your words since yesterday, too. I would speak of the potential fallout of [Renew] in a more private setting, though.”

Redflame’s shoulders relaxed as he smiled brightly, accidentally showing his perfect white teeth. And then he shut his lips tight, before saying, “This makes me glad.”

And then the severe man eyed Illustrious.

Illustrious smirked as she introduced the severe man. “Erick Flatt, this is Inferno Maw, High Chancellor of the magical side of Ar’Cosmos Arcanaeum, which is only about a third of what we do here so he’s not that important.”

Inferno Maw eyed Illustrious.

Erick jerked a little bit at the man’s name, though. He said, “Ah. Hello. I did not expect to see another head of house today. Did not know you worked at the arcanaeum, either.”

“I did not expect to be introduced second, so it’s a day full of unexpected events,” Inferno Maw said, sarcastically.

Illustrious’s smirk remained firmly planted on her face.

Inferno Maw gave the woman a half-lidded eye roll, and then he turned his full attention to Erick. “If you will permit me a small spiel: Welcome to Ar’Cosmos Arcanaeum, Erick Flatt. Our libraries and our classes are open to you for whatever needs you need. I’ve heard that you’ve had recent success with runework. If you desire to learn this magic here, then we have courses on this study. We also have courses on enchanting, if you desire that as well. Or instead of runework; whichever. Most magics are different here than they are on Veird, but magic is possibility, and true enchanting and true magic will still work from here to there, mostly. The reverse is very much not true at all.” He added, “But! The reason I open my arcanaeum up to you is not out of an idea of altruism; we can’t all be heroes like yourself. I heard that you wish to remove the Dragon Curse. I have no doubt that in the years to come you might actually find a way, but the only way to do this is to open a line of communication between us and Kirginatharp that he will respect; to create a cooperation between Ar’Cosmos and Oceanside. The Curse will need to be removed at its source, after all. Of course, I am not asking you to blindly trust us at this juncture, and especially not considering how you were stolen to here by Fairy Moon, nor am I expecting this construction to take place in a matter of years, or even decades. But I feel that you’re our best chance at ridding our people of this affliction, and so, this is my reason for helping you to learn whatever you wish to learn. Keep this in mind going forward.”

The man was heavily forthright, and he seemed to be telling the truth.

What Inferno Maw wanted was something that Erick believed he wanted, too.

Rozeta had said that this world would not survive a true flight of dragons, though, but even if she was right, they still had time to work out the particulars of a cure. If this [Gate] thing worked out, it would be a hundred years before they needed to actually plan around gaining new worlds. A timeline to curing the dragon curse might take that long, considering how difficult life had been for everyone involved so far.

Erick felt another loosening around his heart.

Everyone here seemed to want the same things as Erick. Motivations and goals were different, but…

That was fine.

Erick said, “I don’t fancy myself a hero, for I simply wish to fix as many wrongs as I can, and the Dragon Curse seems to be one of them. If your offers and your hospitality are real and true, then I look forward to cooperation with your people for a long time to come.”

Illustrious seemed a fraction concerned as Erick mentioned ‘real and true’, but Redflame was trying desperately not to show his teeth as he smiled wide. Inferno Maw was simply pragmatic.

“Our offers are real and true, so I foresee no issues in the immediate future.” Inferno Maw asked, “Do you have any particular need that our arcanaeum can fulfill, at this moment?”

Erick did have a need. He said, “I want to see how a core is formed, the methods and reasonings by which accretion works, and what it means to soul-bind a spell into one’s core. I also want to speak to some of your Wizards.”

Redflame turned quizzical, looking to Illustrious. Illustrious nodded.

“Not what I was expecting,” Inferno Maw said, unconcerned for Redflame’s or Illustrious’s reactions. “Accretion business is easy enough. The arcanaeum cannot assist you with [Gate Space] creation, which is what I was expecting, so I’ll just say that now. Not only are our Wizards incapable, they do not know how to make a [Gate]. Illustrious would be the one to ask after that particular magic. Or Fairy Moon herself. Our current batch of Wizards would likely fail to grasp even the major nuances of this magic, for once their mana was stripped of them they lost all capability. Without a cheat, they cannot compete!”

Erick did not like that last part.

Redflame scowled at that part, too, complaining, “The ones here might not be great creators of magic these days, but they are no less capable than any tier 5 mage, and they’re all great teachers. They all learned how to do proper magic.” He turned to Erick. “It is a common misconception that the wearing-out of a Wizard means they can no longer function in society, but it is true that they are no longer capable of easy magic. This is what Inferno Maw means when he says such a cruel thing.”

Inferno Maw brushed off Redflame’s comments with a huff, and then he said, “I suppose Arnolio is decent. The other three just lost their love of magic; that’s the only real thing that can truly break a Wizard.”

While that was fascinating...

Erick wanted to go back to an earlier point, since the three dragons had seemed to move on too fast from it for his liking. He said, “Speaking of cruelty: I appreciate your acknowledgment that what Fairy Moon did was a theft. That means a lot. I will have you know, though, that until that event, I was predisposed to judging in your favor, for I was already hoping for some sort of cooperation to rid the world of the cause of dragon fights and other, smaller evils.” He added, “Now, though, I am here against my will, and Fairy Moon has threatened a lot, and… It’s been a lot.”

Illustrious gave a small sigh. Redflame seemed to be experiencing a lot of different emotions, most of them happy, though he kept the majority of whatever was happening to him in that moment under a lot of wraps.

Inferno Maw was direct, smirking as he sarcastically said, “Pretending at Fairy Moon’s throne of Judge, are we? Fair enough; she’s been enamored with you since you purged the crystal forest of Hunters, and then again after you rescued all those orcols in that commune. I’m surprised it took her this long to steal you away from the world.”

“She shouldn’t have done that,” Redflame rapidly said, frowning deeply. “She will never apologize, but I hope you can accept my apology in her place, Erick. Sorry. Again, sorry.”

His apology was something. It was not nothing. It certainly wasn’t freedom, but it was something.

And then Inferno Maw said, “Fairy Moon will do it again and again, and you apologize each time, Redflame. Don’t you get tired of that?”

“How often does this shit happen?” Erick asked, suddenly incensed, and trying to hide it.

“One of the primary diplomatic things we heads of house engage in is damage repair and anti-propaganda measures for all new guests whom Fairy Moon retrieves from the world.” Illustrious Moon said, “And saying that: I also apologize. It took me entirely too long to do this particular damage repair, as we almost never get a guest as high profile or as important as you. House Handinoi was simply… We were not prepared for this to happen. We did not foresee this possibility.”

“Yes yes; the fox is as blind as always.” Inferno Maw said, “But all that is boring politics. Let us learn how true magic works, shall we? Linking up with the Wizards here will have to take place another day, though.”

Illustrious kept her tight smirk, though Erick could tell she wanted to hit Inferno Maw, at the very least.

Erick was just a bit unmoored, though. He decided to stick to what he cared to know. Inferno Maw was likely correct that nothing political was going to happen right now, or soon, so they might as well move on to the important facts of the day. Like what accretion was, and how it worked.

Erick decided to move on, saying, “Wizards later; accretion now. This is fine. I want to see accretion in action.”

Inferno Maw flicked his hand at Illustrious as he spoke dismissively, “I can take it from here. Take your kits and go back to your parties and your pageantry.”

