Illustrious smiled wide at the man, showing off her sharp teeth. “No.”

Inferno Maw sighed, then turned, and began walking. “This way then, Honored Guest, and intrusive foxes. We go to see the Accretion Masters.”

- - - -

The School of Accretion was one of the central buildings of the arcanaeum. Erick walked right through the main entrance on the third floor alongside his three guides, and noted how absolutely no one was scared of Redflame or Inferno Maw, but everyone gave Illustrious a second look, and then promptly realized this was a bad idea. When Illustrious noticed, which was often, she glanced back, and almost everyone receiving a glance instantly tried to rush away, or they simply froze. Most people froze, and gave deference, which seemed to be what she wanted.

Some people stared openly at Erick, though. They just froze in place, open mouthed and wide eyed. Erick gave those people a small smile and a little nod. Ophiel copied the same gesture from atop Erick’s shoulder.

Accretion Hall was about as nice as any of the other places in Ar’Cosmos, which was to say it was built to last forever, with thick stone walls and wide spaces. Some of the hallways were wide enough for full-sized dragons to roam, but Erick saw none of those here. With Redflame and Inferno Maw and Illustrious’s lack of tails, but seeing tails on some of the people here, Erick knew there was some sort of division of hierarchy going on there, but he did not know enough to understand what sort of division he was seeing.

The trip through the halls and down two staircases took little time at all, with Redflame eagerly pointing out the various sights to Erick, which Erick appreciated. Inferno Maw asked questions to better guide the tour, and Erick explained that he wanted to see accretion, itself; not core formation or anything too in depth. And so, Redflame simply pointed out the room for First Foundation creation, but it was empty, for now, though it could be filled if Erick wished it to be filled. Across the hall was the core diagnostic room, which was currently occupied and unable to be viewed; that process was delicate and could not be disturbed. Some large classrooms had professors explaining things to students in large groups, but Erick’s tour did not go into those rooms, since he had explained he wanted to see the actual practice, not the theory. Soon enough, he ended up at the back of a small classroom with one teacher with big horns and a long tail at the far end, and four students of various body-types sitting in front of him. A private class, meant for specific instructions with gifted students.

The teacher looked up from his instruction and scrunched his eyebrows at Erick and the others—

With their lesson interrupted, Inferno Maw spoke, “Erick Flatt is here to see how we accrete a core; the middling and largest part of the whole ordeal.” He said to Erick, “All of these students, as you can see, are somewhere between First and Second Foundations… And you said Illustrious explained this to you?”

“Illustrious explained the basic theory on the way over; yes.”

Inferno Maw frowned a little at that, as he eyed the tall, violet woman. “I’m sure it was adequate.” He said the word like an insult, then turned back to the class, and everyone was now looking at him. “Allow me some more words on the subject, though: Monsters naturally form cores. Dragons do, too. But dragons can get stuck in their ways, and thus they teach the new generations the same thing as the old generations, over and over and over again, thus perpetuating bad practices that don’t work for everyone. But monsters have been learning how to cycle and accrete in as many different ways as there are monsters.

“Through trial and error and proper investigation and experimentation, which is verified by accretion seekers —it’s a job some people do— we search out monsters, discovering how they accrete, and through this knowledge we can sometimes find better accretion methods. Actual accretion is based on personal mana produced, though; we don’t cycle like the monsters do. That way lies insanity. We think this insanity is due to Melemizargo’s Insanity Mana filling up Veird’s ambient mana, but that is only part of the reason we have monsters and not ‘spirit beasts’ like they did in the Old Cosmology. There are, in actuality, hundreds of different factors for why monsters are the way they are.

“We, however, are not insane, and we are not ‘naturally violent’ unless provoked or given reason; the same as anyone else, really. Anyway. Through our hunts for ever better cycling methods, we have found the best generalized methods. These methods are what we teach our young.” Inferno Maw said, “Show him some cycling.”

The instructor strongly said, “You heard the chancellor. Everyone start cycling. We can get back to the actual lesson afterward.”

Erick asked, “What was the actual lesson? Also: pardon for the intrusion. Hello.”

The instructor instantly answered, “Directed accretion, in particular toward the spirit and toward personal abilities. Everyone here has plans to study magic but they also have bloodlines and personal abilities that they wish to either enhance or mitigate, so I help them to direct growth in those directions to fortify those base abilities.” He saw Erick’s minor confusion, then added, “It’s like… Imagine having a plant-based bloodline which allows one to [Grow] on demand, but you can get a spell to do that, so the bloodline is useless as gifted. So you need to mutate that bloodline ability toward something else in order to make it useful again, like [Mature Plants], which does the same thing as [Grow], but it also helps with magical plant cultivation. On the other end of the spectrum: Some people might consider such a bloodline to be completely useless, and thus I help those people erase their bloodline, and thus they are able to devote more of their limited mana per day into actual accretion, with the goal of Second Foundation. Or, they are then able to seek out a bloodline that they actually like, which is a whole other series of discussions.”

Erick nodded in partial understanding. “Thank you for the explanation.”

The instructor nodded, then said, “And thank you for solving the Shade problem, Archmage Flatt.”

It was such an honest statement that Erick felt that maybe this thing would work out after all—

One of the kids, who was looking completely lost at what was happening around her but who knew enough to be afraid of Illustrious, finally recognized what all the other people had already recognized: That in addition to two heads of house being present, that Erick Flatt was also there. That one girl did a double-take, and then promptly fainted, falling in a boneless slump backward onto the ground. Erick winced. Her classmates were horrified. The instructor just sighed, then commented that the girl really needed to fortify her body more than she had.

Illustrious chuckled.

Redflame instantly went over to the young girl and lifted her up to put her head on a pillow, while Inferno Maw instructed the class to continue and invited Erick to walk around to see what the students were doing. The girl was out of it, but she was breathing and Redflame did some minor fussing over her before deciding that she was okay, so she was probably fine.

The instructor and the students began accreting; auras flared, then solidified, mana filled those auras, and then that mana flowed inward.

And Erick watched.

What he saw in that small room, as he walked around, but did not get too close, matched Illustrious’s earlier lesson rather exactly. There were a few variations, though, which fell in line with what the instructor had explained earlier. The students released their auras, then their mana, then they concentrated that mana inward. They didn’t do a general fortification, though. They focused their mana through the very short mana channels that connected their core to the outside of their chests; the shortest distance between the outside and their cores. This, then, was directed growth. Their cores were all in various stages between rough-cut gem and perfect sphere, while their bodies were not as strong as that of Redflame, or Illustrious, or Inferno Maw, so the kids were obviously going for Willpower/Focus fortification. As Erick watched, he saw a few facets of their cores begin to fill out, with one kid going from about 400 facets to 430, but it would take them a long while to actually get to Core Saturation; the first half of Second Foundation. He estimated… Months? Maybe more like four months, rather than ten months.

He might have been off on that estimation.

Erick’s consideration of Illustrious increased, for she hadn’t lied to him about how this worked.

After ten minutes of watching in silence, Erick stepped back, softly saying, “Okay. Thank you. That was very informative.”

Inferno Maw smiled, instantly saying, “Excellent! Care for another class like this? Or is it time to get to proper enchanting?”

“Or talk of [Renew]!” Redflame said, hopeful.

Since visiting the Wizards was off the table for today, Erick had already decided what he was going to do next. There was only one way he was getting out of here, and that was to apply these accretion lessons to himself, and make whatever Elemental Benevolence Fairy Moon wanted.

Erick wanted to make Elemental Benevolence, anyway. It would be good to solve an existential threat like the Sundering before it could ever happen again.

So Erick said to Inferno Maw, “With your earlier warning about how enchanting is different here, than it is on Veird, I feel I do not know enough about the way you enchant here in Ar’Cosmos to have a meaningful conversation on that subject at this time. So instead, I ask if you have any books on the subject, so that I might read them and have a better conversation in a few days, or however long it takes to understand the material. I would like to see the Wizards at such a time, too.”

Inferno Maw gave a small, sly grin. “This works for me. I will have some material delivered to you in a few hours. A few primers and a few textbooks. On a few different subjects?”

“I would appreciate whatever bookwork you feel like assigning me.”

Inferno Maw cheerfully said, “Careful with those choices of words; I might assign you some impossible problems just to see if they can be solved through Particle Magic.”

“If you give me such problems then I look forward to being as befuddled as anyone else.” Erick added, “So maybe stick to the remedial stuff, for now.”

Inferno Maw gave a happy grin, not bothering to hide his pleasure as he said, “Then let us be off, and disrupt this class no longer. It was fine to meet you, Archmage Flatt. I look forward to working well with you in the future.”

Inferno Maw led the way out of the classroom, back into the hallway where Illustrious’s guards had remained. The grey-horned man gave a tiny tilt of his head as he walked off down the way, and then turned a corner, going out of sight. He had seemed like a decent sort of man, so Erick was glad for the unexpected meeting.

Erick said to Redflame, “We can talk on the way back to Fairy Manor? I don’t actually know what the place is called.”

Redflame briefly looked dejected—

Illustrious softly said, “‘Fairy Moon’s House’ works for most people.”

And then Redflame got over it, saying, “A walk and talk is acceptable— Wait. No. Actually. Could we have a meeting tomorrow? I will need to gather up my supplies before we have this conversation.”

Erick offered, “Afternoon, then? Where? Here?”

“In the early afternoon. I will visit you at Fairy Moon’s house.” Redflame nodded, looking satisfied. “It was good to meet you again, Erick.”

“It was nice to see you again, too, Redflame.” Erick said, “But… Before we part, I wanted to ask you one specific thing about your search for [Renew]: why can’t you funnel mana through runework in order to produce a specific type of mana, which could then be used for Wizardry purposes, such as securing the lives of newborns, or whatever? I’ll admit I don’t know what you do there that requires Wizardry… But I have seen rather ancient mana-changers that could take anyone’s mana and make an iron slime out of it, which would then go on and gather up iron as an old method of mining. I’ve also seen cooperative casting enchants that anyone can donate to, to activate the enchantment. Those are the two major ways I’ve seen to align mana in my own journey to understand [Renew].” Erick said, “It’s all about the bouncy mana… if you want to call it such.”

Redflame’s eyes glittered red. He grinned. “Ahhh. We will have much to talk about, I think. Yes; I know of those items you suggest, and many, many more. The problems with those are efficiency and actual purity. None of those items produce actually-pure, single-source, appropriately-aligned mana. The Script supports the mana most people use to such a degree that proper Wizardry is impossible using this methodology. What is actually happening in those two designs you speak of is that people are all taking mana from the same source and throwing that mana through a sieve in order to catch the same types of mana. It’s like… proper Wizardry requires pulling specific fish from a specific pond, but what is happening in those designs is that people are funneling the same ocean of water through similar sieves trying to catch one type of fish.” He added, “It sounds like the same process, but it’s truly not.”

“… Oh. Well that’s unexpected. But…” Erick said, “We can talk more later.”

Redflame gave a small inclination of his head, and a happy grin, then took his leave.

Erick looked around at the strong stone walls, and had a thought. This arcanaeum seemed nice. How did it truly compare to Oceanside? Better? Worse? The books that Inferno Maw would send over would show much of how Ar’Cosmos worked; if they taught for truth, or if they worked like Oceanside, and taught to make people cogs in the machinery of Veird.

… Not that there was anything wrong with cogs. The world needed to be maintained… of course.

Erick turned to Illustrious. “Back to Fairy Moon Manor, then.”

Illustrious asked, “Don’t want to see the rest of the city?”

“Not right now.” Erick said, “I’m a bit hungry, and I want to write those letters to my people that you promised I could before I get to Inferno Maw’s reading materials.”

Illustrious said, “Then let us be off.”

The walk back to the manor was pretty much the same as the walk to the arcanaeum; heavy with conversation about everything out there, and about how Ar’Cosmos actually worked as a city. Mostly it was boring logistical stuff.

