Dominators flowed up through the narrow hole, the bottleneck Edmund’s only saving grace as he raced up the incline towards the front end of the ship.  He stomped and kicked and crushed those that closed in on his feet, the tight quarters both hampering their agility and offering Edmund ample surface upon which to squash his attackers.

Twice he ran into groups of possessed elves.  Twice he Recklessly Charged for whichever stood closest to the way forward, swiping the dominator on its head with his armored fingers and racing past.  He cared little if they chased him.  The swarm on his heels would kill him long before an undead elf got a cutlass through his back.

He didn’t plan.  He didn’t search.  He didn’t think.  He raced through uncharted territory, breaking rotted boards and climbing through gaps and felling zombies as they came up, never stopping, never considering, never hesitating.

Even as he reached his hands through a hole in the wall to pull himself through and felt something sharp scratch against his right pinky, Edmund didn’t falter.  The urchin rolled away in the wake of his passage.  Edmund kept moving.

What felt like an eternity of a mad dash later, Edmund burst from the water into a room full of trapped air.  Uphill, a door hung open.

A rush of dominators leapt after him, most landing upon the dry wood with wet thuds.  Three managed to cling to him.  Edmund dashed for the room.

He slammed the door behind him.

A chime rang out.

He ripped his three passengers free.

A chorus of thumps struck the door and surrounding wall.

He glanced down at his hand, where the skin of his pinky had already begun to darken.  He reached for his satchel to dig out one of the poultices he’d purchased on the fifteenth floor for exactly this reason, only to stop short of lifting the flap.

A great crack echoed from somewhere onboard.  The ship creaked threateningly.  The hull to Edmund’s right began to thump.

He had to move.

He lurched from the door, jumping up the steep incline to yank open the glimmering topaz chest and grab the sword within.  It appeared to match the elves’ cutlasses, sheathed in leather, its pommel glistening mithril green.  He didn’t bother to read the description.

Something snapped to his right.  Edmund jerked his head to the side to spot a crack in the wall.  Water dripped through it in increasing quantities.

He spent one final second to claim his Aspect on the off chance the next floor didn’t have a safe place to rest and recover.  It took barely a thought to open his constellation and form the confluence, the one he’d known was next for weeks.  Madness and Wrath combined to make an Aspect he’d anticipated ever since he’d spoken with the scholar back on the tenth floor.

Tier 2 Aspect: Vengeance - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Reveals all enemies that have damaged you in the past two minutes.  Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt to such enemies.

Edmund blinked.  That couldn’t be right.  Silver?  All of Madness’s direct confluences had been gold.  Thrax, he of all people should’ve had affinity for Vengeance.  It should’ve been better than the mean of its parts, not worse.

The deep tone of a whale call shook the wreck around him.  Water rushed over his boots as it flowed in through yet another hole in the wall.  He had to move.

With a new sword in one hand and rotflesh venom coursing through the other, with a curiously low-resonance new Aspect, with the third and final minor piece to the crimson hand, with a whale and its swarm of dominators bearing down with enough force to crush the ship around him, and most of all, without looking back, Edmund stepped into the darkness.

Hivemaster Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 24

Tier 1 Aspect: Wrath - Red Resonance

Level 3 - Provides access to the Brutalize active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 10 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 9 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 10 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to celerity while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 11 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 18 - They’re watching you.

Tier 2 Aspect: Vengeance (Madness and Wrath) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Reveals all enemies that have damaged you in the past two minutes.  Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt to such enemies.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 6 - Grants greater resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Challenger (War and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Challenge active ability.

Tier 3 Aspect: Artillery (War and Sorcery) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Firestorm spell.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger (War and Obsession) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 2 - Question the concept of truth.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 5 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 3 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Reckless (Wrath and The Breach) - Tin+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Reckless Charge active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Hivemaster

Grants lesser tremor sense.  Bestows the right to challenge other hivemasters for control of their hives.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Journeyman

The fourth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration.  Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping.  Gain water breathing.  Gain lesser dark vision.  Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.
