It came in fast, appearing as a spot at the edge of his sonar’s range barely a second before slamming into his abdomen with enough force to send him drifting backwards.  Immediately its tendrils fanned out, searching for the tiny gap at the base of his cuirass.

Edmund tore the dark blue blob away before it could find his flesh, draining it dry to feed the crimson hand.

The next one struck his foot, sending him spinning.  He ran it through with his spear.

He should’ve realized, having seen the things through the heartwood idol, how fast they could travel in open water, how exposed he’d left himself by leaving the confined space of the shipwreck.  At least in the chasm they could only come from two directions.

Edmund swam to one side, placing his back to the sheer rock, a tactic that would both limit his exposure and force the dominators to either travel their whole way along the wall or turn before they could strike him.  He hoped their perception didn’t stretch far enough for the former.

Sure enough, the next two dominators whizzed right by, unable to adjust course as they passed.  Curiously enough, they didn’t seem to turn, simply continuing on until they disappeared into the hazy distance.

The next four came along the wall, gunning precisely for Edmund’s position.  He caught them one by one, primarily on his cuirass but once on his knee and another on his hip.

He wished he’d brought his helmet, or his shield, or something to protect his head, despite the practical reasons he’d left such behind.  Instead, he kept his arms up on either side of his head, catching any dominators that came in high on his mithril bracers or serpentinite rerebraces.

The deep tone echoed once more, no longer distant and above, but near Edmund’s depth and boneshakingly intense.  A deep chill ran down Edmund’s spine.  The dominators stopped coming.

Silence reigned.  Tense minutes passed, no assault, no tone, nothing.  Edmund kept his arms up.

The faintest of noises reached Edmund’s sigil-enhanced ears, a dim chorus of clicks, almost reminiscent of a steak sizzling in hot oil.  As he sank deeper, its volume grew, louder and louder and more seemingly from all directions as the water distorted the way it echoed up the chasm walls.

Edmund saw no sand and no stone at the bottom of the chasm.

Only crabs.

Pale crustaceans the size of Edmund’s head carpeted the ocean floor, crawling about in such numbers their very existence sparked the din.  He scowled down at the creatures.  The smoke only offered a simple name.

Spider Crab

Edmund blinked.  He’d heard that name before.  The crabs didn’t react to his presence.  His challenger’s mark didn’t activate.  What appeared to be normal, mundane animals crowded the seafloor he’d traveled so far to reach.

He avoided them all the same, kicking to keep himself suspended above the skittering mass.  He surveyed them with eyes and sonar alike, the latter struggling to discern more than a fuzzy layer of something moving.  It took a few minutes, but the former did eventually note an anomaly.

Some forty feet away, just next to the chasm’s opposite wall, was a bump, a small area where the craps stood higher than the rest.  Edmund swam over.

He inverted himself, flipping his feet up towards the shipwreck to keep as much distance between himself and the crabs as possible as he reached down with his spear to nudge the creatures aside.  Pale shells and narrow limbs gave way to something else pale and narrow, something eight feet tall.

A skeleton, its bones picked clean, lay upon the chasm floor.

Edmund hadn’t known exactly what to expect.  He imagined some sea-dwelling leviathan or ancient ghost or the elven commander himself with a dominator stuck to his head.  The only thing he’d known, a certainty by his experiences both with elves and with following other such side paths, was what particular item he and his smoke would find.

On the skeleton’s right pinky sat its only piece of surviving gear, a piece of finger armor, its tip pointed and its color untarnished by the rust and decay that so permeated this level.

Even at such a depth, it shone startlingly crimson.

Edmund didn’t bother to call a description from the smoke.  He knew what it was, and he knew it was only a copy.  The real thing would come from a loot chest, presumably one that would pop up once he’d cleared whatever boss Liam had—

One of the crabs shifted below to reveal a small silver box hidden within the skeleton’s ribcage.

Edmund hesitated.  It couldn’t be this easy.

He shoved the crabs out of the way as best he could, taking care not to damage any of them in case that drew their ire.  They seemed content to ignore him, making no effort to reclaim the ground he’d pushed them from.  Within moments, Edmund’s way to the chest was clear.

He spun himself upright, sinking to the seafloor feet first.  He landed gently next to the bones, his knees bending into a crouch.  Ready to kick off at the earliest sign of trouble, Edmund snaked his hand in between the ribs and grabbed the box.

Nothing happened.  No boss appeared.  No crabs suddenly declared him their enemy.  No horrific traps sprang.  Edmund simply took the box and glimpsed its contents.

Finger of The Crimson Hand

The third of three minor pieces broken away from the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh and meted out as rewards by the Elven Queen Cyritha.  Belongs to Edmund Montgomery Ahab.  Provides major protection against all damage types.  Can be used to drain the life force from a target in direct contact to power the Blooddrinker active ability.

He’d have to test what Blooddrinker actually did, but Edmund couldn’t have been happier to add another ability to his arsenal.  Thrax, he would’ve been happy if the finger did nothing, content to take yet another step towards assembling his gauntlet.  Now only the main piece remained.

For the time being he slipped the gauntlet piece over his left pinky, separating it from its fellows.  The life force drain had proven deeply useful for dealing with the dominators, a threat Edmund expected more of on his return to the ship.  Access to it via either hand would be convenient at worst and lifesaving at best.

Casting one last look across the eerie chasm floor, Edmund decided against pushing his luck any further.  He kicked off and began his long swim back.

The sea of spider crabs had only just faded from view when the deep tone returned.  The saltwater vibrated with its intensity, shaking Edmund’s lungs and chest and head even as it assaulted his eardrums.  This time, he knew exactly from whence it came.

The dark silhouette of a behemoth floated down the chasm.  From his vantage, it appeared to Edmund as little more than a dark blob, but what a blob it was.  Top to bottom it stretched to easily triple Edmund’s height, while side to side it took up almost the entire width of the thirty-foot ravine.  Were it incapable of swimming directly up or down, the thing might’ve been trapped between the rock walls.

A name appeared before the details did, also a mundane creature of which Edmund had already heard.

Blue Whale

Even familiar with tales of such creatures, the sheer size of it boggled the mind.  The thing was smaller, Edmund believed, than the leviathan he’d slain beneath the frozen lake, but he hadn’t truly seen that, only parts of it.  The whale, he saw.

It bellowed again, a deep and haunting tone that resounded off the chasm walls.  It drew closer.  Edmund kept swimming up, his eyes fixated on the approaching colossus.  He squinted as the tip of its nose came into detail, followed by its broad maw and baleen, followed by its eyes.

Or lack thereof.

Dark rotting holes sat where the whale’s eyes should’ve.

It was only as Edmund swam higher that he saw the deep blue gelatinous mass stuck to the beast’s head.

His challenger’s mark burned.

In a jerky and unnatural motion, the whale swung open its jaw.

A river of dominators poured out.  Thousands of the things flowed forth, a dark tide of impending death.  The figure of the whale disappeared behind them as they blotted out that side of the chasm.

Edmund paled.  His heart raced.  His blood ran cold.

Here was a foe he couldn’t defeat.  He had no tricks, no clever ploys, no bold maneuvers to neutralize the coming tide.  Perhaps on dry ground, where Firestorm would work properly and he had a hope of outmaneuvering them, but not here, not in this chasm, not on their turf.

Even as the panic set in he didn’t freeze up.  He may’ve grown intimately familiar with adrenaline’s impacts, he may’ve trained himself to opt for a particular one of its two options, but with a fight off the table, Edmund unfalteringly obeyed his instincts.

He fled.

Disassembling his hyper-magnetic spear to free up another hand with which to paddle, Edmund frantically swam for the surface.  He had a long climb ahead of him, one through which he’d hoped to conserve energy, but already the dominators closed in.  He’d have to settle for conserving his spells and abilities as best he could.

One slammed onto his left foot.  He crushed it against the rock wall and kept swimming.

Another wrapped around his right ankle.  He pulled his knee to his chest and yanked the thing free, draining it to recover his health and stamina and kept swimming.

Another struck his left thigh.  It died to feed his newest gauntlet-piece.  He kept swimming.

Two more grabbed his feet.  Another latched onto his right hamstring.  Three more hit his chest.

Edmund spent his first cooldown.  He tilted back his head to look directly up at the hazy blue emptiness between him and the shipwreck, and Broke Through.

The dominators tore off him as he shot up and away.  Water rushed past, roaring like a gale over his ears.  He kept swimming.

They caught up yet again, first scattered forerunners that Edmund could rid himself of, then the navy tide itself, overwhelming multitudes that washed over him, clinging to every inch of exposed body they could as their tendrils wandered in search of flesh to pierce.

Edmund burned his second cooldown.  With a great crack the wall at his feet split open.  Orange magma oozed through, exploding into a burst of bubbles as it vaporized the water around it.

As with the last time Edmund had used this trick, the blast of steam launched him up even as it singed his flesh.  The dominators on him weren’t so resilient, the boiling water more than enough to wipe the life from their eyes.  They fell away as Edmund rocketed up.

He kept swimming.

Up and up and up he swam, desperately draining as many dominators as he could to replenish his dwindling stamina.  The relative safety of the ship seemed impossibly distant, practically unreachable as already the dominators swarmed him again.

Feeling the hope die in his chest, Edmund spent his third and final relevant cooldown.

He cast Firestorm.

Instead of mass fiery death, the spell generated another blast of steam, again catapulting Edmund up and away from the horde that chased them.  Unlike Magma Fissure, the burst inflicted no burns.  The frostfang talisman at his chest turned icy cold as it went on cooldown.

He kept swimming.

The Firestorm had bought him precious time, killing a swath of dominators whose very corpses delayed the others.  Still they came.  Still they outpaced him.

In desperation more than true experimentation, Edmund activated Blooddrinker with the paltry supply of life force he’d fed it.  A surge of energy ran through him, then dissipated.  He blinked and glanced up at his constellation.

All his cooldowns had fallen by two seconds.  It wasn’t enough.  His shortest, Break Through, still had nearly a minute on it.

As if to seal his doom, a second whale song, perhaps the same that’d gone silent before, echoed down from above.  His challenger’s mark burned.  Even as the swarm inexorably closed in from below, dark spots materialized in the water above as a second tide crashed down to meet them, to crush him in between.

Edmund looked up at the second insurmountable force bearing down upon him and saw salvation.  At last, an enemy in his way.  Edmund set his sights on the nearest dominator above him, at the first wave in a sea of death, and activated Reckless Charge.

Edmund torpedoed up along the chasm wall, the horde below close on his heels as he surged into the one above.  The force of the collision combined with the skill’s damage was more than enough to burst clean through that first target.

Reckless Charge reset.

Edmund used it immediately, picking another target yet higher up.  His eyes and sonar both perceived only a wall of gelatinous tissue in all directions, a storm of dominators rocketing past him as the delta between his upward momentum and their downward flow more than overcame their ability to grasp onto him.

At the end of each charge, in the milliseconds before he activated the skill again, a dozen or more of the things would grab him and sink their tendrils into his flesh, but the force of the water resisting his charge and their brethren slamming against them tore most of them off each time, leaving blood to flow freely from every bit of exposed skin or gap in Edmund’s armor.  He removed the stragglers by hand.

He swam no more.  Only in Reckless Charge, only in his willingness to plunge deeper and deeper into the oncoming swarm could he find hope.

Hundreds of the things brushed up against his gauntlet pieces as he charged and he charged, none for long enough to fully drain, but enough that the micro-drains began to build.  He pulled as much into his middle finger as possible, desperately refilling his stamina to pay his next Reckless Charge.

The ship came into sonar range.

Edmund slammed Blooddrinker with all he had.  In his mind he chanted a silent prayer, a desperate plea to some higher power he knew wasn’t listening.

Be enough.  Be enough.  Be enough.

Energy ran through him.  Edmund closed in on the wreck, on shelter he only had one way to reach without slowing enough to let the dominators take him.

Be enough.

Break Through ticked off cooldown.  Edmund didn’t hesitate.

He shot free of the mindrot swarm, blasting through the hole in the hull in an explosion of splinters, and slammed into the jagged ceiling above.  Pain blasted through his body as the impact broke more bones than he dared to count.  Blood drifted through the water.

Edmund kept moving.  He snatched his satchel and shield from where he’d left them and kicked off against the teeth like planks.

He wasn’t out yet.

