They’d been elves once, not that one could tell by viewing them now.  Their soft tissue had rotted away, leaving putrid gaps where their ears, noses, and… other parts should’ve been.  Their skin and muscles had, for the most part, survived, no doubt thanks to the dark blue masses attached to the back of their heads.

Edmund recognized the parasites in the wood’s memory.

The cloth and leather parts of the elven armor had long decayed, leaving mithril plates around the shoulders, chest, and legs but each joint and everything else entirely exposed.  Across their entire bodies veins bulged unnaturally, following paths that matched no anatomy Edmund knew.  At regular intervals the veins seemed to branch out, splitting up into a weblike shape roughly the size of Edmund’s palm.

One of the elves had, at some point, taken a slice across his forearm that had never healed, the rotting skin parting to reveal the web below as no artery.  Dark blue tendrils ran along the tissue beneath the skin.

Edmund shuddered.

The parasites hadn’t seized control of the brain.  They were delivering electrical impulses directly to the muscle.

Edmund cursed silently, his vocal pipes barely functional as he breathed the saltwater.  He had two different forms of resistance to mind-controlling effects between Rebellion and his mithril bracers, but he doubted either would work against an invader that eschewed the mind entirely.  He’d have to settle for the tried and true defense.

Don’t get hit.

Pulling his hand away from the decaying plank to exit its memories, Edmund slipped the heartwood idol into his pocket.  With the water breathing equivalent of a sigh, he braced himself and forced his eyes open.

The saltwater burned.

He saw little at first, the blur of irritation and his eyes’ attempts at tearing up distorted the view around him.  He blinked and blinked and blinked, the askew room gradually coming into focus as he acclimated.  It looked much the same as his sonar had described, but for a single surprise.

The smoke remained.

It didn’t twirl in wafts and tendrils, subject as it was to the current’s whims, but it hung in the water, a gray haze restricting visibility even as his gaze pierced the dark.  It rendered some comfort.

Edmund’s first obstacle would be the rot-softened wood between him and the next room.  Break Through seemed like the obvious choice, one that would deliver him into the enemy’s midst without first alerting them via his tunneling.  It bore the risk of dealing structural damage to the ship itself, but breaking a wall between two flooded sections seemed an awful lot safer than in dry air.  Wood tended to float, after all.

He kept his shield strapped to his back.  While it would've proved useful against the cutlasses the dead elves wielded, water resistance made carrying it a losing proposition.  A shield did little good if he couldn’t move it properly.  Edmund opted instead to two-hand his spear, a stance he’d practiced with significantly in the days before he’d found the ironwood shield.  Underwater, he could hardly imagine a better weapon.

He hooked the strap of his cloudkith satchel around a bent piece of metal jutting from the ballista pile.  The bag’s weight reduction enchantment robbed it and its contents of their density, causing it to float buoyantly in the seawater.  Edmund didn’t want to worry about it in a fight.

Prepared as he was going to get, Edmund faced the weakened wall, lowered his stance, raised his shoulder, and Broke Through.

Wood cracked and splintered around him as he crashed through it, erupting into the cargo hold in a torrent of water.  Eddies to both sides twirled the debris away, leaving Edmund’s path clear.  He Recklessly Charged for the leftmost elf, torpedoing towards it even as he pulled a hand from his spear to cast his first spell of the encounter.

The challenger’s mark on his arm burned as his Smoke Lash—the only one of his spells he trusted to work as it should underwater—flew not for the elf’s sword arm, but his offhand.  The smoky tendril wrapped around the corpse’s wrist.  Edmund yanked.

Underwater, improperly anchored to anything stable, the motion sent the dead elf spinning around.

Just in time to expose the parasite on the back of his head to Edmund’s spear.

From his first trip into the ship’s memories, he knew these things had a single eye somewhere near their center of mass.  Edmund made that his target.

Reckless Charge reset before he could even see what his challenger’s mark had changed.

Luckily, he’d get two more opportunities.

Kicking off against his fallen foe, Edmund spun to face the two remaining infested elves.  He let his window to charge again expire, unwilling to rush into two enemies at once, not before he had their measure.

His mark burned.

The nearer elf opened her lipless mouth, from which oozed something dark blue and gelatinous.  Edmund didn’t need to see its eye pop open to know what it was.

The parasite launched itself at him, rocketing through the water for Edmund’s head.

He tore a hand from his spear and caught it.  Pain exploded through his palm as needle-sharp tentacles burrowed into his flesh.

They didn’t get far.

He’d caught the thing in his right hand.

For all the threat it posed, the creature’s life force proved startlingly meager as it withered and died to feed the crimson hand.  Edmund let its corpse fall away.

The second elf launched a parasite of its own.  Edmund swiped at it with his spear as it approached, but it jerked down to avoid his strike.  Off course from its dodge, it collided with Edmund’s breastplate, tentacles immediately branching out from the collision point in search of the gaps in Edmund’s armor.

Edmund dug the pointed tips of his two armored fingers into its mass and drank of its life force too.

The next two came at once.

Both dodged his immediate attempts to intercept them, their paths diverting to circle around him from two directions.  Edmund launched a Blood Bolt for the first, obliterating it even with the fairly undercharged casting.

The second made it to his neck.

As the sharp pain stabbed down his spine, Edmund jerked his left shoulder up and in, activating Rend off the pointed tip of his pauldron.  The parasite went limp.  With his offhand, he tore it from himself, ripping the flesh of his neck as he removed the burrowing tentacles.

Already two more swam towards him.

Edmund deeply regretted letting Reckless Charge go on cooldown.  Fifty seconds was an eternity in combat, and he had no better movement while underwater.  Both Smoke Lash and Blood Bolt would’ve functioned as ranged options to eliminate the sources of the onslaught, but Edmund needed every tool in his arsenal just to fend off the parasites.

Fervor ticked up, empowering his Madness and War with every second that ticked by as he fended off parasite after parasite.  They grew smarter, hanging back until four or six could swarm in at a time.  Thrice did Edmund resort to Brutalizing one to buy himself time.  Once he tried to Firebolt one, only for the burst of bubbles and steam to extend no further than a foot past his hand.

The creatures seemed to slow as the battle dragged on.  Their eyes turned red and puffy as the smoke in the water irritated them.  They failed to dodge basic attacks as the smoke clouded their vision and seemed to thicken the water around them.

By the time Reckless Charge came off cooldown, Edmund was fighting off ten of the things at once, taking out three with a single Rending swipe of his spear, tearing them from his chest and bracers and leggings, feeding their paltry existence to the crimson hand.

He let them come.  It’d been far too long since he’d had a good chance to train.  The ceaseless flow of parasites offered some semblance of catharsis well needed after the events of the previous floor.

The haze in the water darkened.  The room grew cloudier.  The elves, the ship, the dungeon faded from existence.  There was only Edmund, the parasites, and the smoke.  They fell by the dozens, their eyes progressively redder, their movements slower.  In time they appeared sickly, turning gray and dull instead of their natural deep blue.

The thirty-second wave was already dead by the time it got to Edmund.  The thirty-third never came.

Edmund blinked as the Fervor of combat faded and the water cleared around him.  Both elves had stilled, the parasites on their heads the same ashen gray as those that had arrived dead.  The smoke had proven too much for them.

He let out a breath, his racing heart thumping back to its regular rhythm as the dust settled.  At long last, he got a glimpse of the smoke drifting off one of the fallen elves.

Mindrot Dominator

These aquatic parasites feed on gray matter as they overwrite the nervous system with one of their own, taking control of their victim’s corpse to aid both in reproduction and reaching further victims.

Edmund shuddered.  First rotflesh, now mindrot?  Even as the wood of the ship and its former sailors rotted around him, the very vehicles of decay sought to take his life.

Shaking the thought from his head, Edmund swam back to the first room to grab his satchel before completing a loop around the hold.  It was a wide and open space, one clearly designed for the storage of cargo, yet no barrels nor crates nor chests crowded the floor.

A great hole in the ceiling at the very top of the tilted room explained both the lack of trapped air and potential loss of cargo.  Either scavengers had salvaged it or the wooden containers had floated away.  He imagined only the broken ballistae and other metal parts kept the entire ship from doing the same.

More curious were the strands of seagrass that seemed to sprout from the floor itself.  The broad and wavy weeds glowed a dull green, casting the room in dim and sickly tones.  Edmund supposed Liam had to meet the accords’ requirements for lighting somehow.  He couldn’t exactly have used torches underwater.

With neither his eyes nor his sonar finding anything of interest in the hold other than the seagrass and smattering of urchins, Edmund set his sights on the open doorway ahead.  He paused just above it, sweeping his spear down and around the frame, he knocked two urchins loose from their perch where they may’ve pricked him in passing.  They rolled down the floor ahead.

He pushed on through a series of bunk rooms, the metal frames all that remained of the cots in which the elves had once slept.  Now they played home for urchins and barnacles, rusting away as they weighed the wreck down.

Still Edmund swam.  Deeper and deeper into the sunken ship he ventured, counting the air pockets that might’ve made the floor possible for delvers without easy access to water breathing.  Edmund avoided them, not keen on the idea of expunging the seawater from his lungs only to inhale it again as he moved on.

He knew he’d reached the center of the ship when he saw the gash in the hull.  He realized then why it sat at such an angle.

Two thirds or so into the empty room, the floor’s incline reversed.  Wooden planks cracked and bent and tore, jutting up from the floor and down from the ceiling like jagged teeth in a predator’s maw.  Urchins crowded the mess, venomous fangs to offer the wooden teeth some real bite.  Up ahead, instead of down the floor angled upward, an ascent towards the exit to balance out the descent from the entrance.

Edmund didn’t move forward.  He didn’t clear the room of threats and gun for the exit.  He didn’t stop in some attempt to let the smoke guide him.

He knew what he was looking for.

At the room’s center, where an entire elven warship bent at a near right angle, a cluster of urchins crowded around a suspiciously barren section of floor.

Before he could approach, Edmund knocked free the urchins that clung to the broken ceiling, clearing the jagged planks for his own use as an anchor point.  Only then did he brace himself against them as he jammed his spear into the center cluster below.

The group of urchins collapsed, falling through the hole in the floor they’d concealed.  Instead of landing on bare rock below, they sank into a blue abyss until they disappeared behind the wooden floor.  One by one Edmund swept the things through, clearing up what turned out to be a two-foot-wide gap in the ship’s hull.

He poked his head through.

He found two sheer rock walls, one ahead and one behind, and depths below that surpassed both the range of his sonar and the sight of his eyes.  The wreck sat astride a chasm, held up by the rock on each end yet sagging at its center where the deep beckoned.

Even as his instincts rebelled against the idea of abandoning the relative safety of the ship to enter dark and unknown waters, Edmund had never been big on self preservation.  He lodged his satchel into the mess of boards he’d cleared of urchins and hooked his shield through its strap.  The ironwood disk wouldn’t fit through the hole in the floor.

Taking a breath to steady himself, Edmund pulled his shoulders in, reached his arms past his head, and kicked his way out of the ship.

A great blue nothing greeted him.

Edmund cleared the gap and righted himself, kicking against the negative buoyancy of his armor to reach back up and grab his spear.  Through it all he monitored his sonar, sensing only the solidity of the rock on each side.  Nothing living, nothing moving, entered his range.

So down he sank.  He kept himself upright, ready to kick up or jab his spear down at the first sign of trouble.

A deep and sustained tone echoed somewhere in the distance, somewhere above, beyond the confines of the chasm.  Another, in a different direction, answered it.  Edmund’s heart quickened.  He jerked his head back and forth, hoping his eyes could catch something his sonar hadn’t, but the black smoke curtailed his lesser dark vision in the unlit chasm.

The sound echoed again, closer this time.  None answered.  Edmund wondered if that was a good or a bad thing.

The shipwreck faded and disappeared behind the haze in the water.  Still, no bottom to the chasm presented itself.  Only the rock walls, some ten yards apart, defined some end to this great blue nothing, only they offered Edmund some semblance of motion as he descended.

No urchins clung to the cliff face.   No dominators lurked in the shadows.  No openings in the rock offered passage, at least not anywhere within Edmund’s limited sonar.  He figured unlikely as it was he’d find anything, he could still search its length once he’d explored the bottom.

Assuming there was a bottom.

It was all so empty, so lifeless, so barren.  As the minutes dragged on, Edmund began to wonder whether he’d stumbled into a test of patience, a treasure hidden not in obscurity or danger, but boring distance.

Until the first dominator struck.

