Edmund nearly stumbled as he emerged from the darkness between levels onto a surface far steeper than he’d tread before.  He caught himself on the open entrance, swinging wildly about as the door rotated on its hinges.  Without a moment’s hesitation Edmund spun, his blackbone boots scuffing against wooden planks as he brought himself about to face the floor ahead.

No trap triggered.  No monster pounced.  No opportunistic danger took advantage of his brief imbalance.

Edmund exhaled.

He stood in a small room, sparse more than two arms’ lengths wide with a ceiling that narrowly evaded scraping against the top of his head.  At a nearly forty percent angle, the floor sloped down for some six feet before it submerged, its length vanishing beneath a pool of water.

Even through the thick haze of smoke that clouded the tight space, the dim torchlight glimmered upon the water, its surface still to a mirror finish, confronting Edmund with his own helmeted visage.  He glowered at it.

Beneath the acrid tones of the smoke, the room stank of rotting wood, the planks that made up every inch of the space ragged and ready to break at the drop of a pin.  To Edmund’s left, the wall curved in as it approached the floor, a behavior unshared by the perfectly flat right wall.  Having never been aboard one before, that alone didn’t inform Edmund that he stood upon a ship.

The porthole did.

In the left wall, the one he realized to be the hull, two rings of rusted iron secured a small, circular piece of glass.  Outside lay only darkness, impenetrable behind the glass from the light of the cabin, but for a singularly disturbing detail.

A trail of bubbles flowed across the window, traveling up from a spot along its base and three at its sides before disappearing from view.

At once the room’s sharp angle and flooded base took on new context.  The ship wasn’t sinking.

It had already sunk.

Worse yet, the flow of bubbles put him on a clock as his air pocket slowly depleted.  His sigil of the slumbering deep would keep him from drowning, thank Thrax, but it wouldn’t stop the rotting wood from giving in.  A long creak echoed through the waterbound space.  A chill ran down Edmund’s spine.  Unknown tons of water weighed down upon the sunken ship, exerting force Edmund couldn’t hope to reckon with.  He’d have to tread lightly if he hoped to avoid a collapse.

He assembled his spear and began with his traditional poking and prodding, leaving the hull mostly alone as he delicately nudged at various planks and floorboards in search of traps or secret compartments.

He found two.

Just before the waterline, a particularly ragged-looking board gave way at the slightest bit of pressure, revealing a dark purple ball of spikes sitting atop a rocky shelf just below, spikes Edmund knew without a doubt would’ve pierced clean through his boots and feet alike.  Surprisingly, his smoke gave the spike-ball a name.

Rotflesh Urchin

With the butt of his spear, Edmund nudged it away from the hole in the floor, just in case.  He shuddered at the thought of where he might’ve stepped had he failed to catch himself on the door earlier.

On the right hand wall he found a different type of trap, one he had the wherewithal not to spring.  As the tip of his spear first tapped the cluster of rotted planks, it pricked a hole just large enough to emit a weak stream of seawater.  Whatever room lay on the other side of that wall had long submerged.

Edmund didn’t doubt for a second that breaking a hole large enough to crawl through would collapse the ceiling above him.  It made for a curious kind of trap, one that dangled the potential of a hidden room as bait.  Edmund grunted.  If nothing else, he had to acknowledge Liam’s talent for turning delvers’ greed against them.

His high ground surroundings fully analyzed, Edmund set his sights on the water below.  His lesser dark vision failed to penetrate the reflective surface, leaving him little choice but to blindly feel around with his spear tip else plunge his head directly in.

Leaning back against the incline, Edmund slipped his hyper-magnetic spear beneath the dark surface, pressing down until he felt the now-familiar resistance of rotting wood.  Moving slowly so as to disturb the water as little as possible, he swept the weapon to each side, in each direction bumping against something that readily moved aside as he pushed it.  The second time, he noticed a few purple points break the surface.

Two more urchins had awaited just beneath the mirror sheen.

Uninterested in finding out whether The Island and his various forms of health regeneration would protect him from something called rotflesh, Edmund paused.  The urchins seemed incapable of moving on their own, and the fact his challenger’s mark hadn’t triggered implied they weren’t even technically monsters.  Trap seemed like the more suitable term.

That meant in all likelihood, there’d also be monsters down there.  Disinclined to jump directly in, Edmund ran a mental checklist of his items and abilities in search of something that applied to this particular situation.  Outside of Madness’s uncontrollably chaotic nature, a single item came to mind.

Edmund reached into his satchel and withdrew a leather bracelet bearing a circular woodcarving of a child’s face.  He slipped the heartwood idol around his wrist and reached out to touch the planks of the inner hull.

He stood broad and tall, not the greatest of his kin, but somewhat of a local giant.  Sure, he didn’t dominate the skyline like a few of his rootmates, but his fair share of birds and squirrels and snakes and insects made their homes amongst his leafage, scurrying about their brief lives before returning to the forest floor.  In time they’d become one with him, the very atoms that made them ascending anew.

The first scream of agony to echo down the root network struck him as a peculiarity.  The second formed a curious pattern.  The twenty-seventh galvanized his terror.  The twenty-eighth was his own.

His lifeblood drained as the axes bit, slicing rough and jagged cuts through his bark and into his flesh.  His residents fled, abandoning him to seek sanctuary on neighboring branches.  Some made it to safety.  Some didn’t.  Pain and panic and despair inched up his trunk as the blades struck deeper and deeper.

He fell, wreaking devastation on his neighbors as his collapse tore leaves from their branches and crushed the foliage below.

He felt the earth churn beneath him as they dragged him away, burned with rage and indignation as they tore away his bark, knew true hopelessness as they rolled him towards the spinning saw.

Bit by bit they cut away pieces of him, reducing him to little more than a splinter of his former self.  This they forced iron spikes through to bind him to others, splashed with hot and sticky pitch to seal, and set afloat in water soiled with salt.  He knew not whether those with which he’d been joined had once been a part of him.

Back and forth he drifted, pushed against the current by some force against those bound to him.  From his vantage beneath the waves, he saw only darkness, knowing not when or to where he’d be driven next, until at last he caught a fragment of a conversation between two of the two-legged beings as they inspected the artillery room at his back.

They spoke of a venture, a mission seeking treasure upon a secret island in the Forsaken Sea.  They voiced the name of those waters in trepidatious tones, attributing it some reputation for missing ships and crews never heard from again.

Edmund watched as the parasites leapt from the waves, amorphous things the same deep blue as the depths below, visible only when they opened their single eye.  He heard panic up above, stomping footsteps and the clashing of blades.

Belowdeck, something exploded.  A great crack filled the air.  Edmund quaked as the shockwaves traveled through the hull.

Water rushed past.  The world went dark as the sky above faded from view.  Compressed air on one side fought against mounting water pressure on the other, reaching some kind of equilibrium as the former slowly leaked out from a hole in one of his neighbors.

Then the rot came.

It crept in through cracks in the pitch, an ever present, ever growing ache across his entire body, or what little remained of it.  He died in pain, unknown miles from the earth that’d given him life and sky that’d offered him the chance to dream, reduced to little more than a splinter of his former self so that he could play some tiny part in the two-legs’ greed-driven suicide mission.

Edmund yanked his hand away.

He tore the bracelet from his wrists, stashing the idol once more in his satchel.  Tears streamed down his face.  His body still ached with the tree’s ancient injuries and indignities.  He cursed.

He made a note never to use the idol on processed wood again, only to realize he’d have to repeat the process with a more appropriately placed plank if he wanted a clearer picture of what’d happened—ideally one on the upper deck and one near whatever explosion had sunk the ship.  Edmund shuddered at the idea.

He fell back, wrapping his arms around his knees as he sat on the sloped floor and fought to parse the deluge of memories into relevant information.

He had a name for the waters around him: the Forsaken Sea.  The label meant little to Edmund, but he filed it away as something to potentially look into at the next hub.  More importantly, he’d glimpsed what he assumed to be the floor’s primary threat.

His Madness hadn’t deigned to intrude upon the tree’s memories, leaving Edmund without a name for the strange one-eyed blobs that had attacked the ship, but the tree had considered them parasites.  That had to mean something, but Edmund failed to garner what.  At least he knew to keep a lookout for dark blue shapes that might camouflage themselves in the waters ahead.

Last of all came the image of the creatures that had cut the tree down, that had torn it apart and carved it from a living being into a tool to serve their purpose.  The memories had simply thought of them as two-legs, the distinction between the humanoid species unimportant to the ancient wood.

To Edmund, it mattered.  To Edmund, their tall forms and lithe frames and pointed ears made all the difference.  He’d learned some about elves across his various encounters with them.  He knew they had a violently expansionist nature.  He knew they practiced portal magic for its efficacy in warfare.

He knew they’d stolen and subsequently broken apart a powerful artifact to which he held claim.

Edmund gulped in anticipation.  The third and final finger of the Dread Gauntlet was here.  It had to be.  Somewhere in this wreck, somewhere deep and well protected, the rotting corpse of an elven general wore but a fragment of a relic that belonged to Edmund.

He intended to reclaim it.

Wiping the tears from his eyes and pushing himself to his feet, Edmund looked down to the dark water below, still unaware of exactly what lay just beneath the surface, and knew what he had to do.  However unpleasant, certainty won over risk every time.

Within minutes of making it, Edmund reneged on his promise to avoid using the heartwood idol on processed wood.  He picked a plank that reached but a few inches past the waterline and leapt into its memories.

Its story went much the same.  Edmund lived through the tree’s mighty life, its traumatic downfall, its torturous existence at the hands of the millworkers and shipwrights, its maddening ache as the rot spread through it.

He watched the rotflesh urchins settle around it, paid careful eye as a metal spear knocked some aside, tracked those it’d missed.

By the time Edmund pulled the idol from his wrist, he knew the exact location of every urchin for the next twenty feet.  He only needed to move three of them to clear an area large enough to wade into.

The moment his ears submerged, his sigil of the slumbering deep roared to life, every rumble and vibration in the water translating into an image of his surroundings.

It painted a dark and distorted picture, one at odds with that of an open space he’d glimpsed through the wood’s memory.  Edmund surfaced, grumbled a curse, and removed his helmet.  He’d hoped the ebonsteel wouldn’t interfere.

Shoving the helm into his bag and clasping the satchel shut, Edmund dipped again into the water.

This time, his lesser subaquatic sonar worked as expected.

His eyes shut against the saltwater, his ears took in his surroundings, depicting the long and empty room sloping down ahead of him.  Urchins sporadically dotted the floor, noticeably favoring nooks and crannies yet undeterred by open space.  They had no predators here.

None of the amorphous parasites presented themselves.  Instead, the broken remains of three iron ballistae, their cables long rusted through, lay in a pile where the back wall met the floor’s lowest point, blocking the doorway that led deeper into the ship.  The rotflesh urchins seemed to love jumble or metal and rust, filling any gaps in the heap with toxic spikes.

Edmund would have to find another way forward.

He swam down, fighting the weight of his armor to keep from drifting into any of the urchins.  His gear would almost certainly protect him from a casual scuff, but his hands and face were exposed, and Edmund didn’t trust the spines to avoid the gaps between his armor pieces.

Kicking on, he advanced toward the wrecked ballistae, keeping at arm’s length should anything burst through the cracks.  Fuzzy as it was, his sonar failed to visualize the room beyond.

It did, however, note a particular softness in the wood to his right.

Edmund approached it, nudging three urchins away from its base to get closer.  The rot spread in a similar pattern to the spot he’d considered a trap up above, though breaking such an opening down here would hardly let the air bubble out.

He wondered, for a moment, about the accords’ laws against tunneling, before deciding the unnatural rot pattern clearly counted as an intentional hole.  His pocket guide didn’t include that level of detail or nuance into the accords, but the reasoning made sense to Edmund.

That left him with two questions—how to most safely clear the way, and what lay on the other side.  Knowing the latter would inform the former, Edmund mentally braced himself to determine the answer.

Pressing the butt of his spear against the ceiling to plant his feet onto the floor, Edmund once again reached for his heartwood idol.  He once again went through the pain and suffering of being cut down and carved and hammered into a ship.

And he saw the monsters in the next room.

Three of them drifted aimlessly about the open hold, still as death.  Perhaps they were dead.  Edmund figured he’d probably be fighting them anyway.

