If you have the chance, settle matters.

Tomorrow will bring more of everything, both problems and possibilities. Face them with your back straight instead of weighed down and crushed by matters past.

To place yourself among your enemies is the deepest treachery one can perform.

And there is no hell as harrowing as the fate of traitors.

—Legend-Gambler “Tenpenny Jack”

440

Overdue Ends

As the sun and moon took to the front lines to glare upon each other, the remaining territories held by the vestiges of spring were incinerated on one end and frozen on another. The Courts of Summer and Winter came to war, and in the sky above, as with the ground below, the vassals of each sallied forth, bringing death and ruin for this cycle upon their adversary.

Soon, the story would come to a final close.

Or so the warriors assumed. In truth, this was only the mid-Cycle climax. Unfortunately for the Court of Spring, a series of ruinous betrayals and a lack of prospects left over from the last Cycle left them in a most precarious position for the one at present.

And so the emerald woods burned as the dryads were put to flame, howling their bitterness and misery to the sky. But what worth were the cries of the vanquished, especially for those who would recur eternally? The sun cared not, and neither did the moon, for they were locked in a struggle of their own. From each edge of the horizon, they cast forth their individual blessings and challenged each other: a stream of frost greeting a torrent of flame, matched and straining. A metaphorical and magical representation of the balance of power between each of the diametric Courts. At present, where the cold met the heat marked the demarcation between the struggling sides, and millions of fae sallied forth: creatures born of cartoons, the higher folk who sired the lesser elves that propagated the mortal dimensions across integration, stranger beings yet, from the deepest reaches and recesses of tale and lore, and so many more, things undiscovered by the minds and narratives of man, but things spawned from the antediluvian remains of long dead civilizations who fed the Fairwoods with struggle and strife all the same.

And as the battle lines drew closer, so too did the strongholds of each respective Court—for it was only from these strongholds that their icons were cast: the sun and moon made manifest; the emerald forest and the grove of crimson, swelling ever wider, swallowing the world in between.

From the edge of the Summer Court battlements, Minhal the Stargazer, Winged One, Bookburner, Knight of the Papered Wings Cast Aflame, Dawn Dancer, Fire Runner, Holder of Titles no Mortal Mind Could Ever Hope to Recall, looked upon the distant struggle and sighed with exhaustion and euphoria. The battle was going true indeed, and soon he would have his chance to slake his flaming appendages in the glory of war.

From behind his back, one of his namesakes sprouted forth. A thousand tales were absorbed by his fires, a thousand narratives subsumed by his Pyromancy, and all manifested in six trailing tomes that spilled out from his spine, as if a column of dancing wings, casting ash into the clouds above.

He, however, was commanded by the highest Princes and Princesses as well as the King of Summer to hold his ground and to observe the preceding struggles. For it was his eyes that could stare out from the flames of strife and war.

Pologian, First Prince of Summer, had placed this burden upon Minhal especially, for there was no one else the Prince trusted more, and there was no one else more anointed than the one who swallowed the tail in flaming wings. Though yearning to slake his blood thirst, Minhal heeded the will of the Dawnbearer—for what was a flame without the sun to guide it?

And so Minhal looked on, him and his ten thousand Bookburners, each one cast in his image, each one immolated and then shaped from the ashes of his defeated enemies, sworn to his will, bound by his flame, serving as his eyes. They danced through the air, their bodies like crinkled paper shedding ash. They swept across the ruins of the battlefield, gazing at the northeastern detachment as it was smashed by the frost trolls, and they reveled as the Charioteers of the Apollyon Skies bested the Wraiths and Wights of the False-Born Knight, and lo! rejoiced as though the distance of the battlefield was far; in truth, it was not far at all. For to see, to smell, to be teased was a pleasure all its own. It was—

A disturbance shook the field of battle. A grand shape plunged through the ceiling of clouds lingering between sun and moon. Smog and palest white vapor were displaced as the shape of a falling mountain was embroiled in a corona of peeling flame. A great meteor, unlike anything else, unforeseen by Minhal, was approaching the Summer Court. The rapidity of its pace took him by alarm as well, and soon he sent out a single cry to his tome-burned minions: “Arise! Arise, and guard the court!”

They did; they were called back to him, spawned out from his flaming wounds, and were then dispatched in a cylindrical set of wards around the Summer Court. He was not alone, for there were others as well, others who lent their power, weaving great structures from the sun's light. Drawing upon the fullness of dawn to ward off the impending adversary, the shine of their glorious sun grew ready to retaliate and incinerate the impending threat. Be it projectile spell or daring interloper, all would be rendered less than dust—little more than ashen memories beneath the star's glare.

Yet, as Minhal turned his focus upon the approaching missile, his eyes widened, and his wings fluttered with disbelief. He recognized the creature in an instant. Its visage was unmistakable: its crystalline shell, its massive ravenous jaws, its colossal legs, each one capable of sending tremors across continents. The Tarrasque was falling from the heavens, driven further as it was in what looked to be a chassis of shifting ruins. Even that was alive with life, seen by Minhal's sight, which was more than Pyromancy alone. It was the expression of flame, but twinned to the vitality of existence, and Minhal knew the ruins around the great beast to be gleaming with something more potent than anything Minhal had felt in years. It was the masquerade of destruction usurped and worn by a vessel of absolute life. It constantly shifted, swinging and swaying, trying to swat off what appeared to be a lance of dedicated Red Riding Wolves who pursued the missile down from its place in the higher orbits.

Though they yelped and wailed, suffering the immense heat, their nature as cartoon characters rendered them utterly immune to lasting damage, only inconvenienced and further dissuaded in moments of calamitous comedy. They swung for the Tarrasque's head, only to find their blows warded off by a gleaming fist that absorbed the impacts, by open scars and broken ruptures, by crumbling landslides of toppling edifices and rubble, rivers of rubble that spilled forth like intestines from an open wound.

“What madness is this?” Minhal said, for he then felt that dark, festering vitality from the hand. That fist, closed and emitting the raw aura of war itself, was pointed directly at them—functioning as a lance head toward the Summer Court, that fist which belonged to the Soul God of War Unending, the Scion of Strife, the Butcher-Of-Ten-Trillion-Worlds.

Minhal’s face twisted in offense and alarm. The Challenger had breached the Fairwoods. Or at least an extension of his vile being.

There came a reverberation of absolute horror as the sun itself cried out and unleashed a scythe of light upon the approaching target. That blade cut forth through the air, slipping the length of nations in an instant, yet it halted an inch away from the plunging Tarrasque as a smaller but no less potent figure manifested. He blinked in front of the blade, and his form became known to Minhal in an instant, and by extension the rest of the Summer Court. A rush of memories passed from the light into the Bookburner, and Minhal's eyes narrowed, his pages crinkled in shared outrage.

“There!” the voice of one of his lieges cried. “That's the one! That's the one who ruined my banquet! See, in last season passed. That is the knave! The one who destroyed the Boiling Toad and took from me Ser Cundas! That's the one!

Princess Plum Blossom's fearful outrage was shared by all lesser vassals of the Court, and they sought to avenge her. The blade should have plunged further, should have hewn the offending Deathless from skin to spirit, casting him into the annals of the Unmentioned and Shadowed. Yet he spoke then, projecting his voice aloud in a deafening shout that would rival the bellow of any beast.

“Hear me, Court of Summer! This is not an attack! This is a gift I bring to you! I surrender myself into your custody as an apology for ruining Princess Plum Blossom's meal! The Tarrasque isn't here to attack you! It's here to serve as your newest chef!”

Though all those words made sense individually, when assembled in a sequence, Minhal's mind misfired on several points, as did every other vassal of the Summer Court. Their confusion, though shared, was breached as Princess Plum Blossom, still sour from the offense inflicted, was now driven toward curiosity. Susurrations of lesser voices begged her to be careful, that this might be a scheme by the Court of Winter or perhaps another attempt on the part of the Deathless knave to deliver further humiliation upon the Court's youngest and most delicate lady.

But as the Deathless spoke, there was a magnetism to him, a narrowing of existence. His social skill took shape, and he—made of broken armor shaped from mind and time, from fist, from word, from spirit, emotion, and thought—hammered his truth into every listener. As his words struck, each syllable felt like a nail being driven through wood, and though Minhal was no weakling of mind or heart, he felt himself pierced deep and overcome by an urge to listen on, to at least consider what the Deathless was offering.

And once more, it wasn't he alone who was infected by this unnatural charisma, for the others fell one after another. The susurrations remained, but they were but whispers, now drowned in the undertow of fleeting consideration. Then the Deathless continued to spin his tale. He pulled upon their interests and drew them closer into acceptance as that body of his remained, while the Tarrasque fell onward, loudly roaring something about food and cooking, about how the sky tasted nice.

“This isn't a lie. I submit myself to the Court of Summer. I submit myself. This is my verbal assent; and besides, what power can I alone have over the Court? What am I worth in face of the sun itself? Nothing more than shadow, right? Nothing more. There's no fear here. You have control. I'm just here to make right what I set wrong. Now take me in. Capture me! Before the dogs of winter beat you to it!”

***

Legion of Self 198 > 200 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things 124 > 128

Inertial Overdrive 383 > 389

Shiv’s hate for Fae skills was rapidly rivaling his loathing for Eldritch bullshit. If this kept up for a few seconds longer, it was going to surpass it.

On the pretense of drama, because she was simply in the mood for a chase, Evanescia declared that the Tarrasque actually was a gift from Fairwalkers, mortal invaders of the Woods, to the Court of Winter. She decided that Shiv had ambushed and stolen it along the way, that this Tarrasque was special, was made from his essence, and that he was trying to kidnap it back, casting him in a sort of ambiguous light in which he was a villain, but not truly despicable, more one with understandable circumstances attached.

Shiv thought her storylines were always a little bit awkward in that sense. She was like the System in an uncanny way, always trying to force things; her behavior, rich with vulgarity, leaned toward rigging the narrative when certain things didn't transpire the way she wanted. Despite all the millennia she'd served as the godhead of the Fairwoods, she'd never learned to tell a good story, or perhaps she'd forgotten along the way. Subtext was one thing, but deliberately manufacturing things that weren't taking place in the time or in the tale brought with it an unfortunate artificiality that had ripped someone out from the pages.

Unfortunately for hacks and frauds everywhere, Evanescia had one little trick to make up for her incompetence, and that trick was simply overwhelming power. When she willed it, things became manifest, for she had countless characters to deploy and immense amounts of Fae skills to grant—such as the one that allowed the Red Riding Wolves to zip across horizons, so long as they took a hit of coffee every few seconds. A hit was served to them by their steeds, who also had a series of IV lines plunged into their necks, injecting them with heavy dosages of caffeine every other second. There was seemingly no set limit to their speed, for it functioned relative to the acceleration of the Tarrasque. Making matters worse, Harkness was given the same abilities, and the still-living wolf she wore as a cloak functioned in her stead, lending its power to her aid. In that, Shiv realized she likely had a living set of armor with a Path of its own—much like Shiv’s.

This explosive speed, paired with her ability to knock someone out with a single bonk on the head and carry them, likely weighing a feather thereafter, granted Harkness the absurd capability to knock out the Tarrasque in an instant—an act unimaginable anywhere else in Integration, performed by anyone else but someone imbued with the powers of absurdity.

