Before the same fate befell Shiv, however, he countered ridiculousness with novelty. His Garden of Broken Things exploded out from a ruptured body and clasped the Tarrasque in his protection. With it came the Red Rider's Hand, warding off blow after blow, absorbing the impacts inflicted by the backflips and ridiculous acrobatics of the wolf-headed steeds and the massive impacts inflicted by the Red Riding Wolves' bludgeons as they wound up hard, puffing and inhaling until all the air swelled into their disfigured, misshapen limbs before inflicting blows that caused distant mountaintops to jump like terrified cats.

Their charged-up hits bestowed nonsensical levels of damage upon Shiv, and though his Garden remained undamaged, unblemished, his onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable was immediately cast in an awe-consuming bruise that left him pinned in place while shrouding the Tarrasque, effectively killing his ability to maneuver unless he amassed more Shapeless Tides—which were constantly being expended and barely kept at a stable equilibrium as he drained what hits he could, while spending the excess vectors to ward off Harkness' dramatically enhanced Psychomancy. Her mind magic didn't manifest as a translucent field anymore. Instead, it revealed itself in a giant howling wolf imbued with the moon's presence before diving down upon Shiv and mauling him brutally. Its onslaught was endless, and its claws inflicted a lingering chill upon his mind that brought forth a promise of enduring depression if she broke through his resistance.

At the same time, he cast his diplomatic vessel away, driving it across the currents of time to arrive a half hour later where the Summer Court loomed. Such was the best choice he had at hand, for it too was rooted in place, sharing a Toughness with all his other vessels.

And for a brief while, an awkward impasse took shape. Harkness, directing her Psychomantic wolf spawned of the Winter Court, constantly ripped and tore at Shiv's vectors. The wolves struck him. He absorbed the kinetic energy as immense influxes of overflow tides—which were promptly spent to the last as Harkness’ hound gnawed at him.

But even acting under the Usurper-Narrator's will, Harkness remained an Aviary agent at heart. She cast subtle thoughts over from her wolf's ripping claws, projecting puffs of fleeting translucence as whispers reached Shiv: “Help me. I don't want to be trapped in this farce any longer. I need you to come up with something, anything! I will strike an arrangement with you, a bargain. Yes, we can aid each other. You can help me escape. You managed to escape from this place. Bring me out! Bring me out, Deathless! Get me out! I can't take it here anymore!”

To exemplify Harkness' suffering, one of the Red Riding Wolves tripped over her, smashing his ass first upon the back of her head as his bludgeon flew out of his hand, cracking another wolf in the groin who folded over, clenching his nards with a loud cry, causing a brief halt to come over the battlefield. Out of nowhere, a sound played. Strange, stringy music rippled through the area as a booming voice declared in a deep and resonant voice: “About this summer coming to theaters near you—nut shots on Nutty Wolves!”

What the hells does this even mean? Is this what cartoons are like? Shiv's confusion was at an all-time high, and with that thought came the first embers of sympathy as he realized there was a joke taking shape he couldn't comprehend, and neither could Harkness, for that matter. And she had been trapped in this place for months now. The merciful thing might have been to kill her…

“You hear it too, don't you? You hear it?” Harkness' eyes were bloodshot, her face was gaunt, and her sunken cheekbones hinted at a mania that left her unwilling to consume food and water, seeking to grant herself a release through death—which might very well take longer to come than the Cycle would last for someone of her Tier. “It's like this, always! Always and forever, never ending, never ceasing. Never, never, never! Always something about some blockbusters! Always something—some madness! It doesn't end, it doesn't end, it never ends! Most often it's me who gets hit! They drop their bludgeon, and it recoils impossibly off of a cloud and hits me between the legs! The pain! The pain! The music! And then there's a laugh track!”

At this point, Harkness was sobbing, and Shiv understood, but he also knew a few other things, such as the futility of trying to help her escape. He'd managed to strike a bargain with Evanescia. Perhaps he could arrange another outcome in which he might bring Harkness out with him, but that would just be stupid.

Harkness, spared of the Fairwoods, would go back to being who she was, because she still was the same woman, even though she was suffering. She was still trying to strike bargains, play deals under the table. Though she was unstable enough to ignore the fact that Evanescia was nigh omniscient in this place, that didn't mean anything in the long run. To release her back into the world with all the skills she'd accrued had made her less of a lamentable victim, and more of a loathsome foe.

And on some level, he couldn't say she didn't deserve it. She was planning the mass casualty event at Passage, had murdered and replaced good Pathbearers to serve her own needs. Still, he was possessed of both sympathy and inclination toward mercy in regard to Harkness, but a paltry amount at that. At most, Shiv would find a chance to give her that final end she desired, but nothing beyond that.

The impasse went on for a while as the Red Riding Wolves called for assistance by bringing out a comically large whistle and inhaling until their bodies were the size of boulders before producing a shrill scream that shattered nearby stone as if they were made from glass. In an instant, a screeching sound could be heard, and legions of wolves came shooting from beyond the curve of the horizon. Shiv's incredulity tripled, and it was at that point he decided that he truly hated anyone with a Narrative skill. This is all bullshit. There's no limit to this. They're just doing whatever they want. Pulling things out of their ass like the author… Like the author is making them capable of doing things just because the plot demands it.

That thought made him re-examine the Fairwoods entirely. This place wasn't a realm of wonder and happiness. It was a festering pit of bad storylines and forced outcomes.

Thankfully, he didn't need to stay here, not entirely. He just needed to distract Evanescia to stop her from wrenching him and his friends back across to suffer another season of her madness.

And at present, his means of evacuating his current situation was on the verge of being charged itself.

As the wolves inflated and strengthened their bludgeons by blowing into them, Shiv began to actively intercept the blows by shifting his Red Rider's Hand. With every subsequent clash, the Challenger's severed limb grew brighter, more intense with power. Every act of violence it received was a testament to worship—and it seemed to feed on malicious intent and destructive potential more than it did on kinetic energy. Were Shiv alone, it wouldn't be nearly enough to fuel the hand's mana requirements, but through the aid of the wolves, unburdened by the standard rules of the system, it turned into a gleaming crimson star, powered with Vitae and ruin, screaming for Shiv to let free its destructive potential.

And so he did. In the next instant, the world became a blur. He moved faster than ever before, and if he'd lacked the Scarforged Unbreakable, he would have flayed his skin, bone, and flesh down to eroded nothingness from sheer speed alone. He went up as a comet, punching through the cloudtop and the upper atmosphere of the Fairwoods to arrive amongst the cosmos. Where he resided, the moon was near, and immediately it turned its hateful glare upon him. Beneath its hanging visage was the palace of ice. Before a second was over, he was bombarded by spell after spell. Yet, thanks to his sheer momentum, most missed, and a good thing at that, for the few that grazed him nearly cost all his Shapeless Tides. Shiv was a Legend, but this was a land that swallowed Legends like bugs. So he needed to go further; he needed to go faster. He spiked himself down, briefly losing track of his adversaries. He ejected his wounds, allowing his Onus to be shed, and an explosion of damage and built-up blunt force trauma was emitted outward just as the first few Red Riding Wolves caught up to him. The Fae were promptly pancaked as every blow they and their comrades had bestowed upon him was returned in its entirety.

Every cloud below was parted, as two-dimensional wolves were spiked straight down into the bedrock of the world, as if they were pancakes made from tungsten. Shiv kept going. Shed of his burdens, he could move again, though compared to before, the Tarrasque was now shaking and shuddering. Shiv hissed in alarm. He immediately pulled his Garden back, opening a slot around its face so that it could see, but also so that he could project his Nihilism outward to cook something for the Tarrasque before it started fighting him too.

At the same time, he pointed himself downward—aiming away from the moon as his arc reached its apex and he began to fall—but his speed alone would not be enough. He needed to borrow the aid of his new friend.

And so Shiv did as he cooked another slice of Biomancy. The Tarrasque reached out like a greedy toddler, trying to seize its tasty morsel, but Shiv kept it out of the Tarrasque's reach. His Garden shifted around the beast's body, forming a sort of cage as the Tarrasque thrashed and raged. "Give me! Give me!”

“I will! I will!" Shiv said in response. “But I need you to go faster. I will feed you as much as you want for as long as you want if you just move us to where that palace is.”

The massive creature gave a disconcertingly Shiv-like grunt, and it pointed to its right. “That palace?”

“No! No! The other one! The other one! Not the one under the moon! The one under the sun!”

And with another thunderous grunt, Shiv felt all his weight vanish as a building well of gravity flowed inward, concentrating within the Tarrasque as it became a singularity, and then it drew back. More Red Riding Wolves caught up, galloping through the night air upon steps made from frost. The moon was looming close behind them, prepared to cast its baleful gaze out in a freezing spell that would encase them both, but the stars then began to shake and distort, and Shiv realized it was because he was trapped at the bottom of a gravity well, one that actively lurched and bent, pulling even Shiv's Shapeless Tides away. The Tarrasque angled itself, reared back as it curved the folding ripples of the singularity, and launched itself out as if every eddy was a bowstring drawn back to its fullest potential.

It descended fast, punching across the sky and ripping through the upper atmosphere in a crust of building flame, yet even this speed was nothing before what the Red Rider’s Hand provided.

The Tarrasque fell with Shiv gripped around him, just in time for the wolves and Harkness to nip at their heel and for Shiv's other body to arrive, drawn across history to this determined present by his Harbinger.

Shiv immediately barked his desires toward the Summer Court. He hadn't been given a chance to plan, so he hoped his new Rhetoric would prove persuasive enough to stop himself from immediately being torn to shreds by the Fae who served the dawn.

At the same time, the translucent wolf of Harkness’ Psychomancy lapped behind him, ripping and slashing away at his final veins of Magical Resistance. Around the Tarrasque, everything went pale and bright, and it constantly lashed and grasped at the slices of food Shiv shoved into its mouth. They barely lasted a half-second before they were turned to dust as well. The beast shook with annoyance, and Shiv wanted to placate it, wanted to plead and tell it to keep moving and that it would be fed once they landed. Even without declaring anything, their path was set. The momentum they had couldn't easily be reversed, and the Tarrasque, stubborn and toddler-like though it was, was at least willing to finish things out.

And then, impossibly, it came to a halt. For though a second ago a blade of pure light was cleaving toward his diplomatic vessel and he braced himself for death, that brightness was reshaped into a massive glowing hand. The star seized the Tarrasque as a mitt would a ball and held it in place. The Endhound let out a cry of dismay, and Shiv felt a shudder of glorious adoration and unrelenting joy take hold inside of him. If winter was a malaise and that final restful entropy of the moroseness and the still, then summer was activity, was life, was passion unbridled.

And all that essence was flowing through him, and all that essence poured forth from the Summer Court. It bade them still and asked him a single question: “You pledge yourself to this apology? You give yourself back to us in redemption with a gift?”

Harkness and the Red Riding Wolves arrived, but they immediately caught flame before summer’s light. The rest of her retinue yelped and began diving away toward the nearest bodies of water. Harkness continued forward, too agitated and desperate, or perhaps spurred on by Evanescia herself, to relinquish the pursuit.

Things proved hopeless for her in the end as well, for she too was seized by the Summer Court. Another hand, smaller and weaker, but unimpeachable nonetheless, clasped Evanescia and the psionic dog she could now spawn by the nape of the neck. She and her wolf yelped and barked, scratched and clawed, spewed frost and venom into the air, but all that dissolved before the soothing balm of summer's glow.

