The Tarrasque melted emotionally. Its being filled with warmth and contentment, and it reached out as a baby would to a distant star: trying to grasp it, unable to, confused in the end as to why. Shiv was hardier of mind and spirit. His harbinger came aglow before the sun's embrace, like pieces of metal left in a furnace.

But slowly, inevitably, inexorably, the heat of summer would boil through him as well and remold him in the image of their liking.

“Yes,” Shiv proclaimed again. “A gift and an apology for Princess Plum Blossom. I'm not lying. I just need you to take me in—”

“The gift is accepted, but your apology remains in question. We will take you back in, Deathless, but you shall not be going to my dear sister, as your beast might.” And as the voice reverberated in the deepest depths of Shiv's being, drawing a tear from his eye with its majesty, there came forth an armored figure from within Summer's star, bedecked in golden plates and followed by an endless legion of shining blades like a star-speckled sky. “Instead, you are to be mine to judge—and mine to wield. For you burned so brightly over our realm, Undying One, that I ask myself, why can you not do the same in Winter’s sky? To see your apology given truth, you will see my vision made manifest. So wills Pologian, Son of Stars, First Prince of Summer.”

With that declaration, a feeling of undeniable power seized him, seeping through his Magical Resistance as his remaining vectors evaporated, and teleporting him in flesh and soul into the Summer Court's embrace once more.

The bodies he left in the Fairwoods knew no more of anything, not of dawn, not of light, not of sense nor magic.

A slight feeling of anxiety gripped him, but with the Tarrasque out of reach for any of his enemies, at least for a time, the rest of his bodies, still beyond, were free to travel, free to recover, and free to do what their hearts pulled them toward.

***

“It's done,” Shiv said to Uva from Yellowstone’s capital—and she conveyed his confirmation to the rest of the Farnest Council. “Holy shit, that took a lot. But it's done. The Tarrasque is in the Fairwoods, safe with the Summer Court. Along with two of my bodies, unfortunately, but I can deal with that later. It's done! It's done. Felling hells, it's done! Without any blood or mass death!”

A hysterical burst of laughter bubbled out of him; even now, it was hard to believe. After Passage, Gate Theborn, Blackedge, the prison, everything… The fucking Tarrasque got handled without a massacre!

There are miracles left in the world, Shiv thought to himself, his triumph alight with spillover pleasure from the Summer Court. And I’m capable of making those miracles happen. Strife can be denied. It can…

His joy proved infectious, for it spread over to Uva and from her to everyone else inside the conference chamber. A breath slipped out from practically everyone in the room. A few stayed solid, like stones moved by waves receding into the ocean, but though Veronica kept to her stoic demeanor, she, too, was pleased, and she made it known as she held her chin high and spoke words Shiv never expected from her: “Well done, Deathless. Most unexpected indeed, but this saves us the lives of our Avatars and spares us from massing on the north. An ideal end for all of us—even if I would have liked to be present when you spoke to the Pale.”

And of course she knows about that.

***

Markus Unblood huffed in the Phoenix Academy library as he closed his book and, for the first time in ages, decided to go back to his dorm for a while rather than heading out to seek Irons. Yet, mid-step, he found himself seized of a new possibility—possibilities, even. What he'd just done was well worth several political favors, and the resolving of one particular one was no major ask at all, at least in his opinion.

A second thought, straying from the first, followed. He realized that though Veronica sent a shot across his bow, hinting that she knew how he independently struck a bargain with the Pale, she seemed to remain utterly ignorant as to the presence of the Faceless Queen.

What was that you told me, Queenie? Everyone exists along a ladder of mercy and diplomacy? Yeah, I think I'm gonna use you against Grandma, and her against you if I can. That's the game, isn't it? Play the powers against each other, just like they're playing me.

And he started that game by sending a simple request over to Veronica Chandler. A request that she considered for a moment and then hummed in consideration. “I'm willing to surrender the Harringtons into Legend Hawgrave’s technical custody—as I have you. But in return, you are never to strike against our orphanages, and you are to abide by Daughter’s needs.”

Her counter-demand painted a sneer on his face, but he said nothing in opposition, for he had other plans tumbling in the undertow of his mind. He had new opportunities now to reshape the Republic and the Ascendancy from within. He had Cripple and the Dreamtaker in his corner, and he could spread his influence further. He could take his campaign directly to Daughter and see if he could change her nature or at least chip a gap open to the girl trapped within the vicious god that wore her.

Direct force brought with it only destruction, and if there was a theme to be inspired by with the long overdue resolution of the Tarrasque and the impending release of Melissa and Hannah Harrington, it was this: Power was at its greatest influence before the blow was struck. A blade mid-draw was most persuasive, and he needed to use his power more as persuasion than as an actual blunt force instrument if he wanted to maximize his control.

“Fine,” the Shiv in Farnest casually replied with a PsXhomantic scoff as he harbored his schemes. “Keep my hands off your orphan butchering operation for now—but I got another counter-demand as well. If Daughter does anything, I want to be there with her.” This request took Veronica by surprise. He saw it in the near-imperceptible tilt of her head. “I don't like her. She doesn't like me. Hell, she's still traumatized by me, but I got no taste seeing any more kids die. If she does something, I go with her. I'm more expendable than a child.”

Her following hesitation annoyed him, but then he felt another piece sliding into place. Daughter was vicious, feral, bestial, and monstrous, but so was the Tarrasque, and there was a person deep down inside. If he couldn't get to her, then he would need to find a way to influence Maiden. That was easier said than done.

And finally, there was Adam. Adam's new burgeoning godhood might be a way to save all the gods—or at least replace them with others. In the Paragon, Shiv glimpsed the game the Starhawk was playing as well. If he could create a reliable Demigod through Adam, someone vested with pre-existing lore but no baggage of his own, then what wonders could rise from the Republic? What wonders indeed: a nation of gods in the making.

But all these things were greater considerations for the future. As of right now, Shiv had another long-standing mission to bring to a close.

***

Melissa Harrington shivered as a gust of cold air tumbled over her. The chill lashed at her skin, seeped into her infected wounds, and she bit back a whimper, for she was long-dried of tears and misery—and what lingered in its wake was aching hatred.

Such was the only emotion she felt toward the Inquisition now—the only thing they deserved after she discovered what they did to her sister.

In the months after her capture, they forced their way into her mind, over and over again, rifling through her memories to uncover any other acts of subterfuge or treason. When they finished, having found little to nothing, they crudely stitched her fractured psyche back together and sent her to be re-educated.

She wasted no time in attempting to escape. Her newfound Toughness and Psychology Evolutions ensured that she maintained a modicum of sanity and fortitude, enough to remain driven. But she was a mere Adept caught in a cage beyond Masters.

And her current captors were cruel, indeed: they weren't fully established Inquisitors. Instead, they were closer to being assistants and squires. She learned to tell their nature by their obsequiousness, how they groveled and begged when someone of true influence or power arrived; how they vented their lack of station and used her as a vessel to practice their mental arts upon; and when she proved to be too headstrong for the weakest of the number and the others mocked and jeered, they settled for applying another kind of practice on her, one of physical brutality to serve as a pair for her mental anguish.

No more… Please no more…

Such were the words Melissa felt, such was what she wanted to beg, but there was something irrational, passionate, feral, that had hatched from her ruined sense of self, and it possessed her. It made her turn toward her unseen captor—and spit in defiance.

Both her eyes were swollen. She could barely perceive light, and what she beheld was a colossal shape, a humanoid shadow that angled itself sideways to fit inside her isolation chamber.

Melissa Harrington's fragile rebellion broke. She crawled in on herself and tried to cast her mind elsewhere, even toward insanity. When they made contact with her body this time, it was not pain that afflicted her but a tugging sensation as every one of her wounds was ripped away from her flesh. In an instant, she could see again. Her inflamed tissues, festering sores—even her missing teeth—were returned, one and all, and her body stilled. For a moment, she thought she had plunged past the precipice and lost her mind once more, but there was too much consistency in her thoughts. She knew what it felt like to be driven insane time and time again. Slowly, she lifted her arm, opening herself just enough to catch a peek of the one that had mended her broken form.

Rather than a sneering face sporting an embarrassing assortment of hairs he called a goatee, she found herself looking upon a giant of a man with a pale pigmentation, who sported twin rings of blinding whiteness at the center of his pitch-black eyes, whose body was shrouded in dancing shadows but seemed to wear an armor made from bone and… broccoli?

“Melissa Harrington?” the stranger asked with a voice much younger than she'd expected.

She tried to reply, but her throat was dry and her vocal cords weak from malnutrition.

Then another two figures entered the room. One of them was a woman, unusually short and clad in tessellated armor. She cringed and looked away from Melissa as if ashamed of something, but the other Melissa recognized. The other nearly went ballistic at the sight of her person, at the rag she was wrapped in, at the misery of her state, and the stench and stains of her own filth coating her now mended flesh.

But Captain Hairy Irons was never the type to let himself slip the leash and lash out in blind anger. An echo of his voice followed, conjured forth to accompany his presence. “Always calculate, always plan, then strike. Waste nothing. Especially not your own life.”

She tried to speak his name, but what left her lips was a hoarse whistle without meaning.

“It’s her,” Irons growled, squeezing along the wall to get past the massive stranger. He knelt down and placed a gauntleted hand upon her forehead, and suddenly she found herself filled with tears again. Tears she thought she was long dry of; sorrow and pain she thought she had long been deprived of. Melissa shook. Melissa wept. And Melissa reached out for the first hint of sanctuary and relief after months in hell.

“I’m sorry,” Irons whispered, wrapping his arms around her and gently rubbing her head. “We took too long. I should have—”

He stopped himself, for what else was there for him to say?

But the stranger that came with him had a question yet. “Hey, Melissa, I'm not going to reach into your mind, but I am going to ask you a question telepathically, and I want you to answer me, alright? I want to ask you a very simple question. Who did this to you? If they're still here and if you can remember what they look like. If you can't do any of that, just focus on the memories. I’ll handle the rest.”

Out from his skull crackled a fork of translucent lightning, and the stranger grinned apologetically at her. “Like Irons said, I'm sorry about what happened to you and your sister. But pretty soon, there are going to be a few others who are going to be plenty sorry as well.”

Hidden World Quest Activated: Slay Tanner “Shiv” Lowe, the Deathless, before he fully comes into his power and drives your world beyond its current Mana Stability Threshold.

Success: Integrated Earth experiences its next Ambient Mana Threshold Evolution. The Mythic Skill Tier becomes available to all Pathbearers within the Ambient Mana Zone; Evolve 10 Skills to Legendary-Tier.

Failure: A specialized Incursion is triggered to destroy Integrated Earth in 0 Years, 11 Months, and 1 Day.
