Taking a long, pointed look at the whetstone and dagger in his hands, Siyar considered gutting the stupid bastard to prove a point. He wasn’t the fastest, strongest, or most menacing person around, but Siyar learned a trick or two in his twenty-four years of life. On the outside, he looked calm and relaxed, but that could change in an instant. One swipe, three centimetres deep is all, and Bulat would be on the ground writhing in a pool of his own blood. Nothing fatal, but it’d still mean an end for Siyar, and he hadn’t made it this far by taking stupid risks. “I’m sharpening my weapon.”

“Sir.” Tapping the little metal badge pinned to his shirt, Bulat said, “Lemme hear it now, proper protocol and whatnot.”

Again, Siyar let none of his frustration show, though he put the whetstone down and readied to draw his back up blade should the dumb thug push him too far. “I’m sharpening my weapon, Sir. That fine by you?”

“You’ll know if Old Bulat ain’t fine with anything yer doing. You’ll know.” Chuckling at what he thought was a clever quip, the fat oaf continued, “But I wasn’t asking about what yer doin’ doin’, unnerstand? I’m asking, what are ye doing here, in this retinue?”

For fuck’s sake, what did he want, a history lesson? Shrugging, Siyar said, “Used to work under Big-Eyed Kang and the Sharktooth Syndicate, running contraband for the Council all over the province til the bossman got up under their skin.” Good days those, and better yet, profitable days, but that was over and done with. “When Jorani started robbing them, the Council panicked, press-ganged us into guard duty, and you know the rest, Sir.” Bulat and his crew filled Big-Eyed Kang full of arrows, then threw the rest of the Sharktooth Syndicate into the meatgrinder in Sanshu.

Truth is, Siyar didn’t mind it too much. Some folk need killing, like Yo Ling and his Defiled bastards, and he kinda liked being hailed as returning hero just for killing some worthless shits. Still, smuggling was such an easy gig, he kinda missed the life. Travel for weeks without a care in the world, one or two nights of hard work slipping over the walls with the goods, and a few more weeks of rest and relaxation on the way home.

“Nah.” Bulat shook his head, sighing as if Siyar was the dumb one. “I mean, what’re ye doing still here? Ye ain’t the soldierin’ type and ye ain’t under Oath. Ye just gave yer word to serve, and months later, ‘ere ye still are. Why is that?”

Another shrug. “Like ye said, I gave me word, Sir.”

“Tch.” Spitting at Siyar’s feet, Bulat leaned close and scoffed. “Yer word don’t mean shit.” One thrust to the neck is all it’d take, but Siyar stilled his itching hand and held his ground. “I’d’ve expected a sneaky fuck like yerself to have hightailed it out o’ ‘ere the first chance ye got, so why didn’t ye? Ah, ah, ah.” Bulat’s axe edge rested against Siyar’s jugular before he even had time to grip his knife. “How about ye take yer hand off that tiny pig-sticker of yers.” The axe pressed down, forcing Siyar to lift his head. “And don’t ye be thinking about reaching fer the other one.”

Well fuck. Even after months of studying Bulat, Siyar had underestimated the fat thug. “Wasn’t gonna stab you.” Probably. “Sir.” Never antagonize a man with a blade to your neck.

“No, but ye thought about it, and more n’ once by my count.” With a wicked grin, Bulat backed off and tucked his axe back into his belt. “Then again, I can hardly punish a man fer thinkin’ wicked thoughts, eh?” Confident in his superiority, Bulat even tucked both thumbs into his belt loops and left himself utterly defenceless against Siyar. “So? Answer the fucking question. I ain’t got all night. Why’re you still here?”

So not to be tricked again, Siyar crossed his arms and shrugged for a third time. “Bandit. Soldier. Smuggler. Scout. What’s the fucking difference? I ain’t got anywhere better to be, the ladies love the uniform, and the bossman pays fair wages, so better servin’ under him than standin’ across from him, you know what I mean?”

“Ha.” With a bark of laughter, Bulat said, “That I do.” His mirth faded away as he studied Siyar once more, as if looking at a dead man walking. “Still don’t mean I trust ye.”

“You don’t got to trust him.” The voice surprised Siyar so much he leapt out of his seat, falling into a guarded stance as Ravil stepped out of the shadows. If Bulat was a wannabe gangster, then Ravil was the real deal, a right murderous bastard who made Big-Eyed Kang look positively cuddly. “Ye just gots to be sharper than him, is all.”

“This here’s a mistake.”

“Decision’s been made, so jawin’ about it ain’t gonna change anything.”

“Tch.” Glaring on the onlookers, Bulat growled, “What in the Father’s shit-crusted asshole are y’all lookin’ at, huh? Get on with ye.”

As the irritable thug marched away, Ravil gestured for Siyar to come along. Pausing only to grab his knife, he sheathed his weapon and followed the dark-skinned killer into a private room. Tossing him a cloth bundle, Ravil said, “That’s yours. Open it.”

When he discovered the package held a Spiritual Weapon, Siyar almost dropped it in surprise. It wasn’t the first one he’d handled, but it was damn well the nicest Spiritual Weapon he’d ever laid eyes on. A double-edged short-sword, the weapon drank into the lantern-light, barely visible when held against a dark backdrop. Good for stealth kills but still long enough to use in a proper fight, maybe sixty centimetres from base to tip. The only thing off about it was the tube poking out of the hilt, though it ended halfway up the blade. What purpose it served, Siyar couldn’t say, but the blade’s edges were sharp and its tip pointy, which was all that really mattered.

“The bossman has high expectations of you,” Ravil said, interrupting Siyar’s perusal. “And so do I. I’ve seen what you can do and it’s high time we put you to use.”

“High expectations?” Far as he could tell, the bossman didn’t even know Siyar’s name. They only spoke the once, the first time he came back from the Winery, and the bossman also gave him a pat on the back after the shit-storm with the geezers and the mole bitch, but that was it.

“Yea, yea, real touching.” With a cold smile that didn’t reach his eyes, Ravil said, “Thing is, Bulat’s got a point. The bossman, he’s a soft sort, a trusting type. Me? I wouldn’t trust my mother not to sell me for two coppers, and I trust you even less.” For the second time today, Siyar found himself surprised by how quickly another man could draw their weapon as Ravil used his sword to tap every one of Siyar’s hidden weapons, a display which terrified him more than Bulat’s axe resting against his throat. At least then, he still had options, but despite Ravil’s relaxed posture, Siyar saw no openings to exploit and no route to escape to. “Youse a real sneaky bastard, but I cut my teeth knifing sneaks like you in their sleep. If you run off with that weapon there, then you best sleep with one eye open for the rest of yer life.”

Siyar nodded, not taking the threats personally. This was part and parcel of the life. Bandits were an untrustworthy sort, but you had to trust someone sometimes. “Yes Sir. You want an Oath or something?” He’d lied about not being able to give one, but somehow, he felt like Ravil could see right through him.

“Hell no,” Ravil said, his eyes lighting up in sadistic delight. “That’d take all the fun outta it.”

Unable to repress his shudder, Siyar averted his gaze and hugged his new sword, determined to bind the thing and become stronger as quickly as possible. It’s not like he planned on running away, but it was always good to leave your options open.

Chapter Meme
