Realm Hunter has reached level 124 (+4).+40 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 71.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 68 (+2).Motes of Light has reached level 48.Explorer has reached level 68 (+2).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 49 (+2).Eclipse has reached level 39.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 46 (+3).Righteous Fury has reached level 44.Azrael's Wings has reached level 32 (+2).Mirage Armor has reached level 46.Bowcraft has reached level 13.Cartography has reached level 23.

Wow, that’s all coming along very nicely. He studied the skill advancements closely and then turned his attention to the new attribute points. They would come in handy for the next fight, for sure. With a few quick mental calculations, he spent ten points on dexterity, eleven each on intelligence and perception, and two each for all the others.

There, now I’m ready for anything! He chuckled to himself. Well, ready for the next fight, anyways.

Mato shook his head, slowly transforming back to his Beastkin form. His ears were ringing, and his nostrils were filled with the acrid stench of hellfire. He stumbled over to the others and sat down, waiting for his senses to recover – he wasn’t injured at all, it was merely the auditory and scent versions of afterimages after being hammered in the middle of a continuous rolling explosion for almost twenty minutes.

“I need a minute,” Mato said, stretching his neck muscles and yawning.

“What about the respawns?” Malika asked.

“I’m already dismantling the domain along the path we took into town,” Ali said, her face still drawn into a mask of pure focus. “We should be ok.”

“Thanks,” Mato said. After about five minutes, his senses calmed down, and, while the others discussed the fight and the gear, he retrieved his gardening trowel, spying a few rare herbs sprouting off to the side in amongst some rubble. Plants that he had only ever seen growing in Eliyen’s garden, and he was certain she would want them properly collected if she was ever to recover what the dungeon had uncaringly consumed.

Without the urgent pressure of impending respawns, he took the time to study his growth.

Elemental Shapeshifter has reached level 124 (+4).+40 attribute points.

Four levels? Not bad, but I’m never going to tease Malika about sitting in the fire again.

Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 53.Swipe has reached level 68 (+2).Brutal Restoration has reached level 62.Bear Form has reached level 63 (+3).Rampant Growth has reached level 32.Bestial Combat has reached level 52 (+2).Natural Prowess has reached level 50 (+3).Survival Instinct has reached level 63 (+2).Battle Trance has reached level 45 (+2).Herb Gathering has reached level 24 (+2).

He spent an even ten points on each of vitality, strength, and endurance, and then stared at dexterity for a few moments. Next time, he decided. Next time, I’ll give dexterity and intelligence a little love. He split his final ten points evenly between wisdom and perception.

Getting stronger! Although he hadn’t failed to see just how far Ali had advanced while she’d been stuck in the Abyssal Realm. He would have his work cut out for him if he wanted to catch up.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
