Adam looked away. And he thought of Isabella. His own insides grew twisted with grief at the thought of her. He didn't even know if she was still—he didn't know where she was and what he would say to her once they met again, if they met again. After what her father had done, after the Ascendants had left Blackedge. What was there to say? Too much.

"So, he's simply avoiding responsibility, is that it?" Adam continued.

"It's not just avoiding responsibility! He's the reason we got attacked by the Jotun!" The bear-tattooed boy looked aside and barely bit back a cry of rage. "We think he planned it."

"Planned it?" Adam leaned in again. Now he was genuinely interested. "You think that Marcus Unblood planned your ambush at the hands of the Jotun?"

"I know he did," the boy seethed. "How else would they have known we were on that path? How else could Master Magnolia be caught in one of their traps? Master Magnolia, she's... Her... She can sense anything. Her senses are so sharp."

Now Adam was looking at Magnolia, but she wasn't looking at him. No. Her gaze fell downward. Despondent. Miserable.

“I think I know what this is,” Shiv said, sounding a bit dour himself. “I think she genuinely screwed up, got some of these kids killed. But then she probably found out that her daughter was pregnant after she died, and she found out Marcus was probably the father afterward too. Now Marcus is suddenly back and alive. The other girl was also attached to him by pregnancy. The boys probably hate him already because of that. He was already Cursed, so probably ostracized from the village, and the easier story to stomach is the story that the freak among you who already impregnated two girls, cheated on both of them, was also the reason so many of the expedition died.”

Adam was inclined to agree, though he wasn't entirely certain yet. There were still many pieces missing, but the Deathless had an intuition about people sometimes, and a cruel insight.

“Won't call it cruel, it's just everyone I use my Psychology on is practically an enemy.”

“Your Psychology was born from orcs,” Adam replied.

That made Shiv noticeably wince. “Yeah, it was.”

“It might not be a bad thing right now. I have a feeling that this situation is just as bleak and ugly as it seems. Gods. What a mess. Shoved right into our faces. Fucking System.”

“Fucking system,” Shiv agreed.

The Gate Lord didn't press. He let Magnolia have her dignity. "But you have no evidence."

"I—I—" The bear-eyed boy sputtered as he tried to master his anger.

"He was Cursed, Master-Interrogator," the other boy with the eagle tattoo over his eye said. "Cursed by the Ascendants themselves. Surely that is a sign of the foulness in his soul."

"I didn't ask you for a theology lesson. I asked you if you had evidence that he led the Jotun to attack you. That would be grounds for something else," Adam grunted. "If you do not, then how do you wish for me to conduct this?"

"You can put him to the question," the eagle boy continued. "Break him, and the truth will follow."

"And what do you think is happening right now? And how much do you think a boy with potential brain damage can break? You have to take that into account as well. He's been without oxygen for some time. Actually, what am I doing? All of you out. All of you except for her and her." Adam gestured toward Magnolia and Caradah, as Shiv instructed.

The boys looked uncertain and even willing to fight. There was a doubt in their body language. They knew they couldn't beat Adam, but even so, they didn't want to abandon their sister or their master.

"Leave," Magnolia said softly. "For now, just leave. Wait outside, please." It looked like she had aged a decade, and she was utterly worn. Caradah, meanwhile, was shivering as if the room had dropped a good 30 degrees.

The retreat of the three boys was as slow as it was awkward, and as they got to the hallway again, they all looked back. They waited outside attentively, like hounds told to sit and linger by their masters.

The door was shut by Magnolia, and she whispered something to them, just before she closed it entirely. When she turned, she faced Adam once more, and there she stood, reluctant to approach him, fearful of what might follow.

"I want you to look me in the eye," Adam said, pointing to his eye, "and tell me that it was his fault, and not yours. Tell me Marcus Unblood caused the Jotun attack, and not your carelessness and inability. Tell me Marcus Unblood is at fault for your daughter's demise, and not you."
