The Heirs took the warning to heart, and less than a minute later, Stella opened a tunnel back to the surface. They burst out into the shadowed landscape, ready for a fight, and found none. Khachi’s light grew brighter in opposition to the oppressive darkness, and Nathan could see that virtually nothing had changed in the landscape around them. The bleak labyrinth of ridges stretched off into the distance in all directions. The light didn’t reach far enough to expose the mountains they’d passed through yesterday.

Nathan frowned, suddenly unsure which direction was correct. He thought he could detect a slow movement in the corrupted mana, and it seemed like an obvious assumption that the Seal was the source of it all.

Sarah validated his guess by pointing in the same direction. “That way.”

“What does it look like?” Stella asked curiously.

The markswoman shrugged. “A ruined city, to rival Old Gemore. Taller, and built into a ring of hills capped with belltowers and surrounded by forest. I can’t see what lies at the center. It’s far. Two more days?”

“Then let’s get going, while the going’s good,” Nathan replied, setting off. The Heirs followed behind him. Underneath them, the living shadow pooled underneath the rock, sulking and avoiding Khachi’s light.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 9

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7630/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 5

Inspiration 8

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 8

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 9

Veracity 4

Whiplash 1

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Control 9
