“I told him the story of ‘The Elder’s Croak’, and he was one of my favorite listeners ever. Would you like to hear his croak? I recorded it!”

“What was it like?” Alden had mentioned the storytelling.

Esh-erdi laughed.

“Don’t be rude to him about his voice,” Stu said severely. “I’m sure he tried his best because he always does. And Bithe harshly criticized his mastery of our language a few days ago, which he didn’t deserve because he’s learning very quickly, and he speaks well. It upset him.”

“If you were this threatening in defense of yourself, that Makee-en who was trying to tattle on you would be on his way to Goldbush to face the chaos instead.”

“He’s too old for Goldbush,” Stu said.

“Really?” Esh-erdi looked back across the room. “Hmmm…”

Stu ate his second peanut.

“So Alden is trapped by the weather. I suppose he didn’t want to fly in the rain?”

“What if he got struck by lightning?”

Esh-erdi’s thick brows lifted. “Then I would feel regretful about loaning him the Nine-edged Son. He seems to have a luck problem, though, so he should be more wary of lightning strikes than most of us. I’ll ask him if he’s still alive, so that you don’t worry.”

“I’m not worried about him right now. I heard from him a short while ago.”

“And in exchange,” Esh-erdi continued as if Stu had said nothing, “you’ll come with me to say hello to that girl hiding behind the water curtain. If my greeting doesn’t put her at ease, maybe your youth will.”

Stu followed the eye he turned, and saw the girl he meant. She was in a white robe. Esh-erdi threw his peanut shells over the edge. “Like this,” he said, motioning for Stu to do the same. “I like to imagine some scholar finding a piece and enjoying the mystery of what it is and how it got here.”

******

The girl hiding behind the water curtain was named Yaril. She had gray eyes and long purple hair that was still crimped from the braids she must have taken down for the ceremony. Her older brother had become a knight four years previously.

Esh-erdi introduced Stu to her, made her laugh once and smile twice, insisted the two of them should be addressing each other by first names, and then left.

Yaril watched him go toward Lind-otta. “It was so wonderful of them to come. Like we have a promise of what’s possible here with us. My brother will be sorry he didn’t meet them.”

“He couldn’t make it here?” Stu asked.

“Goldbush,” she explained. “His squad wanted to stay longer than they were originally supposed to. I don’t mind. If I embarrass myself today, it will be better not to do it in front of him.”

“You won’t embarrass yourself. I was thinking about how I wished I could tell you all—the ones hoping to succeed at your first oaths today—how glad we are to have you here. I’m not trying to speak for the knights, but even as a declared, it’s frustrating to be surrounded by people who don’t take our path as seriously as we do. There are a few at LeafSong who talk about pursuing knighthood, and I made the mistake of believing them at first. They don’t mean it. They just play with the words in their mouths to make themselves feel better while the opportunity passes by.”

“You go to LeafSong?” she asked. “Is there a special area of study for you there that DawnStep doesn’t offer?”

Stu tried to think of a good response that wasn’t a lie. “No.”

Fortunately, she accepted the answer with a nod. “I know what you mean. My brother and I are from Purl.”

“Near the second Rapport,” said Stu.

“Everyone there seemed to want to walk the path of highest onus together when we were younger. And I’m still turning around and around, trying to figure out where all the others went and why I’m here in this hot robe without them.” She made a spinning motion with her hand. “As if I’m suddenly the abnormal one for having meant what I said all along.”

She let her hand fall. “But you’re saying this isn’t a place for me to worry because it’s a place full of people who are simply glad I cared enough to make it this far?”

“Yes, I am.”

“That makes me scared I don’t care enough to be one of you.”

“No!” Stu said. “No, that’s not how it should make you feel. I wanted to say something to make you feel confident. If I—”

“I’m teasing you,” she said. “I had better not tease you more. It’s wonderful of you to be here with us instead of in your Rapport, and you made me less anxious about what’s to come.”

She rubbed one of her fingers and then looked down at it in surprise. She probably wore a ring there usually, but her jewelry would have been removed with her hair ties. “I’ve left the oaths late because I wanted to be sure I introduced myself well on the first try. I plan to go to first binding right after Welcome End. That notion will vanish all of a sudden if I mess this up, and everyone I’ve come to know will go ahead without me.”

“Not everyone,” Stu said, wanting to reassure her. “I’m supposed to do it in half a year.”

“So long,” she said.

It feels longer every day.

“Are you waiting to match up better with someone you’re compatible with?”She looked toward Esh-erdi and Lind-otta again.

What a lovely assumption. He regretted that sooner or later, once she became more casual with older knights, someone who knew gossip about him would share it.

Won’t it stain her memory of our meeting? And the meaning of what I’ve said?

“I’m not wonderful for being here. I just want to honor Welcome End in one of the ways everyone is supposed to be able to.”

There. Now at least she would remember his honesty when the gossip climbed into her ears.

Should I be even more honest?

She spoke before he could.

“May I send you a message after my first binding? I shouldn’t ask, should I? Since we’re not supposed to socialize too much.”

“I want to receive your message,” he said immediately. “I will look forward to hearing that you’re doing well.”

“An art’h waiting on my message is something I didn’t expect. I’ll look forward to sending it to you.”

******

They took their positions quickly when the time came, each standing on a spot of light provided by the room to ensure equal distancing. Declared were near the perimeter, older knights were closer to the center, and the ones in white were spread out evenly among the knights. In the very middle was the man who would lead the ceremony by asking the questions that prompted the memories that brought forth the intentions that united them.

A simple oath to protect their people might mean many different things to many different minds. The shared memories and this ceremony shaped their understanding of what it should mean to be a Knight of the Mother Planet. Differing ideas could be accepted here, but not if they were too much at odds with those of the others.

In the cottage of oaths at the siblinghold, the memories were presented in a set order that was meant to make the process of experiencing them easier for beginners, but during a ceremony, the order was whatever the leader chose. Directing the assembled knights toward an uplifting oath renewal, and allowing the newcomers to find their way without bending too much for their sakes, was an art.

Stu found a spot across the crowd from Yaril, where she would be able to see him if she wanted. He hoped he wasn’t taking the place of someone who would do a better job at encouraging her.

“You may sit or kneel,” said the knight who led them.

He had a bandage wrapped around one dark arm. Stu imagined he might enjoy some rough kind of sparring, since he wouldn’t have agreed to plan and lead a ceremony only a short while after returning from the field.

“Don’t lie down, though,” the leader continued. “I didn’t account for it in the layout. If any of you wanted to nap in the middle of a big group of us, you should have said so earlier.”

Laughter rang around the chamber.

Stu sat.

Soon, everyone was on the floor except for the ones wearing white and the leader.

“What’s this? A few standing?” He turned slowly to look at them all. “I see. These are the strangers among us. You there! Tell us who you are and what you bring to us. Why have you come to this place?”

There were eleven people in white. He’d picked the one who seemed most at ease to answer first. “I am Ajna-sothan,” she said, unbelting her robe and letting it fall to the floor to reveal her body. “I bring nothing but myself. I want to be welcome among you, a stranger no longer.”

“That is a joy to hear,” said the leader, “for none were born among us and all of us were strangers once. Sit with us now and, maybe, forever.”

She folded her robe before she knelt on it, and he moved on to the next one. Yaril was fourth. She said her part steadily and met Stu’s gaze after she sat.

He liked to think he’d helped.

When all of them were sitting or kneeling, Stu closed his eyes and waited for the first question.

“Eeya-ya-ya!” The leader spoke in a thin, distressed voice Stu recognized. “I am watching over the children, and the storehouse is burning. What will I do?”

The memory of the time that had happened, to an old woman who’d lived long ago, came to Stu almost as fresh as when he’d last practiced it.

The answer to the question, ‘What will I do?,’ could only be the woman’s answer. The storehouse had begun to burn while she watched over children who would need the food inside to survive the coming winter. She had already done what she would do.

Their oaths were to be found in the witnessing of it. And in the way they came together here to understand what they all valued, what they would protect, and what they could afford to cast aside.

Once a woman had wept at her own frailty while she tried to move a heavy bag of grain, never knowing that in this room, so many generations away, some of them would weep with her.

******
