The Ascent Gate for Floor 17 deposited them into a hexagonal chamber.

Six walls. Six corridors branching outward, each corridor a consistent width, high enough to walk without ducking, the stone pale and warm-toned in a way that was distinct from the Tower's standard black. Not lit by any visible source — Solenne ran Arcane Analysis on the light and got nothing back, no classification, no origin point. The light simply was, continuous and old, resident in the material itself.

Tomás went immediately to the nearest wall. He ran two fingers along the stone at shoulder height, reading the texture, and said: "Carved. Not formed." The cut marks were visible if you were looking — fine parallel lines at a slight angle to the horizontal, the signature of deliberate work rather than System extrusion. He looked at the marks for a moment. "These aren't recent."

Solenne was running Terrain Read. The floor resolved in a way no floor had resolved before — complete, immediate, already mapped. Not discovered: received. The six corridors extended outward and each terminated in a paired chamber. Three paired chambers, two people each. Beyond the paired chambers, deeper in the corridors, six solo chambers. The system notation marked each with a RES-frequency signature. She looked at the signature on the corridor to her left.

It was keyed to her specifically. Not to her class, not to her level. To the particular frequency her Resonance produced.

She looked at the others. Each of them was standing slightly closer to one corridor than the others, drawn without knowing they'd been drawn.

Then the System notification arrived.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 17 — TRIAL ARCHITECTURE]
Bond Trial Evaluation — Active

Party will be partitioned for paired trial assessment.
Pairings assigned by RES-frequency compatibility.

  Corridor 1: Solenne Achebe-Park / Nadia Volkov-Baptiste
  Corridor 2: Dayo Okonkwo / Miriam Osei-Bonsu
  Corridor 3: Vesper Castillo-Huang / Tomás Reyes-Whitehorse

Separation in: 60 seconds.

Note: Trial chambers are System-isolated. External communication suspended during evaluation.
```

Sixty seconds.

Dayo looked at the notification and then looked at her hands, which was the thing she did when she was processing something too fast to name. She checked the latch on her vambrace. She checked the fit of the First Boss Coat at the shoulder seam. She was already in the motion of preparing for a fight that would not happen here, and she was recalibrating while the hands kept moving.

Miriam looked at her own Status Window — specifically, Solenne thought, the MP bar. Not the HP. The MP.

Vesper opened her material cache and closed it. The motion was not anxious — it was the same motion she made before any high-stakes crafting session, taking inventory not of the materials but of herself.

Tomás read the corridor geometry. His eyes moved through all six openings in sequence, the Pathfinder's habit of orienting before anything else, and then he looked at his own corridor and nodded once, the way he nodded when a sightline was acceptable.

Solenne opened her notebook. She looked at the blank page for four seconds and closed it.

Nadia was looking at each of them. Not dramatically — just looking. Dayo. Miriam. Vesper. Tomás. She held on each person for a breath, not long enough to be a performance, long enough to be real. When she reached Solenne, she stopped and held longer. She did not say anything. Her expression was the one she wore when she was not constructing an expression.

The sixty seconds resolved and the corridors sealed.

---

The chamber assigned to Solenne and Nadia was small.

Not oppressive — intimate. Two people in a space that had been built exactly for two people having a conversation they could not avoid. The stone was the same warm pale material as the hexagonal chamber, lit by the same sourceless light. There was nowhere to stand that was more than three meters from the other person.

Solenne's Annotated Staff was in her hand. She was aware of it as a piece of copper and bound wood. The inscriptions were dark — not damaged, but not active. The room had no use for them.

The System notification appeared in her peripheral vision and she read it without breaking attention on Nadia.

```stat-screen
[PAIRED TRIAL — CORRIDOR 1]
Trial Type: Unmediated Contact
Constraint applied: Nadia Volkov-Baptiste — Vocal Output suspended for trial duration.

Evaluation criteria: Authentic relational expression.
Resonance threshold for completion: Active signal, sustained.
```

Nadia had already read it. She was standing four feet away, looking at Solenne, and she tried to say something — Solenne could see the shape of it, whatever it was going to be, the brief lift of her chin and the beginning of a breath that would have been a sentence. Nothing came out. Not blocked, not painful — just absent. The sound was simply not there.

Nadia closed her mouth. She looked at the ceiling for a moment, which was the thing she did when she needed to recalibrate quickly. Then she looked at Solenne.

The Conductor was running. Not the tactical feed — something deeper in the channel, the layer that operated below information, the layer that told Solenne where her party members were in a room by the quality of their presence rather than their coordinates. She could feel Nadia's Brightspirit signal clearly. What she usually felt through the channel, in combat and rest and the ordinary intervals of a floor, was Nadia's output — the practiced quality of someone who had learned to manage what she projected. The signal she usually read was Nadia-performing-Nadia, which was skilled and warm and real in its own way but had a shape to it, a crafted edge.

This was not that.

Without the voice running interference, the Brightspirit signal came in clean. Not quieter — cleaner. The productive chaos that was Nadia's Aspect at its core was present and unmixed with the social management that usually ran alongside it. What Solenne felt was something she didn't have precise language for. The closest was: *paying attention*. The deepest version of paying attention. The Brightspirit Aspect, stripped of its output layer, was attention itself — wide, genuine, entirely present. No one anywhere. Nadia's signal was not performing presence. It was present.

Solenne stood with this for a moment. The room held them.

She had said, to Miriam, on Floor 8's rest node: *I think Nadia is doing fine.* She had said this with the conviction of someone who had observed Nadia doing fine for eight floors and catalogued all the evidence correctly. Nadia was funny. Nadia was reliable. Nadia's timing was exceptional. All of this was true. All of it was also Nadia-performing-Nadia, which Solenne had correctly observed, and had not asked behind.

She had not asked because asking was a disruption of the system that was working. Because Nadia's management style was a skill and the party needed the skill. Because Nadia hadn't asked to be asked.

The room was twelve meters across in its longer dimension, roughly. Solenne crossed about four of them. Not to close the distance — just to be less definitively separated.

"I've been running the math on you," she said. "Not in the bad way. The way I run math on things I'm trying to understand." She paused. The Conductor held Nadia's signal steady. "The ten minutes by the pool on Floor 12. The way you're filing more things than you used to. The traps on Floor 13 that you didn't name." She looked at the Staff in her hand and set it against the wall, because holding it was a habit and the habit was wrong for this room. "I'm not going to ask if you're okay. I already know the answer you'd give me." Another pause. "What I want you to know is that I see the space between the answer you'd give me and whatever is actually true. I'm not asking you to fill it. I'm just saying — I can see it's there."

The Conductor registered something she didn't know how to classify. Not relief — something with more weight than relief. The feeling of having been seen by someone who wasn't looking for a performance.

Nadia put one hand briefly against her own sternum. The gesture lasted a second. It was not theatrical.

Then she pointed at Solenne's Staff against the wall, and raised an eyebrow, and the corner of her mouth moved in the direction of a question. It was not a joke — it was Nadia asking, without language, whether Solenne had known putting the Staff down would land the way it did.

Solenne considered this. "No," she said honestly. "I just didn't need it."

The Conductor held. The signal didn't waver.

Something in the room shifted — not the light, not the temperature, but the quality of the silence. It was the same silence but occupied differently.

```stat-screen
[HARMONIZE — SKILL UPGRADE]
Harmonize: Rank 1 → Rank 2
Contact requirement: 8 seconds (improved from 12)
Stability: Enhanced
Note: Upgrade registered during sustained deep-channel Conductor contact.
```

Solenne noted it without breaking from Nadia's face. The upgrade had come from the sustained contact — the Conductor running clean in this room at this amplitude for longer than it usually ran without a deliberate activation. She filed it for later.

Nadia had seen the notification too. She made the specific expression she made when something arrived that was mechanical and significant and she was choosing not to do anything with it immediately. Filed.

They stood in the small warm-lit room and did not fill the silence, which was its own kind of completing something.

```stat-screen
[PAIRED TRIAL COMPLETE — CORRIDOR 1]
Evaluation: AUTHENTIC RELATIONAL EXPRESSION — THRESHOLD MET
Resonance Events awarded: +2 per participant
```

---

The impressions came through the Conductor between the trial completion and the corridor unsealing — not clear enough to be information, clear enough to be real.

From Corridor 2, Dayo's signal. She was holding still. Solenne had felt Dayo hold still before in combat — the particular motionless quality of someone poised between action and restraint. What she felt now was different: not poised between action and restraint but *committed to restraint*, actively maintaining it against something that was pulling the other direction. The effort of watching someone you protect carry something without moving to take it. The Steadfast Aspect at its most effortful — not interposing, not anchoring, just holding your hands at your sides and letting someone do the hard thing themselves.

Then a different signal from the same corridor. Miriam's Warmhearted, usually warm and consistent, went briefly thin — not cut, not damaged, but running low in the way a lamp goes thin before it goes dark. And then: different. The signal changed quality in a way Solenne didn't have categories for. Something had happened in that room. Warmhearted at empty was not the same as Warmhearted at full. The depletion had produced something.

From Corridor 3, Vesper's signal — quiet. The crafting-quiet she ran during fine work, but softer than usual. The interior quiet of someone who was receiving something rather than generating it. And then Tomás's Clearvoiced, which was usually precise and low-amplitude through the Conductor, briefly at a higher amplitude than she'd felt from him in sixteen floors. Not louder — more present. He had done something that cost him openness, and the signal registered the cost.

The corridors unsealed.

---

Dayo and Miriam came out of Corridor 2 together, and Miriam was holding Dayo's hand.

Not the clinical grip of someone assessing a wound. Fingers interlaced, unhurried, the grip of someone who had asked for something and been given it. Dayo's expression was the one she wore after things that were hard in ways combat wasn't — not blank, not masked, just occupied with something she wasn't ready to put into words.

They came into the hexagonal chamber and Dayo looked at the room and stopped looking. She scratched something on the inside of her wrist, the motion she used for tally marks. Solenne couldn't see what the mark was. Miriam saw her do it and did not ask.

Vesper and Tomás came out of Corridor 3 shortly after. Vesper was carrying something — a small object, palm-sized, that Solenne didn't recognize. Not from her material cache. Something new. Tomás was looking at his floor notes, the way he looked at them when he was giving someone space rather than avoiding them. He did not look at Vesper. He did not look at the object. But the angle of his attention was not indifferent.

Nadia came out last.

She was quiet. Not the Nadia-quiet that managed emotional temperature, not the pre-fight stillness that preceded precision. Something after those. The trial had lifted the voice constraint and she hadn't put the performance back on yet, and what was left was a person standing in a hexagonal chamber on Floor 17 looking at five people she was on a floor with. She looked at each of them briefly. She did not say anything.

Nobody debriefed.

Miriam let go of Dayo's hand.

Vesper looked toward the northwest corridor that connected the trial chambers to the rest of the floor. "The coordinates put it northwest."

They followed.

---

The Chamber of Passage was larger than the hexagonal entry — a connecting room, high-ceilinged, with the same warm pale stone and resident light. The northwest wall had a recess, the alcove deep enough that the door at its back wasn't visible until you were standing inside it.

Solenne stood inside it and read the door.

No handle. No mechanism. The stone was continuous — not seamless the way machined surfaces were seamless, but the way things were seamless when they had been waiting a very long time and had learned patience. There was System notation carved into the wall above the door frame. She looked at it for a moment before she recognized it.

It was the same script as Vasic's paper. The same small precise characters in columns with no identifiable linguistic ancestry.

She did not mention this. She filed it.

The System notification resolved over the door frame in standard text:

```stat-screen
[ACCESS: RESTRICTED]
Repository Node 17-NW-7B

Access Requirements:
  COMPOSITE ACTIVATION — SIX ASPECTS

  Conditions Not Met.
```

Tomás read it. He was quiet for a moment. Then: "It requires all six of us. Simultaneously."

He said it the way he said things that were true and clear and did not require elaboration. He did not say *Six of Six*. He did not say *Composite Activation*. He offered the fact in its plainest form and stopped.

Nadia looked at the door and then looked at Solenne and then looked at the door again. She said: "Is that us?"

Not rhetorically. The question had a genuine quality — not *are we six Harmony users* but something more specific, something like: *is this door waiting for us, specifically, the way the floor's corridors were keyed to us specifically?* The question asked whether they were the party the room expected, whether the coordinates Vasic had given them had been meant for them or for whoever arrived.

The answer was yes. Solenne was certain of it and did not say so yet.

She looked at the notification. She looked at the door. She looked at the notation she couldn't read above the frame, the same columns and characters as the paper she had been carrying in the inner pocket of her utility belt since Floor 11.

*One RES point.*

She had known this. She had been carrying it since the Mimic had reflected her own analysis back at her. Seeing it labeled against a locked door — *Composite Activation, Six Aspects, Conditions Not Met* — was not new information. It was the same information she had, which had been insufficient before and was insufficient now. The door would not open today. It would open when she reached RES 20 and all six signals ran at once.

She held this and did not share it. Not because she was managing the party — because she was looking at a door that had been waiting longer than she had been alive and she wanted to understand what she was looking at before she said anything about it.

She closed the notebook, which she had opened without deciding to open it.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 17 — TRIAL COMPLETE]
Resonance Events: +2 per party member (paired trials)
Party Total: 99/150

Dayo Okonkwo reaches Level 13.
XP Awarded: 1,500 (Bond Trial Floor — Puzzle Completion Bonus)
```

Tomás noted something. He looked at his own window, something in the individual count, and then he looked at Vesper. His expression was the one he used when something had registered correctly — not surprised, not pleased, just: correct.

Solenne did the math. Ninety-nine. Fifty-one remaining. The Bond Trial at the Proving Gate — she had read the floor documentation, knew what it offered — would add eighteen more events. That would bring them to 117. Thirty-three events remaining after that, across fourteen floors. She closed it a second time. She hadn't noticed opening it.

The math was fine. The math was also not the right thing to be thinking about, because what had just happened in three corridors was not math. She put the notebook in her pack.

---

The solo chambers were on the far side of the paired trial alcoves — the deepest part of the floor's six corridors, one chamber per person, accessible now that the paired trials were complete. Solenne read the notification as they walked back toward the corridors.

```stat-screen
[SOLO TRIAL — AVAILABLE]
Trial Type: Individual Bond Evaluation
Participants: All 6 — sequential or simultaneous.

Each trial is private. Duration: participant-determined.
Note: Results are not shared between participants.
```

Sequential. They went in order of no order that Solenne could determine — the System did not assign sequence the way it had assigned pairs. Dayo went first. Fifteen minutes. She came back to the hexagonal chamber with the quality she'd had on the other side of the Floor 10 fight — not changed, something refined, the way a material is refined, the same composition but its impurities worked through. She didn't say anything about the trial. She sat down on the floor and put her back against the wall and breathed.

Miriam went second. Eighteen minutes. She came back with her clinical notebook open. She was writing in the margin — Solenne caught a glimpse of the notation and could not read it quickly enough — and when she looked up she asked Dayo for a Mana Vial. Directly. First time. "I'd like one." Not *could you spare one*, not a clinical assessment of her own MP status. Just: I would like this. Dayo handed it over without a word.

Vesper went third. Twelve minutes. The shortest. She came out carrying the same small palm-sized object she'd been carrying since Corridor 3, and she looked at it with an expression Solenne recognized from the moment after the Warden's Grove Focus notification — the expression she wore when something had resolved correctly. She did not share what the trial had contained. She put the object in her material cache.

Tomás went fourth. Twenty minutes. The longest. He came back and sat down and was quiet with the particular quality of someone who has done something wrong and is sitting with it — not regret, exactly, but the specific stillness of being present with a mistake. He hadn't made a mistake in the trial chamber. He had, Solenne understood, said the right thing in the wrong way, and the trial had let him sit with the gap between the two. He came out and his first words were: "Is Nadia next?"

The question arrived without segue, directed at no one specifically.

Solenne said: "If she wants to be."

Nadia had been sitting slightly apart from the group in the hexagonal chamber, not isolated — just at her own angle. She had not put the performance back on. She was sitting with her knees drawn up and her arms on her knees and she was looking at the middle distance the way people looked when they were not performing looking at anything.

She had heard Tomás. She looked at him and then she looked at the group and she stood up.

She looked at each of them. Dayo first — a full breath. Miriam. Vesper. Tomás, held a beat longer than the others. And then Solenne.

She held on Solenne long enough that it was clearly intentional and clearly not dramatic. Whatever the look contained, Solenne understood it to be: *I heard what you said in that room.* Not a thank-you. Not a reassurance. Just: received.

Solenne almost said something. She decided not to. She had already said what she needed to say, and Nadia had already received it, and adding to it now would make it smaller rather than larger. She held the look and she let Nadia have it.

Nadia turned.

She walked into her corridor without hurrying. At the threshold of the solo chamber she didn't pause or look back. She stepped through.

The door closed.

The hexagonal chamber held its sourceless light and its old carved walls, and outside the solo chamber, five people settled into the particular stillness of waiting for someone they trusted to do something they couldn't do for her.

Solenne did not open the notebook.
