Bolting upright to a chorus of animal groans, I soothe Mama Bun, Guai Guai, and even sweet Ping Ping as I slip out of bed, so tired it feels as if I didn’t get a single wink of shut eye. It’s just one of those days, when you sleep all night and still wake up tired, a bad start by any measure. Pong Pong wouldn’t understand, as he’s an early riser by nature, likely off in the closest body of water having himself a solitary splash. The little guy is a steadfast friend and loves his new family, but it’s hard to shake habits formed over countless centuries of solitude so quickly.

As for me, I would like nothing more than to lay back down in bed and snuggle with my floofs, but I am struck by a sudden urge to nap with Kukku too. I bet the big cutie is soft and sweet, though I shudder to think how loud his morning calls will be if lying right next to him. Then again, I suppose that makes this the perfect opportunity since he only screeches once every morning, so I set out with purpose to find him.

Naaran stops me at the door with a tired, disapproving frown and points back inside the room, directing my attention to the clothes I left behind. Somehow, I feel like this isn’t the first time I’ve tried to march out in my night-clothes, and I doubt it’ll be the last, yet my cheeks still warm with embarrassment as I head back inside to change.

Dressed up and ready for my nap, I head out into the courtyard and stop in place, because my belly rumbles and I smell dumplings. Delicious vegetarian dumplings filled with radish, tofu, garlic, peanuts, scallions, shallots, chives, celery, and so much more. They’re a veritable cornucopia of greens that make for an explosion of flavour, and I don’t know how I ever lived without them. Even the dumpling wrappers are different, not just plain wheat dough, but a stickier, chewier, almost transparent wrapper that is just heavenly to bite into, and the chili sauce is just the perfect mixture of sweet, savoury, and spicy, hot enough to sting but not overpower the dumpling’s explosion of flavours.

And that’s just one dish the chefs will be serving. Honestly, vegetarian life ain’t as bad as I thought.

Yea... my nap can wait until after breakfast.

With my belly full and appetite gorged, I step out into the courtyard again and feel sleepiness coming on. Though I could just head back to my room, or even find some shade in the courtyard, I fixate on the idea of napping with Kukku, only it occurs to me that I don’t know where the big rooster sleeps. Not in the monastery, that’s for sure, because he’s never here in the morning or evenings, only early afternoon. From what Jorani told me, the rooster lives in a cave nearby, the same cave Gang Shu and the others were hidden away in back when they first tried to contact the Abbot. What direction the cave is in, he never said, nor did I ever think to ask, but I suppose I could try and ask him now.

The man in question is taking a seat in the courtyard, stretching as he settles down into a cross-legged posture, but before I reach his side, Monk Happy starts up a rhythm on his fish drum and the monks all get to chanting. Jorani too, and I feel like it would be rude to interrupt, so I make my way to Song’s side and greet the floofs instead. At her inquisitive stare, I realize I’ve been chanting along, but I have no idea why. It just feels right to drone along, though I can’t hit those lows like the monks can, and I can only say that the chant is soothing and refreshing, even though I have no idea what any of it means. I believe it’s an affirmation of all their beliefs, but spoken in a language only the Brotherhood knows, and I can only guess this much because the meaning has been ingrained into every syllable and inflection of the chant, so much so that I can almost understand it as well as Emotional Aura. Yet another secret the Brotherhood refuses to share, as I suspect the chants have something to do with their remarkable strength, but then again, I suspect everything they do has ties to that. It’s not entirely fair, as they do not pursue strength, and it is merely a byproduct of their Path, one made all the more difficult by their vows and beliefs.

Still though. It’d be nice if they were more forthcoming with their secrets. That’s why I’m here right? So they can help me get better, but Song told me that Monk Happy said no one in the Brotherhood knows how to help me, save for the Abbot who is currently indisposed. It’s a real shame, but I’m beginning to think this is a dead end, and I have no idea where to go next. Back to the Citadel maybe? But then I’ll be back where I started, and that’s no good.

A soft headbutt interrupts my thoughts and I am delighted to see Jimjam before me, his eyes wide and shoulders slouched as he shyly asks for a cuddle. The Arid Wastes is filled with all manner of big nasties, and I think he just scented one in the wind and is here looking for comfort. Whatever beastie it might’ve been, I’m unable to find it, but I am more than happy to accept a rare cuddle from Jimjam. Hugging the wildcat tight, I bury my face into his fur and stroke his neck and flanks, all while radiating an Aura of calm reassurance. “Don’t worry silly kitty,” I tell him in not so many words. “I’ll keep you safe, no matter what.”

The wildcat visibly relaxes in my arms, but he does not break off the embrace, but soon, I find myself drifting off to sleep despite having just woken up. No matter. Might as well take a short nap before my session with the monks, not that it’ll do any good. Maybe I should go back to the Citadel. Even if I can’t take command, I’m sure Luo-Luo could find some way to use me to boost morale or something, though I’ll have to try and rein myself in and keep from embarrassing myself or my office. Either way, it’s a decision best left for later, because despite knowing the monks admitted to being unable to help me, I feel like I still have some unfinished business here. Maybe it’s with the Defiled, who are building their new home with Jorani’s help, though I worry about him sometimes. The monks set someone to guard him, but who knows if they’ll save him in time, especially from their hulking, pregnant amazon of a Chieftain. Things almost boiled over yesterday, but luckily I got there in time to keep things from escalating too far, because even if Jorani had the Chieftain subdued, I’m not sure he could’ve handled the rest of the tribe.

Then again, most of the Defiled were feeling more amused than anything, or at least that’s the vibe I got. Leave it to Jorani to make friends with Defiled tribesmen; the man has courage and charisma in spades.

That’s probably why I want to stay, or maybe I’m hoping the Abbot makes a miraculous recovery. Then again, beholden to my whims as I am, there’s a good chance I don’t want to go back to the Citadel because I know heavy responsibilities await me, or maybe I just want to take a nap with Kukku. Who knows. Either way, I’m too tired to make up my mind right now, so I’m gonna cuddle Jimjam and take a nap.

This isn’t half bad, life as a Penitent Brother. I could get used to this.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Mother in Heaven, why am I such an idiot?

Settling into my bed with a sigh, I go back to whispering subconscious thoughts into my own head. It’s ironic, but it appears I have now become my own Spectre, guiding myself to do things I need to do, while my conscious self is beholden to his whims.

Hey... is it possible to... I dunno... possess myself, like Spectres possess a host, and tap into Heavenly Energy that way to reforge my body? I mean... I can’t say I’m not tempted to try, because I would really love me some transforming bear arms or maybe a few extra inches in various places, but somehow, I suspect it won’t turn out as expected. There’s no knowing if it’ll work without doing it live, so I suppose I should stick that idea in my back pocket and try the safe way first.

Find Kukku. Nap with Kukku. Hug that rooster and cuddle him like you mean it. Do it.

...This is my life now. What happened? I used to be Legate of the Outer Provinces, and now I’m trying to convince myself to sleep with a rooster, on the off-chance I can use said rooster to contact the Abbot. Such is life, trials and tribulations without end, though I suppose some trials are weirder than others. I’ll try this out for a few more days, and if it doesn’t work, then I suppose I should head back to the Citadel and see how things are there, then decide if I want to keep holding out for the right answers or cut my losses and try the quick fix. Either way, I need to concentrate now, because there’s a rooster out there, and I mean to cuddle him.

...It’s weird that my path to recovery requires I snuggle with a giant rooster, but if it works, it works. Praise to the Heavens, and all the mysteries within, or as Monk Happy would say, “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

Chapter Meme
