Why am I here?

A question that has plagued me since I first opened my amber eyes and took in this strange and unfamiliar world, but right now, I am asking in a more direct sense, as in why am I here in the monastery, staring at the bare walls of my borrowed room instead of back in the Citadel where I belong. Well, I’m here for answers, of which I’ve received precious few. Not because the Brotherhood lacks answers, but because I am unable to ask my questions, questions which remained locked behind my inability to speak whole sentences. Things would be so much easier if I took a trip into someone’s Natal Palace, but I have no idea how to actually do that. Every single time I’ve tried, it’s ended in complete failure, and those few successes I have under my belt were all the result of chance and happenstance. I didn’t mean to slip into Dagen’s Natal Palace, much less Bei’s or Yo Ling’s, I just touched them and poof, I was there. I did intend to slip into Mahakala’s Natal Palace, but I have no idea how I managed it. I just touched him and poof, I was there, without any real transition in between. It was the same with everyone else, though the circumstances differed slightly, with Dagen being under the influence of a Demonic dream attack, while with Bei and Yo Ling, I was dying from a shower of Demonic Ichor and being choked out respectively.

Now that I think about it, with Dagen and Mahakala, an argument could be made to say that their respective Natal Palaces were under assault, which was why I was able to make my way inside. As for Bei, she’d turned Demon and was holding open house in her Natal Soul, while Yo Ling was taking audience with all those Spectres. All of them pretty much had their doors wide open, so I suppose that explains why I could just saunter right in, and also why I could never get into anyone else’s Natal Palace, because they weren’t accepting visitors. In fact, that’s probably how I got into Ping Ping’s Natal Palace too, because she loves having all her friends over for a visit, though I’m not sure if her Natal Palace is still intact after her ascension to Divinity. As for Pong Pong, he is the sole flaw in my theory, as I’m not entirely sure if the suspicious turtle would’ve just... let me in that first time I visited. In fact, I wasn’t even trying to visit his Natal Palace that first time. I was trying to get into mine, and somehow, I slipped into his instead. No idea how that worked out, but I think I’m onto something.

Much like Spectres need to be invited in for tea, I need to be invited in before I can visit someone’s Natal Palace, but the question is, how do I get one of the monks to invite me in or accept an invitation from me?

Prompted by an unvoiced thought, I turn around to find Mama Bun hopping a circuit around the edge of my bed much to Guai Guai’s grumpy chagrin, while Ping Ping pivots about to watch the show. Sitting atop her head, Pong Pong ignores their antics and watches me in quiet concern, radiating no Aura yet somehow embodying his emotions nonetheless. Noticing my attention, Mama Bun does one last hop and wiggles her entire body in mid-air before planting her feet after the landing. Staring at me with expectant eyes, she silently asks if it’s time to play, even though it’s night time and she should be getting ready to sleep. Then again, she did spend all day napping, so I suppose she isn’t all that tired, though I have no idea why she’s messed up her sleep schedule these past few weeks. Turning abruptly, Mama Bun hops over Guai Guai and slams her front paws on my pillow before facing me again, telling me to hurry up and lie down for some strange reason. I’ve gotten a lot better at reading animal body language, or at least the body language of these specific animals, but they still don’t make all that much sense. I thought Mama Bun wanted to play, so why is she telling me to sleep?

Whatever. Animals be animals. You know what? I might as well sleep on all this. Song is concerned about the Western Wall and Shuai Jiao seizing power, but honestly, what does she expect me to do about it? In fact, so long as the Marshals and other Colonel Generals are okay with taking orders, I’m sure Shuai Jiao will do a far better job than I ever could, especially if Luo-Luo didn’t care enough to contest the decision. The man is a decorated Colonel General with more years of experience than I have years alive, and that’s probably counting my first life too. Everything I know and hear about him tells me Shuai Jiao is a humble and honourable man who serves his country with distinction, so if he thinks the Defiled raids are of no consequence, then who am I to argue otherwise? I’m sure he won’t leave the Districts out to dry and will see to it that the citizens living there are moved somewhere safe, but while it stings to see all my hard work undone, a blow to my pride is a small price to pay to keep people alive.

Crawling into bed with a yawn, I settle in as Ping Ping, Guai-Guai, and Mama Bun find the most comfortable spots to rest, while Pong Pong slips into Mama Bun’s embrace. Pulling the rough, scratchy blanket up to my chin, I rub my cheeks against soft bunny fur, scratchy red panda whiskers, and smooth turtle skin with a sigh as we all sink into the soothing darkness of the Void, where peaceful happy dreams await us.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There’s clearly something wrong with my soul, which is why I forget everything that takes place in my Natal Palace every night, but I’m beginning to think there’s something wrong with my brain as well, something not even Panacea can fix. I am an idiot, one beyond all redemption, because somehow, despite all the seemingly obvious clues laid out before me, I still have yet to even suspect something is amiss with what happens when I sleep. I don’t understand it, even Song and Lin-Lin have noticed, because they stopped letting me monopolize all the floofs every night. I guess because I’m happier now than I was when I first returned to consciousness, so they no longer see a need to give up on their floofy cuddles, but somehow my conscious self didn’t even notice the change.

Gotta say, I kinda miss curling up with so many bun-buns at once, but Lin-Lin seems intent on making up for lost time through sheer quantity of floofs. A woman after my own heart, and I love her too much to fight her for floofs, so the way forward is clear: I need more floofs.

Not really, but what’s with my attitude out there? Song straight up told me the Western Wall has come under attack, and my response was to sleep on it? I mean, I guess I wasn’t wrong when I figured Shuai Jiao would have things under control, but dammit... I spent so much coin building districts and training militias, an investment which is now completely wasted. Let’s not forget the costs of getting all the civilians to safety, because without military support, the districts don’t stand a chance against even a small Defiled raiding party. Why didn’t my idea work? Eight to ten Aura-Capable officers commanding a hundred soldiers and two to three thousand militia should’ve been able to hold out against hundreds of Defiled raiders. I ran the numbers with Luo-Luo and had Jian Xianhe double check them, so there should be more than enough soldiers around to fulfill those requirements with plenty left to man the Western Wall. What’s more, the intermediary barracks/training stations should’ve been operational by now, meaning there would be soldiers nearby to reinforce the Districts anyways, so what went wrong?

This is my wounded pride speaking now, and while conscious me had it right in thinking it was a small price to pay, I would still rather not have to pay it unless absolutely necessary. My plans should have worked, so unless Song left something out, then something is amiss in the outer provinces. Could Shuai Jiao be a hidden proponent of big military, one who has no desire to see the common people seize power from the nobility? No, it’d make more sense if he wanted to spare them from the bloodshed that lies ahead. Once the common people realize they have fangs, they will be eager to use them against those who wronged them, and while my crossbows are a great equalizer, they alone are not enough to overturn the Empire. While I don’t have a specific date as to when someone first tried attaching a bow to a stock, crossbows have been around for a long time, and I’m sure other people have tried this before. Didn’t Song once mention a Grand Marshal trying to assassinate the Emperor with one? I can’t remember.

Regardless, the true key to revolution is literacy, because only then will the common people have a voice. Personal journals, newspaper articles, literary observations, or even everyday record keeping, literacy will open up a treasure trove of information for the common people to wield against their oppressors. Not only that, but literacy is the first step on the path of education, and an educated populace is a more valuable populace, because they can contribute in more ways than mere muscle. There will always be a need for miners, coolies, sailors, construction workers, and other types of manual labour, but literate commoners could also become clerks, bankers, quartermasters, doctors, and more. With literacy, this also opens up paths to more skilled workers down the line, as one can learn a trade from a book and personal experimentation as opposed to relying solely on apprenticeships, which is most effective if you find yourself a skilled tradesmen who is also a good teacher, but how often do you find those?

Bah. Why am I getting so heated about this? I keep dreaming about saving the world and making it a better place, but chances are, I will live and die without having changed a thing. That’s just life, trials and tribulations without end, and while my best chance to enact change was as Legate of the Outer Provinces, I’m not in any condition to take command. Unless I’m ready to bite the bullet and let Panacea fix my Core as a subpar solution, I should stop bitching about things I can’t affect and focus on my recovery. Honestly, I don’t really know why I’m so averse to letting the Heavens or whatever fix all my woes, aside from the fact that I know it will be an inferior solution and that I can do better.

Or maybe it’s because I don’t trust the Heavens not to screw me over and saddle me with some massive drawback. “Oh hey, we fixed everything that was wrong with you, but it’s a brand new Core so you gotta start from the beginning again. Tee hee.” Sounds exactly like what the Heavens would do, which is why I rejected all their bullshit in the first place and set out to make my own Path. Technically, all Martial Warriors forge their own paths, but perspective matters. I mean to do things my way, and even if I fail, then better to fail pursuing my own goals rather than find success solely through Insight without comprehension. That’s not personal preference either, that’s Insight giving me the facts straight, that most Martial Warriors fail to progress due to lacking comprehension.

The way I see it, it’s like getting a new computer. I could take the easy way and buy a prebuilt computer, but I always liked to build my own, because then I knew everything I put in was suited to my needs. My computers weren’t necessarily better or even cheaper than prebuilts, but they were uniquely mine and that meant something.

You know, now that I think about it, I’m probably not too far off the mark with my fears regarding the easy solution either. Not with my personification of the Heavens or the Mother Above, but with my reluctance to accept the default fix. If the Natal Palace sits within the Core, and I crafted my Natal Palace while my Core was shattered, then my massive Natal Palace might well be the reason for the disconnect between my mind, body, and soul. Previously, I always felt my limits approaching whenever my Natal Palace grew too... not large, not dense, but too... ponderous for my Core, and then I could build no more, but since I built this Natal Palace separate from my Core, I never learned what those limits were. In short, it’s like I’m trying to squeeze my body into a tux fitted for a leaner, shorter, version of myself and complaining about a lack of circulation. My soul is just not the right match for my Core, and the easy solution would be to lose weight, meaning shave my soul down until it fits.

On the other hand, I suppose if I wait long enough, my Core will eventually grow large enough to fit this Natal Palace inside, which might well be an acceptable solution if I wasn’t so pressed for time. I could always tear my current Natal Palace down as a test to see if my theory is right, but I feel like that would be a path of no return. Out here, I have easy access to Insight which is why I’m able to come up with answers out of nowhere, but once my soul and Natal Palace are all tucked back inside my Core, I’ll lose that connection to Insight and might not be able to separate from my Core again, and given how Shen ZhenWu said I seemed ‘diminished’ after my first Natal Palace remodelling effort, I get the feeling that a smaller Natal Palace is bad for Martial Strength.

That’s plenty of food for thought, but first... it’s playtime with Mama Bun, Ping Ping, and Pong Pong. Balance is important, and I’ve made them wait long enough. A shame Guai Guai can’t join us yet, but he is technically still a baby, so I guess his soul isn’t up to the task yet. Maybe. I dunno.

