The three sweet animals make their delight known as they appear within my Natal Palace, and we spend hours playing in the water park I had built for this very purpose. We have the Launcher, which lobs the rider and a globe of water from one end of the lake to the other. Then there’s the Riptide Causeway, where you lean back and let the currents take you for a thrilling ride, the Tsunami Surge, which creates giant tidal waves to ride around, and the Jet-Set Stream, which is like one of those display fountains that shoots up streams of water in aesthetic patterns, only cranked up to eleven and powerful enough to carry us high up into the air.

Yes, I understand having all these attractions and more makes it more difficult for my Natal Palace to reintegrate with my Core, but playtime is vital to my recovery. After years of stress and hard work, I am finally remembering how to relax again, and playing with Ping Ping, Pong Pong, and Mama Bun is a big part of it. Balance in all things, right? Song and Happy are worried that I’m too focused on the good vibes and forgetting the bad, but what they don’t know is I Devoured a whole bunch of bad juju back in the Citadel, in the form of my Negative Nancy Natal Souls which I unleashed upon the world once I ran out of good vibes to sever. Granted, I have no idea how to even know when I’ve Balanced out all the good and bad, because it’s not like I have an internal counter measuring the two. It’s more of a feeling I’m looking for, one I may or may not have experienced before, but until I find it, I won’t know how I’m supposed to feel, which means I need to keep looking until I find it.

Or you know... find someone to guide me in the right direction, which is really why I’m here in the first place.

My conscious mind was on the right track, but too fixated on inviting the monks in. Can’t I just go find a monk and ask for an invitation from them?

Once Mama Bun is all played out, I gather her up in my arms and call Ping Ping and Pong Pong over to me. Though the turtles are not quite ready to call it quits, they understand that Mama Bun can’t stay for as long as they can, because her soul is simply not as strong. Maybe strong is the wrong word, but it’s the best I’ve got, since I don’t really understand much about how things work, I only know how it is. So annoying, all this Insight business, but it’s all I have to work with and it’s better than nothing. Working on Insight alone, I bring the animals out of my Natal Palace and back to their respective bodies, though I suppose it’s more like I stopped holding onto them and let the currents bring them back to where they belong. Once my guests are all safe, sound, and sleeping, I step out into the Void on a whim to see where it leads me and hopefully find a friendly monk to talk to.

Only to encounter a barricade of Spectres waiting outside my door.

The grotesque apparitions slaver and snap as I come into view, and one inhuman brute launches itself at me, so full of hatred and hunger it shocks me to my core. Moving without thinking, I retreat back to my Natal Palace and slam the gates shut behind me, before descending to the safe waters of my Natal Lake. The gentle waves lap away my fear and anxiety and drag it down in the dark, fathomless depths to be discarded out in the void. Why were there so many Spectres just waiting outside? Is it because of my Natal... Fissure (I refuse to keep calling it an Anus), dropping all those good and bad vibes out into the Void where it is immediately gobbled up by those lurking scavengers? Or were they waiting there for me, in hopes of feasting on my unsuspecting soul? A combination of both perhaps, or maybe there are other reasons I’ve overlooked, but regardless of the real answer, it’s clear I can’t go gallivanting about as a soul.

Which leaves me only one option really, something I probably should’ve tried first.

Once the waters have washed away the worst of my woes, I head up the skyscraper and back to my fortress of solitude where I allow myself a moment to take in the sights. The water park sinks down into the lake, as I designed it to, because while it’s all fun and games when Mama Bun and the turtles come to visit, the slides, waterfalls, roller-coasters, and bumper boats really ruin the ambience of my Natal Palace. I’m not gonna lie, it probably cost me something to even make the water park, and I might’ve been better served putting that time and effort towards other pursuits, but I don’t feel all too bad about my decision. The water park serves no purpose besides fun, not like the lake itself, my old keystones, or even the skyscraper surrounded by the People’s half-completed village, with mountains and forests off in the distance, but it does represent a part of who I have become, a floof loving maniac with more power than sense. The Natal Palace is a milestone along the Martial Path, but somehow, I don’t think it’s true purpose is a setting to train with Chi skills as so many others have claimed, or as a means to memorize swathes of information with minimal effort. Those are just incidental benefits that come along with it, but I am still unsure what the Natal Palace’s true purpose really is, or why I have this constant urge to occupy my throne at all times to hold it against would-be intruders.

Throne seems a grand word for my office chair, the one I sit in while using my computer, but Lin-Lin used it to describe Pong-Pong’s coral bed and the term stuck with me. Also, Yo Ling had an actual throne, which seems a bit too on the nose, but that’s neither here nor there. Taking my seat without pomp or pageantry, I boot up the PC and open journal.txt to peruse, the routine so engraved into my soul I’m not even surprised by it anymore. There’s no need to actually read the document, as it is merely a spiritual representation of my misplaced musings, and simply opening the document is enough to ‘remember’ everything I’d placed inside, but I still sit and stare at the screen while I process my memories and try not to wither away with the shame of my own stupidity.

This is not the first time I’ve ventured out into the void, and my previous encounters went much less smoothly. Those Spectres have been there for as long as I can remember, though why, I cannot say. What I do know is that every now and then, I get the urge to step outside before checking journal.txt, because I’m dumb and do things on a whim when I would be better served by thinking things through. I obsessively plan in my downtime because I know I’m not great at thinking in the heat of the moment. I need to have my decisions prepared in advance, because if left to my own devices, I will walk headlong into every trap in front of me because I get fixated on the end goal and forget to watch my feet. Somehow, I feel like this is how I’ve been all my life, both this one and the last, a bookish introvert who likes to turn off his brain because sometimes things get too complicated. Am I smart? Debatable. I learn things quickly, but I made terrible decisions, so I’m not sure which side of the line I’d come down on.

If a smart person makes stupid decisions, are they still smart? What about a stupid person who follows good advice? Are they still stupid? I wanna say no in both cases, but I suppose it depends on your definition of smart.

Regardless of my own lacking intelligence, the journal doc tells me that there is nothing I can do to fight the Spectres, not out in the Void. Why this might be, I don’t know, only that I have no power over anything out there and they hunger for my Spiritual flesh. Otherwise, the doc is filled mostly with my own thoughts and theories, but without someone to bounce them off of, they’re mostly just musings that trail off into nowhere. I can speculate all I want, but without more information than I already have, all I can come up with are best guesses and conjectures. Since strolling out into the Void as a soul is out of the question, I need to question a monk in person, but when I regain consciousness, I won’t remember coming up with the bright idea to do this. Thus, I am stuck in an impasse, wherein I know what I need to do, but lack the ability to follow through. I need to get my physical self to meet up with a monk, preferably the Abbot because I trust him the most, and somehow finagle my way into their Natal Palace.

Ew. No. Find a way to solicit an invitation into their Natal Palace. Yes, that sounds much better than finagle.

For all intents and purposes, I might as well have split myself in two again, an inner Rain and outer Rain who can only communicate in one direction. I, inner Rain, know everything outer Rain does and thinks, but he doesn’t even know I exist. In fact, outer Rain doesn’t even know about his Natal Palace, because the dumb shit hasn’t even thought to try meditating while he’s awake. There’s simply never been any need to meditate, because if he needs Chi, he just Devours it when necessary, though thus far, he’s been smart enough to do it slowly over time rather than fill his Core all at once. The last time we did that, we scared off all the Spectres and even alerted the nearby Divinities, so it would be best if we stayed off everyone’s radar until we are no longer beholden to our whims.

...My whims. Mine. Not ours. There is no we, only me. I hate multiple personalities man, because the next thing I know, I’ll be sporting a moustache and goatee while plotting the downfall of my counterpart.

Wait. Why am I the evil one in my imagined scenario? Probably because I still think of myself as an intruder, while outer me is all sugar and sweetness with his love of floofs. Some things just never change man. This is why I can’t use Natal Souls anymore, because they can’t be trusted. The last thing I need is to have another me running the show, one who might well be tainted with all my gloom and doom and not enough happiness and good cheer. I’m super worried about the damage my severed Natal Souls might cause, but other than the ones present inside the Northern Citadel all those days ago, I’ve no way to really track down and Devour the rest. Not that I would if I could, because there are some still out there doing good, like the ones attached to the Defiled outside, which means all those errant Natal Souls are not a complete disaster waiting to explode in my face.

Just mostly, probably.

Okay. Planning time. I need to get out there and find a monk who will invite me into his Natal Palace. Or really, anyone who is willing to invite me in. A shame Lin-Lin doesn’t have a Natal Palace, because she is as sweet and trusting as Ping Ping and would probably unconsciously invite me in without prompting, assuming we fell asleep next to each other. That’ll never happen though, because Guard Leader would never let us behave so indecently, though somehow, Lin-Lin sitting in my lap while we’re both awake is perfectly fine. I’m not complaining or anything, I just think it’s a weird line to draw in the sand, but whatever.

So who else can I go to and nap beside? And how do I make sure my conscious self tries?

Song is out. She barely trusts me as it is, though things have gotten much better in recent months. That being said, my subconscious stares still make her flinch in fear as she has a whole lot of justified baggage regarding men, so I doubt she’ll accept me into her personal mental space, much less allow me to fall asleep against her regardless of the reason.

Monk Happy maybe? But how do I convince my conscious self that it’s a good idea to fall asleep in the chonky monk’s embrace? I’m sure he’d allow it if I tried, but honestly, even if it was a guaranteed solution, I’m not entirely comfortable with the idea myself. I mean, it’s just two bros spooning to sleep, no homo, but it’s still really friggin’ weird.

God, if only one of my floofs could speak or communicate in some way...

Hang on...

None of my floofs can do it, but Kukku can. The Spiritual Rooster can send people into a dream state and trap them inside their minds. While he doesn’t craft the illusions that hold them there and leaves that work to his victim’s subconscious, maybe he can... I dunno, project my soul into someone elses’. Or project a message in the same way. Okay, it’s bare bones and a long shot, but it’s the best I’ve got, because as we’ve already established, I am not a smart man.

Closing my eyes, I reflect on Kukku’s soft, poofy feathers and how nice it would be to cuddle him while I sleep, fixating on this singular thought so it becomes ingrained into my subconscious. Normally, I would also drift off into sleep so that I get some rest before I wake, but I want outer me to be tired come morning so I get to napping post haste. Time passes and I grow bored, tired, and impatient, but I cling to this singular thought like a drowning man holding onto a piece of floating driftwood and hold fast to my goal, hoping against all hopes to get through my own thick skull. Nap with the rooster. Look into his cute eyes ringed with natural black eyeliner, which stand out against his pristine, white feathers, and fall asleep beside adorable Kukku. This is what you want. This is all you want. Do it.

You know you want to.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Errrk-uh-erk-eh-errrrrrrrr!”

