SANCTUARY ISLAND

Koltos threw his hands out. “They're ridiculous, the both of them!”

Almeniris, lobbing grapes into her mouth next to him, crunched on one and turned her head toward him. “Whasch sche prob'em?”

He glared at her for a second before pointing at the viewing pane. “They're displaying powers and abilities that should be limited to those on the path to ascension! But neither of them has gone through any of the steps!”

She swallowed, readying another grape for launch. “So, what, you're jealous?”

“YES!” He exclaimed.

Blinking, she flicked the next grape up, craning her neck to catch it with her teeth and gobbling it up. “Points for being honest. What's so wrong with it, though? Maybe there's more than one way to ascend, and they're trailblazing.”

Koltos opened his mouth, flinging his index upward. “I....” His finger folded down. “Actually, that might be possible.” He admitted before staring down her immediate smug grin. “For the record, I'm surprised that you said something thoughtful for once.”

She stuck her tongue out and flung another grape into the air.

The god turned back to look at the view screen, focusing on Niala. “The woman's ability to harmonize mana is distressing, though.” He said with a bit of concern.

Almeniris tilted her head, swallowing her latest grape. “Because it shouldn't be possible for a transient?”

Koltos didn't immediately answer. “Not exactly. A transient on the way to ascension could develop that ability...”

“But she isn't.” The goddess said.”

“No, she isn't. “ Koltos confirmed. “But, beyond that, as she alluded to, it might be linked to her ability to use a form of godspeak, or what they call weaving. If all of their weavers have a similar ability, then that means weaving is not what I thought it was.”

Almeniris quirked a brow. “It's not godspeak?”

“It might not be.”

“What would it be then?”

He turned his head toward her. “I don't know. That's the concerning part.”

She scoffed. “You not knowing something is cause for concern? At least I know your ego isn't at risk of deflating.”

He scrunched his face at her. “Maybe if I had a companion with half a brain instead of a sandy beach, I wouldn't feel the pressure to have all the answers.”

She blinked at him. “Sandy beach? In my head?”

He smirked. “Irritating, useless on its own, can't grow anything in it.”

A grape smacked him in the face.

RIVERWALL

With David fully healed, the couple's focus turned to Niala's cleansing of her pathways. She had already made a significant dent in the number of unwanted guests, but she was nowhere close to being done.

The next two weeks were spent working almost exclusively on that, with long days within Niala's pathways, their soul link door open, Niala feeding on David's mana to keep it so.

While he tried to corral the blobs toward her, she relentlessly hunted them down. Each time, the gross, stagnant energy held within popped like an engorged zit, splashing everything within a radius.

Only for the layer of filth to begin sizzling away, as if it could not exist without the protective bubble.

Which was probably exactly it.

Mashalla had confirmed that destroying these impurities had no visible negative impacts on Niala, but it did have an impact; as she'd noted before, the more she popped, the stronger her pathways became. Neither knew exactly why, but if their theory of the contaminants being of divine origin was true...

Then Niala was using her magivore ability to consume the essence of a god, as diluted as that essence might be.

They had spent quite a few bells late into the nights discussing this possibility. While neither of them was comfortable with the idea, for so many reasons, they also had to admit that having more power was not exactly useless. In the end, the topic was moot; they didn't have any other known way to clear Niala's pathways out, and they weren't going to wait to find one while those things were inside of her.

Even if Niala was visibly conflicted about the situation, David was secretly proud and happy for her. Her weaving ability was potentially infinitely powerful, only hampered by her limited mana.

He wouldn't go so far as to hunt down fels for Niala to magivore, and he was concerned about the hidden cost of consuming god-juice, but since the resource was right there and it was making his wife stronger...

Why lament it?

He'd just have to make sure to be extra supportive.

WARDENFEL ESTATE

Someone knocked on Jacob's study door. Before he could speak up and let them in, his wife Agatha barged in, eyes locked over thinned lips, a scrunched letter in her crisped hand.

He put down his pen and straightened his back, ready to receive her news. “Agatha, wh-”

“Isaac is getting married!” She blurted out, shoving the letter toward him.

He stared at her, eyes narrowing, then down at the letter. He retrieved it from her hand and uncrumpled it. His eyes scanned its content, widening slightly.

He looked up at his wife. “This is a wedding invitation to the Solar Grand Hall in Majestic, on the last day of Autumn. Why are we learning about this through an invitation and not a letter from our son?”

Agatha's lips thinned even more. “I don't know! I'm torn between being ecstatic and wondering if this isn't a farce in very poor taste. I should-”

She stopped when she noticed her husband's gaze flowing past her, toward the still-open study door. Turning her head, she noticed the house staff standing at attention, a letter in his hand.

Agatha spun and walked up toward the young man. “What is it?”

“M-mam! Letter for you, marked priority!” He stammered out and held out the pristine letter, still sealed.

Agatha frowned and snatched the letter out of the staff's hand before closing the door on him and turning back toward her husband, flipping the letter over.

With a glance, she confirmed that Jacob was fine with her opening it. She picked up the letter opener from his desk and sliced the paper with practiced ease.

The letter inside was in her hands before the envelope had finished sliding onto Jacob's desk. She quickly read its contents, her eyes widening and her mouth cracking into an uncontrollable smile.

Wordlessly, she presented the letter to Jacob, who took it and began reading.

“Dearest Father and Mother,

I, Isaac Wardenfel, your filial son, write to you on this day to inform you of a potential marriage candidate for my humble self.

I intend to visit you soon, within a week, two at most, to present to you this candidate and ask for your approval.

I must warn you that she is not of the peerage, although she is from a recognized family.

She is also a woman of, frankly, frightful means.

I am otherwise well, in good health, and find my current task fulfilling.

It is my hope that you are also both hale of mind and body.

We will speak further once we arrive by airship.

P.S. You might have already received a wedding invitation from the Solar Grand Hall in Majestic. Please understand that this was a strategic move, and I apologize if it reached you before this letter.

P.P.S. In the unlikely event that you disapprove of this marriage candidate, I have already taken steps to remedy the loss of face that the then-premature invites will cause.

P.P.P.S. I am being highly encouraged to tell you that such a case will not happen.

Dutifully yours,

Isaac Wardenfel.”

Jacob furrowed his brow and looked up at his wife. “This letter is... strange.”

His misgivings did nothing to her smile as she dismissed his concerns with a hand. “Isaac has always been a stickler for rules and protocol. This is only his sense of duty warring with a great love! Jacob! Our second son is going to get married! With a proper ceremony and reception!” She rejoiced, clasping her hands over her chest.

Jacob looked back down at the letter, trying to figure out who this candidate could be.

A woman of frightful means... And someone that he had to have met relatively recently, or they would have learned of it beforehand.

There was one person who fit the profile.

Angeline All Brew.

He put a hand to his chin.

If it were the case, then the Wardenfel main family and the All Brews would, for all intents and purposes, become one entity.

The reach and wealth of the All Brew family rivalled even the most powerful noble houses in the kingdom. What would this mean to the Wardenfel, who were already one of them?

Thoughts of leverage, blackmailing, bribes and networking bubbled in his mind.

His expression froze. His heart buckled and raced. He closed his eyes and took a few deep breaths.

He forced these ideas back into their cage as he repeated the mantra he had devised for himself in these situations, when the Patriarch tried to reassert his control over his mind.

My family is not a name.

My family is not a reputation.

My family is not a tool.

My family are my wife and children.

My family comes first.

A father loves his family.

I am a father first.

I am the patriarch only when I am not needed as a father.

He reopened his eyes, his heart calming down.

Agatha was looking at him, her expression softer, proud.

He managed to give her a small smile.

Her eyes twinkled. She walked up to his side and cradled his head in her arms, resting he face on top of his head. “My husband. I am glad you are still here, with me.”

Unmoving, he let his wife's warmth banish the last dregs of the cold claws that had tried to grip his mind once again.

The study remained silent for a moment until he turned his head to catch her eyes. “Do you remember the private garden we used to retreat to?”

“I do.”

“We have been ignoring it for a long time.”

She offered him a sad smile. “We have.”

“...I would like to restore it.”

She put a kiss on his head. “I think that would be great.”

RIVERWALL

Niala kissed David goodbye, leaving him to continue working on his latest engraving project while she went out to buy some supplies for tonight's dinner.

It had been close to a week since she had declared her pathways clear, unable to find more impurities to cleanse, and saints, did she feel great.

A little bit guilty, too, given what was fuelling that feeling.

Her cheeks turned slightly red. Of course, David was one of those reasons. They had been unable to enjoy each other's company while he was hurt, and for other reasons, she didn't want to risk anything while she had the fel blobs in her system.

But over the past week, they had made up for lost time, and then some.

The other side of the medal was her improved mana pathways. Stronger, wider, more flexible. She had better-than-average attributes before, nothing to be ashamed of. Now, after getting tested by Marshalla, she was in the top 1%, better even than Leandro, who himself was in the top 5%.

Still nowhere close to David- nobody was, but it meant she had plenty of mana to go around, and what's more, her inner world was now much more clearly visible and concrete.

It used to be a blurry dream, something she felt more than perceived. That was gone, replaced by a clear image and a certain physicality, even when her mana senses were not being improved by David. It was somewhat as if she had slight myopia and wasn't wearing her glasses; blurry after a few paces, but anything at about arm's length was clear, which let her inspect and explore her many stored memories.

She loved having perfect memories. Even better, she had discovered that she possessed a sort of instinctual librarian sense. With a bit of focus, she could 'smell' the direction of a particular memory book.

She was smiling broadly when she reached the centre of the small plaza in front of their shop. A dotted line of customers led to her shop, where Papo was dispensing potions and smiles, with Linzy targeting 'prime customers', as she called them.

She turned her head toward the public park, across the plaza. Families and old people were meandering along the paths, or looking over the kids running and shouting in the dedicated play area.

She had been curious as to why people made the short journey to the Allwarden park instead of visiting the one in town, which was bigger and much closer. At first, she thought it was the fruit water stand, but people kept coming even after they'd set up one in the town's park. When she'd asked, all the visitors had said was that her park apparently felt 'more welcoming'.

She didn't know why that was, exactly. The only thing she had done was use her weaving to make sure the trees and plants were healthy, removed all the contaminants she could, and brewed soil-enriching fertilizers. She had done her best, hoping that the park would be somewhere that people could relax and enjoy themselves.

She smiled. It didn't matter why, as long as people were happy and safe.

Just like her and David.

And, well, she might have had another small, tiny reason to be happy.

She closed her eyes and focused on the small ball of energy resting between her shoulder blades.

Admittedly, at first, she had intended to keep it a secret for as long as possible. David had pointed out that, compared to being a weaver, this ability was relatively mild, and the whole town knew she could weave now.

So why hide it, when she clearly enjoyed using this ability so much?

It had taken her a few days to mentally work through her feelings, but in the end, he had been right.

With a tug on the corners of her lips, she felt the pressure in her back pop.

Glowing wings of violet energy sprang forth. She gave them a look over her shoulders, wondering if she'd ever get tired of looking at them, before flexing them a few times.

She waved at the kids who had spotted her and went silent, staring with open mouths. They began screaming and jumping all at once, just as she bent her knees and jumped upward. With a powerful wing flap and a bit of a push from her wind mastery, she soared into the sky.

She spun on herself as she reached her desired altitude, and banked toward the town, straightening her flight, the wind buffeting her clothes.

The smile on her face never left.

Flying was way too much fun.