Delta lifted her finger off the upgrade button and carefully closed the menu.She closed her eyes.“Nothing bad will come of this. I didn’t do anything weird or strange. It will all be okay,” she said in a calming tone. Fera snorted.“You keep telling yourself that,” she said, snacking on the food and going a little glassy-eyed.---Poppy blinked as her father paced in his kitchen. He was wild-eyed and his fingers trailed over the many jars and tins he had collected over the years.“Dad?” she asked and he spun, a scary gleam in his eyes.Ensure your favorite authors get the support they deserve. Read this novel on Royal Road.“Poppy… it has happened. I sense it! A powerful rival has created food beyond compare in its field. Tell your mother I shall be… busy,” he instructed as he clapped his hands, lighting the four stovetops in the room at once.Poppy closed the door and yawned.“Dad is such a weirdo,” she told Tom who was stuck under her arm.“According to my pages, that man is the fabled 'Demonic Che-'” Tom almost squealed before Poppy cracked him open.“Show me something cool,” she said and settled into a good armchair.“Oh, you- Fine! Let’s see… How about the tale of Silver? The Fallen Dungeon?” he offered, a tall spire of silver forming on the blank page.“Sounds depressing… anything happy?” she asked and she looked at the photo on the wall that showed her friends… Amanstar and Deo.How it made her feel… not as blank.“Hm, well let’s see… Ah, how about the tale of ‘Black Witch that fell in love’?” he asked. Poppy thought about it and then nodded.“Once in a dark forest where only evil and cruelty could grow… there once was a witch of thorns…”Poppy settled in and listened as Tom indulged her.“One day, she fought the Knight of Glutton and was badly injured. That was when a man who had gotten lost by following a robin found her. She growled ‘End me or you shall be dead very soon!’” Tom said in horrible voice acting.“The man then said with no fear ‘I cannot die twice for you already have taken my heart from my chest with your enchanting looks.’” the story went on and Poppy wondered what kind of dysfunctional couple this was.Tom went on about the Witch guarding some Dungeon and the man nearly dying for her but Poppy drifted off to sleep before long.Tom didn’t seem to notice at all.---“Thank you, Ruli,” Mr Dabberghast beamed as Ruli handed him the cut flowers with a glower.“No problem. How’s the family?” she asked and Mr Dabberghast looked even merrier.“You know Holly, absolutely mad over her garden now that the Mana levels let her grow some uh…interesting things!” he flushed. He hummed as the sound of childish fighting erupted above.“The kids are kids. My eldest is currently floating between being a tree or a person. Teenagers!” he laughed and Ruli gave him an odd look but wasn’t sure she was equipped to handle that line of conversation.“Trees are pretty uh… tall!” she said weakly and Mr Dabberghast nodded and leaned in.“I’m sorry to bother you, I know you’re busy but you wouldn’t happen to know any talking trees? My eldest is nervous and Holly is taking a very teacher-like approach but I’m a softy and wouldn’t mind trying to get her support,” he asked quietly to make sure his wife didn’t hear.“Well, there is one in Delta’s joint but-” Ruli was cut off as Mr Dabberghast’s face lit up.“Really? Oh, that’s fantastic. I need to go tell my daughter!” He said excitedly and shut the door.Ruli still had her hand up in protest.“She’s kind of a nutjob!” She said in a defeated voice.She paused and then scowled.“That damn orange bird. Nutjob? She’s a murder tree and I’m making puns,” she sighed.“I hate quests,” she turned and walked off. Delta was good to people. She would control the demon tree.Ruli wanted a drink and she wanted it now but… her mother would know if she skipped on the other tasks before Ruli even made it 10 feet towards the pub.She wished she had a way to do the tasks and drink…“HI MISS RULI!” came the voice of a boy that could be told to do anything. Ruli smiled and slowly turned to Deo.“Ah… my little helper!” she beamed. She leaned in.“How would you like to borrow an epic sword for some mighty questing?” she asked and Magma began to steam in protest.“Shut it and I’ll get you cheese later,” she hissed and the sword went quiet again.“I WOULD LOVE TO HELP! I’LL GET ALL MY FRIENDS TO HELP AS WELL!” Deo said, red hair bouncing and smile turned up to eleven.Perfect, it was like bribing one minion and getting three more for free!“Deo, your heart is too pure for its own goo- for the good of mankind,” Ruli said solemnly.Well, she was half-demon. Her nature had to kick in some time outside of battle. Taking advantage of the innocent was just one of those ways.---Delta carefully stepped back inside as Fera seemed to vanish into a trapdoor that… took her back up the first floor? Delta tried to peer inside and a space that had been twisted to be almost backwards stared back in tears.She didn’t know what else to do so she threw some popcorn into the darkness and willed the trapdoor shut just before a distant burp echoed into the darkness between floors.Renny finally had some of the skeletons doing some basic routines and Delta had to admit… the ghoul was good at it.The skeletons didn’t speak and neither did Renny. It was… really… really quiet in the tent beside the clatter of bone and Renny’s finger-snapping. It was bad enough the visuals were hard to look at, the sound didn’t have to be so spooky.She flushed some DP on Maestro and waited for the shaking or the earth splitting apart of maybe even Maestro rising from the shadows in his new… form.But instead, Delta watched as a thin paper barrier was lowered from the ceiling on unseen ropes and pulleys. Then a shadow of a door open on the far side as lights lit up and gave of the clear profile of Maestro climbing to a small platform. His insect-like limbs and barely visible chittering mouth made Delta’s neck hair stand up in goosebumps.“Did someone call for a romance to the ears? I, the forever dashing star, have answered the call but it’s so sad for the children in shows to come! I am behind a paper wall! If they wish to see my full gloriousness, they’ll just have to find me properly!” He laughed, and tooting horns sounded out with jingling bells.Renny walked over and vanished behind the screen before his form stopped for a moment and Maestro’s purr of a voice sounded out.“Even the cool soul of Renny can’t stop admiring my elegance now. Now now, we have a job to do!” Maestro leaned down to Renny. The Mime nodded jerkily and staggered back out from the screen towards Delta.“I warned you,” she said blankly.Renny just stood there as Maestro made haunting pipe organs breathe and jump in beat like a heart monitor.“This is Maestro!” He cackled and the strum of an electric guitar made the skeletons shuffle in unison.“Come now, boys and girls of every age! Would you like to see something strange?!” Maestro’s voice went high and demonic with glee.The skeleton’s eyes glowed a supernatural red as if the music gave them power. Two began to flip and land with unnatural grace. Another one landed on the shoulders of another before they were launched by a seesaw into a barrel.Delta wished she could hug Renny and cover her eyes, but the scene, while making her shake… mesmerised her. Something about the antics and show captured her eyes. The horror of the performers turning their existence into art.Delta saw Renny wanted to control them or direct them but they seemed more in tune with the music than his own commands.Delta could fix that. She opened her menu and tapped him.“I can make you ringleader… if you’d like?” she offered. She didn’t want to push the upgrade on the mime without his agreement. Renny pulled outside so they could have more space and silence to hear each other.She repeated her question and Renny froze. The pale face turned slowly until he was staring fully at the memorial statue of his father that Delta had made for him.Under the many glinting Starlight Mushrooms that acted like stars… the statue looked mysterious, if not gentle. He wandered over to it and stared up at the stylish moustache and excited eyes.He touched the tophat grasped in the man’s left hand that was held to the side of the statue.“I think he’d be happy to know you carried on his legacy but you shouldn’t feel trapped by it either,” Delta told him gently. The Mime turned to her and he closed his eyes.Delta felt a small tug as the contract bond between them seemed to vibrate with his feelings.Conflicted… hope… sadness… fear.Delta saw Renny’s father in a memory. She looked out of Renny’s eyes as the much younger ghoul stared up at the man.He was handsome and had a wicked gleam in his eyes that promised adventure and stories to tell for years to come. He smiled and put his top hat on Renny’s head and it nearly swallowed Renny’s head due to being too big.“You are my son. Be it a ringmaster or a free soul. I shall be here,” he tapped Renny’s chest which radiated warmth through Renny. The ringmaster then picked his son up.“Come! We must see the new Snake charmers! I heard that being half snake lets this woman dance like no other! Charms the tips out of the crowd no doubt…”The memory was strong and Delta had to blink away sudden wetness in her eyes as Renny looked back at his father.“He was a great man,” she said with little doubt. Renny nodded and then turned to her. He got down on one knee and did a one-arm bow at the same time.His wide grin which revealed black gums and teeth stretched wide. It said as clear as day.Do your worst.“No take backs!” She laughed and hit the upgrade button.The flash of light swallowed Renny and even the circus stopped its music for that moment. It seemed to breathe in as if scenting its new proper master. Delta squinted until the light finally faded away and she had to give a long whistle.“Renny… you look like a showman,” she laughed in delight, clapping her hands. Renny rolled his new black tophat down his arm before he bounced it with his wrist on to his head. The cane he leaned on had a crystal mushroom adorned atop of it.His dark red jacket was criss-crossed with orange buttons and string. His dark pants and shiny shoes made him look like he had stepped out of a ballroom. His face had the dark fibres that acted as hair for ghouls, trimmed and tidy into facial hair like his father.The beady eyes remained and the grin Renny had now could pass as human if you ignored the sharklike rows that glinted in the low light. He stretched his arms and gave Delta his full smile and Delta twitched.It was like a gaping maw of fangs and black flesh.“Let the show begin!” He howled and the tent behind them erupted into light and music. His new temporary powerup already fading without a show to keep the Ring Leader persona going. Renny would be a Mime again soon.Still, his voice was captivating and would draw anyone's attention.Delta wished their customers luck. She also needed to get Nu to make some legal waivers for customers to sign because this was not going to go well.She gave a good-natured sight.At least Renny was happy. That was all that mattered to Delta.
