I love these festivals, they're always so lively and lighthearted, everyone chipping in to help. We've had a few, since returning, since the villagers will accept any reason to throw a party, and this time, my squad managed to pitch in a decent amount. I brought them out for an overnight hunt, bagging a number of terror birds, rams, rabbits and even a pair of massive boars, plenty of meat for the fires. Lin, Mila, and Li Song came along to pick herbs, but I spent most of my time training with my squad, and they're not too happy with me, leaving without me to prepare.After spending a few hours with my family, I spot Lin's bunny ears in the crowd and excuse myself from Alsantset. Making my way over, I see her chatting with one of Huu's brides-to-be, while Huu stands around. Instead of coming home with the injured, he stayed out there for another six months, riding under Akanai's command. Clasping arms, we hug, a single, manly tap on the back. “Did you get even bigger? Aren't you done growing yet?”Smiling bashfully, he looks more heroic than ever, his battle-scarred armor resplendent in the afternoon light. “One last surge of growth, a body forged in blood and battle my Ma says.”“So how's it feel coming home as the valiant hero? The messengers bring stories which continue to impress, week after week.”“What hero? The soldiers still talk about your victories, the Undying Falling Rain defeating champion after champion.” Waving me off the subject, he scratches his silver goatee, a new addition that makes him look more distinguished. “It's good to be home and see my folks again. I heard you've been working on something with my Pa, seems interesting. Yesui and Yosai's parents travelled here, so we finally met and they gave me their blessing.”“Congratulations! Then again, who wouldn't want the Young Wolf of the People as their son-in-law? So handsome to boot.”“Enough flattery, have you had anything to drink?”Finally, a drinking buddy. Whenever I tried to drink with my squad, the atmosphere was always so awkward, and drinking with Taduk, Husolt and Charok is more composed and mannerly. Time to get hammered and party. “Not yet, but tonight, we don't go home until we're good and drunk. I'm buying.”His meaty hand clamps down onto my shoulder and he brings me in for a one-armed hug, dragging me away towards one of the marked areas used for friendly sparring matches. “Later. Although your strength is far above mine, I still consider you my rival. Show me how much stronger you've become in these past months, then we drink! I'll buy.”Battle maniacs, all of them. He comes home from more than a year of battle and bloodshed, but the first thing he wants to do is spar. Helpless to resist, I pick my practice weapons and step past the posts, the villagers gathering to watch while a betting war breaks out. Sword and shield in hand, I turn to face my opponent and freeze in place. A massive, long-handled saber taller than I am, Huu's spiritual weapon greets me, his helmeted head shaking as he stares down at me, absent all emotion. “Real weapons Rain, I wish to truly measure myself. Worry not for my pride and do not hold back.”He's much more intense now, the innocence of youth gone from him. Putting away the practice weapons, I send a mental message to Other me. “Time to work but no brutality or mocking, this is a spar and he's my friend.”“You're the boss, brother.” Other me takes over and draws my weapons, limbering up as I mentally prepare. Picturing my muscles brimming with energy, I activate my Reinforcement.Silently, I speak to Other me. “Remember the timing, 1 and 2 and go. Got it?”“Sounds good, we start with a charge?”“We always do.”Weapon pointed down and held defensively, Huushal waits patiently. He really isn't kidding around, this is important to him, so as his friend, I should take this seriously too. Nodding for me to begin, he settles down, eyes locked on my every movement. And 1 and 2 and burst.An explosion of dirt flies out from behind me as my body rockets forward, sword aimed at his exposed shoulder, the crowd bursting into cheers. Barely shifting his weapon, Huu blocks my strike while stepping aside, faster than I expect. His saber sweeps out, batting me aside as I catch it with both weapons. Directing my chi to Absorb the impact, our weapons screech as they scrape together, my bones trembling from the exchange. Steadying my balance, I step in while he is overextended, but anticipating my movement, he leaps back and twirls, his saber swinging around for a second slash.What is it with these massive bastards and their twirling? Be big and slow, stupid cheaters. Unable to Absorb the entire impact, my body staggers aside. Adjusting my centre of gravity to Stabilize, one foot sweeps out to steady me, weapons at the ready to defend should Huu charge in. This is why Other me is in charge for the serious fights, I would have fallen or exposed some weakness. I supply the buffs and he supplies the pain.“Brother, he's very good. Let's bring that out, be ready.” Grinning wickedly, my body steps forward, lashing out with sword then shield, testing Huu's defences. Although I am more successful with Amplification, I still lack a 100% success rate, but the erratic rhythm throws Huu off, uncertainty forcing him to fully guard against each strike. Hammering him again and again to break through the pillar of steel that is his weapon, I press my advantage as the crowds grow silent, leaving him no chance to retaliate beneath my flurry of blows. “This is it brother, he'll go left.”Presenting an opening for him, Huu lashes out to force me away. Taking a single step back, the saber slides across my shield, and I lean into the impact. Going full power with Reinforcement, I rocket forward as soon as his sword slips past, thrusting both my weapons towards his midsection. He circles to my left and my shield lashes out in a full-power, Amplified swing with both legs firmly rooted. Like a bell tolling, our weapons ring loudly at the impact, echoing as he staggers aside before falling to the ground. Standing proudly, Other me grins and says, “Bull Form, Traverses the Mountain into Deer Form, Parting the Underbrush. I call that one Sweeping the Fields.”Idiot. He didn't even know what forms it was until I told him, then he had to make up a name for it. Huu blinks in surprise before bursting out in uproarious laughter. “Good, good.” Straightening up, he swings his saber about him, cutting through the wind in a figure eight with a metallic whoosh. “I call this Resolute Tempest.” Great, now he's naming things too, it's too ridiculous. Hesitating briefly, Huu shrugs in apology. “Take care not to die.”No longer smiling, he charges forward, fully trusting me to survive his onslaught. I would really hate to disappoint him. Sword held in both hands, Huu slashes from maximum range, the weapon hammering down to cleave me from shoulder to waist. I block the strike but Huu shortens his grip and twirls the weapon, slashing a second time before I can recover. Blocking the second, he continues building momentum as I block a third and a forth. Stepping back, Other me avoids the fifth strike and moves to counter, but I mentally scream, “Dodge Left!”Barely a hairs breadth away, Huu's saber pierces through empty air in front of my chest as I turn aside. Unperturbed, his saber crashes against my shield, twice, my body yielding before his superior strength. Turtling beneath sword and shield, I weather the storm of blows, falling back as the world turns to white noise around me. Huu's boot slams into my gut, sending me sliding back across the dirt.Crouched down with weapons raised, I stare down my opponent who stands with weapon held high, both of us breathless but still eager to trade blows, my smile mirrored on Huu's face. Simultaneously putting away our weapons, we walk out of the arena, giddy with laughter and ignoring the crowd as they clamour over who was the victor. Clapping me on the shoulder, he laughs, a boyish look to him once again. “How'd you know the trade was bad?”Other me relinquishes control and my shoulders sag in relief. “Just a guess from the name. You left that opening when I dodged, 'resolved' to trade blows. Give flesh and break bone, that's my move, you can't steal it. You're already bigger and faster, how am I supposed to win if you're trickier too?”“Sorry but I had little choice, you've gotten even stronger. Almost made me drop my weapon five or six times. Come, let's see about that drink.” Both of us still sweating from our match, we head towards the barrels of liquor, talking shop, exchanging advice, and arguing about who will pay, our cheerful reunion off to an exciting start.On an unrelated note, I should make some normal friends.
