Matt and the others had been the test bed for much of the training, as they’d been ‘rushed’ through an accelerated program under Luna’s exuberance at finding a new method. They hadn’t struggled to learn it or gained that much out of it, as they’d long since mastered the skills [Hardlight Armor] forced its casters to develop.

For mortals? It was a panacea of training they only needed to work at.

Those first generation [Hardlight Armor] wielders had blossomed into a million interesting variations and offshoots.

Like the one in front of him.

The Tier 15’s armor flowed and reformed in an elegant rhythm, each new variation of the armor different, showing the children different shapes and styles. Only a few of the older ones managed to fully condense their armors, even for a moment. No, most of the solidified light moving around the park’s trainees was in the ‘cotton candy’ state. Solidifying the light around them was the first and one of the hardest lessons [Hardlight Armor] demanded of its casters.

From there, they’d need to get the skill to form a useful armor on themselves, then move up to forming it on their team's tanks. But those steps usually came quickly once the basics were mastered.

It was good training, and while he had a few minor comments the teacher failed to address which he felt might help a few of the stragglers, he held himself back. [Hardlight Armor] was a bear of a skill, and as much as the kids would hate to hear it, endless repetitive practice was the best teacher they could ask for. There were tips and hints, but they were all supplementary to burning through their mana pools day in and day out.

The caster needed to take the light they’d corralled and then solidify it in an instant. A lot of people described it as clenching a muscle, but Matt had always seen it as a crystallization. Whatever the mental image one used, most casters could only manage that for a brief instant. Just enough to block a single blow, but that was all that was needed.

Most casters, even Tier 1’s, could hold the spell longer than the recommended moment, but both the spiritual strain and mana cost scaled exponentially. Instead, it was much easier for the caster to pulse the skill, letting the light reform into its cotton candy state before solidifying. Done right, it became a dance of forming and dispersing between hits.

And for any backline fighters who mastered the skill, [Hardlight Armor] made them a very welcome addition to any team. Healing skills hadn’t made the jump to Tier 0 despite many, many attempts, leaving only a select few skills to fill the gap.

After he’d watched his fill, he stepped to the next city, wanting to see what it had to offer before he got too distracted. However, the answer wasn’t much, and that fact essentially made his next choice for him.

Having gotten what he wanted out of the Tier 28 world, Matt slipped into the queue for the teleporter wearing an illusion so he could chat with those moving between worlds. The largest group were clearly delvers, but that was to be expected. They typically had the most disposable income and could more readily afford interplanetary teleports.

Most were below Tier 15 and wanted to leave the higher Tier world where competition was fierce. It was a smart move, but also a risky one. Those without the required self discipline could all too easily find themselves settling down on one of the low Tier worlds before they knew it. From his perspective as both an individual and as a duke, Matt didn’t see that as a bad thing. Those same people were statistically more likely to die in their pursuits of advancement than not, and reducing delving deaths had been a grueling process with little success.

On the other hand, for those with the necessary grit and determination and to keep advancing without the constant reminders of living on a high Tier world, it was absolutely the right call. Moving to a lower Tier world from a higher Tier one came with significant advantages.

That had been true when he was on The Path with Liz, and it was true even today. Without so much competition they could acquire delving slots on the cheap while spending less for accommodations, while also having access to better gear than was normally available on lower Tier worlds.

That, more often than not, resulted in slightly faster advancement, which bred its own host of problems, but Matt chose to believe the group traveling with him today was better than that. Not because he knew them or trusted in the goodness of humanity; they simply seemed like good people and he preferred to support that and them.

The other largest group of travelers were more ordinary folks who needed to move between worlds for their own personal reasons. Most were immortals, as they were also the demographic who could regularly afford the costs of interplanar travel, but that wasn’t a hard rule.

It wasn’t that mortals didn’t travel, but as Matt remembered from his own awakening days, trying to save up enough to use the teleporter for a normal civilian was years of effort just to afford the single ticket. Lily’s economic situation hadn’t been exactly average for a low Tier world, but it hadn’t been that far off the mark either.

As part of Manny’s internal construction projects, the Empire had spent a considerable effort to tackle that reality. Their solution wasn’t ideal, but the two part approach did work. The first was the most simple, and that was subsidizing the creation of in system teleporters used to move the population to the outer system and back. Such discounts were typically one time deals meant for people to semi-permanently relocate, but few people actually wanted to reside on barren, out of the way moons when there was a populated planet nearby.

The Empire’s second answer was ships. Plain and simple multipurpose ships that could travel through real space as well as chaotic space alike.

Early in the internal construction efforts, Frederic’s kingdom had been used to build close to a hundred grand shipyards that then spent the next two thousand years pumping out low cost, medium sized, multi-purpose ships. Thirty eight of them were still doing exactly that, but the rest had been decommissioned entirely, repurposed into maintenance, or outfitted for more general space based work.

What the new ships lacked in instant movement, they made up for in dirt cheap long term operating costs. They did so thanks to using the latest generation of travel mana engines and all of the most efficient auxilty systems on offer.

Manny had, through a master class in diplomacy, networking, and his ability to strike a deal, managed to get the three Tier 45 ship design groups to merge their patents for the project.

Matt, along with everyone else who had an inside scoop on the Empire’s high Tier politics, didn’t really believe things had been as easy or simple as the news reports had made it out to be. However, according to what he was able to dig out of the Emperor’s systems during his visits to the palace, Manny had done exactly that, rather than putting a Tier 50’s unique brand of pressure on the groups as he would have been tempted to do.

Matt knew those companies and their leaders. They were not inclined to play nice with each other. In fact, he’d have bet his Talent on them self sabotaging if there was even the smallest chance of harming one of the others. All three had done so at various times before.

Despite his attempts he’d learned nothing to prove such speculations even as he looked around the palace’s various databases. Those explorations of Manny’s servers served two purposes. First, they were a good way for Matt to test his various hacking skills in a real, but safe environment. Secondly, he knew they irritated Manny, and doing so when summoned to the palace against his will helped keep the requests to a minimum.

When everyone was bunched in and waiting to jump and too cramped to talk, Matt took a look at a special account he’d registered on every PlanetNet. It was full of questions, but he’d expected nothing less. That was its intended purpose after all.

Most were simple well-wishers or fans, and he just let his [Actual Insight] mull over those. He personally went over what he considered ‘real’ questions.

There wasn’t much of a pattern between them, just that the people were genuinely asking for help or advice. He didn’t really care about the person's Tier or how long the question had been waiting, though he did prioritize the mortals still alive.

A lot of the questions were delving or combat related, because that was what he excelled at. A few of the messages were trying to use him to settle some bet or argument, but he didn’t mind, so long as they were actually interesting. That crown went to the class of academy students who were comparing how various rift bosses would fare against each other, and couldn’t come to anything close to an agreement.

The sixty page report he sent back to them was probably a bit more than they asked for, but the bosses they’d chosen had actually been interesting match ups. Their individual peculiarities added a lot to the thought experiment, and he had fun digging in and playing things out.

Despite his best efforts, Matt still found himself with several agonizingly long seconds on his hands before the teleporter cycled and he arrived on the nearby world before people could realize he’d been there. It was only Tier 20 and didn’t have anything that made it stand out beyond a few rifts he recognized as ones that Titan’s Torch sold, but that only made him hurry to the next world.

Of course, he cleared out the inbox before he left, but part of his deal when starting the venture had been an acknowledgement that once he started doing it, he needed to continue for his entire trip. He hated the reason why that was the case, but ultimately, he agreed because the alternative would have been stopping.

As much as he detested bureaucracy and subterfuge in equal measure, he didn’t need an expert to explain that leaving a trail of answered questions also left a very deliberate path for people to track. If he needed to disappear and move quietly, they could spread misinformation by simply answering people's questions where they wanted people to think he was.

Matt found a lot more enjoyment in his trip as he reached the edge of the duchy and the planet's Tier dropped. He hadn’t worked in this region in particular, but the work became familiar as he’d helped do one part of the process or another on similar low Tier worlds.

A quiet, small part of him took a special kind of enjoyment as he entered the first Tier 8 world. He picked it because he knew what it was, but seeing it still made him want to jump for joy.

A world that only a few thousand years ago would have been nothing but another pit stop on the path to Tier 15 and higher, was now a destination in its own right. The world was bustling.

Young cultivators were everywhere, but that was no accident with how the Empire shipped anyone willing from the kingdom capitals out to such places. That didn’t diminish the fact that the world was alive in a way he normally only saw on Tier 15 and above worlds.

Aura had started as an important resource, but it had eventually grown into a necessity no Great Power could live without. In the abstract, it was a trade good of immense value. Rather than think about things that would circle back to Elliot, Matt focused his investigations onto the people and systems.

While it wasn’t what he’d pictured as a young man, aura worlds had turned into delving paradises.

While not all of the world's rifts had been converted into aura rifts, they’d pushed right up to the maximum fifteen percent the Empire had eventually mandated on central worlds. Moons and other planets that weren't the highest world were fair game, but they’d had to take steps to ensure overzealous nobles didn’t ruin their world’s essence cycles chasing short term profits. Thankfully, the worst of such cases had been caught early by their respective dukes, but it was a symptom of the larger problem.

There was never enough aura to go around.

Contrary to what Matt would have guessed at Tier 6, aura concept potions weren't the highest demand for aura, it was enchanting. While the potions were a one time use for most people, every few decades a new enchanting method sprung up that cascaded into more areas benefiting from aura.

What were once faceless planets easily handed over, Tier 5 to 14 worlds, as with all planets with significant aura production, had become important. While all of the Great Powers had spent enormous sums to entrench at least part of their aura infrastructure into higher Tier worlds through the use of newly introduced worlds or outlining moons, all of that was still more difficult than simply using already existing Tier 8 worlds.

There had already been three border skirmishes between the Great Powers due to aura appropriate nodes drifting near borders. It didn’t take a genius to extrapolate that when the wars started those worlds would become high priority targets for capture and control.

Realizing there was no escaping from his work, Matt used an army system to try and locate Allie. While not perfect, it should have tracked Allie’s estimated location based on her previous known locations. Its intended purpose was to allow for faster direct message transmissions, and that was weirdly enough, exactly what he wanted to use it for.

Except, its confidence rating was zero percent, telling him that she’d blown off official work.

