Normally he’d respect her wish for privacy, but if he was done with his trip, he needed to go and investigate Vanessa Roadings and learn exactly why she’d taken the blame for Aurelius. The man had never seemed to intentionally use fall people, at least not as far as Matt could find, but he still wanted to check before challenging her sentencing.

With no other recourse available to him, Matt tapped into the Ascender chat and private messaged Allie, sending her his location. He’d chosen this planet because he knew she had a waypoint on it, and he now needed to get to Rusty’s kingdom, which would take months of travel even with his personal ship and flying at full speed.

He didn’t have enough time. He had his appointment with Vincenzo in three months and he wasn’t going to allow the man to delay their meeting any longer, which meant he needed Allie if he wanted to investigate first.

And he did.

When he didn’t get an immediate response, he began to rapidly message her over and over even as he locked space down with his Domain and two spells in preparation for what was about to happen.

He’d only messaged her two hundred and forty seven times before she appeared, dagger out and yelling, “I was mid dance with a pretty lady and her prettier boyfriend, so if you don’t have a very good reason why you interrupted my fuck, we are going to have to fight!” Then as she realized he was locking down space and she couldn’t pull them somewhere, her glower turned thunderous. “I don’t have all day. Tell me where you want to go or I’ll stick this dagger in you.”

“Someone attempted to kill me and I want to go see why someone took the fall for one of his previous murders. I figured you’d want to come along.”

Allie fluttered her eyes theatrically as she processed his words, but he saw her anger vanish along with her blade.

“You could have led with that.”

Matt rolled his eyes, returning a glare of his own. “Don’t even get me started. I tried to message you through Empire systems. Even if it was slower, I would have waited to be nice. It’s not my fault you spoofed the trackers.”

Allie was hardly apologetic. “Like I said earlier, I was trying to get horizontal. I didn’t want to be interrupted by people who only have access to that system. I didn’t turn off my Ascender Chat, but I also can’t answer while being distracted by a BILLION PINGS!”

Her last words rang in Matt’s ear, but he only wiggled a pinky in it as if to clear it out. “Want to come with and check it out?”

Allie snorted even as her skin tight teal dress was replaced with armor.

“Of course I do, I can spare five minutes. I said I was going to the bathroom so I have that long at least. Let's go. Come on chop chop, drop the locks.”

Being bought out of the war meant they didn’t need true top of the line gear, as the armor was more likely to be used for delving than fighting other people, but that didn’t mean the armor she’d been provided with was bad. It had still been made by the army’s best crafting teams, and he took a moment to appreciate how good their work was. Even if they hadn’t used an absurd amount of Natural Treasure in the armor's construction it was better than what any normal Tier 35 could get their hands on.

Sadly, most of that excellence was Talent tech, and he had no desire to chase that particular dragon. Or raven, whatever the metaphorical pinnacle may be. Not when there were so many other more interesting things to investigate.

Finding Vanessa Roadings wasn’t hard. Her prison was on record, and Allie had a waypoint only two nodes away, letting them get there in under a minute.

When they were outside the ink black space station settled in the system asteroid belt, Allie turned to him and asked, “How do you want to handle this?”

“Are you sticking around?”

She answered his question with a question of her own, furthering the chain. “How long do you think this is going to take?”

Checking the records only took a second, and he saw that the prisoners were midway through their work cycles. It only took him a minute to find a good enough reason to bring them all back in that wouldn’t raise alarms, either internal or external. One reminder to the tracking AI that it couldn’t delay its self diagnosis and cleaning cycles any longer, and all of the prisoners were rerouted back to their cells for an impromptu day off.

“Less than five hopefully.”

When he was done, he sent Allie Vanessa’s cell location along with the rest of the information she’d need to bypass the security.

Her response made him grin right back. “Let's go! I'll play the angles?”

“Sure. I—”

Before he could say another word, he found himself inside the very location he’d just given Allie.

Pulling out the desk chair, he sat down even as he covered himself in an illusion to hide that fact. He couldn’t see or sense Allie, who vanished as fast as they’d arrived, but he didn’t expect to.

Knowing her, she was most likely hiding in a spatial fold despite the prison's passive spatial locks that should have made that impossible. Despite being a prison for Tier 25 to Tier 35’s Matt and Allie had no problems hiding themselves from both the guards and the various sensors scattered through the place. Even if Luna hadn’t forced him to learn how such systems worked well enough he could avoid them, Allie was more than capable enough to manage for both of them.

When Vanessa Roadings entered the room, Matt was almost taken aback by the smile that blossomed on her face when she thought she was alone. She was almost cheery as she threw herself onto the bed, which only served to confirm all of his suspicions.

The Tier 26 took a deep breath, her face buried in her pillow before letting it out as she pushed herself up.

The look of calm vanished as she saw him sitting at her desk, replaced by a wave of fear and then terror. Her eyes darted to the single, now barred door, and he saw her eyes go wide as she tried to use her [AI] to contact the guards.

Matt shook his head faster than was normally polite. “Don’t waste your time trying to reach out for help. I’ve already blocked all forms of communication in or out, and I’m monitoring the prison security alerts in real time. I have no intention of hurting you. I may even be able to help you. I can see you know who I am, so let’s skip that if you don’t mind. I’ve come across good evidence that you didn’t kill Bekka Daw, yet you admitted to and took the fall for her death.”

He let the statement hang in the air as he watched her think. With a nine Tier gap, he could almost read her thoughts, but he was still surprised when she tried to deflect. “Even if you have evidence I didn’t, I could have done other things that deserved prison. I’m content here.”

There was a silent ‘please go away’ tacked onto the end, communicated only through her eyes, but Matt pushed a little deeper. He didn’t need his [AI] to tell him Vanessa was hiding something, but he truly wasn’t here to harm her any more than she had been already. He might not agree that prison was the best place to escape to, but he wouldn’t forcibly pull her out against her wishes.

“Why don’t you try me and then we can go from there?” Matt kept his words firm, but as inoffensive as he could. He was trying to give her the opportunity while conveying that he could handle whatever was wrong.

Vanessa shook her head almost instantly. “I honestly can’t tell you much even if I wanted to. The truth is I saw an out and I took it.”

“Your history doesn't indicate you were into anything shady, though your early years are a bit…” Matt let the word linger on the tip of his tongue before finishing, “vague. I wouldn’t call it nonexistent, but it's fairly obvious it's a fake history. It’s neither the first time an immortal has reinvented themselves nor will it be the last. That might earn you a fine, but so long as you aren’t actually wanted for heinous crimes, it’s not an offence anyone wants to track down, so if that’s a concern, it shouldn’t be.”

Instead of growing calmer, Vanessa’s vitals started to spike in a very clear stress response. He watched as she went straight from calm and collected to a full on fight or fight response. Several aborted twitches gave away just how much she wanted to escape.

Matt leaned back while lowering how much he projected himself, trying to give her space to breathe. He hadn’t expected her reaction to be so fierce, but such hints and clues were only increasing his desire to dig further.

That might be a masterclass in bodily control from Vanessa, but he was fairly confident she was being genuine.

“It's really not. I swear I—” Something, maybe her word choice, seemed to catch her off guard and the sound stopped. It didn’t resume until she’d met his gaze with a gaze he knew from his childhood. A look of horror only children who grow up far too early can have.

After a long and heavy breath she started speaking. “I really don’t know much. However, what I did know was more than enough to make me want to get out. I was born on a world I can’t find on any star charts. Not that I looked beyond using my eyes and brain, but it's not anywhere. Anything else would be far too dangerous, as I can’t trust my AI. They raised us to be loyal soldiers infiltrating the Empire and tear it down from within. I can’t say if it’s another Great Power directly or someone else, though I have my suspicions.”

The silence lingered for long enough Matt nearly stepped in when she continued in a whisper. “As a kid, I did what I had to do to survive. I don’t take pleasure in that. I hated it. However, once I was embedded out here in the ‘real world’ I started to have my own thoughts. Our minders were always on the look out for such cracks in the facade, but I was smart enough to realize that even my AI might be compromised, and with it, my surface level thoughts. The only thing I could trust was my deepest, most private thoughts. I’d love to say I had an escape plan, but I didn’t. At least not one I thought would work. So when I was pulled in for questioning, I took a chance and confessed after I’d gathered enough information about Bek’s murder through the questioning to pass it off as genuine.”

Vanessa snorted as she wiped silent tears away with a thumb. “I knew I was doing her a disservice by letting the real perpetrator get away, but I didn’t know what else to do. She was already dead and I was selfish.”

Given that Vanessa and the deceased had been good enough friends to get her pulled in for questioning, he didn’t doubt that. Instead, he tried to offer some amount of comfort. “It seems to have worked at the very least. My goal here isn't to make your life worse, just right some wrongs.”

Vanessa laughed darkly even as she shook her head. “Worked? no, not really. About a week into my stint here, my handler was sitting in the same place you were. They made it clear that when I got out nothing would have changed. I just want to spend my time here relaxing, I don’t want to be pulled back into this before I have to. Please just leave me here.”

That accusation nearly sent his eyebrows into his hairline even as he went through databases looking for the records of her cell in the indicated timeframe. There was nothing to indicate the data had been tampered with beyond Vanessa’s mood plummeting one day and not recovering for years afterwards.

Matt met Allie’s gaze as they silently questioned what they’d stumbled upon.

Wanting to dig deeper, he asked, “What’s your plan then? Fight a guard to extend your sentence near the end? An escape attempt maybe?”

From the sheepish look on her face, Matt was confident he’d hit the nail on the head with his first guess.

Taken at face value, Vanessa’s story wasn’t that strange, but combined with the threat of infiltrators, things suddenly became far more interesting. Given her age, Tier, and the fact that she had a ‘handler’ overseeing her despite the first two things, meant whatever Vanessa had been a part of wasn’t some small private grudge.

That was very strange.

Matt was already searching through his internal databases and tapping into local ones when he got a priority message that overrode every single one of his mutes.

One of the few that could do so after his Insight.

A preloaded message from Manny. “Stop investigating whatever you are looking into and come see me. Immediately. If this message was triggered by speaking with someone, shut down your senses and flee. Don’t ask questions, do not hesitate.”

Matt hesitated long enough to check, but he confirmed that it was one of his searches that had triggered the alert, not something Vanessa had said. Even then he didn’t disregard the warning.

Standing, he brushed his pants off and nodded to Vanessa, who only seemed confused even as he built a backdoor into the local PlanetNet to warn him should anything change about her situation.

“I appreciate your talking to me and I’ll look into what you said, but I don’t want to make things worse. I’ll back off for now, but if you change your mind or realize you remember some new piece of information, reach out to me.” Before she could argue, he added, “It will work and they won’t know unless you give something away.”

Offering his hand, he was amused as she struggled to build the willpower to reach out and take it. One pump of their hands later, Matt and Allie vanished and appeared in Manny’s office.
