It was the kind of move you used to K.O. other people, and it was seldom used because of how hard it was to land. But Calruz was arrogant. He’d let his guard down, and Ryoka had held nothing back.
The Minotaur’s expression changed. He was obviously trying not to show any pain, but his hand reflexively went down to protect his stomach, and he bent just a tiny bit. Ryoka didn’t wait. Even as her foot came down, she used it as an anchor and swung her other leg up.
Her leg came up, and she smashed into Calruz’s face with a roundhouse kick. She didn’t break his nose, but that was probably because the Minotaur didn’t have a nice fleshy bit of cartilage like Humans.
This time, he bellowed, but Ryoka wasn’t done. She landed and started laying into the Minotaur, punching hard.
He swiped at her with one hand. Ryoka ducked under it and belted him twice in the stomach. Calruz shouted as she hit the same spot she’d kicked and shoved her with one arm.
Ryoka was thrown sideways, but she landed, jumped, and kicked the Minotaur in the chest. He staggered back, looking outraged. She pounded his chest.
Now he was really starting to get angry. Calruz punched at her far faster than she would have guessed he’d be able to move, but Ryoka did the same thing she had to Yvlon. Her head and body were in constant motion as she ducked and weaved, letting the Minotaur swing wide.
Low kick. Ryoka hammered Calruz’s legs with powerful kicks, wincing internally at the impact. The Minotaur had goat-like legs with cloven hooves, and it felt like she was kicking a baseball bat when she hit him.
He nearly got her with an uppercut. Ryoka grinned, turned, and kicked him straight on with a kick to the stomach again. She raised her hands, hit him twice in the stomach—
And then he punched her.
 
——
 
Ryoka jerked upright and felt multiple sets of hands pushing her down. Someone was on top of her. Someone light?
A pair of pointed ears and hazel hair. Ceria covered Ryoka protectively as she shouted at something. Something?
A loud roar of fury made Ryoka sit up. She looked up and saw Calruz being held back by ten men as he tried to rush at her. The Minotaur’s eyes were actually red with rage, and a trickle of blood was running from both nostrils.
What had happened? Ryoka tried to move, felt the agony coming out of her chest, and realized she’d been hit. Hit.
She couldn’t breathe. Hell, she could barely move. Calruz was shouting something, her ears were ringing, and Ceria was telling her to stay still. But Ryoka’s blood was still on fire. She still wanted to fight.
She stood up.
“Hold it!”
Ceria pushed Ryoka’s shoulder to sit down, but the girl knocked her arm away. She raised her fists, but now Garia, Yvlon, and Ceria were all pulling her back.
A few feet away, Gerial was swearing and pulling at Calruz with all his might as the Minotaur roared a challenge at Ryoka.
“Calm down, Calruz! Hold still, dead gods damn it!”
Ceria was talking desperately to Ryoka as the girl strained towards the Minotaur.
“You’ve made your point, Ryoka. No one’s underestimating you. Let’s stop before someone gets seriously hurt.”
Her brain wasn’t synching up with her mouth. Ryoka tried a few times.
“No. Let’s keep going.”
“Are you crazy?”
“I’m not done. Let Calruz go. I’ll take him on.”
The men holding the Minotaur gaped at Ryoka and then redoubled their efforts to hold the raging Minotaur.
“Enough!”
Another man strode forwards and stood between Ryoka and Calruz. He had a huge axe on his back, and he was nearly as burly as the Minotaur, if not quite so tall. He glared at Ryoka.
“Gerial, get your captain under control. And you, girl, back down!”
Gregor, one of the Silver-rank Captains, scowled as the men eventually managed to push Calruz back. The Minotaur was still breathing heavily, but his eyes were no longer red with fury.
“This was a ridiculous display. What are you both doing? The Adventurer’s Guild is not a place for anything but training spars, much less unarmed foolishness.”
He pointed at Ryoka.
“You’re a hothead Runner, and challenging a Minotaur just proves how idiotic you are. No matter how good you are with your fists, it won’t help you against monsters. You’ve seen the ones in the High Passes. Swords and even battleaxes don’t work on their hides.”
Ryoka glared at him. His words were true, and they hurt.
“I survived.”
“Must’ve been a miracle, then. The way you act, I’m surprised you haven’t offed yourself already. You’re either suicidal or an idiot. Even adventurers don’t pull stunts like this.”
“I don’t need an axe to do my job. And I don’t need you to tell me what to do. Back off. I’ll take on Calruz without you lot getting in the way.”
Gregor opened and closed his mouth with wordless fury.
“You blind, arrogant—if Ceria hadn’t jumped in the way, he would have crushed your head like a fruit. You can’t take him. Back down.”
Ryoka eyed Calruz. He was restraining himself—with difficulty—but she knew if the men stopped holding him he’d rush right at her. And she felt like doing the same. Her blood was boiling.
“I can still fight.”
“Even if you were Level 20, he’d still be able to crush you like a bug! And you’re no warrior. You don’t have any fighting Skills that I saw—”
“I don’t need Skills to fight.”
“But you don’t even have any levels.”
Everyone stopped talking. Gregor paused, red-faced, ready to shout and stared at the person who had spoken. Yvlon smiled at Ryoka and nodded once politely.
“I don’t understand. And truthfully, I didn’t believe my aunt when she told me that. But it is true, isn’t it? I couldn’t believe it until just now, but it must be true. You don’t have any levels or any classes at all, do you?”
Ryoka stared at her wordlessly. Anger surged in her belly. How dare she? How did she know?
“Not one.”
Cervial spoke from behind Ryoka. He was studying her. As she turned to stare at him, he tapped one eye.
“[Appraisal]. It’s a Skill that [Marksmen] get sometimes. I can’t see your level or your class.”
Even Calruz was dumbfounded by this revelation. The adventurers exchanged glances, and Ryoka heard the whispering.
“No levels?”
“Why?”
“Is she some kind of demi-human—no, a monster?”
“Who wouldn’t level? Is she a fool?”
“Cursed?”
Ryoka gritted her teeth.
“I don’t need levels to fight.”
Gregor shook his head at her, disbelieving.
“What are you, an idiot? How would you survive a second against a monster without levels?”
The fury that was boiling in Ryoka seized hold of her tongue.
“It’s not about levels. Your stupid little system doesn’t interest me. I don’t believe in needing levels or classes. It’s all stupid, and it makes you cowards. Silver-rank? Gold-rank? You just use those words because you don’t have the guts to fight.”
The words came out of Ryoka before she could stop herself. She pointed at Gregor as the man’s face turned red. But all of the adventurers were listening, and Ryoka couldn’t stop.
“I survived the High Passes without a single level. I did it because I wasn’t afraid and needed half a dozen people in armor to hold my hand. And if you lot had any guts, you wouldn’t sit around whining about how a bunch of unexplored ruins are too dangerous.”
“You truly believe you can surpass the rest of us without needing to level don’t you?”
Yvlon stared hard at Ryoka, for once not smiling. Even Garia was staring at Ryoka as if seeing her for the first time. Ceria…Ceria looked upset. Angry—but she was staring at Ryoka as if she were just being let down.
Fuck you too. They didn’t know her. Ryoka was sick of everyone and everything here. She didn’t answer Yvlon. She just wiped at the blood coming from her mouth. But that was an answer in itself.
“What arrogance.”
It came from out of the crowd. Ryoka turned, and this time, the blood in her veins was roaring. She was beyond caring about anything.
“Really? Arrogance? All I see are people too afraid to do anything until they level up. People who have to hide in a group to cover how pitiful they are.”
A murmur of hot anger went through the adventurers. Ryoka raised her fists.
“I’ll take you on one by one or all at once. Come on. Fight me.”
“Enough!”
This time, it was Ceria who shoved at Ryoka. The half-Elf was angry.
“You’re talking nonsense. But I won’t let you stand here and get yourself hurt. Stop this or I’ll have to use magic—”
It was just an impulse. But once it was started, Ryoka couldn’t stop. Her hand shot out and brushed Ceria’s chin. The half-Elf blinked, staggered, and sat down.
Ryoka stared at the half-Elf, rage eclipsed by sudden regret. She hadn’t meant to. She just wanted to get the mage to shut up for a second. But like before, like so many times before, her body had started moving before her brain.
A roar of anger came from Calruz. Suddenly, he was throwing off the other adventurers as they tried desperately to slow him down. He approached Ryoka, and she tensed.
But he didn’t strike at her. Instead, Calruz scooped up Ceria gently. He stared down at her, practically steaming with rage.
“You tread on Ceria’s honor. For that, I should challenge you to a duel with real weapons.”
“I’ll take you on.”
Something inside of Ryoka was snapping. She was full of fury and beyond caring what would happen next. Calruz seemed to vibrate at her challenge, but with incredible effort, he turned away.
“You are not worth the time it would take.”
Ryoka’s temper flared. She spoke to the Minotaur’s back, hearing each word leave her lips as some part of her screamed at her not to say them.
“I didn’t think you were a coward, Calruz.”
Gerial lunged. Not towards Ryoka, but with the rest of the Horns of Hammerad as they seized the Minotaur. Calruz’s head turned, and his eyes darkened with blood and rage. But he didn’t move with Ceria’s limp form in his hands. His voice quivered with fury.
“I was mistaken about you. You are no warrior. You are just a bully who wants something to hit.”
He began to walk away. Ryoka shouted after him.
“Calruz! Fight me! Come back here, you coward! Are you afraid?”
The Minotaur’s back tensed, but he kept walking. Gregor stared at Ryoka in fury, hand twitching towards his axe hilt.
“Enough! I won’t stand here and listen to this. If you want a fight, try your fists against my axe, girl.”
“Bring it.”
Ryoka raised her hands, but Yvlon stepped forwards.
“Enough. Restrain yourself, Ryoka Griffin.”
Something was snapping inside of Ryoka. It was the same feeling, the exact same. Part of her was shouting for her to put down her fists, to apologize. To get down on her hands and knees and bow before Ceria and Calruz. But like before, like so many times when she’d been kicked out of school, she’d crossed over the event horizon of fury.
She just wanted to punch. To hit something. And now that she’d let out all the bile in her stomach, Ryoka only knew how to lash out. So she did.
Her fist blurred and disappeared as it shot towards Yvlon’s face. But it was intercepted and crossed by a flash of silver.
Ryoka felt the punch lift her off her feet. She tried to step forwards, but her body suddenly forgot how to stand up. She sat down as her arms and legs simply shut down.
The world spun, and Ryoka saw Yvlon’s face full of regret and frustration. Her head fell back—
 
——
 
And when Ryoka awoke, she was alone. Not physically alone, but alone nevertheless.
Dusk had engulfed the sky. The sparring area of the Adventurer’s Guild was empty save for Ryoka and the half-Elf sitting on the ground next to her.
Ceria looked up as Ryoka sat up. The barefoot girl looked around, dizzy, and as Ryoka opened her mouth, Ceria tapped her wand on Ryoka’s head.
“[Silence].”
Ryoka was mute. The girl’s mouth opened, but no words came out. Ceria looked at her and shook her head. She reached behind her and picked up Ryoka’s pack and carefully put it next to the girl. Then Ceria sighed and stared up at the sky.
“I don’t know what it must have been like, going through the High Passes. You didn’t have more than scrapes on you, but Eater Goats, Gargoyles?”
Ryoka’s mouth was still moving in outrage, and she was getting angry—but Ceria was speaking precisely, like a [Mage], and perhaps it was her magic, but a coolness had fallen over Ryoka. Her bubbling anger…draining away. Growing cold, and with it, her guilt came flooding in, freezing in place. The half-Elf went on.
“It has to rattle you. Tree rot, getting my leg broken would be enough to put me out of shape for a month. I get it. But—there’s no excuse for just lashing out. You know Hunt, our teammate? He gets raving drunk. Calruz has nearly kicked him out several times. Not because he’s incompetent or a fool—because he gets into fights when he’s drunk. Even if he’s drunk, it’s not an excuse. You get me?”
When she looked over next, Ryoka was silent. Listening—and Ceria went on slowly.
“Yvlon Byres is a good adventurer. In the shadow of her brother, who’s some famous [Knight] with a Gold-rank team. I’ve never met him, but I know she comes across as snooty. Well, she’s allowed to be. You’re allowed to not like that and even give her a punch, maybe. But at what point is it not her fault?” 
She rubbed at her chin, and Ryoka saw a faint bruise developing across that fair skin. Now, Ryoka’s temper was completely gone, and she was staring at her lap. Ceria’s voice was polite—pointed—and it was stabbing holes in Ryoka’s side.
“I’ve seen a lot of arrogance in my time. Mostly from Humans, but from every people, including my own. But someone who rejects the way the world works just because she doesn’t like it—that’s new. It’s been a while since I was hit by someone I call a friend as well.”
She looked at Ryoka. The girl couldn’t meet her eyes.
“If you want to keep fighting everyone who reaches out to help you, I’ll put a flower on your grave. But until then, get your stupid Human head back in order. You’re lucky—very lucky that Calruz is honorable and that the other adventurers listened to Yvlon and Cervial, or you might have suffered quite a bit.”
Ryoka was silent. She stared at the ground, face flushed. Memory only now returning. The haze of rage—Ceria spoke sharply.
“I get it, Ryoka. I do. But you’re even more hotheaded than Calruz. And yes, some of that was his fault, but that was fairly disgraceful.”
Ceria shook her head as Ryoka opened her mouth and tried to say something.
