“No. Be silent. I am angry at you, Ryoka. And I am leaving until that anger is gone. The Horns of Hammerad and the other adventurers are heading to the ruins in Liscor. All of us. At least you stirred the crowd up—Gregor and Menes are back with us. But that doesn’t change what just happened.”
The half-Elven mage stood up and brushed at her robes. She waved her wand, and Ryoka felt the spell on her dissipate.
“May we meet in new forests, Ryoka Griffin. If you want to talk…find us in Liscor. But do any of that again and I’ll take you to task, not Calruz or Yvlon. And I don’t punch.”
Only then did the young woman realize some of the chill in the air had been magic, not just the pit of ice in her stomach. The half-Elf pointed down, and the frost and ice anchoring Ryoka to the ground unfroze. She produced a flower of ice in one hand—and then let it melt. Then she turned and walked away.
Silently, Ryoka watched Ceria go. A thousand words spun through her mind, and she opened her mouth to call something. To say…sorry.
But something held her tongue. She held her own tongue and wrestled with it. The lingering desire to curse Ceria and kick her in the back. And why—why? To the one person who’d been kind to her? It was there, a demon in the pit of her stomach.
When the doors to the Adventurer’s Guild closed behind Ceria, it was in silence.
The girl sat in the center of the sparring arena and felt the bruises and pain begin to flare up in her body. She was still exhausted, still hurt. But somehow, all of that was a backdrop to the incredible, terrible emptiness in her heart.
She’d done it. As before, now again. See—a girl who destroys everything she touches. Who wanders from school to school, never fitting in, picking fights with friends and anyone who crosses her way.
A child with nothing to hit who decides to fight the world. A barefoot runner who speaks with her fists. A heart full of black fury and hurtful words who spreads her foulness wherever she goes.
Angry girl. Rabid dog. Berserker. Suicidally competitive. Friendless loner. Lost soul.
Ryoka Griffin.
She’d lost friends before. She’d made enemies, burned bridges. Wherever she’d gone, from each school she’d transferred to, she’d left behind only bitter memories. Each time she’d lost control, she’d only left tears and regrets behind. She was used to erasing smiles.
But it had never hurt quite like this before.
Ryoka stood up and felt the silence closing in. The silence, and the empty despair that came with it. She looked at the ground and saw the blood of an honorable person. She looked behind her and knew there was no one at her back. A familiar, painful sight.
She could barely feel her hands. She was exhausted, upset, guilty, and angry. She didn’t know what to do.
Slowly, Ryoka’s feet moved. She took one step and then another. Ryoka picked her pack up off the ground and began to walk.
She left the Adventurer’s Guild. She ignored the voices, the chances to turn back. She saw the decorated, pink carriage, ignored the [Maids] and [Assassins] that tried to block her way. She just ran on.
Away, away, always away. Until the dawn broke and the end of day. Running from fear and friends alike, striving to always run, always be in flight. And though her heart bled and ached, she ran on again.
Towards Liscor and the Blood Fields beyond without a plan. Towards death and the unknown. Running. Always running without pausing. Leaving bloody footprints made of her unshed tears and broken ties.
Running.
Running away. And oh—but in the grief, in her self-destructive wake, her friends, if she had any, were waiting for her to return. But another group, a trio, followed Ryoka out of Esthelm, jogging onwards with no forgiveness or sympathy in their hearts. 
Persua let Ryoka disappear into the distance before urging Toriska and Claudeil to follow. Her gaze followed Ryoka without blinking, without hesitation. And it was so intent that she ignored Toriska licking her lips every few seconds as she stammered excuses and Claudeil’s nervous breathing, despite them not having run yet. When they ran, they travelled light, with just a few objects in their packs and hanging at their sides.
Persua followed Ryoka, carrying the same depths the young woman was warring with in the pits of her own soul. Only hers had no remorse. And some of it—sometimes—leaked out Persua’s eyes.
