Ryoka’s right hand flew forwards in a strike that would have caught Yvlon straight on the tip of her chin. But before it landed, one silver-plated hand came up and seized Ryoka’s hand.
From her position, Garia saw the barefoot girl’s eyes widen, and then she twisted both body and head to avoid Yvlon’s fist. She couldn’t get away perfectly, held as she was by the other adventurer. The gauntlet caught Ryoka on the side of the jaw and drew blood.
The adventurers in the crowd cheered as Yvlon released Ryoka’s hand. That was probably a wise move regardless, because the look in the other girl’s eyes was pure fury. Ryoka muttered an expletive around her bleeding mouth and spat.
Yvlon gave Ryoka a polite smile as she raised her fists again. The light glinted off the polished metal and specks of blood on her right gauntlet.
“I understand your pride, Ryoka Griffin, but we adventurers have our own dignity. You underestimate us at your peril. Are you sure you wouldn’t like me to remove my armor?”
That was the wrong thing to say. Ceria shouted something at Ryoka, but Garia saw the look in the Runner’s eyes. Slowly, she straightened, wiping the rest of the blood away from her cut lips.
“I’m going to get serious now.”
Yvlon seemed to sigh, but in an instant, her guard was back up, and she was watching Ryoka warily. She didn’t underestimate the other girl despite having scored a point first.
Ryoka paused for a moment, staring hard at Yvlon. Then she advanced slowly, raising her hands above her head.
The adventurers in Esthelm were nothing if not admiring of someone with spirit. Half of them egged Ryoka on, laughing and cheering as she advanced on Yvlon while the other half bet whether she’d even manage to strike the other woman’s face.
Yvlon’s eyes narrowed as Ryoka got closer and closer. Before the other girl could move, she stepped forwards and threw a lightning-quick punch at Ryoka’s head.
Ryoka didn’t dodge so much as lean on one leg and move her head down. The metal fist missed her head by inches, prompting a gasp from her audience. But neither woman was finished.
Even as Ryoka dodged her first punch, Yvlon’s second hand flew up in an uppercut towards Ryoka’s face. But again, Ryoka took a step back and avoided the blow with mere inches to spare. Then she threw a backhand at Yvlon’s face.
Again, the adventurer blocked, but this time, Ryoka wasn’t interested in kicking. She darted behind Yvlon as the adventurer turned in her heavier armor. Ryoka hooked her leg behind Yvlon’s and kicked straight through, sending the armored adventurer tumbling to the ground.
The crash of metal was the only sound in the silence. Yvlon rolled and got to her feet in an instant, ready for an attack, but Ryoka just stood with her guard up, waiting.
“Well.”
Was it a rueful smile? It flicked across Yvlon’s face in an instant before she went all-out on the attack. She rushed at Ryoka, throwing swift punches that made the other girl dodge back.
It still wasn’t an equal fight. Even Garia could see that Ryoka was mostly on the defensive, unable to hit Yvlon while the other adventurer guarded her face. It wasn’t an equal fight.
But it was silent. Now, all the adventurers were watching Ryoka like hawks. She dodged back, letting Yvlon come at her, always moving, darting in for strikes against Yvlon’s head before escaping.
Ryoka missed the timing for one of her strikes, and Yvlon caught her in a flurry of blows. Ryoka took a punch to the midsection and a glancing blow off one shoulder—and then kicked Yvlon in the stomach hard enough to send the adventurer staggering back.
Again, Ryoka charged Yvlon. She avoided a wild punch and then had the other woman’s back. She stepped behind Yvlon with one leg and, using her elbow, threw the woman back over her knee. Again, the crash of metal was the only sound in the silence.
This time, Ryoka didn’t let Yvlon get up. She advanced on the adventurer as she struggled to get off the ground. Yvlon turned and lashed out with her fist, almost too fast for Garia to follow. But Ryoka had been expecting that. She leaned back and then seized the other woman’s arm.
Garia saw Yvlon strike upwards at Ryoka, a flash of movement as the other girl twisted around her—for a second, all was confusion, and then Ryoka was twisting Yvlon’s arm up while she planted her knee on her back.
It was over. Ryoka was holding the arm as high as the armor would allow. She was about to transition into a choke hold when she saw Yvlon’s hand push against the ground—
Ryoka was thrown off by the explosive force as Yvlon threw herself back, knocking the other girl off her. She turned and kicked, and Ryoka tumbled with the force of the blow.
Yvlon was trying to rotate her arm and work out the pain when she saw Ryoka roll and tumble upright in a flash of motion. She blinked—and caught a fist to her face for the first time. Ryoka’s hand knocked her head back slightly. As Yvlon was stunned, two more lightning-fast jabs hit her on the cheek and jaw.
The fourth punch Yvlon caught in a grip like steel. Ryoka braced herself, but no metal fist came swinging her way.
The Captain of the Silver Spears was shaking her head, and her mouth was moving. Over the roar of blood in Ryoka’s ears, she realized people were shouting, and the adventurer released her hand and relaxed her stance as she massaged her mouth.
The fight was over.
 
——
 
“What was that?”
That was the first question Garia asked Ryoka once she had a chance. This was mainly because everyone else was queuing up for food in the Guild’s mess hall.
Ryoka shrugged and pushed at her food with a sour face. It wasn’t that she wasn’t hungry—she was ravenous—but she was already tired of answering questions.
Reluctantly, she bit into a bit of juicy sausage and replied to the awestruck girl sitting across from her.
“Those were throws. Special moves to take down an opponent. Haven’t you ever seen someone tossing an opponent to the ground before?”
“Well, yeah, of course, but…”
Garia floundered as she searched for words.
“You made it look so easy. Yvlon was in armor, and you just threw her to the ground—twice!”
“It would have been better if I’d kept her down.”
Ryoka grunted as she chomped hard on her food. At least she was able to savor it. A healing potion had taken care of all her injuries—and Yvlon’s.
Garia stared at her incredulously.
“You knocked down a Silver-rank Captain. Anyone would be proud of that.”
Ryoka smiled.
“Yeah. And I got to hit her.”
“Those last two punches were unnecessary.”
Ceria’s voice made the two Runners look up. The half-Elf slid onto the long table and frowned at Ryoka.
“You didn’t need to hit her that many times. This was supposed to be a gentle spar, not you trying to break her jaw.”
Ryoka looked completely unapologetic.
“Oops.”
Ceria made a noise that sounded like a sigh crossed with a hiss and muttered darky under her breath. Ceria Springwalker was angry enough that she looked ready to shoot sparks from her eyes—until she grew abruptly calm.
She rose and, without a word, stepped back. Ryoka waited, but Ceria just walked away. The Runner looked almost disappointed. She was ravenous—and still shaking with adrenaline from the fight.
Taking a seat across from Ryoka, Garia stabbed at her food. Thus far, she and Garia were the only two people to have joined Ryoka in the mess hall, despite the numerous adventurers sitting around them.
Predictably, Ryoka had chosen the far corner of the furthest table from the door, which meant that there would be far fewer people able to talk to her. But it seemed as though quite a few adventurers would have liked to come up and chat; only a few did.
These were the members of the Horns of Hammerad and the various Silver-rank captains Ryoka had met. Two of them, the man named Cervial with the longbow and Yvlon, took seats next to Ryoka.
Maybe it wasn’t intentional, but Cervial took the seat directly next to Ryoka, putting himself between the two women. It wasn’t as if either woman were overtly hostile to the other—and indeed, they were quite polite.
But if Yvlon was polite and genuinely admiring of Ryoka after the fight, there was a certain edge in Ryoka’s replies and comments that didn’t pass unnoticed at the table.
Yvlon politely munched on a boiled piece of asparagus or asparagus-like vegetable and commented to the table at large, but Ryoka and Garia specifically.
“You see, it’s not as if we’re hurting for money or jobs at the moment. There’s always work, and we can brave the Ruins of Albez for quite a profit most of the time. But it’s not sustainable in the long run.”
Cervial nodded. He stabbed at his food and made a face.
“Adventuring isn’t easy at our level. We’re just good enough that it’s not worth our time to take requests clearing out Goblin tribes unless they’re really big—but we don’t have the strength to take on the stronger types of monsters. Sooner or later, our luck runs out and we take an injury we can’t heal up from—or die. That’s why these new ruins might be our break. If we can get in there and find some serious magical artifacts or equipment, we could easily reach Gold-rank.”
“The only question is whether the risks in this case are worth the reward. So far, Cervial’s team—the Flawless Flights—mine, and Calruz’s are the only ones who are willing to go in first.”
“It took some doing, but Ceria convinced me that the ruins could be loaded with ancient artifacts. They’re quite similar to ancient crypts apparently.”
Cervial drained his mug and nodded politely at the others.
“Still, we’re going in carefully. Both Yvlon and I are only doing this for the treasure.”
Ryoka shifted. She looked across the room at where adventurers were still being served. Perhaps it was because of his size, but Calruz had been stuck at the back of the line, and he was grumpy about waiting. He kept casting glances at the now-full table Ryoka was sitting at, irritated.
“What about Calruz, then?”
Yvlon chuckled politely, and Cervial shook his head.
“He just wants the challenge. That stupid Minotaur doesn’t care what enemies he’s fighting so long as he can gain experience from it. He’s an old-fashioned type. Death or glory with no in between. Not like the rest of us.”
Ryoka nodded. She thought she understood from context alone. If Yvlon and Cervial were adventurers who relied upon magical equipment along with their levels to get stronger, Calruz was the kind of person who thought gaining more levels was all that he needed. She looked at Cervial.
“What’s the level difference between a Silver-ranked adventurer and a Gold-rank?”
“The difference? Well—it could be just a few levels depending on their equipment. Remember, in most cases it’s the entire party who gets the Gold-rank. I guess Silver-rank is mostly in the low twenties at best while Gold-rank is anywhere from Level 24 onwards.”
“Of course, individual skill still plays a pretty big role.”
Yvlon nodded at Calruz as the Minotaur impatiently waited for his food, clearly unhappy at missing the conversation and having to wait behind lesser adventurers.
“Calruz isn’t 30, but he’s damn close. He’s also a Minotaur. He could have found his way onto a Gold-rank team, but he wanted to be in command.”
At last, the talked-of Minotaur was served a double portion onto his plate. He stomped towards the table, pausing when he saw there was nowhere to sit.
He took two steps towards Ryoka and pointed to Garia. The girl flinched as Calruz growled at her.
“You. Runner. Move.”
“O-oh. Sure.”
Garia was about to slip out of her seat, but Ryoka and—surprisingly—Cervial grabbed her by the clothing.
“Hold it, Calruz. You can’t just order someone to leave. Pull up a chair or sit at the other end of the table.”
Calruz scowled down at Cervial.
“She is no warrior. This place is reserved for adventurers, not mere Runners.”
Ryoka raised her eyebrows. Apparently, she didn’t count. Garia squeaked and trembled by her side.
“I—I can go. It’s no problem. I didn’t want to get in the way—”
The standoff between them ended when someone booted Calruz in the butt as hard as she could. He actually noticed the move, but the half-Elf kicked him despite it. Calruz whirled—and she snapped at him.
“You stubborn idiot. Let Garia sit. For a Minotaur who talks about honor, you certainly don’t have much when it comes to non-warriors.”
Ryoka lowered the plate she had ready to toss, and Cervial stopped leaning back. 
“I’m defending the integrity of—”
“Oh shut up, Calruz. Is it honorable to bully someone who runs deliveries for people like us? Is that what a proud member of the House of Minos’ Beriad does? Sit down.”
That comment caused a hush among the nearby adventurers, and especially the rest of the Horns of Hammerad, but Calruz looked unmoved. He sat at the table, ignoring Garia like a footstool.
“Honor is for those who earn it. I don’t know this Runner’s character.”
Ryoka frowned, but made no comment as Garia instantly went back to her food, avoiding looking at Calruz. There was a lot she wanted to say, but flipping the Minotaur’s food into his face was more appealing.
But since she had the feeling Garia might carry at least some of the Minotaur’s ire if she did it, Ryoka—reluctantly—held back. But the Minotaur’s attitude annoyed her.
Still—now that Ryoka thought about it, she’d never heard Calruz say anything of substance to the other girl. He’d talked and she’d talked when they were in the inn, but the two had never directly spoken to each other that much.
As Ryoka’s eyes flicked towards Calruz and her expressionless face darkened slightly, Yvlon nudged Cervial. The taller man looked at Ryoka and spoke lightly.
“Your skill at unarmed fighting is quite incredible. I can see how it would be useful keeping away bandits and Goblins.”
“Mm?”
Ryoka looked up, realized she’d been addressed, and shrugged.
“It helps.”
“You wouldn’t happen to be able to use any other weapons besides your fists, would you? A bow, for example?”
Across the table, Gerial objected.
“Wait a second, Cervial, if you’re going to recruit Ryoka, the Horns of Hammerad have the right to make the first offer.”
Sostrom and the other adventurers agreed while the adventurers that were part of the Flawless Flights shouted from their table across the hall. Cervial laughed and raised his hands and then looked at Ryoka.
“I don’t use weapons. And I’m not interested.”
“A shame. But I hope if you see a request from us you’ll consider taking it. In fact, if you’d like, we could arrange to request deliveries from you alone if you’re ever in the same area as we are.”
