That got Ryoka’s attention. What Cervial was suggesting was a form of personalized contract in the Runner’s Guild. That way, he could offer her exclusive deliveries.
“Why? Any Runner can deliver healing potions.”
“But no one has the guts to do it when there’s a Lich raining spells down on our heads.”
That remark came from Sostrom, and it was met with agreement from the other adventurers. Cervial nodded.
“Being an adventurer is all about finding trustworthy contacts. Good Runners like you for instance—having someone to rely on when we’re out exploring dungeons is far better than requesting an emergency delivery and hoping the Runner we get is competent.”
He shrugged.
“Not that we ever plan to get in trouble of course, but when we’re in a pinch…at our level, we need to forge friendships and build up our group. It’s not something people think about, but there’s really no other way to survive. We trust each other with our backs or we’ll fall together.”
Something about that line tickled Ryoka’s memory. She grunted and then looked at Cervial. The words came out before she could stop them. The same anger and contempt leaping from her thoughts out her mouth.
“You sound like a bunch of Runners when you say it like that.”
The mood at the table froze over for a second. Garia stared wide-eyed at Ryoka and then tried to edge back in her seat. Cervial’s smile flickered and then came back.
“Really? That’s not a good thing, usually. The Runner’s Guild and the Adventurer’s Guild don’t get along. They think we’re all muscle-bound idiots, and we think they’re—”
“Cowards.”
Calruz grunted and ate half a sausage in one huge bite.
“I wouldn’t say cowards.”
Yvlon objected, but most of the other adventurers seemed to agree with Calruz. Yvlon sighed and smiled at Garia reassuringly.
“Not all of you. It’s just that it’s an unfortunate comparison to make, Ryoka.”
“Seems accurate to me.”
Ryoka deliberately popped the last bit of sausage into her mouth and took a drink, conscious of all the eyes on her. Cervial was still smiling, but it was a brittle smile.
“Really? And which Runners do we sound like?”
“Guy named Fals. He says the same things as you do. Runners have to band together in order to survive. Sacrifice the good of the individual for the group. ‘Work together or die.’”
Thoughtfully, Cervial propped his head on his hand. He was still smiling, but there was a tiny bit of anger in his eyes. Ryoka recognized it as something similar to her own. She felt…prickly. More so even than usual.
“I can agree with that. And I know Fals. He’s no coward, although he does represent most of the things I dislike about the Runner’s Guild. But he’s not wrong. It’s a tough world. Yet you seem to disagree?”
Ryoka let the question dangle. She drained her mug, replenishing lost sweat. She wiped her mouth and shrugged.
“I’m not a team player.”
Her comment ended the conversation. There wasn’t really much that you could say to that. Garia slurped at her soup nervously and tried not to meet anyone’s eyes. Yvlon leaned across the table and smiled at Ryoka.
“Well, in any case, if you’d like to work for any of our teams, we’d be happy to set up an arrangement. With your skills, we wouldn’t have to worry about you being chased off by monsters. In fact, if you’d like to join our expedition to the ruins around Liscor to deliver supplies, we could work out a deal.”
Calruz shook his head at Yvlon. Ceria hadn’t sat down yet, but she drew Cervial aside as he got up. She prodded Calruz in the back of the head—he ignored it. She nodded to Yvlon, and the armored woman rose with a questioning look. Ryoka was in the midst of talking to Calruz as Yvlon, Cervial, and Ceria stepped back for a private word by the bar.
 
——
 
“Ceria, what did you want to say?”
Cervial was polite to her. Even if he was a captain of another team, the Flawless Flights, he knew she was, well, a half-Elf.
Older. Not that she’d lived amongst other folk than half-Elves for most of her life, but it carried weight. The half-Elf [Cryomancer] smiled apologetically as she motioned him and Yvlon aside.
“Nothing much, Cervial. I just wanted to apologize for Ryoka’s conduct. You too, Yvlon.”
“She’s better at fighting than I thought. I did agree to challenge her.”
The captain of the Silver Spears sounded too politely neutral to fool either Ceria or Cervial. The half-Elf grimaced.
“I know she’s making a bad impression. I think she’s—rattled from the High Passes.”
“Rattled?”
“She ran in this morning, after running from just outside of Celum all the way here. Nonstop. She nearly got killed by the monsters, and I think—she’s a great Runner. Saved our lives.”
“I can see why, with her moves.”
Again, Yvlon sounded too matter-of-fact, but she was softening a bit as Ceria laid out what she knew. The half-Elf nodded, one eye on Ryoka.
“I think…it would be best to have given her some room. That idiot Calruz is crowding her up. And you know Magnolia Reinhart was doing something with her.”
Now, Yvlon did hesitate, and the woman gave Ceria an apologetic nod.
“My aunt is insistent. When you put it like that—”
“Does that mean she hasn’t slept for at least a day? And then she ran over here and picked a fight with a Silver-rank Captain? She’s got the attitude of a Gold-ranker.”
“Ego, too. But give her a bit. She’s rough—but who isn’t? Besides, she had her legs smashed with a wagon two weeks ago.”
“She what?”
Ceria exhaled in relief. She began regaling both team captains with the story, and by the time she was done, both were giving Ryoka much friendlier looks.
“When you put it like that, I imagine I’d be biting mad at everyone. Thanks for letting us know, Ceria. No wonder Calruz and Gerial speak so highly of you.”
“Just interjecting some common sense.”
The half-Elf waved it away. By now, Gerial had come by, and he was nodding respectfully. 
“Maybe we let Ryoka cool off? Gerial, why are you here? I told you to grab Calruz. If he makes a joke about her breasts—”
Ceria frowned at Gerial, but the man lifted an apologetic hand.
“He shoved me off. He and Ryoka were just talking punches and kicks. He’s good at it, you know.”
Ceria craned her neck over his shoulder, suddenly alarmed. She punched Gerial in the arm—hard, and he looked wounded as Yvlon and Cervial turned.
“What? They were getting into it.”
“You sack of tree sap, Gerial. I told you to grab him before—”
 
——
 
Calruz knew more about hand-to-hand combat than Ryoka had expected. She grudgingly admitted he knew about wrestling, pinning moves—throws and punches and kicks. They were comparing techniques in decent spirit, although the Minotaur kept claiming that Ryoka was ‘just substantively smaller’ than a Minotaur woman.
“I’m not saying you’re inferior in technique. But size matters, and so do Skills. Do you have any in hand-to-hand combat? I thought not. You see, Runner Garia, it’s all commendable. But a warrior is a warrior, a Runner, a Runner. Even Ryoka Griffin would do well to run from any monsters she encounters. Her fists would not be enough to allow her survival in Liscor’s ruins.”
Ryoka raised her eyebrows at Calruz. She shifted in her seat as Garia mumbled agreement to the imposing Minotaur, full of ego.
“You don’t think I can defend myself? You saw me fight.”
The Minotaur had a piece of sausage stuck in his teeth. He picked at it with one long fingernail.
“I am merely stating the truth. Your fists would do little against most monsters my team faces. Less, since you are female and thus weaker.”
He looked around in the hush. Possibly Calruz didn’t see the way Ceria’s back tensed up and the half-Elf’s head came around. He certainly couldn’t ignore the look in Ryoka’s eyes though, and it was to her he spoke.
“Is it not the truth? Humans are weaker than Minotaurs by birth. So too are you women weaker than men.”
“Really. That’s what you think?”
“Calruz. Why don’t you shut up? Ryoka, let us get this idiot out of your face. We’ll give you a—”
Was it Ceria or Yvlon who spoke warningly? Ryoka ignored it. She reached out and tugged Calruz’s plate away as the Minotaur reached for a sausage. He looked up at her.
“Right. Your turn. Bring it on.”
For a moment, the Minotaur looked confused. Then he looked amused.
“You. You, Ryoka Griffin, wish to fight me?”
He laughed, but Ryoka didn’t. And neither did the other adventurers. Gerial raised his voice as he strode over.
“Ryoka. This isn’t a good idea.”
She ignored him.
“I’m dead serious. Fight me. Unless you’re afraid you’ll lose?”
 
—— 
 
“You idiot.”
This time, Ceria didn’t bother with just words. She punched Ryoka hard in the shoulder. Which wasn’t fair—but she’d also been stabbing a finger into Calruz’s chest the last seven minutes trying to get him to back down—and now she was after Ryoka since he’d refused.
“You don’t challenge a Minotaur to a fight. What are you thinking? Are you even thinking?”
Ryoka shrugged as she warmed up in the practice arena again. Her nerves were thrumming, but a pit of dark emotions roiled in her chest.
“You heard what he said about females.”
“I did. And he’s got a point even if he did make it in the most bull-headed way possible. But that’s Calruz. And even if he’s being an idiot, there’s a big difference between calling him on it and challenging him to a fight. You know you’re going to lose, right?”
“Not necessarily.”
Ceria stared dumbfounded at Ryoka as the girl stretched on the ground. She looked helplessly at Yvlon.
“Help me talk sense to her?”
Yvlon nodded. For some reason, she was now all team-Ryoka, which showed what a turncoat bitch she was. Oh, Miss High-And-Mighty now wants to be friends because of girl-power? Ryoka hated that vapid weathercocking.
“Ceria is right, Ryoka. There’s bravado, and then there’s—this. Fighting me in armor is one thing, but Calruz is a Minotaur. He could rip my head off in unarmed combat without trying.”
“And he will if he makes a mistake.”
“I guess I’ve just got to dodge, then.”
Ryoka ignored the muted scream of fury coming from Ceria. She eyed Calruz. The Minotaur was actually finishing his meal, holding a plate as he waited for her to finish stretching. His casual indifference just lit a fire in her stomach.
“Besides, I wanted to challenge him from the start. See how far I can go.”
“How about into the ground when he puts you there? Ryoka! He’s got to weigh at least two hundred pounds more than you do!”
“Size isn’t everything.”
“It’s pretty cursed important in a fight!”
Ceria was right, of course. Ryoka eyed Calruz for the first time as a potential threat. When you looked at Calruz as a person, he was just huge, inconveniently so sometimes. But as an enemy? He was way scarier than any Human Ryoka had ever seen.
He was about six foot seven? Maybe a few inches higher, without even counting the horns. And his body was pure muscle. Not like Human muscle, but Minotaur muscle, which was to say that he looked like a wall of tendons and sinews.
It was the stupidest thing in the world to challenge him. But Ryoka really, really wanted to try. She just wanted to hit the Minotaur, almost as much as she’d wanted to hit Yvlon.
Yvlon. The adventurer was studying Ryoka thoughtfully. It made Ryoka want to punch her again, too. She was so tired and—and frustrated that hitting anything sounded good.
Like Ceria, if it would get the half-Elf to shut up.
“Potions don’t fix shattered bones! You know that. And you get him mad—”
“Look, I’m going to do it. You want to let me focus or go away and shut up?”
Silence. Ryoka glanced up and saw Ceria giving her a hurt look, full of reproach. The barefoot girl’s heart hurt, but she put the pain and guilt away. She had to focus.
Ryoka was angry. She felt it bubbling in her gut, a seething, roiling ball of pure fury. Where had it come from?
From the High Passes, that’s where. From nearly dying and being helpless even with all the years she’d studied martial arts. From Teriarch and his overpowering magic and arrogance. From the Runner’s Guild and stupid people. From dealing with the ridiculous system of leveling in this world and not least—dealing with some kind of perfect lady knight and a misogynistic Minotaur. It was all bubbling out of Ryoka, and she couldn’t stop it. She wanted to hit something, and Calruz was a big target.
Yvlon sighed.
“If you’re going to do this—give it all you’ve got on the first shot.”
Ceria spoke bitterly.
“He’s going to take every hit just to show he can. It’s a Minotaur thing—a sign of disrespect. And…courtship.”
“Great.”
Ryoka eyed Calruz. The Minotaur was finished eating. He carelessly tossed the plate over his shoulder. Ignoring the crash of breaking pottery, he walked into the center of the ring and folded his arms, waiting for her to finish.
At last, the girl stood up. She was burning with a desire to fight, almost shaking with it. Ryoka couldn’t keep still as she bounced on her feet with nervous energy.
Ceria eyed the girl as she walked past her. Ryoka stopped.
“What is it?”
“You—you’re smiling.”
Was she? Ryoka couldn’t tell. She only knew that she was ready, more ready than she’d ever been to hurt someone else. She was shaking with the desire to throw a punch. She walked towards Calruz, and the Minotaur impassively looked down at her.
“What you are attempting is folly, Ryoka Griffin. There are some things that cannot be surpassed.”
He really, really knew how to push her buttons. Ryoka gritted her teeth and grinned up at him.
“Oh really? Let’s see what you say in a few minutes.”
“As you wish.”
Calruz carelessly raised one massive hand and beckoned Ryoka with a finger. The other adventurers murmured and cheered for Ryoka to hit him with her best shot. The Minotaur didn’t even bother raising his other hand.
He was going to try to block her one-handed? But his fur and muscle could probably take any punch Ryoka could throw. She knew that. So instead, Ryoka stomped her foot down in front of Calruz and twisted.
One of the core principles of a lot of powerhouse moves was spinning. Ryoka put all her weight on her front leg, twisted, and hit the Minotaur with the back of her heel and all the momentum she’d built up.
Spinning back kick. Ryoka aimed high. Her leg still caught the Minotaur in his stomach rather than his chest. She felt the contact and heard the Minotaur gasp as the wind left him. She’d put her entire weight into that attack.
