He’d never admit it out loud, but Min Gyu enjoyed their little verbal spars. Before he could answer, their exchange was interrupted by storm of squeaks as Yan’s over-affectionate roosequin brought her shrieking brood over for hugs and treats. Try as she might to resist it, Yan’s smile bloomed as she embraced the creatures, nuzzling them close while the most important figures in the Empire watched on. Well, no matter. His reputation was whole once more and he no longer needed to hide his affiliation with the Bekhai, involuntary though it may be. Coming to his feet, he returned Akanai’s salute with one of his own. Taken aback by his courtesy, the hateful woman fell silent until Min Gyu prompted her along. “And this gentleman is?”

“My husband, Divine Blacksmith Husolt.”

“Ah yes, you crafted Yan’s six-pointed shield. A master of your craft indeed, you have my admiration.” Thus they played their little game for everyone to see as Akanai introduced each member of her family one by one, confirming once and for all that Du Min Gyu was on friendly terms with the Bekhai, as he offered a word of praise or a gesture of fondness for each, whether it be a smile or a wink, a laugh or a compliment. Granted, this was partly because of the boy’s new status and partly because he saw how smitten Yan still was with him despite her best efforts to hide it. Try as he might, he couldn’t refrain from scowling when he came face to face with the womanizing little scamp, standing there with the surly Sumila on one arm and a rabbit-eared damsel on the other, but that wasn’t all. Looming behind him was his Imperial Servant, while off to the side stood Li Song, now the adopted daughter of Akanai and possibly Falling Rain’s fourth paramour, meaning Yan would only be one of five.

How dare this scrawny runt lay eyes on the apple of Min Gyu’s eye. No, not just Yan, the boy had the audacity to eye Da’in too, so bold and daring a philander.

Opening his mouth to condemn the runt for his womanizing ways, a familiar voice interrupted him before he could speak. “And so the truth is laid bare for all to see,” Jin Tok said, sneering as the crowd parted aside, as none of the guests wanted to risk being mistaken for the source of such vitriol. “Du Min Gyu, celebrated hero of Central, is revealed to be nothing more than a foreign puppet.” Clapping sarcastically, Jin Tok scoffed and shook his head. “How far the mighty have fallen. I’m glad my father, Brigadier Cho Jin Kai and Du Min Gyu’s first Disciple, didn’t live to see his hero and Mentor reduced to such a disgrace, wrapped around the finger of his half-beast whore and leaping to obey the commands of a foreign bitch.”

Grabbing Da’in and Yan by the arms, he pulled them both to his side and shook his head. “Don’t,” he whispered, still hoping to make amends with Jin Tok. “Let me speak to him.” Turning to the troubled boy, his words froze in his throat when he saw Rain striding over with sword drawn and a cold glint in his eyes.

Blanching in fear, Jin Tok stumbled away and stuttered, “W-What are you doing? I a-am a law-ab-ab-abiding citizen of the Empire! You think you can kill me to silence my tongue? This is murder!”

“Shhhhhhh... stop yelling, guy whose name I’ve forgotten,” Rain replied, his words inducing a host of scattered, nervous chuckles. Truth be told, no one was sure how much protection his title of Imperial Consort would afford him, but until such a thing was made clear, there were few brave enough to openly stand against Falling Rain. Imperial Scions had gotten away with far worse than murdering an uppity son of a middling merchant family, and Rain’s reputation was of a man who liked to test his limits. Darting forward without warning, Rain swept Jin Tok’s feet out from under him, a victory so effortless it could hardly be called a fight. Stamping his foot down to pin Jin Tok in place, Rain loomed over the prone, frightened boy with an easy smile, so devoid of emotion he could have been smiling at a bug, rather than a living, breathing human. “I want to show you something,” Rain said, giving his short sword a flourish. “So watch carefully and don’t blink, got it?”

Without waiting for an answer, Rain tossed his sword into the air without looking, his eyes focused firmly on Jin Tok’s expression. Higher and higher the blade went, and the crowd joined Jin Tok in watching it spin end over end as it shimmered in the candlelight. Reaching its peak, the sword paused in flight before plummeting back to the earth, so beautifully balanced its razor sharp tip pointed straight down despite the half-hearted throw and perfectly positioned to plunge into Jin Tok’s chest as the boy lay helpless and afraid, his eyes closed and face covered.

Or it would have if Min Gyu hadn’t stepped in to catch it.

Grinning like a cat, Rain nodded in appreciation as he retrieved his sword from Min Gyu’s grasp, sheathing it behind his back with careless ease. Giving Jin Tok a soft kick, Rain scoffed as the boy uncovered his eyes. “Coward. I told you to watch carefully, didn’t I? If you had, you would understand.” Gesturing around the room, Rain continued, “In this room, filled with the greatest heroes of the Empire, there’s only one person who cares about your worthless life, and it’s the man you came to insult.” Crouching down, Rain grabbed Jin Tok by the lapel and pulled him close. “Say what you will about Cho Jin Kai, but your father died fighting the Defiled and I respect his sacrifice. Do not shame his memory again.”

Releasing Jin Tok, Rain straightened up and said nothing about the rest of the allegations before falling back in line with his wives. A correct choice, since protesting would only make it seem like he had a guilty conscience, and truth be told, with his new status, the Bekhai only needed to ask and a dozen different factions would fight for the chance to work with them. It seemed like the anxious and uneasy young man had grown into a proper young hero in this past year and his title of Number One Talent in the Empire not entirely undeserving.

Even then, he still wasn’t good enough for Yan, not by a long shot. The boy would have to do something suitably impressive to win his approval, like... become the youngest Exarch in the history of the Empire or something comparable. Besides, Da’in’s parents were being ridiculous. Twenty eight was far too young to marry, and forty seemed like a much more appropriate age for long-lived Martial Warriors.

Ah... the pains of being father to a daughter...

Chapter Meme
