Detective Ramirez laughed. “I figured that would pique your interest.” He said. “I'll pick you up at the same time tomorrow.”

“I'll be ready.”

“Now that I've gotten the pleasant things out of the way...” Detective Ramirez reached over and pushed a button on the police radio and turned it off. “Did you split the list of names up?”

“Yes.” Officer Stonewall said. “I also read everything, to see if there were any other names.”

“Did you find any more?”

“Unfortunately.”

“You're trying to tell me that I don't want to know, aren't you?” He asked her.

“You catch on fast.”

Detective Ramirez pulled over, and Officer Stonewall handed him his half of the names. He read through them quickly, then cursed long and loudly when he got to the last one.

The last name on the list was the Chief of Police.

“I wondered why he was so hard on us.” Officer Stonewall said.

“Was that the worst one?”

“That we didn't know about.” Officer Stonewall said. “You were right about Senator Eddlemere.” She sighed. “His name was mentioned, too.”

Detective Ramirez stuffed the list into his front shirt pocket, and drove out into the street.

“Are we really going to try and find all these people?”

“Yes.” He said. “Quietly.”

“How are we going to do that?” Officer Stonewall asked. “Once we start adding these names into the database search, someone is going to see it.”

“Don't look them all up at once. Use someone else's computer for some. Google search something stupid and then look up the name.” Detective Ramirez suggested. “You can just ask different people if they know them, and they'll look the name up for you.”

“You've done this before.”

Detective Ramirez smiled. “If you do something long enough, you learn some tricks to hide your tracks.”

“Teach me, oh great Jedi Master.” Officer Stonewall said.

“Very well Young Padawan, I will teach you the ways of the force.” Detective Ramirez said. “The police force...” He said and grinned. “...surrounds and encompasses us.”

“I've unleashed a monster.” Officer Stonewall said, and he laughed.

*

“You're in luck.” The doctor said when she came into Ren's room. “No abnormalities, dark spots, or signs of trauma.” She looked at his still exposed chest. “Except for that gigantic bruise that's forming quite fast on your chest.”

Ren glanced down and saw it was getting darker. “Damn.”

“I recommend taking a few days off from physical therapy.” She said. “Once that bruise starts to heal, you can start working out again.”

Ren sighed. “If I don't keep moving, I'll start to decline again.”

“You can get up and move around; but, you aren't to do anything strenuous.” The doctor said. “You took a hard blow to the chest, and it's going to slow you down for a few days.” She ruffled his hair. “I'll check back after the weekend to see how you're doing.”

“Okay, doctor.” Ren said. “Thanks for checking me out right away.”

“It's my job.” She said. “Have a good day.”

“I better head out, too.” Barbara said as the doctor left. “I'm glad you aren't seriously hurt.”

Ren stood up, and she gave him a very light hug. “See you tonight.”

“I'll be here.” Ren said and she chuckled.

“You better be.” Barbara said. “Or Elise will be pissed that you stood her up for your date to watch the show.”

Ren laughed. “Bye, Barbara.”

She talked to Denise and let her know that nothing much happened overnight, and then left. Ren started to take off his t-shirt, but the cloth bundled up and dug into the sides of his chest. He tried to pull it lose, and winced.

“Denise? Can you give me a hand with this t-shirt?”

“Sure.” She said and pulled it back down.

“I wanted it off, not back on.” Ren chuckled.

“I am taking it off.” Denise said and grinned. “Lift your arms up.”

Ren lift his arms above his head, she grabbed the bottom of the t-shirt, and pulled it off over his head in one smooth motion.

“Thanks.” Ren said. “Even though I didn't do a full workout, I might as well get a shower.” He said, and walked to the bathroom. He took off his jogging pants and tossed them aside.

“You don't have to make a mess, just because you're frustrated.” Denise said as she came into the bathroom with the t-shirt, then picked up his pants and tossed both items of clothing into the hamper.

“I would have picked them up when I was done of my shower.” Ren said, and took off his underwear.

“Don't you dare throw them on the floor with me standing right here.” Denise said, and he smiled.

“Okay.” Ren said and tossed them at her. “Catch!”

She reached up quickly and caught them, then tossed them into the hamper with the jogging pants.

“Hey, good reflexes.”

“My dad loved playing catch.” Denise smiled. “He didn't care that I was a girly girl growing up, as long as I caught the ball just as good as my brothers.”

Ren chuckled as he turned on the water, set it to the right temperature, and switched it to the shower head. “I'm really jealous.” He said and stepped into the shower.

“Why?” Denise asked automatically, then sighed. “Forget I asked that.”

“It's okay.” Ren said and started to lather up. “It's not just the fact that your dad would do those things with you, it's that you could do them.”

Denise heard him hiss, and came over to him. “Are you okay?”

“Yeah.” He said, and took several breaths. “I just forgot that I shouldn't scrub my chest so soon.”

Denise unzipped her top and hung it on the towel rack. She picked up a soft cloth, took the bar of soap from Ren, and lathered up the cloth. Ren stared at her custom-made bra, because it showed off her breasts to full advantage, gave her all of the support she needed, and let her wear clothing that fit.

“Stella was right.” Denise said and laughed.

“What?” Ren asked and looked at her face. Denise took the lathered-up cloth and gently rubbed it across his chest.

“Stella said you'd probably never look at our faces if we kept our tops off.”

“Hey, that's not... entirely accurate.” Ren said and grinned. Denise snorted a laugh and finished lathering his chest.

“Turn around and I'll do your back.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and turned around. “I was looking at the custom-made bra to see how well it fit you.”

“Uh huh.” Denise said and scrubbed his back. “You didn't look at my boobs at all, right?”

“Of course I looked.” Ren chuckled. “When a pretty woman takes off her top and lets me see her body, the least I can do is admire the sight.”

Denise smiled. “I'm done scrubbing your back.” She said and Ren turned around. “Can I ask you something?”

“Sure.” Ren said as he lathered his arms.

“You enjoy seeing them like this, even though you saw them completely only the other day?”

“I do.” Ren said, and lathered his legs. “It could be animal instincts, or hormonal urges, but...”

“But what?”

“I don't really think it's any of that.”

“So what do you think?”

“I think they're just delightful.” He said. “Any man that doesn't appreciate the beauty of a woman, needs to have his head examined.”

“All right, Mr. Casanova.” Denise chuckled. “Step into the spray and get rinsed off.”

Ren stepped into the spray, hissed when the water hit his chest, and stepped back out.

“Oh, damn!” Denise said and turned the nozzle of the shower head to a gentle stream. “Sorry, Ren.”

“It's not your fault.” Ren said. “Thanks.”

“I'll be right back.” Denise said, and went out to the room. She came back in with a water jug and dumped the cold water out into the toilet.

“What are you doing?” Ren asked her as she held water jug up under the shower head.

“Getting some water to help rinse you off.”

Ren wasn't sure what she meant at first; but a few moments later, she asked him to face her and hold onto her shoulders. He did, and she slowly poured the water over his chest and rubbed the skin with her hand.

“That feels nice.” Ren said as Denise got the soap off of him. It hurt a little where she touched, but that was over-shadowed by the feel of her hand and the cascading water. He'd never had a woman caress him like that before.

Denise refilled the jug and rinsed off his arms, and when she knelt to rinse the soap from his legs, her eyes widened at his quite obvious enjoyment of the situation. She saw it was still covered in soap; but ignored it for the moment, and rinsed the soap from his legs. When that was done, she stood up to get more water from the shower head.

“Thanks, Denise.” Ren said. “I can do the middle part.”

“Are you sure?” Denise asked. “The water jug is kind of heavy.”

“Well, you can pour it then; but, I'll do the rubbing.” Ren said. “If you do both... um...”

“I understand.” Denise chuckled. “Do you want me to close my eyes?”

Ren shook his head. “I usually only over-react when a woman touches me there.” He said. “It should be okay.”

Denise poured the water out slowly onto his mid-section. “We're going to have to switch to baths for a while.” She said and watched in fascination as Ren rubbed off the soap. How can it be so big in comparison to the rest of his body? She thought. There's shouldn't be enough blood in him for... well, that.

“Baths take forever.” Ren said.

“And this isn't taking long?” Denise said, and he laughed.

“Point.”

“Did you get the soap from underneath it?”

“I think so.” Ren said and tried to bend over to look. “Ow.”

“Stop.” Denise said. “Don't bend over like that. You're compressing the bruised skin. I'll look.”

Ren nodded and Denise knelt. He held himself up and out of the way, and she nodded.

“All clean.” She said. “Now to shampoo your hair.”

“Oh, right!” He said, and picked up the shampoo bottle.

“Wait!” Denise said.

“What? Why?”

“If you shampoo your hair standing up, you'll have to rinse everything off again.”

“Ah, dammit.” Ren said. “What should I do?”

“Let's get the rest of you dried off first.” Denise said and used a towel to dry as much of him off as she could, then handed him his bathrobe.

“I can't wash my hair wearing this.” Ren said.

“You're not going to.” Denise said. “I am.”

“Oh.” Ren said and looked around. “How are you going to do that?”

“Carefully.” Denise said and told him to sit right beside the tub. She folded a towel up and held it on the edge of the tub. “Lean back, and rest your neck on this and your shoulders on the edge of the tub.”

Ren had to move out slightly to do that, and it left his head over the tub with his face looking up towards the ceiling. Denise refilled the water jug, poured it over his forehead, and used her other hand to spread the water out to get all of his hair wet. Once that was done, she took the shampoo from Ren and squeezed out a little bit into the palm of her hand, then rubbed her hands together. He was going to ask her what she was doing that for, but then she put her hands into his wet hair and moved them around.

The shampoo lathered up quickly as Denise scrubbed his head. Ren closed his eyes and took long even breaths while her fingers massaged his scalp. After a few minutes, Denise used the water jug to rinse the lather out of his hair. She used the same technique that she used to make his hair wet in the first place, and all of the shampoo was washed out.

“There, all done.” Denise said, and picked up another towel to dry his hair.

“Can you wash it again?” Ren asked, and kept his eyes closed.

“It's clean.” Denise said. “I wouldn't say it was done if it wasn't.”

“I know.” Ren said and opened his eyes to look at her. “That was really relaxing.”

Denise nodded, and he closed his eyes. She picked up the shampoo and did the same little trick to start the lather up, then plunged her hands into his hair. He sighed as she massaged his scalp again, and rather than stop after a few minutes, she kept going. It seemed like it went on forever, and Ren basked in the sensations.

Eventually, Denise picked up the water jug and rinsed out his hair. He sat up at her prompt, and she dried his hair. When she was done, her eyes widened when she saw what she'd done.

“Oh, my.” Denise said.

“What is it?” Ren asked. “Is something wrong?”

“It's nothing.” She said as she tried to hide her smile.

“Denise...” He said and looked at her.

“It's nothing.” She said and grinned.

“Now I have to see it.” Ren said, carefully stood up, and walked to the mirror over the sink. “Oh, wow.”

His hair was the softest and fluffiest it had ever been.
