Unable to reply, she smiled joylessly and returned to her meal, lost in her thoughts. Incapable of staying still, Mila wandered back towards the village with the quins in tow to put an end to the incessant screaming and find a place for the animals to rest. Bursting through the brush, she soon came upon them standing over a trio of bandits, bound and gagged while three soldiers feigned screams of pain and terror in a lacklustre manner. “Idiots. All of you are idiots. Stop that caterwauling this instant.”

The three of them had the gall to look affronted by her statement, each of them opening their mouths to speak before timidly closing them, which only served to feed her fury. If they had something to say, then they should say it, not treat her like a fragile little girl to be delicately handled. Rain's disappearance didn't make her any less of a warrior, regardless of her gender. Idiot men, always thinking they had to protect women's feelings.

Huffing in displeasure, she asked, “How many bandits have come forward with information.” At their silence, she gathered it was none. “Did you explicitly mention you were taking these men away to torture?” They nodded mutely, eyes lowering in instinct. Sighing, she drew her knife and slit the closest bandit's throat, letting him bleed out in the dirt as the other two watched. Smiling at them, she set to hacking the dead bandit apart roughly, breaking fingers and gouging out eyes.

One of the soldiers quickly caught on and offered advice. “Chop the fingers off, one by one, different lengths. Make it look like we sliced them bit by bit. The teeth, remove a few from the front, for effect. Yes, good, good.” Together, the two of them worked over the corpse until it was a macabre sight, gutted and mutilated with all the markings of torture.

Wiping her hands off in the dirt, Mila stood and brushed herself off, ignoring the uncomfortable looks from the others. Why this bothered them was a mystery to her, these bandits would hang or serve regardless of her actions. Who cares what happened to a corpse? “Bring the body back and hang it somewhere the prisoners can see. Offer them a chance to speak, along with a promise of a clean death. Then, if they remain silent, pick another as replacement. Keep silent this time, better to allow them to imagine what we're doing. I'll bring the quins by and have them snack on a few corpses around them, that might loosen someone's tongue.” Too bad Mama's quin Kankin wasn't here, he was the scariest-looking quin ever.

“Master.” Mila turned and found Song dripping wet, her clothes clinging tightly to her body. Scolding herself for forgetting her friend, Mila quickly moved to help Song dry off, an apology on the tip of her tongue. Stopping in place as she noted the gleam in Song's eye as she presented the item in her hands. “I found Rain's sword.”

Snatching the weapon out of Song's hands, Mila ran to find Lin and Tursinai, handing the older woman the weapon without a word. Dread and hope warred within her, Mila both terrified and elated, holding Lin's hand as tightly as she dared. Song appeared at her side and Mila grasped her hand too. A thousand thoughts ran through her mind as she waited for an eternity as Tursinai inspected the weapon, studying the older woman's every micro-expression for signs of Rain's fate.

With a sigh and a smile, Tursinai nodded and Mila felt faint with relief as Lin leaped into the air with a cheer. Her legs gave out beneath her and Mila quickly released Song and Lin before she dragged them down with her, sitting in the dirt, tears of joy spilling from her eyes. He hadn't drowned or been eaten, still out there somewhere, and it was only a matter of time before he returned.

And when he did, Mila would be sure to punish him thoroughly for doing this to her. That idiot, making her cry in front of the Sentinels. The grief he caused her almost wasn't worth it.

Almost.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Waking in the darkness, his arm flared with pain as he tried to push himself up, spitting out grainy sand and worse. Groaning with effort, he vomited, the warm fluids rushing from his distended belly and running down his body as he lay powerless and distressed. Whimpering softly, he closed his eyes and tried to retreat from the torment of his fleshly body, unable to take the pain any longer, his body bruised and battered, broken and bleeding.

“Brother... Help...”

Comfort escaped him, and he suffered there in the darkness, his eyes closed and jaw clenched, fighting to fade into sweet oblivion.

“Why brother? Why have you abandoned me here?”

Chapter Meme
