My skeleton farming plans for the day went off to an excellent start. It was really just too easy to the point that it hardly seemed fair. Walk up, stab an eye, and move on.

I was getting handy enough with the daggers that it wasn’t long before...

Dagger Dual Wielding Leveled Up! 1 > 2

+5 Dexterity

Twin Fang Slash Leveled Up! 1 > 2

+3 Dexterity

+2 Strength

I nodded approvingly at the message and flicked it away, the bones of some freshly deceased—or double deceased—skeletons still rolling around me.

I had gotten those skills just yesterday, and already that had leveled up. That’s some efficient training!

Though, the gains I seemed to be lacking in were regular levels. I had killed at least a dozen skeletons since my last level up, but nothing yet. I wish the System showed me my experience points and how many more I needed.

…wait a second. I just never thought to ask.

“Hey System. Show me how many experience points I have!”

[Unauthorized command.]

“Hmmm… how many experience points until my next level up?”

[Unauthorized command.]

Yeah, I figured as much. It would have been good information to have to determine just how effective this farming method was, and whether or not it was continuing to be effective. Like I figured there was some drop-off for killing lower-level things, all the way to the point that it flat-out stopped providing experience altogether if something was way weaker than me. But how bad was the decline while just being a few levels over my prey? The drop-off could be quite steep, and I wouldn’t really have any way of knowing without experimenting with it.

Once again, I kind of wished Fox was around so I could ask her these questions. She seemed to understand System stuff pretty well, or was at least experienced enough to have some insight on something like this.

But I guess complaining about it won’t change anything for now! The only way forward is to keep grinding away!

As I made my way to a new street, already with piles of scattered bones left in my wake, I spotted three more skeletal victims, but I didn’t go right for them. My gaze looked over one of the nearby buildings, which seemed to still be sturdy enough, and it had a balcony overlooking the street. That's exactly the kind of place Skeleton Lady would have ambushed me from, but it’s not just that I was worried about running into another one of her.

I was thinking, maybe I should try mimicking her style and attempt some other ambush tactics? The System doesn’t give as many rewards for just doing the same thing over and over; it rewards creativity, novel tactics, and experiences. Just walking up to a mindless skeleton for an easy kill certainly wasn’t something that deserved high rewards.

I walked into the building, pushing through the door that was hanging on by a single hinge, and I froze at what I saw. This building had more of those creepy jars in it.

I stepped backward, retreating onto the street, but hesitated.

What was I so scared of? All I had to do was make sure none of that stuff got on me. Even if it spilled on the floor, it would just moan and give me a little nightmare fuel before dissolving again.

I gulped and took a step in, my movements slow and careful, my ears alert for anything that might ambush me. I certainly didn’t want to get into a fight at such close proximity to one of those jars now that I knew what they were.

I peeked into the top of one, but I didn’t see any of the smoky bubbles. Checking the other pots, it was the same. Even the quality of their tar was different, more gray-tinted than plain black with wispy streaks in still circles atop that seemed to indicate it had been sitting stagnant for a while.

I looked over my left and right shoulder, and spotted a wooden stick that may have once been a table leg. I snatched it up and approached the pots carefully once again.

I instinctively sniffed the air as I moved the pole closer, touched it near the top of the jar, and after only a moment of hesitation, I pushed the jar over.

I instantly jumped back several paces as I watched the sludge spill across the floor, and I just waited.

Nothing happened.

No moaning flesh zombie trying to rise out of the sludge.

I even used {Analyze} to be double sure.

“So, is there nothing living in this one because it's too old, or because it’s too new?” I mused, letting my gaze drift around the room. The implication of that was concerning because it might mean something was coming back and placing new jars every so often.

Who the hell would be doing such a thing?

My eyes set on the large window that had been broken out long ago, with glass lying around it and a tattered curtain catching a slight breeze. “Maybe there’s too much light in this room?”

I liked that explanation much better.

That window was letting direct sunlight onto the pots, so that could certainly be a cause of the Divine Dross stuff not surviving.

Letting it go for now, having no explanation outside of guesswork either way, I continued with what I originally came in here for. I went up the stairs, down a short hall, and into another room that looked just as abandoned as the rest of this creepy city, then I went out onto the balcony.

I’d come here for the sake of an extra-stealthy assassination, and looked down at the streets below. There wasn’t exactly a skeleton directly in jump range, but if I waited long enough I bet one would shuffle by eventually.

Then as I watched the closest skeleton, an amusing idea struck me about throwing a rock to lure it. Something about that idea seemed familiar, and I had a strong feeling it would actually work.

I easily found a rock and scooped it up with my skeletal fingers. I eyed my target, cocked it back, and—

Waaaay overshot.

The rock went bouncing into an adjacent alley, and the skeleton turned in the complete opposite direction of me, then continued its shuffling.

“Darn it,” I muttered, searching for another rock. I tried again, and with equally pathetic results.

I opened my skeletal hand in front of my face, examining it.

I wasn’t very skilled with human limbs yet. As a Hell Hound, I’d never had the capability of throwing something in such a way, so it was no wonder my hand-eye coordination sucked so badly.

I looked along the other buildings lining the street, and thought about how Skeleton Lady must have gotten above me those times. I had a feeling she wouldn’t just use the front doors. Based on my fights against her, she was quite agile, not to mention how skillfully she managed to attack me from above.

I bet she had been parkouring her way around the city and up to higher ground. She could probably jump from balcony to balcony and rooftop to rooftop with no trouble at all.

I looked up, seeing a stone jutting out from the wall near the balcony railing, and thought about giving it a shot.

I climbed up, not so gracefully, but after a foot on the railing, then a foot on that stone, I was able to grab onto the roof and pull myself up. I think Lisha would have very much struggled to do a pull-up, but I did it quite easily. I suppose in this life I was much stronger and athletic than that old life.

But from the roof, I got a new perspective on the city.

Streets wound between rows of black stone, some buildings intact, others crumbling, but this place seemed even more decrepit than from down below since I could see it all at once. Still, I could imagine how this was once a bustling city, how instead of the chilling breeze and the occasional moan of a skeleton, the streets were filled with shouts and laughter.

I walked along the rooftop, cloak billowing behind me as a strong wind caught me and I got sight of the town square several blocks ahead. There were a dozen skeletons wandering around there currently. Its broken guardian, the hooved lady, was still standing there in the middle of it all.

I checked my footing, checked the distance to the next roof, then got a running head start and jumped.

There was a moment of panic in my chest as I leaped over the gap between buildings, but it didn’t last long. It wasn’t that far of a jump, and I felt a bit of a thrill as I landed on the other side and looked back.

But that’s not all!

Achievement! Rooftop Rookie!

Why walk through the streets when there are some perfectly good rooftops to jump across?

+3 dexterity

Huh, so it seems the System does indeed approve. The reward for that achievement was pretty minor, but it’s not like I could expect much for that single jump alone. But that was still a clear indication that this was a valid strategy.

I walked along the rooftop of my new building. Everything was made of that black stone, so it was pretty clear what would be structurally sound and not. It’s not like I had to worry about stepping on a rotten board and suddenly crashing through.

I shuddered at the thought of exactly that happening and me landing on a stack of those creepy pots. A careless mistake could certainly get me into big trouble with one of those, so I had to remember to be careful.

I walked to the edge of this roof and looked down into the alley and saw another suitable victim. A skeleton all on its lonesome who seemed stuck in the alley, as the adjacent building was quite badly collapsed, with much of its rubble blocking the exit. Anyone could easily step around the rubble and to freedom, but that skeleton seemed to give up on ever seeing the outside world again as it just stood around down there, not even shuffling around aimlessly; it had completely accepted its fate.

And a still target was absolutely perfect for my new death-from-above strategy.

I crouched low on the roof’s edge and unsheathed a dagger.

But as I thought about jumping—seriously thought about it—I felt my stomach tighten, and I began to second-guess myself.

I wasn’t that high up, but it wasn’t exactly a short drop either, about two stories. A normal human from Earth, of course, wouldn’t even think to do it unless you’re talking about one of those legit parkour people.

I gripped my dagger, and tried to imagine the fall.

Maybe I try to land on its back and just stab my dagger as I touch down? Even if I missed the initial stab, I’d take him to the ground. Yeah, that was the way to do it.

Okay! Here it goes!

Gulping once, I rocked forward once, twice—just testing it! Not losing my nerve!

Okay.

1, 2, 3, now!

1, 2, 3, NOW!

I growled in frustration with myself.

1, 2, NOW!

I jumped before I could second-guess myself again. My heart jumped as I descended and my aim was surprisingly good! I landed right on top of him, tackling him to the ground. Though my dagger missed, he crumpled into a scatter of bones and his head went rolling.

I jumped up and chased it, grabbed the top of the skull with one hand and its jaw swung open as it screamed in my face.

I stabbed my dagger into its eye to stop the screaming.

Undead Vanquished! Level 17 Skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the flock activated!

Experience gained!

Come on system… come on… I thought.

And thankfully, my prayers were answered.

Achievement! Geronimo!

The hardest part is taking the first step. Especially when there’s no floor beneath it!

+2 Dexterity

+2 Vigor

Alright! Now that’s a little more like it.

I was a little disappointed I didn’t get a skill, but reading the flavor text, I had to wonder if the system was trying to tell me something again. Taking the first step implied there were more steps beyond that which would eventually lead to a proper reward, like a new skill!

I looked along the walls of the alley and considered how I might climb back up.

There was that pile of rubble. I could try to work on my parkour by running up the rubble, jumping to that windowsill on the opposite side, then jumping up and getting my hands on that roof ledge and pulling myself up.

Alright, let’s go!

I ran just as planned, the steps up the rubble a little awkward, and as I jumped over to the windowsill, I barely managed to catch my balance by reaching a hand through and bracing on the inside wall. It was far from embodying the parkour master, agilely springing from one spot to the other, as I envisioned. But I crouched and then jumped, reaching for the roof, and managed to get my fingers on the ledge.

Pulling myself up didn’t look very elegant. But, hey! I succeeded and was soon roofbound once again, and even the system was impressed.

Achievement! The hard way.

Why use the stairs like a civilized person when you can awkwardly scale the outside of the building?

+1 Dexterity

+1 Vigor

+1 Strength

I gave the notification a dry stare before flicking it away. Okay, maybe the system didn’t sound that impressed.

In any case, I got moving on looking for my next kill. It was just a hop, skip, and a jump—actually two rooftops later—before I found another target.

Bracing myself for the jump came much more naturally this time, and after realizing such a drop couldn’t hurt me, most of my fear was gone.

I landed on the skeleton, managing to grab him mid-fall and stab my dagger into his eye before his bones went scattering.

Undead Vanquished! Level 17 Skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the flock activated!

Experience gained!

I instantly got to work climbing back to the rooftops, mostly using jumps and windowsills to, and honestly looking nothing like a skilled ninja assassin traversing urban terrain, but at least I was getting up there! I could only hope some skills would help me do it more fluidly.

Luckily, I wouldn’t have to wait long.

Two skeleton kills later and two rooftop climbs and finally—

New passive skill acquired: Cat-Footed lvl 1

You will be able to scale over objects more naturally, and with less stamina drain. Also, you will take less damage from falls and usually land on your feet!

Hell yes!

Nothing feels quite as good as being rewarded for your hard work! And I really was working hard here!

But…

I stared at the name of the skill, and my skeletal tail drooped behind me.

“Cat-Footed, huh?” I muttered. I didn’t like the idea of being associated with a cat. I was a proud Hell Hound!

Sighing, I flicked the screen away.

Whatever, it's just a skill name. It doesn’t mean anything.

I went ahead and gave it a test, giving myself a running head start and running along a wall a couple of steps like Lily would, just enough to get my foot up on a windowsill and then launched myself upward. Even without the newly obtained skill, I had become better with a little practice, but the skill clearly had some added benefit as I easily grabbed the roof, and this time, instead of doing an awkward pull-up, I yanked myself upward and swung a leg onto the top with ease.

I stood tall and brushed my cloak back as it caught some wind and stared out over the rooftops of the dead city.

Alright, a new assassin is in town! You skeletons better watch your backs!