Izzik wanted to let out an incredulous laugh. He couldn't, because if he did another dozen wards would flash to life and hold him down, but he wanted to. Who was this human, saying such ridiculous things with so much confidence?

And yet... it didn't feel like he was lying.

Izzik couldn't get that memory out of his mind. He'd replayed it over and over in his head. That monstrous amount of mana that had flooded into the world, the feeling of raw, consuming fury that had accompanied it. The look on Cale's face as he recognized what had happened and came for Sneaks-In-Darkness like he was Death itself.

"Who are you?" Izzik asked. The question came out more plaintive than he wanted it to.

Cale snorted. "Would you believe me if I said I'm a mage that really wants to learn baking spells?"

Izzik couldn't quite turn his head to stare at Cale, so he settled for staring vaguely in that direction. "You're messing with me."

"Maybe a bit." Cale grinned down at him. "But it's the truth. You wouldn't happen to know any baking spells, would you?"

"...Just one." He'd learned it on impulse, but it wasn't like he could demonstrate it right that moment, and all it did was make sure that bread came out with the perfect crust. His friends had made fun of him for it.

Cale still brightened like he'd told him he knew the secret to magic itself. "You'll have to show me sometime," he said. "Please?"

Izzik felt the urge to laugh again, and forced himself to stop. "I think I owe you a lot more than showing you a spell," he muttered. "So... sure."

There was something still bugging him. Izzik hesitated, then decided to go for it. He was afraid of Cale, he could acknowledge that, but he was also tired of giving in to his fear. It was fear that had led him so far down this path—fear of what wild mages could do, fear of what they had done. It was fear that had blinded him to everything the Red Hunters were.

"Why are you really here?" he asked. "It can't just be to check on me."

Cale's expression settled a bit, some of the cheer fading away. "Not the only reason, no, although I did want to check on you," he agreed. "I have two questions for you. What made you join the Red Hunters?"

Something in Cale's voice seemed to tighten. "And where did you get that healing potion?"

Izzik would have winced if he'd been capable. He squeezed his eyes shut against the tears that threatened to well again. Part of him didn't really want to part with those answers, afraid that this mage—this man that might be a literal god—might judge him unworthy.

But maybe it was time for judgement.

Izzik kept his eyes shut, but he told him everything, beginning from the Aspect Cascade that had consumed his home and family, leading to his meeting with Durak of the Crimson Sea, and finally his biggest secret of all. The only one, in fact, that he thought he could be proud of.

The project he'd been working on with Aldur of the Golden Sands before his father's untimely death, composed of a dozen ingredients sourced from all over the Illwyld continent, all to make a healing potion that worked.

Cale made a mental note to talk to Sternkessel about the Aspect Cascade at some point, because it seemed like the exact kind of thing that would be up the professor's alley. It also seemed like the exact kind of thing he might be able to do something about. He wasn't going to make any promises about it yet, but magical storms were always interesting, so it wasn't like he was going to just ignore it. He'd even spent a couple of his lives storm-chasing.

The magical storms specifically, of course.

Then the lizardfolk began talking about healing potions, and well... Cale had thought there was something strange about that potion, back when he'd seen it. That Izzik had apparently used the only one he'd ever made on Sneaks-In-Darkness of all people filled him with a restless sort of frustration, but he locked that down as best he could; he was pretty sure if Izzik noticed the poor lizard would pass out again.

Part of him did feel a little guilty for prying so many answers out of him while he was hurt, but Izzik seemed almost like he desperately needed someone to hear his story. Once he got going, he didn't stop—he told Cale every little detail he could think of. Frankly, a number of them made Cale tempted to stalk off to the Red Hunters and tear them apart. Slowly.

He might have done it, too, if there weren't a dozen compounding factors to think about; the bloodrot bomb, the fact that they were a large enough group of mages that they could route him...

Bah.

Thankfully, Izzik's halting explanation about the healing potion had quickly distracted him, frustrations aside.

Most healing potions formulated post-Collapse were mere mimicries of the real things. They were, essentially, little more than magical shots of adrenaline accompanied by minor stasis charms that could hold a mage together for longer than they otherwise might have lived. They could keep those mages alive long enough to get them to healers, certainly, but by and large they did very little actual healing.

Izzik's potion had, though. Cale hadn't been entirely sure at the time, in large part because he'd assumed that Sneaks-In-Darkness had healed as a result of her [Myzonir's Ritual of Rebirth] tattoos, but the more he'd thought about it and re-examined the mana signatures he'd felt at the time, the more sure he was.

That healing potion Izzik had so casually tossed aside had been real.

"I hate to ask again," Flia said. "But are you okay? And do not give me any 'fun facts' about what old mages do in the bedroom."

Cale snorted. "I'm just fine," he said. "Let's get back to the dorms. I owe you three some answers."

He'd wanted to visit that little girl who had been caught up in the summoning, too, but she was still asleep; apparently, the damage those suppressors had done to her core had been severe. She'd be good to talk in about a week, apparently, which was... a long time. But at least she was safe.

"Damn straight," Flia muttered. Damien shot Cale a slightly worried look, as he'd started to do every time he thought Cale was hiding something. Leo had picked out a book from his bag and was now buried halfway in it, so he wasn't really even paying attention.

Cale's thoughts were elsewhere.

The reason healing spells were so badly broken in the aftermath of the Collapse was because of the Third Monolith, the Source of Vitality.

He was—had been—the Law of Life. He alone upheld an entire corner of the multiverse. He was the source of all vital magic, and he had been perhaps one of the closest constants Cale had.

It was his death that made Cale decide that enough was enough. That had driven him to eventually earn the name Yggdrasil's End.

Cale had never been able to find his body. Neither had the Leviathan, though she had searched and searched.

But if Izzik had been able to make working healing potions here, of all places... then this had to be where his corpse had landed.

Part of him ached to have that old wound torn open again, but another part was glad for the closure. He'd almost given up on ever finding Vital's corpse to give it his respects, and if what Izzik had said was true, then it seemed that even in death he had found a way to continue to promote life.

He was in no big rush to go see him. He'd waited for long enough that a bit more of a wait wouldn't hurt, and he had plenty of other things left to learn in the Brightscale Academy.

But Cale was glad to know he was here.
