“I took up the cause when my previous Squad Leader was killed by the Flower Killer, years ago.” Naervion lost a bit more of her professionalism, growing angry for a brief moment, before stuffing that emotion down and away. She continued, “We’ve tried policing Carmine Lilies, but that was basically a fool’s errand. They’re—” She almost continued, but she instantly changed track, saying, “We’ve tried Seers. Blood Mages to track him down. Necromancers, in the rare case that the victim’s family has agreed to such a thing, in order to call back the dead and ask questions. Nothing has worked. The Flower Killer doesn’t stick to a single District. He doesn’t stick to a single type of victim. But we do know a few things about him. We know that he is a fantastic Polymage and that he routinely changes bodies, and that he is a remorseless killer.”

“How do you know he’s a ‘he’?”

“When we have had a necromancer call back the souls of the victims, we were able to ask enough to know that they were attacked by a man. Some have called the man tall, or fat, or short, or muscular, or skinny, with everything from brown hair to white to black. This is how we know— How we suspect, very strongly, that he is a Polymage.” She said, “But there’s no real way to verify that information. Our resident Necromancer was barely able to pull together that much, as the Flower Killer opens the target’s chest while they are alive, killing their target with horrific pain. It is a horrible way to go and leaves a lot of trauma on the soul.”

Erick nodded, then asked, “So why did you interrupt yourself regarding the Carmine Lilies?”

Every orcol in the room turned slightly uncomfortable.

“Oh!” Erick understood. He said, “It’s a Red Dream thing.” While Koropo suddenly had to cough and look away, Peron blinked long, and Naervion went stock still, her eyes glazing over as she mentally retreated inward. Erick asked, “Or is it a funeral thing, for the Red Dream?”

Naervion whispered, “And he keeps saying it.”

Erick said, “And I’m a part of the Red Dream, too. Did a Quest for Aloethag, bringing someone back from the Rage. I know all about all of that. Even had my own ‘experience’ with it not too soon after that Quest completion. Had no idea what was going on. I thought it was real.”

An intern, or a clerk, walked into the room at that moment, carrying a large box of papers, then walked right back out.

Erick continued, “So less embarrassment, and more talking. Like I said: I’ve seen some shit.” He thumbed toward Poi, saying, “And he’s a Mind Mage! He’s seen worse than everyone in this room, no doubt!”

Koropo sniffed, once, then said, “Like the archmage says, Squad Leader. Full disclosure.”

“Apologies, sir.” She corrected herself, saying. “Sirs.” Naervion breathed deep, then said, “The Flower Killer is tied symbolically to the Red Dream, somehow, and we’re not quite sure how. Aloethag won’t help find the killer, but there is a long-standing Quest to find and kill the Flower Killer.”

“Oh!” Erick said, “Hold on, one second.” He turned to his Quest Board, and searched for ‘Flower Killer’.

A blue box appeared.

Find or Kill the Flower Killer

Find: 0/1

Kill: 0/1

Reward: 2 points, ???

Note: Half reward for a location that leads to a kill.

Poster: Aloethag, Goddess of Beauty and Brutality

Lesser Posters: The Arbors of Treehome; Wyrmrest, O’kabil, Firebrand, Icebrand, Rottundra, Heral-ken, Home, Nosier, Leaf-cutter, Redarrow, Steel Branch, Ikabobbi. The collective tribes of Treehome.

Erick said, “I have a Quest for that, now.”

Naervion asked, “You have a Quest Board?”

Koropo said, “Most high-level people do, Squad Leader.”

“Recently acquired, yes.” Erick said, “Still getting used to it.” But noticing that Naervion knew what a Quest Board was, he asked, “How do these Quests get made, anyway? Or posted, rather?”

Naervion glanced to Peron. Koropo did the same.

Peron said, “A Quest maker, usually a mortal, beseeches a Relevant Entity for sponsorship, usually through a Church, and then gives over whatever they wish to give for the Quest Reward. Around here, the Arbors and the Chieftains each give portions of their power to institute some of those Quests, but for Quests that the gods make themselves, they grant power from themselves to empower those Quests.”

“Huh,” Erick said. Then he gestured to some of the diagrams and dates drawn in wardlight on the corkboard, saying, “Run me through this, from the top? How to find this guy? Don’t have to do much, though. This is a valid kill, as far as I’m concerned. I just want to know how we’ll be working together.”

Naervion said, “Certainly. The Flower Killer first appeared...”

- - - -

A bell rang overhead, set to chiming by the opening of the door, as Rudidi walked into the shop. The scent of a dozen different orchids swirled around him as he started down the main aisle, searching for his target. He almost stopped to smell the flowers well before he spotted the one he had come here for, because it wasn’t every day that you see such perfectly cultured specimens. Why, the reds of that Bloodheart Orchid were simply divine! And that Radiant Dew! It sparkled like frozen light. ...But.

No. He was here for a certain orchid. A specific target.

And then he saw it. He had not been lied to.

He almost froze on the spot. A Flaming Sapphire orchid! He sighed out the sigh of a man who had finally found water in the desert. It was a perfect specimen, too. The sweeping, upward curves of the blue stem matched the upward curves of the transparent blue flowers. It glowed with health, and with a bit of mana, too.

Rudidi was so enthralled by the Flaming Sapphire, that he didn’t notice the employee of the shop coming up from his right. The man spoke, “It’s a—”

“Wha—!” Rudidi practically jumped a half meter. Then he instantly realized he wasn’t in any danger. He smiled, sighed again, and said, “Didn’t see you there.” He gestured to the orchid. “How did you ever get such a fantastic Flaming Sapphire to grow so well? I must have it. I’ve been looking for one of these for a very long time.”

Rudidi noticed the exact moment that he lost the purchase. This employee was the only employee here, and the shop was rather off the normal paths, and though it was technically inside Arbor Nosier’s domain, it was also technically outside of that Arbor’s domain. It was just a flower shop, after all. The flowers here weren’t even that magical. Most of them, anyway.

Those various facts, combined with Rudidi asking how the man managed to get the flower to grow so well, and then speaking of directly purchasing it, caused the employee, or more accurately, the owner, to narrow his eyes, and frown.

The owner said, “If you can’t take care of him, then you don’t deserve to own him. Get out of my garden.”

Rudidi instantly said, “I’m very terribly sorry, sir. I shouldn’t have said such an awful thing about such a nice orchid. I do know how to take care of them, sir, but every time I get them to bud, they go up in flames! How did you manage to arrest the impetus to self-immolate? Please, tell me how you manage to get yours to live?”

The owner’s frown deepened. He took another look at Rudidi’s clothes, which were rather nice, but said nothing. Rudidi had certainly started off on the wrong path with this man.

Rudidi tried, “I will pay you the price of this one if you can just tell me. I still have bulbs that I have in storage, but I fear growing another if they’re just going to burn down my garden like that one did.” Rudidi shivered, recalling waking to that blue fire. That had been awful.

The owner scowled. “What sort of fool horticulturalist are you? You can’t grow a Flaming Sapphire?”

“Well… I can. Technically.” Rudidi scratched the back of his head, then asked, “I can pay you for the cost of this orchid, if you will help me with some information? How much is it, anyway?”

The owner crossed their arms, then said, “It’s 25 gold.”

Rudidi didn’t even balk at the inflated costs, or at least he tried not to. Something must have shown, for the owner got a rather disgusted look on his face.

The owner said, “No. Get out of my shop. You don’t deserve—”

“But! Please!” Rudidi got closer to the man, pleading, “I need—”

Before their relationship could deteriorate any more, Rudidi whipped a hand out, up, and directly into the owner’s chest, driving inward with all of his might. The man didn’t even know what had hit him as Rudidi grabbed onto what was left of the man’s heart, his hand encircling a mass of tough vines that had evaded all attempts to tell them apart from actual arteries and veins until just half an hour ago, when Archmage Flatt narrowed in on this space and confirmed what no one else could see. The Flower Killer was part flower himself.

Right as Rudidi’s hand struck true, four people stepped out of the shadows and into the room. One cast an entangling [Ward] that wrapped around the Flower Killer, into his body, and then down into his heart, draining Mana. Another cast a similar spell that began draining Health. The third person cast a special Curse onto the Flower Killer, preventing it from using all Spatial Magic for a short while; hopefully their presence would prove to be superfluous. The fourth was a new person, and so their timing was off, slightly. They cast a flash of black magic into the air, instantly killing every plant in the room, turning precious, well-tended flowers into naught but sludge—

Rudidi banished that stupid thought, and focused on herself, and the mission. Naervion, with her arm in the Flower Killer’s chest, finally had another second of the battle to use another attack. As the Flower Killer’s heart flailed against her touch, trying to dig into her hands, but faltering because of the pulse of black that turned it weaker than a shadowolf, Naervion pulsed burning light through her hand.

The Flower Killer’s skeleton, along with all the vines and roots inside of him, turned radiant, illuminating him from the inside-out, before flashing through his skin, and detonating the body. Blood, organs, bone, and roots, exploded into the room, splattering against everything and everyone.

No notification came.

And yet, there she was, currently [Polymorph]ed into Rudidi, with her hand empty, and still, no notification.

She didn’t have to yell that the target was getting away. She had worked with most of these people before, and they all knew what ‘no notification’ meant. Every single person in that room should have gotten at least 1% if the target was dead.

“There!” shouted the new guy, as he pointed at the ceiling at a glob of flesh and root stuck upon the stone. The blob was moving.

Fire and lightning blew a hole in the stone ceiling, revealing the light from outside. Still no notification. Three awful, terrible seconds had passed since the start of the actual fight. Naervion leapt through the roof.

She paused. Anger stilled, as she saw the salvation of her fuck up, hovering in the air before her.

A fluttering abomination of light, eyes, and wings, shone like a second sun had come down to Veird. A pleasant trilling of violins flowed on the breeze, as Naervion’s eyes moved from ‘Ophiel’ to what looked almost like a solar flare coming off of the [Familiar]. Inside that pustule of light, was a ball of bloody roots. It struggled against its confines like a crazed spider.

Erick’s voice came through the air, “It’s trapped. It’s not going anywhere; not with those spells and that Curse you put on it, but at the same time, I don’t want to kill it—” He seemed to change tactics, as he said, “I mean: I don’t want to kill it because then I’ll get full Quest completion.” He said, “I won’t steal this win from you if you want to kill it yourself.”

“I’m not an ‘it’!” yelled the ball of roots. “I’m just trying to have a child! Let me go! Don’t do this to m—”

Something happened to the light around the Flower Killer. It railed harder against its cage, but no sound came out.

Naervion took one look at the Flower Killer, the one who had killed her former boss, the one she desperately wanted to kill herself, and knew that if she asked for the chance to kill it while Erick held it, it might be able to slip away. She couldn’t take that chance. She said, “Kill the fucking thing and be done with it!”

Ophiel’s glowing light flexed around the root ball, crushing inward, twisting, then flexing back out.

And the rootball still moved. Still, no notification appeared.

Erick’s voice came through, “What is this thing made of?”

He crushed again, and with a great deal more force than probably necessary. Naervion watched as the very air seemed to crack and break as light piled into light, crushing, tearing, and forming even brighter cracks in the radiance all around.

The air popped, as the root ball broke inward, all resistance vanishing.

A notification came, like blessed rain after a drought. Naervion looked upon the proof of death, and blinked long, as a wave of memories came over her that she would spend a long time dissecting. Disbelief, rage, acceptance, even more disbelief. She sniffled, then [Polymorph]ed back into her normal body. When she opened her eyes again, Ophiel was still there. The notification was still there, and she would deal with that later. Her old boss’s final theories had been right, and Archmage Flatt had proved him right, or at least on the right track.

You have slain Carmine Changeling Vine!

31 % participation!

+20,328,157,991,507 exp

And then a second notification joined the first.

Special Quest Complete!

Find or Kill the Flower Killer

Find: 0/1

Kill: 1/1

