"I know," she replied. She wrapped her Psychomantic strands around Shiv, weaving something of a billowing dress drenched in eldritch colors. With his modesty somewhat protected, she took a step back and couldn't help but chuckle at the ensemble she'd bestowed on him. Despite Shiv's imposing size, his face still appeared young, and forsaking shaving for a while had resulted in scruffy fuzz covering his face instead of a proper beard. Seeing that, she added a few more strands to the back of his head, soon making him look like a maiden—one that was over two meters tall.

"We're going to need to figure out a solution to your clothing problem," Uva mused. "While the thought of you attacking our enemies while bare is imposing and, in a personal, lecherous sense, entertaining, I think it best to preserve your modesty. For selfish reasons, if nothing else."

"He could just unbind his armor," Adam suggested. "It's still connected to his Severed Shadow. He could take it off and give it to one of his bodies."

"Considering the lives we lead, he might not get the convenience. He could be under attack and perform a resurrection. What follows after is unfortunately immodesty." Uva tapped the underside of her chin with one of her sharp-edged fingers. "I don't think self-repairing clothes will do it anymore either. Not unless the repairs can match Master-Tier Regeneration. What he needs is something like this, a web to cover his body, silk on demand."

And that caused everyone to think, several heads tilted as they observed Shiv. "Silk is just an organic substance, isn't it?" Jessica mused. "Can't he just use his Biomancy to spin something up?"

"He could go back to assembling flesh and bone armor around himself, yes," Adam noted. "The System knows he has an endless supply of bodies, and he just makes more every day. But I think you're onto something here, Uva. Perhaps not silk exactly, but Biomancy might let him do things with all kinds of materials. Wait, didn't he just leave to harvest mushrooms? What about fungi? He could wear fungi all over himself, right? He might even be able to grow some out of his skin."

"Won't that give him a disease?" Gone muttered.

That made Adam chuckle. "Diseases are good for Shiv. He burns a sickness out of himself and turns into a giant drunkard."

The goblin blinked. "Is that a good thing?"

"Not for the people he’s trying to kill. And not for us if we’re trying to keep him focused on something delicate. We can keep thinking about this. Maybe he might have some ideas as well."

The kitchen fell quiet thereafter, but Five raised a clawed hand. "Does anyone perchance know where he is going? I'm not exactly worried about the Deathless’ safety, more about the people and things he might run across. Every time he goes missing for a period, things have a tendency to… spiral out of control, if my bluntness can be forgiven."

"I can try following him," Gone suggested. But then she hesitated. "I just need some way to know where he is. Not easy to see his shadowy thing. Isn't like tracking an actual body."

"It's not just you. I have a hard time keeping track of where Shiv's Revenant is." Adam’s frown turned into an outright grimace as he realized the true implications behind this Skill Evolution. "Oh, dear gods, he can properly ambush me now if I don’t constantly use my Divination. I won't even be able to see him coming. Valor! Valor! This is terrible. I need you to show me how I can sense vitality, right now!"

Valor chuckled and rubbed his chin. "I fear it will not be so easy, Adam. Gaining such an aspect to your Awareness will take many years of effort and deliberate exposure and study of life-force-affecting skills."

"Then we start now," Adam declared resolutely. "We start now, and we make sure he doesn't ambush us."

"You guys know I can still hear you, right?" Shiv suddenly said, using his physical body. "It's hard to manage two different forms at the same time, but I'm still in the room with you." The Deathless in the kitchen with them chuckled. "And you know what? I think the mushrooms might be a pretty good idea. Maybe river weeds too, or I could just shape-shift. But I got another idea that might be able to enhance my Shape of Monstrosity."

"Is the idea needlessly horrific and grotesque?" Uva asked, her voice thin with the hope that Shiv would propose something that didn't inspire night terrors in a small child. "Please don't say something like 'tumor armor.' Please don't tell me your idea is growing a layer of cancers around yourself and then wearing that by flaying it free from your flesh."

Shiv coughed. "Well, you know, I wasn't actually thinking about that as my first choice…"

"But you were thinking about that," Uva chided.

"Well, I was mainly thinking about leather, you know? Skin can be turned into leather. Human skin too. So maybe I could just figure out how to tan myself. Every time I resurrect, I can make myself a leather outfit using my own skin. Seems pretty convenient. It just hurts a little, but I can heal myself using my Biomancy anyway."

Shiv smiled. He was the only one that did.

Jessica shook her head. "Broken Moon. That boy ain't right."

"Considering the nature of our world, he might be too right," Rusty retorted.

"I think you should pursue the shape-shifting idea above the others," Valor said, trying to ameliorate the situation. "It is a most useful skill to learn, though the Biomancy spells required for stable flesh-changing require deep knowledge and careful casting. But as the worst outcome is usually death, I think you are uniquely suited to learning the art."

"You know what?” Shiv said. “I'm gonna tell Helix to add that to my Biomancy curriculum before I get back.” A new purpose was glowing in his eyes. "I'm gonna turn myself into a winged tiger or something. Maybe even a fish. I did want to be a fish as a kid, swimming up a waterfall. Or maybe an eel. I always found them pretty interesting-looking. They also taste pretty good. I wonder if I can find something—" Shiv's eyes widened, and his body tensed. "Guys, I'm gonna need to focus for a moment. I think I can hear someone screaming."

Despite the levity in the air, both Adam and Uva went battle-ready in an instant.

"What's happening?” Uva asked. “What's the situation? Do you need our help?"

"I don't really think so," Shiv said. "Just trying to figure out who's screaming so loud and why. Gonna need to focus on using my Atlas. After that, well, if I need to save someone, I guess I'm just gonna carve my way out of the mountain. Shouldn't be too hard."

"What do you mean, carve your way out of the mountain?" Adam asked. “Where in the Broken Moon are you?”

"So, you remember that mine we ended up in after I broke out from Gate Theborn the first time? You know, while I was dragging the Jealousy with me and had brain-damage-induced amnesia? I'm in there again. Used my Atlas to light up all the interesting mushrooms I could find, and a few are glowing brighter than the others."

"How are you there already?" Adam was taken aback. The mountain wasn't anywhere nearby. It was across the ravine in First Blood territory.

"Well, Adam, the good thing about having a cutting presence is that most things that are made of matter get shredded apart when you move fast enough into them." Shiv laughed jovially. "I gotta say, it's pretty fun just ripping through the land, the trees, the stones, everything. I'm not really smashing anything apart either. Just leaving a long, clean cut wherever I move. No more roadblocks for me."

And those were Shiv's final words as the fullness of his concentration settled in his Severed Shadow. The others in the kitchen were left to digest that statement, and as they exchanged gazes, a common sentiment of dread began to build.

“Gods, I hope he doesn’t end up killing someone,” Adam muttered.

“I suspect he already has,” Uva replied.

***

Kune Kade was about to die—and go down in history as the worst ever Squire of the Descenders Union. And that was assuming anyone bothered remembering her after this travesty.

First, she failed to keep up with her Knight and the other trainees during this routine scouting mission and ended up getting struck out of the sky by a stray lightning spell cast by a pursuing Dimensional. A spell she tried to counter and then deflect, but failed on both accounts. The resulting shock rendered her unconscious, and she woke with a broken leg, having fallen down a deep ravine lining the earth. She'd thought her predicament bad enough, but the System was never a merciful master. Loud hissing sounded from all sides, the volume akin to steam lashing against stone.

And then they slithered out from their tunnels. Their bodies glittering with colorful scales, their eyes mesmerizing, their tongues flicking through the air, and their sizes immense, moving like fluid tree trunks.

Basilisks.

Kade tried to drag herself away; she ended up knocking something over and realized it was a recently hatched egg.

And then came the smaller Basilisks. These ones were more her size, but they were on her in an instant, dropping from the ceiling, slamming their heavy bodies into her already battered flesh. Her broken legs splintered in a new direction. Darkness nearly took Kade again, but she held on to her consciousness the same way she gripped her short sword tight, cutting and slicing, trying to hack the hatchling Basilisks apart before they tore her limb from limb.

What followed was a blur of agony and blood. Her arm burned as she swung faster and wilder than ever before. Any semblance of form or discipline was lost, and primal instinct took hold. Fear guided her every slice, and fear let her down as her blows bounced off hardened bits of scale, missing the gaps between. Her Physicality was lacking. Her Toughness was laughable. The only reason why she didn't die immediately, crushed between the closing maw of the baby Basilisks, was due to her Geomancy. She hardened the Titanium Warshell protecting her body, reinforcing the alloys while pulling at the stones above. She brought a few stalagmites down, even as the mana strain made her weep blood.

More blood followed when the stone spikes landed. A few of the Basilisk hatchlings were struck. They were knocked aside, their bodies splintering within, bones ripping through soft, underdeveloped scales. Their heads reared back, letting out silent shrieks she couldn't hear. But the adults did. The ground tremored like several earthquakes converging closer to her. And she knew that the end had arrived. There was no way out.

But despite everything, she wanted to live. She wanted to prove everyone wrong, and she wanted to wipe clean the shame brought upon her family by her older brother. She wanted to make things right, even if she never truly had the fire, even if she was a coward at heart, a failure, a false sword in all respects. She wanted to live. She would give anything to live.

And so, as those monstrous shadows loomed over her, seeking to inflict the final retribution for the pain she'd caused their young, Kade flattened the dents in her armor, wrapped her body in stone, and tried to turn her spirit to iron as she rose in defiance of what was to come.

She seized the armor running along her broken legs. She forced her greaves out of their deformed state—and brutally snapped her leg back to some semblance of straightness. A piercing shriek of overwhelming agony escaped her. But there was a desperate fire in her now. The shame in her burned—the shame that had ruined her family name, the shame she endured every time her Knight looked upon her, every time the other trainees whispered behind her back, the shame that became absolute when she was struck from the sky, where she found herself in this place, prey for simple beasts rather than a warrior facing worthy blades.

There was only one last person she had left to let down, and that was herself. But she couldn't do it. Even if she were to die, disgraced and forgotten, even if her family were to be struck from the annals, her parents condemned for having a traitor as a son and an impotent whelp for a daughter, she would rage and pass on her own terms.

Not because she wanted to live up to the dignity of being a Squire or because she yearned to be a Dragon-Knight—because she frankly didn’t. Just because she wanted to be respected for once. She wanted to be the one that mattered in the eyes of her parents, and the eyes of her mentors, and the eyes of her people.

She already lived as a broken thing. She didn't want to die as one as well.

"Come on then!" Kade cried aloud, blood welling up between her teeth. Her piercing shriek earlier made the adult Basilisk hesitate. No, her analytical mind cried. It's not your scream; it's the fact that you still have some of their young sprawled over you. They're not willing to crash down because they risk killing their own children. It's the only chance you have.

The newly-hatched Basilisks writhed and twisted. They were in no condition to crawl away from her. She could see bits of vertebrae sticking out from their wounds, and she decided to use that to her advantage. She couldn't move so easily, not with one of her legs so wounded. But the Basilisk hatchlings could serve as a shield of sorts. She selected one at random and lay against the thrashing beast. It was still over three meters long and far stronger than she was, but she fused her armor over it, clamping herself close to its form before dragging herself away using her faltering Geomancy.

But though the adult Basilisks lacked the intelligence of an awakened beast, they were still far more cunning than she gave them credit for. Instead of targeting her directly or being frozen, they descended along the walls, gliding down as they wrapped their bodies closer and closer, tighter and tighter, until the caverns vanished, and she was entirely boxed in.

