She counted three, no, four adult Basilisks, each one large enough to smash through several small buildings. By the end, all four of them poked their heads over the encirclement they made. Brilliant, gem-like scales glittered all around Kade, but what sparkled the brightest were the Basilisk's eyes. They came alight with emerald essence, and she realized what was about to come.

They reared their heads back, and she could see the first droplets of sizzling venom spill down from above.

Basilisks were immune to their own poison. They didn't truly develop the venom until they were far older. But even the hatchlings would shrug off the toxins. Kade wouldn't. She didn't have the skill for that—and she would never have the Toughness to survive long enough to obtain the Disease Resistance skill in the first place.

Her strategy had been hopeless and pointless from the start. Kune Kade went limp against the thrashing baby Basilisk she'd bound herself to. Pointless. Her mother was right. It was all pointless. She was pointless.

The failed Squire closed her eyes and waited for the venom to take her. She hoped it would kill her quickly, spare her the suffering and indignity of being eaten alive by the Basilisks. But, considering how fate had treated her for most of her life, she doubted her ending would be anything but unkind.

A waterfall of scalding hot fluid splashed down on Kade. She tensed, preparing for her skin to peel off her face, for her eyes to melt within her sockets, for a pain beyond pain to take hold, and for her body to betray her in the most miserable of ways. Instead, a scalding sensation simply continued. Everything around her was hot, and there was a faint tang of blood when she accidentally breathed.

Blood? Kade thought to herself.

Then there came the sound of splattering offal. She knew that sound well: the sound of organs coming tumbling free from a disemboweled body, striking the ground in a wet, sloppy mess. And there came a zipping sound. Another noise she was most familiar with: the song a blade made when it sailed through the air.

Kade looked up in disbelief, and her eyes widened and suddenly shut as another deluge of Basilisk blood spilled down into her face. She cried out in blinded alarm, but she blinked herself clear. She forced her eyes to open once more.

The four colossal Basilisks rained down around her in finely minced pieces. Each Basilisk was reduced to a square chunk of mutilated flesh no larger than her torso, and they descended, stacking themselves neatly on the ground like building blocks, rather than dismembered meat. It was as if something was guiding their path, keeping them neatly bound together. That or Kade was utterly delirious, undergoing final, hopeful hallucinations before death swallowed her.

"Hey, you alright down there?" a low but warm voice suddenly echoed from above. And slowly, Kade laid eyes on her savior for the first time.

He glowed a crimson beacon, painting the walls of the Basilisk nest with his radiance. As Kade looked on, she realized she had no idea what material her mysterious savior's armor was made from. Nor could she sense any alloy with Geomancy. Could it be organic armor, then? It did appear scab-like. And then there was that pale blade lodged in his chest. It glowed brightest of all, and from it rippled wavelengths of visible, tangible sharpness that sliced through the air, making the strange scene seem as if a reflection upon a lake.

Kade was wordless and stunned. The baby Basilisks weren't so much. They continued crying out for their now-dead parents. As the one beneath her writhed, the shameful excuse of a Squire went rolling over by her side and let out a final shout of alarm as she felt her weight, along with the Basilisk's, land once more on her ruined leg.

Before she ever even got the chance to speak with her savior, an overwhelming crisis of pain delivered Kade to an unwelcome unconsciousness, casting her into a sudden darkness where there was only silence and unknowing…

***

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 120 > 124

Shiv winced as an audible crack sounded through the Basilisk's nest. The poor girl in that Titanium Armor let out a half-moan, half-gurgle of misery before she blacked out entirely, crushed under a rolling baby Basilisk. He could see how splintered her leg was with his Atlas, but also sensed numerous other injuries. A ruptured spleen, internal bleeding in her stomach, and a few dozen fractures lining the entirety of her skeletal structure. She was practically a mess of drifting shards, held together by the tightness of her armor. The fact that she'd managed to even move at all was a testament to her Toughness.

He repressed his cutting aura as he descended from on high. As he drew close, he used his Biomancy to pull the baby Basilisks away from the unconscious girl before they ended up suffocating or biting her.

"There's another issue I got to deal with," Shiv said as he dangled the four baby Basilisks in the air. They all sported nastily broken bones. A few had stalagmite fragments jammed inside them. “Could just cut you guys up and eat you too, but… Don't I got a few Basilisks in the Tutorial somewhere? Hope the orcs didn't kill them already. Maybe I can bring you guys over and… start a stable or something. Yeah, sounds like a good idea. Might be able to get more Basilisk eggs down the line too."

Using his Biomancy, he stripped them clean of wounds, and as he kept the baby Basilisks grasped within the mouths of his mana hydra, he carefully scooped the unmoving girl up using a spare extension of his Biomancy.

He considered carrying her with his arms, but didn't want to risk his cutting aura splitting her in half. After what he'd just experienced, ripping through trees, stone, earth, and practically every bit of manaless matter, he knew just how devastating his cutting aura was for practically anything he came into contact with.

Then he promptly demonstrated his lethality as his Shapeless Tides pointed upward. Shiv greeted a mountain's worth of stone like a javelin plunging through flesh, and within the span of a second, sliced a new path for himself across the horizon as he headed straight back toward the gateway from whence he came with a dimensional cape filled with all manner of mushrooms, new livestock acquired, and an unexpected guest in tow.
