Indulging in a bit of cannibalism should be a requirement before anyone can call themselves a proper cook. It's mostly just a primer for your mind. You have to understand: you are not special, but you can taste wonderful. Just because you feel, think, and talk does not make you any less edible than, say, any beast of burden out in the field or a monster you've slain after a hard-fought battle. You are all made of a similar substance a lot of the time. At its basis, eating something is an endeavor to quench one's urge to discover novel or desired flavors and sate one’s satiety.

Now, we orcs are a little bit different. We are a psycho-nutritional people, and the simple consumption of proteins and other nutrients won't be enough. And that leads me to the main point of my topic today: a balanced diet. I see some of you groaning, and I'm going to kill you for that later. But know that a balanced diet is very important! It's important for us, and it's important for all the other species that still need to consume sustenance to survive. You cannot overindulge in any kind of compound without paying somewhat of a price."

Most of you likely have observed this: when you overfeed a pain slave with too much sugar, they turn obese. They start getting all sorts of diseases. Their body is no longer in a stable, functioning state. Instead, it is at war with itself, constantly undergoing inflammation and other cascades caused by said imbalance. And in relation to this matter, I'm sure you've also experienced the negative effects it has on you. There is a reason why heart failure is the second leading cause of death among all Orcish cohorts.

It's not because we suffer the same deleterious effects of fat as most humans, elves, or goblins do, but the effects are similar in a few ways.

Not convinced? Consider this: when you enjoy an easy snack by brutally torturing someone and drinking in their pain that way, what do you feel? Yes, a rush—a sugar rush, almost. It is comparable to what a human might feel after consuming a hypercaloric, heavy-glucose meal at Initiate-Tier. Their body can't handle it. It's too much for their heart. It's too much for their circulatory system. It's too much to absorb. And then something clogs or something breaks. It's the same thing with us. Our hearts will beat so fast and inspire so much surging excitement through all of our systems that we end up collapsing, dead in the aftermath.

And that's why you need to eat a very balanced diet. That's why you can't just consume meat, meat, meat. It will make your teeth fall out if you're an ordinary person. If you're just indulging in physical hyper-sadism without the proper supplements provided by psychological and other finer emotional torments, then you are going to be too imbalanced to work. Even if you are above Adept here, there are prices to pay for this. You will feel aches and pains where your cohort will experience none. You will find your mind sluggish. You will find yourself addicted to the basest of enjoyments. And that's no way to be.

So please, diversify your meals. As always, cannibalism is a start. You are an organism. You are a complicated organism designed to inflict pain the likes of which the rest of Integration cannot fathom, but still an organism. Mind your diet, mind your body!

—The Gourmet, Heroic Orc Chef

302

The Sky-Swallowing Carp [V]

The solution to Shiv's problem was simple: He was going to design the second layer of his meatball like a peanut.

He wasn't going to make the gristle that hard either; he didn't want anyone to chip a tooth. What he did want, however, were points where there were structural weaknesses, and when pressure was applied, there they would crack open, revealing the molten goodness of the marrow hidden within the final layer.

The end result was going to be marvelous. It would be like cracking an egg open and tasting the creamiest yolk. Every bit of that steaming hot inner flavor would flood out, suffusing the rest of the meatball.

What about the aftertaste? Wouldn't the aftertaste still linger? I haven't solved that yet. He suddenly shook his head. No, no, we deal with the gristle first. I need to put in indented weaknesses so that anyone's teeth can easily tear it open. If I make this right, then a human or an elf could just spit it out. They don't need to continue chewing on the gristle—and they'll still get the satisfaction of popping it.

And so Shiv put the aftertaste problem in the later section of his mind. For now, he guided the orc echoes he commanded on a campaign of flesh-remodeling. "Weave yourselves over each other. But leave gaps in between."

"Like this, Insul?" one of the echoes asked. Threads made from tendon and hardened cartilage were drawn forth by invisible hands. The lengths glittered with vitality, and soon a complicated inner weave was stitched around a pulsating orb of steaming hot marrow. The inner two layers of his meatball resembled a nest. All the fibers were coiled over each other, but it didn't give him the desired effect. With everything laced like this, it was bundled tight, and even if someone managed to lodge their teeth between a few fibers, there were more underneath. It was now functioning like a protective weave.

"No, no," Shiv said, using his Biomancy to make slight adjustments to a few pieces of expendable meat. The moment he touched the flesh with his bio-magic, it was soaked deep in blood and began sprouting a sprawl of tumors along its exterior. The very sight of the infestation sparked a burst of anger inside Shiv. Maiden's Curse knew when he was trying to cook or create, and it triggered accordingly; it rendered him a composer commanding his own ingredients, rather than a practitioner.

But with anger came focus and clarity, and he showed the echoes in vivid detail what he wanted them to do. It didn't matter that his meat was dripping red and was drowned by cancerous nodules. He could still separate the biomass, and he turned them into thin strips. Instead of bundling every line tightly, he created symmetrical gaps in between every vein of tough tissue. Slight clefts lined the bleeding meat, making it seem like floorboards with crushed bodies hiding underneath. The echoes understood in an instant. He wanted someone to be able to lodge their teeth all the way through to split the gristle, cartilage, and tendons through leverage instead of struggle.

They mimicked the modifications he made to his sacrificial piece of flesh, and soon Shiv beheld a pristine, dome-shaped meatball taking form.

His mouth salivated, his eyes glistening with triumph and anticipatory gluttony. He reached out, seizing the meatball before biting into it for the first time. His teeth were made of harder stuff than most humans. He was pretty sure he could bite through adamantine if he wanted. The inner tissues of the orcs presented no difficulty, the strands snapping between every bite. Now, however, the satisfaction was doubled as the second layer of the meatball popped open perfectly, splitting into curved halves as the marrow flowed over his tongue.

A gush of salt-sweet gravy crawled along his tongue and lathered him in enduring taste. It did more than deliver a climactic explosion of flavor. It also accentuated and enhanced the sensations of chewing on the gristle. Now each hardened strand was something worth looking at, something worth suckling on, with the taste of the meatball’s deepest depths soaking the other tissues.

Shiv sucked what remained of the marrow out of the now-hollowed second layer and nodded to himself. Okay, this can work. This can work really well. Already tastes better than I thought it would. But it needs something else, something to neutralize the aftertaste without ruining it. And so Shiv looked back across all the years he'd spent working and learning within the Swan-Eating Toad. You faced problems like this before. Customers complaining about tastes being too strong, too overwhelming for their palate. Yet they didn't want to lose the experience, and so they put the chefs in an awkward middle ground to deliver on flavor, but to kill it before it became too much.

The Chef Unwavering 79 > 80

"There are several things you can do if you want to clean a bad taste from your mouth," Shiv recalled Georges saying. "Water is the easiest solution to all things. It's a universal neutralizer. Dump a gallon of water down your throat after eating something spicy as hell? It's not just the burn that gets washed away. Milk works too, sometimes even better. The problem with milk, though, is that a bunch of these fucking idiots are intolerant to it; we risk them turning our tables and chairs brown. So now that you all know this, can anyone suggest a more creative solution for some of our problems?"

As usual, the common response to Georges asking something was silence. Shiv couldn't really blame the other chefs. It was hard to tell when Georges was being genuine instead of rhetorical—and it was even harder to tell when he was trying to set you up for mockery and insults as punishments.

But Shiv had been different from the other chefs even then. He was used to being mocked, insulted, and despised. So, what Georges did to hurt others was just another day in the Omenborn’s life. He'd raised his hand while the other chefs tried their hardest to turn invisible. "Maybe we can find something that holds a lot of water and put it in the food."

"Something that holds a lot of water, eh?" Georges had sauntered towards Shiv slowly, looking the boy up and down as one might a trailing stain that marred the fine tiles of their bathroom floor. Shiv hadn't known if he was about to be chewed out or complimented, and it was only after Georges’s lip curled upward for a half second that relief followed. "And what might hold a lot of water in it? You got any idea about that, huh?"

"Vegetables and plants?" Shiv replied, snapping back to the present as he realized he'd said that out loud. He had his answer, but with that answer came more questions, more complicated choices to make. It wasn't like all vegetables went with meat. Simply cramming that stuff in would leave tissues wet and soggy, ruining the texture, not to mention defiling the taste. What he needed was another layer to the meatball, something that could contain its hydration within itself without letting it seep into the surrounding matter.

Cucumbers and pickles, perhaps, Shiv thought to himself. If they're prepared right. But mushrooms might work even better, especially the drier kinds, the ones that are blander or are more subtle in taste. That might be the way to do things. Just a bit of extra hydration. A bit of water that leaks out when you bite into minced bits of mushroom, something to cancel out the overwhelming flavor of the marrow.

That brought him to the next set of problems: what kind of mushrooms? Mendules, perhaps, but they made people relax. They brightened the world and induced lethargy. He also didn't know if they worked the same way in orcs. He didn't want something that could alter another person's cognition. There was too much risk there. Something with more diminished effects would be preferable. Maybe cave mushrooms, but—

Wait, Shiv thought. The Abyss was filled with different kinds of fungi. Lots of different bioluminescent plants as well. And the river weeds. He had so many choices so close by, all he needed to do was go out and explore. And since he had two bodies now, nothing was stopping him—he was more unchained from inefficiency than ever.

Shiv came alive with sudden motion. He broke away from the grilling station as if a man possessed. Striding toward the exit, he heard the others call out for him with Adam's voice rising above the others: "Shiv? Shiv, where are you going?"

"Mushrooms!" Shiv called back. That was all he said to justify his actions. Behind, he could hear footsteps following, and he realized that Uva had abandoned the others, trailing after him. It was a slightly anxious look in her eyes, very uncharacteristic for her. As she drew closer, she seized him by the hand and slowly pulled him back. "Shiv, Shiv, I understand you are in one of your cooking trances right now, and you can't think of anything else, but you aren’t dressed properly for the occasion."

Shiv hummed and then looked down. All of a sudden, he realized what she was saying. "Ah, shit. I'll have my Shadow go instead. Right! That’s a good idea! Test run for the Shadow too. Time to see how much stuff it can cut through…"

His physical body was guided back into the kitchen, much to everyone's relief. Meanwhile, his Revenant slipped out without anyone really noticing. Aside from Valor, who tracked the silhouette with his eyes as it departed.

"The System works in strange and nonsensical ways," Uva said under her breath. She scanned Shiv and frowned. "You never resurrected in the nude before. Why now?"

Shiv just shrugged. The bulk of his attention remained locked on his meatballs. His precious, precious meatballs. "This is gonna be great, Uva. It's gonna be beautiful. It's gonna be beautiful. You'll see."

He couldn't help it. The Chef Unwavering had its hooks in him bad. He was on a path to glory now—a path of defiance as well, against the whims of the System and the curse of an Ascendant. Shiv was going to be a chef first and foremost. All that fighting stuff would be to make sure that he could keep being a chef, so that he could live his life without anyone burdening him. In the end, if he ever became stronger than all things, he would build a kitchen on top of all things, and he would feed them instead of killing them. He would end this pointless war of feeding forevermore a being whose stomach was a boundless pit of misery.

"Uva, I don't think he's really all there anymore," Adam said.

