She had been able to negotiate with the White Sky because their interests didn't really infringe on each other, and nothing she had offered them was considered a loss for the empire. Future spoils and gains being divided was one thing, but giving up already inhabited land and formally acknowledging that they had not only been beaten, but were in the wrong, for what they saw as unprovoked attacks in the case of the ith, or simply rightful retaliation to raiding with the cloud?

It was a terrible misunderstanding of their position. Worse, it expected the Duchess Cai to fail to retaliate for harm visited on her citizens, the people she had risen against the Hui for. And the harm had come to mortals, at that, the mortals whose pain in turn brought pain to her wife, Diao Linqin, Sovereign of Empathy.

If you discarded all of those considerations and looked at it from the most cynical view possible,  it was still a stretch. It only made sense if one considered the whole of the empire to be a tottering heap of self-interested nobles only interested in their own games, without any real community or belief between them.

She knew one voice like that. How many among those the Ya had connected to had similar beliefs? Their methods would be predisposed to find such people.

"Our slow movement has been mistaken, it seems," Zhu Fan said. "It is not easy to organize a full provincial muster, even now. Longer still to do so while ensuring there are few gaps against an enemy of such strategic mobility. It is the young men who chase swiftly after clouds."

"And shadows," Minister Tang said sourly. "How likely is it that we are being goaded?"

"Tcho-Ri cannot say. These words do not insult the ith. No whisperings of rage do I hear. The Mind cannot know this."

"Good enough. Cease. I can observe the strain on what passes for your meridians," Minister Tang said.

Tcho-Ri withdrew her hands. Fleshy strands stretched before detaching from her skin, sinking back into the mass of the Mind. "Honored Guests, your temperance is appreciated."

It was only half facetious. Tcho-Ri had expected them to demand deeper communion and to have to hurt herself more. And she would have done it, Ling Qi thought. Tcho-Ri loved her city deeply.

She wondered how many of the ith who followed Ya would be the same. The organization implied and described, demanded that.

"Now that this is past, show us to where your government's physical records are."

Some concepts could not be communicated with words alone. Ling Qi  only hoped the message could be delivered in clear and concise terms.
