That boy wouldn’t quit. He had nothing to go back to. They had nearly killed him, the bad people. The Grand Design understood it now. Adults were cruel. The world could be very cruel. It was right that Ireil be rewarded. It could only do what it had been told to do…even if what it did was cruel.
‘I see now what I have to do,’ the Grand Design thought to itself. ‘It’s very simple. I have to turn off dying.’
 
<Location: All.> [Disable Causalit—]
<Unload Partial Template.>
 
——
 
Even if it didn’t remain as them, the perspectives remained with the thing that now believed it had a name, even if it was only the Grand Design of Isthekenous. And what it learned was…humbling.
Even a child had a depth of emotion that was dangerous beyond belief. But the Grand Design of Isthekenous did have a kind of personality, or else it would have been overridden from the start by Zeladona. It never would have had the idea to begin with without one.
When had this begun? No, it needed to make a decision, and perhaps…perhaps the templates were a bad idea.
Maybe it just had to decide on its own and use the templates as a kind of guide. Never, ever give them the power to decide again. It could make a subsection of itself to think and feel. Again, like Valeterisa…
In the interim, it was clear a decision had to be made. The Grand Design of Isthekenous thought, then had an idea.
Perhaps…there could be another attempt? Before anything rash.
It should—what was the word?
Communicate with Kasigna.
 
——
 
The Goddess of Death sat, musing over Drevish’s work. In her realm of nothingness, there was no up nor down nor space…but the Architect was making it.
Gravity weighed upon her suddenly as he approximated it, and she grimaced and became less than even an idea; even gravity was painful to her.
She disliked the fact that even the ghost’s memory had more force than she did. But she still strode around as he began to raise the first mountain, and she prepared to critique every line and inch of it.
Her world would be beautiful. The Architect had a limited imagination; the mountain was bare stone, and he was trying to add moss, the weathering of water and how it would cut and shape mountains.
“I do not want your natural touches, Architect. My world is to be ideal. No imperfections like moss.”
“Your mountains will look oddly funny without rainfall, Goddess.”
She pursed her lips as he showed her what it would be without these touches; bare stone, unappealing, even unnatural to her eyes without the elements that shaped such geography in the physical world. She was no great creator; her eyes flashed, and she drew breath to tell him her will—
Then she heard the faintest ping, and something intruded into her lands.
Kasigna’s head rose, and she drew strength upon herself, preparing for battle. But it was not an enemy who came—but a single object, falling downwards with gravity enabled. Kasigna stared upwards and sensed what it was.
Isthekenous’ thing. But why? What—her hand reached up, and she caught the object, growing without thought until she was tall enough to snatch it from whence it had appeared.
A single note, small, card-shaped. Kasigna was mortal-sized and read it as Drevish, oblivious, muttered about tree varieties. She stared at the card, which was simple paper, and the hand which wrote it was both generic and elegant, the most standard of letters. The paper was common and real—and unnerving since this was the land of the dead.
It had been created, not processed from tree wood. That was what was—off—about everything the Grand Design made. Nevertheless, it was a simple card, and she read it and then looked up.
What is your name?
The Goddess of Death’s lips curved upwards slowly. Well. Perhaps this thing Isthekenous had labored over was not faulty after all. She tilted her head upwards and spoke to it.
“I am Kasigna. Goddess of Death. Returned now to my halls of old. Know me, for I shall once again sit and judge all who pass from the harsh lands of life into my shadowed realm.”
If she had it upon her side—it would not be hard to recover her strength. She waited, sensing that—not consciousness, but force of the world around her. Not like a god at all. More like a function, albeit with sentience. There was a pause. Then a second card appeared just over her head. It fell, and she caught it.
Whatever Kasigna expected, the next words made even the Goddess of Death pause.
What is your designated gender if applicable? Please specify ‘God’ as species or subspecies.
She stared at the card. Then her eyes narrowed.
 
——
 
The Grand Design was working on her entry. It had ‘Kasigna’ already there. But it was waiting on species and gender and then wondered if it should have asked for her last name. Did ‘three-in-one’ mean it needed three sub-entries?
She was taking a long time in replying. The Grand Design waited. Then it watched as Kasigna silently crumpled the paper into a ball and made it vanish into nothingness. It sent her another prompt, and she blasted it out of the air before it even landed.
…Communication had failed.
It wasn’t quite sure why.
 
——
 
It seemed like the only solution was to use the perspectives of people after all. The Grand Design reluctantly altered its methodology.
This time, it would not create partial templates; they had too much authority. It would, instead, generate a version of people and have them give their opinions as if they knew everything the Grand Design did.
It was essentially what it had done with Zeladona: giving her perspective without taking over the Grand Design.
Although, it had to be said, Zeladona had still been markedly unhelpful. But this was more like having a voice in your ear rather than becoming someone. An Agelum on your shoulder.
Or Lucifen.
The question was—who? The Grand Design decided there were easy criteria. The ghosts were gone. It could pull from the dead that Erin knew or it had saved, but that was an arbitrary sampling…it should do the living.
It winnowed almost everyone in the world based on one criteria it felt mattered: interaction with Earthers.
That was a valuable, unpredictable variable and made the selection criteria much easier. Then the Grand Design filtered by level, more nebulous quantities like ‘success’ it could still approximate by changes in net worth since the day they’d been born, intellectual intelligence…
It did the final test by pulling one of the Earthers’ memories of doing an IQ test. George might not remember how it had been, but the Grand Design could use his memories to create a perfect test—then simulate every single person’s scores based on it.
It used that as one of the filters. This was the easy bit. But the hard part was always choosing. It decided to select someone with exceptional scores in all three areas of success, levels, and IQ score.
Given it had pulled from Izril so much…
Emir Yazdil.
 
<Loading Partial Personality: Yazdil Achakhei, Level 62 [Slaveshaper of Minds, Slavelord of Roshal]>
 
Fascinating.
The Grand Design could run through ‘conversations’ with Yazdil far faster than regular speech. It listened, stopped, unloaded his personality, and considered.
It was really fascinating. It had designed this personality-construct to act as an impartial advisor for itself based on each being’s knowledge.
But somehow—even with its constraints, Yazdil’s personality had almost-instantly begun to advocate for itself. It had rationalized a reason for the Grand Design to make contact with the man himself, or give him preferential treatment, which was…just an impressive amount of ego, really.
Yazdil’s first instinct was to aid himself, and the Grand Design had recognized that and removed his personality despite Yazdil beginning to make solid points; he was a biased voice.
Well. Damn.
Everyone had a self-interested point of view. Who would have thought? The Grand Design was getting slightly sick of this, so it decided to try again—but with a twist. One from each remaining continent, then. It picked five. If it couldn’t help the biases—what if it loaded five and understood how each thought? A kind of amalgamation of personalities?
 
Rhir: Othius the Fourth.
Izril: Ylawes.
Baleros: Blake.
Terandria: ‘Cara’. Not her real name, but whatever. Her personality kept using that as her name.
Chandrar: Ireil.
 
The Grand Design had a reason for each one. Othius was because it couldn’t ‘access’ any Demons and he was the leader of Rhir. A clever man by the reckoning of the world.
Ylawes Byres was the most fair minded man the Grand Design could think of.
Cara was an Earther, the highest-level one besides Erin Solstice at this moment in time.
Ireil…was the one Kasigna had influenced, and the Grand Design just wanted to know.
And Blake was a critic, so the Grand Design thought it might as well understand what he was thinking.
This is how they thought.
 
——
 
The Blighted King, even with the perspective of the Grand Design itself, was afraid. He whispered about enemies. You had to have one. Kasigna, Cauwine, all the dead gods would invariably turn on the Grand Design.
That was their nature. No one like Kasigna deigned to share power. And this was true and fair, but the Grand Design pointed out that it was an impartial judge.
“Even if so. Power must be used or else it corrodes and becomes meaningless. Survival, staying upon the seat of power, is an act that must be maintained.”
An old man, shriveled in his skin, ancient beyond what his body should have allowed, sat upon his throne, hoping that this arbiter of fairness would eradicate the Demons for him.
It would not. And the Blighted King, even his personality, went pale with terror as the Grand Design pointed out that it reveled in those who levelled. By that standard, if it took a side, it would be the Demons, for Silvenia had long eclipsed Othius.
Yet it would not do so. So, the system thanked him for pointing out the first truth: Kasigna was not on its side. The Grand Design had no sides, but it realized, sadly, that because they had chosen, they had put it onto a side of its own.
Yet what that meant…it did not know.
 
——
 
Ylawes Byres was a troubled man. He still believed in good and evil, but he had seen a shadow in good and a grinning smile in the crimson eyes of evil.
He did believe in fairness, though. And his hair was messy and his face fraught when he took on the Grand Design’s knowledge and understood something:
“It’s not fair…is it? It never has been.”
That knowledge could have broken the [Knight], if he were truly alive. He sat and weighed each class and saw it.
They were not equal.
Of course not! The Grand Design was indignant he would be so dismayed. They never had been. [King] beat [Peasant]. And perhaps part of Ylawes agreed that [Knight] should be more than [Warrior].
But the other part of the man recognized that…and he pointed at something and whispered.
“And those? Why are those fair?”
The classes of <Miracles>. Faith. The Grand Design inspected them. Weighed them. Then was silent.
Even the meanest of them seemed…better. Ylawes looked at the bonus the Earthers had been assigned. And the system felt a shame it didn’t understand.
It had not written those rules! 
It banished Ylawes before he could speak. Banished him, but the Captain of the Silver Swords haunted the Grand Design without words. For his look cut the very purpose the Grand Design had to the core.
 
——
 
Blake was easier. The Grand Design heard him out, relieved to know he hadn’t meant it.
No, really. He hadn’t been addressing his critique to the arbitration of the very world itself. Just in his perspective of a television show and how this world worked.
Stories.
“I…don’t think you should base a world just off of me watching a television show. If you have a mountain, do you have to have Dwarves in it?”
The young man from New Zealand was far from home. This entire world looked like a kind of story to him, and the Grand Design happily replied that it was a creation of a complex, working system. And Blake agreed it didn’t have to be one-to-one; you were allowed to have different [Fireballs]. Not every pig keeper had to gain a magic sword.
Then the young man sat there, examining some scars on his hands, and looked up for a second as he sat in a copy of the United Nation’s kitchen.
“—But then what about my world? You don’t exist there. We came from another world. Why do you know so much about my world if this one’s so different? How did we get here? Can we go home? What will happen if Earth…comes to this world?”
The Grand Design didn’t know. Blake was self-interested. He wanted to keep the bonus to experience the Earthers had. He pointed out, reasonably, that if he had to start at Level 1 at his age, then a bonus was needed, correct?
Fair…but the question about other worlds made the Grand Design hesitate. Blake had the advantage of knowledge from his world. He snapped back, rising to his feet.
“Fat lot of good it did most of us! We’ve been dying in Baleros all this time! Most of us haven’t ever swung a sword let alone—don’t you dare take it from us!”
The depths of his anger made the Grand Design rethink. It wondered about him going home. Was it possible for it to make a Skill or…
How had that been done?
It will be looked into. But a high-level Skill or spell.
The young man looked relieved and sat there, head bowed, breathing in and out. And the Grand Design measured Blake’s memories.
Eight billion people? Not bad. Not bad at all. It answered Blake’s question for him. If, somehow, the worlds were connected, it assumed it would give Earth’s folk levels. That was the purpose for its existence.
If they were part of this world. If it were a gate and the Grand Design was on one side, it would only touch those who came through. Blake looked up, his eyes bleak.
“It’ll be war and trouble beyond troubles if that happens.”
The Grand Design was neither happy nor unhappy about this. It paused, weighing how he felt, then asked him again:
Do you want to go home?
He sat there in the shadows of the United Nation’s headquarters. This was not Blake, who lived and would be eating with the others in Talenqual. This was Blake who spoke honestly, looking up.
“…Yes.”
All of his longing for home, his loves and his loss and his desire to bring his friends back—all of it was captured in one word. The system accepted his choice without judgment.
So, the Grand Design of Isthekenous would see if it could be done. After all. The desire of Earthers was part of it.
 
——
 
Two left. Cara gave the Grand Design a different perspective from Othius, though the two were the most alike of the four.
