The little witch—not a [Witch] any longer, but a [Reader], now—knew these things. Because she’d helped Calescent, she had listened to Erin talking with Ryoka and rehearsing her lines, and because Lyonette trusted the girl enough to tell her the plan. Mrsha did not know the plan.
Nanette liked to know things. She liked to be informed and to think about what could be. Her mother had always said that thinking was what put [Witches] ahead. Which sounded silly until you realized how little some people thought.
[Reader’s Temporary Copy]. Nanette considered the possibilities. She tried to imagine some even as she remembered her mother telling her about Skills like this.
Well, obviously she could copy a favorite book, but what a waste. The real value might be in copying a map or encyclopedia or something to always have on hand. Or—Nanette thought of the many [Spies]. Surely one might sneak into someone’s study and copy secret files? Could you do that if it wasn’t a book? She’d have to test that.
Even more interesting—could the temporary copy be used for something? Nanette didn’t like destroying words, but if it was a Skill—she’d heard of people tearing pages out of books to use as toilet paper or kindling.
Could she use this on a diary? Nanette would test all these things. She wiggled happily in her bedding, not really caring if this was an ideal class—she had forgotten how much fun it was to have Skills!
She’d missed this.
And yet…the girl paused, and her head felt a bit cloudy as she eventually got out of bed and dressed herself in some new clothing, unlike the blue robes she used to always wear.
Pants! Bright and blue in a style called ‘jeans’ from that new shop in Invrisil, a shirt with a bright yellow butterfly in the center, and a vest without sleeves that was a bright brown and was light and comfortable.
It was a gift from Lyonette for Christmas and had [Heating] on it, so Nanette didn’t need to bundle up. The girl put on her boots, laced them up, and checked her packs.
She was almost ready to move out; she’d packed her goods last night. The girl rubbed at her head as she looked around the room.
Well, she couldn’t take the little blackboard she put notes on. It had…
Things about the day on it. A reminder they were leaving today, a note to buy some more socks…
Not much on it, really. Which surprised Nanette because she always liked having something important to do. But she supposed the Winter Solstice was like a giant weight. Until it was gone—
Humming, Nanette walked around her room and then decided she was going to have breakfast. Mrsha was already up, and when Nanette opened her door, she saw Mrsha dashing downstairs in a patter of feet. The inn was fairly soundproofed, so Nanette didn’t get bothered by people running around normally.
“Mrsha! Wait, darling. After breakfast—oh, nevermind.”
Lyonette came out of her rooms, and a Thronebearer was already in his magnificently shiny armor, bowing.
“Good morning, Your Highness. Good morning, Miss Nanette. You are both looking exceptionally well-attired today.”
“Hello, Ser Dalimont.”
The girl smiled, pleased someone had noticed. Lyonette turned and smiled.
“You have the vest I bought on! You look so—Mrsha can’t even put on a kilt most days. Are you packed? Dalimont, get my things. Ser Sest will have to look after Mrsha when we tell her where she’s staying. Woe to him.”
Dalimont shuddered, and Nanette happened to know Sest had lost a hand of cards last night, which meant he was caretaking Mrsha. But the [Knight] bowed and was about to step into Lyonette’s rooms to haul her luggage off when he paused, turned, and bowed.
“Ser Normen. Good morning.”
“Ser Dalimont.”
The other [Knight] looked slightly uneasy even now to greet Dalimont like that, and he still looked burnt. Maybe he’d never recover. But Nanette almost curtsied before she remembered she was in different clothes, and Lyonette turned and smiled.
“Normen! Are you feeling fit to be on your feet?”
He should have been resting, and the [Healers] kept coming by to lecture him, but he’d put on his armor and was adjusting one of the pieces.
“The [Squires] need practice, Miss Lyonette. I can watch them and practice my aura and flames if nothing else. Are you leaving today?”
They all headed down for breakfast, and Nanette glanced at the first door across from Lyonette’s room. She wondered if Erin was awake…
The [Innkeeper] was indeed up and on her feet these days without need for help. In fact, she leapt out of her bed in her pajamas.
“Hiyah!”
Erin did a bad attempt at a jump kick. Then a flying click of the heels. She twirled as she landed and did a double-axel spin.
She could dance. And she was watching herself in a mirror as if surprised to see herself pulling off the moves.
Then she realized she had an audience and her door was slightly ajar. The [Innkeeper] froze. She turned, and Nanette stood behind Lyonette just in case Erin threw something.
“Er. Good morning, Erin—”
Ser Dalimont and Ser Normen were covering each other’s eyes because it was improper to see a woman in her nightclothes. The [Innkeeper] turned red and looked around.
“Don’t you dare laugh! I’ve got an acid jar—”
Everyone ran for it as Erin shouted just in case she was serious. Nanette was giggling by the time they came downstairs, and Erin, breathless, followed them via the door.
“I got a new Skill in [Dancer], I’ll have you know! I levelled.”
“So did I! I’m a Level 1 [Reader] now, Lyonette, Erin.”
“Really? Then we have to celebrate! Twice!”
Lyonette was delighted as she opened the door to the beach. A beaming Hobgoblin came out of the kitchen.
“And I have breakfast. You want a small cake, Nanette? I have an ice cream cake for a special witch.”
“I thought you didn’t want to level again.”
Erin was curious as she stared at Nanette. The little witch shrugged self-consciously, though she rubbed at her head. She thought she was getting a headache. Maybe it was stress?
“I thought I didn’t, but it was so nice reading…I guess I thought I’d only go back to being a [Witch]. I wanted to level, though. It’s…fun.”
Erin’s eyes twinkled. Calescent hurried out to the beach where he was setting up a giant pot already bubbling, and then dashed into the kitchen. He came out with a wooden box in which a frost-covered lantern with blue flames was burning.
The portable fridge worked very well, and it required only fuel instead of magic. He opened it and showed Nanette a new product.
“Ice cream cake. You want a slice?”
Me! Me! Let’s celebrate!
Mrsha went ballistic with excitement as Calescent offered it to Nanette, and the girl looked at Erin, who shrugged.
“Maybe after your soup, Calescent?”
“Ooh. Good idea.”
I shall have a slice now, chef.
Mrsha held out her plate, but the chef slapped her paws down as he closed the fridge.
“Is only for people who level. What’s yours?”
This merit-based rewarding made Mrsha explode in fury, but before she could write an essay on the egalitarian nature of giving children cake whenever they wanted it, Erin raised a hand.
“Wait! I have a Skill! I want to see yours, Nanette, but look at mine! Only—you have to promise you won’t laugh. Got it?”
Nanette instantly perked up. She turned to Erin. A new [Dancer] Skill? Erin looked around as if hoping no one was in the inn yet. Fortunately, it was only the regular crowd.
“Did I hear a new Skill?”
Relc looked up from where he and Valeterisa were having breakfast, and Ryoka Griffin nearly tripped as she came downstairs.
“What’s this? A new [Innkeeper] Skill?”
“No! [Dancer]! Now I don’t wanna do it. You’ll laugh.”
Erin folded her arms. Ryoka shook her head.
“Come on, Erin. Let’s see it. I’ve got to pick up Sammial and Hethon in a second…please?”
More people were flooding downstairs, and Nanette looked eagerly at Erin as a bee poked out of the beach garden and more people appeared. As ever, Ryoka had her menagerie of faeries, and a lamb was munching on a salad and staring their way…
Well, it felt like Nerry was staring at Nanette, as much as anyone else, and the witch wasn’t sure why. But all eyes turned to Erin as the [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“Okay. I’m gonna do it. But the first person who laughs gets a [Relc Kick] to the kneecap! No, that’s not my new Skill, Relc. You do it. One, two, three…”
Then Erin did a little run forwards, hopped up…and began running as fast as she could in the air. It was the oddest thing ever—especially because her desperately running feet kept her off the ground longer than they should.
Nanette’s mouth dropped as Erin hovered for one…two…three seconds, then she dropped. Her face turned red from the exertion.
“Whew. See that?”
“Did you just—was that—”
Ryoka was open-mouthed, at a loss for words. But Erin straightened.
“That’s right. I can hover! It’s called [Flutter Step]! And it—Kevin! Kill him, Relc!”
Kevin had begun laughing and couldn’t stop. He clung to a table and pointed at her.
“She’s turned into a cartoon character! No wait, that’s just Yoshi. She’s a Yoshi—”
“I am not! It’s super cool! I’ll stab you!”
Erin chased after him, red-faced because she had probably been expecting just that kind of ridiculing.
Nanette was giggling, even more when she heard Ryoka trying to explain what Kevin was referencing. Then she felt a tug on her boots. She looked down and blinked.
“Oh, hello, Nerry. Do you want to join us for breakfast?”
The lamb had been tugging on her bootstrings. Nanette lifted her up, put her in her lap, and gave her a hug. She and Nerry got along; most people didn’t get the Sariant Lamb’s affection. Nerry was temperamental, bit, and was smarter than she looked.
Nerry gave Nanette a blank look and jerked her head. Ryoka frowned at Nanette.
“Did I hear something about levels, Nanette?”
“Oh, yes, Miss Ryoka. I levelled up. I’m a [Reader] now.”
Nanette gave Ryoka a big smile. But it faltered as she saw the Wind Runner take a sudden, horrified breath in. Nerry’s face was suddenly pained. The lamb stared at Nanette—then struggled and jumped out of her lap. And the little witch didn’t know why…
 
——
 
Now, why was Nanette feeling bad? The Grand Design wondered. It was a mystery. It ignored Nerry as the lamb went dashing into the garden and reappeared in Ryoka’s room for a conference with Ryoka.
It could have listened in, of course, but why would it?
Neither one was going to level anytime soon. In fact…it didn’t even think of Ryoka as a person it could assign levels to anymore. They were meaningless. Unless, of course, the Sariant Lambs passed the Trials of Leveling. Which…it really doubted. A number of species had applied at the start, like Dragons. And more had cropped up over the years and passed!
Fraerlings.
Selphids.
Antinium.
Stitch-folk.
But you know, oddly, the number of species who even made it to the judgment-phase had decreased since the Grand Design’s inception. The last group who’d even made it to judgment had been Crelers, and before them…only the Antinium after a long period of no one even qualifying. If you plotted it out onto a graph, it looked like an exponential decrease of applicants over time.
Well, maybe that was because of the rules. Each tower had to be taller than the last. And wow, the Dragons had gone all out the first time. You might say they’d raised the bar a hundreds feet higher than it had to be, and every other species had made it taller, too.
The Grand Design didn’t make the rules.
It still thought Nerry was an annoying lamb.
 
——
 
From Nanette’s perspective, Erin’s new Skill aside, the first part of the day was eating breakfast, then telling Mrsha she couldn’t stay in The Wandering Inn and that everyone would be living elsewhere.
Which took a few hours! First, they tried to give Mrsha a room at Selys’ mansion, but she fought her way back to the inn. Then they had to wrestle her into a carriage and get her to Magnolia’s mansion, and by the time they did, Nanette had a full headache.
She wasn’t quite sure why, only that by the time Mrsha was sobbing with Hethon and Sammial and the other kids, Nanette’s head hurt.
It was probably the sadness. She knew Mrsha wasn’t just being silly, but…but you had to not get in the way. Nanette knew exactly how Mrsha felt. If she could go back and stay with her mother…
That wasn’t why her head hurt. Something was—off, and Ser Sest noticed as Mrsha calmed down and then began hugging people and resolving to make the most of Magnolia’s mansion.
“We can still visit The Wandering Inn, Miss Mrsha. And in fact, we may be due for lunch? Miss Nanette, is all quite right?”
“I think I’ve forgotten something in my rooms, Ser Sest. It’s no trouble. I have a bit of a headache.”
“Mrsha howling does that.”
Ekirra agreed. Mrsha punched him in the arm, and he kicked her. Ser Sest deftly separated the two.
“Well, why don’t we return—civilly—and partake of some splendid grilled cheese sandwiches with a tomato soup on the side? And a fresh lemonade, I believe. I was instructed to bring you all back if Miss Mrsha was amenable at the time.”
That sounded good, so everyone sat in the carriage for the short ride back. Mrsha was still sniffing, but she turned to Sammial and Hethon.
Are you two staying with us? You’d better be cool. Or else we’ll kick you out.
“I’m cool. I walk around outside all the time.”
Sammial assured Mrsha with pure self-confidence. Hethon hesitated, and Mrsha glared at him.
If I’m stuck with you, I’d better see something cool! We should prepare for the Solstice too!
“By doing what? Father’s digging in. Even Lady Buscrei is here and Oswen’s Marshrangers. There’s not much need for us. I can’t dig nearly as fast as an Antinium. There’s [Sharpeners], [Enchanters], and we could add fortification Skills or plan strategy, but I don’t think we can do any of that.”
Nanette was vaguely surprised to learn that Hethon understood how a battle was conducted. Wasn’t he only fourteen? Mrsha rolled her eyes.
No, fool. We train! I’m gonna practice magic! Can you cast magic?
“I can cast [Embers] and [Light].”
Mrsha’s smug look intensified, and Nanette sighed.
“Classes are canceled until the Solstice ends. Mrsha, you don’t kn—”
Then she thought better of telling Mrsha that she wasn’t going to learn a Tier 6 spell that would change the battle for the better in a few days. If it occupied Mrsha, well…the girl was already self-importantly telling Kenva they were preparing for their ‘training arc’.
She got the weirdest sayings from Kevin. Nanette had a more jaundiced view of things. You could make the amazing happen; her mother and Erin and many people she knew were living proof of that.
