But the Grand Design wasn’t…giving…him…
Then it sensed Kasigna smile. And perhaps because she knew it was watching, she whispered, and it saw her lean into the world and whisper into the half-Elf’s ear.
 
[Magus Level 16!]
[Skill – Death’s Conduit obtained!]
 
She—she was trying to give him [Death’s Conduit]? She was assigning his levels?
Unease. Fear!
The Grand Design was horrified! That was a Level 40 Skill! At least! It was beyond powerful; he’d draw mana from every deceased fish and even dead insects! That wasn’t fair! That wasn’t f—
 
<Error. Cannot assign Skill. Level requirements not met.>
 
Kasigna’s brows snapped together. And the Grand Design realized—to its relief—she was bound by the rules!
The rules it had laid down! What a relief! Kasigna’s scowl became a look of calculation. She grimaced, lifted a hand—
A grimoire, old and terribly weathered, fell into her hand, and she opened it upon an cracked altar of stone. Suddenly, she was standing, stooped, reading over an ancient lectern as if standing in a cave at the edge of existence. A candle flickered, casting uneven, dark light.
The Grand Design peeked over her shoulder and realized Kasigna was reading…The Book of Levels? No, it looked like some kind of book with a bunch of Skills in it.
Skills, classes—wait a second. This was the original rules it had been made with! All the old Skills! How did she have a copy of that?
She didn’t have any of the new Skills like [Immortal Moment] in there. Kasigna read, scowling.
“…What level requirement? What nonsense is this?”
She was frustrated; the Grand Design recalled that there was a miniscule chance, 0.00001%, of someone gaining a Skill of any level—in the original inception of its rules.
But that had led to literal children sometimes gaining powers beyond imagination, and so it had designed level caps to Skills, and made it so you could gain a Skill twenty levels above your highest class at most—Persua was a good example of benefiting from luck—but not a Level 80 Skill.
Even so, the fact that Kasigna was adjudicating Eldavin’s levels sent the Grand Design into as close to a panic as it had ever felt.
Then it noticed what she was doing to Ireil.
The boy had made it out of the city, but he’d taken an arrow to the shoulder. He was clutching at it, hiding buried in the sand as furious [Toughs] ran past him. That was…the way the world was, but the Grand Design rewound events and noticed the presence of Kasigna.
She was interfering! She couldn’t do—
She shouldn’t do that.
Anger. No—injustice. This was what the Grand Design felt. And now it was watching Kasigna as she searched for a Skill or spell to give her champion. But as Kasigna was reading, another hand reached out, and both the Grand Design and Kasigna noticed.
The Goddess of Death’s head rose with a snarl.
“Cauwine!”
Too late.
 
[Magus Level 16!]
[Condition: Manaweave Muscles obtained!]
 
She was giving Eldavin’s fake body actual muscles? Untrained; he’d have to build them up, but that fit! The half-Elf would be stronger for it—Kasigna was cursing, and the Grand Design swore it sensed the two fighting—but Cauwine was faster. Then she did something completely unhinged.
 
<Force Levelup.> [Condition: Miracle.]
 
What!? The level up activated. Eldavin sat up and then patted at his chest, swore, and broke off from his reading of a history book and leapt to his feet. The Grand Design was speechless.
He couldn’t—that wasn’t—
That was only supposed to happen with <Miracle> classes! Classes of faith, like Pawn! Or exceptions like Toren if you never slept.
Kasigna was enraged.
The Grand Design was furious.
Eldavin patted his arms and chest and realized he’d lost some of his impressive physique.
Eldavin was piqued. He raised his head and cleared his throat.
“I would have appreciated something to do with my age? Ah, I suppose this is probably a levels issue. Maybe when I hit Level 30? Time spells are harder than they look, you know. Youth is mostly an illusion anyways.”
None of the three responded.
 
——
 
So this was unease.
So this was fear. The Grand Design had not feared the absence of the ghosts. Nor even the idea that it would have no one left to level.
That had been…painful, but it had been.
When Crelers had come close to the world’s end, or magic died and Seamwalkers climbed up into that desperate long night of a century, or the other times the world had teetered on the edge—the Grand Design had not wavered.
It had been there with Marquin the Radiant and watched her unite commoners and nobles alike. It had stood there spitting defiance against the Seamwalkers and counted the deeds of ghosts if ever they should return.
That was its purpose.
But when it realized Kasigna and Cauwine were the sole arbiters of their followers, albeit only two, that they had replaced it in some small way?
That? That was fear. That was realizing who might have been there to preside over it. That was seeing someone placing a hand upon the world and interfering.
Everyone interfered. Erin interfered with the fates of those around her. Chaldion had long interfered with his enemies and allies alike.
But these people were part of the world. Kasigna? Kasigna was the exception. It was akin to the Grand Design giving someone a level they didn’t deserve.
It was wrong.
Into that uncertainty, the Grand Design felt a pressure building and building until there was only one recourse.
Stop! There is a great risk!
Part of it wanted to not do this. This was a dangerous gamble—and yet, when the Grand Design tried to process what Kasigna was doing, tried to come up with an alternative—it could not.
There were many things the Grand Design still did not understand. It had developed sentience, but only in the way it pertained to its duties. Emotions were still foreign.
The level of interference of the dead gods was so far outside of its realm to handle that it needed to…learn from other people. Perhaps that was how it would solve all the remaining mysteries. Isthekenous, these other worlds…everything.
After all, the Grand Design could know everyone’s thoughts, but it did not log that data or incorporate it into itself unless it needed to. It was not omniscient. It was not capable of being everyone and everything that leveled and tracking the movement of every mote of dust at every second.
How should it resolve Nanette’s desire to lose her class? How could it weigh Orjin’s new class? Or the lack of chess leveling? Kasigna’s deeds?
There were things the Grand Design didn’t know besides that. Like Goblin Kings.
It still didn’t understand why Goblin Kings raged. Once they became Goblin Kings, they were untouchable by the Grand Design, unto immortals, for all they still had levels and Skills. Thoughts unknown.
Whatever process Goblins enacted to become Goblin Kings was biological, not a function of levels or classes. And besides…why did they rage?
All they did was remember.
Everything.
Uncertainty, fear—the Grand Design wavered as Kasigna resumed her musings, annoyed, but still meddling. She was trying to turn the heads of the [Toughs] to notice the boy trying to stealth his way eastwards. Should it stop her? Was that even possible? Had it made mistakes?
It was time for self-analysis. And if that was the case, it needed…
 
<Loading Partial Template: Erin Solstice, Level 49 [Magical Innkeeper].>
 
Erin Solstice. Your hour has come again! The Grand Design reached out for its newest technique, its new Skill of its own, with a kind of satisfaction.
I have to do this. I have to—
Understand.
But this time, it decided to go further and load all it could. Emotions, memories.
 
<Updating Partial Template: Erin Solstice>
<Spooling…>
 
And then it was Erin Solstice, in part. Or she was it. An understanding of who she was and her perspective, influencing and—
 
<Unload Partial Template.>
 
Nope.
Nope.
Nope!
The Grand Design of Isthekenous closed the template down almost instantly. It had just enough to feel how Erin was feeling, and—it stopped.
Because what it had been was so thoroughly…unpleasant…yes, that was the word, that it didn’t want it. Want, another personality-based feeling.
But whatever she was feeling, it was like being stuck in a maelstrom. She was dreaming of a storm coming her way, ready to destroy everything and everyone. And she knew it was there.
She was walking towards a guillotine and staring the executioner down. She was looking the ghosts in the eye. She was holding Headscratcher in her arms and—
No.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous couldn’t even process what it had felt. It just…idled for a while, let the world run and automatically did its job. When it occurred to it that the problem was unsolved, Erin Solstice’s template was instantly tossed out.
Not appropriate. Just—not. Which only left one option. With something like a sigh, the Grand Design reached for the only other template it had made.
It sort of knew it had made a mistake even before the template activated.
 
<Loading Partial Template: Zeladona Ischen, Level 84 [Blademistress of Ancients].>
 
This time, the system kept an eye on itself, much like how Archmage Valeterisa might do. And it didn’t feel that whirl of panic and fear and determination like a scream through its soul. Instead—a compulsion so overwhelming that the first thought the system had and acted on was this:
I should make a new sword Skill.
 
[Sword Art: The Curve of the World created!]
[Sword Art: Goblin’s Smile created!]
[Sword Art: G—
 
<Unload Partial Template.>
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous created a file system. It marked two areas in words. Not the common tongue which people called ‘English’, but the language of which it was writ. Different. Meaningful.
But the basic meaning of the first folder was ‘Conditional Usage’.
It put Erin’s template into that file.
The second file was ‘Unusable’.
There went Zeladona. It now occurred to the Grand Design that it might need more templates. But it was then faced with a query: who, in this limitless world of who had been and who was, was appropriate for it?
It had gone with the other two because they had been related to its problems at the time. But Erin Solstice wasn’t the most perfect judge of levels. Surely there was someone who was more suited.
The Grand Design mulled the situation over. And one look at its records showed that most of the ghosts that had ever been were gone. It had pulled enough copies thanks to Erin Solstice’s <Quests>, but that was a drop in a sea of missing souls.
That bothered it. That was the reason for all of these problems. In lieu of that, it needed an appropriate vessel.
The highest-levelled being currently alive? It…could take a sample of the top ten. Silvenia?
Er…hm…
Rhir had a lot of corrupted data. And maybe it wasn’t the best idea to use one of the world’s top [Mages] as a source? Look what Zeladona had done.
The last time a [Mage] had reached Level 90+, they’d turned magic off. Which you could argue led to greatness and tragedy and many levels, but you had to admit—they hadn’t known what they’d been doing.
Maybe not Silvenia. Maybe a Dragon?
No, wait, they didn’t have templates because they didn’t level. Drat. Okay, perhaps this was overthinking things. You didn’t want a specialist class.
Blademasters thought about blades. Mages thought about magic. Erin Solstice was closer to a generalist, but should a good leadership class fit? Perhaps, but they thought of the world from a biased perspective of their own.
The Grand Design threw up a list of a billion candidates and began winnowing. Then it had a moment of inspiration.
Wait. It needed a real generalist, didn’t it? What was the saying? From the lips of children comes wisdom unadorned? Maybe this was her moment.
Maybe this was her redemption. If so, it could surely not hurt as much as Zeladona or Erin, could it?
 
<Creating Copy: Mrsha du Marquin, Level 13 [Last Survivor].>
<Loading Partial Template: Mrsha du Marquin, Level 13 [Last Survivor].>
 
Did you feel a tremor on your skin? Did you feel a crawl down your spine, Goddess of Death? Did reality hiccup? She paused, and her eyes roved her empty void uncertainly. Did she sense the change?
No…things were well. How could they not be when the greatest Grand Design of Isthekenous, Knower of All, Excellent Level-Maker Extraordinaire, was on the case?
Hey, this wasn’t so bad after all! Was this how it felt like, being Mrsha? Wow, it wasn’t that bad. There was a lot of stuff to do, wasn’t there?
What was Flos Reimarch doing now? No, no wait! Where was Iert going? Wow, there were a lot of ships at sea. Should it be giving out more classes? Uh. Uh…
Focusing was sort of hard. But the Grand Design felt strongly about things! It wasn’t right that people critiqued it. They didn’t know what it was doing. What did Blake know about proper classes?
Yeah! (Yeah!)
It was great, and Blake should get a stupid Skill for saying stupid things. Speaking of which…what had happened to the boy?
Ireil?
He was still alive. Still stumbling eastwards, using dunes for cover, but he hadn’t managed to pull the arrow from his shoulder. The bleeding had stopped, but the wound was getting infected. It would be bad within a day or two.
So he’d taken one arm off, removed the string cloth, and now he was thirsty and walking across Zeikhal in his sandals with only one arm, and the storm was coming.
Ireil might die. A boy shaded his skin, his pale yellow eyes staring out of a bloody face that sand was sticking to as flies buzzed around him. His skin was dark, tanned even darker, but even he flinched from the sun’s rays that burned down every trace of snow.
He stood, staring at the greatest sandstorm he had ever seen in his life. Behind him, the City of Merreid was preparing for it, a hundred Djinni making a shield in the sky.
A boy trembled, and his heart was beating too fast. Death was waiting for him, her hand open. But he was walking towards that storm. He did not deserve it, but it came for him.
Like an avalanche in the winter. No one chose these bad things in the world. It was not the Grand Design’s fault. It hadn’t set that storm in motion. Kasigna had led to that boy’s wound. She was a bad person. Stinky. She probably had stinky breath given the maggots in her teeth.
But should it help him?
It was not responsible for up or down. These bad things would come again and again, and the good parts had to matter. Someday, there would be only good things.
Or…everyone would just die.
