Not for the first time, the Grand Design of Isthekenous wished it had oversight. Someone to check it. That was why it had called on Zeladona and Erin. It wished…
The Grand Design of Isthekenous paused.
And then it wondered who the hell Isthekenous had been.
It began searching.
 
——
 
The powers of the system of levels itself began tracing the world for any knowledge about Isthekenous.
The problem was the following: Isthekenous had an entry, maximum privilege to alter the world assigned to him.
Him?
There wasn’t even a gender, species, or anything else. Just a name. The Grand Design didn’t know its creator.
So it had to use the memories of the living.
Which, er…
No one knew anything. Erin knew he was a dead god. Thanks to her, the Grand Design knew its name. It couldn’t ‘access’ Ryoka Griffin or Teriarch.
What it could access was everything and anything written down, and so it began a systematic hunt for ‘Isthekenous’.
Oddly…no one with that name had ever been born and named since the Grand Design’s inception. There were tons of stupid names or coincidences.
Palt, Pelt.
There was even someone named ‘There’ who had once lived and played havoc with a lot of people’s sentence structures.
But no one had ever been named ‘Isthekenous’.
Hmmm.
The Grand Design noted that. The name had Elven roots. Kenous was a name. In a world with Noass, the name should have appeared more than once.
But never. And also—there was nothing with his name on it. Nowhere. Nowhere here, nowhere there—
Dead gods, you could find writing about Trey that explicitly referenced him. Nothing about the creator of the world’s levelling system!
The only thing the Grand Design knew was what Erin knew…and the comment from the Winter Fae that Hethon had heard:
The other gods killed and ate him.
The Grand Design wondered if they had gotten [Cannibal] classes for that. It kept searching, and finally, finally, found something.
Interesting. There was a record of Isthekenous in the world. But it was buried inside of a spell. The Grand Design peered through the magic itself.
Greetings to whomever finds…truth of the world…sacrosanct…it skipped around until it found a description of Isthekenous along with other names it had never heard before.
Diotrichne? The Grand Design logged details with a vague sense of unease. It felt the magic of the recording of the names warping around it. As if—
Something tried to erase the Grand Design. It canceled the magic and left the spell as magic actually tried to purge the Grand Design itself. It was eating the data—the words—!
The Grand Design canceled the magic as fast as it could, then re-logged all the data it could save and exited that room and backed off the spell.
Aaaah! Damn Elves!
It had no idea magic could do that. Instantly, the Grand Design decided it was never going back and was glad the damn dungeon was buried deep.
Elves. Good thing they were dead.
The data it did have was notes, not whatever the recording had been supposed to play. The Grand Design reviewed them, shaken. It couldn’t even really understand what was being said and needed to use the Earthers’ understanding to piece the information together.
Isthekenous. The God of Designs, of plans. The Wandering Builder. ‘Another’ lost god from a pantheon who had come here to join the others…?
The architect of the ‘folly of Gods’—exact wording from the recording. Wait, was that the Grand Design? That was hurtful.
He…he never finished his work? They murdered him and activated it when the war began with…mortals and gods taking sides and the other worlds burning?
Earth? What other worlds?
This was all confusing. The Grand Design did not like this. It did not like what the words said.
Other worlds? Incomplete?
It was incomplete? There was more, and the Grand Design was more troubled as it read allegations that it did not know if it could trust.
It did not understand. And once more, it wondered if it should reactivate the <Partial Templates>.
The system was normally content not to understand; it liked to predict what people would do, and it generally could. It had predicted, for instance, the moment Raelt of Jecrass would face the King of Destruction.
It knew Raelt’s will. It knew his potential, and so the class had been waiting when the man challenged Flos Reimarch.
The Grand Design was very good at predicting; thanks to its experience, it could do it almost flawlessly—except with the disappearance of ghosts and the advent of Earthers, the calculations had been thrown off.
Anyone that an Earther met was changed. The King of Destruction had woken. Even people who just met someone like Erin Solstice—altered their trajectories.
Take Ylawes Byres for instance. He was hardly her best friend, but his trajectory had altered—for the more interesting, frankly, but altered nonetheless.
Anyone who had interacted with Earthers became a more unknown variable, hence the Grand Design using Erin or Zeladona as templates. They were more interesting and therefore better than, say, a Tulm the Mithril, who, despite being a fascinating example of one of the last [Dragonslayers]—was not as variable to the Grand Design.
Whatever came from ‘Earth’ was not part of the Grand Design and was therefore more valuable as insights went.
Even so, the <Partial Templates> were risky. Erin and Zeladona had both influenced the Grand Design overly greatly. It—hesitated over this extreme.
At this point, just past midday, the Grand Design of Isthekenous had gone through a lot. Actual danger, criticism of its functions, existential angst over the death and murder of its creator…
Yet it had not experienced actual unease, more like alarm, confusion, uncertainty. As it wavered over reactivating the <Partial Templates> function, it was closer to just figuring things out on its own.
But then came the unease as the Grand Design sensed the fourth and final aberration in the world today. And it came from the deadlands.
It came from Kasigna. The Grand Design sensed it like a shock that made it recoil and freeze for one moment.
There was a soul in the lands of the dead, Kasignel. But not a new one, recently dead; Kasigna took them as they perished. This one was old. Familiar. Yet he had been lost, his data copied. The Grand Design focused on him like a lighthouse.
Drevish?
 
——
 
In the lands of the dead, Kasigna stood.
She did not need to have a presence, but she demanded one. Three-in-one. Dead goddess.
Ruler of the dead.
She was a giant, taller than the High Passes, and would have loomed over the ghosts of Giants. She was everything in this plane, which used to resemble the world. Now—it was a void, and she was it—and ghosts flowed into her.
But Kasigna now watched as a man stumped around, muttering to himself. Her fingers pulled at reality, and she was focused.
It was not easy, making the world move. She had more power than any of her kin, but she was still weak beyond weak. It was not easy, coming back from oblivion’s edge.
Yet she had strength to prepare for the Solstice. Her eyes were maws that drank in light and hope. Empty pits of malice. She was a young woman, at first, her hair bright red but faded with death, her smile that of a corpse.
Kasigna wore Maviola’s face—then she was an older woman, teeth squirming with maggots. Then the crone, distinguished with age, the shawl of death itself draped lightly around her.
Final judge. Keeper of souls.
Goddess of Death.
She changed forms, for that was her nature, but what she was striving for was…a return. A return to who she was.
Greatness. Yet even as she tried to be Kasigna, Goddess of Death, the old crone seemed to rot, and her hands began to drip.
The very ichor of gods ran down her arm and threatened to drip into the void. Kasigna shuddered—
Her material form vanished, and then there was left only a memory of her, without the same imperial authority and weight in the world. A bitter scowl across her face. White-haired. Hunched. A corpse’s memory.
“Not yet.”
A single drop of her blood would cost her almost all of her gains. She cursed her wounds. Cursed the other dead gods who had taken bits of her power. Cursed her enemies, most of whom lay dead.
She had to be wary. It would have been easy to open a gate and find supplicants; this world was poisoned against her by Zineryr and his lot. But if she opened that gate, her enemies would have a way towards her.
And wounded or not, widowed or not, that fallen king of fables, that trickster and meddler and self-proclaimed friend of many—
The Faerie King and his court would be upon her too fast if she travelled, even if it meant their end.
“What a clever trap you laid, Zineryr. Even we suffered long. But you could not kill me. And soon you, [Innkeeper], will pay. My hour comes.”
She was preparing for the Solstice. For a masterstroke. You see—it was a game.
A game the like of which she had played in the Courts of the Fae, when they had been friends. She knew it well, a far deeper game than the petty one Erin Solstice claimed mastery of.
The game of gods ran deep, and it was faith and power by any means. She had come from worlds before this, having won and broken rival gods and eaten their bones. Even by this world, she had been one of the eldest. Older than Tamaroth, though he had united others against her when all they strove against was each other.
At this moment, for the Solstice, she was the only one of the six poised to regain most of her strength. Laedonius had fallen and was perhaps being devoured by the outsiders, foul spawn of a corpse, the diseased lot like the destroyers of reality who came to nibble the soul of everything.
Emerrhain was trapped by his own arrogance. Norechl and Tamaroth were beaten by mortals.
Cauwine…was a fool, but a daughter nonetheless. Yet she did not rule the lands of the dead.
Kasigna had more access to wellsprings of power—but she was waiting for the Solstice to claim them. Her nature was death; she drew power from this facet. Her preparations were that of someone laying careful veins in the earth, so when power flooded through her, it would be used best of all.
Yet she was impatient, and she had enough strength to change the world. So she did. She was reaching across the borders of life and death and…nudging things.
After all, if the dead empowered her, why not encourage that? Kasigna was experimenting. Touching the world.
She was so weak she felt fumbled-fingered and out of practice. But even so, she tugged—
—a boy stumbled as he ran from the Labyrinth City, and an arrow struck him in the shoulder. Ireil turned as the Djinnis watched from the walls, for they did not meddle except in crime, and he was a debtor.
“Run, boy. Stop and you’ll die. Duck—”
The boy ducked, and Kasigna scowled as one of the Djinni called down, wearing a goat’s head. She pulled harder, and the boy’s feet slowed.
There was an art to it. Not expending more energy than she gained. Kasigna’s focus was disrupted by a disapproving cough.
“Isn’t that boy innocent?”
“Be silent, ghost. Continue your work.”
“No one silences me.”
Kasigna’s eyes rose and flashed. In her gaze was the enmity that had led her to maim a Goddess of Beauty for being slighted. She had watched Diotrichne slain by mortals and never lifted a finger—for the other goddess had claimed she ruled better and made something finer than Kasigna’s afterlife.
She had called herself the ‘God of Afterlives’ as if she were too good for death! How Kasigna had laughed.
A pot of malice overflowed like the pits of hell itself—but the [Architect], Drevish, was dead. He was a ghost, and he did not balk.
Kasigna smiled at that. She was merciless. Wrathful. And yes, petty at times. A true god, not a new one who ruled with kindness and preached mercy. The old kind.
But she did like some mortals. This one reminded her of her favored ones. She bent and inspected his work.
“I have given you the strength to raise mountains. Why this?”
Drevish was making…a model set, so small that he was leaning over, shaving with a razor and using tweezers to create a miniature concept, like he had made cities and planned fortresses. He had paper, ink, and all of this he had created for himself.
“It is what I know. If you would like me to try with things out of my expertise…”
“No. It suits me, ‘Architect’. Continue, and I will build what you dream of.”
She liked what she saw. She was pleased with the arrogance of a man who had dared to tell her that death itself could be improved. As Zineryr had said, she had once been the justice of all things, even other gods. When she finished exacting her revenge and reclaiming herself, she would be that once more.
She had almost forgotten. But as she watched Drevish work, Kasigna still pulled at the world.
Oh, so gently. She didn’t know if she could yank the boy off his feet or snuff the life out of him with a touch. Even burying his foot in the earth would be far more power than he was worth.
Yet what pitiful, newly-made god would do that? Her touch was lighter than a dream of a feather.
Had you ever felt a voice in your mind telling you to stop when you were running or exerting yourself? The quiet whisper as you stood upon a cliff, to jump?
She was that whisper as the boy ran. Greatly amused, Kasigna watched him—and then frowned. Her head turned, and she narrowed her eyes.
Once again, it is here. She hesitated; Drevish never changed from his task. She had released him for his work; there was no danger from him. He was hers.
But this? This…thing had a presence and a will. She did not like Isthekenous’ last creation. It should not have been able to decide things.
Why was it watching her?
 
——
 
Drevish.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous did not understand. How was the Architect existing?
He was right there. All his levels and Skills and…it was him, but it was wrong. When the Grand Design tried to inspect him, it noticed something new had been added to his data. Aside from his changed objectives—it couldn’t read his thoughts.
What—what was this? Something had been added to him. A label that the Grand Design had never seen.
<Allegiance: Kasigna>.
What did that mean? And what was she doing? The Grand Design realized Kasigna was reaching out, touching something in reality—but it couldn’t tell what. Not yet.
This was where it began employing the means of sight it was allowed. Trying to trace…the Grand Design ran a check on every being in existence. No one else had that odd tag that Kasigna had given Drevish. No on—
Wait. Wait a second.
What was that on Laken Godart’s class? Aaron Vanwell’s?
Eldavin’s?
The Grand Design had wondered how a mere clone of Teriarch could gain levels. But it was like this was hidden from it. It couldn’t…read…Eldavin’s thoughts. Which made sense for a simulacrum of a Dragon. But he had classes.
