Then, as he caught his breath and felt the world moving with his arms and legs, he understood how to make the very earth his fist. When he raised his arms, the air became a living wall, a guard that flexed and moved with him.
No magic could do this, you see. At least, not how Orjin of Pomle was using his newfound abilities.
Not mastery. Not even close! His movements were unrefined; when he stomped and a spire of earth rose in the distance, he had no accuracy, nor was the earth directed. Any Level 20 [Geomancer] could do better.
But a Level 20 [Geomancer] couldn’t understand how to coat their arm in stone or hurl a boulder in a fight. Well, most couldn’t. And this would never leave Orjin.
It wasn’t magic. It was…attunement. If magic died—again—Orjin’s power would remain. Though if the land was turned to blasted soil laced with corruption like Pomle—his abilities would be rendered useless.
It was new.
It was old.
Orjin was not the first to learn how to use the power of the world to his advantage. [Druids], [Wildspeakers], and countless other classes had done this. Never like this, though. That was what was so special.
Yet his abilities had to come from somewhere, and whether the [Martial Artist] knew it or not, the new Skills that he would be receiving when he slept were based on those who had done these things naturally.
Dryads. The power of Elementals. Even Giants; natural beings who used the world like a limb. Of course, Orjin and the newfound classes—[Way of the Elements] disciples and their many permutations—would unlock things more progressively. Anyone could now walk down the road Orjin had opened.
And so, as the Strongest of Pomle shaded his eyes and stood there, weary, muscles torn across his chest, a cut on his arm an inch deep he didn’t even feel yet, his eyes searching for where Xil had fallen and resolved to bury his old friend and mentor in Pomle’s sands—he was victorious.
And the thing that some called the Grand Design of Isthekenous—a title it still wasn’t sure it liked—knew this was good. It rested, a moment, in victory. It was always present, always watching. Every victory was cataloged, every defeat noted. It was the ultimate arbiter, the promise of a reward and recognition for your deeds.
Another splendid day when something new and wonderful appeared. There should be no emotions. But satisfaction nevertheless existed, in some way.
Or perhaps—the amalgamation of data such that his class was a foregone conclusion; each Skill and facet of it in-sync with the world, tailored such that a [Way of the Elements] class fit within the <Martial Artist> category, as well as <Nature>, <Unity>, and <Guardian> principal categories with a network of lesser tags.
Anyone gaining the class could be seamlessly added; the evolutions of the class were mapped, derivations accounted for. If the Grand Design could indicate ‘satisfaction’, it would define it as the creation of new data that meshed with the rest of the data and informed and updated other concepts.
…Yes. Satisfaction was a good word. Orjin’s new class was satisfying in ways other times were not. You see, years or decades could pass without a new class or Skill being generated.
Those times were therefore ‘dull’. Not that the system had conceptualized the framing of events like that; this was a recent development, naming the experience. But it had been dull, then. ‘Now’ was exciting.
This was but one tiny aspect of the Grand Design’s work in the world. A moment of introspection that was meaningless. As Orjin gained his new class, the Grand Design reached out across the world and processed countless other levels, minor victories and defeats. Emotion was meaningless to its job, and it did everything fairly, impartially, regardless of satisfaction or not.
Yet that brief level of self-descriptive verbiage did matter. For, as the day continued, the Grand Design of Isthekenous had cause to define a new emotion for itself that it experienced for the first time:
Unease.
No…
Fear?
 
——
 
Simultaneously with Orjin’s class, the Grand Design sat with a boy in Merreid, the Labyrinth City, one of the richest cities in the world, let alone in Chandrar, a Shield Kingdom. But richness came with poverty, and the boy had rags to his name.
But he’d bought a copper shortsword and enough food—he thought—to trek along the outskirts of the Zeikhal. There was no future for him here, but maybe…he had grown up on tales of the King of Destruction, who let any man or woman or species rise.
A Stitch-boy dreamt the King of Destruction would let him be a [Soldier] and prove he had talent where no one else did. And the Grand Design weighed the conviction and the odds against the boy.
He’d borrowed to buy that sword. The moneylenders weren’t stupid; one had heard the boy had been asking about a map. There were two [Toughs] searching for the boy, and they were watching the gates.
The Stitch-boy yawned. His name was Ireil. He lay back a bit on nothing much of a bed.
A storm was blowing through Zeikhal, the kind that could strip flesh from bone. The boy had over three hundred miles to go before he’d enter territory where he could even hope to scavenge for food. He was thirteen, without family—well, without family to claim him.
A Stitch-man standing guard on the Djinni-patrolled battlements had no idea he had a son with a Human [Escort]; it was rare the two species could comingle outside of deliberate magic, but it did happen. There were Skills that informed mating in many ways, but sometimes it was just…chance. Biology.
The Grand Design did not design species. It had no real conception of ‘biology’ or a mastery of sciences.
It was. When it needed to know information about a body, be it Human, Dullahan, or whatnot, it was not drawing from the same stores of learned memory, be it taught, experienced, or cogitated upon.
The Grand Design was, in some way, Ireil’s body. It had logged his height, his potential for growth, how he’d develop kidney stones due to his inferior cloth kidneys by the time he was sixteen unless replaced, the fraying stitch around his right ear—everything. It didn’t need to know what an organ did; a body moved, and it noticed each contracting and expanding muscle, and if it had to, it could note every single cell’s passage.
It did not, usually, do this. There was an irrelevance to that kind of data as it pertained to Skills and classes in most cases—unless someone was hit by a [Disintegration] spell, survived somehow, and the Grand Design was assigning the right kind of ||Regeneration|| Skill.
It had only done that once, but that had been lots of fun.
That was the power the Grand Design had: to calculate and derive answers based on the world available to it. It could link Ireil’s lineage to an aunt in Nerrhavia’s Fallen and even trace a lineage of Stitch-folk older than Nerrhavia herself. It could tell the boy where to walk to avoid the [Toughs], where food was in Zeikhal, who to ask for coins and who to avoid.
But it did not. Instead, it whispered in the moments before sleep as the boy’s eyes fluttered.
 
[Seeker class obtained!]
[Seeker Level 1!]
[Skill – Weathersense obtained!]
[Skill – Highlight Forageables obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Weapon Proficiency: Swords obtained!]
 
No more, no less. Seeker was a class of conviction; it deserved a bit more than some. The boy had placed his life and fate on the line and knew it.
He wanted sword fighting; it was given. He wanted strength; he had no right to a Level 40 Skill at Level 1. Luck, chance, gave him the other two from a narrow list.
That was how it worked. There was an element of variability in a lot of level ups. Sometimes, for capstones, it was practically set in stone what you should receive. Other times, you might get something you didn’t deserve yet. Or something underwhelming or just strange.
That was how it worked, and it made things interesting. If not always perfectly fair. The Grand Design of Isthekenous did not often reflect upon the nature of its work.
Self-reflection required ego, which it did not have until recently. Now, of course, it did have ego, or at least perspective. It could borrow personalities, like having someone look over your shoulder to critique or suggest.
That was necessary because it had been forced to make decisions that required partiality of late. It had been necessary due to…errors…in the rules it was working under.
The system did not like that. But it had corrected, improved, and all was good. Still, the random element of levels bugged the Grand Design of Isthekenous. It had been assigned rules that governed how it gave levels and made choices. But the self-awareness that the rules were there, perhaps even—wrong—was new.
Even so, it dutifully waited for Ireil to rise, knowing the odds against him were dire. The Grand Design was rooting for Ireil. It rooted for everyone.
At the same time, it was hoping Mallam, one of the [Toughs] hunting for Ireil, kicked the boy over, got his coins, and got some sleep. It was a kind of impartiality; it was always on your side. It was on everyone’s side. All those who levelled.
And no, there was no real fear for Ireil. The Grand Design of Isthekenous might call it ‘concern’, but distant. If the boy died, it might ‘mourn’ a brief moment, but only part of it, the part that was with him. Then it would note his passing and watch as his data moved via other rules, rules that it did not know yet observed, into another plane.
What had been called ‘Kasignel’. Lands of the Dead, as mortals knew it. Afterlife. Purgatory. The Grand Design knew this from the people who lived and died. And from the data of the location.
<Location: Kasignel>. Governed by different rules, yes; hitherto recently, no Skills would function there. But a location nonetheless that the Grand Design was present in.
Yet. And yet.
Someone was changing the lands of the dead in odd ways. Which they had every right to do…perhaps. If Erin Solstice could remove color from a table, if a child could smash a rock against the wall of a house and leave the faintest of marks, the changing world should not bother the Grand Design of Isthekenous.
But when data changed? That—that bothered it greatly.
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous had a problem. And the problem was that it had grown…less intelligent recently.
Literally. Not figuratively. And not because it had found a way to load ‘personalities’.
It had grown vastly less intelligent—or at least, less knowledgeable, and it was aware of this fact. But to understand why, one had to understand how the Grand Design worked.
It did not see. It did not have eyes; it had methods and data. In the same way, it did not have memory or personality; it had rules and more data.
For instance, an [Eagle-eye Archer] was in the middle of Chandrar’s Yoter Peninsula, practicing on the highlands. She was one of the members of the famous tribes of the Great Desert, Stitch-folk who had mastered the bow and once been friends with the Skyfur Tribe—Chieftain Seru’nial’s famous tribe of Gnolls who had mastered the sky—and was firing arrows into a target of old cloth three hundred paces distant.
Six arrows—and the seventh missed. It was a hard shot, and the young woman cursed and glanced around to make sure no one had seen the blunder. Her eyes strained to pick out details that far away; without her Skill, [Eagle Eyes], she would have had trouble seeing the arrows sticking out of the canvas.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous had no such problems. It could be at the [Archer]’s side or right ‘next’ to the target. Yet how did it see? It had no eyes.
It therefore saw from the girl’s perspective and from the eyes of the disapproving master who was raising a rock to throw at her. It could see from the very limited gaze of a beetle on the ground near where the stray arrow had fallen.
Yet it didn’t need those eyes; it could measure the world impartially and tell you where each rock and stone was, where the ground had cracked, and tap into the very data of what was. But it did not control that kind of data; it had no power over rocks, only the ability to note where they fell.
Interestingly, if the Grand Design deemed it necessary, it could also shift the kind of analysis it was running across multiple levels. It could view the world purely as a cause-and-effect of physics: the landing of the arrow, the relative speed of everything moving.
Or it could view the world in what you might call magic-vision, where everything became a unit of magic. Or do the same but measure in temperature.
Or shift into multiple other dimensions, or even open up actual spells.
There was a function the Grand Design of Isthekenous had never had to use that authorized it to use actual magic that had a presence in the world.
It could cast a Tier 9 spell.
[The Impartial Gaze of Isthekenous]. There was no entry for this spell in any spellbook ever written. There was no class that had access to it.
It was a spell that had existed from the very start and never been cast. In a sense…only the Grand Design could cast it.
It never had. Interfering with the world, even to cast a magic spell, was…wrong. And this Tier 9 spell was designed such that it would be unnoticed, unseen, and reveal everything. No magic, Skill, or presence could evade it.
Why was that spell there? Why did the Grand Design have modalities that allowed it to track the world purely in terms of relative heat or motion? It had such incredible systems to ‘see’ with…because it had to.
It had to track the weight of actions and assign value to them. Now, this still didn’t explain why it needed to decipher the world in abstract ways like purely based on magical value. But the Grand Design of Isthekenous had a kind of theory it had processed out as a use-scenario for that Tier 9 spell and its modalities.
It might need these different esoteric functions if it were tracking…beings or concepts that defied the system of levels. Such as what others called ‘Seamwalkers’. Or the ‘Winter Sprites’, which had no known entry in its amalgamations of data.
In fact, that was how it often ‘tracked’ Winter Sprites; not that it took an interest in the levelless when they didn’t interact with those who levelled. Patches of cold air. Movements of the atmosphere. Magic they left in their wake.
Not that the Grand Design bothered. When they had first appeared, oh, some twenty thousand years after its inception, it had followed them around for a long time, but had eventually given up. They had eluded it so many times only to appear in odd places, as if it were fun for them—it had decided they weren’t consequential, and until the appearance of ‘Shaestrel’, it hadn’t assigned any value to them.
