Now, the Grand Design wondered if that Tier 9 spell had been designed explicitly to view beings like the Winter Sprites. But it did not cast the spell; it did not need to know what they were. They had passed no Trial of Levelling; they were not the Grand Design’s responsibility.
Back to the original problem of the Grand Design’s waning intelligence. Given that this was how the Grand Design functioned…it made sense that it could accurately measure and judge every being with levels.
And it did! It had assigned billions of classes. It had levelled people from the day they were born till the moment they died.
In fact, it had even witnessed how, in older ‘ages’—a self-derived concept species used to chart the history of the world—beings in the land of the dead had interacted with the living. They had been able to return as ghosts, be summoned as spirits, and even, sometimes, face resurrection.
||Revival|| mechanisms were so disappointing to the Grand Design of Isthekenous. Well, disappointing and fun. In most cases, the cost was a negative ten levels overall, which it hated to do; but the living creatures often regained those levels and more, so on the whole, it was very entertaining.
Erin Solstice had technically never truly died, so she hadn’t faced the same conditions. Which was sort of a shame. Because if the Scroll of Resurrection had been used on her, she would have been eligible for <Rebirth> classes.
The Grand Design knew these things in two ways: firstly, it knew them because they were in the rules.
Obviously.
Of course.
The rules and the pure data of classes and Skills were the center of the Grand Design. They were unto its body and being; they were the core of what it was. But there was another way in which it ‘thought’, and that was via those who levelled.
Every single person’s perspective and thoughts were part of the Grand Design. It did not think as they did, but it had access to that as its means of understanding the world. Unlike the Quarass of Germina, though, the personalities did not influence the Grand Design. They were more like points of data.
So here was the problem: the Grand Design of Isthekenous had always, always seen the world as an ever-expanding amalgamation of data and insights. After all…even if someone died, they didn’t really die to it.
They just went to Kasignel, or if they met certain prerequisites…elsewhere. 
There were very, very specific rules to where the dead went. And originally, there had only been three locations.
Kasignel. Hellste. Diotria.
Almost everyone went to Kasignel unless they had several very important conditions. If one possessed a <Miracle> class and had several designators that had been rarely assigned since the beginning of the Grand Design’s function—they were sent to Diotria.
Hellste, on the other hand, had a lot more influx, even if it was a tiny, tiny percentage of all dead. If you had an <Aberration> class, <Sinner>, or any number of classes that were…<Corrupted>…
You went to Hellste.
Or if you were a Goblin. The Grand Design didn’t make the rules. And it had carved out more locations over time, made exceptions like the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s power to call upon the dead, and so on.
There was one final clause where if something was marked as ‘<UNACCEPTABLE>’, it would be erased from existence. Data purged. Gone.
Another category that could not be added to anything via a Skill or mechanism the Grand Design was aware of. It was like…something would have to manually assign the value. Something with more authority than the Grand Design itself.
And that was how the Grand Design conceived of something greater than it. It had realized this, oh, 8,742 years, 224 days, 11 hours, and 1 second after its activation. It had never met such a function or being, but that had been a funny discovery.
The Grand Design had learned to think…but that was based on what it knew. And what it knew was everything and everyone.
In Kasignel. In Hellste. In Diotria. In Chandrar, underwater, in the air, even on the moons or flying through the void of space. Not that it knew Xarkouth’s will, only observed the Dragonlord of the Void’s wings still beating, a prayer on his forked tongue for the living.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous wished…the last Dragonlord of the Void was a levelling being, that it might know how he felt. It was curious.
And there lay the problem. Because—the Grand Design had just lost over 99% of all data it had ever possessed.
All the people in Kasignel were gone.
Ergo—all the perspectives and insights and the changing data—for even ghosts could change—had vanished. They had been subsumed into more aberrations in the world that the Grand Design had no entries for. Only names based on the understanding of the living like Erin Solstice.
 
Tamaroth.
Emerrhain.
Kasigna.
Cauwine.
Norechl.
Laedonius Deviy.
 
Each one had removed all the people who had lived and died. [Heroes], [Sages], [Bakers], [Thieves]. Their knowledge? Lost. Their information which was part of the Grand Design?
Gone.
It was such a blow that the Grand Design of Isthekenous didn’t even know how to process what had happened. It still functioned, largely unaffected, but it sensed the void of their understanding, and that was why it had changed things.
The <Quests>? Titles? Everything it had begun to do? A function of that devastating loss. It had noticed ghosts beginning to vanish a thousand years ago, but the rate of new ghosts appearing had actually eclipsed their removal. Yet the pace and speed of the destruction had stepped up exponentially the last few hundred years.
Then—nothing. Kasignel was empty of all data now. Only that being whom the Grand Design could not see through the eyes of remained. It could not sense her presence as a function of physics. She had no temperature. She had no magic.
Yet she was still there. And the Grand Design had combatted the loss in the only way it could: it had given Erin her <Quests>.
Because it had—it had saved as much data as it could. Every ghost Erin had known and talked to needed to be saved for functionality in the <Quests>. Admiral Dakelos’ crew needed to remain for his Skill.
But these were only copies of the data that the Grand Design had made. Backups, if you would, to borrow a perspective from Earther minds. It had designed a requirement that forced it to save the data of nearly everyone who levelled for their potential use in <Quests>, because it had realized once they died they would be gone for good.
A loophole, you see? Was this self-preservation? The Grand Design wondered. And it did think.
It blamed the Gnomes for that. Damn levelless creatures. It had never understood them. But they had come into its very core, a terrifying moment, and written just one thing there…
Ah well. You could regard the destruction of all the Grand Design of Isthekenous’ labors over 80,000 years of work and the potential elimination of all levelling beings in the world as…as…as some kind of emotion, but the fact was it had happened, and the Grand Design was just trying to do its job. It had enjoyed Orjin gaining a new class. New classes were fun.
Speaking of which.
Back to work.
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous assigned a level in Liscor the day of Orjin’s victory. Well, a level and a class.
This was due to Selys making a library and her guests reading. It wasn’t the only class assigned or the only change noted; Selys got experience in her [Heiress] class, but also in her academic and homeowner values and a whole host of areas she might branch into.
Moore almost gained a class, but he still thought of himself as a [Mage], an adventurer. Haldagaz was a rat and could not level. And Visma stole two books and hid them in her dress, which was really advancing her [Snitch] class.
Some Drake children really didn’t get out of their hoarding phases. Visma, [Snitch]—an invisible class even if you used [Appraisal]—[Shaper], a low-level artistic class, and [Student].
She was the most typical of the little kid group who visited the library. They were, in order of importance:
 
Ekirra, Level 12 [Football Striker], Level 3 [Hammerer], Level 1 [Student].
Visma, Level 8 [Snitch], Level 5 [Shaper], Level 4 [Student].
Kenva, Level 6 [Good Student].
Mrsha, Level 13 [Last Survivor], Level 11 [Druid], Level 6 [Emberbearer], Level 7 [Scribbler].
 
And that was definitely how they should be ranked. You see, Ekirra was first because [Football Striker] was a new class. He had contributed to the world by being first to gain the class, and while [Hammerer] might be a dead-end class due to his apprenticeship, it would probably consolidate.
He was a bad student, but his main class was advancing very fast for his age and was rare.
Visma was more atypical, if still strong for her age. She had stolen more things than her parents knew, and she was good at drawing and learning. She’d be tied with your average, promising child with the other two classes. She still hadn’t managed to turn her obsession with dolls or her burgeoning lessons from observing the [Ladies] and the inn’s drama into a class—but she had great promise.
Now, Kenva was actually something of a redeemed case. You see—she’d had [Student] for a while due to her Pallassian upbringing, but she’d been Level 2 most of her childhood. She might do well in class, but she didn’t love it. Nor had being Watch Captain Venim’s daughter given her the same passion. Like many Drakes in a Walled City, her levels had been lower than the average in, say, Liscor.
But coming to Liscor had made her enjoy classes, and she was currently the most active student in Shassa Weaverweb’s classes. Because she was learning more than just academics and law.
Shooting a bow. Learning magic. Identifying herbs and monsters and visiting Riverfarm and other places in Izril—these were things Kenva loved, and her class was changing accordingly. No more scholarly Skills for her.
Mrsha was just…Mrsha. She had gained many classes due to the experiences she had and things she’d survived, but in terms of advancement, she had stalled out like a rock slamming into a brick wall. It was like she didn’t know what she wanted to be and wasn’t making an effort with all of her soul to advance towards a goal.
Children, the ones Mrsha regularly interacted with. Her ‘friends’, which the Grand Design didn’t really acknowledge as an official category in its personal data on her. It was just how she thought of them.
Hethon and Sammial might count, but they were just [Lordlings], and so you’d probably file them behind even Mrsha for boring…wait…oh.
There was one more child.
Her.
Nanette.
She had been a Level 15 [Apprentice Witch], one of the most talented and promising [Witches] of her generation. Subdued, perhaps, by her mother’s shadow, but grounded in magic. Until Laken Godart had removed her class and she had become what some called ‘Rulebreakers’.
Levelless.
What a disappointment. What an odd decision. There was something about it that fit [Witches], even so, and the Grand Design had decided to count her levels while she left her class behind. It was an exception to a longstanding rule; Ryoka Griffin, Admiral Asale, the other ‘Rulebreakers’ wouldn’t have been able to level and, say, hit Level 30 in one night.
But Nanette had done this deliberately, and so her experience was being banked. Yet her walking away from her class was mystifying, even if the answer was grief. Part of the Grand Design wanted to use Zeladona’s perspective, or Erin’s, or make a new one to understand why—but it didn’t need to.
It calculated, it listened to what the people decided, and it rewarded. But the system was delighted, delighted, when it sensed the wavering joy in the little girl’s heart, and a part of it lit up, and it reached out and touched Nanette—and she became part of the world it understood once more.
Here you are.
 
[Reader Level 1!]
[Skill – Magical Bookmark obtained!]
[Skill – Reader’s Temporary Copy (Mundane) obtained!]
 
Only one level and basic Skills, but weren’t they nice? It waited for the girl to wake up as she slept.
Welcome back. You see, that was another thing the Grand Design liked: it understood Nanette, now. It didn’t understand Ryoka Griffin.
When Ryoka wept, it didn’t know why. It could see how Tyrion felt about her, how he longed to embrace her and ask her to shake him and fly and let him chase after her and be something more than his duty. The Grand Design could feel Erin’s love and frustration towards Ryoka, the way Persua obsessed over her—
But not Ryoka’s perspective because she was not part of the system of levels.
Nanette had returned. Huzzah! The Grand Design knew her. It understood her.
It did not understand Teriarch or Taletevirion. Or Haldagaz.
Nerry was an annoying sheep. Erek was an Orangutan.
But Nanette was now, once again, an important person. Even if she had to start at Level 1. The Grand Design began charting her progress instantly, figuring out the levels and classes she needed. What fun! She couldn’t stay Level 1 forever; she had done too much. But if her [Witch] class would remain gone until she picked up her hat…
It began to run some calculations as it waited for Nanette to wake up. And it was everywhere else, too.
In her [World’s Eye Theatre], Erin Solstice was preparing to tell a bunch of commanders about the Solstice event, and there were [Soldiers] to level up, battles to count, and Ireil was running, running out of the city, clutching at a cut arm, and if he could sleep, he would surely level.
All was well. Except that in the morning, when Nanette woke, she had a problem. And the Grand Design of a dead god stopped. Because it had a problem that needed attention, resolution. Something not within the neat confines of level ups and Skills.
There had been more and more of those, of late.
 
——
 
When Nanette woke up, she realized she had a new class and was excited—and a bit let down.
A new class! But only Level 1. Magical bookmark? Not very exciting if it only let her always find her page.
[Reader’s Temporary Copy]? That sounded good. The girl lay in her fluffy bed, covers pulled over to cover even her face, refusing to get out of her warm bed for a moment as her sleepy mind thought. Snow was falling, and outside, Antinium and [Soldiers] were marching around, and someone was clattering around downstairs.
Calescent was making minestrone soup; Nanette knew this because she’d helped make a menu.
Erin was going to tell Tyrion Veltras and the other commanders about the Solstice event.
Nanette, Mrsha, and many of the guests of the inn would be going to Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion.
