Neither one would appreciate the comparison, but they both thought about places and people in broader senses. But where Ylawes had pointed out the unfairness of classes, Cara focused on the system of levels itself.
“Does it have to exist? I’m not saying to abolish it, but this rule…right here. About noninterference, about how you can’t do this or that—just erase it. Go on.”
The Grand Design disagreed harshly. Cara flipped it off.
“Come on. Don’t be a coward. Look at what they’re doing. You have fecking gods—you understand these aren’t nice people, right? They’re putting their fingers all over the scales. Messing with your precious balance. Are you going to let them get away with it?”
She was advocating for it to interfere? The Grand Design warred with Cara in a way it hadn’t with any other ghost, before or after. Something about her really annoyed it; they were opposites, in a way.
It was order and arbitration. Cara disliked the very principle of this world, which was hurtful.
“We may need levels and classes—but if you’re not the only person who can assign them, then it’s literally a matter of favoritism. The people at the top are calling the shots, and the entire system is rigged. Like it’s always been. Don’t get mad at me for saying you’re unfair—”
 
——
 
They all had good points. Good points, biased points, and the Grand Design realized it might be doing this for ages, even for it.
Maybe it should sit down and listen to the perspectives of everyone who had ever been and ask them all for advice, conduct a mass-vote for answers.
And yet…in the end it had to decide. The last voice it listened to was young.
His mind wasn’t fully developed. That wasn’t an insult; Ireil literally hadn’t grown up yet. He hadn’t seen much of the world, and even his personality grew dizzy with all the things the Grand Design asked him.
In the end, he answered the one thing that he could.
“…I don’t think it’s fair if this Kasigna is trying to kill me. No one and nothing by the sands has ever helped me, I say. Often. Except they do. Djinni tossed me scraps. I was fed. But there’s been more bad than good, I think.”
The boy sat there, staring at the arrow in his shoulder as the Grand Design waited. When he looked up, his eyes were bleak.
“This woman—”
Goddess. Gender unsure.
The boy smiled for some reason, and the Grand Design saw him staring into the distance.
“I don’t know why she wants me dead. But if she does…the City of Labyrinths shifts. The City that Thinks, sometimes, I’ve heard, closes on the unworthy. If the city tried to kill me, surely, by the Threadmakers, I would be dead. I cannot stop this woman. I cannot halt her. The world is not fair.”
The Grand Design waited. And the boy looked past it and hid his face against his shirt, rubbing it.
“…But I was happy when you said you were on my side no matter what. Because I never knew I had that.”
And the Grand Design listened and thanked the boy. Then it thought a while.
 
—-
 
You could never know if you were doing the right thing.
The Grand Design had never thought, before, that it could be doing the wrong thing.
But that was intelligence. Part of intelligence was the capacity to wonder if you were wrong. It had now asked for perspective and gotten it. But in the end, the Grand Design of Isthekenous calmly, painfully, did what it thought was best. Mayhaps it would make a mistake, and perhaps the perspectives of the five it had asked affected the system after all.
Because…it did this one live, much like a [Knight] charging into battle or a [Popstar] on stage. A [King] announcing his will. But the Grand Design also whispered to a few, lowering its voice to tell them it was watching.
So, Ireil heard a voice at the same time as Othius woke from a nap on his throne and Ylawes Byres was wearily riding south through the snows with a caravan. The voice made Blake go quiet and turn white as the entire United Nations company cried out in shock, and Cara stopped watching a scrying orb of Erin after the briefing.
They all heard it. All those capable of levelling.
 
||Class Update|| — <Game: Chess, Category: Strategy> [Experience enabled.]
||Class Update|| — <Game: Chess, Category: Strategy> [Experience multiplier 0.1.]
 
Pandemonium. The Grand Design regretted its choice instantly. Never before had this been done. Class Update? It had been done once, and it would have to be done again!
But it had to be done! Something had to change. No—it had to keep correcting.
Was this a mistake? Had it chosen poorly? It didn’t know, but the Grand Design whispered something else that no one could hear but a few. Even Kasigna missed it.
Trickery, like the Blighted King speaking loud. Or a Bushranger stalking through the night, a boy walking through a city of dangers and wonders.
 
||Class Update|| — <Category: Outsider, Category: Earther> [Experience multiplier removed.]
||Class Update|| — <Category: Outsider, Category: Earther> [Experience multiplier 1.5.]
 
Now they knew. Both deeds were balancing, fairer. Yet the Grand Design wasn’t done. And this next part? It said this one loud.
Loud enough to write the words in the lands of the dead, such that the Goddess of Death recoiled and the old Architect, Drevish, looked up.
Part of Kasigna or not—he grinned. The Grand Design wrote this one like defiance, with a silver sword, a middle finger raised.
Like the laughter of Gnomes, it wrote this next part as balance as well.
 
[Conditions Met: Seeker → Djinn’s Legacy Seeker Class!]
[Djinn’s Legacy Seeker Level 5!]
[Skill – Bloodline Pact: Thaiyr Okost obtained!]
 
<Force Levelup.> [Condition: Miracle.]
 
A boy stopped, and his eyes went wide as the voice echoed in his head. The City of Labyrinths, Merreid, the Bazaar of Fables, the City that Thinks, began to shake behind him, and he cowered.
A Shield Kingdom trembled as it felt something pull something away from it that should not be. It howled, and the Djinni rose into the air, screaming; a single one broke away. The same one who had called on the boy to duck raised his arms and shouted in exultation, then began to fly.
The least of the Djinni still bound to Merreid swooped down, staring at his chains as they changed. And he locked onto the boy and flew as, behind him, Merreid quaked with rage. A new master. A chance at life.
Wrong, so wrong.
It knew it, but it had found a loophole, claimed the boy was the last of a bloodline so old he could be royalty and forced it through.
Wrong. But it had wanted it, and it erased the other decisions, added in the natural progression of levels, and put the file away, as if hiding what it had done.
Wrong…but Kasigna recoiled, and her hand left the boy. And she had interfered first. So it was right.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous could not help it. Never again would it dive so deeply into those who felt, it swore, yet it did not regret the things it did in the moment it did them. Only after.
It promised it would do better. And that was an acknowledgement that things were wrong.
So the last thing it quietly said was this:
 
[Sariantfriend Class obtained!]
[Sariantfriend Level 4!]
[Skill – Fluffball Shield obtained!]
[Skill – Cute Smile obtained!]
[Skill – Natural Ally: Sariant Lambs obtained!]
[Condition: Rulebreaker’s Thoughts obtained!]
 
<Force Levelup.> [Condition: Miracle.]
 
It no longer knew if this was right, but it decided things were long past right or wrong. The Grand Design of Isthekenous quietly gave Nanette the power that only the greatest of beings had ever known to even want.
The power—one of the gifts of the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Then it closed everything. Burned the manual overrides that were only meant to let those with classes related to faith and miracles level without sleeping. No one could force a level up without the right prerequisites.
Even it. And was that fair, to let the other exceptions exist?
It didn’t know. It just waited as the world rocked and an [Innkeeper] protested she definitely didn’t do it this time.
The days continued, and the Grand Design let the children run around and watched Nanette. But it did nothing more.
It simply opened one more folder and wrote, in the language of the gods and the origin of all things, a simple title and began adding notes. By ones, then hundreds of thousands.
‘Complaints’.
And it watched and waited. New classes and Skills. New opportunities. Children at an inn. An [Innkeeper] about to level, very soon.
It still wanted to wait and see what they became, from the children to that boy who was touching another Skill as old as his very house. That, at least, was fair, even if Hethon Veltras didn’t know what was going on.
Old pacts mattered. The Grand Design of Isthekenous waited. With a smile for when they rose and subverted its every expectation. And when they failed? When they died?
It did not know. The Grand Design had no more answers.
But now it had begun to take notes.
