But it was hard work. It was always hard work, and…Nanette felt at her bag of holding. No, not there. She had the skeleton key and the elemental stones, her gifts from the trades, right there. The Whistle of Friendship was hanging around her neck.
What was she forgetting?
 
——
 
Nanette wasn’t the only person who looked preoccupied after the big announcement of the Solstice event. In fact, the common room of The Wandering Inn was so packed with talking [Soldiers] and officers that there was nowhere to eat. The [World’s Eye Theatre], ditto!
Ishkr was moving around in overtime to serve people the handy sandwiches and soup, and he directed the kids into the only available spot.
“Beach. There are blankets—can you eat there?”
“Miss Mrsha needs a proper table—”
Sest began to object, but Mrsha grabbed her sandwich and was running into the beach before anyone could stop her. But she had to run back and grab Nanette’s hand.
Nanette, come on! What’s wrong?
“Th-that’s Perorn Fleethoof!”
Nanette was pointing at a Centaur surrounded by people. She couldn’t spot Erin; the [Innkeeper] had vanished, but of all the times for Erin not to be present!
One of the most famous [Strategists] in the world was cooly shaking Saliss’ hand as half a dozen Centaurs tried to censor the naked Drake from their beloved commander. Palt was hopping around behind Perorn, practically dying to talk to her, but clearly too afraid to speak up.
“I—I want to say something to her.”
Nanette wasn’t sure what, but she had heard stories of the fearless Centaur who could speed across a continent in days. Perorn’s right back leg even had that huge scar, and she was favoring it. Her own student had done that to her in battle…
No wonder Ishkr looked so happy. In fact, Perorn was dipping her sandwich in the soup, copying Kevin.
Damn you, Kevin! How did he act so relaxed? Then again, he had to deal with Fetohep as a client regularly. Nevertheless, Nanette began to understand the Kevin-hatred that a reasonable subset of the inn’s regulars had developed.
For some reason, the sight of Perorn made Nanette feel like she’d forgotten something. Again. And her head hurt so badly that she excused herself.
“Go eat without me, Mrsha. I’m going to see what I forgot.”
Your loss. I’m gonna get Perorn’s autograph. She was at the Meeting of Tribes, and we’re practically warbuddies. If you want me to introduce you.
That little white Gnoll looked so smug that Nanette twitched. Her head turned, and she looked Mrsha in the eyes with a calm smile.
“Good idea, Mrsha. The Titan of Baleros is Perorn Fleethoof’s commander and longtime friend. I’m sure she’s used to dealing with obnoxious short people.”
Mrsha’s mouth fell open, and Sammial laughed at her as Nanette stomped away. The witch didn’t realize she’d been overheard until she heard a gasp. She turned—and every single member of the Centaurs, the Forgotten Wing Company’s mercenaries—were staring at her.
As well as Perorn Fleethoof herself. Nanette froze in place. The room went quiet, and then someone began laughing.
Perorn began chuckling, and laughter chased after Nanette. She fled upstairs, beet red, ignoring the calls for her to come back. Mrsha, meanwhile, was lying on her back.
 
——
 
It was a good, fun day full of excitement and joy. Why was her head hurting?
Yeah, why was it hurting?
Two…beings…were puzzling on this one in Nanette’s room a few minutes later. One was a little witch. The other was a being made out of the very firmament of this world.
Neither one understood, at first. But Nanette knew it had something to do with her room. She looked around.
“My pillow?”
She wasn’t attached to her pillow or her bedding that much. She was used to living rough. Nanette walked over to her bed and realized she hadn’t made it. Silly of her. A neat bed was a neat mind, or so Witch Agratha said.
Actually, that was probably a good reason not to make her bed. Nanette paused, then looked around.
“No. I don’t need ink or a pencil…I didn’t make a copy of a book yet…what is it?”
She had one of the Lightning Thief novels on her desk and tried out her new Skill. An exact replica of the book appeared, but it felt lighter, and Nanette got the sense it wasn’t really paper. She hefted it up and down and resolved to take the original back to Selys—or give it to Ishkr.
But that wasn’t it. Her head throbbed, and something was wrong. Nanette squeezed her eyes shut.
“Witch. Witch…you are a witch.”
Then she realized she was doing this the wrong way. Her mind was locking itself down, like someone had pinned it. She wasn’t thinking intelligently—because she couldn’t.
But a [Witch] was taught how to think about the world. So—Nanette closed her eyes and spun around the room slowly.
Her mind pulsed, and she stopped, pivoted—waited until it hurt the worst, and then opened her eyes. When she saw what she was looking at, Nanette strode over.
“My blackboard notes.”
That was what was causing the mental disturbance. Nanette re-read her notes, now. Sounding out each sentence.
The ordinary, basic notes about her buying socks and the reminder to pack up? They became something completely different. Nanette stared as she read something completely nonsensical. And unsettling.
 
Important: Meet with Nerry every single day.
Idea! If Perorn Fleethoof is coming, is that one of the people Nerry needs to respect her?
What level is Lord Xitegen?
Crossbow-Nerry harness! I can’t get it working. Maybe Kevin can help?
Don’t forget! Lundas is when we’re going to Magnolia’s mansion!
I need new socks. Silverfang patterns?
 
What…what was that nonsense above? Meet with Nerry every single day? Why? Respect Nerry? What was this?
It was in Nanette’s neat handwriting, and the question about Xitegen, giving a Sariant Lamb a crossbow? Then Nanette’s eyes swung to her desk, and she saw something else.
There were blueprints on it. Sketches of a cute little lamb and a crossbow strapped to her back! Nanette could tell she’d drawn it—she’d given Nerry huge, crossed brows, and the concept had Nerry biting a ‘trigger’ to fire it.
But she’d completely overlooked them this morning. Even as she stared, Nanette’s head hurt, and she clutched at her temples.
“Something’s wrong. I’ve been—hexed!”
That was the only thing she could think of. It wasn’t exactly the same, but this feeling of unwellness?
Something is wrong. Something about me has changed, and I cannot remember what it is.
A witch had to know herself. And clearly, a witch did know herself. Nanette went stumbling back to the blackboard. There was something on it. In a tiny corner, written there, Nanette saw a final note to herself.
 
If you don’t remember writing this, you’ve become part of the system of classes and levels again. Turn the blackboard over.
 
Nanette stared at the words, and her heart began to race. She had left a message to herself? Of course she had. Slowly, she turned the blackboard over, and a message was scrawled on the back.
 
In the pillow.
 
The little witch’s head turned, and she stared at her bed. Her eyes narrowed.
 
——
 
There was a scroll in the middle of all the fluff of her pillow. Nanette pulled out the tube and began to read. Every few seconds, she rubbed at her eyes, then forced herself to read the words out loud.
 
Dear Nanette, this is a letter to yourself in case you ever forget. I’ve told Ryoka to remind me, and Nerry too, but there are notes everywhere. 
I’m not certain they’ll work, but you have to remember: you promised to help Nerry with…
 
And then her brain fuzzed out. She could repeat the words, even say them out loud, but their meaning was lost the moment she uttered them. Nanette tried again and again, but then skipped to the bottom.
 
…Emperor Laken can remove the classes. If you gain a class—remove it again and remember. It’s very important. It’s the most important thing you might ever do.
By your hat, and on Califor’s name, you promised, Nanette Weishart. Don’t ever forget!
—Nanette.
 
And the witch girl sat there and tried to remember, and she tried and tried until someone knocked on her door.
“Hey, Nanette? You okay?”
Ryoka Griffin and Nerry were there. The girl looked up, and Ryoka saw the blackboard and notes.
“Oh, thank goodness. It worked! You read your note like I told you to?”
“You told me to read the notes? I don’t remember, Miss Ryoka. What—what does this say?”
Nanette held up the scroll with trembling hands, and Ryoka’s face went slack. She read the words out loud and looked at Nanette as Nerry stared at the girl with troubled eyes. Nanette heard nothing at all.
But now she knew it. And then she began to get angry.
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous had never—okay, fine. It had seen people do this before.
But even so, it was impressed. Many people had tried to remember what they were not allowed to. They had come up with clever methods, and some had even succeeded.
The last Harpy Empress, Sheta, had been one of those, but she’d done it within the rules. Nanette? Nanette was trying to break the rules.
She hadn’t even noticed there were notes sewn into all of her clothing, but she’d find them eventually. The problem was—there were rules.
She was not allowed to know. Nerry was not part of the system. She was waiting on approval. Ryoka was not part of the system. In fact…she didn’t even have an entry. Weird. Had…something removed it?
Impossible.
The Grand Design automatically tracked and logged the deeds of even potential applicants like Nerry and Ryoka in case they rejoined it as levelling people, but Ryoka’s entry…where had it gone?
All the data the Grand Design appended was just vanishing into a void. It tried to fix it three times—and Ryoka’s entry wouldn’t reappear or come back. It couldn’t even make a new file on Ryoka.
In the end, the Grand Design created a ‘Ryoko Griffin’ entry and logged everything new in there. If it had to reinstate her level…
Well, nevermind that now. Nanette was being affected by a function that prohibited people from helping with any species undergoing the Trial of Levelling. The Grand Design was even allowed to affect other species, like the Lucifen and Dragons, with this rule; if you had passed, you could not help or even be allowed to remember what was going on.
The fact was, Nanette figuring out she had forgotten was impressive to begin with. That trick with her thinking about herself in the abstract like that? [Witches] had taught each other that trick, and there were Skills that let people do that, but Nanette had mastered it without even needing [Second Thoughts].
Very impressive. But it would avail her naught. Even so, why was she so mad? The Grand Design observed, and Nanette’s next intentions alarmed it greatly.
Wait a second. Nanette was getting up, and she was going to ask Emperor Laken Godart to remove her [Reader] class?
Wait—the Grand Design read her thoughts and intent as Nanette came up with the idea. It could not predict what people did, not perfectly, but it could hear their thoughts when they were articulated.
She was going to give up on her class? Just like that? But wait—wait—wasn’t it promising? She could level up! Why was she turning it down?
Because of that rule that she’d forget about lambs and their Trial of Leveling? Just for that?
The Grand Design of Isthekenous realized it didn’t understand. In fact, this wasn’t the only thing it didn’t understand.
Two other things were happening at this very moment that were odd and outside of its expectations.
 
——
 
The first thing was a conversation happening with a group of [Strategists]. Well, not just [Strategists]; there was Jericha, Stappest—one of Chaldion’s underlings, his most favored [Strategist], though the Drake didn’t know it—two officers of House Veltras, and one of Fleethoof’s [Tacticians] all trying to have a cordial chat.
It was a bit of a stilted conversation, given that none of the groups were particularly at home with each other, but they were making an effort. After some standing around and light conversation that was so dull as to be boring…
“Grilled cheese sandwiches? Sounds like a Vaunt thing.”
“Aha. That’s a city in the north, isn’t it?”
“Yup. Makes cheese. I’ve been there. They love it.”
“That sounds like a few Drake cities I know. Absolutely crazy about one food or another. Ever had Salted Roast Prelons? This city I know, Cellidel, eats Prelons all day and night.”
“I’ve never had a Prelon, actually.”
“Really? You should try one. You can get them in Oteslia—they’re not bad.”
“Aha. Maybe I will.”
Conversation so amazingly dull it made half of the participants look to the bar for a drink. Then Stappest cleared his throat.
“I know we’re all technically at odds, but Commander Fleethoof was right. We’re in this together, and we might as well cooperate, or at least show some unity. Amiability matters. Let’s break the ice, so to speak. We could—play a game of chess? Does anyone here like the game?”
The mention of that made all the officers look up, and Jericha nodded, fiddling with her spectacles.
“I do play.”
“Me too.”
“Naturally.”
All the officers agreed at once. Chess was one of those universal games among a certain group, and every officer knew it. Yet one of the [Strategists] for House Veltras sighed.
“I’d love a game, especially against the [Innkeeper] herself. I was looking forwards to it when I got the call. I’m on the coast most of the time. Rellowaters. Do you know it?”
The others shook their heads, and the Centaur, Haere Solhoof, tossed her head. She was taller and bigger than most of the others by far, being a Centaur, and still windblown and cold from her run. But she was looking around The Wandering Inn with delight, especially because she’d seen both Charlay and Palt about.
“I might pass on the game given there’s not much point anymore. But tell me about Rellowaters.”
One of the Drakes declined with a frown, and the Human [Strategist] rubbed at his head. He had white hair and was named Arwell Veltras, a minor member of the house, actually.
“Rellowaters? How can I summarize it best? My uncle’s half-Drowned and rules that coast. We get lots of monster incursions; I’ve seen combat and fought in a few battles, but the hairiest encounter I ever ran into was fifteen sword crabs that went berserk after slaughtering a Creler nest. They tried to sack a town. Four hundred [Soldiers] had to hold them—that’s the worst action Rellowaters has seen.”
The other Drakes snorted, amused by the tale, but Jericha winced, and Haere Solhoof whistled.
“You probably had low-level [Soldiers], right? And you had how many [Mages]?”
