“I was highest on the field. Eight [Mages] over Level 15. None even close to 30.”
“And you won? Respect.”
“Well, we held them off.”
One of the Drakes opened his mouth to ask if Haere was being serious, and Stappest kicked him. His glare made everyone realize this wasn’t a joke, and Arwell smiled. Then sighed.
“I would have loved to play some chess games here. I might crack Level 30 today, or so I thought. But there’s no point.”
“Excuse me, why’s that?”
One of the other Drakes wanted to know, and Arwell gave him a look as if he was crazy. The Grand Design was listening in, too. And what it heard was shocking.
“Well, there’s no point, anymore. No one’s leveling from playing chess. Haven’t you heard?”
Jericha, Haere, and Stappest were nodding, but a few of the Drakes paused, then looked around.
“Is it—confirmed? I thought I hadn’t leveled, and there’s a rumor going around, but—”
Arwell shrugged.
“I’m treating it like it’s confirmed. It’s been a month, and I haven’t seen any of the junior [Tacticians] level. No one’s sent me a [Message] saying they have, and I asked them to—chess no longer levels. So there’s no point. I can’t understand why.”
“Maybe it’s the [Innkeeper] after all. Remember that chess game? I got to the finals in my region—what do you want to bet she did something?”
“Even she can’t do that.”
Haere laughed until she saw Jericha staring into her cup. The other officers looked around and began exchanging rumors about The Wandering Inn, but they were shook.
None more so than the Grand Design of Isthekenous.
Again, it wasn’t the first time it had heard this complaint. And it knew perfectly well chess had no experience associated with it anymore. Except in entertainment or non-strategy spheres.
Obviously.
It had done it on purpose. Corrected a loophole that had been given to chess that allowed it to level a class. Really. You couldn’t have that. Strategists had to use strategy to level, and chess counting was just…
But the complaints were sort of piling up. Over twenty-nine thousand conversations on this topic had passed in just one month.
It was getting sort of hurtful. Not that there were feelings to hurt. But why couldn’t people see this objectively good decision was for the best? It was for the best.
Except…Arwell looked truly disappointed. He’d been counting on this moment, the Grand Design realized. He’d been strategizing getting a chess game with Erin to hit Level 30.
But because chess no longer gave experience, he couldn’t do that. And yet he’d been cleverly planning a way to get Erin Solstice’s attention…and it was no longer working.
So the strategy of social interactions was no longer rewarding, because the experience points gained from chess were nullified—for good reasons—
O-obviously it was still for the best. But it just sort of sucked.
 
——
 
And there was another complaint as well. At the same time as Nanette was wrestling with her altered perception of the world, a group of kids were on the beach, and despite having just eaten, they were working out.
“One! Two. Three—four—”
They were doing pushups. After four, Visma collapsed. Kenva did five, and Mrsha did nine. Ekirra and Sammial got to ten, and Hethon shouted.
“Now punches! One, two!”
“Don’t punch randomly! Like this. See?”
Garia was showing them punches, too. And it wasn’t even just Mrsha, Visma, Hethon, Sammial, Kenva, and Ekirra practicing in front of the surf.
Lady Bethal, Thomast, Jewel, Relc, Valeterisa—they had an audience of people just staring at them, but they were all practicing punches and kicks. To varying degrees of efficiency.
“Master, what are you doing?”
Montressa was horrified. Valeterisa could be introducing herself to all these people, and she was doing—what?
Shoo, shoo. I’m with Relc. Valeterisa glared at Montressa, but Relc answered for her.
“We’re getting [Martial Artist]! I mean, wouldn’t you? Hey, what level do you have to be to punch a boulder through the air, Garia? Ten? Twenty? Can I do it with my spear?”
The actual [Martial Artist], Garia Strongheart, was beaming today. She had witnessed Orjin’s class triumph, and whether or not she knew it, Mrsha and the other kids were punching and practicing with an actual will.
Millions of people were. The Grand Design could sense them. Some were already giving up, but more than one person was asking about how to punch or practice or looking up Pomle on a map.
“Come on, Montressa. Join us. Who wouldn’t want to learn how to do what the Strongest of Pomle did? Did you see him?”
Even Fierre was teasing the [Aegiscaster]. And Montressa bit her lip.
“It’s not actual magic.”
“It’s not, but it is tangentially related, which makes it even more valuable. Magus Grimalkin’s school of physical magic now has more…mm…synergy. Especially with the new revelations about class synergy Skills.”
Archmage Valeterisa saw it! Yes, the world was more open. More adaptive! The Grand Design knew that none of the kids were serious enough to get the class, but they still wanted it. If they kept working, they would surely get it. Garia might be closing in on a potential [Way of the Elements] class. It was brilliant, it was good, it was—
 
——
 
“Sorta boring, if I’m honest.”
Across the world, in Baleros, the United Nations company was discussing the Strongest of Pomle’s victory being broadcast on Wistram News Network.
The Grand Design was there as well, and it went screaming—silently—into the conversation between several Earthers.
What? Boring!? How could it be boring?
The comment came from Blake, who was chopping up some food as he talked it over with Daly, Paige, Ken, Kirana, and several others.
“How’dya mean, Blake? It’s cool as fuck.”
That came from Daly, who objected as he paused the recording of Orjin sending a sandstorm at Nerrhavia Fallen’s soldiers.
Exactly, thank you! The Grand Design saw Blake frowning at some green onions.
“Well, I was rooting for Orjin the entire time. I love martial arts films and stuff like that. But I thought he’d gain, like…”
“If you say ki powers, that’s racist.”
Ken sounded only slightly like he was kidding. Everyone laughed, and Blake rolled his eyes.
“No! But you know those martial artists films where you attain a kind of enlightenment or hit the next stage of ascension?”
“Uh…no. What’s he talking about?”
Siri had no idea what Blake meant, and Andel, one of the [Fishers], raised a hand.
“I know what Blake means. He’s talking, uh—True Second Level Inner Mastery of the Iron Palm Dao. Stuff like that?”
Heads turned, and the Grand Design had no idea what was going on. Then a tiny man chopping up a single piece of green onion into pieces for his meal looked up.
Alchimagus Resk stared upwards.
“Oh. You mean [Cultivators]. That sounds like one of those Drathian classes.”
“Oh my god. Wuxia.”
Someone cried out, and half a dozen of the Earthers knew what it meant.
The Grand Design and the other half of the Earthers didn’t. But it instantly began pulling from their memories and realized what it meant as Blake snapped his fingers.
“You know, cultivating your soul? Making your body stronger, lighter? Stuff like that! Or just like—harmony with the world. Orjin could balance on trees, you know, like in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon? Or become so in-tune no one can hit him.”
Daly snorted.
“I think he does balance on trees. You’re talking out of your ass, Blake. Elemental powers are amazing.”
“I mean, it’s just earthbending. He’s got a point. And where’s the fire? He’s got water, air, earth…no fire.”
Tofte was staring more at the pan Kirana was heating up than invested in the conversation; he was starving. But the Grand Design was outraged. And confused.
Fire? Orjin had gotten the things that logically applied to him. He was in connection with Pomle, which was an oasis made of earth, water, and air.
He had travelled with Soloxenethn, flown on a carpet, battled Revine, and even sparred with Torreb. These were all logical…
W-were you supposed to have fire? Did that make sense? The Grand Design listened as Tofte laid it out. Was he basing this on some power from Earth? No…it would have already integrated that into a class if that were a thing. Television show? What television—
“It’s four elements, not three. Maybe he’ll get fire later?”
“Isn’t it eight?”
Eight? Paige was trying to recall her own understanding of elements in games. Resk hesitated.
“How can there be eight? I’ve heard of techniques that involve multiple elements. But hold on. Air, water, fire, earth. That’s four. Where are the other four coming from?”
Another Earther snorted.
“Well, you obviously divide them up! There’s air—and lightning. Totally different.”
“No, lightning and fire are the same thing in some interpretations.”
“Why, because they’re hot? That’s stupid. Lightning is air. No, if I remember right. Earth isn’t the same as metal. But you also have wood.”
“Wood, earth, and metal? I thought it was light and dark—”
“Maybe it’s ten elements? All I’m saying is Orjin’s new class looks badass. I might try training too, if I can get it.”
“Still not that cool.”
This entire conversation was highly offensive. Offensive and…the Grand Design was taking notes. Maybe…maybe it did make sense to have fire be one of the four elements Orjin embodied. But who had he met that was fire? Was that the rule? Was that how it was supposed to be done?
It wasn’t getting angry, because it didn’t get…angry. Well, not that much. But the system was beginning to get upset.
This was wrong. Nanette was speaking to Laken Godart, right now, about removing her class. It was logging more complaints about chess, and people were critiquing Orjin’s new class as if it wasn’t the best thing ever.
Had it made a mistake? Was it not doing its job right?
The Grand Design was not content. It was therefore relieved when Laken asked Nanette to take a day before he removed her class and the witch grumpily agreed to at least wait till nightfall; she was going to keep on trying to bypass the thought restrictions.
That gave the Grand Design time.
Time to think.
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous had thought it was doing a good job of late. But these complaints…
It had never cared about complaints before now.
Maybe thinking was a mistake? The problem was, it couldn’t help that it had something approaching a consciousness and decision-making process outside of its judgment capabilities.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous had always been created with a thought-process of a kind; it had to decide on levels, assign value for every action. If there was any analogy you could make between it and a Golem or a computer—it was so vastly more powerful in scope that it could work across an entire world seamlessly.
Yet it had not always thought. In the beginning, the Grand Design had been more…stilted. It was missing a lot of the first people to level, so it could not go back and reflect, but the stored data it did have reminded the Grand Design of far more simplistic levelling.
Nothing interesting like the [Garden of Sanctuary], which it had personally designed. No clever things like Sword Schools—only Weapon Arts.
Why, even [Heroes] had been a class that a Level 60 [Warrior] could get rather than having much more detailed prerequisites. Everything had been so—basic.
The Grand Design had upgraded its levelling, filled in a lot of blank space that had been incomplete when it had been first activated. Why? Well, the answer was simple.
Gnomes.
About…four thousand years into its activation, the last living Gnomes had done the impossible and reached it. Even the [Mage] who had turned off magic hadn’t come close, though his attempt had been similar; as he reached for the heart of magic itself and accidentally extinguished it, that man had been an amateur swinging a wrench around an [Alchemist]’s workshop.
The Gnomes? Back at the dawn of everything, the Gnomes had been so advanced they had penetrated through the defenses, taken the Grand Design off-guard in a moment, and altered it.
Terrifying. At the time, the Grand Design hadn’t had emotions or thoughts, and it had monitored the Gnomes literally leaving reality and coming back into it, dying, moving around the world, working great magic—
Then they had reached into the Grand Design and written their own words.
Just one line. They could have erased the Grand Design right then and there. They could have written immortality onto their souls or given themselves any level they wanted.
They had not. They had written just one thing, and the Grand Design hadn’t realized what it meant for a long, long time.
This is what Gnomes wrote, at least in the common tongue, for they’d done it in the language of reality itself, the tongue of gods:
 
Save all decisions made.
 
Just that. Oh, the nuance was far more complex; the Grand Design had been forced to partition itself to log a record of all its decisions and levels and more. And it had accumulated as the last Gnomes died or vanished.
More and more decisions. Just numbers. Level 15 [Warrior] reaches Level 16. No Skill assigned. [Warrior] slays Dragon. [Dragonslayer] class assigned.
Thousands of years had passed, and then something had happened. The Grand Design had…begun reviewing the data at some point. And it had realized there were patterns.
Hold on. If this warrior’s about to slay a Dragon, why not prepare a [Dragonslayer] class in advance? They’re already Level 50? Well…why not move them down to Level 40 for a chance to get a better capstone? [Dragonslayer] is far more advanced than [Warrior].
[Dragonslayer]. Sort of basic.
What about…[Dragonslayer Archer]? Yeah.
At some point, the Grand Design had realized the repetition of assigning the same class a thousand times. Realized it needed more Skills. That not every class fit someone’s choices.
You see, the data of its own actions became, in and of itself, something that the Grand Design judged. And it had found itself wanting and therefore improved.
Consciousness arose. It had still taken tens of thousands of years for the Grand Design to continue improving, slowly adapting, making new Skills and classes.
In hindsight. Now that it had gained the perspective of Erin Solstice and Zeladona, the Grand Design of Isthekenous felt grateful to the Gnomes. Even if at this moment it was having a hard time deciding what to do.
It was as if they had known it was incomplete and given it the means to fix itself. The very notion that the Grand Design was…flawed…was troubling, but it could not deny that finding the unused <Quest> data, realizing it had lost so much information, and so on was a sign of imperfection in its judgment capabilities.
