No longer alone on the parapets, Guan Suo is joined by a heroic figure clad from head to toe in sky-blue Runic Armour, a full set from boots to helm which emerge out of nowhere. Looking resplendent beneath the starry night sky, GangShu’s armour shimmers as he strikes a dashing pose and says, “Now that everything’s been cleared up, I reckon it’s time ye execute the bitch.” Undoubtedly leering beneath his full-face helm, GangShu adds, “Ye only skirted the Treaty last time around, but ye still almost killed me boy. This makes it twice now, so turnabout’s a bitch, ain’t it?”

“Fuck yer Treaty.” The blackened clouds eating away at the mole-rat lady dissipate into nothingness as a portly, lumbering figure appears at her side, dwarfing her and everyone else in both height and width. “Ye want a fight? This grand-daddy be happy t’ oblige.”

That slurring accent. Those droopy ears. That fat, bulbous face. Even from such a long distance, his identity is unmistakable, or at least it is to me. For months, I suffered at the hands of his progeny, and to this day, the memories still haunt me in wakefulness and in sleep, but now, I finally get to lay eyes on the bastard responsible for my torment.

The Immortal Zhu Chanzui. Defiled Ancestral Pig, Mahakala’s murderer, and a bastard who deserves to die a slow and painful death.

...He’s more handsome than I’d imagined, and a lot bigger too, in height and width. All padded muscle, by the looks of it, so robust and powerful, yet he moves with a dancer’s grace.

Two Defiled Divinities against two Imperial ones. While Guan Suo is undoubtedly superior to mole-rat lady, I can’t help but remember a conversation we had when I thought the scraggly bastard was just a half-red-panda, one which is far more frightening now that I know how powerful he really is. “Newborn calf like yourself might not fear the tiger,” Guan Suo had said, “But even I’d think twice before crossing blades with the Immortal.”

Oh hell... GangShu was amazed Big Poppa Piggy beat Mahakala, which means he’s probably not confident about beating either one of them, and the Enemy still could pull out Anathema to use against us. The only bright side is that the sun is down which means the black goop should stay dormant until morning, but it’s possible light isn’t the trigger, but heat, which makes it that much more dangerous for everyone involved.

Besides, who knows how many more Divinities are hiding in the shadows?

As if in answer to my question, the Abbot shuffles out to join GangShu and Guan Suo on the parapets, drumming out a steady beat on the wooden fish in his hand. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” he intones, looking none-too-regal in his plain, grey robes. Even the blocky wooden fish is lacklustre and uninspiring, as if carved by a five-year old who’d never seen a fish before in his life, its eyes too bulging, lips too thick, and body too square. “This monk’s junior brother used a curious phrase, one which resonates with the Great Path. ‘To err is human, to forgive Divine’. Such wisdom, such insight, this monk is ashamed to admit his inferiority, but is this not also human nature?” Shaking his head with a sigh, the Abbot draws himself up to full height for the first time ever, transforming from humble monk to burning warrior without changing a single thing about his appearance, all the while drumming out a slow, plodding rhythm from his fish drum which resonates across the battlefield. “Zhu Chanzui, this monk is only human, so he cannot forgive you for your crimes. The blood of my Senior Brother stains your hands, and for this, you must die.”

Nice. The Abbot isn’t a pleb like I’d feared, but as heartening as it is to know we hold the upper hand in this clash of Divinities, the pessimist in me can’t help but remember yet another troubling conversation I had in the past. On his deathbed, Mahakala said he was stronger than the Abbot, and considering he lost to Zhu Chanzui, the best odds I can give are 55-45 in our favour, assuming all present Divinities have been accounted for. Not-Gen could still be lurking around somewhere, and seeing how he’s being puppeted by an eight-hundred year old monster, that’s a third Divinity to match our numbers which means the outcome looks bleak.

...Yanno, I’m kinda starting to regret setting all of this into motion and wish we could just fight a million-strong horde of Defiled with sword and spear. It sure as hell beats all this Divinity power-level guestimation bullshit, but alas, the decision is out of my hands.

This is what I get for trying to fight smart. I bet if the Tyrant ever gets working cannons, the Enemy Divinities will just throw a shit fit and destroy them all.

It’s true. Might makes right, and right now, I am all sorts of wrong.

Chapter Meme
