Mere moments before surrendering to fate, Goujian was struck by an epiphany.

Walk the razor’s edge.

Words the Uniter often used in warning, but only now did Goujian truly understand the wisdom hidden within this simple phrase. It was all so clear now. Young Gen had said it himself during his debate with Vyakhya: the Imperial method of Balance was flawed from the first step, yet Goujian still continued down this errant Path in hopes of stumbling back onto the correct path, but he had already deviated too far. So blinded by his preconceptions, he couldn’t even recognize the Truth when it sat staring him in the face, having come across the answer so many months ago when it was imparted unto him by the Heaven’s themselves while he lay hidden beneath the floorboards of a smuggler’s ship.

“The difference between medicine and poison is often merely a matter of dosage, and such is the case with Heavenly Energy.” Those were Goujian’s words then, spoken as he knelt before Wen Zhong in a show of contrition. “Where the Defiled take too much and lose themselves to emotion, we were taught to take too little by closing our emotions off and converting Heavenly Energy into Chi. Balance, true Balance is not about control of one’s emotions, but surrender to them. Embrace love and joy, give in to anger and hatred, for only then can one be wholly in tune with nature and command the Energy of the Heavens.”

Too much was as bad as not enough. Walk the razor’s edge. Different ways of saying the same thing, and so Goujian had done, but what he’d neglected to remember was that there was more to life than merely love, joy, anger, and hatred. There was pride and loathing, pleasure and sorrow, relief and regret, so many facets of the human condition which he’d neglected out of fear of losing Balance, but the Balance he sought, the so-called True Balance he clung to, was still the same lie. Was young Gen not proof enough? He spent his days and nights mired in lust and revelry, and Goujian’s Imperial-tinted eyes saw it as blasphemy, but the boy was closer to the Truth than any other save perhaps the Uniter himself. Goujian also indulged from time to time, but he saw such acts as necessary to adjust the scales of emotion and reach a healthy equilibrium, ensuring love and hate, anger and joy, lust and discipline were all equally represented. That was how he approached True Balance, a cold, logical mechanism which he based on the flawed Imperial premise, but humans were not creatures of logic. No, humans were creatures of emotion, and True Balance wasn’t about managing one’s emotions until positive was equal to negative, but experiencing all emotions in full, following the highs of joy and lows of despair wherever they might bring him without ever succumbing fully to their control.

The razor’s edge indeed. A margin of error so slim it might as well not exist, yet Goujian neither balked nor shied away when faced with this challenge even though he knew the risk. He stood upon a precipice, and he would either surmount this challenge or stumble and fall, but at this moment, as he lay burnt and defeated upon the fields of Sinuji, he cared not for his fate. Success meant casting off the final shackles of Imperial indoctrination to become a true Chosen of Heaven, while failure meant succumbing to his emotions and becoming an inhuman Transcendent, but regardless of the outcome, Goujian would continue to serve Heaven’s Will.

What more could a man like him ask for?

It took more effort than Goujian expected to loosen his grip on his emotions, so accustomed to pressing everything he didn’t like back into the deep, dark recesses of his psyche, but once uncovered, it all came flooding out at once. Parsing through to experience them one by one, he started with his earliest childhood memory, a memory he repressed more than any other, of a time before he spent every waking moment fighting and scrounging for food. He couldn’t have been more than eight years old at the time, a peasant child living in a peasant hovel, but he’d been happy there, or he had been until the night he watched his father beat his mother to death with his bare hands. Goujian had a different name then, a name he’d abandoned alongside his dying mother and crazed father as he ran out into the streets and never looked back.

Even after so many years, the memory still filled Goujian with so much pain and misery. Would things have changed if he’d gone running for help? His mother had loved him so, but he just stood by and let her suffer instead of doing something, anything. Their home was small, the kitchen close by, and many a knife or improvised weapon to be found, yet all he could do was watch until it was too late and run.

Oh mama... Your unfilial son deserves death a thousand times over...

The guards hanged his father but never bothered looking for Goujian, and thus began his life as an orphan, one filled with struggle and hardship. He learned to fight on the streets, not in the way a Martial Warrior fights, but in the manner of a street tough, with sacks of stones slung like a heavy club and sharpened sticks thrust into soft bellies. Few expected a child so young to be so ruthless, but Goujian was quick to anger and quicker to kill, possessed of a savagery few could match which he no doubt inherited from his murderer father. As word of his reputation spread, he found his way into a street gang, as a beggar, cut-purse, look out, and child assassin, killing men twice his age using stealth, guile, and wit. Some he lured with promise of pleasure, others he tricked with feigned fear or innocence, but he soon became known as a child who would do whatever necessary to fulfill his mission.

The years passed quickly and he became a young man, one steeped in the blood of his rivals and enemies. He never let an insult pass and killed as easily as turning a hand, but he also lacked ambition and never sought to try his hand at more profitable work. Fighting and killing was a way of life, and it was all he knew, a means to ensure his continued survival, so each day, he woke up, filled his belly, and went to sleep hoping to wake again the next morning. Goujian had touched upon True Balance then, he saw this now, but in his desperation to survive, he had erred and come dangerously close to turning Defiled. Not that anyone suspected, or that he even knew at the time, but this was what ultimately saved his life in the end. Were it not for the taint upon his soul, Mahakala would have never taken notice of Goujian, and the monk wouldn’t have been there to save him when he was gutted by a wandering Martial Warrior who didn’t like the way this ‘street rat’ eyed him.

Thus began a new chapter in Goujian’s life, following his saviour through the Empire on a journey of self-reflection. The lessons, the arguments, the trials and tribulations, all of it paled in comparison to the companionship he found in this strange and atypical monk. Eating meat and drinking wine was only the start, for Mahakala would beg for alms and spend the coin on women and drugs, with Goujian there to witness it all. The monk never let Goujian partake of course, and truth be told, he had little interest in the pleasures of flesh, but the most curious part always came the day after, when Mahakala would repent for his sins through self-flagellation, often beating himself bloody until he could barely swing his barbed flail anymore. When questioned on his behaviour, the monk would simply offer a sheepish smile and say, “How can a man appreciate the light if he never experiences the darkness?”

A teacher for a day is a father for life, and Mahakala taught him on and off for decades, the relationship continuing even after they had a critical falling out and Goujian set out on his decades-long path which culminated in becoming the Confessor. The darkness lurked in all corners, and Goujian dreamed of being the man to exterminate it, to purge it from the light, but Mahakala called him a fool for thinking this was even possible. Two sides of the same coin, he’d called it, and now, so many wasted years later, Goujian finally realized he’d been right. What would Mahakala have thought of this divide between the Abbot and Vyakhya? Where would he have stood? With his Junior Brother, the Abbot, or with his Disciple in everything but name, Goujian?

He would never know, not for certain, because through his actions, Goujian brought about the death of his teacher.

Such sin, such regret.

The familiar phrase tore away the last vestiges of his restraint and Goujian fully succumbed to his grief. First his mother, then a man he saw as a father, and even the youngsters he’d taken under his wing and come to love as his own, all these deaths lay upon his head. Sweet BoLao, sent out on her own too soon without support, a grave error of judgment on his part which cost him the life of his most talented successor. To compound his sins, whilst seeking vengeance for his would-be daughter, Goujian callously caused the death of his teacher, for he was the reason Mahakala had come to Sinuji, and it was there he met his demise at the hands of the Immortal Zhu Chanzui. Lastly were Goujian’s sons, his four precious, misguided sons, all of whom died by his own hand. There was stubborn Wen Zhong who’d been with him the longest, and the stern Sochun who was always looking out for his juniors. Curious Sun-Sin never truly shook off his wild roots, yet became a most excellent inquisitor because of his nature, rather than in spite of it, and empathetic Mapan who always saw the best in people despite being constantly exposed to the worst. Each of Goujian’s sons had their own strengths, but he’d taught them too well and let the poison of Imperial lies seep too deeply into their bones. He’d seen the truth, but they could not accept it, and thus, they sought to dissuade him by giving up their own lives.

So instead of allowing them to die by suicide, Goujian killed them with his own hands.

Why? Why had he done such a thing?

...Because even in this darkest of hours, the Heavens guided Goujian’s actions.

His mother, his teacher, and his disciples were dead, but not gone, for they lived on in Goujian’s memory. Their souls had moved on to the cycle of reincarnation, but this grief, anguish, joy, and love he experienced whilst reminiscing of their time together was not only proof of their existence, but also a means for him to gain strength. The grief and remorse cut deep and pained him so much he almost welcomed death as a release, but he would not allow it, for death meant an end to it all. Not only his life, but the lives of the people he held dear, for his memories would die with him, and painful as they were, there was still joy to be found amongst them.

Such as the time he stumbled across the depraved work of Defiled bandits and discovered a survivor amongst the corpses. The sheer elation of saving that boy’s life made the decades of Goujian’s misguided crusade worth it, for that boy became Wen Zhong, his eldest and most talented son and Disciple. There was also the memory of teaching Sun-Sin to speak, a grown boy of fourteen who’d lived his entire life out in the wilds with little to no human company. Oh how frustrating it’d been to get the boy to sit still, but Goujian had beamed with delight when after days of effort, the boy pointed at himself and said, “Sun-Sin.”

Then there was Yuanyin, Goujian’s youngest son who still lived, a son he’d neglected for too long because it pained him to look upon the sole survivor and remember all those who’d been lost. How could he be so selfish as to die and leave Yuanyin utterly alone in the world?

For his mother, his teacher, his children, and more, Goujian clung to his sanity throughout the despair, and when all was said and done, all he felt... was hunger. Scorched and blistered as he was, he needed sustenance to Heal his flesh and mend his wounds, but the heat had vaporized the fat from his bones and left nothing for him to work with. Food, he needed food, but where was he to find it? Any supplies they brought with them were now dust in the wind, and with the majority of their army being comprised of cannibalistic Defiled, Mao Jianghong hadn’t seen fit to supply them with much in the way of rations, because...

...Of course.

What he grasped with his one working arm, Goujian couldn’t say, but there was little sustenance to be found from the charred bit of flesh which crumbled to ashes in his mouth. Still, even a fly had meat, so he persevered, chewing and swallowing until there was nothing left of the meagre handful he’d obtained, which only now felt more like a clump of dirt than actual flesh. Blindly grasping about in search of more, he felt someone place something within his hand which he promptly brought to his lips. Meat, burned and grisly, but more than suitable for his needs, and he chewed flesh and sucked marrow until nothing remained, even going as far as to gnaw on the bones and crunch them apart to swallow into his belly. Still yet to be sated, he waved about for more, and more he was given, but this was too inefficient for his needs. Transcendents had no need to chew, he remembered, not because they swallowed corpses whole, but because they rendered meat and bone into pulp though the manipulation of Heavenly Energy. There was no reason why Goujian couldn’t do the same, and even as the thought crossed his mind, the Heavens provided an answer.

