A complex combination of Honing, Resonance, Deflection, and a few other skills he lacked a name for, but even then, he grasped the crux of this new technique almost instinctively. The morsel melted as he dropped it into his mouth, turning into a fragrant, succulent fluid which was pleasing to the tongue, and he quickly gestured for more. Morsel after morsel passed his lips, and he used the resulting sustenance to mend his battered body, starting with his other arm to better speed his progress along. Intense itching broke out across Goujian’s newly reformed skin, with each brush of the wind sending fresh waves of agony through him, but such were the ways of Healing. It would take time to adjust and acclimate, because...

...Because he was only human. But did he need to remain so? Young Gen certainly didn’t.

Strength, he needed more strength, and a more powerful body would be a good start. Fur? Scales? No, simple skin, for he still had his pride as a human, but toughened and thickened to the texture of leather and lacking the too sensitive nerves which had yet to adjust. Not too thick or hard, for there was much strength to be found in flexibility as well, though there was also something to be said about raw power itself. To this end, he moved on to improving the quality of his muscles, not simply enlarging them, but making them many times denser as well. He’d cut open many a man and never found one with muscles more difficult to cut than a mundane wolf’s, proof that the human body was inferior in many ways, but Goujian was no longer constrained by these mortal limits. Skin, muscles, and all that was left was bones and organs, the former which he hardened to the point of steel without impacting his flexibility and the latter he protected through a myriad of methods which were Imparted by the Heavens.

Natural weapons like horns and claws he left off as he would rather keep his original appearance, albeit younger, and he still had his trusted hooked sword, his symbol and namesake, as much a part of him as his hands or feet. With the improvements planned out, all that was to supply himself with enough sustenance to carry them out, and he set to consuming whatever his mysterious benefactor provided. To his great surprise, his body Healed much faster than expected, his flesh and skin forming in great swathes as he continued his efforts without rest. His arms reformed and legs followed soon after, and within minutes he was healthy enough to sit upright, his burnt husk flaking off his back as he continued his feast, his body growing heavy and dense as his new muscles took root.

As for his eyes... he left those for last, because... Just because. No particular reason.

Swallowing the last morsel and holding a hand up to refuse more, Goujian tilted his head to Heavens and gingerly opened his eyes one at a time. Even in the darkness of night, the stars were still almost too bright to gaze upon, and he quickly lowered his head to keep from going blind. A simple ailment to fix given his new prowess, but he was never one to make more work for himself than necessary, for there was always more to be done. Blinking the light out of his eyes, his blurred vision focused and he found young Gen standing before him with a proud smile upon his lips, as if he were a senior witnessing his junior’s success, and in a way, he was. “I’d hoped you would come to understand,” Gen said, nodding as he took in Goujian’s transformation, but his smile turned to a frown as he noticed Goujian’s sword in his hand, the scabbard having burned away with the rest of his clothes. “Still, this sovereign sees much promise in you, and I... I will mention it to my Mentor, who I am sure will take great interest.” The boy chuckled before handing Goujian a shard of pottery. “Moving onto matters at hand, the fire was mundane in nature, oil, gas, and spark rather than a Divinity's attack, which is most... troubling.” Screwing his face up in annoyance, he scoffed and added, “The Imperial Clan would never devise a stratagem such as this, for they would deem it too dangerous to give such destructive power to lesser beings. Seeing as a Khishig ignited it all, I wager this was all the work of Falling Rain.”

All this was moving so fast Goujian could barely keep up. “Er...”

“This sovereign does not blame you for your failure to uncover this plot in advance,” Gen continued, though Goujian never even considered the possibility that he himself was to blame. “But do you see why Falling Rain is too dangerous to let live? Even crippled, he strikes a grievous blow to our cause, and this grievance must be redressed. Come,” he added, extending a metallic hand to help Goujian stand. “There is work yet to be done.”

Yes... There was work to be done. The Chosen of Heaven had been tempered in fire, and while many were lost, all that remained were hardened steel, for Goujian was not the only one Blessed by the Heavens. With Young Gen at the forefront, Goujian and these remaining Chosen would form an unbreakable spear, one which would be driven through the Dog Emperor’s throat to usher in a new era of prosperity for all of humanity.

With his future Emperor’s help, Goujian sprung to his feet with a smile and replied, “By your will, my liege. This one is here to serve.”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Frantically trying to remember the last time I saw GangShu and praying the dreamy rat bastard is nearby, my muted panic is interrupted by yet another localized earthquake. This time, instead of pillars of dirt, I watch in muted horror as a veritable wall rises from the earth and hurtles forward to consume Sinuji. Clouds of charcoal and smoke are propelled towards us by the cresting wave of soil and soot, congealing into a thick, ashy fog escorting the solid mass behind it. Two kilometres passes in the blink of an eye and the wave looms overhead to blot out the starry sky, but the ashen clouds sparkle like a miniature, star-studded nebula, twinkling with the light of a million glowing embers.

And then everything explodes and a shower of dirt, pebbles, and viscera rains down over our heads.

Cradling my ears and tucking my chin to my chest, I weather through the worst of the dirt storm with help from Dastan and Sahb, their Runic Shields raised overhead to block what they can. Coughing and sputtering to keep the dirt out of my lungs, I come to my senses and find a ragged beggar sitting on the parapets before me, with one foot tucked beneath his knee and one arm posted behind him to prop himself up. With his free hand, he brings an ornate pipe to his lips and puffs once, then again, before exhaling softly, spewing out a ridiculously long stream of milky white smoke in the process. Spreading faster than I can follow, the pipe smoke wafts away the dust and ash wherever the two might meet, clearing the air in a matter of heartbeats and leaving Sinuji’s outer wall utterly pristine. Throughout it all, Guan Suo continues to laze upon the parapets and smoke his pipe, his white-ringed and red-furred tail leisurely swishing from one side to the next.

...You know what? I’ve decided. From here on out, he can steal as many meals as he wants and I’ll just smile and ask if he wants more.

“You!” Halfway between the Defiled army and Sinuji stands the ugliest woman I’ve ever seen, perched atop a platform of earth with her back hunched and wrinkled skin hanging loosely from her cheeks. Even from this distance, I can see her gap-toothed grimace directed towards Guan Suo, though I wouldn’t dare mention it to her face considering she’s poised atop a stony plateau which wasn’t there when I last looked.

“Me,” Guan Suo replies, as indifferent as always while puffing away at his pipe.

“You were there that day, at the winery.”

“Yep.” Blowing out a ring of whitish smoke, it forms into Common Characters which spell out his name, except backwards because it’s meant for the Enemy to read. “Name’s Guan Suo. Most call me the Smiling Slaughterer. Soon enough, you’ll call me death.”

Only now do the pieces fall into place, and I’m not sure what to be more shocked by. The fact that I’m looking at a Defiled Ancestral Mole-Rat or that Guan Suo is probably Mila’s biological father. “Names. Pei,” the former spits, her ugly face twisted in disgust. “A human fabrication, one I will not fall victim to.” Gnashing her buck-teeth in frustration, she eyes the ashen clouds coiling around her, no doubt Guan Suo’s unsubtle threat. “Blessed by Fire and Air, you think this makes you strong enough to disregard the treaty? Strong enough to kill a peer without paying a price?”

Instead of answering, Guan Suo taps his pipe on the parapet stone and empties it with deliberate ease, only to pack it with the same casual disdain. Putting it to his lips without lighting it, he takes a long drag and asks, “You daft or something?”

It’s easy to see where Mila inherited her surly demeanour from, though it’s much cuter when she does it.

“First off,” Guan Suo drawls, his pipe back between his lips and the clouds of smoke growing before my eyes. “I prefer to call it Smoke. None of this Fire and Air business, that ain’t all I be. Second, you ain’t my peer. I’d tell you to call me grand-daddy, but if I had a grand-daughter ugly as you, I’d kill myself with a block of tofu out of sheer shame.” To punctuate his point, the ashen clouds lift the mole-rat lady into the air as the earthen plateau implodes beneath her feet, only to unceremoniously drop her without warning. Landing with a crash, the Defiled Ancestral Mole-Rat snarls with bestial fury as her skin smoulders and cauterizes beneath the ashen smoke, but a whitish cloud sits before her face, arranged in a single character known to even the most uneducated of peasants.

Death.

The blood drains from the mole-rat lady’s face as she struggles to free herself from the smoke, but Guan Suo continues, “Third, I’m not the one here violating the Treaty. You acted first, so I’m well within my rights to kill you here and now.” Blowing out yet another long stream of smoke, he smacks his lips and adds, “The half-fox was right. You might’ve been a Divinity once, but now you nothing but Defiled filth. Time was, you’d have probably already figured it out. The fire from before? Aside from the spark which set it off, that blaze was entirely mundane. If it’d been mine or another’s, you wouldn’t have had to raise so much dirt to snuff it out.”

Their exchange is probably incomprehensible to most Martial Warriors in Sinuji, but being an elite, Water-Blessed individual myself, I’m able to follow along. If the blaze had been Fire Chi, all mole-rat lady would’ve had to do is emit Earth Chi of her own, and when the two types of Chi met, they would’ve fizzled out, much like how I negated Gen’s fire-bolts using Water Chi on Unity’s blade. It’s not about elemental affinity, but rather equal but opposing forces cancelling each other out, like waves on a string or ripples in a pool. I mean, it would’ve taken a metric shit tonne of Chi to conjure a blaze that size and an equal amount to put it out, but it still would’ve been easier than raising literal mountains of dirt to blanket the earth.

Or I dunno. It should’ve. I don’t really know.

“Impossible,” the mole-rat lady screams, her rage ringing in my ears even as her skin sloughs under Guan Suo’s relentless and seemingly effortless assault. “Lies and deceptions, another human construct which impedes my Path. Mundane the flames might be, but the tinder is undoubtedly of Martial origin to create such a conflagration. That fox-bitch must be here, muddling my poor babies senses, for how else would they fail to notice your Fire-Blessed Warriors preparing this foul trap, even from afar?”

“Fool. There’s only one Fire-Blessed Imperial here in Sinuji tonight.” Waving a hand in Tenjin’s general direction, Guan Suo says, “Introduce yourself, young fire-bird. Let her see who she’s accusing of breaking the Treaty before we send her to the Father’s Maw.”

Where I might’ve hesitated before making myself a target for a pissed off Defiled Divinity, Tenjin doesn’t miss a beat. “I am Tenjin,” he declares, infusing his voice with Chi and pride while simultaneously illuminating himself with another bird of flame circling overhead. “Son of Healer Tokta and Weaver Khorijin, Husband to Sentinel Tursinai, and twenty-nine year old Fire-Blessed Sentinel of the People.”

“Fire-bird Tenjin!” A soldier shouts, and the cry is echoed across Sinuji. “Fire-bird Tenjin! Fire-bird Tenjin! Fire-bird Tenjin!”

The cheers continue for a long time before dying off, but Tenjin stands tall throughout it all with Tursinai in her rightful place beside him. Truth is, she’s much stronger than he is and can beat him with one hand tied behind her back, but there is no jealousy or resentment in her eyes, only genuine pride and admiration. Tomorrow, her husband’s name will be known across the Empire as the man who dealt a blow so devastating, the Enemy mistook him for a Divinity.

Fire-bird. Not the worst title. Beats ‘Undying Savage’ by a fair margin. Lucky bastard.

...What? I’m not his wife. I’m allowed to be jealous. I came up with the whole idea, Tenjin’s just the one who set it off. I could’ve done the same with a match. Fire-starter Falling Rain. Nope, doesn’t really work. Stupid water name. Stupid water Blessing. This sucks.

