Like someone who had suddenly lost her comfortable place in the world. Come adrift. Raich saw Persua, normally with a comment, at a loss for words.
“Can I help you, Persua?”
At last, the other woman stopped smiling and spoke.
“You look quite pretty, you know, Raich. Anyone would find you attractive.”
The other Runner turned red with embarrassment and began to get angry. But she hesitated as Persua smiled wider.
“Maybe we should train together.”
“Train? You?”
Persua turned her head left and right, as if searching for something. She looked at Raich.
“I think I know how I want to improve. Later today, maybe? If you want. Have—have a good morning.”
Then she was gone. Raich stared blankly at Persua’s back. She went to Herove’s room to speculate, but he was looking at a map of Izril and a city in the High Passes so thoughtfully she left him be. Raich herself stared around Toremn’s Guild and wondered if her time was running out.
 
——
 
Alone, Persua wandered down to the Mage’s Guild. Then she reconsidered and found an Opener in Toremn who served Runners. He patiently waited as she inquired about pricing and told her it would cost her no less than six gold coins.
“Six?”
“Six minimum. Sixteen if you want me to keep it silent. Given who you want to send a [Message] to…”
The man licked his lips.
“…I’ll waive the fee. Who knows, you might earn more back. If it’s important. It should be. That’s your warning, and I can only get it to him.”
Persua took a long time with her letter. She kept it short. In the end, she looked at a short missive. It read:
 
Someday, Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner, will be your death. The great [Soothsayer], who called himself Rastandius, foresaw it.
 
The destination was the Emir Yazdil of Roshal. Persua stared at the message for a long time until the Opener asked if she wanted more time. She looked up, and her eyes flickered uncertainly.
“…I’ve changed my mind.”
She looked as surprised as he did, but she tore up the pieces of paper, then burned the ash. Then she glanced at his carefully-neutral expression and blew the pile of ash outside.
He cursed over that, but he made a little note anyways and sent it to Roshal. Because even a secret unspoken was worth something.
Persua Alcherie Mavva wandered out of the private Opener’s basement in a daze. She looked around, and began to run. But no matter how far she ran, across the shop windows, in a passing shield of a [Warrior], the reflection from a puddle, she kept seeing her there. Haunting her.
A Courier, leaping through the air, laughing and spinning and dancing from point to point, her feet barely touching the ground. She smiled so gracefully it hurt.
