“You understand my warnings? This is not certain. This will never happen exactly like this. It could happen almost exactly, but what we can take from this is…if. Perhaps it would benefit Runner Herove to visit Liscor.”
“Liscor.”
The young man whispered it with uncertainty. And—again, his eyes looked at the scrying orb. Rastandius had shown him a future, and that was a terrible thing. Something to live up to. Something to fear he might not achieve.
Something in his darkest days to measure himself up against and always come short. So when the [Soothsayer] looked at him and asked, ‘do you want to see more?’
Herove hesitated. Persua knew her answer, and she began to wonder what made her so exceptional. For Herove might have become some kind of Knight-Courier.
If so—what was her deserved claim?
“Show me another, then. Just another…possibility.”
Rastandius smiled. He passed a hand over the orb, and everyone leaned forwards. The next thing they saw was…
Well.
Highly pornographic.
Raich slapped a hand over her eyes, and the sounds coming from the orb made Persua stare until she saw what was going on. Herove jerked back, and Rastandius laughed.
“I’m sorry, this does happen. I—oh, would you look at that?”
A couple were, in very graphic detail, consummating what was possibly a wedding. Persua based this—once she saw it—on the attire. Or rather, the dress hanging up since one did not toss it to the ground even in a fit of lust.
Then she focused on the two people in the orb. One was, predictably, Herove. Younger? Younger than his first appearance, maybe. Rastandius was getting a good look in, and Herove was about to demand he stop—when everyone realized who the second person was.
“What? No. No. That’s…”
Raich looked at herself in the orb, and Persua saw, instantly, why Rastandius did not offer this service to lovers that much. The future of what might be drew increasingly far away from present as Herove stuttered to Raich.
“I—Raich—I didn’t—I mean, I haven’t even—I’d never—”
“Oh, you’d never?”
She glared at him, cheeks dark with embarrassment. Herove tried to cut himself off, and Rastandius decided to end the crossroads.
“I believe you can see the dangers already. Perhaps it was a mistake to offer it to the three of you. Er—shall I do you next, Miss Raich?”
“Only if you don’t show us—you’re not going to cut back to that, are you?”
Rastandius smiled, a bit offended.
“Hardly. I can differentiate the crossroads…in a sense. For you, I can show you something with a different criteria, but at the very least, I won’t show you that. You could ask me. Who will I marry? Or…”
The City Runner pressed her hands to her cheeks. She thought for a second and shook her head.
“No. Show me…show me…”
She looked around, caught sight of herself in the crystal ball, and saw her dyed hair, the tattoo on her arm.
“Show me if I’ll ever meet Mihaela Godfrey.”
Rastandius’ eyes gleamed, and Persua sat up. Herove turned back, and the scrying orb lit up. Raich looked into it…and then froze.
For all they saw was a grave.
It was a neat block of stone, unweathered, the letters fresh-cut in silver. A grave…with Raich’s name on it. There was no wind that blew across it, nor even a breeze, as someone bent down.
Mihaela Godfrey was not someone Persua had ever met face-to-face, but the old, weary Guildmistress of First Landing looked the part. Her mouth was closed in a thin line, and she laid a bright blue flower down on Raich’s grave.
Then she straightened and inhaled. But not…with her mouth. Not with air, because there was none.
Not in [The Courier’s Last Road]. The Courier stood and lifted a glass jar to her mouth, but the wind, the stored air blew at her hair slightly as she inhaled. Then she walked on.
No words, not in this place. Raich was frozen as Herove and Persua looked at her, but then everyone’s head swung back to the picture. Because Raich’s grave, simple and plain, but cared for, set across that road that led across the world…
Was one of many. Again, Mihaela bent down and placed a flower down. The next grave’s letters were hard to read—until Persua caught the name.
Fals Lenestre, City Runner.
No class, no age, nothing else. A single flower for another tombstone cut out of marble. Then Mihaela stood and waited a second. She took another step. Produced a flower.
And the graves stretched on. On and on, until—
Until Rastandius cut the image and looked gravely around the wagon. He spoke, a bit too quickly, the memory of what he had seen about to be transferred to paper.
“As I said—these are all possible timelines. I have seen many that have not come to pass. Terrible visions of the Demons overrunning Rhir, for example—I saw those decades ago, and they have not come true nor will they as I saw them. It is random.”
“I—what happened? That was [The Courier’s Last Road]. Why were so many Runners…?”
The [Soothsayer] rubbed at his forehead.
“We can only keep watching for clues, but it seemed unlikely we would get many. I apologize. I can only do this for so long, and I am holding much of my power for…”
He glanced at Persua. The City Runner sat and shivered. Raich looked at the old man and then raised her voice.
“At least give me one more! One more…”
“Of course. Would you like to see a happy future? I can find those.”
“No. No—give me something close in the future. Can you do that? Something within a year?”
Rastandius hesitated, then nodded.
“Of course. I can show you alternate pasts and presents. Something close, in the future…”
He closed his eyes. Everyone watched the orb, but hesitated. The cloth passed over it. Once, twice, three times…
Then it showed a Runner. No, a Human. No…
A body. It might have had black skin. And black hair…Persua saw a bit. And it was probably humanoid. What was left.
Perhaps she hadn’t been dead long, but all Persua saw was fungi growing on what remained of a corpse in unfamiliar dirt. Raich stared down at herself. Then she covered her mouth only for a thin trail of bile to leak from between her fingers.
 
——
 
Herove had to take Raich outside and help clean up. Persua did not. She stood, outside of the wagon, trembling in the night air. She paced left and right. She muttered to herself and rotated the ring on her finger.
When Raich tottered over to her, she found Persua stretching. The City Runner might not have had a Level 30 class or a…a great class, but she was a [Nimble Runner].
She could stretch and do a split almost without pain. She stood up and put her hands up, then did a run and a backflip.
“How did you learn to do that, Persua?”
Raich was still shaky, but Persua shrugged.
“I’m flexible. I saw a [Tumbler] do it one day and said I could do it too.”
“I—I envy you. Persua, are you sure you want to see what this [Soothsayer] is going to show us? You can walk away. I don’t believe—I mean, it’s just a drop in the bucket that anything will happen, right?”
Persua had seen the good of Herove’s futures and Raich’s frightening ones. But she still looked at her friend as if Raich were mad.
“I want to know what I’m going to be. Or who I could be, Raich. I’m…”
Persua clenched her hands. She struggled for words, trying to express what was in her heart. At last, she looked at the wagon and the quiet caravan, now devoid of all but the latest-night people, and came out with it.
“I’m Persua. Whatever it is, it will be great.”
In that moment, Raich saw Persua’s eyes lock onto the wagon and realized Persua had never asked about Raich or how she was feeling. She often told Raich how Raich was feeling. In silence, the City Runner stepped back.
Persua, and Persua alone, entered Rastandius’ wagon. Herove was helping Raich go back; he was interested in Persua’s future, but she had suggested he leave. Raich didn’t want to be around Persua, even to see what her future might hold.
“Are you prepared, Runner Persua?”
“I am. What am I going to see? What makes me different from…those two? From everyone else you’ve met?”
For answer, Rastandius just raised his shoulders, which made her frown, but he spoke.
“All I know is that, whatever I show you—your two friends might well change greatly from what you’ve seen.”
Persua thought about that. Herove and Raich might end up together. That would destabilize the careful balance she had between them. She’d flirted with Herove and considered sleeping with him, but only because they were all partners.
Well, good for them. Just so long as they don’t forget how much I’ve helped them. Too many people did. As for Raich, she might need someone to make sure she could handle seeing two deaths.
“It could change their lives quite a bit.”
Rastandius nodded.
“And change the world in some ways, too. A [Knight] and a Courier…but when I saw you in my tellings, I knew you were connected to much, much more. A single thread can, somehow, alter the course of a war. A hero in a siege. But you, my dear—in so many futures, you matter.”
Persua shivered, and a smile sprang to her lips. It didn’t reach her eyes. Not yet. She scooted forwards.
“Then show me. Show me, and I won’t look away.”
Rastandius was almost as excited. Like a younger man who had breathed fate and glory into the ears of the rich and powerful—he wanted to see it all himself. The voyeur. This was how he glimpsed the future, why he did this. He spoke, his voice trembling a bit.
“I can show you many crossroads. Some—some call to me brighter. Which ones should I pick?”
Persua laughed.
“Do you have to ask? Show me when I—when I was or will be my most glorious.”
And so the [Soothsayer] put his hands on the crystal ball, and he closed his eyes. Persua leaned forwards until her breath cast a fog on the sides, opaque and dark as a mirror.
Until an image swam out of the blank facade, like a dream.
 
——
 
If. Persua’s eyes focused hungrily on the truth until they grew confused. Outraged. But she never stopped watching. What she saw was Persua.
The same Persua of now. The same age. Even, funnily enough, the same clothing that Persua had once worn. The ill-fated costume of lace and Noelictus-style black-and-white hung around her like some kind of macabre doll or maid.
It certainly made the people passing by her give her a second look. In the scrying orb, Persua smiled at the people passing. She waved, blew a kiss at a fan, and scowled when they got her name wrong.
“It’s Persia, right? Persia the W—”
“City Runner Persua. Thank you. Look me up, tell your friends you met me. Excuse me, I’m waiting for someone.”
She snapped at someone, tucking the autograph card she’d been about to hand out back in her bag of holding. Persua went back to folding her arms, a huge scowl on her face.
The watching Persua, the now-Persua, was confused. Was this her glorious future? Or maybe she hadn’t reached it yet. This alternate-Persua didn’t seem much better off.
True, she hadn’t nearly died by self-garroting herself on a wagon if she were still wearing that dress. But she looked neither richer nor…well, wait a second.
The other Persua was missing something. She had no Ring of Minor Protection on her finger. The greatest artifact that the real one had was missing. Was she then—better off without it? Or had she never gotten it?
Then the watching version of herself spotted something odd. This other Persua had terrible boots.
Just—awful. Scale-hide, lime green, and completely mismatched with her current dress. She had on a terribly tacky sunburst amulet and some mismatched leather gauntlets. She would never, in any reality, have matched that clothing with those colors.
Unless they were artifacts. In which case, this Persua was wearing one, two, four—two rings, amulet, boots—
No, five artifacts. Because as she shifted, it became clear the young woman was wearing something under her outfit. A flash of color revealed actual chainmail. Oh, and she had a long shortsword strapped to her side.
Magic. She had enough gear to be called an adventurer! Silver-rank at least! Not only that, this Persua’s bag of holding looked very fine. She had more potions on her belt and a pair of wands strapped to her side.
More than that…people did recognize her. True, without the name, but in this busy street, even with the dress to help, some people saw her and knew her name.
Why? Persua was hungry to know. She watched her other self stand on her tiptoes, then smile and wave. And then every head was turning, pointing at someone coming down the street. A commotion—voices. But Persua, the waiting Persua, just spread her arms for a second, then put her hands on her hips.
“Took you long enough. I was getting sick of babysitting that brat.”
“Where’d you put him, then? Please tell me he’s alright.”
An unfamiliar…no, a familiar low voice spoke as someone halted just out of frame. Persua’s skin crawled. Her ears rang. Because she knew that voice, slightly husky, worried, but familiar, even relieved. Even happy.
Ryoka Griffin paced forwards, her bare feet walking down the streets of First Landing as Persua tossed her head to the side.
“Inn. I left him in Adventurer’s Haven.”
“Dead gods, Persua…Tyrion is just getting off the ship. You couldn’t have brought him here?”
“Nope. I had to sit on a ship with him for a week.”
Persua was completely unrepentant as she looked Ryoka Griffin up and down. Now, people were pointing. They pointed at Ryoka Griffin. And Persua.
“It’s the Wind Runner. From Ailendamus. The one who…Archmage Eldavin…”
“The Wind Runner and Persua. Persua the Weasel.”
At that, Persua’s head snapped around, and someone decided to hurry off. Ryoka covered her mouth, and Persua kicked her in the shins. Ryoka swore and then went to cuff Persua. In response, the City Runner took two steps back and flipped.
She did a backflip completely out of the way and landed, arms raised like a gymnast of another world. The people watching oohed, and Persua beamed around and stared challengingly at Ryoka, who declined to do anything like that. They held each other’s gaze, and then Ryoka threw an arm around Persua’s shoulder.
“I made it. Let’s get Sammial. Then I’ll tell you what happened in Ailendamus.”
“Sure. Did Tyrion mention me on the ship at all…?”
They began to walk down the street. Talking. Elbowing each other until Persua skipped sideways. Laughing until the Persua watching them nearly smashed Rastandius’ crystal ball.
 
——
 
“What is this?”
She nearly shrieked it in Rastandius’ face. Only the bile in her throat kept her from properly screaming. Persua felt sick, confused, betrayed. She went to seize the [Soothsayer]’s robes, but he looked as surprised as she did.
