Her opponent managed almost all of it, although she used both her legs for the webster. The audience hesitated, but Persua smiled.
“Oh, not bad!”
As if she hadn’t noticed the other girl slipping up, she folded her arms, looking stuck for a moment. Then she turned, winked at Ryoka as she spun—and performed a genuine 720-degree kick. She spun so fast around in the air that her audience’s eyes bugged out.
But Persua wasn’t done. Not by a long shot. As she was landing—and by now, Alber had lowered his gloves to watch in frank amazement—Persua cartwheeled onto her arms.
On the street’s ground, she began to break dance. Persua landed on her elbows, swung her legs up, and rotated. Her legs spun around like a reverse top, and Ryoka hoped her shirt wouldn’t fall, but Persua swung out of the elbow air flare into a ‘classic’ flare, where her legs swung around in the air as she held herself up on her arms. Not once did her body touch the ground—it was all entirely core, back, and upper body strength.
Her opponent was watching, trying to figure out what Persua was doing until Persua flipped back into her handstand. She raised one hand until she had both legs and hand in the air.
“Dead gods, Persua. Really?”
[Perfect Posture]. The City Runner was laughing. Then she began doing one-handed handstand hops. Ryoka was covering her face, trying to pretend she wasn’t part of this bullying. And Persua kept going.
Her new Skills. [Redirect Balance]. Persua’s arm tensed—then she threw herself up and did a one-handed handspring. She began doing handsprings around her opponent, twisting in midair, switching to back handsprings, doing a hurricane that carried her into a circular cartwheel as the children screamed and applauded.
…Against a twelve-year-old girl. Lest anyone forget. But by the time Persua was done, her opponent was begging to know how she did that. And Persua, wiping sweat from her forehead, gave Ryoka a triumphant look.
“They’ve got to respect me too, you know.”
Ryoka Griffin rolled her eyes. But she didn’t argue with Persua. Even if she was rough around the edges—well, Ryoka was all sandpaper. They were working on it. And if Persua quietly complained about Ryoka’s wind powers, about falling behind—
Something was growing. Something was changing.
 
——
 
It came one night when Persua was sleeping over with Ryoka at Fierre’s castle-home. She still wasn’t quite over Fierre being a Vampire, but for some reason, Persua felt like she and Fierre got on almost better than Fierre and Ryoka.
It was all challenge and grandeur between Ryoka and the Vampire girl. Persua was, somehow, the intermediary. Perhaps it was because Ryoka claimed she had met an immortal Dragon.
“He’s not that impressive. All pretentiousness.”
Persua whispered in Fierre’s ear as Ryoka demonstrated a handspring for the interested Vampire; although, by now, the apprentice had long since passed whatever mastery Ryoka could claim.
 
——
 
Not that Persua knew who Fierre was. She wondered why the girl had such long canines. Rastandius was eying Fierre with a knowing look, but he knew better than to say anything. You kept your mouth shut most of the time.
Doing otherwise was a quick way to end up without a drop of blood in the sewers. He listened as Persua kept referring to…
“Why is it making that sound?”
Every time Persua told Fierre about the unimpressive individual, the scrying orb emitted a jet of what might have been static or a screech. Rastandius sighed.
“Someone important who knows how my Skills work. Fascinating. We may get hints later—but keep watching. This is important.”
 
——
 
Fierre was showing off her amazing flexibility as Ryoka watched. Like Persua’s legendary battle against the twelve year old, already enshrined in Reizmelt legend, Fierre could pull off most tricking moves without practice.
It just wasn’t fair, and, unlike with the twelve year old, Persua was having trouble beating Fierre. It was making her increasingly upset until Fierre pointed down the hill. Her home was on a steep plateau, and the hill was so lovely that some of the sheep would roll down it for fun, like Fluffles the Fifth.
“Can you do a handspring-thing down that? Or a cartwheel?”
Ryoka eyed the steep gradient.
“I’m not going to break my arms, thanks. Persua?”
“I—I could do it. What about you, Fierre?”
“Let me try.”
The Vampire girl, challengingly, did a little run up and tried to do a handspring down the hill. Halfway, she realized a cartwheel would carry her down. She did one handspring, slipped on the steep slope, and—
“Ooh!”
“Oh, dead gods!”
Fierre missed, hit her neck, twisted, and began slamming down the hill. She landed in a heap of limbs and got up, cracking her neck shamefacedly. But then she called up to Persua.
“Well—you have a class! You do it! I bet you’ll level! Do it and I’ll admit you’re better than me, Persua! Three handsprings or you cartwheel to the bottom!”
“Healing potions don’t fix broken necks, Persua. I wouldn’t.”
Ryoka whispered, but the City Runner looked down the hill and glared at Fierre’s mocking smile. Fierre blew her a kiss.
“I’ll kiss any wounds you get.”
“I’ll kiss—I can do—three handsprings? I can do that.”
The Wind Runner whispered urgently to Persua, but her eyes were locked on Fierre. The [Gymnast] backed up and took a few deep breaths.
“Persua—don’t—”
Persua did a running start and began to do handsprings down the hill. For the first two, Ryoka saw her form was excellent, a rapid rotation backwards, hands, legs, landing as she spun.
—But Ryoka had seen this before. She had seen a video of someone doing this down a beach slope. And what she knew was that no matter how good you were, what you couldn’t stop was gravity.
Persua began to speed up. And the handsprings became quicker. She began screaming not ten feet down the hill.
“I can’t stop! RyokaFierresomeonestopme—”
“Wipe out! Wipe out, Persua!”
Ryoka shouted at Persua as Fierre watched with her mouth open. She meant for Persua to wipe out—it would be bad since this was grass, not sand, but the longer Persua went, the faster she’d end up wiping out.
But Persua was too terrified to stop the handsprings. So down she went. Ryoka was running after her—until she realized Persua was accelerating to a speed faster than Ryoka’s downhill run.
“Oh no.”
Like some kind of crazy toy-person, Persua flashed down the hill, still doing handsprings. She passed by a disbelieving Fierre, who reached out for her and jerked back.
“Ryokaaaaaaa—”
A screaming City Runner was headed down the hill. No—down the plateau. And somehow, moving at a full-blown runner’s pace—she was still doing handsprings. 
Down she went, past startled sheep, flipping over rocks, flipping past a road and a [Farmer] who stared at her along with the horses on the wagon he was driving. Persua’s screams began to recede down the hill as Fierre and Ryoka watched. But they’d halted going after her, because they were laughing too hard.
Not just with malice, but with sheer amazement. Because there she went. Persua eventually tumbled to a stop and lay sobbing on the ground three thousand feet away. She had gone down the entire slope without stopping, doing handsprings all the way down. Ryoka came sliding to a stop and offered her a healing potion for her hands, which had been cut on some of the rocks. Fierre just sniffed at the blood and then lifted one of Persua’s hands. She licked delicately at the bloody cut and made a face.
“Eugh. Grassy.”
Persua gave her a wide-eyed look, and Ryoka raised both her brows. Persua bit her lip as Fierre caught herself and blushed.
 
——
 
“What was that about? She’s so—”
“Um. She might be gay. I have a tiny bit of intuition there.”
Ryoka and Persua had a quiet conversation on the run back from the Lischelle-Drakle home. Persua gave Ryoka a blank look.
“What, happy?”
The Wind Runner gave her a suspicious look and realized Persua was actually serious. She blew out her cheeks in amazement.
“Are you serious? No, wait, you are serious. You’ve never heard of…this world. I swear. There have to be—but it’s not in the public consciousness, is it?”
“What, what? Is this another stupid Earth-thing like your ‘cars’ and ‘airplanes’?”
 
——
 
“Earth…?”
Rastandius’ eyes were gleaming, but Persua almost missed that. She was staring at Ryoka, who had halted and was trying to explain a concept to Persua. But the Persua sitting in Rastandius’ tent kept clenching and clenching her hand, and she had a strange tingling in her palm, though it hadn’t been cut open.
She was watching her own face. And what she saw—no. But yes.
The other Persua looked at Ryoka, purely shocked. Then she began asking questions. Then—the Persua covered in grass, filthy from sweat, but levelling, able to flip down a hillside and come out standing straight, if dizzy?
Once again, she smiled.
 
——
 
There was no Ivolethe to save. No Summer Solstice to plan for—yet. But Ryoka Griffin had been looking into her strange powers of wind. She needed someone who knew magic. And, well, they both had great ambitions.
It was Persua who suggested it and Ryoka who eventually met Lady Ieka Imarris and was asked to meet the Archmage of Izril. Although that wasn’t what Persua took from the meeting.
“She was in to you, Ryoka.”
“No, she wasn’t. You’re just seeing it everywhere now that I told you—”
“Excuse me? I can tell. A [Lady] doesn’t just ask a smelly, barefoot savage like you to have dinner to ‘discuss’ the request. You should have accepted.”
Ryoka squirmed.
“I’m, uh—that’s not me. I’m not opposed. Or bigoted, but Ieka? I don’t even know her.”
Persua turned back to Invrisil in the distance.
“I’ll go back and have dinner for you. And I’ll take Fierre.”
“Dead gods, Persua. Weren’t you just eying Alber? You and Fierre—there’s such a thing as being unfaithful, you know?”
At this, the [Gymnastic Runner] gave Ryoka such an arch look that the Wind Runner blushed.
“We’re not a thing. Plus, Fierre likes Alber too.”
“For his blood.”
“Yes. And I’m fine with his body. What’s the difference?”
Ryoka opened her mouth and threw up her hands. Persua was laughing as she jogged with Ryoka back to the carriages that would take them north. From the Unseen Coach all the way to Valeterisa’s island.
When they dared her mansion, it was Fierre, Ryoka—and Persua.
Did you see it now? A screaming Persua fighting her dopplegangers, emerging bloody, collapsing as Fierre and Ryoka poured healing potions on her. Her cheering on Ryoka with Salamani and Fierre in the prison cells?
Was she necessary? Did she change things or could Ryoka have done it all without her? Persua hefted a pair of lime-green boots out from the treasures of dead Couriers and adventurers, and Fierre helped her put on the chainmail. She snagged an amulet like a sunburst, eyes wide, and turned.
Then, she was a City Runner among City Runners. 
But not a Courier.
Not yet.
 
——
 
Mihaela Godfrey stood over Ryoka Griffin.
“Get back up, Wind Runner. And you? Artifacts don’t a Courier make. Your friend is at least brave enough to stand up.”
Persua hid from the Courier of First Landing, begging not to be hit with a punch as fast as lightning. Mihaela dragged her up, stared at Persua’s terrified face, and turned as Ryoka lunged.
“Get off—”
Down she went. Persua scrambled back and then lunged out with a knife at Mihaela’s leg. Without missing a beat, Mihaela kicked her so hard Persua’s eyes rolled up in her head.
“Persua!”
Ryoka heard the crack. One of Persua’s teeth cracked. The City Runner spat out a bit of a tooth. She stared at it, the blood, and then she charged, screaming, swinging the knife. Mihaela’s brows rose as she punched Persua.
Once, twice—she backed up and dropped Persua after eight punches.
“Now there’s a rabid rodent. But a Courier doesn’t get lucky or backed into a corner. You both fail.”
She jogged off, leaving Ryoka to collect Persua with Fierre’s help.
 
——
 
Not yet. Persua was depressed, angry, snappish with Ryoka for a long time afterwards. Ryoka went off to the Unseen Empire with Charlay and Alevica. Persua, geared up, did runs that had been difficult for her before.
Now, with Boots of Speed, amulets, and rings, she showed off, doing a backflip as she entered a town, laughing, but trying to get people to remember her.
Persua! As now, so before. Persua the Flipper? No, that’s terrible. Persua the Inspiring? No one would call her that. Persua the Gymnast just sounded…bad.
She wanted a name. But her acrobatics weren’t on par with even Lancrel the Leaper. And always, always—
When Ryoka Griffin challenged the Assassin’s Guild of Izril, the Wind Runner’s name struck a continent. When she ran on that death-defying mission…
Persua didn’t go with her.
Garia Strongheart, now the [Martial Artist], glared daggers at Persua as she helped Ryoka win free of Invrisil. The Black Tide marched against [Assassins], and an [Innkeeper] led an army for her friend.
But it was Maviola El, Saliss of Lights, and Ryoka Griffin who made that long run across the continent.
Twice, now, Persua watched the Wind Runner shining. Flying high, battling [Assassins]. The Named Adventurer turned a river’s crossing into a lake. Maviola burned across the lands.
And Ryoka…faltered.
Higher, the winds took her as she unleashed her magic and flew into the magical hurricane. But this time, her mastery was not so perfect.
It blew her wide, wide of House Veltras’ lands, and she landed with [Assassins] and Couriers making for her position. Ryoka Griffin staggered to her feet and faced the last Faces of the Guild within a hundred miles of First Landing.
This time, Mihaela Godfrey found Ryoka Griffin lying with crossbow bolts in her front and back, clawing at a broken vial. She bent down and wondered why Ryoka was laughing.
“I did it. Are they dead?”
The Guildmistress stared into Ryoka’s laughing face as she coughed up blood. She looked around and saw in the trickling liquid the hopes of Lord Tyrion Veltras bleeding into Ryoka’s wounds.
“They’re dead. But the vial—?”
Ryoka’s unfocused gaze drifted upwards as a [Healer] ran towards them. And she smiled with a confidence the other Ryoka had not possessed. Relief.
“No. No. My friend has it.”
Then—Mihaela’s head rose. She turned, and as Lord Tyrion Veltras knelt by his sons’ sides, a City Runner jogged into House Veltras’ keep and proffered a vial to a stunned Jericha. Unnoticed—she’d even taken a carriage part of the way here.
Persua delivered the cure.
