History changed so slightly. Or was this how it was meant to be? Instead of a trick by the Circle of Thorns, Persua tricked them for the Wind Runner. She basked in the glory of Izril’s attention for one minute.
Until someone pointed out that Persua hadn’t done much. Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner, had taken on the Guild of Assassins directly.
Noass leaned on the desk, tapping one claw meaningfully as he turned to Sir Relz.
“Really, Sir Relz. Do you think just…sneaking by all the assassins is worthy of being named a Courier? Ryoka Griffin, I can see. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt; it’s a fine name for a new Courier. But this ‘Persua’—I just can’t see it. She did deliver the cure, plaudits to her for that. But it was such a sneaky, underhanded way of doing it. Like a—a—what am I thinking of? Some kind of animal?”
“A weasel?”
“That’s it.”
In her room where she was watching Ryoka recover, Persua threw the bowl of soup at the scrying mirror.
“No! No, no—”
Persua the Weasel. The City Runner. Not the Courier. Forever in Ryoka’s shadow? Persua had to reckon with that. But she didn’t have much time. Because…
As the summer was reaching its midpoint, Hectval pulled off their raid. And Erin Solstice died.
 
——
 
Full stop. Ryoka Griffin came running into The Wandering Inn with Persua. They saw Erin’s bier. Searched for something that could be done.
The same things happened, just differently.
Archmage Valeterisa was there early. She inspected Erin’s body, and there was nothing she could do. But in her research for Ryoka Griffin, she had come across an old ritual that made use of the Summer Solstice.
All it might take was the right place. The right offerings. Members of the Five Families. Persua saw Ryoka turn and call in Lady Ieka and Lord Tyrion’s debts.
But something was different. Something was off. 
The [Soothsayer] felt it, though he had no idea what had transpired at the Summer Solstice, only felt the fates changing along with everyone else. He watched hungrily, piecing together a puzzle—but not with clues so much as more gaps. He saw what was missing.
There was no banquet. There was no challenge of fae, no shining Melidore. There were shadows, but no six figures. Even the Crossroads could not encompass them.
But there was a door, and even now, Persua followed Ryoka Griffin into…
The Lands of the Fae?
Yes, and no. Even the crystal ball had trouble showing the confusing perspectives and lands the two young women went across. But what it did show was—odd.
A deserted forest, trees withered, only strange creatures dogging their steps. An ominous, broken city, where the buildings lured them into the darkness where things lurked and tried to consume them.
An empty field, a mountain with hundreds of holes fit for giant worms. All—empty. The only people they met, the only people, were a group of alien folk as lost and unnerved as the two. Travellers, exploring dead lands.
Dead—except for the center. The two had no guide. So they walked to the heart of these strange lands until they came to a ruined court. There stood a handful of strange, beautiful folk. But faded. But shadowed. Almost like ghosts or memories.
“I’ve come to find a cure for death.”
Ryoka Griffin’s voice shook as she spoke to the last remnants of the court of…who? A figure with blue skin turned to her and replied in a high voice wracked with…regret? No mockery. Just regret, even sympathy.
 
“Not here. Not you, mortal.”
 
“What? But I—what do you mean? Aren’t we in the right place? Aren’t you…?”
Those eyes flickered over Ryoka, the lost aliens, and then onto Persua’s face. The City Runner shivered as the person who was half-here raised one hand. She almost smiled at Persua, sadly.
 
“No. This isn’t the right one. I am sorry. What you seek was never here.”
 
Then she turned her eyes up and to the side and stared hard at the air. At something neither Ryoka nor Persua could see, but the figure narrowed her eyes, almost as if she was staring at an invisible…watcher. An invisible camera. She turned back and sighed.
 
“We cannot help you. Go. Play out your fate, child. Seek—yes. Seek Ailendamus. They have what you want. Be thou well.”
 
And like that, in plain language, she bowed and turned away. The rest of her kin gave Ryoka and Persua strange nods and looks of regret.
A mystery. They would never quite know what that moment meant, but the outcome was the same. In part.
This time, Ryoka Griffin performed a seance with [Witches] to beg a ghost for knowledge of what the vaults held, and a Wyrm kidnapped her out of paranoia.
This time, Persua went after her and brought Sammial Veltras back instead of the Hundredfriends Courier and the Waterbear.
 
——
 
And here they were. Back to the present, where Persua the Weasel and the Wind Runner regarded each other, one below the other.
On the same day that Persua met the [Soothsayer] in one world—another Persua walked down First Landing with Ryoka, speculating on whether Tyrion would be interested in her now he’d gotten to a fine age.
“You’re not marrying into House Veltras, Persua.”
“And why not? You’re giving poor Pellmia a headache.”
Persua was teasing Ryoka. The Wind Runner laughed, turned the corner, and walked right into a group of three [Knights].
“I have you now, you knave!”
Dame Thuile dropped Ryoka with a boot to her knee. Ryoka Griffin was lying on the ground as Persua screamed.
“Ryoka—”
She dodged sideways with a scream as another [Knight] tried to grab her. Ryoka was being pinned by another [Knight] and Thuile.
“What’s going on? Get a scrying orb!”
Dame Thuile was standing over Ryoka, a beacon of fury.
“You thief and treacherous saboteur! I will bring you back to Ailendamus in chains and have you tried before the throne!”
“Oh no. Dead gods—”
Unlike in her other timeline—there was no Faerie King to make Rhisveri reconsider. Nor a huge war of the ghosts. Fetohep had sailed to the Meeting of Tribes with only mortal wrath—although that was enough to humble three Walled Cities.
But not raise new lands. Because of that, Ryoka Griffin had resurrected Teriarch, but the Archmage of Memory was dead.
Because of that—she had escaped Ailendamus with the Lucifen and Agelum’s help, and Rhisveri had declared her an enemy of state.
And because of that, Dame Thuile was triumphant as she prepared to capture Ryoka. Persua drew her wand, and it vanished as one of the [Knights] broke it with a single quick chop of their gauntlets. She tried a Tripvine bag, and the [Knight] drew a sword and cut her belt in an expert slice.
“Persua, run! Get Tyrion! Get—”
Ryoka’s head was ground into the dirt. The Ailendamus [Knights] ignored the lashing wind as Thuile called out.
“Capture the other City Runner. Quickly—to the ship before House Veltras arrives!”
She was looking around nervously, but Lord Tyrion was off to see his son. Ryoka groaned, but Persua was backing away from the [Knight].
“Don’t—don’t—”
She drew her sword, and he pointed at her.
“[Disarm the Foe].”
Her dagger clattered to the ground, and Persua found herself empty-handed. She backed up, shaking; she was no good at hand-to-hand combat.
“Persua—”
The City Runner was backing up to the exits when the Drell Knight accompanying Thuile pointed, and two walls of earth blocked off the streets. She was trapped, and the Hydra Knight was fast.
And he was threatening her.
“Surrender now or I will cut you down as an enemy of Ailendamus, Runner. You have one chance.”
Persua looked at Ryoka, and Thuile called out as Persua wavered.
“Capture her already, Ser Yoint. She’s no Courier.”
Oh, dead gods. Ryoka closed her eyes with familiar regret. Persua’s head snapped up, and she lost her temper. The Hydra Knight recoiled right before Persua punched his jaw through the open-faced helmet. Then Persua saw him raise his sword—he hadn’t even staggered.
She ran, screaming, as someone brought a scrying mirror up and began to broadcast the affair. There was Ryoka Griffin, the makings of a second international incident…and Persua the Weasel, running for her life.
Such glory. Persua was trying to circle the [Knight], but he knew how to corner a faster foe and was boxing her in. She squeaked, screamed, pleaded for her life—and as he swung, her back against one of the earthen walls, Persua looked around—and then leapt up, kicked off the wall, and did a front-flip over the [Knight]’s head.
The Hydra Knight, greatly surprised, swung around as Persua landed. Even Thuile looked slightly impressed, but the [Knight] was too well-trained to let a foe’s antics get to him. He lunged forwards in a stab—and Persua, squeaking, did a backwards handspring.
Straight out of range. So fast that the jabbing sword missed her belly. The [Knight] blinked, and Persua blinked too. Quick!
“Ser Yoint. Time is running out!”
Thuile shouted. The [Knight] lowered his other hand, gripped his shield, and rushed forwards in a charge. Persua, who had been staring at her feet in astonishment, moved before her mind caught up.
She cartwheeled left, but not a slow cartwheel. She did four rotations in a second, so fast she nearly slammed into a bystander. Ryoka’s mouth was open, and she was inhaling street dirt.
Persua was fast! Since when had she…?
Since the lands of the not-fae? Since going to war? Before that, with Fierre on the hill? Persua caught herself as the [Knight] swerved his [Shield Charge] and tried to advance on her again. Then—a cocky look entered Persua’s eyes.
A familiar look. The look she got when she was sure she was better than her opponent. Like the twelve-year-old girl. She faced the [Knight], and he came at her in a charge, plate armor or not, a dead sprint.
Persua waited until he was almost on top of her, and then she did a standing backflip. Straight up and back. The [Knight] swung—but he was just too short. Because Persua landed on top of the earthen wall, nearly ten feet up. Ryoka heard gasps as Persua waved down at the [Knight]. Then—she began doing cartwheels along the wall.
“Come and get me!”
“Dispel the—”
Thuile growled, and Persua landed, spinning into a hurricane as she did. She looked up, saw the [Knight] coming at her, and yelped. She rolled backwards, turned it into a handspring, backflip, and then kicked herself back. A popflash, and Persua rotated in the air, both legs coming up before she landed like a gymnast, arms spread. A dozen paces away from the stunned [Knight].
Was that when someone began applauding? Or did the laughter start first? Not mocking, not at first, just in sheer surprise. Persua’s eyes were sparkling, and the [Knight] actually looked around for help.
“Dame Gatris—with Yoint. Capture the City Runner.”
Thuile was shackling Ryoka’s legs and arms, and the other Drell Knight rose. The two tried to capture Persua, flanking her on either side.
Tried, because now…the Djinni was out of the bottle. Ryoka saw Persua’s eyes light up. She was breathing hard, her pulse racing in her veins. But there was something in the way she looked at the two [Knights]. They charged at her, trying to box her in—and she did a simple backflip.
High, high, a [High Jump] Skill carrying her up impossibly high. But they were waiting for her when she came down.
No—Ryoka almost cried out. Then something impossible happened.
Mid-rotation, Persua’s momentum changed. She swung herself around an invisible point in the air and went soaring backwards. As if she’d suddenly caught something and redirected herself in midair.
“How did she—?”
The [Knights] went scrambling after her. Everything according to natural physics told them what Persua had just done was impossible. But like a [Tumbler], like a magician…
[Redirect Balance]. Ryoka’s eyes were wide. Her friend had just anchored herself in midair and used that to defy gravity! And Persua landed, kicked herself up into a gainer, and flipped backwards, laughing at the slow people in armor.
“Come and catch me! I’m just a City Runner! Come on!”
She landed, beckoning, and actually let them get within a sword’s reach of her. But no sooner did they lunge and swing than she performed a dazzling series of handsprings, just like she had going downhill. The two [Knights] ran after her now, not even trying to attack, just catch her.
And they couldn’t. Persua kicked off walls, she tricked, pirouetting, spinning through the air, even using their armor to bounce off of them as the audience watched and began to applaud. Dame Thuile grew redder and redder.
“You two are a disgrace to Ailendamus!”
She abandoned Ryoka, trussed up, and joined the pursuit. And even then—
They couldn’t catch her. Persua cartwheeled past Dame Thuile in a blur, leapt up onto a rooftop, and her spinning roll carried her out of the way of a wand’s spell. She was laughing. She landed on the ground, and the three [Knights], panting with disbelief, spread out.
“She can’t be caught, Thuile. She’s like an eel.”
The Hydra Knight opined. Thuile just made an inarticulate sound of rage. She went for Persua, but the young woman jumped up, and again—
It was like magic. She could move through the air just by redirecting her momentum. Her Skill had virtually no cooldown. Why not? Who could imagine you could fly by flipping?
And then—it was on the scrying orbs. On the news. A laughing City Runner evading three of the finest [Knights] in the world, literally mocking them as she flipped and kicked and twisted out of the way for ten minutes. Ten minutes, until House Veltras apprehended all three for their dignity more than anything else.
When it was done, Persua checked on Ryoka and helped her to her feet. The Wind Runner was staring at Persua, and the City Runner was speaking so loud and fast that she barely noticed anything else.
“Ryoka! Did you see that? I can fly! It’s like magic—what if I could keep flipping through the air? Could I actually keep going up? They couldn’t even touch me! I feel like I could cartwheel to Invrisil!”
“Persua—”
“It’s like I’m free! I could probably climb a castle or Liscor’s walls like this! I’m untouchable, I’m amazing!”
“That’s something others say of you. But I’ll admit—even Lancrel couldn’t do that.”
A voice coughed in Persua’s ear. The City Runner froze. She turned her head, then squeaked and tried to hide behind Ryoka.
For there was Mihaela Godfrey. The Guildmistress coughed into her hand and looked Persua over.
Then she turned, and a veritable crowd of Runners, from the famous Hundredfriends Courier to City Runners, were all watching Persua. Mihaela addressed the crowd and the scrying orb, and only then did Persua realize she had been on television the entire time.
