Well, he was a [Knight]’s son. One of the rare [Knights] on Izril, and he’d inherited a few tricks from his father. Not that his father was dead, but Herove, or Shield-Runner Herove, carried an actual shield that he could use a number of Skills with. For all that, he was the fastest long-distance of all of them.
The as-yet unnamed Persua had the fastest and most enduring Skill in [Double Step], in theory, but her stamina and speed weren’t there yet. She, uh…also wasn’t much of a combat specialist. She could use a knife, but she just carried standard defensive tools.
But she had a dream. And that was to become a Courier, and well—she was going to do it. She just had to find her next step, and she would get there. Ryoka Griffin had cheated her way up, but Persua just needed…equality. The world was not fair to Persua.
 
——
 
“Only one Skill. One Skill, and I just don’t have a focus. Raich, you sprint from place to place. If you could do it for miles, you’d be a Courier—well, that and you need to look the part. Herove, you need to be a bit faster, but you have that shield. You could be Shield-Knight Herove. How about that?”
“I’d have to run with armor, and I don’t think I’m there.”
“Maybe not. I could help you pick some to practice with? Just let me know.”
The Street Runners were dispersing as Persua turned back to her friends. She sat very close between Herove and Raich, enough for them to be brushing shoulders despite the table being wide open now.
Herove flushed again, and Raich’s hand went up self-consciously. But Persua saw Herove trying to remove himself and threw her arms around both of their shoulders.
“Don’t you run off! We’re all getting there, guys. Raich, I told you, we will make sure you are radiant when you debut as a Courier. And you can pick out some armor, Herove—we’ll debut together and do a three-Courier run, like Hawk and Tritel and Salamani. I told you that I met them, didn’t I?”
She kissed Herove’s cheek lightly and rubbed at Raich’s hair, which she did for ‘good luck’, and the male City Runner turned red.
“You do meet people, Persua. I’m envious. I couldn’t get a word in.”
“Eh, Tritel was arrogant. Which is probably why he ended the way he did.”
Persua scowled, and Raich recalled how Tritel had been rude to Persua…but it felt rude to speak of the dead like that. She said nothing, just checked her appearance in a pocket-mirror she’d bought.
If Herove was distracted by Persua flirting…or just being close to him? Raich was reminded of her appearance.
Her nose was a bit off from being broken once in a bad fall, and a bit too big. Persua assured her it wasn’t notable and had given Raich a lot of tips. It hadn’t bothered the other City Runner before, but a Courier had to look, well, good. Persua kept pointing out how striking most looked, and Raich was profoundly grateful for Persua’s advice.
“Together, Couriers!”
Herove repeated Persua’s old adage. Raich nodded.
“Courier in three years!”
Persua’s scowl emerged, and her two friends hesitated. The City Runner deliberately looked from Herove to Raich and spoke.
“Courier in a year. We’re only young once!”
“Then should we train or check more deliveries?”
They’d all done a run already. Persua pursed her lips and looked at the board, but stretched lightly. Then she rocked back and shot out of her chair. She was nimble.
“No, I think we should check out that travelling fair. Together. Then, maybe, we’ll check out the Courier-deliveries. That’s how Ryoka Griffin did it, remember?”
“Waking the Archmage of Izril. But that was so risky—”
“Yes, but we can do it. Three City Runners? We just need a big break. After all—”
Persua turned lightly, balancing on one heel and the other leg out as she spread her arms. A single ring flashed on her hand. It was brass and solid and didn’t fit the rest of her clothes, but she never went anywhere without it.
“—I’m lucky.”
 
——
 
The Ring of Minor Protection that Persua wore had saved her life over thirty times. Everything from a pot heaved out a window by an enraged wife as Persua fled to an arrow in an ambush by [Bandits] had swerved or missed just enough for her to survive.
It, along with Persua’s [Double Step] Skill, were enough to put her on the path to being a Courier. Unfortunately, much to Persua’s regret, her backers had disappeared after the Circle had vanished. She had the ring, but the chance to rise in the Circle’s esteem and be granted further artifacts and favors was now lost. Thanks to, once again, Ryoka Griffin.
It was amazing how much Ryoka had dogged her life. In fact, Persua had even charted out the many ways Ryoka had ruined her future.
She should have done the High Passes run, not Ryoka. Then she would have leveled. It would have been Persua who ran the Bloodfields, Persua who saved Lord Tyrion—and it was just like Ryoka to hop into bed with the man.
Of course, you did what you had to in order to get ahead, sometimes. But Ryoka just had to get in Persua’s way. In fact—it was because of Ryoka that Persua had to rely on her ring.
And therefore, Ryoka’s fault that Persua had never leveled beyond her current class of Level 26 [Nimble Runner]. Also Ryoka’s fault that Persua had lost her friendship with Fals and never solidified her friendship with Garia. The girl had potential, but she’d been so…so…insipidly slow. Even when Persua reached out, Garia backed away.
Now, of course, she, along with the rest of Celum, was probably poisoned against Persua, which was why Persua hadn’t gone back even after hearing about the renaissance happening there. She had better friends here. She just needed a chance.
However, the truth was that when Persua looked around the quiet Toremn and stared at the seagulls calling as if they were on the coast, not surrounded by woodlands and sweaty [Lumberjacks]…she felt adrift. Empty.
Helpless because she had lost her way. She had thought she’d be a Courier by now, but she just…didn’t know what came next.
Faster, stronger? A combat class? A talent in…in magic? These things set Couriers apart. Even when they had been City Runners, Persua knew that Salamani had been a talented [Mage]. The Hundredfriends Courier had already had his Orangutan buddy, who’d pop out of a tattoo and beat up a [Mugger].
What was Persua’s thing? Hence her desire to come up with a worthy nickname. Her scheming to take on a Courier-level request. And thankfully, Toremn’s Guildmaster had barred her from even looking at them. Raich and Herove listened to Persua, but the truth was that they had leveled on time to make Courier by three years, both having hit Level 30 already. They just needed a few more good Skills. Persua had been saying the same thing for months. She was willing to take a risk—but keenly aware of how dangerous some of the risks that would propel her forwards were.
And that might have been Persua’s entire life. Aging from the new Courier-prospective into one of the jaded City Runners who moved on from Toremn or settled there and realized they might never really become the Courier they dreamed of.
So few did. And then Persua would find someone—perhaps Herove or someone with the right potential or position—and settle down. One day, one of her descendants would receive a mysterious ring in her will and find it was actually a powerful artifact.
Except that Persua, on the 12th day of Norium into the first month of fall, decided to go to the local fair. As such things went, it wasn’t a bad meeting of fates. Especially because for the person, the class which she would meet—
Travelling fairs, markets, bazaars and whatnot, even the corner of an inn by midnight, that was where he belonged. The [Soothsayer] passed his hand over the crystal ball again and one of the [Performers] leaned over the counter, looking amused.
“More tricks? You can’t just put on a [Scrying] spell these days. Everyone’s onto it, oh great and All-Seeing Rastandius.”
Rastandius the All-Seeing glanced up and looked away from the young woman after a moment. Then the [Performer] blinked, because this was no scrying spell she had ever seen. Would Wistram News Network feature some boring City Runner?
Rastandius chuckled and covered the ball with a cloth.
“It’s a paltry trick indeed, and damn Wistram for all their scrying orbs. It puts honest crystal balls to shame. But today, I think I’ll break out the real stuff.”
Not the ‘real magic’, but the real stuff. The [Performer] laughed lightly, but with uncertainty as she fiddled with her juggling pins, of which she had ten.
“Oh, come on. The last time you tried that, the [Lady] nearly hung you, and they ran us out of Ulta lands. If the [Caravan Master] hears you’re up to your tricks…you told me it’s mostly chance, even with your Skills.”
“Fate is never certain. But it is certain when it is uncertain. I may be old, but I have enough wherewithal to know when we come to a crossroads of fate, or when the strings of destiny pull taut.”
That was all Rastandius’ faded glory and faux mysticism. He shuffled open a deck of cards, and the [Performer] rolled her eyes…until he flipped a card up. The old man, who put on a white beard and whose mysterious robes were mostly ‘mysterious’ due to lack of washing, winked at the woman. Then she saw his one wooden eye gleam, and his gnarled hands move gracefully, twirling the card up and making it disappear and then appear on the counter of his wagon.
“Care to guess?”
“Every card means whatever you want it to mean.”
She scoffed. The [Performer] had known [Fortune Tellers] and [Charlatans] and sometimes never identified one from the other. She had been in the company of [Hedge Mages] and [Mystics], even a [Warlock], all of whom had a rare bit of magic or Skill that the towns and smaller places would pay a few coins for.
But Rastandius claimed he was the real thing, and sometimes…the [Performer] picked up his card. It was a standard tarot card deck—but when she looked down, she dropped the card with an oath.
The other [Performers] looked around, and a man swallowing swords nearly cut himself as he tried to see whether one of the [Firebreathers] had lit themself on fire again. They just saw the juggler striding away from Rastandius’ wagon and put it down to the old man again.
Chuckling, Rastandius picked up the card. Yes, part of fortune telling, the tricks and laughter, at least, was just a bit of showmanship. Knowing something about the client and using that to draw a connection. Any regular card in the deck might mean anything.
Tarot cards. You could have up to twenty-one in a deck. Or as many as seventy-eight. Minor and major arcana, as they were organized. Each card had many meanings, like The [Archmage], card number eighteen. Or—The Dragon, card fifteen.
The Dragon could be wrath—or a challenge—or a symbol of might—or wisdom—and so you were right for skepticism, especially if you let Rastandius draw three cards and palm the one he wanted and you were paying gold to hear your future.
In this case, he’d drawn the first card from his deck. The [Fool], a standard across many worlds. The first card, the zero card, actually. But what had unnerved the [Performer] was…
Instead of the japing fool, the card was of a young woman mid-stride. Pinched and hungry as it was, never quite content, thin but nimble.
Persua stared up from the painted card as Rastandius shuffled her back into the deck. His eye, his good eye, seemed to glow.
“Ah, yes. Today might be an important reading after all.”
 
——
 
The carnival was as dreadful as Persua had feared. A woman juggling flaming pins into the air caught them and bowed as a few dullards applauded and some children gasped, but it was a poor thing in a world where you could literally levitate and fly about.
Then again, Raich, bless her heart, seemed fascinated. She pointed out the [Juggler] to Persua.
“Isn’t it amazing, Persua? [Mages] can’t do that so—gracefully.”
“I’m so glad you’re enjoying yourself, Raich. Herove, can you get us something to eat?”
“Right away. What looks good?”
“Um…let’s have that corn. Why is it on display? Oh, it’s red!”
There were little red and blue corns, and much to Persua’s vague amusement, someone was touting the crisped corn as if it were the greatest thing. She heard the vendor shouting.
“Lupp’s Corn! Get some corn from the famous [Farmer]! Eldertuin himself eats the stuff!”
“Eldertuin the Fortress?”
And predictably, there were some buyers. Persua herself drifted over, although she let Herove buy what were apparently spicy and sweet varieties of corn. He was just coming back with some hot and steaming when Persua’s ears perked up.
“All the way from House Imarris! Lupp’s Corn from around Reizmelt! The Wind Runner herself came from there!”
Persua’s face soured so fast that she didn’t even have time to take a bite before the corn was as appealing to her as dirt. She handed it back to Herove, and he winced.
“The Wind Runner? How many places has she…?”
“It doesn’t matter. Find me something else. That—popped corn? No, um—go check over there.”
Herove walked off, handing the baby corn to Raich to eat. She was engrossed in the next act, someone eating a sword, and Persua folded her arms. The night’s air was brisk and cool, and the smells of a lot of good food were mixing with the less-pleasant smells of nature, horse manure, and whatever was in the tent that was making some children scream.
Goblins, a monster, or even something as ‘spectacular’ as a slime, Persua guessed. She had hoped for more. Still, the City Runner had thought it would be at least pleasant to treat her two friends…until Ryoka had ruined her mood.
So she took two steps back and grabbed a family heading for the stall.
“Are you having that corn? I wouldn’t.”
“Why not?”
A mother looked concerned at Persua’s serious face. The young woman looked around.
“I saw the owner picking some of the corn he dropped out of a horsepat. Just…maybe wash it if you have to eat it?”
The horrified look on the family’s face and the way Persua had not really lowered her voice was enough to stop the people heading towards the stall. Persua watched, satisfied, as the vendor looked around, confused by the sudden lack of interest.
“Persua, did you find anything to eat? This is good. Maybe try one?”
Raich looked around as Persua walked back, whistling. The City Runner glanced around and shrugged.
“Not yet. Oh—fine. Let me take a bite.”
There was something like sour cream and a bit of cheese on the spicy red corn, such that it was dubious whether there was more condiment than baby corn. But Persua took a bite, and her face lit up.
