“The Wind Runner of Reizmelt herself? You would have known Tyrion Veltras. My, how—”
“You faker. You charlatan.”
Persua hissed in his face. Rastandius blinked at her and then realized she was truly upset.
“Do you know Ryoka Griffin?”
“She’s a fiend! That monstrous bitch, that—murdering, whoring—she’s the reason everything has gone wrong for me! Are you telling me we were supposed to be friends?”
Persua struggled with the mountains of injustices, but Rastandius knew none of this. He just gave her a solemn, even amused look.
“In the reality you wanted to see, your glorious one—you two were clearly friends. I warned you, Runner Persua, you might not like what you saw.”
“This is impossible. There is no way we would ever be friends.”
Her denial was flat and instant. If anything, Ryoka Griffin would have agreed. Yet Rastandius’ pitying look followed him passing a hand over the crystal ball. The image vanished, and he placed his hands on his haunches.
“I can tell you that it absolutely happened. Or could have happened. Perhaps you could mend—?”
“No. No, this is wrong. This is—perverse. Twisted! I cannot believe it would happen. There was nothing glorious about that. Persua the Weasel? How is that my most glorious future?”
She raged at him, but the [Soothsayer] simply raised his hands like a shield.
“That was now. I can focus on your moments of glory—which I was about to do. Yet the Crossroads of Fate showed us, clearly, the difference between the you of now and then. A friendship.”
“It couldn’t happen. We hated each other. From the very start. I can’t believe a thing you show me.”
Rastandius sighed.
“Then—would you like me to show you how it happened?”
Persua, about to pace in the small wagon, looked sharply at him. She hesitated. You can do that? But that was a silly question. So she wavered, bit her lip until it might bleed, and sat hard.
“If I don’t like what I see, I’m taking my gold coin and leaving. If I don’t believe it—”
“Just watch, Miss Runner. Watch.”
The [Soothsayer] frowned at her. He passed a cloth over the ball once more, and Persua sat, angry and confused. She stared into the ball as a different Persua appeared. This one…younger? By a bit, perhaps. Certainly less well-equipped. Her eyes flickered and narrowed. But then, Persua realized this was just one scene of many. Not just one moment flickered across the ball, but dozens. Little snapshots that mattered.
Rastandius was showing her everything. Her promised glory. But he began it—like a tale she didn’t want to hear—from the very start. And the first thing that he showed her that rattled the young woman to her core was something she rarely saw, even in a mirror.
 
——
 
Persua Alcherie Mavva was smiling. No facsimile of a smile, the lips stretched back, the teeth in the right place and the smile there everywhere but the eyes and the heart—a real smile.
She wasn’t good at it. It looked awkward, but perhaps that was fine. Because if misery liked company, awkwardness abhorred it. And so when joined by another smile like a cringe painted across a face—well, Persua grinned, panting, and the other young woman gave her much the same odd smile.
The other young woman. Not quite an adult. Not yet. That was as much her age as how she looked at herself. But she was getting there. In time, she would get there, step by step. And change. Like someone paying dues for each bit of age. Two fingers, scars, friends lost—
She had none of those scars yet. Just a wild impatience with everything, including herself. A challenging look in her eyes and grudging respect. Also—her hair was frizzled up and scorched. If you could have smelled the two, they would smell like sweat and dirt and burnt wool and hair.
“See? I told you we could do it.”
“You’re insane. I’m insane. I did it. I—I’m amazing.”
Persua’s reply was gasping. The other young woman’s smile widened. And then they both heard a shout, a whumph, and the roar of a [Fireball]. They dove for cover and hid behind a piece of rubble.
“Get the damn Lich! Someone draw it off—not you, Calruz!”
A female voice that the watching Persua recognized. A half-Elf went skidding around the corner for cover and nearly tripped over the two Runners.
“You two—get to safety!”
“We’ll just run out. Are you okay? Did you get all the potions?”
Ryoka assured Ceria, and the half-Elf gave her a strange look. She glanced over her shoulder at the undead warparty in the Ruins of Albez, and Persua yelped.
“We will? You’re mad.”
“We got in, we’ll get out. You want to sit here for ten minutes?”
She really was mad. Both Ceria and Persua gave her the same incredulous look, but Ryoka was already gauging her exit. And when she started running—the other City Runner went with her.
Persua, panting as she tried to keep up with Ryoka’s longer stride. Screaming and ducking a crackling bolt of lightning as Ryoka laughed like the insane City Runner she was. And all the while, Persua was cursing Ryoka, spewing invectives as she ran.
“I never should have come with you! You’re crazy! No run for Magnolia Reinhart is worth this! You crazy bitch!”
“You said you could keep up! I thought you said you were a real City Runner!”
And there it was. Ryoka’s needling, arrogant smile. The same smile Persua hated. The superiority that oozed off her when it came to everything from running to being so aloof, like someone condescending to talk to their inferiors.
Wild confidence. Combined with the attitude that said quite clearly that Ryoka would do anything she wanted, from taking the best requests to ignoring the Runner’s Guild conventions.
Almost, almost—Persua had debated showing Ryoka what happened to City Runners who wouldn’t play nice. But she’d relented, traded a delivery to Magnolia Reinhart for a crazy dare with Ryoka Griffin. Do an emergency-run for a group of Silver-ranked adventurers.
The Persua running for her life, half-scorched by spells the undead Lich kept throwing, regretted all her choices. She and Ryoka hated each other, rival City Runners in the same guild. Yet unlike another time, Ryoka Griffin’s leg wasn’t broken. And unlike then—Persua watched herself smile. Unwillingly, panting with fear, but risking her life.
Rivals, not enemies. Despite that, Persua cursed Ryoka all the way back to Celum. She told Fals, and every other Runner, how insane, brash, and frankly arrogant Ryoka was. Then she flopped into a bed and leveled up.
And that was how it began.
 
——
 
“I’m going on a run to, uh…Liscor. The Horns are heading that way. I might as well. Who took the request to Esthelm?”
Ryoka Griffin was standing in Celum’s Runner’s Guild, checking on the deliveries. She had a frown on her face and was addressing a shy City Runner. Garia Strongheart murmured, her voice low and hesitant.
“Oh. I thought we could do that run together—”
“Sorry, Garia. Maybe later. Who’s got the request?”
Ryoka Griffin was impatient to go. She hopped up and down on her bare feet. Then she looked around, and a resigned scowl crossed her face.
“I should have known. Persua. You don’t run to Esthelm.”
A familiar head of brown hair rose among a gaggle of laughing Runners. Some glared at Ryoka, but most looked amused. Especially when Persua put her hands on her cheeks, looking mock-horrified. Her voice was no less sarcastic.
“Oh no. Did I take your delivery request, Ryoka? What a shame. I’m so sorry I got in Ryoka Griffin’s way. No other runner could hope to do what she does. It’s not like I don’t know the Horns of Hammerad either.”
Ryoka’s jaw clenched, but she gave Persua a big smile.
“Why don’t we run down to Esthelm together, then? If you can keep up.”
Persua lost her smile.
“Go to Rhir, Ryoka.”
However, they did end up leaving the Runner’s Guild at the same time. A resigned Garia watched as Persua began to head out and Ryoka went after her. They weren’t halfway through the door before Ryoka ‘accidentally’ shoved Persua into the doorway. An enraged Persua chased after Ryoka.
…She never caught up. Ryoka was taller, came from a background of running herself, and had been far more fit than Persua when she came to this world. At her level, back then, Persua had been, oh, Level 15.
Although she had leveled up from running with Ryoka. Even so, the Ryoka of back then had never been the most pleasant. For instance, she stood over Persua, nudging her with a toe as Persua lay, panting at the sky, having lost all her energy in the last hour of off-and-on sprinting trying to attack Ryoka.
“Hey Persua, what’s wrong? We have to get to Esthelm in two days. No time for lying down.”
Persua stared up at Ryoka’s mocking grin, her face drenched in sweat. She whispered.
“I hate you. What’s wrong with you? I thought you were just an arrogant freak, but you’re just—insane.”
Ryoka lost her smile.
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
Persua struggled to sit up. She panted as she stared at Ryoka.
“I thought you were trying to be a hero at Albez. But then you did the High Passes run. You’re not a wannabe Courier. You’re just insane. And you’re going to kill yourself.”
The other young woman put her hands on her hips. She scowled and suddenly looked ready for a fight.
“I’m just living my utmost. You should try it, Persua, instead of cowering behind doing the popular things in the Runner’s Guild. I thought you wanted to level up.”
Silently, Persua stared at Ryoka. So long the other young woman grew uncomfortable.
“What? Spit it out.”
“Who did you meet in the High Passes? Why are you in a tearing hurry to get to Liscor?”
Ryoka’s eyes shifted south. She clenched and unclenched her hands.
“I’ve got…a delivery. I have to go. Unlike you, Persua, I have more I want to do and see. Keep sitting there if you can’t do the run. I’ll take your delivery and ‘credit’ you, even.”
She tossed her head, and Persua’s face screwed up with frustration and dislike. And envy. And…she looked at Ryoka’s back and shouted as the Wind Runner began to jog off.
“I may not be as fast as you, but at least I don’t loathe myself like you do!”
Ryoka Griffin’s shoulders hunched. She slowed and looked back at Persua. The two Runners locked eyes for a long time on that long road south.
 
——
 
They fought in Esthelm. After Ryoka Griffin broke Yvlon Byres’ nose in a duel, she egged Persua into a fight despite the weight difference.
Persua was no hand-to-hand expert. She went flailing after Ryoka as the Wind Runner jabbed and kicked her onto the ground, and Ceria called for them to stop. Right until Ryoka planted her foot in Persua’s face.
Then Persua snapped. Calruz never had his chance to see what Ryoka was made of. Gerial, Ceria, and two of the other Silver-rank adventurers had to pull Persua off Ryoka. They had to use half a healing potion for her bruised face and the pummeling she received.
On the other side, Ryoka had mostly scratches. But Persua had taken a chunk out of her arm. With her teeth.
When they left, Ryoka was flipping Ceria off, and the two glared daggers at each other. Persua sat there as the Horns milled around discussing Ryoka Griffin.
Then—
 
——
 
Weeks later. Persua sat in the strange inn she’d found, sipping blue juice. She barely reacted as someone halted at the table.
“Persua?”
The young woman didn’t look up. She stared pointedly at the back of an [Innkeeper] arguing with a [Necromancer]. She didn’t know if she liked the inn, but she did like the sweet drinks. The current guest made her itch to go, though.
“I’m…Persua, it’s me.”
“I’m aware it’s you, Ryoka.”
Persua didn’t look at the other City Runner. But she did notice Ryoka looked more—hesitant than before. She stood uncertainly, and some of the fire that burnt everything had gone.
Had she really run the Blood Fields? Persua didn’t know. If anything, Ryoka looked defeated.
“Can I sit down?”
“It’s not my inn.”
Persua deliberately turned and faced the wall as Ryoka sat down. She didn’t so much as look at Ryoka as the other young woman fidgeted. Persua was on the brink of drawing her belt dagger, until Ryoka spoke.
“I’m glad you survived. When I heard about the crypt…did anyone make it besides Yvlon?”
Persua’s shoulders hunched. She looked around, and Pisces Jealnet stared at a glowing butterfly made of magic on his fingers. She wondered what it meant, but she only glanced at Ryoka out of the corner of her eyes.
“No.”
Ryoka’s head hung low. She stared at her hands, and Persua herself stared blankly at the wall. It wasn’t like she’d liked the Horns. Not at all. She’d just saved their lives.
That was it. They owed her a favor, and they’d never had a chance to become Gold-ranks. She’d thought they might. Then she’d be friends with a Gold-rank team, even if Calruz claimed she lacked ‘ample muscles and mammaries’. That idiotic Minotaur…
“I’m so sorry.”
Ryoka interrupted Persua’s blank staring at the wall. Persua glanced at Ryoka again, and the young Asian woman clasped and unclasped her hands.
“I’ve been terrible to everyone. And now—”
“Took you long enough to realize it.”
Persua snapped back. She saw Ryoka’s head duck lower, and a dozen things she could say to really drive Ryoka into the dust popped onto her tongue.
She held it. And she and Ryoka sat there until an [Innkeeper] exclaimed.
“Ceria’s alive?”
Slowly, Ryoka’s head rose, and she turned, a disbelieving look in her eyes. A little Goblin raised her head at a table as Erin Solstice shouted. Persua bit her lip as Pisces showed them the butterfly.
They argued, the few guests of the inn. There was the creepy skeleton, Ryoka insisting they had to go now. Persua found herself on Rags’ side, arguing not to get killed going after them.
But just like last time—just like every time and the times to come—when Ryoka Griffin went into the Crypt of Liscor to rescue Ceria and Olesm, Persua went with her.
 
——
 
Time passed in Rastandius’ crystal ball in jumps and leaps. Not every moment was about Persua, and many events passed her by, regardless of how her decisions had changed things.
Not all of it mattered. Though Persua couldn’t have known it, not much had changed from her different relationship with Ryoka Griffin.
Like Fals, like Garia—Persua kept running around Celum, though she did run to Liscor now and then. She was a higher-level runner, but she was no rapidly-evolving legend.
If there were a difference, it was that in this timeline, in this reality—
