“What we just saw was a City Runner humiliating three [Knights]. Which is impossible, because no City Runner I know can do that. A Courier is untouchable.”
Persua’s mouth was open wide. She looked at Mihaela, and Ryoka’s breath caught as Tyrion Veltras came riding back, a lance in hand.
“Does that mean—?”
The City Runner was caught between elation and dismay. Just from dodging three [Knights] for ten minutes? Mihaela glanced at her, and one brow lifted in amusement.
“Not yet. But you’re getting there. When you do—think of a better name than ‘the Weasel’.”
And with that, she strode off. Persua looked at Ryoka, and then she picked up a piece of broken cobblestone and tried to brain Mihaela with it.
But that—that was the start.
 
——
 
They called her a City Runner for a long time after that. Not quite a Courier, but in most people’s eyes…it annoyed Persua to no end.
However, the gap that had opened between her and Ryoka began to close with a speed that was only possible for someone with levels. The flying Wind Runner was still one of the fastest Couriers and hard to catch.
But Persua—Persua showed off. Not just her tricking routine, which had begun a movement similar to Kevin’s damn skateboards or Joseph’s football, but the way she, well, bullied people.
Or just made a point. Like when she challenged a Street Runner in Reizmelt to a race and cartwheeled faster than them all the way to Lupp’s farm. Her Skills were varied—and odd.
“How are you doing that?”
Fierre snapped in exasperation as Persua demonstrated her new trick. Namely, a cartwheel that picked up speed as she went. Persua winked.
“[Springtoes]! And [Ten Second Routine]. See? [My Stunning Performance]!”
She cartwheeled straight into a perfect 900-degree kick, as if she’d had ten seconds to figure out how to execute the next move from the instant her toes touched the ground. Then she burst into a wild series of flips and kicks that she’d decided to make her performance.
“Show-off.”
Ryoka commented as she sat under a tree, watching Persua. To which Fierre and Persua gave her the longest stare imaginable. But it was true—Persua leapt up onto a tree-branch and held herself horizontally, one arm holding the branch.
“That’s physically impossible.”
The Wind Runner shook her head—Persua was doing a superman pose, yet somehow she was perfectly balanced. When Ryoka climbed up to figure out how, she found Persua wasn’t frozen in place or using some kind of intense strength to do that.
It was just that Persua’s weight had shifted until it was all in her hand. At first, she just thought it was a neat trick that allowed her to perform more confusing tricks in combat or for fun.
Then came the day that an exasperated Persua, watching Ryoka soar effortlessly over a hill, went running after Ryoka. The Wind Runner looked down and saw Persua run straight up a near-vertical cliff face. She redirected all of her weight so that each step carried her higher, leaping into the air with each step.
…Right until she wiped out near the top and nearly broke her neck on the way down.
 
——
 
Persua watched herself twisting and leaping across a continent’s stage. She was trembling.
This other Persua—she couldn’t fly, but she was untouchable on the ground and could climb and go anywhere. On a dare, she climbed up Pallass’ sheer walls from the outside and was arrested for three days.
“Remarkable.”
Even Rastandius hadn’t seen this kind of ability. He glanced at Persua, but his eyes flickered over the crystal ball. And then he did reveal his avarice.
Not just for the secrets. Not just for the potential of his clients. Persua didn’t miss how he watched her assignations with people in private, or how her Skills worked.
Could she be that laughing Courier, content to while her days away with the Wind Runner? Persua stared at the confident Courier, who even looked taller, signing autographs, posing with the Players of Celum.
Persua.
“This isn’t glorious. Where is my glory?”
Her fingernails were cutting into her palms. Rastandius heard her. His eyes lit up like filthy lanterns, painted wood and flesh.
“Impatient, are we? Very well. It may lack for context—but you want glory? Here it is.”
He grinned at her, and the scrying orb changed. It revealed a panting Persua, a cut on her cheek, filthy from grit and sand, stripped of her gear, wearing revealing rags, and the roar of a crowd. Jeering as she stared up.
 
——
 
“Here is Persua the Courier! Persua, the Weasel! Of Izril! Will she do better than the Silver Killer of fame?”
Boos. Howling jeers at that hated name. The [Announcer] mocked her as Persua felt at the shackles on her hands. Not her legs, but she had no weapons. And she was never much of a fighter.
“There will be no pity for her. Already—the signal is given.”
A veiled figure watching the coliseum’s floor from above had raised a hand. A thumb, pointed downwards. Persua stared up.
 
——
 
It was not Queen Yisame. Who…?
The panting Courier in the scrying orb looked around the Coliseum of Monarchs in Nerrhavia’s Fallen as [Gladiators] began to file through the gates. The crowd’s howling had reached a fever pitch.
This was no pretense, no act. This was an execution. The mocking [Announcer] was shouting.
“Weaponless? Will someone give this Courier a weapon?”
Even if they did—what would it do? Persua closed her eyes. She felt light, even now, but this was an arena. She could not run forever, and the [Gladiators] were nimble and quick. They had nets and worked in teams.
A few jeering guards hurled weapons into the sands after her, rusted swords, a crossbow, even a half-broken wand, a spear—
None of these things had ever worked with Persua. Even before she had learned she had wings on her feet, she had found them all so heavy. She didn’t have the muscles of a trained warrior, and even chainmail slowed her too much.
She waited, breathing in the rust and sand in the air as the crowds cheered her death. Persua stared up at the sky and thought she heard a voice on the wind. The Courier opened her eyes wide.
“Ryoka?”
She looked around, but her friend was being hunted the length of…where would she be? Persua stared around the crowd. Then she realized where and looked straight up.
A dot in the sky. A few [Gladiators] followed Persua’s gaze and pointed up. The figure on the throne pointed, and a furor rose from below. But the Courier was just staring up. Up, her eyes straining for something. Anything.
Trusting in her friend. Then her eyes caught it, like a falling star, a glint of foreign metal. Plunging down as the winds howled. Persua’s eyes widened, and she took off running. Leaping, building momentum as the [Gladiators] surged after her.
Nets and tridents raised. Bows aiming. The greatest [Gladiators] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen and a lone Courier. Her arms reaching up, her body straining as she flew for a falling gift from the Wind Runner.
A weapon from another world, from travellers sympathetic to their plight. Persua’s hands reached for the weapon only two people in the world were allowed to use. A blade with no weight. A weapon as light as a handle of alien metal.
The Windsword. The Courier caught it, and a bright, pink blade of light cut apart her shackles as the [Gladiators] halted, uncertain. They recognized that famous blade.
Then, Persua turned. Nerrhavia’s Fallen was on its feet. The figure on the throne pointed down and lowered their thumb once more, and Persua looked up as her friend flew overhead. Alone, touching the Faeblade as it turned from a bright, painful glow to a burning torch, Persua looked at an arena of gladiators. Guards.
She leapt into the air, holding the flaming blade aloft. Spinning like a comet of pink fire. She set the Coliseum of Monarchs on fire. A burning flame sweeping across stitch-flesh and armor and even stone until the audience fled. Until she stood alone, sword held overhead.
Not a cut nor scar on her body. That was when they changed her name. When they started calling her Persua.
Persua the Untouchable.
 
——
 
“So long as I have space, no one can touch me. Unless I want them to.”
That was the Courier’s boast. Which she followed by putting an arm around the Wind Runner’s shoulders and planting a kiss on Ryoka’s cheek. Then spinning away and laughing as the embarrassed woman tried to fend her off.
Courier. In one moment, in the crystal ball, she was giving an interview to an older Drassi, the next—holding a letter over her head. A black letter, on black paper, which seemed to eat at the light.
She walked through a throne-room and offered it to a [King] with red-gold hair. He regarded her with more interest than the letter itself and rose to greet her.
Of course—Persua recognized him as the King of Destruction. So her lungs were so tight in her chest that it felt like she couldn’t breathe as the Courier walked from story to story.
From Izril to Chandrar, and then to Wistram, to witness a true [Archmage] being ordained. Someone she knew. From Wistram’s halls to Terandria, where the ruler of a kingdom greeted her by name. Even to Drath, to take a request from their emperor.
Drath to Rhir, running across a battlefield where spells screamed down like rain, desperately dumping potions from a satchel as she looked up and saw Demons. And behind them—the last Giants.
A Courier running across the world, even places neither Persua nor Rastandius knew. A panting Persua looked up and came to a rest. She collapsed, red liquid—blood?—all over her pants. She stared up at a sign, covered by ancient, red mold.
“So there you are.”
Persua reached up with trembling hands and wiped away at one of the signs. The Courier exhaled—and the [Soothsayer] and Persua read the name down one of the long roads.
Mershi, City of Stars.
“The Crossroads of Izril.”
Rastandius’ good eye shone like a moon with wonder. He looked up, and Persua was caught. Watching herself, resting under the aegis of that ancient signpost. And seeing herself in the reflection.
It was everything she’d dreamed of. A promise of glory. No—beyond glory. Rulers greeted her like friends or someone they wanted to know. Wherever she went, she was either at the heart of an adventure or the herald of one for her fans.
Persua.
Persua the Untouchable. Persua, the Courier of Zeikhal.
Destruction’s Courier. The Runner of Pallass. Guildmistress Persua.
Persua of the High Passes. The Discoverer of the Crossroads. Drath’s Esteemed. Persua, Hell’s Warden, Persua—
 
The Windfriend.
 
Yes. That was it. No matter how many accolades. No matter how many stories…she was there.
Like cancer. Like poison, running across all of Persua’s triumphs. The Wind Runner.
The worst part was that the Persua in the crystal ball didn’t push her away. She welcomed her, laughing, and their story was intertwined.
From Chandrar, running across the Great Desert together, Ryoka Griffin hopping in agony as she seared her feet raw on the sands.
In Wistram, tears in her eyes as she attended the ceremony, until someone handed her a handkerchief to please blow her nose.
Terandria, as awkward and happy as a stuffed pig at a formal banquet, teeth bared in sheer discomfort.
Running across Rhir as the greatest war unfolded like thunder around them.
Ryoka Griffin.
“Stop it. Stop showing me this. Show me something without her. Show me—another time.”
The [Soothsayer]. She thought he had perfect, pristine teeth, but now it seemed as though there were gaps in his teeth, thin cracks, so it looked like a gap-toothed smile.
Mocking her as the scrying orb shifted again. This time—Persua saw herself bending over, trying to kiss a protesting Ryoka.
“Stop it!”
She screamed at him, but Rastandius laughed.
“I am only showing you likely possibilities. Don’t you see? Your life and hers are intertwined. Look. See what happens?”
He showed her another image—this one of Persua and Ryoka, younger, rolling around the Runner’s Guild of Celum. But not, as Persua first thought, in a lover’s embrace. Ryoka pulled herself away, and Persua stared up at her as trails of red dripped away from her. Strings of life’s blood. The knife that Persua had tried to plunge into Ryoka’s chest was buried in her stomach.
—Another. Persua saw the culmination of multiple Persuas’ dreams. She wed Lord Tyrion Veltras.
The older man, not the young one he had become. He looked as stiff as a board, but she looked—happy? The Persua wearing the wedding veil turned and scowled a second. But then the barefoot Courier gave her a sardonic salute and a bow, and she nodded at Ryoka with grudging respect—
“Stop it.”
Rastandius’ hands hovered over the ball. He was panting now, sweating, but he watched with a note of triumph in his eyes as Persua clutched at her head.
“This is all a lesson. Do you truly want to look away?”
Persua’s eyes were rolling. She was…going mad. She whispered.
“…Impossible. Impossible. It’s her fault. Not mine. Not mine. It couldn’t happen.”
“That you could be friends with the Wind Runner? Are you really so blind? Are you so mad? Stare again.”
He challenged her. Now, his voice was deep and wide, like a man twice his size booming at her. The [Soothsayer] seemed too large for the wagon, yet he pressed at her, and she shrank back.
“What are you doing to me?”
Rastandius was grand and imposing, like a prophet. He was twisted and grinning, enjoying prying into lives. He was wretched and desperate, trying for one last great truth.
Persua was cowering against the wagon. A hundred lifetimes were flashing in front of her, and she felt like something was breaking in her head. Rastandius pushed—but Persua kept whispering.
“Impossible. Show me. It’s impossible.”
“You two could have been the best of friends.”
His whispers were undeniable. Whatever was happening—Persua felt it pressing on her like a brand, forever changing. But one part of her kept repeating the word. It rose out of her mouth and spewed out like hatred.
“Impossible. Then—show me my greatest days. Show me how I died. For I will never believe it. Not once, not ever. Prove to me there is a way Ryoka Griffin does not ruin me.”
Then the [Soothsayer] froze. His eyes clouded over with uncertainty. He backed up, and Persua rose.
“I don’t know—”
“Neither do I. But I know, nevertheless. Show me.”
She advanced on him, and the [Soothsayer] looked at her. He hesitated, one long moment, and then passed his hands over the crystal ball. Persua, teetering in her mind, stared down.
Like Raich—she felt a mortal fear. For it was a terrible thing to behold your end. And it painted itself in her gaze like—
Glory. All the glory in the world. In a moment, she understood why this would be her most glorious death.
 
——
 
