They said a class changed a person. Whether by levels, Skills or necessity—like a piece of wood trapped in a vice or shaped by a clamp, a person could curve or grow—or twist—into something marvelous and wild, wondrous or glorious or wretchedly mundane.
For proof of that—look no further than Garia Strongheart. Yes, Garia. That lumpen, clod-footed coward who was only good for long-distance hauler jobs had lost over a hundred pounds and changed in literally every conceivable way.
Although if you shed that much weight from her face, one supposed there would be a positive change. It still was astounding and offensive. Because Garia didn’t deserve her toned body or her apparent popularity in Celum. Much less being considered for her Courier trials!
It just went to show that the world was unfair and people got away with being, well, worthless, until someone bailed them out, even if it was the system of levels and classes itself. But then, Persua had already known that.
Persua Alcherie Mavva was her full name, but to most everyone she was just ‘Persua’. Or should it be, Persua of the East? No, too generic. Persua Fleetfoot? She’d been considering that until she’d heard that Perorn Fleethoof was a famous Centauress in Baleros.
The fact that some [Strategist] from Baleros had stolen her nickname had outraged Persua for a month. Now, at this point, Raich had needed to point out that Perorn was not only twice as old as Persua, but a famous commander of the Forgotten Wing Company and thus, possibly, conceivably, a little bit more famous than Persua.
The look Persua had given Raich had made the other City Runner flinch, despite them both being Courier-candidates. Not because the other girl was frailer than Persua.
It was hard to be frailer than Persua and be a Runner. Raich, like many who ran, had long legs, hair in a single ponytail, and her hair was as black as her skin except for where she’d dyed it, so it looked like a single shining line stretching down her back as she ran.
It had given Raich her nickname, as it had reminded a few people of an illusory path in the darkness if she was ahead of them and running just right. Which was the point, and the City Runner had dyed her hair after hearing of Mihaela Godfrey’s famous Legacy Skill.
Raich ‘the Path’ was her nickname. A basic one for, as Persua reminded her, a basic City Runner. Even if you got a different nickname in time, where you started was important. Which was why Persua had no nickname, and Fleetfoot was such an incredibly uninspired nickname that she hadn’t really been considering it.
When Persua was angry, her face pinched. Another City Runner had described Persua’s face as ‘sallow’, but she had really meant that, despite Persua having fair skin, long brown locks of hair she paid attention to no matter how dirty the run, and athleticism—she always looked hungry, as if underfed.
Not even physically underfed, but a dissatisfaction with almost everyone and everything she saw. Although Persua was quite thin. She also preferred fashion over form, which, for a Runner, sometimes meant that she would be wearing the latest styles from Invrisil despite them not really working for a Runner’s lifestyle. She had once, famously in Toremn’s Runner’s Guild history, nearly died when a bit of lace in the Terandrian fashion had snagged on a wagon. The oblivious [Driver] hadn’t noticed the City Runner slowly being choked to death as the wagon towed her for a good ten minutes.
All of this had been an accident, and it had amused Toremn’s Guild to no end, mocking—and sympathizing—with the poor City Runner who’d come north from that distant, remote city of Celum. Second day running and she’s nearly killed by lace? She might not survive to Courier, hahaha, and so on.
…That was until it transpired that the [Driver] lost their job after Persua complained to the Merchant’s Guild about the negligence. Which seemed harsh. But when she had explained it, it was clear the [Driver] had either been drunk or a fool, because she had been striking the wagon and they had even looked back once and possibly, maliciously, ignored her.
Which was terrible, and a good reason to fire the [Driver]. In fact, as the City Runners of Toremn would soon find out, Persua had known many unkind and unfair people before. Why—she might now be a Courier-candidate thanks to her [Double Step] Skill, which allowed her to literally run twice as fast, but that was a reward for years of work.
Unlike, say—Ryoka Griffin. Unlike Garia Strongheart or the egomaniac, Fals, all of whom had conspired together to take over Celum’s Guild in a combination of treachery, working together to take the best jobs, and exaggerating their own abilities.
Who, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt? No, wait, Courier Ryoka Griffin, one of the newest stars of Izril? The person who had defied the Assassin’s Guild? Someone would ask if Persua was serious, and she would tell them a story about Ryoka Griffin.
Such as the time Ryoka nearly killed everyone in the Runner’s Guild with an avalanche and got away scot-free because the Guild was terrified of her. Or the time she ‘allegedly’ went into the High Passes but conveniently didn’t report any proof to the Runner’s Guild, or even a seal.
Or how everyone that Ryoka knew died, like the original Horns of Hammerad. In fact, had she really saved Tyrion Veltras or was that more of her getting a Named Adventurer and a host of other high-level people to do the fighting for her?
Ryoka Griffin might have—and Persua had no proof, only suspicions—‘leveraged’ some connections in an unprofessional manner. In other words, she had slept and bribed her way to where she was.
“I can’t prove it. Not entirely. But I know Ryoka, and I know she’s never honest. She always has a convenient bit of ‘help’. That Kaalblade she somehow obtained? Her ‘Windsword’? Where do you think she got it?”
“But the wind magic…”
“Where do you think she learned to cast that? She had this—thing. Barely more than a horrible pet. A Winter Sprite. Ryoka tends to befriend people who help her. Then she runs off. Don’t believe all the rumors about her. I knew Ryoka, and she was so thoroughly unpleasant she turned Celum’s entire Runner’s Guild against each other.”
At this point, Raich checked her truth stone and blinked at it. She glanced at Herove, and he raised his brows, but Raich just showed him a white glow from her stone and hid it while Persua was telling the other Street Runners about Ryoka. Again.
She never ran out of tales about her nemesis. But what amazed Raich was…she never managed to catch Persua in a lie. And she felt like Persua was lying, sometimes. But the truth stone always showed Persua as being honest.
“Persua—what about this Garia, then? What’s gotten you so angry?”
The City Runner, Herove, was one of three City Runners in Toremn who wasn’t local to the region. Like Raich and Persua, he was the newcomer, the person to beat, or haze, and the Courier-prospective.
People didn’t come to Toremn, or this region of Izril east of Invrisil, along the winding coastal roads and interspersed villages and lesser-used port cities and towns, because it was the place to be.
Invrisil, and even Celum these days, ironically, were the emerging hubs. Or First Landing, or…most places besides Toremn. However—this was the place where Runners came to train.
Consider Celum. Celum, like many cities in the area, was often twenty miles from another settlement, more or less depending on where you went. It was reasonably safe, not being directly near the High Passes, and got enough business to be called ‘average’, if such a phrase applied. The Ruins of Albez were a local, inactive dungeon, and its one claim to fame was that Magnolia Reinhart had a mansion in it.
By contrast, Toremn’s claim to fame was a seagull population that had migrated about sixty miles from the coast and annoyed the heck out of people. It was a quiet town…right along one of the major highways. So its real claim was that the Runner’s Guild in Toremn was the place every runner in the eastern coastal region would stop by eventually.
On average, each settlement might be three times as far apart as around Celum. Which meant that prices went up, and a Runner operating hereabouts had to be a long-distance runner. In short—if you were going to be a Courier one day, you might well come to Toremn and prove you could handle deliveries.
That was why Raich, Persua, and Herove were here. They had all leveled up beyond the normal standards of City Runners, hitting around Level 30, and they were on that cusp of being a Courier. To level further, their Guildmasters had told them to go to Invrisil, where they’d been assigned to Toremn. In a few years, they might gain another Skill that would warrant a full test to become Courier.
Or—the legendary Mihaela would pay them a visit, and if she did, you’d probably not get your Courier designation since she was infamously, horrendously tough. But if you did pass her trials, well, no one in the world would ever deny your right, not even the Sea Couriers and their odd ways.
However, it wasn’t fun being a City Runner in Toremn. The local runners were well aware it was the hotshots and rising stars coming here and would be helpful in misleading you. Oh, Invol? Horrible run, just head left at the crossroads and up into the hills.
…Whereupon, if you didn’t check your map before heading out, you’d spend two hours on the road before you realized you were going the wrong way and fail your timely delivery. Not just that—someone had sprinkled crumbs in Raich’s pack, and the damn seagulls had gone after her on her first day.
Herove had taken off his shoes after two days on the road, and someone had walked off with them while he took a nap. It was malicious, unfair, and the two City Runners had been prepared to grit their teeth and bear it until they hauled off someone they caught in a prank and settled it in a quick-and-dirty fight.
That was until Persua had come along. She had seemed, well, an easy target after the lace incident, with her clothing all fresh from Invrisil’s stores, friendless, looking for tips and help from the experienced Runners here. Raich had winced when she saw a Street Runner slipping a wet bit of seaweed into Persua’s shoes. She puts on the shoes, everyone laughs, right? Persua had even chuckled along ruefully and asked who got her.
The next day, the Street Runner who’d slipped seaweed into her shoes had been surprised to see Persua waiting as they descended from the rooms a Runner could pay for in the guild. She had calmly, and without breaking eye contact, sprinkled some glass shards into the Street Runner’s shoes.
“Just a prank. You caught me!”
She laughed and walked off. The Street Runner had checked their shoes, emptied them of the glass…shards…and run off, laughing about the weird new City Runner.
That lunch, they had come back, and Persua had given them a bowl of tomato soup, hot. She smiled as they tried to refuse it, politely, and watched as they ate it. The Street Runner had checked quite thoroughly for glass, and there wasn’t anything fishy about the soup.
Of course not. What kind of a maniac would have put glass in…? It was Persua being nice. Like when she bought a drink for the same Street Runner when they went to a bar two days later with a bunch of Runners.
Even months later, Persua would occasionally buy something for that very same Street Runner. A free drink, a meal—and, of course, there was never anything wrong with it. Never. She had replied to the pranking by being nice and shelling out some coins.
So, interestingly—Raich and Herove never saw anyone prank Persua again. No snotty Street Runners, no older City Runners—no one. And when she attached herself to their group as the ‘new Runners,’ the tricks slackened off on them very quickly.
These days, her two friends were used to Persua’s quirks, and they were often found together whenever they were in the area. They were friends.
Friends…the outsiders. That was how Persua had termed it when they were all new to Toremn. They had to stick together, and naturally, they’d fallen in as Courier-hopefuls. It was a natural thing. So they did some runs together, delivered things, shared tips, and Raich would accompany Persua on a run even if Persua was the only one doing deliveries, or Herove would cover for Persua if she was exhausted but let her claim the delivery and have her pay him back.
Raich had never done that before coming to Toremn, but Persua had insisted, insisted on doing a run for Raich one time when the City Runner had been fairly tired. Raich had felt guilty about letting Persua credit her, but then she’d done it for Persua in return. It wasn’t wrong, it was Runners covering for each other.
Then Persua had suggested a good way to get back at some of the Street Runners—kids, really, some only thirteen years old—would be if they went on a vacation when she knew all the other City Runners were out. Leave the Street Runners to do a City Runner’s job and spend five days on the road just getting to their destination and come back footsore and quiet.
Even now, as Persua talked to everyone about Ryoka Griffin—again—here Raich was. When she could have been…doing something else in Toremn? She hung around Persua constantly, and it bothered the other City Runner a bit.
“Raich? Raich, tell them how I felt when I heard Ryoka was in Reizmelt and what I said.”
Persua took Raich’s shoulder, and the other City Runner started. She had only a sleeveless shirt on over some modified leather armor. Very light—and again, nothing on her arms. Which seemed like a bad move, but the [Repeat Sprinter] had found that most arrows went for your center of mass. By the time a [Bandit] got another shot lined up, she was already using [Thousand Foot Sprint] to get out of danger.
She did have a tattoo of Mihaela’s Skill on one arm, though. Just the words. Raich grinned weakly.
“I think you said—‘oh dead gods, that’s another city she’ll ruin?’ Or something like that?”
Persua smiled, and Raich sighed in relief.
“That’s right. Thank you, Raich. And look who Ryoka hangs out with. That nag, Charlay, and Alevica the Witch. Heard good things about either, have you?”
The Street Runners looked at each other and shook their heads. Dustrider Charlay was notoriously difficult, and Alevica had been known to be the most unethical Runner possible. They clustered around Persua, young Street Runners and some of the City Runners—all young, looking up to her.
Persua gathered people to her. Not the older Runners, but she was always giving people advice. Helping out. Raich just wondered why…
It felt off. On paper, it looked like everything was great, but Herove had sometimes said—
