Ryoka Griffin sat with Persua’s friends, an uncomfortable smile plastered on her face. Instead of Garia and Fals, Persua sat there, retelling when she had led the expedition to save Ceria. Sniping with Ryoka when they got on each other’s nerves. And, oh, they did fight.
“You’re too focused on being popular and fashionable, Persua.”
“And you love standing out with your bare feet and ‘I don’t care how I look’ attitude, Ryoka. I can at least play nice.”
“To everyone except Garia. You bully her.”
“I don’t bully her—”
“You bully her.”
Ryoka stood with her arms folded. Persua tensed up, getting angrier by the second. She knew how this was going to end, but she kept snapping back.
“Well, I don’t think I’m too good for Magnolia Reinhart and that I know everything and I’m the [Moral Philosopher] of this age!”
Whereupon Ryoka put Persua into a headlock. But she didn’t fight Persua, because if Persua snapped, she would draw a dagger or fly into a fury, regardless of how badly Ryoka kicked or punched her.
It was that kind of relationship. Mutual distaste at times, but they had common friends in the Horns, even the inn where Persua had developed an addiction to blue fruit juice.
When did that change? Perhaps—with that subtle manipulator that even Persua took notes from. The [Innkeeper]. She and Persua didn’t really like each other, but even back then…Erin Solstice meddled.
 
——
 
Winter’s snows were already falling, naturally, across Izril when Erin Solstice beckoned Persua over. There were no Winter Sprites. There had never been Winter Sprites. Not here.
But there was still the request. There was still the job that was going to carry Ryoka south, past the Bloodfields. She was cagey about the details, but Erin whispered to Persua.
“Psst. Persua. Will you go with Ryoka and make sure she stays out of trouble? I’ll give you a blue fruit drink every day for a month. Two months.”
Persua didn’t know if she was being insulted or not. She opened her mouth, closed it, glanced at Ryoka.
“You want me to run with Ryoka past the Bloodfields? For free blue juice.”
“Um. Yeah? She makes it sound like it’ll be hard. Ryoka could use some backup, y’know? And you’re, like, her only friend.”
The [Nimble Runner]’s mouth worked silently for a good minute.
“…I’m not her friend.”
Erin gave Persua a blank look.
“You’re not?”
“No.”
“Well, if you’re not, who is? Come on, I’ll give you a blue juice for three months. Assuming I still have enough fruits.”
Persua turned her head to look at Ryoka. She glanced at Erin and had to confess, she really wanted to know what Ryoka’s secret client was all about. She bit her lip, hesitated—
 
——
 
Flicker.
The [Soothsayer]’s eyes were focused on his crystal orb. He frowned. Persua, sitting silent, thought she saw a flash of something. A momentary voice.
“Ryoka. It’s him. It’s—”
Two young women stood petrified in front of…some kind of figure? A floating mass of something in the air. They were terrified, panting, in a room of…?
“Strange. I can’t—”
Flicker.
Rastandius tried to hold onto the encounter, but the moment skipped by. To—
 
——
 
“…anyone else make it? Did anyone…?”
Ryoka’s voice was choked. Persua was staring at Ryoka’s missing fingers. The runner bled onto the snow. Snow, as pale as the little Gnoll’s fur.
Some things never changed. Behind them, the Goblin Lord’s forces advanced. Persua just dragged Ryoka onwards.
They would have never made it but for that tribe slowing the Goblin Lord down. Perhaps—without Persua—Ryoka might not have escaped them.
Or perhaps she would have. Persua kept looking back. Snow was covering thousands of Goblins, who were struggling out of the freak avalanche.
What had that been? Just luck? A Skill? A spellcaster? One of the Drake’s Skills? Neither girl knew. But the little Gnoll howled as her tribe perished. They didn’t know it, but a bargain was a bargain. Even if the ones who had struck the bargain weren’t there, fate remembered.
Always, and always, Ryoka Griffin carried Mrsha away through the snow.
 
——
 
Thereafter, things changed slowly. From Persua idly tickling a little Gnoll’s tummy to try and get her to laugh, to following Ryoka into the High Passes.
What transpired there was lost between Rastandius’ projection, but it was a shared secret that left Persua visibly annoyed—and in Ryoka’s company more than ever.
Instead of a prickly Frost Faerie keeping Ryoka company, there was a Persua, and it was hard to tell which relationship was more acrimonious at times. From evading Magnolia Reinhart to meeting Laken Godart—there was Persua Mavva.
But a hanger-on. The unwilling accomplice to some of Ryoka’s antics. It kept her levelling.
By the time she and Ryoka arrived in Invrisil as ‘guests’ of Magnolia Reinhart, Persua could keep up with Ryoka. Her Skills meant that she could beat Ryoka in a quick dash for safety, but she still got winded too quickly. She wasn’t much of a fighter, either. If anything, Ryoka Griffin’s dubious hand-to-hand combat abilities, which were of little use against monsters, were only eclipsed by Persua’s weakness at fighting.
They ran away a lot. And then Ryoka Griffin felt the wind begin to call to her. She began to develop a kind of magic that no one, not even Ceria and Pisces, had a proper explanation for. As if she were meant to learn it.
Somehow, despite her levels and Ryoka’s lack, Persua found herself falling behind. And—were they even friends?
“Of course I’m not friends with her. She’s crazy. I just run with her because I level up. That’s why I haven’t been around Celum.”
Persua was defending herself to her former clique of runners. She was getting a lot of skeptically raised eyebrows. She kept glancing towards Ryoka, who was listening to Garia. The farmer-girl didn’t look at Persua once, and her face fell as Ryoka gestured energetically at Persua.
“Sure, Persua. You two just seem joined at the hip.”
“We’re not friends. We just—I—wait a second. What is it now, Ryoka? Can’t you leave me alone for one…?”
Persua jogged over, exasperated, and her group broke up, watching as Persua heard about Garia Strongheart inviting Ryoka—and by proxy, Persua—to the Wailant’s farm.
And wasn’t that an unpleasant encounter, with Wailant meeting his daughter’s bully? Garia wasn’t as close to Ryoka. Fals? Fals had gone north to try his luck as a Runner.
Small changes. Important changes. Mrsha still sat in the Wailant farm, gobbling down food, only it was Persua instead of Ivolethe.
But it was that moment that mattered the most. On a winter day—Rastandius felt it. He saw it. The crossroads never lied. They showed him, and the young woman in front of him, how long ago the seeds had been sown for Persua’s glorious fate.
 
——
 
“Tricking?”
The Wind Runner kept brushing at the wind blowing around her, wild and untamed. She was still learning her powers, but both Garia and Persua were fascinated by what she’d shown them.
Mrsha was doing backwards somersaults in the snow, trying to leap up like Ryoka had. But Garia was slowly making a fist and copying one of Ryoka’s punches.
Persua, though, was agog with how Ryoka had just moved. Ryoka grinned.
“Haven’t I ever shown you, Persua?”
“No! I knew you could do a backflip, but what was that?”
“Tricking. It’s a kind of…movement. It’s pretty complex. See, take a look at this. It’s called a flashkick, but you’d call this a standing flashkick…”
Ryoka leapt up and did a backflip where one leg shot forwards, until she landed—a bit too hard on her front foot—and swore as she hobbled around with one hand on her back. Mrsha patted her anxiously, and Ryoka waved a hand at the other two City Runners.
“See? It’s dangerous. Let alone parkour or doing this. Frankly, most people aren’t, uh, flexible enough for this to evolve naturally. The basis for athleticism like this—”
She broke off as Persua did a running start, did a backflip, and messed up the flashkick. She landed with her butt in the snow, blinked at Ryoka, and then smirked.
“What was that?”
And there it was. Ryoka Griffin stopped, her mouth open, and she looked at Persua. Really—looked at her.
The young woman had never been the most outstandingly built Runner, even naturally. She had more of a sprinter’s build, and of the two, Garia was more suited for long-distance runs.
But what did suit Persua was—well, suddenly Ryoka Griffin imagined Persua wearing a flashy gymnast’s outfit. Standing on a mat, possibly with an angry sports-mom watching her in the background as a bunch of judges held up cards. Did that fit?
It definitely fit. Persua was born to be a gymnast. Or a cheerleader? Or…slowly, as Garia began practicing some kicks and Mrsha rolled around in the snow and ate some of the fine crystal powder, Ryoka began showing Persua more tricks. And Persua’s eyes opened wide as she found something she not only was good at—but liked.
 
——
 
The Persua of now, sitting in the smelly wagon watching Rastandius’ crystal glow from scene to scene, was slowly losing her temper again.
Like a bull slowly going insane until its eyes rolled up in its head and it smashed through the steel gates of reason, regardless of the damage to itself—she was losing her mind.
“Tricking? Flips and stretches?”
That was her talent? Rastandius looked patently amused as the other Persua began working a routine, mostly for fun. Mostly—just to show off.
She did a cartwheel to cheer up a crying little Gnoll, turned it into a handspring, and evolved it into a roundoff, a kind of variant where a cartwheel turned into landing on your feet with your back facing the target. She could do a spinning tornado kick, a move that looked exactly like it sounded, and with practice, do frontflips standing, as flexible as a Drake’s tail in oil.
…All of it useless in a fight. Or running.
 
——
 
Persua sat under a table, trying to hide as the consequences of Ryoka’s run caught up with her and Regrika Blackpaw smashed through Celum after the City Runner.
She was still a coward who watched her knife turn on the Named-rank Adventurer’s fur and hid, shaking with fear. So much so that Regrika went after Ryoka instead of Persua.
Was she any better at fighting? No. Was she that much faster?
She had never learned [Double Step]. Instead, Persua was a [Gymnast], a class unique only in that it was green. She was not much richer than before, and she had come close to death so many times.
There was just one difference, and it was a strange friendship. Such that when Ryoka Griffin left The Wandering Inn, left Liscor after all the death and trouble she had brought—Persua went with her. North, far past Invrisil, to a city called Reizmelt.
What made her different in those days? The Persua of now, this Persua, watched the other one. She saw…similarities, and differences. The same woman, but altered imperceptibly. Rastandius’ eyes were locked on the crystal ball, but they turned to his audience, gauging her reactions.
Watch.
 
——
 
“You’re not as cool as the Wind Runner.”
So spoke a twelve year-old girl, a local of Reizmelt. She pointed accusingly at the City Runner watching as Ryoka blew a bunch of kids on their parasailing landboats about. Persua…twitched.
“Persua.”
Ryoka noticed and tried to forestall Persua’s temper tantrum. But her…friend…had a horrible temper.
Almost as bad as Ryoka’s. The difference between the two of them was that, while Ryoka was prone to wild fits of fury—Persua was petty.
“Oh, and you think you’re as good as a City Runner, you little brat?”
The twelve year-old looked mildly disconcerted to see someone half again as old as she was picking a fight. Then again, she was in her puberty, and Persua wasn’t that tall. The other children oohed as Ryoka covered her face.
“What can you do, huh? Run fast?”
The girl challenged Persua as Ryoka blew around a squealing boy with a resigned air of watchfulness. In reply, Persua did a perfect handstand. She held herself perfectly upright, then grinned mockingly at the girl.
“How about this?”
In reply, the girl hesitated, then motioned some of her friends back and…copied Persua. Her handstand wasn’t as perfectly balanced, but she did it a good ten seconds before she fell back onto her feet.
Ryoka covered a smile as the other children oohed again. The girl gave Persua an arch look.
“If that’s what it takes to be a City Runner, I’ll join up.”
Persua turned beet red. Without a word, she regained her feet—and then did a standing backflip. This time, she tucked in and rolled around with such grace that Ryoka was impressed.
She’d be perfect on a gym’s mat. The fact that Persua was doing this with cobblestones beneath her was a testament to her bravery.
Unfortunately—Persua had forgotten something that Ryoka had begun to learn. Which was that children could be incredibly talented. And they were all innately far more flexible than adults.
The girl had, perhaps, never seen someone perform a backflip in her life. But she was in good shape, possibly from helping at whatever job she was apprenticed to or running around all day. She gave Persua a narrow-eyed look, then did a running start and pulled off a backflip. She landed, wobbled, then raised her hands to the wild cheers of her friends.
“That’s great! Come on, Persua…”
Ryoka tried to let everyone come away a winner, but Persua was now turning red as the other children mocked her. Red—when white. Then icy-calm.
“You’re not bad. Why don’t we have a proper match. The first person who can’t copy the other loses.”
She smiled sweetly at her opponent, who was, by now, getting overconfident. Thus began the most petty battle of tricking that Ryoka had ever seen.
What was amazing to her was that this newcomer kept up with Persua as they slowly escalated moves. She had some natural talent—perhaps more than Persua herself. Persua did a front-flip, then a hand-spring, then a tornado kick, looking exasperated as the other girl copied her, if not perfectly, then well enough.
However—Ryoka hadn’t been trying to stop this impromptu trick-off for Persua’s pride. She had been doing it for the child.
Persua, oh, Persua. Unable to beat a Goblin. Nearly killed by a rogue slime—a big one, but still. When it came to fights in Mad Madain’s bar, she threw things behind Ryoka.
But if there was one thing Ryoka had observed—it was that Persua was invincible when it came to beating people weaker than she was. Which was mostly Street Runners and children.
A cunning look had appeared in Persua’s gaze. Blandly, she pulled off a double handspring and webster jump, a kind of single-footed frontflip. The beginning of a tricking routine.
