They would sing her name. Yes, sing it—but in this moment, the chorus was only wails of horror. A chorus of faces blind with grief and rage and…denial.
But free. Liberated. Even so, how had they come here?
Ryoka Griffin knelt, breathing hard. Sweat stood out on her brow, and she gasped. Only now did it seem like she felt her wounds.
Her arm. Something had torn it straight off her body. She was bleeding to death, but she barely noticed. She only bent down.
“Is he…?”
Persua rose, spitting blood. She was no less wounded, but she bent down and yanked something up. It came away with a tearing sound.
“Yes. It’s done. And he—he’s coming.”
They both heard it. A howl like vengeance, echoing through the corridors of this rich place. Torn silk, fleeing figures. More kneeling, weeping with relief or regret. Ryoka looked back.
“He’s free, but he doesn’t know it. He’s mad—we’ll never stop him.”
Persua laughed. She bent down and held up the head as the body collapsed. It was charred around the Faeblade’s cut. She showed it to the figure in the distance, to all those who looked up.
How had they come here? The younger Persua stared in horror at what it meant. But the older one simply uttered a phrase as if it had long since become commonplace.
“Let all those who hold chains beware. He’s dead. He’s dead!”
And then she threw Yazdil’s head across the room. Ryoka started laughing. But then she slipped.
“Get out of here. Do you have a way out?”
Persua calmly held out a teleportation scroll. She coughed as she opened it.
“Hold it a second for me? I need to activate it.”
Ryoka nodded dumbly and held it clumsily with one hand as Persua traced the words. The Wind Runner was gasping.
“Persua. Tell them…tell them I…”
She saw the other Courier step back. A look of familiar, uncomprehending stupidity crossed Ryoka’s face, then she realized Persua had taken the Windsword back. And the scroll was glowing.
“Persua? Persua!”
“Tell them yourself. I’ll be right after you.”
Persua lifted the glowing blade and grinned at Ryoka. The Wind Runner shouted, trying to reach for her, but Persua’s scroll was bearing her away.
“Persua, don’t—it’s me he wants.”
The howling Gnoll, the servant of the Naga, Iert, was coming. Blades bared, like a storm across the marble floors, each step cracking marble. Persua whirled, the familiar blade in her hands. She looked back once.
“Don’t worry. I’ll make it. I’m Persua. I’m—”
A flash. Persua’s smile was wide and bloody and triumphant. Relieved. She breathed the rest of it out, for she had no boast. Not untouchable, not invincible or immortal.
“I’m your friend.”
Then she turned to meet the howling servant.
 
——
 
Rastandius had seen many deaths. Many foul ones, and some so horrific or graceful they had scarred him.
This was not the worst he had seen by far, so he watched the younger woman’s face. And what he saw, amidst her jagged confidence breaking, her warring soul—amidst the last of his hopes and ambitions—made his heart sink.
For the young woman had seemed as though she might vomit or scream or collapse. But when she beheld her end, she did none of those things. Her tears stopped. The bloody gashes she had clawed on her own face stopped as her hands clasped together. She looked at her death and smiled like broken glass, as sweetly as someone tasting water after drought, or feeling land underfoot.
Like a constant of the world was back. Persua stared at her death, then looked up at Rastandius. And she said:
“I knew it. Even in my best life, she ruins it.”
He calmly held the gaze, although there was something there that made his own stomach twist.
“It is one vision among many. Do you want to see one where you die happy? Look at what it has shown you, Persua.”
Slowly, she rose, and she seemed neither tall nor grand, not the Courier of legends, nor the young woman freed from the ground. She seemed…small, thin, and hungry. But Persua’s eyes gleamed.
“I’ve seen everything. Thank you for your prophecies, Soothsayer Rastandius. You truly are a man of great craft.”
“I could show you—”
“No. I think I’m done. I’ve paid you my gold coin. I’m going to lie down, now.”
Slowly, Persua turned and began to shuffle away. Rastandius tried to rise, but he was tangled in his robes, and his power was receding. He was old and weary, but he called out, desperate.
“Come back tomorrow! I will show you dozens more lifetimes! As many as it takes!”
She never replied.
 
——
 
Persua left the old [Soothsayer]’s wagon and stood in the darkness for a long time. Rastandius came rushing out a minute later, but she had already walked into the distance of the fair and sat in the shadows.
She saw and heard him cursing himself, his Skills, her—and returned to his wagon, but it was a long time before the lantern light guttered out. Far past night, into the dawn.
That was fine. He had to sleep, and she…
She sat there, barely thinking. What she had seen replayed itself before her eyes, all of it. She shook occasionally, her face staring straight ahead.
She almost felt like she could taste and smell what she had seen. It was so real to her. A smile, an awkward smile, a friend’s embrace.
Glory.
Presently, Persua rose. When she was certain no one was moving, in that clear minute between the last sleepers and risers, she walked back over to the wagon and found something in her bag of holding. She uncorked a vial, poured it over a handkerchief, and looked around.
Aha. A flag from the travelling fair. She had it down and bundled it with the handkerchief. Then she drew a Wand of [Sparks] and lit the oil-soaked handkerchief.
Calmly and carefully, Persua stuffed the burning cloth along the edges of the wagon and watched the old paint burning. Then she produced a bit of [Stickywebs] contained in a vial, an alchemist’s creation, and lined the bottom of the door with it.
Then she walked off. Persua stood, far in the distance, watching as the faint smoke began to drift upwards. Then a flame, growing.
It was conceivable, of course, he might sense it all, but it was hard to open a door like that, and she doubted he could get out one of the tiny windows. The flames grew, and she heard not a peep from within the wagon.
Only when they had begun to engulf the door, part of the wagon, did someone hear and see the flames. But by then, even when they rushed out with buckets of water, it was too late.
The old wood wagon burned fast and bright. The rest of the caravan began to hurl buckets onto the wagon, and someone called for a water spell. Anything! They were shouting at Rastandius to get out, but it was a bake oven inside, and even if he had tried to get out the door…
When the door was thrust open, the explosion of heat and flames inside nearly killed two of the wagoners, and they stared at the sea of flames and backed away in silence. Persua watched the wagon burning without a trace of emotion on her face.
She was turning to leave when a figure hobbled out of the darkness, saw his wagon, and fell to his knees.
“My home!”
Rastandius wailed. Persua spun around, a look of terror and shock on her face. Rastandius’ absence became clear as the shocked caravaners took him in. His robes were bunched around him, and he had some unfortunate leaves and, uh, toiletry paper still tangled around the hem of his robes.
He had gone into the forest, lacking an outhouse, and it seemed he’d really had a bad time. Not as bad as burning to death.
In dead silence, Persua’s heart began to race as people exclaimed and pointed out the freak fire. Only now did she recall something he had said off-handed as the [Soothsayer] watched his wagon burning.
“I know my wagon will never be destroyed by accident.”
He was looking around, searching the dawn for…Persua’s blood ran cold. Now, she began to shake, almost close to vomiting. She was terrified—but she held herself still, peeking out at him from behind a tree.
“—later. I need to rest. Just lend me your wagon. Later, I said.”
Rastandius was talking to the [Caravan Master], who was rightly upset by the prospect of losing not only one of his workers’ homes, but means of earning a living. Rastandius stood there as the other wagoners disappeared into their own wagons for a tiny bit of rest—or breakfast.
Now. Persua’s head darted around, and then she ran. She ran around a wagon and then slipped on a patch of mud. Persua nearly went tumbling, then she threw her hands out. She…
Cartwheeled. Clumsily—and then caught herself up right. In silence, panting, Persua stared at her hands.
Mine. And that sword! And…her eyes rolled. Emir Yazdil? Even she knew that name.
All of it she’d seen. But so had he. Persua almost tried to do a backflip there and then, but she hadn’t practiced. She…she knew she could do it.
But first. The [Soothsayer] was staring at his charred home. He was muttering to himself, but grinning. A terrible grin of someone making plans. He clenched and unclenched his hands and never saw the young woman sneaking up behind him. She raised the dagger, aimed for the base of his neck, and stabbed.
Persua’s blade skidded left. It was like an invisible hand seized her wrist and moved it. The blade still cut the back of Rastandius’ neck, and he yelped. Persua stared in horror as he whirled—and then the [Soothsayer] was staring at her.
“There you are. I thought you’d try that.”
He grinned an insane grin as Persua backed up. She almost dropped the knife in horror.
“How—how—how—”
Rastandius was laughing. Now, he sounded like the stage magician, the purveyor of fates. He contemptuously rubbed at his neck.
“I told you I’d die without knowing what killed me? Foolish Runner. I am allowed to lie. And you…you’re not that Persua we saw. But you could be. You should be. You’ll pay me back for my wagon, first. And then—and then we’ll see.”
Persua wasn’t able to speak for horror. His eye was boring a hole into hers. But how had he avoided her knife? Was it a Skill or…?
Then she saw the brass ring around his finger on his left hand. And she felt at her hands and realized—her ring was gone.
The [Soothsayer] laughed at her stupefaction. He put one hand in his robes and scratched at his stomach as he stared at Persua.
“The first thing we’ll do is find some rooms. Then—then we’ll see what my future holds. Our future. Aha. You burned my home, but you couldn’t have burned…”
He hurried over to the burnt wreckage of his wagon and began to sift through the ashes as Persua stood, transfixed with fear. She didn’t know…what to do.
“Why are you doing this to me? You’re just like Ryoka. I have done nothing wrong.”
Her voice trembled. Rastandius turned with a sneer towards her. He had the crystal ball in his hands. It had weathered the fire untouched.
“Idiot. Do you think you’re the first, the greatest of my projects? You have more potential than most. I could have been the King of Destruction’s most trusted advisor! I could have been—look at you. Do you think I want a murderous, pathetic chit like you?”
Spit began to fly from his lips as he pointed at Persua, striding back towards her. She backed up a step, but Rastandius held up the ball.
“Look at how your life could have been but for your pettiness.”
“I don’t owe Ryoka anything. I refuse to believe she—I—I can be a Courier without her.”
Persua’s voice rose in a shriek, but she flinched as Rastandius passed a hand over the crystal ball. He snapped, his eye flashing.
“You think so? Then let me show you your future now. Not an if, Persua. You—I will drag you to greatness if I must. But this is what will become of you, you pathetic waste.”
His hand passed over the orb, once, twice, three times, and Rastandius glared grimly into the ball. Persua stared at the dark interior and waited.
But no image ever came. Rastandius’ face, though, grew puzzled. He held the ball away from him and stared at it—then Persua.
“Who is…who is that?”
“What are you talking about?”
Persua’s voice was quavering, but she was trying to find an opening to steal her ring. She could deny burning his home. Truth spells, though—did she run? But he’d find her, and if he really was that famous—
Yet Rastandius kept staring into his blank crystal ball. He looked confused. Then unnerved. He held it away from him and stared at something.
“She’s staring at me. Just like those strange beings. Who is this? A Dragon? A greater being? A Demon? Who—no. Stay back!”
He dropped the crystal ball suddenly. Persua jumped, but the [Soothsayer] was backing up. He was rubbing at his arm. The man shrieked and tore his robes back. Persua saw a pale, dead white patch of skin on his ruddy flesh.
It was pale, the imprint of something. Like—a hand? The [Soothsayer] backed up further, tearing at it. As if trying to remove the pale brand. Then, as Persua watched, the pale white outline began to spread.
“Stop! Stop! I didn’t mean to offend—”
He began screaming at the sky. Then he seized Persua’s dagger. The man began sawing at his arm. Trying to cut the pale spread of flesh off. But the paleness travelled up his arm, and then—Persua saw Rastandius’ mouth open wide in horror.
He fell backwards. Clutching at his heart. Persua stood over him, looking around wildly, backing away from the crystal orb.
“What was that? What’s going on?”
She shouted at Rastandius, but feared to touch him. The [Soothsayer] focused on Persua. His lips moved, and he croaked as the color drained from his face.
“But I was supposed to die somewhere else. I didn’t predict—”
His eyes rolled, and he whispered at Persua as gooseflesh erupted on her arms and a cold chill ran down her back.
“You will meet her if you walk down this path, Runner. Persua Mavva. She has three faces.”
Then his face turned into a rictus of terror, and his eyes bulged and his mouth opened wide, wide—
And he was dead. Persua stared down at Rastandius’ body in dead silence. Her eyes only began to dart around when she heard someone calling out Rastandius’ name.
She hesitated—then stopped, tore her ring from his hand, and fled, leaving the dead man, the crystal ball, wiping her own hands on her shirt. She ran, panting, terrified of whatever he had seen.
 
——
 
Persua never spoke of that moment. Not to Raich, nor Herove, although both had heard about the freak fire. Yet the [Soothsayer] dying without any true wound…
Raich still avoided Persua as the City Runner returned to her rooms. Persua’s eyes were too wide, and she panted, even now. But she stopped at Raich’s rooms and tried to smile.
It was a poor smile. Probably because it was trying to be genuine. It was afraid, nervous. A hungry smile, but most of all—uncertain.
