He gestured at the rest of the [Soldiers], who had disassembled all the camp by now.
“My [Soldiers]. Many are low-level. But I will have them all reach Level 10 soon. Just by marching here, they will level. And if I can recreate one of my units—the Ensorcelled Blades, the Mirage of Chandrar, or the Dreamers…”
“Then we could put up a fight.”
Mars agreed, her eyes shining as she shifted from foot to foot. Flos nodded.
“The pieces gather. But as I say, we need more magical arms, more specialized forces. I hope to march north and enter Medain. Mars, Orthenon and I could challenge a dungeon!”
“King Perric will never allow it, Your Majesty.”
Orthenon murmured. Flos sighed.
“Well, Nerrhavia. Or—does Hellios have an old dungeon? That’s the easiest way of it. Germina and Hellios had decent artifacts, but I’d rather like a few more treasuries.”
“Just crush a few more kingdoms.”
Mars helpfully suggested. Flos grinned.
“We’ll have to have them declare war first. But that is for the future! I will decide where to march after I meet with our guests. The Gnolls. Are they on their feet, Orthenon? They were half-ragged from marching.”
“Their Chieftain is, my lord. Will you meet him now?”
Flos’ gaze sharpened.
“Yes. Yes, I believe I will. Have him meet me in a proper location. For an audience—Mars, you, of course. A small gathering. And Teres.”
He looked at her. Teres glanced up swiftly.
“You want me, Flos?”
Everyone reacted to her using the name. Orthenon frowned. The Rustängmarder’s heads slowly swiveled around and looked at her. Teres froze. But Flos just laughed.
“Of course! For a moment like this? Come, Teres. I only regret Trey isn’t here. But come. Let us find out why the Gnolls of Izril have come to my banner.”
 
——
 
Teresa Atwood stood in a large tent. Flos Reimarch sat on a throne.
It was a portable throne, but it was still grand. The bags of holding and enchanted wagons could hold a finite number of items, but this was apparently as important as weapons or food.
And perhaps it was. For the King of Destruction had an audience. His vassals, Jelaim, Ulyse, Mars, Orthenon, all of his elite commanders, and some of his high-ranking officers, stood around the tent, listening to their [King]. Orthenon and Mars stood to either side of the King of Destruction.
And Teres stood next to Mars, on the left of Flos. Closer to the King of Destruction than Mars, in fact. She felt out of place. The air had that feeling to it, of weight. She did not belong. And yet—
She did. Flos wanted her here. And of those present, only she, Mars, and Orthenon gave voice to their thoughts. The rest were silent.
And the King of Destruction sat and looked at the Gnoll standing before him. The Gnoll was not alone; some of the other Chieftains and important Gnolls were gathered in the tent. But the one Gnoll in front, with russet hair and dye that turned the mane of hair around his head paler shades, was the one who spoke and answered.
There were also Lizardpeople standing and looking excitedly around, but they were not the focus. The Gnolls were. Both species had come seeking the King of Destruction’s grace. And found it. But the Gnolls…
Teres had heard the [Cook]’s comments about the Gnolls, but she’d put part of that aside to just distrust of outsiders, like how Nawal didn’t talk to men besides Trey and Flos and a few others. But she saw that estrangement was not limited to just the [Soldiers].
Flos’ vassals eyed the Gnolls warily. Not with fear; never that from Ytol or Jelaim or the others, but with a caution. They did not know these people. They did not know why they were here.
Neither did Flos, it seemed. The King of Destruction was staring at the Gnolls with interest.
“Chieftain Nelrra, of the Dustfur Tribe. I accept your greetings. And I greet the other tribes who have come with you. Lizard-friends of Baleros, you are welcome.”
He nodded to the Lizardfolk. One waved excitedly.
“Greetings, Your Majesty! It is an honor to be here!”
Flos smiled.
“I have fought with Lizardfolk before. So I will address your people first. [Swamp Leader] Xeca, why do you come to Reim? Why do you call yourself my people, when you have never lived in Reim?”
The Lizardman who had led the thousands of Lizardfolk through Jecrass bowed slightly. He had a brilliant, rainbow-colored set of scales, minus a few colors, but he was more vibrant than anyone but a Garuda in color. His neck-frills opened slightly as he bowed lower.
“Your Majesty! We came because we wanted to see the King of Destruction ourselves! Baleros is overfull and the jungles flow with blood. And there are flies and swamp monsters. We heard there was work in Reim, that you treated all species fairly! Some of us have come to fight under your banners, or to live here! But mostly—we came here because we wanted to see.”
“See?”
Flos looked at Xeca. The Lizardman nodded.
“Yes. To see the mightiest [King] in the world! That is what they call you! We are all Lizardfolk, sire. Purely Lizardfolk; not a Naga among us! But I think if we follow you, we can become what we were meant to be.”
“Ah. Curiosity drives you.”
“And ambition. Milord, Lizardfolk are cunning fighters. And their other forms, Naga, Gorgons, Medusae and their other forms, are powerful. They might struggle in the sands, but they’ll be an asset when we fight along the coasts.”
Mars murmured. She was nodding as she looked at the Lizardfolk. Some of them were whispering and pointing at her, delighted to be in her presence. They were disarmingly friendly. And yet—Xeca had a gleam in his eyes. And Flos had much the same look.
“I can respect both ambition and curiosity. And Reim will welcome any number of Lizardfolk, [Swamp Leader]. There is no need for me to decide further; your people will have a welcome place in my army. Orthenon, find all those who do not wish to fight a space in my cities. Along the water, I think. But they are welcome indeed.”
“Thank you, sire!”
Xeca bowed and the Lizardfolk burst into an excited chatter. Teres distinctly heard one of them speaking.
“I told you this was a good idea! Wait till I send a [Message] back home—”
“Silence.”
Orthenon spoke, and the Lizardfolk fell silent. They gaped up at him and then bowed and retreated. The [Steward] motioned.
“Chieftain Nelrra, step forwards.”
The Gnoll did so. He knelt, until Flos bade him to rise. The King of Destruction took longer just studying the Gnoll [Chieftain] than he had speaking with the Lizardfolk. When he did speak, it was with a hint of confusion.
“Chieftain Nelrra, you have led three tribes to me. From Izril, which I understand is as far as Baleros. And yet—your presence is more curious than that of the Lizardfolk. They joined my armies in small numbers in my first conquest of Chandrar. I know them, and I even know that I may give some of them what they seek, the opportunity to change their form.”
The Lizardpeople stirred excitedly, but one look from Orthenon quelled them. Flos went on, his head never moving as he stared at Nelrra.
“But the Gnolls of Izril are foreign to me. Not unknown; I have known members of your species. And yet—I never conquered Izril. I have no strong bonds with any one tribe. You are welcome guests of course, but you have come through Jecrass seeking my name. I ask you why.”
The Chieftain paused, and then spoke in a low, growling voice. Teres stared at him, fascinated, as Chieftain Nelrra raised his head and met the King of Destruction’s eyes. It might have been an affront to any other monarch, but the Gnoll met Flos’ gaze steadily.
Pride. The Gnolls were sniffing the air surreptitiously. And they looked weary from their travel. But they stood in front of the King of Destruction with as much pride as the vassals arranged around the room.
“King of Destruction. I speak for the three tribes gathered here. I speak for the Gnolls yet to come, at least those of us who I know travel for you. We ask to become part of Reim. To be your subjects. We crave the King of Destruction’s protection, and we will fight in your armies. But we desire what we hope you will offer: a place of our own that will be ours forever.”
The Gnolls nodded behind him. Flos’ eyes glittered and he sat up with interest.
“Succinctly put, Chieftain. Before I go further and ask the nature of this desire, let me ask a question first. Why me? I was told the Gnoll tribes stick together in Izril; few leave their homeland. There are more Gnoll [Pirates] on the seas than there are Gnolls in Chandrar.”
He was asking the question of questions. Why were the Gnolls here? Nelrra bowed his head silently.
“It is true that Gnolls seldom leave our home, King Reimarch. But—the reasoning of our journey is not an easy one, no. May I explain as best I am able? I do not have the manners to speak as one might to a monarch, I regret to say.”
“Speak freely. I have never held grudge nor enmity over titles or address.”
Flos nodded. Nelrra seemed to relax slightly. He bowed his head again.
“To explain then, Your Majesty. My tribe is small. We are not a great number; in fact, those you see here are part of three other small tribes all joined together. And we are…tired. That is the best way I can say it, yes?”
He looked behind him for a second and the other two Chieftains, one male, one female, nodded slowly. Flos paused.
“Tired?”
“Yes, King Reimarch. We weary of Izril, of our conflicts with the Drakes.”
A soft growl from the female Chieftain. She bowed, and all eyes turned towards her. Flos looked at Orthenon.
“I did not know the Gnolls and Drakes fought so. I know of their bitter wars in the past, but I thought the Humans of the north and Antinium were enemies enough.”
“Perhaps they are. And perhaps this is peace, Your Majesty. But it is a bitter peace and even without war, our species clash.”
Chieftain Nelrra bowed his head. He shook it slightly.
“How can I explain it? Only to say that not all Drake cities fight with the tribes. Some live in harmony, but they are rare indeed. There are City Gnolls who live among the Drakes. And yet—there are no Gnoll cities. The strength of the Gnolls lies in the tribes, who wander Izril’s plains and the continent. And the tribes fight with Drake cities.”
“Land conflicts?”
The Gnolls paused. Nelrra shook his head.
“Not always. We are accused of thievery. We fight each other over feuds and grudges from ages past.”
“Ah. So you come here because you weary of such conflicts. I begin to understand. But such a long ways? Chandrar has its own share of woes. And you know who I am. Reim will not be peaceful.”
The King of Destruction raised both brows, and Nelrra nodded. He had a walking staff; he was apparently a [Shaman] as well as a [Chieftain], and he leaned on that now.
“We know what this journey will bring us, Your Majesty. And it has been a long one. More difficult than I expected, and my tribe and I prepared for a painful voyage. And Chandrar is foreign, unfamiliar.”
“Difficult.”
One of the Gnolls murmured. There was a stir from around the tent. They weren’t exactly making friends with that comment, Teres thought. But then she heard a quiet rumble.
Zamea and some of the half-Giants sitting around the tent were laughing. There was a hole open to the skies and Teres caught sight of the Shepherd’s smile. The Gnolls stared up for a moment. Teres felt a chill. They were literally standing in the shadow of giants.
“Zamea, you’re blocking the sun.”
Flos Reimarch smiled. The darkness grew light again. He motioned at Nelrra.
“All you say is true. Chandrar is a harsh land.”
The Chieftain nodded. He went on, staring around. He, like the other Gnolls, had dust in his fur. It had to be hell with all that sand.
“This land grows too hot and too cold by turns, and there is not enough to eat. Water is scarce. And I dislike sand.”
“Because it’s coarse and rough and it gets everywhere?”
Teres couldn’t help it. She really couldn’t. Flos stirred and looked at her.
“Teres.”
She fell silent. Chieftain Nelrra nodded, unsmiling.
“Yes, Miss Human. Especially in the fur. As I say, this land is harsh, and our journey long. But, King of Destruction, we feel it is still better. Because we are so tired of Izril. Even if there is war, even if we must fight, this land of sand could be our home.”
He gestured around.
“It would be better than Izril, even with all I have said, yes? Better than Drakes. King Reimarch, I say to you this: my tribe and I agreed, the other tribes who have come agreed. Better to live with sand in the fur than to fight and clash with an enemy who hates our very existence. Better than to be sold to slavers, or hunted like dogs. We are not dogs.”
His eyes flashed. The King of Destruction went still.
“Of course. Is it that bad on Izril?”
Nelrra shrugged, slowly, then shook his head.
“Perhaps not. But as I say, I am tired of clashing with Drakes. Tired of being told where we can and cannot go. It is not terrible always, sometimes not for long periods. But a small tribe is a target, especially from some Drake cities. We…are too weak to pull ourselves from the pit over which we hang. And too tired, too tired of death to rage against the Drakes like other tribes, like the Woven Bladegrass tribe and others.”
“Tired. I understand, Chieftain Nelrra. So you speak for three tribes. Are there more?”
The [Chieftain] nodded slowly.
“We come to you, dozens of smaller Tribes, and those worn by living in Izril for the hope you will take us under your protection. My group was first, but I know of at least six other tribes making their way to you. Most of them small, like mine. We are willing to work, to serve. But we crave your shield.”
Teres waited, but the King of Destruction didn’t have a quick response. In this moment, he was slow, pondering, and he had the weight of his crown on his head, for all he didn’t wear it.
“I see. Before I respond to you, Chieftain, clarify one thing for me. Again, I ask: why me? Surely there is more bountiful land in Chandrar, or opportunity in Baleros. Again, why the King of Destruction, who would make war?”
The Gnolls stirred. Chieftain Nelrra’s head rose slowly.
“To answer that, King of Destruction? What other nation would welcome Gnolls with open arms? I can think of almost none, and few would allow us the same rights as the native peoples. But Flos Reimarch is different, or so I believed.”
He lifted one paw and pointed. Not at Flos, or Mars, or Orthenon, but at one of the Garuda [Captains] along the wall.
