“Are the King of Destruction’s vassals afraid of a challenge? I heard he once entertained anyone who could make their way to him, even blade in hand!”
The [Captain] glared, but before he could reply, someone stumbled out of her tent.
“What’s this? Who’s shouting? Who am I killing?”
A bleary voice interrupted the argument. Teres turned and saw a beautiful, red-haired woman stumbling out of her tent. Her hair was long, and her skin as perfect as a Stitch-Woman made of silk. Her eyes were green, and the armor she wore was magnificent—but almost decorative. The breastplate was practically molded around her chest.
Mars the Illusionist was stunning to anyone who beheld her. But Teres was more impressed that the illusion actually captured her haggard appearance—on her illusionary body. She had red eyes and her wondrous hair was frazzled.
However, it was all fake. Mars wasn’t that tall, she was definitely wearing armor, and she had once told Teres that free-flowing long hair was the dumbest idea imaginable in a battle where it would catch on something. In truth, Mars never left her armor. What made her appear as a beautiful woman—in this case, with dusky skin, and a voice that belonged to a singer—was always her illusions. She changed appearances like Teres changed clothes.
Even so, the [Soldiers], people here to see Flos, and Teres all had to pause for a second with envy or admiration. An illusion should not be that perfect. Mars, stumbling out of her tent with a hangover, was still…
“Hold on. I think I’m going to throw up.”
The woman paused, put her hands on her thighs, and breathed in for a second. Then she looked around.
“Hey there, Teres. What’s going on?”
She walked over, regaining some of her color as she drew a potion from her belt and drank it. Teres pointed wordlessly; the [Soldiers] and crowd had fallen silent.
Here was one of the King of Destruction’s vassals. Mars smiled, her eyes lighting up as she saw the crowd.
“Oho! More people come to see His Majesty? Did I hear someone yell about a duel?”
By way of answer, all the [Soldiers] and the [Captain] pointed to the young woman with the rapier. She bowed, respectfully. Mars was hardly Orthenon or Gazi, who had a presence and always their own source of dignity.
But then again—Mars didn’t need that. She was the King’s Champion, a [Vanguard] who stood at the head of every battle. Teres had seen her fight a few times, and nothing had ever even seemed to slow Mars the Illusionist when she charged.
“She rode in fast, Lady Mars. And she’s demanding to see His Majesty, along with the others. She asked Lady Atwood for a duel.”
“A duel? Reminds me of the old days! A few people used to meet my lord that way—I think Orthenon did it! Fought his way past everyone and he and I were going at it when His Majesty wanted to see what the fuss was!”
Mars chuckled as she cracked her neck. She eyed Teres, a glint of amusement in her eyes. Mars was like an older sister in how she treated Teres and Trey. One who would also hand them a jug of wine if they so much as coughed.
“How about it, Teres? Want to duel? Then again—”
She eyed the young woman and then Teres.
“—Better not. Orthenon hasn’t gotten you up to par yet with your sword training. And His Majesty would kill me if you got stabbed.”
Teres blushed as all the other eyes turned to her. The young woman with the rapier gaped at the mention of the King’s Steward. Teres wanted to deny Mars, but the [Vanguard] was looking the young woman up and down. Which probably meant she wasn’t a nobody.
“No one sees His Majesty.”
The [Captain] declared, trying to take control of the situation. Mars folded her arms, smiling. And the young woman, breathing heavily, hesitated—and then pointed at Mars.
“Mars the Illusionist! I—I challenge you to a duel! If I duel you for a minute, allow me to see His Majesty!”
The crowd and [Soldiers] fell silent. Teres blinked. Then the [Soldiers] all erupted into gales of laughter. The young woman turned even redder, but Mars just threw back her head and guffawed for a second. Then she waved for silence.
“Quiet, you lot! Quiet!”
Her words silenced the [Soldiers]. Teres saw more of the camp not at work drifting over. Mars stood with the dry wind blowing her hair. And when she smiled, head tilted just so, she looked like a hero out of the stories, real enough to stand with the King of Destruction. Everyone stared at her as she looked at the young woman.
“Sounds like fun. Alright, go ahead.”
“Lady Mars!”
The [Captain] shut up as Mars looked at him.
“In the old days, anyone who could defeat the King of Destruction’s vassals or even give us a worthy fight was allowed to see my lord Flos. Let’s give her a chance. For the old days.”
There was an excited murmur. The young woman flushed with anticipation as everyone backed up. She reached for her foil—
And then looked up.
Mars with her illusion was tall, and she strode over to the young woman. She smiled down at her.
“But you will be fighting me. For one minute. Do you know who I am?”
She raised one fist, clenching it. And the [Soldiers] and crowd shouted.
“Mars the Illusionist!”
The thunderous cheer roused the rest of the camp. A huge crowd was drawn in moments, and the two women stood in the circle. Mars winced, rubbing at her head, and the young woman breathed heavily, taking a stance. She aimed the tip of her blade at Mars’ chest.
“I know who you are. Draw your blade, Illusionist.”
She had a different style than the one Orthenon had taught Teres. The young woman saw the rapier—a [Fencer]’s distinctive stance. But Mars refused to go for the sword and shield she carried. She eyed the blade the young woman had and smiled.
“Ah. Enchanted foil. Nice for duels. But sort of shit in war, right? Go on.”
She beckoned, yawning with the other hand. The young woman flushed.
“Draw your weapon! I won’t attack an unarmed foe!”
Mars laughed.
“It’s the one chance you’ll get! Do you think we’re on the same level, kid? Come at me! And tell me your name! I am Mars the Illusionist! You can’t scratch me with—”
Mars’ head blurred as the young woman stepped in. She was fast! Teres barely saw her, even with her training. The foil struck straight at Mars’ apparently unguarded shoulder; the armor was literally a breastplate, not actual plate.
But the [Vanguard] dodged. She moved back so fast that Teres didn’t see her. The young woman missed, and leapt backwards in a moment. Mars laughed as the crowd gasped.
“Not bad. A [Fencer]! And I see your silver bell.”
She pointed, and Teres heard a chime now, in the silence. The young woman had a silver bell on her foil. Orthenon had told her that the [Duelists] and [Fencers] of Terandria had bells they used as ways of showing their prowess. He’d told her to avoid anyone with a bell in the battlefield.
“Draw your blade!”
“Make me.”
Mars taunted the young woman. Teres saw the [Fencer]’s eyes narrow. She shifted and Teres saw she was about to lunge.
“My name is Jecaina of Jecrass! I am—”
She nearly bit her tongue as Mars charged her. The [Fencer] dashed left in a blur, then leapt forwards. A lunge aimed at Mars’ heart. And the [Vanguard]—
Caught the blade barehanded. She yanked the foil out of the way as it skidded across the armored belly. Jecaina’s eyes went wide and she tried to let go of her blade and dash backwards again. Too slow.
“Headbutt!”
Mars slammed her head forwards. The shout and impact were one sound. Teres heard a thud, and winced as Jecaina dropped like a log. She sprawled over, face-first and Mars tossed the blade onto the ground. Then she raised her arm.
There was a pause at the sudden end. And then a cheer.
“Mars! Mars!”
The [Soldiers] and crowd roared her name. Teres thought it was a bit of a cheap shot, but the [Vanguard] had effortlessly defeated the young woman who—Teres was willing to admit—was better than she was. Mars laughed as she walked over to Teres. She shook her head and jerked a thumb at the unconscious girl.
“Rookies. Shout and they freeze up. And most [Fencers] forget you can use your head or anything you want in an actual fight.”
“Is that fair when you’re actually wearing a helmet?”
Teres stared at Mars. The [Vanguard] laughed. She winked at Teres and turned back to the crowd.
“Wouldn’t have made a difference. Alright, someone dump her outside the camp when she wakes up! Tell whoever’s making a fuss that they can see His Majesty if they beat me in a duel!”
She spread her arms as she laughed loudly. Faced with that, the other eager people demanding to see Flos decided they could wait.
“That was a good way to wake up! I’m off to find something to eat. Any Manticore left? Let me know when His Majesty wakes up. I think I drank an entire amphora or two—and he had just as much!”
Mars walked off. Teres shook her head; she doubted Flos would be long in waking up with as much noise as Mars had made. Indeed, some furry heads were poking out of the tents. And the Lizardfolk had already been part of the crowd cheering in the short duel.
Teres was about to talk with them—until she saw a familiar person perched across the camp, a roll of parchment in hand. Teres changed course and found a young woman with a veil, sitting and sketching as she scowled about her.
“Nawalishifra.”
The [Blacksmith] looked up with a start. Nawal glared for a second, and then dipped her head.
“Greetings to you, Teresa Atwood.”
She didn’t call Teresa, ‘Lady Atwood’, nor did she seem especially pleased to see her. Teres wondered if Nawal would have snapped at Trey. Probably. She was a prickly person. Teres nodded.
“Morning, Nawal. What are you doing?”
The [Blacksmith] had come with Flos on his march north, and Teres hadn’t asked why yet. Nawal was not her friend; Trey seemed to get along with her, but he could tolerate the [Blacksmith]. Nawal’s sharp tongue got on Teres’ nerves. She didn’t know how Trey could stand to be insulted every two seconds.
“I am designing a weapon for His Majesty, Teresa Atwood. And it is not an easy task, sands take my hands! Especially when one blocks the light!”
Case in point. Teres scowled—and then realized she was casting a shadow. Even so. She shifted and Nawal grunted. She resumed her work, with a long bit of charcoal.
“So you came with the camp to design a weapon? The Naq-Alrama blade, right? I thought you were already making it? Why do you need to follow Flos around?”
The look the young woman gave Teres nearly made Teres want to kick the parchment out of Nawal’s hands. The [Blacksmith] adjusted her veil and scowled.
“Is a piece of art something that can be made in a day? Should I lay a piece of metal on the anvil and beat at it until something proper emerges? A blade suits the owner! And this blade will be made for the King of Destruction’s hands, not forged with no idea of who will wear it! I have been observing, you rude foreign goat, you!”
Teres glared back.
“I’m trying to be nice! What’s the problem? Flos told you he wants a longsword.”
“Hah! If you understood anything about forging for a warrior—”
“Ah, Teresa! There you are!”
A booming voice silenced the argument. And indeed, the camp. Teres turned—and realized Flos Reimarch was awake.
He strode towards her, a plate of food in hand. But where he walked, gravity seemed to twist and people were drawn about him. Servants, his vassals—Teres saw Jelaim, leader of the Serpent Hunters, Mars, two [Mages] from Parasol Stroll, and of course, Orthenon, all following the King of Destruction.
He took no notice of his escorts. It was as natural as breathing for him. He had eyes only for Teres and Nawal.
The [Blacksmith] froze, turning dead white under her dark skin. She adjusted her veil hurriedly and stood to bow. Teres just waved.
“Good morning.”
“And a fine morning it is to you! Although I have a terrible headache from last night. No, Orthenon, don’t waste a potion on me! I’m only sorry I missed the morning’s duel!”
Flos laughed as he took a bite of his breakfast, the same as the rest of the camp had eaten. He enjoyed a [Soldier]’s meal, well, at least of this quality. Teres saw him look around.
“Ah. There’s nothing like a battle to wake you up in the morning. And we still have Manticore meat! Delicious! Are you sure we couldn’t have ridden one, Orthenon?”
The [Steward] was pocketing the potion he’d been offering his [King]. He spoke quietly and precisely, bowing slightly as he did.
“Your Majesty, Manticores are notoriously hard to control. Moreover, they have difficulty flying as far as you might wish. If you wish, we could attempt to tame them—”
Flos waved a hand.
“No, no. I like Griffins and Wyverns more. If you have the chance, get me some of them. They’re probably worse than Nightsteeds to ride, but the oasis you don’t know always looks better than the one you do, eh? Teres, how would you word that where you come from?”
He turned to Teres, eagerly. And she felt that surreal feeling—the [King] was including her in everything. His Seven, the leaders of his army—and she was always with him. Nawal gave Teres a wide-eyed stare as the young woman fumbled for an appropriate expression from Earth.
“…The grass is always greener on the other side?”
Flos threw back his head and barked a laugh.
“Hah! That’s far too mundane. How disappointing.”
He paused to take another bite.
“And Nawalishifra, I greet you.”
“I greet you, King of Destruction.”
The young woman practically folded herself over. Flos saw the parchment she was drawing on.
“Ah, my Naq-Alrama weapon! I regret that I asked you to make so many steel blades so that they could be enchanted.”
“It was my privilege, Your Exalted Majesty. And the Naq-Alrama steel requires the right positioning of the moons to be forged. It will take long, but I am designing one to fit your hands, if you will allow this humble [Smith] to follow you about.”
Flos nodded.
“Custom-made. I’ve had a few blades made, but I heard Tannousin smiths forge to the wielder. What did you have in mind? Orthenon, is there anywhere to sit?”
“At once, sire.”
Teres saw chairs appear as if by magic. There was even one for Nawal and her as Flos sat, breakfasting with good humor. Nawal declined to sit; she stood before the King of Destruction, nervous as could be. She gave him no rough side of her tongue.
“What needs to be decided for my weapon, Nawalishifra? Ask any questions you may have; the Gnolls are still rising. Orthenon, prevail on their Chieftain to wait if he is awake.”
The [Steward] vanished as Nawal stammered a reply.
