“I heard a rumor, when you first conquered Chandrar and sailed north to Izril. A rumor that you would shelter any species, any people who declared for you. No matter who they might be. That any species was treated as equals, Selphids, half-breeds, any. Not just treated so; that they could rise to become one of your Seven.”
“Go on.”
The Gnoll bowed his head slightly.
“It is true. I would not have dared it on a rumor, or even a memory. But I had hope. Proof, as did the other Chieftains. The Garuda.”
“Ah.”
The room changed. The Garuda [Captain] raised his head. The King of Destruction sighed, slowly. Mars and Orthenon both paused and nodded. Teres didn’t understand.
Flos seemed to sense it. He turned his head and addressed Teres and the room.
“Teres is my aid, Chieftain Nelrra. A companion, but she is as foreign to Chandrar as you. Permit me to explain. Teres, the Garuda are another nomadic species, treated like barbarians by many. Tribal barbarians. The Centaur are a third such race, but they have settled their cities in Baleros, and have a Great Company. The Garuda have few cities like Qualvekkaras; most live in nomadic tribes to this day.”
“And they’re like the Gnolls?”
A light went on inside Teres’ head. Flos Reimarch turned his head.
“So it appears the Gnolls believe. But I wonder if Takhatres would say the same?”
He glanced at his [Captain], but Nelrra went on.
“There is another reason, King Reimarch. You raised not just a Garuda to one of your trusted Seven. But another.”
This time the room fell silent. Mars and Orthenon looked at Flos. And the King of Destruction closed his eyes.
“Of course. Tottenval. My [Gardener].”
Nelrra nodded, cautiously. The air was heavier around Flos. He did not open his eyes.
“He was…Beastkin. But I heard a rumor that he looked…”
The [King] raised a hand. Nelrra felt silent. Flos nodded as he opened his eyes and they were distant, sad.
“He had some Gnollish blood in him, or so he claimed. He was a Beastkin of the Fox Tribe. A gentle, merry soul. A prankster, my old friend. I still owe his people a debt. He died at sea and saved my life.”
No one spoke in the tent. Above, the half-Giants nodded silently. Orthenon and Mars stood heavily, weighed down by the past. At last, Flos spoke.
“So, the Gnolls desire land, is it?”
“A place to call our own. Where we will not be exiled from. Yes, King of Destruction. That is what we ask. We will pay for the land with our blood. We will fight in your armies and defend your kingdom. But we do ask it.”
Cautiously, Nelrra raised his head. The King of Destruction sat there, looking at the Gnolls. Then he nodded. His voice lost its heavy air, and grew…conversational, quicker.
“Hm. I am having trouble deciding on it. Reim has a few oases, but they are only able to sustain so many. Hellios is more plentiful, and Germina is dry. So—Hellios. But it would be easier if I’d conquered Jecrass. They have rivers and plenty, and I think your tribes would enjoy it more. Well, for the future that may be so. But for now? Hellios.”
The Gnolls stirred, uncertainly. Teres felt a flutter in her chest. Flos pondered.
“Land in Hellios, by a river, perhaps. Do you want a castle? I have stone from Hellios in profusion. Reim is already being restored, as are the roads. Germina is constructing two new cities for my people, but castles are simple enough. Drevish—”
He paused, and his face grew still a second. Then he shook his head briskly.
“Ah. Well, I can still have a castle built within a few months. Even if they will be inelegant things compared to his works.”
“A…castle? Your Majesty? I do not understand.”
The Chieftain darted a quick glance at the other Chieftains, his eyes wide. Not daring to, but hoping. And the King of Destruction smiled. He stood from his throne.
“A castle indeed, Chieftain Nelrra. You desire land, but you should have something to defend. Unless Gnolls dislike structures that much? At least a city. I will allow your tribes to pick a spot in Hellios if you desire one; at least for your City Gnolls. Hellios, is, after all, a land of stoneworkers and they can create one quickly.”
The Gnolls in the tent stared. And Flos laughed. He descended the small dais, and approached Nelrra. The Gnoll looked at him; they were of a height. Flos Reimarch spoke.
“You ask for a boon you would pay for. Well, I say it is paid. You have given me a sight I had not dreamed of, Chieftain. Gnolls, who have come to Reim! You crossed an ocean—on a chance, a dream! For your people. I would reward that alone.”
He nodded at the other stunned Gnolls, and his voice rose, growing.
“For your bravery, Chieftain Nelrra of the Dustfur tribe, I will grant your people land. From the stone mountains of Hellios all the way south to Reim! Let no subject of Reim scorn your tribe or raise a hand against them in my kingdom! And—I will ensure this pact lives on longer than my lifespan alone.”
“Your Majesty?”
The Gnoll Chieftain looked unprepared for the sudden turn of events. Teres was staring but—she had expected this from the start. It was only Flos’ deliberations that had thrown her off. The King of Destruction gestured towards the tent flaps.
“The Quarass of Germina is an ally. As is Fetohep of Khelt, to some degree. I will prevail upon both for treaties allowing your tribe, and all those who come to me, access to Germina’s lands in perpetuity. Both will demand concessions, but they are both immortal rulers. Khelt and Germina will always harbor your people.”
“Your Majesty. You are giving us…land?”
“As much as can be spared. If I take other nations, I will add to them. But yes. Orthenon, bring me my maps! By nightfall, we will find a space for your people. And write your land by treaty and ink and law.”
The King of Destruction smiled. Teres saw the Gnolls staring, some tails beginning to wag. But Nelrra objected.
“Your Majesty. This is a gift too far. We wish to earn our land—”
The other two Chieftains looked like they wanted to kick him if they dared. But Flos just laughed.
“You have brought me a sight I dreamed of, Chieftain! And what is land to one such as I? My favor is not a petty thing, is it? Tell me, Mars, Orthenon! Is this the least of what I offer those who bring me dreams?”
He whirled. And his two vassals smiled. Mars called out, laughing at the Gnoll’s expressions.
“You showered gold on Tottenval for flowers, your Majesty! And he was our Beastkin, Tottenval, the Blooming Plague! You let Drevish build his damn cities like grass across Chandrar! They still stand and we’ll have a demon’s time retaking them.”
Orthenon bowed, smiling slightly in that way that Teres loved.
“Your Majesty once laid coastal roads across the east of Chandrar, from Seilk to Azan-avar. For a [Messenger] boy who ran the entire way, through sand, to bring you a missive. It persists to this day, and the nations which trade plentifully now remember you still.”
“Yes! So witness, my vassals! You have heard my proclamation! And Chieftain Nelrra fears I am a petty [King]. But answer me this—will I ever break my word? Will I be forsworn?”
“No!”
The shout came from around the tent. And the half-Giant’s voices made the skies shake. The Gnolls looked around, wide-eyed. And Flos laughed. He raised a hand and all quieted. Then he turned to the Gnoll Chieftain.
“A gift. It is not a petty thing, for all I give it quickly, Chieftain. But I believe, no, I know that your people will answer my gift a hundred times over. Take it, and keep it. What your people dream of should not wait a second longer than this. You have done well.”
The Gnoll Chieftain looked at the King of Destruction. And then he knelt. The other Gnolls did too. Flos grabbed Nelrra’s shoulder and made him stand. He was smiling; some of the Gnolls were overcome, unable to process this. Some didn’t believe.
But they would. Flos was as good as his words, and Orthenon was already bringing up maps, calling for a table. They wouldn’t believe, perhaps, until they were there, staring at the land Flos would give them. Maybe not even for months.
And yet, Teres believed. Because she knew Flos. He loved this, Teres saw. This, even more than he loved war. And he did love war. But he enjoyed seeing people laugh, and smile.
 
——
 
You couldn’t really call it an audience after that. Flos Reimarch certainly abandoned his throne, and his vassals, caught up in his wave of ebullience, were more than cordial to the Gnolls.
It was true that where Flos Reimarch led, his people followed. And Chieftain Nelrra’s speech had won over some of the people, especially the Stitch-People of the Hemp class, and the Garuda.
The Lizardfolk too, funnily enough. One of them tried to pat a Gnoll on the head and got a light smack.
The three Chieftains were overwhelmed as Flos, in his way, motioned them over to the map so they could find what parts of Hellios suited them best.
“Queen Calliope and her court will cause a fuss, my lord…”
“Let them. It’s that [Prince]…Siyal, I want to test. Tell him to help settle the Gnoll tribes and let Maresar watch him. Hellios doesn’t need all its land, and I want him to consider my offer. Hm. Do Gnolls like mountains? Hellios has a few, but all you get from them is stone…and some ores.”
“The Stone Spears tribe would have. If they were still…”
One of the Chieftains murmured sadly. Flos was caught between talking with Nelrra as the Gnoll hesitantly pointed out good spots, and asking all the questions Teres had wanted to.
“So, your tribes are small?”
“A few hundred is small, King Reimarch. A few thousand is still small. Larger tribes number in the tens of thousands, some larger still. But there are many such tribes. We are experienced in hunting, gathering as a whole, but each tribe is known for some specialty.”
“The Dustfur tribe gathers a plant in Izril. Its pollen is mildly paralytic, but the plant itself is very useful in a number of aspects. We have brought some to plant.”
“Really?”
Jelaim slid over as fast as possible to Nelrra; the Stitch-Man looked excited at the idea of easy access to a new coating for his blades. Flos was nodding.
“We will see where best your tribes may excel. For now, build and rest. If I could, I would issue another Edict, but—next month. Your tribe looks exhausted, Chieftains. Was the journey truly that arduous?”
The Gnolls nodded. They did not prevaricate or blunt their words, Teres saw. Which of course made Flos like them all the more. The other male Chieftain nodded.
“The journey was hard, King Reimarch. We crossed the sea smoothly, but with some hunger; but since landing, we have had…conflicts.”
“Conflicts? But you were given safe passage.”
“[Bandits] on the road. And some places refused to harbor us. The journey was mostly smooth under your name, but there were setbacks.”
Flos frowned deeply.
“Where did they occur?”
“Mostly after landing. The nation we came to—it was Medain? The [King] did not wish us there long and we had a difficult time gathering supplies. When we came to Jecrass, all was well. Their [King] allowed us supplies and we were escorted.”
“A good land. Many horses.”
The female Chieftain murmured. The other Gnolls agreed. Flos frowned deeply.
“King Raelt is a good man; I have heard his people gave succor to those travelling through. I do owe him my gratitude, and I shall not forget it. There have been incidents from Nerrhavia, but mostly among the Hemp who have left their homes to come to me. But—Medain. I know their [King]…I think. Orthenon, his name?”
“Perric, my lord.”
Flos snapped his fingers.
“Ah, yes. He was a brat when I conquered Chandrar. They say he is a halfway powerful [King], but I wonder. He was an adventurer, wasn’t he?”
“He detests you, milord.”
“He does? Was I particularly vengeful in conquering Medain? No? Well, I assume he has his reasons. But I will demand my people be given respect.”
Flos’ eyes glinted. Then he turned to Teres.
“Teres, come here. Chieftains, this is my companion, Teres. She is not one of my Seven, but her knowledge and perspective entertains me. Teres, I am sure you have questions! Ask! Now, about this river…”
Teres found three tall Gnolls looking down on her. She was tall for her age and gender, but they were Gnolls. The female one growled a greeting and introduced herself.
“I am Lessha, of the Gembows Tribe. I greet you, Lady Teres.”
“Just call me Teres, please. Um…can I ask about your people? I mean, if it’s not offensive.”
The Gnolls smiled, baring their teeth.
“It is better to hear someone asking to ask, than not at all. Refreshing. Ask away, Miss Teres. We have many questions of our own.”
Teres found herself asking questions about the Gnolls and reassuring them that Flos was who he said he was—and that they would be safe in Reim as the King of Destruction conferred with the Chieftain by turns. He was distracted, although he had already outlined a large area that would be enough for six tribes. And he still wanted a castle.
“Teres? Teres, come here! Look at this!”
Teres broke off from a discussion with Lessha about Gnoll children and came over. Flos was looking at a scrying orb.
He had two, now, in his immediate possession. The tiny one Gazi had given him, which was the size of a marble, and a much larger hand-mirror you could stare through. Neither was particularly big; scrying devices weren’t actually that great, Teres had learned. You had to calibrate them and they could be defeated any number of ways…
But the world was changing, and Teres began to understand why in that moment. She saw Noass, Sir Relz, and a view of Rhir as the two Drakes commented on the Blighted Kingdom.
Flos just stared.
“Is this…your television, Teres?”
“It—it looks like it! That’s like a news channel. How did…?”
“They’ve been broadcasting it all day, my lord. You were on it yesterday during your fight with the Manticores, but this is different.”
Ulyse offered as he twirled his parasol, looking intrigued. The members of Parasol Stroll had brought it to Flos’ attention. The King of Destruction peered at the mirror, looking confused.
“Ah, so they’re broadcasting sights the world over, eh? Why are those two Drakes talking?”
“Well, they’re commentating. You know, announcing the news? Like news anchors?”
The King of Destruction exhaled.
“You did mention. So that’s what it’s supposed to look like? Hmf, I had imagined it differently. Well, why don’t you hold onto this? Tell me if there’s something of actual interest to see! I care little for seeing Rhir; unless the Demons attack!”
He handed the scrying mirror to Teres. She blinked as Flos went back to the table with the maps on it. She stared at the mirror.
