They appeared out of the dust, out of the midst of the living. Riders wearing ghostly armor, becoming realer. The crowd of people stared.
What they saw were people. People, but not of this day and age. Teres knew at once.
They were dead. But they had ridden in this company long ago. Now, they came to life, as real as the others.
She was terrified. Because the woman who rode by her was real. She bowed as Flos rode past her. And the [King] knew her. He nodded once, and rode ahead.
“Thank you, my [Steward].”
Orthenon bowed. Flos cast a glance backwards. Even the half-Giants were silent, for striding shapes seemed to be following them in the dust. As if more of their kind would step out of the air.
The people of Belchan gawped. And the King of Destruction drew a sword. It was base magic. No artifact of old. His voice echoed.
“Ride with me, Teres. Ride with me, Chieftain Nelrra. For the glory of Reim! What was lost. We are shadows of our glory. And that is ever so.”
He pointed, and they rode. Teres saw Mars calling out to the figures who rode with them. She knew them. And they looked back at her. But they never spoke, and the Illusionist’s face was filled with grief.
The [Riders] seemed to carry a silence with them. And time…Teres found herself riding after the [King]’s back. All who beheld them stared. The living and the dead. And Teres looked at Orthenon’s face as he rode at his [King]’s side.
She was afraid. Because the [Steward] of the King of Destruction wielded memory like a blade. And it cut all equally deep.
 
——
 
They rode with that ghostly host for a minute, or perhaps an hour. And Teres couldn’t take her eyes off the King of Destruction’s back. He led them at a trot at first, and then faster. A canter, and then a full gallop. The half-Giants began to jog, and their footsteps shook the ground.
There were more of them. But no one spoke a single word. Flos took them down the roads, faster, faster.
And he was using his Skills. The ground began to blur and Teres experienced a dream-like sensation; she was moving too fast for her mind to keep up.
Down the main roads, turning, pausing. The [King] spoke, and people, staring, shook their heads. Some pointed, and he rode on.
He was searching for them. A trace of his people. But though some had seen others passing through, few spoke of those who had gone through Belchan.
And Teres felt it. A terrible feeling, a suspicion written on the King of Destruction’s face. Growing with each passing minute. Then hour.
At last, the King of Destruction halted. And his panting escort saw him turn. Teres couldn’t tell how long they’d travelled, or how far, but the sun was setting. Flos Reimarch stared about. His eyes flashed.
“Where are my people? Find them.”
Orthenon rode forwards, bowing. He shot forwards with a smaller escort. Shepherd Zamea strode over a hill, searching. The host of two thousand began to fragment, as Flos sent his [Riders] out in every direction. Searching for the King of Destruction’s subjects.
They were in Jecrass. [Riders] came back with news of the bands of travellers coming across the border. They were unable to cross, but Flos’ people rushed to meet them, making a beeline for the King of Destruction.
“Your Majesty. We feared to pass through Belchan as much as Medain. Some of those ahead told us this nation offered few escorts, and the people refused to trade. And worse. Perhaps the other tribes went around, to Jecrass or…”
Chieftain Nelrra panted as he let his horse drink and eat a bit. Teres was doing the same. But Flos Reimarch just watched as his [Steward] returned, shaking his head.
“I know they were here. Orthenon! Take your riders and scout yourself, not towards Jecrass, but further into Belchan. Summon all my Garuda in the army—if Takhatres were here—”
Away Orthenon went. But—Flos waited, with growing frustration. It was then that one of the Gnolls began to confer with Nelrra. He approached the [King].
“Your Majesty, we are natural trackers. I have with me my best [Tracker]. She has been unable to pick up a definite scent, but she thinks she has something.”
“Can she locate it?”
“It is too far away, Your Majesty. My nose is picking up something, but I am not the most high-level or gifted. Apologies. If I keep scouting, perhaps I may find the scent.”
The female [Tracker] bowed apologetically. Flos stared at her. Then he shook his head.
“No, I have a better idea. What is your name?”
The Gnoll blinked.
“Lykesa, Highness.”
“Is it your will to find your people, Lykesa? Even if it means changing your nature or class?”
She paused, and then nodded. Flos nodded.
“Then kneel. And close your eyes.”
He dismounted. The Gnoll [Tracker] knelt, and Flos put a hand on her shoulder. He looked down at her and then exhaled.
“I name you a [Royal Tracker]. A gift, and perhaps a curse. Your quarry will not be all things, but a [King]’s prey. If you would will it, take the class. And find your kin. Lykesa.”
He pressed down and the Gnoll jerked. For a moment, her eyes rolled up in her head. The other Gnolls caught her before she could sag backwards. Teres saw her limbs move wildly—and then she opened her eyes and refocused.
“I—my class—”
“Did you gain the Skill you needed?”
“Yes.”
The Gnoll rose, wide-eyed. The others were staring at Flos. So was Teres. He turned.
“A royal class is a heavy thing, Lykesa. But the hour grows later and the time is urgent. Find them.”
She nodded and put her nose to the wind. Within a moment she was sniffing, casting about for a far, far distant quarry. Flos looked at Teres.
“My gifts are weighty things, Teres. I do not know subtlety.”
“I have them. Northwest. I smell—Gnolls.”
Lykesa instantly pointed. Flos turned.
“Summon Orthenon!”
A horn blew and a [Message] carried the [Steward] back at a lightning gallop. A mile a minute, or faster. His horse halted and the [Steward] looked at Flos.
“Northwest. Take Lykesa. She will find them. We follow after. Gather the others!”
Flos rode slower as the other distant [Riders] were recalled. The half-Giants strode back towards him. They travelled north, as the sun continued to set.
They rode for twenty minutes, their tired mounts moving slower. But at the twenty-third minute, Teres saw Orthenon riding back towards Flos.
“My [King], we have found something. However—”
The [Steward]’s eyes flickered. And that said enough. Flos turned his head.
“Lead me there at once, Orthenon. Now.”
“Your Majesty—”
“Show me.”
 
——
 
They had come far. A Gnoll tribe had indeed come south, through Belchan. But they had never made it to him.
This tribe had been beset before. They had buried their dead six times. But there was not a seventh time. Their attacker had come last night. And the fighting had been over, then.
A hundred-some Gnolls at most. An easy target, already worn by…trouble. Clashes. They had hoped for sanctuary. They had found only death.
The attackers had been quick. They had tried to take the Gnolls by surprise as night fell. But the battle had not been a smooth rout. Both sides had fallen. In the end, the attackers had fled, taking most of their dead with them.
Most, but not all. Teres saw the fallen horses, the bodies mixed with the fallen Gnolls. But most were Gnolls. She stared as the King of Destruction slowly dismounted from his horse.
The rest of the [Riders] were quiet. Some, like Orthenon and Mars, looked as [Warriors], counting bodies, where they had fallen. But Teres stared as herself. She had seen the battlefield afterwards. But this had been Gnolls, seeking the King of Destruction. Non-warriors.
Kids.
Dark fur, matted with blood. They had fallen back again and again, in a narrowing circle. But they had been given no quarter.
They had all died. Adults and children. Even their pack-animals, the camels and mules had been slaughtered. All save one. Teres saw Lykesa pointing, Orthenon speaking. She couldn’t hear. Her eyes fell on a single figure, standing in the center of the bodies.
Perhaps they had left him as a message. Or perhaps they had left, rather than die. Because the young Gnoll was still alive. And he had a sling.
Just—just a sling. But it could throw a stone and kill an animal. Break a neck. Shatter bones.
He still stood there, the sling whirling. Someone called out a warning as Teres nearly approached. Two of the [Riders] that had gone with Orthenon were wounded.
“Your Majesty—”
The half-Giants were striding to keep up. But the young Gnoll didn’t seem to notice that these were different Humans, or the half-Giants. He had a blank look in his eyes. But his aim—
Flos Reimarch slowly took a step towards the Gnoll. And Teres saw he had white fur.
Pure white, like snow. But stained with dried blood. Flies buzzed around the battlefield.
Flos began to walk forwards. The Gnoll’s head moved slightly. A blur shot at Flos’ head.
Orthenon moved; the stone shattered in the air.
“My lord, the stones are dangerous. He’s killed at least two dozen—”
“Move. And stand back.”
The [Steward] looked at Flos. He opened his mouth and Flos turned his head. Silently, Orthenon fell back. Mars had dismounted. And Flos walked forwards.
 
——
 
The young Gnoll was grown. And his sling whirled. He had stood there, defending the dead for nearly a day. He wasn’t thinking, not in any conscious way.
But he had his sling. And ammunition. It whirled. And anything he saw died.
But it had not been enough.
They were coming back. He could see them, on the horses. He waited.
His fur was white.
One of them began to walk towards the Gnoll. So the [Slinger] threw a stone. It shot towards the figure. The first time it was destroyed in midair. The figure kept walking. The young Gnoll fumbled. Loaded a stone with bloody paws.
The sling whirled.
He flung a stone, as hard and as fast as his young limbs could move. The Human staggered. The stone struck him on the shoulder. But he did not scream or fall or run. He kept walking on. The young Gnoll reached for another stone.
He whirled the sling.
Another blow. The Human kept walking. Blood ran down his arm and shoulder. But he came on. He was close now, but slowed to avoid the bodies. The young Gnoll flung a third stone. At the Human’s face.
This time the stone glanced off an arm, gouging deep. But the Human lived. He was too close for a fourth stone. So the young Gnoll drew a weapon and dropped the sling.
He raised a hunting knife and a hand caught his paw. He struggled, but it was too late. The Gnoll waited, snarling, biting—
And the arms enfolded his body.
For a moment the Gnoll paused, uncomprehending. He felt the Human squeezing, but not hard enough to kill. He bit, and tasted blood. But the grip never changed. And somewhere, somehow, he heard a distant howl.
Voices.
“Your Majesty.”
More Humans. But the young Gnoll heard a howl. And the fog cleared from his eyes. He looked up and saw the King of Destruction.
The [King] had never moved. Even now, as blood ran from the side of his neck, he just hugged the Gnoll. Flos embraced the young Gnoll with the white fur. And as the others thundered towards him, he raised a hand.
Silence. They halted, and the young Gnoll looked into Flos Reimarch’s eyes. They were overflowing with tears.
“Who…?”
The voice was raspy, dry. For answer, the [King] gestured. His [Steward] came, but the healing potion went to the young Gnoll.
“Your Majesty. You are bleeding.”
“And?”
Flos looked at the young Gnoll. He was staring at the glowing vial of medicine. Flos gently opened it.
“Drink, lad.”
“Who are you?”
The young Gnoll was older than Teres, maybe. But not by much. He stared at her, and the others. Flos looked at him.
“I am the King of Destruction.”
“Oh. We were looking for you.”
There was a pause. The young man, the Gnoll, looked around. But all he saw were the bodies.
“They’re dead. All of them. They came last night.”
Flos nodded. He was weeping, and he didn’t even notice as Orthenon applied a potion.
“I am sorry. I was a day too late. Had I not wasted my time with frivolities, with games…”
He turned his head.
“Mars. Are there other survivors?”
“None, my lord.”
The Illusionist’s voice was quiet. The Gnoll looked at her.
“I know you. You were in the scrying waters. Are there other…?”
He saw Chieftain Nelrra. The young Gnoll stumbled forwards, seeing another living Gnoll. But Nelrra—backed away. He stared at the Gnoll. Slowly, the white Gnoll looked down at himself.
“What’s wrong?”
Teres stared at Nelrra. The Gnoll [Chieftain] appeared afraid of the last survivor.
“White fur. He is a Doombringer.”
One of the other Gnolls whispered. Flos’ head turned. He stared at Nelrra incredulously.
“Chieftain, do you call this child—no, this man, cursed?”
“Your Majesty. White fur among our people is a sign of…”
The Chieftain began, but he stopped. The King of Destruction looked at him.
“A curse?”
The Gnolls nodded. Flos looked from them as the young Gnoll covered in blood stared around, lost. Slowly, the King of Destruction moved. He placed a hand on the young Gnoll’s shoulder.
“If he is cursed, I will embrace him a thousand times a thousand again. If you would cast him out, now—there is no land in all my domain that will shelter you.”
The Gnolls quailed. Slowly, they moved forwards. Nelrra reached out and touched the younger Gnoll’s paw. He looked at the Gnoll with white fur and his expression changed from fear to…he lowered his head.
“It is as you say, King of Destruction. No. You are right. The traditions of old we left behind in Izril. I am…ashamed. We will bring him back to my tribe.”
“No. He stays.”
The Gnolls looked at him. The one with white fur just stared ahead. His eyes had clouded over again. Flos turned.
“Orthenon. Find who did this.”
The [Steward] raced for his horse without another word. Teres was silent, white-faced. There were little Gnoll children among the dead. She—
Mars covered Teres’ eyes. The young woman fought her. But Mars held her tight.
“Just for a second, Teres. Look later. Don’t speak.”
Teres clung to her, feeling soft skin, even an arm. An illusion. But she clung to it. Weeping.
The King of Destruction’s tears had ceased, but the proof of them was still there. He looked at the young Gnoll with the white fur.
“What is your name, lad?”
At first, the Gnoll didn’t respond. Flos gently put a hand on his shoulder.
“Look at me.”
The head rose, but mechanically. There was something there, but it was fading away, now. By degrees. The King of Destruction spoke, looking into those eyes.
“Stay with me an hour longer. Stay, for I am your king. I did not know your tribe. But you claimed me, and I failed you. But I will see justice done. What is your name?”
