Zamea chuckled. Teres was feeling the vibrations of her speech as much as hearing them. She could hear Zamea inhaling and exhaling, come to that. She stared up at Zamea.
“His Majesty tells me you have interesting ideas. More than that, he will not share. But I am curious about you, little Teres of the smallfolk.”
“The what? Oh—is that what half-Giants call others?”
“Indeed. We are the Nomads of the Sky, one of the last colonies of our kind anywhere in this world. And I am the Shepherd of my people. But you have questions. Smallfolk always do. Ask, ask.”
Zamea chuckled. She did not eat or drink, and few of the other tall half-Giants had this morning. Teres had seen them feasting last night on huge portions of Manticore meat, but Flos had mentioned that half-Giants needed to eat once in a fortnight, but when they did, they were ravenous.
“Er—”
“Questions will not offend me, little Teres. Ask. I am told you have amusing questions.”
Zamea leaned down and Teres backed up. Even if she moved slightly towards Teres, the young woman felt as pressured as if Flos were exerting some of his presence on her. She gulped.
“Well—I was asking His Majesty—look, biologically, isn’t it hard for half-Giants to exist? I mean, you must have problems with your spines or…breaking bones when you fall!”
Zamea blinked. Then she chuckled. Flos’ head turned as he lifted a wagon with eight people sitting on it. He grinned and shouted something from afar, but Teres didn’t hear it. Zamea made a gesture and then turned to Teres.
“A fine question! And a curious one. [Mages] ask me that as well. To answer—I see you have an enchanted sword there, young Teres. What enchantment?”
“Just—piercing and toughness. Why?”
Teres drew the blade carefully. It was a good sword. Not a powerful one, but Orthenon wanted her to learn to fight rather than let the blade fight for her. Zamea gestured.
“Thrust it into my arm.”
She put her arm on the ground. Teres recoiled.
“I can’t—”
“Little Teres, you could not cut deep if you tried. Thrust it into my arm. Now.”
The half-Giant’s eyes stared at Teres. Unwillingly, Teres aimed the blade at what she hoped wasn’t an artery or vein and gingerly stabbed. Her sword—slid off Zamea’s skin.
“Harder.”
Teres blinked, then she realigned the blade and tried again. This time she put force behind the stab and it went in—about a few inches.
“Strike!”
Heads turned as Zamea ordered Teres. The girl flinched, then tried a slash with two hands. The sword cut—but it cut barely more than a few inches, again! And Zamea’s arm was massive.
“There.”
Zamea rose. She sat back upright as some of the distant half-Giants who’d camped and slept—on their backs, in the open—called out to her.
“Shepherd! Are you teasing the smallfolk?”
One of the half-Giant’s rumbling voices called across the entire camp. Zamea laughed as Teres turned crimson. She bent back down to Teres after raising one hand. And her eyes were brilliant and huge.
“You see? Half-Giants have skin like armor. Especially those of us whom the blood runs strong in. The Giants of old were said to have armor that even an enchanted battleaxe wouldn’t break. If I fall, Teres, woe to any beneath me or the ground itself. But I will break after mountains do.”
Teres saw that. She stared up at the half-Giant.
“You’re…fairly incredible, Shepherd Zamea.”
The huge woman’s eyes twinkled.
“You think so? Then you have too low expectations by far, Teresa Atwood! You have not seen us fight. But those of us who have come with King Reimarch will fight. When the time comes, we will tear through the smallfolk. Save your awe for that.”
The little speech was accompanied by a smile. And it was not pitiless—but it had a grand and terrible weight to it. Teres shuddered. She had not seen Zamea fight. But the Nomads of the Sky were not all warriors. Only a handful had gone with Flos; the rest were actual [Shepherds], or those with classes suited for travel.
They herded large breeds of regular animals, like sheep. They were still tiny, but nearly three or four times as large as any sheep from Teres’ world. They had feasted on them the day they arrived. To do that, they’d culled the sheep. Zamea had helped, gently breaking sheep’s necks with her fingers.
“You’re not as—as gentle as I thought you might be, Shepherd Zamea. I imagined half-Giants would be…different.”
More like a certain groundskeeper in a magical wizarding school in Teres’ head. Capable of wrath, but kindly. But Zamea was taller than Hagrid. And—far different. Her smile was kind, but also fearsome. And she laughed quietly.
“Gentle? Ah. Some of the tallfolk who walk alone learn that. Gentleness, to avoid scaring the smallfolk around them, lest they gather in fury. But that is not what I am, nor what half-Giants are. Why would we be gentle? Look at us. We are greater than the smallfolk.”
She pointed. And in the distance, Teres saw some of the other half-Giants near Zamea’s size. Some were ‘only’ sixteen feet tall. But they had a separate camp away from the smallfolk, and they were visible from a distance.
A pair of young half-Giants had risen. They were playing a game in the morning. Two of them were laughing and one young twenty-foot male tossed what was a throwing axe for him towards another half-Giant his size. The other caught it without fear; their skin was tough. But no one besides them dared get near.
The sight was terrifying. Teres imagined what would happen if they slipped and the axe went flying towards…well, a smallfolk. She looked at Zamea and saw the half-Giant pointing.
Some other half-Giants were walking around the camp, the shortest ones, who were nine feet or more. And Teres saw what Zamea meant about caution.
They were not careless, but they weren’t careful either. They didn’t walk like a friend Teres had known back home, who was a tall bloke who was always careful about bumping into people. The Nomads of the Sky strode about freely, and people navigated around them with care.
“Sometimes we take in our kin from afar. And they walk like mice. The Nomads must teach them to walk with pride. But then—they believe the lies of the smallfolk. That we are all the same height deep down.”
Zamea sighed. Teres looked up at her and couldn’t help it.
“But we are all like that, aren’t we, Zamea? We’re all people, right?”
The half-Giant stared down at Teres. Then she laughed like slow thunder.
“You do it too. Look at me. Do you say our lives are equal, little Teres?”
She leaned down. Teres was smaller than her head. The half-Giant grinned at Teres, showing huge teeth. Teres tried not to step back.
“We’re not the same. I’m not saying that. But deep down—fundamentally—we’re all people, right?”
She was trying to think of some philosophy, but the huge half-Giant woman was distracting her by being—there. Yet, Teres thought she was right. Each person was a person. You couldn’t measure a soul by appearance. And yet, Zamea chuckled at Teres’ notions.
“Yes. Smallfolk say that. As if there is no difference between us when all else is stripped away. But look—”
She stood. And Teres gazed upwards and the smallfolk in the camp, all of them, stopped and stared. A thirty-foot half-Giant leaned down. And one of her hands plucked Teres off the ground.
“Wait—”
Teres bit off a scream as she rose, incredibly fast. The hand was so gentle—but it held her with absolute control. Zamea lifted Teres up, opened her other palm, and deposited Teres there. She raised her to mouth-level and spoke.
“I am one of the last of my kind. The Nomads are one of the last of the tallfolk, and the most numerous. And we number but hundreds. Look at me. My blood is that of giants. You could walk across the world and find so few like me—while your people are like dust, everywhere. Who is worth more? Who is more significant?”
Just the sight of her mouth opening, the dizzying height, and the tremendous words and rumble made Teres faint. She opened and closed her mouth, pale. This was a child of giants. And Zamea was half—
Imagine what they had been like. Striding across the world. One of them could destroy a city. Teres tried to argue, but her knees shook and she sat down.
Gently, one finger rubbed Teres’ head, like she might rub a little mouse’s head if she had a pet, or a doll. So carefully, as not to break her. Teres cringed as Zamea smiled. And she looked down on Teres.
“We are not equals. The King of Destruction is not equal to you, even reduced to the fact of his life. Some are worth more than others, or else why do we follow one such as him?”
“But…okay. Okay, please put me down?”
Teres whispered. She was afraid. Zamea just smiled.
“And if I do not?”
She put Teres on her shoulder. The young woman grabbed Zamea’s shoulder as the half-Giant began to walk, choosing her steps with care. Teres was white-faced. This was worse than Fetohep taking offense. She felt Zamea moving, was terrified she’d slip and fall and the half-Giant wouldn’t even notice—
“Shepherd.”
A voice came from below. Zamea halted, and Teres saw a familiar shape below.
Mars the Illusionist. She stood with both hands on her hips, grinning up at the Shepherd. Mars wagged a finger as she pointed.
“Shepherd Zamea, you’re scaring our little Teres. Put her down, please. His Majesty will want her as he meets the Gnolls.”
The half-Giant halted. Teres saw her and Mars exchange a glance, and then Zamea smiled.
“Very well, Illusionist. Lady Atwood, I trust you have learned a lesson?”
“Yes.”
Teres whispered as Zamea gently let her climb onto her hand. The half-Giant set her down and Mars caught Teres; the young woman’s legs weren’t working. Zamea crouched.
“You see? Respect for few of the small. Those who walk with giants. Let us talk again, Teresa Atwood. Until that time.”
She rose, as tall as the sky. And then Zamea took a step. Another. And she was gone. Teres looked at Mars.
“His Majesty warned you about tickling other people, Teres. Well, Zamea’s a good sort. But she’s as fierce as Orthenon. Here, come with me.”
Mars’ tone was strict, but her hands were gentle. She let Teres sit for a moment.
“She’s so—I just said—”
“She’s a half-Giant. And the leader of her people. She doesn’t play nice. When a nation doesn’t like the Nomads, the half-Giants don’t run away. They fight and walk where they please. Zamea’s like her forebears. That she came for His Majesty means she truly respects him. Now, come on. His Majesty’s with the Rustängmarder, but the furry-folk are up and waiting.”
Mars led Teres to the Rustängmarder. There were only about two hundred of them in Reim total, and eighty had marched with Flos. They had their own tents, their own space in the camp, around Flos’ tent.
They were the ultimate elite soldiers. As feared as the Nomads of the Sky. Their armor was dark black and green. And they wore the full-visored helmets that covered their faces at all times.
Teres might have talked back to Zamea, once. But never to the Rustängmarder. They were men. All men, who enlisted in this army and fought for pay wherever they went.
There was one fact about the Rustängmarder Teres had learned, besides their blank expressions, their perfect discipline and their unwillingness to retreat in front of slaughter. And that was that the Rustängmarder had a leader for each company, a [Commander]. And that commander always had levels in [Necromancer].
The King of Destruction was talking with the commander now. Teres knew him, but she held back. The man leaned against a table as he bowed awkwardly to the King of Destruction.
“It was good to fight alongside you all yesterday. The Rustängmarder’s edge has dulled not one whit. And you, Commander Ytol. You have my gratitude for taking command of my infantry. Venith could only be in so many places at once, and he and Maresar must watch Hellios and Reim in my absence.”
“It was our honor, King Reimarch.”
The man’s voice was quiet. He alone did not wear his helmet; the rest of the Rustängmarder were lined up behind him, standing in perfect rows as they waited for any order. They were like machines. But they were not.
“[Death Soldiers]. Don’t poke fun at them, Teres. Although I doubt you could make them mad, I’d hate to see it. They’re good sports if you want company for a night, though. Brave, sad lads. But they’ll find salvation with His Majesty. And I’d trade a hundred regular [Soldiers] for each one of them. Five hundred.”
Mars murmured to Teres as she led her over. Flos was nodding. He looked at the commander, Ytol. And his face was happy…and sorrowful.
“Ah, but you paid a heavy price to come here, Ytol. Were the rest of the Rustängmarder so angered as to demand it?”
He looked heavily at Ytol. And so did Teres. The [Death Commander] smiled. And he tried to bow, but he was unused to the crutch he leaned on. And of course, he had only one side of him to bow.
His right arm was gone. And his right eye. And his right leg. It was not an old injury, either. His limbs had been cut away last month, or so Teres had heard. When his company had marched to join the King of Destruction.
“Half for desertion, my [King]. That is always the price. I was only grateful it was I who bore my company’s sins. Otherwise we could not fight for you.”
The Rustängmarder stood silently behind Ytol. Flos bowed his head.
“But you came for me. And the Rustängmarder sent your company.”
The [Death Commander] shrugged. He had a bleak look in his eyes. Pitiless and empty, but when he looked at the King of Destruction…he smiled. And something in his eyes shifted.
“Desertion is desertion. But I would give up my other half to honor our oath. When our contract ends, we will all come. But it pained us to honor one vow and forsake the other. So. I, above others, was chosen for the honor.”
“The honor is mine.”
Flos Reimarch bowed slightly. The Rustängmarder moved. Ytol tried to bow lower. Flos Reimarch motioned, and turned to address Orthenon, Mars, Teres, and the others with him.
“We have one army, now. The makings of one that would make other nations tremble. Once, I had many such armies, each more fearsome than the last! I led my own, and each of my Seven had one to command, save for Drevish and Tottenval, and they had armies of [Builders] and [Farmers], in their way. Commander Ytol has my infantry. I have my Nomads and the Rustängmarder to break my foes. The Serpent Hunters and Parasol Stroll, four divisions of elites.”
“And Orthenon with his pretty pony [Riders].”
Mars grinned. The [Steward] turned his head and gave her a flat look. The [Vanguard] winked as Flos laughed.
“And Orthenon’s fearsome cavalry, yes, Mars! I did not forget you! But this army—it will do.”
