“Your Exaltedness, I have been considering the best form for the Naq-Alrama steel. There are many forms your weapon may take, and not just a blade. I had considered a hammer, or a longer weapon—”
Flos interrupted her with a shake of his head.
“No hammers. What sort of [King] wields a hammer? Far too unwieldy. I prefer swords. Polearms are too long in the fray of things, and axes—well, I know swords. Isn’t a normal longsword good enough?”
He looked at Nawal. She caught herself—even her awe over the King of Destruction couldn’t diminish her pride as a [Blacksmith].
“The process, it is not that simple. It is about weight, and durability, Your Great and Terrible Majesty.”
Flos frowned, and Nawal went silent at once. The [King] raised one hand.
“Call me King Reimarch if you must, Nawalishifra Tannousin. Or ‘Your Majesty’ will do. No other titles. What is this about durability? I thought Naq-Alrama steel…tell me.”
She bowed again. Teres settled back, listening as Nawal collected her thoughts.
“I regret that I am an unworthy [Smith], but I must tell Your Majesty of the blade I am attempting to make. I will forge it true of Naq-Alrama steel, without alloy or infusion of other metals. However, even Naq-Alrama steel has limits, Your Majesty. And—I am sure you know of its qualities?”
Flos’ eyes glittered as he took another bite. He chewed and swallowed, nodding.
“Near-unbreakable durability, the ability to hold magic and the innate power to pierce magical enchantments? The metal, unworked, turns solid in the daylight, doesn’t it? Which is why it’s so hard to forge.”
Teres thought that all sounded fantastical, like a mithril-sword or something. Jelaim looked frankly jealous; the Serpent Hunter loved magical swords, like the scimitars he wore on either hip. Nawal nodded slowly.
“Among other things, Your Majesty. I am not able to share the secrets of my clan even to one as great as you, but Naq-Alrama steel may sustain an elephant’s weight without bending, may cut spells like water, and yes, the forging takes many, many days of work, even weeks! It is a process known only to Clan Tannousin and few others.”
“So? What is the problem? A longsword, even one without embellishment, will suit me fine. I often use my other hand for shields and so on, you see. Which reminds me—I tried the one we gathered from Hellios, Mars. I don’t care for it.”
Flos turned in his chair and addressed Mars, who was sitting next to him and drinking what was…probably…water. Mars raised her brows.
“What’s the matter, my lord?”
“It creates this—here, where is it?”
A shield appeared in the hand of one of Flos’ vassals. He lifted it, and Teres saw a white shield, and silvery metal traced in a tree-like pattern rising along it. Flos had used it in his battle, but now he raised it.
“The defensive enchantment. It stopped the Manticore well, but the activation—well, here.”
He struck a blow against the shield with his fist and it rang like a gong. Teres saw the shield glow. It flashed—and Teres ducked a burst of light. Flos had leaned out of the way, aiming the shield up.
Nawal was already on the ground. The burst of power from the shield shot into the sky, and it would have blown apart anything it hit. It had certainly sent a Manticore reeling the other day.
As if nothing had happened, Flos handed the shield back to an attendant.
“You see? Too slow a reaction. Do we have any Everfire Shields? Those are simple, but nice. The flame sticks to whatever it hits for a while, Teres. Just ram your opponent if your sword can’t get through their defenses!”
“I’ll lend you one from my armory.”
Mars laughed. The shield was taken away and Flos turned back to Nawal with ease.
“I’m sorry, as you were saying, Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin?”
The young woman was picking dust out of her veil. With anyone else, Teres bet she’d explode. But she only bowed hurriedly.
“It is true that an Oliphant’s weight cannot bend Naq-Alrama steel, Your Majesty. However…Naq-Alrama steel is one thing. When it breaks, it shatters. Any force less than that which would break it will not move the metal. But I fear Your Majesty might shatter an ill-designed blade in time.”
Teres blinked. Shatter? Nawal seemed to draw in on herself at the suggestion as Flos stared. Mars raised her brows, but the King of Destruction did not erupt in wrath at the thought that his costly blade might break. He just laughed. He did indeed rage seldom.
“You see? That is the mark of a good [Blacksmith], Teres. I didn’t think of that, Nawalishifra! But you’re right. You’ll have to compensate for my strength, eh? But could I break a Naq-Alrama blade?”
He looked delighted at the suggestion. Mars murmured as she looked at Nawal.
“You bend steel or shatter it with regular swords, my lord. And you’ve broken lesser enchantments.”
“True!”
“It is not just that, Great King. I fear many blades do not use your full power.”
Nawal spoke, bowing. Flos sat up.
“That sounds like flattery, Nawalishifra. But go on.”
“No flattery, sire!”
The [Smith] hurriedly raised her head. She gestured, showing Flos her diagram and Teres saw that Nawal had been sketching different blade shapes.
“Normally, blades are light. A few pounds at most. Never more than five, really. Heavy is useless. However, with Skills, a [Warrior] may swing around even heavy weapons like twigs, would he not? And a great beast, like the Manticores, they laugh at light weapons. So, a wise [Smith] forges to the wielder.”
Flos nodded, now intrigued. His hand opened and closed as he gestured.
“Like a hammer that weighs thirty pounds on one end. I’ve seen [Warriors] who can swing it fast as a quarterstaff. But I’m not that quick.”
“No, but this Naq-Alrama blade, it may be fifteen pounds, Your Majesty.”
“Fifteen—”
Teres was astonished. Her blade was light! But fifteen pounds? Everyone but Mars and Flos looked askance at the idea. The King of Destruction frowned.
“That’s a bit cumbersome, isn’t it? If I wanted a blade for one of my Nomads of the Sky, I’d ask that. But for me? Fifteen pounds is surely far too heavy, unless I’m using that hammer, or something.”
He gestured at one of the half-Giants, looming over the rest of the camp. Nawalishifra bowed.
“But if the blade were perfectly balanced, Your Majesty? I believe you do not know your own strength.”
That came out in a rush. Flos’ brows rose as Mars laughed in delight.
“Hm. Well now. Ulyse!”
He raised his voice. One of the [Mages] in the camp strode over at once. Flos stood.
“I need a training sword, or a regular blade. Ulyse, can you enchant it to be exactly fifteen pounds? I want to test Nawal’s theory.”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
Ulyse raised his staff as a sword appeared. It was rather miraculous how Flos could shout and get anything he wanted, almost instantly. Teres saw the leader of Parasol Stroll run his staff along the blade.
“[Leaden Weight].”
It didn’t flash or glow, but the servant carrying it dipped slightly under the weight and struggled to lift it with both palms. Flos plucked the blade up. He tried an experimental slash and blinked.
“Well, it is heavier, but I don’t seem to be slowed down too much. Not at all, really. I suppose I’ve never thought about it. Stand back.”
The others did and he swung the blade around. Teres heard the air whistling. She stared. He wasn’t any slower that she could see!
“Your Majesty! As strong as lions!”
Jelaim laughed with pride and awe. Flos grinned.
“What do you know? It’s not slow at all! And imagine if I hit you with this, Jelaim!”
“My stitches would surely all come out! Lady Mars, can you swing it as fast?”
Mars took the sword. She grunted.
“That is fifteen pounds. Fuck it, I’m not swinging this. I’m not built for strength like my lord. Jelaim, you try.”
She swung the blade once, fast, but clearly not as fast as Flos. Then she tossed the blade at the Stitch-Man.
He had to catch the sword with both hands, stumbling. Jelaim tried a cut, his muscles bulging, but he couldn’t get anywhere near a proper slash.
“Too much weight! The Serpent Hunters dance with blades, not carry them! Lady Atwood!”
He handed Teres the sword, and she took it with two hands.
“It’s—heavy!”
The sword was far too heavy! Teres couldn’t even keep it straight in front of her! But Flos—she stared at him as he took the blade back. The King of Destruction held the enchanted sword of fifteen pounds out with one hand, lightly. Keeping it straight and even, like any good swordsman.
“Your Majesty! You must be strong as a pack of lions! An ox!”
Jelaim was agog. So was Teres, honestly. She hadn’t known how strong Flos was. She looked at Nawal—the [Blacksmith] had a smug look on her face.
“Well spotted, Nawalishifra. And yes, Teres, Jelaim. I am strong. Strong enough that I’ve broken even magical blades not enchanted for durability before.”
Flos tossed the blade to Ulyse. The [Mage] stopped it in midair rather than catch it as he dispelled the enchantment. Flos caught Teres looking at him.
“What? It’s just a Skill, Teres.”
“But even Mars—”
The [Vanguard] paused as she drank. She scowled at Teres.
“I’m strong enough! But my lord is stronger yet. Stronger than all of his Seven, actually. There was a time when Orthenon or I could beat him by strength alone—not anymore.”
All eyes turned to the King of Destruction. He shrugged, lightly.
“I am a [King], Teres. What would I be if I wasn’t strong enough to fight with my champions in battle?”
“But you said you couldn’t beat a Level 30 [Geomancer]! You said you were only as strong as a Gold-rank adventurer!”
The [King] laughed.
“I am. Without artifacts? Any good Gold-rank would tie me up in knots if they prepared well! I can’t deal with illusions well, or dodge [Fireballs] with ease. I hate wall spells, mental attacks—”
“Flying bastards.”
Mars chimed in. Flos nodded.
“—But I am strong. Still, that’s all. Now I have a belt, armor, a shield, a sword, these rings—but I lack for true artifacts. And without such weapons, Mars or Orthenon are still stronger than I. Gazi and Takhatres too.”
He nodded around, and Teres saw some of the others shaking their heads, denying his modesty. Then she heard a sound, a booming voice that made her bones rumble.
“He says that, but he’s stronger than all but a few of the half-Giants, Teres. Ask him why.”
Teres saw a shadow fall across the gathering. She looked up and up.
And she saw a half-Giant.
Zamea, the Shepherd of the Nomads of the Sky, leader of her group of half-Giants, was an absolute unit. And that unit was ten meters high. Thirty-two feet for anyone with weird metrics. She towered over…everything. Where she walked, the ground trembled. And her voice, even a quiet whisper, was like listening to distant thunder.
“Zamea! Good morning to you!”
Flos laughed and extended his arms in welcome. The half-Giant smiled.
“King of Destruction. I hear we are talking about blades. May I join you?”
She sat, cross-legged, but still rose above the others. Nawal stared up, wide-eyed, and bowed to the half-Giant, as did many others. Flos just laughed.
“You want a blade, Zamea? I won’t pay for one of Naq-Alrama steel for you! But perhaps we can make one like your axes!”
He nodded to her and the half-Giant smiled. Zamea carried a huge, ancient axe made out of steel. Just steel; it was so notched and worn that even with her care, it was old. But who could make a blade for a half-Giant? It was larger than Teres!
“What do we speak about?”
“Strength! Apparently I’m a fair bit stronger than I was when I was young! Could you swing a blade weighing fifteen pounds, Zamea? That’s heavy for the smallfolk.”
The half-Giantess laughed. She was tallest of her kin, and her axe, when she drew it, was so heavy no one could lift it, even if they could have somehow managed the huge handle. Flos could push it up with one arm, but he’d have been a literal cartoon, lifting the handle with both arms wrapped around it.
“Weight matters, but there are no half-Giant [Smiths] among the Nomads, King Reimarch! Nor enough ore! But you alone could wield a blade as heavy as we use.”
“Perhaps. Perhaps.”
Flos turned back to Nawal and Teres. This conversation had become a thing. But again, the [King] treated it as if it were a light discussion. He sat back down as Teres pointed at him.
“How are you so strong? [Enhanced Strength]?”
She knew that was a thing. But Flos just shook his head.
“Better. [A Kingdom’s Strength]. A Skill for a [King]. My Level 30 Skill, in fact. I suppose even after my slumber, I’m stronger than I was as a boy. I still see myself as a greater [King], you see. And I’ve leveled.”
He flexed one arm. Teres stared. Nawal bowed.
“Your Majesty, with your permission, I would wish to discover how strong you are. At least so that the blade I forge will not be broken by your strongest swing.”
“Fair enough, Nawalishifra. I confess—I seldom swing as hard as I can. My strength, you see, is too much for even me. I can tear my own flesh and bone from the impact if the sword twists in my hand. How shall we test my limits?”
Flos grinned. Nawal bowed, and in moments, Flos was calling for a wagon. He was going to lift enchanted swords, and then see if he could lift a wagon one-handed or two, unaided. Then they’d pile weights on and find the limits of his strength.
Teres watched the carnival-like anticipation as Flos’ vassals gathered around and the [King] began to throw or cut with enchanted weapons. He could lift and swing a thirty-pound blade around almost as fast! Nawal was scribbling frantic notes and Teres felt for her.
“Imagine trying to make a blade that won’t break with him.”
“Ah, but most blades are enchanted, little Teres.”
A hill of a woman spoke. Teres jumped and realized Zamea hadn’t moved. She was sitting cross-legged, to avoid stepping on anyone if she rose. She looked down at Teres.
The half-Giant woman was rather like a Human woman, scaled up. But there were significant differences. Her skin was…rugged. Almost closer to something hard, mineral, than flesh. She could have used a few tankers of skin cream. And her eyes were pale orange. She smiled down at Teres.
“Um, good morning, Shepherd Zamea.”
Teres hesitated, but bowed slightly. Zamea was leader of the Nomads of the Sky, and Teres wasn’t sure of her rank, but everyone but Flos’ immediate vassals bowed to her. The half-Giant didn’t nod, but smiled.
“Lady Atwood. Teres Atwood, we have not spoken, the two of us alone. His Majesty tells me you are his trusted follower.”
“Um. Yes?”
