Something reappeared. Teres heard a voice as she looked at him. At that terribly lost look in his gaze.
“Sailt. Sailt, of the Saltstone Tribe.”
“Come with me, Sailt. Your tribe must be buried. Ulyse, preserve them. Remove the insects.”
The [Mages] raised their staffs silently. Flos had brought his veterans. But even they walked slowly here, staring. This was not a battle that anyone could be proud of.
Orthenon returned. He raced through the setting sunlight. A black shadow on a dark horse.
“Your Majesty. Survivors. We have the attackers.”
The Gnolls’ heads turned. Sailt looked up.
“Survivors?”
Flos whirled. His green eyes found Orthenon’s. The [Steward] nodded.
“A village not far from here. My Lord. Some of the Gnolls live. They were captured as slaves. All children. The village is surrounded by your riders.”
“Who—”
Sailt’s voice faltered. He began to cough, but he tried to make his way to Orthenon. Nelrra steadied him, searching for a drink. Teres gave him her water flask.
“Slaves? What crime did they commit?”
Flos stared at Orthenon.
“The village [Headman] claims they stole from his lands.”
Orthenon was breathing slowly. His voice was level and measured. But there was something dark in his eyes. Waiting. Flos looked back at the dead Gnolls.
“Stole. Did they?”
He looked at Sailt. The young Gnoll coughed and choked on his reply. He spat.
“No. They refused to trade with us. We did nothing.”
A glowing light. Mars held up the stone glowing soft blue, and Ulyse’s staff flashed white. The truth.
Flos nodded. His expression was just—distant. It had not changed. He looked back at Orthenon.
“How many children?”
“Fifteen children, your Majesty. They have white fur.”
“They would, after…”
Nelrra murmured. Flos turned. Teres met his eyes. Flos had no emotion on his face.
“Bring them to me. The entire village.”
The [Steward] rode with half the [Riders]. Zamea pointed and two of the half-Giants strode after them. Flos just stood there.
“He told me they had few of my refugees. He promised me they were given every courtesy.”
“Perhaps he did not know, my lord—”
Mars began. Flos looked at her and she went still. But the [King] just nodded slowly.
“Perhaps he did not.”
“Your Majesty.”
Another figure. Zamea’s voice. She bent.
“Belchan’s army, Lord Reimarch. They are coming. The six thousand who have shadowed us. They are going to stop Orthenon.”
“The army?”
Flos stirred. He paused, and then looked around.
“Mars. Bring them to me. Zamea, go with her.”
The [Vanguard] nodded. She strode into the distance. The half-Giant followed her. Teres heard distant sounds. But Sailt consumed her vision. He was just standing. Looking at Flos.
Waiting.
So was the [King]. The other Gnolls were looking among the dead. Howling in quiet grief. And crying. They cried the same way as Teres.
“Your Majesty, the villagers.”
Orthenon had returned. Several hundred people were being herded forwards by ranks of [Soldiers]. At the same time, amid shouting, Mars dragged a figure towards Flos. Zamea strode behind a few more.
“What is the meaning of this? We are Belchan’s—”
The [Commander] froze when he saw the carnage. Flos turned his head.
“The [Headman] of the village?”
“There.”
Orthenon pointed. A man was pushed forwards. Flos nodded. He turned his face and Teres saw something that terrified her. She worked her mouth.
“Your Majesty—”
He ignored her. Flos Reimarch was striding towards the [Commander], the [Headman]. She saw a group of Gnoll children, with white fur, staring around. Chieftain Nelrra saw them and broke into a run. So did the others.
But Sailt followed the King of Destruction. Watching. Teres felt something in her chest. She stared at Flos’ back.
“Your Majesty!”
He ignored her. Mars and Orthenon looked at Teres. She felt a hand on her shoulder.
“Lady Teres. It is unwise.”
Ulyse. The [Mage] was staring after Flos’ back. Teres blinked at him. And then she ran forwards.
“Flos!”
He turned his head. Fixed Teres with a gaze. She hesitated.
In that moment, if she had tried to plead with him, tried to stop him—but she did not. Slowly, the part of Teres that was still there, still able to think amid the pure howl of oblivion, spoke.
“Whatever you’re going to do, do it with this.”
She lifted the scrying mirror she’d snatched from Ulyse’s side. Flos Reimarch stared at it. Then at Teres. Slowly, he reached for it.
And nodded. He turned back silently. And the scrying mirror began to light up. Teres watched. Waiting.
 
——
 
That evening, the world watched an important, world-changing announcement. Courtesy of Wistram Academy. They’d even sent [Message] spells, and everyone was watching.
Because it involved the King of Destruction and war. A’ctelios, Tombhome, the Carven City and Shield Kingdom of Chandrar, had been attacked. The King of Destruction had violated his oath.
That was the line. It was one that, when uttered, would change the world. Wistram Academy had Noass and Sir Relz commentating, being the ones chosen to break the news.
They were having a hard time of it. The Wistram [Seer] who had rushed to A’ctelios was trying her best. But the people of A’ctelios were literally frothing at the mouth in parts. And they had sharp teeth.
She stood in the Carven City, trying not to show…everything. A representative of A’ctelios was raging at Noass, who was trying to unpack what had happened.
“—murdered Baosar!”
“Your leader. Yes, I think we have a—a picture of what’s happening.”
Noass was having a hard time. A’ctelios was the victim here. Their leader slain by Gazi Pathseeker. But if you knew about the Carven City—he was omitting a lot of facts about A’ctelios, but anyone staring at the scrying orb…the Drake [Commentator] coughed.
“So—so is this war? Has A’ctelios in fact, declared war on Reim?”
It was the line of the month. The man standing in the image paused. Even A’ctelios in its madness wasn’t suicidal.
“If it is war, it is one caused by Reim! They have killed many of our own! Killed a pakeil, and our leader!”
“A—pakeil? Is that an animal? My notes say beast of burden. Can we see—no?”
Noass looked off screen. Sir Relz was speaking with the academy, directly on a call. He shook his head vigorously. Noass turned back and tried to give the viewers a smile.
“Well, let’s recap for anyone just tuning in. Sir, you say that your leader of A’ctelios was assassinated by Gazi the Omniscient? Thus, breaking the King of Destruction’s oath of non-aggression? Because that sounds like what you’re saying.”
Again, the man hesitated. He bared his sharp teeth, but cautiously.
“One of his Seven, Gazi the Omniscient, she claimed there was insult. That the outsiders were under his protection. But insult was given!”
“But who started—”
Sir Relz slid back into frame, sweating a bit.
“Er—it sounds like both sides were to blame, Noass. But this is a clear provocation. It certainly sounds like the King of Destruction may have invalidated his oath. If you were—um—”
No one was saying it outright. It was hard to say. The [Commentators] couldn’t do it. They didn’t want to, no matter how much the Archmages shouted at them. And the Shield Kingdom was…wary.
“We know blood has been spilled. On…both sides? Look, an assassination of a leader of a nation—”
“Assassination is hard word to swear under truth spell—”
Sir Relz murmured. Noass paused. It was going to happen. You could feel it. Justification or not, a nation’s leader had been murdered by one of the King of Destruction’s Seven. But it was an agonizing battle getting there.
“Maybe we should see if Reim’s representatives have any input on this. The Quarass of Germina was there—can we locate her? No? Well, how about Gazi Pathseeker? Surely someone from Reim—”
Noass broke off as Sir Relz rose. The two Drakes stared as there was an exclamation audible from off-screen. Sir Relz hurried away, then came back and whispered in Noass’ ear. The Drake froze.
“Oh. Oh, Ancestors—I think the King of Destruction wants to reply to A’ctelios’ accusations. We didn’t get the Quarass but—the King of Destruction? Really? Is this a joke?”
He stared. Then Noass turned back to the viewers. Which was again, the world. Or all of it that mattered, which was anyone watching. Rulers and anyone who could afford a scrying spell stared.
“Ancestors, I think he froze up.”
Rufelt commented from his bar in Tails and Scales. It was packed with his regulars. Lasica poked her head out of the kitchen.
“What’s happening now, Ruf?”
“The King of Destruction’s going to speak about the incident.”
“What? Hold on! Let me see! I’m nearly finished with this—”
“Um.”
The sound of Sir Relz swallowing was very audible. He prodded Noass, and the Drake jerked. He began breathing again.
“I—I—I think we’ll interview the King of Destruction again. I mean, now. A’ctelios, Seeress, please hold. We’ll listen to the King of Destruction, ask your opinion—let’s—let’s go to him now? Can we?”
Noass stared as the scrying mirror reflecting the King of Destruction was moved so it filled half the screen. The Drake was in the other half, doing the world’s first split-screen broadcast.
For a moment, the mirror was blank. People stared. Surely the King of Destruction wasn’t going to acknowledge the incident? They waited as Noass fidgeted.
“Is he—”
And then the King of Destruction appeared. He stood, in the dusk, filling the mirror. He was looking down at the scrying mirror, at an angle. The sky behind him was filled with a setting sun.
“Oh Ancestors—”
Noass broke off. He caught himself.
“And here we have the King of Destruction. Gentledrakes, everyone—the King of Reim, Flos Reimarch, um—”
Flos Reimarch said nothing. Noass went on, stuttering.
“So—we’ve heard from A’ctelios. Your Majesty, King Reimarch. It appears your subjects, Gazi the Omniscient, beheaded Baosar, the leader of A’ctelios. There are allegations of offense on both sides. But how would you—you—”
The King of Destruction’s face was pale. And he said not a word. Noass’ mouth dried up. He tried again.
“Your Majesty, how would you accuse to A’ctelios’ claims that their leader was assassinated. Your oath—”
“I declare war.”
Noass paused. Across the desert continent, the raving fury of A’ctelios stuttered. The Archmages froze. Rufelt stopped midway through making his drink.
Noass was nodding. Then he registered what Flos had said.
“You—you what? I’m sorry. Did you say—”
“I declare war.”
The King of Destruction’s voice was low. Intense was a poor word. He spoke each word slowly. With a terrible, halting madness to them. Growing.
A’ctelios Salash paused. And even their fury halted. They felt fear.
And the world listened. Noass looked at the King of Destruction.
“War? So you’re claiming this incident was—was A’ctelios’ provocation? And—and—”
Slowly, the hand-mirror in Flos’ grip rose. The view tilted. And—Rufelt wasn’t sure what he saw at first. Then he saw the red.
The blood. He dropped his glass.
“What is that?”
Noass recoiled. The bodies lay behind Flos. A slaughter. The [King] slowly handed the mirror to someone. She angled it and moved back.
He stood amid the blood. The bodies on the ground were just bodies at first. Then the viewers began to place them.
Gnolls. And—behind them, a silent line of Humans, surrounded by armed [Soldiers]. A [Commander] in Belchan’s insignia. Mars and Orthenon.
“When I swore my oath of peace, I demanded my people be allowed to come to Reim. No matter who they were. From wherever they hailed. My people came. From Izril. Gnolls.”
Flos Reimarch spoke slowly. He filled the image. Wistram Academy sat frozen. They couldn’t cut away. They didn’t even know what that was. They could only halt the broadcast. And it was too late.
The King of Destruction looked around.
“The tribes of the Gnolls came seeking me. This—was—the Saltstone Tribe. But they never made it to my lands. They were attacked. Slaughtered. In Belchan. As the Prime Minister asked that I hunt Manticores. He promised me my people were permitted to cross his borders. Look. This is what became of them.”
Flos’ voice was so—so empty. Not of emotion. But it was being held back. He gestured.
A white Gnoll. Rufelt’s paws shook as he saw a white Gnoll. He knew what that meant. The young Gnoll, Sailt, stared ahead blankly. His fur was matted with blood.
But he was not alone. There were fifteen Gnolls. Children. They clung to the other Gnolls who carried them. Each had white fur. And some were injured.
They’d been healed. But a little Gnoll child stared at the shining mirror Teres held. She had one eye. The other was missing. She looked so young, to Rufelt. A Plains Gnoll. Just like—
She was missing an eye. And the bodies of the Gnoll tribe—
“Ruf? It’s gone quiet. What’s—”
In Scales and Tails, Rufelt heard a crash as Lasica dropped the plates she’d been carrying out of the kitchen. The audience of Pallass’ citizens stared. The world stared.
Noass’ voice shook.
“Even the children—what happened?”
Flos stared into the mirror. Then he turned.
“For what reason did this occur? Because they were thieves? Because they quarreled, or broke any law? Orthenon, bring forwards the one who ordered this.”
A man was dragged into the frame. He was knelt by Orthenon and Mars. The [Headman] was pale, shaking. He spat at Flos’ feet.
“King of Destruction. May you—”
Orthenon struck the man with the butt of his spear. Silence. Flos stared down at him.
“Did your village kill these Gnolls?”
Silence. The man spat more blood. Flos leaned down.
“Answer me.”
This time the force of his question was like a physical thing. Even Noass flinched. The [Headman] looked up, unwillingly.
“Yes. We killed them.”
“Why? What crimes did they commit?”
“They st—”
The lie caught on the man’s tongue. Flos Reimarch waited.
Silence.
“What did they do? Nothing? Then why did they die? This tribe came for me. What did they do to deserve death? Tell me.”
“They were yours!”
The man spat. He spat at Flos’ face. Blood spattered the [King]’s skin. He wiped away the blood as Mars drove the man’s face into the ground. The [Headman] kept speaking.
“They were yours! The beasts! You have enemies everywhere, King of Destruction! They never reached you! This is your fault!”
Mars began to press, but Flos raised a hand. He paused and his eyes found the mirror, then the kneeling man.
“Yes. Because they were my subjects. No reason beyond that. And they were not the first, were they? How many were waylaid within Belchan?”
