They came, from the world over. For one man’s name.
Flos Reimarch. Scorn him if they would, the other petty rulers and plotters and schemers. His enemies might curse his name, might point out a thousand of his flaws. And the King of Destruction would probably agree with many.
But they came, from distant shores, across Chandrar, through the deserts and across thousands of miles. For him.
Not just because he was a [King] of war. Not just because he was mighty. But because of what he was. Because of what he offered his people. For a chance, and a dream, they came.
A marching band of Gnolls looked up as they passed through the night. The King of Destruction was still far yonder by many miles. But so few compared to how far they’d come. They hurried, even in the night, preferring it. Daylight would bring more trouble.
And they had buried their dead six times before. The Gnolls hurried, hoping to reach the King of Destruction, hoping to send a quick member of their people ahead. That they would find him before—
The female [Chieftain] raised her head. The band of just over a hundred Gnolls, worn, a tiny tribe, looked up. And they heard the shouting. They saw the torches.
They ran, abandoning their belongings, what few remained. But it was too late. So they stood and howled as they fought. There had been no quarter before. And there would not be again.
They died, there, on that lonesome road. For a dream. Gnolls stood together, whirling slings, throwing spears and fighting in a land of sand and dust. The children hid, as they blew horns and called his name. They had found death, seeking that [King]. But it was just a different kind than they had left.
One by one, they fell. Until even their attackers started to falter at the slaughter. Until both sides were burnt down, because the Gnolls would not cease or flee. In a foreign land, a small tribe of a foreign people died.
To the last, they dreamed of a [King] who did not even know their names. Who had never known them. They reached for that dream, as silence fell and blood seeped into the sands.
And the King of Destruction heard, but he did not understand. And he woke from restless dreams reaching for his sword. But all he heard in the waking world was silence. And the beating of his heart.
And still more came, finding death. But some found him.
 
——
 
In the dawn of the day after the King of Destruction’s dramatic hunt of Manticores, his arrival at Belchan, another [King] sat upon his throne in the north.
In Medain, the Kingdom of Adventurers. So named for the three magical dungeons that had been discovered in the nation, which still provided treasures and lured countless adventurers to the nation like flies to honeyed fruit.
That alone made Medain rich, but it was also a coastal nation and thus blessed with easy access to water, unlike many of Chandrar’s desert-nations. Medain could afford [Hydromancers] to desalinate water, could attract trading ships by dint of the monster parts and materials that were generated in its dungeons.
It had a powerful army, made of former adventurers and those willing to fight in wars. The laws of Chandrar were not that of Izril; adventurers made up a part of Medain’s armies that regularly clashed with its neighbors.
So Medain’s [King], Perric, was a powerful ruler of a powerful nation. But he was displeased today.
“I have a parade ready to proceed whenever Wistram deigns to transmit my celebrations. Why have they not answered my summons? You.”
He pointed. The woman in robes spoke, her voice breathless with fear. She was a [Mage] of Wistram of course, but any true ruler cultivated fear in those who stood before him. Even Wistram’s envoys were not above being made examples of.
“Your Majesty, King Perric. The academy has heard your request, but I am not privy to the thoughts of the Archmages or the Council—”
He silenced her with one look. The air around the throne grew stiff, edged, and the young [Mage] faltered.
“High King. I am a [High King]; four nations fall under my aegis. And I did not request. I informed the academy of the parade. Why have they not sent their [Seers] or [Diviners] to broadcast it?”
“Wistram’s single—channel Your Majesty—it can only support the display of one event at a time.”
“Yes. Which is why I have put Medain’s grandeur on display.”
Perric stared, resting the side of his face on his hand. His throne shone as he sat on it, with so many protective spells and enchantments that the [Mage] standing before the throne would be vaporized if he so desired. She spoke carefully, sweat beading her brow.
“Yes, High King. However—I regret to inform you that, this day, Wistram has received invitations or pronouncements from over forty separate nations or organizations of their own displays. The Academy is simply unable to choose.”
High King Perric of Medain paused. His eyes swiveled left and a huge scrying mirror—so large you could pace back and front in front of it and never go out of frame—lit up. He saw an image of a group of [Knights] charging…
“A single Hydra?”
Perric scoffed. He had been an adventurer in his youth. The huge, roaring monster with multiple heads, taller than two houses, able to snap up a horse and rider in a single bite, did not faze him.
It was customary for [Princes] to journey from their kingdom if they were not needed, to level in another class perhaps, or just enjoy their freedom. As a [Prince], Perric had been a Gold-rank adventurer. He sneered at the image as the [Knights] charged in.
They were not the Order of Seasons, but rather armored in dark purple and green, eschewing full-plate for more flexible coverings of chainmail, scale, and layered armor for maximum mobility. They charged around the Hydra, battling the heads as they hacked at it.
Perric saw they were at least aware of the Hydra’s ability to regenerate; they were using magical blades and they burned, or used other effects, in the open wounds to halt the Hydra’s tissue regeneration.
As the huge beast retreated, hissing and snapping, one of the [Knights] leapt from the horse. He used a Skill and the [High King] saw an arc of light appear. The slash took off one of the Hydra’s long heads by the neck and the [Knights] roared and charged as the beast reeled backwards.
The image abruptly cut to a pair of Drakes sitting at a table. It was a rather nice table, and the two Drakes were shuffling pieces of paper. One of them spoke carefully into an amulet he’d tied to a little wooden stand, and his voice was pleasant, clear, and intimate, altered by the speaking spell.
“…And we’re back. This is Noass and Sir Relz, coming to you live, is that the word, Sir Relz? Yes, alive and well from Pallass. What you good viewers just witnessed was the Order of the Thirsting Veil, if I have the name right, battling a Hydra. They are a Terandrian-based [Knight] Order, founded in Ailendamus—Sir Relz?”
The Drake with the monocle next to Noass nodded. He took a sip from a cup in front of him, and the magical tonic also did wonders for his voice. He had a second cup with a stamina potion in it. It was a bad idea to mix alchemical drinks like one would alcohol.
“That’s correct, Noass. The Thirsting Veil Order, known for their stealth-capabilities as well as an emphasis on poison-based weaponry and armor. This was an initiation for some of their younger [Knights] and [Squires]—the veteran [Knights] were leading a hunt of the Hydra, as you saw. Not an easy kill, no indeed. I think we’re going back to them? Ah—we have a picture within a picture, here—”
The Drakes hurriedly edged over as a scrying mirror appeared, showing the battle once more. The Hydra was spitting venom and the [Knights] were trying to prevent it from retreating into a swamp. Noass nodded.
“You can see they’re armored for the battle. Normally, I imagine those shields—uh—would not block that venom. Or if it did, they’d have to worry about poison seeping through the armor, possibly even corroding it, evaporating. Can we have an expert confirm that?”
Someone to the side murmured and there was a sound of a door opening hurriedly. Perric just stared as the Wistram [Mage] smiled nervously. Noass coughed.
“—obviously, poison is somewhat unique for a [Knight] order. [Knights] normally eschew that sort of fighting, isn’t that right, Sir Relz? Of course, this is a mainly Human-based class—”
“There are [Knights] across the world, Noass.”
The other Drake coughed again and nodded hurriedly.
“—of course, of course. I meant, not a Drake class. Or Gnolls! I’m sure it’s fine! Does the job—[Knights] are a heavily-armored class with rapid mobility, if you’re unfamiliar with them. Magical items really do wonders for the class, but they do have a code of honor. Poison is odd, isn’t that right, Sir Relz?”
“That’s correct, Noass. But I understand this is for slaying monsters or in mass-battles; seldom a duel between [Knights]. They might coat their blades with a lesser poison, but a lethal one in an honor-match? Never. But they are a formidable force in Ailendamus; the Thirsting Veil has fought in a number of wars, which is a controversial subject in [Knight] battles—oh! They got the Hydra!”
The dying monster had been lanced. Noass exclaimed.
“It’s still going to fight back! Hydras. Nasty, nasty creatures. Ironically you almost always wear one down; they regenerate, but they can’t do it forever, so the trick is to force them to regenerate rather than going in for a single kill—see? The [Knights] are trying to hack it apart so it runs out of energy—”
A furry hand appeared next to the desk. Noass leaned over.
“…and I’m told from our experts that yes, Hydra venom is an issue in all those regards. Clearly, these [Knights] have a Skill, or perhaps armor or a potion they’re using against the venom. And I imagine it makes them deadly on the battlefield, even if they’re not slaying monsters! Sir Relz, I’m getting a [Message] here saying our next uh, entertainment? Our next section? Our next viewing will be of a battle in Baleros between two companies.”
Sir Relz nodded. Still a bit awkwardly, but clearly with at least an hour or two of practice now, the Drakes motioned for the scrying mirror to be taken off-screen as they turned to face the audience. Someone moved the image a bit closer as the two Drakes leaned in. Sir Relz was already motioning for a map to be brought over.
“Let’s brief the viewers now on the stakes, the companies, our predictions, and [Strategist] predictions on the matchup, Noass. Which company will win? The companies in question are Saliev’s Dogs and the Shoretreader’s Lament. Let’s talk numbers, the levels of each notable [Commander], any interesting features of the terrain, elite soldiers or units and of course the overall makeup of each army—we will be accepting [Messages] from any accredited [Strategist] on their analysis of the battle.”
The two Drake [Commentators] went on as King Perric just stared, blank-faced.
“Do we have any idea on how willing these two companies are to retreat, Sir Relz? Mercenary companies in Baleros do not want to fight to the death over most battles, so I imagine the other side will surrender or retreat once an upper hand is established. But surprises are why we watch! I see we have a visual of both sides from whomever’s on the field—oh! And one of the [Mercenary Commanders] is waving!”
Noass waved and shouted, as if the distant Centaur [Commander] could hear him directly.
“Hello! You are alive! Live! I don’t suppose we could get an interview before the battle, could we?”
Sir Relz said something, but at that moment, King Perric made a slashing motion and the mirror went blank. He slowly looked around.
“And is this what Wistram deems worthy of broadcast?”
“High King—”
“Are these two—Drakes and a battle between mercenaries more important than Medain?”
He stood abruptly. The [Mage] stared up at Perric from the foot of his throne. His aura was on the verge of sweeping her aside, just from his presence. The [Mage] quailed, turning pale as Perric pointed towards the blank mirror.
“That man was broadcast to the world! Hunting Manticores! Should I demonstrate my prowess in battle, against a dozen Sandsea Worms? Order one of my [Generals] to find a nest; we will hunt!”
He raised his voice, but the [Mage] protested.
“High King, that will not be necessary. Due to the—due to the numerous important requests we have received, yours among them, the academy has elected not to show any one nation. Until a fair order can be set out, Wistram does not wish to offend any monarch by exclusion or the order of their appearance!”
That made enough sense to pause High King Perric’s wrath. He sat down slowly, eying the [Mage]. She was a half-Elf. Perric had one in his harem. His philosophy towards a wife was that she should be loyal, if he ever found one worthy of ruling beside him. But a [King] should demonstrate his might. Therefore, he had made it one of his passions to collect at least one member of each species in his harem.
Except for Selphids, naturally. And he had given up on most half-breeds. And every single Beastkin tribe. If this [Mage] had been a shade more beautiful, he might have invited her to join him that night. But she was not. Perric drummed his fingers on the armrest.
“I suppose I must allow the academy their politics. But why is there only one…channel?”
Sighing in relief, the half-Elf spread her hands, adopting a conciliatory tone.
“High King Perric, the proposed system of—magic-vision is extremely complicated to make. At the moment, three Archmages and many of Wistram’s finest [Mages] have only been able to create a magical system capable of supporting one unified broadcast. However, with time and perhaps additional resources, more dedicated broadcasts will be possible. It is Wistram’s goal that anyone with a scrying orb might be able to watch any number of important events, even switching between the two.”
Perric snorted at the speech.
“And it would allow Wistram to watch us, as well?”
The [Mage] froze. Perric’s eyes glittered.
“I have heard a rumor to that effect.”
“Your Majesty, Wistram Academy would never do such a thing! Any rumors to the contrary are false and malicious—”
“Yes, yes. Begone from my sight. Cancel the parade. When one of your Archmages has time, we shall discuss trade options—assuming Medain is suitably able to command the world’s attention.”
Perric turned his head, giving orders, and the Wistram [Mage], bowing, retreated. Perric scowled as he motioned and the two Drakes appeared once more.
“—what a battle! Half a minute and a [Commander] sniped as he trotted towards us! It’s a clear rout—I er, think we had better revisit how we do interviews, Sir Relz.”
