“Indeed, Noass, indeed. But onto the next segment. We have a parade in Rhir—no, I’m sorry, the Blighted King has allowed some of Wistram’s [Mages] to tour the walls and cities of the Blighted Kingdom. Nowhere that might reveal military secrets of course; this is being broadcast worldwide.”
High King Perric’s face was black with fury. He turned his head—the Wistram [Mage] had already made tracks out the door. Perric breathed in heavily as he turned back to watch. It was, after all, entertainment. You could go outside, but that was…outside. And somehow, seeing the two Drakes talking and knowing everyone was watching made this special. Important.
And many had not ever seen Rhir in person, including Perric, so he was a bit fascinated. Noass was nodding as he turned to face the audience.
“If you’re just tuning in, this is Noass and Sir Relz, your [Commentators] for the day! If you would like to see us permanently, please [Message] Wistram! Naturally, the fate of Rhir is a world-wide issue, so let’s go now to the kingdom and hopefully the Blighted King will have time for a few words.”
“We’re going out in thirty seconds.”
Someone murmured off-screen. Sir Relz nodded.
“As always, we will deliver commentary after the direct viewing. We have a full schedule for today, and we will be live all day—until some other [Commentators] will take the position. As always, we will stick to our schedule unless an event of significance occurs—for instance, the King of Destruction is apparently still in Belchan at the moment, but if he finds any more monsters to hunt, we will have to cut to him—”
Perric’s right eye began to twitch.
 
——
 
Television had come to the world. Or rather, magicvision. That was less catchy, but everything was new and sparkling. And already, influence from Earth was coloring this new idea, this new technology.
There were differences, like how the two Drakes could and did call in experts to demonstrate Skills, used illusion magic to illustrate their broadcast, and any number of differences emerging. But Wistram was being informed by, well, people who knew what broadcast entertainment was.
And the academy was all-in. Perric was not the only monarch furious over their lack of representation, but all of them were getting the same sort of message: Wistram had a limited amount of important space to show everyone, and you might not be important enough.
Of course, you could be. You might be! But Wistram only had one channel. For now. Another could be created, but availability would always be a problem. Still, generous aid would not go unappreciated, nudge, nudge. And right now, everything was new and free!
You might pay for it in the end. No, you would pay for it in the end, but for now, with a Wistram-quality scrying device or better, the broadcast was free. And the Archmages and Wistram’s Council were envisioning donations in exchange for airtime, multiple ways to gain financial revenue—
After all, commercials and such had not yet come to this world. However, there were a few hiccups.
Aaron Vanwell, also known as Blackmage, stood on a table, aiming a wand at his own head. The tip glowed as he shouted. A group of [Mages] were all pointing at him, but he had the wand aimed at his temple.
“I’ll do it! Don’t make me do it!”
“Aaron, Aaron! Calm down! Dispel his magic if he casts. He’s not going to do it, right?”
Nailihuaile, the Archmage of the Revivalist faction, shouted up at the young man. Aaron stared down at her.
“I’ll blow my head off before I let you do it! No commercials!”
“Aaron, it’s a great idea—”
The young man pushed the wand towards his cheek. The other [Mages] all raised their hands. The Star Lamia Archmage waved her staff. She was nearly certain she could dispel his magic right now, but keeping the Earthers under her control and cooperative was important. You couldn’t cast mind-spells or charm spells on them all. It was inefficient!
“Aaron, stop this! We can talk!”
“I’ll blow my head off before pay-per-view exists in this world!”
The Lamia Archmage threw up her hands.
“Fine! We won’t do it! It was just an idea! Why is this such a problem anyways? Dead gods!”
She slithered away in a huff as Aaron relaxed. If this wasn’t the most important thing in the world, well, you had to have standards.
Exciting times.
 
——
 
Angry [High Kings]. A worldwide broadcast. The ethics of television. All of this was happening, and the day was starting. But while all of it was happening elsewhere, with a distance of thousands of miles in some cases, it was all connected.
This world was slowly creating a web. Like Earth, people had discovered a way to influence each other even from incredible removes. It was true that a butterfly flapping its wings might have caused an earthquake before, but now the butterfly flapping its wings was captured in prime-time television with commentary and analysis on exactly how many earthquakes it was supposed to generate.
Was it good? Bad? It was happening either way. But Teresa Atwood couldn’t see the invisible lines being drawn across the world. As she woke up and stretched, exiting her private tent, she looked around in the King of Destruction’s camp. And her mind was focused on only one thing.
“Gnolls.”
Teresa, or Teres as she preferred to be called, walked through the King of Destruction’s camp the day after he’d slain a pack of Manticores. She yawned in the early morning, and looked around on a familiar sight.
Sixty thousand [Soldiers] were already disassembling the camp. Teres felt a bit guilty as she saw a group of [Soldiers] moving to her tent, but it was their job and she was rubbish at it herself. As always, the tidiness and efficiency of the entire camp astounded her.
But then—the army was being led by Orthenon and Flos Reimarch, both of whom had lived at least half of their lives on campaign. They could set up a defensible camp and all the necessary things in it from latrines to sentries in their sleep. Teres was learning some of the job, but Orthenon didn’t have time to teach her, and he had told her outright that she was to be the King of Destruction’s bodyguard, not a [Commander.]
That suited Teres just fine. She liked Orthenon. She had a thing for him, as Trey would put it, but it wasn’t a mad crush as Trey assumed. She just liked…Orthenon. He was terrifyingly dangerous at times, but he was also devoted to his [King].
And he had a sense of humor. He laughed, even told jokes, but in his way. He put on a front, and that was because he was literally second to Flos Reimarch, even more so than the King’s Seven. Teres respected Orthenon a lot. Plus, to be fair—he was amazingly handsome. Every little bit helped.
“Good morning, Lady Atwood. His Majesty’s not up yet.”
One of the army [Cooks] greeted Teres. She received her breakfast with anticipation. There was no bowl of stew or some horrible food like the armies during the Great War had, like bread made out of turnip flour. Rather, Teres had a full meal, courtesy of bags of holding and preservation spells.
It was still not gourmet food, and made for mass-consumption, but Teres had hot, chewy flatbread, one of those Yellat-curries that were so beloved around here, and a steak with gravy. She stared at the steak.
“We’ve got thinner slice if you want, or other cuts of meat. Anything you wish, Lady Atwood.”
The [Cook] misinterpreted Teres’ look. She shook her head.
“This is more Manticore meat?”
The Stitch-Woman grinned. She was of the Hemp class, so her skin was rough, but she had a wonderful smile and she seemed genuinely happy to be serving food to Teres, let alone Flos himself.
“Of course! His Majesty slew enough for the next week of meat meals! And left a lot for those Belchan bastards to take. Are you a steak girl?”
“I am now. Is Fl—His Majesty really not up? Normally he’s up at the crack of dawn.”
Other people got touchy about Teres using his name. The [Cook] frowned and glanced over to one of the larger tents.
“No, Lady Atwood. But I hear Lady Mars and some of the Nomads were drinking with His Majesty, celebrating the newcomers.”
“Oh. That would explain it.”
Teres cut off a soft bit of the steak as she held her plate. It was tender. Manticore meat didn’t taste like chicken or beef, incidentally. It did have a gamey taste, but Manticores were magic, and magic was a taste, like umami. Plus, the sauce was great. Teres swallowed and saw the [Cook] looking to the side.
“Are the Gnolls up, yet?”
“No sign of ‘em. They’re all asleep, or staying in their tents.”
The Stitch-Woman grimaced and Teres didn’t miss the gesture.
“Something wrong with the Gnolls?”
Gnolls. Teres longed to see them, but they were indeed inside the tents. She’d gotten a good look at them up close and she had not been disappointed. Gnolls were—
Well, tall! Males and females were the same height—which was taller than most Humans by default! They were furry, with hair ranging from blonde to black, sometimes into red, but usually around brown, and they had heavier forms than most Humans. Not from fat either; they were like hyena-people if you had to relate them to any animal.
But the children were so adorable! Teres had seen some scampering around on all fours and only her sense that it was not a good idea to go and try to pet or pick one up—gotten from Garuda chicks and an incident with Takhatres being very upset—had stopped her.
She’d watched as they’d greeted Flos, but she hadn’t gotten a chance to learn much about them other than asking everyone in sight what Gnolls were like. The entire tribe of two thousand—and the Lizardfolk—had gone into their tents almost directly after eating.
They had been worn down from so many miles of travel. Apparently, they’d marched day and night to catch Flos before he started heading south and so the King of Destruction had ordered an audience to be held tomorrow. Now, Teres glanced at the camp. She saw a few of the Lizardfolk out and about—they were chatting to the [Soldiers] or other new recruits to the King of Destruction’s camp, looking very chipper. They were a social people.
But both the Lizardfolk and Gnolls were getting the stink eye from the [Cook]. Teres asked why and the woman leaned over.
“If they’re here to leech from His Majesty…I came from Nerrhavia’s Fallen myself, Lady Atwood. Short trip, no troubles. Some of the others who claim His Majesty’s grace, though—they’re criminals, or people trying to take his goodwill. His Majesty is generous. Too generous to some! I don’t know if you’ve heard, but Lord Orthenon and the others have had to deal with troublemakers in the new cities and settlements. Of course, Lord Orthenon gets rid of it the moment he appears, but…here’s two species who don’t belong to Chandrar.”
She nodded at the Gnoll tents and Lizardfolk. Teres blinked.
“But they could just be refugees.”
“Perhaps. But you hear about Lizardfolk and light fingers. As for Gnolls—half-wild. Strange folk, who raid and fight with Drakes. You know Drakes?”
“Vaguely. I saw the battle in Pallass.”
“They live in Izril. Very strange. But they’re descended from Dragons and that says enough. Warlike—and the Gnolls are the savages. Just you watch out for His Majesty, Lady Atwood. You and Lord Atwood and his Seven have to stay his mercy.”
Teres and Trey’s reputation among the King of Destruction’s people had solidified into them being something of advisors and aides to Flos, which wasn’t far off from the truth. Teres smiled a bit wanly.
“What about his wrath?”
The [Cook] clicked her tongue in dismay.
“His wrath? Even if this lot spat in his face he’d not but send them off with some gold and bread! Leave his wrath for his enemies. And that’s rare enough too. His Majesty laughs at enemy [Generals] most often. Have you seen him furious, Lady Atwood?”
“Only once or twice.”
Teres murmured. She remembered Flos after receiving Drevish’s head. Then she’d been afraid of him. The [Cook] nodded.
“When he wakes, no doubt we’ll see what these furry folk are made of. In the meantime–”
Some of the Lizardfolk were coming out of their tents for food. The [Cook] bade Teres farewell with a grimace.
Teres went off to have breakfast. She was just cleaning her plate with a last bit of bread and wondering if there had been too much steak for breakfast—although she’d actually lost a lot of weight since coming to this world—when Teres saw a commotion around the outer area of the camp.
This was not the [Soldier]’s section, but rather, an increasingly large area devoted to people who had come to enlist in Flos’ army, young people, old—not just caravans from afar, but people from Jecrass who had seen him passing by.
Most were just young glory seekers, and Teres had heard Mars and Orthenon both agreeing that it would be a surprise if a third of them stayed after a week of marching in the army. Still—even that would be a substantial addition.
And the armies of Reim kept growing with more and more of the King of Destruction’s people. Flos did not lack for an army; he only needed a high-level one, and the resources and arms to equip them.
However, sometimes his fame attracted trouble, as in this case. The [Soldiers] around the inner camp which Teres, Flos’ elites, and the Gnolls themselves were camped were holding back a crowd demanding to see the King of Destruction. That was common enough. What was uncommon was the strident voice and the young woman who’d forced herself nearly into the inner camp. Teres wandered over as she saw a tall young woman with a rapier of some kind arguing with a [Captain].
“I wish to have an audience with the King of Destruction! I’ve come from Jecrass—”
“His Majesty does not answer to you!”
The [Captain] snapped back. He was another Stitch-person, again of the Hemp class. Teres thought the young woman was brave or foolhardy to be arguing with him; she’d seen Stitch-people fighting and they weren’t afraid of most edged weapons; they could just sew their limbs back on.
“Lady Atwood, hold back, please.”
One of the [Soldiers] recognized Teres. She nodded and the young woman blinked at Teres. She noticed the slightly curved sword Teres wore at her hip.
“You there! Are you one of the King of Destruction’s vassals? If so, I challenge you for permission to enter the camp!”
“Challenge?”
Teres blinked, but the [Soldiers] laughed, including the [Captain].
“This isn’t Terandria, whoever you are! Challenges aren’t laid about for the right to see King Reimarch! Back away, all of you!”
He lifted the halberd and the people behind the young woman moved back a step. She flushed, but refused to budge. She pointed at Teres.
