“—truly, awe-inspiring. But then I have a thing for walls, Sir Relz. Now, I think our next broadcast will be of the nation of Ailendamus. Again. But they are a very powerful, very uh, generous nation or so it seems. I believe their [King] is going on a parade of sorts, and one has to see all the grandeurs—”
“I will take it, Lady Atwood.”
Mirin offered quietly. The second-in-command of Parasol Stroll accepted the mirror. Teres wandered back to Flos.
“Castles. Drevish could have made an excellent one, but—Orthenon, do we have some of his older blueprints? His designs? Let’s let the Chieftains look at some. He made hundreds he never built. We may discuss it later. For now—”
Flos was letting the Gnolls communicate the good news to their tribes. They hurried out of the tents and he smiled. Then he turned to Teres.
“Ah, what a glorious day! And to think I had such a poor night!”
“Too much drink, my lord?”
Flos paused. He looked at Teres; the war council was clearing out. It was midday, after all, and they were in Belchan’s lands. They’d have to go north, or more likely, south, and find another kingdom to bother or enter.
“Slightly that, Teres. Age doesn’t help with celebrations. But I think it was something else. Still, I am in a good mood. You do not look as happy.”
“What? No, I’m fine. I just wish Trey could have seen the Gnolls too. He’d have enjoyed it.”
Teres shifted from foot to foot. Flos smiled.
“Missing your brother, Teres?”
“Just a bit. Are you sure he’ll be fine? You said A’ctelios is messed up.”
Flos had indeed told her about the horrible city carved out of a dead thing. Teres thought it sounded a bit like Cthulhu or something, but—it was probably not. Right? Trey had promised to take videos, anyways. She was also a tiny bit worried about him, since he could be a right idiot, but the King of Destruction was reassuringly relaxed.
“Teres, if Gazi and the Quarass cannot keep Trey safe, I doubt I could. Moreover, Trey is a quite diplomatic sort. He’ll keep out of trouble. I would hesitate to send you, though.”
Teres blushed, annoyed because Flos was right. She didn’t like anyone ordering her around, by and large. But her encounters with Fetohep and Zamea had proven that backchat was sometimes unwise.
“Well, he’ll be back in two days, right? He’s on his way back, if they did everything well.”
“Indeed. I received a [Message] from the Quarass informing me that Gazi’s eye was healed. Which was magnificent news! We weren’t sure if a powerful healing potion would affect her eye. But the Quarass also mentioned serious complications—well, we shall see.”
Flos shrugged. Teres didn’t like the sound of that, but Trey seemed to be alive, at least. Flos grew pensive and she looked sidelong at him.
“Are you still hung over?”
He started, and then laughed. But his exuberance with the Gnolls had faded remarkably quick. Flos seemed…troubled. He motioned Teres back to the throne and sat down in it, slowly.
“I have been sleeping poorly, Teres. And I do not know why. But something in me told me to come north, rather than anywhere else. I thought yesterday it was to meet my subjects. But I feel that is only part of it.”
“What else is there?”
The King of Destruction paused. He looked at Teres suddenly, and she realized he was serious.
“I do not know. But it is bothering me greatly, Teres. Something is wrong. And before I leave Belchan…”
He paused.
“Strange.”
“What?”
Flos Reimarch stood up. He looked around pensively, and then raised his hand.
“Mars. Orthenon.”
They broke off from their conversations and stepped towards him. Flos Reimarch frowned, and he looked at Teres, and then out towards the camp. She could hear Gnolls howling joyously, a strange sight that made Teres almost smile. But the King of Destruction’s face was suddenly grave.
“I did not hear of any of my people coming through Belchan. Only that Jecrass harbored them well. I wonder. Follow me. I have more questions for Chieftain Nelrra.”
 
——
 
“Two tribes should have come through Belchan. They came from further west, yes? So they would have travelled around Izril that way.”
“That puts them landing around the Claiven Earth, if they took the most direct sea route.”
Orthenon murmured as he traced a line across the map indicating sea routes. Flos Reimarch stood with Chieftain Nelrra, frowning deeply.
“Yes. The half-Elves. They are not my allies either, but I would expect them to show any species courtesy—if not aid. So that would lead both tribes south. Coming through…Belchan. When did you say they departed?”
The Chieftains exchanged glances.
“Around the same time as we, King Reimarch. We had decided to forgo the Meeting of the Tribes.”
“What is that?”
“Ah—the time when Gnolls gather together. Once every decade. But we decided we had little to gain from it. All tribes benefit, but…those who offer more gain more, and we have little to give.”
“I see, I see. But it is passing curious. Few have come by way of Belchan. Zamea, how did your company travel?”
“By way of Nerrhavia. But we came from the east, Lord Reimarch. And no one would trouble the Nomads and the Rustängmarder.”
Flos nodded slowly as the half-Giant replied. He stared at the map.
“If they have made all speed without delay, we should have word of them. They may even be close by. Let us…”
He fell silent as someone strode up to the table where he stood. Flos turned his head.
“Yes?”
“Your Majesty, a [Commander] from Belchan’s army has a message for you to be delivered in person.”
“Ah, Belchan must be restless.”
Flos sighed and rose. The camp of the King of Destruction’s army was ready to march, but he’d delayed their movement to confer with the Gnolls. Now, Teres saw that frown on his face. And he looked north.
The [Commander] waiting for Flos stared as the King of Destruction and his entourage approached. Belchan had shadowed the King of Destruction’s army with a small force of about six thousand. Apparently a large portion of Belchan’s army was doing some war exercises about twenty miles distant, a much larger force than Flos had brought.
Flos was, of course, bound by his oath, but this was a political play, a reminder of strength. The King of Destruction did not seem to remember it, though.
“King Reimarch, Prime Minister Lyfelt extends you an invitation to dine with him at his estates, in private company of course. This very night.”
The [Commander] had an invitation in writing. Flos glanced at the scroll as Orthenon accepted it, and turned his head. He smiled, looking at Teres.
“Ah, how kind of the Prime Minister to extend an invitation to one such as me. But I would not wish to take up the good Minister’s valuable time with my trivialities. You may inform Minister Lyfelt that my army will be moving. As soon as I take some of my people on a quick ride.”
The irony in his tone made his vassals stir and laugh. The [Commander] hesitated.
“A…ride, Your Majesty?”
“Yes. I believe two Gnolls tribes will be heading south towards me. I will take my people—Orthenon, the cavalry with me. Just, say, two thousand? Prepare horses for Chieftain Nelrra and a few others.”
“As you will it, milord.”
Orthenon bowed. The Belchan [Commander] was not happy.
“Your Majesty, Prime Minister Lyfelt has invited Reim into Belchan’s borders for a specific—”
Mars leaned forwards and he shut up. The Illusionist was grinning. But Flos just raised a hand and smiled.
“I have been invited to Belchan, have I not? I may as well spare the Prime Minister the effort of escorting my subjects. I shall take his generous invitation if I have the time. But for now—let us ride. We will not be gone long. As soon as I find my subjects and return them, my army will be marching south.”
He looked at Teres and she nodded, already looking for her horse. But she didn’t miss Flos’ creased brow. And the way he kept looking around. Searching for something.
 
——
 
In Wistram, the news hit the Academy like a bomb. A literal bomb, like the ones Viltach dreamed of. They weren’t more powerful than some of the spells he knew existed, but anyone could use them. You’d make them, then throw them or teleport them at things that needed destruction.
Like the damn Demon King and his armies. Or—A’ctelios Salash. The Shield Kingdom which rots. And yet, today, the news from A’ctelios made Viltach want to smile.
Archmage Viltach sat up. He stared at the [Mage] from his faction who’d burst into the room.
“You’re certain?”
Mage Rievan Forstrom nodded.
“Absolutely, Archmage. A’ctelios claims their leader was assassinated by none other than Gazi Pathseeker and the Quarass of Germina! There was some debate over the exact incident, but—”
He got no further because Viltach shot to his feet. The Human Archmage—one of two of the five Archmages currently controlling Wistram—smiled, feeling a victorious surge in his chest.
“A’ctelios? But this is perfect. Quickly, change the image! No—wait—send a [Message] to those Drakes! And prepare—we must coordinate this properly. Tell Feor and Nailihuaile to meet me now.”
He strode out of his quarters, leaving Rievan behind. The King of Destruction had done it! Viltach had known Flos Reimarch couldn’t keep to his oath. Now, the world would see exactly what sort of man he was.
And when he was forsworn, Reim would die. And that moment would be broadcast the world over.
In high-fidelity definition and sound, of course. Brought to you by Wistram Academy. Buy a scrying artifact today.
 
——
 
Some of them hated him. They hated the King of Destruction, with all of their hearts. He was not universally beloved. He polarized. You hated or loved him.
But you still came to watch. The King of Destruction rode out from his camp; the infantry and bulk of his armies had resettled for a few hours. But two thousand of his [Riders] followed the King of Destruction as he rode north, through Belchan.
The army [Commander] was not happy about it, and nor was Minister Lyfelt himself, if the [Messages] that Orthenon kept swatting away were any indication. But what could they do? Flos had been invited.
And he wanted to find his subjects.
Even so, the small host was almost like a parade in how many people it drew. Because here was Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction! Orthenon, Mars, both rode in his wake, along with Teres, Ulyse, members of Parasol Stroll—
And some of the Gnolls. Chieftain Nelrra was among the [Riders] sitting comfortably in the saddle. That surprised Teres, but Gnolls knew horses fairly well. They just preferred to run since they were good at that, too.
But she and he were just barely noticeable additions to the procession. There sat Flos Reimarch, red and gold hair moving in the breeze. Mars the Illusionist, beautiful. Orthenon, gaunt and scowling.
And—the people looked up and saw a myth as tall as the tales they told about the King of Destruction. And all that you laughed at, the stories you thought couldn’t be true—it all became real.
Half-Giants strode along, keeping pace with the trotting horses. Four of them, each nearly as tall as Shepherd Zamea. She walked next to the King of Destruction. And the smallfolk looked up and remembered that there were Giants.
“Come, Human children! Gather and see!”
Zamea’s voice boomed across the landscape. Belchan was more lush than the southern nations, and greenery sprang from the earth—not in great profusion, but enough to make Teres feel this was a rich land. People stared up as the mighty half-Giant smiled.
“Witness a glory that comes only once a lifetime! The King of Destruction!”
The half-Giants accompanying her roared his name. They drowned out the jeers, the insults of those who had come with hate in their hearts. The cheers, too. But the riders began to shout his name—
Until the King of Destruction raised one hand.
“Shepherd Zamea.”
Flos’ voice was quiet, but he somehow spoke over Zamea. And she fell silent. And so did the crowds.
Flos Reimarch turned in his saddle. A huge crowd had come just to see him. The people wanting to enlist, people wanting to see a glimpse of him before he departed. Some jeered. Others might have thrown things if it weren’t for the half-Giants. Belchan’s smaller force was actually having to hold the crowd back.
And the King of Destruction just paused a moment. There he sat. And he looked around and Teres saw his face.
“A glory that comes once in a lifetime? Ah, but Zamea. You remember me of old. How do you say to them that this is Reim’s might? When we number two thousand by horse, not two hundred thousand? When Reim is still small?”
Flos called up at her. The half-Giant smiled.
“You alone make that legend, King Reimarch. And your vassals. Or do you disagree?”
The [King] paused, and he looked at Orthenon and Mars. He smiled slightly.
“No. But I also remember.”
Slowly, he turned his head. And his eyes were distant. He looked at Nelrra, and then ahead. But for a moment, he lingered on the crowd.
“Orthenon. I think your Skill would do. Let us remind these people, Belchan, of what was. They have gathered to see me. So they should see me.”
He looked at his [Steward] and the man bowed.
“By your leave, Your Majesty?”
“Yes.”
Orthenon slowly rode ahead. He gestured, and the riders began to trot. The crowd watched, waiting.
Flos rode just behind Orthenon, with Mars and Teres and Nelrra, now. He looked at her.
“Orthenon’s Skill? What is that?”
Teres stared at the [Steward]. Flos nodded to the man’s back. Orthenon was moving slower, and his dark steed was snorting. There was stillness about him. He was about to use it.
“I don’t know that I’ve told you the full power of my [Army of the King], Teres. But you know that I have few Skills that I can use. My Skills shake the earth, but I may use them seldomly. I find that inconvenient. Orthenon now—his Skills can be used once a battle, or once a day. And they are less than mine in scope. But…”
There was a word. Orthenon lifted his spear.
“Advance.”
The riders moved. They followed after, and Teres felt her skin chill. The air grew cool. And she felt like someone was riding beside her, invisible. Flos looked at her and his eyes shone.
“This is the power Orthenon wields. My glorious left hand. My [Ruinbringer Steward].”
Orthenon pointed ahead. And his words filled the silence.
“[Vanguard of the King, the Phantom Storm].”
Teres felt a sensation. She glanced sideways and stared. A woman wearing engraved armor rode at her left. It shone with silver and gold, and she carried a mace. Her hair was pale blue.
But she had not been there a moment before. She had ridden out of nowhere. But now more came.
