This time his question went to the [Commander]. The man was kneeling. Zamea pushed him forwards. His face was dead-white.
“I had no knowledge of this, King Reimarch. None at all!”
“But it happened within Belchan. You had to know they entered your borders. But they never left. Your Prime Minister, didn’t he give them escorts? Track them? What were his orders?”
The [Commander]’s lips moved helplessly.
“We—didn’t escort them. Your Majesty. But—we did not know. Please—”
Flos spoke, swinging around. Still…waiting.
“They were given no escort. And no one thought to even ask about their deaths. Though you knew that my subjects had been attacked. You knew.”
He looked at the man. And there was no response. Flos Reimarch looked around. Noass didn’t say a word. He might have forgotten he was even being broadcast.
“Children to be sold as slaves. The rest, cut down here. Because they came for me. They left their homes and came all this way. And died. Calling out my name. And Belchan’s ruler welcomed me into his lands with a smile. I rode, searching for them. And they were dead before I knew to look.”
He said nothing after that. Just stood, amid it all. Rufelt felt Lasica holding him. He wanted to turn the mirror off. But the King of Destruction just stood there. Then he turned his head.
“Orthenon.”
The [Steward] moved. He needed no other order. He walked past the [Headman]. Orthenon drew his sword and placed it in the King of Destruction’s hand. The King of Destruction walked over to the [Headman]. The man looked up, cursing and struggling in Mars’ grasp.
“We—”
Flos brought down the sword. A head rolled and for a second blood spurted. The mirror jerked in Teres’ hands. The world heard a cry.
“Next.”
The King of Destruction turned. The [Commander] found himself being dragged forwards.
“No! No! I had no knowledge, I swear—”
“You let them die.”
The King of Destruction swung the blade. A second head fell. The mirror jerked away—and for a second a young woman’s face was visible. But then a paw caught the mirror.
A white-furred Gnoll took the mirror. Sailt. He pointed it back, steadily. The King of Destruction gestured.
Another man was brought forwards. Another officer in the force of Belchan’s soldiers. And then a woman. She was one of the villagers who’d fought the Gnolls. She spat and cursed him.
The sword fell, glittering. Orthenon’s blade was magical, and the hand that held it was steady. Flos Reimarch didn’t blink. He brought the sword down casually. Once, twice, a dozen times.
There were hundreds of villagers. The sword kept on falling. They began to scream, to plead or argue. One shouted as he was brought before Flos.
“You cannot do this! We are citizens of Belchan! We are people protected by—”
His words halted mid-flow as the King of Destruction looked at him. Flos’ green eyes shone in the fading light. And his red and gold hair was darker, drenched in blood. He stared through the man.
“Citizens? People? I see nothing in front of me worthy of either word.”
He swung his sword. A body toppled, was dragged backwards. His [Soldiers] watched silently. The Gnolls stared. Even the fifteen children.
“Next.”
The [Steward] moved in front of his [King]. He put a hand on Flos’ arm.
“My King. Your time is wasted on them. Allow your soldiers to take care of the rest.”
For a second the King of Destruction paused. Then he nodded. He pointed.
“Let the others go. Only the officers. And every warrior in the village. Let the others go unless they fight.”
“You’re executing them? All of them?”
Everyone had forgotten Noass was there. He had been a statue. Flos looked back at the mirror. He stared at Noass, blankly. Then he turned.
“This will be avenged! This is war!”
Some of Belchan’s soldiers were screaming as their officers were beheaded. Flos looked at them. And his blank look began to change at last.
“War? Of course it is. Go. Return and tell your people of what you have seen today. And bring your armies. Because I will slaughter them. I will kill all of your armies and burn your cities to ash. Until nothing remains.”
The [Soldiers] stared. Flos raised his voice. It was growing louder. He pointed, and the men and woman backed away. The [King] cast the sword into the ground and it sank deep, tip-first.
“Flee back to your capital. When we next meet, I will drown Belchan in the blood of your worthless lot! Begone!”
He clenched his hands. They hesitated. Flos turned. His soldiers stared. His people watched, his vassals. And his subjects.
Gnolls. White fur, varied. Chieftain Nelrra. Those standing in the bar with Rufelt.
They looked at him. A Human man, who raged over their deaths. Who would go to war for a single Gnoll child.
Their [King].
Flos Reimarch turned. Those not dying were staring at him. Now he raged. His tendons stood out, and his eyes bulged. His face became a rictus mask. He howled and his face contorted as his hands became claws, and his two vassals seized him. The King of Destruction raged and the ground itself began to shake. People fled as he bellowed at the mirror.
“I have kept to my oath! And this is how I am repaid? With death? With treachery! Cowardice and shame! Lies and flattery while children die! I will salt the earth and drench it with a hundred thousand lives! Until not a blade of grass grows. I come for you, you craven coward!”
He pointed at the scrying mirror. Noass hid under the desk.
“I declare WAR! On Belchan! On you, Prime Minister Lyfelt! Until I place your head on the streets of your city to rot, Reim will slay a thousand of Belchan’s people for every one of my subjects!”
The mirror began to crack. Flos Reimarch howled.
“SUMMON MY ARMIES!”
There was a sound, and the transmission cut out. And then just silence. From the studio, at least. Noass wouldn’t come out from under the desk. Wistram cut the image a minute later.
But the sound of the King of Destruction’s fury broke over Chandrar. It split the night. Belchan woke, fearful, as they heard a sound in the distance. Growing louder.
An army moved as word began to spread. War? War had been declared. Reim had declared war on the Belchan. And it was happening now.
An army lit the nation alight with fire. A tiny force, but they were led by a man whose humanity had been consumed by rage. Sixty thousand of them poured across the ground, screaming wrath and ruin. And Teres was there, racing behind the King of Destruction, his fury beating against the sky itself.
 
——
 
War.
King Raelt of Jecrass walked towards the secret vault where he could communicate with Prime Minister Lyfelt of Belchan. His face was pale, almost white. His daughter appeared in the doorway.
“Father.”
Jecaina was white-faced, and with a huge purple knot on her forehead. Raelt didn’t ask where she’d been. Nor did he look at her. Her dark skin was so pale—but by moonlight.
“Leave, Jecaina. I am speaking with Lyfelt.”
The statue was babbling. Jecaina’s mouth moved.
“But I saw—”
“Leave.”
Raelt turned. His daughter looked at him and fled. Raelt turned back to Lyfelt.
The Prime Minister was speaking rapidly. He had not seen the broadcast. Raelt had. But everyone knew of the declaration of war.
“Lyfelt.”
“You’ve heard of course. Was that your daughter? The sound was a bit off. Well—it’s—good! Not ideal; I’d have preferred another country, but he’s forsworn himself. Listen, Raelt. Reim can be defeated. We talked on the issue. The other nations will come to Belchan’s aid. If I can just count on you, it’s only sixty thousand—”
“Lyfelt!”
Raelt shouted. The talking statue went silent. Lyfelt stared at the King of Jecrass. Raelt breathed in and out.
“You didn’t see the moment the King of Destruction declared war?”
“No, I was dining, actually. But I know what it means. Raelt, I can’t speak long. I’m besieged here, but I went directly to you to get your help. If you fall on the King of Destruction’s back, slow him even half a day—”
Raelt closed his eyes.
“Lyfelt, be silent.”
He waited. The statue paused. There was a babble in the background. Lyfelt’s face was blank, uncomprehending. He didn’t know.
“There was—a broadcast. From Wistram. They stopped it after his speech, but the world already saw. There was a…they showed a dead Gnoll tribe. Slaughtered by one of Belchan’s villages.”
“What?”
The [Prime Minister]’s eyes widened. The statue remained the same, but he looked…genuine. Raelt studied him.
“Everyone saw it. The King of Destruction declared war. The [Headman] of the village admitted to the crime. The [Commander] he beheaded also claimed you did not search for the missing people, that they were without escort. I told you to give them aid.”
Lyfelt’s mouth worked silently. For once, the [Politician] had no quick reply. For a moment.
“That was—that was—dead? All of them? That’s a terrible tragedy! I did not order it, Raelt, you know me. I didn’t escort them because—that explains the King of Destruction’s—but surely he has to understand I can’t control every last—”
“Dead gods, Lyfelt! There were children hacked apart! They were slaughtered! The rest were being sold as slaves!”
Raelt bellowed at the statue. Lyfelt’s expression froze as Raelt hurled something—he didn’t know what. He pointed at the statue, shouting, his hand trembling.
“I told you to escort them. But you let your subjects attack his people. You let them…”
He couldn’t unsee the image burned into his eyes.
“I didn’t know. I only thought they were—Raelt. I did not know.”
The statue pleaded with Raelt. The [King] turned away.
“A’ctelios has declared war. Nerrhavia—the Claiven Earth—Oteslia too.”
He related the information dully. Lyfelt would know of it soon; it was being broadcast the world over.
“Against Reim? Then, maybe—Oteslia, even? A Drake city?”
Hope bloomed in the desperate man’s eyes. Raelt turned around.
“Against Belchan. They saw it all, Lyfelt. It’s being rebroadcast. A’ctelios declared war against Reim, and a handful of nations joined them. The rest have declared war on you! Because they saw everything!”
He shouted it into his friend’s uncomprehending, idiotic face. Lyfelt stared.
“But I didn’t—Raelt?”
The head turned, staring about. The clamoring voices were growing louder in the background.
“Raelt, please. You must listen to me. Please—”
“I’m sorry, old friend.”
“Raelt!”
The [King] of Jecrass turned away. The statue screamed his name. Raelt walked out of the secret vault, past his daughter. He entered his throne room.
River Wardens and [Courtiers]. His court stared up at him, clamoring. Some had seen, others knew bits and pieces. An incomplete truth. Raelt sat on his throne. His crown lay there. He put it on. Looked about.
“Send a [Message] to Belchan. To the world. As of this moment, Jecrass rides to war against Belchan. Jecrass declares war on Belchan. I declare war on Belchan.”
He said it thrice, to emphasize his words. The court looked at him, statues. Raelt went on, without missing a beat.
“Find me General Lael. Tell her to bring Jecrass’ entire army. We will assault Belchan’s capital before the King of Destruction reaches it. I want every available [Soldier] mobilized within the hour and riding towards our border. Strengthen the garrisons to the south, but every other [Soldier].”
They stared at him. Raelt looked around. Even Geril, his oldest retainer, was staring. Raelt stood up. He shouted.
“Well? Run!”
They ran. River Wardens, Geril, everyone. The throne room emptied for a second, as the entire palace woke up. Raelt was alone. He wanted to laugh at the expressions on his River Wardens’ faces. The unquestioning obedience he’d had for the first time ever.
But he didn’t. Raelt rested one arm on his throne. And he buried his head in his hand.
He wept for a second for his old friend. And then he rose for war.
