“I don’t want to hear excuses.” Aunt Helen’s tone was clipped and Matt winced even as he glared at Liz, who had to dampen sound around her as she laughed so hard.

“What if I write them?” Matt had to ask, just to be smart.

Not missing a beat, Aunt Helen shot back, “No! If you do that, I’ll reject them like you rejected me.”

As Liz started to turn colors from laughing so hard, Matt just glared at her as he continued to get scolded.

That all changed as Aunt Helen said, “Actually, Allie just arrived for a snack. I’ll be right there.”

Before Liz could fix herself, Aunt Helen appeared with a grinning Allie.

Caught red handed, Liz didn’t even resist as Aunt Helen added her to the scolding. “How dare you treat an old woman like me like this!? My poor heart. I’ve never been so betrayed!”

It was Matt’s turn to laugh as Liz got hauled up by an ear and planted in a chair as she was scolded.

She tried to look contrite, but phoenix Liz gave away the game as she laughed uproariously at human Liz, who then cracked, causing Aunt Helen to break as well.

“I was actually hurt though. It wasn’t nice.”

Liz opened her arms and pulled Aunt Helen into a hug as she apologized. “Sorry Aunt Helen. It was just too funny to throw Matt into that. I couldn’t resist.”

The Tier 24 looked at Matt, who was trying to avoid her wrath and smirked at him knowingly. “It was kind of funny. I really thought he had rejected my application. I thought I was being nice by applying.”

Seeing his opportunity, Matt corrected her. “You know that you always have a place here. We have dozens of estates set aside. You can take your pick. We can also get you on a priority list for delving. We can get you to Tier 26 a few years after you finish your Intent.”

Aunt Helen snorted as she shook her head. “Absolutely not, young man. I don’t want any of that. I just need a small apartment in a half decent city. I’ll happily buy my own rift slot once my Intent is made. Even if I could delve that fast or often, I wouldn’t want to. I’ll happily delve once or twice a year, as is normal at my Tier.”

Even Liz shook her head at that. “We can get you back into fighting shape if that's what you are worried about, Aunt Helen. Luna is even here if you really feel like punishing yourself.”

The older phoenix just shook her head. “Child, I have no desire to delve that fast. I’d much rather live life and delve, both in moderation. Delving for me is a slow plod that takes a month or two at its fastest. I’m in no rush, so don’t be rushing me yourselves.”

As if she had just remembered, she also waggled a finger at Matt and Liz. “And I don’t need an estate. I’m just one bird. I don’t need that much space, and I’d much rather be in the heart of a city than the outskirts. It's nice to be around people.”

Liz and Matt shared a look before he offered a counter. “What about a small estate near the heart of a city? We have a few like that, and if you don’t like any of them, we can make one. You deserve better than a small apartment.”

Aunt Helen flicked his nose. “If I wanted something like that, I could just buy it. I’d much rather a small apartment.”

Liz covered her nose and leaned out of reach as she offered, “What about a nice condo in a good area?”

“Children. Listen to me. I. Don’t. Need. That. Much.”

Matt nodded sharply. “You want a really nice condo.”

Seeing a smile crack through, he gave a serious offer. “What about a small condo in a nice location? You will own it, so you can make all the changes you want to it, which will be better if you really want to settle down here long term. And we can ensure that it gets the proper safeties in place.”

Aunt Helen sighed, but he could tell she had acquiesced. “Fine, children. So persistent. I do assure you that I know how to live on my own. I’m perfectly capable of feathering my own nest. As for settling down, yes. This planet is lovely. It's like soaking in a pile of warm coals. It's quite nice, and since I need to Tier up, I might as well reside here for the next ten thousand years or so.”

Matt and Liz both tried to argue that Aunt Helen really needed to Tier up faster than that, but she would hear nothing of it. Seemingly fed up with them, she called Allie once again, and along with Aster, the four of them took Aunt Helen condo shopping.

It was a fun little distraction, as Aunt Helen had the weirdest requirements for a condo. Still, they managed to find her the perfect ‘nest to feather’ as she put it.

The timing worked out fairly well, as around the same time they finished, Eirene indicated that she wanted to talk to them.

“I want to get training in contract law. I’m not ready yet, but I’d like to actually use my Talent. I—” After swallowing, she forced out, “I want to use my Talent. It's weird, but I do enjoy managing things, and seeing them better for my addition, it's… nice. But I don’t know how to repay you, the Dobrescus, and probably a lot of people who I don’t even know. I have a debt to them. To you. And I can't really pay anyone back until I’m stronger. So I do want to use my Talent and grow it, but I also want to be safe, and I don’t feel safe at all doing so.”

Matt nodded. “I understand. I do. I also think you are making the right choice about taking things into your own hands by using your Talent on your terms.” Seeing her brighten up slightly, Matt continued, “At the same time, there is no fault in giving it some time and relaxing. Waiting for your parents to arrive and just live for a little while.”

For the first time, Eirene looked at him in the eyes on her own accord. “If I sit still, I’ll forget. I’ll forget my anger and helplessness. I understand it's not necessarily a healthy reason to advance, but there is a monster behind me, and if I sit still, it will get me. I need to move forward.”

Matt checked the reports on her actions and found that, while she hadn’t seemed to vibe with the two therapists who she had seen, she had taken to writing in a diary with a passion. While not quite as traditional as talking through one's issues, that was a perfectly valid method of getting one's head on right, and was a good sign that she would recover from her ordeal.

Liz agreed with a wave of her hand. “That's fine and understandable. Take the time you need to do what you need. If that's working and growing your Talent, then do that. Is there a way we can help without making you feel like we are overstepping our bounds?”

Eirene swallowed a few times before nodding. “I’ve learned of backers and guarantors as a legal stance. They can be used in the case of a noble and one of their people. If you could do that, I would be really grateful, as few people would risk pissing you two off. Even if they were willing to try to screw me over. I don’t think I can ever be a good enough fighter to make them scared, but you two… You two make even the monsters scared.”

For the first time in a while, Matt was glad for Ascenders’ reputations of being people not to cross. Recently, it had felt like far too many people were willing to challenge them, but he was happy it could give Eirene comfort.

Just as he was going to say something, a black cat padded out of an open window.

Seeing that, Eirene made clicking sounds while rubbing her fingers together.

Luna padded over in a meandering pattern before sniffing Eirene's hand as if she were any other mortal cat. After a head rub, she was lifted and plopped into the girl’s lap with a smile and a scritch between the ears.

Matt and Liz both just tried not to give the cover away as they held two conversations at once.

Through his [AI], Matt connected the three of them and asked, “What are you doing?”

Luna scoffed at him as if he had asked something dumb. “I’m keeping an eye on the girl and she’ll be fine. She's a little battered and bruised, but there is a core of steel in there.” Seeing their befuddlement, she continued. “Oh, don’t look so shocked. I spent time as a therapy cat before I started being a manager, and it's a useful skill for times like this. People feel comfortable around fluffy things even when they intellectually understand I’m not just a cat. That means she's willing to vent to me, and I’m intelligent enough and trained to give her the proper feedback. It’s not without its flaws, but it's an effective program.”

Liz scoffed through her [AI], sending an accompanying image. “We know what the program is. We are just surprised that you did it, given how much of a hardass you are and were to us. We are surprised you aren’t having her march around.”

“Don’t give me that ‘woe is me’ attitude. I know how many times you both trauma-dumped on Aster. Fluffy things that cuddle with you are good stress relievers. Besides, I only forced you two to march enough that you wouldn’t embarrass yourselves in uniform. For those who won’t quite make it and will join the military with less privileges, I make them march far more.”

Matt tried to imagine what marching more than for a solid year straight looked like, but genuinely didn’t want to know, given what he knew of Luna and her methods.

“Well, thank you for looking out for her.”

That earned him an ear flick; or that might have been because of the spot Eirene was digging into, which caused Luna to start making small kicking motions.

As she brought Luna into a purring puddle, Eirene said, “She's a lot of help. She was recommended by the first therapist. She's been super helpful and I don’t know why but I just click better with her even if they are both therapists. It’s nice to have a little company and easier when it's pet shaped I guess. I was actually thinking about adopting a normal cat, but I don’t know if I could handle an actual animal not advancing enough and passing away of old age. I’d never be able to afford the price to get them car—”

Liz laughed as she leaned in and gave Luna’s belly a quick rub, just to get a bite that penetrated down to the bone, not that Eirene noticed. “Did you just realize that you definitely could afford it?”

“I did. I also realized I can probably get my parents to Tier 15 as well if I play my cards right. And after that, they can just go the slow and steady method with ambient cultivation.”

Matt didn’t mention that people who truly lounged around post immortality for too long often lost the drive to advance and eventually died via various methods. Instead, he just made a note that he should check in on them should they reach immortality and push them to get a hobby; or better yet, a job they enjoyed which would hopefully push them to advance on their own terms.

As they left and a human Luna clone appeared next to them, Matt said, “She gave me a good idea. We can act as guarantors for people who are looking to sell their Talents. That's a good way to cut down on people being taken advantage of like her, or worse yet, Justinian.”

“That's fairly clever. She acts as a good cover for why you are doing it as well. Well done, Matthew.” Luna didn’t even seem sarcastic, which surprised Matt, but he took the compliment in stride, even as Luna started verbally tearing into Liz for daring to rub her belly.

It was good background noise as Matt worked out the logistics of such an operation and its ramifications. He liked it well enough he set up a meeting with Cato to see how they could get the ball rolling.

Things only got more complicated as Eirene showcased her Talent for potential clients.

To help give her clients a good baseline, she got in contact with a Tier 5 smithing workshop that mainly catered to beginning delvers and had been in operation for decades at this point having a very constant baseline and production standards. Normally, the Tier 15 who started and ran the business acted as the general manager, but after talking with Eirene, he stepped back and let her take over the day-to-day operations.

In just a week, there were hints of just how strong Talent really was, but in a month, it was undeniable.

At first, her impact could be written off as coincidence, with tasks taking a few seconds less time and being done at a slightly higher quality. But after the first month, there was a small, but noticeably growing difference.

The items crafted took less time, less material, less mana, and caused less wear and tear on the equipment as they were made. Any of those effects would have been noteworthy on their own, but that was hardly the end of it. The items themselves permanently worked better as well.

The swords were noticeably less likely to break, chip, or fracture, and the enchanted items were more mana efficient with stronger effects. Even the workers reported less fatigue, more energy, and faster improvements in their learning of new skills and techniques, as long as they related to smithing in some way.

Most impressive was that her efficiency seemed to interact with others’ Talents without restriction.

There were only two openly Talented smiths working at the smithy she managed: one simply made sharp weapons less likely to lose their edge, while the other used less rare resources to make weapons in exchange for using more mana. Both of them saw marked improvement in how their Talents manifested.

After the third month, the effect seemed to plateau and steadied out, but that didn’t make them any less impactful, given she was making everything about four percent more efficient for the entire operation of nearly a thousand people.

According to her, the effect was a ratio of how many people she was managing, their Tier relative to her, and her own spiritual strength. Apparently, some of the testing with Duke Innes had shown effects as high as five percent when she was only Tier 5.

