They had the Misty Lake Sect, and likely the Hermetic Iron Sect, as allies. They had, Xi Kong assumed, Master Jin’s favour. If his daughter had wished it, they could have ground everyone else under their heels. It was the normal way. The usual way.

But his daughter and her companions were anything but usual.

Upending the entire paradigm. Truly changing things. Improving the whole of the Azure Hills… and hopefully uniting them.

Xi Kong had never known his daughter to be so ambitious. She had always been simply diligent… but there had been pride and desire lacking from her cultivation. She did it because it was her duty.  Now, it was clear—Cai Xiulan was cultivating and advancing for herself.

Xi Kong looked at his daughter. He truly looked at her. At her silent resolve and utter conviction… and he understood.

She would give the Azure Hills back its history whether they approved or not. She would enact her plan with or without their support, and go against them if need be. She would fight against her entire Sect and take it over like Xianghua had done, should it be required.

She had a mission and would stop at nothing to see it through.

Cai Xi Kong suddenly felt old… and ashamed. This was the passion of the Younger Generation. This was the lengths they would go.

How beautiful.

“I assume you have already thought through all of Elder Yi’s points, daughter,” Xi Kong interrupted, and his voice cut through the noise.

“I have,” Xiulan responded calmly.

“…and you are convinced to see it through to the end?”

“I am.”

Yi glanced back and forth between them, as though he had been expecting a rebuke. When none came from Xi Kong, Elder Yi slammed his hands onto the table. “You think her idea has merit?”

“I do,” he replied. Yi’s jaw dropped. “Now, Brother Yi, let me ask you. The flaws are indeed obvious, and it is an unorthodox method. Yet what are the benefits?”

His sworn brother’s jaw worked as Xi Kong turned Yi’s favourite tactic against him. Yet the man, instead of storming out, glared, and finally began thinking.

Finally, the man spoke, his voice grudging.

“All who join under threat that we would withhold the information would resent us. We would not, and could not, count on their support. We would have to be tyrants—and all those who did not receive a measure of this power would plot our destruction. Thus, we would either have to destroy them… or worry about a knife in our backs,” Elder Yi ground out. “Keeping control of the information is the superior option. It would give us more time to implement the knowledge here to leverage our position against the other sects… but that is not a viable option at this point.”

Elder Shen grimaced. “Things are already spreading. The Misty Lake Sect knows. Two sectless and Master Rou’s own disciples… we can’t keep this a secret.”

“Every sect that refused to join us would hate us. They would amass their numbers—especially the Grand Ravine Sect. They would put everything on the line to get this information if we attempted to use it to control them,” Elder Shu continued. “Three sects, at most, against the might of the rest of the Azure Hills.”

There was silence once more.

“This is an unprecedented event. And I believe we must give an unprecedented answer.” Xi Kong spoke, now that the shock and instant reaction from his Elders had run its course. “In removing the knowledge as a temptation, we instantly prevent an alliance forming against us—and when we give the other sects these gifts… well, hospitality ensures that they would have to respond in kind, no?”

“It goes against everything cultivation stands for. Should we not aspire to be the best? Should we not aim to be the strongest?” Elder Yi asked—but now, instead of blind anger, his friend was thinking.

“All our ancestors once worked together,” Xiulan said into the silence. “Were they not our betters? Did they not craft wonders that we can only dream of? They did it all without a single war between them. They did it all by working together. Father, you said this path was unorthodox… yet it is the way of the Honoured Ancestors. How can it be unorthodox? We are deferring to their wisdom. We are once more returning to their path.”

Yi’s mouth opened, then closed. Arguing that they were the ones who had strayed from the Ancestors' path… Xi Kong frowned too.

“…the idea has more merit than this Elder initially believed,” Elder Yi murmured.

“If it mollifies you, Elder? We still have a slight head start,” Xiulan said. She left unsaid the implication that she knew everyone in the room would realize immediately—they had a head start so long as they delayed no further.

“We must meditate upon this course of action tonight, Daughter,” Xi Kong said… but in his heart, he already knew the path forward.
