“Yes,” Mato said. “But the bats seem to help with that.”

Suddenly something prickled in Ali’s senses – nothing was seen, just an electric tingle along the back of her neck and down her arms. The sense of powerful mana flowing nearby. Quickly, she focused on her nearby Luminous Slime, trying to catch a glimpse of what it might be – the fleeting feeling of a nearby heartbeat. But it was gone before she could pinpoint anything unusual. Did I imagine it?

Ali quickly cycled through the perceptions of her nearby bats and wolves, but she was unable to find anything out of the ordinary. Certainly nothing more than the novices excitedly discussing the battle they had just witnessed or playing with their brand-new skills.

She turned to the bedraggled and tired members of the last group to return from their trial. It looked like they had had a rough time.

“Come on, let’s get you guys your classes,” Ali said, gesturing them toward the shrine, her thoughts shifting to excited anticipation at what they might unlock. Despite her worries yesterday, her conversation with Lira had really cleared up the muddled confusion in her heart, and today she had been excited, even eager to see what classes everyone would get. Many of the adventurers had already gained classes with enormous potential and the entire event had already been a great success. Being more open about who she was and stepping a little more into the public eye would be fraught with challenges, but she had a strong boss now, and she was still growing.

Ali explained the shrine to them as she led them up to the giant stone artifact. “Who wants to go first?”

“I’m ready.”

The Gnome was the first one in their group to step forward, and Ali instantly recognized Donella Novaspark’s daughter. Brena. She was the spitting image of her mother, but perhaps not quite as forged and tempered yet. Something in her trial had spooked her though, and her mood had lost some of the edge Ali had seen when she had first led them down through the sewers.

“Here you go,” Ali said, smiling at the downcast but determined Gnome. As Brena unlocked her lightning affinity in a spectacular display of magical energy, Ali felt the same prickle in the back of her mind a second time.

There! Someone, or something, was watching from nearby.

She focused on all the minions in the area simultaneously, feeling the flood of sensory input, but it felt like trying to pin down one of Naia’s Stinging Jellies – transparent in the water. Invisible, felt by the faintest brush on the skin before vanishing once again.

What is that?

Again, she was unable to find it when she searched, but now she was alerted to the fact that something strange was happening nearby. Is it just the number of people? An effect of the mana? But she knew somehow that was not it, and she kept her sensory connection to all her monsters while she worked her way through the remaining applicants. All of them unlocked impressive classes, but she felt a little too distracted to truly enjoy the experience to the fullest.

Your Kobold Warrior has been defeated.

What? That’s not… It happened moments after the last girl, Sabri, had finished choosing her extraordinary soul magic tank class, and the shrine’s energy had begun to dim. Ali flipped her awareness up into the sewer, but most of her monsters were already dead, and by the time she had eyes in the Kobold chambers, it was empty of everything except three corpses of her Kobolds. Even her domain respawn recharges confirmed that both her bosses were dead and had almost six hours remaining before they were respawned.

“Malika, something is here!”

Malika was on her feet and instantly alert the moment she spoke, and Mato too, a fraction of a second later.

“Where?”

“I’ve been sensing something shrouded nearby, and just now something killed my Kobold warrior boss. I can’t see them.”

“I’ll get Rezan and Vivian to help look,” Malika said, sprinting off to where they stood among the novices, answering class-related questions.

“I’ll look too,” Mato said, immediately planting himself on the spot and growing into his Tree Form.

Ali darted through the senses of her minions, pulsing the echolocation of her bats, and drawing several Timber Wolves in closer to see if she could catch the scent of the intruder.

A sudden flurry of activity broke out when Mato’s roots erupted from the ground near the shrine, and an explosion of violet arcane energy tore them to shreds. Instantly, Rezan and Vivian rushed toward the disturbance, but Ali still could not perceive it. Even the pulse of magic had been far too quick for her hasted reactions to identify it.

She scanned everywhere, ranging wider with all the senses at her disposal, and that was the only reason she found the second group of intruders. The large reptilian form of a Kel’darran Spear Warrior, and a priest of some kind, controlling the Kobold Fire Mage with a leash of dark shadow magic wrapped around its neck. They approached at high speed, rushing through the forest on a collision course with the group of worried level-one combat classes. Neither of them looked friendly, with spells and weapons held at the ready and set to attack. The pulse of a swooping Giant Bat picked up two additional intruders, both in stealth.

They’re going to be killed! Ali had no idea why, but the intruders’ intent was abundantly clear. They charged for the newly initiated with hard expressions fixed on their faces. Rezan and the group of high-level classes hunting for the elusive shrouded figure were too far away to reach the new threat in the seconds that remained. The only other person who noticed the intruders was the hesitant little Ahn Khen girl, Sabri. She readied her scored bone shield with a grim expression on her face.

Good instincts, Ali thought, but they would need much more than a level one warrior with a shield. She used her Arcane Recall and stopped time.

It was only the vaguest notion of a plan, and Ali had absolutely no idea if it would work. She froze, mentally as well as physically, as her powerful spell took hold. The entire Grove darkened and faded to gray, and she could see every single person frozen. The landscape flickered to an earlier moment in time, briefly showing an empty Grove, before flickering back to the present. It was not the first time Ali paused to wonder what it might mean.

Out on the moss, near Vivian and Rezan, Ali beheld the strangest disturbance she had ever seen. It was as if a gray, glowing cloud hovered above the ground taking a vaguely humanoid form. Streaming from it were long undulating ribbons of midnight black, attached to the figure with lamprey-like barbs and hooks. The… tentacles… writhed slowly – unsettling movement in the frozen landscape, as they trailed away from their anchor into the distance.

Ali would have shivered in fear at the sight, but her body was unable to move. What the thing was, she had no idea, but she was certain it was what had been prickling at her senses all this time. She almost Identified it automatically but caught herself before she wasted her Arcane Recall on something so trivial.

Which one? With two sets of intruders on opposite sides, she had to decide. The apparition was terrifying, but… Vivian and Rezan can take care of themselves. The novices had no chance against four high-level attackers bent on murder.

I just hope this works. Arcane Recall explicitly said it ignored recharge timers, so she called up her Domain Mastery and triggered her Domain Respawn, trying to target her Forest Guardian. For a second, she was certain it wasn’t going to work, but then time restarted with a lurch. Immediately, she pulsed her mana into a domain-enhanced barrier sphere around the shrouded figure she had seen in her strange gray vision moments before.

An immense quake of mana surged through her entire domain. Every single domain-powered minion respawned instantly. The recently defeated Forest Guardian, and all its minions, suddenly appeared right in front of the crowd of novices. The little Ahn Khen defender yelped in surprise. Ali’s Kobold Warrior boss respawned. Every defeated monster in the sewer respawned, and even several goblins down by the Emberforge Mines reappeared. The force of the mana surge staggered her, but she held her focus with an iron grip.

“Protect them,” she commanded her Guardian, sending her intent firmly through her connection. But her boss was just a little too far away. The Kel’darran leveled his spear, and Sabri raised her bone buckler, stepping forward to protect her companions. There was a rush and a loud crack as the Kel’darran blurred, appearing before Sabri, towering above her with his spear piercing clean through the shield, leather armor, and her chest, emerging from her back with a spray of crimson blood.

The Guardian roared and charged, making the ground buck and shake with the weight of its stamina-empowered stride. The Kel’darran warrior ripped his spear out of his victim’s chest, tossing her aside and turned to meet it, skillfully bracing the spear against the ground, impaling it through the Guardian’s thick chest plates of bark armor using the momentum of its own charge against it. But the Guardian did not falter. Roots, thick brambles, and thorny branches burst forth from the ground, entangling, entwining, and crushing.

Ali gasped in horror at the sight of the girl flung from the warrior’s spear like discarded trash, but Sabri rolled to her feet, coughing up blood and gasping in surprise. Ali glanced sideways to find blood dripping from a great sympathetic hole in Mato’s trunk, already slowly growing closed, and a palpable relief flooded through her as she realized Mato had caught the damage. Thanks, Mato. Incredible.

The Forest Guardian roared, and the Kel’darran roared back and, as they clashed, the strange priestess made the Kobold mage shoot firebolts at it. Bats screeched, swooping in from nowhere while an explosion of petals filled the air. Novices scattered, screaming and panicking. The two stealthed intruders revealed themselves with powerful ambush attacks, but the Forest Guardian’s enormous health pool barely budged.

“Dreamclouds,” Ali said, but the Spore Spreaders were already growing their rapidly spreading hyphae down into the moss-covered dirt. Tiny glowing purple mushrooms sprang up from the ground, unheeded by the attackers, quickly maturing under the powerful nature-affinity magic of growth and vitality, and suddenly all of them exploded simultaneously with an audible cascade of popping. A vast cloud of spores filled the space between the petals.

The priest collapsed, releasing her shadowy leash on the Kobold mage, followed by the druid shifting back from his puma shape to human as he fell unconscious. The assassin collapsed under the soporific effects of the Dreamcloud mushrooms next, but the Kel’darran warrior staggered, clinging tenaciously to consciousness. Two Giant Bats swooped down to dive-bomb the spear-wielder with sonic attacks, and he dropped to the ground with a thud, visible to her only via echolocation and the strange senses of her slime.

The Forest Guardian’s roar caused the pink petal cloud to quiver and vibrate. Heavy stomps and crashes shook the ground, punctuated by the distinct sounds of bones cracking. A few more stomps and the cracking sounds were replaced by sickening wet splats, and then a series of notifications chimes sounded.

Whoops, did I… oh. Ali shivered reflexively. Her deliberate hesitation had sealed their fate.

Silence descended as the petals slowly drifted to the ground, revealing the giant Forest Guardian with blood stains up to its knees walking calmly among four vaguely humanoid, petal-covered lumps on the ground.

Your Forest Guardian has defeated Feral Druid – Human – level 54 (Nature)Your Forest Guardian has defeated Spear Warrior – Kel’darran – level 56Your Forest Guardian has defeated Shadow Priest – Human – level 52 (Shadow)Your Forest Guardian has defeated Assassin – Human – level 57Arcane Recall has reached level 8.Martial Insight has reached level 31.Domain Mastery has reached level 23.

Something stirred within the empty sphere of barrier magic Ali had created, slowly resolving into a tall Elf with a robe covered in runes that pulsed with potent mana. He made an idly dismissive wave with one hand and caused a flicker of a complex violet arcane magic to appear. Ali’s Sage of Learning drew heavily from her mana pool, trying to memorize it, storing it, struggling to unravel the forms and floating runes, and suddenly he released it and her barrier popped into thousands of tiny golden sparks that drifted away, fading as they lost form and substance.

Archmage – Sun Elf – level ??? (Arcane)

“Well, that was impressive,” he said, applauding softly.

But Ali only had eyes for the book he was holding open in his hand. A book she recognized instantly.

“Nathaniel Sunstrider,” Vivian said, clearly recognizing the Elf. “To what do we owe this honor?”

“I am following up on a report from Lyeneru Silverleaf about a strange dungeon she found below Myrin’s Keep,” he said. “Elder,” he inclined his head toward Rezan.

Although Ali refused to lower her guard before the strange Elf, the body language of both Rezan and Vivian clearly indicated that they recognized him and didn’t consider him to be a threat. While the three of them talked, Ali picked her way through the battlefield and the gruesome lumps strewn around it, grateful that Malika chose to join her as she set about deconstructing the dead and dismembered.

Imprint: Human completed.

Ali froze, a sudden revulsion rising like bile from her gut.

Human.

Has it been that many? The implications were clear – she had killed and deconstructed enough people that her Grimoire was allowing her to add humans to her repertoire. Dungeons kill people. Part of the disgust that gripped her was the certain knowledge that the imprint would be extremely valuable and powerful – the sapient races had the broadest access to classes and affinities. Any dungeon that could, would definitely summon humans to defend their domains.

“You doing ok, Ali?” Malika looked up from her gory work of sorting the gear.

“I just got the human imprint. It’s the smart choice. I know I should take it, but I just can’t…” She wanted to throw up, run, or scream. She felt disgusting.

“You don’t have to take it if it makes you uncomfortable,” Malika said. “I would feel weirded out too.”

Right in the midst of her discussion, she was interrupted. “You must be Aliandra.”

The mellifluous, cultured voice spoke Common with only the slightest hint of his native Elvish accent, and Ali glanced up to find the Sun Elf, Nathaniel Sunstrider, approaching with Rezan and Vivian in tow.

