The scent in the sewer was surprisingly fresh, and the damp crumbling brick was covered with a lush carpet of moss and mushrooms. As they traced the path indicated on their map, the monsters became progressively higher and higher in level, but they were all easily dispatched, usually with a single strike of Dak’resh’s Spear Rush.

Garret loped alongside in his Feral Puma form, not even bothering with stealth in such a low-level dungeon. As dungeons went, this one was a big yawn.

“Trap on the left,” Caspian called out, and Garret sidestepped to avoid it. He had to respect the dungeon for its effective placement of the traps, but against Caspian’s Trap Sense, it was mostly worthless.

“Excellent,” Dak’resh crowed, deliberately walking right through the trap, laughing as he ripped the roots from the ground with brute force when they tried to entangle him. “Barely tickles!”

Idiot. What the hells are we doing on a job newbies could waltz through?

But Garret bit his tongue – provoking a fight in the middle of a job would likely get Caspian pissed off, and the last time he had done it, he had had his share docked. Instead, he passed the time inventing new and progressively more sophisticated insults for the Kel’darran, while watching him systematically stomp through every single trap Caspian pointed out, leaping on some of them several times to get them to trigger.

“Final chamber,” Caspian announced.

Garret rounded the corner to the final sewer chamber listed on their map and stopped. Guarding the stairwell down into what the map called the ‘Forest Cavern’ and their goal, were four larger Kobolds, kitted in armor and holding weapons that seemed to be a cut above the rest.

“Raid boss,” Caspian announced. “Level ten, shouldn’t be much of a problem.”

“Bah, bloody waste of time,” Dak’resh declared, stomping his foot on the ground.

“Ooh!” Ixora cooed, her voice dripping with sensuality and playfulness. “I want the mage! Can I have him? Please, Caspy?”

Garret shivered, having personally experienced her ‘playfulness’.

“Ok. Ixora on the mage, everyone else, kill the healer first and then just destroy the rest.” Caspian vanished into the shadows, and Garret did the same, sneaking silently into the chamber.

Dak’resh did not hesitate. Hissing loudly, he blurred into motion, stabbing forward with his giant spear. There was a great crash and a cacophony of chirping alarm calls from the surprised Kobolds, and Dak’resh’s spear burst out from the healer’s back, spraying blood across its companions.

At least the lizard is good in a fight, Garret grudgingly admitted.

Black streamers of shadow magic sprung from Ixora’s garishly rhinestoned fingernails, and the Kobold mage was hers. Garret ignored her; she would play with the creature, toying with it before she mind-flayed it to death. He could already hear her cackling in the background.

He dropped out of stealth with an Ambush attack, drawing a spray of blood from the Kobold healer’s back. Even against such weak opponents, Garret never tired of the rush of combat, relishing the feel of his claws tearing the creature’s flesh and its screeches of pain. Firebolts began raining around the room striking the other Kobolds randomly as Ixora abused her plaything. He dodged backward as Dak’resh wound up for his whirling strike, barely avoiding the whistling spear tip as it tore gashes in every Kobold around him. Sheesh, he could give more warning. It was a good thing Garret had seen the bloody lizard fight many times and had recognized the skill before he got clipped.

Raid boss or not, the fight was over quickly. Kobolds were pathetically weak enemies, barely worth the stamina to put them down. Fortunately, they were too small and low-level for a loot dispute, and Caspian just handed each of them something to sell later while Ixora poked at her new Fire Mage with a dagger. Fuck, is she carving her initials on its arm? Garret looked away, preferring not to watch her drawing blood from the helpless monster.

The passage downward was a jagged hole in the ground, lit by a remarkable glowing staircase, but his natural paranoia proved unfounded when Caspian declared that it was safe and there were no traps. Still a pushover. His initial assessment proved to be quite accurate. He shifted back – two legs were better on stairs – and glanced out into the cavern sprawled below them.

It’s literally a forest, he thought in surprise. Many blackened dead trunks rose from the floor, immense pillars that seemed to be holding up the rock overhead. However, even though it was underground, there were living trees dotted amongst them, growing everywhere he looked. Everything was lit by countless green or golden lights, some of which darted about in erratic movement. In the distance, his sharp vision picked out a group of people gathered around a glowing stone.

“I see the shrine,” Garret said – and nestled between them and their mark was a large lake glowing with soft blue magic.

In spite of himself, he stopped and stared, until Dak’resh poked him with his spear.

“Piss off,” he snapped, annoyed that he had been caught distracted, and finished the descent.

“Let’s get this over with,” Caspian said. “Don’t give them a chance to prepare.”

“Kill everything,” Ixora cooed.

Dak’resh just grunted and broke into a sprint.

Garret dropped into stealth and stretched his body into a fast-loping run, using a small trickle of his stamina to keep up with the others. He ignored Dak’resh and the whirling spear that took care of the Timber Wolves as they ran, or the firebolts and mind flays from Ixora to take out the bats diving from above, and instead, he identified the curious lake as they passed.

Mana-Purified Water

Holy shit!

Garret boggled at the sight, barely able to contain his surprise. A whole fucking lake of the stuff! He was suddenly eager to be done with this job and fill up everything he had at the lake on the way out. There was more than enough to set him up for life – vastly more than this job would pay.

“Hey boys,” Ixora’s sultry voice interrupted his visions of retirement and a wealthy life. “We’re here.”

Dak’resh charged the group surrounding the shrine, and Garret pursued in stealth, his first target already picked out.

Nathaniel appeared in a crumbling brick tunnel, his feet hovering several inches above the water in a slow-flowing channel. Thick green moss covered the damp ground, only allowing the ancient brick to peek through in occasional scuff marks and scars that appeared to be the slowly fading signs of battle.

A green-scaled Kobold chirped loudly, drawing a bone sword – and a pair of friends from around the corner.

None of them were strong enough to even touch him, but he still summoned his book of prepared spells and paged through it, selecting Greater Shroud. With an infusion of his arcane-affinity mana, he activated the inscribed runes, and the page disintegrated into tiny purple sparks. He grimaced at the cost and the time it would take to remake that spell, but it was the best concealment spell that he had ever encountered in all his centuries of study. His body shimmered, becoming translucent even to his own eyes and he knew that nothing would be able to detect him.

Three Kobolds abruptly stopped, yipping in confusion and searching the tunnel.

A squeal of iron across stone drew Nathaniel’s attention to a side passage filled with broken furniture, offcuts, and rotting trash. Swarming down a rusted iron ladder were four people with grim looks on their faces.

Adventurers? He studied them for a moment. This was a dungeon, and a delve would be expected, but something seemed off. For one thing, they were all above level fifty and there were only four in the group, not to mention the apparent composition of their classes. Mercenaries, he concluded. He guessed the Druid shifting into a Feral Puma form might be able to fill the role of a healer, but this was far from the typical strategy for the Adventurers Guild.

The moment the group encountered the Kobolds, the Kel’darran spearman charged, impaling the first, and cutting down the other two in a flash.

Nathaniel sighed, sending his senses ranging outward – and, downward. There. He teleported again; this time, he appeared floating in the middle of a vast underground cavern. Trees sprouted among giant blackened pillars, but the first thing he noticed was a sea of thousands of arcane-affinity mushrooms, casting a golden radiant glow that pushed back the darkness.

So, Lyeneru was right.

The domain was spectacular – denser down here than it had been in the sewer – an unbelievably subtle and complex structure of powerful nature mana, woven together with the golden strands of the unfamiliar arcane mana to form a tapestry that pulsed with vibrancy and energy. It sparkled. Somewhere in the distance, a towering pillar of nature mana beckoned to him through the intervening rock beyond the cavern. But it was to the opposite side that his eyes were drawn.

There, nestled in a small grove of trees and mushrooms stood a Great Shrine. All about, Nathaniel sensed the remnants of an incomprehensibly powerful arcane spell that must have been detonated there. Mana traces and glowing golden shards blazed with dying energy embedded into the rock and dirt, mostly covered now by the moss and mushrooms that grew vibrant, feeding off the mana. When he glanced up, he could clearly see that same mana residue blasted into the rocky cavern roof hundreds of feet above.

What kind of spell could do that?

Several figures sat beside the shrine, watching while three others battled a dungeon boss, but Nathaniel’s eyes were drawn, not to the two most powerful auras, but to the smallest figure, perched on a disk of the very same golden magic with her legs dangling over the edge.

That must be her.

Mage [Ancient] – Fae – level 51 (Arcane / Nature)

I could just kill her from Greater Shroud, and she would never know I was there. But then, the phenomenon that was her domain would unravel. It was abundantly clear from the mana flowing through the creature that she was the dungeon. The very structure of the domain emanated directly from her and flowed through her like it belonged to her.

No, the dungeon can wait. I must study this first, he thought, pulling out Elowynn’s magical tome from where he had tucked it under his robe. He floated past the figures watching the fight intent on the shrine itself, and the remnants of magic all around it. To his surprise, quite a few of the people sitting around and spectating, cheering the fighters on, were all level one, and many of them had surprisingly powerful mana affinities.

Is that Vivian Ross? But he was suddenly distracted by the powerful pulse of magic from the weathered old man beside her, and he recognized an Elder of the Ahn Khen.

What is this? Rezan Jin? What is he doing here?

Yes, he would stay his hand for now. He bent down and plucked out a shard of golden magic and immediately consulted the book held in his other hand to try and unravel the exquisite structure of the spell fragment. Shockingly, it eluded his comprehension – all that was revealed by his vaunted perception skills and centuries of study was that this small fragment was ancient – far beyond his years. How it still held potency after so long was a mystery he would dearly love to unravel. What couldn’t I achieve with something like this? He slipped the shard into his pocket, not bothering to try to use his storage enchantment.

He ignored the banging of stone and the brilliant flash and thunder of lightning magic in the background, choosing to examine the shrine next. It, too, was an enigma – far more advanced than any level fifty-one dungeon had any right to be. His scholarly side yearned to study it – he had not had such a shrine available when he had created the synthetic ones that had led to the Class Renaissance across the kingdoms. What is this? An attunement option?

When I kill her, I should bind this shrine. Even if it took decades of hard work to refill such an enormous mana reservoir, it would still be worth it. Then those Trolls won’t have the monopoly. An alternative to the Aman Rak shrine would catapult the Elves to unheard-of heights of power. In a few short decades, he could unlock dozens of potent class evolutions, selecting among the most powerful who remained stuck at the threshold of the second tier. Not to mention the unprecedented opportunity to study such an artifact and unravel its secrets – something those arrogant Trolls had never allowed.

He glanced toward the Fae, but immediately backed up as he saw her approaching. His Greater Shroud was good, but it didn’t make him incorporeal. Stumbling along behind her followed several rather beaten-up classless people.

Are they conducting a Class Advancement ceremony? Typically ceremonies were rather mundane affairs, conducted with the synthetic shrines he had painstakingly crafted and bestowed on the Kingdoms. The only time dungeon shrines were used was when the dungeon itself was defeated and the shrine became temporarily available for use – a strategy only used by those most desperate to advance beyond level one hundred without risking a Natural Path evolution.

And then, without fanfare, the dungeon activated her shrine. Dazzled by the complexity of the formations, Nathaniel could only stare as the immense power of the artifact warped the very mana around it. Again and again, she activated it, and each time one of the five initiates earned a mana affinity and then a class. Nathaniel suddenly glanced back at the crowd, recalling all the level-one spectators with affinities. Did she do… all of them? At once?

Suddenly the Fae looked directly at him and spoke.

“Malika, something is here!”

Your Forest Guardian has been defeated.

Ali felt a tiny pang of disappointment when her Forest Guardian finally died, but then immediately felt guilty about it. After all, Malika had been part of the training fight, and she didn’t want to accidentally hurt her friend.

“Good boss,” Mato said, nodding his approval.

“Thanks,” Ali said. She had tried to emulate the strongest combination of minions she had faced when she created it, and for the enormous cost of more than two thousand mana, she had hoped she would have a strong defender. But it had surpassed even her most optimistic hopes, fighting the three powerful Ahn Khen fighters to a standstill for over three-quarters of an hour. It’s very strong, she thought – and that had been with Malika already knowing the surprises beforehand. “It’s probably a bit weak against ranged attackers, though,” Ali observed, considering the incredible Lightning Javelin attacks that Hala had unleashed.

