“I am,” she said, her tone guarded, tearing her thoughts away from her dilemma. Somehow, she couldn’t shake the image of the shadowy barbs and hooks of an unknown sinister-looking magic that had seemed to be feeding on his image when she saw him during her Arcane Recall spell.

“I am curious how you were able to pierce my Greater Shroud,” Nathaniel said.

“My ooze felt your heartbeat,” Ali said. It was technically true, but she wasn’t ready to trust him enough to explain her magic and how she’d really found him.

“This age’s greatest Archmage, laid low by the lowliest of monsters.”

Ali offered a smile at his attempted humor, but with everything that had just happened, she had to force it. At least she was relieved to see Sabri chatting away with Mato, amazingly alive and showing off a fresh hole through the center of her leather armor to her companions.

“I would like to discuss your dungeon with you if you have the time,” Nathaniel said.

Ugh. Not now. “Honestly, I’m feeling terrible. I was just forced to kill four people who were no doubt hired to assassinate me and kill all these novices, for what reason I have no clue,” Ali said, earning several surprised looks from Vivian, Rezan, and the three-mark Elf. She knew he was important and all, especially being an Archmage, but she simply couldn’t face it today. She still struggled to keep her roiling stomach under control. “Can you come back tomorrow?”

“Very well,” Nathaniel said, clearly disappointed, but too polite to make anything of it. “Vivian, would you like my services to teleport everyone back up to town?”

“That would be great,” she answered.

Ali carefully studied the extraordinarily intricate formation of arcane magic as Nathaniel weaved his teleportation spell, feeling her Sage of Learning once again draining her mana rapidly.

Ali waited till his spell neared completion, and then said, “When you come, please bring my mother’s book with you.”

“Your… mother?” He glanced down at the book he was still holding in his hand, and his eyes snapped back to her, registering shock and surprise as he and everyone visiting for the class advancement vanished.

She smiled grimly at the emptiness, then slowly wrung out her trembling hands. This did not bode well. Of all the shocks she had received today, seeing her mother’s book was easily the most poignant, the most unsettling. How dare he – how dare he even hold it so casually?

Malika felt the unexpected lurch of teleportation in her gut and realized that Nathaniel Sunstrider had literally meant everybody except Ali. She appeared in the guild hall, somewhat stunned by the raw power of the archmage, able to teleport the entire group on a whim – and not even needing to make use of the locus.

She ignored the elf, leaving him to his discussion about accommodation with Vivian Ross, and sat herself down beside Basir and Hala. Honestly, after the battle of attrition in which they had eked out a victory against Ali’s ridiculous Forest Guardian, followed by the chaos of the assassins and Nathaniel Sunstrider showing up, she was quite worn out.

“Congratulations, you all earned a class level,” Rezan said, sitting down on the floor next to them with the natural cross-legged posture of a lifetime of his personal meditation style.

Surprised, Malika glanced at her notifications, and sure enough, she had reached level forty-two. “Only one, though,” she said, frowning a little. It had been three of them against a raid boss, and although they were a little higher in level than it was, she, at least, was not that much higher.

“It is extraordinary to gain any class levels from a sparring match,” Rezan answered.

“Sparring?” It certainly hadn’t felt like a friendly spar in the ring. Although she had earned many broken bones in her spars against Basir and his frustrating rocks.

“Supervised fights don’t typically earn class experience,” the Elder explained. “You never leveled up from sparring with Basir and Hala. They would not have killed you even if you were completely incapacitated.”

“I guess that makes sense,” Malika said. Ali had been quite focused on the fight most of the time, and she would never have let her monster kill any of them. And Rezan and Vivian too. Perhaps there had been real risk while the others had been distracted, and therefore the reason she got even the single level.

“I got some good skills growth,” she said, studying the notifications.

“Me too,” Basir said, a big smile on his face.

Soul Monk has reached level 42.+10 attribute points.Soul Strike has reached level 25.Healing Mantra has reached level 26 (+2).Divine Step has reached level 24.Second Wind has reached level 12.Clarity has reached level 11.Soul Sight has reached level 7.

Recalling Rezan’s advice about her attributes, she split her points carefully, putting two of them into raising her strength. Two more each went to endurance and wisdom, leaving three for dexterity and one for perception. Hopefully, she would have enough power to get through Basir’s armor soon.

“That is good,” Rezan said, “but it was not the true purpose of the match.”

She considered his words and all the teaching he had offered during her stay in Kezda before asking, “Was it for training teamwork?”

“So, you were listening,” he said with a grin. “The purpose of sparring with your allies is not just to practice your skills. How easy was it to team up with Basir and Hala?”

“Effortless,” she said, realizing they hadn’t needed a whole lot of preparation for the challenging battle. “I already knew what they could do, mostly.”

What they would do, she corrected. She understood their combat styles and how they reacted well enough to form a cohesive team with vastly less preparation time than she would have expected.

“Exactly,” Rezan smiled. “Whenever you have the opportunity, spar together to enhance your understanding of teamwork and cooperation. You never know when you might need it.”

She nodded slowly. “I value this lesson, Elder.”

It had been a good lesson, delivered with Rezan’s particular style of teaching, namely throwing her in the deep end and only explaining afterward. As Malika contemplated what she had learned about teamwork, she smiled to see Sabri and Brena chatting excitedly as they walked back from Mieriel’s desk, both wearing a copper version of what looked remarkably like her own guild ring. I’m glad everyone made it.

Rezan would never have admitted it to anyone, but he had been extremely anxious waiting for the applicants to return from their trial. More anxious than he remembered being for anything in recent memory, and as more and more of the candidates had trickled in, and he still hadn’t seen Sabri, he had almost given in and searched for her with his sight. However, such supervision would have most likely interfered with their ability to earn experience properly and could have negatively affected their trial and class selection. Or worse, forced them to endure it for much longer.

His second challenge came when Sabri was struggling to make her class choice. Such a crucial decision in anyone’s life and he had had to ruthlessly suppress the urge to advise her. With her difficult life, she would have chosen whatever he recommended, not because it was the right choice, but because he was the Elder. It was a harsh way to teach the lesson, but if she came out of it with more self-assurance for her own decision-making, it would be worth it.

He noticed the new ring she was wearing as she said goodbye to her new friend and headed over to join them. So, she has made another choice. Sabri would not be returning home with him when he left.

Her mother will be sad, he thought. But this guild was a good place with a lot of promising people, and it would be the perfect environment for Sabri to grow, both in level and in the depth of her interactions with others. Teamwork was such a great tutor.

Malika would have been his pick for a mentorship role with her levelheadedness, but he hadn’t missed how quickly Sabri had bonded with the unruly Beastkin boy who had saved her life from the Kel’darran spear. Nor how she had connected with the Gnomish lightning mage – it seemed she would have friends when he left.

And she chose a powerful class. His right fist clenched deliberately by his side. Our people need more like her. Many more. He glanced around the guild hall, wondering if this place – and Aliandra’s generosity – may be the catalyst of a new hope for his people.

He glanced up as she approached, pretending to have just noticed her, but he had been studying her vastly more powerful aura through his sight.

She will be ok. Perhaps such thoughts were more to reassure himself than for her.

“Elder Rezan,” she began hesitantly, waiting for him to acknowledge her before she continued. “Would you please give this to my mother?” Nestled in the palm of her outstretched hand he saw a couple of dull copper pieces and a small gleaming silver crown, and he knew in an instant that she had sold everything she had earned from their combat trial to send money home.

“Sabri, you have a great heart looking out for your mother. But I cannot do this for you.” Her smile at his compliment faded as he finished.

“I… why?”

“How can I tell your mother that you gave everything to her when you will be fighting monsters without any equipment to protect you? Your mother loves you and she will want you to be safe. You shared your class with me – spend that money on the best armor and shield you can afford, and I will tell your mother that you are being careful.”

“But she will starve without me to help on the fields.” She was clearly feeling the anguish of this decision.

“She will strangle me if I don’t teach you how to be safe,” Rezan said, hiding his amusement. “How about this; I will take care of your mother for now, but you must promise me you will only send money back home if you don’t need it to protect yourself from the monsters. Ok?”

Sabri looked at him with a frown on her brow, but eventually nodded and closed her fingers around the pitifully small offering of coins. The girl and her mother were cut from the same cloth – both would starve themselves just to see the other with something to eat.

“Sabri, I want you to visit Kezda when you earn a bloodline skill. Don’t be like Malika here and let it go so late that it breaks.” Malika, sitting nearby, had the decency to look embarrassed. “And please let Malika or the Guildmaster know if you need help.”

Sabri looked at Malika and they both nodded.

“Sabri, before I go, I would like to offer you my mentorship.” He had the capacity for only one more protégé, and such things usually took a lot of thought and consideration – a process of months or even years. But life sometimes had a way of hurrying you along – first with Malika and now with Sabri. He had watched her grow up from a serious little toddler to the adult that stood before him wearing a shocked expression. He knew the dedication and determination she had for learning and the passion with which she approached the martial arts. But it was in that moment when she had readied her buckler and stepped in front of her new friends to defend them, facing down the level fifty-six Kel’darran spearman without a hope of winning that all Rezan’s doubt had vanished.

He expected her to immediately accept, given that he was the Elder, but to his surprise, and no small amount of pride, she appeared to give his words serious consideration.

“I know I’m not the perfect fit for your new class, I am not a tank. But we share a soul magic affinity and I think my mana can help you grow," he explained.

“I would be honored, Elder,” she said finally, giving him a bow.

He reached out and placed his palm above her heart and released his mana – certainly a lot gentler this time than with Malika.

Your patronage has been accepted.Sabri added as a Protégé.Protégé – SabriClass: Soul DefenderTraits: Soul, Defense, Bloodline, Melee, Strength, Wisdom, Endurance, Mastery.Your experience, mana, and traits will influence the experience gain of your protégé. Experience tithed back to you via the mentorship tithe may influence your own traits and growth.Enchantment – Tithe

Rezan felt relief and pride mingling within him. At least with this, he was certain she had the best opportunities he could create for her, and the rest would be up to her.

“Ok, I will come back every now and then to check on you, and I’ll watch your growth with my sight.”

“Thank you, Elder,” Sabri replied in Ahn Khen, using the traditional farewell blessing and a simple bow.

“Be strong,” Rezan answered, using the same language and clasping his palms together in front of his chest as he returned the bow.

Vivian rubbed her temples and sat down beside Mieriel.

What a day. Of all things, she had not expected to be hosting the highly acclaimed Archmage and Guildmaster of the legendary Elven Pathfinders at her fledgling guild. Nathaniel Sunstrider had a presence that defied explanation – not even the stories did him justice.

She had just finished inducting all the newly classed members as novices in the guild, giving them their rings and explaining their new roles and the facilities and training available to them. She would not admit just how worried she had been about how it would all go, assuming the results from the first time must have been atypical. However, Aliandra’s shrine had once again unlocked an abundance of magical affinities and powerful class choices for every single applicant – even the artisans and crafters would grow into powerhouses in their chosen fields. It was unreal. The typical proportion of magical affinities and related classes was vastly lower, and this was the second time Aliandra’s shrine had shattered her expectations.

Perhaps there’s something to that old tale that dungeon mana causes magical affinities to arise in people? It was a sobering thought.

Furthermore, of the fifteen combat applicants, ten had chosen to join the guild immediately – including all the candidates she had enrolled in preparatory combat training under Malika. The most surprising being the girl Rezan had brought, Sabri. And, of course, Brena Novaspark. Vivian had no idea how the girl was going to break that news to her mother, but that was not her problem. Even the class distribution was close to ideal; she had been able to break the novices into two teams of five, both groups having a tank and a healer.

There was suddenly a lot to do! She had to clean out the dorm room below – at least three of the novices had nowhere to stay.

