Even with Insights pouring into his mind at an unprecedented rate, this battle raised so many mysteries of the Dao to ponder. How did Song Qing of the Fiery Star emanate light from her meteor hammer without possessing any Blessing to speak of? How was the Jade Armed Craftsman manipulating what looked to be a solid piece of rock and using it as easily as any flesh-and-blood limb? Honed blades and piercing fangs glanced off from the Nine-Tattooed Dragon’s namesake, making it appear as if he truly had scales over his skin, so why did it not do anything against blunt impacts like the smashing strike which almost claimed his life? So many questions, but so few answers, Hideo could hardly wait to meet up with Monk Eyebrows and discuss his new insights into the Dao.

Still, formidable as these Peak Experts might be, all of them, even the seemingly indomitable and invincible Du Min Gyu, paled in comparison to Gongsun Qi.

And Akanai, Hideo supposed, since the half-beast bitch was putting up a good fight, but even with help from her allies, she was unable to bring the Lord of Martial Peace down. She was an impressive Warrior, able to dash about at imperceptible speeds whilst waving her axe-lance about, yet Gongsun Qi matched her blow for blow with his ponderous Green Crescent Dragon Blade. The difference between them both was clear as day, for in every exchange, the Lord of Martial Peace stood firm whilst the half-breed bitch was sent flying away, her speed no match for Gongsun Qi’s raw power. All of their clashes took place in mid air, in order to avoid affecting the battles around them, and time and time again, Akanai was found wanting. Even after another Peak Expert interfered with their duel and delivered a domineering strike from above, Gongsun Qi had the presence of mind to accept Akanai’s formidable follow-up attack with his Runic pauldron. Thus, instead of piercing through his breastplate and impaling him upon her weapon, the half-breed mongrel and her cowardly allies only managed to score an insignificant gash on the Colonel General’s shoulder.

There he stood, battered and bleeding, but unbroken before his foes, his reclining moon blade glimmering in the sunlight as he took his stance once more, surrounded by Demons and Peak Experts of his own while the half-breed Akanai had disappeared from the battlefield. Falling silent as if by mutual agreement, Imperial and Chosen alike separated before turning to face this unstoppable Warrior, a paragon of humanity whom few could match, and Gongsun Qi did not disappoint them. “Is this all the Empire has to offer?” He intoned, casually brushing shards of shattered metal from his injured shoulder without blinking. “Was she, a tribal half-breed doe, your strongest champion? Who else is left for this Prince to battle? Who among you be worthy to face me? Ai, this be a shame. How far the Empire has fallen.” Shaking his head with a sigh, he ground the butt of his weapon into the dirt at his feet and continued, “To think, this Prince sought a challenge here upon the battlefield, but all I see here are cripples, lackeys, and savages led by a man who shows promise, but has come a hundred years too early to face me. So be it then. This Prince has grown weary of your company.”

Lifting his left hand high, he signalled the attack, and Hideo’s heart surged with glee as he rode out to attack. The Chosen of Heaven charged with him, as did Vithar’s people and their tribal allies, all joined by a host of monstrous Demons including the most powerful beings who’d thus far been kept in reserve, no doubt a safeguard against Imperial machinations. The time for half-measures was done and now, with their Champion defeated and Commander no match for Gongsun Qi, the Imperial Army’s fate had been all but sealed.

They still made a good fight of it though, as Hideo learned when an explosion of wind and earth erupted behind him. Turning in his seat to see what the commotion was about, he spotted the unmistakable form of Du Min Gyu battling it out with the Lord of Martial Peace amidst the swirling gales of wind and dust, supported by Eccentric Gam, Situ Jia Yang, and a half-bear woman Hideo recognized as one of Falling Rain’s caretakers. It seemed the Bekhai had no human Peak Experts of note, their strength propped up by aged half-breeds who never learned their place, but Gongsun Qi would teach them all the true meaning of regret.

Not alone, of course, since two hands could hardly block four blades, so three Demons joined in to even the odds. One was an armoured guard who traded blows with the shocked half-bear, while the other two were chosen to match the Blessings of the other combatants. Eccentric Gam’s foe was a stone-laden behemoth of an Earth-Blessed Demon, its undefined, pebble-filled form shifting across the mud and grass as if a part of the earth itself. Crashing against the half-fox’s hastily raised defences, its body surged around the staff like a landslide and smashed the aged Eccentric’s torso into the ground, who weathered the attack with ease and fought back with a vengeance. The third Demon was an airy, wisp of a fairy, zipping to and fro upon streams of Wind Chi with its hideous wings, flaps of loose skin which were affixed from forearm to waist. Darting about Du Min Gyu at terrifying speeds, it danced about the formidable Warrior as if daring him to strike, but the Living Legend was not so easily tricked. Responding with gales of cutting wind of his own, he and the Demon raised a windstorm the likes of which Hideo had never seen, neither one injuring the other while swathes of Chosen and Imperials died around them.

Stirring up all manner of loose dirt, blood, and debris, their exchange formed an almost impenetrable barrier Hideo couldn’t see through, so he turned his attention back to the battle at hand. Much as he would like to stay and study the Peak Experts, Hideo’s thirst for knowledge would have to wait as his garo eagerly leapt into battle to trample an Imperial soldier to death. Better if it’d simply charged in and let Hideo smash through the defences, for in its haste, the stupid beast impaled itself upon its target’s spear and was quickly bleeding out. Cursing beneath his breath, he grabbed his long-handled hammer and leapt off his dying mount to put his newfangled Insights into practice.

The hammer was a mundane weapon of steel, one scavenged from an earlier battle because Hideo’s twin Spiritual Maces were too recognizable to use in battle. He still kept them on him, wrapped in oiled leather and slung across his back, but only the most dire of circumstances could bring him to draw them. He also wore a face-plate to hide his features, not because he was ashamed of his ‘betrayal’, especially not after Gongsun Qi and Mataram Yuchun revealed themselves as Chosen of Heaven too. No, he hid his identity because he wanted to see Juichi’s reaction firsthand when the old codger learned that his Disciple had joined the ‘Enemy’, especially once he heard the reason why. Because of his own personal failings, his inability to teach, and most of all, his selfish actions in squashing Mitsue Hiroshi’s reputation, a veritable hero of the Empire left to languish in mediocrity so as not to shame his worthless cousins.

Mitsue Hiroshi was a Dragon among men, and a father who died trying to save his son.

The thought sent a chill down Hideo’s spine as the world spun around him, his mind thrown into disarray by a single thread of truth. No, not truth, Father was misled and mistaken, thinking to save his beloved son from the ‘Enemy’, but this was Hideo’s true Path. He was a Chosen of Heaven and an initiate of the Brotherhood, one who would one day take his vows and devote his life to the pursuit of the Dao.

A pursuit Hideo could not focus on without first severing all ties with his past self.

The heady rush of battle surged through his veins as he gave himself over to Balance, indulging in his lust for battle whilst savouring his fear of death. A curious combination, but one which lent strength to his arms as he brought his scavenged hammer about in a rage, pulping an Imperial soldier who thought to take his head while distracted. The impact travelled up his arms and he relished the sensation, feeding the vibrations with Amplified Reverberations to boost for later use. This was the difference between comprehension and understanding, for before, when he merely comprehended the mechanism behind the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, it took countless hours of long effort to adapt it for use through his mace, but all that had changed with a basic understanding of the move. Oscillation was the key, the regular variation in magnitude of Reverberation around certain key points at exact timings. Once he understood that it was merely a matter of building upon what was already there, gathering momentum without letting it die down, then it became so much easier to visualize his Intent and adapt it for different uses.

Raising his hammer high a second time, he brought it down upon a second Imperial soldier. Lowering his shoulder, he rammed into a third before his foe could bring his weapon to bear. Knocking the fool off his feet, Hideo brought his boot down upon the man’s midsection and relished the sensation of driving his foot through living flesh. If only he wasn’t wearing these restrictive boots and could feel the soft flesh and warm blood against his skin, but perhaps he could try that later when they had Imperial prisoners and time to spare. Whipping his hammer about with both hands, Hideo dove deep into Imperial lines and pounded his foes into mash, being sure to store up the resulting impacts travelling up his arms and use them to feed his ever growing cache of oscillating energy. Not Chi, but physical force, energy he stored within the Spiritual Weapons laid across his back as it fed and grew to titanic proportions.

And just his luck, as soon as the stored oscillating forces threatened to escape his control, Hideo came face to face with an old enemy. “Dastan,” he hissed, and the other man’s brow furrowed in confusion. Enraged by this lack of recognition, Hideo lashed out with a savage backhand and unleashed all his stored energy as soon as he connected with the slave’s Runic shield.

Runes buckled.

Steel bent.

Bones shattered.

And Dastan Zhandos shot away in a blur of motion, smashed aside with a single, bare-handed blow.

Howling with undisguised glee, Hideo followed after the beaten slave to make sure he died, but another of Falling Rain’s Runic shield-bearing soldiers got in his way. Bringing his hammer about, he clipped the stone-faced soldier in the knee but felt a wisp of a Domain surge up to blunt the force, and almost took an axe to the neck for his troubles. Abandoning his hammer, Hideo grabbed the obstructing shield and forced it aside. Three solid punches to the face left his foe with a broken jaw and shattered teeth, but still the bastard clung to consciousness and refused to just die. Grabbing him by the neck, Hideo roared as he lifted his foe overhead in both hands before bringing the fool down across his knee. For his efforts, he was rewarded with a satisfying snap as the slave’s spine broke into pieces, and Hideo savoured the sensation of tender flesh giving way to brittle bone.

A spear lanced towards his throat. As he leapt back, he meant to bring the dying soldier with him to use as a meat shield, but another soldier snatched him out of Hideo’s grasp and brought him away to be Healed. Unfortunate how hardy these soldiers were, as a normal man would’ve died of a broken spine, especially after being wrenched out of his hands, but he could see the slave still breathed, his head turning to burn Hideo’s face into memory. Even Dastan was already back up and about, limping away from the battle with little to no assistance. Though his arm, shoulder, and ribs were broken, his dog life had been preserved, and now Hideo’s vengeance would have to wait once more.

No matter. The slave was living on borrowed time.

Laughing as he avoided the spearman’s second thrust, Hideo forgot himself and unslung his maces as a second spearman joined the first. Brothers from the looks of them, and commoners to boot, their training and Spiritual Weapons unable to hide the leathery texture of their sun-tanned, weather-worn skin. Latecomers to the Martial Path then, but skilled enough to be a decent match, their superb teamwork and coordination doing much to even the playing field. Howling, snarling, snapping Demons plowed through the soldiers around him and Chosen surged into the gaps they left behind, but Hideo was stalemated by his stubborn opponents. Thrust and strike, thrust and strike, the pair lacked any and all originality, but where Hideo would have once looked down on them for this, today, he learned just how far the basic Movements of the Forms could bring a Martial Warrior along the Path. There were Peak Experts of astonishing strength who never exhibited anything even remotely imaginative on the battlefield, yet they still stood head and shoulders above their peers. The Immovable Binesi was one such Warrior, perhaps the most prominent one of this type, and though others looked down on him as a man unable to surpass those above him, he was still a Peak Expert who could defeat anyone below him, of which there were far more of the latter, than the former.

