The Martial Peak. A misnomer, in Hideo’s eyes, but one he’d only just come to recognize.

All his life, he’d envisioned it much like the peak of a mountain, the penultimate destination of the Martial Path. Upon that lofty summit nestled within the clouds stood those Experts whose mastery over the Dao qualified them to study the mysteries of the Heavens themselves and perhaps, in time, surpass them. It was for this reason why he modelled his Natal Palace after Wutai Mountain, because he believed he too would one day reach those towering heights. His old fraud of a Mentor even painted a piece of artwork to depict the plight of Peak Experts, a grand image portraying various noble figures scattered across different mountain peaks of varying heights, all with their chins raised and eyes turned skyward as they pondered the next step. Kept in his meditation room, Juichi faced this painting every morning before contemplating the Dao, and Hideo suspected it was out of simple self-arrogance, since the painted figure standing on the highest peak bore a suspicious resemblance to Juichi himself.

It was in that room and before that painting where Hideo knelt and offered Juichi a cup of wine, entreating the pompous old coot to take him as his Mentor even though Juichi had already declared it would be so. Before accepting the cup, he gestured at the painting behind him and asked, “What do you see when you look upon this, little Hideo?”

“Grandeur,” Hideo had responded, after pausing to properly appreciate it, “And magnificence. The beauty and majesty of the Peak, seen by only a select few.”

The old coot’s reaction was not what Hideo expected, since the old man loved empty flattery, but instead of glowing with praise, he furrowed his brow and frowned instead, clearly displeased by Hideo’s answer. Rather than accept the cup of wine, Juichi sighed and said, “I painted this to remind myself of the trials and tribulations still ahead. The journey to the Martial Peak is a lonely one, where we each must find our way to the summit alone, and the same is true for what lies beyond. I, as your Mentor, can offer guidance, but only you can determine where to place your next step.” Stroking his beard with what Hideo now knew had been indecision, Juichi sighed again before accepting the cup. Father had pressured him into it, so that the great Mitsue Juichi would have a Disciple of note and the Mitsue Family finally have a rising dragon to trot out, but it was clear the old coot didn’t believe Hideo would ever measure up.

Before even accepting him as his Disciple, Juichi had already been making excuses, believing Hideo was too fixated on following in his Path. The old bastard had been his idol, and Hideo worked until he collapsed of exhaustion and woke with splitting headaches to master the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, but all Juichi did was sigh and lament about Hideo’s lacking foresight, about how he should forge his own path instead of following in the footsteps of his grand-uncle and idol. The old coot was just jealous, unhappy to see a younger, more promising Warrior usurp his Talent, which was why he stifled Hideo’s growth and only rarely offered personal guidance. Father claimed it was because Juichi loved Hideo like a grandson and was unable to bring himself to discipline him properly, but those were just comforting lies he told himself to justify his own sins. Mitsue Hiroshi was not only a Peak Expert himself, but one who rose to prominence without Juichi’s teachings, while every last one of the old coot’s Disciples wallowed in mediocrity or worse, so why would a father send his own son to learn from an incompetent Mentor?

Because family above all else. A crock of shit is what that was, yet another bald-faced lie fed to Hideo in order to control and restrict him.

Now that he had a proper teacher to advise him, he was like a tiger given wings, and the truth unveiled itself before him. The Martial Peak was not a mountain range as Juichi envisioned it, but better described as a winding, treacherous crevasse situated within a network of caves mired in shadowy darkness. Martial Warriors were those who’d stumbled across an entrance and were fortunate enough to begin their descent, and while those first few meters down were done blindly, the handholds were many and the way easily navigated. The further one progressed however, the steeper and slicker the dark crevasse grew, until one arrived at a point where there were no longer any finger or toe-holds in reach. Then, they were left with two decisions, to either retreat and try to find a different route, or blindly leap into the darkness and hope there was a ledge underneath.

And at the end of the journey, down in those seeming bottomless cavernous depths, the secrets of Heaven lay bare to anyone with the ability to grasp them.

Blindly scrambling about in the dark, that was how Martial Warriors proceeded along the illustrious Martial Path. Hardly the image one wished to present of dignified Peak Experts, but pride was one of the Five Poisons, according to Monk Eyebrows, joining envy as new additions to the original Three Poisons of greed, hatred, and ignorance. A worthy inclusion, for pride and envy were the downfall of many a Martial Warrior, including the Abbot’s Senior Brother, a man who served as one of the Five Wisdoms before his passing.

This mindset, the willingness to admit their wrongs and see matters in a different light, this was the crux of the Brotherhood’s understanding. It all came down to the first tenet of the Eight-Fold Path, which was to keep the Right view, a task Hideo could spend a thousand lifetimes on and still have room to improve. It wasn’t about blindly declaring one specific view correct, but about uncovering the Right View and amending their own personal perceptions in order to accept it. Despite all of Juichi’s ramblings about how each must find their own Path, he did so love to foist his own impressions upon others. “Those paired movements lack efficiency”, or “Your grip should be positioned three centimetres higher”, without ever taking the time to explain why, only that such was the way things should be, and Hideo should accept it as is.

Today however, he’d seen countless grand clashes taking place before him and marvelled at the vast complexities hidden within the Martial Depths. In a single afternoon, Hideo had borne witness to feats he never dreamed were possible as these gathered Peak Experts exhibited their various unique Paths. Some were no different from regular Martial Warriors save on a scale of strength, speed, agility, and stamina, exhibiting levels far above and beyond what a mere mortal could ever hope to accomplish. These men and women were Peak Experts in name alone, for though they had progressed further along than most were able, they were as blind as they’d been on the day they first descended into the depths, all due to a lack of understanding. Though they might comprehend the Dao and utilize it in ways Hideo couldn’t even begin to grasp, they lacked the understanding to explain their skills themselves.

Take Mitsue Juichi’s signature skill, the Mountain Collapsing Stomp. All his life, Hideo had heard about how powerful and destructive this sublime skill was, and how Juichi earned his fame with this phenomenal talent. When asked to share or even hint at the workings of his Talent, the old fart shook his head and told Hideo he was not yet ready, but Hideo mastered it nonetheless. However, even then he didn’t wholly understand how it was done, only that he could greatly empower his strikes by driving his Chi in an alternating pattern and feeding more and more in at designated timings. If asked why an alternating pattern or why those certain timings, Hideo would’ve been unable to answer, but Gen took one look at Hideo’s revised Mountain Collapsing Strike and not only identified the mechanism behind the so-called Talent, but also replicated it upon first try.

How was this possible? Because Gen was more talented than Hideo? Ridiculous. The peasant hunter had stumbled his way onto the Martial Path late and fell far enough to match Hideo’s progress before being saved by the Uniter, his strength due to nothing more than dog-shit luck. It was merely a difference in view, for Hideo had wasted long years following in the footsteps of a fool, when instead he should have sought out the Truth. It wasn’t his fault, for Imperial lies of Balance had blinded him to the basic principles of Heaven and he’d been too afraid to question what everyone already took to be true. Now, his eyes were open, and the Path clear, but there was still so far to go before he too could stand tall as a Peak Expert of humanity.

Despite their conviction in so many falsehoods and fallacies, there was much to be learned from the Imperial Peak Experts before him. Take the Singing Spear, Shi Yukun, for example, whose superlative skills in Lightening allowed him to dance over top the heads of Demon and Chosen alike while his signature spear sang a dirge of death. It was more than mere Lightening at work there, for if this were not the case, then any fool could’ve easily attacked Shi Yukun whilst he hung helplessly in mid-air. Many tried of course, especially the single-minded Demons who possessed an alarming lack of basic intelligence, but each time he came under threat, the slippery Singing Spear changed course mid-air and avoided all attacks without need to land hand or foot on any surface. How this might be possible, Hideo could only guess, but seeing as he lacked the skills to test his theories and didn’t find the skill all that applicable, he focused on another warrior of interest, Dong Ping of the Twin Spears.

Strange for a Warrior to wield two full-length spears, but the story was that Dong Ping’s second spear had been meant for his brother, who died to an ambush from malcontents aiming to steal the unbound weapon for themselves. To honour his fallen brother’s memory, Dong Ping bound the spear and learned to wield both weapons in combat, and the sight was... awkward, to say the least, but not without merit. Grasping them both at the mid-point, Dong Ping’s fingers and wrists worked tirelessly to twirl his spears about, whipping through the air as he slowly made his way across the battlefield. One bump, one misstep, one moment of distraction, and the Peak Expert could easily lose control of his heavy, spinning weapons, and even if he recovered and kept a firm grip, it would take some time to restart his revolving ring of steel. Not the best weapons for this style, since spears were primarily thrusting weapons rather than cutting ones, but Dong Ping succeeded in making this precarious style work. He excelled with it, in fact, which made no sense considering how easy it seemed anyone could interrupt him, but the Peak Expert was a master of Deflection and used it offensively in the most subtle and inventive of ways.

So subtle Hideo didn’t even notice its use until Dong Ping came face to face with a Demon who leapt across the battlefield to tackle him. Barely pausing his steps, the indefatigable Warrior brazenly met the tackling Demon head on, swinging both spinning spears in an upwards arc and striking his foe clean on the chin. The Demon’s face was obliterated upon impact, but while Hideo expected its body to crash into the now stationary Dong Ping, it instead flew up into the air and sailed back from whence it came, coming to a thudding halt amid a crowd of onlooking Defiled. Now this was something Hideo could use, but as he was now, he could only Deflect a thrusting weapon a handful of centimetres at best. Mostly, he used his Deflection to bolster his parries or mitigate his foes’ attempts to do the same, much like so many other Warriors he knew, but Dong Ping had transformed his Deflection into a veritable weapon of its own. This was why no Peak Expert or Demon attempted to interrupt his spinning spears, because given the strength of his Deflection, it was akin to trying to stop a raging flood with a single stone.

Had he not witnessed these feats with his own eyes, then Hideo would’ve been hard pressed to believe them. In fact, even when he played the part of dutiful Disciple, he harboured doubts about Juichi’s ability to truly collapse mountains with a single stomp. It was hyperbole, he thought, right up until he witnessed the old fart tear down a seven-story pagoda with what looked like a casual stomp. The owner had said something nasty about Hideo’s uncles, who made fools of themselves in his establishment by getting drunk and groping the musicians. Nothing too out of line, merely a much deserved scolding, but anyone who knew him understood that Juichi’s useless sons were his reverse scale. Oh what a mess that had been, collapsing the building in the middle of the night after the owner refused to apologize for words spoken in anger, but it did well to remind the world why Mitsue Juichi still held the rank of Colonel General despite having foisted off all his responsibilities to his younger peers.

Hmph. Pride and ignorance, two of the Five Poisons demonstrated for all to see, and Hideo wouldn’t have to work hard to come up with examples of the other three. Old Juichi was a fool undeserving of his rank or status, and Hideo looked forward to seeing him toppled from his lofty perch.

