Which was what Hideo told himself to keep from growing overly frustrated at these two bastards’ boring but effective attack patterns. Their timing was too tight and left him no room to retaliate, so instead he set his mind to building up the Mountain Collapsing Strike once more. Each time he blocked a thrust or strike, he siphoned off a portion of the impact to feed his growing power reserves, building it up in anticipation of unleashing an unblockable attack. Which of the two brothers would he kill? The younger one, he decided, because the older one would feel worse for the loss, because an older brother was supposed to protect his younger sister...

A thrust slipped through during a moment of distraction and Hideo rocked back, his heart pounding in his ears as he registered the attack, one which merely slid across his Runic breastplate to no effect. Seizing the advantage, the brothers surged forward, but Hideo was done playing games. Directing his stored force to the tip of his right mace, he unleashed a Mountain Collapsing strike at the younger brother and relished the look on the older brother’s face, so much so that he forgot to even watch his attack connect.

Which was why he missed seeing how the younger brother avoided it.

Off balance from missing an intended strike, the power behind Hideo’s attack slipped out of control and the air exploded from the impact, the force of his strike hurtling out in an impotent burst of compressed air. Even though he landed on nothing, his mace stopped as if it’d struck a steel wall, and as the recoil jolted up his arm, he made a note not to store too much energy like that ever again. The impact was key, because then the stored force had a medium to travel through and the recoil would be lessened. Mentor – no, Juichi had warned him about this repeatedly, which was another reason why he used it as a stomp, because the ground would never move to dodge his attack.

Balance. The razor’s edge. Hideo fought to keep to it, his joy and rage, guilt and shame, fear and excitement warring within as the various emotions pulled him in all different directions. True Balance was powerful, but difficult to maintain, especially considering Hideo missed out on severing a vitally important thread. Dastan Zhandos must die, and it would be best if it was by Hideo’s own hands. Falling Rain was also a troublesome thread, as was Juichi, Watanabe, and all of Hideo’s uncles, aunts, cousins, and whatnot. The entire Mitsue family tree needed to be uprooted, their crimes made known to all, but that was a task for another day.

Right now, he had two common-born Warriors to kill.

The ground exploded behind him as he charged into the fray, Bull Scrapes the Ground into Oriole Takes Flight. Maces humming as they hurtled through the air, he utilized what he learned from watching Dong Ping to Deflect aside the older brother’s guard and aimed to kill the younger again, but again, the troublesome fly avoided the blow faster than Hideo could follow. It wasn’t until he saw his foe reappear several meters back that he finally noticed the Bekhai Warrior behind him, a golden-furred half-monkey with an infuriating grin.

How dare this half-breed interfere not once, but twice with Hideo’s kill.

Driven mad with fury, he blocked the older brother’s spear with the left and aimed to take the bastard’s life with the right, but now it was the older one’s turn to disappear. Again, he reappeared next to his brother, and now there were two spearmen and two golden-furred half-monkeys in sight. Blinking to clear his vision in case he was seeing double, Hideo growled and Sent for aid, a call which was answered by a burst of water which washed all four Warriors away. Lumbering into battle on legs thicker than Hideo’s torso, the pale, putrid, Water-Blessed Demon was a formidable sight to behold. Murky liquid spewed from the gaping slit down its chest, the jagged bones gnashing in a disconcerting mockery of fanged teeth. Swirling around its swollen ankles like a fetid puddle of waste and rot, the putrid fluid surged and roiled while engulfing any Imperial who drew near, even forming tendrils to deal with its more bothersome foes. An Expert arrived to engage the Demon, but was quickly swept into the waters, disappearing beneath the murky waves which barely measured half a metre high.

A burst of dark crimson billowed out from within, only to quickly fade as the current dispersed the contents about the pool, the Demon barely pausing as it sought out another foe.

Frustration mounted as Hideo watched the hulking creature at work, his sport interrupted and his desires unfulfilled. Plotting a course away from the Water Demon, he sought out a new foe to test his mettle against, but the craven Imperials had crumbled before the Chosen’s dedicated assault, and there were no worthy opponents in sight. All were either dead, dying, or otherwise engaged, and anyone who believed themselves a match for the Water Demon was likely too strong for Hideo to challenge.

While looking around for a garo to steal, he heard a rumbling in the distance. Peering up at the sky, he saw no signs of a storm overhead, with blue skies all around and nary a cloud in the sky, yet still the rumbling persisted. Searching the horizon for signs of cavalry or Imperial reinforcements, he only saw infantry locked in combat with Chosen and tribal auxiliaries, with the odd duel between Demon and Slayer. The rumbling grew in both volume and intensity, and the sound of it unnerved Hideo so, because this was not the sound of any force of nature, nor was it the clapping of hooves. No, this was something much different, something he almost recognized, but couldn’t quite identify, only knowing that he had a compelling primal reason to panic.

Then the Royal Guardians dropped their Concealment and the mounted lions let loose a unified roar of challenge, one which shook Hideo to his core and explained why he’d been so instinctually afraid. What he’d heard was the warning growl of apex predators out on the prowl, and today, here on the fields of Central, Hideo was their prey.

The world blacked out for an instant, and when he regained consciousness, everything had shifted around him, for someone had brought him back to safety. Barely able to stand on his feet, he leaned against his saviour and Scryed off into the distance, where he saw an entire mounted contingent of near Peak Experts crash into the Chosen lines and slaughter all who stood before them with laughable ease. The Chosen and Defiled were barely able to stand upright much less mount an effective, coordinated defence, and the Royal Guardians showed no mercy as they rode across the battlefield, with Experts peeling off to engage Demons and retaking lost Imperial ground atop their majestic, black-maned mounts.

A hand clamped down on his shoulder and Hideo whirled about to defend himself. Or so he thought. In reality, he merely turned his head as his feet gave out from under him, but Monk Eyebrows was there to catch him. “Peace, Junior Brother,” he said, his tone calm and reassuring. “The lions’ roar caused you grievous internal injuries. I have already fixed the worst of it, including your ruptured ears, but the damage extends to your physical mind, where this Monk dares not Heal. Come, I will bring you to the Wisdom, and he will mend you back to full.”

Hideo tried to nod and thank Eyebrows, but his body would not obey him. Smiling in understanding, the monk lifted him into his arms as gently as could be and carefully nestled Hideo’s head into the crook of his shoulder before heading away to the rear lines, clearing all from his path with a subtle use of Domain, Deflection, and Concealment. “This monk watched Junior Brother on the battlefield,” he began, making light conversation as they went. “A splendid effort and an outstanding opening strike, though this monk suggests you take a lesson or two in riding. What’s more, you must also remember not to let your emotions control you, for too much is as bad as not enough, if not worse. Your foes had aid from stronger Warriors, but fear not Junior Brother, for this monk was readied to do the same, though I must confess, it has been some time since I have done battle myself.”

Hearing how the monk worried over him, Hideo’s eyes welled up with tears. This was probably more care than Hideo’s own father ever showed him until those last few months at the end, and certainly more than Juichi ever had. This was Hideo’s Path now, one he would embark upon with his new family, the Brotherhood, but before he could begin his life anew, he first had to destroy everything he’d left behind.

Beginning with that slave Dastan, and his dog master, Falling Rain, as well as those twin pairs of spear wielding brothers. It shouldn’t be long now. The Imperials were on their last legs, and even the Royal Guardians weren’t enough to turn the tides of battle. All had gone perfectly to plan, and the Imperials had been too arrogant to even consider what to do if things should go awry. There it was again, pride, the downfall of humanity. Truly deserving a place as one of the Five Poisons, but a flaw the Uniter was more than happy to exploit.

Hideo had chosen correctly. No, there had been no other choice. No, this was what he wanted, what he yearned for. Yes. The freedom to start anew.

Closing his eyes, Hideo gave in to exhaustion and hoped for dreams of a newer, better world, one he and the Brotherhood would help shape from the ground up.

Chapter Meme
