She met Ushar’s eyes as she held the card up. The Thronebearer’s heart was pounding. She put a hand on Normen’s shoulder.
“Grandmaster Normen. You may turn back at any moment, and I will stop her. But she is willing to tell us. I implore you as a fellow [Knight] to join me.”
Normen glanced at Ushar’s countenance. He was inspecting Mrsha’s face as Ushar shifted her grip on Mrsha; the girl was heavy. The Knight of Honor’s Flame looked sideways at Elia Arcsinger, who was tense. She hadn’t forgotten the last time the two had met or what had happened. But she was being professional.
What was he to say? Normen’s lips quirked upwards, and he nodded as Ama and Sillias came through the door.
“Of course I will. As long as we are permitted to choose—the Knights of Solstice will always illuminate and judge. Do you just need us?”
For answer, Mrsha pointed.
All of you. The Knights of Solstice. Elia Arcsinger. Dame Ushar. And—her finger wavered, and she pointed at someone who was as surprised as her.
You.
A [Bard] sitting at the back of the inn, with a Drake in his lap, peered up. Numbtongue, the [Bard], stared at Mrsha, confused. No one had any clue as to what she intended, but he least of all.
Come on. Let’s go.
Mrsha pointed to the door that Rianchi and Dyeda were holding open. Ushar’s mouth was dry.
I have lost control. I am in control. Both things were true at the same time. What she did know was—
She was on Mrsha’s side. Lyonette’s.
A voice called out behind her.
“Dame Ushar! Miss Mrsha is overwrought! She should not go anywhere!”
That didn’t come from Xinthe, but one of the [Servers], the one with the digestion Skill. His face was taut; Ushar knew Queen Ielane was watching.
Strange. She seldom gave orders she couldn’t enforce.
Normen’s one eye locked with Ushar’s, and she saw his gaze gleam. Green entered his flinty eyes, studded with sparks of violet. The [Knight] slowly reached down and lifted his helmet from his belt. He addressed the server, who had stopped, broom in hand.
“I don’t know who you are, sir. But I do know you are not the owner of this inn. Stand aside. Mrsha, the garden I take it?”
The girl nodded. Elia Arcsinger took a step back.
“My orders are to guard Mrsha—”
You know where we’re going, Elia.
The half-Elf wavered. She gazed down at Mrsha.
“There? That’s not dangerous…”
She was doubtful. Mrsha’s second card made her swallow hard.
Things have changed. You’ll see. But we have to go. I’ll explain everything before anyone does anything. Come on.
She beckoned. The Knights of Solstice regarded each other, and a staff member edged over.
“Dame Ushar, we must stop them. Her Majesty’s order is quite explicit!”
Ushar heard a voice in her ear, relayed through the speaking stone. She silenced it with a finger on her ear. She turned and met the furious, intense gaze.
“I don’t believe Princess Lyonette has returned. Her daughter’s will is clear. To whom do you refer, miss?”
The Calanferian woman wavered. She gazed at Ushar, then reached for Mrsha.
“This is too far. I must stop you from—”
A hand fell on the Human woman’s shoulder.
“Stop who? You’re the new help, right? You have to learn what’s what.”
Peggy and a bunch of the Goblins were standing there. They were grinning, and Rosencrantz and the Antinium had also assembled. Peggy jerked a thumb at Mrsha.
“When something crazy in the inn happens, you don’t run away. Also, I’m the [Floor Boss]. You listen to me.”
“And me.”
Ishkr appeared with a mug, as if he were ready to throw it at anyone. He fixed Mrsha with a level stare.
“Mrsha, how much danger are you going to put yourself in?”
Virtually none. Ser Normen can stop me, but he’s the one who’ll decide. Honest. I’ll show you too, Ishkr.
The [Head Server] mulled this over and peeked around.
“Later. I’ll hold the inn down. Peggy—get our new staff in order. Guests, we’re having a discount on all orders during Solstice time. Make sure you have an escape route planned. Mrsha, over to you.”
The girl grinned, and she pointed at the [Garden].
Jewel moved first. She strode forwards, a hand on her sword. Antherr was next; Vess and Durene followed, and Normen turned.
“Should we bring backup? Or should Captain Earlia secure the inn?”
“I have no idea what’s going on!”
The Captain of Gemhammer hollered from her seat. She had a hand on her warhammer, but she was mainly eying the new staffers. The Calanferian agents were not happy, and they doubtless had orders to stop what was going on. But Peggy was cracking her knuckles, clearly ready to enforce her will if she had to.
Mrsha shook her head slightly.
We don’t need that many. Let’s go.
Elia Arcsinger began to walk uncertainly towards the door, and Normen followed. Ushar walked with them, meeting the girl’s eyes, but they turned at the door.
Are you coming?
Mrsha held up that card. The fact she had to ask hurt her. And it hurt him.
He hesitated. But here he was.
No matter who he was or how he felt—
The [Soulbard] stood. Numbtongue walked forwards, slowly, then faster. He jogged after the trio, then began running. As if he were afraid. As if he were trying to force himself to follow, despite the rage and the hurt.
Perhaps what hurt most of all was—for a moment, he forgot why he was so upset. All those excuses, all those reasons warring with the fact that this felt right. He charged after the girl as the inn descended into chaos.
The Calanferians went for Mrsha. Ushar grabbed the first hand and tossed the woman over her shoulder. Then she was striding for the door, amidst the [Knights] of Solstice. They passed through, shields raised, keeping everyone back from Mrsha and Ushar.
The mousy-haired Xinthe headbutted Peggy in the chest and knocked the [Floor Boss] back a step. She turned, threw a Drake [Infiltrator] as a dozen figures went for the door. Calanferians, Antinium, Goblins, all began a brawl with the [Spies] and inn-guests like Menolit.
A bounding shape punched through the crowd, faster, ignoring Ishkr tossing a screaming [Spy] out the window. He whirled as Earlia put the Calanferian [Spy] in a headlock, but Salkis was too fast.
“Numbtongue! Wait for m—”
Whumph.
Salkis hit the invisible barrier to the [Garden of Sanctuary] so hard that her face compressed slightly. She recoiled, felt at the door—then about fifteen other people slammed into the door along with her and slid down. Witch Alevica felt at the invisible barrier and sighed.
“Well, shit.”
She walked away, avoiding the pile of bodies. Nearly two dozen [Spies] looked at the idiots—Pallassian agents, foreign actors—and decided they liked the law of Mrsha the Spymaster just fine. They hadn’t even gotten up. One of them ordered a souffle.
Xinthe was struggling in the middle of the pile, trying to get through the door. Throwing punches with [Spies]—until someone cleared her throat from overhead.
When they all looked up, Peggy had a chair.
 
——
 
Mrsha was laughing when the door opened, and the first people stumbled and exclaimed.
“What is this? Where is—another [Garden of Sanctuary]?”
Silent wheezing was their only reply. Mrsha was still laughing at the image of a compressed Salkis lying at the bottom of a pile of people. She laughed as a suspicious Normen slid down the ropes.
He landed on the ground, glanced around, and then saw Mrsha lying on her back, laughing her stomach out and trying not to puke. The [Grandmaster]’s eyes crossed—he whirled, gazed up.
“Huh?”
That was the only thing he said until he stepped back so someone else could grab the rope. There was a faint pinging sound, an oath—
“Wormy appl—argh!”
Durene’s weight pulled the rope out of the ceiling, and she went crashing down and nearly crushed Rianchi, who leapt back. There were shouts from above.
“Durene! Are you okay?”
Vess leapt down with a [Featherfall] spell as the cursing Troll girl sat up. Durene shouted.
“I’m fine! I’m—whuh.”
She saw Mrsha, her eyes went back up, and she developed the same expression as Vess. They stood there in silence as someone called for a rope to be tossed back up. Eventually, an exasperated voice came from above.
“Oh, for the love of cats. Let me! Who uses ropes anyways!”
Bones began flying downwards, forming a staircase instead of the rope. Ama was next, followed by Antherr, who bumped into her as she twisted.
“Is it safe? What’s going on down there? Lady Arcsinger, stay above. I’ll see wh—oh.”
Ushar. When she saw the other Mrsha, still giggling, she stopped. Her face went blank. Then grew horrified.
“You got in the box?”
The little Gnoll girl held her arms up, and Dame Ushar scooped her up protectively. Last of all came Elia Arcsinger and Numbtongue.
The [Bard] stared at Rianchi and Dyeda, the [Palace of Fates]. Then…when he saw two Mrshas, one in Ushar’s arms, the other slipping out of Elia’s grasp, he blinked.
“Illusions? Did someone color Ekirra white?”
Both Mrshas glared at him. Elia massaged her arms; Mrsha was too big to be picked up like that comfortably, even for a Named-rank. The other, thinner Mrsha just patted Ushar on the shoulder.
“They’ve copied themselves. With the box. H-her Highness is going to go insane. This is wrong.”
Ushar was white-faced. Both Mrshas were writing furiously, trying to correct her. The Order of Solstice had come to similar conclusions; Ama was muttering spells, and Jewel was rubbing her eyes. Normen just stared at the [Palace of Fates]; his skin was crawling.
“Erin.”
Numbtongue glanced around. His excitement had faded, and he was getting angry again.
“What box? Someone explain what’s going on. Mrsha—is this a trick? A Skill?”
No. It’s just two of us. Two very real us, each one flesh and blood. It’s this place. It’s the power of this Skill. A Level 70 Skill. I accidentally found it thanks to the Faerie Flowers. This is the [Palace of Fates]. Erin would gain access to this place in twenty more levels.
You had to admit, that was a pretty good, succinct explanation. Mrsha had practice. Yet with that, they entered into the world of the surreal.
 
——
 
This was how they came to the [Palace of Fates], a crowd at last, and it had always been meant for crowds.
It had been meant to allow in…
Everyone.
But until the girl had fallen into this place, only one person had ever walked here, flown through these halls in despair and agony. She had begged for a place to see the future, all her futures, as she watched her empire crumble.
She watched them striding forwards, far more than one or two, or even the Goblins. True strangers, [Knights] from every species and walk of life.
How dare they? How dare they enter a place where only the greatest beings should have gained access? None of them were even Level 50. The Harpy’s wrath grew and grew, and the resentment burning in her chest would have flared out and burned cities to the ground. She, who had watched the last Empire of Harpies fall and let it fall.
The greatest student of the Dragonlord of Flame who had ever lived.
His truest failure. She opened her mouth to shriek at them until she saw how they came. These…Knights of Solstice.
At first, their steps were halting. Their voices plaintive, confused, wary, or disbelieving as they demanded all the ordinary clarifications from the two Doombearer girls. They pinched themselves. They laughed; the Goblin asked if he was drunk or dreaming.
Mundane. Insignificant. She had wearied of them, people who had no vision nor courage nor dreams. Grown bitter over the centuries she’d lived—for her kind could live long and grow vast—towards the very people who called themselves her subjects.
But then Sheta saw one of them turn and take the helmet of blue metal from his head. He stepped forwards slowly, with true fear and trepidation. Yet he walked forwards.
Beneath a gabled hallway of stained glass. Each pane of the ceiling was a different color, and it was bright.
There was no sun here. Sheta craned her head up to see it; from the mirror in which her memory was trapped, an image of her to judge and speak to the inheritors of her will who had never come, she could see a hallway she had never dreamed of.
The [Palace of Fates] had been made to reflect whomever walked in it. Each door was like a dream; picked out of the realities that lay within and the user’s own perceptions. So when they came, it was truly into a world of their own making.
This man…was scarred. Horrifically burnt. He walked forwards, uncertain in his armor. Unused to his class; she saw his [Grandmaster] class, saw his Skills, for she was beyond him. She had met men like him, riding high on their horses in legions, and torn them apart with beak and talon.
He was no stronger than his predecessors. No braver. But when he gazed up, the light that bathed his armor was oh so very splendid.
Each color a ray of light falling from overhead. The stained glass ceiling met in the center, and the sky beyond, that figment of a world beyond the [Palace of Fates], was bright and pure. That was not what fascinated Sheta. It was what was upon the stained glass and the hallway he walked in.
A contrast. The girl, Mrsha, envisioned the [Palace of Fates] and saw it like a great palace, noble and fanciful, with gold and giltwork everywhere; with long hallways of grass and carpets because she imagined that was what a magical palace would be like. The Goblin, somewhat likewise, though her palace had branching hallways, secret rooms, and the design was subtly different.
The first hallway that came to Ser Normen of the Order of Solstice was all he knew. He had never set foot in a palace. Nor ever dreamed he would. He knew this was a wondrous place, one that Erin Solstice might one day inherit.
Sheta had never met this…[Innkeeper] who had command of her [Garden of Sanctuary]. She hoped the girl was worthy of the pavilion, at least. She had left enough of herself there, too, to answer questions and be a guide. But this place?
This place was worthless, invaluable, and worthless at the same time. It had never been finished. Her dream had died with her.
Yet this man walked forwards and brought a hallway Sheta had never seen in the decades she had flown through this palace.
He walked on a city street, dirty, covered with debris, sprouts of grass emerging out of old cobblestones, the walls of the hallway that of brickwork buildings. It was a city’s street for a boy who had grown up running through an urban sprawl, one eye behind him, picking coins out of the muck. What windows there were were dirty, or if clean, never perfect. There was even graffiti on the walls, and if Sheta could have smelled anything, she rather suspected it wouldn’t have been pleasant.
