They’re not proud of being Goblins. They’re not sad about it too. They just are—and that’s the greatest tragedy of all.
She sees it.
Student Rags. That’s her name here, she supposes. She’d like to just be ‘Rags’, but if Chieftain Rags can think of herself that way, then so can this Rags. But the question is, in her mind, whether ‘Chieftain Rags’ is more archetypal of every Rags that there is. Because Student Rags feels like that’s the natural path for Rags to take.
She ran away. If she opened more doors in the [Palace of Fates], would she find that there are more Rags who are cowards than not, or that she’s an outlier? The truth can hurt.
Here she is in the Flooded Waters tribe, surrounded by Goblins who’re staring at her.
Her.
Rags. But not their Rags. She skates down the hallways, followed by Redscar and a group of warriors. He’s grumpy and upset; the battle in the mountains was a failure, and he feels responsible. Student Rags is just relieved she helped. But now they took her back to the Flooded Waters tribe, to Goblinhome, so she can see this world’s version of it, and it’s all…
Wrong.
There aren’t enough Goblins here. Goblinhome in her world isn’t this managed. It’s actually a mess; there are five times as many Goblins, and they’re always arguing over space, digging out more of the mountain, trying to get enough food—but they’re active. Strong.
Headscratcher and Pyrite lead them. Under him, Goblins are tough enough to literally beat down Frost Wyverns, and Pyrite’s mining expertise lets Goblins excavate huge portions of this mountain. Student Rags gets updates, and she thought their Goblinhome was great.
—This Goblinhome has organization. As she skates down a corridor, she forgets to follow the painted yellow lines on the floor and gets in the way of a line of Goblins. They halt in a jumble, cursing and then staring at her.
“Whoops, sorry!”
Finger-guns. They stare at the finger-guns, at her, and then one of them slowly puts a load of stones in a cart built into the hallway. The rest dump stones there—she realizes they’re mining out new rooms in the mountain. They’re dusty, tired, but they just dump stones into the cart, and a small Goblin, a child, begins sliding it down the hallway. It’s on wheels, and the contraption lets the Goblin port goods across Goblinhome.
Organization. Not just organization; fortification. Thunderbows are emplaced everywhere.
Her tribe doesn’t have Thunderbows. Headscratcher’s fought off Wyverns and sold some of the parts, but not killed so many he can make weapons out of them beyond simple clubs or axes. And the Wyvern Riders?
This tribe has Wyvern Riders. A menagerie of Frost Wyverns who’re smart and friendly enough to beg for food or curl up with their riders.
This tribe…is giving Student Rags anxiety. Because she’s here. They see her. A Rags from another world, and the first question everyone asks her is—
“So what do you think, Ch—Other Rags? What we doing wrong? What can we do better?”
Taganchiel, the [Shaman], asks. Ulvama’s the [Chief Shaman] in her world, but in this one, Taganchiel remains. He has a serious look. Not an anxious one. He’s eager. Excited, even.
Another difference; there’s this analytical feeling in the tribe. All the Goblins look at Rags, and they’re damn smart.
“I, uh—you mean things to improve on?”
“Yep. What is Goblinhome in other world doing well?”
“Well—they’re bigger by a factor of five. I think they’re halfway down into the mountain. And a lot of them are around Liscor; they’re even in the Great Plains, you know. Alliance with the Gnolls.”
Student Rags stalls for time, talking up her tribe, and Taganchiel nods and makes a note of that. Redscar grunts.
“Pretty good. Better than our Rags. What weapons they using?”
“Oh—the same stuff, mostly. Gnolls have donated a lot of bows to them, but your Thunderbows are…really good. I, uh—H-Headscratcher mentioned that there was a cave they ran into. Filled with really nasty slimes. He said they dug down and ‘to the right’ to get to it.”
“Ooh. Good to know.”
All the Goblins around Rags nod, and she tries to relax. She sweeps her eyes over the fortress.
“As for tactical improvements? I…well, I’d have to review the full schematics of the fort to improve it. You know?”
She smiles apologetically at Taganchiel, and he slaps his forehead.
“Oh, duh.”
“No worries—”
“Let me get that. Hey, you, get to wartable and get schematics for Not-Chieftain-Rags.”
Taganchiel pokes the nearest Goblin to him, and she runs to get a full plan of Goblinhome and the exterior defenses. Student Rags’ jaw drops. 
A killzone built into bunkers in the hills? Watchposts set across the mountain? Even evacuation routes and—
“You let us know what’s better and we write it all down, okay?”
Taganchiel pauses, quill ready, and Student Rags panics. Because…she can’t.
Oh, she can look at the plans and recall Niers’ lectures on how to optimize layouts, how to emplace static defenses—but the problem is that it’s nitpicking. Chieftain Rags might not have the optimal layout, but it’s damned good.
It’s…
I can’t do this. Student Rags feels like she’s meeting one of Niers’ real [Strategists], like Perorn Fleethoof, and measuring up against them. If she and Chieftain Rags went to war right now, with the same forces, she would lose.
Everyone’s waiting on her to say something smart. Just like her world, where she ran away from it all. Rags is frozen, muttering non sequiturs.
“Well, the layout on this bunker is…you want to actually put a tripwire here, see, not there, because of [Rogues]…l-let me get a quill, and I’ll just write down—but she has it this way because she’s counting on Frost Wyvern reinforcements from above. So maybe—”
She’s spiralling, and the person who notices is Prixall, the [Witch]. And Redscar. He interrupts.
“Taganchiel, this silly. Give it to other Rags later; she has to sit down and draw boring things. We busy.”
“Oh! Right! Maybe tonight?”
Taganchiel’s abashed. Prixall reaches out and points.
“Student Rags has not even seen our allies or heard of the black market contacts. We should finish showing her the rest of it, first.”
Her claw brushes Rags’ arm, and she casts a spell so subtly only Rags feels it.
[Calm].
Student Rags’ heart ceases to pound so hard. She relaxes and gives Prixall a nod.
“Yeah. Of course. Chieftain Rags is excellent, anyways. I can’t improve on much. In my world…Headscratcher is a completely different kind of leader, you know? His Goblins brawl. He punched out the Kraken Eater’s Chieftain; well, it was a close one, apparently. But I’m not leading the tribe. So…I’ll do my best on giving actionable feedback, okay?”
That satisfies everyone, and Rags keeps walking, heart rate returning to normal, ashamed, embarrassed. She’s a fraud, and she thinks they can all tell, because of course, they’re Goblins.
Redscar walks ahead of the others, and they fall back at his gesture. He glances at Student Rags now and then.
“Is it better with a Goblin Lord in Goblinhome? Headscratcher. He sort of stupid.”
Redscar can say that, having mentored the other Goblin back in the Redfang days. Student Rags grins.
“He’s not—that dumb. He’s pretty good at negotiating.”
Unmoved, the [Blademaster] scratches at his head.
“Not smart like you. Pyrite…yeah, he’s smart. But not you. Why did you leave?”
“I can’t do this. I know the other Rags can. She’s amazing. She went down to kill an Old One with a few Trolls, Goblins, and no relics? She’s…the real deal. I’m just a [Student]. Sorry. All my power comes from other people. That’s how I wanted it.”
Rags scrubs at her face, flushing, and Redscar peers at her. To her surprise, he grins.
“I like that.”
“What, me sucking?”
She glowers, and he nods, blunt as a club sometimes.
“Yeah. Knowing Rags can be nervous and weird and care more about stupid hair than anything else. It means I know how hard she’s working.”
That mollifies Student Rags, and she ducks her head, letting her hair indeed hide part of her face.
“Well, that’s good.”
They walk on, and Redscar keeps peering at her. Then he comes out with another question.
“So…what are you good at?”
“Hm? Me? Nothing like this. I can’t.”
Student Rags gestures helplessly around, and Redscar rolls his eyes.
“Yah, duh. But you good at something. Or else, why are you higher-level than our Rags? Show us what that is.”
He gives Rags a faintly outraged stare as he pokes her, hard, and she shifts, rubbing at her jacket.
“Watch the cloth. It’s expensive. I told you, I’m not better than her at strategy! I’m learning it; I daresay I could negotiate for goods and organize a supply line better with a conventional, non-Goblin army. And I’m doing standup.”
“You’re…standing up?”
Student Rags snorts at the dubious look that Redscar gives her.
“No, it’s this thing that’s popular in my…world…”
And then it hits her. She peers at him, then swivels.
“Wait, you don’t know that word. Does that mean a Goblin’s never done an interview on television before?”
“Numbtongue did. I did after Oresfell.”
“Only Numbtongue and you? No, wait—let me see it!”
Suddenly, she has an idea. Student Rags’ eyes light up, and she’s confident again. Really confident, not faking it. The Goblins stir, and one darts off to get a scrying orb. Rags begin talking, and Redscar starts to grin as the Chieftain he recognizes emerges in this stranger.
“I have an idea. There is something I can do—I need a pen, paper. Taganchiel, give me that. This is crazy, but we could run through this entire event that happened in my world.”
She stops, catches herself, and takes a breath.
“—the right way. It’s dangerous, though. Risky. We should tell it to Chieftain Rags first.”
Redscar shakes his head. He jabs a finger at his chest.
“Chieftain Rags is with Mrsha the Palace Owner. Tell me, and I’ll decide.”
“But if we mess it up—”
Student Rags hesitates, and Redscar pats her on the arm. He leans forwards, a grin on his lips. That fearless sword of Goblins in any world.
“Tell me, and I will be responsible. That how our tribe works. Chieftain Rags is not alone. And besides—you’re Rags too.”
He pokes her lightly on the chest, and someone gives Rags an approving pat on the back. Taganchiel, baring all his teeth. Other Goblins punch her arm, and Student Rags glances around and realizes—that’s how the other Rags does it. Her tribe is supporting her. Goblins slap her hand, hold out quill and paper, give her pokes of affirmation—
Poisonbite slaps Student Rags on the butt. Everyone turns and looks at Poisonbite. The Hobgoblin gives them all an encouraging thumbs up until one of her warriors slaps the back of her head. And then…Student Rags is writing.
Then she has a plan.
 
——
 
Half an hour later, they’re ready. It’s not hard, really. It takes one spell to talk with a certain Drake. A scrying orb, Redscar’s approval and cooperation, and Rags writing out a script, double-checking it for errors, and memorizing it.
Those are things she can do; [Student] Skills. The rest of it is just telling the Flooded Waters tribe what’s happening and…going for it. Rags is standing in the room of Chieftain Rags in Goblinhome, no longer on unfamiliar ground. Well, all this ground is technically unfamiliar, but it matters to her.
She wants to help. To prove she isn’t the inferior Rags. To…deliver unto this world a better future. That’s the compulsion they all face, every traveller of the [Palace of Fates]. 
So a Goblin rolls all the dice she has, even the ones people don’t know about in this world. She places a bet, smiles into the camera, and checks her hair. It’s a bit dusty from being underground, but it’s still pretty damn stylish. Enough so that even non-Goblins who have seen Rags have given her a second look.
Style matters. And Rags has it, from her casual bright jacket she poses in, hands in pockets, to her glossy pants; it’s a language, a culture like any other. Vibrant fabric, clean, strong colors, and that half-cut hairstyle are a pain in the ass to maintain.
Rags has to apply dye to the tips of her hair and go to a [Barber] every other week to keep the look; it takes time and therefore reads to people as expensive, because it’s something you have to invest money and time to maintain. It’s actually possible to pull the look off quite cheaply, but it’s still not something just anyone does.
She learned the language, you see, when she went to Baleros and studied with the Titan. The news, scrying orbs, attention—it’s a type of power, and when she abandoned battles for a while, Rags realized she was waging a different kind of war. Far less bloody and therefore infinitely preferable. But one she wanted to win.
In this war for attention, Rags clears her throat, double-checks her sneaker-skate shoelaces are tied—because dead gods, what an embarrassment if they weren’t—and then gives the signal. She waits for Leapwolf to activate the scrying mirror and sees, for a second, a familiar, worried face.
Drassi Tewing. Rags’ heart leaps in her mouth, because she’s doing this and she knows it’s risky, but she’s doing it again, so she’s had practice. 
“—And now a, uh, a segment from a very interesting caller. I don’t know how to intro this, so I’ll just say this is ‘Rags’—excuse me, Chieftain Rags. Of the Flooded Waters tribe.”
The Drake speaks into a camera, gazing to the side. She’s actually smoother than the Drassi that Rags knows by a hair, oddly more poised and less excitable. But nervous. Rags waits for the mirror to go blank—not reflecting anything at all—before she begins. She looks into the mirror, enunciating each word, but keeping her voice casual. Conversational.
“Hey, everyone, good morning! I feel like someone’s sent me an [Inspiring Moment] for the day. Sure beats a [Hail of Arrows] Skill. Or a [Fireball]. Anyone ever woken up to one of those landing next to your tent? Just me?”
She looks around casually, then takes her hands out of her pockets. In the background, Poisonbite and her coven of female warriors are staring, open-mouthed. Redscar is watching with an evil grin. 
They’re in Goblinhome. For now, in Rags’ room. There’s a lot of pillows in here; this world’s Rags has good taste, even if Student Rags loves her dorm rooms in Elvallian more. But not for long. Rags begins walking, and Leapwolf keeps pace with her, making sure the mirror is steady, using Skills so his pacing is as smooth and level as butter. And Rags—continues.
