“Numb, I don’t want to be here if my father gets back. And neither do you. Let’s go already—damn it.”
He was striding over to the huge trunk, as if he wanted to climb up it. Which would be funny, but Salkis was purely unhappy being here. Numbtongue called over to her.
“I want a mango. Even the inn doesn’t have many. You get free mangos?”
His look was so accusatory she defended herself.
“It’s magically grown. Mango trees don’t get this big—and mangos get old.”
“They do not. You could eat a mango every day. You could have mango smoothies. Mango ice cream. Mango juice—this is a great idea.”
Salkis rolled her eyes.
“They get everywhere, the tree smells, we get bugs—not that Melika cares because she eats them when Werdin isn’t looking.”
“And mangos.”
Salkis stomped over as Numbtongue tried to shimmy up the tree trunk.
“We don’t even eat them! Melika donates them to ‘needy people’ in Pallass every week. Just to look good.”
“…So she’s giving people free mangos?”
The [Knifemistress] threw up her arms.
“I don’t like how good you’re making it sound! Come on, we’ll just get one from the kitchen—”
She broke off as a familiar, yellow-plumed figure flew out of the second floor. She had bright red feathers on her wings, green and even blue around her head—which Salkis knew for a fact she dyed. Melika Blackwing, wearing a fluttering dress that complimented her feathers, landed on a branch, plucked a mango, and tossed it down.
“Here you are. Salkis, my dear! I was so worried!”
She flew down, and Salkis groaned. Numbtongue caught the mango and waved at Melika. The Garuda was beaming, and Salkis folded her arms.
“I just came back so my dad doesn’t call the Watch on me. Let him know I came back, would you?”
“You can’t stay? I was going to a luncheon, but I can absolutely reschedule. Are you well, Salkis? Do you have enough gold? You’re not looking poorly—are you taking care of her, Numb?”
The Garuda flitted around Salkis, inspecting her, and Salkis resisted the urge to push her away. Then Melika favored Numbtongue with a smile, and he grinned as he chomped on the mango.
“I am. Your tree’s great. No one told me it made fruits.”
He’d visited first during the winter, so he hadn’t noticed what kind of tree it was. Melika’s face lit up, and she chattered—she was good at that, as a [Socialite].
“Thank you! It was an ordeal convincing Werdin to remodel this apartment. He stopped protesting when we started winning awards, but I thought—if it’s going to be a tree, it might as well have a purpose, don’t you think? It’s the Oteslian-modern style, you know. And it feels to me as though all the plantlife makes it easier to breathe, confined in this stone city. Don’t you think? Do you two have time to have a snack, at least? The [Chef] could whip something up.”
Numbtongue patted his stomach.
“Maybe…”
Salkis seized his arm.
“We have to get going. It’s good to see you, Melika. Try to keep my dad from going insane, would you?”
She glowered, and the Garuda’s face fell slightly, but she nodded.
“I will. He does worry about you, Salkis. But I know he can be controlling—I’ll tell him you were looking well. He’s been stressed about the New Lands, you know—”
“Tragic. We’re going. See you. Good luck on your luncheon or whatever.”
“Bye, Melika.”
“Farewell, Numbtongue, Salkis—”
The Garuda tried to flutter after them, but Salkis dragged them out the front door and shut it in her face. When they were on their way out, Numbtongue gave her a reproachful look.
“You were being rude.”
“I said goodbye, and I said good to see you! What more do you want from me?”
She snapped, hands on her daggers, ready for a fight. Numbtongue licked his fingers free of mango juice as he handed it to her. She took a bite and reluctantly savored the sweet fruit.
“I thought she was stupid when you told me about her. She’s smart.”
“She married into the family for wealth and status. Numbtongue. She’s like a thousand women, angling for a big catch.”
“Yeah, well, she hooked the right fish. I think she likes you. She covers for you—and she knows who I am.”
The Drake hadn’t noticed that, and she looked back worriedly. She had said ‘Numbtongue’, not his assumed name.
“Do you think she’s going to tell…?”
“Your dad? If she did, he’d have sent the Watch after us. Like I said—she’s nice. Next time, talk to her, would you? Good job.”
Another pat on the head. Salkis glowered. But then he distracted her by trying to lick her claws free of mango juice, and that made her forget to argue about anything. She—supposed he had a point. About some things. Salkis still hated Melika for taking over. If her actual mother were still here, she’d….
Melika was just Melika. They didn’t have to visit much. The [Corruptor] pointedly angled them towards the elevators. 8th Floor, The Wandering Inn. She had to get Numbtongue thinking like her. The inn was better; he was unhappier there. His smile faded as they ascended the elevators, and Salkis relaxed slightly. She sometimes felt guilty when she came home, or in his company.
She didn’t like that. It was a new feeling, wondering if she was doing something—wrong. She wondered where it was coming from.
 
——
 
It is the 21st day of the 1st month, Caelhic. Spring. The year is 24 A.F. The Floodplains are filled with rain. Lyonette du Marquin has journeyed to meet the beings who rescued her daughters during the Winter Solstice. Chieftain Rags has returned alive from the mountain. Two Ragses. The secret of the [Palace of Fates] is slowly being unveiled.
A Goblin and Drake walk into the inn, disheveled and smelling like cheap beer. Numbtongue finds Asgra cleaning a table and asks where everyone is. She peers at him and asks where he’s been.
He scowls at her. He’d been smiling before, but with each step into the inn, he seems to draw in more on himself. Glances from people who know him seem to dig into his skin like barbs. It’s the accusatory tone he hears, whether it’s there or not.
Numbtongue tells Asgra to mind her business. He asks where everyone is. Asgra sticks her tongue out at Salkis and points to Mrsha, who’s seated at the bar. Numbtongue sits down and orders a drink. Mrsha looks at him and tries to give him a hug as Sammial Veltras pinches his nose and complains about the smell.
Numbtongue blocks Mrsha with one arm. He perches there, pointedly looking around and asking where Lyonette is.
Ishkr does not serve him a drink. The Goblin glowers at Mrsha. She hasn’t done anything yet, but she’s looking at him oddly, and he expects to be lectured or harassed any second.
The thin girl stares back at Numbtongue, and he tells her not to mess around. He’s had a bad day.
Sammial tosses his drink at Numbtongue.
 
——
 
It is the 31st day of the 14th month of the year. Winter. The year is 23 A.F. The beach garden is a new hit in Liscor, and a massive Solstice party has been planned with notables such as the Titan, Cyclops, Lord Tyrion Veltras, Perorn Fleethoof, and Lady Pryde Ulta, among others.
Pyrite Goldstone stops at the bar just before dawn. He’s sleep deprived. A long night of thinking will do that. However, he slips behind the counter and begins mixing a drink.
Since the inn lost its dedicated [Bartender] in Drassi, Pyrite took over the role. He mixes up a coffee: a Pyrite-coffee. Which is to say, whatever coffee beans were burnt mixed with goat’s milk and an orange slice squeezed into the cup. Since he needs to think, he adds in a half-shot of stamina potion.
“Dead gods. The taste of that probably wakes you up as much as the contents. Can you do a second order?”
Pyrite doesn’t whirl or jump. He looks over, and Niers Astoragon tips an iconic hat at him. The oversized red feather is a bit battered from a night of fun, and Niers has a faint tan.
“Had fun in the beach?”
The Titan is still in swim-trunks. He waves a hand as he walks over to a shot glass that Pyrite fills with some of his concoction. He’s the spirit of casualness; it doesn’t fool Pyrite. The Titan is never casual around Goblins.
“Oh, a grand old time. We had a war between a few of the beachside mansions. Lots of couples being formed; I think there was a miniature war between Mrsha, Ksmvr, and various sides trying to help Senior Guardsman Relc and Archmage Valeterisa get together. And then I think Lady Pryde and Grimalkin had a mutual meeting of minds. Or a flexing competition. We’ll see on that one; it’ll make Pallass interesting, to say the least.”
He flashes a grin. Pyrite almost thinks he can see the gears whirring in Niers’ head, analyzing each situation, seeing the vulnerabilities and things to exploit. To Pyrite, Niers’ head isn’t full of clockwork parts, though, like Kevin’s Solar Cycles. Of course not. Niers is far too complex for that. Pyrite imagines a spider’s web of infinite complexity, balancing all the possibilities, interwoven—that’s one of Niers’ ideas folded up into that Fraerling’s miniature head.
What does the Titan see when he studies Pyrite? An overweight Goblin with a stained ‘Kiss the Chef’ apron on? Or perhaps the real power behind the Flooded Waters tribe? A Goblin who earned Greydath’s respect? 
That simple gaze as Pyrite sips his coffee is much like the flavor to Niers. Blunt and crude at first, but each part of it deliberately done; burnt beans because someone should eat them to avoid waste. Citrus? Cuts the bitter flavor and adds a tang. In a world of burgeoning coffee-enjoyers and Earthers, the Hobgoblin experimented and came up with his favorite coffee himself.
It’s not the first time the two have talked, but Niers feels as though something is up. He leans against the shot glass, using it as a perch as he scoops mugfuls of liquid out and drinks.
“I was up late.”
“Playing chess with Erin?”
“Just a few games. Talking, really. She was searching for Rags. You wouldn’t happen to have seen her, would you?”
The fact that Erin wants to talk with Rags more than Niers isn’t hurtful. Or so the Titan rationalizes. Pyrite shrugs.
“Nope.”
Sip. Sip. After a second, the Goblin grunts.
“I have a question, Titan.”
“Go for it. I’m a goldmine of answers and charitable with them. This is the best winter break I’ve had in…well, I don’t have them. I’m getting old. And soft.”
The Hobgoblin ignores this since it’s bait. He grunts, burps, and speaks.
“In Fraerling Cities, The Last Box. How many have you seen open?”
Out of the corner of his eye, Pyrite sees Niers freeze a second. The Fraerling is good, but he’s no actor. Niers slowly drinks down his mug, wipes his mouth, and laughs.
“Sorry, but they don’t open. I don’t know where you heard that, but…not every city has a box. And they’re all different. Each city thinks that their box contains something special. Open them all and see what’s inside. The last work of Gnomes, you know? Why?”
He waits, expecting Pyrite to come back with a reply, to probe for more information. It isn’t inconceivable the Goblin has heard of The Last Box from someone—Greydath—and Niers is trying to outthink the conversation, see what to share and what to gain in return.
But Pyrite isn’t in the mood for a game of wits. He has his answer the moment he sees Niers react.
The other Mrsha is telling the truth.
So he sips at his coffee and sighs.
“I just wondered what was in there.”
“So do we all.”
The Titan sounds jocular and relaxed and goes for another drink of his coffee. Pyrite thinks that four cups of his coffee is pushing the limit. 
If I ask if Paeth-on-the-Coast is a real place, he may try to kill me. No more confirmations. Pyrite must believe or he must not, and he has felt the girl’s words pulling at his very…what? Soul? The strings of fate that link him to his true death?
I am but a figment of a Skill, but I can think. If I think, therefore I am, as Troydel once said. But I am positive he quoted that without knowing the meaning. The real question is: if I think, what can I do that matters with the time I have?
He stands there, pondering and wondering where Rags is. Pyrite grunts.
“Coffee’s hot.”
“…Indeed it is.”
Downstairs, a rat scurries around the basement. It’s undead. 
The Necromancer is listening with half an ear, working on a Christmas present for Pisces; a real secret gift. He hasn’t abandoned his plans to take revenge, but the Horns have a promising career, and dead gods, it’s Christmas. He can wait a year or two and see how things play out…
Az’kerash wonders what Pyrite’s coffee tastes like.
 
——
 
Kevin Hall hasn’t slept either. He’s speaking. Rambling, really.
“What if she’s right?”
No one responds. Kevin paces down the floor, turns, comes back. He’s heard the expression ‘wearing a hole in the floor’ but never thought it was literal. Until now. His feet hurt. He’s been walking for hours, but he can’t stop.
“I can’t explain it. But she—she said it to me, and I felt I was dead. That’s not a joke. That—I know. I knew. If it’s a trick, well, fuck me, because I believe that more than I believe anything else in any world. You could convince me I was in a simulation or—or actually a floating brain in a tank. I know she’s telling the truth. Which means this place is fake. Which means if the Skill ends, we’re dead. And she’s offering me—me—a way out.”
He scrubs at his blonde hair. He’s sweating. He’s panicking, but worst of all, he just…he sits down on his bed.
“But why me?”
That part makes no sense. He and Mrsha like each other. They’re pals. She’s not his biggest fan. She loves his skateboards; he can see how she’d miss him. He’s flattered. But…Kevin looks up, and his gaze is lost. He’s not…
Halrac Everam sits there. Halrac. And…Headscratcher. The two of them are silent. Halrac’s face is frozen in that grimace of his. Disbelief. Headscratcher is doubtful, but he sits there. Head bowed.
Thinking.
“…[Insanity] runes.”
The leader of Griffon Hunt speaks at last. Kevin glances at him, and Halrac shrugs.
“The door connects to Celum, and Captain Earlia was removing the traps from Albez, remember? What if she ran into a shipment of the runes and…or she hit her head? Her moving around the inn, all of this can be explained by a malign Skill or injury. First thing tomorrow, we get the best [Healer] in Pallass to take a look at her.”
“Dude. Halrac!”
Kevin grabs at his hair. He shakes his head.
“She’s not hallucinating or hurt. The first thing everyone did was check her when Mrsha—I mean, our Mrsha—came back, remember? This Mrsha’s different. She’s older. She scares me, man. She’s like—like—”
He searches for words, and Headscratcher says it.
“Like a Goblin child.”
