The psychology of spies was something Mrsha hadn’t accounted for, it seemed. Not the threat. It was ridiculous, being threatened by a child, but that was just the nature of the game. This was a group of people who’d note a threat from a child and read into it. They believed Mrsha, but her methodology struck the assembled spies as odd.
They were all intelligence operatives. A sizable portion of The Wandering Inn’s clientele was actually just…informants. Covert operatives—whether they were freelance, worked for a Walled City, the highest bidder, or reported to foreign powers, this was a job.
This was a job in many cases, which you had to understand meant you were not here to get hurt or die. When Vaulont the Ash, Shriekblade, or even a Thronebearer drew a sword, they didn’t throw themselves into situations where they could get hurt.
Being a snoop wasn’t really a fun job. There were perks, like getting to travel, being the one everyone turned to, but the risk of being beaten or killed was there even for ‘light’ work. The Wandering Inn had reclassified itself as a place where things happened.
Of course, unlike Calanfer or Germina, the penalty for messing up or learning more than the local ruler wanted wasn’t a painful death—and the upsides meant the potential to enrich yourself was great.
The native spy population at the inn and surrounding areas had also been artificially increased due to overfeeding by the locals. A certain [Innkeeper] had treated the spies like pigeons, feeding them, treating them decently, and so their population had boomed until the Winter Solstice.
True, she’d pruned them with Shriekblade, but the rules had been fairly obvious. Don’t pry too deep, don’t put listening spells anywhere, sit in the inn, tip the Goblins and Antinium, and you got to eat and drink while writing down what was going on.
A cushy job. After Erin Solstice had become persona non grata, the job market had dried up and lots of informants had turned to the New Lands and other sources of work. It was sad, really. This had been a nice job.
Cut to present day and it was clear that The Wandering Inn was back in business for Solstice events. Everyone who’d left was regretting not hanging in there—but it wasn’t pleasant, was it?
Calanferians were pains in anyone’s posterior. They were very good at counterintelligence—and the nations who wanted knowledge about The Wandering Inn weren’t treating the inn like a novelty. Many were hostile, and so you had bad actors coming in—saboteurs mixing with your non-violent [Snoops]. You had professionals, a degree of risk in who you reported to, and now a child was threatening you.
Well…so what? She clearly did have intelligence. If you thought about it logically, that [Agent], Xinthe, hadn’t given Mrsha her name. Her reaction was far too genuine, and Calanfer would never give even a [Princess], let alone her child, the real name of someone. It was far too dangerous.
But let’s assume Mrsha outed a bunch of spies. That could get—unpleasant—but for the independents, it was merely embarrassing rather than deadly. The threat was really for state actors.
This was the internal calculus every spy was making as they relaxed, playing it cool. The girl was just threatening them like, well, a child. No notion of the deeper game. Hand a little girl the names of every spy in a hundred miles and she’d just try to bully them. Sips of beer and ale were taken. French fries were munched.
Then Mrsha wrote in the air again.
If I have a bad day, I’ll write someone’s name on this card.
She brandished her threatening card at them and got bland smiles. Blank looks. Innocent stares. Even effulgent innocence. Mrsha smiled crookedly and kept writing.
—Then, I’ll send this card to Three-Color Stalker.
Over two dozen throats suddenly found it hard to swallow. No one visibly broke cover, but there might have been an increase in the amount of perspiration in the room. A rising of body temperatures.
That…that was a good threat. Even if it was a bluff. It was cold as ice. Three-Color Stalker killed. And everyone knew she didn’t just work alone.
Now, everyone was reconsidering the threat. Your name on a direct line to Three-Color Stalker? Spies began reviewing work in the north or south—not here. But the girl wasn’t done. She tapped the table for everyone’s attention. Now, everyone was watching her.
Xinthe, face openly innocent, Dame Ushar, the Calanferians, even the regular staff. Goblins and Antinium and everyone else. Watching Mrsha. Judging her. Mrsha’s posture was casual. Her cursive was immaculate. She drew a smiley face in the air, then wrote.
That’s if I have a bad day. I don’t want to bother Three-Color Stalker, right? She eats muffins. I don’t think muffins are that great. But I’d write on a card to her—if I had to. If my day got ruined by someone being mean to me. There’s a big difference between being mean to me and just playing around in the inn. You know?
A difference? Mrsha nodded and sipped from her teacup.
Everyone can say things about me that are bullying—but in a nice way. I weigh too much, I have a secret allowance I spend on cookies, there’s a new recipe in the inn—that’s just fun. Right? But if I got hurt or I had a super-secret diary and someone took it and told everyone what was in it—that’s mean. Then we’re not friends. But who’d do that?
She looked around innocently, wrinkling her nose up.
This inn’s always been full of nice people. And a few jerks who have to learn their lessons. I just hope people don’t ruin my day, that’s all. Even if there’s no Tessa or Vaulont, everyone should be nice. Right?
The girl gave Xinthe big, soulful, innocent eyes, and the spies blinked. They picked up what Mrsha was putting down, of course. When you put your cards face up on the table like that, you’d have to be an idiot to read them wrong. But it was so…
The girl sat there, sipping tea, balancing the cup in three fingers, lounging back against her table, and she sat with one leg crossed over the other. In a kilt, yes. With a blue, fuzzy beanie, true. But for a moment, the poise, the delivery, brought more than one to mind of a [Stateswoman] delivering an address.
This is my deal to you. Don’t go too far. The girl’s eyes flicked around the room. Once upon a time, it had been the law of the inn, held by Erin Solstice. Then it had been the tyranny of Shriekblade, the unpredictable danger of Tessa. After that, Vaulont the Ash had imposed a quiet lockdown—and the spies had come back when he was gone.
Now, here was a reminder it didn’t matter. The law of the inn was now the Rule of Mrsha, and it was a little card and appeal not to be mean.
—She’d burned Xinthe in front of them, revealed the woman’s identity just to prove a point. Now she was cutting a deal to the room at large.
Slowly, one of the informants, a Drowned Man, double-checked his report. His name was Nollesc, and the inn had been good to him. He’d stayed; it wasn’t like he bore the inn any ill will. Quietly, he adjusted his notes.
He removed a line about Lyonette leaving the inn currently undefended. Altered the wording on Calanferian agents entering the 6th Princess’ employ and wrote a brief note suggesting the Queen of Calanfer might have sent the servants to mind her daughter. And he decided he didn’t need to know what was going on in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He’d sit here, have a drink, and report it an hour or a day slower.
Nollesc’s actions did not go unnoticed. More than one spy using a mirror to read their peer’s handwriting corrected their own papers. Others hesitated. Weighing the risk vs rewards. She was just a girl…
Mrsha finished her debut by raising the remnants of her tea to the inn. She toasted the guests silently and downed the remainder of the tea.
To all the people I won’t see again: Chauild, Merdess of Zeres, Goingeld, Maxten the [Snitch], and Jerimila…especially you, Jerimila. Tell King Nuvityn that his son was almost never a good man.
She put the teacup down on the table, and there it was. The dagger in the open. The dead body lying on the table. Not the literal dead body, of course—but the sight of a half-Elf jerking to her feet, going dead white, and then turning to stare around the room?
Jerimila peered at Mrsha, at the Calanferians, and then raced out of the inn in a dead run. She didn’t even use the portal door—she just took off along one of the footbridges over the water. The rest of the spies fell silent, glancing from face to face, wondering who the other four named were.
If they were wise…they wouldn’t be here tomorrow. That was the silent consensus. Mrsha sat there, face blank, then turned.
Xinthe? I’d like some chocolate milk. And can I buy a round for the entire inn? Goat’s milk with whipped cream. Heavy on the chocolate.
“O-of course, Miss Mrsha.”
The young woman bowed, and Mrsha sat there. She sighed as she sat back in her chair. The inn began to bustle again, and in the background, a voice spoke.
“I have no idea what’s going on. But I’ll take the free chocolate milk.”
Menolit looked around and wondered what the heck all that had been about.
 
——
 
Dame Ushar realized she wasn’t breathing after a while and finally let out a huge breath and gasped for air. It was the sight of Mrsha blowing bubbles into her chocolate milk that snapped her out of the trance.
That was—Her Highness didn’t tell Mrsha to do that. Even Nanette wasn’t that cold blooded. Someone had to tell her. Surely.
That was Ushar’s silly forebrain, coming up with excuses when she knew it was Mrsha who’d just pulled that political maneuver off. She was eight. Queen Ielane—Ushar would have sold her codpiece to be a fly on the wall of the Eternal Throne to get her take on that display.
Yes, it was blunt unlike the keen edge of Queen Ielane’s intrigue. But for someone that people treated like a child? For Mrsha? It was uncanny. Frightening. And it only confirmed Ushar’s instincts, painted them in bright red letters in her head.
This was not normal Mrsha. Something was terribly wrong, and she had to figure it out. But what was it?
Everyone was walking wide of the girl right now, everyone who practiced spycraft, at least. Even the Calanferians were giving Ushar a side-eye, as if suspecting she’d coached Mrsha into doing that. But all the girl did was sip her chocolate milk, then scribble a note. She handed it to Asgra with orders to take it to Rianchi.
Rianchi, the [Cyclist] Goblin, who’d disappeared into the [Garden of Sanctuary], where no one but Ushar could follow. Obviously, the moment she did that, people used [Copy Script] to read what she’d said. Xinthe did it for Ushar and handed her the note. What was startling was…six people in the inn did it. Only six.
The note had read:
Rianchi, I’m thinking Apista needs another bath. It’s getting messy in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Can you get Dyeda to do it?
…Which was obviously a code. Mrsha was too clever, and Ushar regretted teaching her and Nanette a bit of spycraft. Unless it wasn’t a code? No, it was definitely a code, but what the hell did it mean?
“I was thinking I could give some of the new staff access to the [Garden of Sanctuary], Miss Mrsha. Miss C—Xinthe hasn’t even seen it, yet.”
Ushar tried that thought out, just to see the girl react. But the thin, intense girl just glanced up at her from the gruel and handed her a notecard.
Sure, if you’re okay with them taking everything out in boxes and looting all of Erin’s stuff.
The damn box. And they would probably put spying spells everywhere for Her Majesty. Ushar cursed to herself as she gave Mrsha a smile and brushed the idea off. She wished Sest were here. He would have been more trustworthy. He had been. That…
“I wouldn’t be so indecorous, Miss Mrsha!”
Xinthe protested weakly, but Mrsha just gave her a look.
Why don’t you make sure Miss Ebente isn’t worried for my health? I’m sure you could talk to her, Xinthe.
With no recourse beyond outright refusal, the [Server] walked out of the inn. Mrsha went back to sipping the chocolate milk with that faraway look in her eyes. And Ushar waited. It was like a knife balanced on its point. One thing would move, and then everything would begin.
She was sure of that. And when it came, it was as obvious as it could be.
Rianchi sidled back into the inn and came over to Mrsha. Ushar instantly became alert.
“Hey, Mrsha, Apista’s putting up a fuss. Can you go over and help?”
Sure.
Instantly, Ushar grew alarmed and stepped forwards to half-block the Goblin. Rianchi backed up from her, hands raised.
“Miss Mrsha, don’t go off without me.”
Don’t be silly, Ushar. Come on.
To Ushar’s complete surprise, Mrsha slid out of the table and gave her an indignant look. She walked calmly over to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She let Ushar go first.
The Thronebearer wasn’t fooled by that move. She took hold of Mrsha’s paw.
“Let’s go together, Miss Mrsha, shall we?”
The girl hesitated. Then she shrugged. They stepped into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and Mrsha wrote one-handed, with her wand.
Apista’s in the jungle. Let’s go finish that bath.
Ushar was alert for any tricks, any attempts to escape! But Mrsha just walked into the thick jungle foliage towards Apista’s nest. Ushar glanced over her shoulder, for Rianchi. But he just wandered off in the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Miss Mrsha, your mother is terrified. If you’re hurt or I lose you, I will lose my position. You wouldn’t want that for me, would you?”
It was a sign of how much control Ushar thought she had that she went to guilt Mrsha. The girl was too calm. She was scaring Ushar. She reminded the Thronebearer of when one of the [Princesses] got truly quiet. That was when they did things far beyond mere pranks or infighting.
Ushar tightened her grip on Mrsha’s paw, and the girl winced.
Ushar, you’re hurting my paw. Don’t worry. You’re not going to lose me.
She held the card up with a smile. The Thronebearer hesitated. Her grip loosened slightly.
Then the flaming bee landed on her face. The giant Ashbringer Scourgebee.
Ushar tried to hold onto Mrsha’s paw. She really did. But even as she was fighting one-handed with the bee clinging to her face, Mrsha cast a spell.
A clump of grass exploded from her paw, forcing Ushar’s fingers away. She vanished, and Ushar tore the bee from her face.
“Mrsha! No! Don’t—”
She saw a white blur in the forest and leapt forwards—and Mrsha, fur puffed out in her [Fur of the Fortress] Skill, slammed into Ushar’s stomach.
Since the woman was armored, Ushar barely recoiled, and Mrsha hit the ground, rolled, and leapt up.
Ow. Hey, quit fighting Apista, Ushar! Looks like she’s not in the mood for a bath. Come on. Let’s get out of here.
