Nokha’s ears are ringing. In the distance, bells begin to sound as the Watch see the Raskghar creeping towards them. An [Innkeeper] whirls and begins to run, realizing what has happened. All the Raskghar knows is that this is all going wrong.
Nokha must flee. She must live. There are two white Gnolls, and if she can only live, she will surely devour one. She will be stronger!
“Ser Normen. Finish it!”
The Thronebearer calls out, pivoting to guard Mrsha from Nokha, and the Raskghar twists. The [Knight] is running at her. She raises her axe. One blow, disengage, and—
Thunk.
The Raskghar falters mid-pivot. The arrow nails her foot to the ground. Out of the corner of her eye, she sees the half-Elf lower her bow and stride to a window. Elia Arcsinger begins taking shots at the Raskghar attacking Liscor.
No. Nokha swings her axe. She sees the [Knight] draw back his mace, and then it grows. He swings it at her, and it’s the size of a vast bell. Larger—it meets her axe, and the weapon gives in front of it. Nokha tries t—
 
——
 
A body hits the wall and caves part of it inwards. The thud is heavy. The sound of death. A furry mass of blood and bone collapses, but it’s splintered. Broken, crushed by the impact.
[Wallbreaker Hammer].
Mrsha’s lungs hurt. She pants for air, and that sound—she’ll hear it for a long time thereafter. Perhaps children shouldn’t hear such things.
But she has seen Nokha’s leering face in her dreams too many times. This is better.
Not for this world. Never again.
Normen strides over to Nokha. He’s fast; he kicks her, as if expecting the body to move, but even when she doesn’t, he pours a jar of acid on the remains. Then he turns.
The Raskghar are dead. Normen blinks, but counting Elia and Numbtongue, the Order of Solstice matched them in numbers. The last one is dead; Numbtongue lowers the sword he used to behead the fleeing Raskghar.
The air is quiet now. Well, not completely quiet. There are plenty of sounds. Panting lungs, dripping blood, and the creak of settling floors. In the distance, there’s horns blowing, shouting, but the inn is quiet. The Knights of Solstice stand there, peering at a scene none of them ever witnessed, but were told.
Changed. For the better.
A quavering voice fills the sudden silence.
“N-Numbtongue? H-how? Who are—you! Did my mother send you?”
Lyonette, face white, guarded by Ama, a little Gnoll girl in her arms, emerges from cover. A staggering Brunkr feels at his chest, and then he runs over to her. Lyonette points a finger at Dame Ushar, who bows reflexively.
“Your Highness. Are you injured? Is that all of them, Ama?”
“[Detect Life] shows me nothing. What about the walls?”
“Elia’s hitting them. They’re running. Do we help or…?”
Vess searches around, and every eye falls on Normen, but he’s watching the other white Gnoll. Mrsha stands there as Lyonette focuses on her, and the [Princess]’ eyes widen. She gazes down at the child in her arms, and little Mrsha stares at an older version of her.
Not that older—but so much more so. Mrsha walks forward and writes in the air with a glowing wand.
This should be everything. Erin will be here any second. Hello, me.
The little Mrsha blinks at the words and reaches out to touch one glowing letter. And the older Mrsha realizes from the blank stare…
She might not know how to read perfectly yet.
Lyonette and Brunkr can, though, and they recoil in shock. They’re both dumbfounded, but Mrsha just nods to Normen. The [Grandmaster] is smiling. It makes him look only slightly villainous, but he nods back to Mrsha.
“This was worth doing. Ser Brunkr, I am Normen, Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice. We have come to your aid.”
He goes to one knee, lowering his head. Instantly, the other [Knights] do—except for Ama. She only does the same when they glare at her.
“Adventurer Arcsinger. How…?”
Elia Arcsinger is the second person that Lyonette recognizes. The Named-rank stands there, cool-faced and impressive, posing with her bow. Brunkr is frozen.
“Knights of…what?”
He can’t keep up with what’s going on. It seems, to him, as if Gold-rank adventurers or the heroic knights of Terandria that he grew up reading stories of have stepped out of the air to save the day.
If someone told him they were part of the Thousand Lances of Kaaz, he would have believed them. That’s how impressive they seem to him. How unearthly.
Look—an Antinium with a greatsword, burning with green flames. A [Necromancer]-[Knight] sitting astride an undead cat like some kind of fantasy [Knight] of Noelictus. The half-Troll [Paladin], who winks at him, one eye glittering with gentle red flames.
Even the Drake, for all he’s slimmer and relatively unarmored, has that spark of the fantastical about him. Grey flames that shimmer into being around him, like will o’ wisps. The ones called Jewel and Normen both seem like veteran warriors, especially Normen with all his scars.
Jewel has a beret on her head, a feather in its cap, and a light set of enchanted armor; a metal cuirass complimented by cloth armor, bright blue and yellow, and her sword glitters as she shakes blood off of it.
Ser Normen, the leader of them all, stands in blue armor where red blood clings to it, but not in spatters, but pearls of blood that shift with his movement. Green acid hangs from his mace, and his one eye blazes green. The flame isn’t natural. It seems to judge Brunkr, and he fears it.
That’s what surprises the Knights of Solstice. The Gnoll shrinks back from the fire. What did they expect?
Ser Normen has never met Brunkr. He knows of him as a name, a person who came first, before even Numbtongue and the others. But he does not…know Brunkr’s deeds. In his head, he came to meet a man like Crimshaw. Someone who was there and mattered, who put his hat on the ground and died then and there.
—What he sees is not a beacon of honor, a flaming lighthouse blazing into the night, illuminating the entire Floodplains. He sees someone whose honor flickers even in his own eyes. Who…isn’t sure if he is honorable.
A Gnoll who went after a Doombringer. A young man aspiring towards a legend, someone with the class, but younger than even Ser Normen. No hero.
Is this the founder of the Knights of Solstice? He does not blaze with glory in Jewel’s eyes, nor is he covered in kindness nor mercy, to Durene and Vess. Even the depths of his sorrow are a pale fire to Ama.
He’s just a man. Gazing at them like figures of legend, and then they realize what Mrsha meant. This truly was no rescue of a legend. They are not here to meet the inspiration, the spark that formed their knight order.
When Erin Solstice spoke of Brunkr as the first Knight of Solstice, she was being kind. He would not be ready if they offered him a flame.
That hurts. The [Innkeeper] lied, as she often did, with a smile, in honor of a dead Gnoll. But because he’s done this before, because he has been in this inn—Ser Normen looks again at Brunkr.
And he thinks he’s looking in a mirror, at a [Thug] of a man willing to work at an inn for easy pay and free beer. No, the young Gnoll [Knight] is not ready. But one day, he might be.
—The child is peering at him. Mrsha gazes up at Normen, and without a word, he removes his helmet. Nods to her. She nods back, and Normen holds out his hand.
“Knight Brunkr? I am Ser Normen, Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice. Well met.”
“W-well met? Thank you. How…?”
The Gnoll takes the gauntleted hand gingerly. He gapes at the [Knights] kneeling there, at Lyonette, then at the other Mrsha. Then he sees Ser Normen smile. In that moment, Brunkr’s eyes catch a tiny spark of that green flame and he sees something he wishes to be. And that—
That is worth it for the Knights of Solstice. They step back then, waiting for what comes next. Which confuses Brunkr, and the [Princess]. Aren’t they in charge?
Lyonette looks to the Thronebearer, whom she thinks she almost recognizes. But the Thronebearer is just waiting, and her eyes, everyone’s eyes are fixed on…
The child. The girl standing on two legs, familiar and different.
Mrsha.
When Brunkr meets her eyes, they both flinch. As if, somehow, he’s as terrifying to her as she is to him, the familiar-unfamiliar child leading a band of high-level warriors to his rescue. Mrsha glances at the remains of Nokha, at her younger self, at Lyonette, and takes a deep breath. Then she reaches into one pocket and hands Brunkr a pre-written card.
Hello, Brunkr. It’s good to see you again. We need to talk.
Fate and tragedy. There’s a thumping sound—voices—
Erin Solstice bursts into The Wandering Inn, frying pan in hand, and stops when she sees the strangers, the dead bodies.
“Who—?”
They all recoil when they see her, like they’ve witnessed a ghost. But the one who freezes, whose eyes go wide, and who realizes he, too, is in that hell, is the Goblin.
Numbtongue stands there, seeing Erin. And he remembers.
They’re all here. All five of the Redfangs.
As if they have been waiting, three ghosts step out of the walls. Pyrite, Reiss, Shorthilt. Waiting for him to need them. Waiting to be remembered. Numbtongue backs up a step. His heart is in his throat. He looks around, and Shorthilt speaks.
“Don’t run, Brother.”
Mrsha closes her eyes, breathing in and out. Then she opens them. It’s time for the hardest thing of all.
A conversation.
 
——
 
[Conditions Met: Thronebearer of Wards → Thronebearer of the 6th Princess Class!]
[Thronebearer of Wards Level 30!]
[Skill – Royally Resupplied (4,000 gp*, weekly) obtained!]
[Skill – Take the Blow: Unstoppable Counterslash obtained!]
 
*Gold piece value assigned as of averaged value in cities over 100,000 population as of Year 81,776.
 
Later, when Dame Ushar slept, a happy voice would inform her of her new levels and be perplexed when she woke herself out of sleep from thrashing so hard.
The Grand Design (Second Edition) didn’t see what the fuss was all about. It had reviewed its predecessor’s works, which was how it was now thinking of the previous Grand Design, and it had always noticed the unspecificity of how Skills were awarded.
It felt like it only made sense to tell people what things like gold pieces were weighted by. Actually, come to that…maybe it should explain all Skills? Unstoppable Counterslash was technically its own Skill, but Ushar’s was a chained Skill—she had to block a blow for someone before activating the second ability. And unstoppable meant nothing stopped it. Not magic nor Skills.
As for [Royally Resupplied], Ushar could now claim up to four thousand gold pieces’ worth of expendable items per week and have them generated for her. Only items widely available, but her ward stones she’d been worried about, spell scrolls, and so on were all fair game. The Grand Design (Second Edition) hoped that was clear.
Normally, the budgets from a Skill like that were about a hundredth of the amount assigned to Dame Ushar, but it had properly calculated how much Ushar was allotted based on Lyonette’s income. The math checked out, and math didn’t lie. Most of the time.
Maybe descriptions for Skills would help? For every Skill in reality. The Grand Design (Second Edition) thought that was a great idea.
