He remembered pushing a [Guardsman] down the stairs.
It was easy; the Drake was focused on Salkis as she ran, having skateboarded straight into a stall and demolished most of the woodwork. The owner of the stall was staring in dismay at necklaces—now pretty beads—snapped and rolling around. Splintered woodwork; a brightly painted metal skateboard lodged like a blade in the stall, five inches from her thighs.
“Halt! Halt in the name of Pallass’ Watch!”
The Drake came running after Salkis, not armed, not waving a weapon because she was just one of the teenagers who loved rocketing down the staircases on the banned skateboards. He didn’t notice Numbtongue until the Hobgoblin stuck his hands out and pushed.
It was a good shove; the [Guard] went over with a cry of dismay too loud. It wasn’t like he’d been stabbed or anything. He went tumbling down the stairs, and Numbtongue expected him to catch a railing or run into a pedestrian.
He didn’t. The Drake bounced as he rolled, claw outflung to grab for purchase. Numbtongue saw, for a second, wide eyes and an open mouth; the Drake went down four more stairs, hit an edge, bounced, hit the stairwell, kept going—
It was a long way down. Salkis grabbed Numbtongue’s hands as he checked the hood around his face. The ring she’d given him worked; it had somehow fooled even Pallass’ security. As had the papers she’d forged for him. But right now, he felt like a Goblin.
“Come on, Numb, let’s go!”
Laughing, she pulled him away, and he ran as more shouts rose and people pointed fingers at him. He glanced back once. The [Guardsman] was lying at the bottom of the stairs, sprawled out comically. He wasn’t moving.
Numbtongue kept staring at his hands all day afterwards. Salkis kept teasing him and laughing about the event with her friends, even when he pointed out she had nearly hurt that [Shopkeeper]. She hit him with a ‘so what?’, and he opened his mouth to respond and couldn’t bother arguing again. Then she took off her top while they were at a seedy club, and he forgot to continue arguing. One fight with a pair of day-drunks later, he’d forgotten the entire argument.
 
——
 
The first time he pushed a [Guard], he thought about it all day. The sixth time, he kicked a [Guard] into one of the Golems of Celum and ran like spit after Salkis, stopping only to catch his breath and undress her in an alleyway, high on the adrenaline. Heart beating in terror.
Those moments, he felt alive. Whenever he went back to the inn, he felt alive in a different way.
A negative, bad way.
They barely noticed him anymore. They certainly didn’t appreciate him. He felt like a stranger when he walked through those doors, if he wasn’t lectured, first.
Him.
And that was to say nothing of how he felt about her.
Erin Solstice.
 
——
 
“Whoa. Salkis. You’re crazy.”
That was what they always said when they saw his face, his real face for the first time. Salkis’ friends—or at least, the people she could actually tolerate—were a mix of highborn Drakes and middle-class; she actually knew very few [Thugs] and [Rogues], for all she claimed to be familiar with the underworld.
Kisne and ????. Mulg or Dulg or something. It sounded like that. They were a duo; Drakes, Kisne with bright yellow scales, neck spines trimmed almost to the base, and dyed scales in the form of a stylized ‘x’, a knife in the middle of it, on her chest, between her breasts. She wore low-cut shorts, a tube-top that exposed most of her body, and a light jacket, probably because it got cold. She carried two shortswords, which she prominently displayed at her hips.
???? wore fur hide leggings, and his scales were a more somber blue, but he made up for it with dyed scales around his eyes that made him look like a racoon, but he claimed were supposed to be draconic, like the flames drawn on the sides of his mouth. He was bare-chested except for another hide jacket. He boasted he could use a bow, but since they were in Pallass, he only carried a single axe, which kept banging on chairs in the bar.
Numbtongue didn’t memorize ????’s name, and he only remembered Kisne’s because Salkis kept saying it. He pulled his hood back up and replaced the ring and checked his appearance in his mug; a Gnoll stared back at him, scowling. The two Drakes drew back from him, and he sensed them checking their weapons.
They were Silver-rankers, or so they claimed. Both belonged to richer families; they adventured, but it was their gear that had allowed them to enter as Silver-rankers. They weren’t the same as the Horns of Hammerad. Kisne and Muld went on adventures when they felt like it. It was their occupation, but Numbtongue doubted that was how they paid for their drinks or entry to this bar.
He shifted in his seat as Salkis squeezed over closer to him. He sensed how smug she was, like the last dozen times they’d done the reveal.
“I’m crazy, Kisne? You’re supposed to be the adventurer.”
“He’s a Goblin. The Watch is going to arrest all of us!”
Pulg whispered nervously and glanced at Numbtongue, then around as he hunched his shoulders. The bar was noisy; everyone was listening to a [Drummer] and someone on a lute playing a cover of the Singer of Terandria’s music. Salkis rolled her eyes.
“Not unless you squeal. Trust me, no one knows Numbtongue’s even here. The ring’s beyond even the security of a Walled City. We’ve been here for ages and no one’s batted an eye.”
Kisne peered at Numbtongue, jerking her eyes away as if even staring at him was wrong. She spoke sideways, to Salkis.
“So that’s who you were running around with? Everyone’s talking about your new boyfriend, Salkis, but I thought he was just some Tribal Gnoll. You’re crazy. Can he speak?”
For answer, Salkis rolled one eye indulgently at Numbtongue. He scowled.
“No. I can’t.”
Kisne and Sulb jumped as if he’d poked them. Kisne flushed and began to apologize. He just sat there.
Angry.
Why today, he couldn’t have said. It was probably because yesterday he’d been mad too. And he’d been mad yesterday because he’d been angry all week. And he’d been angry for…months.
Sort of. Salkis noticed Numbtongue’s scowl and rose.
“Let’s get some drinks. Then we can talk.”
The bar wasn’t the fullest at ten o’clock in the morning, and they each got a shot of Firebreath Whiskey. Numbtongue didn’t like the whiskey, but it worked well for getting to the drunk stage of any day.
He didn’t always like being drunk, but he only seemed to remember that when he’d had something to drink. Then he was there and he might as well stay there. The Hobgoblin played with the beard on his chin, and Salkis felt at it too as they sat down.
They grinned at that; Numbtongue growing facial hair was very funny to him, because Goblins didn’t normally do that. Salkis said it made him look older. She murmured as Kisne and Tulp sat back down after a whispered discussion.
“Be nice to them. They’re okay. I went on a few adventures with them, and they’re not complete idiots.”
By that, she meant they weren’t law-abiding citizens, whom she disliked. After so long in Salkis’ company, Numbtongue had figured out what made her tick, more or less. Some of the things she hated were her family, the rules of the Walled Cities, and being told what to do.
“Fine. Are they a couple?”
Salkis’ eyes glinted as she glanced at Kisne. The Drake was staring at Numbtongue with open fascination.
“Off-and-on.”
That was more than enough reason for him to pay attention to Kisne’s exposed belly as the two began to ask all the typical questions of Numbtongue.
‘Are you that Goblin from the inn?’ Yes. It was easier just to pretend he was every Goblin they’d seen on television.
‘How’d you meet Salkis?’ Hard to say. She walked in the inn one day and they got to talking. She liked danger. Goblins were dangerous.
‘Aren’t you, like, against the Walled Cities?’ Numbtongue certainly wasn’t happy about being a Goblin in anti-Goblin territory, but he wasn’t afraid. And he wasn’t going to kill anyone, so the only way this became a problem was if you told someone about it.
Predictable questions. Numbtongue answered on auto-pilot, listening to the music coming from the bar. He tapped his foot to the drummer laying down an impressive set on the drums.
“Look, he’s got that drumset that Thien had. Four drums, cymbals up top—”
He pointed it out to Salkis in between Mule getting up to grab some drinks. Salkis frowned.
“Who’s Thien?”
“The [Drummer] who plays with the Singer of Terandria.”
The onyx-scaled Drake’s face went flat. She shifted in her seat, and the [Knifemistress] half-glared at Numbtongue.
“Oh, right. Your favorite musician. They’re not that good. You should get up there and kick the guy with the lute off. He can’t play. You should.”
“I’m fine. I don’t need to.”
Self-consciously, Numbtongue turned away. Salkis rolled her eyes as she pointedly glared at his gear. The Hobgoblin in disguise had on a yellow shirt with too many buttons and pockets and tight-fitting pants in black that Salkis had picked out for him. He thought he looked like Apista; she claimed it emphasized his attractive chest. He also carried a guitar on his back; it might attract attention, but it was less dangerous-looking than a sword, and frankly, better than a sword for him.
He refused to play it in public when she asked him to, refused to demonstrate he could play most of the time.
—When he did climb onto stage, to cheers from the younger audience of Drakes, Gnolls, Garuda, and Dullahans, it was after three more shots and much encouragement. And it was mostly only to riff with the [Drummer]. Lightning flashed from his claws and lit up the cheering bar of young renegades.
Watchless Bars, they were aptly called. Places where you could go and not feel under the thumb of more regulated establishments with ‘adults’ who’d call the Watch on anyone throwing a mug around. The Singer of Terandria’s music and alternative fashion like the stuff Salkis, Numbtongue, and the others were wearing were all in vogue here. [Skateboarders], [Cyclists], [Rebels], adventurers, and so-on mingled.
—When he played music, he wasn’t happy, but he did lose himself in it for a while. Numbtongue could close his eyes and play and feel electricity running across his claws and the guitar, lighting up the air. It didn’t make him as happy as he used to be.
Nothing did. But when he saw Salkis rocking out in the crowd, raising her claws to make gestures he’d taught her—and everyone copying her—he felt like he was among Goblins in a tribe for a second. So he thrummed the strings, and the lightning sang along with his guitar.
Then he remembered Kevin had taught him those hand signs and thought of the inn, missing a chord. No one cared. Numbtongue leapt off the stage amidst the cheering and saw Kisne staring open-mouthed at him. He grabbed her hand, and she almost recoiled as another song began, but then drew closer after biting her lip and gazing around.
At some point, they were grinding together in the press of bodies, and Numbtongue saw her flush under her scales and look him up and down. Remembering what he looked like; her eyes lingered on his ears, his eyes. He flashed a pointed grin and wondered what she looked like without her clothes.
 
——
 
Numbtongue paused for two more drinks at the bar, mixed cocktails. He ordered two, tossed some coins down, and the [Bartender] got to work. He leaned against the bar, aware Kisne was very interested in him and plotting whether or not they could go anywhere, whether there was a quiet back to the bar, or even a booth would do…sometimes, the ladies got picky.
Not Salkis. She was, in fact, the opposite of picky. They’d had sex more places than Numbtongue thought was hygienically wise. And they had an open relationship. Just like Garia and Octavia—whom he hadn’t seen in ages—
He’d been away from the inn awhile. It wasn’t pleasant there. Numbtongue leaned on the bar, impatient, and someone sitting and playing with a straw in a cup turned to him.
“Having fun?”
He ignored the speaker. Numbtongue didn’t want to talk to people, like Dulg or…whatever his name was. He’d gotten tired of talking with Salkis and Kisne. If he had another drink, he might begin to enjoy it.
“Mm. You’re not enjoying much. Also, you’re dehydrated. Have a cup of water.”
Numbtongue turned his head to glare and snap at—
A ghostly face met his eyes, and he almost recoiled as Pyrite gestured to the inviting cup of water. The Hobgoblin sat there silently, and Numbtongue rubbed at his eyes.
“Go away. I don’t want a lecture.”
He hissed as the [Bartender] glanced up at him, then went back to work. The former Goldstone Chieftain shrugged.
“Lectures? Not very Goblin. Poor girl.”
She’s a grown adult. She can do what she wants, and she likes me. Go away.
Numbtongue furiously thought at the ghost. The [Soulbard] grabbed both drinks and turned away. Pyrite called after him.
“Oh, not that. I mean, she thinks she’s going to have sex with a Goblin. Instead, she only has you.”
The [Bard] whirled with a snarl, but Pyrite was gone. He took a furious gulp from his drink, almost about to summon Pyrite back, even if he never, ever won arguments against the damn ghost…but then he thought of Kisne.
Kisne was a lot more interesting than Pyrite.
 
——
 
Wolg or whatever his name was punched Numbtongue in the face and tried to tackle him. The Hobgoblin was too drunk to feel it, but he’d also been too drunk to dodge. So plus and minus, there. He caught the charge, though, and kneed the Silver-ranker in the face. People jumped back in the bar, and the two fought and punched, ending in Numbtongue kneeling on the other Drake’s back and putting him in a chokehold.
“Numb! Stop!”
Eventually, Kisne broke the fight up, and Numb stepped away, cursing and panting. She shielded—
“Nold!”
Right, Nold—from him with two arms, eyes wide, as if she were afraid he’d go for her.
“He started it.”
The Hobgoblin protested, but people were trying to calm him down, asking what had happened, if Nold needed a [Healer]—and Kisne was most definitely not in the mood to hang out after this. Numbtongue turned away and stomped off, hands in his pockets.
A laughing Salkis caught him after only a dozen steps.
“Come on, let’s get out of here before those idiots actually call the Watch or something. You actually let him punch you?”
“I didn’t think he had the guts. You said they weren’t together.”
“Well…Kisne’s an idiot. Let’s go.”
They ran, somewhat drunkenly, out of the bar, and Numbtongue saw Salkis’ tail curl up in a familiar way. She peered right and left, and her neck-spines rose slightly, and his heart rose.
