The girl, who was Mrsha, handed Ushar a notecard. The Thronebearer saw Apista buzz away triumphantly. Her hair was scorched a bit. She stopped, hand on her sword hilt. And she stood there.
“…Who are you?”
Mrsha du Marquin innocently wrote in the air with her magic wand.
What?
It was Mrsha. Mrsha in her kilt, the same one she always wore. Mrsha…but she looked different.
It was hard to tell with her [Fur of the Fortress], but even the Skill couldn’t hide how her cheeks were more pronounced. How she had more flesh; it was obvious to Ushar, who had been looking at the girl all day.
Also, her coat was gone, the kilt was a slightly different pattern, and she had a stain on her cheek fur from some liquid. Ushar stood there, poleaxed.
“Wh—where’s the other—?”
But her Skills were telling her that this was her charge. It was just that, for a second, she swore there had been two of her wards running about. The other was gone. Either a figment of Ushar’s deluded mind…
Or she’d gone somewhere Ushar couldn’t sense.
A real terror was welling up in Ushar’s chest as she imagined a few scenarios. The most obvious was a Calanferian ploy, but how would you enact it? And why? Her eyes moved, and she thought of something else.
The…
Box?
Could that even—she wouldn’t fit—
The other girl was as intense in her way as the other Mrsha. She held up a card.
Am I not the Mrsha you remember, Dame Ushar?
Her eyes were amused and twinkling, as if this were the only fun to be had in this tiresome world. It made Dame Ushar lose her patience. Even for a Calanferian royal—a child shouldn’t look so old.
“Enough. You are going to explain yourself, Miss Mrsha. Or I will simply ensure you sit and eat and do nothing more!”
She reached for Mrsha’s paws, and the girl sighed.
I can’t let you do that, Dame Ushar. But I won’t run away. The secrets are coming out. Follow me if you want to do your duty.
The Thronebearer refused, reaching for Mrsha as the Gnoll danced back.
“I am the adult here, Mrsha. You do not give me orders.”
The girl traced a word in the air and got onto all fours.
Fine.
She began to dash left, galloping on her paws, and Ushar stormed forwards to grab her. She knew how fast Mrsha was; Ushar was still a seasoned [Knight]. And she’d been levelling.
[Burst of Speed].
She lunged for Mrsha. And the Gnoll—twisted. She redirected herself left, then right, dashing past Ushar as the Thronebearer cursed and grabbed. What the—
[Zigzag Dash]! Mrsha ran out of the jungle, Ushar in hot pursuit. A new Skill!? Had Mrsha levelled up? Why a running one?
Mrsha was running straight at a door leading to the inn. She burst out of it, and Ushar shouted.
“Stop her!”
Heads turned; the Calanferian staff weren’t used to the door opening everywhere. Mrsha ducked under a clumsy [Server]’s hands. Dodged around a Drake, who reached out.
“Can I help you, Miss M—”
An ‘accidental’ flying knee from Xinthe took him out. Mrsha dodged left—and someone grabbed her with the reflexes of a honed, well—
Adventurer.
Elia Arcsinger scooped up Mrsha into her arms and held her like an experienced mother, ready for Mrsha to try to squirm away. But instead, Mrsha just held up a card as Ushar exploded out of the [Garden].
Elia Arcsinger. Come with me now. The hour I promised you has come. Don’t worry; it won’t be hard for you. I swear.
The Named-rank adventurer took a breath, surprised.
“What’s going on—”
“Don’t let go of her! Don’t listen to her orders!”
Ushar snapped. She saw everyone turning to gaze at Mrsha. Without Lyonette in the inn, everyone left could tell that something was going on. Calescent had emerged from the kitchen.
“What’s wrong? Mrsha?”
She held out a note for him, and Ushar grabbed it, crumpled it up, and swallowed it. She was losing control. She snapped, keeping her voice level as she could.
“No one is listening to anything she says! She is not to endanger herself! In the name of Her Highness!”
The servants from Calanfer spread out around Ushar, casually holding implements. A rolling pin, a mop, and Elia hesitated, eyes wavering from Mrsha to Ushar. Usher held out a hand to grab Mrsha.
“Mrsha. Princess du Marquin. You must let me know what you’re doing or I will confine you for your own good. I cannot let you keep doing this.”
The girl was dangling there, heavier than her counterpart by far, and Ushar wasn’t the only person who’d noted the change in Mrsha’s health and weight. But the eyes were the same.
Maybe not as haunted. Maybe not as knowledgeable, that terrible gift of someone who had seen too much as she starved and watched dreams of better days. Pretending she’d one day go back and survive.
—But just as driven. Mad with it. And again, Ushar felt how wrong it was.
Not even the [Princesses] of Calanfer had looked like that. Not when they were eight. 
She had served the crown in the Eternal Throne since she was a girl of seven. Ushar had been a [Page] when Princess Shardele was still learning to run about with Princess Menisi. Ushar had seen them all grow up, and in time—they had all developed those familiar eyes.
Like their mother and father—the [Princes] and [Princesses] had slowly become jaded. Their youthful expressions worn down after decades of cuts. Soft and painful, papercuts of injustice, of being always watched and judged. Open wounds like the ones Princess Seraphel wore, for they were used, and used hard in the name of Calanfer.
It would come for Princess Vernoue. Lyonette had been already developing that hardened countenance when she fled. Princess Ellet, the youngest, was the only one who had yet to bear that reserve. Even now, at the tender age of thirteen, there were moments when she would school her face to complete impartiality. Learning the tricks of her elder sisters.
No one longed for that day. It was…hard…to be a Thronebearer in personal service to the royal family. You saw them at their worst, you had to keep secrets and weigh your duty to them versus the crown. But most of all, what Ushar had tried desperately not to do with Princess Vernoue was get attached. Because then you’d really dash your heart to pieces.
She’d done so well. And now here she was. The girl was only eight. Nine, soon, but she should not have those eyes.
“I’m trying to protect you, Mrsha. Let me bear it, whatever weight you’re carrying. I swear, I shall.”
The Thronebearer knelt slightly to speak to the girl in Elia’s arms. Xinthe was waiting. Her eyes were bright and focused.
“Should we confine Miss Mrsha to her room for her own safety, Dame Ushar?”
The new servants were prepared to watch Mrsha nonstop, to literally be in the same room with her such that she couldn’t move or get away. And they might even succeed—who knew? What was best for the girl would be done.
But what Mrsha needed? She was wearily rubbing at one eye as Ushar pleaded with her. The girl wrote in the air with a glittering wand.
Ushar. I’m tired. I can’t stop. I’m falling, I think. Trying to fly, and sometimes it feels like there’s nothing to grab onto. Only Rhir at the bottom. I don’t want to drag you with me. But I’m tired and scared. Will you promise to help me and not stop me?
She gave Ushar a pleading look, and the Thronebearer exhaled. Dame Ushar, the [Thronebearer of Wards], gazed at the little child and felt herself flip.
Change sides on the boards. Not that she hadn’t been loyal, impressed with Lyonette, before. But there was no going back, was there? She moved of her own volition. A little pewter chess piece of a [Knight] with a sword—not very valuable—a [Knight] of little remarkable prowess save for a lofty dream. Straight onto the other side of the board, and it was a complex board with people on the same side but different goals.
—But what you had to do, what she’d been resisting doing, was being on your charge’s side. Dame Ushar exhaled and lowered her head in defeat. She brushed at her hair, then stood.
“Very well, Mrsha. I trust you. Do you trust me?”
The girl looked up with big eyes.
Yes. I do. Don’t die, Ushar.
—The Thronebearer swore she felt a shadow’s hand on her shoulder, and she imagined that woman, three pieces in one. She closed her eyes and sighed. Then she nodded.
“Adventurer Arcsinger, let go of Mrsha. Where to, Lady Marquin?”
Elia gazed at Ushar, and the other servants reacted. Xinthe reached for Mrsha as Elia began to put her down.
“Under the circumstances, Dame Ushar, I don’t think—”
The Thronebearer caught Xinthe’s arm. Xinthe stiffened as Ushar spoke with a hint of a smile in her eyes.
“Her Highness’ daughter is writing, Miss Xinthe. Our job is to help her. Back to your stations. Keep the spies off us.”
Her head swivelled, and the Calanferians wavered. They had a direct order from a Thronebearer; they could refuse, but…
After a second, they spread out, and Mrsha held up a card.
Thank you, Ushar. We have somewhere to be. I’ll show you, but first, I need to find someone. Anyone high-level. I sent Rianchi to find someone.
“Anyone in particular?”
I’d take Tessa if she were here. Saliss—but he’s in Pallass and complicated. Grimalkin? We’ve got Elia, but I think she needs backup.
“Backup? Backup for what?”
Elia looked between Ushar and Mrsha, nervous, and the Thronebearer shook her head.
“I don’t know yet. What are we looking at?”
Silver-ranked threats. Not a danger until we decide to take it on. I’m confident of that. Painful moments. I need a group, first. Earlia’s team might do it if we have no other option, but I only really trust her.
Ushar nodded and cast around, thinking of who to pick. With Her Highness gone…she noticed Xinthe waiting tables, smiling and pretending nothing was amiss. But the Calanferian staff were still occupying the center of the common room.
They have to be receiving orders from Her Majesty not to put Miss Mrsha in any danger. They appeared ready to stop Ushar and Mrsha, perhaps with the old trip-wine trick. Ushar saw one of the staff members, sniffy, holding a bottle of wine he was struggling to uncork, possibly just for that purpose.
However, the staff had forgotten Rianchi. Mrsha was searching around for Relc or Archmage Valeterisa when she saw the door to the common room open, and her eyes brightened. She pointed, and Dame Ushar turned. Without a word, she strode over, smiling grimly.
“Excuse me, a word? Miss Mrsha has a message for you, Ser…”
Several of the Calanferians were trailing behind Mrsha, as if ready to snatch her if she made a leap for the doors or windows. But they halted and retreated in front of the figure who gently accepted a card from Mrsha’s paw.
Scarred flesh. Azure armor. One eye that shone with interest as it read the fresh ink. Ser Normen spoke.
“What’s going on, Dame Ushar? We returned the moment we saw Chieftain Rags doing standup. Something was clearly wrong. Can you explain yourself, Miss Mrsha?”
Ser Normen and the Order of the Solstice. A panting Rianchi gave Mrsha a thumbs up. The Gnoll girl began smiling, and Dame Ushar half-bowed, still holding Mrsha.
“I’m not quite sure. How did you return so quickly? The timing is fortuitous; Miss Mrsha requests your help.”
The Grandmaster was reading the card, but someone answered for him. A young woman with a sword at her hip; Jewel, brushing back a colorful beret instead of a helmet like the others.
“Liska made another connection at Orefell for us. Did anyone know she could do that? What’s going on, Mrsha?”
Jewel, Durene, Vess, Antherr—the entire group was there, minus Ama. Antherr was treating a bunch of the [Squires] to their first inn-meal. Ama was trying to get Sillias a fish from outside despite him being an undead cat.
Mrsha wrote on a card.
I’m glad you’re all here. It doesn’t have to be you if you’re busy. How’d you get back?
“We finished setting up our new base. We were looking for people who need…escorting. I just came back from speaking with His Majesty. As Jewel said, we now have access to the inn.”
Normen’s face was bland as he replied. Durene put in.
“Which is good, because we need all kinds of supplies we forgot! And Orefell wants to trade with the inn. Do you all need to buy jade and precious stones?”
At that, a dozen of the [Spies] began writing furious missives about this change in trade opportunities. Some just got up and began to run; prices would be low until the [Merchants] in Orefell caught on. Which wouldn’t be more than hours at most.
All of this was background noise, including Liska’s growing authority. Ushar was still tense. Mrsha scribbled.
Well, it’s a mess. Lyonette’s gone. I’m being unjustly blamed for things I didn’t do. I feel really bad for an, uh, a [Caretaker]? And you missed a lot of songs.
She tilted her head quizzically, as if she didn’t remember the good Miss Ebente. The Knights of Solstice exchanged glances of pure puzzlement. No one had any idea what was going on, but Normen was a veteran of the inn. His tone was light and amused.
“I’m sorry I missed that. I can hold a bit of a tune myself. So could old Crimshaw. One time, he told me he and a bunch of fellows mugged a poor lady in verse. This was before he was one of the Brothers.”
“What!?”
That outraged shriek came from Songmistress Calla. Ushar gestured to the inn.
“Do you require refreshments or are you free about Miss Mrsha’s business? I have been informed it will reveal everything. But be of some danger. Nothing the Knights of Solstice can’t handle, Miss Mrsha?”
She gave Mrsha a sharp look, and the girl’s eyes flickered. They rested on Normen longest before she nodded to Ushar.
No, they’re perfect. Literally perfect…will you come with me now, Normen? You and all the [Knights]? I have something for you to do. A true mission of mercy.
The Grandmaster blinked, but he glanced over his shoulder.
“Durene. Get Ama.”
Then he gave Mrsha a serious look, a frown on his face. His closed eyelid opened, revealing an empty socket of scarred flesh.
“I’m no longer able to risk my life alone, Mrsha. Is this important? Does it matter? Is it worth risking life and limb for? The Order of Solstice will make its own decision. Independent of the inn. Now, will you honestly tell me what’s going on?”
The Gnoll’s gaze alighted on Normen’s, and every person in the inn with the Skills was probably ready to intercept her next note—or just get an eyeline via a mirror or any way they could. Mrsha knew it, so her next words were slow, deliberate, and she sighed as she wrote.
Does it matter…? No. It doesn’t. It’s pointless. And yet it matters because it’s righting a wrong, even if it changes nothing. It should be done. I will regret it if I don’t act, and I must trust someone who’s on my side. So please—come.
