—Then again, perhaps not. Because remember, the ceiling was stained glass, each piece perfect, and the rays of light fell like spotlights, changing the mundane city street below. Ser Normen walked through a beam of gentle, burgundy red light, his armor shimmering where he swept a hand through the glowing particles. He looked up, and Sheta saw his eye glittering.
Then—she understood the curious objects embedded in the stained glass ceiling. They were each one a different style and make.
Hats.
The [Knight]’s head craned upwards to see the apparel he knew so well. Each window to the sky a face he knew. A dead friend. A comrade. A rival.
A mentor.
In their image, he could see no flaw. And they shone down above him, for all he wore armor. Something ever higher, ever brighter, turning the mundane, grimy world around him into something to be treasured.
Each door set into the building around him fit the city; each one made him turn and pause. Names were written on them in brass, faded, in need of a buffing, aged, but there. He paused before one that said ‘Crimshaw’.
He did not take the handle, but rested his hand on the door for a long while. More terrified than you could imagine. The Harpy saw his chest rising and falling with true anxiety as the others watched, exclaiming, seeing other hallways meant for them.
At last, Ser Normen turned the doorknob and opened the door a crack. Just a crack, like a [Burglar] checking a room to see if it was worth robbing. He peeked for only a second—then shut the door fast.
When he stepped back, someone was there.
“Normen? Is everything okay?”
Jewel took his arm, and Normen turned. His eye was wide and open, and he glanced at the door, at Jewel, before finding his voice.
“Yes. Yes.”
“Did you see…what’s in there?”
The [Swashbuckler] hesitated before the door, for Mrsha had warned her what lay inside. She turned to Normen, and the [Knight] hesitated. Then smiled.
“Something glorious. Something true.”
When he turned, it was not to look through the door again. He did not want to see. One peek—that was all. Not enough time to see any flaw, to doubt it. Just to see the world acknowledge a truth he had always believed.
When he walked, the Empress of Harpies thought he carried a deeper understanding of his class. Another moment of strength beneath that fragile metal, the real steel of his being.
How she envied him. And she realized she had forgotten her objection to their presence. For they all entered gloriously. As she had forgotten people could.
 
——
 
The [Necromancer] rode her cat through a hallway of bones, a sepulchre of madness to all but her. Skulls stared out of walls; bones formed great, swaying chandeliers overhead. The staring eye sockets and yellowed bone horrified others, even her fellow [Knights].
But she beheld a vision of a palace made by sovereigns of death. And she did not walk lightly; she went from door to door, throwing them open and screaming.
“There! And there—and—”
She was alight with desperation. Clinging to the handles until Vess and the others had to pull her away. Ama was sobbing as she stared into realities filled with [Necromancers].
Pisces, Gewilena, Feren—visiting Khelt, forming a nation in defiance of their foes, visiting The Wandering Inn—every doorway playing a variation of that one group. The [Palace of Fates] could show you anything, but it only showed you what you wanted to see, if you asked for it.
It could break her. But the Drake slammed the door and gently helped her rise. The half-Troll girl swung her sword into the door as if to break it, then turned.
The hallway changed, and a single door with an ancient carving over the plain wood stood there. Durene Faerise stopped and whispered.
“Mother?”
Someone was standing on one side of the door, holding a basket in her hand. The carved relief showed another figure, kneeling, but still so tall he was nearly of a height with her.
“Who…?”
Vess grabbed Durene, trying to drag her attention away. In a dream, the [Paladin] walked forwards. She only stopped when she realized she was walking a forest path, and it branched out in every direction around her. The forest of Riverfarm, each path leading to a door.
Then she was afraid, and she backed away, pale-faced, from the door that looked back. That had the truth. Her eyes stayed on it, and she clenched her fists together, shaking worse than she had against any foe or disease.
Some found only joy here.
Others pain like they had never imagined.
A few feared it rightly from the start.
But they entered like characters stepping into a story. Not one laughed in disbelief. They did not dismiss what this place was. The Harpy Queen saw the [Knights]—Ama, Vess, and Durene—draw together, hold each other, and fortify themselves against this place.
When they moved, it was together, hand in hand, weapons drawn, as if they went to war, because they did. Their hearts against the powers of ‘if’, ‘perhaps’, and ‘maybe’. But they still walked on in search of truth.
 
——
 
The Goblin feared every door. He could not make himself open any of them. And he knew which door he wanted.
Oh, of course he did.
They were all the same. Each and every one identical. They were plain, wooden doors, so familiar to him they had shaped his life. Each one held a vision of the reality he wanted, the one he had lost.
He ran, trying to shield his arms and face, crashing into doors, trying to flee. Wanting to open the doors and knowing—in his heart of hearts—that all the poison and bile in his stomach was nothing compared to the toxins of seeing it.
Numbtongue ran until he crashed into the final intruder not with the little Gnoll child. He hit a figure who did not move as Numbtongue fell down. And the Goblin looked up and saw Antherr.
 
——
 
The tallest hallway the [Palace of Fates] had ever created was blue. Blue; shades of it that the Harpy Queen had never imagined. The air was filled with clouds; the walls did not stay one color, but shifted subtly.
It was, perhaps, a nauseating effect on its own, but together, it passed merely unsettling into the surreal. The Antinium stood in a galaxy of blue, all four arms raised, head turned up as he stared at the sky.
It looked like worship. It was—but of a kind not even he could explain. If he believed in anything, he believed in this. The doors around him waited like celestial bodies inviting him to futures more glorious than the last.
The [Indomitable Knight-Warden] had visited Erin’s inn. He had stepped out of his Hive and beheld the sky. He had met the Minotaur and found his honor.
Nothing, no place, could shake his faith that better days awaited. The bitterness, the pain of this place, he accepted. But Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus only saw wonders. And for that, the Hobgoblin, the Gnoll child, the Harpy Queen, they all envied him. He stood underneath his vision of the sky, and when he turned away, he had it still glimmering in his eyes.
A vision to show Pawn.
All this, the Harpy Queen saw, and more. The Knights of Solstice entered the [Palace of Fates] and recoiled, suffered, smiled, stepped away reluctantly—before following the Gnoll child.
Then, Sheta watched. Watched without the will to complain. All she said was:
“I should have invited them here. I was afraid.”
 
——
 
Dame Ushar saw only Mrsha’s [Palace of Fates], and it looked to her like a nightmarish place. Too much for a child…yet with each step, she beheld how they walked.
The two girls.
One was thin and pained. She had seen terrible things; it was her paw that Ushar held. The other just padded forwards at a slow walk, explaining as the others just stood there in denial, confusion, or followed along.
That Mrsha was driven, desperate. A subtle difference, but one that influenced every turn of her head, the firmness of her steps. Ushar wondered why she had ever imagined she could stop Mrsha. She should have been helping the girl. She supposed she just remembered the child she had first met. This was a growing girl. Not ready, yet, but when she spoke—
“What’s that, Lady Mrsha?”
The thinner Mrsha was holding up a card. She pointed at her twin as Ushar took it.
You know that one’s the real me, don’t you?
The Mrsha of Roots, the one who had come through the door, gave Ushar that empty look and tried to let go of Ushar’s hand. In reply, Ushar scooped her up and carried her.
“I don’t know any such thing, Lady Mrsha. Come now. I should have brought a snack for you.”
The girl began to protest. Then she silently hugged Ushar and put her head against the woman’s breastplate. Ushar hugged the girl harder.
Elia Arcsinger was following Mrsha, refusing to go anywhere as she held her bow at the ready; the Named-rank was well and truly afraid of this place. The other Knights of Solstice returned in groups, along with Numbtongue, who was pale-faced.
“This place is terrible. Why did you bring us here? Why did you stay here?”
That was all the [Bard] asked. He gazed at Mrsha, and she began to write a reply. Then he noticed the two Goblins trailing in her wake and snapped.
“Why are you two here?”
“Chieftain Rags gave us orders to help.”
“Rags knows? And not me?”
Rianchi gave Numbtongue a look.
“You not always around.”
Numbtongue’s eyes narrowed, and Rianchi edged behind Dyeda, who refused to back down as she folded her arms. He stomped past her, and Normen spoke.
“Is Erin here? There’s doors with her, aren’t there?”
That was the right question. One of the Mrshas wrote a glittering paragraph into the air. The [Knights] read it as they trailed down the corridor, feeling as if they were characters in a story, seeing the narration literally writing itself above their heads.
Everyone’s here, Normen. The doors show you every reality that could be. Ones where Crimshaw lived. Where Erin didn’t go to sea. Where terrible things occurred, where good things did. This is every door, of every time. You’re supposed to just be able to see it all. That’s it. See it and suffer. It’s a terrible, poop Skill. But the Faerie Flowers let you enter the doors. Bring things out.
“Dead. Gods. N-Normen, I thought I was over it. I’m freaking out.”
Jewel grabbed Normen’s hand, and he gave her a reassuring squeeze of the hand. Some of his awed reverence faded, and a wariness replaced it. He shook his head, then frowned.
“This is beyond even a regular Solstice event. Where are we going, Mrsha? Why did you tell us? If it was me…”
He swallowed and glanced at Mrsha, seeming to understand what she had been doing.
“You didn’t tell Lyonette! If you had, she would have helped and—and—”
—And never let me come here again. Because it is so terribly dangerous—and cruel. I told her I had to do this or I will regret it forever, Ushar. Just like I’d regret not asking for your help. Now you know. Now you’re here! Take as long as you want to understand. I shall answer every question. But I called you here, you specifically, so you can see every consequence. See what I have chosen.
Mrsha stopped before a door. She spread her arms in front of it, and the other Mrsha wiggled out of Ushar’s grasp and picked something up. A brown, ordinary root. The two nodded to each other and stood there.
Normen stopped. He stared at the root, and he understood, then—the level beyond the [Palace of Fates] that Mrsha had reached. An underhanded trick; the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings knew underhanded tricks well. He shook his head, planted his feet.
“Here is where I refuse to do anything, or let you do anything, until I know what this…all means, Mrsha.”
She nodded, reasonable, as he fixed her with a serious stare. Normen saw there was a little note attached to the door. Some had yellow paint on them; a few were ajar.
He…felt his skin tingling. Felt like his flames, the burning flames that had been ignited in his heart, were about to go out.
Either go out or ignite in a blaze beyond anything he’d ever felt.
It scared him. The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice, that dangerous, respected warrior who had become something, had once been a [Thug]. An ordinary fellow.
He had changed himself. He had chosen to take the flames, and it had shaped him.
But Normen had never forgotten who had handed him that ember for his lantern.
He saw it again, the same Mrsha from that snowy day. The [Emberbearer]’s eyes shone with confidence and all the things of The Wandering Inn that he loved. And there were two of her. One of the Mrshas pointed to the door.
It is dangerous. But I will obey your instructions. Nevertheless—I must go. So must you, even if it hurts, Normen. And you, Elia. You never run. Time for you to see if you’re part of this inn or not.
The Named-rank adventurer was shivering. But she had taken her bow off her back and had an arrow ready, despite her nerves. Normen whispered as his eyes caught what was written on that paper, and then he did feel frozen with prickling static, ablaze with emotion and heat.
Numbtongue was the one who turned away. He spat at Mrsha; he’d read the note on the door. Of course he had. He was Numbtongue.
“It doesn’t matter. None of it matters—none of it is real! Why him?”
For answer, the Root Mrsha replied, taking the Wand of Mrsha to write in the air.
You’re right, Numbtongue. It doesn’t matter. I could have done this without using this door, without telling anyone.
He stopped, hesitating, and the Knights of Solstice fixed on Mrsha’s reply. They were both writing now, one tracing in the air with a glowing claw, the other with the wand. And they wrote the same words, together, eyes bright with magic. With sorrow.
With…hope.
It doesn’t matter. None of this does, in a way. But it still feels real. I still care. Why him? Because I wondered. Because I remember him. If I offer anyone a chance, it should be him. Why go through that door? None of you know him well. Even I didn’t, not really. But we must. He was one of us: a guest of The Wandering Inn. She knew none of us well, at first. But she gave us a chance. So. Are you going to do the right thing, even if it’s meaningless? Even if there are a million billion worlds we can’t save?
She looked at them, tears glittering in her eyes, and a man slowly knelt down. Ser Normen smiled, scars stretching on his face, and he touched the brow of his helmet as he met her gaze.
“Every time.”
Mrsha’s smile was wan and very afraid, but it grew as green fire warmed it. She held up a card, and the Order of Solstice stirred.
Then come on. After all—a fellow Knight of Solstice needs you.
 
——
 
Another world. A familiar time.
To be precise, the time is midmorning. It’s a rainy day. But Liscor isn’t safe.
