Then she falls completely silent and deactivates her collar. Because it occurs to her she’s now in enemy territory. Whether or not they know it—she is here. Time, now, to investigate this place. To find the truth.
…And to see if that Goblin was lying.
I’ll feed him his own testicles Grimalkin-style if he was lying.
Mrsha slinks down the corridor, thinking now, paws soft on the ground. She is ready for this; a wand appears in her hand.
[Sleight of Hand: Wand]. [Muffled Movement].
Both learned Skills. One from old Typhenous, the other from Seborn. And she has lots of Skills. Spells. She’s a [Mage], after all. 
[Mage], [Warrior], a smattering of [Rogue], her old [Druid] levels, all of it. Rolled into one class that suits her. Her brown fur…brown, is blending with the wall, a camouflage Skill. The world from ten years ago—Mrsha has to remember a time before Doomslayers were all over. Dead gods, it feels like yesterday to her that Rhir was still split between Demons and the Blighted Empire. Now it’s all so bad…
This is my chance to fix it. To…
Mrsha du Marquin. Level 31 [Lucky Survivor of the Promise]. Her vow—
‘I will bring Erin Solstice back to life or die trying.’
As so many of her mentors and teachers tell her, though, dying is the easy part.
 
——
 
They stand in the [Palace of Fates], discussing their problems. A Hobgoblin and Gnoll girl, both fairly short for their species. Both young. They speak openly, with Fightipilota and several Hobgoblins standing idly in the distance. Casually—because here, of all places, they are safe.
Their first mistake. If someone was here, the body heat the two give off, their magical auras—dead gods, even a [Detect Life] spell would instantly pinpoint their location, and the Goblins do not have magical sensor spells. Some of them are alert and sharp, but Shineshield, Fightipilota, and so on are stressed Redfangs. It would be so simple to cast [Invisibility], [Muffle], and [Ear of the Bat] and listen.
In theory. If someone was listening, this is what they’d hear:
“So you didn’t summon the other Rags? You…were going to unleash the last Empress of Harpies?”
Rags rubs at her head. She wishes she could claim it hurts, but it’s just foggy. As it often is when trying to hold together a multifaceted idea or plan. And this one is…well, to say it’s a mess is an understatement.
The facts, as she understands them, are that another Rags has used a root to enter this world. That Rags, admittedly, saved them from the Mortemdefieir Titan, but the Titan is now assembling, and for the better or worse, Niers Astoragon and the entire Forgotten Wing company now know exactly what Rags is up against.
Oh—and Rags has now tied herself to the most dangerous Fraerling in the world, and the world powers that ignored the inn for so long will be directing their attention back to Erin’s home.
Back to the inn that both copied millions of gold pieces with its amazing box—and crashed the economy—and which is hiding the [Palace of Fates]. Lyonette and Nanette and the others are also aware something is up; more eyes on the palace.
More hard decisions to make, and Rags has not even made hers yet on whether the power of the roots should even be…used.
But Mrsha knows. Oh, yes. The little Gnoll girl’s eyes never waver as she writes her response. Skritch, skritch—and the ink is drying as she holds her card up.
If I thought you were in mortal danger, I would use the greatest card I had. She may be a monster; she may not be. But I would gamble there is a part of her that is like Erin.
Rags’ face twists; she’s trying to hide the fact that she’s touched. Instead, she scowls.
“Erin’s terrifying. What if she were another old monster?”
Then she can join the club and hopefully distract everyone while she eats the King of Destruction.
“…Alright, it wasn’t a bad idea. How—how did—”
How did that other Rags find the door? That’s a silly question; Rags already heard Dyeda explain her errors, and Rianchi’s. At least he didn’t add to the chaos. Neither she nor Mrsha can really blame the two Hobgoblins. Mrsha was distracted…and Rags was wrong.
“So now we’ve both got a doppelganger from another world.”
Mrsha shakes her head instantly. Rags is amazed, again, to realize she’s having an intellectual discussion with Mrsha where she values the other’s opinion. But then…perhaps the girl was always like this. Only when she could communicate did Rags pay attention. At any rate, Mrsha’s reply makes Rags twitch.
Not a doppelganger. Another us. Maybe even a better, braver version of us.
Rags doesn’t like that framing, accurate as it is. Or rather, she doesn’t like….
“She’s a [Student].”
With rolly-shoes. And she can skateboard and shoot magic around to go fast. She’s super cool.
Okay, Mrsha’s not that adult. Rags folds her arms, trying not to think of the ways in which those shoe-skates—‘rollerblades’, the other Rags calls them—would be so useful. If she’d had them when she faced off against Naumel, he’d never have touched her…
“She’s from an era of peace. She’s cocky and performative and—and not even a [Chieftain]!”
Mrsha’s gaze is solemn, amused, and sad. She unscrews a wooden lid and takes a sip from a canteen of soup. Even this is new; Rags has never seen the screw-on lid before, and Mrsha scalds her tongue on the hot soup. She slaps a stone on her side, and a voice chirps out loud.
“Damn it!”
Mrsha is eating lunch; Rianchi and Dyeda have to run her food because Roots Mrsha is in the inn, and Mrsha knows better than to even enter the [Garden of Sanctuary]. In fact, Student Rags is also posing as another Goblin. Mrsha writes one-handed as she holds up a comment on the Goblin hanging out in the inn above and getting her bearings.
She seems happy.
The Goblin [Chieftain] refuses to dignify that with a comment. She’s angry. She’s fuming mad. Whether or not she will admit it out loud, she knows the truth:
The other Rags, the student, frightens this Rags. Because she seems to be happy, higher-level, and…and Rags envies her and fears she’s doing it all wrong. She’s afraid of that grin, even if it’s fake. She doesn’t think she can smile like that.
Just to try, she makes the smile. Baring her teeth, trying to seem jovial.
Mrsha’s cheeks bulge as she stares at Rags’ face, and soup comes out her little black nose. She coughs and rolls around, covering her face. Rags decides never to smile like that again. She picks up the canteen before all of it can spill.
“What the heck is this? I’ve never seen a canister like this.”
It’s not new. Pallassian [Engineers] apparently use it all the time. It comes together when you twist—
“Yeah, I got that. Interesting. Is it waterproof? It is! It doesn’t leak…handier than a cork or a stopper?”
Mrsha shrugs.
Dunno. Earthers already knew about it. Those jerks know everything. Troydel brought canteens last week, and I traded him a few of Palt’s cigars for one. He says he helped make this. He put metal on the inside or something and gave it two layers so it holds heat real well without magic.
“What? Troydel? He’s the Earther no one likes, right? I thought there were two of them.”
The other one’s Leon. He went to Wistram. This is like Troy’s finest creation.
“Wow. Even he can make things.”
The two stare at the canteen. After a moment, Mrsha goes back to sipping soup. This isn’t really what matters, not right now. But it’s something they can focus on. Rags mutters after a moment.
“…That other Rags. Do we just let her keep her door open? Or, after this is done, do we close the door forever? What happens to her? If we leave it open, she’ll come back to our world again and again. I would. I’d…feel responsible. I’d want to know what’s happening here; learn what I can, steal information and technology. Especially if nothing bad ever happens in that other world.”
Mrsha nods and sighs.
I promised Roots Mrsha she’d go back to her home after this is over. Somehow, we’ll get her out of her [Palace of Fates]. But her Rags is dead. A Mortemdefieir Titan might destroy her home too, and her mother…
A terrible truth is hidden in her eyes, which she hasn’t discussed with the other Mrsha. Rags doesn’t know what to say for once. Mrsha is her equal when it comes to the anguish and horror of these thoughts and decisions. So she just takes the cup of the canteen, and Mrsha pours some soup. Rags sips from it.
She burns her tongue too. After a moment, Rags wipes her mouth.
“—You have to talk to the ones you want to save. They’re deciding, right?”
It’s hard. Yeah.
“…Do it. I’ll cover everything here. I’ll meet with Teriarch. I’ll—just do it, Mrsha. Leave the other Rags and Mrsha to me.”
Rags glances at the doors and the one being marked by her Goblins with lots of yellow paint; just so they can identify the root-doors at a glance. Shineshield calls over.
“Hey, Chieftain, where that other door? The one Rianchi went through like a dumb butt?”
“It has a root sticking out of it—there!”
Rags points, and Shineshield inspects the door. She frowns, turns to Rags, but the Chieftain is still talking with Mrsha.
“Just one more question. Is your solution to 2nd Army or the Titan or—everything else just unleashing Empress Sheta?”
You got a better option?
Mrsha holds up a card, eyebrows raised. Rags shoves her hands into her pockets.
“It occurs to me we could ask for a version of you that was Level 70. Or for a…Pisces who’s Level 80. Pull them through and everything’s solved, right?”
It’s not the first time the thought’s occurred to Rags, crazy as it is, and Mrsha’s reaction makes it plain that she’s thought of that too. She writes swiftly, hands Rags a card, gulps down some soup, and shakes her head.
We could. We could mess with it all, but ask yourself two things, Rags. One, how do we know those versions of us wouldn’t be super unpredictable or messed-up like all high-level people are? Would you bet on them being more reasonable than the last Empress of Harpies? Seriously. And two—would you do that to them? I’m already asking so much of the dead. What would you do if someone called you out of your world to save the day?
Kill them and go home no matter what. Or…go insane when I realized everything I loved was…
Rags nods briskly.
“—You’ve thought of this.”
Of course I have. And I’ve asked questions from someone meaner than you or me. Someone who understands what I’m doing and the consequences, and gave me advice. Trust me when I say that there’s a plan. First—we see who might come.
That makes Rags glance suspiciously down the hallway, and she notices something else. There are four doors that have been marked in yellow paint. And one of them…she recognizes it and flinches. Mrsha meets Rags’ gaze, and the Goblin would rather have walked through a door to face the Titan again than enter the damaged, familiar door at the end of the hall.
She’s glad, relieved, when a breathless voice speaks in her ear.
“Chieftain. We’ve got a problem!”
Rags reaches up. Her right ear has a blue stone embedded in an earring bud. She taps it and snaps.
“Dyeda? Report.”
Speaking stone, again, easily interceptable if you can cast [Copy Spell]. Or you could use [Synchronize Senses] if you were feeling risky, bump your hearing up with a localized [Spatial Earworm] spell, or just cast [Metamagic: Spell Manipulation]. It was amazing, really, how simple and unencrypted all communication spells used to be…
Mrsha cocks her head and lowers her soup cup. She hears the faint report.
“It’s other you! She’s—on the scrying orbs! Talking!”
Funny how such simple statements can invoke such dread. Mrsha and Rags exchange a look, and Rags begins running.
“What are you doing? I told you to stop her! I told Redscar to hit her if she causes trouble!”
“That’s the problem, Chieftain! She’s you! She sounds real convincing!”
Rags starts swearing and runs for the entrance to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Most of the Goblins follow her, and only Fightipilota lags behind. She understands that Mrsha is, in her way, as important as Rags here.
“Hey, Mrsha. What you doing?”
Mrsha is gazing towards the door that the Student Rags came from. She walks over to it, slowly, and turns.
I’m going to talk. And listen. That’s all I can do. When Rags…both Rags come back, tell them to be careful.
“Of getting caught? Or messing things up more? Or bringing more people out?”
Fightipilota isn’t sure which, but Mrsha just shakes her head.
No. Just to be careful. It hurts more than you can dream of.
Then she opens a door, and Fightipilota shivers. She glances around the [Palace of Fates]—and then hurries off after Rags.
The Goblin feels like she’s being watched.
She’s right.
 
——
 
The secret is leaking out of each world.
Pyrite pats a pale-faced Moore on the shoulder, and Erin Solstice blinks at them as they appear out of the Drathian garden. She raises her brows; Pyrite stops. Of course, she sensed them going for a walk. He says nothing, but the [Innkeeper] can see Moore’s expression.
“Is something wrong, Pyrite?”
The former Goldstone Chieftain doesn’t know what to say. So he says nothing.
—A Gnoll watches the younger version of Chieftain Rags ascending a rope into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She narrows her eyes and waits. She must wait, of course. They’ll recognize her the moment she…
She peers down at her fur. And thinks of the other Mrsha, still white-furred. So much different from the eighteen-year-old Gnoll woman wearing adventurer’s gear. An idea, audacious, pops into Mrsha’s head. They don’t know. All she has to do is…take one of those roots and cover her tracks. That Goblin almost noticed, but if she just replaces it, who would be the wiser? And then…her heart beats faster.
The inn.
 
——
 
The inn is filled with spies. Some of them aren’t even from Calanfer. They’re all watching Mrsha, trying to figure out where Lyonette vanished with Rhisveri, Visophecin, and the others. They know how this goes. They know the rhythm and the nature of this game, and they think it’s a game.
Another Solstice event. But Erin Solstice isn’t here. She’s not managing this event. The rules have changed. The players are different. It’s all insanity and danger. A Titan in the mountains. Worlds real and unreal.
In the midst of all of this, the Flooded Water tribe endures. They continue living on the edge with an Old One on the move, knowing a Drake army is on their doorstep because this is what Goblins do. This is how they live. There’s something terribly tragic and amazing about that—but because it’s just life for them, Goblins don’t see it.
