The Watch is patrolling the walls, Drakes and Gnolls. There are no Antinium in the Watch yet, save Klbkch. For now, Liscor thinks it can protect the city with only two species, alone.
Today—they are going to learn better. 
The Watch is vigilant, but relaxed, in a sense. The issue is that they’ve just won a battle. They were just attacked—by a new species from the dungeon.
Raskghar.
It isn’t the first time the Raskghar have attacked, but the cunning strike by the monstrous variants of Gnolls during the full moon is the real danger. The recent raid by them with Cave Goblins was far easier to see coming and repulse.
Until the next fullness of a moon, everyone’s safe. It’s daytime, and there’s nothing to fear.
—Right?
There’s an inconsistency in that logic that bothers an [Innkeeper] heading into the city. Her head’s been ringing all day. Something her subconscious has picked up on but her mind hasn’t processed.
The assumption is that a moon is only full when you can see it. The flaw in everyone’s logic is not realizing a full moon exists even when the sky is bright.
And the inn has been left unguarded. The Watch is unaware of Raskghar outside the walls. It’s raining—the wet season, and they’re hidden in the waters. Ready to strike. But this is just a probing effort, a distraction.
The real prize is in the inn. The Watch doesn’t understand what’s going on yet. They see the Raskghar as monsters, and they are monstrous by Liscor’s standards, but they have desires.
Gnolls. Gnolls to sacrifice in ancient rites; the most valuable of all is a Doombearer.
They’re at the inn. Creeping through the water, hiding their scent, Raskghar and Cave Goblins. It won’t go perfectly for them; the inn is still close enough to the city to make them retreat—fast. And the bear traps Erin Solstice has put down will get several Raskghar and a Cave Goblin.
But this is a familiar moment. One nearly identical to other worlds. Mrsha is upstairs, asleep after being upset over Bird shooting at Halrac. The Captain of Griffon Hunt is angry, thinking about Goblins…and people…and the past and his job.
No one is at the inn save for Lyonette, Octavia.
And Brunkr.
That’s the change. A [Knight] in armor that’s got a bit of rust on it because of the damn rain. He has a polished, silversteel sword from House Byres, the armor to match, and even a [Princess].
Lyonette. She’s fussing around the kitchen, searching for sewing needle and thread.
“If you’re not going to use a potion, at least let me clean it and sew it up! You remember last time!”
She’s snapping at him, and the [Knight] is trying not to grumble. He has a very shallow gash on one cheek from an arrow graze.
“I’m fine. I disinfected it. I remember last time.”
Last time—being when he nearly lost his arm from infection. When he was helped by Lyonette, leading her to making him a [Knight]. And his awkward self-imposed service to The Wandering Inn until Erin Solstice made him at least accept a bedroom as payment.
[Princess] and the [Knight]. Brunkr sniffs the air, once, twice.
“Eugh. The Floodplains stink. Do you smell that? Must be water backing up the outhouses.”
He’s distracted, tired; he hasn’t realized what’s going on. He pinches his nose as Raskghar move up slowly, covered in muck.
“Oh dead gods. I’ll throw some acid in there later. I just hope they don’t overflow. That’s the last thing we need.”
Lyonette comes out of the kitchen with needle and thread and some gauze. That’s one change. Brunkr’s in a chair, munching on some chicken breast. He sniffs the air again, once, twice—
Then jumps to his feet.
“Lyonette. It smells like—”
Nokha comes through the doors in a crash of wood. Several Raskghar slam weapons into the windows, but the [Reinforced Structure] refuses to yield instantly. Liscor’s silent. They don’t sense Raskghar moving on them.
“Raskghar!”
Lyonette screams. She drops the needle; Brunkr whirls. 
He draws his sword as Nokha bursts into the common room, bigger than he is, armed with an enchanted axe. And she has the moons. She charges at him and swerves, baiting a cut, and then swings. The first blow crumples part of his armor, and he goes over.
“Brunkr! Mrsha—run!”
Lyonette is screaming, trying to put herself between Nokha and the stairs. The stairs—because Mrsha is up there. More Raskghar are breaking into the inn. They leap into the building, and Nokha is headed for the stairs. Brunkr is trying to get up.
“Stop. Stop—”
They’re coming for Mrsha and for him. There’s a scrabbling sound from upstairs, a frightened Gnoll girl waking up in a panic, smelling and hearing the monsters below. Looking for somewhere to run.
Lyonette’s arms are spread; Nokha raises one paw to smash her aside. Nokha doesn’t even need to slow; she’ll just break Lyonette’s wrist. There’s nothing Lyonette can do to stop her, and Brunkr is running at Nokha. There are eight Raskghar entering the inn. Twice as many Cave Goblins. They’ll only run once they hear the horns blowing from the walls in two minutes’ time.
The [Knight] is alone for two minutes, with Lyonette and Mrsha to protect.
He’ll save one of them. Not himself.
 
——
 
This is the way fate is playing itself out. The world in which Brunkr lived ends here differently. Fate moves down the course it has been charted, running along the groove written by time. Nokha raises a paw and twists, eyes narrowed with glee, axe lashing out as Brunkr runs at her.
The enchanted axe meets a shield covered in green flames. The impact sends flurries of green sparks into the air, glowing like pride in the unobtainable, the endless reaching for the aspirational. Like an unwavering heart.
The Raskghar recoils. Her eyes go wide with shock; she didn’t smell anything. She didn’t sense something to the side. Where has this figure come from?
She sees a wounded man. Human—she barely recognizes the species, but wounded. Old scars cover his face, and he has only one eye. The other is colored like flint and violet—like someone striking sparks from a stone.
And it’s burning. The man is on fire. Yet the flames are odorless. He smells like strange metal, one she has never known. Like sweat, now, and grease. But most of all—he smells like a hunter.
Nokha recoils as he shoves the axe back. Brunkr stops.
“Who—”
A Raskghar howls, and Brunkr whirls. He sees how many are in the inn now. And he grabs at Lyonette, who’s behind Nokha. The [Princess] backs up, wide-eyed. A [Knight]? How? He emerged from the shadows. Then she feels a hand pull her.
“One side, miss! [Bone Wall]! Sillias—get that bitch!”
Someone shoves Lyonette down, and the [Princess] feels something leap down the stairs. A bony paw clips her head. Nokha spins just in time to see an open mouth, yellow teeth—a face of bones—
The undead cat tackles Nokha, biting, savaging, as a wall of bones rises. Brunkr almost shouts ‘no’, but he sees what the [Necromancer] is doing. Nokha slams down hard and actually throws Sillias off her. The cat is massive, but she is strong, empowered by the moons. He’s bit her deep on the shoulder, though.
Ambush! The Raskghar falter as the cat bounds to its feet. One runs at Brunkr and halts as a greatsword cleaves through the air.
Antherr’s swing nearly takes the Raskghar apart; only the reaction-speed granted by the moon saves the Raskghar, and the sword still bites deep into the chest and hurls the Raskghar back.
“Impressive. They are fast. Watch out, Jewel, Vess.”
Antherr sets his greatsword for another swing as a trio of figures move from the walls. Jewel slashes out, cutting a Goblin across the head—lightly—so blood covers his face. Vess fires a spell through the downed Raskghar, who’s trying to roll up. A bright arrow pierces the Raskghar’s wound and detonates internally; the Raskghar jerks and falls.
Seven Raskghar, now, howling in alarm. One looks to Nokha, and she snarls.
Kill them! The Raskghar draws back a javelin to throw, then sees something charging at him.
—A woman made of stone? The Raskghar turns and throws, but the throw is weak, panicked.
The javelin bounces off one arm. The Raskghar reaches for its club, but it has never seen any humanoid being of flesh and blood bigger than it. It snarls, bites—
Durene’s charge takes the Raskghar into the wall, and they crack the wood. Her roar is shaking the floorboards; the Goblins halt in fear.
“Was that an honorable blow, Antherr? I’ve got that one. Vess, try not to kill the Cave Goblins!”
Jewel and Antherr are moving to secure themselves against a wall. The [Knight] points one finger at the nearest Raskghar as Vess begins to fire shots. The Antinium [Knight]’s voice is cold.
“All my honor is in defending others. [I Challenge You], Raskghar.”
He strides forwards, greatsword raised, green flames leaving a trail of footsteps in his wake.
They’re all on fire. Brunkr moves, swinging his sword at a Raskghar, who leaps back, visibly unnerved. No matter where he looks—all the mysterious warriors are on fire!
Red flames from the Troll woman punching the Raskghar against the wall. Grey flames being breathed by the Drake, keeping the Cave Goblins at bay. Pink along the [Swashbuckler]’s sword as she leaps from table to table, slashing and igniting multiple Raskghar.
And green from the [Knight] who stands there as Nokha rises.
 
——
 
Pain! Danger! This was a trap, but how? They were all fooled! 
Nokha doesn’t know. She came here for the Gnoll girl and the [Knight]. They would both make her stronger, she’s sure. She was so perfect; she even waited for the [Innkeeper] to leave. The [Innkeeper] who smells…dangerous.
But the figure who waits for her is more dangerous still. He smells like fury. Fury is a smell, so is adrenaline and fear; to a Raskghar or Gnoll, these are odors released by the body.
There is no fear in his musk. Nothing but bloodlust, yet he holds himself so still.
He scares her as nothing save for the center of the dungeon has scared her. Not even Calruz or Facestealer scare her. One is a mighty warrior, but she understands his strength, envies it. The other is a being she does not think is real; a phenomenon without mercy.
This [Knight] is different. He is waiting for her, and he has a mace of that blue metal. A shield. His helmet is on his head, now, and—she relaxes slightly.
A mace? She can survive a mace. A sword will make her bleed out or grow infected, and she has few of those magical healing potions. She’ll feign weakness, then gut him. She’s stronger than he is.
Nokha rises and lashes out with her axe, rushing the green [Knight] in a bodily charge, unafraid of the clash. The impact makes him grunt; she feels like she’s hit a brick wall. Staggering, they shove at each other.
He tries to headbutt her; she opens her mouth to bite his neck. He dodges the blow, smashes his shield into her face, and she recoils.
An opening. Her axe tears the air; the green flames are clinging to her fur, but they don’t slow her down.
She has no sense of honor to weigh her down. The blow sends Ser Normen reeling backwards. He regains his footing, but his guard goes down.
Two-handed, Nokha raises her axe for a blow to his helmet. She sees Normen’s eye glint as he raises his head. And she senses it again.
Trap.
Howling, she throws herself sideways before the explosion of green flames can consume her. It washes over her—and then she begins to burn.
[The Bonfire Rages]. Normen casually gets to his feet, visibly disappointed. Only half of Nokha is aflame. He reaches for something at his side as her howl raises a pitch in pain.
It burns! Suddenly, the flames are burning her. They eat her fur, consuming her flesh at a rate beyond regular flames.
Honor, burning those without. Searing the Raskghar as she screams. She does the only thing she can think of; she reaches for a looted object at her side. Smashes it against her fur and smears it around.
Healing potion.
It douses some of the magical flames, but the rest keep burning, burning on flesh, burning all the way down to her bones. Nokha rises, though, gripping her axe harder, snarling.
She must kill him to stop the fire. It’s her only thought. She throws herself forwards, and he swings his mace.
She doesn’t care at first. It’s just a mace. Blue metal—she doesn’t smell magic on it. But then she sees the green gel moving along the mace’s head—
The acid from the mace strikes her across the arm and begins to sizzle and eat away the patchwork armor and her fur. This time, her howl is shorter. Nokha backs up, uncertain what that was.
He’s walking forwards, a cold light in his eyes. He’s not angry—the [Knight] holds his acid-covered mace, and he is no [Knight] that Nokha or Brunkr have ever seen. There is nothing of Ylawes’ bright ideal of honor in Normen’s gaze.
Flee.
Nokha howls the word. She turns to run. This is far beyond any acceptable risk. Calruz will understand this. He’ll—
Three Raskghar are downed. Cave Goblins are lying wounded, unconscious. A Troll woman bigger than Nokha tosses a limp body down and turns.
The inn is filled with figures. Intruders. But two, no, three of them are standing behind Nokha. All of them confuse her.
One is a Goblin. A…big Goblin. The biggest she’s ever seen. She doesn’t think it’s the same species as the pathetic Cave Goblins who serve Raskghar. His skin is greener, and he has a beard. He’s dressed in clothing, and he has a red, crystal blade. He stands, eyes filled with recognition, with hatred, looking at her, but pointing his sword at the Cave Goblins.
The ones he faces have dropped their weapons. They hold still in front of the [Bard]. But Nokha is even more startled to see the other two.
A child standing behind a woman in golden armor. The woman is Human, and she is set, shield raised. She hasn’t joined in the fighting. She just stands there, a protector whose very presence makes Lyonette, peeking through the [Bone Wall], gasp.
“A Thronebearer? Mrsha?”
The cry makes Brunkr turn as he backs away from his foe for a breather. He sees her there. How? He has to protect—
…Who is that? She’s white-furred, but she’s not Mrsha. She’s taller, bigger, and standing on two legs. She’s wearing a kilt, and she appears older.
“Another Doombringer?”
He whispers unconsciously, and Nokha looks Mrsha in the eye. The girl is afraid. But she stares at the Raskghar. Then she puts her head up, takes a deep breath, and howls.
The mute girl howls, and the sound rocks the inn. It fills the air and sets Liscor’s Watch alight with a sudden panic. The sound travels impossibly far, a note like a [Dangersense], like a call to arms, a warning—a [Fatebreaker]’s power.
[Other Me’s Skill: Doom Howl].
