“I’ve been considering fortifications all week. I study it, you know? It’s not all buttresses and castle walls; fortifications matter a lot. Especially for Goblins! You may think we’re all sticks and stones and caves, but that’s only because you’re probably thinking of poor Goblin tribes. Give any industrious Goblin a hammer and some nails and a week, and he’ll show you a wall any Drake would be proud of. Come on, check it out!”
And she gives the camera a pair of finger-guns and a smile. White teeth. Rags wonders how insane ‘Chieftain Rags’ is going. Or how insane Wistram News Network is going.
She walks into the hallway, and several Goblins pile into each other as they see a Rags who is familiar—and not. It’s mostly unscripted, by the by. That’s natural. Rags points to a nervous Cave Goblin, who gapes at her and recognizes the scrying mirror.
“Don’t mind all the activity. Goblinhome’s always busy. If you’re just catching me for the first time, hi. Student Rags with my weekly lecture on [Strategist] tips and tricks! As you can see, we have a lot of Goblins who have to run goods around all the time. This young Goblin’s bringing coal to a brazier or fireplace, I think. Hey, what’s your name?”
Rags turns to the Goblin, who stutters.
“I—I—is Coalgetter, Chieftain.”
He stares at her, at the mirror, and Rags twists around.
“Goblin names are very literal most of the time. Coalgetter has to run coal to the various rooms and places all over Goblinhome. Honestly, I’m pretty sure we were working on a more efficient delivery system, but sometimes you just have to do things by hand. And Goblinhome is a mess of walls, secret tunnels—take a look at this. See you, Coalgetter.”
“Bye?”
The little Goblin gapes at her as Rags motions and Leapwolf walks with her. She passes by Goblins, who run into each other, drop what they’re holding, and stare—ostensibly at the camera, but mostly at their cheerful, different Chieftain. What the heck is going on? She had a scrying orb? Here?
Goblinhome?
And she’s showing them the defenses! Rags is showcasing the tight tunnels, running commentary as she points at the rough-hewn stone.
“Alright, now, it’s not much, but we had to build this all from scratch. And if you think this is claustrophobic and too tight? Well, you’ve never seen one of those traditional castles before. Tight corridors are perfect for choking an attacking force, forcing them to come at you one-at-a-time. Also, it hinders anyone trying to swing a battleaxe around. Goblins are a lot smaller than most species unless they’re Hobs, so this kind of hallway benefits them immensely. But I can hear you armchair [Strategists] already—”
Rags rolls her eyes as if she’s actually listening to commentary from her world. She raises her voice and opens and closes one hand.
“—‘but Rags! Any [Knight] could kill a hundred Goblins in the tunnels! Humans are so superior! You see a dozen Goblins? I cast [Fireball]!’ Yeah, yeah. First off, we’d love not to fight for our lives, but that’s not up to us. Second—Goblinhome is filled with tons of advanced fortifications. Let’s say you’ve got a squad of [Knights] and a [Mage] with [Fireball] coming down this corridor. Goblins in full retreat. They keep going, all high on their arrogance, until whoops! What’s this?”
She pushes, and a section of the wall moves. Rags reveals a rotating section of stone, cunningly hidden, and invites Leapwolf—and the audience—to see the narrow alcove.
“Sneak attack! We’ve got tons of this stuff. Not just for Goblins to hide in; let’s find a murderhole, Leapwolf. Now, the trick to fighting siege battles, even on the defensive, is to outnumber the enemy and have the advantage in every way you can. But if you can’t…positioning your traps matters. For instance, this three-way intersection is the perfect spot for someone to attack a group of enemies, and wouldn’t you know it? Ceiling hatch. You can drop acid from here, a smoke bomb, or just poop.”
Rags grins until her face turns serious. She beckons Leapwolf closer.
“We will throw poop at you. And yes, I’ve seen [Soldiers] literally eat it by accident. You come at us with [Fireballs]? You’ll never forget the taste of a Goblin battle.”
A muffled sound. Rags sees, behind Leapwolf, Redscar trying not to laugh and biting his arm. Some Goblins watching are horrified, others seeing what she’s doing. Prixall is scared, amazed, and—admiring. She tips her hat. Student Rags has no idea who she is.
But she grins. Her heart is beating out of her chest. She’s terrified, exhilarated.
Professor, can you see me? Do you understand? Even if you’re not my Professor, can you see?
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon sees. The moment Marian literally bursts into the classroom—he’s still teaching his highest-ranked students because he will need them for the coming campaign—he stops.
And he stares at that fake Rags. For a few seconds, he doesn’t get it.
What is she doing? The broadcast is coming from Wistram News Network. Channel 2.
A Goblin.
A Goblin on television.
“Switch to Channel 1.”
Channel one appears, and Niers sees Sir Relz banging on the door to Channel 2’s space. He’s fielding outraged voices, raising a stink, but no one’s cut the feed from Wistram yet.
Of course not. Archmage Eldavin is a dangerous man and also one who admires spectacle. Every eye in the world is focused on this. Once more, The Wandering Inn takes center stage.
But this isn’t the inn. Niers feels a chill down his spine. He listens to the commentary, and Wil Kallinad murmurs.
“She sounds like…she knows what she’s talking about.”
“A Goblin.”
Venaz is all tension, all anger and nowhere to let it out as he grips his desk. Umina’s mouth is open.
“She almost sounds like one of us.”
She ventures the thought causally, and Kissilt hisses at her. Niers twitches. No one notices, or so he hopes, but that is…true?
The [Student] is grinning. Straight at him, as she explains crenellations in a fortress wall and why they’re angled: to give the defender avenues of attack while minimizing the way an arrow can hit them. Her explanation is precise—dumbed down for a casual viewer—and Niers thinks to himself.
She’s done this before. 
Impossible, of course. A Goblin has never been on television for this long. Interviewed? Only twice, and not like this. This…this is something else. She’s both inventing and showing the world a new style of presentation, and she’s doing it flawlessly.
Because she has done this before. It’s an incredible conclusion, but one that dovetails with theories Niers has had over his life and the more recent events from earlier today. It is as preposterous as it gets, but he’s out of other explanations.
“—And here’s Trueshot. Don’t mind her glare. She’s a [Defensive Arbalist]; we use special, mounted crossbows made out of Wyvern bones. They can punch through steel armor at a hundred and forty feet without Skills.”
She slaps the Thunderbow, and Trueshot, a huge Hob woman sitting hunchbacked and very grumpy looking, glowers in confusion at Rags. Despite both being Hobs, the [Student] seems like a girl of sixteen at best, and short; Trueshot is just under five foot eleven inches and fills out her armor. Her arms are thicker than Rags’ legs, and, if you pay attention, you realize how strong she has to be as she lifts the massive Thunderbow.
You can almost feel her scowl as Rags grins at her. But the Goblin skates left around Trueshot. Wheels on her feet.
If you have no idea what’s going on, you’re captivated. Niers can sense it. He’s smiling. He’s angry as ten Battle Hammies in a sack, but he’s smiling.
You brilliant idiot. But he’s waiting—waiting—
If he did teach her—
He’s waiting for the trap. And here it comes. Rags gestures out the narrow crenellations and gives the audience a brief view of a rocky, empty plain outside Goblinhome.
“Trueshot’s entire job is to sit here all day and wait for something to come by so she can hit it. Wyvern, adventurer, invading army…here’s a tip for all you wannabe [Strategists] or [Generals] out there. When you’re up against a people with nowhere left to run, they will fight to the death. Everyone’s talking about the King of Destruction sacking Nerrhavia’s Fallen fortresses and how their infinite armies just keep routing, right? Well, that’s because they have plenty of space to retreat! This is our last stand, and if they come—what happens, Trueshot?”
Rags turns to Trueshot and holds out a small speaking stone tuned to the scrying spell. Trueshot’s voice is low, gravelly, and filled with emotion. She glares at the camera, angry, angry because she’s afraid and everyone can see it.
“They die. Then we die.”
—There’s no smile on Rags’ face for a moment as she turns. She takes a breath, then forces a slight grin, but you can see the feelings behind that grin and hear them in her tone.
“Which is why I’m always telling people: don’t kill us Goblins. Most of us just want to survive, but I’ll give you this lecture every time I broadcast, so I won’t harp on it long for now. You’d just think that any smart enemy would know how defensible Goblinhome is. I mean, there are thousands of Goblins behind these walls. Possibly even tens of thousands. Each one ready to fight and die and throw poop on you. Who’d be mad enough to attack us?”
She pauses. One second, two seconds, three—and then her smile widens.
“Now, in local news, I heard the craziest rumor the other day. The High Passes get weird up here, but my tribe trades with Trolls. They say there’s an Old One in their mountains. A big, undead giant so damn horrific it’s in pieces and getting ready to storm up out of there and kill everyone. Horrific if true! However, I also heard that Pallass’ famous 2nd Army is creeping around the High Passes. Not just one or two battalions; the entire damn army led by General Shirka herself. Isn’t that odd?”
She winks—and now anyone with a brainstem, anyone at all, is turning to their own [Mages], asking informants, or just thinking, reasonably—
I can fact-check that. And no matter how good 2nd Army is, no matter how many [Mages] Pallass has, can they conceal an entire army from the gaze of a determined world audience?
Niers is trying oh so very hard…not to admire her actions. She’s not his student. But she is. Part of him sees what doesn’t exist in this world, sees his own hand in her actions. The rest of him is ten times as wary due to that.
Rags is still going. She has a map. It’s just of Liscor and the surrounding area; Goblinhome is explicitly not marked, but she’s circling a red area that probably is where 2nd Army is. And she’s grinning evilly.
“Now, if they were coming at Goblinhome, I’d say that’s a bad idea. In a few minutes, I’ll run down why you couldn’t take Goblinhome even if you had a bunch of siege towers and three times the artillery that 2nd Army does. But let’s say they attack. They’re totally out of place in the High Passes. Pallass and Liscor might be buddy-buddy sometimes, but Liscor’s army isn’t placed to render aid if 2nd Army runs into that Old One or fights us. You know who can capitalize on any mistakes?”
She draws another circle and then a line.
“Celum, led by Lord Xitegen himself. He might not be able to contest 2nd Army in the field, but this is the perfect spot for a flank attack. 2nd Army could run into an Old One, Goblinhome, and a bunch of Terland Golems if they’re not careful. Speaking of which—hey, hey, Leapwolf. Do we have a Mage Picture of that Old One?”
Leapwolf’s voice comes from off-camera, and his claws are visible a second as he adjusts the mirror.
“Uh—uh—working on it, boss! Starstarer has a picture he drew. Very nasty.”
“Let’s get both real quick. Okay, I can see Drassi’s waving at me and I’m going to accept questions in a few seconds, but before we go back to the studio—Goblin fact of the day! Goblins lose their teeth regularly over a year. We chip them, they fall out; we’re constantly growing more teeth. I hear some cultures have children put teeth under their pillows in exchange for coins. Not in Goblin society. Those poor parents would go bankrupt—if they even had gold! Hah! No, but it’s really useful because we can gnaw on rocks and not worry about breaking our teeth. Okay, Drassi, what’s up?”
 
——
 
Chieftain Rags thinks she’s going crazy. The Wyvern flight back to Goblinhome is expedited by Fightipilota’s Skills. [Flight: 110% Max Speed] and so on. Rags has left Rianchi and Dyeda in the inn, and the rest of her warriors are dead silent.
Some are grinning. Others are stone-faced with shock. Rags is feeling for her crossbow—which is broken still, sadly.
“Fighti, figure out where in Goblinhome she is and get me close.”
“You want to land or drop, Chieftain?”
“Neither. Get me a clear shot at her. Shineshield, give me your bow.”
The Redfang hesitates. Rags is joking.
Half-joking.
This is insane. The flight takes forty minutes to Goblinhome. Forty minutes is long enough for the other Rags to run a full segment on air, complete with her answering questions from callers and being—being—
Personable. Friendly. Even, dare Rags say it, charming. She isn’t attracted to other people, Goblins or otherwise, but she can admit when she looks good. That stupid—other her has cool hair, a fun vibe—she’s like Erin. She’s copying Erin, Chieftain Rags realizes.
What’s so infuriating is that it’s working.
“Goblin! Die! You piece of filth! Die, die, die—why isn’t anyone killing it? Someone do something! Kill the Goblin! Kill the—”
The red-faced woman vanishes mid-scream, and Student Rags flips her hair back, seeming only slightly shocked and mostly just—her expression entirely conveys the word ‘yikes’ to the viewer.
“See, that’s typical Goblin hate. Now, if that Human lady was saying that about Drakes, I bet everyone would be more upset. You know, I get it. I’m going to be controversial here and say something my fellow Goblins might not respect, but stay with me—”
She holds her hands out. She’s got a speaking stone in hand, and her demeanor is casual as she walks back and forth on-stage in the banquet hall, a stone wall behind her. Student Rags pauses, opens her mouth, raises a finger—hesitates—puts her finger to her mouth—and says it abruptly.
“Velan the Kind—”
Another pause, as pregnant as a Carn Wolf with quintuplets. Rags speaks as the tension ratchets up.
“—Wasn’t that kind. Hear me out, hear me out!”
