In the background, the fight is growing more hectic as Drassi pours hot coffee into Sir Relz’s face before Noass tries to fight another Gnoll anchor—then Drassi gets dragged off by the Watch for defending herself. Rags doesn’t need to look to see it happen.
—This has happened before. Then the [Chieftain] sees the guilt in the [Student]’s eyes. She steps closer.
“Tell me.”
The [Student] lets her smile falter. Just for you. Only for you and Erin will I show anything real. She lowers her voice as Redscar paces around them, casually watching the sky.
“I…we don’t know each other. But you can tell I’m putting on a good face, can’t you?”
“Mm. You enjoy being liked.”
The [Student] corrects herself with a shake of the head.
“It’s the only thing I can do. Fight with minds instead of swords, the Professor says…I’m not you. You went down to fight an Old One. I’d call the Professor and take notes on how he fixes things. I’m the coward. I…did this, you know. This broadcast. In my world. Only, there’s a twist. Want to guess what it was?”
She feels her face heating up. Feels her own cheeks heating and her eyes growing bright. It’s so embarrassing. The other Rags scrutinizes her and glances away, awkward.
“—Bad?”
Blundering around a set, fumbling her lines and the maps, giving out wrong explanations for strategy. And the mockery. Noass sitting with a real [Strategist] dissecting everything Rags does.
The [Student] blinks away the memories.
“…I had a six-episode run. I did okay in the last two. Different world. It was hard; not hard in the sense of losing anything but my pride, but it hurt. I know it’s silly to you, who’s lost more. But for a while, the entire world just laughed at me. Still. A Goblin on television being laughed at is better than one who’s dead.”
The other Rags is silent now, digesting this, imagining what happened. She jerks her head back at Goblinhome.
“Hence the comedy.”
The [Student] feels the ice in her stomach, then, and smiles calmly. The air is tingling above her head. A vision is in her memory. A smell. Burnt flesh, which never smells as wrong as it should.
A better world, Dyeda keeps telling her. Better than ours.
Never perfect.
She shakes her head in reply to her counterpart.
“Oh, no. That wasn’t me or you. That came later. I stole it. Stole the entire thing from a Goblin who doesn’t exist in this world. He—must have died during the Siege of Liscor. Laughlots?”
No one recognizes the name. The [Chieftain] glances up, and she sees it. Just like last time—the funny Goblin on the scrying orb stands there as Drassi brawls with Noass and Sir Relz.
A Goblin being allowed to live.
Disgusting.
No matter the cost, no matter how far—someone takes umbrage in this wide, wide world to the funny Goblin’s existence. And they do what they have always done about it.
 
——
 
Flames gather overhead, a swirling mass of them like a whirlpool of fire, coalescing out of the air. Orange light flickering around until a yellow center forms—and then it plunges downwards. Searing heat.
[Flamestrike]. Not a pinpoint spell either. One that lands and splashes outwards from where it strikes, rolling out thirty feet in every direction, knocking Goblins off their feet with the blastwave, searing the Frost Wyvern’s scales and making it shriek, more in fear than anger.
It would have killed dozens of Goblins in Goblinhome if it had gone off there. The sender doesn’t care.
Rags sees it all happen, of course. Forewarned, the [Chieftain]—and the [Student]—are in a cleared space, save for Redscar, and they’re ready.
This time, no [Jokester], no aspiring [Comedian] who hasn’t even had the chance to level and earn his class, dies.
That’s what it is, Chieftain Rags realizes as she throws up her hand, the other clasping the hilt of her sword. Her blood is fire, her mind moving a thousand miles a second, body tensed, waiting for what comes next. But she sees the [Student]’s face and that relieved smile.
“Oh.”
That’s all Chieftain Rags says. She realizes she’s been arrogant in her way. She thought the [Student] was swanning in to save the day, that infuriatingly superior Rags, as if there were a world where Rags had no insecurities or flaws. She thought she and Mrsha were entering other worlds to save theirs, to undo tragedy, if that could be done.
—It now occurs to her that the opposite can be true. That the [Student] is the main character of her story. And she has come here to do this:
To undo the same tragedy she remembers.
The flames come down. They strike the Goblin, and Drassi whirls and screams.
“Rags!”
Fire rolls outwards, the energy travelling horizontally as the flames and shockwave kick dust up in a plume of smoke. It knocks over Shineshield, who’s reaching for a shield she doesn’t have. The flames burst over her head.
Over?
When Shineshield pulls herself up and Leapwolf drags the scrying mirror back to focus on the trio of Goblins, he doesn’t see a scorched body. Instead, all he sees is a glowing parabola. A bit of fabric and magic attached to metal and a wooden handle.
He gasps. And he hears a sigh from the [Chieftain]. The Goblins pick themselves up and see that proof of another world shining in the [Student]’s hand.
The softly glowing umbrella rains down light under its wide brim. Carefully smithed pieces of metal combined with enchanted fabric splay outwards, a creation only made possible with the help of the great Dwarf smith and a certain surly [Enchanter].
An umbrella commissioned by an [Innkeeper], because some things don’t change. The fabric of it doesn’t even smoke as Rags lifts the umbrella higher. The [Flamestrike] bursts off it, and she stands there, bathed in the light, smiling sadly.
“A gift. To stop it from happening again.”
That’s all she says to her other self. Rags slowly folds the umbrella back up and waits.
The second spell is coming as Drassi shoves people aside.
“Whoever’s doing this—stop. Are you mad? I said stop—”
A spire of stone, wider across than Rags, drops out of the air like a comet. A spear plunging diagonally out of the sky aimed straight for the offending Goblin. It never reaches her.
His turn.
The [Blademaster] grins. He walks on the balls of his feet, hand on his one sword. Redscar holds the sheath overhead, and his other clawed hand grasps the hilt.
His [Chieftain]’s been beating herself up over being a failure for ages. How do you think he feels, the highest-level warrior who failed to do more than help destroy one limb? He couldn’t cut it to pieces. He couldn’t stop Tyrion Veltras. He isn’t even a speck compared to Zeladona of Blades.
But he’s seeing it. Piece by piece, level by level. Redscar can swear he saw the magic forming in the air. Like strands of weird thread, each one a different color. That’s how he thinks of it. And this?
The [Stone Lance] is fast as an arrow, and he sees it. He almost thinks that if he swings his sword right, he could cut up the threads in it. But at the very least—
Redscar draws his sword and takes a step. His sword is a dozen feet from the [Stone Lance]. He’ll never reach it, even if he were running and leapt.
So, he cuts across the distance. Cuts the air, cuts through the rock, just like he saw a true master do.
He fails, of course. His blade only goes through a third of the [Stone Lance] spell, and Redscar sighs.
Not good enough.
A third of the stalactite splits in midair, a cut as clean as a razor. The rest cracks from the force of the blow. The air howls; the stone pieces scatter down around the two Ragses, a few fragments bouncing off the umbrella. One fragment hits the ground, twists, and bounces into the [Student]’s thigh.
“Ow.”
She jerks back, and Redscar lifts a hand in apology. He sheathes his sword, then awkwardly glowers at the camera. That was a pretty embarrassing moment for him. He’s going to think about it all day now.
Redscar really wishes his Chieftain would stop seeming so pleased.
 
——
 
Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe is laughing. She can’t help it. Laughing in envy of the other Rags, who holds that umbrella that means so much.
Rejoicing in Redscar’s cut, for all he looks so ashamed, as Redfangs leap around, Leapwolf even doing a backflip before he remembers he’s holding the camera.
Shouting from the walls. Wyverns howling—and she sees the [Student] folding up her umbrella, stepping back. And Rags wonders, suddenly, if that cunning her prepared this stage all for this.
For her? She can sense the ozone in the air, smell it amidst the acrid fumes. The pieces of the broken [Stone Lance] spell are already vanishing into raw mana, and Drassi’s voice is a crescendo of outrage.
“Do you have to kill everything you hate? Are you all blind? Are you so afraid of one Goblin telling jokes that you have to kill her?”
The answer’s coming. It’s actually relieving; no matter how ideal that other world is, no matter how much better—it’s not impossibly good. Goblins are still Goblins.
There’s just a few more of them in the [Student]’s world. And the [Chieftain] can’t help it. She’s facing Leapwolf, the camera, and it’s not hard—just a bit of acting now she knows how it’s done.
A long sigh. The same sigh she has in her chest all the time. Exhausted, tired, and unsurprised, really. She raises one eyebrow at the camera, then draws her sword in a flash.
A bolt of lightning cracks down from overhead. The thunderous boom of it reaches Goblinhome, silencing the shouting, making everything and everyone fall into stunned silence a few seconds after the lightning hits.
Of course, it doesn’t hit Rags. It strikes downwards—and touches the shortsword she holds aloft. Pure energy arcing down the blade, absorbed into the metal.
The Goblin catches the bolt of lightning on her sword and, for a second, looks up at it as the power races along the blade, before she lowers it. She keeps her face straight, pretending not to hear the cheering, the shouting of joy and relief. All she’s thinking, in the back of her head, is—
Aspat, that was close! I should have done that faster!
Play it cool. Chieftain Rags rests the shortsword against her shoulder, faces the camera, and speaks. She doesn’t have a plan, for once. She just wings it.
“Reporter Drassi.”
The Drake jumps, closes her mouth, then bursts out.
“Rags, I am so sorry—”
“Don’t be. I saw it coming. We’re Goblins. This always happens. It makes our enemies predictable. Each and every time, they will come. No matter how far we run, no matter how much we smile or how good our jokes are.”
She gives the [Student] a nod and receives one in reply, a quiet ducking of the head. Rags looks back into the scrying mirror and draws on something.
Her [Aura of the Emissary]. She hasn’t done this often, but like the meeting with Naumel, she gathers it up. It’s like…her feelings, her ego, her presence, which normally floats freely around her, unconscious. When she’s mad or intense, it focuses, but Rags draws it into her, around her, like she’s in the middle of a great basin, a sink, and her nature is condensing, pouring into a single core.
Does it make her taller? More impressive? She can’t tell. But her tribe is watching her, eyes bright, and the [Student]’s eyes are filled with her own envy. The [Chieftain] likes that, so she grins with all her teeth.
“I am no Goblin Lord. I took my tribe here, to the High Passes, where I thought no one would go, because I was tired of battle. Tired of having to kill my enemies, and I am good at it. You have seen my fortress. You have tried to kill me, all of you, time and time again. Didn’t you see that war at sea? You can’t kill Greydath of Blades, even with the wrath of an entire continent. Is the cost of it worth it?”
She shakes her head, and now the air is trembling. All the anger, all the frustration, all those failed futures—Rags’ eyes are glowing brighter now. Her grin becomes a snarl, and she points the sword at the camera.
“I have been fighting an Old One to keep it from slaughtering everything it finds. A Drake creation from the days when they sent it down into the darkness to murder every Gnoll, Dwarf, and Troll it could find. I am tired of paying for the sins of people long dead before I was born. But if we must do it again, so be it. General Shirka of Pallass’ 2nd Army!”
She barks into the camera, and now the Great Chieftain is laughing silently. She beckons with one hand, and the earth is trembling. Like a memory of that other Great Chieftain, Tremborag, for all his flaws. Flames are licking around her boots, not the remnants of any spell, but conjured by her aura. The Goblin jerks a thumb at her chest.
“I am Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe. If you are mad, come visit Goblinhome and bring your entire army. Bring all four of your little ballistae; mine are bigger. Bring all one thousand two hundred and ninety-seven of your [Goblin Slayers]. Bring [Spearmaster] Gaellis, your Level 46 champion. My [Blademaster] is waiting for him. If you come, come ready for every consequence. The Old One is coming. But attack me, Shirka. I have seen your death. I. Challenge. You.”
She turned, lifted a hand, and waved it. And really hoped Leapwolf knew how to turn the scrying orb off. Rags walked to the side, sheathed her sword, had no idea what to do next—and then nearly went off her feet.
Student Rags hugged her, laughing, leaping onto the other Rags and clinging to her like a barnacle.
“That was amazing! I look so cool!”
“Get off. Off!”
Unfortunately, it was too late. The second Goblin to seize her was a laughing Redscar, who grabbed her in a one-armed hug.
“Chieftain! I call the [Spearmaster]! That was great! Garen would have been jealous!”
“It was a bluff! Get—not you too!”
Goblins were all around her, and Rags sighed. But she couldn’t keep the smile off her face. She looked at the [Student].
“We have to go to the doors. Someone get a Wyvern ready.”
The other Rags caught her breath and nodded.
“Yeah. Everything we can do is from there, isn’t it?”
“Mrsha knows what we can do. I have to see. I have to be—as brave as she is.”
Catching a bolt of lightning, challenging 2nd Army in front of the world, all of it is somehow easier than the idea of walking through those doors. Both Rags turn, and the [Chieftain] takes a breath.
“Okay. All or nothing. Let’s go.”
When she begins to run for a Wyvern, her tribe and other self running with her, she thinks she knows how Erin Solstice feels. Sometimes—well, it’s often scary and hard and uncertain—
But it’s not always bad.
 
——
 
