Laughter. Chieftain Rags hears laughter from the scrying orb, and she realizes it’s Goblins. Goblins in Goblinhome laughing at the sheer audacity and silliness and…in outrage, shock, controversy, and more. And she hears a laugh and sees Mousebite trying to stifle the noise.
Chieftain Rags just stares at Student Rags as she bites her lip, visibly trying not to laugh at her own joke. And Chieftain Rags realizes, suddenly—
She’s telling jokes. And—and—
I wonder if any non-Goblins laughed at that? Even against their will?
Student Rags keeps going, pacing back and forth, occasionally sitting on a stool sized for her, and she has studied this. She has done this before in her gentler world.
“Okay, here’s the thing. Goblin Kings destroy the world. They’re famous for it. Velan the Kind, Curulac of a Hundred Days…I honestly don’t know many more before that, but we all know what goes on. Goblin Kings rise up, everyone dies, everyone hates Goblins. It’s a cycle of violence and hate, and what I suppose you don’t all realize is how Goblins feel about this. Because we know it happens, and what I believe you miss is when a Goblin King emerges, I feel every Goblin thinks the same thing.”
Another pause, shorter this time. Rags turns to the camera, but she’s speaking to the audience.
“…‘Oh, dead gods, here we go again.’”
Laughter. It’s not what the Goblins expected. It’s not what anyone expects. Rags waves a claw.
“Listen! I know lots of Goblins follow the Goblin King, and part of that’s just instinct. You know like how Drowned Folk are drawn to water or how Drakes can’t share anything? But seriously, I think, before all the Goblins grab their swords and go off to war, I think they go, ‘dead gods, another one? Come on! I was just getting my tribe in a good spot! Some of those Humans over there—they liked me! And then—okay, okay, fine. I’m doing it, I’m doing it. Let’s kill all the Humans. Whatever.’”
She rolls her eyes.
“—And then we go marching off to war. You know, I wonder, did anyone ever pull Velan aside? You know, like Tallis the Stormbreaker or Greydath of Blades? Just stop him and go—‘hey, King Velan. I know you’re really set on the war thing, but it’s not going to end well. Like—historically.’ Not one? Okay.”
She pauses, scuffs at the ground, and then raises her speaking stone.
“—It’s weird. Because we get this reputation, and it’s—I’m not going to say if it’s deserved or not, you know? I grew up not knowing about Goblin Kings. There was no history. Just me not wanting to be hungry and knowing that if I met a Gnoll or a Drake or a Human, they’d kill me. That’s what being a Goblin is. We don’t even know why we’re monsters. We just know we are. That’s not every tribe, by the way. I know some Goblins are murderers and pillagers, just like any species. But I’m just saying, not all of us even know our history.”
She searches around, and there are murmurs of agreement. Rags glances at the camera and goes on.
“So it’s odd when you have people, sometimes two people, Goblin and non-Goblin, who don’t understand what’s going on, but one’s a monster and one’s not. You get it? Do you feel that? And it’s so universal I knew that if I ever met a non-Goblin, I’d die. It was just—like the sun rising each day, you know? I never questioned that. Until one day, I met this Human who didn’t want to kill me. She—there were some misunderstandings! I threw rocks at her, she sort of got my parents killed—”
Laughter, and only from the Goblins this time, probably shocked laughter from non-Goblins. But Goblins got it. Rags gazes down at the ground, raises her speaking stone again.
“—Wasn’t really her fault. But one day, she decides I’m looking scrawny, so she puts out a plate of spaghetti for me. She invites me into her inn and decides to feed me. And I just stand there at the door, not knowing what to do, and I’m thinking, I’m thinking—”
Pause. It’s like a rhythm. Rags takes a breath, looks down, raises her chin, and speaks with a smile.
“Hey, this Human is pretty dumb. I wouldn’t trust me!”
Laughter, and Rags is striding back and forth again, energy restored.
“No, but for real! Who does that? I thought it was a trap or a trick or something, but she was just offering me spaghetti. So I sit down, and I have the best food in my life. The first real, cooked food, and it’s delicious. I’m eating it and I think—hey, this could use more salt.”
Another Goblin appears in the camera, lying on the floor, laughing. Rags goes on.
“Sorry, but it’s true! She undersalts her pasta! Now, I didn’t say it to her. I’m not trying to be ungrateful, but I just—I dunno. Spaghetti? Is that the best food for…? She was doing her best. She didn’t need to do that. I’m sitting there, and I’m eating my spaghetti, and she’s saying how she doesn’t believe I’m a monster, and I’m looking at her, and I can’t speak the common tongue yet, but I’m thinking: ‘hey, my parents are dead. You kind of owe me at least another plate of spaghetti before we become friends…’”
 
——
 
Numbtongue checked his mug after a few minutes. It was water. Ishkr had refused to serve him anything else. Absently, he patted at the stain on his clothing from the milk Sammial had tossed at him. But most of his mind was on…
The Goblin stared at the television and heard a trickling sound.
That was the sound of Ishkr pouring milk into a cup and it overflowing. At last, the Gnoll noticed, and the Hobgoblin rubbed at his face.
“I’m dreaming.”
The image of Rags on stage, cheerful, doing a comedic…what was it again? Doing her tight five on stage like that comedy show that Kevin had shown him on the laptop was surreal.
It didn’t feel like Rags. And yet it was.
Also, she looked pretty hot.
Numbtongue debated that thought and punched himself in the cheek to try and get rid of it. It didn’t help. He got up after a second and peered around.
The start of his visit—return—to the inn wasn’t as bad as he’d thought. Mrsha had been overly clingy, but after he stopped her, she just sat and asked him where he’d been. Not nagging him like Lyonette or Nanette; she’d said they were gone to deal with the wand thing.
What wand thing? Numbtongue rubbed at his face. He didn’t know what was going on. And he disliked that no one had kept him up to speed. The Hobgoblin ignored the thought that it was his fault for not returning.
Salkis. He searched for her and found her staring at the scrying mirror with everyone else. When he touched her arm, she hissed at him.
“Numb! What’s going on? Why’s a Goblin on…? Is, uh, is something interesting happening?”
“Dunno. Something always happens here. Come on, let’s look around.”
“Don’t you want to watch—?”
He tugged at her arm, but Salkis resisted. She snorted as Rags said something funny—Numbtongue glared at Rags and thought, privately, he could be funnier than that. If anyone asked him.
Everyone was staring at the mirror, transfixed, and rapidly getting hungry and ordering food. Ishkr swept around the room, and the only person somewhat immune to the surreal effect was Mrsha. She glanced at Numbtongue as he sat back down.
You okay, Numbtongue? You look bad.
“Look who’s talking. You look terrible.”
He growled at her and felt a stab of guilt the moment he said it. But to his surprise, Mrsha just brushed at her cheek, and he realized she was oddly dressed up today. Oddly…thin?
I’ve been bad, thanks for noticing.
“Lyonette not feeding you?”
More complicated than that. So you’ve been hanging around Pallass and other places with Salkis? We’ve all missed you.
He jumped, wondering how she knew that. Numbtongue peeked around, but Mrsha just wrote.
I won’t tell.
“You’d better not. I’m not causing trouble.”
The image of the [Guard] and Kisne shielding the other Drake from him flashed into his mind. He shook his head and glared, and Mrsha nodded.
I missed you, Numbtongue. A lot. I hope you don’t want to leave the inn forever.
“Are you stupid? Where would I even…? All my stuff is here.”
Mrsha’s eyes were so sad, like a kicked puppy or something. She was doing it on purpose. Numbtongue looked away, disgusted, and remembered why he’d come here. Reagen, that was right.
His cat. He glanced down as he began to rise to head to Stitchworks.
I don’t know where she’ll take you. I wish I did. I don’t think she’s good for you, Numbtongue.
He spun on her, anger flaring in his chest, and poked her hard. Mrsha almost fell out of her seat, but Sammial caught her. The boy gazed at Numbtongue, and there was a hot flare on the [Bard]’s chest. A crushing presence. Aura?
Numbtongue threw it off him with a growl, and Sammial recoiled. Mrsha patted Sammial’s arm, and Numbtongue snapped.
“What would you know about it? At least she cares about me.”
I care about you, Numbtongue. I care about you as much as anything in this world. I do.
The [Bard] walked away from that card, too angry to stay and too ashamed to even try to deny it.
He stalked out of the room. Glad, hurt, that Mrsha didn’t follow him.
 
——
 
In Stitchworks, Octavia was watching the Rags show on a personal scrying orb, laughing and mixing something up. She had something in her lap and was so engrossed in work as she sat on a high chair in front of one of her laboratory tables that she didn’t notice Numbtongue until he wrapped his arms around her.
“Aaaah! Who—Numbtongue?”
“Hey.”
He kissed her on the cheek, and she swivelled. Octavia’s mouth fell open.
“Numbtongue! Where have you been? And why do you smell like—you’ve been gone for over a week!”
“I was travelling.”
He avoided her gaze, the elation he’d felt quickly turning to…why did she have to glare the first thing? Octavia took in Numbtongue as he stepped back.
“You’ve been out with Salkis again.”
Now she sounded accusatory. Numbtongue folded his arms, feeling all the euphoria vanish.
“So?”
“So, you look terrible.”
“I have a nice stomach. And my hair looks better. See?”
He pulled his shirt up, and Octavia stared for a second at his abdominal muscles, then sniffed.
“You smell like beer. You’re drunk. Numbtongue, Garia and I were worried sick! You can’t just keep running off, especially with Salkis. She’s bad news.”
And here was why he didn’t visit again. Numbtongue glanced past Octavia at the scrying orb and turned it off.
“You’re not my Chieftain. I came back to see you. Come on, don’t fight. I’ve missed you.”
He went to kiss her again, and she pushed his head away.
“And to get new clothing and a bath, I hope. Numbtongue, I’m working.”
“You’re not working on something if you can watch a scrying orb. Come on.”
She tried to fend him off, one-handed, as he tried to tickle her. She was ticklish. Octavia was smiling in an odd way, but she was also sounding angrier.
“Numbtongue, I don’t—I’m not—stop it. I’m working for Master Saliss and—”
He was trying to scoop her up when the thing in Octavia’s lap finally noticed his presence and took umbrage. Numbtongue yelped as a set of claws dug into his arm. He jerked back and caught an orange, striped furball—
“Reagen?”
To his shock and delight, the orange cat was there. Reagen had been curled up in Octavia’s lap, purring away! Now he yowled and bit and slashed until he seemed to recognize Numbtongue. Then he dangled there as Numbtongue delightedly hugged him. The cat immediately tried to climb free.
“I thought you’d turn him into mincemeat.”
Octavia was watching with an odd, pained smile. Reagen hopped onto the table, and she dusted some hair he shed onto the floor.
“Well, someone had to feed him, and he grows on you. Sort of like my molds.”
“Hey, Reagen, I’m back. Come on. Come over!”
Numbtongue patted the table, wishing he had a treat for his cat. But to his astonishment, Reagen prowled around the table, sniffed the alchemical vial Octavia was working on, made a hacking sound, and then leapt into Octavia’s lap and curled up again. He began purring as Octavia gave Numbtongue a guilty look.
“Sorry. I think he’s used to me more than you. You must smell different.”
She was trying to be nice. The [Bard]’s face shut down instantly, regardless. Then he tried to smile.
“Why don’t I make it up to him? Let’s get lunch. Or I’ll make you and him something.”
He used to make great sandwiches for Octavia when she was hungry, and they’d eat them and chat, and she’d try out a potion on him—he wanted to tug her away, but Octavia hesitated.
“Numbtongue. I can’t. I’m working.”
“Tonight, then.”
He grew impatient, and she hesitated.
“I—I have a meeting with Rhaldon via scrying orb. We go over recipes together. But it’s not about that, Numbtongue. I’m not sure this is working. I think—”
He felt his heart drop the moment he heard how she was talking. Numbtongue backed up a step.
“I know you’re busy and I came back fast. Why don’t I return after I take a bath or—?”
“Numbtongue. Salkis isn’t a good person. Don’t listen to me about anything else, but you look worse and worse every time you come back from an outing with her.”
Numbtongue snapped. He couldn’t help it; Reagen twitched as Numbtongue raised his voice.
“You’re jealous. You never say you are, but I can tell. I don’t look worse and worse. Someone threw beer on me. I look better and better. You want me to break up with her so we can get back together. And with Garia, that’s it, right?”
Octavia was suddenly very interested in her vial. She spoke, voice soft, not in her usual pitter-patter of furious, excited speech.
“If you could tell how I felt, I would’ve liked if you did something…nevermind. It’s not about me wanting to be with you and only you, Numbtongue. I believe that’s over. Sorry, I don’t know how to say it without catalyzing everything. I’m speaking to you as someone concerned about you. Who cares about you. Garia would say the same thing if you ran into her. We’ve been talking.”
They’d been talking? It felt like someone had stabbed Numbtongue in the back, but Octavia was facing him. His voice rose.
“Salkis isn’t bad! I’ve levelled with her. Every time I come back, I look fine.”
“Okay. What I meant was…I suppose I meant you look better than ever. Appearance-wise. But you act worse and worse. I’m a Stitch-girl, Numbtongue. I never cared about how you looked.”
She met his eyes then, and her words stung. He jerked back and then snapped again, so fast he didn’t consider it.
“It’s Rhaldon, isn’t it? That’s why you want to break up. You found someone who can do alchemy that you like so—”
