Mrsha groaned. She glanced at the doors. The door of better days called to her like a siren song. She could go back and explain, could sit in that inn where nothing would go wrong…but that was the trap of the [Palace of Fates]. Instead, she shook her head and walked to another door.
The roots were here; two more she’d taken from the entrance. Mrsha felt like they were going through them too fast. Had they already used…four? That didn’t seem right. She should go back and recount.
But she was opening another door when she realized again, bleakly, what lay beyond. This door had a note on it, and Dyeda read it and didn’t recognize the name.
“Ooh. Are you going in there?”
Another frustrated look from Mrsha. The girl was groaning silently, rubbing at her face. She scribbled fast as she stared into the door.
Maybe. No. Damn. I made a mistake, Dyeda. This door appeared when I was just wandering around. I didn’t ‘time’ it. I can ask for doors to specific periods of time. This is…a bad time.
She was holding the door open. Another painful door, another door she had to enter. But one she feared as much as the other ones she’d bookmarked.
This…
Was the door where Brunkr lived.
So much was the same. Too much. Mrsha was staring at a period in The Wandering Inn’s history.
A quiet inn.
She knew this moment.
She had lived it.
 
——
 
“Is anyone awake?”
“Erin?”
A shape moved into view. Erin jumped as Lyonette appeared, pale-faced, a sword in hand. Octavia poked her head out with a pot for a helmet and two potions in her hands. Both relaxed when they saw Erin.
“Is it safe? Where’s Brunkr?”
“I think so. He’s helping the Watch sweep; don’t worry, he’s fine, Lyonette. The Raskghar are gone, and it’s nearly morning. You can come back now. How’s it over there?”
“Bad! I barely got a wink of sleep! I should charge you for staying the night!”
Octavia rubbed at her bloodshot eyes. She plucked one out and stared at it. Erin searched around.
“Mrsha?”
“She fell asleep after she threw a tantrum. I think she’s—oh. She’s up.”
Lyonette grimaced. A flurry of paws and fur exploded from behind her and barreled into Erin’s midriff. Erin went oof and sat down as Mrsha climbed all over her, licking her face and hugging her.
“It’s okay, Mrsha! The bad Raskghar are gone. Brunkr’s fine. We’re all fine.”
Lyonette walked into the inn as Octavia, yawning, shut the door, muttering about sleep deductibles. The [Barmaid] stared at the floor and the blood and blanched a bit. She turned to Erin.
“Fighting? Brunkr isn’t hurt, is he?”
Erin soothed her.
“Your boyfriend’s fine, Lyonette. They barely got through the front door. The Redfangs captured a lot of Goblins—they’ll be gone most of the day. If they even return by night.”
“Plan G?”
“Plan G. We’ll have to make a takeout meal for them. Uh…”
Erin tried to get up and nearly fell over. She felt like she was drunk but without any of the buzz of alcohol. She peered around. Halrac was walking towards her.
“Halrac. Did you…?”
“I spoke to Bird. I think I understand.”
Halrac looked past Erin. He—
 
——
 
Mrsha slammed the door so hard Dyeda jumped. The Gnoll was breathing hard. Dyeda spun.
“What’s wrong?”
The timing. Damn it. I need another door where Brunkr lives. They’re about to be attacked by the real Raskghar attack. It’s a feint. Also, he’s dating Lyonette? She has really weird taste in…nevermind.
The Gnoll girl shook her head. Dyeda nervously shuffled her feet.
“I think—I think she has interesting tastes in partners. Very open-minded. Maybe because her parents are so, you know?”
She waggled her fingers and hesitated.
“…Scary as Crelers?”
Mrsha gave Dyeda a puzzled stare.
How do you know what Queen Ielane is like?
“I was checking doors.”
That…did explain it. Mrsha stared blankly at Brunkr’s door and began to pad away. Then she halted.
No.
She couldn’t.
It wasn’t right. It was stupid. Mrsha began hitting herself on the head. Not hard, but it alarmed Dyeda so much she caught Mrsha’s hand.
“Stop it! What’s wrong?”
I am crazy. I am a monster. I’m breaking up, Dyeda. I can’t do this. I can’t look into these doors and not feel it. I might as well be a monster. I’m going to do something insane.
The [Tattooist] didn’t know what was going on in Mrsha’s head, but she grabbed Mrsha’s paws and shook them up and down.
“Well—okay! Do it! Be crazy! Life’s too stupid for boring, normal things! Too short for it! Get a tattoo on your face! I can always undo it! Um. What are you doing?”
Mrsha squared her shoulders, cracked her neck, and immediately regretted it. She held her neck, wincing, and handed Dyeda a note.
First, signal the other Mrsha. Actually, first, get Rianchi to check on some people for me. I have a list. It doesn’t matter if Mother’s gone, but I wish she hadn’t left…I can do it either way. We’re going to move fast. You can watch. Actually, we need to get Root Mrsha here. She deserves to watch. I hope it makes her smile.
She tried her own smile on for size as the thoughts coalesced in her head. Dyeda gave Mrsha an uncertain look.
“Okay, now you really look like your grandmother. Ow! Okay, I’m sorry! Don’t kick me!”
 
——
 
She had her orders.
She had her training.
She was determined not to fail again, even at the cost of her life. Certainly, it would cost her her job and her own pride as a [Knight].
Pity her. Dame Ushar, that was. Because despite the influx of Calanferian staff, despite her knowing what was going on, in part—
The Thronebearer had no chance. Not at all.
“Miss Mrsha, if you have anything to say, you can tell me.”
The Thronebearer was watching as Mrsha ate more food—gruel, really—chewing and swallowing slowly. One of the new staffers was a [Waiter] who was doing something to the food. [Digestible Order]; a novel use of a serving Skill.
In truth, Ushar had been told his main function was to keep the weight off his clients by reversing the Skill. That was very…typical of Ielane. But the Calanferians had quickly realized that whatever they thought of the 6th Princess before—this was not the same Lyonette they knew.
And her daughter had impressed and unnerved them already. So they were very carefully keeping [Spies] off Mrsha and trying to figure out what was going on. But they didn’t have a single shot.
If Dame Ushar was holding Krawlnmak Pass with a dozen Thronebearers versus all the forces of Ailendamus, then the servants were naked, armed with sticks at ground zero during the Creler Wars.
They tried—once. Mrsha was assuring Dame Ushar she was fine and the oatmeal gruel was very tasty. She wrote one-handed, in such neat diction and elegance that the ink didn’t smudge her fur.
Have you seen Yelroan, Dame Ushar? I’ve missed him amidst all this chaos.
The Thronebearer replied easily and instantly.
“Mathematician Yelroan? He’s been in Liscor, preparing Honored Deskie’s accommodations. Quite an important matter.”
Ah. I’ve missed things. That’s funny.
She snorted to herself, grinning and looking so wryly amused that Ushar raised her guard even higher. You see, ‘wry’ was not a state of being that you applied to children, was it?
That was because children could be introspective, thoughtful, brave, charitable, petty, kind, or cruel—but wry was the emotive state of humor where you were dry, sardonic, and self-conscious. Normal children didn’t have a sense of sarcastic humor about their own actions. They, famously, did things they felt like doing and were often amusing or worrisome or cute because they were so straightforward.
You’d miss that expression if you didn’t know Mrsha. You’d put it down to childlike innocence. And if you weren’t careful—she’d get you.
Dame Ushar’s first exposure to Mrsha had been a death-spiced soup. She had seen Mrsha survive the Witch of Webs; she had a respect for Mrsha’s bravery and capabilities. She just believed with all her heart the girl shouldn’t need to be any of these things.
The servants? They treated Mrsha like Ellet. One, the mousey-haired [Server], came forwards with a big smile. What was her assumed name…?
Ushar checked the name tag. Chaires? Definitely fake. She was one of the higher-level [Spies] that Queen Ielane had sent. She’d gotten one taste of what Mrsha was like when the girl had pointed out the Rhirian turncoat in their ranks. He was still hard at work, keeping up his act, blissfully unaware he’d been made. He might actually continue his employment for a long time; a made spy was as good as a dead one.
However, Miss Chaires hadn’t learned her lesson. So she had a small cupcake, vanilla frosting and all, that she presented to Mrsha.
“Miss Mrsha, this ought to settle your stomach. I’m Chaires! It’s a delight to be working for this famous inn! Even with all the trouble…do you wish to see Mister Yelroan? We could fetch him. Or is there anything you were wishful of doing? Say the word! We could comb your hair out, and I know a thing or two about how to make a young lady’s face beautiful!”
Aha. Ushar’s face was blank. They were definitely Calanferians from the Eternal Throne. Chaires had made the mistake of assuming Mrsha was like little Ellet or the other members of the royal family.
Young Lyonette or even Vernoue would leap at the chance to indulge in some pampering. It varied from [Princess] to [Princess]; Lyonette would have loved the makeup, while Vernoue’s idea of luxury was a bag of gold to buy the latest books from a [Merchant], then a four-hour rosewater bath where she could read endlessly.
With floating bowls of snacks and a servant with an anti-pruning Skill for her skin. The [Spy] was feeling out Mrsha’s inclinations—poorly.
Mrsha was a Gnoll. Gnolls didn’t have the same relation with makeup as Humans or Drakes did; fur was hard to keep clean, and getting powders or oils over it got messy. It also told Dame Ushar that Chaires was…not as veteran as she was pretending. Oh, she was probably high-level, but that didn’t equate to experience.
Dame Vensha or Ser Thilowen, highly-placed Thronebearers in direct service to the crown itself, would have been far more deft. They were terrifyingly competent. They made Ushar feel like a [Squire]. Chaires was valuable, raw material. Another test from Queen Ielane to her daughter.
And therein Queen Ielane made a rare mistake. For she assumed that her daughter was the only person in The Wandering Inn who had access to a hammer. Mrsha gave Chaires a level look.
I don’t need a cupcake, Miss Chaires. Please give it to one of our guests. I see Witch Alevica over there. Gruel is fine.
“I—ah—very good, Miss Mrsha!”
Flustered, Chaires retreated a step and conveyed the cupcake over to a [Witch], who was trying to blend into the inn’s guests unsuccessfully. Alevica gave Mrsha a wary glance as she sniffed the cupcake. The Gnoll girl wrote for the benefit of all. She had to know Ushar, the staff, and the spies were reading everything she wrote.
It tastes good.
“What does, Miss Mrsha?”
Oatmeal and water. I guess I really did get fat and used to good food. I don’t know if I can eat cake the same way again. Everything tastes good. I was hungry for a while.
Dame Ushar triggered an anti-intrusion rune between two fingers. It was supposed to wipe out any spells of a prying nature until it overloaded; it wasn’t proof against Skills. She dropped the stone as it crumbled to dust five seconds later; over thirty spells had been caught in five seconds.
“Indeed? When was this, Miss Mrsha?”
Chaires returned with a hot cup of tea for Mrsha. The girl sipped it and stared past Ushar. She wrote one-handed.
Someone please tell Miss Ebente I’m fine. I’d go myself, but I think she’d try to run off with me.
“I can do that, Miss Mrsha. Do you need more oatmeal?”
Mrsha was scraping the bowl with a spoon, cleaning every bit off. She licked the spoon and eyed Chaires.
I’m hungry. But not really; I’m remembering being hungry. Chieftain Urksh told me about Gnolls who starved and always ate because they remembered that. I’m fine, Miss Chaires.
“Are you sure, Miss Mrsha? We could make you something very tasty—what about some corn? With a bit of salt or sugar or—”
A bunch of the servants had gathered, nodding. Dame Ushar began to slash with her hand, annoyed, but Mrsha forestalled her. The girl wrote slowly and deliberately.
I do not want to be tempted right now, Chaires. I know that’s what you think your job is. I want to be respected. I want you to help me, not coerce me. Dame Ushar and I didn’t get along. We’re still learning. But I at least respect her. Even if I make her job hard. I don’t want to dislike you all. I know your job is hard.
She met Ushar’s gaze, and the Thronebearer ducked her head. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw Chaires develop a gently hurt look. Oh, she was good.
“I know I’m new to the inn, Miss Mrsha, but I want to prove myself. I do! Just say the word and I’ll do my best!”
She was still playing up her act. She had been warned. The little girl met Chaires’ eyes and wrote slowly.
Then I think I’d rather like to call you Xinthe, miss. You may call me Mrsha.
All the color drained out of the mousey-haired girl’s face. She opened her mouth, then smiled weakly.
“What a peculiar name. Where did you think of that, Miss Mrsha?”
Everyone was staring at her, then Mrsha. The other Calanferian servants seemed rattled. They might not have known the young woman’s real name; likely not. But that reaction was unmistakable. Mrsha pulled out two cards and wrote on them.
I had a lot of time to sit and think recently. Now. Someone take this card over to that Drake by the wall, would you?
She handed the second card to one of the servants. As if they were carrying a dangerous artifact, the servant walked it over to a Drake sitting by the wall, who looked like any ordinary traveller. All eyes fell on him, and he stiffened before taking the card.
He read it, threw back his head and laughed hugely, and then handed it back with a brief aside with the staff member. Then he tried to sit, not panicking, as the card came back.
What did she write on that one? Xinthe took the card, turned it over, and blinked.
“It’s blank?”
Mrsha hadn’t written on it. The Gnoll girl took the card back and nodded.
It’s blank. I’ll write something on it if I get mad. Like his real name.
Her head slowly rotated around the room, gaze seeming to fix on people, and the assembled spies in the room held their breath.
 
——
 
