“Salkis. That’s an order. You’re reporting to camp at the end of the week. If you need anything, make a list. If you don’t, we’ll figure out what your next move is. Level up. And find out what’s happening at the inn; the word is something’s up.”
“What? But I—”
Salkis began to protest, but Vendyne was already leaving. Lesorel leapt to his feet eagerly.
“See you, Salkis. You’ll see me. On the scrying orbs tonight.”
He gave her a smirk, and she felt a shock run down her spine as Vendyne turned and gave the other Drake a warning look.
“Wait, are you taking him on an outing? There’s one now? How many is that?”
The Bloodfeast Raiders alternated who got to go on raids; you weren’t always called, and you had to make the meetups on time or be left behind. But Salkis hadn’t been called for a raid for three months. And the Raiders had struck half a dozen times. Vendyne’s voice was smoothly cold. There was no excitement in his tone, just menace.
“Times are changing. Impress the boss and you won’t miss another one. But do your job, Salkis. If you can’t, he’ll have to motivate you.”
That made her shudder. Punishment in the Bloodfeast Raiders was highly unpleasant. There was no quitting, except one way, and everyone saw what had happened to that idiot, Lien, who’d tried to walk away. Not that she wanted to, but punishment…
“I’m working as hard as I can! I didn’t have the [Corruptor] class until this year!”
“Then keep levelling. And find out what’s happening at the inn.”
Vendyne walked away. Salkis saw Lesorel wave cockily at her, then stride off, and felt a pang in her chest.
The Bloodfeast Raiders would strike by nightfall, and it would be a news story.
Part of her was furious she was being denied the chance to go on a raid. The other part…weirdly relieved. Obviously, Numbtongue had no idea of her allegiances, and in truth, she hadn’t sought him out because of that at first.
She’d just thought a Goblin that looked like him was worth chatting up. Only later did she realize someone in the Raiders had noticed, and orders came down from Korizan to start reporting in and to…persuade Numbtongue to get to their point of view.
She didn’t really know how. She was doing her best, but Salkis had wondered how she’d act if she came back from a raid. Numbtongue really liked Normen; the [Knight] was practically one of the last people Numbtongue still said he missed from the inn. Salkis thought that Ser Normen was as mean as a Creler and as impressive as anyone for surviving getting burned alive like that.
It was a weird, disconcerting feeling to like anyone but the Bloodfeast Raiders. The rest of the world didn’t matter; Salkis knew that. But she liked Numbtongue. Hated Octavia and Garia, the jealous ticks on Numbtongue.
Some days, Salkis imagined a world where she and Numbtongue had met without her being a Raider. She could have been a great adventurer with him. But—
She stood there, annoyed, until Numbtongue stomped into the bar and instantly started a fight with the first table he passed by. Then Salkis hurried over to him, smiling. He was the best part of this miserable city.
Salkis just didn’t understand why he was so damn grumpy all the time. The Numbtongue she had met at first had smiled more. Had told jokes. She hoped he’d snap out of this funk soon.
For now—she glanced at him as he threw a chair at a pair of Dullahans. She wondered how she’d suggest going to The Wandering Inn to him. Then someone hit her with a stray beer mug, and she decided violence could come first.
 
——
 
It was always Numbtongue who pulled Salkis out of fights first. Sometimes in a headlock because she refused to quit.
“They’ve had enough.”
Funny, coming from the Hobgoblin who had essentially started the fight. If not with words or actions, then with his presence. The [Tavern Owner] of Dragman’s Bar wasn’t an idiot; he kicked out both Goblin and Drake after getting the costs of damages.
Salkis was high on adrenaline after the scrap. She always felt alive when fighting. Compared to everything else in life, nothing was as ‘real’. Except maybe drugs. Fighting while on drugs was great.
She glanced at Numbtongue as he stomped out of the bar, rubbing at a few bruises on his torso. The two slunk back into the city like evicted, drunk rats joining a swarm of other rats, seeking the next moment of pleasure or sustenance.
That was how Salkis saw Pallass. It didn’t matter if you dressed up or had more money—you were just a primitive rat trying to look better than everyone else and get what you wanted—which was always something base.
Food, sex, power, money. It boiled down to that most of the time. Numbtongue called her depressing, which was ironic. She just—saw the world clearly. Korizan and the Bloodfeast Raiders understood that you could take anything you wanted, that the rules were just made up ideas.
—Which was why it was so strange that she and Numbtongue got along. Because, for a Goblin from a famous tribe of warriors, he actually respected most rules. She had thought he would be purely sex and fun and music when he used to split his time between mining, reading books, and cooking.
Not that she minded when he cooked meals for her; it was just—not a thing most men she’d associated with ever did. She’d introduced him to bars and a real nightlife. She was, after all, a [Corruptor].
Level 4. The class didn’t really work for her. She told Vendyne she was Level 14 because she didn’t want to get in trouble; he couldn’t [Appraise] her anyways. But it just…well, Salkis tried her best again as they left the bar.
[Influential Words].
“Why don’t we go visit your inn, Numbtongue? I bet we could get free drinks there.”
He grunted as he stomped along, hands in his pockets. She snuggled up to him.
“And your bed’s comfy. We could pick up where we left off.”
“Eh. Don’t want to.”
“Oh, come on. We’ve got nothing better to do, right~?”
She saw him scratch at his goatee, and then the [Soulbard] glanced at her.
“…Maybe. How long has it been since I went back?”
“I don’t know. A week? Two?”
A guilty expression crossed his face. He kicked along the street.
“Probably should. Okay, fine. Later.”
Victory! Salkis allowed herself a smug smirk until Numbtongue glanced at her and added—
“After you go home too. Your mom misses you, right?”
The Drake’s triumphant mood vanished.
“That loose, egglaying bitch—”
She meant Melika, the Garuda whom her father, Werdin Blackwing, had married. She was the definition of a trophy wife; it was even her class. That vain peacock of a Garuda always obsessed with pleasing her father or looking good in polite society infuriated Salkis. Numbtongue nudged her, cutting her off.
“Don’t talk like that. She’s nice.”
Salkis goggled at Numbtongue as they walked up from the 3rd Floor. She lived on the 5th Floor; wealth in Pallass didn’t mean you wanted the top floor. Not with the [Smiths] and [Alchemists] constantly setting up a din. Back in the old days when Pallass had been under construction, the 5th Floor had been the highest point. Now, old mansions littered the floor, and there were places only a certain cut of citizen could enter without getting dirty looks or being harassed by local security.
Old money and influence. [Engineer] families, the Blackwings who made military leaders and held high-ranking posts, and so on. Salkis hated it. Some of her friends came from the nobility, but they were, by and large, neurotic, disaffected like her with the lifestyles they’d been born into, and bored.
None of them had gone as far as she had until she’d joined the Raiders, but they were the ones Salkis had time for. She didn’t have time for Melika, let alone her father.
Salkis tried to steer them towards the elevators, going up and down to the left of the 4th Floor’s staircase. He pulled her back as other citizens patiently walked around them; the staircase was a flood of people moving up and down it. Rats in their cage in Salkis’ analogy.
She hissed at him, disliking the way people glanced at the public argument.
“I don’t need to go back. My dad will just throw a fit. I don’t see you saying I should see him.”
He’d placed her under house-arrest with her bodyguard after the Wyvern incident, but she’d known how to slip out, and she bribed her bodyguards. After meeting Numbtongue, she’d ditched the bodyguards entirely; they were lower-level than she was, and her father couldn’t stop her by force.
“He’s bad. Melika asked about you when I visited. She cares. Didn’t you say she used to get you out of jail before your father noticed when you were in trouble with the Watch?”
“Yeah, because she’s concerned about the family reputation. You know she’s only my stepmother because Werdin wanted the most attractive Garuda he could find. A Garuda. It scandalized the entire family because he couldn’t just have her as a mistress.”
Numbtongue shrugged.
“She’s pretty good at talking.”
“Yeah, she uses her mouth real well.”
Again, he nudged her with a big frown.
“Be nice to her. Just go back fifteen minutes and tell her you’re alive.”
“No. Let’s go to the inn.”
“I’m not going back unless you go back. She cares about you. Don’t ignore people who care about you. That’s not Goblin.”
He hit her with the ‘not Goblin’ comment, and Salkis had been around Numbtongue long enough to know that was a sticking point. Plus…she shifted uncomfortably. It wasn’t like she wanted to join the Redfangs or Flooded Waters tribe, but she’d sort of begun styling herself as understanding Goblin culture. Numbtongue had shown her Redfang tricks, even how they did their warpaint, and she admired the Redfang Tribe. If she’d been younger and known they existed, she might have run off to join them instead of the raiders.
There was something so…pure about how they’d lived. Fight, die, protect your fellow warriors. But Numbtongue kept doing—this.
“You didn’t ever have a mother you hated in your tribe.”
She tried to counter as they headed up to the 5th Floor on foot. Numbtongue raised his eyebrows.
“Maybe not mother. Mine died. But I fought my father. He kicked me and nearly broke a rib. And there were Goblins I didn’t like, but we cared about each other. That’s different.”
“—Like who?”
“Uh. Grunter?”
“What? Grunter? But you said he was your leader and he died at Esthelm.”
She knew all the big stories about Numbtongue. Fed off of them. Numbtongue shoved his hands into his pockets; to her, he looked like Numbtongue, but to everyone else, he probably seemed like a Gnoll of similar build, fur dyed black where his goatee should be. He got looks from a few people; handsomeness translated via the illusion spell.
“He was. It doesn’t mean I always liked him. He grunted a lot. Burped. And he didn’t respect reading. Sometimes I’d have a book and he’d make fun of me. Or use it for kindling. Remember Orangepoo? You ever wonder how that smells? No one liked him some nights.”
“But they were your brothers.”
Salkis was bemused. She got loyalty to the group. The Raiders were big on loyalty to Korizan. She hated the other Raiders, some of them. But this sounded different. Numbtongue gave her a distant smile.
“Of course. I’d die for them. They died for me. Because we cared more than the other bits. But sometimes I punched them.”
“So I should punch Melika every time I feel like it?”
Again, the Goblin shrugged.
“I don’t know. Pallassian culture’s different. It’d be funny. I think she’d surprise you.”
And what did you say to that? The [Corruptor] ground her teeth together as they walked back to one of the biggest, sprawling mansion-complexes. It wasn’t one huge building, but more like a bunch of fancy apartments joined together. The Blackwing Family was extensive, but being Drakes, they didn’t want to have to share a building. So their compromise was an owned space that you entered through a little wrought-iron gate manned by a [Guardsman].
“Lady Salkis. Your father’s been searching for you.”
The Gnoll called out warily as he opened the gates for her and Numbtongue. The Goblin waved at the Gnoll; Salkis snapped back.
“He can keep searching. I’m just back to get something. Is Melika here?”
“She hasn’t left yet—”
Salkis kept stomping forwards towards the apartment second from the left. Though again, ‘apartment’ was a poor word; it was three floors tall, about fifty times the size of any family’s home in the rest of Pallass. The third floor was circular; big glass windows looked out across the city, and it had an opening in the center. A skylight that led down into an open garden.
Melika’s work; she’d remodeled the place to be inviting to anyone with wings. The second and first floors were costly wood paneling instead of marble with plants growing in bloom from window sills and decorative ivy twining upwards.
They had to pay a [Gardener] for all of this. It had won awards for being one of the best visages in Pallass. Salkis felt herself getting madder as she stalked towards the door.
She tried to ignore the repeated impacts in her side, but Numbtongue kept elbowing her until she turned and snapped at the [Guard].
“Thanks.”
She got a surprised reply, and Numbtongue patted her along the spines on her head. She bit at his hand, and he laughed as he yanked it back. He was big on manners too, at least to people like the gate-guard.
 
——
 
Inside the Blackwing home, the first thing you saw was a tree. The apartment was vast, and the second floor had this open area where Melika had torn out the floors so you saw this giant, growing tree. You could fly to any floor or walk up the open staircases which branched out to the rest of the apartment.
If you were coming from above, you could drop into this center area from the atrium; it was always open and annoyingly fresh. Plants everywhere.
Melika had people in all the time, so there were places to sit in the shade of the tree and a wall of books that stretched along the far wall.
Every time he came in here, Numbtongue just had to go over to the library and admire the books. They weren’t all just blueprints from [Engineers]—Werdin had a lot of connections to the Engineer’s Guild—some were works of fiction or tales from Garuda culture.
Garuda culture. It was all so…Salkis remembered her old house, and it was a fading memory compared to this modern, trendy household.
Well…trendsetting, she supposed. Not many places in Pallass had such an emphasis on plantlife of an open design. Plus, the damn tree wasn’t even a regular one.
It was a damn mango tree. Even now, orange mangos were hanging in huge clumps from the tree. Green buds were growing, and a member of staff was collecting some of the fruits.
“Ooh. Harvest.”
