“Rhaldon is a friend I respect almost as much as Saliss. It’s not about wanting to jump into bed with him.”
Octavia raised her voice, and Numbtongue glowered. Then he reached down.
“Fine. I—fine! Come on, Reagen, we’re going.”
He tried to grab his cat, and both Reagen and Octavia protested. Numbtongue saw Reagen reach for her and tried to yank the orange tabby away. He got ten little knives in his arms, and the cat turned into a maelstrom of furious claws and yowling. Only when Numbtongue let go did the cat jump into Octavia’s arms.
“You stole my cat from me.”
Numbtongue just stood there, staring at scratches on his arms and at Octavia, betrayal in his chest. He’d known things weren’t going well with her for ages. Known it—but Reagen hurt. Octavia met his eyes, angry now.
“You didn’t feed him every day! You’ve been gone for ages, and you’re surprised he doesn’t love you? Numbtongue, just sit down and we can talk—”
He stormed out of Stitchworks, and then it was playing in his head again. A mantra, a desire to punch his fist through the wall of the inn or go back and kick over a shelf of glassware.
She never loved me. No one cares for me in this inn. I’m just a Goblin now. I cared about her, and she doesn’t care about me.
None of them do—
He stormed into the common room, and Salkis looked up and abandoned her scrying mirror. She hurried over to Numbtongue as he reached for her and felt him grab her tight, possessively. Though Octavia sat there, sniffing, as Reagen batted at her tears, though Mrsha turned in her seat and tried to find something to say, though his family and friends saw it—
The inn kept moving and turning. And the Goblin, the [Bard] sank deeper. And deeper. He didn’t sense that moving current rushing fast against the break, the invisible straining in the air of a hundred juggled balls beginning to fall, the crack in the wall holding back everything beyond.
He was just—
Sad.
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flames watched the little Goblin on screen until it hurt too much, then he looked away.
“Did she come up with that herself, I wonder? Or did she remember it?”
That was the only question he asked to the silent congregation around him. Rafaema glanced up from arguing with Lulv. He was striking the crude camp she’d made for herself, and Cirediel was complaining to Mivifa.
The two Dragons were being evacuated, and for once, all their ire and rage and—refusal to move—wasn’t working. Cirediel yelped.
“You can’t do this! This is so Creler balls! Let go of—hey, hey!”
He thought that if he just refused to move, being a multi-ton Dragon, he was safe. Unfortunately—he jerked and transformed into his Drake self. Then, when he tried to squirm away, one of the [Pegasus Riders] snared him in a net and lashed him to their mount’s saddle.
Teriarch watched as Mivifa gave him the side-eye, but he was just breathing. In and out. It sounded like weary, rasping bellows, and Rafaema felt her scales tingling when she heard it. He was gathering his strength, she realized, in some primal instinct of Dragons. Preparing to breathe fire.
“Remember? You’ve seen a Goblin doing…comedy before?”
Magnolia Reinhart broke the silence. She was playing with the ring on her forefinger, twisting it right and left, as she considered the image that was etched into her memory. Ressa was consulting with one of their [Mage-Maids] to see how likely it was a Goblin could fake a Magic Picture.
“Once. I’ve seen everything, Magnolia. Everything.”
“So you know what she’s referring to?”
“In Trolkedruleth? Oh yes. I know exactly what that was. A Draconic Titan. I’m not sure which kind, but if I had to guess what could have survived that long down there…I’m just trying to work out how it got loose, now. No, that doesn’t matter. The Halfling must have woken it up. Or perhaps the Solstice.”
“What is it? You’ve never mentioned Draconic Titans to me before.”
Magnolia was trying not to sound accusatory, not now. For answer, the Brass Dragon favored her with his cerulean eye. He was conscious of every gash and crack in his scaly armor now. A single flaw in his defenses could be his doom if someone loosed that arrow that had killed so many Dragons in a single blow.
And he had far too many flaws. Nevertheless, his reply was steady.
“If I didn’t tell you, it was because I likely hoped they were all gone. I do not always want to mention the shameful things every species drove itself to. Just as I do not invoke Halflings for what was done to them. Draconic Titans were an attempt by the Drakes to reach parity with us when their strength was at its zenith. They were made to slay Dragons, Giants, to inspire and lead. The last became mad tyrants, drunk on power.”
“To a one?”
Magnolia knew how Teriarch’s stories went, and this was…not a Teriarch story. It was an explanation. Which told her how serious this was. The Dragonlord grunted.
“No. They were people. Of course I met the noble, the brave, the heroic and mighty. But they are defined by their worst, and this one is surely insane. They did not send their finest to slaughter Trolls, Dwarves, and Gnolls in the deeps. They sent war-criminals. Whatever this thing is—it is older than Taletevirion. It originates from the Time of Hiding. Twenty thousand years ago.”
Everyone turned to look at Teriarch. Lulv grunted as he slung a pack onto his shoulders.
“Rafaema, you are outclassed. This is a direct order from me and Dragonspeaker Luciva. We are falling back.”
“I won’t abandon Teriarch!”
“I am not going into that mountain, Rafaema. If it is there—I must send a missive to the Trolls. They must evacuate their mountain and flee. It will emerge. When it does, I intend to give battle to it. The High Passes are not ideal, but they will spare any innocents. Magnolia, how many forces can you call upon?”
“Nearby? Xitegen, my staff—I could have an army drawn up in a week. But one of low-level militia.”
Teriarch shook his head instantly.
“Your staff. Taletevirion, anyone high-level you can muster. Depending on the type…regardless, anyone under Level 30 will do no harm to it. I will provide a detailed explanation once I speak with Chieftain Rags and understand what it is. But each one is made with seith cores; a kind of magical relic embedded in its flesh. They must be torn out and destroyed. It will regenerate in perpetuity until the cores are demolished. Even over twenty thousand years.”
He was searching around, trying to find a spot to set up spells. A warzone. Rafaema was protesting.
“You sound like it’s stronger than you are!”
“It may be. Especially if I am wounded.”
The answer stunned Rafaema into silence. She began to speak, and Teriarch swivelled his head to face her.
“Arrogance, Rafaema, has undone our kind from the moment we existed. If I was at full strength, in my prime, I’d hesitate to take on a Draconic Titan without preparations. Do you understand? They were made by rituals on par with a Level 70 [Alchimagus]. It can kill me.”
The Lightning Dragon fell quiet. Today had not exactly been a day of reaffirming her confidence in the supremacy of Dragons. Teriarch went on, thinking out loud.
“If I were at full strength, I imagine I would enter the mountain, despite the risks of fighting in an enclosed space. Taking such a Titan out while it is in pieces is infinitely preferable to the completed being. But I cannot. Magnolia, we must prepare a battlefield and a lure for this encounter. Ressa, bring every warrior of Reynold’s level to me. I must inspect my hoard to see what I can gift you for this conflict.”
“And I—”
“You will leave, Rafaema of Manus. You are not ready.”
He didn’t look at her, didn’t want to show her the fear in his eyes. When she tore free of Lulv, raced forwards, he snarled at her once.
“You cannot hurt it. You can only die and hinder everyone else.”
The old Dragon felt guilty, then, as she shrank back and Cire stopped fighting. He took a long, deep breath, and his lungs hurt.
“This is why I was brought back.”
War. War and smoke and ash. He felt like he could smell the corpse-fires again, littering the black landscape below. The Dragonlord was afraid. But he would not run nor yield so long as he lived.
He stood there as Lulv activated his own transformation spell and began to pull an unresisting Rafaema away. The Dragonlord turned his attention back to the television after a second.
“…Odd. I didn’t know Chieftain Rags had a sister.”
He saw Magnolia raise her eyebrows, amused, despite the moment.
“She does not, old man. Did you genuinely mistake her for another Goblin?”
That offended him, and he huffed a plume of smoke out his mouth.
“I’ll have you know that I can tell two Goblins apart. I can tell Selphids in their natural forms apart! I am keenly aware of how each species differs.”
She was chuckling as she came over to needle Teriarch again. Then Magnolia hesitated.
“Unlike you, I have met Chieftain Rags more than once. And I can ass—oh. Uh. That’s Chieftain Rags. But I thought—”
She gave Ressa a swift glance, and Teriarch smiled despite his pains and worries. They appeared very similar.
 
——
 
The Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe halted as she saw the [Student] emerge onto the ground outside of Goblinhome.
Rags was the center of the world, eyes upon her, having completed her segment. Explaining strategy, spilling the proverbial tea on the Old One and 2nd Army, doing comedy—
All the things that Chieftain Rags had never realized she wanted to do. Things that made sense the moment you saw them; that was the pain of these alternate realities. They told you things you had never thought of, but were obvious because another you had done it.
I would like to be loved like that. I would love to speak and have Goblins laugh. To make Erin Solstice laugh. I couldn’t imagine I could smile like that or tell jokes until I saw it done.
“Fightipilota, head back to the inn. Now. I need you to keep backing up Mrsha. Everyone else, with me.”
She strode forwards as one of the two Wyverns leapt back into the sky. Chieftain Rags knew Mrsha was doing the vital, crucial moments, but right now, she’d focused on the other her.
How did that other Rags become this? It was familiar…and so hard to wrap her mind around.
And it went for the other Rags too. The [Student] flicked her eyes over the [Chieftain], and she thought—
 
——
 
The [Student] is high on exhilaration. She’s trembling with giddy glee at doing it, pulling off a nigh-on perfect introduction of her tribe, of Goblins, to that world stage. 
Of course, it’s not over. She knows that. Redscar is keeping pace with her as she walks casually over the ground, and she has it holstered to her side. Ready to pull it out in a moment’s notice.
The event is coming. Right now, she raises her voice and turns to the scrying mirror, that fake smile she’s practiced so hard on her face. It’s hard to look genuinely happy. It fools even her other self.
If they could look into her heart, they’d see how terrified she is, guilty and elated and—sad—because she knows how this is going to go. How it went.
“And here’s big sis now. The real Chieftain Rags. Want me to do an interview? Drassi? Drassi?”
On the other end of the scrying mirror, she can hear voices.
“—out of my set! This is my broadcast, and we’re live, Sir Relz!”
“[Reporter’s Privilege]! [Reporter’s Privilege]! Miss Drassi, this is Channel 3, Noass. How do you feel showcasing a monster to the world? Don’t you feel it’s a disservice to everyone who died in the 2nd Antinium W—”
“[Journalism Under Fire: Emergency Protection]!”
A crash, and Rags can see Drassi flip a table up and slam Noass off his feet. It’s practically a brawl on-set. Rags is actually a picture-in-picture as Channel 2 covers the fight in the newsroom.
Again.
Just like last time.
[Chieftain] Rags and the [Student] meet, and the [Student] angles herself so she’s blocking their mouths from the camera. She speaks.
“They can’t hear us right now. Drassi’s giving them hell. Hey, everyone else, move back. Even the bodyguards. We’re going to deal with three spells in order. [Flamestrike], [Stone Lance], and [Lightning Bolt]. I’ve got the first one. Redscar says he can do the second. You want to do the third?”
That takes the [Chieftain] off-guard. She’s not happy; she’s tense and angry—she always looks mad. [Student] Rags wonders…how hard has her life been?
She feels like she’s the inferior one standing next to the taller Rags—because the [Chieftain] has armored, steel-toed boots and Wyvernhide armor lined with Carn Wolf fur. She looks like a warlord.
Dead gods, Chieftain Rags has Frost Wyverns who carry her from place to place. How cool is that? How…
What was she doing with her tribe? She ran off. She put all of it on Pyrite and Headscratcher. Chieftain Rags is the Rags her world deserves. The brave, fierce one.
The [Student] smiles as the [Chieftain] growls, and she’s delighted, guilty, but delighted to see that envy in Chieftain Rags’ eyes. It makes her feel less like a fraud.
“…Who’s casting? How long?”
“It doesn’t matter who casts it. Any second now. From straight up. No; the [Stone Lance] always comes in at an angle. I’m pretty sure it’s centered on me, but I changed the script from my world.”
The [Chieftain]’s eyes flicker, and she adjusts her belt, subtly, so her shortsword is in the right spot for her hand to grab it.
“And you’re sure it’s going to happen the same way? You did this—you didn’t ask me.”
“I know. If it went bad, hopefully it was all on me. I didn’t actually show where Goblinhome is.”
“You told them about the Old One. And let 2nd Army know we’re aware of their presence.”
The [Student] sighs.
“They were already there. The doors show them coming each and every time. The worst we can do is give them notice of what’s going to happen and that we’re ready. As for the Old One…all bets are off.”
The Chieftain’s ears droop slightly, and she nods, taking a breath, schooling her face to impassivity. Strange how the [Student] knows how fake that is. How that blank expression hides pain and guilt.
“Yes. Because I failed. That’s true.”
“You didn’t fail. The odds were always against you. It’s a damn Old One. Let me help. This isn’t my world. I know I’m just walking in, but it feels like my world. I care. I will take responsibility for everything I do. I swear it. But please—”
The [Student]’s voice breaks slightly, and she glances up.
“Let me do this right this time.”
