“Yeah.”
Kevin nods, and Halrac shifts. The [Marksman] remembers his own encounter with Mrsha, the moment he realized she wasn’t yawning or playing but…screaming. He shivers and tries to hide it, tries not to lose his head. That’s how adventurers die.
“She can’t prove anything. Beyond a feeling you have—”
“She said a lot of stuff that sounded true, man. Like the fact that the dead go to this afterlife where everyone gathers up…”
Headscratcher nods.
“That’s true.”
Both Kevin and Halrac turn to him, and Headscratcher pauses. He’s been snacking on peanuts. One every ten minutes. You eat one, chew and chew and chew, and if you do it right without breaking the flow, a bowl can last you all night. That’s how Goblins snack. Headscratcher breaks his rhythm and eats a peanut out of nervousness.
“Numbtongue told me. He sees them gathered up in places.”
“Dude.”
Kevin holds out his hands, and Halrac growls.
“If Numbtongue knows that, then she could—”
“Dude, you are not listening to me! She says she can prove it! And if she can prove it, what then?”
The young man raises his voice, and someone bangs on the wall.
“Kevin! Some people are trying to sleep!”
“Sorry, Joseph.”
Kevin calls back, and everyone goes silent. They whisper, then. Halrac leans forwards.
“If it’s true…then what? She wants to offer us an Adventurer’s Bargain?”
Both look at him curiously, and Halrac elaborates.
“Something that occurs on bad adventures or raids. One person can make it out. Or it’s one person or the other. The team has to choose. There is never a scenario without regrets.”
Kevin nods slowly, his face pale. His nails are digging into his palms, enough to leave red lines, and Halrac feels his own skin crawling. He’s so tense, he realizes, and tries to unfold his arms, but he can’t. He…proof? What will he do, he wonders?
How did he die? 
No, that’s not the real question in his head. He knows; even if he can’t see it, she told him how he died. The real question was—
Did it matter?
It is Headscratcher who breaks the silence. The Goblin Lord has been thinking of his own encounter with Mrsha. It is why he noticed Kevin pulling Halrac aside. He shakes his head carefully.
“No. This is the scenario where she tries to make up for regrets. And it is our choice…she is asking us to choose. My question to her after asking her to prove it is—not just why me.”
He looks down at his chest, at the handprint in red on his skin, the fur and armor on his body, and wonders if he can leave this inn. He wonders if a goodbye would break his heart—and knows that since he is the Goblin Lord of Sorrows, it will only make him stronger.
His head bows, and he tries to imagine what’s unimaginable. Leave Erin behind.
Leave her…for a world in which he’s dead. In which he—the Goblin’s eyes flash.
“I will ask if I am needed.”
He cannot choose. It is an impossible decision he could never make. He thinks he knows the answer, but he also must know, even if he will regret it forever. Kevin Hall and Halrac Everam regard Headscratcher and nod.
Now it’s like poison, gnawing away at their thoughts, but also like the sweetest honey. They have to know. Kevin has a question as well. Halrac? He sits there. And he has so many regrets and things he wanted to do. Mrsha, according to Kevin, is from two months in the future.
Halrac never married, then. He never found someone to truly love and give everything to, and all he has are a boy’s lost dreams and regrets. He never triumphed and made up for the dead comrades, Ulrien and so many others he left behind. Halrac thought he was on the road to some peace, self-satisfaction. But not yet. He never made Named-Rank. Petty, but…he never loved. He never—
They sit there, and Kevin scrubs at his face.
“Dude. How’re we going to tell Shorthilt and the others?”
To which Headscratcher replies gently.
“Should we?”
When they look at him, quizzically, incredulously, the Goblin counts on his fingers.
“How many can she take?”
Somehow, Kevin’s stomach hurts even more.
 
——
 
Pyrite waits until Niers is gone. And probably not spying on him. Then he raps a hand on a door.
In the beach-garden. He hears a muffled sound, groaning, swearing—and someone answers the door.
“Halrac, you could just come in—oh, hey, Pyrite.”
A very disheveled Ceria Springwalker is in the shared adventurer-house, which looks like an amalgamation of dirt, bones, and ice magicked into some kind of stability. Mostly because it is. Ceria apparently passed out in the living room, and Pyrite nods to her.
“Sorry.”
“No problem. Heck of a night. You, uh, here to see anyone?”
Ceria gives Pyrite a teasing grin and bright-eyed stare, and he smiles. Not her nor Ulvama nor anyone else. He knows how Ulvama feels, and Pyrite doubts he and she really would work. But either way, he is…
Well, he was content. Today? He’s tired, but acts casual.
“No one for that kind of fun. I need a word for the Christmas gifts. Magical help.”
“Oh, gotcha. From a talented spellcaster like…?”
Pyrite shakes his head. He steps past Ceria, and then, after a few moments of whispering, knocks on a door.
“Moore?”
Silence. A half-Giant’s loud snoring. Pyrite knocks again and raises his voice.
“Moore?”
The snoring stops, and a sleepy, inquisitive noise answers him. Pyrite steels himself and exhales, long and hard. A walk in one of Erin’s more private gardens will do. She’s given him permission to explore.
The knowledge is spreading. But what will become of it…? Pyrite can only wait for Mrsha to return. The world is uncertain. He is afraid. He is calm. 
The world has always been uncertain, shifting, precarious. Even when you stand on what you think is solid stone. At least now he feels it.
 
——
 
It is the 14th day of the 5th month of the year. Summer. The birthday of Mrsha du Marquin. The year is contested. Scholars claim it is 33 A.F., however, a new era has been declared. The Demons of Rhir have been wiped out. It is the 2nd Year of the Era of Triumphs according to the Blighted Empire. 
Mrsha has turned eighteen years old and has been certified as a Silver-rank adventurer. She has invited friends of The Wandering Inn to gather and find a cure to the long-frozen [Innkeeper].
Lyonette and Pawn are on a walk, probably discussing Mrsha and what to do. The inn is quiet.
Erin is sleeping.
A figure slinks back into the inn, appearing not with a pop or distortion, but a soft step. She feels at herself, produces a wand, waves it around, and sighs.
“Okay. Escape route gained. Good to know I can do that. And I guess the entry-exit point isn’t the worst.”
She’s speaking out loud—okay, ‘speaking’ by writing via the quill which auto-speaks the words from her collar for her. She’s had practice. Years of it. Mrsha’s had training from countless experts, magical help, guidance—some of it from people she doesn’t want, like her mother holding her back, but from a lot of friends who’ve made it to the highest levels of this era. Who’re Named-ranks or beyond.
Mrsha has been prepared to risk her life, to do great things to save Erin Solstice, for ten years. Ten years of training in every discipline she can. And yet, with her goal so oddly in sight, right before her eyes, today, of all days, her birthday—
Her paws are trembling. She’s shaking like a leaf. Mrsha checks the time. It’s barely past morning. She remembers people are coming for her birthday—
They’ll have to wait forever, if what that Goblin, Rianchi, said is true. It could not be.
I just walked out of my world and into a palace beyond anything I know. It’s real.
Erin’s alive.
This changes everything. But—but—
What do I do? If this world vanishes if our door closes—I burnt that root out. Must be a one-use artifact. How many more are there? How many more people can I take?
If her world is fake. If it is. If it’s just a parallel dimension, then maybe she can cure Erin the same way they did! She can do it! She—
Mrsha’s panting. Shaking. Hyperventilating. She knows what this is.
Instantly, she pulls out a cigar, triple strength, the Palt Peculiars, and lights it up. The Dreamleaf steadies her a bit. Palt makes up one with calming factors in it just for her. The ‘Imani touch’. That sentimental donkey. He dotes on her and little Jakh. Is that baby boy, whom Mrsha helped babysit, is he fake?
“You’re an adventurer, Mrsha. Calm down. Make the right decisions.”
Her panic attack fades. Mrsha closes her eyes, breathes in and out.
“For Erin—what will you do?”
Her emotions turn to ice, just like Ceria taught her. She steels herself, feels at her side. It occurs to Mrsha—she’s not ready. She’s not geared up, yet.
She goes upstairs to her room and finds a chest at the back of it. A single room for a young woman. No more sleeping with her mother.
No roommate. She’s thinking over everything Rianchi babbled at her. What was that about having a little [Witch] for a roommate? The only one that Mrsha knows is…no. That can’t be.
Mrsha sits on her bed a second after she’s loaded her bag of holding with all the artifacts, scrolls, and tools she stockpiled. She’s eighteen, anyways. Eighteen. So many things were going to happen when she was eighteen. Danger and friends and…
Who could help me if this turns out to be a trap? If this is true or if I have to fight, who…
Who’s not dead? Mrsha, the adult Mrsha, sees what her younger self was after. It makes sense. She’d do the same thing. She counts.
“Rags. Yeah. If she can even make it. Olesm? Belgrade? They’re army, now. No…Pisces, of course. Maybe Yvlon. Maybe. Rags, Pisces, Moore. Of course, Moore. But—Garia? Maybe Garia.”
So few, so few left who’re true, who haven’t given up. Mrsha thinks of the traitors and growls.
“Not Ceria. Not Ryoka. Not—Pawn.”
Some of them aren’t allies, but Mrsha hesitates. Pawn…Pawn’s strong, and he’s loyal to Erin, beyond loyal in his way. Too much. Rags is…different.
“Rags, Pisces, Moore, Garia. If any of them come, I’ll tell them. But how to…?”
She’s positive [Messages] or any other spell won’t work via the door or gap in reality. Mrsha thinks and comes up with the answer. Of course.
Her friends.
She puts a finger to her head and concentrates.
“[Casual Communication]. Visma. Visma. Calling Visma…”
She connects after four rings. Mrsha hears a flurry of voices, including the one from her friend, high-pitched and breathless.
“Intern, this had better be a news story. Or else you’re not taking that call, friends of the inn or not.”
“I’m so sorry, Miss Drassi. I’ll tell her right away—Mrsha, I’m at work, you bitch.”
Visma’s harried, and Mrsha winces; she forgot Visma’s finally working at Wistram News Network—the Pallassian division. Drassi has a stick up her tailhole, as per usual.
Could I tell Drassi…? No, she works with Wistram. And Ceria. Archmage Ceria can’t be trusted. Wistram spies on people. So Mrsha makes her voice casual.
“Visma! I need your help for something. Can you get to the inn, now? It’s not news—”
“I heard that. Tell Miss Mrsha that I hired Reporter Visma on her merits, not because I’m friends with the inn. And to call back later.”
Drassi’s voice cracks like a whip, and Mrsha can practically see Visma duck. Undaunted, Mrsha calls back.
“You owe me a favor, Drassi. I’m calling it in.”
“You little—I’m not dealing with this. Someone else get me my report, and I’ll forget this happened. And the next time you try to strongarm me, you better have the news I want, Mrsha.”
Headline: Erin Solstice back from the dead. Chaos reigns.
It is a promise between them. The day Mrsha achieves her goals…Mrsha swallows hard. Sooner than you think, Drassi, sooner than you think.
“Visma, get over here. Get Ekirra too, if he’s not training. Actually, I don’t care if he is. Both of you.”
Her two best friends, even from ten years ago. [Soccer Player] and [Reporter]—well, Visma has a lot of classes, but this is the one she seems to love. Visma whispers back as she hurries out of the news room.
“Excuse me, I’m so sorry—I’ll be back as soon as I can—Mrsha! I’m going to kick your tail up and down Liscor if this isn’t serious! This is my first day on the job, and Drassi told me I needed to impress! What is it? Did old Tekshia refuse to certify you? Did your mother try and keep you here?” 
Mrsha can barely remember what Visma’s worried about at first. She shakes her head, steadies her breath.
“This matters, Visma. Way more than that. Now, here’s what I need you to do. By the time you and Ekirra get here, I’m going to be gone. But trust me, I swear on Erin’s life this is important. You’re going to need to both play dumb and keep a lookout for strangers…”
The oath Mrsha invokes is the one she’ll never break, and Visma gasps softly and begins to take this seriously.
“Wait, for your birthday? Because Lyonette has a plan—”
“No, Visma. Real strangers. Now, listen…”
Mrsha gives Visma several instructions, hangs up, takes a deep breath, and then brushes Dreamleaf ash off her front. She’s taken precautions, both in case they come back and in case they look for her. She can’t wait.
Back she goes.
 
——
 
It’s a small window in the world, invisible unless you know where it is—or if you saw a Goblin going through it and heard that earthshaking roar. Mrsha feels at it, and her paws encounter that barrier.
…And go right through. She doesn’t need a root. She’s been, for lack of a better word, immunized, given access.
Much like the [Garden of Sanctuary]. But it killed the root. Mrsha can hop through this door as much as she wants.
No one else. Out of curiosity, Mrsha feels at the window to reality, then picks something up.
A tomato, which she brought from the kitchen. She walks to the door and, tomato in hand, puts her paw through that window into reality.
…The air is different on the other side. Mrsha shudders. She steps through the hole, though it is smaller than her face, barely as big around as her paw; the size doesn’t matter. She can pass through, but it feels like—
—like passing through the eye of a needle—
—like stepping off the edge of the known world—
—like being bent and pulled and reframed—
And then she’s stumbling into the marble corridor of the place Rianchi called the [Palace of Fates]. Mrsha searches around as reality reasserts itself, and then glances down at her hand.
A tomato is in her paw, squished slightly from the force which she grips it with.
“Hm. So plants aren’t alive by this metric? I can take objects. People?”
Mrsha really doubts she can do that without another ‘root’, but this is valuable information. She takes a bite of the tomato.
“Eugh. Overripe.”
