“No, sir, I do not believe we have a leak within the army. No, sir, I do not think one of our people is so highly placed they are giving information of that specificity out and working with Goblins. With Goblins, sir.”
General Shirka was pacing in a tight circle in their camp—their warded camp that no one should have been able to see. But with how many [Scrying] spells were coming down, she had little hope they were actually hidden.
Even so, even if you had eyes on them, you should not have been able to count the exact number of [Goblin Slayers] in 2nd army. Even another [General] of Pallass wouldn’t have access to that information easily, given how soldiers retired, died, or were reassigned.
The voice—voices, really—on the other end of her speaking stone were very upset, which was natural. Shirka just wished the people on the other end were ones she could trust.
“Sir—there is no leak. I have swept my entire camp, and Strategist Ulhouse believes the only way the information could get out is if someone of his rank or higher were compromised. Now, I am certain the Eyes of Pallass that are in my army and who’ll be figuring this out are saying the same thing. I don’t know how that Goblin knows so much. But can we rule out why and go to action?”
What she didn’t say, what she didn’t want to say, was that there was one conceivable way Rags could have all this intelligence. There was one person with the capability to monitor her army and give everything up.
—But she couldn’t believe Alchemist Saliss would do that. Not to her. Not to Pallass.
Even so, Shirka kept that thought in her breast, because a good [General] had to be a bastard and consider every option. However—and it might be a flaw, but it was her instincts—she didn’t think it was even Saliss.
They know we’re here. They know our numbers. I’m sure that [Chieftain] is bluffing, but now we have Lord Xitegen on our flanks, just like she said. And a damn Old One…
I believe it. Ancestors, I believe something shook the High Passes. 
She had no intelligence on what was going on, but that image of the Old One had her scales crawling. Shirka breathed in and out, slowly, as she listened.
“Alright, silence! Silence, all of you! General Shirka, you are to secure your position. I am preparing Wyvern Riders to sortie to your position and reinforcements from 3rd, 4th, and 5th armies. You should not need them.”
“How many weeks will that be, sir?”
General Edellein ignored the question.
“I want scouts entering these mountains to ratify this…Old One. Your objectives are unchanged, General Shirka. But we are adding the destruction of this thing to the list.”
Scouts in a mountain? 2nd Army had good [Scouts], but—Shirka’s expression was frozen as she glanced at Ulhouse, with that look of a leader who knew she was going to send good soldiers to their deaths.
“Yes, sir. I will begin probing the Goblin defenses and draw up my plan of assault.”
“—Good.”
That surprised Edellein, but Shirka had anticipated that. Better to show willingness; it gave her more wiggle room in her orders. She exhaled, slow, controlled.
“Assuming this is an Old One of a Titan variety—I request all the information on what it is. And fire support from Pallass, if necessary.”
“Granted, pending whatever our [Strategists] dig up. Dismissed, General Shirka. We will contact you when High Command has further orders.”
I hope you and everyone there panics long enough for me to figure out what’s actually going on and how to word it. Shirka signed off briskly. She waited five seconds, then answered her speaking stone as it made a chiming sound.
“Shirka. What can you tell me, Strategist?”
“It’s a Draconic Titan. Best guess is that it’s something we used in the wars against the Gnolls, just like that Goblin was hinting. Shirka, one of them could wipe out armies. You must keep it from reassembling.”
Strategist Esor’s voice was crisp and intense, but he was focused, and he already knew what it was. Shirka nodded, relieved.
“Can you send the dossier?”
“General Edellein will be getting all the information shortly. Estimate an hour’s delay; less. He’s still aware of how dangerous this is. You saw how fortified Goblinhome is?”
Ancestors-damned murder-holes, alcoves in walls, and more. Shirka was reminded of Saliss’ description of Vengeance Dungeons. Dead gods, that was where the Goblins had probably gotten it from. She spoke to Esor.
“I’m not telling you I’m going to disobey orders, Strategist Esor. I’m just—I’m asking you, as a [Strategist], longer term grand strategy aside. Is there a scenario where 2nd Army doesn’t take unacceptable losses in this siege?”
“—I’m working that out, General Shirka. I am going to present Edellein with my findings. The Old One matters more. Do not launch that attack on the walls. You don’t have the siege equipment for it.”
He said that, but orders were orders. Shirka was thinking of how to deal with Goblinhome…she just didn’t want to. She didn’t. But she nodded tightly and brought up the real question.
“What’s happening at the inn, Esor?”
“I don’t know. Our spies can’t get past Calanfer—they just received some kind of squad. One of the Eyes of Pallass got hit with a bowl of hot soup in the face.”
Esor sounded amused; Shirka was not. She was signalling Ulhouse.
“It’s from the inn. Instinct. Saliss is right. He always is. Find out, Esor. I can take a flank attack. I can fight an Old One. But I can’t deal with that and an ambush.”
“I’ll get the information, Shirka.”
Then he hung up. Shirka kept pacing in a circle as Ulhouse began to convene the officers. She raked a claw through her neck spines. Now, she felt it. The Goblin was watching her.
She wasn’t up against some tribe—she was facing a real opponent across the chess board. They were eying each other; gazes locked, putting their pieces in a line, bluffing, feinting—and now it was a war.
Chieftain Rags. Now Shirka had a real opponent, and she began to respect her foe instantly. She was sidestepping, pivoting, taken off-guard, but this was a dance. You step here, I step there. She was behind, but she was catching up as fast as she could. She had to learn this dance. When to attack, when to hold back.
A battle was won by inaction at the right time as much as the sudden thrust. Wait. Shirka waited, but she was now reading the flow. She had to step into the dance floor at the right time or she’d missed her shot. Wait.
Wait…
Who else is dancing with me? She felt like she sensed other footfalls, the massive Old One under her feet, unknown figures in the High Passes. And…that mysterious patter of light footsteps. Coming from the inn.
 
——
 
Mrsha sat in an inn across from Pyrite and lowered the milkshake.
You told Moore?
Her face was alarmed. She was alarmed, upset, outraged, and she knew she had no right to be. The Goblin Chieftain nodded.
“He’s…upset.”
Mrsha craned her head around.
How upset is that?
She’d never seen Pyrite look shifty or uncomfortable before, but the Goblin’s eyes slid sideways as he chewed on some chocolate-covered cherries.
“He’s gone to Riverfarm. With Halrac. Who Kevin told.”
Mrsha put her paws under the table, but she was too weak to flip it, so she just rattled it around in agitation. Pyrite shrugged.
“We had to tell them.”
I should have—
“No. You don’t have to hurt yourself that badly.”
The girl’s quill fell silent. She began to write a denial, but couldn’t do it. She avoided Pyrite’s gaze.
He was smart. After a while, Mrsha wrote.
Thank you. What do you think?
“We all want proof. Even if I believe it here, I must believe it here.”
Pyrite touched his chest, then his eyes. He and Mrsha were sitting in a corner of the [Grand Theatre] as people moved around, into the beach, hanging out…a Hobgoblin was watching them.
Shorthilt, casually leaning against the bar. He wasn’t angry or afraid. He just seemed—curious. Which meant he knew something too. When Mrsha gave Pyrite an accusatory glance, he shrugged.
“Secrets are hard. This one matters. Does it matter if everyone knows?”
Yes! Then they’ll want to do something about it!
“Mm. Then is it their right to know they’re fake?”
Mrsha didn’t have a reply for that. She searched around, then wrote hurriedly.
Where’s Erin?
The Goldstone Chieftain said nothing for a long while, then he spoke.
“With Kevin. He’s locked himself in his shop in Esthelm.”
Mrsha’s heart contracted in fear, and Pyrite tilted his head.
“She’s not your enemy in any world. Is she?”
He was analyzing her every word. Reading her, but she didn’t care. She had come to be honest. Mrsha wrote, paw trembling.
No. But I warn you, Pyrite. Letting everyone know is dangerous.
“I know. It’s just them. Why is Erin bad?”
Because I fear her. Because it hurts to see her. Because she, of everyone, will judge me, and that is terrifying. I could stop anyone else. But her? I don’t know what she will do. You don’t know. She doesn’t know, yet.
Burning ships were reflected in Mrsha’s brown eyes. She held up the card, and she saw lightning and flames erupting from an inn. An [Innkeeper] nailing a <Quest> to a building.
Toc.
As if he could hear that echo etched into her soul, Pyrite shivered, and it was his turn to seem uniquely unsettled. He glanced away from Mrsha, then spoke.
“I will not go. I cannot imagine it, even if I believe it. I do not want ‘another chance’. Even if I did—I would let someone else go instead of me. But I will help you ask them.”
A dead Goblin said it to her, and it might have been bravado or him not understanding—but Mrsha thought he did. The [Fatebreaker Child] sat there.
Even if the other world needs you?
“If the world could be saved by Pyrite, I do not think it needs saving. I know what I am. I know what I can do, and I know I am worth more than nothing. But I have never believed no one can equal me. One day, Mrsha, more Goblins will rise and pass me. I have seen it already. It makes me smile.”
His eyes were calm. Proud, even. He gazed at Shorthilt, and he must have been thinking of Rags, of Headscratcher, of other Goblins, and Mrsha found herself out of words, truly mute for a moment.
Will anyone else come?
That was the real question, then, and Pyrite gave her an honest answer.
“I don’t think Headscratcher will. Kevin? Moore? Halrac? If I am truthful, Mrsha, no. How could they? They might come to help, but that is not their world. And even if they came, for a time, would that be what you want?”
No.
Of course not.
Mrsha buried her head in her paws. When she raised them, she saw a little face vanish into the kitchen. For a second, she locked eyes with a wary, scared little white Gnoll’s face and felt a shock.
Violation. She should not be here. What was she doing? What was she attempting?
The Hobgoblin reached out to pat Mrsha on the shoulder. She tried to move away.
Don’t feel bad for me. I know what I have done. I knew what I was asking. This is only right and logical. I have been a fool.
Her card was bitter, and Pyrite spoke quickly.
“Kevin will come back. So will Halrac and Moore. And I must speak to Rags when she returns. Don’t give up on…there are ways we can help you, even without these problems. If the Eir Gel island had not been destroyed, I could give you healing potions…”
He tapped his claws on the table, thinking. Some events seemed to have been carried over, even if the root causes were different. Mrsha was too tired to think of how that all worked fate-wise. She shook her head. He was still thinking of this world first, as was right and proper. Even if it was fake…
I won’t run. I will be back. Just—give me a bit, okay? I’ll send Rags over as soon as she arrives.
She slipped off her chair, and Pyrite nodded. He watched as she padded upstairs, but didn’t follow her.
Perhaps he knew where the root was. The other Erin probably sensed her. They might find it—
Trust.
She could only trust they were good people, the best. Mrsha felt like a monster as she walked upstairs. She passed by a girl on all fours, who appeared out of a [Garden of Sanctuary] and crouched there, eyes wide, watching her. She had a card she pushed forwards.
Who are you?
The Mrsha with a kilt and a bleak expression, who had broken fate to come here, and who looked so much more adult than the younger Mrsha, stopped. She flipped the card over and wrote on it. Then she peered around.
A wide-eyed Lyonette and Nanette vanished into Lyonette’s room, and Mrsha exhaled. She handed the card back to Silly Mrsha and walked into the girl’s rooms.
Silly Mrsha read the card. The girl whirled to the door, yanked it open, but the other Mrsha was gone. Silently, Silly Mrsha showed it to Lyonette and Nanette.
“Pyrite. Should we—”
“Leave her. Please.”
The Hobgoblin crouched down and read the card.
The monster who steals your happiness.
Pyrite knelt there for a while, then refused to give the card back to Mrsha. He tore the card up, then inserted the pieces into his mouth. He chewed as everyone watched him, swallowed, and said—
“No.”
 
——
 
Mrsha stood in the [Palace of Fates] and realized her mistake.
It was—well, there were too many to count morally. But practically, she had made a few.
The first was having nothing that could convince the other realities of what was going on. She could feed Pyrite information, and he believed her because he was smart, but everyone else just had to rely on her telling them they were dead.
Not a good…first impression. Secondly? If she was to ask them, if she was to invite them on an impossible decision—Mrsha closed her eyes.
She had best come as what she was. An omen. A Doombringer. She had tried to slink in and offer them something that was as painful as a jagged piece of glass in their heart.
She was the monster. More horrific than Facestealer. Let her at least be that.
Someone was waiting for her in the [Palace] and ran over.
“Mrsha! Mrsha! Chieftain Rags is on television! I mean—[Student] Rags! Chieftain Rags is going after her.”
What?
Dyeda explained as best as she could. [Scrying] spells couldn’t reach down here, so she couldn’t show Mrsha, and the girl resisted Dyeda’s attempts to tug her back ‘upstairs’.
I can’t even enter the [Garden], Dyeda. Ushar isn’t stupid.
“Yes, you can! Other Mrsha wants to talk to you! She says too many people are realizing what’s going on. Too many spies—she wants to meet. But she says nosy Thronebearer is watching her like a Razorbeak.”
