It seemed like he wouldn’t get punched in the face for no reason after all.
 
——
 
Life was much like sex, Numbtongue decided. It was a lot of fun in the leadup and during, but afterwards, you felt hot, sweaty, sticky, and the world sort of sucked.
After they were done, he rolled out of the cheap bed in one of the one-night tavern rooms you could rent for this explicit purpose and found Salkis puffing on a Dreamleaf cigar. He held out a claw. Salkis shook an empty case and shrugged.
“Sorry, you’re out.”
“The last one is mine. Give.”
He poked her as she sat, naked, on the window ledge, but she just batted away his hands. She was annoyingly fast; Salkis said she was Level 34, and she had the Skills to match. She said she’d gotten those levels from knife-fights and living rough, despite her noble upbringing as Salkis Blackwing of the famous Blackwing family of Pallass.
Numbtongue wasn’t sure if he quite believed Salkis was the same as Typhenous or the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, but he had to admit, she did lots of illegal things. He paced over to another window and stood naked in front of it, scowling and folding his arms.
Yep, life sucked again. He hated everything he saw, from the grimy back-alleys of Pallass’ 3rd Floor to the sounds of banging and moans from above his head, to the nasty feeling of being intoxicated, but neither being happy about it nor smart as he knew he should be.
After a few minutes, Salkis noticed Numbtongue’s scowl and heaved a long, pointed sigh. When he didn’t reply or move, she called out.
“Are you still moaning about that [Guard]?”
“Nope.”
“Then…are you mad that you missed your shot with Kisne? I think I more than made up for it, didn’t I?”
She threw him a challenging look with that glint that said he’d be swatting away her daggers if he said the wrong thing. She had a temper. Numbtongue shrugged.
“If I got with Kisne, you’d try extra hard to outdo her.”
“True. How many of my friends have you seduced?”
He shrugged again. The [Bard] didn’t know if he liked that word. Seduced. He had once found a dictionary of words and taught himself how to speak and read the common tongue as a young Goblin. Seduced had the connotation of unwilling coercion to it. A suggestion that the other party needed to be persuaded into the act of something else.
He liked to think he was charming enough that seduction wasn’t necessary. He’d never heard complaints. Quite the opposite.
He was a [Bard]. He had a [Bard’s Charisma], among other Skills, and maybe that had something to do with it. But you couldn’t get everything you wanted with Skills alone. Numbtongue was fit, good at fighting, could play music, had excellent elocution and knew the meaning of the word, and he was a Goblin—a monster.
There was a certain subsection of the ladies that Numbtongue met—especially among Salkis’ friends—who thought that was a winning combination, and the Hobgoblin didn’t argue.
He just never felt as happy afterwards as he thought he should be. All the fun was right up till the moment burst—literally—and then the world went right back to sucking.
“It didn’t use to be that way.”
“What way? Hey, we should stop by Dragman’s Bar later. I have someone I’ve got to meet. Maybe we’ll see Kisne. We could go on an adventure with her, even Nold. Maybe round up Saphie and a few others? How about it? I reckon we’d make up a Gold-rank team. You and I, definitely.”
Salkis got visibly excited at the idea. Numbtongue was technically a Bronze-rank adventurer, but he shook his head.
“Nope.”
“Why not?”
“We’re not a Gold-rank team. We’re just the right level. Gold-rankers are different.”
“Come on, we’re both Level 30+. And you’re a Named-rank, practically. How are we not better than a Gold-rank group?”
She threw him a challenging look. Numbtongue’s voice and thoughts were elsewhere.
“Teamwork. We’ll die.”
“With your guitar and my gear—”
“No, Salkis.”
The [Knifemistress] grew angry at the word; her eyes narrowed, and her hands dropped to her daggers. He didn’t move. His tone and unmoving face swayed her; she turned with a disgusted sound and began to smoke harder on his cigar.
I need to go and get more from Palt. And visit the inn. Again. Lyonette is just going to bother me, along with Nanette and Mrsha and the others. And Bird’s a girl now.
The thoughts didn’t make Numbtongue happy. He glared out the window and had another thought.
I should go see Reagen. His cat. His cat made Numbtongue happy. Octavia would be—
Right. He remembered cuddling after sex and just lying there being better. In the past, after tussling with Garia in the hay in her barn—which was honestly a lot more pokey and uncomfortable than you wanted, but still, worth it—or in Octavia’s rooms in her shops, laughing and telling jokes with them.
It used to be better. When had it all changed? Numbtongue stroked his beard and realized he had to shave it to keep up that goatee look that Salkis said he should cultivate. He sighed and felt for a razor in his bag of holding.
It changed when Garia and Octavia got weird about Salkis. Neither of them liked Salkis. Actually, Octavia had been weird about Garia, which hadn’t been the worst until Garia became weird right back. They’d started complaining when Numbtongue went out on trips with Salkis, then got sulky when he offered to go on a trip with them to make up for it.
It had been bad before the Solstice. Or—not bad, but unfun to be around. But it had changed after the Solstice, with Erin gone and Bird ‘dead’ and so many people actually dead.
And me not on that ship. Numbtongue stared at his hands. Just a bit too slow to raise his hands. He thought about that too. Like the [Guardsman].
Archmage Valeterisa, demanding to know who would risk their lives to go across the sea and fight. Before he could raise his hand, Badarrow had stepped forwards and glanced back at him. 
A second too slow. Why did he feel like everyone blamed him for that?
Unfair. Unfair. Then they gave him accusatory looks every time he and Salkis came to the inn. Lyonette kept trying to boss him around, give him orders, and monitor where he was, despite them having settled that ages ago.
Nothing to do in the inn. Octavia giving him the cold shoulder. Graves and rain. Not knowing where Badarrow was and not fitting in his own home.
But that wasn’t where it had really started, oh no. That wasn’t why he was angry all the time. Without thinking about it, Numbtongue found himself drifting over to Salkis. She let him put his arms around her and hug her. Hard. Running his hands down her smooth scales.
She groaned, and he distracted himself with what he could feel, the smell of her sweat, the acrid tang of the Dreamleaf cigar. He took a puff on it, and it tasted sour. He tried to follow it away, the wisps of smoke bringing him to that alternate, better land that it promised.
Numbtongue lifted Salkis up and carried her to the bed over the snarls of splintered wood on the floor, and he focused on even that. He heard Salkis shriek and laugh and tried to drown out that thumping from overhead and his own thoughts.
Anything—to avoid thinking of the person who made him the angriest. Who was gone. And didn’t need him.
She had never really loved him, had she?
Erin.
Numbtongue stopped, mid-thrust, in bed, and gazed down at the panting, ecstatic face beneath him. For a second, he imagined paler skin, hazel eyes, not topaz, and brown hair. For a second—he imagined a familiar smile.
The Hobgoblin stopped and felt himself withering up. Salkis made a sound as he stopped—pulled out, and then rolled over sideways. She made a disgusted sound.
“Again? Come on—”
She rose, glanced at him, then stormed out of the room. The Hobgoblin lay there and stared at nothing at all.
A nervous [Innkeeper], arms laden with food.
A desperate woman holding a flag, tears in her eyes.
A guilty glance at him in the dark of an inn, across a table, as she looked away.
A frozen smile on a bier.
He hated her. She didn’t need him. She didn’t need anyone from her inn; she was across the ocean and doing just fine. 
She loved Rabbiteater more than him. He wanted to tell Badarrow that. Don’t you see?
She never loved him. She never did and never would.
Numbtongue curled up more, head pounding, trying to bury his head under the stained covers. He wanted to pass out. He lay there, alone.
Alone.
No ghosts came for him. When he raised his head, he wasn’t in the inn. He searched for Salkis, but she was gone. So, as he had done before, tried to do for over a month, Numbtongue went looking for a drink, a fight, or company. And he found it, every time. The disheveled Goblin appeared to be a Gnoll, Drake, or Human.
His face changed, always mirroring the real him underneath. But what never changed was how he could walk into a room and attract the first insecure fist longing for an outlet. Or captivate someone enough to buy him a drink—regardless of gender—or strike up a conversation about the guitar on his back. Or simply offer someone a glance that had a flash of monstrosity in it, a poet’s soul mingled with a warrior and a monster, and draw them over.
Goblin? Such a simple descriptor.
Redfang? No longer.
[Bard]? Yes, but…
 
——
 
Numbtongue. Level 43. [Sybarite Soulbard].
New Skills: [Bard’s Charisma], [Gift of Amor], [Lover’s Proficiency], [Graceful Parry], [Partner’s Satisfaction Guaranteed], [Flicker Fingers], [Expert Weapon Proficiency: Sword], [Lesser Dexterity]…
Salkis stopped writing and scratched at her cheek with a quill.
“I think that’s it.”
Her reply didn’t make the two hooded figures across from her happy. One of them was younger; he was an idiot named Lesorel. The other was Vendyne.
Lesorel was a son of the walls from Oteslia, similar to Salkis. Noble-born, though Drakes didn’t use the same terms. It was close-enough; Vendyne was Human. They were, all three of them, united by common cause.
They were Bloodfeast Raiders. They sat in a corner of Dragman’s Bar, which wasn’t a place for parties even in the day, but for actual members of Pallass’ underworld to meet in relative secrecy and peace.
“You think that’s it?”
The other Drake pounded a fist on the table and got a warning look from Vendyne. Lesorel and Vendyne both had on nondescript clothing and cloaks, though Lesorel had to dress all in black; Vendyne just seemed like a common laborer or worker. Salkis’ brows snapped together, and she glowered.
“Shut up, Lesorel. I’m thinking. He only told me his latest Skills. And I’m only telling you because the boss wants to know. Whaddya think, Vendyne?”
She glanced somewhat challengingly at the second-in-command of the Bloodfeast Raiders, but warily. Salkis and Lesorel were the ‘young blood’ of the raiders. The hardened, veteran members were not the young noblefolk who joined their ranks for fun. Vendyne was dangerous, and he showed all new initiates what happened if they crossed him, even if they were Level 30 and had an artifact.
Accordingly, Vendyne didn’t posture. He sat, nursing an ale, and the younger raiders tried to copy his relaxed posture. What he said, after a gulp from his drink, was—
“No capstone Skill?”
“Nope. Just a lotta Skills. He was pretty mad about it. I think he got that mix of decent Skills instead of a big one. Well, a few are great. [Bard’s Charisma] makes everyone’s head turn when he activates it. And [Expert Proficiency]? He’s really good with a sword already. I still don’t, uh, know what the [Soulbard] thing does—”
Salkis was speaking fast. She wasn’t nervous—not exactly—but Vendyne coming all this way in person was stressful. And this was a job from Korizan. Of course, she liked Numbtongue.
—She just hoped the Bloodfeast Raiders saw his good qualities too. Salkis licked her lips when Vendyne didn’t explain. Then he jabbed a finger at the list.
“[Gift of Amor]? Do you know what it does?”
“[Bard] Skills.”
Lesorel scoffed, but Salkis nodded eagerly.
“I think it gives him a little buff every time he sleeps with someone. Especially, uh, someone new. I swear, he can be a wreck some nights, and then he’ll roll out of bed as if someone spent an hour on his hair. And he’s really fit…almost more than before we started going out together.”
“I bet you work him hard enough for that.”
Lesorel gave Salkis a calculating look up and down, and her hand twitched towards her side. She didn’t like Lesorel. Actually, Salkis didn’t like a lot of the Raiders when they weren’t hunting. She loved the hunts, the power, the thrill of that. Numbtongue was the second-best thing to that, and frankly, a lot more safe sometimes, which was annoying.
But this life-or-death feeling with Vendyne? That was enough to tolerate the stupidity of Lesorel. Salkis shot back at the Drake.
“Trust me, he gets a lot of exercise in that regard, Lesorel. If you want, I could introduce you as another friend. If you did a quarter as well as he does, you’d never want for company.”
“Hah. [Lover’s Proficiency]? He actually needs help in bed? That’s pathetic.”
The other Drake tried to scoff, but he shifted, and Salkis’ sneer made him flush.
“You’d be surprised. I’ll wager a lot of my friends had an eye-opening time with him. Some keep asking about Numbtongue. They’re too used to you—and if anyone could use [Partner’s Satisfaction Guaranteed]—”
He grabbed for her hand with a snarl, but she was too fast for him and yanked her hands back. Lesorel’s claw stole to a wand at his belt, but Vendyne turned his head.
“Lesorel. Drop it.”
The two stopped sparring instantly, though Lesorel kept visibly fuming. Salkis sat back with a smirk. Vendyne nodded after a moment and made a note.
“Multi-purpose benefits on [Gift of Amor]. That’s all the boss wanted to know. Here’s the real question: do you think he’s closer to us? Yes or no?”
That was a harder question, and Salkis fidgeted.
“Well, he’s a Goblin. So he’s already against the law, and he’s a great fighter. He’s no fan of the Watch; he has a few friends in Liscor, but I’ve been taking him on jaunts, and he’s wild. But he also has that [Knight] who the boss burned at—”
“Salkis. No locations. No names. Yes or no.”
The man’s eyes burned into her head as she turned her head.
“…Not yet. I’m working on it.”
Vendyne nodded as Lesorel snorted. The older man sat back, drained most of his mug, and stood.
“Keep getting information. From the inn as well as making friends with the people there.”
“They don’t like me there. The [Alchemist]—”
