Hooked sword in hand, Goujian strode across the dry desert sand and approached his foe with careless ease. A pretense, of course, for only a fool would dare take a Great General lightly, much less the famed Gao Changgong. Renowned for his part in single-handedly breaking the siege of Luoyang, there would be new songs sung and dramas written about the tenacious Major General should his recent exploits come to light. Evading capture when the Western Bridge fell, Changgong marched his army of fifty-thousand soldiers east to reinforce Shen Sha, where the sixty-seven year old Hero of the Empire held out against the Defiled hordes for two full months. When the gates finally fell, the Defiled found an empty shell of a city waiting for them, with every man, woman, and child having long since evacuated to Heaven knows where.

But this was not the end of Gao Changgong’s epic tale. Two weeks later, the Major General appeared outside the Defiled-held coastal city of Taktala, where he and his army slaughtered the city’s defenders and razed it to the ground, denying the Enemy its massive fleet of ocean faring trawlers and its storehouses pack full of preserved provisions. While not so crippling a blow for the cannibalistic Defiled, this single attack gave Changgong enough supplies to disappear for months, and disappear he did, but not for long. Once word of his daring feats spread, many flocked to his side bringing weapons, provisions, and local knowledge, all of which this Great General of the West used to organize a province-wide guerrilla resistance which proved a thorn in the Uniter’s side for the past year. Based out of hidden military installations, bandit camps, or even secluded villages, these insurgents slaughtered tribesmen and set fire to granaries, stole weapons and sabotaged factories, doing anything and everything they could to spit in the eye of the Enemy even at the cost of their own lives.

While many Imperial Warriors were guided to the Truth in this past year, they could only give up the location of the camps they’d served in. Using a system of distributed organization, each resistance camp worked independently in a certain area, sharing only information and resources through blind exchanges and dead drops, but keeping their identities secret and never sharing manpower to minimize the damage a single traitor could accomplish. This covert, self-reliant style of resistance meant only Changgong’s closest confidants knew his location which allowed him to remain hidden for well over a year.

Until now.

Following their ignoble defeat in Sinuji, Goujian acted on his thoughts and took steps to distance himself from young Gen who’d proven himself an unworthy disgrace. Instead of staying by the boy’s side to watch him devolve into a debauched, gluttonous, reprobate, Goujian put his skills to the test hunting down Imperial insurgents, a task Mao Jianghong was poorly equipped to handle. While the Sanshu native had a few minor victories to his name, Changgong and his guerrillas were running roughshod through the Western Province before Goujian took over, but after a lifetime spent exposing hidden Defiled, finding Imperial soldiers was as easy as turning his hand.

Using skilled spies, experienced trackers, and carefully laid traps, Goujian uncovered no less than eight independent bastions of Imperial resistance in past months, but instead of destroying each nest of Imperials he came across, he kept them all under watch and sent his spies in to infiltrate their ranks. Most failed and were killed outright, but he persevered. After three months, his efforts finally bore fruit when he captured a Brigadier on his way to meet local insurgents, a high-level Officer named Shaoyi who worked closely with Changgong.

That idiot boy Gen had captured another Brigadier almost a month before Sinuji, but instead of questioning such a valuable prisoner, he indulged in his lust and killed the female Officer out of hand. Such a blunder, Goujian must have been blind to think the boy had potential...

It took almost a full week of torture to extract the information he wanted, but all men have their limits and Shaoyi was no different. Armed with the location of Gao Changgong himself, Goujian brought an army of Chosen and tribal auxiliaries to surround the hidden base situated by the mountain passage between the Northern and Western Provinces, cleverly disguised beneath a supposedly abandoned fishing village on the Northwest coast of the Azure Sea. Despite uncovering no signs of life, much less a hidden army, Goujian had an Earth-Blessed Transcendent collapse the escape routes he’d extracted during Shaoyi’s interrogation before offering a challenge to the ‘unknown commander’, hoping to bait out a juicy target and use his improved Martial prowess to catch Changgong off guard.

Until moments ago, he hadn’t even been certain the Major General was even here, but with the Imperials trapped and outnumbered, this Great General of the West had no choice but to come out of hiding and respond to Goujian’s call for single combat, if only to buy time. With his dark skin, strong jawline, prominent brow, and bushy eyebrows, Changgong was a westerner through and through, even wearing standard infantry armour and wielding a typical western quarterstaff as his weapon. Unlike the rattan sticks found in the hands of herders and farmers however, the Major General’s Spiritual Weapon was three meters of steel-encased Spiritual Lead which weighed at least forty kilograms, if not more. A powerful weapon few could wield, but Changgong used it with ease to smash through gates, walls, and Defiled alike.

A fine weapon carried by an accomplished warrior of the Empire, which made him an ideal subject to measure Goujian’s recent progress.

Once only a mere twenty meters separated them, Goujian paused his advance as Changgong raised his staff in warning. “So, the Confessor, finally shows, his true colours,” the distinguished hero said, even sounding like a typical westerner with his slow, ambling drawl, pausing every few words as if to think of what to say next. “Unsurprising to see the Mad Dog, fighting alongside Defiled, but at least this Gao, has the honour of taking your head.” Looking past Goujian, Changgong studied the army of Chosen with a scowl and asked, “Brigadier Shaoyi is dead, I presume? Or has he too, betrayed the Empire?”

Smiling, Goujian shook his head. “Defeat me, and perhaps you will find out.” No sense giving away free information, for if Changgong believed Shaoyi a traitor, then it would exert hidden pressure during their duel and force him to reflect on everything the Brigadier knew and might’ve shared, such as habits and flaws in his fighting style. Taking a step forward, Goujian brandished his hooked sword and said, “Enough of your stalling. My blade yearns for the blood of traitors.”

Letting loose with a booming bark of laughter, Changgong hefted his staff onto his shoulder and said, “Muddle-headed old fool. You fight, for the Defiled, so whom amongst us is the traitor?”

“I fight for –” So enraged by his foe’s ignorance, he almost missed the cues as Changgong’s staff lanced towards his head, the deceptively relaxed pose hiding the Major General’s true intent. Unable to parry the attack, Goujian gathered his Domain to Deflect it aside, and only barely succeeded in keeping his head intact. A single attack was all it took to show the difference between them, and Goujian was sorely outmatched in speed and power. Devoting all his attention to his defences, he gave ground before the domineering Great General and avoided the powerful thrusts and sweeps of the quarterstaff. Round and round the weapon went, twirling about in a hypnotic display of skill and strength, shrieking through air and crashing into dirt while Goujian danced away. Stylistically, this was a poor match-up, but even without the advantages of range and power, Changgong would still be a formidable foe, which was exactly what Goujian wanted.

While he only had a small chance of victory, he was confident he could preserve his life and escape if need be, for the secrets of Heaven had become clear to him. Without a doubt, Goujian was most proficient at Concealment, but it had little use in direct combat as evidenced by his near-death experience at the hands of Twinned Dragon Jukai. Despite hiding within the chaotic melee, the formidable warrior uncovered Goujian’s presence and almost took his life with a single blow, but after less than a dozen exchanges, he turned the tables and beheaded his more skilled opponent. At the time, he attributed his victory to a sudden Insight into the Forms, but upon reflection, he realized it was so much more. As evidenced by the name, Concealment was used to hide one’s presence from onlookers, but why must it be limited to all or nothing? There was no reason why Concealment wouldn’t work on a smaller scale, and if so, then it was easy to imagine what would happen if one lost track of their opponent’s weapon in the midst of a duel.

Which was exactly what happened in his match against Jukai: partial Concealment, a method he instinctively utilized to catch Jukai by surprise with an unexpected offensive.

Rather than Concealing his entire form, which left a large void in his opponent’s perception and all but gave away his true location to a discerning foe, he merely Concealed a few movements which obscured his movements and went largely unnoticed until it was too late. It was a difficult skill to practice, since Goujian’s perceptions remained unaffected by his Concealment, but according to the many sparring partners he’d enlisted and subsequently killed to keep his secret, it was as if he had six arms and three weapons, his arm moving in one trajectory before rapidly switching to another and appearing to strike in unanticipated bearings. His speed remained the same as before, but his partial Concealment clouded his opponent’s perception of his movements just enough to shroud his next move in mystery or even mislead his opponent and force a miscalculation. The skill wasn’t without flaws, because if he tried to Conceal too much, his opponent would see through the overall deception and be on his guard, while too little left his tricks exposed. A game of millimetres, for life and death were separated by a margin of error that small, but after a lifetime spent studying the minds and habits of men, Goujian walked the razor’s edge with ease.

Limiting his partial Concealment to his hands alone, he stuck to jarring, abrupt changes in movements to throw his opponent off. Feint left, move right, fake an attack and retreat. Display an ‘opening’ where he was ready to respond, or launch an obvious bait which turned out to be a real attack, these small tricks allowed Goujian to exchange blows with a Peak Expert unrivalled by any but the best of the best. In fact, this partial Concealment was more effective when used against a skilled opponent like Changgong, for a lesser warrior might not see the ‘weaknesses’ in Goujian’s defences or mistake the ‘feint’ for a real attack. Round and round he went exchanging blows with Changgong, pushing his new skills to the limit to see how far they could bring him. Once mastered, he imagined partial Concealment could even allow him to draw his sword, attack, and sheathe it again without anyone noticing, a true assassin’s technique which suited him well.

Gao Changgong lived up to his reputation however, unravelling the mystery of Goujian’s deceptive movements in less than twenty exchanges, but even then there was little that could be done to counter them. Unable to discern truth from falsehood, Changgong had no choice but to treat every illusory attack or exposed flaw as real, for they very well could be. It wasn’t as simple as ignoring Goujian’s hands and attacking elsewhere, because the Major General wasn’t fighting with only victory in mind. If he were willing to die alongside Goujian, then both their fates would be sealed, but in his arrogance, Changgong believed his life too valuable to exchange for Goujian’s, a mistake which would cost him dearly once this duel ran its course.

Victory had never been Goujian’s purpose here. He was merely using Changgong as a whetstone and keeping him busy so the Earth-Blessed Transcendent tunnelling into the underground base would go unnoticed.

A hundred exchanges passed by in a matter of minutes, then they exchanged two hundred more without uttering a single word, but still Changgong pressed on, wielding his powerful staff with tireless ease while Goujian’s arms grew heavy with fatigue. Twirling his weapon with an audible thrum, Changgong’s expression was unreadable even to an old hand like Goujian, but he knew the Major General’s stamina could not last much longer. Under Heaven’s Impartation, he’d spent the past nine months slowly renewing his aged body, and combined with hearty meals for ample sustenance, he was in peak physical form, so if he was tired, then Changgong was undoubtedly nearing exhaustion.

