How much worse off would Goujian be if he tried to match the Major General blow for blow? How did Changgong compare to the other Great Generals of the Empire, warriors’ whose names were known across the lands as the strongest warriors of their generations? By age, Goujian was closer to the likes of Nian Zu, Shuai Jiao, and Du Min Gyu, but he knew he still had a long ways to go before rivalling them, so what of the younger generation? Though unable to match up with the terrifying Crouching Tiger Han BoDing or Sword King Ryo Dae Jung, Changgong couldn’t be too far off, which meant Goujian was only a few steps from reaching the Peak. Once there, with his ageless body warding off the ravages of time and Heaven’s Impartation guiding his steps, he might even one day shatter the Void and become a Divinity himself.

And Gao Changgong believed his life too precious to exchange for Goujian’s. Such hubris to look down upon the Future Emperor of the Azure Sea.

“Your smile,” Changgong said, breaking the silence for the first time since the match started without slowing his attacks. “It offends me.” Then the staff grew large in Goujian’s eyes and he saw his death.

With a thunderous crash, he was thrown almost thirty meters away before landing heavily on his feet, his ankles and knees groaning from bearing the brunt of the impact. A small price to pay, for standing between him and Changgong was a black-armoured Transcendent, a humanoid warrior of Heaven who served as Goujian’s guardian and the Uniter’s mouthpiece. Yellow-green lifesblood dripped from its grievous wounds, its right arm and shoulder lost in exchange for Goujian’s life, a trade which showed just how far he still had yet to travel before reaching the Martial Peak. “You... you were hiding your strength!”

“Hmph.” Planting the butt of his staff in the dirt, Changgong stood tall and sneered. “Appear weak when strong and strong when weak, a classic deception from the Three Hunting Strategies, yet one you fell victim to without a second thought. Steel gates and stone walls, this Gao has brought down, yet a mongrel torturer believes he can stand in my path? Pei. A mad dog you are, and feared you were, only it was not you we feared, but the master behind you.” Holding up four fingers to emphasize his point, he declared, “Forty moves, and not one more, you would have lasted, better than this Gao expected from the cowardly Confessor. No more than ten now, since this Gao has seen through your tricks.”

The pieces fell together. “You’re delaying for time.”

“As are you.” With a mocking smile which cut Goujian deep, Changgong taunted, “Best if you return to your previous profession, for you can only claim superiority when faced with the weak and uneducated. A Brigadier, in possession of vital information, vanishes without a trace, and you expect this Gao to sit and wait for death? A fool thinks he knows all, but a wise man knows he knows nothing. Be warned fool, for should we meet again, this Gao shall end your life, and count it as justice served.”

Taking to the skies, Gao Changgong Cloud-Stepped away, dashing south-west before disappearing into the distance. Still shaking from his close brush with death, Goujian turned to the Transcendent for clarification, and as expected, the Uniter was watching.

Three Months You Toiled, And What Have You To Show For Your Efforts? Nothing. This Sovereign Would Profess Disappointment, Had He Expectations to Begin With.

A stinging rebuke, and not just because of the Uniter’s painful means of communication. Since Changgong expected to be discovered, the other eight rebel camps would have long since been emptied as well, and it would be an arduous task to track them all down again. It went without saying that the Earth-Blessed Transcendent was already dead, alongside the vanguard force of Defiled tribesmen, but those were but a pittance compared to the time and effort wasted here. More than three months of hard work had gone into tracking Gao Changgong down, but now he and his army were in the wind once again, so who knew how long it would take to find them again? “I will immediately set to work following their trail. Changgong escaped to the south-west, but it was an obvious bait. I suspect his people escaped by ship and headed north in hopes of seeking safe passage into the Northern Province.”

It Matters Naught. Heaven’s Net Is Wide And None Can Escape Its Mesh. Return, For This Sovereign Has Another Task In Mind, One More Suitable For Your Skills.

“Understood.” Though it irked him to take orders from another, Goujian had no choice but to swallow his pride and obey. Even with Heaven’s Impartation to guide him, it would take time for him to grow in strength and surpass the Uniter, years at least, if not decades. Until then, he would bide his time and play his part well, which suited him just fine since he had yet to find a suitable Empress to bear his heir, much less gather enough Chosen loyal to his cause. After MuYang’s betrayal, Goujian didn’t trust the handful of agents who stuck by his side, and even his beloved Disciple YuanYin had grown distant of late, but no matter. The foundation for his future Empire would be carefully laid, brick by brick, and Goujian had all the time in the world to prepare.

The next morning, he left his army behind and Cloud-Stepped away with an escort of Transcendents and Peak Experts. When he arrived at the border city of ShiBei, it was early afternoon and the new year’s festivities were still in full swing, a foolish notion put into play by young Gen. Ever since his return from Sinuji, Gen had disgraced himself time and time again, but his erratic behaviour confirmed Goujian’s decision to abandon the boy correct. Having crippled his long-hated foe Falling Rain, it appeared as if Gen had lost all motivation to continue his training and decided to indulge in depravity instead. Caring nothing for age, gender, or appearance, he would gather up a group of playthings and lock them in his room with him for days at a time. Then, after sating his lust, young Gen would turn to other indulgences and feast upon his tired playthings, usually whilst they were still alive. From an outsider’s perspective, he was no different from the barbaric Defiled tribesmen he surrounded himself with, preferring their company to the Chosen of Heaven who retained full control of their faculties.

Disgraceful is what it was, truly disgraceful.

Unfortunately, this reprobate still enjoyed the Uniter’s favour, so there was little Goujian could do but hide his distaste as he strode into the boy’s quarters. More Transcendent than human, Gen lounged shirtless on his cushioned divan displaying his dark metallic torso for all to see, with serving girls and boys surrounding him to attend to his every need. Even Yuanyin was here, shirtless and ashamed while covering his groin with a cushion and unwilling to look his Mentor in the eye. “Goujian,” Gen greeted, wearing a lackadaisical smile. “Do you desire strength?”

Taken aback by the unexpected question, Goujian scoffed and replied, “Of course. What self-respecting warrior doesn’t?”

“Then take this Sovereign’s advice.” The arrogant little shit had adopted many of the Uniter’s habits, including the egotistical manner in which he addressed himself. Pointing at the playthings scattered about the room, all in various stages of health and undress, Gen grinned and said, “Pick a few lambs and indulge yourself, truly indulge. You are a promising subject, but too repressed and restricted by your morals and scruples. Small wonder since you spent a lifetime clinging to misguided Imperial beliefs of honour and ethics blinding you to the Truth, but Balance, true Balance, will only come once you’ve experienced all that life has to offer, including the hedonistic excesses you so disdain. You shouldn’t, because they are so wonderful, this Sovereign almost forgot how much fun could be had.” As if it were an afterthought, Gen added, “The razor’s edge, Mentor calls it, saying too much indulgence is poison, but too little leaves the soul weak and malnourished, and Mentor is a wise and powerful man.”

For some strange reason, the boy found his statement hilarious and cackled with delight, and the playthings around him laughed along so as to please their master. A sign of his declining mental state no doubt, but Goujian cared not one whit. It seemed Yuanyin would also disappoint him, but such was life, so he waited for Gen’s laughter to die down and said, “Sage advice, but this one is here to work.”

“Of course, of course.” Stopping to think, Gen closed his eyes and fell still as if fast asleep, only to come awake a few seconds later. This wasn’t the first time he’d suddenly fallen asleep without warning, but again, Goujian attributed it to his growing insanity and ignored it. “Mentor,” Gen said, giggling once more, “Wants you to use your connections to learn where Falling Rain will be stationed on the front lines and what troops he brought with him.”

“Ridiculous. The boy is crippled. Why would he be stationed anywhere?”

“He will be there,” Gen said, smiling like a child with a mouthful of candy. “Events have conspired against him, and now that he’s come out of his shell, this Sovereign intends to finish what we started. Falling Rain will either join us or perish, for he is too useful a tool to set aside and too dangerous a foe to be left to grow.”

Madness, sheer madness. With three broken Spiritual Weapons, Falling Rain wouldn’t even be able to walk without assistance, but still Gen and the Uniter would waste their efforts on him. “Very well,” Goujian said, flicking his sleeves in wordless displeasure. “Is there anything else the Uniter requires of this one?”

“Yes,” Gen said, tittering at a joke only he understood. “The Uniter wants you to ready your things. You will be joining this Sovereign on the march, but not until everything is in place. Pawns to move, preparations to make. A week or two to be safe, for as you know, haste makes waste.”

“Understood.” Ignoring Gen’s fresh bout of maniacal cackling, Goujian turned around and strode out the room without looking at Yuanyin again. A disappointment and a lost cause, he should have killed the boy alongside his brothers, but it was too late for regret. Best to be done with this foolishness as quickly as possible so he could return to matters of importance, like tracking down Gao Changgong. Even though most of Goujian’s intelligence network had been dismantled by MuYang’s bitter betrayal, there were a handful of Chosen informants still scattered amongst the front lines, not to mention the few contacts he’d made while masquerading as a farrier in Sinuji, so finding Falling Rain’s location should be simple enough, and even easier still to lie to Gen about the strength of Rain’s defenders. The Bekhai proved themselves a dangerous foe, and while Gen was slowly losing himself to madness, his prodigious talent meant it would be best if he died sooner rather than later. In fact, the longer this stalemate lasted, the happier Goujian would be, for when the sandpiper and clam go to war, it is the fisherman who benefits. Let the Imperials and Defiled waste their strength against one another, for once their strength was spent, Goujian would swoop in and help himself to the spoils.

For now though, perhaps a bit of indulgence wouldn’t hurt, because if experience had taught him anything, most of his heirs would prove disappointing, so it would be best if he trained them in batches...

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 27 -
