Hey everyone! Today, I'm pleased to announce that the first book in the Reborn as a Demonic Tree series is finally available through Kindle, Kindle Unlimited & Audible!

This has been in the works since January, and a part of me thought this day would never come! What started as a silly idea on a random November afternoon has now turned into a web serial spanning 500k+ words, which I know many people have enjoyed! We have gone through some trials and tribulations, but due to everyone's encouragement and pointing out the flaws, I believe I have significantly improved as an author since I first started. The version on Amazon has been edited, with a few plot holes filled in. The reading experience was considerably improved, and I think the audio narrator did a great job.

Now comes the shameless part...

I write full-time and would love to write and devote all my time and effort to Tree for the next few years. This is only possible if this Amazon launch does well, and the odds are not stacked in my favor. On average, non-human lead books do five times worse than standard male human stories. My only hope is to gather enough ratings/reviews to convince Amazon readers who might be on the fence to try my novel, as I'm sure they will enjoy it once they start reading!

So I need everyone's help. I'm not asking you to buy the book (although that would help a lot), but I would really appreciate any reviews or ratings. You do not need to buy the book to leave a review or rating. It literally takes 5 seconds to click on Amazon, scroll down, select a star rating, and that's it. Every single review/rating helps greatly with both the algorithm and making the rather silly-sounding premise have some more legitimacy. If you have left a review here on RoyalRoad, it would be very epic of you to cross-post it to Amazon :D

But it wouldn't be fun if I just ask things of you guys without offering something in return, right?

If we can reach 500 ratings or rank 150 (on .com store) by Monday at the usual chapter posting time, I will dump an extra FIVE chapters. So, that means you guys will get ten chapters next week if this goal is reached.

This goal will be reached if just 5% of the people reading this chapter buy or rate the book, so it's a very obtainable goal if you all work together!

That aside, here's some artwork I got made for the occasion: It shows Larry, Stella, Ashlock, Diana, Douglas and Elaine.
