That would have been my head and neck, he thought soberly, thankful again for the skill that had repeatedly saved his life. Maybe I should ask Thuli for a helmet. His high endurance made the pain tolerable, allowing him to keep his focus while the healing magic coursed through his body repairing the extensive damage. Malika and that little Kobold are working hard, he thought, wishing again that he had the additional safety of the runic circle.

Mato’s mind and awareness shifted into a zone of instinctive attack and response, block and avoidance, entirely focused on the enormous Skeletal Wyvern that dwarfed even his bulky frame. He read its attacks, studied its movement, always poised for an opening, or ready to defend against the unexpected. More and more, he felt himself trusting Malika and the Kobold Acolyte with his health, needing his full attention and concentration to simply avoid the most critical strikes. They had proven they could heal enormous damage, but if he allowed himself to be incapacitated, even briefly, he knew he would be instantly overwhelmed. Nobody could heal him if he took a spear through the skull.

He mixed up his Swipes, focusing on getting through regularly enough to maintain his Brutal Restoration, concentrating only on keeping the Skeletal Wyvern’s attention fixed on him even under the onslaught of magic and arrows that rained down on it from the side.

The two bony wings unfurled and flapped downward, kicking up a haze of dust and pebbles from the ground and buffeting him with a sudden gust of wind. Mato’s Survival Instinct went wild, screaming several simultaneous confusing signals. He moved instantly, based entirely on intuition. Two sets of wickedly taloned claws lashed out to strike at his face and shoulders, gleaming in the shifting background of offensive magical spells. The attack tore at his hide, scraping at his armor, each claw wickedly sharp and almost as long as his arm.

But it was not over, for concealed by the talon attack, the Skeletal Wyvern’s long, whiplike tail cracked through the space between them, tearing up chunks of the stone floor with a grinding ripping sound as the sharpened bone sliced through his flank, smashing ribs and sending him rolling across the ground in a spray of blood. He crashed into the wall with a bone-shaking jolt as two more bone spears impaled him, one through the shoulder and one embedded in his hind leg.

In that moment, he felt the chill of fear and the inevitability of his demise. His mind questioned his sanity for facing such a powerful foe. At that instant, Malika’s hand slapped his shoulder filling his body with the burning rush of her healing magic.

“I got you.”

It was all he needed to chase the specter of fear away and he scrambled to his feet, bracing himself against the unrelenting ferocity of the Skeletal Wyvern’s attacks. The wyvern drew back its head and hissed, spreading its wings. Its talons crushed stone as it launched itself into the air and, flapping its bony wings, it soared up above them returning to its place flying over the atrium.

“Hide!”

At Ali’s yell, they all turned and ran for the relative safety of the large bone-covered wall that served as their hiding spot, urged on by the thunderous roar of the wyvern’s magic spears shattering on the stone walls close behind.

Mato returned to his spot feeling the reassurance of the soothing magic of the restoration circle once again.
