Part of Zac understood that Descartes’s apparent immortality had to come at a cost. If nothing else, he should be constantly draining Cosmic Energy. However, his foundations were as deep as they came, and his goal was clearly not to take Zac out. The azure radiance leaking from the Hall of Abundance was growing stronger by the second as August’s position advanced. Descartes only needed to hold out a little longer before he had a B-grade helper to wrap things up.

Zac still had a few cards left to play, but none of them would matter unless they could counter Descartes’s cheat-like resilience. Zac couldn’t see how infusing his Inexorable Stance with the Void would make a difference. He’d easily sneak past the paintbrush, but then what? Descartes would still recover even if he was cut into a thousand pieces.

‘We’re running out of time. Have you figured it out yet?’ Zac urgently asked.

‘Our friend picked the right place to seize our destiny. His illusions are empowered by borrowed Authority. And on this island where the bounds of reality are blurred, they’ve become even stronger,’ Kaltosa Lu answered. ‘I wonder if it was planned or if he’s simply lucky. It’s quite vexing.’

‘Borrowed Authority? Don’t you have something like that, too? Isn’t your ancestor supposed to be some sort of big shot?’ Zac said, suppressing his annoyance over Kaltosa Lu’s nonchalant tone.

‘Ha! You wouldn’t have said that if you knew anything about my miserly grandpa. He throws a fit any time I send some small greeting gifts to my betrothed. To lend us his Authority? Forget about it,’ Kaltosa Lu laughed. ‘The only way he’d ever do that was if his mental state reached such a low that he had to reduce Heaven’s pressure.’

‘This is no time to be joking,’ Zac groaned. ‘We’re screwed if we let this go on. You should be able to tell that something bad will happen with the lodge in the next few minutes.’

‘Huh? Screwed? Speak for yourself. Did you think I would step into this hotbed of trouble without leaving myself a way out? I’m gone the second August seizes the Divine Core. It’d be a shame, but there are other ways to gather Potentiality,’ the Elemental said, and Zac could almost feel the bastard laughing at him from the other side of the lobby.

His unspoken meaning was clear: ‘What kind of fool runs into danger without a backup plan?’

Undeterred, Zac kept pushing for answers. ‘But then you would also fall behind the other Flamebearers. Do you think Iz Tayn will fail when fate tests her? Or the other Flamebearers who are competing for the Ultom Courts? You may as well give up on your chances if you throw in the towel. Then Iz Tayn will go off marrying that prince from the Seven Heavens.’

‘My goals are not necessarily what you think, but your words do have some merit—apart from your blasphemous words about my beloved. If I had to think of a solution, plant a seed of doubt in his heart.’

‘What?’ Zac said.

‘He believes his illusions can rewrite reality, so they can. Therefore, you need to disrupt this certainty. Tear him apart until his conviction falters. Make him doubt himself, doubt his very existence. Destroy his Dao and reject his trickery,’ Kaltosa Lu said. ‘In other words, give him a big ol’ scare.’

It felt silly, but the plan undeniably had a simple logic to it. Zac also had no better idea. But how to scare someone who thinks themselves immortal? He didn’t even flinch when Kaltosa Lu blew up his whole head. His body just kept moving until it reappeared. Would unleashing [Eye of Desolation] or his other skills accomplish anything? Probably not. He needed something that could break convention, breaking what Descartes thought possible.

Zac’s heart ached upon knowing he’d finally reached a point he’d managed to avoid for a long time. ‘I’m sorry, I might need your help.’

‘Never apologize for that,’ Alea answered. ’I have been waiting to hear you say that for a long time.’
