Yes, My Lord. Princess thought to him. You will know if anything happens.

“Thanks.” Ren said, pet her and the two dogs, then left the room. He ran down the hall and out to the deck then looked over to the dock. Tee-one was already on his way back with a forge and anvil. Ren went down into the cargo hold and waited for the delivery.

*

Nathalia had woken up and rolled over to find that Ren wasn't there beside her. He must be out on Adventurer's business. She thought, equipped her clothing, and went out to the main room to see him; then saw the couch was empty. She caught her breath and put a hand over her heart, because she had forgotten that Ren wasn't ever going to be there again.

“I know.” Ereka said from behind her, and Nathalia turned around to look at her. Ereka's eyes were red and puffy, and she didn't look like she'd had any sleep at all. “I haven't known him for as long as you; but, my heart misses him, too.”

“Oh, Ereka.” Nathalia said and took her into a hug. “I love him so much!”

“At least you can still see him when he goes back to the human kingdom.” Ereka said. “You can just step through your portal and call him.” She smiled and hugged her back. “If I want to see him, it's almost a month round trip; and that's assuming I don't stay for a day or two.”

“I... I'm sure that... you'll find someone to... to...” Nathalia tried to say some consoling words to Ereka; but, all it did was remind her that the same statement now applied to her, and she couldn't say it.

*

Ren had stored the forge and anvil to move it over next to the workbench. “I'll need food ingredients for 8 people; 2 meals a day for 2 weeks.” He said. “You know what to get.”

Tee-one nodded slightly. “I'll have it on the next run.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and put a hand on Tee-one's shoulder. “I'm really glad you're here.”

“Me, too.” Tee-one said. “I'd hate to see all your stuff get picked over by ignorant people that didn't know what they were doing.”

“That's not the only reason I'm glad.” Ren chuckled and stored the wood he'd already cut for the frames of the stained glass windows. “But, it'll do.”

“It should only take a few more trips to get the other forges, the maid's things, the icebox, the rest of the supplies, and then the forge, glass forge, and anvil from the mines.”

“That's a relief.” Ren said. “I keep expecting the Queen to kick me out of the kingdom, and not just the lands.”

Tee-one smiled. “I'll bring over the stone masonry supplies now.”

“Make sure you leave the crates of uncut diamond crystals for Dorcot.” Ren said. “It should take him a few months to a year to do them up for me.” He started to walk away and stopped. “On second thought, take one of them for me. I've been meaning to try Gemcutting for a while now.”

Tee-one nodded slightly and took the barge back to the docks, and Ren took out the anvil and one of the 1 foot squares of copper he had, hammered it out really thin, and cut it into strips. He wrapped the copper foil around the pieces and put them together. Now that the hard part was done, Ren put paving stones down to cover a good portion of the floor, then took out the forge. The smelter was full, so Ren used a crucible to take some of the molten metal out of it.

Using his finger, Ren dipped it in the molten metal and touched the pieces of glass where the copper foil was wrapped. He did the entire picture on one side, then rubbed his finger along the edges to solder them together. He flipped the stained glass pane over and soldered the other side, then did the entire outer edge, and build the frame to set it inside.

“Only 17 more to go.” Ren said, and made another Earth one. He already had the pieces cut so he just had to wrap and solder them together. For the rest of the day, Ren made stained glass windows. He already had 2 each of Fire with a picture of the mountain of fire, Wind with the tree blowing in the breeze, and now had the rock formation for Earth. So he did 2 each of a waterfall for Water, a glacier for Ice, a sky full of lightning bolts for Lightning, a golden star covered halo for Light, a black hole surrounded by stars for Dark (Gravity), and the last one was the easiest. The Void, or Arcane, he just had a single black pane of glass. That was it.

They had all been mounted in their frames, and Ren stored them so they wouldn't get damaged. Tee-one had kept making deliveries all day, and nearly everything that could be taken was now stored in the hold of the extra large ship. Ren gave Tee-one the stained glass windows to store, and told him what order to install them in.

“Is it really that important to do them in a specific order?” Tee-one asked. “I mean, no one will see it until the morning when it opens.”

Ren shrugged. “I don't think it should make a difference, but...” He smiled. “Fire will always come first, though.”

Tee-one nodded slightly and walked over to the barge. “There's only the ore shipments and cement bags from the mines left.”

“It shouldn't take a whole day for that, though.” Ren said.

“Maybe around noon.” Tee-one said. “I'll see you then.”

Ren waved to him, and the barge went back to the dock empty except for Tee-one. Ren covered the smelter and closed up the forge, just in case someone was stupid enough to stick their hand in it to see if it was dangerous. He smiled and ran up one of the many staircases to the top deck, then went to the large cabin where he and his personal maids were staying.

Ren was tempted to tell them to move to the other rooms, mainly because they were going to be alone again tonight; but, he'd already slept in the bed with them once. He couldn't make an argument that it wasn't right for him to sleep in the same bed with them after already doing it; so, he sighed and knocked.

“You still don't have to knock.” Frikara said when she opened the door. Ren smiled and walked into the cabin.

“I'm giving you a chance to put your clothes on.” Ren said, and held up a hand. “Yes, I know how stupid that sounds when talking to personal maids.”

Frikara laughed, and so did a couple of the other maids. “So, what's going on?”

“I'm making you supper, and then I have Adventurer's business to take care of.”

“Aww.” Frikara said. “I have to go through another night with you, and I don't get to wake up in your embrace?”

Ren smiled because he was usually out on Adventurer's business most of the time. He made a quick table to work on, and took out some of the food Tee-one had delivered earlier that day.

“Hey, we can help!” Andrela said and came over to Ren. He gave her a knife to start chopping, and then the rest of the maids came over to help. The food was prepared quickly with 6 people working at it, and Ren cooked it for them. He stored the plates they had used that morning to clean them, then used them to serve supper on. They sat at the table they'd just used to make the meal, and made polite conversation until they were done eating.

Ren excused himself after taking two plates of food for Princess, and delivered it to her. He told her, Riley, Stacy, and the fire elemental that he would be gone for several hours, if not the whole night, and would see them tomorrow. He went back into his cabin, and saw the maids were already taking their dresses off.

“Oh, right!” Ren said and walked over to the side of the room. “These were some of the last things Tee-one dropped off.” He said, and took out the cabinets and dressers with their clothing in it.

“Thank you.” One of them said. “But, we're good.”

“We sure are.” Frikara said, and chuckled. “We don't normally wear clothing at night.”

“Oh.” Ren said and looked at the underwear he had asked them to wear. “I didn't know.”

A couple of them laughed.

“These are fine.” Frikara said. “You made them, and they're comfortable.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Goodnight.” He said, and sat down on the couch at the side of the room.

“What are you doing?” Navruth asked. “Come to bed.”

“I have to go.” Ren said. “Adventurer's business.”

“But... we want to cuddle.” Lusinia said. “Can you do that when you come back?”

“If I'm back before morning.” Ren said. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight!” The maids said together.

Ren sat back on the couch and closed his eyes. “Logout.”
