But Alden was soon distracted from worrying thoughts about lying bound and gagged on foreign planets. As soon as he placed his hand on the table across from Gorgon’s, his interface lit up.

“Oh. Neat. It’s like a global auction house full of desperate people.”

There was even a button to sort by the trades that were ending soonest. Because they’ve got something awful, and their ninety day timer is running out.

The traders’ locations were listed. They were teens from all over the world. But all of their offers were in perfect English, so the System must have been a great translator.

And to Alden’s shock, people were offering actual material wealth in addition to the classes they were trading. He hadn’t thought that would be an option.

“Gorgon, this is nuts. Someone in Beijing is literally paying half a million dollars for a C-rank Speedster Brute to C-rank Mind Healer trade!”

“Yes, that’s been up for the full ninety days. The selectee obviously wants Healer of Mind badly, but even if one has been assigned in recent months, nobody is willing to trade it.”

“There aren’t any names,” Alden noted. “Just random ID numbers.”

“By default, trades are private. Though in the case of more unusual classes it soon becomes obvious who the involved parties were. In your case, I recommend not bothering to be overly secretive. You will note that there aren’t as many selectees trading at your level. You may hide your identity, but the personal touch can make the difference when it comes to final decisions.”

Alden stared at the interface. He poked around until he had it sorted by rank. There were only a couple of dozen B-classes open to trading right now. “How would I even give this the personal touch? The listings seem pretty basic.”

“Choose someone as if you intend to trade with them. Make sure they do not have autotrade selected.”

“Um…what if they say yes?”

“You can still refuse as long as it’s not an autotrade. Also, you can trade as many times as you like prior to the end of your ninety days.” He paused. “Obviously you should not take something undesirable on a whim.”

Alden searched through the IDs. A few did have the autotrade feature selected. Most of those had extremely specific and overpowered class types listed under their “Wanted” section. Alden assumed it was so that they wouldn’t miss a perfect opportunity if it came along while they weren’t paying attention.

He scanned the listings until he found an interesting one.

[Available Pre-affixation Class Trades]

— Rank B —

[ID: B74  Location: Dakota Avowed Seclusion Zone, USA

Trading: Morph Brute

Wanted: Adjuster (All), Healer (All), Shaper of Life, Meister (Ranged Magic Weapons, Magic Tools, Uncommon Types), Rares

Notes: no more %8*$# Brutes or Sways. Leave me alone, you *&%^@!

Autotrade: NO]

“Can I click on this Morph?” Alden asked, gesturing at the listing. “It’s a really useful class. It seems like they probably don’t want close combat, but Cudgel Meister could be considered an uncommon Meister type, couldn’t it?”

“Alden, you do realize I can’t see your System interface, don’t you?” Gorgon said. “I only know you’re referring to Selectee B74 because I’ve read through the trade window myself recently.”

“I’m an idiot. Sorry. Also, your memory is good.”

“That selectee is particularly easy to recollect. They’ve been trading in person for roughly sixteen hours each day for the past two months.”

“In person?”

“Autotrade is usually used when people are sleeping or otherwise engaged. B74 is rarely otherwise engaged. Introduce yourself to them. You’ll see what I mean.”

Gorgon stepped into the corner of the room while Alden figured out how to initiate a trade with B74.

He had to swipe through several screens to set up his own trading profile first. Finally, he was given the identity B13 and his own little place on the class trades list.

[ID: B13  Location: Artonan Consulate 4, USA

Trading: Meister of Cudgel

Wanted: Adjuster (All), Healer (All), Meister (Traps, Wands)

Notes: Become a master of the cudgel. Hit bad guys with sticks.

Autotrade: NO]

Alden looked over the listing and felt fairly satisfied with it. He would need to refresh his knowledge of some of the more obscure classes so that he could fill out his “wanted” section better. He’d almost listed rares, like B74, because the rare classes were all interesting just by virtue of being more mysterious. But the only ones he could think of off the top of his head were Rabbit, Tailor, and Mourner, and those were even worse for his needs than Cudgel Meister.

Now that he had a profile, B74’s id had been highlighted like a clickable link.

He clicked.

[INITIATE LIVE TRADE NEGOTIATIONS WITH B74?]

YES/NO

Alden selected yes.

[B74 has accepted your invitation. B74 has been vouched for by an authorized witness. You have been vouched for by an authorized witness. Negotiations are approved.]

“Keep one of your hands on the table, or the connection will be cut off,” Gorgon warned him.

Alden scooted his chair closer to the glowing crystal table and pressed his right hand to it more firmly.

A second later, he almost leaped out of his seat as a boy appeared from thin air, sitting in another metal folding chair on the other side of the table.

Alden swore and leaned back in alarm.

It wasn’t just the other guy. A collection of junk had appeared on the other half of the table at the same time. As if it had been horizontally bisected, the pristinely empty table Alden was sitting at suddenly ended, and an identical table covered in chip bags, energy drink bottles, napkin wads, notebooks, uncapped pens, and highlighters began.

Sitting at the filthy table, with a serious case of bedhead and a really dense five o’clock shadow for a guy who must have been around Alden’s age, B74 looked pissed.

He slapped the table and stood, glaring at Alden.

“Listen up, you newbie dumbass,” he snapped. “I’m only accepting your negotiation request so that you won’t keep bothering me! I’m not trading Morph for an overpowered baseball bat. In case it’s not obvious from my listing, I want good shit. Not weird shit. This is B-rank. A chance at a great trade could happen while I’m dealing with losers like you. I have been pissing in bottles for the past two months so that I don’t have to take bathroom breaks. I don’t have time to be all buddy-buddy with you. Don’t contact me again unless you manage to get something on my wanted list!”

Before Alden could even apologize, B74 lifted both of his hands from the table, and he disappeared.

For a full minute, Alden just stared at the spot where the other boy had vanished. Then he took a deep breath.

“Gorgon, people can’t physically attack me through the magic table, can they?”

“No,” Gorgon said. “But that would add zest to my job.”
