Patty pleased Ren, and because she was enthusiastic about it and he could feel how much she really liked doing that to him, he didn't hold himself back. He warned her when it was time, and she leaned back as he finished. She was surprised at first, then she was very flattered that she had made him go so much. Ren felt her emotions and cupped the sides of her face again and kissed her, and she like that a lot, too.

Patty broke the kiss and leaned back again and looked at the mess they had made. “You're amazing.”

Ren chuckled. “I think you were the amazing one this time.” He said and equipped his blue suit to clean up, and she equipped another suit outfit to clean up, too. It removed the evidence of what they did, and Ren stood up. “Thank you, Patty.”

Patty's face flushed red. “You're welcome.”

Ren kissed her again and deactivated the statue and stored it, then left the office. Teepo, how's my time?

“You were only busy for a few seconds, so lots.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “You could probably visit the Pleasure Palace and still have lots of time to go on Adventurer's Business.”

Actually, that's a good idea. Ren said. I just have to stop in to see Janice first. He ran across the road to the Glassworks shop with the house attached and knocked on the door of the house. His Heat Sense Aura showed him that she was inside, and his eyes followed her to the door and she opened it.

“Ren! Oh, my god!” Janice exclaimed and grabbed his hand. “Get in here!”

Ren chuckled and walked in past her, and she slammed the door shut. “I know it's been a while.”

“It's all true, isn't it?” Janice asked and put her hands on his shoulders.

“I could play coy and ask what you mean; but, I don't want you to get mad.” Ren grinned. “I'm not sure what rumors and things are floating around after the press release, though.”

Janice tried to shake him by his shoulders, but he didn't move. “Ren! You fixed everything!” She said. “I lost my business and my house! The key was gone! GONE!”

Ren stared at her with wide eyes for a moment, then he put his arms around her and gave her a hug. “I'm really glad it worked.”

Janice tried to keep her tears held in for only a few seconds, then she started crying and put her arms around him and held on tightly.

“Shh, it's okay.” Ren said and rubbed her back. “I'm sorry that stupid update scared you like that.”

“I... I thought... I lost it all.” Janice sobbed. “Th-thank you.” She kissed the top of his head. “Thank you for giving it back to me.”

“You are more than welcome.” Ren said and leaned back to look up at her tear-streaked face. “I hate to say this; but, crying is not a good look for you.”

Janice barked a laugh through her tears and leaned down to kiss him on the lips. “Have a share of my slobber, dear friend.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and kissed her back. “You're right. That is slobbery.”

That made her laugh, and her emotions went from their negative feel to have a more positive tilt.

“If I had stolen the kiss, would it be highway slobbery?” Ren asked.

Janice groaned. “Ugh, bad pun.”

“Well, if...”

Janice covered his mouth. “Nope, just nope.” She said. “If you want to keep that mouth busy...”

Ren licked her palm and she didn't flinch like he thought she would. Instead she slid her other arm down his back and gripped his backside.

“You know where the bed is.”

“Muh.”

“Someone needs to be properly thanked, and you are not leaving here until you are.” Janice said.

“Mum muh.”

“As your friend, I humbly request that you pound me until I finish so hard that I'll have to stop thanking you.”

“Meh mum muh mum.”

“Yes, it's a challenge.” Janice said, and a PvP popup appeared. She was surprised at first, then she grinned as she read the win conditions. “Oh, you're on!” She said and accepted the duel. Ren picked her up and carried her over his shoulder to her bedroom, and she laughed the whole way.
