Once outside his room, the adventurers and I chatted the morning away, none of us tackling the real topic at hand. Everyone had already packed their things into their storage rings last night, so we waited for Joshua. The barkeeper walked out of his room while cracking one of his shoulders.

"Do any of you feel better than you should?"

Nissa furrowed her brow.

"Now that you mention it, yeah. I do. Normally, mornings are pretty awful."

I scoffed.

"Guys, you get wasted every night. Mornings being awful comes with the territory."

Nissa pointed a finger at me.

"Listen, Mister Bottles, just because your liver is made of iron doesn't mean you get to judge us. You drink even more than we do."

I raised my hands.

"Guilty as charged."

Joshua leaned against his bar. He finished the tonic I made for him before nodding at me.

"Looks like you don't need me for this anymore, do you?"

I shook my head.

"Eh, it's not the same. I'll have to come by from time to time to pick up some. It's free, after all."

He smiled, and we talked. After a while, the time had come. We all got up and walked over to the door. Joshua put his hands on his hips.

"It was good seeing you all. Whenever you all come back, just remember that my bar's open to you all anytime."

Nissa and Jasmine hugged him again, and he squeezed them back. Joshua shook his head.

"Now, now, we already had our dose of sappiness last night. Let's leave like we lived together."

Nissa gestured to Jamal.

"Miserably then?"

Joshua's mustache crinkled in a smile.

"Of course."

As we turned and walked away, Joshua put on a strong front. He told us to be careful and watch our backs. He talked about how we should never sleep in the open or in too dark a hole. As he came out of sight, I followed the others to the edge of the city. There at customs, we gazed at each other for the last time in a while.

Nissa walked up and hugged me.

"You're terrible, you know that?"

I hugged her back.

"And you're head is bulbous."

She laughed before Jasmine gave me a hug. She murmured.

"Thanks for taking care of us."

I smiled.

"It was never a problem."

Jamal walked up, hand raised. I grabbed it before he pulled me close and gave a bro hug. He scoffed.

"Dude, try to keep that hardass attitude. It fits you like a glove."

I nodded.

"And you should become a merchant. It fits you a lot better than being an earth mage."

He rolled his eyes again before we gave each other one last look. I frowned.

"I'll miss you all. We have to meet up once you're all back."

Jamal nodded.

"Of course. You'll have to hear about my strapping, handsome, eclectic adventures as I swoon the ladies and-"

Jasmine nudged him.

"We'll miss you, too. See you around?"

I took a breath.

"Of course."

After they left, I turned back. Once out of their sight, I flew up and back toward Mt. Verner. The city was changed for me, becoming somewhere to settle down after finishing the tumultuous conflicts afflicting the planet. Those thoughts raced through my mind as I stood in my suite. I changed out my leathers and hung them in the closet in my room.

It was my first piece of clothing since entering the system.

As my armor rippled over my skin, I stretched my arms. Over a hundred minds swirled in my head, their psionic might formidable and everlasting. The muscles in my body flexed like cables of orichalcum, and my wake spread forth, encompassing all of Springfield. Runes thrummed over my skin, their energy overwhelming and palpable.

I enveloped the city in The Rise of Eden, saturating its buffs onto my home. Unshackling self-imposed limits, I held the pocket dimensions inside my body with ease. I took a breath as if firing a bellows, and I breathed out a cloud of quintessant mana. Breathing it in and out, I hummed with power.

I was back, and hell would freeze over before someone stole this from me.
