He scrambled back to the fridges, and his eyes opened wide.

"You...You're not who I think you are...Are you?"

I frowned.

"I am."

Mana glowed over my frame. It dolloped like glowing poison floating across space. My runes blurred the air around me and molded gravitation to protect all that surrounded me. I sat down, my legs crossed, and my torso was still taller than the bar. A sad smile crossed my face as I loomed over the man as a titan of metal, violence, and potential.

"I am The Harbinger of Cataclysm."

Chapter Begin

Joshua peered up at me. A slideshow of emotion crossed over his face, from contortions of fear to the open gawking of surprise. It settled on unease, and he peered down. Before he even attempted to say something, I raised my hand.

"There will be no consequences for how you've spoken to me or treated me up until now. I'm not hiding myself amongst you all just so that I can find excuses to punish those that don't deserve it."

A palpable wave of relief passed over the barkeeper. He took a breath.

"That's...That's good to hear."

He put a hand over his chest.

"God...If Nissa knew. She'd blow a gasket."

"I prefer to hear her criticisms over having her hide them. That's the most pivotal reason I chose to hide here. I wanted to listen to what people had to say when I wasn't around. It gives me a perspective I can't find any other way."

Joshua frowned.

"And I was here lecturing you on how to live your life. I'm such a fool."

I waved my hands.

"Absolutely not. That was a valid perspective, and I understand it well. A part of me wants to go out adventuring with them. It's a lot of fun to take on smaller jobs that don't have such brutal consequences. However, now you know why I'm not joining them in their journey."

Joshua's eyes grew distant.

"You can't put everything to the side and abandon your responsibilities. There's still so much that needs to be done."

A soft smile traced my lips.

"I couldn't have said it better myself."

Joshua put a hand on his forehead.

"The gray skin. Here I thought it was from the cloak or a hardening enchantment. And the confidence. It was absolute since I met you. I've never felt fear aside from admitting who you were to me...Why? Why would you, of all people, be scared of me?"

I leaned my elbows onto my crossed legs.

"I've been lying to you since we met. You were taking a genuine interest in my path, and it felt wrong to continue putting up a charade."

"What about the others?"

I turned to the rooms, Nissa snoring loudly. I smiled.

"Eh, I'd rather they didn't know."

Despite himself, Joshua glared.

"I'd say they're putting a genuine interest in you, just like me."

I smiled.

"You see things too clearly. They know something's a bit off, but they're not panicking to find answers. Instead, they'd rather know me as my false identity. It's something they choose to believe in. On the other hand, you never bought it from the moment I walked into this place."

Joshua sighed.

"But you didn't kill them on their mission. From what I heard, you got them out of a sticky situation, so it's not like I had a reason to mistrust you afterward. I will say, there's a small chance my mind kept finding inconsistencies in your story. Like a drug fiend trying to kick an old habit, I just couldn't let it go."

I shook my head.

"The part of you that didn't give up on figuring out who I was is the same part of you that persevered after your loss so long ago. You're a fighter, Joshua, and I respect anyone who can stand up after facing tragedy. There is dignity in that."

Joshua's eyes reddened, and the man turned before scratching his nose.

"Thank you kindly."

After he had a moment to collect himself, Joshua stood and grabbed a glass. For the first time, I noticed how it was the same glass he always polished during his downtime, and his hands shook as he rubbed it down.

"So...What has you taking the time off to pull off this spy mission of yours?"

I lifted a hand, the bright gray crisscrossing my armored skin.

"I'm injured. Severely."

Joshua fumbled his glass before catching it. Cold sweat dripped down his brow.

"Ooh, clumsy me. I...Uhm, how long is it going to take to heal?"

I clenched my hand, sparks of pain rippling across the wounds.

"A few weeks, from the looks of it. I should have just enough time to help them with a few missions and gather a bit more intel. After that, I'll be heading to Blegara to face some eldritch horror."

Joshua's left eye twitched.

"Normal situations for you, then?"

"Oh yeah. That kind of thing happens every day. This slow-paced adventurer lifestyle is the unusual part."

"Slow paced? You go on life-risking missions once a week."

I shrugged.

"I'm intimately familiar with death. Walking near it isn't unusual anymore. In all honesty, I think everyone who's survived this long after systemization is like that. I've seen those three walk the line between the living and the dead many times already."

Joshua nodded.

"I...I suppose. I guess that's why you want to help them start their journey?"

My runes glowed, humming like a gentle far off rumbling.

"It shows me what people are fighting for. These few weeks off have been eye-opening. I feel the progress of the places I've forged, and it bolsters my ambition. It makes the endless war and violence seem worth it, most importantly."

Joshua gulped.

"What are you warring against?"

I scoffed.

"If I told you the name of our enemies, you would die, as would I."

He dropped his glass again. This time, he lacked the deft control to catch it. Despair rang over his eyes before I lifted a finger. A gravity well hauled the glass upward back into his hands. A visible relief washed over the man before he set it down. Joshua mouthed.

"Thank you."

"Never a problem. I can reinforce the glass if you'd like-"

"No. I...I want the glass to remain as it is."

I nodded, not wanting to pry. After a few moments, Joshua peered up at me.

"What's your plan with those three?"

I sighed.

"I'm going to prepare them as well as I can. They're barely ready to clear dungeons, let alone travel the wilds. As they are, they'll die whenever they face any eldritch that's an outlier. It will be a swift, painless death, and I'd rather see them grow old."

He gazed at the glass.

"That's good."

A silence signalled that Joshua didn't have anything else to say or add. I took a breath before shrinking myself down to my standard size. Standing, I rolled my shoulders before cracking my neck. Joshua rolled his hand.

"I know I've been asking a lot and telling you very little, but...How did you do everything you've done up until now? It all seems impossible."

I turned, walking to my room.

"I endured. Oftentimes, that's all that can be done."

Stepping back into my hole in the wall, I put back on my leathers. After a while of thinking, I practiced my new wake abilities. The funnest one to mess around with was the primordial constructs. They carried a vitality that the other skills lacked. In general, The Rise of Eden was about as boring an ability as they came, but it also offered immense utility.

On the other hand, I was genuinely afraid of Event Horizon. I could devour someone's thoughts and memories now, and that held an evil, malevolent potential. It gave me chills whenever I pulled it forth, yet, inevitably, I would direct this ability against another person. Their memories, mind, and soul would become fuel for my armor.

And that terrified me.

After hours of waiting, the others awoke once more. They continued their morning ritual, and Joshua served them the tonic as usual. He juiced my tonic up more than normal, adding extra herbs and an aged pine water. It was like tasting the Rocky Mountains' wind all over again. Ah. After we enjoyed the morning, we got our plans ready for another mission.

In that flow, we continued completing mission after mission. Each one of them had some odd twist and turn, but they never rivalled the raw lethality of our first dungeon. They also had lower rewards overall, and as the days turned into weeks, I suspected Jamal chose worse dungeons to delay their trip.

It gave my body and mind time to heal after facing the ends of oblivion or whatever the hell lies between dimensions. As that time passed, I gained greater memories of what happened with Marcella. Even more so, I learned what happened against the leviathan in the gloom. It had pierced into my mind, and in rage, my mind pierced into it.

Wielding the new shade of Event Horizon, I had torn into its psyche. However, it existed as something so colossal and so massive that it had hardly noticed my obtrusion. I was a bee on a bear, and though I stung it, the bear barely noticed. It left me humbled even more than facing the Old Ones.

They existed as peak entities, so getting squashed by them was only natural. Some random creature in the void? I was supposed to be above that, and yet I wasn't. Not even close. I might have to find some means of absorbing the interdimensional energy to expand my dimension's abilities. Otherwise, a rip in space would unleash one of those beasts onto Earth, and I would be unprepared.

As I came to that unsettling conclusion, I took the others to one of the parks nearby. Nissa, Jasmine, and Jamal followed along, each of us aware of the nooks and crannies of this neighborhood by now. We landed in the largest park here. It was called Island Park, and the expanse opened up to a moat that circled a patch of green turf.

Ivy encircled the pillars of bridges that crossed the artificial streams. Kinetic augments kept the water flowing despite no source for the flow, and magic filled the stream as it evaporated. Trees pocketed the ground, old oaks spreading leaves out to provide natural shade to anyone visiting.

The majority of the park opened up to an opening in the middle of the area. That gave us a vast space to fight on, though other citizens lounged about on floating blankets or in obelisks. Facing Nissa, Jamal, and Jasmine, I spread my hands.

"Which one of you wants to go first?"

Nissa stepped forward before cracking her knuckles.

"Ooh, don't threaten me with a good time."

I stepped forward, my steps controlled.

"Then start whenever you're ready."

She smirked.

"Remember, you're the one who demanded we spar."

She dashed forward, throwing a haymaker at my face. I stepped to her side, Nissa's punch sliding past my face. At the same time, I pressed onto her foot with my own while hitting her gut. Her momentum pushed her forward, and she fell onto my fist. I pushed her up in a slow punch that sent her flying several feet away.

She flopped down before I dashed forward. I caught her before she oriented herself. As I held her by her foot, she let out a gasp.

"Ow."

Jasmine and Jamal's jaws slackened. Jasmine murmured.

"Since when did you know how to fight like that?"

I shook my fist as if it was hurt while setting Nissa down.

"I used to box a little back in the day. Monsters forced that skill to evolve into something else entirely. Regardless, who's next?"

Jasmine stepped forward. She took an entirely different approach, feeling around my attacking range. I eyed her the entire time, keeping my body relaxed and ready. After a few probing jabs, she struck in an all-out swinging back kick. I shot downward, and her foot slid over my head. I grabbed her leg and pulled her up.

She fell down as I lifted her off the ground. Wrapping my free arm around her waist, I swung her head toward the ground before stopping an inch from the turf. I smiled.

"You done?"

Jasmine scoffed.

"Uh, yeah. Sure."

I flipped her over before setting her down. Jamal stepped up before raising his hands in a boxer's stance.

"I'm just saying, man, but I used to do some boxing back in the day, too."

My eyes widened.

"Oh really? I'll box alongside you then."

We went at it for a few minutes, and I could tell Jamal lied to me straight-faced. The guy boxed like someone who watched a few montage videos on YouTube, got hyped up, then told everyone he knew all about it. While not physically painful to watch, it left a sour taste in my mouth before I gave up on actual boxing.

He leaned way too far back, leaving his midsection wide open. I faked a jab up high before he raised his guard. A simple left hook flattened the guy after that. He kneeled on the ground, groaning.

"Dude. Not cool."

Jasmine laughed.

"Why'd you say you boxed?"

Jamal shook his hands in frustration.

"It was to make a connection, dammit."

Nissa pointed at Jamal from the ground.

"Yeah, connecting his fist to your stomach."

Jamal rolled over.

"You must've had the same strategy swinging wide like that."

Nissa grunted.

"I took him too lightly. It'll be different next time."

Jamal scoffed.

"What'd you call him again? Mister Bottle, right?"

Nissa ripped up some grass before tossing it at Jamal. He choked out laughter, and after a while, they recovered. We went at it a few more times before they started landing blows of their own, which made perfect sense. I wasn't using more strength than they were, and half of the reason I flattened them so easily was because they weren't applying themselves or their strength.

After all, we fought as superhumans now. Techniques changed as the degrees of force rose. In particular, staying grounded turned from an advisable strategy to absolutely necessary. If you got off balance, your opponent could ragdoll you once you weren't able to put force on your feet.

This continued for a few hours, and for a first session, they learned quite a bit. I was still the best fighter of the bunch, but the Daniel I showed them gave hope for an eventual victory. I was strong, but not domineeringly so. That gave them the leeway to test out new strategies, try out moves, and test their limits.

