To my surprise, Nissa picked up the basics far faster than the others, and her eagerness and exertion yielded results. Jamal kept his distance, only sparring as needed to maintain some kind of dignity. On the other hand, Jasmine was an instinctual fighter. That made her incredibly predictable, and I taught her to rely less on her instincts and more on her training.

She could bend backwards out of the way of a strike, but that left her with far fewer options for movement than if she simply slipped a punch instead. Still, she held the most potential of the three, though she didn't relish fighting as Nissa did. It got me thinking. I mean, enjoyment was a form of talent in and of itself.

The more someone enjoyed something, the less effort it required to actually participate in the activity. Even if someone had a better multiplier for learning or retaining knowledge in a given field, that didn't mean they would be better in the end. They still had to persistently apply themselves, lest they be left behind, as a certain lich might say.

Either way, I left each of them battered, bruised, but far more able to face the world. It was something I dreaded, yet understood the necessity of - they must march towards their goals on their own. I had learned that during this entire excursion. By offering people every solution to every problem, I robbed them of suffering and struggle.

It turned out that not all struggles were meaningless, and not every bout of suffering came without growth. These three were prime examples. They fought tooth and nail day in and day out, and they smiled the most after a challenging dungeon, not the easy ones. It was a reality of life I experienced alongside them. For there to be joy, one must face the hardships that life throws at them.

Our spars elevated their standards as we dungeoneered as well. We began killing eldritch as we explored. Nissa learned more about applying her magic for lethal intent, from freezing opponents' blood to robbing the air from their lungs. Jasmine gained a cat eye effect that enhanced her perception, giving her better vision and reaction times. Jamal...Well, he was offered a merchant class given how he sold everything off.

He seemed more than okay with that.

As our tenure came to an end, I couldn't help but feel a sense of loss. I had laughed and lived here for nearly a month, and it felt natural. Unlike whenever I faced world-ending horrors, I could relax and calm myself. The entire event had a cleansing effect on my perspective and mind, effectively grounding me from the insanity that was to come.

Despite the growth and prosperity we shared, not all of us enjoyed the situation. The entire time, Joshua carried a sort of repressed gloom. An emotional malaise smothered him, becoming like a cloud that dampened the room he lingered in. He tried to hide it, but even his customers noticed his dimming mood.

The day before our departure came, he kept polishing the same glass as he always did. The closer we got to leaving, the tighter Joshua held that glass. He gazed at it like a memory, as if it carried the weight of another world, one we couldn't see yet he could feel. It left all three of us sad, but we had an inventive solution.

Jasmine, Joshua, Nissa, and I set up a thank-you party in the inn's backrooms. We'd expanded the barebones rooms into something far more presentable, each of us smuggling in boards of wood that matched his tavern's aesthetic. Over the last month, we nailed together the three rooms into proper parts of an inn.

It gave the entire expanse the same handmade touch that separated Joshua's inn from everywhere else. At the same time, we put some of our earnings into a pool of money where we bought exotic drinks from Blegara, the albony, and even far-off planets using Schema's exchange currency center.

New glasses lined the backrooms alongside barrels and wine racks. A rustic stone floor covered it all, and we had the lamps set in place for moody, ambient lighting. It had been a miracle to make this all if not for Joshua respecting our privacy. He had never walked back into these rooms a single time since I arrived.

And yeah, more than a few talismans were involved. We bought noise-cancelling, vibration sinks, and a set of enchanted curtains that blocked the vantage point here. Having finished all of those prerequisites, we all walked up to Joshua, sitting at his bar. He polished his favorite glass, and we watched for a while.

After a minute, Joshua peered down at us.

"What in the hell are you all doing?"

Jamal raised his hands.

"We have a problem."

Joshua let out a long sigh.

"Besides yourself?"

Jamal grinned.

"Of course. Here's the thing, when Daniel carried us to our room yesterday, Nissa's incredibly huge, bulbous, arguably fat-"

Nissa smacked Jamal's head. Jamal coughed into his hand.

"Her head hit one of the doorways, and a portion of the room collapsed."

Recognition lit Joshua's face.

"Oh...Please, don't mind that. I should've done something with those rooms forever ago. It's a shame you all have been living back there as is."

He peered at the curtain that obstructed our rooms.

"It might be better if it all fell to pieces."

A bit of melancholy fell over us before Jasmine walked over and grabbed Joshua's arm.

"Come here, old man."

Joshua gestured at his bar.

"What if a customer-"

Jasmine rolled her eyes.

"No one's shown up in the last half hour. It'll be fine."

Joshua took a deep breath before following her pull. Despite himself, a slight grin rose on Joshua's lips. After walking past the curtain, he stepped through the noise and smell-cancelling magic. Joshua's eyes widened.

"The floors and rooms. How did you do all this? And, those are candles. What else is that?"

I rubbed my fingertips together.

"The essence of tobacco. That's what the shop owner said, at least."

Joshua breathed deep.

"It smells...Good. Real good."

Nissa nudged Joshua with her elbow.

"Do you hear that? You always talked about how you liked Westerns, so we got an old record player and started up-"

Joshua murmured.

"The Ecstasy of Gold. Ennio Morricone."

Jamal patted the man's shoulder.

"From The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly. You mentioned it a while back."

Joshua blinked.

"It was my grandfather's favorite film. I loved it too."

A mischievous grin spread over Nissa's face.

"Oh ho, you haven't seen anything. Behold."

She walked over and opened one of the new doors. Joshua ogled at everything before him as if stepping into another world. Joshua gawked.

"How did you hide this?"

I grinned while waving one of the many talismans in my hand.

"We have resources at our disposal, so we used them."

While Joshua soaked it all in, the four of us stepped into the center of the room before Nissa pulled out a comfy purple cushion. Gold frills decorated the edges, and an indentation sat in the middle.

Nissa shoved it at Joshua. The barkeep gawked at it.

"What is this?"

Jamal crossed his arms.

"That's for that glass you always polish. We figured it should have a special place since you like it so much."

Joshua's grizzled mustache furled, and his eyes watered. He lifted it up.

"All of this. I don't know what to say."

Jasmine stepped forward.

"We all wanted you to know that-"

Her words caught in her throat. She blinked, her eyes tearing up.

"We wanted you to know that everything you've done for us all these years. We appreciated every moment. All the tonics. All the drinks. All the laughs. All the-"

She blinked out tears.

"All the good memories. You made this town special. You made it a home. We'll never thank you enough for everything you've done for all of us."

Joshua covered his mouth, emotion building on his face. He took a shaky breath.

"There's something I need to tell you all."

Jamal raised a hand.

"You know you don't have to."

Joshua gave him a curt nod.

"I know. I want to."

Joshua furled his hands.

"I...When the culling happened, I lost my wife and my three kids."

Our eyes widened, and Joshua held up a jittering hand.

"I worked at a ranch in Tennessee, and when the culling happened, I was at work. I...I was able to help my people pull through the tutorial before heading back to my home. It had-"

He blinked tears.

"It had burned down. At first, I thought it was because they had been to the tutorial, but they hadn't died from a monster's claws. They never left the house. I found them, you know."

Jasmine put a hand over her face. Nissa gasped.

"I'm so sorry."

Joshua pushed through as he spoke.

"They had died before the culling began. A faulty wiring job did them in. My wiring job. See, I'd built that house from the ground up, and like some hole in the Earth, it had swallowed everything that mattered to me. My labor had become something evil, my highest sin."

He pointed a shaking hand at us.

"You three...You remind me-"

He struggled through his words.

"You remind me of my kids...So there's no need to thank me...There was never a need. You've given me more than I could ever repay."

By now, Jasmine and Nissa were struggling not to weep. Jamal wiped a few tears back, and my eyes watered alongside them. Nissa and Jasmine walked forward, giving the man a hug. They held each other like a father holding his two daughters. In that embrace, Joshua wept. In that embrace, he found healing for a mistake no man should have to bear.

And in giving a home to others, that man may have found he's made a home for himself.

After we had our talk, we took a while to decompress. Bottles were opened aplenty, stories were shared, and laughs were had. They told me about all the times Joshua helped them. They reminisced about all the times Jamal started up some get-rich-quick scheme. I heard about the fights Nissa started with regulars and how Jasmine wanted to start up some insane organ shop.

We all drank the night away, and by the time the moon rose over the sky, the three adventurers slumped against the floor in odd places. If not for the system, they'd of run their bodies ragged already. It amazed me how well they functioned despite this lifestyle, and I couldn't help but smile at them.

I would miss them, as would Joshua. He and I gazed at each other before the barkeeper took a breath.

"This place is going to be a whole lot emptier without them here bothering me."

I nodded.

"We know."

Joshua took a sip from his favorite glass before setting it down on the cushion made for it.

"If you ever find the time, come by. It wouldn't be the worst thing to happen to this place."

I raised my glass.

"I'll keep that in mind. I might even bring some friends."

He closed his eyes, and a sad smile spread over his face. As he fell asleep against the wall, I performed my standard ritual. I hauled the three musketeers to their new rooms, and I followed suit by picking up Joshua. He felt twice as heavy, his build far more along than theirs. After grabbing his glass, I walked over to his room.

I'd never been inside, and I couldn't help but have a burst of curiosity at seeing it. As I opened his old doorway, the hinges let out a loud squeak. When my eyes saw his room, a burst of sadness came over me. All along the walls, burnt paintings, photographs, and fixtures decorated the space. A few pieces escaped unscathed, but most carried irreparable damage.

In particular, the pictures held the most damage of all. Only someone who knew the people in the images would recognize who was in them. At the corner of the room, an old mattress sat alongside handmade covers. They, too, carried the burns from a fire. As I walked over and set Joshua on his bed, I found one of the least damaged images. It showed a woman with dark skin and lively eyes. She had ruby red lipstick applied, and she stood in front of several glassware projects.

All of them had a similar motif, and it looked like she'd made them herself. A handyman had married a handywoman, and I smiled at that thought. It was fitting. As I held the glass in my hands, I turned back down to the photograph. My eyes widened as I recognized her signature artistic flair in the glass.

All this time, he'd held her so close, and it made my heart ache.

As I prepared to leave, I took one last glance at the room. Here was a man who had everything taken from him. He'd lost all he ever wanted and more. It made me feel like an arrogant ass for telling him I did the impossible by enduring.

Yet I never endured this. This man knew of pain. Of loss. Of a broken life and shattered dreams. Seeing the momentos made me want to see Althea.

She still worked alongside Torix to uplift the Shattered Spires, and the project had expanded into an economic renaissance. They had filled in much of the infrastructure for the town by now, and I was needed for the finishing touches.

Lost in thought, I set Joshua's glass down before walking to the center of the bar. Taking a moment, I allowed my dimensional wake to manifest. The Rise of Eden encompassed the inn, and it held its full fury. Wielding the new ability of the aura, I drenched the area with its buffs. I soaked it into the fabric of reality here, a place that had felt like home for me over these last few weeks.

After spending the night channeling my runes, I felt the others awaken in their rooms. By now, my body and mind had fully healed. I was The Harbinger once more, and I felt ready for war. Standing up without my hands, I stepped outside my room while leaving my possessions. I wouldn't need them any longer.

The three musketeers waited for Joshua, but he wasn't up. I figured as much. I took his place behind the bar before making five tonics since I'd memorized the recipe by now. I walked over to Joshua's room, leaving the drink beside his bed. As I set it down, he woke up. His eyes widened.

"Are the others gone?"

I shook my head.

"They're not leaving without saying goodbye."

He relaxed.

"Good. That's good."

I turned.

"I'll give you a minute."

