Once, she’d broken her arm. When it had happened, Ryoka hadn’t even felt the pain—it was just the shock of it that hurt. Only when she’d dragged herself from underneath the motorcycle and waited for the ambulance did she feel the pain.
It hurt. But oddly, the worst part hadn’t been the pain.
Now, if her broken bones had actually pierced her skin at that time, her arm would have hurt far more than it did. But back then, Ryoka had been more overwhelmed by the dizzy nausea of it all and the feeling of wrongness in her arm. That had been the real trial as she waited for help.
She remembered that moment now. The memory floated up in her hazy mind like a bubble of the past. It was important to remember. She didn’t do it often enough.
Ryoka leaned on the table with the arm she’d once broken—her left. It was a pain in the ass to break your dominant hand. What was she thinking about? Oh yeah.
Memory.
Maybe if she’d remembered, she wouldn’t have made the same mistakes. But she repeated the same errors again and again. Pissing off everyone around her until they dragged her down into the mud. The same thing again and again. The symptom of madness—except that it wasn’t. That was one of the things idiots thought was true but was actually a lie.
Ryoka looked around. At this time of night, the common room of the inn was deserted. The innkeeper was in his bed, and the barmaids were all gone. But he’d left a candle on for her. Not that he would have done it if she’d asked, but a Minotaur’s polite request was quite another thing.
She rested her head against the table. She felt hot. And tired. But mainly hot, in the bad, stifling air sort of way. Not the hot that made uppity Minotaurs try to invite themselves into her room sort of way.
It was night. It might have been dark and stormy, but Ryoka was sitting inside the inn, so she couldn’t tell. She wasn’t doing anything right now. Just sitting and…waiting.
What was she doing? Everything felt like it was slowly being consumed by pain and that sweltering heat—worse than fire because it was feverish, like swampy, marsh heat. Sickness.
She was sure her leg was now infected, and Ryoka didn’t want to think of how bad it might get.
Stupid. Just tell Magnolia she needed help. Do it now. 
This was stupid. Why was she not taking the easy, logical, practical way out? Trust a [Lady]’s resources to heal her. Not this gamble.
Necromancy didn’t sound hygienic. But she was doing it. Doing it because—she didn’t trust Magnolia? Because she was that committed to raising a middle finger to someone?
Yes. No.
Because she had principles? Because, because—
She hated being bullied into doing something. Because she’d rather risk her leg on this wild idea than—
Idiot. She had no one but herself to blame if this went wrong.
Memory. Pain. Broken bones. Ryoka felt time slipping around her. First she was waiting and then—a half-Elf was talking to her.
“Ryoka? Time to go.”
Why was she talking so quietly? Oh. It was night. Ryoka pushed her chair back. With Ceria’s arm around her, she stood up. She had to be helped to the door. Humiliation. Or was it practicality?
They helped lift her into the carriage. Another bit of shame, but there were no steps up. And they’d placed hay to cushion her leg. The other adventurers nodded to each other as Ryoka lay against a pillow of straw.
Credit where credit was due. For all the Horns of Hammerad bickered and their leader was a perverted cow-man, they moved fast. Within the hour of Ceria receiving her reply from the mysterious necromancer she knew, they’d hired a carriage and horses and plotted a route to their destination.
It was a city far to the south by the name of Liscor. Ryoka didn’t know anything about it. Apparently, there weren’t any Humans there, just Drakes and Gnolls, whatever they were. She’d let them do it. In fact, Ryoka’s only actions since Magnolia had left were to agree to Ceria’s idea and then to sleep.
No—not sleep. Even as the carriage started with a jolt that banged Ryoka’s leg, she knew it hadn’t been sleep. The painful haze of dozing and waking couldn’t be called that. But now she was tired, mortally so.
The thing about broken bones? Ryoka blinked as the carriage rumbled down the cobblestone street. She was trying to remember. What was it? Back then, it hadn’t been the pain that was uncomfortable.
Yes, it was the other things. The pressure, the wrongness, the dizziness and nausea. All the things she felt now. Her leg felt hot underneath its wrappings. Ryoka’s mind was clouded. But the pain was gone.
Ryoka stared at the soaked bandages she could barely make out in the moonlit night. If she took the bandages off, she wouldn’t be able to think or move. Then the real pain would come back, and her leg would dangle like a dead fish. She was still tempted, though. Just to do it to see her leg bend obscenely as it flapped about on her dead skin. Flop goes the piece of flesh and shattered bone. Flop, flop. Floppy the Leg-fish.
She was aware that she wasn’t…wasn’t thinking too straight. Sleep deprivation from the pain just made everything harder. But now the pain was gone. Gone, and far away.
Magic.
She could hear the other adventurers talking around her. Four of the Horns of Hammerad sat in the cart—or was it a wagon? It was big enough for five with room left over, so a wagon, then.
“Is she okay?”
That was Gerry—Gerial. The vice-captain. He liked her, she could tell. Ryoka didn’t like him back.
Ceria glanced at Ryoka. The mage was sitting next to her in the wagon. Her eyes glowed in the light shining from the tip of the mage’s staff.
“She should be fine. I think.”
“She seems—odd. What spell did you cast?”
Calruz. Ryoka didn’t like him either. Not like that.
“It wasn’t me. Peminac cast [Numb], I think. It takes away pain, but it makes the affected slightly…odd. She should be fine, and it’s better than her feeling the pain. We just need to make sure to keep healing the leg every few hours.”
“You still haven’t told us how your mysterious [Necromancer] friend will help heal the leg, Ceria.”
One of the adventurers whose name Ryoka didn’t remember turned in the wagon. He wasn’t one of the mages. He gripped the mace at his side.
“You mean the Necromancer? I thought we were just visiting another [Mage]! I thought he was dead!”
The armored warrior looked horrified. He shook his head vigorously.
“If that’s the case, count me out. I’m sorry, but not even a debt of honor would make me face that monster.”
Calruz rumbled. He was striding along next to the wagon. Even as they picked up speed as they left the city gates and rumbled down the road he didn’t seem to notice the quick pace.
“In that case, get out. And consider yourself banned from the Horns of Hammerad while you’re at it.”
“Calruz—”
Gerial intervened. He patted the warrior on the shoulder.
“It’s not the Necromancer we’re going to meet. Just an ordinary [Necromancer], so don’t worry. Az’kerash is dead. Everyone knows that.”
The name alone was enough to scare some of the others, though. Calruz had no sympathy for it.
“We don’t need cowards! Jump off and run back into the city!”
“Running from the Necromancer isn’t cowardice, idiot. Calm down. Hunt, get back here.”
Ceria called down from the wagon as she stabbed her staff at the Minotaur’s head for emphasis. He grunted, and Ceria added.
“You weren’t on the continent when the Necromancer attacked with his legions ten years back. Or a Terandrian. Hunt is. I grew up with stories of him attacking kingdoms and killing people by the thousand. And that was when I was a girl. Believe me—even if we were all thirty levels higher, we’d still be no match for him. So stop questioning the courage of your own party!”
Calruz glared, but he eventually relented. Ryoka could hear him rumbling what sounded like insults as he kept pace with the horses.
Her eyes were closed because that made the world spin less. But Ryoka had to ask.
“So this Necromancer is still alive?”
A pause. Did they think she’d been asleep? But then Gerial replied.
“In the past, they never found his body and he’d pop up. But the Tidebreaker, Zel Shivertail, beheaded him and they burned him. Still, some people remember him, and everyone hates [Necromancers]. They’re not outlawed everywhere—but close enough.”
Which made it odder that Ceria knew one, and the rest of her team was giving her the side-eye. She cleared her throat.
“In any case, the [Mage] we’re going to visit is not the Necromancer. He just…practices necromancy. And he’s the only person who can help Ryoka I could think of.”
“Ah.”
Someone shifted on the wagon. Ryoka heard the scraping of metal on wood. She peeked open an eye and saw the half-Elf looking at the other female mage on the wagon.
“I still don’t like it. Ceria, how do you know someone like that?”
She shrugged.
“We studied together in Wistram Academy. I was a friend of his…once. We parted ways badly several years ago, but I knew he was probably in the area. Besides, Pisces isn’t very dangerous. Annoying, yes, but not dangerous. He’s…thoughtless, secretive, selfish, and he’s made terrible mistakes. But he’s no monster. And I hate to admit it but—he is very smart.”
Gerial leaned forwards.
“You told him what you want him to do?”
The half-Elf blew out her cheeks.
“I gave him the barest details. The messaging spell I used didn’t give me time for more, but he agreed. We’re not on good terms, like I said. He’ll meet us at an inn a few miles east of Liscor. Don’t worry; he’s competent. But I suspect he’ll want money, and lots of it.”
“We can cover the cost.”
Calruz interjected before Ryoka could speak. Which was good, because she was completely broke at the moment. Even the healing potions and carriage had been paid for by the Horns of Hammerad.
“Why’s he out there?”
“He’s in hiding.”
“Why does he practice necromancy?”
A pause. Ryoka’s eyelids felt heavy. Then Ceria spoke.
“I suspect because he likes dead people more than he likes the living most of the time.”
“I get that.”
Everyone turned to Ryoka, but the young woman was half-asleep already. Ryoka let her head fall back against the bouncing carriage. She meant to ask more questions, but she was so hot. And tired. The parts of her shattered leg that she could feel felt like they were throbbing. But the pain was gone, thanks to the magic.
In this moment, that was enough to make the bumping, rattling wagon smelling of hay into heaven. Ryoka sank back into the hay.
She closed her eyes and slept.
 
——
 
Riding on a carriage pulled by a horse is not fun with a shattered leg. Even with healing potions and anti-pain spells. But compared to sleeping in an inn sans anti-pain spells and with limited healing potions, it’s bliss.
I slept for two days, apparently. Well, I woke up and ate and talked, but they told me I had a fever. By the time it broke and I started to remember things, two days had passed. It’s midday, and apparently, we’re two-thirds of the way towards our destination*.
 
*Which, considering how far Liscor is away from the Human lands, is pretty damn impressive. The Horns of Hammerad must have set a blistering pace to get this far so quickly.
 
Some [Driver] is rolling the wagon forwards and grumbling nonstop about his ponies, but he’s fast. Skills, apparently, let him carry us faster than most vehicles or even horses—if not cars.
I missed the details of what happened while I slept. But apparently, the Horns of Hammerad made a few stops at another city. Firstly, to let the rest of their injured party members know what they were doing, and secondly, to swap out horses. Then they continued their journey into the night, half of them sleeping in the wagon and then swapping out with the others in the morning.
They even took care of my leg. The bandages weren’t changed, of course, but they’d used another healing potion so my leg didn’t look as puffy and horribly red. Just…puffy and red at the moment.
“How are you feeling?”
Ceria leans forward over the hay when she notices I’m awake. She hands me a roll of sweet, crumbling bread spread with jam and butter. It tastes delicious.
“Good. Thanks for everything.”
My voice wakes up one of the guys sleeping in the wagon. Gerial blinks up at me and gives me a charming smile. I guess it’s charming. Someone else would probably think it was, at any rate.
“We’re happy to repay our debts, Ryoka. And it hasn’t been that much of a chore so far.”
Says the guy sleeping in hay on a bumpity wagon after two days of roughing it. Well, maybe that is normal by this world’s standards.
“I’ll remember this.”
Crap. That sounded like a threat. And…now he’s looking confused. Great. Change the subject, fast.
“—So. About this mage.”
Ceria nods. She fiddles with her staff. It’s not glowing anymore. I guess it takes mana to keep it lit*.
 
*Mana. Magical energy. This world already sounds like a classic videogame, and they use terms right out of most games I know. Still, the idea that we all have our own internal reservoir of magic is cool.
 
“Pisces. I told you that he’s a [Necromancer]. In truth, he’s probably not that strong of one—I remember that he was about Level 22 when we were students together in Wistram Academy. Even if he’s leveled up a bit, he shouldn’t be a threat if you’re worried.”
I hear a snort. Huh. Calruz is still keeping pace with the wagon. Did he…run throughout the night? Even I’m not that kind of crazy.
“I fear no [Mage], especially not a weak one who practices cowardly magic like necromancy.”
Gerial shook his head.
“He’s still the same level as most of our group. That’s not bad. But why did you say he was hiding out, Ceria?”
She scratches her head and glances over the side of the wagon. Not directly away from Gerial, but I know evasion when I see it.
“…He was kicked out of Wistram Academy. And he’s wanted by several cities for causing trouble, I gather. Not murder—just extortion and troublemaking.”
Time for more information gathering.
“Let me guess. He was kicked out because they found he was practicing necromancy, right?
Ceria hesitates, and her eyes cloud over. Her team’s listening, but the half-Elf just murmurs vaguely.
“Oh, no. It wasn’t just that. No, it was because of what he did with necromancy that he was expelled.”
Again, the awkward silence. I hate this kind of conversation, but someone’s got to ask the obvious question. Thankfully, it’s Gerial not me that gets to ask.
“What did he do?”
Ceria tightens her lips.
