“I have plans for this gold. Not least, it will help shut up a certain annoying [Innkeeper]—”
He stopped when he realized no one was listening to him. Pisces glared around, turned, and walked away.
 
——
 
“Sorry about that.”
Ceria apologized once Pisces had moved out of earshot. She sighed and rubbed at her brow.
“I’d forgotten how annoying Pisces gets, and I remembered quite a bit.”
Gerial was close to tearing out his hair. He snapped at Ceria while glaring at Pisces’ back.
“If it was that simple, why couldn’t you have done that? The entire spell barely took seconds!”
“Exactly.”
Calruz grunted. A large vein was throbbing in his head as he clenched his fists.
“That little runt of a Human was mocking us the entire time. We travelled all this way and paid all this coin for a spell that any one of you could have done? Explain yourself, Ceria!”
Both Captain and vice-captain of the Horns of Hammerad glared at their mage, but she was at least equal to them in projecting ire.
“I couldn’t have done that. And that was no spell—at least, not any spell written down. You think we overpaid? I think we underpaid, and I’m just glad Pisces didn’t catch on to what Gerial was saying.”
Calruz paused. His massive face wrinkled up.
“What do you mean?”
“Pisces was moving around each of the shattered bones and knitting them together. He could sense where they are, and he knows how to reassemble them. That isn’t something any normal [Mage] could do. Or even a regular [Necromancer].”
The other mage shivered.
“Ceria is right, Calruz. I wouldn’t know where to begin with an injury like that. But the speed and precision of that [Necromancer]…and you say he’s only Level 22?”
Ceria twirled her staff in her hands as she took her time responding.
“Pisces is a genius. He possesses an intimate knowledge of Human bodies. No one but another [Necromancer] could have done that so easily. And frankly, I would not trust any other [Necromancer] but Pisces. Listen, have you ever heard of someone mending shattered bone like that?”
The other adventurers fell silent. Calruz glanced at Gerial, and the vice-captain hesitated.
“You hear about the Healer of Tenbault, and Named-ranks have the highest-grade potions in the world. But…no. I know a lot of Silver and Bronze-ranks who take a bad break and it never heals.”
Calruz looked horrified—and angry. But his eyes were flickering.
“The House of Minos has a lot of experience with bone injuries, and our [Healers] are the best as I said. But—that was instantaneous. And the solution is a [Necromancer]? I should report this to home. If that really does mend bone that fast…”
“And it worked? This only matters if it works.”
Hunt interrupted nervously. The man was glancing at Ryoka for confirmation. Now, the adventurers stared at Ryoka’s leg. It seemed…unchanged, at least under the bandages. That was to say, the bandages were so red and dirty that none of the actual flesh could be spotted underneath. At least the leg didn’t appear swollen.
“The flesh is still probably broken, but the bone underneath should be repaired if Pisces is right. He doesn’t know healing spells, but he could easily reinforce and repair the bone.”
Ceria peered at Ryoka. The girl hadn’t moved the entire time—since Pisces had begun changing her leg, she’d been frozen, staring down at it.
“Ryoka? How do you feel?”
No response. It was as if Ryoka were lost to the world. Ceria frowned, worry crossing her expression.
“…Ryoka?”
 
——
 
“…Ryoka?”
Someone is calling my name. And I want to answer them, I really do. But something else is occupying my mind. If you put the second coming, Armageddon, an alien invasion, and Elvis Presley rising from the dead right in front of my face, I wouldn’t be able to look up.
Because I can feel it.
The magic on my leg is still there, but I can feel it. The flesh may be broken, but the bone is whole. My bones are whole.
I. Am. Whole.
“Ryoka? Are you okay? How do you feel?”
What kind of question is that? How do I feel? Am I okay? How could—how could words, mere words describe what I’m feeling at the moment.
It took just a moment, but the difference between the me of now and then is—is the difference of a lifetime. I am healed. I am me again.
“Ryoka?”
Ceria puts a hand on my shoulder. It brings me out of the moment, just for a second. And it’s annoying because this is a moment I wish could last forever. If I could capture this feeling—if I could remember it, I would never despair again. This is what it means to have hope fulfilled.
But she wants an answer. How do I feel? Am I okay? What a stupid question. But I have to respond with something. Something…something pithy, like ‘how do you think?’
I open my mouth, and something changes.
…What?
For once, there’s nothing angry in me, no heart full of rage and hurt. Instead—instead, as I open my mouth, I hesitate. The bitter, harsh words stop on my tongue and refuse to come out. And something inside of me asks: why? Why and when?
Why was I about to lash out at the person who saved me? Saved. Me. Why would I ever do such a thing, repay all her kindness with rudeness? Am I that kind of person?
When did I forget gratitude? Since when was my first response always anger? When did I forget what it meant to say ‘thank you?’
Who am I, and where did the girl who smiled go?
I don’t say anything. I swallow the bitter words unspoken. Instead, I turn to Ceria and look her in the eye. Her eyes are gold, the molten core of suns and burnished gold. The color of wheat fields in the fading sun, and caught in their depths is a glimpse of something deeper, something greater. A bit of eternity.
I bow my head, low. It’s been too long since I looked at my own two feet. I can feel the surprise of the people around them, but it’s only natural. It’s the least I can do. Should do.
“Thank you.”
Again, surprise. But I keep my head bowed. I can’t look them in the eyes just yet. The ground is blurry. So I repeat the same words.
“Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Thank you.”
Insufficient words. They’re not enough. How could words ever be enough?
The Japanese—the people that make up half of my heritage—they have a type of bow they use for apologies. It looks like prostration, and that’s what it translates to in English.
土下座. Dogeza. I once swore that I’d never do that for anyone. Not kings or queens or even God if he existed. But I’d do it now if I knew it wouldn’t make them feel so awkward. But I do it now, in my mind and soul. Thanking the people who gave me back what matters most to me.
My legs. My wings. My ability to fly. So I thank them in every way I can.
“It was nothing—”
I look up. Ceria is blushing. And on her face, it is truly cute rather than beautiful to see. I smile and turn. Calruz blinks down at me. Surprised? But I think I know how to thank him, and it is differently than Ceria.
“I am truly grateful. And I’m sorry for my rudeness earlier. I owe you a debt I can’t repay. But I know the Horns of Hammerad now, and I know what defines you.”
I stick out my hand towards him.
“Honor.”
Calruz pauses again. But then he seizes my hand and grips it tight. His eyes were deep and blue—I hadn’t guessed. We shake hands.
“Honor and duty above all. Without it, we are animals.”
I turn to Ceria and shake her hand next. And then Gerial’s. And the rest of the adventurers. How long? How long since I properly shook hands and acted like a decent person?
Firm grip, look them in the eye. Just like dad taught me. And they smile in return. They smile, and I feel it again.
Trust.
“My name is Ryoka Griffin. I am in your debt. Whatever I can do—if ever you need me, just ask.”
I stand straight and tall. Whole once more. And my mind continues where my voice stops.
Ryoka Griffin. Freshman in Columbia University, or—I would have been. I never got to set foot on campus. Accepted with a Track and Field scholarship, specializing in the 400-meter run. 3.89 GPA average, hobbies include hunting, sports shooting, and reading. Not decided on any particular major. A fan of Youtube videos and playing video games, but didn’t put that on the college application.
Ryoka Griffin, runner, unfriendly daughter who doesn’t like her dad, 4th Dan in Muay Thai although I like Parkour a lot more. Refused Mensa membership, kicked out of two high schools. Angry girl. Lost soul.
Loves songs she can run to, a huge fan of rock and an enemy of pop, techno, and opera. Favorite artists include Meatloaf, Imagine Dragons, Fun, Lady Gaga*, and…Five for Fighting.
 
*Not all pop songs are bad, okay?
 
Currently—
Grateful.
