“…He got a lot of people killed. By accident. I think it was an accident, but a good friend of mine died. That wasn’t the only…only reason. But it’s past now. Six years past. I called in what few favors I think I had left to get him to meet us.”
The rest of the Horns glance at each other. I lick my lips and accept a flask of water. Some kind of past drama? Curious. I guess. I’m not too interested in this mystery [Necromancer]’s past right now, except whether or not he’s competent.
“Is he competent?”
Ceria nods, relieved to be changing the subject—I could see Calruz opening his mouth.
“Oh yes. He’s got the levels to do what we need, and he’s smart. You could even call him a genius in a limited sense.”
“How so?”
Ceria scowls and adjusts the blankets she’s wrapped around herself.
“Well, he’s only a brat—I mean, he’s only around twenty in your years, which I suppose makes him an adult. But he’s got levels in multiple magical classes. If you add them all up, he’s got more than I do, and I’m three times his age.”
Don’t they say never mention a woman’s age in public? But I guess half-Elves don’t care about that sort of thing.
“So this operation. What—”
I stop and cover a yawn. Really? I just slept.
“What—”
I’m still yawning? What’s wrong with me?
“Tired?”
I want to smack the grin right off of Gerial’s face.
“…Guess I’m tired.”
Ceria nods.
“The [Numb] spell and all the healing you’re doing is probably taking its toll. If you need to sleep—sleep. We won’t get to Liscor for several more hours, and we still need to water and feed the ponies.”
“Worthless nags.”
“I heard that, sir!”
The [Driver] turns in his seat, and I see an old man—and the ponies—glare at the Minotaur. Which is funny. He snaps back.
“If you want to go faster, get off and pull yourself. Or I’ll thank you to not insult my ponies.”
“Calruz, shut up. This is the only [Driver] we could get who can take us there fast.”
“Yeah, shut up, with respect, Captain.”
Gerial and Ceria berate Calruz, and I hear him rumble an apology at the touchy [Driver]. It’s a shame. I like anyone who has an attitude like that…so long as it’s not directed at me…
Something about hypocrisy?
…Crap. I’m already slipping back into sleep. Why? I guess…just that tired?
I hear the last fragment of a reply as I drift off.
“—I personally believe he’s delusional and that he’ll never achieve his goals. But regardless, he won’t stay in the area long. Every time the Academy learns where he’s staying, they send out a team to capture him. So far, he’s escaped, but it’s only a matter of time before he stays in one place too long and gets caught.”
And then—and then—
I go back to sleep.
 
——
 
When Ryoka woke up the second time, she looked around and knew that she was in a different place. The grasslands still stretched around her, but the grass was longer here, and to each side, she saw towering mountains enclosing the area.
She was in a valley. A pass between the mountain ranges that she normally saw as distant shapes in the distance. And the dirt road the wagon had been travelling on was now stone. The increased rumbling and jolting as the wagon struck uneven stones was probably what woke her up. Also, something really stank, and it was hard to sleep through.
“Evening.”
This time, Ceria handed Ryoka a piece of bread with some sliced cheese and meat. Again, Ryoka devoured the meal quickly before she spoke.
“How was the trip?”
One of the other mages enjoying his lunch looked up and replied.
“Uneventful. We scared away a few Razorbeaks that wanted to take a bite out of your leg, but we haven’t seen any other monsters.”
Ryoka blinked stupidly. Her head still felt stuffed.
“Razorbeaks?”
“Large, green birds. Leathery. Got teeth sharp as a knife, but they’re not too dangerous. A few sparks scare them away.”
“Not a challenge.”
Ryoka looked over and realized what the smell was. Calruz sat at the far end of the wagon—downwind of the other adventurers. He was sweating heavily. To put it politely, he reeked. The smell reminded Ryoka of a workout gym right in the middle of rush hour crossed with a barn right in the middle of a different kind of rush hour.
“We near Liscor?”
“A few miles away. But we should see the inn Pisces mentioned any minute now. You have good timing.”
Ryoka shrugged. She kept looking around. The plains really were quite empty. She supposed sleeping through most of the journey had a lot to do with that, but really, the landscape she could see had very few variations in it. Just a few trees over…there and some weird rocks scattered all over in other directions. And over there—
“Goblins.”
Ryoka said it at the same time as Ceria. The other adventurers sat up and squinted to see as they reached for their weapons. Calruz took one look and sat back against the wagon.
“Bah.”
Gerial squinted as the warrior by his side pulled out a longbow from the supplies in the carriage and began to string it.
“Goblins. Looks like a fight within their own tribe.”
Ryoka could see two groups of Goblins slashing and clubbing each other in the distance. It was hard to tell, but it looked like one side was being led by a small Goblin while the other was leaderless. Still, the numbers favored the leaderless side.
“Hm. Looks like one of those Goblins has some experience fighting. See—they’re using formations and fighting together.”
Calruz didn’t even look up as he stretched out.
“Rabble. Not worth dirtying a blade over. Not a single Hob in sight.”
One of the other adventurers gritted their teeth.
“You wouldn’t say that if you ever saw a raiding party—or a warband. Besides, the Guild offers a copper piece for every four pairs of Goblin ears.”
The bow-wielding warrior drew an arrow and sighted down the shaft.
“I can probably hit the runt if you slow the carriage down. Might stop a new chieftain being selected for a few more days. Want me to make the shot?”
Calruz waved a hand indifferently, clearly uncaring. The warrior glanced at Gerial. And Gerial glanced at Ryoka. He hesitated and then shook his head.
“This isn’t our area, and besides, it’s a tiny tribe. Let the local adventurers deal with it if it becomes an issue. Let’s go find that [Necromancer].”
“He should be waiting at the inn. Anyone see it?”
The other adventurers looked around as the warrior unstrung his bow, grumbling about a missed opportunity. Ryoka looked around too, but the landscape was full of hidden hills and dips that made seeing in a straight line hard.
It was half an hour before one of the mages pointed.
“There’s the inn. We’re here.”
Ryoka’s head shot up. She saw in the distance a rising hill, broad enough to almost be called a plateau, and on it—
An inn.
It was quite ordinary. Ryoka glanced at its weathered façade and immediately paid no attention more to it. Because standing on top of the gently sloping hill and staring down towards the party of adventurers was a [Mage].
He was clearly a [Mage]. He looked pasty-skinned and like he was more used to wielding books than a sword. His robes were white—well, as the wagon approached, they became more colorful, but he was wearing robes.
The wagon rumbled to a stop as the sweating horses finally finished their long journey. The adventurers slowly and silently slid out of the wagon. Ryoka tried to get up, but Calruz simply picked her up in his arms and hopped off the wagon before placing her on her feet. She glared at him but then focused on the [Mage].
Pisces. He looked quite harmless as the Horns of Hammerad spread out in front of him. But Ryoka noticed that while none of the adventurers had drawn their swords, they weren’t relaxing in front of him. And they were in formation—two of the [Mages] in the back while the warrior with the mace stood in front of them. Calruz and Gerial flanked Ceria as she stepped forwards.
The half-Elf walked forwards until she and Pisces were a few feet apart. They appraised each other. One, a part-immortal with beauty that bordered on the supernatural, wearing robes woven with magic and finest cloth. The other, a [Mage] in dirty robes standing in front of a run-down inn.
Ceria inclined her head slightly. Pisces nodded.
“Pisces.”
“Ceria.”
“It’s been a while, hasn’t it?”
“Quite. Spoken to Mons? Beatrice, perchance?”
He gave her a wary look, and Ceria’s wary look turned into a flash of anger.
“You know I haven’t. This isn’t a trap. I haven’t heard a word for—”
He raised his palms.
“I am simply asking.”
“Well—no. This is a mission of mercy. Thanks—thanks for meeting us.”
His face twisted into a sneer, and he seemed about to say something, but then he glanced at Ceria’s team and at Ryoka. Both fell silent as Ryoka balanced on one leg. She looked from one face to the other. Clearly, there was little love lost between the two, but they weren’t enemies. It was another one of the awkward social moments she hated.
Ceria broke the silence. She nodded towards the inn.
“Is there anyone in there? Can we buy supplies and rest or do we have to go into the city?”
He shrugged.
“Not at the moment. The owner is currently elsewhere, it seems.”
“They let you stay at the inn? Nevermind, it doesn’t matter. Well then, I guess this is as good a place as any.”
“I suppose so.”
More silence. Ceria tightened her grip on her staff.
“You know what we want you to do?”
“Mend shattered bone? A simple task.”
Pisces shrugged casually. This seemed to infuriate Gerial. The vice-captain stepped forwards.
“We’ve travelled over a hundred miles to get here, mage. You’re supposed to be a [Necromancer] able to help us, but I haven’t heard how you’d be able to mend bone. [Necromancers] deal with the dead, so what makes you special? No [Healer] from Wales to Celum could help Ryoka!”
If looks could kill—Pisces’ icy stare would merely have wounded. He took his time replying and sniffed hard as he looked down his nose at Gerial.
“Necromancy is a misnomer for the true nature of my magic. Reanimation is but one component of raising the dead. Another, crucial aspect is the manipulation and fundamental understanding of—”
Ceria interrupted.
“Bones. He can control bones.”
Pisces sniffed.
“Thank you for the simplistic explanation. I suppose that does explain it, however. In any event, know that I am a [Necromancer] capable of your request. Kindly refrain from addressing me with pointless questions ever again. As for [Healers] being insufficient—it is not my fault that there’s so little talent to go around.”
He turned to Ceria, completely ignoring the outraged Gerial.
“And my fee? As requested?”
Ceria made a face.
“We’ll give you twenty gold coins. No more, no less.”
Her team muttered at the price. It must have been high—even for the [Healer] to do what they had to Ryoka’s leg, she’d paid less than five gold coins total, not including the valuable bandages and potions. But the Runner just let Ceria negotiate. 
Pisces raised an eyebrow.
“For what you want? When, as your dear teammate points out, no [Healer] can help your patient? Sixty, no less.”
“Thirty. And even that is robbery. This is a Silver-rank team, Pisces. Not some Gold-rank.”
“Nevertheless. You can eminently afford…fifty.”
“Forty.”
“—Fine.”
Pisces nodded, looking a bit too eager. Ceria looked over at Calruz, who tilted his head imperceptibly.
“We’ve got a deal then.”
“Very well. And the injured party I’m to heal?”
This time, all the Horns glared at him. Ceria pointed at Ryoka’s bad leg. Pisces glanced over and sniffed.
“Of course.”
Ceria let out a sigh that spoke to Ryoka of long suffering. She gestured at the inn and grasslands.
“Where do you want to work?”
“There’s no need to move. Now that we’ve agreed, let’s begin.”
Pisces reached down and put a hand on Ryoka’s leg. She felt something begin to shift inside her leg and bit back a shout of surprise.
“Pisces!”
Ceria shouted, and the other Horns reached for their weapons. Calruz clenched his fist and loomed forwards ominously, but Pisces didn’t look around.
He was shifting his finger as he stared hard at Ryoka’s leg. Something was moving around in there. Ryoka could feel multiple points of contact as the skin on her leg rippled and twisted.
It didn’t hurt. But it felt more unpleasant than anything she’d ever experienced. For once, her body was not in her control, and Ryoka didn’t like it one bit.
But almost as soon as it had started, the feeling stopped. Pisces glanced up from her leg and narrowed his eyes at Ceria.
“I would appreciate no shouting during the process. You know how much concentration this takes even without interruption.”
The half-Elf stepped forwards and jabbed Pisces hard in the chest, making him wince.
“You idiot! At least have her lie down before you do that!”
Pisces shrugged insolently.
“The comfort of the patient is of no object to me. Regardless…I’m done. Where’s my payment?”
The other adventurers stared at him incredulously.
“Already?”
“Impossible!”
Gerial strode forwards and jabbed at Pisces angrily.
“You can’t have finished so quickly! You must be lying!”
Pisces stepped back rather than let Gerial get near him. He sneered at the older man.
“You may doubt all you wish, but I believe my fellow student can attest to my competence. Besides which, any spell would confirm the veracity of my statement. Tell them, Springwalker.”
Ceria nodded reluctantly. She bent down and felt at Ryoka’s leg, then shot a glance up. But she traced a long, continuous line down Ryoka’s leg and then stood up and whistled.
“It’s true. He’s restored the bone to normal. Dead gods—that’s incredible.”
The Horns of Hammerad exclaimed in surprise and shock. They immediately appraised Pisces again, all except for Ryoka. She was still staring down at her leg.
“Fine, then. Your money.”
Ceria looked at Calruz. The Minotaur grunted and fished in his belt pouch. He tossed Ceria a small sack of coins. She caught it and upended it over her palm. Gold coins poured out—far more than the bag should have contained.
Pisces waited until Ceria had counted the coins out. There were more than could fit in her hand, but as the coins poured out, Ceria’s hand shimmered with faint green light, and they began to float in the air.
The gold coins flew upwards and then resolved themselves into four perfect stacks of ten standing straight up in the half-Elf’s hand. She handed them to Pisces with a face as if she were plucking a tooth. He smiled as he poured the gold into a pouch at his side. Ceria whirled away, and the Horns of Hammerad retreated to confer around Ryoka’s leg.
