I scooped up my discarded clothes as best I could with my doggy mouth and then piled them up by the frog statue. I didn’t really know what to do with them now, and I wouldn’t be needing them again for a while.

With that taken care of, I walked across the bridge to find Fox there, already transformed into her giant fox form. I noticed her pile of clothes folded neatly near the post of the bridge on the other side. I couldn’t do it quite so neatly myself because, number one, I wasn’t very skilled at doing those kinds of things with my wolfy mouth, and even if nobody was around, I wasn’t doing it pre-transformation while I was out in the open!

“Hey, first time I’ve seen you actually in that form,” Fox said. “Definitely looks a little more magical.”

I gave her a look that told her to just get on with it.

“Right, so what I’m thinking is this. We can focus on both leveling up your skills just by sparring with me, and if you can actually manage to do something impressive, maybe you’ll get an achievement or two to push your development stage along. That’ll mostly be up to luck, but either way, we should be able to get you to stage 6 before you leave in a couple days.”

I tilted my head in acknowledgment.

“Well, I don’t want to hurt you, so let’s start with this.” She rose from her haunches and turned, flicking her massive tail at me. “I’ll run, and you try to hit me with something!”

I gave her a dry look that said, “That’s your brilliant training program? Why did we even bother coming out here?”

She then flashed her foxy teeth at me. “Don’t worry about hurting me. You are far too weak to cause me any harm.”

With that taunt, she suddenly burst forward, disappearing into the trees with a few quick strides.

I barked, “HEY!” and began running after her.

I chased her into the trees, but she was far ahead of me already, and I only got glimpses of orange through the trees as she reached the perimeter wall and had to change direction, now running back the other way.

Stupid Fox! I thought. How am I supposed to practice any of my abilities if I can’t even get a clear shot off on you!?

I chased her until we reached the stream, which I had no doubt she easily hopped across, but it was going to be a little more difficult for me. I slowed, sized the jump, then doubled back to give myself a better running start.

I managed to clear the jump, but barely, my front paws having to drag me up briefly so my butt didn’t dip into the water, and by then I completely lost sight of Fox again.

I wandered through this part of the wooded area until I came out of the trees to the rocky area and spotted the frog statue at the entrance. I had just gone a complete circle around this place!

I ran back to the wooden bridge to find Fox sitting back in the flat part. She was sitting on her haunches and made a show of raising her paw to her mouth as she yawned in a very human-like fashion, her foxy whiskers knitting up.

“Was that the best you can do, Pup? Come on, I’m not even trying here!”

I charged at her, raking my claw against the ground as I channeled earth.

{Elemental Swipe}! Terra Claw!

I chose that one because I could spray the chunks in a wide area that would be harder to dodge. But she popped up from her haunches, and all she had to do was bolt in the opposite direction, and the rocks were too slow to catch her. They just scattered across the ground uselessly as I chased after her once again.

I barked in agitation as I was once again trailing blots of orange through the trees. I wished I could talk so I could complain that this wasn’t fair, and if I was using the Whisperfang Juvenile Path I’d be able to catch her with Give Chase.

When I lost sight of her I sat down on my haunches, not bothering to jump the stream again. This felt pointless!

Thump, thump, thump—

I noticed too late as she suddenly came from my side and pounced towards me. I turned and raised a paw, quickly trying to think what essence to channel.

Electricity! It was the fastest!

But before I could even do that, she hit me with her front paws, not as a strike, but more of a push. Still, with her massive body compared to mine, it took very little effort for her to send me tumbling head over tail and leave me feeling like a flopping puppy again.

“You’re too slow!” she teased, looking back just long enough for me to notice her tongue sticking out of the front of her muzzle mockingly.

“GRRRRRRRR!” I growled.

{Elemental Swipe}! LIGHTNING CLAW!

I slashed my paw through the air, electricity moving along my fur and up to my claw, shooting forth a bolt of lightning. But it only hit a tree as Fox’s orange coat disappeared out of my sight once again.

Damn it! How did she even do that…

I looked back in the direction she pounced me from. I realized once she got out of my sight, she must have hunkered down into hiding somewhere, which would have been difficult considering her size…

I padded back that way quickly, realizing that the terrain actually sloped down a little towards the wall, so that must have been where she’d hidden. I’d bet she spotted it on her first pass through and then planned out the ambush for the second lap. Well, I wouldn’t fall for that again.

I padded back to the flat area in the middle of the training yard, where, once again, I found Fox sitting on her haunches, smug whiskers rising and tail batting playfully behind her.

“Ready for round three?” she asked.

Though I was annoyed with her little ambush, it gave me an idea. I realized an ambush might be the only way I could catch her, because it was clear I’d never win in a straight chase.

Well… at least not with trees for her to use for cover. My eyes narrowed at her as I decided to try something more direct than the ambush method first.

Fox smiled her big fox smile once again. “Oh, what’s that expression? You have an idea, don’t you?”

Sneak attack! (kind of)

{Elemental Swipe}! LIGHTNING CLAW!

I swiped it at her without warning! She could outrun rocks, and she could outrun me—but nobody was fast enough to dodge lightning!

But she didn’t even try! Her mouth opened, and a much larger lightning bolt shot forth from her throat. It intercepted mine midair, sending smaller bolts spraying away at the point of impact. One hit a tree, another fizzled off into the sky, and another—

I yelped and popped away at the last possible second as the bolt exploded where my paw had just been, leaving behind a patch of smoking, scorched ground.

Fox’s lips curled back even more smugly. “Trying to beat me with my own element won’t work, pup.”

I flattened my ears.

Oh, screw you!

Fox’s tail swished behind her lazily as she began pacing sideways in front of me. “Honestly, you’re also making a pretty common mistake.”

I tilted my head slightly despite myself. “Oh really?”

“You’re aiming for where I am instead of where I’m going to be. You’ll never get me like that unless you can get really close.” Her fangs flashed smugly. “And I’ll never let you get close enough.”

I charged at her without warning once again. That’s what she thought, but she didn’t know how versatile this Path was! If Terra Claw was too slow, let’s try adding some wind!

{Elemental Cocktail} Earth and Wind! Terra Bullets!

The earth around my paw burst apart into a tiny spray of fist-sized stones, but instead of scattering like they’d been lobbed at the overly-confident fox, wind essence wrapped around them and sent them blasting forward in a tighter spread.

Fox’s ears perked in surprise just before she sprang sideways, orange fur blurring as several rocks exploded against the ground where she’d been sitting moments earlier.

But unlike before, a few curved slightly mid-flight, one barely clipping her shoulder fur and bouncing high!

However, it didn’t even faze her as she didn’t so much as flinch from the glancing blow, and she barreled into the trees once again.

The results were a little disappointing, but still, I hit her! I had a strategy to get her now because she wasn’t fast enough to simply outrun those rocks, nor did I imagine her lightning could just blast them all out of the air before any landed.

I chased her into the woods once again, her voice echoing in my head. “Ooooh, so you’ve got a few more tricks up your sleeve than I expected. Too bad it’s not going to be enough, pup!”

My lips curled as I chased after her, thinking, Oh, I got a lot more tricks than just that! I hadn’t even unleashed a Pentaclysm on you yet!

But that was one attack I’d keep up my sleeve—errr… under my paw?—for later. It was fast, it was powerful, and it would probably sting more than she expected!

My tail began wagging behind me as we both darted through the woods and leapt the stream again. I didn’t even notice until I chased her back to the flat area where she was waiting as smugly as ever. I panted, feeling a little out of breath, but upon realizing how my tail wagged excitedly behind me, I willed it to stop, focusing my gaze on the fox and trying to look a little more intimidating.

Fox didn’t miss it, however, as her whiskers twitched.

“Were you wagging your tail just now?” she teased.

“Absolutely not!” I growled, charging at her once again, raking my claw forward with some more Terra Bullets!

Fox bark-laughed, which came out as more of a weird fox yelp. Her own tail swayed behind her as she dipped left, right, and down, dodging through the Terra Bullets this time. “Oh yes it was!” she teased. “It was totally wagging!”

I arced towards her just as she dodged right again, cutting her off, barking, “I was just thinking about how good it’ll feel wiping that smug look off your face!”

{Elemental Cocktail}! Ice, wind, and electricity! Ice Missiles!

This time, she was completely unprepared. She’d been expecting my projectiles to come from the ground. She had no idea I could send these different kinds of projectiles flying at her from out of thin air!

As the attack that once shot down a Direwing closed in on her from multiple angles, she hunkered down defensively. Was she giving up? I was going to hit her! I was going to—

But then blue lightning suddenly exploded outward from Fox’s body in a dome around her. Not as a single bolt. The flat clearing lit up blindingly bright as the ice bullets collided with the electric field she placed around herself, and each popped with a fizzle of smoke as they disappeared, never even coming close to actually touching her.

When they were all gone and her electric field dissipated, her fur was still standing on end with some lingering sparks of static as she held my gaze triumphantly. My tail fell limp behind me.

"Oooooh, you were sooo close that time,” she teased.

I began barking and snarling at her, “This is a stupid game! It isn’t fair! You’re way too higher of a level than me! You’re just doing this to entertain yourself! You stupid, selfish, smug, annoying, shameless, fox! Just wait till I’m stronger!”

She couldn’t actually understand any of that, but that was what was in my heart, and I hoped she at least got the gist of it! That stupid fox!

Her ears folded down compassionately, but still her tail wagged.

“Oh, don’t worry, that was really a very good attack!” she said reassuringly. “It absolutely would have killed something weaker than me!”

“Don’t patronize me!” I barked, charging at her once again.

Fox bark-laughed and sprang backward just as I raked my claws through the dirt.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Earth and Wind! Terra Bullets!

The stone chunks blasted toward her in another wide spray, curving as the wind essence twisted around them and guided them towards the fleeing fox.

Still, she was able to dodge high and go right over them—but I was already expecting it this time.

{Elemental Swipe}! Lightning Claw!

I swung my paw while she was still mid-air, but I didn’t aim right for her, I aimed for the ground where she was heading!

But it still wasn’t enough! Her muzzle pivoted towards it, and her mouth opened just in time to intercept my lightning bolt with a bigger one!

I swung my claw again, harnessing Wind, Water and Lightning, planning a third attack to just keep things coming at her as fast as possible, but the cowardly fox turned tail and fled into the trees!

“Damn you!” I barked, as I watched the ice bullets shatter against trees as she dipped this way and that!

But this time, she didn’t just continue to run away and get distance on me, she stayed in my sight, moving through the trees, the challenging glint in her eyes flashing every time she glanced back at me.

I still had the ace up my sleeve, I still had pentaclysm. I knew that would be what I needed to use to win this stupid little game of hers!

I watched her movements, trying to get a feel for how to intercept her path with my ultimate attack.

She pivoted—she’s going to go left—

No, a fake out!

Fox suddenly planted her paws and reversed direction entirely, lightning flashing beneath her feet as she shot back at me much faster than I had ever seen her move until now!

I skidded hard through the dirt, trying to get out of her way as she barreled towards me.

If she wanted to attack, I would have been completely caught off guard! How mad I was at that fact was only overshadowed by what she did instead of attacking!

Her fluffy tail smacked me across the muzzle.

“Boop!”

“HEY!” I barked.

She cackled shamelessly as she disappeared into the trees once again, this time leaving me far behind as those lightning-infused steps carried her out of my range impossibly fast.

“Damn her!” I growled.

“She’s really just toying with me!” I barked to the heavens.

I got my anger under control as I checked my elemental reserves.

I realized I’d need to throw another barrage at her, and I didn’t want running out of ammo to ruin my assault.

It was pissing me off because she really was just showing off at this point! She didn’t even need that lightning step skill to outrun me.

But that’s okay, because I had an ace up my sleeve as well.

I went up to the frog statue at the front of the training yard, then repeatedly lifted my paws and slammed them back down.

{Elemental Absorption}!

{Elemental Absorption}!

{Elemental Absorption}!

Elemental Absorption Level up! 2 > 3

+5 attunement!

Nice! Well, there was at least one bonus to my training efforts already! Hopefully, once I finished with what I had coming, I’d get even more.

I padded back to the flat area where I knew I’d find her.

Sure enough, she was there. This time, she wasn’t sitting, instead lying on her side and exposing her white underbelly. “Oh, there you are. I was starting to think you had given up.” Her whiskers knitted. “We can take a break, if you like.” Her fangs flashed. “Maybe just do some practice on those dummies for a little while? Hitting a target seems to be something you need a little work on.”

Okay, listen…

I knew she was just saying those things to get under my fur.

I knew that!

But damn it! It was working!

Fox’s tail swayed smugly behind her as she rolled back onto her paws in one smooth motion. “You know, it’s wise to give up on prey that you can’t catch. Only a foolish hunter expends so much energy while not getting a meal out of it.”

I flattened my ears hard.

Oh, I’m going to catch you, alright!

Fox stretched, lightning crackling faintly through her fur. “Honestly, you should be proud, though. You’ve managed to touch me with, what, two whole attacks now? Hmmm, or was it just the one?”

My eye twitched.

“Truly, I’m impressed!”

“GRRRRRRRR!”

I charged at her once again as she bark-laughed and sprang away, heading for the trees.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Earth and Wind! Terra Bullets!

I aimed them at the trees, blocking off her escape route. She realized my plan and quickly skidded in the dirt, heading back into the opening, but I was already chasing after her.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Ice, Electricity, and Wind! Ice Missiles!

The ice missiles whisked through the air sporadically, twisting and coming at her from all angles. She wouldn’t be able to dodge them, and I had moved her too far from the tree line!

Therefore, she had only one line of defense.

This time, when she hunkered down, I pressed forward. I knew exactly what she was going to do next!

The blue lightning field burst around her, but as I suspected, she had to stay still when using that skill. She fizzled my ice missiles into nothing, but I wasn’t done yet!

I swiped my paw against the ground for a wide spray of rocks that her field couldn’t just evaporate!

{Elemental Swipe}! Terra Claw!

She saw that coming too, but instead of trying to dodge back, as it was too late for her to turn, she did exactly what I was hoping!

Lightning crackled from beneath her paws as she ran straight at the spray of rocks. She was going to blast right through them and probably knock me off my feet just to make a point—

But she didn’t know I had my ultimate attack winding up before she even moved.

{Elemental Cocktail}!

EARTH!FIRE!WIND!WATER!HEART—

I mean, ELECTRICITY!

The elements coursed along my fur as she barreled straight towards me at high speed, and when she saw the wolfy smile spread across my muzzle, I could see it in her golden eyes that she knew she had screwed up!

PENTACLYSM!

The mixture of elements formed as a rainbow orb in front of me and then flattened into a sudden lightning-fast beam.

Fox let out an audible yelp of surprise as she took the shot point-blank to the muzzle, and it threw her back! The impact let out such an explosion and was so close that it even pushed me back!

I tumbled head over tail once, but caught myself on the second flip.

I hunkered down, breathing heavily, looking for her through the lingering cloud of smoke, but before it cleared, several System messages popped up in front of my face.

Elemental Cocktail leveled up! 2 > 3

+5 attunement

Achievement! Going All Out!

Sometimes, overwhelming violence is the only way to break through and even the odds!

Guess a little temper tantrum can have its uses once in a while.

+3 strength

+3 Dexterity

+3 Attunement

Achievement! Bop A Vulpyr on it’s Nose!

Foxes are naturally mischievous creatures.And sometimes that gets them punched in the face.

+5 strength

+5 attunement

Achievement! Point-Blank Pentaclysm!

You unleashed the five elements point-blank for maximum power!

Hard to believe anything could survive that!

Moderate bonus to all stats!

My tail wagged as I read through the messages, but as I read the last one, the excited wagging started to slow down, and then my tail drooped behind me.

My happy panting turned to concern when I realized Fox hadn’t said anything yet. No teasing remark, no smug declarations or complaints about me just getting lucky. Not even a “not too shabby, pup.”

I flicked the system messages away and stared through the smoke. As it cleared, I could see Fox’s silhouette lying in a heap.

I pawed forward slowly, ears folded flat against my head, and I whined, “H-Hey… Fox? You okay?”

Finally, the smoke cleared enough to see her. One eye swollen shut, muzzle bloody and still steaming with a crispy, open wound. She winked her other golden eye open, and weakly said, “Eheheh… g-good one, pup.”

And then she fell limp, head sagging to the ground and tail lying flat behind her.

“Fox!” I barked as I ran to her.
