“When I arrived, I beheld a sundered world filled with bickering nations, all of them more eager to take from each other than to claim our destinies as the inheritors of this world. I beheld endless conflicts, arrogance, injustice, greed and petty squabbles that inevitably led to bloodshed and the deaths of innocents. They have not changed. They are as unruly now as they were when I turned my back on their machinations, crossing the ocean to find a better way. Oh, the Paramese are strong. They have the best land, after all: green hills as far as the eye can see, iron, horses, but they are weak. They are decadent. They are fractured. We are not, and we will bring them to heel!”

Another roar, this one bloodthirsty.

“Once we are done, there will be no more wars, no more corruption. Justice and a chance to do better will be granted to everyone regardless of status. We will rise above our lot and grasp the future with our own hands, and I will lead you as king. King Nero Oleander, of the Kingdom of Maranor. And as I rule over mankind…”

He pointed his finger up. Flags unfolded, revealing the holy sword of the Slayer Goddess on a field of white, red, and black.

“She too, will rule over the gods.”

A crimson light descended from the heavens, overtaking the colors of the morning like so much blood about to be spilled. The goddess had looked down and bestowed her personal attention upon the mortal who carried her ideals. Ruby-colored wings expanded from the king’s back, and though the people didn’t know what an angel was, they could feel divine essence seeping into the mortal world. Oleander rose above them as the feet of his cape grew dark, showing the shape of warriors locked in deadly struggle, and when he pointed his sword south, the people cheered.

“To war.”

***

“I’m awake,” Viv said.

She was still in her bed, Bes standing at her side with his impeccable discipline. She ignored the flurry of blue screens assaulting her sight, focusing instead on her soul senses. Something was expanding vastly, reaching far and wide. She felt a flow of sorts. Mana sang in her veins, more powerful than ever before. She felt more defined, more present.

Bes fell to his knees.

“I can… feel your presence,” he whispered. “Like another sun. Magnificent.”

“Thanks I get that a lot. Now I’m going to assume things have gone to shit so just tell me how.”

“Your Majesty, you have returned to us just in time. The Nemeti fleet is in sight. To our southwest, surprisingly.”

They were between her and Harrak. Something pulled on her chest, again. She could recognize it now.

Fate magic.

She could feel the threads, though she couldn’t see them. The Nemeti had a lock on her. They would follow her until they died.

“Gods dammit. How are the preparations going?”

“Poorly, considering the Shadowland fleet is to our east and gaining. There are hundreds of ships, Your Majesty.”

One day she’d wake up and the world would be at peace. And no one would petition her for guild rights. And there would be croissants. One day.

“Alright, let’s get ourselves out of this mess.”
