If she had to leave some people behind, would she do it? Thankfully, nothing jumped them as a mismatched flotilla slowly assembled on the bay, Viv’s flagship “Sword of Neriad” being the last one to leave. Behind them, the Sandsong capital was a scene of grief and consternation. A manor burnt in the distance, the flames left unattended. Some people were praying on the quay though Viv didn’t know who for. She knew a group of determined defenders had decided to gather by the main gate, and that they wouldn’t live to see the sun set. Some nobles would wait for the invaders in the palace to discuss their terms of surrender and cooperation.

The flotilla was a little bit better than she’d feared. In addition to the five Harrakan warships, there were two from Ravinport and a dozen from Sandsong, all fully manned and ready to fight. It would still not matter in the end. They were sure to be completely outnumbered. Avoiding combat was the best solution, but at least they might give fast raiders pause.

There was also the Harrakan secret weapon.

Viv sighed. She wished she could have saved Naila and Jei. Then maybe she wouldn’t feel like she’d completely failed the Sandsong.

The fleet left as the pink fingers of the aurora just touched the sky. Curiously, she felt something tug at her chest as soon as they were out of the bay, so she waited a few hours, until Sandsong was just a line on the horizon before deciding they were safe enough. She signaled to Sidjin. They both leaned against the balustrade, looking at the land disappear in the distance.

“I need to path up,” she told him.

“You what?”

Oh yeah, she hadn’t told him yet.

“Oleander is the other Ascender. Now that we’ve met, we can both take another step.”

Sidjin gave her a long look.

“You know this is a momentous occurrence, right? Someone reaching the fifth step is a national event in most lands.”

“Uh. I don’t think I remember either Solar or Irao mentioning that.”

“You mean the wandering swordsman who lost his arm and the lone assassin who dislikes public attention?”

“A fair point. Anyway, the fact Oleander didn’t follow probably means he retreated to path up himself. If he comes after me now and there are two steps between us, we’re doomed. I need to get this done immediately.”

“I understand. I will be keeping watch while you proceed. I will also be stewing in my own annoyance.”

“What, why?”

He rolled his eyes, though he was still smiling.

“When we met, you were on the third step and I was the mentor. Now our roles will be reversed. I feel inadequate.”

“I’m sure you’ll get plenty of opportunities to path up in the near future.”

“Yes, because we will be caught in a massive war.”

“Silver linings, right? Anyway, off I go.”

“Rest assured that I will protect us.”

Viv clambered down the steps, finding her cabin next to the captain’s. She crashed in the tiny bed while still in full armor. It creaked a little.

“Alright. Let’s do this.”

There hadn’t been much time to think but Viv was certain about her final choice. Obliteron was sadly discarded. She was confident she could already kill anything short of a god with her advanced repertoire. And the forbidden one. What she needed was to survive until she could cast it.

Viv was going to pick the Cataclyst.

Her reasoning was that among the two excellent options she had left, Cataclyst would serve her better because it was basically cheating. The Celestial’s portals would be of tremendous use, as would more powerful colorless mana spells, there was no denying it. Hells, she could probably solve the entire fleet problem right now by opening massive portals to carry them kilometers away right until the point she could just plain portal them to a Paramese port. The issue was that she already had portals and those could already be opened by three people by now: Rakan, Sidjin, and herself. New, more powerful portals would provide a significant but ultimately not game-changing impact compared to manipulating fate.

On the other hand Fate magic was the domain of dragons and the Nemeti, but it was also fickle and excessively difficult to use according to what Arthur had told her. It was so complex, in fact, that most casters spent more time observing than trying to pull strings, and that was true for older dragons as well. She would gain an instinctive understanding of it, meaning she could use it not as a set of spells but rather as an innate talent. This was obviously bullshit of the highest order. She would also be the only human ever to obtain this. Emeric had sired other children before she inherited the spark of luck, but none had reached her level. There would be no one contesting her the ability to nudge things her way, and according to the description, it would work in duels as well as in battle, and logically also for larger events.

Her only issue was that it felt like something that was a little out of her control. In order for her to pick the right decision, there needed to be a possibility for victory to begin with. No amount of random stuff could possibly stop Oleander from taking Vizim, for example. She was hoping her allies and resources would be enough.

With only moderate confidence in her choice, Viv accepted the prompt, and closed her eyes.

***

The in-between.

It had been a long time since Viv had visited, longer than usual. The in-between had become a place of calm and meditation. Now. something occupied the infinite expanse of emptiness she was used to. It was diffuse, but she knew it was there. It felt familiar.

She bobbed a bit, checking to see if there was anything unusual.

“I know you’re here,” she sent.

The expanse didn’t reply. Instead, it contracted, became denser until there was the emptiness, and a cloud in front of it. The cloud was impossibly massive, but as it contracted the presence felt stronger.

“Nous?”

Where other gods were stars, Nous was a distant nebula, or a cloud of dust not yet collapsing into a new celestial object. It took, as always, an infinitely long amount of time but also only moments for a thought to return to Viv.

“Hello. I apologize for the delay. It has been a very long time since I have had to manifest.”

“Not quite dead yet, I see.”

“I cannot explain if I must only use concepts you are familiar with. It does not matter right now anyway. I will be the one to welcome you.”

“I admit to being surprised. I thought it would be someone else.”

“Maranor already officiated your rival’s ascension. The other gods wanted to attend yours. Unfortunately, they are locked in conflict right now.”

“They are fighting?” Viv asked with worry.

“No. Not in a way you can easily conceptualize. Maranor has made a stand. The others are delivering their response. She was always the most stubborn and impetuous of us all.”

Regret tinged his thoughts. Viv could only imagine the kind of history he had been a witness to.

“Maranor has made a gambit. She will unite all of humanity under her champion, and then claim the vacant throne. We have refused to support her attempt.”

“What, all of you? I’m surprised. I didn’t imagine that Emeric would be so popular, especially after he left.”

“Sometimes, it is better to have no ruler than a terrible one. Neriad was the first to refuse. He asked her what would happen to Efestar under her rule. That was his first and last question.”

“Ah.”

“Yes.”

The nebula shifted, its colors growing lighter.

“Enough about us. I am here to welcome you now that you are on the threshold. You can guess what will happen at your next step up.”

“Will I join you?” Viv asked, feeling guilty for her hubris.

“Yes.”

“Ah, alright. I wasn’t honestly sure how it all works.”

“There are no rules to godhood, except to mark the world to such an extent that it acknowledges you. Two visions are in conflict now, two outlanders on a collision course. It does not matter that you could, in theory, make peace at this stage. Split power. The world will not allow it. Your decisions have placed both of you on either side of a chess board, and only one will be left at the end. Only one ruler will triumph. The other bearer must die.”

Viv wasn’t exactly surprised. She didn’t think Oleander would let her live anyway.

“This is the last great war for you,” Nous continued. “You have solved Nyil’s crises faster than it could grow them. You have collected too many tools, forged too many alliances, and rallied too many experts to your cause. Those who fear your power will throw all of their might against yours while the rest will gather around you to stop Oleander. I believe I do not need to tell you how the Hadals, the Kark, your friends, and Efestar’s people will fare under the new rule. What you built will be shattered.”

“I am well aware of his methods.”

“That is not all. He will install a regime whose sole purpose will be its own continuation. Order at any cost will prevail. There will be no one to upset the balance from outside because there will be no outside. All of humanity is concentrated in this fragment of the planet. No one will come to your aid. No one will upset the balance. The men and women living under Nemeti rule are already broken. The rest of them might follow, and then, there will be no hope left, for there will be no one capable of besting Oleander in combat.”

“You don’t have to convince me,” Viv said. “Humans need order like a fish needs water but I believe, as a civilization, that we can do better than that. I think we could get happiness as well. I will not allow him to trample everything we’ve built for his pathetic status quo. Now, I believe there was something about ascension. Does it mean I’ll be the new goddess of luck? If I path up again, I mean.”

“Is Neriad the god of swords and shields? No. Those are your tools. Your cause is your domain. As for your path up, it is almost done.”

“Good. I need to get back.”

“It pleases me that I have no need to warn you. You already know yourself. Then I wish you… good luck.”

The nebula chuckled, but it was short.

“Remember, Viviane the Outlander. You are not alone. You are never alone. We, the remaining gods of light, also support you. When the time comes, we will lend you our aid.”

“I know I’m not alone. Oleander is going to rush after me to try and finish me off, but when he comes to Param… I’ll give him a warm welcome.”

“Then it is goodbye for now. Try not to be on the verge of death too often. I have already used my causality trump card with that Vandal trick. I won’t be able to do it again.”

“It’s going to be fine.”

***

The light of dawn shone on the gardens and stone houses of a Sandsong village on the outskirts of the capital, but they were silent. The people had fled the encroaching army the day before. Upended carts and broken pottery remained behind, quiet signs of a recent exodus. The invaders now stood in tight ranks on the empty fields: two legions of shadowlanders and one of Sheem, complete with baggage, cavalry, siege engines pushed by Sheem engineers and mage cadres, some flying overhead and some standing at attention in their elaborate robes. Sea shamans and priests walked among the troops, praying aloud. All of this mass of mankind waited in front of the king’s massive tent, eyes fixed on the vanguard and Nero Oleander’s most dangerous lieutenants: Jar’ko the Undying, Celerin Crest, Aragan of the One Breath, the Hopecrusher, and many, many more, each one a warrior of legend whose tales were told around campfires. It was the Hopecrusher who addressed them.

“Hear me, children of men! Today, we finish the conquest of Sandsong. Today, we achieve what no one has done before: uniting the nations of two continents under a single rule. And today, we do so under the Champion of Maranor, the manifestation of her will, order and discipline incarnate. He will lead us to greatness. He is your sovereign. Submit to King Oleander… the Immortal.”

Tent flaps swung open. A man walked out, so tall and handsome, and with such presence that most would take him for an avatar at first glance. Curious, soldiers in the crowd inspected him. Gasps spread through the ranks.

[Immortal: Sixth step of the path of Maranor’s Champion. Leader of men. Master melee fighter. Divinely resilient. Monster Bane. Man Bane. Beastling Bane. Dragonslayer. Conqueror. Chosen of the Goddess. King of the Shadowlands…]

The description went on, and on, and those who had not dared to look did so as their questions fell on deaf ears. Some people began to prostrate.

The king opened his hands, silencing thirty thousand throats. Those who stood close felt the ghostly clutch of fingers on their windpipe. They kneeled, and they became quiet. Order was imposed. Ranks tightened. Spines straightened. All those who’d come to fight, all those who believed in the cause knew they were in the presence of greatness. They knew they were witnessing history, no, legend, being made before their very eyes. When the king spoke, his voice reached to the farthest rank with absolute clarity.

“My people. We are no longer Vizimans or Shadowlanders, for we are now united under a single banner, and devoted to a single purpose: to unite mankind once and for all!”

The roar shook the sand. The glint of sun on steel announced the dawn of a new age.

“Sandsong is the last bastion of disorder in Vizim. We will take it, and then we will sail south to Param, where I came into this world, to finish the fight.”

The men and women of the army leaned forward, for any piece of knowledge about this grand leader was as valuable as gold. They could tell everyone home that they’d heard it firsthand.

