“The circle is simple… I understand it, studied it… for decades… please, let me live! I can bring you back,” the man said.

Ilea could feel his distress.

“You want to live, don’t you? You are a powerful mage, are you not?” Ariane said.

Ilea could see the magic form but she couldn’t quite tell what was happening.

“Yes I do. I am, quite powerful. Wiser than even King Abel!”

“Then you would surely be able to bring us back to our realms. To protect your own people,” she said.

“Yes, of course. The magic… it is impossible,” the man stammered out.

“With her help, it may be possible. You would be a hero! Having banished the monstrous creatures that have murdered your king!” Ariane continued.

She’s good, Ilea thought. The man was in her palm, dancing to her tune. She gave her a thumbs up.

“I will get right to it! Only small modifications need to be made… but I can only send you back from where you have come… nowhere else,” he spoke, scrambling to his feet after being let go by the woman.

“Impressive powers. Does that come with the vampire class?” Ilea asked.

“Class? I know of no such thing. What are you? If I might ask?” Ariane said.

“I’m a human. So are you, by the looks of it. You said United States... of America? I’m from Earth too, though I don’t exactly call it home anymore. The place I’m from has magic and monsters. And quite a few opportunities to find power,” Ilea said.

“Human… you looked more monster than woman,” Ariane said.

Ilea wondered why she looked sad all of a sudden. “You too. Well, sometimes you just have to let it out, you know? Feels good to let loose and these fuckers deserved it. So, ready to go home?”

The man motioned them to join him, the modifications to the magic circle done.

“If I might ask... would you… would it be fine for you if… if I drank a little of your blood?” the vampire asked, glancing down at the head she was still holding.

“Knock yourself out,” Ilea said. “But it does feel a little uncomfortable seeing you hold my head.”

The woman handed it back, a longing look in her eyes.

Ilea stored it, planning to incinerate it later. “This should suffice for blood,” she said and punched through her own chest with an ashen limb, ripping out her heart and handing it to the vampire. “A parting gift,” she said with a bright smile, her wound healing already.

“Erm, thank you, Ilea of Elos. It was... an experience to make your acquaintance,” Ariane said and gingerly held the heart.

“Ready?” Ilea asked as the woman stepped into the circle.

Ariane nodded. “Until we meet again,” she said.

Mana flowed from Ilea into the circle as the man activated the spell.

The vampire vanished a moment later.

“What… what happened?” the man asked as he looked around.

“You should probably think about solving your own problems from now on,” Ilea said and activated her third tier blink. She watched him run away, dodging the corpses and blood as he screamed. Just another Wednesday.
