Edmund emerged to false sunshine and a warm breeze and the rhythmic crash of lapping waves.  His boots sank into loose sand.  His eyes glimpsed a dark cliff to his right, a calm sea to his left, and a golden haired girl with fierce green eyes in front of him.

“Edmund!” Amelia Morathian, crown princess to the kingdom of Linaria, greeted him with surprise and joy on her face.  Before Edmund got a chance to appraise her growth since last they’d parted, before he could check her for injuries or get any more sense of the floor on which they found themselves, she pulled up his helmet, and a dangerous and disturbing distraction occurred.

Their lips met.

Shock gave way first to acceptance then to enjoyment as Edmund leaned into the kiss, his soul breathing in the brief respite from the dungeon’s endless hostility and exhaling it back out in warmth and desire.  He placed a hand upon the small of her back and brought her in, their bodies pressing together as they shared this moment of precious reunion.

The kiss dragged on for an eternity yet ended far before its time as the two delvers separated to gaze into each other’s eyes once more and fully gauge their state of being.

Amelia smirked.  “Good start to a floor, huh?”

“I’ve had worse.”

She stepped just far enough out of their embrace for them to get a good look at each other.

She looked good.  The bald spot where some trap or monster had torn her hair out had grown over, and while her face bore a new scar along her lower lip, the wound had long since healed into little more than a pale line.  Gone was the harrowed and haunted look he’d seen on her face in the past, replaced with one of cool confidence and graceful lethality.

Edmund counted two pieces of unfamiliar loot upon her person, an iron ring around her right middle finger and a wicked-looking black dagger on her left hip.  He supposed, given her rank, he shouldn’t have been surprised it took her almost twenty floors to find a piece of loot better than the gear she’d come in with, but Edmund doubted he’d ever fully grasp the scope of her wealth.

As he felt her gaze travel up and down his form in turn, Edmund breathed a silent thanks for the icy eighteenth floor.  He hadn’t exactly scrubbed, but his swim in the frozen lake was at least bath-adjacent, right?

Except rather than his probably-unpleasant scent or unwashed, tangled hair or otherwise remarkably disheveled state, Amelia’s attention fell upon something Edmund himself hadn’t even realized.

“Your eyes are red.  Are you okay?”

Edmund rubbed at them.  “Yeah, it’s just the smoke.  It dries them out.”

Amelia’s brow furrowed.  “What smoke?”

Edmund pulled his hand away from his eyes and blinked them back into focus.  He inhaled, breathing deep the warm and humid and salty air like a balm to his ragged throat.  He exhaled, eyes returning to meet the princess’s gaze.  “Last floor I had to climb a burning tree.”

“Ooh.”  Amelia winced.  “That doesn’t sound fun.”

“Actually, it wasn’t so bad.”

Edmund couldn’t believe it.  The smoke was gone.  The smoke was gone!  Even with the Durne brothers, Thrax, even with the entire fucking tavern of people, there’d always been faint trails of smoke in the air.  The last time he’d breathed this freely had been… come to think of it, it'd been the night he’d spent in Amelia’s tent.

He kept the scowl from his face as he mulled over the realization.  He knew The Recluse lessened his Madness’s effects whenever other people were around, but he’d never considered that different people might cause different outcomes.  All it took was one dangerously motivated princess and Edmund found himself breathing his first lungful of fresh air in months.

It felt amazing.  It felt relaxing.  It felt humanizing.

It felt weak.  It felt wrong.  It felt vulnerable.

Amelia clapped her hands together and brought his attention back to his immediate surroundings.  “Okay, first things first.  I’ve been here an hour so far, and the floor seems to be a straight shot along the beach to the exit.”

Edmund raised a hand to his forehead to shield his eyes from the false sunlight as he followed her gesture.  The sandy beach stretched along for some distance before the cliff on the right curved to abruptly cut it off.  Right at the shore’s end, an open door awaited, beckoning them onward to the next floor, if only they could reach it.  No diverging paths made themselves apparent, the cliff face sheer enough Edmund got the impression Liam didn’t want them climbing it, and the ocean was, well, the ocean.

The Eternal Depths, of course, didn’t contain an entire underground ocean just for one level.  By Edmund’s best guess, the water stretched out for roughly a mile before reaching a sky-colored back wall that did a damn good impression of a clear horizon.  Some hidden mechanism formed the waves and the wind, but Edmund had long grown accustomed to such environmental effects.

The beach’s only visibly artificial feature was a netted hammock that hung from two carved posts near the exit.  More so than any monster, the hammock practically screamed danger in Edmund’s ear.

“I count three potential avenues of attack,” Amelia rattled off.  “The water’s the most obvious, but monsters could just as easily descend over the cliffs or bury themselves in the sand.”

Edmund hadn’t gotten that far, his mind still struggling with the very concept of the level before him.  “It’s a walk along the beach.”

“Yes, that’s… certainly what it looks like.”

He cursed.  “He’s up to something.  He’s gotta be up to something.  First you and now—” he gestured wildly at the floor as a whole— “it’s too nice.”

Amelia cocked an eyebrow at him.  “Oh, is this the part where you tell me who Liam is?”

Shit.  Edmund froze, thoughts racing as he realized he’d called Liam’s name in the process of rescuing Amelia from her father’s men back on the fifteenth floor.

“Liam is…”  He sighed.  “Liam was one of the delvers in my group when I first started out.  We met in the walk-in line.  His ma had the gray lung, and he came to the Depths in a last-ditch bid to afford medicine for her.  He was under-leveled, untrained, and unprepared, yet knowing full well what he was getting himself into, he came anyway.  Any hope’s better than none, I guess.  Even starving and desperate risking his life, he cracked jokes all the way up to the entrance.  Thrax, he died with a fucking smile on his face.”

Edmund hadn’t been prepared to share so much, nor for the moisture beading in his eyes, yet still he talked.  “Not long after his death, Liam came back.  He talked and joked and followed me around as if nothing had even happened.  At first I thought I was hallucinating, but he knew things that I didn’t, things about the dungeon.”

Amelia’s eyes shot open.  “Sandy hair, freckles, and eyes that look like he’s teasing you?”

“You’ve seen him.”  It wasn’t a question.

“Once,” she confirmed, pulling up her left sleeve to reveal a familiar image tattooed on her inner wrist.  “He gave me this.”

“But he still looked like Liam; he didn’t appear as one of your dead party members or your mother or anything.”  Edmund scowled.  “I guess he really does like the mischievous glint in his eyes.”

“Or changing forms is harder than he lets on.”

Edmund blinked.  “Good point.  Actually, if you’ve already seen him, I wonder if…”  He trailed off, tilted his head to the fake sky, and bellowed, “Hey, Liam!”

There was no response.

Amelia cocked an eyebrow at him.  “Does that usually work?”

He shrugged.  “When I’m alone.”

She let out a breath, her face growing pale as Edmund’s words sank in.  “The dungeon comes when you call him?  How often does he show up?  What does he tell you?  What do you tell him?”

“As little as I can, and I get the impression he’s not satisfied with that.”

Amelia scowled.  “What are you—”

“Look at where we are.  Look at where you and I arrived, alone, within an hour of each other.  For Thrax’s sake he’s given us a fucking hammock.”

“So what?  He wants us to distract each other until we slip up and fall into some trap?”

“No, no, he’s not that stupid.  He knows I’m not gonna fuck up and die like that.  He either knows I talk to you and wants information, or he thinks if I fall in love with you I’ll change my mind about him.”

Amelia exhaled sharply, visibly taken aback.  “This isn’t necessarily about you.”

Edmund shook his head.  “It isn’t about you, either.  It’s about Liam.  It’s always about Liam.  He’s been pushing us together since we met, maybe even before that.  Maybe because he knew I’d keep you away from the guards and in the dungeon, but there’s always more to it.  He says he follows me around because I’m entertaining, but I think it’s also because—”

“You want to kill him.”

“Among… other reasons.”  Edmund nodded.  “It’s possible he’s just setting us up for fun.  It’s possible he thinks if we’re a couple, once one of us dies it’ll be easier to kill the other.  It’s possible he’s trying to give me something to live for so I leave him alone.  Knowing Liam, it could be all three, plus eight other reasons I haven’t even thought of.”

“Maybe we should give him what he wants.”

Edmund rounded on her.  “Are you kidding me?  He’s a mass murderer that’s actively manipulating us so he can have an easier time killing us both.  The last thing we should do is give him what he wants.”

“Well, let’s see.”  Amelia counted on her fingers as she spoke.  “We’re both too smart to let this distract us from staying alive, so that’s out.  I don’t know about you, but I have no intention of dying down here, so my death compromising your emotional state also isn’t a problem.  That leaves changing your mind and entertaining the dungeon as potential motives, right?”

At Edmund’s nod, she continued.  “I don’t particularly care what the Eternal Depths does or does not find entertaining.”  She stepped in close, the warmth of her breath washing against his face as she trailed a finger over his chest armor.  “And maybe having something to live for wouldn’t be the worst possible outcome.”

He froze.  “I-I’m sorry.  I didn’t mean to imply you—”

She smiled up at him.  “I’m just saying, if the dungeon wants to give us more long walks on the beach and fewer…”  She glanced at his still-red eyes.  “…Burning trees, maybe we should let him.”

“I don’t trust it.”

“You don’t trust anything.  I know, because I don’t trust anything, and I learned it from you.  You can be suspicious and still enjoy a walk on the beach.  Here, I’ll prove it to you.”  She pulled away and redirected her focus down the narrow shoreline, repeating her earlier analysis.  “Three potential avenues of attack, out of the water, over the cliffs, under the sand.  Unless you see something I don’t, ambush rules eliminate the sand as an option.  You watch the water, I’ll watch the cliffs?”

“I’ll take the cliffs.  Leaves you more room to maneuver and me more opportunity to check for traps and passages.”

Amelia smirked at him.  “What makes you think you’re better at finding traps and passages than I am?”

Edmund opened his mouth to reply before realization of what a reply would entail sunk in.  He wasn’t sure he was ready to explain his Madness to Amelia, especially when The Recluse made it useless around her anyway.  “Alright,” he said instead.  “I’ll watch the water.”

They set off together, taking slow, shuffling steps through the sand to avoid stepping on anything that may’ve been hidden within.  Edmund’s eyes flitted back and forth across the water, scanning for any sign of bubbles or ripples or disturbances in the sapphire waves.  Every few steps he glanced right at Amelia, confirming she continued on at the same pace he did before returning his vigilance to the false ocean and the shoreline ahead.

The crabs came all at once.

Five pale-shelled forms erupted from beneath the waves just a few yards from the shore, far enough to give Edmund time to react, yet close enough to leave him wondering how he hadn’t seen them.  He opened his mouth to call Amelia’s attention to the threat, but the princess’s voice outpaced his own.

“From above!”

Edmund’s gaze darted up over Amelia’s head to spot four more of the giant crabs that’d come over the top of the cliff and now descended down its face.  Before Edmund could even find a moment to decide between drawing his sword and his spear, the sand ten yards ahead and ten yards behind them exploded into the air, as eight more of the monsters burst from below.

They were surrounded.

Each crab stood some four feet tall and seven wide, with hard, flat shells on top and hopefully-weak underbellies below.  Their legs speared through the sand, providing both unparalleled traction in the loose terrain and deadly weapons if needed.  Edmund got the impression they weren’t.

From each sprouted two massive, meaty claws, each no smaller than Edmund’s entire torso and doubtlessly strong enough to snap him like a twig.  Evading those would be step one.

“When I listed off the potential avenues of attack, I wasn’t expecting all three at once!” Amelia shouted as she drew her daggers, spinning the more mundane-looking one in her palm.

“That’s Liam for you,” Edmund replied, willing the pieces of his hyper-magnetic spear to levitate from his body and assemble in his hand.  “Any ideas?”

“Seventeen of them,” she reasoned aloud, pressing her back to his to keep an eye on all the incoming enemies.  “Got any AOE?”

“One, but it’s untested.”

“You didn’t test it?”

“I had to leave the last floor in a hurry.”

Amelia groaned.  “Alright.  Let’s get past them and build some distance, then.  Forward or backward?”

“Back.  Fewer unknowns.”

“Seaside crab’s on firmer ground.”

The pair shared a nod and took off, darting across the sand back the way they’d come.  They angled their charge towards the shoreline, distancing themselves from the cliffside crustaceans to make for their intended target.

The wetter sand nearer the sea made an astounding difference, as suddenly Edmund’s boots went from wildly flinging sand around to solidly digging into the ground and propelling him forward.  Amelia didn’t seem to speed up at all, some item or ability of hers already overcoming the loose terrain.

