Just before he stepped into striking range of the giant crab, Edmund’s shoulder seemed to erupt into flame as his challenger’s mark took effect.  Before his eyes the beast doubled in size, growing to a towering eight feet tall and fifteen wide as a second pair of spine-snapping claws sprouted from its midsection.

Edmund didn’t stop.

He leapt and windstepped into the air as a claw swung for him, catching it on his shield and slamming it down.  His action did little to redirect the claw, but it did plenty to redirect Edmund.  His body swung up and over the beast’s limb as he tucked his legs and leaned into the flip.  Momentum carried him onto the crab’s upper shell, where he landed on his shoulder and rolled across it before retaking his feet near its backside.

On instinct he moved to plant his spear in the creature’s back, but Amelia’s leather clad form slid out from under it before he could deliver the blow, a sheen of blue blood coating her daggers.

Edmund leapt off of the thing just as it collapsed.

Together they sped away, the horde of now sixteen giant crabs scrambling across the sand in hot pursuit.  They skidded to a halt as they reached the entrance, turning to face the oncoming cast.

“Good news is, at twice the height it’s easier to get under ‘em.”  Amelia grinned and flicked the blood from her knives.  “Just got another set of claws to deal with.”

“With any luck, we won’t have to,” Edmund replied, handing his spear off to his shield hand to prepare the spell.  He grit his teeth and brought his focus inward, pouring it down the newly-carved channel in his mind.

Nothing happened.

He poured and he poured and he poured, but Artillery drank its fill and more, draining Edmund of every drop of mental energy he had to give before, at last, the spell took shape.

The Firestorm erupted.

Blindingly hot flames surged through the air, blossoming into an explosive maelstrom at the center of the oncoming swarm.  Edmund squinted as steam and smoke and fire filled the air, blocking his view of the damage he’d dealt.  A cacophony of high-pitched squeals echoed down the shoreline as moisture within the crabs boiled and escaped their shells.

Black spots grew in Edmund’s vision, crowding out his perception of the beach ahead.  His ears rang.  His thoughts slowed.  He swayed where he stood, only keeping upright as Amelia caught him.  He panted, taking quick, shallow breaths as his mind failed to process the information around him.  A moment passed.  Another.

Something lifted his helmet and pressed something cool and round to his lips.  Edmund allowed it entry, and moments later an icy liquid poured from the vial and into his mouth.  He coughed and sputtered as the tincture took him by surprise, but enough of it made it down his throat that the black spots faded from his vision and his mind returned to coherence.

“This is why we test our spells,” Amelia chided him as she pocketed the empty vial.

Edmund swallowed and blinked as the mana potion took effect, opting to remain silent and direct his focus to the results of his Firestorm.

Not a single crab had fallen.  He’d overexerted his mana pool to nearly devastating consequences, and not a single crab had fallen.  Edmund groaned.

“We need to move,” Amelia said.  “They won’t be stuck for long.”

Edmund blinked as his sluggish mind realized the meaning behind her words.  His eyes widened.

While his Firestorm had done little more than blacken the outer shells of the beasts themselves, the ground on which they stood hadn’t been so lucky.  No longer did loose sand readily accept their pointed limbs, the terrain melted away and replaced with a smooth and reflective surface.

The crabs stood fixed within a field of molten glass, glass the cool ocean breeze solidified into a transparent shackle around their legs.

Edmund gave Amelia a nod, and in they charged.

With a thought, he bid his spear disassemble and return to its place in pieces attached to his various limbs, drawing his short sword for the close-quarters combat he knew was coming.  As they neared the field of glass, Edmund and Amelia split ways, each taking on a crab of their own to better finish off as many as they could before the beasts freed themselves.

To Edmund’s surprise, the hardened sand didn’t so much as crack beneath the weight of his boots, the foggy glass clearly far thicker than he’d thought.  Apparently Firestorm’s absurd mana cost actually meant something—just less than the thick shells that protected the crabs.

His first target lashed out in a threefold attack, keeping one of its claws in reserve as it swung at Edmund from left, right, and above.  He stepped into the leftward strike, catching it on his shield and slamming against it to propel himself past the other two claws and under the crab.  Two of its legs broke free, skittering desperately but failing to find purchase on the smooth glass.

Edmund spared the extra moment to line up his shot before plunging his sword up through the beast’s underbelly and through its brain.  He darted out before it could collapse on top of him.

One by one they executed the trapped monsters, thinning out the cast until Edmund and Amelia finally met in the shadow of the final crab.  Edmund gave her a wink.  She smiled back.  He took the opportunity to land a lethal blow, claiming the final kill for himself.  They escaped the falling crab with laughter on their faces.

“That’s still only seven for you!” Amelia taunted.  “I got ten.”

“The first one doesn’t count!  I distracted it for you.”

“Seven to nine then.”  She smirked.

“Not fair.”  Edmund shook his head.  “You have Agility; of course you finished faster than I did.”

Amelia raised an eyebrow.  “Oh?  Is someone a sore loser?”

“Someone is still mana drained from immobilizing them in the first place.”

“That reminds me,” Amelia said with a teasing grin.  “You owe me a mana tincture.”

Edmund responded with the most incredulous ‘no way’ look he could manage.

Amelia snorted, turning away to gaze along the beach.  “First attack came roughly a third of the way down the beach.  That’d imply there’ll be another one.”

“I don’t take implications at face value.  Liam can’t lie outright so he makes you assume things.”

“It feels safe to assume we’ll have to fight more monsters.  Worst case I’m pleasantly surprised.”

Edmund exhaled sharply with amusement.  “Fair enough.”

Though neither of them had taken any injuries in the melee, if more crabs were to appear, Edmund at least wanted enough mana for a few Firebolts and a Smoke Lash if not a full Firestorm.  Whether or not trapping the beasts as he had was worth the mana tincture he’d needed to stay conscious remained to be seen.

The couple spent the downtime exchanging stories.  Edmund told Amelia of his rootmother’s sigil and the burning tree, and she in turn described a convoluted puzzle involving hidden keys and color-coded locks all while the level had slowly filled with water.

Edmund wondered how come he’d never had a puzzle floor.

Things turned more solemn as the conversation moved to matters of the celestial.

“You turned it down?”  The shock carried clearly through Amelia’s voice.

“What was I going to do?  Sign a pact only for it to revoke its side a year down the line?”

“Oblivion was willing to weaken its church for you!  Do you have any idea how valuable churches are to these beings?”

Edmund shrugged.  “Valuable enough to be worth weakening me once I’d signed with it?”

Amelia sighed.  “Keep rejecting these and you’ll stop getting good offers.”

“That’s what Liam said.”

She shook her head.  “I’m just happy I got the deal I did.  Selicath doesn’t have any other followers, and I don’t have to let him open a church until I’m queen.”

Edmund scowled.  “Risky bet to assume you’ll make it out of here alive.”

“That’s true of any pact they sign down here.  Besides, the archangel of alacrity has faith in me.”

“Get anything useful at least?”

Amelia winked at him.  “That would be telling.”

Edmund nodded, opting not to press any further.  Giving his unwillingness to reveal his Madness quite yet, he couldn’t exactly pressure her into revealing her Aspects to him.  A few were obvious, of course.  Agility made itself apparent in her fighting style, and the fact she’d signed with an archangel fundamentally meant she’d taken Divine.  Blades and Talents seemed likely given her choice of weapons, but fighting with daggers didn’t require either.

They set off once more the moment Edmund declared his mental energy replenished enough, returning to their slow shuffle along the sand.

Edmund eyed the sand before them and the water to their left with unceasing vigilance, hoping that this time he could spot the crabs before they appeared.  He knew the task would’ve been easier in Amelia’s absence, that the smoke would’ve revealed the hidden beasts in a heartbeat, but a foolish part of him felt grateful to have the princess by his side.  At the very least, he could practice spotting enemies without relying on his most fickle Aspect.

He sensed Amelia tense as they reached the two-thirds mark, a foolish gesture by his reckoning, if an understandable one.  Edmund’s stance remained unchanged, his stance as ready for attack as possible since he’d first set foot on the floor.

None came.  No giant crabs burst from beneath the waves, no sand erupted as beasts emerged from behind them, no arthropods crested the rocky cliffside.  Edmund and Amelia simply walked up to the floor’s end, and a chime rang out.

“Huh,” Amelia vocalized as the exit swung open and a loot chest arose from the sand.

Edmund scowled.  “It’s too easy.”

“Or,” Amelia offered, “we’re too good.”

He snorted.  “You think we’re better than the Eternal Depths, with challenger’s marks?”

“I think if the dungeon’s capable of giving us a pleasant floor, it’s just as capable of giving us an easy one.  Like you said, it’s too smart to think we’d distract each other and die.  Maybe it wants us paranoid and second-guessing each other.”

“Trying to figure out what Liam wants is a quick and easy way to go insane.  More insane.  Maybe he thinks we’ll owe him now that he’s done something nice.  Maybe you’re right and he wants us paranoid.  Maybe he genuinely thought the crabs would be tougher than they were.  There’s just too many things he could potentially want, and the only one I know of for certain is that he wants us dead.”

“I thought you said he wanted you to entertain him.”

“Sure.  He likes playing with his food.”  Edmund shook his head.  “Floors are never this simple, not this far down.  Either the pleasant atmosphere is meant to be part of the challenge, or…”  He trailed off, his eyes sweeping out over the waves.  “How’d you like to go swimming?”

“Hard no,” Amelia said with no uncertainty.  “Pretty much anything can and will outmaneuver us out there.  It’d be suicide.”

“That’s the problem with you Agility fighters.  Can never fight anything that’s faster than you.”

“Nothing’s faster than me.  Nothing the accords would allow for, anyway.”

Edmund simply replied by looking pointedly at the false ocean.

Amelia deflated.  “Point taken.  What makes you so interested in the water, anyway?”

“That’s where I would put the hidden boss, you know, the kind delvers go looking for when a floor is too easy.  If you make ‘em feel they haven’t worked hard enough, they’re more likely to go chasing some secret boss they can’t beat.”

“Except you think you can beat it.”

Edmund sighed.  “Not with you here.  Like you said, you won’t be much help underwater, and without my Solitude Aspects I wouldn’t take on a boss in adverse conditions.”

“Wait, you seriously think you can solo a rare boss underwater?”

“Yeah, of course.  Two floors ago I killed a leviathan under a frozen lake, and I didn’t even have water breathing then.”

Amelia gaped.  “You know, every once in a while, I forget how absolutely insane you are.”

“You don’t know the half of it.”

“Then tell me,” she said, leaning back against one of the hammock’s two posts and crossing her arms.

Edmund paused for a moment to ponder strategies before ultimately landing on stalling.  “Aspects and loot first, then we confirm we’re actually safe here, then we can do story time.  Alright?”

At Amelia’s nod Edmund moved for the loot chest, swinging open the strangely glassy container to reveal six gold coins and a pair of silver rings.  He gulped.

A sound somewhere between a nervous laugh, a stifled yelp, and a high-pitched squeak rang out behind him as Amelia laid eyes on their loot.

Edmund grimaced.  “He gave us rings.”

“Matching rings.”

“He thinks he’s being funny,” Edmund said, squinting at the faint trails of smoke coming off their new loot to confirm the rings served the same function.

Ring of Twinned Souls

One of a pair.  Provides a 30% bonus to all damage dealt while fighting with the wearer of its twin.  Once per day, send a message that transcends distance to whomever wears the second ring.

Sure enough, the other ring’s description was identical, confirming the intent behind the loot drop.  The rings shattered the last of Edmund’s doubts.

Liam wanted him and Amelia together.  Edmund couldn’t begin to guess at which of the myriad potential reasons drove the Depths’s decision, but the decision itself stared him in the face, plain as day.  The only question was what to do about it.

With an air of stunned solemnity, Edmund withdrew the two rings, noting that despite their identical design and purpose, one was slightly smaller than the other.  He handed that one over to Amelia, whose more slender fingers would fit it perfectly.

Edmund tried his on as many fingers as he could, but it only rested comfortably on his ring finger.  With the pieces of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh occupying his right hand, Edmund reluctantly slipped his newest acquisition over his left ring finger, precisely where a wedding ring might’ve gone.

Amelia broke the uncomfortable silence, handing the ring back to him.  “I’m not marrying you.”

“Tell that to Liam.  He seems to have gotten the wrong idea.”

She tilted her head to the sky and shouted, “I’m not marrying him!”

“Just put on the ring.  Thirty percent damage is too much to ignore, and a way to keep in contact across floors is valuable in its own right.”

“But people will think—”

“Half the kingsguard watched me abscond with you on the fifteenth floor.  They already think we’re sleeping together.”

“But we are.”

