“Exactly.  At least this way they’ll think we’re being proper about it.  Just take the damn thing.  Or would you rather I got down on one knee?”

Amelia scowled and snatched the ring back, slipping it over her right ring finger.  “There’s nothing proper about this.”

Edmund blinked at her.  “You snuck out with three guards and a priest, broke into one of the most dangerous places in the world, lost your entire party, kept going despite repeated attempts to bring you home, and you’re worried about being proper?  Ames, I think you threw propriety out the window months ago.”

She kissed him.

It came out of nowhere.  One moment they were standing several feet apart arguing over the awkwardness of the twin rings, the next his helmet was up, her arms were around him, and her lips pressed tightly against his.  Edmund couldn’t have reacted quickly enough if he’d wanted to.  Damn Agility fighters.

She pulled away.  “Call me that again.”

“What?  Ames?”

She kissed him again.  “Nobody’s ever called me that.  Always my full name or ‘highness’ or ‘princess’ or ‘my lady.’  Even my father calls me Amelia.”

Edmund kissed her back.  “There are no princesses down here.  Just suicidal lunatics and deadly monsters.”

“Oh?”  She grinned.  “Which one are you?”

“Don’t you know?” he growled, pulling her body against his.  “I’m both.”

“What does that make me?”

Warmth coursed through Edmund’s body as a normally dormant part of him stirred.  He leaned in and whispered in her ear.  “Every monster worth its salt needs a fair maiden…”  He let himself trail off for a moment, allowing the tension to build before he finished the statement, “to ravage.”

Amelia’s face flushed as she pulled away and looked up at him with wide eyes.  For a horrible moment, Edmund thought he’d pushed it too far.  His fear lasted a paltry second before she licked her lips and spoke her reply.  “If everyone’s going to think we’re married anyway…”

Edmund kissed her.  And he kissed her.  And he kissed her.  He kissed her softly and slowly on the lips.  He kissed her sharp and fiery up and down her neck.  He kissed teasingly on the cheek, flirtatiously on the nose, lovingly on the forehead.  Above all he kissed her longingly, longing for an hour’s peace, longing for absolution, longing for her.

He didn’t notice when she reached into her pack to grab the key to her tent, nor when she flipped it through the air to conjure the wooden doorway.

By the time the door closed behind them and the first pieces of armor clattered against the carpeted floor, all thoughts of dungeons and monsters and Aspects had left Edmund’s mind.  He had something more important to focus on.

Edmund was screaming again.

Amelia sat up and rubbed her groggy eyes.  She groaned.  Madam Pelch’s etiquette classes hadn’t covered the proper protocol for a bedmate with nightmares.  She glanced down at his sleeping form, her heart swelling with pity as she noted the sheer terror and desperation on his face and in his voice.

She couldn’t wake him again.  Twice already she’d pulled him from his slumber, offered comfort and reassurance that she was there and everything was alright, and twice he’d fallen back asleep and back to the nightmares.  Perhaps she ought to have let him sleep, let him face his fears and come out the other side.  At the very least, a full night’s rest had to be better than waking up a dozen times throughout the night.

Amelia slipped out of the bed and pulled a fresh set of underclothes from her armoire, donning first them and then her armor in complete silence, unbothered by the gloom in the tent.  Whatever Edmund may’ve thought about Agility fighters, she had to admit that Shadows in particular had its upsides.

She spared another sorry glance at Edmund’s restless slumber before she stepped from the tent, leaving the door just barely cracked.  He wasn’t the only one who needed rest.  With any luck, she could get some sleep on the hammock.  The floor was considered cleared, so as long as she didn’t go poking around in places she shouldn’t, she’d be safe.

It came as some surprise, then, when Amelia turned away from the entrance to her camp to find a man already lying on the hammock, his hands folded behind his head as he gazed up at the false sky.

Amelia froze, a hand instinctively reaching for the dagger at her hip.  “It’s you.”

“It’s me,” the man replied.

“Liam, right?  That’s your name?”

“That’s a name,” the man replied.  “I’ve had a few, in my time, but I suppose Liam is as good as any.”

“What do you want from me?”

Liam paused, holding up a silencing finger as Edmund’s screams echoed from within her tent.  “You realize you do that to him, right?”

“Excuse me?”

“The nightmares, the screaming,” Liam explained.  “He doesn’t do that when he’s alone.”

Amelia gulped.  “Is that why I’m here?  To torment him?”

“Yep.  I sent you two on a long walk down a sandy beach to torment you.”  Liam laughed before stopping abruptly.  “For legal reasons, I need to clarify that was a joke.”

“Why, then?  If you’re trying to destabilize the kingdom, you should know I’m not marrying him.  If you’re hoping I’ll birth a bastard out of wedlock, I have serums to prevent that.”

Liam sat up, swinging his legs around and off the hammock to finally meet her gaze.  “My dear, it’s time it sank through that pretty royal head of yours that Edmund might be more important than you.”

“I figured that,” Amelia said.  “You’re dressed up as his friend, not mine.  What I can’t figure out is why.”

“You know, he was just about to tell you before you got all distracted boning each other.”

Amelia raised a judgmental eyebrow at him.  “So if this is all about Edmund, and you’re not trying to torment him, what’s the play here?  You’re hoping that I’ll distract him?  That he’ll forget why he’s here or slip up somehow?”

Liam chuckled to himself.  “No, no, you’ve got it all backwards.  I’m not interested in what you’ll make him forget.  I’m interested in what you’ll make him remember.”

“He knows something you don’t?”

Liam let out a long, drawn out breath, folded his hands together, and leaned on his knees.  “Before he set foot in here, something happened to Edmund, something he refuses to talk about, yet for which he clearly blames me.  I want to know why.  Most of the time he hides from it, wraps himself up in all that smoke until the bad memories go away, but when you’re around…”

“The nightmares,” Amelia breathed, “you said I caused them.  That’s why I’m here, isn’t it?  Thrax, this isn’t about distracting him.  You’re after his trauma.”  She blinked, her mind racing as she fought to make sense of everything Liam had told her.  In the end, only one explanation fit.  “You’re scared of him.”

A faint smile crossed Liam’s face.  “No, actually.  I should be.  My friends all are, and believe me, they don’t scare easy.  If you knew what was good for you, you’d be scared of him too.  I guess we have that in common.”

“I’m not the one he’s sworn to destroy.”

“No,” Liam said, “but I’ve lived long enough to know that vengeance is a one-way road, and passengers don’t generally survive the trip.”

Amelia gulped.

“I’m glad we had this talk.  When he wakes up, you should ask him about that smoke of his.  Should make for a riveting conversation.”  He stood, patted the hammock affectionately, and flashed a predatory grin.  “Sleep well.”

Then he was gone.

Amelia realized then and there that the hammock had never been meant as a romantic spot for her and Edmund to share.  From the outset Liam had put it there so she’d have a place to sleep while Edmund dreamed.  He shouldn’t have bothered.

She’d be getting no sleep that night.

Edmund awoke to false sunlight spilling through the cracked door of the tent.  Outside he heard the telltale grunts of combat training, most likely Amelia running through forms.

His first order of business was to collect the Aspect Amelia had so rudely distracted him from the prior night.  He envisioned his constellation and made the obvious choice—the only remaining one now that he’d completed his other tier threes.  He selected The Recluse and War, and formed his newest confluence.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Challenger - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Challenge active ability.

Edmund blinked at the description, wondering what exactly Challenging something would accomplish.  He’d have to find a chance to test it out.

The upgrade brought The Recluse to level four, War to nine, and Solitude to nine, all without changes to their descriptions.  Madness felt like it’d changed, but no matter how Edmund focused in on it, he couldn’t pin down the difference.  At least its level had gone up.

Shutting his constellation, he rubbed his eyes and pushed himself upright, the evening’s nightmares already fading from memory.  With all the dignity and grace of a naked man who’d been awake for all of two minutes, he slid out of bed and went about collecting his various pieces of armor from where they’d haphazardly fallen.  He was half-dressed when Amelia, fully armed and armored, stepped in.

“Good morning,” she greeted him.  Her voice was cheery, but there could be no denying the bags under her eyes.

Edmund paled.  “I didn’t keep you up, did I?  I’m so sorry.”

“No, no, it’s okay.  You needed the rest.”

Edmund swallowed and nodded and bent over to grab his belt from the floor.

“I-um,” Amelia said, “I had a chat with Liam last night.”

“What did he want?”

“He said I should ask you about that smoke of yours.”

Edmund froze.

“Your eyes weren’t just red from the burning tree last floor, were they?”

“No,” Edmund muttered, sitting on the bed.  “They weren’t.”

Amelia sat at his side.  “Do you want to talk about it?”

Edmund exhaled.  “Apparently Liam wants me to.”

Amelia winced at that.

They sat in silence for some time as Edmund collected his thoughts.  He supposed Liam was right.  She deserved the truth.  His heart raced as he opened his mouth to explain, the words on his tongue somehow more nerve-wracking than the life-or-death skirmishes he’d grown so accustomed to.

“Liam thinks I’m something called the paragon of Madness.”

“Thrax,” Amelia cursed under her breath.  “You are more important.”

Edmund cocked an eyebrow at her but didn’t question the statement.  “All I know for sure is that my Madness is extremely high resonance.  It’s why I thought I was hallucinating when I saw Liam for the first time.”

“But Liam wasn’t a hallucination,” Amelia said.  “The smoke was.”

Edmund nodded.  “It shows me things, things I shouldn’t be able to know.  Monsters’ names, descriptions of loot, where secrets are hidden.  It changes things, too.  I never know for sure, but I think it reshapes the world around me.  Once, when a man was holding me at sword point, the smoke choked him to death.”

“Can you control it?”

“No,” Edmund put it plainly.  “It seems to mostly work in my best interest, though, or at least what I think is my best interest.  I have another Aspect, The Recluse, that weakens it when I’m around other people.”

“That’s why you always fight alone,” Amelia reasoned aloud, pausing before the second realization sunk in.  “It’s not just me, then.”

“It is and it isn’t.  Other people weaken it too, but even back at the tavern, even surrounded by people, the air has never been clearer than it is right now.  Anybody can thin it out, but you’re the only one who makes it go away entirely.”

“That explains the nightmares.  Without the smoke to protect you…”

“Yeah.”  Edmund rubbed the back of his neck.

“You should know, they’re what Liam is after.  At least, that’s what he told me.  He wants us together because he thinks that’ll help him learn about your past.”

“The fact he doesn’t already know mea—”  Edmund cut himself off.  “Nevermind.  I don’t want to risk giving him what he wants.”

“Okay.”  Amelia nodded, taking the excuse at face value.

The conversation faded at that, the two sitting in quiet companionship as the complexity of it all washed over them.  Edmund was the first to push off the bed and break the silence.  “So, how about that sea monster?”

“There isn’t one.”

Edmund faltered.  “What?”

“I went looking for it last night.  The water’s empty.  Maybe Liam actually wanted us to just… go for a swim.”

Edmund snorted.  “He probably thought I’d need another bath before you let me in your tent.”

“Hey!  In my defense, you hadn’t bathed in how long?”

Edmund grabbed the last of his gear and stepped outside, squinting as his eyes adjusted false sunlight.

Amelia followed.  “So… about that swim?”

“I want to go another round with the crabs, without Firestorm this time.  If they’re worth it, we can stay and train against them for a while, otherwise, it’s time to move on.”

“Straight back to business, huh?”  Amelia didn’t hide the annoyance in her voice.

“I have to keep moving.  Obsession won’t punish me for a few hours’ rest, but every day I lose, more people die.”

“Those people have agency, Edmund.  They make their own choices.  They’re not your responsibility.”

“Thrax, you sound like Liam.”

Amelia froze.

“I’m sorry.  That was… that was harsh.”  Edmund exhaled.  “Maybe I should go, give you a chance to rest and… think everything through.”

“Edmund, that’s—”

“Yeah,” he cut her off, his eyes drifting aimlessly over the water.  “Come to think of it, I’ve had enough of this fucking beach.  It’s simpler when everything’s trying to kill you.”

“You don’t have to—”  Amelia sighed.  “Okay.  I understand.  Take as long as you need.  I’m sure we’ll run into each other again.”

Edmund paused to plant a single kiss on her forehead before turning to the exit.  “Try not to die.”

“Yeah, you too.”  Amelia let out a slight chuckle and raised her hand to call attention to the silver ring on her finger.  “And keep in touch!”

Edmund stopped for a moment and tapped the ring on his own finger.  He flashed a thin semblance of a smile, said “I will,” and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 21

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 9 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 8 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

