“The dead are gone, but the living remain. They want to hold onto the minds of those they’ve lost. Is there a superior conduit for that than memory? By expanding the domains of their minds, they can hold onto the spirit of those they’ve lost. That is the eternity they wish for by consuming their ancestors. It will be achieved through history.”

I frowned.

"It feels insincere."

Plazia stepped up to me.

“But it isn't. Those we’ve loved…Their deaths will leave us broken, but I believe there is no greater memorial than piecing ourselves back together using the shards they left behind. We find wholeness in what is given, and that is how they live on.”

Plazia had never seemed more like a person twisted by circumstance, someone vulnerable and raw. Someone crumbling. Up until now, Plazia was an evil mastermind, sinister and cunning but lacking nuance. I was wrong about that. He had pulled himself together as well as he could given his circumstances.

I gave him a nod.

“I won’t forget that.”

As if realizing what he’d said, Plazia stepped away. He gazed into some unseen abyss before stepping over to where his basalt throne had been. It reformed, and he sat down. Plazia nodded at himself before leaning against his hand.

“Do what you will with what I’ve said.”

I pointed a thumb behind me.

“So…About the massive eldritch proliferating across the planet. What’s the plan to destroy it?”

Plazia rolled his hand.

“Before we discuss that apocalypse, I am in need of your services.”

“For what?”

“I’ve created this religion using your golems. I am in need of your rings, gear, and other assorted rewards. If you grant it to the warriors who’ve performed the best, we may reinforce the best aspects of this race. They may bloom into something greater than either of us anticipates.”

I shrugged.

“Easily done. I can make a hundred thousand rings pretty quickly.”

Plazia tapped his throne with his fingers.

“The aquatic and shadow tribes will garner influence and status from their power alone, but granting them blessings of your favor will further bolster this movement. I’m in need of around twenty thousand artifacts. The simplest rings will do. If that is too much to lend, then your legacy should be far more than adequate to validate your blessings.”

I did some mental math.

“I can do all that in about two weeks, including covering major cities.”

Plazia leaned back.

“Good. My efforts haven’t been wasted.”

“Of course. Now, about the giant eldritch-”

Plazia raised a hand, pointing up one finger.

“Ah, but I am in need of compensation. You know my goals. Have you progressed towards any of them as I sieged a planet in your name?”

I rubbed my temples.

“Hm. Give me a second. Ok, I’ve learned a bit about the eldritch, and I have some proof for it.”

I raised a fist, and I counted on raised fingers.

“First, they’re coming in as shattered pieces of dimensions. We guessed that, but the tears on Earth verify our theory. I also know that exposure to this miasma-” I raised my armor, showing the shattered rupture in spacetime, “Is what’s deforming normal creatures and people.”

The ground between us glowed into magma. Insects erupted as a horde, their forms glowing hot but not evaporating the water near them. Plazia flowed through his throne before raising it as a shield.

“What is that accursed thing?”

I pointed at it.

“It’s a portal leading to the space between dimensions. It’s a true tear. Hm, I should call it that. True tears, not false ones.”

Plazia hissed.

“It is corruption.”

I wrapped it in my armor.

“Which is why I’m letting it spew that poison at me. I happen to be good at eating poison, right?”

The insects and throne bled back into the ground, oozing in a rapid shift. Plazia glared at me.

“If you expose me to that energy, our arrangement is done, and I will put every effort into repaying your kindness for having done so.”

I nodded.

“Understandable. I’d do the same if someone threw this at me while I was vulnerable to it. I think that exposure to this stuff is what makes the eldritch what they are, like we hypothesized. We found Hod’s dimension in a state of partial collapse, which is why the Eltari were partially eldritchified. The same is likely true for the Vagni.”

I shrugged.

“I’m thinking that Schema has to pick and choose which pieces of dimensions it can save or add to a place. Whenever Schema molds a dungeon into the surrounding landscape, he’s essentially stopping the corruption of this interdimensional energy from propagating further.”

Plazia grabbed his chin.

“Hm. Schema is using our dimension as a vessel, and these disparate dimensions are like life rafts. We take them onto our vessel before they deform further, and we must clear out the occupants. Assuming that’s the case, why would the dungeons continue spawning eldritch?”

I put my hands on my hips.

“My guess? The seal that Schema creates isn’t foolproof. It can help stop the further deformation of the eldritch, but it can’t stop them from forming completely. That’s probably why eldritch don’t end up becoming these world enders and have a kind of limit to their strength.”

Plazia’s voice rumbled from around us.

“Then the answer is simple. We limit the corruption of the incoming eldritch. That requires reaching those collapsing, dimensional shards before they’re infested with that disgusting filth you call interdimensional energy. That was the plan long ago. Mere verification isn't enough."

I pulled out my other dimensional shard, the one leading to the plain world with fireflies at night.

“I've been practicing hauling these dimensional shards around. It’s difficult, but I’m getting better at it.”

I put the true tear up to my face and breathed it in like a gas mask. I breathed out clean water.

“The good news is that I am immune to interdimensional energy from what I can tell, and I’ll use my natural resilience to shepherd the eldritch over here. I need to know where they are, along with a means of transport. With those two things, I’ll become an eldritch freight train, carrying dimensional shards loaded with uncorrupted eldritch.”

I showed the rough edges of the plains world I carried with me. While not a true planet in size or scale, its mass far exceeded anything I could physically grab. Billions could fit in here easily, and I moved it with my dimensional aura.

“Even if they are in a small shard, I can carry larger ones like this to fit more of them. This stable chunk should let me take masses of the eldritch back to our dimension before they’re corrupted.”

Plazia walked up, reaching a hand into the domain I carried.

“Hmm...This isn't bad. Not bad at all. So you really haven’t forgotten what we arranged. Excellent. For a moment, I thought you took me for a fool by sending me to this planet. I was wrong.”

I raised my brow.

“I’m a lot of things. Simple-minded. Thoughtless. Even impulsive. I don’t think anyone can call me ungrateful, though. You do right by me, and I’ll do right by you. As well as I can, at least.”

Plazia stepped back and turned a hand to me.

“It would seem to be so. Gratitude aside, we still lack any means of finding these spatial shards. We may need to contact that disgusting AI in order to ascertain their positions. Otherwise, we roam into a darkness so deep that there is no end to it.”

I remembered trying to follow Kiiryah into the void between dimensions.

“Yeah, it’s an ocean of ink, alright. Still, we’re well on our way to handling your kind’s mass exodus. I’ll see if I can call a meeting with Schema to exchange that information for my grunt work.”

Plazia peered at the ground.

“This…This is good news. I never imagined so much ground could be gained so quickly. We can shepherd the masses. We merely need to find them.”

I spread my hands.

“And you really turned this place around. I think you’re using some smart ideas. Having people earn their awards seems like it leaves a lot less mess behind than simply handing stuff out. I figured that out myself recently.”

Plazia’s internal swarm shifted.

“Schema’s system also lets us know who has murdered and who has not. It’s a simple, effective tool to dissuade the act, and now the Vagni know it’s a cardinal sin. I’m certain you’ve had to enact brutal rulings of your own given the limitations of your resources.”

I remembered how we handled the raiders around the Shattered Spires.

“We've made tough choices, but I don't see how this is relevant to the spreading monster on this planet.”

Plazia tapped his side.

“You know, there is a colossal, expanding eldritch. What else do you need?”

I turned my palm to him.

“Yeah, I’m wondering why you didn’t solve the issue already.”

“Is it not the duty of a ruler to defend their territories?”

“Yeah, but not all by themselves. You could’ve easily killed this thing well before it became a problem. Why didn’t you?”

Plazia peered off.

“Is my contribution to the Vagni’s culture and the stability of the planet not enough? Are my efforts deemed so shallow?”

I spread my hands.

“What? Hell no. I expected to find corpses dangling from the streets, not shadow leagues organized around what the Vagni have long believed. This is an incredible result.”

Plazia snarled.

“Then why must I fight this spreading eldritch?”

I furrowed my brow.

“You don’t. I’m not commanding you to run in and battle it. I’m asking why you didn’t.”

Plazia squeezed a hand before pointing at me.

“It feeds on one of those.”

I frowned.

“Er, me? Or do you mean the golem?”

Plazia circled his head as if rolling his eyes.

“No. The true tear. It feasts on the interdimensional energy.”

Plazia’s head twitched.

“I will do many things. Kill species, destroy nations, but that…I will have no part in its corruption.”

Insects crawled out from the gaps in his armor and back into his Sentinel carapace.

“I am scarred enough by it, and I…I can carry no more wounds. It is too much for me to bear.”

Plazia squeezed his hands into fists, bracing himself for what I had to say. I gave him a curt nod.

“Ah. Ok. Sure thing.”

Plazia’s hands loosened. After a moment, my words sank in. He turned his head toward me.

“That’s it? I asked you to walk across dimensions and save my kin. You walked into that abyss and have results. I can’t even fight a monster out of fear. Where is the rage? Where is your anger?”

I rolled my eyes.

“Are you kidding me? The last thing I want is for my people to do jobs they hate for reasons they disagree with. That’s the thing. I’m not here to rule or conquer. I mean that. I want to let people decide what they do and why they do it. It’s what I’ve always wanted, and my armor gave that to me.”

I shrugged.

“The least I can do is give that opportunity to everyone else."

Plazia gawked at me.

“Are you benevolent or an idiot?”

I cracked my neck.

“From what I can tell, there isn’t much of a difference between the two, but if I’m going to be an idiot, then I’ll at least take the good that comes with the bad.”

Plazia gave me a slow nod.

“Hm…Then do so. We need more idiocy in this world.”

I smiled.

“That’s what I’m here for.”

My armor bristled with a palpable energy.

“Now enough talk…Where is this monster?”t
