“You mocked me. Hello, Senior Guardsman Relc. You’re in a lot of trouble.”
“I’m always in trouble. Back off. It’s been a really bad day, alright?”
The Drake snarled. He looked around, putting his back to a wall. He reached with one claw for his belt. His whistle—
He didn’t have it. He only put it on when he was on-duty. Relc bellowed.
“Guardsman in trouble! Call the Watch!”
The others chuckled. Relc was pretty sure he was out of earshot. Or if a Gnoll could hear him—they might have been silenced by fear.
“No one’s coming. And no one’s going to find you until I’m away from the city. You shouldn’t have bothered me, Drake.”
The Gnoll woman had a big smile. Relc looked at her. She looked like a big, thug of a woman. Overconfident…until you looked at her.
And saw how many people she’d killed. New [Soldiers] now—Relc had seen them freeze up on the battlefield. Even trained, a [Soldier] who’d never had to hack an opponent apart would hesitate.
Not her. And not him. The Drake said nothing as both sides closed in. Bearclaw was mocking him. The gang she’d pulled together was wary. They knew Relc. And the Drake was just…silent.
“Not going to say anything, Relc? You had a big mouth when you arrested me last time.”
One of the [Thugs] licked his lips nervously. The Drake holding the long dagger saw the [Guardsman] look at him. His eyes flicked to the dagger.
“Breint?”
The Drake jumped. Relc glanced at the dagger and at his face.
“You’re not going to sneer at me again. Liscor is ours after this.”
The Drake vowed. Some of the gang muttered nervously. If they’d killed someone—it was one or two, in fury and the heat of the moment. They had no idea. No idea what it was like to wake up and know you were going to kill someone. 
Bearclaw knew. Relc saw three others with that—look. He marked them.
“Breint. Didn’t I laugh at you?”
“Yeah. Are you laughing now, Relc?”
The other Drake lifted his dagger. The [Sergeant] looked at him. Slowly, the Drake shook his head.
“Not today. Last time I laughed because you were under arrest. Today? I’m going to kill you, Breint. Walk away.”
The [Thug] wavered. So did the others. This wasn’t the Relc they knew.
Bearclaw halted. She was no idiot. She recognized Relc. Her eyes narrowed. She nodded to the others and snarled.
“Enough. Take him.”
A window moved. A Drake with a magical wand who had been pointing at Relc unleashed a spell. A beam of light flashed down. The Drake had seen it. He was already moving.
He charged at Breint. The Drake put his dagger up. An idiot. What use was a dagger on the battlefield? It was good in alleyways, close quarters. But Relc had a spear. Longer than a sword, versatile. A weapon that could halt a charging horse, attack from a distance—
The spear went through Breint’s throat. Relc twisted, and the enchanted tip swept clear. Half of Breint’s head sagged as he went down. He spun, and Bearclaw’s paws deflected a slash. She snarled.
The gang was frozen for a second as the Drake collapsed, blood littering the ground. They looked at Relc.
“But you’re a Senior Guardsman.”
One of them said. Relc looked around. The Gecko of Liscor twirled his spear. He ducked another flash of light. Then he disappeared. A Gnoll found a spear’s tip in his gut. Bearclaw snarled as the street devolved into chaos. Before that moment, Relc’s words echoed.
“I’m off-duty.”
 
—-
 
At the same time, a Gnoll girl was running around Liscor’s playground. Laughing. She was having fun. Ryoka wasn’t here. But Mrsha and Ekirra and Visma were playing. The Gnoll boy was babbling about the soccer lessons he was taking.
Mrsha had no concerns. Some of the adults watching the kids play in the enchanted playground grumbled, bored.
“Did you hear about the Golden Triangle? I heard it was fake.”
“Can’t be. I got silver from it. And I gave money just the other day. I haven’t recouped but—my entire family’s in it.”
“I heard The Wandering Inn is saying it’s fake. You know? The Crazy Human swears it.”
“Well—she’s crazy. Um. Did she actually say that?”
“People are saying Senior Guardsman Relc was going around giving money back. It’s got them worried, all I’m saying.”
“Relc said that? No way.”
“I’m telling you—this city’s getting weirder. Faugh. First a Lizardperson [Architect]—now this game of football? At least he can fix the sewers.”
The Drake talking with the other adults looked confused.
“They’ve been clearer than ever. What’s your problem?”
The Gnoll woman held her nose.
“It’s been smelling lately. Can’t you smell it?”
The Drakes, and some of the Gnolls shook their heads. The Gnoll woman grumbled.
“Anyways, I’m just saying. I might get out of the Golden Triangle. Give no more money—maybe ask for a refund. What do you all think?”
So caught up were the adults that they didn’t notice the gang moving up the street. Drakes and Gnolls, walking casually. But their eyes were locked on Mrsha. The white Gnoll was racing higher, with Ekirra’s ball in an impromptu game of ‘capture the flag’. She giggled as Drassi entered the gossip.
“I’m telling you all. The Golden Triangle is bad news. I heard it from Erin myself. And Ryoka. You want to get out—they were telling Relc about it—”
She too didn’t notice the gang. They were coming up the street, murmuring.
“Get to the safe house. Whoever grabs…the rest split up. They’ll be smelling, so throw down scent-destroying vials. Don’t let the kid howl. [Silence] spells. Got it?”
The others nodded. They squared their shoulders, relieved they weren’t the ones selected to go after Relc, or the inn. They walked forwards, hands disappearing into pockets or their sides.
At a time like this, there was no Ryoka Griffin. She was out, looking for Relc. Erin Solstice was in her inn. And a second gang was lingering outside the magic door, peeking inside at her. The Horns of Hammerad were in Invrisil. Griffon Hunt was preparing to journey away. The other teams weren’t there.
No magic, no heroes. No miracles, either. There were only the [Thugs]. They looked at each other. Then, one with a hat adjusted it.
“Before we begin, gentlemen, I wonder if we’d have a quick chat insofar as it came to the kidnapping of little Gnolls.”
The others stopped. The posh voice and the hat didn’t match them. And the Gnoll looked at them.
No miracles. Just…a serendipitous meeting. Not for them, either. They recoiled. The [Thug] had stolen among them like a shadow.
“Who are you? Soot didn’t send you!”
One of them backed away. Wilovan smiled. He was tall. And he had a polished club of his own at his side. He tipped a hat to them.
“Gentlemen. You can call me an interested friend. And my job is to safeguard a few good folk. That child isn’t one of my priorities, but she is a child as it were. And my partner and I agree—there is good business and bad. And this is bad business, sirs. Kidnapping a child? For shame.”
He was so polite. The gang shifted uncomfortably. One of them reached for a wand.
“Back off.”
There was one of him and eleven of them. Wilovan sighed. He adjusted his hat.
“Sirs. Let’s not cause a fuss. Why don’t we walk into the alleyway over there and talk things out? I represent The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Surely we can come to an arrangement?”
“We’re with Mr. Soot.”
One of them snarled. Another jumped, knowing the name. Wilovan saw them eying each other, faces set. He sighed.
“The alleyway, gentlemen.”
He gestured. The gang followed him. They spread out, two watching for others. Wilovan slowly removed his hat. He looked at the others as they filed into the alleyway. And the [Dangersenses] began to go off. But it was too late. The Gnoll looked around.
“I am extremely disappointed in you all, gentlemen.”
Two backed away. The ones standing watch turned their heads and jerked away. One took five steps.
No one on the street noticed. After ten minutes, Wilovan came strolling out the alleyway. He adjusted his hat as he placed it on his head. He was humming, under his breath. A children’s song.
 
“The night’s been long and the bodies are wet, 
But don’t you fret; be quick and ain’t not a guard who’ll be upset.”
 
In The Wandering Inn, Ratici stood by the door. He opened it for Erin Solstice as she hurried through.
“Miss.”
“Thanks, uh—”
“Ratici, Miss. A pleasure indeed.”
Erin smiled at him. Then she ran off, to look for Ryoka and Relc. The [Gentleman Thief] closed the door, as politely as could be. Then he looked at the other gang.
“I believe we have an understanding, as it were, gentlemen?”
They nodded, palely. One of them had known who Ratici was. In that sense, they were smarter. They filed out the door as Ratici pointed.
“I trust your good man, Mr. Soot will take the warning. Some things are below even criminality, sirs.”
Of course. Absolutely. They filed out the door. Disarmed, as it were. They hadn’t even noticed him plucking their weapons out of their very hands. The Drake leaned against the door. Humming the same song that Wilovan sang under his breath.
 
“The good folk are rising, and we’re off to our beds.
 The smart thieves away with the loot and the slow ones are dead.”
 
The Gentlemen Callers agreed on one thing with the Elusive Lot, although they didn’t work together. There was good business and bad business. A man had to have standards. Or he was no gentleman. But they had not interfered with Bearclaw. She hadn’t gone after Erin or the child.
She had gone after Relc.
 
—-
 
He knew the steel claws were poisoned when they raked across his face. He knew Bearclaw had a Skill because they opened up his scales and flesh.
[Iron Scales]. [Thick Skin]. Relc turned as the Gnoll woman charged him, slashing. His spear blocked a sword-thrust, dissipated a beam of black energy coming at him from the side.
He kicked Bearclaw off him. She was big—but Relc was strong. He struck.
[Triple Thrust]. He said nothing in the shouting clash of steel that was one sound in the street. He could hear nothing above the roaring in his head.
Three strikes. Two sank into Bearclaw, stomach and shoulder. Deep. But she was too big. That damn fur was like armor. No wonder she’d killed the others. High-level. Above 30—
The third spear went through a Drake’s chest. He blinked and fell over. Relc felt a stab to his back.
Dagger. He spun. The Drake blinked at the dagger that had gone only partway through Relc’s side.
[Pierce Thrust]. The blow went through the Drake’s leather-coated stomach and into the Gnoll behind him. Both cried out. Relc wrenched the spear free. He should have used it on Bearclaw. But she was retreating, howling with fury and healing up. That was the problem.
If he had someone to watch his back he’d have ended her. But they were around him. As Relc kicked the dying Drake off his spear, he saw a flash.
[Whirlwind Dodge]. The Drake moved around the spell and it struck the other attackers. He pulled his spear out. How many Skills did he have left? Two. He used neither as he changed his grip on the spear.
The Gnoll with the wand probably thought he was out of reach. Eight feet away? But Relc tossed the spear as he extended one claw and took a step, caught it by the very end. He stared into a mess of a face and pulled the spear back.
Someone hit him from behind. The Drake staggered slightly and his spear moved again.
[Spear Dance: The Fish Leap]. His spear swept upwards around him, forming a deadly pattern of magical steel. He cut someone, he was sure of it. How many were dead?
Relc looked around. Blood seeped into one eye. He reached for a potion, drank it in a blur. The poison burned his face, side. The other wounds healed.
One eye was free. The Drake looked around. Bearclaw had healed completely. Damn. He’d killed five. But there had been more in the windows.
“Take him.”
The Gnoll howled. She waited as the others moved forwards. Looking for an opportunity.
Relc spun his spear, deflecting a sword thrust. He slashed as he parried, cutting the sword-arm and a Drake coming at him from the right. A spear could parry and attack! It had reach—those idiots looked at fighting like you had to do one at a time. A spear was art. When he had been a [Soldier]—
Someone shot a crossbow through his shoulder from behind. Relc felt the impact throw him forwards. He turned, and the shooter ducked behind his comrades. The bolt had gone through Relc’s shoulder. He heard a snarl.
When he had been in the army, he hadn’t been alone. Klbkch had his back in the [Guard]. Where was he?
“Klb—”
Bearclaw charged him. This time she swept him off his feet. The Drake went down. He was holding his spear—but Bearclaw had her claws. She slashed at him. Snarling, victorious. She bit him and he howled.
The Gecko of Liscor struggled to toss the Gnoll off. But she was heavy and this was how she killed. A [Brawler]. They didn’t exist on the battlefield often. The Drake let go of his spear. Someone kicked it away.
He was so tired. Relc felt another flash of pain across his head. Another searing flash of poison. Blood was in both of his eyes. He reached down. Spears. He always carried his spear but he’d dropped it. You’d be disciplined in the army for that.
Bearclaw opened her mouth blood dripping from her maw. Relc looked up. The Gecko of Liscor sighed as she raised her steel claws to rake his skull.
He planted the dagger hilt-deep in her stomach and began to twist. Bearclaw choked. Relc kept stabbing, his claws a blur. Standard.
“[Flurry Strikes].”
The Drake told her that, calmly. The Gnoll was trying to get off him now. Who carried one weapon? She rolled away, clutching her ruined stomach.
Relc got up. Someone hit him—he turned, shoved the dagger to the hilt and watched the Gnoll fall over. The others backed up.
The Drake looked about. Spear, spear—one of them was holding it. The Gnoll jabbed at Relc. The Drake took his spear back. He broke something to get it. Not his bones.
“Gecko of Liscor. Gecko of Liscor!”
He screamed it at them. The same shout as if he was on the battlefield. Pride and shame. The Gecko ran. That was why they called him that.
He didn’t run today. He advanced, the spear jabbing. They backed up.
“—crazy—”
“Not paid enough for—”
Extend his reach. The Drake swung the spear with both hands, and the enchanted tip sheared through a chest. He heard a scream.
“Come and get me.”
He roared. The gang was no battalion. And their leader was howling. She was drinking another potion.
“You—”
Bearclaw saw the Drake charge her. She dropped the potion, reached out.
She slashed across his chest, shoulders. He impaled her through the stomach.
