Erin’s voice was level. Ryoka hissed. Relc glanced at her. His claws were tight. Ryoka expected him to take a swing—perhaps not at Erin, but at the table, maybe. It was what she would have done. The worst part was that Erin had no proof. It was so hard to convince someone in the thick of a scam that it was false. Ryoka searched for words…
And Relc nodded. His shoulder slumped.
“Feels familiar.”
The two young women stared at him. So did the other guests. Relc looked around. It was easy to describe Guardsman Relc. He was…
“I did this once, didn’t I? About the Goblins. I got kicked out and then—turns out I was wrong.”
The Drake reflected to no one at all. He looked at Erin.
“You were right about that. Looks like I’m always the idiot. That sounds right. More than anything else.”
Erin’s face fell.
“I didn’t mean that, Relc—I’m just worried about—listen—”
She reached out. Relc backed away. He reached for the money pouch, the gold coins. And then he looked at Ryoka, helplessly.
“It’s all fake? Every bit of it?”
She could almost feel him spinning, falling in his head. The City Runner’s throat constricted.
“It is. Listen…you didn’t know. Sit down. Relax. You didn’t know.”
“You have to—”
“Erin, shut up.”
Ryoka turned on the [Innkeeper]. How was she not seeing Relc’s pain? But the Drake just turned away as Erin blinked and Ryoka grabbed at her.
“Nah. I get it already. It’s gotta be true. I keep doing this. Klb would have warned me. Let’s see…”
He stared blankly out a window. Ryoka turned to him.
“Listen, Relc…”
“I’ve got to go.”
He spoke dreamily. The Drake began walking for the door. Erin and Ryoka both followed.
“Relc! Wait! I’m not mad at you. I just—come sit back down. Let’s talk about what to do.”
Erin reached for him, but the Drake was speeding up. He walked out of the common room. Towards the magic door. Drassi disappeared through it with Mrsha. The Gnoll waved excitedly at Ryoka and the City Runner had almost forgotten about the park. She saw a figure disappear through the doorway after the two. But that wasn’t important.
“Relc—”
The Drake paused at the door. He looked back at Erin. In complete darkness, falling again and again…that was what Ryoka thought he must be feeling. But she—did not know him.
“Erin.”
The [Guard] spoke. He leaned on the door, looking very tired. The [Innkeeper] halted.
“Relc?”
“If you’re right…I’ve got to fix this. Save my seat. I’ll make it right. You’ll see.”
His claw tightened on the doorframe. Then the Drake slowly walked into Liscor. Ryoka Griffin stood there. She blinked, once. Erin turned to her.
“What does that mean?”
It meant—Ryoka thought. She saw Relc walking through the city, tail dragging, shoulder slumped. Holding his bag of coins. She breathed a word.
“Oh.”
 
—-
 
It meant he was going to do the right thing. Relc was indeed spinning. The world turned upside down and kept throwing him about. He hated it.
Spear—his spear that he always carried was familiar. He knew it. Everything else? He hated how nothing else made sense.
It was such a good thing. It couldn’t be true, could it? But Relc trusted Erin. She had been right. She was—a friend.
You had to stand by friends. 1000%. He had been wrong once. That was Relc. Good old Relc, [Sergeant] Relc, the idiot. Now that he thought about it—it made sense.
“Why would I be doing well in the Golden Triangle if it was real, huh? Me?”
The Drake laughed to himself as he leaned on a wall. He still felt dizzy. Aimlessly, he looked around. Where did he start? They were everywhere.
Start at the last place you were. In the battlefield, you fought the enemy in front of you. Relc clung to that. He began to run.
He ran back through the city, towards his apartment. The bag of gold, his profits from the Golden Triangle in one claw. The gold was real. But it was fake. The Drake, panting, stopped by an apartment next to his house. He hammered on the door.
Eventually, a Gnoll woman opened it. She blinked at Relc.
“Senior Guardsman? Is this about the Golden Triangle? Do you need more money? I haven’t gotten my certificate…”
Relc felt in the coin pouch. With shaking hands, he produced ten silver coins. And looked at them. The Gnoll woman’s enlistment fee. And that was the minimum.
For a long time, the Senior Guardsman stood there. Head bowed. So much so that the Gnoll woman grew nervous. But eventually, he looked up.
The thing about Guardsman Relc…in a sentence…was this. He was still a Senior Guardsman. He didn’t enforce the law like Klbkch. But he had earned his rank. He had spread the Golden Triangle through Liscor because he was Relc. To the same people who had voted to give him the rank. The Drake clenched his hand on the bag of money. Then he shook his head.
“No. No. Miss—there’s been a terrible misunderstanding. Listen. The Golden Triangle…is a scam.”
He didn’t believe it himself. Part of him hoped he was wrong. But the Gnoll woman’s eyes widened. And Relc felt the illusion fading. Like a magic curse on him, only one made of lies and words. Hopes and dreams. He breathed out.
“Here’s your money back. Spread the word. It’s fake. Don’t give money to it. Listen—”
That was the first house he visited. The first house was easy. Relc held the little bag of coins. Then he went into his apartment and got the rest. At first the pouch jingled. Then it was thin.
Empty. But there were more houses. The Drake walked. And never saw the shadows creeping up on him from behind.
 
—-
 
“This is a disaster.”
He believed. It did not take him long. Palt had given the speech to Grimalkin and talked for nearly forty minutes before the Drake saw the enormity of the problem and gotten him an audience.
But Chaldion believed in ten minutes. Not because he was better with numbers, but because he believed in the worst. That was a [Strategist]’s job. And when he believed—he acted.
“Magus Grimalkin? Send word. I need a [Senator]. And the Watch Captains on duty. Every one of them. Call for an emergency meeting of the Assembly of Crafts, on my authority. The Watch Captains will arrest these high-ranking members of the Golden Triangle at once.”
Palt stood in the [Healer]’s clinic as Chaldion tried to rise. She came in.
“Grand Strategist, you cannot leave. You need to recover…”
“My leg is nearly healed. I’ll address the Assembly from this bed if I must!”
The Drake snapped at her. He struggled to get up, but the Gnoll woman pushed him down with one paw. Grimalkin nodded.
“I can present the information, Strategist. I’ll be back.”
He was muttering a [Haste] spell even as he left. Palt saw him flash out the door. The Centaur shuffled his hooves.
“Can I assume Pallass will take action, Grand Strategist?”
“At once. You have my word. The other Walled Cities will need persuading. I can just see some of those idiots in Salazsar refusing to believe…but this Golden Triangle dies in Pallass today.”
The Drake snapped. He lay back in bed as the [Healer] fussed around him. The Drake looked up at Palt.
“So Wistram knows?”
“…The Academy might. But my Master sent me specifically. My…faction is privy to a lot of information the rest of Wistram does not have, so I was sent immediately, Grand Strategist. I have no doubt the Academy is combatting this situation as best they can…”
Palt smoked from his cigar—until the [Healer] snatched it from his lips. He sighed. He had to be cagey in representing Wistram. Chaldion just looked at him.
“I am sure they are. Well, you have my thanks for your faction.”
His tone made it clear it only went that far. Palt nodded.
“My investigation is complete, Grand Strategist, and I have made my report to my master. Er…as much as I was able to discover.”
“You don’t know who is behind this fraud?”
Palt winced.
“No, Grand Strategist.”
The trail had gone cold from the Adamantium-rank Dullahan. He had persuaded her to tell him how she’d gotten wind of the scheme—but it was just coincidence.
“The originating member of the triangle in Pallass knew someone in Oteslia who joined before she did. As far as I can tell…the Golden Triangle has roots in the Walled Cities. Everyone points to that. But Oteslia or another Walled City—I don’t know which. Not Pallass.”
“We shall uncover that. It’s enough to go on. Stay here. I need to address this situation. Now.”
Palt did. The Watch Captains came hurrying into the room, panting. The [Senators] soon thereafter. When Grand Strategist Chaldion summoned them, they came.
“This is the situation. There is a trick at work in Pallass—The Golden Triangle. Some of you may be aware of it. I do not care. It is a scam, meant to take money and then collapse. On my authority as Grand Strategist, I demand it end. Today.”
They argued, of course. Two of the [Senators] had given funds to it. High-ranking members of Pallass had too! How was he certain—Chaldion shouted at them until the [Healer] made him quiet down.
That was the scam. The brilliance of it. You didn’t know for certain it was a scam. And so long as you could cling to that, you were ensnared. It took force of will, experience, or just a streak of pessimism as deep as Chaldion’s to believe.
And he did. Chaldion did not play games. Within twenty minutes, the Watch Captains were sending their [Guards] after the people Palt had interviewed. The Assembly would be addressed by Magus Grimalkin and the nature of the scam hammered into their brains. Chaldion had sent a priority-[Message] to the other Walled Cities and incredulity was already flooding in.
Palt stood there, listening, explaining for Chaldion when the old Drake grew tired. Saliss poked his head into the clinic and no one stopped him. He listened—and believed quickly too. Pessimism ran in the family.
Trouble emerged when the numbers started coming in. Chaldion looked up.
“…How many are part of the Golden Triangle?”
“Sir. I was just on the 6th floor and did a quick headcount. Even just the [Guards] and people I talked to—that’s already three thousand and counting. It wasn’t even the entire 6th.”
Watch Captain Venim’s face was pale. Palt did the math. Even if they all gave the bare minimum, that was already 1,500 gold pieces in circulation. And he just bet they’d given more. If you assumed all 9 floors had that at a minimum—and that was just a sparse headcount…
“Pallass might have as many as 50,000 people at least. The numbers could be double, triple that or even higher. Which would mean at least 25,000 gold pieces in this fraud. Again—the number could be exponentially higher.”
Chaldion nodded tightly.
“Arrest the largest members of the Golden Triangle. And issue a warning that no money is to be given out! Tell the Mage’s Guild they are to refuse any transactions of that nature.”
“Sir, the Mage’s Guild is autonomous—”
The Drake slapped the armrest of his magical bed.
“Do it. Or I will arrest every [Mage] in the damned Guilds! What is Wistram doing?”
“Perhaps if Pallass were to issue an official complaint, sir?”
Chaldion glared at Palt. But he exhaled.
“I will draft one. Perhaps that will lead the Academy to act as well as your faction?”
The Elusive Lot might have planned this very occurrence. Palt felt a shiver. Chaldion was a trusted voice. He nodded.
“I assume so, Grand Strategist. However—”
“Grand Strategist!”
A [Guard] raced towards the clinic. He was nearly thrown back by the security in front of it.
“Allow him to enter! What is it?”
Chaldion looked up. The [Guard] was pale-faced. Palt felt an uneasy stir on his neck.
“Sir. The Gnoll we were meant to arrest is dead. His throat was slit. The Dullahan woman has…disappeared.”
Slowly, the Grand Strategist and Venim turned. They looked at Palt. The Centaur went pale.
“Mage Palt. Explain this.”
“I—I had no idea.”
But Palt did. The Elusive Lot did not play games. They were pranksters. Tricksters. But when they stopped laughing, they were scary. Chaldion slowly looked around.
“Change of orders. Venim, find those people. Take them into protective custody. Mage Palt?”
“Yes, Grand Strategist?”
The Centaur was weak-kneed. The Grand Strategist looked at him.
“Your faction has now interfered in Pallass. I will speak to them. Now. As for my goodwill…you are not arrested. Yet. Your master will speak to me immediately.”
“Yes, sir.”
Palt was sweating as he raised a finger to his temple. Damn them. Then he had a thought.
“Oh no. That means—it’s happening everywhere.”
Chaldion’s good eye opened. He bellowed after Venim.
“Send a [Message] spell to the cities!”
It was also a lesson about Wistram that both Chaldion and Palt knew. They fought amongst themselves. They could be petty, fractured, terribly inefficient. But they were also Wistram Academy. They had more money than The Golden Triangle could have dreamed of, and the reach…
 
—-
 
People were dying. But only a few in each city. The gangs were aware. And they had been part of The Golden Triangle, or aware of it. The Elusive Lot had ties everywhere, and if they worried about their actions—well, it curried favor among the underworld.
No one liked being taken for a ride. And who would know the Elusive Lot was behind it? Only Palt, Chaldion, people who had ties with gangs. For the rest of the world—news of The Golden Triangle was spreading. Slowly. Too slowly.
The scheme had already run through Liscor. Not as badly as other cities, perhaps. But enough money had been taken. Relc’s coin pouch was empty. His little stash of coins—all but depleted. And it only covered a fraction of what had been spent.
He saw it now. The Drake walked down a street, body aching. People had shouted at him—or not believed. He’d handed out coins, sometimes to bemusement, and seen that they were just going to invest it into the Triangle. They thought he was mad.
That was the worst part. Seeing what Erin had surely seen in him. The Drake hurt.
Perhaps that was why he walked into the ambush. He should have seen it coming. He did, actually. The empty street, the warning of his [Dangersense]—it gave him precious seconds of warning.
Still—it was too late. Eighteen figures moved out on either side of the street. And one of them was huge.
Bearclaw grinned at Relc. She didn’t need to say a word. The Drake chilled as he saw the figures. He didn’t need to ask. He swung his spear up.
“Damn.”
Not now. He was off-duty. He wasn’t wearing his armor. Klbkch wasn’t here. The Drake’s body came alive as he looked around. Nine in front, nine in back. [Thugs], [Rogues]—each one armed. Swords, daggers, mainly. Few bigger weapons like spears. A club—
Bearclaw had her steel claws. She grinned at him.
