Oh, you could profit off of it. If you were on the ground floor, you’d make lots of money. That was why it worked. The illusion lasted just long enough to make it appealing.
But it was really a gamble. Someone had organized this. Someone was gambling that they could take everything and run before it fell to ruin. And when it did—people would lose everything.
It put a black taste in Palt’s mouth, even as he smoked and talked with people in Pallass. The Centaur was affable, sharing out joints, talking to…people.
“The Golden Triangle? My friend, I was one of the first people in Pallass. I’m not Platinum-rank or even Mithril-rank. I’m Orichalcum. The next is Adamantine.”
The Gnoll puffed out his chest as he took a joint. Palt exhaled a plume of smoke and it swirled around the fellow.
“And after that? I assume there’s an even higher rank?”
The well-bedecked Gnoll with a new, fancy suit, multiple magical rings on his person and stars in his eyes, blinked. He was new to wealth—he had been a common [Sigilist] before. Someone who carved runes into stone. He had not done the enchanting, lacking a [Mage] class, but he’d made good money.
Now he was rich. One of the highest ranks in the Golden Triangle. The Gnoll hesitantly smoked on his dreamleaf cigar. Palt blew more smoke out of his lips. It was…orange-pink.
“Nice cigar. Is it magical?”
“Actually, it’s one of my more expensive items. Dozens of gold per each. Want a puff?”
Palt offered it. The Gnoll greedily took it.
“I could afford a case, you know. And I’m just Orichalcum—yeah. Between you and me, I hear there’s a rank higher than Adamantine. But good luck getting to it. I’m willing to put down thousands of gold—and I earned it all through the Golden Triangle—but for higher ranks? Some of the nobility are willing to pay that much for…I hear it’s called Dragonscale-rank.”
Dragonscale. Palt kept his face straight as the Gnoll whispered the words. It was just a name. Meaningless. But the Golden Triangle had all the makings of a cult. Give to the Triangle and you would ascend the steps. And you would receiveth.
It made him sick. But he kept up his friendly smile as the Gnoll inhaled the magical smoke and coughed. And it made him more talkative.
“Truth is—I know the first person in Pallass who was part of the Triangle. Now—if you were to ask about it, you could go to her. She’s Adamantite. You hear me?”
“Impressive!”
Palt exclaimed. The Gnoll nodded a few times.
“She’s a Dullahan. Still signing people up. She doesn’t show off her money—she put it all back into the Triangle since she’s trying for Dragonscale-rank. Now me, I want to live a bit. But she’ll be richer than I…it’s confidential, you understand?”
“Of course.”
The Centaur’s fingers twitched. More of the smoke whirled around the two. The Gnoll didn’t notice. He was inhaling both dreamleaf and Palt’s cigar.
The [Illusionist] had not told Erin a lie. He did not sell any dangerous drugs. But that didn’t mean he didn’t have any. People knew Palt was a [Smoker]. But so few wondered what that class could do.
This. The smoke was addling the Gnoll’s senses and mind. Making him friendly. Talkative. Palt was deliberately not inhaling his cigar’s fumes. He took a draft as the Gnoll passed it back, held it in his lungs—but he had a [Smoker’s Lungs] Skill that allowed him to just exhale the cloud.
“Phew. That’s something. I love it. Could you sell me…a few of them?”
The Gnoll was glassy-eyed. Palt eyed him.
“For you, friend? I can sell you a few of my special items.”
And he did. Passing dreamleaf cigars off as the ‘special’ stuff. He charged only his normal rates, pretending it was a massive discount. It was a trick, but Palt didn’t sell his special cigars.
He had a few. Like the ones he’d used on Pisces. The one he was smoking now was designed to make friends. The Centaur let the Gnoll go—he patted the Gnoll on the shoulder and murmured something.
“Might want to clear the smoke. You know how Pallass is. [Brisk Breeze]—and take one of these to do something about your breath. Free of charge for a friend.”
The smoke blew away and the Gnoll blinked as Palt handed him a near-translucent cigar. He grinned as the Centaur lit it for him.
It would detoxify his system fast. The Centaur trotted off as the Gnoll began to puff it. The [Illusionist] made tracks in case the Gnoll figured out he’d been under the influence and called the Watch. But Palt doubted it would come to that.
He was on the hunt. His Master, one of the Elusive Lot, had told him to try and find out where the Golden Triangle had originated from. Palt was motivated because it was an important assignment—
And because he’d talked with Erin and Ryoka. The Golden Triangle made him sick. He liked pranks as much as anyone else. But this? This was too large. Ryoka Griffin—who he regarded as a prize for his faction as big as Erin—had spoken about the kind of devastation this scheme could bring. Rich people? Well, they’d lose money and that was terrible and all that. But poor people would lose everything.
It could devastate an economy like a Walled City. And Pallass was an early adopter of the Golden Triangle. It was on everyone’s lips. Palt picked up the pace. He hurried to find the Adamantine-level member of the Golden Triangle, the only one in the city. This was where he excelled. Subterfuge, making connections.
Palt was a mediocre duelist in straight-up combat. But who fought in duels these days? He put a second cigar in his mouth and began to chain-smoke two. He was going to need to be very persuasive to get this Dullahan to talk. They hated smoking.
 
—–
 
At the same time as Palt moved and a Drake ambled towards The Wandering Inn, a Gnoll was in distress. Or rather—she was angry and that put those around her in distress.
Bearclaw snarled from one of the safe houses Mr. Soot owned. The Gnoll woman—a specimen of physical danger even by Gnoll standards—paced back and forth as she clenched her paws.
“Who are the Gentlemen Callers? Why are they guarding the damn inn?”
She snarled at Soot. The Drake was pale. His bodyguards shifted as they stood behind him, but the Drake kept his seat. He never visited Bearclaw without at least eight bodyguards these days.
She wasn’t alone. She had a gang, comprised of Liscor’s most violent criminals. And Bearclaw was a lion among cats even then. They waited for their boss’ orders. She had taught them a new level of violence. She’d killed two Senior Guardsman within a week of visiting Liscor. Now she was hiding out, avoiding attracting the Watch’s attention since she was tailed whenever she left the safe houses.
But you couldn’t keep a thing like Bearclaw caged for long. She had a mission. Abduct the white Gnoll child, Mrsha. Kill the Crazy Human of Liscor—or kidnap her as well. Erin Solstice. Steal the magic door…
The bounties through the underworld had been enough to attract Bearclaw’s attention. And the money offered for each was going up over time, not down. All things being equal, she should have been happy about that.
However. There was a point at which any [Gambler] knew it was time to make a choice. Where the betting pool got too high and you grabbed what you could—or you waited a moment longer for a bigger reward.
But wait too long and you’d get nothing at all. Bearclaw did not like how much attention The Wandering Inn was getting.
“That’s four, five Gold-rank teams, even if they’re not all there. Plus any number of high-level irregulars. A [Grand Mage]? We should call this off—”
He flinched as Bearclaw spun on him. Her steel claws and her actual claws were both out.
“No one scares me off. I’ve killed Gold-ranks before. Tell these—these Gentlemen to back off.”
“Bearclaw, please. No one tells the Gentlemen Callers—”
The Gnoll woman slammed her fists on the table. The thick wood cracked. The [Bodyguards] tensed, reaching for their weapons as Mr. Soot recoiled. The Drake [Mastermind Criminal] stared at Bearclaw.
“Tell. Them. They get in the way and I’ll deal with them personally. I’m Bearclaw. You think my gang is afraid of a Human gang from the north?”
She straightened.
“We’re running out of time. I’m not sticking around for the inn to get even hotter. We’re acting.”
“I thought you were going to wait—”
The Drake put up his claws as Bearclaw pointed at him.
“I changed my mind. Listen up! I want you to put together a big raid. On the inn. They get that door. It’s just sitting there. I’ll handle the other targets.”
“What—what will you do?”
The Gnoll woman smiled unpleasantly.
“I don’t have to get them all. The Gnoll child is ‘kidnap’. The Human? You can arrange her death if I can’t grab her. I even know where she plays. So listen. When I give the signal…”
She was growling at Mr. Soot. And he was seeing his tenure as a gang leader in Liscor reaching its end. Because if they went after Erin Solstice, who had ties to Liscor’s new Council—if they went after Mrsha, or stole the magic door that was making Liscor so famous? Zevara would have his head.
“Bearclaw, can’t we wait? Let’s look for an opportunity…”
Mr. Soot saw the Gnoll woman’s eyes narrow. As if she could see his second thoughts. But she only smiled then, hugely, with all her teeth. She reached out and grabbed his shoulder. Soot felt the bodyguards stir, but he signaled them with his tail. He was holding his concealed wand very tightly as Bearclaw leaned in. He could smell her last meal—meat.
“Soot, you and I are partners. We do this and I’ll cut you in on the profits. Who needs Liscor after this? You can set up in another city, and live like a [Prince] off the money. We’re not going to risk anything. It’s a nice mission—”
“Mr. Soot. A [Message]. Big news from the Invisibles.”
The Gnoll woman broke off. Mr. Soot looked up, grateful for the reprieve. One of his assistants was staring wide-eyed at a [Message] scroll.
“They’re putting out a…big offer. They want anyone connected with the Golden Triangle taken out. And they have a list. Ancestors.”
“What is it?”
The Gnoll woman saw Mr. Soot reaching for the scroll. He blinked, swore, and then showed it to her.
“The Academy—a faction of them deals with us, Bearclaw. They’re offering lots of money to take out these targets.”
There were only four names for Liscor. But one of them made Mr. Soot just shake his head.
“They must not know the levels of their targets. We can do the other three…but that one?”
Senior Guardsman Relc Grasstongue. Bearclaw’s eyes widened. She looked up—then she smiled.
“Why not?”
Mr. Soot and the others froze. One of them began.
“He’s a Senior Guardsman—”
Then he remembered who Bearclaw had killed. The Gnoll fell silent. Bearclaw looked at Mr. Soot.
“I remember him. Big Drake. Spear?”
“A [Spearmaster]. Bearclaw, he’s the Watch’s finest. It wouldn’t be wise to—”
Mr. Soot saw the dangerous look in Bearclaw’s eyes. He paused. And then—something went off in his head. The [Mastermind] steepled his claws and gave her a worried look.
“It wouldn’t be wise to tangle with him. Not worth the effort. He could hurt even you—”
“You think he could beat me? Me?”
The Gnoll snarled. Mr. Soot suppressed an inner smile.
“I didn’t say that! I just said—”
“I remember him. Him and that Ant-monster. He challenged me. And the Ant-thing’s gone, right?”
Bearclaw checked the reward again. But the number didn’t matter. She was smiling, now.
“Change of plans. Soot, I’ll send my people after the other targets. But this? I’ll do this for fun.”
She waved the contract at Soot. The Drake hesitated. The other targets.
“Shouldn’t we wait for—?”
And then he realized he’d made a mistake. Because Bearclaw put one huge paw on his shoulder.
“No, Soot. We’re doing this together. Just in case you have any doubts. You’re going to wait right here while this all goes down. So if we fail—we do it together. The door, the Gnoll, the Human. And this Relc. I want them all.”
She smiled hugely. And Soot cursed. Because Bearclaw was insane. But he also couldn’t run. She was holding his shoulder. So when you were this deep in the water and air was running out—you kept diving. Hoping there was a pocket of air below.
The problem was that Soot felt like Bearclaw was a big fish. Bigger than he was, certainly. But she still came from a lake. Liscor was a pond, a puddle. But some things swam in the sea.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn put a smile on Relc’s face. It always did. He liked it here.
“Hey! It’s me! Did anyone miss me?”
He shouted into the common room as he entered. It was one of his lines and unlike some pubs or bars where they’d groan and put away the expensive breakables, here he got a smile.
“Relc!”
Erin Solstice looked up from a table where she was sitting with Ryoka. Relc grinned and walked over to her. It was a good day, a great day. Money jingled in his coin pouch and he was in the mood to eat, drink, watch plays…
He was so glad he’d been allowed back here. The Drake could remember the time he’d been banned. Actually—he remembered that Relc. The one who’d killed some Goblins because of course he did.
Strange. He felt guilty about it now. Even though he’d killed more Goblins than he could count in war. But…
The Drake passed by a table where a Hobgoblin was drinking and sharing lunch with Bird. They were both having a chicken. Relc paused and nodded.
“Hey, Numbtongue.”
“Hey.”
The [Bard] grunted back. Relc extended a fist and the Hobgoblin touched it with his. Just that. But Relc grinned and walked past him. He’d made an effort, again.
He still felt guilty. It was—so hard to wrap his mind around. Goblins. The same ones who were monsters in Liscor’s army’s handbook. In his. They’d killed his parents. They were monsters.
Except some of them weren’t. He’d been so angry at Erin, a long time ago, it felt. But he’d changed. The Drake walked on. He’d had to change. Erin had helped him with that. He owed her a lot.
As Relc walked, waving at people, at Menolit, who was a fellow ex-[Soldier], slapping Ishkr’s shoulder and nearly making the Gnoll lose control of his tray—he passed by Lyonette and Pawn. The [Princess] was sitting with the Antinium.
“Pawn, here’s some food. Are you…okay?”
Lyonette stared at Pawn anxiously. The Antinium looked at her.
“Hello…I am Pawn. But you know this. Hello, Lyonette.”
“Hello, Pawn. I think you had too much of that stuff Palt gave you. Here. Eat food. He said that helps.”
Lyonette worriedly offered Pawn some of Garry’s special acidfly-bread. The Antinium nibbled at it and then looked around.
