“Exactly! Now, the Lord of the Dance is going to probably put up a fuss for the show of it, but he’ll pull back his ships once we clash a few times. That’s the politics of it—he’s going to pretend he gave up. So we’ll discuss how we want to orchestrate the thing. I think a few salvos of [Fireball] spells…but then we’ll have to rush my [Soldiers] to disembark, got it?”
“Of course….”
“Not to worry, man! The hard part is mine, keeping the [Soldiers] hidden. You have the easy part, shepherding us here and just play-fighting. Here—let’s grab a drink while we discuss landing points and such. I had a location—here?”
He pointed to the map as he investigated the cabinet with expensive liquors. Before Dakelos knew it, the [Admiral] was seated and the [General] was pouring him a drink. He tried to refuse, but Yerzhen insisted.
“Come on, man! Nothing like a drink to steady the nerves. We’ll toast to Ailendamus! May it conquer all of Terandria—no! the world! And to his Majesty’s health!”
You had to drink to that. Nervously, Dakelos did. Just a sip. His crew wouldn’t notice…
 
—-
 
The [General] emerged from the cabin with a somewhat intoxicated Admiral Dakelos an hour later. Plans all set. Together, they gave a speech to the crew, informing them of the sudden plans. It was of course—riotous, but the [General] strode up and down the decks, stumbling a bit, but roaring his intent to break the Dawn Concordat in a single, stealthy strike.
Itorin’s Pride was filled with cheering [Soldiers], even the stern-faced Order of the Thirsting Veil, saluting the sky. The rest of the navy took heart from it and sailed at full-speed, the [Fleet Mages] pouring all the wind they could into the sails.
They reached Nadel’s waters in record time after only nine hours, thanks to the currents and high morale. Admiral Dakelos was there as he saw, in the distance, patrolling ships react like they’d been struck at the sight of an Ailendamus fleet bearing down on them.
Nadel was not that far east of Calanfer. Somewhere near the middle of Terandria’s southern coastline, it was a safe-zone where no fleet save the Lord of the Dance’s was welcome. It allowed safe trade and it had fought off any number of navies.
On any other day Dakelos wouldn’t have put even a foot over the invisible borders of Nadel, but today he was drunk on courage, dreams of glory and promotion—and just drunk. General Yerzhen chuckled.
“See them spooking off? Probably screaming the alarm. I bet you the Lord of the Dance didn’t even tell them. Makes it authentic.”
“Er—of course, Yerzhen. What do we do? Start throwing [Fireballs]?”
They had a routine all set up. The [General] winked.
“I say we begin with a speech. I’ll give you the honors, shall I?”
“If you like.”
Boldly, the [Admiral] swaggered up to the front of the decks. In the distance, Nadel was a dot. But the harbors would already be boiling with the Lord of the Dance’s ships, as planned for the staged attack. His fleet would attack, and the Lord of the Dance would ‘fight’ for a few rounds before retreating.
“Admiral! The Lord of the Dance himself is setting out towards us with Nadel’s entire fleet!”
An hour later, the panicked, but excited shout came up the command deck. Dakelos felt a twinge of fear as he saw the huge fleet—dwarfing his own—but Yerzhen just tapped the side of his huge nose.
“Here we go. Just as planned. I’ll tell the Pride to begin moving for the shoreline. They need to do the most work.”
“Of course. And my speech—where are the notes?”
“Here.”
The [General] offered the inky notes to him. Admiral Dakelos focused on them and began to shout through a voice-amplifying spell as the enemy fleet came close.
“Attention, ships of Nadel! By order of His Majesty, King Itorin II, I demand you give us passage to the harbor! Ailendamus will not be stopped by any nation in this world! If you do not move your ships, we will immediately attack!”
Fiery words. He and Yerzhen had laughed over them an hour ago. They felt…wrong to say aloud, but Dakelos was shaking with excitement. He heard an answering voice a moment later.
The Lord of the Dance.
“Nadel bows to no other nation. I am Lord Belchaus Meron. If you advance further, we will destroy your fleet.”
The Admiral…sobered a bit. That was a terrifying threat. The Lord of the Dance himself was crewing his flagship and they could outmaneuver and out-fight his smaller fleet. He turned to the [General], but Yerzhen bellowed.
“All part of the act! Send the [Fireballs]!”
The Admiral nodded. He croaked around a lump in his throat and felt the wrongness—but he was too far gone.
“—[Mages]! Throw [Fireballs] at the flagship! Aim to miss!”
The [Mages] did. Dozens of [Fireballs] blasted across the gap between the closing navies. Dakelos saw them go wide, or explode too early. But Nadel’s navy reacted as if a hive had been struck.
“They’re closing! Starboard side! Dead gods—”
A shout from the side. Admiral Dakelos turned his head just in time to see Lord Bel’s flagship shoot forwards. It slammed into The Wrath of Sel, a twin of Dakelos’ own warship. The Lord of the Dance didn’t waste time on an engagement at a distance. He leapt aboard the ship, holding a sword, and his retinue followed. Dakelos saw him landing in front of the surprised [Captain].
“That’s a bit much for an act, don’t you think, General—?”
Lord Belchaus beheaded the man. Then he stepped across the deck, as if he was on a dance floor, and killed the [First Mate]. His crew followed, moving in graceful patterns, but deadly as could be.
The blood ran onto the decks as Ailendamus’ navy slowly stopped and stared. But more ships were crashing into theirs, boarding—
“General! I don’t think the Lord of the Dance is acting! General?”
Admiral Dakelos whirled. But the [General] was gone. Yerzhen, that bear of a man, was missing. And—
“Admiral! The Itorin’s Pride has vanished!”
“What?”
The [Admiral] rushed to the railing. But it was true. The giant warship, that had sailed through the waters, making noise, crewed by thousands—had even toasted to them and called jests for nine hours—was gone.
In its place was a floating…Dakelos stared down at it. It looked like a tiny trading boat, barely big enough to hold sixty people. He slowly looked up. The thought occurred to him, amidst the shock, the sudden fear—and the incomprehension at his situation made worse by the drink. It occurred to him that he might have been tricked.
 
—-
 
General Yerzhen chuckled as he skimmed across the waters towards the invisible ship from which he could watch the disaster unfold. He was [Water Walking]—although he was actually running.
And moving damn fast for a man of his size. He raced towards the ship, leapt, and landed on an invisible deck.
Then everything turned visible. The ship was shrouded, so once you got onto it you could see. That bear of a man, that huge [General] who had been so false straightened and saw—
Admiral Dakelos. The man turned, tears in his eyes.
“General! How could you? I trusted you! What is this? Why have you abducted me?”
The [General] paused only for a moment.
“I’m sorry, Dakelos. It was nothing personal. Just—I really had to use the toilet and I can’t shit at sea. Forgive me.”
He bowed, slightly. The [Admiral] stared at him through red-rimmed eyes and Yerzhen heard a snort.
The illusion of the [Admiral] faded. A Lizardgirl rolled around on the decks, clutching her sides and howling with mirth. There was more laughter and the rest of the [Mages] shed their [Invisibility] spells.
“Dead gods, Yerzhen! Another great line! I nearly laughed off my [Silence] spell when I heard your first one! ‘Don’t call me General…?’ Did you see their faces?”
“No. What’s happening?”
Yerzhen strode back down the decks. He didn’t look as tall or as grand as he did a second ago. His voice was more causal, less bass—but he still wore the [General]’s disguise. The Lizardgirl leapt to her feet as a Selphid, wearing the dead body of a Human man, pointed.
“They’re already surrendering. That [Admiral]’s no idiot. He’s practically screaming he was duped.”
“Aw, shame. Did Belchaus sink any ships?”
“Not for want of trying. What’re the odds he takes them all prisoner?”
“Five hundred gold says he lets them go but on less ships than they came with.”
“Bet.”
The [Mages] chortled and ‘Yerzhen’ and the Selphid clasped hands. The others crowded around, chortling at the fake [General]’s lines.
“I love your speech. Did you write it yourself?”
The Lizardgirl glanced at Yerzhen. She couldn’t have been more than fifteen, but appearances were deceiving here. Yerzhen winked.
“With some help from the [Admiral] himself. What did you think of my first introduction?”
“Good!”
The others chorused. The Selphid looked at Yerzhen.
“Was your father really a [General]?”
“Ah, well. You have to be honest for some of the truth spells. I’d have lied to the man about meeting him if the [Mage] had been there from the start, but that’s why I wanted him off-guard.”
Yerzhen winked. He did not look like his appearance, a big bear of a man. Nor—was he necessarily Human. What was true was that his name was Yerzhen; he’d used it to pass the truth spell. And that his father had apparently been a [General], or called that so he could pass the truth spell.
Nothing more. And the rest of the Elusive Lot—were just as mysterious.
It wasn’t all of them, of course. But six had been needed to keep up the mass-illusion of the ship. And Yerzhen made seven. The [Mages] all chortled as they sailed back towards Wistram.
“That does it for that blockade. Tell our associates they have a window to smuggle everything they want through. They owe us large for this.”
But that went without saying. The others nodded appreciatively.
This was the Ullsinoi Faction of Wistram. And this…was the Elusive Lot.
Possibly. Or it might have just been Yerzhen there. He poked the Lizardgirl.
“Taxiela, is that you?”
“Guilty as charged. Although I prefer Galei sometimes.”
The Lizardwoman sprang up and suddenly she was a Centaur. He tossed his head. And it might have been that it was Galei there the entire time or he just changed his illusion.
No one knew. But Taxiela/Galei was Palt’s master. As well as a member of the Elusive Lot. If they were even here.
It could be that Yerzhen was alone and these were all fakes. Or that he himself had created them all, or some of them and was pretending to have a conversation with Galei at this moment to fool the others.
Things got confusing really quickly around [Illusionists]. And the Elusive Lot were the leaders of the Ullsinoi faction who were made up of well, [Illusionists]. [Tricksters]. [Diviners], [Seers] too, and [Mages] who dabbled on the illicit side of life…
You could get all sorts of factions in Wistram. Not all were huge, political movements like the Revivalists or Libertarians. Some were specialized.
For instance, Bezale’s faction were the Scriptel faction—small, but in possession of a wealth of knowledge. Most of it written by their members. And numbers were also a fool’s game.
“Off we go! Back to Wistram, then! Unless anyone has business on the mainland?”
“One of us jumped ship.”
A Gnoll volunteered that. She grinned as the others chorused.
“Did not!”
Yerzhen took it at face value. Maybe someone had left, but the Elusive Lot would drive you crazy if you tried to find the truth. No one knew how many there were. There was no command structure lower-members of the Ullsinoi faction like Palt could understand, and even knowing who was a member of the Elusive Lot was hard. Palt thought his master, Galei, was part of their number, but he wasn’t sure.
He didn’t even know if Galei was his master or if different members of the Elusive Lot kept taking turns to impersonate his master.
Oh, the world was a grand game. Get your head around that and you were set. The Elusive Lot sailed back towards Wistram, chattering away. Yerzhen looked at Galei and the Selphid—who’d failed to use a name the entire time they had been together—as he talked.
“What’s back at Wistram?”
“Naili’s trying to corner us. Feor too. About Palt’s little prank.”
“Oh, that. Wonderfully done! Are they ours?”
“The inn’s ours. The rest? Let’s pretend they are, shall we?”
“Naturally. Should we let ourselves be caught?”
Of course, after the game of soccer, the Archmages had demanded explanations of the Ullsinoi faction. All they’d caught however were lower-ranked members. Cornering the Elusive Lot was like herding invisible cats with wings. The others shrugged or merrily ate snacks while reading [Message] spells on the fallout of their prank.
“I don’t care. So long as Palt can deliver, we’ve got a magical door in Liscor. Have the gangs heard?”
“Heard and are interested, but it’s too hot for them right now with all the eyes. Anyways, I hear the Gentlemen Callers are at the inn. On assignment.”
“Oho. Any idea who?”
“None. But you know how boring they can get. Bets that it’s got to do with the [Innkeeper]?”
No takers. The Elusive Lot swapped thoughts around willy-nilly. After a moment, one of them, Yerzhen again, raised a hand.
“While we’re on the topic…I call for seriousness. One minute.”
The laughing [Mages] subsided. Two of them vanished as if they’d never been here, and Yerzhen couldn’t detect them with any of their scrying spells. The rest, five now, gathered closer. Galei made his smiling face into one of seriousness by passing a hand down his features.
“Serious talk. What does Yerzhen want to say?”
“The Golden Triangle.”
The Elusive Lot paused. And even the hint of a smile vanished from the rest of their faces.
They were, by their own words, pranksters, tricksters, unrepentantly annoying—but not evil or good. They did as they pleased, which was generally to help Wistram as they saw fit. People who interfered too hard didn’t belong with them.
And the Ullsinoi faction loved tricks. Life was meant to be enjoyed, not wrangled over like the Archmages loved to do. Better to make allies than enemies. Better to laugh and enjoy life than try to be the biggest dog in the kennel.
But they did know things. Dark secrets. They did have…enemies. People on their bad list. And for all their lack of scruples at provoking a huge incident between Ailendamus and Nadel—the Elusive Lot was on the side of the Dawn Concordat. But the Golden Triangle was another thing.
What the Elusive Lot knew was that there was such a thing as poor humor. And the ‘Golden Triangle’ was a bad joke. People would die ere the punch line. And the Elusive Lot weren’t going to laugh.
“I’ve spoken to one of the Earthers.”
“Blackmage?”
