“No, I haven’t…Master, that’s my business. My romantic—thank you for asking. I’m fine. What? Warships? What did you—okay. Fine. I’ll check for it in the news. Yes, I’m sure! I’ll meet with Magus Grimalkin and Grand Strategist—as soon as I can. The Grand Strategist might take longer, but today! Thank you! Goodbye!”
“Puff. Puff.”
“Pawn, you don’t have to say that.”
“I am trying to get into the mood, Lyonette.”
Palt ended the communication spell. He grinned as he saw Pawn and Lyonette trying to waft the smoke into his…mouth. Palt rummaged in his bag of holding as he produced something.
“I thought that might be an issue. Here. Try this.”
He offered Pawn something. The Antinium and Lyonette stared at a square of…toffee.
“What is this?”
“Chewable dreamleaf. It’s…stronger, so maybe only have a bit. But it also works. I make and sell it as well as the rest, but I don’t use them that much.”
Palt shrugged. He liked smoking. Pawn on the other hand took the bit of toffee. Lyonette eyed it dubiously.
“It’s so…small.”
“You don’t need a lot. Like I said, try it—”
Palt retrieved his cigar as Pawn popped the entire thing into his mouth and chewed.
“Nom, Nom.”
“Pawn. You don’t have to say that either.”
Lyonette sighed. The Antinium raised one finger as he masticated. Then he replied.
“But Erin says that too, sometimes.”
“Erin is a silly…”
The Centaur handed Lyonette the joint.
“Go ahead and finish this if you want, Lyonette. I’ve got to go.”
“Oh. Thank you! I don’t feel…happy?”
“You might not the first time. Just don’t overthink things. You’ll just feel…calmer.”
The Centaur gave the advice he gave all first-timers. Lyonette nodded and kept puffing away. Pawn stared ahead.
“I feel nothing.”
“It takes time. Look, I have a job to do. Tell Erin I won’t be able to help cook.”
“Sure! Thank you for this and…”
Lyonette waved her hands. To mean everything, really. Palt had stayed at The Wandering Inn for a good time now. And he had ingratiated himself to everyone as much as possible. That meant handing out his goods to the Earthers, Ceria—Pisces had refused his goods, claiming he liked drinking more—and Pawn and Lyonette now.
Helping Erin out in the kitchen, too. The Centaur saw this as his duty for multiple reasons. First—Erin was an ally. You helped allies out. Second, he owed her. Montressa and company had tried to kidnap the Horns, had gotten into a fight at Erin’s inn. Debts weren’t a one-and-done thing.
And finally—he rather liked Erin. She was, in Palt’s words, cute. Attractive in more ways than just physical. The Centaur also knew that Erin was as hard to nail down as the Elusive Lot. But that was part of her charm.
“I’m going to Pallass!”
He called out as he trotted back into The Wandering Inn. He had been out the back, to pursue the semi-illicit experience of smoking. Palt already had a cigar in his mouth, though. He conjured a bit of fire to light the end and—
“Palt! How many times have I told you not to smoke indoors?”
An angry voice made Palt wince. He hadn’t even registered putting the cigar in his mouth. It was automatic, the way other people breathed.
The Centaur turned and ducked his head as he snatched the cigar out of his mouth.
“Sorry, Erin. It’s a habit.”
“It’s a bad one! How many times do I have to tell you? Smoking kills!”
“Er…it does?”
Erin Solstice hesitated.
“Yeah. It totally does. It makes your lungs all black and icky, right, Ryoka? Tobacco is evil!”
“But this is dreamleaf.”
The Centaur pointed to his cigar. Erin wavered again, and then wagged one finger.
“It’s secondhand smoke. That’s what’s bad! You’ll get kids high!”
“But if I funnel it out a window or contain the smoke…I’m only harming myself.”
Palt knew it was a losing argument. Erin didn’t like smoking. It was, perhaps, one of the biggest challenges facing getting to know her. He sighed, and then heard a voice as a taller Human came up beside Erin.
“Why not let him smoke if the smoke can be negated, Erin? It’s…not exactly the worst of drugs.”
Palt blinked at this unexpected ally. Erin turned and looked at Ryoka Griffin, surprised.
“Ryoka! But it’s bad! Weed is bad, right?”
“Uh. No. What century are you living in?”
“This one! Wait a second, Ryoka. Do you mean you’ve done…the stuff?”
“Which stuff?”
Palt smirked as he saw Erin’s jaw drop. The Centaur turned his head and pretended to cough. Erin looked indignant.
“But weed—”
“Erin. It’s not worse than alcohol.”
“N—yeah but—wait a second…”
Erin opened and closed her mouth. Palt looked at his rescuer and slowly put the cigar in his mouth. Erin eyed him with wroth, but she said nothing as the stream of smoke floated into a bubble around Palt’s head. The City Runner smiled and he nodded to her.
“A fellow connoisseur?”
“A dabbler. Hi. Ryoka.”
“We’ve met.”
Briefly. The two eyed each other up and down. Palt was sure Ryoka was from Earth. Beyond that? He was very curious. Could she be the legendary ‘batman’ for whom every Wistram mage had been instructed to look for? Perhaps. And knowing Erin? Palt would have put money on it.
“Is it…I mean, we have a similar substance. Is dreamleaf…like that, do you know? You were at Wistram.”
Ryoka Griffin’s voice was very cautious as she referred to the fact that Wistram had any number of Earthers as their guests. Palt smiled around his cigar. Now here was someone who might fit into the Ullsinoi faction. Or at least knew how to keep a reserve.
“I’ve heard it described, Miss. But dreamleaf looks very different to your—weeds. Different effects too, or so I gather.”
“Really?”
“Oh yes. It’s minutiae, but dreamleaf provokes…dreams. The more you take, the more vivid the dreams. And the more relaxed you get. I hear you get paranoid on the other stuff?”
“You know it. This doesn’t make you paranoid? Any negative effects?”
“I get hungry. And lazy.”
Ryoka grinned.
“Wait, no side effects?”
Palt winked at her.
“Miss, what kind of [Gardener] grows a plant with side effects? It’s magical. Cities don’t like it because, well, it does impair your work ethic and it’ll demotivate you for hours, but it’s not bad for you.”
“I might have to try it, then. Do you sell…any of it? I have a friend who told me she could get some, but I wasn’t interested at the time. I could bring some back to her, though.”
“Well, if you do, I can set you up with a sample as a friend of Miss Solstice. And if you don’t like smoking…”
“Hey!”
Erin stomped on the ground. Ryoka broke off from reaching for her money pouch. The young woman waved her fist at the two of them. She pointed at Palt’s cigar.
“No weed in my inn. Palt, you can smoke if I never smell it. Got it?”
One small victory. Palt exhaled and the smoke flew up into the bubble overhead. He smiled gratefully at Erin and Ryoka.
“Your words are law, Miss Solstice. Speaking of which—I’m going into Pallass. I don’t suppose Magus Grimalkin will be…attracted here, will he? Or Chaldion? I could use that. I need to talk to them about something important.”
The two young women exchanged a glance. Well—Ryoka glanced at Erin and the young woman scratched at the back of her head vaguely.
“…No? I mean, I’m not gonna do anything.”
“Could you get them here if you wanted to?”
Ryoka was genuinely curious. She was still at The Wandering Inn. She had to leave. Soon. And she had to create a miracle before the summer’s solstice. But for one more day, she was here. It wasn’t about her, anyways.
Erin frowned.
“Well, yeah. Obviously. I could get them if I needed to. Like—scream through to Pallass and get Chaldion or Grimalkin? That’s easy.”
The Centaur and City Runner exchanged a glance. The [Innkeeper] who claimed to be able to summon the [Grand Strategist] of all of Pallass…
“How, Erin? You could just shout something and Grimalkin comes running?”
“Yep.”
Ryoka opened and closed her mouth. The worst part was that she believed it.
“…Give me an example. Please?”
The [Innkeeper] frowned for a moment.
“Um—okay. I open the door and scream ‘dead gods! I’ve got so many muscles! That new soup really does work! I’d better give this to all the Antinium and see what happens!’ And then I shut the door. It’ll probably work, right?”
Palt nearly dropped the cigar as he covered his stomach, laughing. Ryoka laughed too, holding the table. A giggling little Gnoll stopped creeping up on her from behind.
That was why he’d fallen a bit in love. That madness. Like one of the Elusive Lot, but without the need to prank and infuriate everyone in sight. The Centaur looked wistfully at Erin.
“You’re an inspiration to tricksters everywhere, Miss Erin. I salute you. And if you’d like to ever try my illicit drugs—please know that they’re all sincerely for people’s relaxation and state of mind. I sell nothing dangerous. And I’d be happy to show you how they work.”
Erin blinked at him. She smiled and laughed as Ryoka gave her a look from behind Palt.
“Oh—maybe sometime, Palt. I dunno, it’s not my thing. Uh—why are you going to meet Grimalkin and Chaldion? Is something wrong?”
An excellent deflection. Palt sighed. Was she even aware of how he felt? Well…business awaited. The Centaur turned.
“Just something unpleasant on the wind. I don’t know if you two know of it. It might be connected to…your people.”
Perhaps naively, he was unprepared for the way the two young women focused on him.
“What? What thing? Is it Joseph?”
Erin danced around Palt, looking suddenly worried. Ryoka stared at Palt. He hesitated.
“No, no. It’s not even confirmed. I’m going to do some digging, that’s all. And warn both Chaldion and Magus Grimalkin about—some of your friends in Wistram noticed this—it’s this phenomenon known as ‘the Golden Triangle’. Have you heard about it?”
“Noooo…”
Erin frowned as Ryoka’s head rose and her eyes sharpened further. Palt sighed as he scrubbed at his hair.
“It’s this concept where you give money to someone else. This group—and they invest it in adventurers, [Mages], and so on. Only—we’re not sure, Wistram, that is—that the organization or adventurers exists. We can’t find any records of them anywhere. And the people who give money are encouraged to get other people to join, and they get more money if they do on top of money for their investment…”
He trailed off. Ryoka looked pale. Erin was frowning, as if listening to something far distant, trying to recall something.
“That sounds like…a golden triangle. T-Triforce? No, wait. Illuminati? Um…Pyramids? No, it starts with a ‘P’. P—p—”
“Ponzi scheme, Erin. It’s a fucking Ponzi Scheme. No, wait. It’s more like a pyramid marketing…golden triangle my ass.”
Ryoka Griffin snapped. Palt’s saw her shoulder slump. He took the cigar out of his mouth.
“You know what it is?”
“Of course.”
The Centaur and City Runner turned to Erin. The [Innkeeper] blinked a few times. Then she remembered what the word meant. Her face fell. She closed her eyes and said another phrase that would have gotten Grimalkin and Chaldion to come running.
“Oh, shit.”
 
—-
 
Relc bought a new puzzle with the money he’d earned from the Golden Triangle. He felt good about it too; he could afford the best magical puzzles with his new revenue source.
“You’re flush with gold today. You can usually afford only the cheap stuff. Even the magic wires?”
The [Trader] gave Relc a pleased grin. The Drake gave him a smug grin in return.
“You know it. I’m part of The Golden Triangle. In fact, I’m a Diamond-backer. That’s a special rank. I get gold per month and more of a cut if I sign people up. Have you heard of it…?”
The Human man snorted.
“Have I heard of it? Of course! I’m a backer too. Gold.”
“Ooh, you got on it quick! How much have you turned into a profit?”
The man jingled his coin pouch with a pleased grin.
“A good amount. I’m going to put a hundred gold into it next month, though. Unlike you I have to pay to move up in ranks.”
“Hey! I enlisted at least a thousand people! Probably more, since they started enlisting other people too. Look at my coins!”
The Drake [Guardsman] slapped gold onto the trader’s counter for his money, not hiding the fact that he had lots more. The [Trader] inhaled, his eyes shining.
“Dead gods. All that from Diamond-rank?”
“Hard work. I get a larger cut than Golds too. If I’m lucky, I’ll move up to Platinum. And you know why? Because I signed people up. Everyone knows Senior Guardsman Relc is onto a good thing, right?”
Relc grinned. It had been part of his success. He knew and met everyone as a [Guardsman]. The [Trader] sighed.
“I was too late. But I’ll put that hundred gold down—sooner if you pay for something else.”
“Nah. I’ve got what I want. And I need to buy my kid a gift. A new saddle, maybe. She likes horses.”
The big Drake chortled as he scooped up puzzle after puzzle and put it in his belt pouch. The last was a wire puzzle, infinitely complex. The two wires were tangled together, even fused together in places, seemingly. You had to pull them apart by performing infinitely complex tricks—even putting them in water to get them to separate.
“Ooh. Magic. I wanted this for ages. Hey, how hard is it?”
“Ullsinoi, the creators, rate it at Tier 8 out of 10. You’re not solving this in a month, Relc. And you can’t brute-force it like the other puzzles.”
The Drake gave the [Trader] an arch look.
“I never do. Although…I bet I could break the puzzle if I felt like it.”
“Yeah, sure. And I’m…”
The Human eyed Relc’s arms and decided not to push the point. The Drake waved to the man.
“Thanks! Come next month! I’ll have more money and so will you!”
“If I’m not Platinum and retired? Sure!”
The two laughed as they walked off. Relc hummed as he tried to undo the wire puzzle, walking down the street. This was his first stop after signing that Gnoll woman up. She’d been interested in his sales pitch—not so much his best pickup lines.
Oh well. Embria still hadn’t found him so she was working. The Drake paused for a moment.
He’d solve the puzzles later. Right now…he was hungry. And he wanted to talk to someone. So he went to the only place he thought of these days.
The Wandering Inn.
 
—-
 
Ponzi schemes. Pyramid, multi-level marketing. The concept was simple. Money was shuffled around and for a while, it looked like the system worked. But like all flawed things—it collapsed.
It had to. These things were designed to go down like a fireball. And the masterminds would scurry away with the money while everyone else got hurt.
