To those who knew him, Archmage Viltach was known as ‘The Archmage of Terandria’. A curious title—but people would refer to him as the Terandrian Archmage and others would know what they meant.
Not the ‘Human Archmage’, because there were three out of the seven. Six now, and only two Humans if you took into account…current events.
Traditionally, the numbers of Archmages mattered little. Sometimes there was one. Other times they were counted only as the actual [Archmages]. And sometimes it didn’t matter because who ruled Wistram wasn’t the Archmages at all.
But the title remained. And there were seven—wait—six great [Mages] who had ascended to such lofty titles. One from each continent, in theory, but Rhir hadn’t produced an [Archmage]—or at least, a [Mage] of that caliber who had graduated through Wistram—in centuries.
As it stood, the numbers ran thusly: Terandria had two. Izril had one, and scarcely tied to her home at that. Chandrar had produced one. Baleros had three living Archmages.
Archmage Amerys was no longer numbered among them. And three of the six weren’t always at the academy; one had ties to the Iron Vanguard in no small way; despite being Human, he had been raised by Dullahans. The other, well, he was flighty and powerful. More closely linked to the Maelstrom’s Howling Great Company, but only by species.
Izril’s sole Archmagus lived on an island and seldom interfered in her home’s affairs. All three were what you could call classic, selfish Archmages. They had their hand in politics, but they were keenly obsessed with their own affairs.
…Well, you could count Archmagus Verdan Blackwood—the Human raised by Dullahans—as a politicker. But he was old, and didn’t have the stamina to fight it out constantly in Wistram with his peers. He was in effect, retired, and though he could wield sufficient power—
It was the three in Wistram Academy at this moment who made waves. Ones to watch. The other Archmages might not even have known about the Earthers.
Nailihuaile, the Lamia and head of her Revivalist Faction, did.
So did Archmage Feor, the old half-Elf who led the Centrists.
And Viltach? The Terandrian Archmage? Well…he and his Libertarians were known for their links to Terandria. And Viltach was especially political in that sense.
People said of Viltach that he never backed the losing horse. And that went for gambling as well as the affairs of his home continent. And if it turned out that a losing nation was, in fact, the one that would win a conflict? They had been the winning horse all along.
That was how the Archmagus operated. And how Wistram Academy liked to conduct a lot of affairs. There were exceptions—like the King of Destruction whom they opposed, but they generally liked to nudge things. Collect what was valuable. Avoid direct, messy intervention. Unless they had to. Which they didn’t do at all. Well—sometimes.
It was complicated. In many ways, Wistram was a giant of multiple intentions. Peer under the unified front, and you’d see a mess of factions. Each one vying for superiority, magical knowledge, power…
In this particular case, the upcoming conflict with Ailendamus and the southern realms was worrying any number of people. So far it was looking to be Ailendamus versus the traditional bulwark of Calanfer, Kaliv, and Gaiil-Drome. The Dawn Concordat as they were known, was known for having broken any number of nations sent against them. But Ailendamus had swelled of recent years, and their ruler, King Itorin II, was looking for easy victories.
The preparations for the conflict had begun interfering with sea trade. Ailendamus warships had clashed twice with Pheislant vessels and were blockading trade to the Dawn Concordat. Any goods headed their way? Well, those ships were ‘accidentally’ intercepted by Ailendamus’ peacekeeping force. Confiscated, or just ‘lost’ during routine searches.
It wasn’t exactly a stealthy maneuver. But it worked well against all three landlocked nations. They didn’t rely on continental trade, but their trade goods and luxuries were being clamped down on.
Just another precursor to the war everyone knew was coming. Now, it didn’t matter to Wistram except that this was a matter of international sovereignty on the waters. And Wistram Academy was—split—on what should be done.
Ailendamus would win. That was Viltach’s belief. He had a strong connection with King Itorin and he preferred to keep it that way by doing…nothing.
The other two Archmages disagreed.
“They can’t block trade! That makes us look bad if we don’t condemn them, even in words.”
Nailihuaile argued for opposition to the Ailendamus fleet’s actions. Only that. Feor was more direct.
“No nation rules the oceans. Ailendamus’ actions cannot be tolerated. Wistram does not take sides.”
That statement was so false that all three Archmages had to pause. Naili snorted, Viltach’s lips quirked, and even Feor paused in acknowledgement of what he’d said. Nevertheless—that was what the Academy said.
“I believe Ailendamus is within its rights. Or will Wistram oppose the nation?”
Viltach looked around challengingly. Naili grumbled, and Feor glanced at her. It came down to a vote in the Council. Nailihuaile mustered her Revivalists who held seats and pushed for a strongly-worded letter of condemnation. Feor tried to use his Centrists, one of the largest factions, to persuade Wistram to go a step beyond, unifying the other coastal nations to oppose Ailendamus and force a cessation to the blockage.
Archmage Viltach threw his Libertarians beside the Revivalists. The two factions hated each other usually, but this was politics. In exchange for his votes on a referendum inviting Chandrarian bazaars to hawk their goods at Wistram in an upcoming fair…Feor lost. Wistram sent words against Ailendamus, conveying their dislike of the blockade. The matter rested.
The ships still sailed the waters, ready to seize anything bound for Terandria. They had truth spells to check even the most tricksome of [Merchants], [Mages] of their own. The warships had fast counterparts who would destroy any would-be blockade runners or smugglers…perhaps some Drowned Ships got through, or the most elusive of [Merchants], but so what? It was working.
That was politics in Wistram. They had, through much arguing over three days, accomplished exactly nothing about the blockade, but done it in such a way that much clout had been expended and gathered. Feor was unhappy, but the fate of the Dawn Concordat wasn’t the highest on his list of priorities. More time to interfere when the war began, if need be.
And that was that. The end. The Academy had spoken, the Council of Mages had voted, and there was nothing more to be said.
…Except of course that there were some people who didn’t obey the rules. They were not Archmages. They had no desire to be that public. And they viewed a nosy bunch of warships interdicting all ships as bad for business. [Smugglers] already had to dodge [Harbormasters] and inspections at the ports. So one faction happily set sail even before the votes had been cast.
They were an Elusive Lot.
 
—-
 
The warship looked like one of Ailendamus’ grandest vessels. And the insignia read—Itorin’s Pride.
“Dead gods. But that’s the flagship. We didn’t receive word, did we?”
The [Admiral] lowered his spyglass as the navy, spread out in their blockade, hailed the oncoming warship. He heard a curse from one of his junior officers.
“Lord Admiral! I regret to inform you that we did receive several [Messages]!”
“What?”
“The contact, sir! This must be it.”
The [Admiral] of The Foehammer, a good warship, paled. He’d gotten several coded contacts yesterday through the [Message] system. Obviously, since you could intercept messages, Ailendamus had its own system of codes. It had told him to look for a message or persons today. But Itorin’s Pride?
“Are we going to war already? No—if the Pride is joining us, we might be sailing against Pheislant’s harbors. Dead gods. Make ready! I’ll greet our visitors myself.”
The [Admiral] checked his uniform, and saw the other ship hailing them through a complicated signal of [Light] spells. The deck was very busy, but to his surprise, the [Admiral] saw that they were signaling to come aboard his ship rather than the other way around.
Odd. But the [Admiral] saw the gangplank being lowered and hastily stepped forwards to greet…
“Admiral Dakelos! How the hell are you, my man?”
A giant of a man—not an actual Giant, but still—strode across the decks. He grabbed Dakelos in a bear-hug slapped him on the shoulders. The smaller man squeaked.
The [Commander]—no—[General] by his rank on his uniform was a bear of a man. A powerful nose broken twice, scars lining his arms—he had hair like it was made of iron—and a huge, booming smile.
He also smelled a bit of wine. He was clearly not at home on the rolling decks.
“Do I—know you? Sir?”
The man looked hurt.
“Dakelos! We met when you were barely a [Captain]. Back when you were sailing at sea? You don’t remember me? Yerzhen? Ah, but we had a grand time. Finished a barrel of…no?”
The [Admiral] blinked a few times, then blushed. He had a poor way with drink, and if he had met the man (and how could you forget a fellow like this?), he’d forgotten.
“I’m terribly sorry…was it Yerzhen? Er—[General]…?”
Belatedly, he saw one of his [Fleet Mages] coming forwards. It was a bit embarrassing, but the [Mage] began casting a truth spell at once. On both Yerzhen and Dakelos. The [Admiral] waved him back, but the unsteady [General] didn’t seem to notice.
“These damn boats. I hate them. Don’t know how you can stand them, Dakelos. What were you saying? Ah, right!”
He waved a stern finger at Dakelos.
“Don’t call me General Yerzhen. That was my father’s title. Let’s not stand on formality, Dakelos. Two old drinking-partners shouldn’t, eh?”
The truth spell flashed behind the man. All the statements were true. Dakelos, a bit miffed but more convinced than ever, saw Itorin’s Pride sailing past his flagship.
“Er—as you say, Gen—I mean, Yerzhen. What is the Pride doing?”
“Ah—that. You’ll want to follow. I was supposed to go ahead in one of our skiffs and spoken to you earlier today, but you know me—had to drink or I’d die at sea. How many [Soldiers] do you have under your command?”
Dakelos’ brows creased and his heart began to pound.
“I have a number of sailors, s—I mean, Gener—Yerzhen. But what is this…?”
“His Majesty will kill me if we’re late. Hurry up and turn the ship! I’ll explain on the way. You got the coded [Messages], yes?”
“Yes—but—”
Dakelos waved a hand at his officers. Wide-eyed, they began to call out.
“Raise the anchor!”
“The entire fleet, yes. We can spare a few ships if you think it’s wise, but we need to be landing in Nadel by nightfall, Dakelos.”
“Nadel? But that’s the territory of Lord Belchaus!”
Dakelos nearly fell over himself. And his voice was too loud; [Sailors] looked up and gaped. Was Ailendamus going to war against Lord Belchaus Meron, the Lord of the Dance? His harbors were practically unassailable! Even with the entire navy at his back, Dakelos wouldn’t like fighting there.
But Yerzhen just growled at him.
“Not so loud, man! I’ll tell you when we get to the cabin! But take the fleet! I’ll need to borrow half your [Sailors]—those who can fight on land. Should have told you earlier. Don’t tell his Majesty or I’ll be on the chopping block. Again!”
His voice was no less quiet, for all he was trying to growl. Dakelos hurried into his cabin and the [General] yanked the door shut.
“Get the fleet moving. I’ve got the Pride loaded with as many of our elites as we can. Dead gods, even the Thirsting Veil has committed sixty of its [Knights].”
“Sixty? Then this is an assault? We can’t take Nadel with our fleet, Yerzhen. Not even if we had three times our numbers…”
“Admiral? Do you still need me?”
The [Fleet Mage] called from outside the office. Distracted, Dakelos saw Yerzhen drawing a line across his throat.
“No lower-ranks, Dakelos. Can’t risk word spreading.”
“Of course. You’re dismissed! Man your stations!”
The Admiral called out. Now that they were alone, and discussing war, he saw the [General] straighten and look a lot more reassuring…solid. Stumbling he might have been across the decks, but Yerzhen’s voice was like a rock.
“We’re not assaulting Nadel, Dakelos. The opposite. Lord Belchaus is allowing our ships to land. He’s not happy about it, but he’s given us a window. From there—my troops and your [Sailors] will disembark and move westwards. We will set up camp and prepare to flank the Dawn Concordat when the war begins. In six days.”
Dakelos’ jaw dropped.
“But Lord Belchaus has always been neutral…”
Infamously so, in fact. The [General] winked at him.
“His Majesty knew that. But even the Lord of the Dance or whatever he’s called can see the way the wind is blowing. There were a lot of [Diplomats], contracts—none of my business. I’m just to take my men and yours and prepare for an attack when Calanfer commits its forces northwards. We play this right and we’ll take the capital on the seventh day and be sipping wine in a week!”
It could work. The [General] was flipping through the maps, tracing a route overland from Nadel to Calanfer. Dakelos couldn’t believe it.
“So this interdiction of smuggled goods—”
“Just to get you boys out here. You think we were going to have you sit here for months?”
That was what the [Admiral] had thought. But—what genius. And getting the Lord of the Dance? He felt the ship turning. The entire navy was following Itorin’s Pride.
Something did bug Dakelos, though. He’d thought the Pride was actually much further north. And it was moving so fast—he looked warily at the [General].
“I’m sorry, General Yertzhen. But this is just so sudden. Shouldn’t we send at least an affirmative back to the capital…?”
The [General] looked askance.
“Are you mad, man? Why do you think you only got the barest code-signs we were coming? This is secret. Do you know how hard it was to smuggle Itorin’s Pride all this way? We had to use illusions! This is beyond top-secret. But mark me. If I pull this off, his Majesty has assured me personally that he will make me a [Great General] of Ailendamus. And if I reach that position—I’ll be calling for you to become [High Admiral]. How’s that sound, Dakelos, eh?”
He pulled the other man into a one-armed hug. The [Admiral] grinned in disbelief.
“That would be—excellent! Gener—I mean, Yerzhen.”
