The query came from Galei. Yerzhen shook his head.
“Another one. They all know it’s a—pyramid scheme. It’s obvious. You’ve seen the numbers and how it ends.”
“Not funny.”
That came from the Selphid. And that was the biggest indictment you could get. The others nodded.
“What will the Council do?”
“Denounce it, probably. Make everyone aware. The Archmages already know. But listen—I heard a rumor that says that Viltach and Feor both want the scheme to continue. Other groups, big groups, get into debt—helps Wistram.”
“And while they do that, many innocent small folk die! That’s their money being stolen!”
Galei stood up, cheeks flushed as he walked back and forth. It could be an act. The Elusive Lot was silent, thinking.
“Wistram sent Montressa and Bezale after the clues. They have all they need to explain what’s happened. I say—we take a first step. Any gang who we’re cordial with—any friends—we warn them. Wistram will move after us if word spreads.”
The other [Mages] murmured. Yerzhen went on.
“Guard our assets. The Walled Cities, at least are the center of the scheme. Let’s cut down the circulation of this game. How much gold is in the air?”
“Over a hundred thousand pieces. At least.”
All of it sent through the ‘Golden Triangle’. If it got bigger, it might well bleed the pockets of many dry. Yerzhen nodded.
“Vote: leak information of the Golden Triangle to…Pallass. He looks into who’s behind the center of it all.”
“Palt’s not good enough.”
Galei opined.
“He could get lucky. The Revivalists and the Scriptels won’t ever trace that mischief—let alone convince the Walled Cities of the danger. Send Palt. He knows how to explain the danger. Apparently he has a connection with Grand Strategist Chaldion? And Magus Grimalkin. Have him use them. I’ll contact him now if we agree. Hands?”
The others deferred to Palt’s master. The vote went up. Three to—seventeen. Dozens of hands popped around the other [Mages] and Galei counted them dutifully. The Selphid made three illusory hands. You never knew who was here. And the hands were more of a sign of…how passionate the other felt.
“Done. And we’ll send word to other agents. No Golden Triangle. Find the biggest sellers and…”
Quite calmly, Yerzhen drew a finger across his throat. The others saw his skin open and blood and viscera through the cut his finger had made. They nodded.
“Spread the word.”
 
—-
 
They called him the Gecko of Liscor. When they wanted to make him mad. To most people, he was just ‘Relc’.
Senior Guardsman Relc if you wanted to be fancy. ‘That idiot’ if you were Zevara.
But just—Relc. And he swung around Liscor, a familiar face known by almost all. That huge, sometimes bombastic Drake. Ugly; objectionable face and tail, but damned good with a spear.
A former [Sergeant] in the army. The Watch’s best fighter. That is who he’d been for…over a decade. Nearly two, now.
You didn’t need to summarize him with much. You could do it in a paragraph. Relc was a big, sometimes dumb Drake with a spear who was sometimes childish, sometimes bigoted, but was really a good guy.
That was actually a sentence. But it was Relc. If you wanted details, you had to go beyond him. He had a daughter called Embria who he was partly estranged with but who still admired her father. He had a friend called Erin Solstice who you’d have to write a million words about—oh.
And he’d had a partner named Klbkch. Until a day when he didn’t. And that was a tragedy. Not only because the Watch lost their link to the Hive, but because Klbkch was…solid. Reliable, or he had been. The only person who could really rein Relc in.
His partner. The Watch was already trying to fill his boots. The Watch Captain was searching for replacements. And what would they do with Relc? Well, at least he was here. That idiot would cause trouble without Klbkch. He was always there, always irritably reliable, the same. He was…
 
—-
 
Relc Grasstongue sat up in his bed. He blinked a few times, but he was awake.
At dawn. It was a habit so engrained in him from his days as a [Soldier] that he couldn’t stop it, unless he’d had duty the night before. He had not. Today was his day off.
“Grr. Stupid brain. Stupid army. Where’s food? Food?”
Relc muttered to himself. He fumbled around in the near-darkness.
He had candles, and matches. Even a lantern he was supposed to wear at work which he often forgot. The problem was that Relc’s room was anything but tidy. He found none of these things.
What he did find was some moldy bread. He sniffed it. Licked it a few times, and found some cheese under his bed.
“Huh. How’d that get down here?”
In the darkness, the Drake ate a snack. Not proper breakfast. He was still hungry after he smacked his lips.
“Hmm.”
The [Guardsman] sat in the darkness, reflective. He reached out and grabbed his spear.
He always knew where his spear was. Another habit from the army, one he didn’t resent. He slept next to his spear.
“Practice time.”
In his small apartment, the Drake carefully lifted his spear. He spun it around; the long weapon was in danger of hitting both floor, ceiling, and the walls. But Relc knew how long it was exactly. He could measure anything with it—but only thought in terms of the spear-lengths.
He hit nothing. The Drake ran through a training drill he’d mastered long ago. Oh—that was another thing about Relc.
He was a [Spearmaster]. A class as recognized as a [Fencer] with a bell. The Drake warmed up, as he always did, working until he was just about to sweat. His muscles warm, he relaxed.
He had made some sound, but his neighbors had long ago learned to ignore Relc in the mornings or had moved out. Now, the Drake sat down.
“I drank too much.”
He said that to no one in particular. Females of any species didn’t really visit his small, cramped apartment. The affairs he had with them were usually at their places, which were generally nicer, or in inns. Or other establishments.
Only one female person visited him. And that was his daughter. She was usually mildly appalled at the disaster of books with their spines broken, little knickknacks, food, clothing, and so on scattered around his room, but Embria was a [Soldier]. She was used to it.
It was still dark, even after his warm-up. It took longer for dawn, and dusk came sooner thanks to the High Passes. So Relc just sat there. He felt around and came up with something.
“Aha. Wire puzzle with the boar’s head. My old friend.”
The Drake had something in his claws. Invisible in the darkness, he nevertheless knew it inside and out. It was a blacksmith’s puzzle. A metal contraption in the shape of a boar’s head. And—a piece of bendy wire. The goal was to fit the wire through the boar’s head and out the other side without having to bend it. The wire was specially made—you could only bend certain sections.
Well—most people couldn’t bend the other sections. Relc could in theory ‘cheat’ due to his prodigious strength, but he took care not to. He carefully straightened the wire—then bent it into a pattern with his claws. Gently. From memory, in the darkness.
Then he inserted it into the boar’s head. Relc felt the wire snag on hidden tumblers. Then it was out the other side. He twisted and with a little snick, the boar’s head fell open.
“Gotcha! And you were so hard to begin with.”
Smugly, the Drake re-locked the head and tossed it aside. He had spent…how long? Three weeks figuring that one out? And ruined the wire part six times. It really was devilishly hard because you had to bend part of the wire back on itself to make it fit…
That was another thing about Relc. He rummaged around and found another little object.
“Hello? Are you Mr. Metal Block puzzle?”
He had a hobby of solving blacksmith’s puzzles. Wire puzzles, where you had to pull interlocking pieces apart, wooden matrixes that needed unscrambling…Relc spent a lot of his money on them. They were all over his apartment floor.
He enjoyed it. But you could count the people who knew this fact on two claws. Silently, Relc wrestled with the cube, which had multiple compartments you could unlatch and twist and turn or push in…
“Grr. Who makes these things?”
Relc wasn’t a genius at solving these puzzles. He was good, of course, and could solve basic ones—even ones he hadn’t seen—in minutes, but that was only by virtue of experience. There were…harder puzzles. And this was one of them.
“Oh? Oh? Aha!”
Relc shouted. He heard a thump from the wall to his right and apologetically knocked on the wall. But he’d found a combination of buttons when pressed…
The cube lit up. It was one of his magical puzzles. And magical puzzles could be anything. Relc saw a glowing font trace itself across the metal. Little, scrawled letters wrote something for him.
Well done. The Ullsinoi of Wistram present: The Cube of Galei.
“Oooh!”
The Drake stared at the cube. It was glowing now, the lines intersecting and meeting in the metal. And—he squinted.
“What is this?”
A second, illusory section of cube had appeared. Relc reached out and twisted in the air. The magical pieces moved. As they did, the glowing lines shifted to match. So you had to complete the top puzzle and…
The Drake smiled to himself. He bent over the puzzle as the sun rose, poking, fiddling, memorizing what he’d done and not done. He knew he’d have to leave soon enough. He was a Senior Guardsman after all. He had…
 
—-
 
Four hours later, Relc felt his stomach growling. The burly Drake looked up.
“Huh?”
Sunlight blinded him from the window. It had risen and, with the grace and tact of a [Thug], smacked him with its rays of light. Relc shaded his eyes. He checked the position of the sun and then swore.
“Ancestors, I’m late! Why didn’t that idiot get me?”
He shot to his feet and in a panic, looked for his clothes. His gear was at the barracks, ready for him to sign in. But Klbkch hadn’t gotten him! He always—
For the nineteenth day in a row, Relc caught himself. His beating heart slowed as he remembered something.
“Oh. It’s my day off.”
And then on top of that…
“Klb’s on vacation.”
Slowly, the Drake sat down. He looked around, blinking in the sunlight. Klbkch always got Relc before their shift started. In fact—the pair had been working together for nearly a decade. So much so that Klbkch would, on his days off, come to Relc’s door.
“Relc, we do not have work together today. Please do not bother me. It is my time off.”
That was what he’d say. Other times it was—
“Relc. It is time to go and sign in. We are late.”
Or—
“Relc, I have already signed in. I am attempting to wake you up for the fifth time. I will soon leave without you.”
Stuff like that, if Relc had gone back to sleep after his dawn wakeup. But he was gone.
Relc raised one scarred fist and looked at it as he lay on his back in his apartment. He could hear other people getting up, murmuring…it was a disconcerting experience. He was usually first out the door, thanks to Klbkch.
He could still remember punching his friend. Asking, pleading with him to stop. And Klbkch, angrier than Relc had ever seen him, refusing to stay down. Until he’d risen and—
“Klbkch has moves.”
The [Guardsman] felt his chest. He could remember being punched, too. He’d thought he was the best [Guard] on the Watch bar none. But Klbkch had put him and a group of Liscor’s [Soldiers] on the ground.
“Skills.”
The Drake stared up at the ceiling. After a while, he got his magical box and began to play with it without looking at it. Well, now Klb was gone. He’d come back. Relc had gotten used to him, though. And…
The Drake wondered if Embria was on-duty. She usually synced her time off with his. Otherwise, she was training 4th company; they had some new recruits to fill their losses. Or patrolling the Floodplains, helping out in Liscor…
“She must be bored out of her mind. 4th Company too. I’d be giving my [Wing Commander] all kinds of crap.”
The Drake thought about that. But Embria was tough. She’d handle it. She had the voice of authority. You had to have that. You couldn’t just get promoted on time served. Not in Liscor’s army. She’d be fine.
And she’d pick him up at any minute. Relc sighed, imagining her nagging him to get changed into something clean for their father-daughter time. Maybe they could visit The Wandering Inn? She didn’t mind it there. He brightened at the thought.
“Yup, yup. And maybe I can visit Invrisil. That’d be great. After all, I’ve got gold!”
He smiled as he thought of his other, newer job. The Drake bent his head over the puzzle and devoted his attention to it. He kept working, as the sun rose and everyone else went to their jobs.
It was only after two more hours that Relc realized that Embria hadn’t come. He looked up, feeling a bit woebegone. But she must have had to work. He sat there. As the morning came.
But if Klbkch and Embria didn’t come to get him, no one else would. No one but the [Landlord]. No one else from the Watch; Relc’s few friends in the city didn’t pay social calls.
He was alone. But for them. So the Drake slowly stood. He stretched. Found his money pouch, his belt, took his spear as always and walked out the door. He looked around, blinking in the sun. What did Senior Guardsman Relc do with his time?
Well…of late…he saw a Gnoll passing in the street. Relc smoothed his neck-spines, smiled at the female Gnoll, and hurried over.
“Hello, Miss! Have you heard about the Golden Triangle? I’m Relc, by the way. Senior Guardsman…”
 
—-
 
At the same time, a Centaur was taking his ease outside of an inn. Palt, the Centaur, smoked from a joint. He was always smoking. It was a habit. A way of life.
He was a [Smoker]. As well as an [Illusionist]. His name was Palt. And he got along with people.
“Yes, Master. Really? Really? This isn’t a prank? I’m asking because the last time you sent me on a mission—no, I understand. Yes. And yes. And no. I’m not doing Liscor. Or Pallass. I’ll pass along…no, I won’t. We’re already in hot water. Get someone else…okay. Thank you. Yes! Yes, I’m fine.”
No one could hear the conversation but him, and Palt was deliberately being vague. As he took a lungful of dreamleaf, that delightful substance that made your mood relaxed and your dreams very nice, he passed the smoking joint left.
Lyonette nearly fumbled it, owing to her inexperience with the entire scene. She brought it up to her mouth, inhaled—and began coughing. Palt grinned as he kept talking. Lyonette determinedly had another experience as she puffed on the joint—then she handed it left again.
Pawn was trying to figure out how to smoke the joint as Palt continued.
