A cadet wakes me for my turn at sentry duty. I stretch and grab my weapons, while he settles in to sleep. The third cadet stirs a little, but doesn't wake. Heading out into the dark, I stumble around, trying to find my post. I've never done sentry duty before. Turns out, I wasn't missing much. It's boring and I can barely see in the gloom, but it's just grass road in all directions. That makes it perfect for practice.   I enter the State of Enlightenment. After 3 years of constant practice, it's as easy as taking a deep breath. My senses sharpen. The gloom doesn't light up, but becomes more well defined. Individual strands of grass, swaying in the wind. The cold morning air feels almost like a knife on my skin, abrasive and almost painful. A down side to heightened senses. I can hear the breath of the sentries on either side of me. Slow, uneven. They're tired. Can't really blame them, yesterday was rough on the cadets. Most of them saw their first real combat. Most of them killed for the first time. It's easy to laugh when you’re with friends. It's when you're alone that the thoughts take over.   I continue to practice, simply holding onto Enlightenment. It's mentally draining, holding onto it without Demonstrating the Forms. The movements themselves are almost a kind of meditation, letting yourself fall into a well-practiced pattern. It sets a part of your brain on autopilot, letting you devote more resources to the parsing your senses. The only way to lengthen the active use of Enlightenment is practice. I don't have enough hours in the day to devote to all the things I'm practicing. What I need is to learn to make shadow clones, to practice while I'm sleeping. No, better yet, some old guy should just transfer all his knowledge, straight into my brain. That would be much better. Everything takes so long to learn. I'm only passable with the bow, and I've been shooting every day for 3 years.   There is a rustling in the grass. Concentrating my sense, I try to figure out where it came from. Looking left and right, I nock an arrow, readying myself. Something isn't right. A scrape, just barely discernible, stone on metal. I whistle the alarm, a low-to-high bird call, repeated 3 times. There's a movement in the grass and an arrow shoots towards it. Not mine. A scream pierces through the morning darkness.   “We're under attack!” yelling as I shoot blindly at another rustle. The call is repeated down the line. Dark forms dart out of the grass, barely visible except for the glint on their weapons. Bandits probably. They're close. Shooting once more, I drop my bow and reach for my shield and short spear.   I slam my shield into a dark form, stabbing it as it falls. No time to finish him off, more bandits on their way. I need to buy time for the camp to get up.   A sword clangs off of my shield, knocking me off-balance. Fuck he's strong. There's more of them, I can't fight back. I just need to survive. Huddling behind my shield, my stance and my spear low, I block and dodge, duck and weave. My leathers take the bite out of the hits that slip past my defense. How can they even see like this?   Someone with a torch approaches from behind. Finally, some light. Three opponents. All with swords, and dark lines smeared on their faces. I throw a low swing, sending its receiver stumbling. The other two attack, keeping me from killing him, forcing me back after a cut to the shoulder. I need to change things up. I switch to an overhand grip with my spear. Block and stab. Much better. I just need to keep them back. Help will come. They have to be more careful now, backing off from my thrusts. They slow their advance, and try to split up, encircle me. Perfect.   My thrown spear takes the leftmost bandit in the chest. Didn't expect that, did you, bitch.   The other two charge me screaming murder, confident now that I have no weapon in hand. A two-handed shield smash knocks the sword out of the biggest bandits hand. Keeping the unarmed bandit between me and his friend, I circle around, awkwardly drawing my sword. Need a better place to clip it, besides above my ass.   The disarmed bandit tackles, lifting me off the ground. Well fuck. That was unexpected.   My arms are pinned against me as I'm lifted and slammed into the dirt. My feet stay under me, just barely. Can't let him bring me to the ground. Wildly poking at him with the sword, trying to get him off me, he screams and slam me down again, jolting the sword out of my hand.   His friend shouts for him to stay down, and moves to kill me. His sword swings down.   All I can do.   Falling backwards into a roll, I lift my tackler with my knees.   The sword thuds into him and he finally lets go, howling. Pushing him off me, I hop to my feet and turn to the last bandit. Focus. Blocking strike after strike, a chunk of my shield flies off, the sword cutting into my shoulder. My arm drops down, hanging uselessly.   I fumble for an arrow, pointing it at the last bandit. Better than nothing. I try to give him my best glare, hoping he just drops dead.   He yells and charges. Why charge? Just swing from out of my range, dumb ass. Stepping forward, the sword whistles past, and I jam my arrow into his side. He tenses up, and I stab him again, and again, as he stares into my eyes. Clear green eyes. I can't stop. His anger slowly turns to fear with each progressive stab. The arrow finally breaks, snapping off inside him. He falls down, dead or dying. Everything sounds the same when dying.   I let out a breath I didn't know I was holding.   Lucky. Too much luck. I need to get stronger.   The tackling bandit tries to stand up, but my right hook crashes into his jaw, and he goes down for the count. K.O. You son of a bitch.   Pushing himself up, the bandit struggles up on all fours. Kicking an arm out from under him, I stomp again, and again, until he stops moving. I said K. Fucking. O. Just stay down.   My breath comes in pants, hands shaking while I check to see if anyone needs help. The stabbed bandit is still gasping, struggling for life. I end it with my sword, and watch the light fade from his eyes. Why do I keep staring at his eyes? The fight seems pretty much over. There weren't that many bandits. I guess they were banking on stealth. Stupid fucking plan. The survivors are being disarmed, soon to join the prisoners we already have. I don't see any guards down, so that's good.   I look back down at the living bandit. His wounds aren't enough to kill him. Should I kill him too? Save him from slavery?   Standing there for what seems like forever, my mind is blank. I'm just waiting for an answer to pop into my head.   He isn't going to get up any time soon. I have time to decide.   I grab my sword and walk over to my other kill. A young guy, maybe 20, healthy. Not the most handsome guy around, but no unsightly birthmarks or deformities. He could have been a farmer, or a porter, or a deckhand, or any number of legitimate jobs. Instead he chose to be a bandit, and had to make me kill him and his friend. Dumb ass. Making me murder you both. That look of surprise when he realized he was dead. The fear in his friend's green eyes. Lazy fuckers, should have just gotten a fucking job instead. Fuck.   Plucking my spear from his chest takes effort, and it comes out with a sickening slurp. A shudder rips through my body.   I really should have just stayed in the village. I'm not cut out for this shit.
