The canyon walls rose around them like jagged, red teeth. Wind hissed through the narrow passage in sporadic gusts.

Draven walked at the front of the group, his spear resting across one shoulder. Saelin drifted to the side, keeping her distance from everyone—which Jessica personally would have been doing as well if it were not for Korrin falling back a step to stay by her and Iris.

“What do you think of the Red Maw Peaks so far?” he asked.

“I’m not sure. It’s different than the Bloody Peaks. The stone is redder,” Jessica said, looking up the towering cliff faces. She thought it slightly ironic that the bloody peaks were blacker stone, but it was probably named for other reasons than color.

The Direwings were somewhere above them, and she’d only catch an occasional glimpse of one gliding across the crimson sky between gaps in the cliffs. This world, in general, was so much redder than her last world. Not the forest where she and Iris had hunted so much, and as she thought about that week in the wilderness, she felt an unexpected yearning for it.

She looked down at Iris. She’d much rather work on deepening her friendship with the Hellhound over any of the tribe, but other than Valrok and her aunt, she wasn’t sure if it was fair for her to hate the rest of them. Iris wasn’t exactly all death-to-all-humans about things, but obviously, she didn’t like them either.

“So how did you manage to kill the colossus at such a low level?” Korrin asked.

“Hmmm… well, I got my spear into its eye.”

“How did you manage that?”

“Uh… it fell at some point, and I just went for it. I almost died, though.” Then she pointed upward. “Are Direwings always so good about staying nearby?”

Draven, overhearing them, said, “Yes. They understand that sticking near us usually means easy meals and protection. But if one wanders too far, I have a recall skill, as well as a skill to sense when they’ve drifted too far.”

“Oh,” Jessica said, her gaze still watching the breaks in the cliff faces for the Direwings. She was asking out of curiosity, but she also had an inkling of an idea that had struck her earlier in the day. She thought it would be nice to try to tame a Direwing in a different way than the rest of the tribe. If she could communicate with one as a friend, with Wyrmscar Legacy helping her with the bond, how might that change their utility?

“Can they evolve?” Jessica asked.

Korrin didn’t seem to have an answer, so Draven once again spoke up. “That is a better question for the stable master, but beyond the younger-to-older development stages, it is difficult for them to obtain much variation in their evolution. Since our Direwings don’t hunt and kill on their own, the system does not grant them much in the way of levels. And obviously monsters don’t gain achievements, and certainly not quests, so they cannot reach new Paths that way either.”

“Monsters don’t get achievements?” Jessica asked.

Draven turned his head, and Saelin audibly let out a laugh that she made no effort to conceal. Actually, it seemed to Jessica that she purposely wanted to make sure her mockery didn’t go missed.

Jessica let out a huff behind her mask and didn’t ask for anyone to clarify. If they were just going to treat her like she was stupid for asking a question, then she didn’t want any answers from them anyway.

But then Korrin spoke up, once again being far kinder to her in the way he spoke. “Achievements are blessings of the Almighty and the System he has granted us,” Korrin explained. “He would not grant such blessings to monsters. Besides, they are instinctual. They don’t make choices, and therefore, they don’t attain great feats. I can’t imagine a reason a monster would deserve an achievement.”

Jessica frowned behind her mask and looked down to Iris. Did Iris get achievements? She felt fairly certain that she did, and this bit of “common knowledge” about monsters was, in fact, wrong.

Saelin let out another chuckle as she drifted closer to the group. “What’s the matter, Wyrmscar? You haven’t paid attention in any of your classes?”

Jessica didn’t respond, instead trying to work through Elva’s memories for anything relevant to the topic. Then Draven added, not quite as mockingly, “It is indeed odd you don’t seem to know of these things.”

Elva’s memories could give her a lot, but it wasn’t like opening a Google search whenever she pleased. Therefore, there was a lot of knowledge about this world that anyone her age would know, but Jessica felt a little clueless about.

“It’s because she fell off that Direwing,” Saelin explained to Draven. “She hit her head. I’ve heard talk that she’d damaged it.”

Jessica hadn’t vocalized that excuse in a while, but she did lean on it when first waking up in this world to explain away anything that wasn’t right about her.

“Yet she’s a greater warrior than anyone else at her age,” Korrin defended.

Why is he always stepping in to stick up for me? Jessica wondered. Did my duel with him really cause him to respect me that much?

Saelin scoffed. “Right—well, having a depths monster at her beck and call certainly had a hand in it.”

“The Almighty blesses each of us with our own strengths,” Korrin shot back. “As I recall, you were laughably bad with a spear—a weapon that would give you a better chance at dealing with a monster like Iris, for its improved range over your short swords.”

Saelin clicked her teeth behind her mask as the hand resting on the sword hilt suddenly pulled it free. She let it spin around in her grip, slicing the air with a constant whistle. “Who needs a spear when you have better weapon skills than that?” she shot back. “And my training led to the Almighty blessing me with the dual-wielding skill for my swords.” As if to demonstrate, she pulled the other sword fluidly from its sheath and threw it into the air. The other, she spun around her body and returned to its sheath before the airborne one descended right back into her grip, where she continued to spin it around.

“Now’s no time for showing off,” Draven said. “If you want to boast, then do so for the success of our hunt. Not for showcasing party tricks.”

Saelin stopped the spinning blade, gripping it so it pointed at Jessica. “When we are done here, I want a rematch!” she declared. “I’ll use only one sword, but you don’t use your Hell Hound.”

Jessica looked away, not sure how to respond to that. Iris let out a growl beside her feet. Jessica just hoped her lack of ability to conjure a response would somehow be seen as her being stoic and above the petty back-and-forth—and not that she just flat-out sucked at this kind of banter. And truly, she didn’t give a damn if Saelin was stronger or not.

“Well? What of it Wyrmscar?” Saelin asked, poking the sword towards her again. “Do you accept my challenge?”

Jessica glanced at Draven, half hoping he would shut this down before it became a whole thing again, but he merely watched the exchange with an unreadable stillness behind his mask.

Iris let out a low growl by her legs as she said, “Jessica, you are being challenged!”

Yeah, but what the hell am I supposed to do about it? Jessica wished she could say.

Instead, it was once again Korrin to speak in her defense. “A true warrior doesn’t try to pick every detail of a battle. When we find our first Drakewolf pack, do you hope to negotiate the terms with them as well? What skills they can use, how many will be allowed to attack at once?”

“I’m just pointing out what so many seem to be missing about that girl,” Saelin insisted. “She didn’t tame that beast on her own; it was handed to her by the great Valrok! Whether the Almighty Above decided to bless her with the Wyrmscar Legacy or not, what has she truly done with her own strength? And to top it all off, she’s got a broken head—” Saelin tapped the side of her own head with the flat of her blade. “We’re supposed to believe she’s the future of the tribe?”

“She senses weakness!” Iris practically yelled in Jessica’s head as she audibly growled. “Meet her challenge or I will!”

Jessica stopped and crouched down. “Iris. Down,” she said, putting her hand on Iris’s side. The Hellhound stared daggers up at Saelin, who relaxed her posture and returned to spinning her sword. Draven and Korrin stopped as well.

“Saelin, enough of this,” Draven said. “If you want to challenge her, do so after the hunt.”

Saelin clicked her tongue. “Fine. I’ll wait. But if she wishes to be respected as a warrior instead of a child hiding behind a monster, then I, for one, need more proof.”

Jessica stayed crouched a moment longer with her hand resting against Iris’s side.

“She insults you openly,” Iris said, still growling. “You cannot allow this!”

Jessica could see what they were thinking—what Saelin was thinking, at least. Jessica didn’t look like she was in control, and she wasn’t able to muster a counter to anything Saelin said about her. She knew Iris was right as far as needing to do something, but attacking the girl or simply accepting the challenge to save face couldn’t be it.

Iris then let out a vicious bark, and Jessica yelled.

“Iris! I said enough!” Thankfully, Iris obeyed. Though, she did not seem happy about it, she stayed true to their agreement—when it came to dealing with the tribe, Jessica was in charge, when it came to fighting, Iris was in charge.

“You’re right,” Jessica began. “When I fell off the Direwing, much was lost to me. But I gained much as well, and anything that was lost can be recovered. But that doesn’t change what Iris and I achieved in the woods, and we are still learning and growing. If we are not strong enough now, we will be.” She lifted her head enough to meet Saelin’s gaze. “But I won’t accept a challenge where you choose all of the terms.”

“So you admit that you cannot win with your own strength?” Saelin shot back.

“Iris is my strength.”

“Then it is exactly as I am saying!”

“No. Iris isn’t a spear or a sword. And she isn’t a weapon that I borrowed. I don’t take her out and put her away, and I don’t merely command her. I’m still learning of my…” she quickly thought how to phrase it like one of them. “Of my uh… my blessing from the Almighty Above.”

“You use her to fight, she is a weapon. Was it the Almighty who sacrificed forty men so you could have that weapon?”

“No. It was my father,” Jessica said, the words coming out coarsely. Then the next words left her lips before she could stop them. “And I hate him for it.”

Upon speaking those words, there was silence. Even the wind cutting through the canyon seemed quieter for a moment.

Saelin’s spinning sword slowed to a stop, and Jessica felt all three of the masks of their party focusing on her.

Crap! Why the hell did I just say that out loud!?

Well… because it’s true…

Jessica stood abruptly and marched ahead of the group, Iris quickly coming to her side as the Hell Hound spoke into her mind. “Jessica. Say this—"

Jessica repeated Iris’s words, not looking back at them. “I thought the reason we’re out here is to hunt. If it were simply to argue with someone who can’t accept losing a fight, then clearly I’m wasting my time.”

Jessica could practically hear Saelin’s grip tighten on her sword, but Draven put an arm out to bar her from coming forward. “She’s right. Enough of this, Saelin. Scaley Bastard take you if your damaged pride means I have to call off this hunt.”

“Now say—”

Jessica flinched upon hearing the words and did her best to whisper low enough only Iris would hear. “I-I can’t say that!” It helped the Hell Hound had such good hearing.

“It is a good thing to say, no?” Her lip curled in a wolfy smile. “Say it.”

Well… that’ll definitely do a lot to ‘establish dominance’ or whatever…

Jessica turned, meeting Saelin’s gaze as Draven blocked her. Jessica was glad for her new mask, as the wolf-like face she now wore gave her a lot more confidence. “And keep questioning whether I deserve Iris if you want. But the next time you challenge me, remember this: you lost a fight with predators and walked away. That’s because we chose not to kill you.”

Jessica held the gaze. Saelin was frozen, and Korrin and Draven looked between the two girls in such a way Jessica almost imagined them holding buckets of popcorn. But then, Saelin’s blade spun one last time as she returned it to her sheath, but she said not another word.

“If that’s done, then let’s continue,” Draven said, moving forward and taking the lead, but not without first giving Jessica a nod of respect.

But that wasn’t the only acknowledgment they received as the System dinged two new achievements in front of her face.

Achievement! Bared Fangs

You asserted dominance without drawing blood.

Minor bonus to all stats!

Achievement! Fang of the Tribe

Your words and actions earned the acknowledgment of fellow warriors, and your legend grows.

Major bonus to all stats!

Jessica blinked and then flicked the notifications away. Wow, a minor and a major bonus. That's close to a level worth of stats, right?

Then a thought hit her as she looked down to Iris, preparing to ask if she got any achievements, but she didn’t need to because the Hell Hound was practically grinning from ear to ear.

“It seems words can win battles as well.” Iris turned her white-eyed gaze up to her. “Jessica. I have just received a hint towards my next evolution.”
