Piety dropped the Heir’s hand and took a quick step back to bow formally. “My apologies, your Highness. I didn’t know.”

“That’s not necessary, Piety,” the Heir said.

“I’m afraid she’s going to insist on it,” Cleric Radden said. “Piety considers respect important.”

The Heir sighed. “I see.”

“You may as well get used to it, your Highness, your station commands such respect.”

“Aren’t you the same man who chafes at his constant protection and insists on bowing to his subordinates no matter how it scandalizes the Church Council?”

Cleric Radden chuckled but did not refute the accusation. Instead he said, “Perhaps we should all sit down. Unless you’d like to return to your birthday party?” He sat in one of the cushioned chairs while Piety and the heir sat across from each other on the couches. The heir gave him a steady glare and he chuckled again.

Sitting across from her, Piety examined the heir. The High Cleric’s study was dimly lit, most of the light coming from the fire that leant warmth to the room. The heir was young, but clearly a woman, not a girl. She was thin and sat up straight, with no slouch or doubt to her posture. Her skin was the regular brown of most people and her eyes were the same, but her hair was grey. It wasn’t the grey of age, but rather a perfect blend of white and black, almost silver. The cast to her features was calm and confident. She looked familiar.

“Do you have any sisters?” Piety asked.

Heir Loreamer raised an eyebrow in an expression startlingly similar to Father Vytal.

“No, I have no siblings.”

“You look much like Devorah Kempenny,” Piety explained. “When Father Vytal and I were in Sunslance…” she trailed off, realizing she had inadvertently accused the Heir’s father or mother of infidelity.

The Heir looked at Cleric Radden. “I thought you said she would insist upon respect,” she said wryly.

“And yet she can be surprisingly direct,” said High Cleric Radden. He looked at Piety. “You’ve brought us straight to the point, Piety.” he said. “As I’m sure you have suspected, the Governor of Kempenny is making things difficult for us, and Heir Loeramer wanted to hear about your adventure in Kempenny Province.”

“Piety, I am the niece of Erin Kempenny, Governor of Kempenny, and I am her only niece. But, like you said, Devorah Kempenny looks an awful lot like me. I wanted to hear the story from someone who was there.”

Piety nodded. “That’s what Father Vytal said. Devorah, the mayor of Sunslance, she looked like you, but with black hair, and younger.”

“She claimed to be the Governor’s niece?” Heir Loeramer asked.

“Yes. And Father Vytal told her that was impossible, but later admitted he could be wrong.”

“Did she display any powers?” Cleric Radden asked.

“She claimed to be a necromancer. She was able to destroy the monsters she had created just by touching them.”

“The vhamps?” Heir Loeramer asked.

Piety looked at her. “They were undead, like from the Scriptures. But somehow the mayor had created them. She made a man named Frederick Vahramp into an undead that could make more like himself, and the ones he created were under his control.”

“Is that the only power she demonstrated?” asked Cleric Radden.

Piety shrugged. She felt like she was in trouble, with two of the most powerful people in the nation interrogating her. She gripped the edge of the couch. Piety looked away from the High Cleric thinking about the last time they’d talked. “No. She’s a very good swordsman though.”

“You’re sure?” Cleric Radden pressed.

Piety took a deep breath before answering. Nervousness prickled across her skin. “I’m sure that’s all I saw her do.”

The High Cleric frowned and Piety leaned away from him.

“Relax, your Holiness,” said Heir Loeramer, “You’re frightening the child.”

Cleric Radden blinked and sat back in his chair, his smile returning like a mask. The prickly sensation vanished. Piety smiled at the heir in thanks.

“Cleric Radden tells me that you’re quite gifted yourself.”

“I have some powers,” Piety conceded, “but my friend, Temperance, is far smarter than I am. She can examine a plant for a few minutes and figure out whether or not it’s good for food or medicine, or if it’s poisonous. She even mixes medicines for the High Temple’s healing house.”

“So I’ve heard. And Marcus tells me she’s planned something this evening for the celebration.”

Piety scooted forward on her couch. “Do you know what she’s planning?”

“Oh no,” said the High Cleric quickly. “I won’t risk Mother Simmons’s wrath if that particular secret is given away before she’s ready. She’s made it quite clear this is meant to be a surprise.” He looked at the heir and smiled. “Piety’s friend started this little project on the auspicious of celebrating the Newyear, but I’m pretty sure it was actually for Piety’s birthday.”

“Is it your birthday?” asked the heir.

Piety blushed. “My founday, actually.” And she chided herself for falling into the habit the Mother Superior had entrenched for her. But it was just too much. Too much that Temperance had claimed she looked like Devorah and that Heir Isabel clearly looked like Devorah also. If Piety should share a birthday with her too, the coincidence would be too much.

“Founday?”

Piety didn’t want to answer and was saved from doing so.

“The day she was found by the orphanage,” clarified Cleric Radden.

“I see.”

“They found me on the front step,” said Piety, despite herself. “It was snowing.” Several silent moments followed.

“Wouldn’t it be something if we truly did share the same birthday, Piety? Especially with you looking like you could be my little sister.”

Piety looked up, and couldn’t deny she’d seen features so much like the heir’s in every reflection of herself. She swallowed hard. “It would be an honor, Your Highness.” She met the heir’s gaze and they studied each other for several moments.

The High Cleric cleared his throat. “Isabel. You wanted to ask Piety about the vhamps?”

Heir Loreamer shook herself. “Right. Piety, the vhamps are running roughshod over the southern provinces, and just because Governor Kempenny is making a nuisance of herself doesn’t mean we can let the people of her province suffer.”

“Yes, ma’am,” said Piety. “What do you need of me?”

“Just tell me everything you know about them.”

Piety sat back. “Well, they’re strong and fast and hard to kill. They burn quickly and sunlight will set them ablaze. They’re telepathic, at least a little bit. I can feel their screams in my mind when they die.” Piety shuddered at the memory. “And they crave human blood. But surely Father Vytal told you this?”

The heir nodded. “I thought, maybe, you might have some insight into… I don’t know, their motivation perhaps.”

The High Cleric broke in. “They’re undead, they don’t have motivation.”

“They’re motivated by hunger and rage,” said Piety

“Piety,” the High Cleric turned his gaze to her. “The undead are soulless. They can’t feel anything.”

“I wouldn’t know, sir. But I shared one’s mind and it was definitely hungry and angry.” That proclamation brought surprised silence. Piety looked from one to the other. “Did I say something wrong?”

“Not at all,” said Heir Loreamer, who was sitting on the edge of her couch, interested now, while at the same time, High Cleric Radden said, “That’s a rare talent, Piety.”

Again, Piety looked from one to the other. She settled on the High Cleric. “What is? It’s just telepathy.”

“No. It’s a specialized form of telepathy. To share the mind of another is extremely rare. Tell me, could you just sense its thoughts?”

“No, sir. I could hear what it heard, see what it saw… He could see heat and hear our heartbeats like he had his ear to our chests, all at once.”

“Interesting,” said Heir Loreamer.

Heir Loreamer seemed prepared to ask another question, but the High Cleric cut her off. “Well,” he said, “we’ve kept you long enough, Piety. I think Temperance will be waiting for you in the square.”

Piety nodded. She stood and bowed to the High Cleric and the heir, then left.

• • •

Temperance caught up with her as she was walking through the great hall to the front doors of the High Temple. Piety rarely left the temple and when she did it was usually through one of the many less ostentatious side doors, so she was still awed by the grandeur of the multiple stained-glass windows depicting the eight saints, and the Sunburst of God, the marble and gold pillars and the scarlet drapery, all dwarfing Sacred Heart in size and splendor.

“I’ve been looking everywhere for you,” Temperance admonished.

“Sorry. The High Cleric and the heir wanted to talk to me.”

Temperance paused, stunned. “What about?”

“Sunslance,” Piety replied. She described her meeting with the High Cleric and her introduction to Heir Isabel Loreamer. She described how the Heir looked like she could have been the older sister of Mayor Kempenny in Sunslance, except for her silver hair instead of black.

“So she looked like you too?” Temperance asked.

Piety nodded. “Her Highness certainly seemed to think so. She said I looked like I could be her little sister. And the High Cleric told her that tomorrow is my birthday, just like her.”

“It is weird how much you and the mayor looked alike,” said Temperance. “So maybe you…”

But Piety shook her head. “I don’t want to talk about it, Temperance. Like I said before, you’re my sister. I don’t need any long-lost royal relatives showing up. Okay?”

Temperance shrugged. “Okay.” But she didn’t sound convinced.

The bells in the sanctuary bell tower began to sound twenty-three-hour, their sonorous ringing permeating the ancient walls of the High Temple.

Piety blinked. “I didn’t realize it was so late,” she said.

“It’s only an hour to the new year,” Temperance said, suddenly frantic. She grabbed Piety’s hand. “Come on.”

Piety let Temperance drag her from the High Temple’s grand hall and into the great square where people had gathered to celebrate. About a half the distance between the High Temple front steps and the old well for which the city had been named, there was an area that had been sectioned off from the crowd with wooden posts, between which were hung thick ropes. Inside the sectioned-off area were several small wooden boxes, and an acolyte named Elijah. Elijah was a skinny boy with big ears who was quite tall. Piety had only seen him once or twice before and was surprised she remembered his name. He smiled at them as they approached.

“Hello, Temperance, Piety.”

“Hello, Elijah,” said Piety.

“Do you have everything?” Temperance asked eagerly, looking at the boxes and shifting them about.

Elijah nodded. “The powder, the pots, the fuses, the matches…”

Piety lost track of the conversation.

As Elijah stood next to Temperance to help her locate what she was looking for, Mother Simmons stepped over the ropes holding back those who were curious and those who weren’t watching where they were going. She held three thick leather aprons

“Piety,” she nodded in greeting.

“Hello, Sister. I hear you all have quite a show planned.”

Mother Simmons’s eyes narrowed. “Did anyone tell you?” she demanded.

Piety couldn’t help a small chuckle. “No, ma’am. They all said you’d wring their collective necks.”

The sister’s expression relaxed, then she smiled and winked. “Quite a show indeed.”

Piety watched while Temperance donned the heavy leather apron and a pair of goggles with round, green-tinted lenses. Temperance and Elijah mixed together several various powders and poured them into a paper packet that Temperance twisted shut and dropped into a metal cylinder. She continued to mix and pour, and Piety lost track. Eventually, after a complicated set of powders were packed into bits of paper and those bits of paper were packed together into a larger package of paper, three acorn sized packages in all, and it was all stuffed into a metal cylinder attached to a broad metal base, Temperance looked up.

She’d gathered a small audience, people who were interested enough to press up against the ropes to watch. Temperance stood and addressed the crowd.

“Um… please step back,” she said timidly. The crowd did not respond, likely because they couldn’t hear her rather than willful disobedience.

Mother Simmons stepped to the center the roped off area. “All right folks, take a few steps back. The exhibition will commence shortly. Everyone take a few steps back.” Mother Simmons’s voice boomed and those within earshot took heed.

“Thank you, Mother,” Temperance said.

The tall cleric winked at her.

Elijah handed Temperance a box of matches and Temperance selected one carefully. She looked up at the High Temple’s clock tower.

“It’s time. Here we go.”

Temperance slid the match across a rough piece of paper and it flared with a bit of smoke and an acrid stench. She touched the flame to a bit of waxed cotton protruding from the top of the cylinder, and the cotton caught fire. Temperance stood and backed away quickly, waving the match to put out the tiny flame. Not watching where she was going, Temperance stumbled over the thick rope meant to keep people back, but Elijah was there and he caught her before she could fall.

“Oh.” Temperance looked up at the skinny boy and Elijah blushed and looked away. Temperance smiled. “Thanks, Elijah.” But her attention snapped to the metal cylinder. Only the few people who’d watched her at work seemed at all interested and not even all of them. Most others were concentrating on the musicians and actors. But Temperance grabbed Piety’s hand and waited with anticipatory silence.

The wick burned down into the cylinder, its orange glow glinting off the metal until it guttered and died. Some in the crowd let out a breath of disappointment.

“I’ll get it,” Elijah said and hopped over the rope.

“No,” said Temperance, “wait.” She reached for Elijah, but missed.

Elijah seemed not to hear Temperance. He hurried toward the metal cylinder. Temperance hurried after him and Piety after her. Mother Simmons shouted. Elijah knelt and bent over the cylinder while at the same time there was a dry echo.

“Elijah!” Temperance shouted. She leapt at the other acolyte and knocked him over. And with him, she toppled the metal cylinder.

