A light so bright it seared Piety’s eyes burst from the cylinder and streaked toward the audience. Elijah screamed in agony, his hands going to cover his face. Piety reacted, moving to her mindspace and reaching for her power without allowing herself time for reflection; time, she knew, wasn’t available.

With her mind, with that intangible, invisible muscle that felt of warm blankets and cozy hearthfires and cool, still waters, with that which was her power, she reached for the brilliant light, and a moment stretched into eternity. She took hold of the fiery light and it burned her as though she’d touched it with bare skin, but she did not shy away. Instead, she wrapped it in her power, and she pulled. The fire and light resisted, its momentum was not prepared to be trifled with, but Piety was not prepared to be denied. Bit by bit, Piety pulled and changed the trajectory of Temperance’s creation, sending it into the air, as intended.

There came a second dull echo but in Piety’s focused state, it sounded like deep, slow thunder. She remembered Temperance had stuffed three paper wrapped packages into the metal cylinder. She thrust her hand, palm out, toward the cylinder and the physical motion helped her to focus the telekinetic force, but it was too much. Instead of standing the cylinder up as she had meant to, it toppled over the other way. The second ball of fire and light launched from the cylinder, but this one Piety could see was traveling at such an angle as to be more vertical than horizontal. She would not need to alter its path.

The third and final sound came from the cylinder and this time, Piety twitched her fingers and the cylinder righted itself, just in time to launch its blinding burden straight up.

The world sped to make up for the time Piety had snatched. She could hear the gasps and cries of those near enough to have seen disaster avoided by a hairsbreadth, even if they didn’t understand how it had happened. Piety felt her knees weaken, then buckle, and she fell to the paving stones, flat on her back, staring into the starry night. The sounds of revelry faded and Piety didn’t know if that was because she had hit her head on the stones or if because all waited in silence to see what would happen next. In staring into that star spangled void she felt close to the celestial heavens, like she might reach out and travel into that space beyond the world.

The night exploded in red, then gold, then blue. Like flowers of fire, they opened over the crowd in a startling beautiful display of colored light. The crowd gasped and was silenced. Piety felt her eyes go wide at the spectacle, unexpected delight bloom in her chest. It was like a brief painting of light on the canvas of the sky.

“Piety?” Temperance’s face appeared, blocking out the colored light, her eyes still hidden by her goggles. “Piety, were you hit?”

Piety shook her head and the lack of pain indicated she had not stuck it upon the stones.

“I thought I’d knocked the cylinder over,” Temperance said, relief evident in her voice. “It would have been terrible if someone had been hit.”

“Elijah,” Piety said, and her voice sounded weak.

Temperance frowned at her. “Are you sure you’re not hurt?”

Piety smiled a little. “I…” but she paused. She didn’t want lie to her friend, but neither did she want Temperance to think that she’d nearly hurt someone. “I steadied the cylinder with power… with telekinesis I think.”

“Oh.” Temperance’s eyes went a little wide.

“Is Elijah all right?”

Temperance nodded. “He had a burn across his cheek, but Mother Simmons healed it.”

Piety nodded and sat up. “Good.”

“I didn’t know you were telekinetic,” Temperance said.

“Me neither,” Piety admitted. “It just… happened.”

The stern figure of Mother Simmons loomed over them, and both girls looked up.

“Piety, let me see your hands,” Mother Simmons said.

Piety looked at her hands and her gasp echoed Temperance’s. Her palms were covered in angry red burns like she’d thrust them into a pot of boiling water. Seeing the burns, being aware of the wounds, brought them to mind’s fore and made them sting and ache.

“You were hit.” Temperance groaned.

Piety shook her head, but couldn’t find the words to describe what had happened. Mother Simmons knelt next to her and put a hand on each of her wrists.

“You know how this works, Piety. Just try to relax.”

Piety felt Mother Simmons’s power, that magical power meant to encourage and empower the body to heal itself. Her hands itched but she resisted the urge. After several seconds, the pain faded, but the ache remained.

Piety sighed and thanked the cleric. They joined Temperance and Elijah who appeared to be packing up pots and papers and boxes and such. Around them, the new year revealers were calling to them.

“Are you going to do it again, acolyte?”

“That was spectacular!”

“Was that the only one?”

All around, Piety could hear the excited buzz of the crowd.

As Piety approached, she heard Elijah whisper, “It’s all my fault, Temperance, I’m so sorry.”

“Forget it, Elijah. It doesn’t matter; it was a stupid idea anyway. Dangerous and stupid.”

“But it worked,” Elijah insisted. “It was amazing.”

“I didn’t notice. I was too worried that I’d killed my friend.”

Elijah wilted.

“Temperance, I’m fine,” Piety said.

But Temperance wouldn’t look at her, she just kept packing things away, ignoring the questions from the crowd. Piety rested her hands on Temperance’s shoulders and felt them shaking. Temperance was crying.

“Temperance,” Piety tried again, but Temperance spun about and Piety took a step back to avoid being knocked down.

“This was supposed to be your birthday present. I made this for you. I wanted to make something special for you. And instead, I hurt you.”

“It wasn’t your fault, Temperance. It wasn’t Elijah’s fault either. It was an accident.”

“But I ruined your birthday.”

“No. No, what you’ve created, it’s amazing. I never would have even thought such a thing possible. How did you come up with it?”

Temperance just sort of shrugged. “Experimenting in the laboratory. I found the notes of an old father. I think he’s the one who first made matches. Anyway, Mother Simmons helped.”

“None of that,” said Mother Simmons sternly. “All I did was show you old Father Roquet’s notes. You did the rest.”

Temperance still wouldn’t meet anyone’s gaze. The cries of the crowd grew insistent.

“Acolyte,” Mother Simmons said, “you had intended a more lengthy demonstration, had you not?’

Temperance wiped away her tears on her sleeve and looked up at the mother. “Yes, ma’am.”

Mother Simmons nodded brusquely. “It’s true that disaster was narrowly averted.” She shot a look at Elijah who hunched his shoulders and shrank away. “But it was an impressive display, and I think we all understand what’s going on well enough to avoid any more mistakes. I would like to see more. If you don’t mind.”

“You don’t think it’s too dangerous?”

Mother Simmons shook her head. “What happened was an accident. With a careful and professional approach, it should be just fine.”

Temperance looked at Piety. “Are you mad at me?” she asked.

Piety smiled sadly. “No. This is an amazing birthday gift.”

Temperance turned to Elijah and began issuing orders. Elijah hurried to obey. Soon, Temperance had three more metal cylinders loaded with a potpourri of powders. The clock tower of the Church of Khulanty struck midnight just as they finished. As the bell tolls faded, the night sky exploded with colored light, and the crowd cheered for the new year and for Heir Loreamer’s birthday.
