“His eyes answer enough. Good,” the old orc spoke and then rose. “Now then, you are to depart soon. You will write down your thoughts on the intersection between violence and pain and bring them to us in your next loop, warrior.”

“Huh? No gauntlet for him, Thal?”

“No. Look in his eyes, do you see this one flinching at pretense?” the old orc asked the younger one. He then turned to Orodan to clarify. “Normally, I would have you do an exercise… but with you it would be rather pointless. I see it in your eyes, false sorrows will not move you. And I sense you are not some young whelp who will cry and be struck with grief when decisiveness is needed.”

The younger one, Egrash-Thal, sighed, as though his fun had been spoiled.

“Nothing cruel. We would have had you run an honorable but guilty criminal through, and slay an ailing and old warrior who has asked for a good death.”

Which sounded fine to Orodan. Why would he flinch if someone was truly guilty and had committed a crime worthy of death? And if a warrior wanted a good end and asked for a duel to the death, he would show them respect and grant it.

Perhaps a hostage situation might complicate things, but he doubted the orcs were about to set that up, nor would he agree to murdering someone innocent just to test his violence.

The four of them moved into an open space outside the debate hall they were in. Almyra, Zaessythra, Alagameth and Talricto were waiting. As was the item they were to deliver.

“Anything useful?” Almyra asked, sounding more than a little dismissive of the orcs’ ways. “Has talking made you an Embodier?”

The older orc narrowed his eyes at her but said little else, and Orodan gave her a frown of warning. Whatever enmity she had with the orcs from long ago, there was no need to bring it into this situation.

“Well then, Glyphward awaits,” she said, recovering as though she’d slighted no one.

The rift opened, courtesy of Talricto and the party stepped through into the deep void.

Azkar’s Gate gave way to the pitch black deep void between galaxies. A void which ended in front of them where an absolutely dark barrier existed, through which no stars beyond were visible.

And Orodan’s voice absolutely boomed out through the dark void, soul energy amplifying it.

“Mage! Come out! I have an offering!”

The sheer volume of his bellow, delivered through the Commandment of War aspect of Eidolon of Violence, caused Talricto to cling onto Zaessythra and Alagameth to conjure a spatial shield.

It even caused the sack under his arm to twitch, but by now it knew better than to act disobediently when in his grasp.

Five straight minutes of shouting passed. Until finally…

…a gigantic fortress emerged from the pitch black surface of the System space boundary, like a leviathan surfacing from the ocean.

And at the head of one of the protruding balconies, was Kalmiron, the Mage.

“I smell it off you. A time looper… what do you want?”

In response, Orodan unfurled the sack he was carrying in the crook of his arm to reveal…

…the Prophet.

Bound, beaten, battered and bruised. With a sizeable lump upon the head from Orodan’s earlier ‘handling’ of it.

Let it not be said that Orodan was incapable of handling constructive criticism. He had heard and heeded the Administrators’ accusations that he was responsible for the current mess. Thus, unlike last loop, this time he felt it better to bring their busy ally along with them for the meeting.

Between Zaessythra and Almyra assisting and him pummeling the zealot with his fists, it wasn’t hard to beat the Prophet bloody and knock it senseless.

“You dare? Open rebellion against the System, is that what you have come here seeking? To provoke us? Then congratulations are in order for you have succeeded.”

Orodan simply grinned. A feral and bloodthirsty thing.

“Rebellion? I have come to extend an offer of cooperation between us and have even come bringing your wayward ally along for the ride. In fact, here you are.”

The next ten minutes happened very quickly.

Orodan hurled the Prophet towards Kalmiron like a ragdoll.

The Mage responded quickly. They fought, and Orodan’s resistances surprised the Administrator.

But that was when some differences between this loop and the last became abundantly clear.

For starters, he quickly learned that bringing the Prophet along caused the Mage to fight very, very seriously, right from the start. To the point of using the full power of the Mantle right away. A power that Almyra and her Mantle were not at all comparable to with just one loop of training.

And second, that having no token of Glyphward Fortress on him meant that the Mage was free to direct the gigantic fortress’s defensive batteries against him at will.

And third and most fatally… that Xia was nowhere to be seen when the Mage was in such a strong position. Nor was the Warrior for that matter.

As the darkness took him after he was flung out of System space and hit with two miniature black holes converging on him from opposite sides…

…Orodan could only feel even more determined to beat this spellcaster without any tricks, toe-to-toe, even while he was using an entire fortress and Mantle against him.

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

And Orodan had but one routine on his mind.

Train. Protect System Space. Die. Repeat.
