“This is… an intricate device.”

Orodan wasn’t sure what half of the wires and engineering did. He was an Adept Engineer, not whatever level of Grandmastery would be needed to understand this monstrosity of a device.

Glowing screens of glass with warning symbols, a frame made of synthetic solidified oil of a sort, and various parts which had metal. The parts he did understand however, were the enchanted bits. And even then, he was starting to realize that there was no way he was going to replicate what Fenton had done with this thing.

At some point the student had to surpass their master, and Fenton, even in his early days, always had a knack for Enchanting which Orodan never did.

“You like it ser? Me and Mister W78 spent the last loop workin’ on the design. Making it’s not too much trouble. He handles the engineerin’ side, I handle the enchantin’, it works like a well-oiled gun,” Fenton explained.

“Information: subject - Fenton Penny undervaluing self-contributions. Anomalous proficiency in parameter - Enchanting,” W78 beeped. “Memetic hazard counter-device now operational.”

“No more corruption by that insidious thought then? Good. I was wondering if I would need to sally out and kill it at the start of the loop.”

It shouldn’t have been necessary, for that wicked thing, Anomaly #3, had only come for Orodan and Alastaia after he had drawn its notice by attempting to pull something outside System space back in time. But it was still a comforting thought, knowing his allies and those left behind would be safe.

So accustomed to putting out fire after fire, he had grown unused to people being capable of managing themselves without the need for his protection. A watchful part of him, continually concerned about the safety of those remaining behind, finally eased in the knowledge that this alliance of time loopers was more than capable of protecting themselves.

Of course, he would still be at hand if any hostile Embodiers thought to assail them. That was his job.

“No, that part we should have handled. No more corruption persisting between loops.”

Clyburn Anderthorn spoke while walking up, a board and paper in his hands. Some engineers of the Collective had not been too happy to have competition in the realm of Engineering against the Unity. Traditionalists, those with pride in the methods of Lonvoron and its unversities, and so on. But not Clyburn. The man had always been one to push the bounds of what was possible.

This device—though primarily the work of the Unity and its engineer-units—had certain critical parts tinkered with by the talented Blackworth engineer. A simpler way to look at it was that the Unity was better at their own brand of electrical engineering where lightning was channeled through wiring. But the Blackworth and its engineers were a notch superior when it came to the mechanical side of things and empowering their devices with that trademark magical steam of theirs.

Clyburn and W78 were more than willing to be the bridge between these two separate disciplines.

And it was a bridge which had come together marvellously well in the form of this device.

“I’m no engineer of the caliber of you two, but from what I can glean this seems to… scramble dangerous patterns of thought?” Orodan postulated.

“And fortifies the mind against what makes them so dangerous,” Clyburn explained. “The mind magic eludes me, but the High-Orast of Thazrivin was integral in helping us design something which could allow hostile thought patterns to hit someone’s mind, channel through this, and then vent into the world core.”

“And that isn’t dangerous for Alastaia?”

The world crown on his arm glowed subtly.

“Ours is a mind different to that of the mortal being. The predators from the deep will find us as alien as our children find them.”

That about explained it. For a predatory being which spread through information and targeted mortal minds, the notion of a planet with its own will was likely foreign to its very schema of predator and prey. It was a clever angle Orodan would not have considered, using the world will as a bulwark against memetic hazards.

But this device did just that. All thanks to the combined minds of W78, Fenton Penny, the High-Orast and Clyburn Anderthorn.

“Consider me impressed then. You all have done your work well,” Orodan praised.

“And it is time for you to do yours Mister Wainwright. Though a willingness to work is something you are not short of in the slightest.”

Kalemar Cosanox’s words entered alongside the man himself. The Vice-Director of the Novarrian Intelligence Service—Orodan’s personal assistant of sorts—had a large sheaf of papers in his hands. Accompanying him were several mind mages, a man whose soul was clean yet the scent of blood and sacrifice surrounded him, and additional analysts with quill and parchment ready.

“The new techniques from Narictus?” Orodan asked. “I expected some refinements in the soul perhaps, not… blood. I’m not about to begin hurling the life-blood of my enemies around as a weapon.”

“Nor would we expect you to, my lord,” the man bearing the scent of blood spoke, proffering his hand. “Tylestane Agraha, Imperial blood mage and ritualist, at your service.”

An odd name, but he knew that the southeastern regions of Novarria had dialects, customs and naming convetions different to the more ubiquitous central and northern Imperial culture he was used to while living in the Republic. And for a mage, this man had a certain grimness to him that only hardened warriors typically had. A familiarity with pain and sacrifice. A Grandmaster too.

Orodan met the hand with his own.

“Your hands are not soft. You are a warrior,” he stated, not questioned.

“That would be because I use my own blood, Lord Wainwright. I am no destined hero of war like yourself, but using one’s own vitality to reach greater heights in combat tends to leave little room for softness in a man,” Tylestane explained. “The mind mages accompanying us are time loopers themselves, here to ensure the memories transferred over are perfect in their clarity. But the actual knowledge acquired from Narictus is best perused by me.”

“If using my own vitality is the wager, then it’s one I’ve already paid.”

“Correct. Our chroniclers have it well-documented. You had Death Rage, which then combined alongside other skills into All-Consuming Rage, which is now part of your Domain of Perfect Cleaning,” Kalemar listed, reading off a record. He then shook his head. “Truly, these Celestial skills make no sense…”

That, Orodan could agree with. They were entirely unique to the individual and nobody he had seen or heard of could get the same Celestial skill another had. Hells, even if the names ended up similar, he doubted the skill combination would ever be the same. They could have some weird skills under their umbrella which only the bearer themselves could understand.

“I’m sure Old Man Hannegan would agree and think the same of mine as I would of his,” Orodan replied. “Now then, you have techniques from Narictus related to vitality usage? I already have All-Consuming Rage under the Domain of Perfect Cleaning.”

“Yes, but that Harmony of Vitality of yours seems to be stubbornly remaining at the Grandmaster-level and refusing to advance any further no matter what. This, I believe Narictus’s secrets of blood can help with,” Tylestane spoke and then raised his hands at the sight of Orodan’s quirked eyebrows. “It is not as nefarious as I am making it sound, my lord. The ‘secrets of blood’ sounds a most ill-natured subject of study, but it is no different to you studying the secrets of the blade or the secrets of the shield. In fact, allow me to assure you that we shall be using no blood besides your own for our study sessions.”

“Hmm, then that does not sound so bad. Butchering innocents and committing mass ritual slaughter are not my ways to strength.”

“Nor are they the ways of strength for the werewolves of Narictus,” his instructor-to-be replied. “Indeed, ‘tis not vampires nor necromancers we have pilfered these methods from. I was part of the surface assault force while the Transcendents led battle groups deeper into the planet’s depths, and it was there that we happened upon the werewolf clans and their repositories. A shame that their world is under the grips of vampirism for these werewolves are honorable warriors and their techniques of the straightforward sort you would appreciate. Take for example, Blood Boiling and its derivative from there, Blood Rage.”

Blood Boiling?

He had heard of Blood Rage. Long ago, Orodan had fought a blood mage on Guzuhar, during his first visit to the northern continent of his home world in fact. He knew that among their number some had a skill which could set the blood itself to act as fuel for a furious rage. He had fought and slain many of them while facing the followers of Agorhiku; his own Death Rage at the time proving far superior.

But what was Blood Boiling?

“I have seen Blood Rage, it is good, but not a complete rage which amplifies all the facets of a warrior.”

“Yes, my lord. Our records on Alastaia are comprehensive about the skill, but it is Blood Boiling which will truly make a difference for you. Behold…”

One moment the blood mage before him was normal, and the next… his skin turned redder than an ostentatious castle banner. Like an overfull wine sack the skin cracked and then began leaking blood, and it began steaming.

The man was not at all hesitant to do so, and Orodan was not so squeamish as to find the sight disturbing. More than that, his eyes narrowed in scrutiny as he closely studied the blood.

It was… powerful.

An observation which was soon put to measure as Tylestane’s steaming lifeblood dripped into an open bowl. The container was surrounded by the ritual lines of a magic circle, drawn in gem dust and laced with mana crystals at critical nodes.

Orodan hummed in recognizance of the feat as the ritual circle flared to life… without even being activated. Just the residual power of his instructor’s blood was enough to already empower it despite the safeguards.

He said a single word.

“Potent…”

Tylestane smiled even as he finally allowed the boiling of his own blood to abate. The man was no doubt an experienced blood mage, but even he sighed in relief and slightly wobbled as the damaging skill wound down.

“This skill and rarer variants of it are what make Narictus’s werewolves so uniquely deadly in melee combat. Our Alastaian warriors have fought beasts and monsters before, larger than these lupine foes too, but the blood boiling gives them an unnatural strength which is beyond simple animal ferocity. As though their very veins have become lit with a sort of fire.”

He, the student, could now see clearly where this was going and why this skill had been selected. Death Rage, which had turned into All-Consuming Rage and then been assimilated into Domain of Perfect Cleaning, was of a parallel idea. It burned his vitality to give him strength.

But this… it did not quite burn the blood as much as it compressed, heated and then improved the very quality of it.

It was the difference between a smelter burning coal for fuel versus compressing and empowering it so much that it glowed. In the case of Blood Boiling, the blood steamed because of just how heated and compressed it was. It roiled faster, granted more power to the muscles for each drop, and allowed the mind to think even quicker.

This, if learned, would be a genuine force amplifier.

“Though your body’s composition is different ever since your… restructuring of it, you still possess blood, do you not, Mister Wainwright?” Kalemar asked and he nodded in reply. He did have blood, but it moved directly between the cells and was present at all times in the amounts needed. Each cell in fact produced its own blood, just as it produced its own soul energy and could even think independently. “We believe Blood Boiling will allow you to become drastically more powerful. In fact, the information and records we have suggest that one of your obstacles, the Warrior, also uses a similar technique. It is why his skin is like volcanic obsidian. If you are to match him, this skill can give you the edge.”

Who knew the Warrior also used a similar technique? Certainly not he.

This was the power of an entire alliance of multiple civilizations behind him. He had the power to flick his wrist and delete a star system, but could he think and research as they did? No. Even with all his cells capable of independent thought converging upon a mental task, it would be naught but an echo chamber of himself. He could brute force certain things, but not everything. His mind was not that of a scholar, an archivist or a researcher. His was a warrior’s mind.

But the people he brought into the loops were a different story. They were not mentally the same as he. Where he focused upon his own paths to strength, the benefit of ens of thousands of others who each had their own paths forward could not be overstated.

