This was what relying upon others could achieve. While he fought, they gathered knowledge and secrets and prepared the ideal training structure for him to learn useful skills. He could see now why Grandmasters and Transcendents remained with their factions. For no high-level individual of power was truly created in a vacuum. They used techniques sourced from others, their battles involved opponents, their training involved insights gleaned through meditation or texts written by others. All-in-all, there was no evading the fact that a powerful individual, even a hermit, benefitted in some way or another from society. And those Grandmasters and Transcendents who embraced that fact openly and cooperated would reap the most rewards from that relationship as he was now.

“I will take every edge I can get. This will be good training,” he replied, sitting down in front of a stack of scrolls, papers and charts the team of scribes and scholars had put together. Fenton, W78 and Clyburn moved back to tinkering with the protective array while Orodan studied.

The originals—written down to exact detail via mind and soul mages helping ensure perfect recall—were on one side and the notes were on the other. The werewolves of Narictus were a System species, thus the words he read were thankfully translated by the central rune of knowledge of his own System, but even then the wolfish peculiarities in the handwriting and script were evident.

He knew that they could transform between man and werewolf form. Thus for these scrolls and scripts to be written with such savagery meant the writer had specifically chosen to write while under their animalistic half. Not uncommon for masters to rush in writing something down before the insight eluded them. Or perhaps the wolfish side gave them an understanding that their human side did not.

In any case, the first text was a primer on martial ethos and how a young werewolf was meant to see themselves and their blood.

There was a whole lot of philosophy about duty to the pack and the filial piety a young werewolf should have for their mother and father who brought them into the world and provided for them. Following that, duty to the clan which was seen as an extension of the basic family pack. And duty to the masters above, for the text came from Narictus where vampires and necromancers stood above werewolves who were the guard and enforcer class, but not truly the cream of society.

It was an interesting look into a society he had never properly encountered in a conflict-free context, and would likely never peacefully interact with. The werewolves… did not seem like bad people.

He had read texts written by vampires, particularly during his work with Silestor Lumenarin and the Cathedral on Alastaia. The foul bloodsuckers were hungry and predatory by nature; a fact evident even in their writings. He had met only one good vampire, and that was a being who rejected its very nature.

In contrast, these texts written by the werewolves of Narictus were entirely… normal. They spoke of a hunger yes, but of how that could be sated through game hunted in the forests. How killing humans and other sapients for food was a form of foul cannibalism, written as a commandment. And how the ways of the clans were superior to the barbarous ways of the ferals who enjoyed living like animals.

It was only halfway into a paragraph about the relationship between wolf and man and how man was expected to rise above the animal nature, that Orodan realized he was essentially reading a children’s book.

“This is a book for their pups.”

“Took you long enough to notice,” Kalemar spoke. “Blood arts are a common part of werewolf upbringing. If a young wolf does not have at least some combat-relevant blood skill by the time they are twenty-five years, they are considered inelegible for warrior candidacy.”

And given how every one of them he’d seen on Narictus filled some sort of guard or front-line warrior role, that seemed a social death sentence.

“What better people to learn blood related skills from than those who grow up in it?” Tylestane posed. “These werewolves of Clan Vale Claw learn about the ways of blood before they can even go out on hunts. Desperation and a willingness to make themselves useful to their vampiric masters has them learning early by necessity.”

Necessity and desperation which led to some unfortunate outcomes at times; at least, as per the text he was reading. The author continually emphasized just how dangerous Blood Boiling was and how multiple young werewolves would die practicing it each year.

It was the price of subservience.

The vampiric overlords of Narictus would not train such a high-risk skill, not as culturally as these werewolves did. From the reports, it wasn’t even that high a rarity, merely being uncommon, yet even then the training process was fraught with risk. And why would it not be? It involved the compression and heating of one’s own blood to increase its very potency.

Incredibly risky for young werewolves even with the aid of shamans, healers and the rare blood mage if the clan was fortunate enough.

But for Orodan it looked as though it would be some excellent training.

There was a time where he would have simply dove right into practicing a skill through brute force and System assistance.

Those times were over. He had learned after losing his System that the best way of approaching skill acquisition and training was from the ground up, with his own insights in tandem with the base of knowledge of existing experts. Brute force repetition which relied on the System was not a good method of learning.

“Alright, this seems simple enough.”

He rose to his feet as he spoke, channeling a part of Harmony of Vitality which he unconsciously used often, but hadn’t directly drawn upon in a while.

Vitality Manipulation.

“The advantageous part about you being… you, is that where a new student might die, you needn’t care about such things,” Kalemar spoke. “Lord Agraha, if you would?”

“Watch closely, Lord Wainwright. I did not have you read the texts for nothing. One’s philosophy and very ethos when compressing and burning their blood is just as important as the technique itself. As you know, blood is a part of vitality, which is a part of the soul. The mindset matters and can color the final outcome,” Tylestane declared while steaming yet again. “I utilize mana to compress, some rare practitioners use soul energy itself. Given your existing proficiency I have no doubt you can manage.”

He watched closely as his instructor maintained a state of low simmer, committing the technique used to memory.

Orodan thought about using soul energy. He certainly had an endless well of it. If anyone was suited to using that, it would be him. But why use soul energy at all?

Blood was the end product, which was a product of the vitality running through him. Living, flowing blood was vitality. But dead blood, inert and dried, was not. Then, it was safe to say that all fresh blood had vitality, but vitality itself was not necessarily blood. Vitality had other things which were a part of it too… living flesh, bone, the matter in the brain. Orodan was just cells now, cells of bone and flesh with no organs.

Thus… was vitality not just his cells?

Why did he even need blood again? Why not just… cut the middle-man altogether?

So Orodan used not soul energy, which was definitely the upper product from whence lower sources like mana and vitality flowed… but vitality itself.

If he was going to ignite the very lifeblood of his body, it was all vitality anyways. So why dilute the product by using soul energy which he couldn’t boil?

“Using vitality? That’s…” Tylestane trailed off and then the man’s eyes widened. “M-my lord… that may cause a premature end to the-”

Blood. Bone. Flesh. Everything his body was made of was vitality. So why try to boil blood when he could instead boil and compress the vitality itself?

The Vitality Manipulation aspect and the All-Consuming Rage aspect of his Domain of Perfect Cleaning came together, and like a lit flame hitting a stack of dry kindling… it all lit up.

The werewolf text had stressed over and over that the compression and refining of blood was to be a careful act.

But Orodan threw that out the window as his entire body ignited in a blaze of white fire. Not just the blood, everything that had vitality in it, from flesh, to bone, to hair. A blazing white light which nearly blinded everyone. There was no particular color to vitality really, rather, it took on the color of whatever someone’s soul naturally was. Orodan’s soul, a blinding pure white, had the effect of causing the vitality of his body to erupt in a white fire.

If one was looking they might think he had made some critical elemental advancement, but this was no flame. Just his very life force being utterly ignited. Not just one part of him, all of him. From the inside out.

Tylestane conjured several walls of force, however that was entirely unnecessary when an accompanying operative of the Intelligence Service threw down what looked like a valuable artifact. It caused a clear shield of divine energy to surround him.

From the feel of it, the barrier could contain at least a continent-levelling attack. Inadequate for his full power but more than sufficient for this experiment.

“Expensive artifact to spend over training containment,” Orodan grunted out as he burned. It was not a grunt of pain, but sheer exertion as he focused to prevent his vitality from going out of control. “You can step within five paces of me and remain unharmed.”

“We are in a time loop, Mister Wainwright. Our rationing of valuable artifacts has become a little looser. Plus, I find dying quite unpleasant,” Kalemar replied.

Technically untrue; he thought. Kalemar had not actually died in the loops yet. Being reset upon the death of Orodan didn’t count.

“My lord, I see… you are not just compressing blood, but vitality itself. Incredible… I cannot even sense blood within your mighty body anymore. Using vitality as the mold, fuel and target of compression itself… what an absurd thing. I see the chronicles do not exaggerate your inhuman will,” Tylestane muttered. “But you are too forceful! Your compression is not allowing it to flow, you must allow it to naturally travel as the waters of a river do. Else you will reap no benefit from this torment.”

Torment was a bit of an exaggeration, especially at his level of Pain Resistance. But the blood mage was not wrong in calling it so. Anyone else would have died a thousand times over, their entire pool of vitality ignited in an instant with a brilliant but lethal flash. Orodan lived only because his soul was endless and could funnel as much vitality as the process needed.

His cells, technically, were dying over and over only to be instantly reformed via Harmony of Vitality once more.

How did this process work? Simple.

Like coal being pressured and hardened into a precious stone, the entirety of his focus was upon compressing and refining a small piece of his vitality within his chest. However, it was not mana doing the molding, nor was mana the fuel. That, and soul energy would have made the process… impure.

Instead, as expected of him, he took the direct and somewhat insane route of using vitality to mold and compress vitality, while also using it as fuel too.

His cells died over and over. And at certain points Orodan had to be actually restrain himself and direct things carefully so that there was no point where all his cells died at once, leading to a loop reset.

Yet, slowly but surely, with vitality as both the compressing vice and the fuel source… that small piece of vitality within his chest began to compress… to refine.

It was ruinously expensive. He had poured enough vitality to heal himself from one cell to whole a hundred times over, and even then it was only halfway done.

After five minutes of work, the white fire surrounding him began to abate. Orodan released a breath, and at last it was done. Within him lay a refined and compressed sphere of… life.

[New Skill → Vitality Refining 24 (Legendary)]

A legendary-rarity skill. But the sheer effort required for so little payoff? It was…

…absolutely ridiculous. That much effort for so little vitality being compressed.

Someone weaker than him could, in theory, come upon the skill too. But even if he were a thousand times stronger the costs would have simply scaled up due to the increasing power of his body requiring more energy to refine. And even if he’d learned this far earlier in his journey the relative effort would not have decreased.

“M-monstrous… you are… a God,” Tylestane gasped, breathless and in awe. “People speak about being endless, but in you I have glimpsed the true meaning of that. What… what are you?”

“Not a museum exhibit to be gawked at, Lord Agraha,” Kalemar lightly rebuked. “Mister Wainwright would not appreciate being referred to as divine.”

“O-of course, my apologies. It is just that… you generated enough vitality to power a million continent-spanning rituals. This is…” the blood mage trailed off and then shook his head. “My lord, using raw vitality to refine vitality is the realm of liches and unnatural immortals. All of whom typically require entire cities’ worth of sacrifices to do so. You just… paid the cost yourself.”

“Well, I did say I wasn’t about to engage in mass sacrifice, did I not?”

