“You did…” the man muttered and then laughed as though seeing something he’d only heard about for the longest time but had now finally seen. “By the Gods, no… I cannot even invoke them when you make them seem like children playing at divinity. Here I had come, requested by Kalemar specifically for my talents, thinking I was going to help the time looper add an Uncommon or perhaps Rare-rarity skill to his Status. And instead you do something ridiculous. The chroniclers cannot stop bleating like goats about how you possess power enough to shake galaxies, but seeing it now with my own eyes, I believe.”

“In the interest of being productive perhaps we ought to reflect on the impossibility of Mister Wainwright at a later time?” Kalemar suggested. “What rarity is that skill? What does it do?”

“Legendary-rarity. As for what it does, let’s see. Can’t say the sheer price I paid to refine this much vitality feels worth it,” Orodan spoke as he focused in on that thrumming bit of refined vitality within his chest.

Perhaps the skill would refine more for less cost eventually, but for now it really didn’t seem the sort of thing he could justify using mid-battle. Not when it took five entire minutes to refine so little.

Then he touched the vitality. And his disappointment vanished as though it had never been there.

He gasped as the sphere turned liquid and began flowing through his body. Not along veins since he no longer had any, but in-between the cells. Into the flesh, the bones.

Orodan closed his hand into a fist very lightly.

Everyone lurched. Alastaia and its gravity were, for a brief moment, superseded by the sheer gravity of but a gentle movement of his hand.

The world crown sent him a warning pulse of query, asking what was wrong.

“Damn…” he breathed out. “That’s strong. Very strong.”

And also likely to kill him if he tried unleashing it in the form of a strike. Rapidly dissipating and returning to baseline too as the tremendous power of that liquid vitality sphere began decaying quick.

But if he combined all of his existing toolkit and then added that strike on top? Would even the Warrior be forced to take him seriously?

A portal opened, Destartes walking out with a frown.

“It seems, Orodan, we will need a larger training area for your antics.”

He was tempted to agree with the old wizard.

Not only was this skill far too powerful to use around these parts carelessly. But he needed genuine pressure from outside to properly test and calibrate it. And perhaps a way of slowly making the gains permanent.

And if pressure was what he needed…

…then there was plenty of it to be found at Glyphward Fortress and beyond.

#

Azkar’s Gate was a chaotic, warlike and continually moving city even at the best of times.

Orcs, goblins, ogres and mercenaries of other races flocked to the gate. Whether to seek their fortune as part of one of the many companies of Azkar’s Reavers, or to seek passage out of the crazed Crimson Sink Galaxy. It was not uncommon to see honor duels, impassioned philosophy debates and other raucous nonsense occurring on the streets. If not involving the orcs, then the ogres and goblins.

But what was not common to see, was the city being quiet. The titular gate especially.

Uriza-Vakhal, Embodier and nominal leader of Azkar’s Gate in the absence of Azkar himself, had her brows furrowed in suspicion.

“Scourge.”

“Vakhal,” Almyra replied calmly, referring to her moniker as Embodier.

“You have come with most unexpected news,” the orc spoke carefully.

“But not bad news,” Almyra replied.

“No. Not bad news. But the sort of news which, when delivered by a former enemy of ours, makes an orc very suspicious. Our frontier is very clean and quiet. Why?”

“Why not? Do we not all dwell within System space? Seeing Invaders removed behooves I as much as it does you. That we come with news of having met in the last loop with an offer between us is only an added benefit.”

The orc did not look pleased at all. Worse, she had actively grown more and more suspicious as Almyra had perfectly recited several hidden passwords and loop knowledge back to her.

“And that sack you are carrying? Do you think me a fool?” Uriza-Vakhal asked pointedly.

In response, the large rolled up sack under Orodan’s arm twitched, as though wanting to say something. But Orodan’s fist silenced it with a loud thunk delivered with the free hand.

“No. It is a gift for the Administrators at Glyphward Fortress when we arrive,” Orodan spoke up, remaining calm and entirely still even as the sack tucked in the crook of his arm went limp.

Many of the orcs either gripped their weapons tighter or began sweating at his casual display. Perhaps that had been the wrong move? He thought he’d done well to kill two Embodiment-level Void Archons and deal severe damage to the hivemind and its collective forces in this loop, but evidently the orcs of Azkar’s Gate were still suspicious.

Even Almyra had been on-board with the plan. Array directly into the breach points, kill the Invaders using prior loop knowledge and then head for Azkar’s Gate to meet with the commanding Embodier. But if anything, the Vakhal was even unhappier than he ever remembered her being.

The orcish woman frowned for a moment longer… before stepping forward.

Almyra tensed, as did Alagameth. Talricto was of course busy looting Invader corpses of shiny trinkets.

But Orodan was not concerned as the orc walked towards him. He knew hostile intent, and this was not it.

“Clash skulls with me.”

In response, his forehead sailed forward and caught the orc right on the forehead.

Gasps and mutters rang out…

…which silenced as the Vakhal got to her feet.

“You held back, warrior,” she accused.

“I would not want to kill you.”

Everyone around them was tense, though Orodan knew not why.

Until… the orc’s mouth twitched and she proffered a hand.

“Hah! We have clashed skulls and found our thoughts aligned. Time looper, Orodan Wainwright, is it?” she asked as their hands met. “You come with mad news and an even madder offer. Ten thousand time loopers? A Celestial among our number? Madness.”

The nearby orcs nodded, as though the Embodier was speaking sense.

“Now bring Grezka-Thal here so we can ascertain this.”

The orcs in the chamber yet again grew restless but a runner did as commanded, and soon enough the orc captain Orodan had sparred last loop was before them.

She had a look of curiosity and suspicion on her face as she approached.

A look which was replaced by surprised as Orodan chucked the memory orb at her head.

Thankfully, the orb was quite sturdy and resistant to attacks which could even break a planet, courtesy of Fenton and Griok of the Rising Spears. Otherwise Orodan wouldn’t have felt as comfortable hurling it at someone’s head.

She caught it, natural when one was a melee combat specialist used to dealing with ranged attacks. But the flash of the orb lit up the entire room anyways.

At least three orcs were mid-swing towards him for his supposed act of treachery when the light cleared and the familiar wave of soul energy erupted from Grezka-Thal. The standard eruption of that sheer wave of System power which could be detected far and wide. It was what had caused multiple worlds to send hunters after Orodan when he’d first acquired the Domain of Perfect Cleaning.

But here and now, nobody was assailing Azkar’s Gate, the center of power for a galactically relevant faction, to abduct a Celestial.

“Halt!” the Vakhal’s voice boomed, interrupting the guards.

“M-my… my head…” the orc captain murmured, down to a knee. And then, she did the one thing which proved that Orodan had come with no dagger in his hand. She drew her warhorn and brought it to her lips.

Reality shuddered, and Orodan was forced to quickly cut loose with a wave of his own Domain of Perfect Cleaning lest the orc’s sudden usage of her own Celestial skill kill countless people.

It was an entirely beneficial warhorn. But something entirely beneficial applied at maximal power across the entire planet could spell doom for many of its lower-level individuals.

Orodan felt his own soul roil heavier, with more courage and steel in it. As though he could wrestle a Boundless One on the spot and slam it upon his knee. And he knew that this much power which could affect even him would most certainly cause a soul detonation in those weaker.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 193 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 194]

His outstretched hand, countering her Celestial skill, advanced and clamped down around the warhorn.

With a yank he pulled it from her lips, causing the orc to gasp and finally come out of that Celestial trance she had been in. Understandable given what a heady and addicting feeling it was; he recalled his own Celestial acquisitions being the same.

“Very good. But you cannot sound that horn without being mindful of your surroundings. We can kill people if we aren’t careful,” he calmly cautioned. “I, by erasing them from existence. You, by empowering them so extremely that their souls explode.”

Uriza-Vakhal, the orc Embodier, froze as his warning sounded through the room. As did Grezka-Thal who had a look of sudden shame on her face.

“My memories… the horn felt… it felt-”

“Right? As though every comprehension you’ve had all your life had finally come together?” he asked. “Yes, that is how it should feel. This is no fault of yours. It is mine. Next time I will ensure you are without that horn when the orb hits. It is entirely natural for the soul to revert to seeking the skill you have the highest affinity with.”

For how many times had he cleaned his way into recovering his soul and memories? One could not be blamed for doing the same here.

Almyra gave him a look of concern from behind, as though wary of the fact that his highest level Celestial skill had advanced another step.

How much longer till it hit 200? How much time left until it went beyond altogether?

He had training to do in order to correct that gap before the imbalance brought about his ruin.

#

“Why are you violent?”

“Why not?”

“Answer cleanly. No return questions, this is not about me, this is about you. Give an honest answer, warrior.”

That had been an honest answer. Orodan didn’t understand why he wouldn’t be violent, that was all.

He sighed.

“Because there was no room to be anything else in Ogdenborough. If I did not fight, I would have starved. I would not have been fed enough. I would have things taken from me.”

Three Thals, Transcendents, sat facing him. All Transcendents were old, ancients who were at minimum a few hundred-thousand years of age. But one of them was particularly ancient and had that distinct feeling of someone who stood a chance of becoming an Embodier.

It was the old one who questioned him.

“And yet, you remain violent even after eking out survival. Why?”

“Is this meant to be an endless string of ‘why’ style questions meant to pry me open like a can?” he asked in turn.

“Yes. Now cease asking questions and answer them, warrior.”

The lack of mysterious answer threw him off guard, and Orodan finally behaved.

“Forgive me… my arm stirs for battle and my impatience is apparent. Thank you for taking the time to do this,” he spoke sincerely.

“You are young,” one of the younger Transcendents spoke. “We had always wondered what would happen if a young soul became too powerful too early. The price of talent… a hypothetical sermon I gave once. To see it come true…”

“You are correct Egrash-Thal, but this is not the subject of discussion. I will ask again, warrior. Why are you violent? Why have you remained so once survival was no longer a wager?”

The old Transcendent orc was right. It was not survival. Orodan had seen refugees of war, victims of horrid tragedy, those who had escaped previously miserable lives to finally live. Those had been survivors. He was a survivor only insofar as he had survived… beyond that, his mentality was not the same.

Those men and women had wound down. The fear slowly leaving their bodies as they unwound like tense rope unraveling. But they had finally tried living. Survivorship was something they had to endure.

He was not violent because he needed to survive.

He was violent because he liked it.

“I am violent because that is who I am.”

All three nodded, accepting the honest answer.

“Good. A man of violence pretending to be a battered survivor is a lie which serves no one. Do you enjoy it?”

There was only one answer to that question.

“Yes.”

Orodan was no melancholic bard. Nor was he a soldier who would sit in a tavern and tell others about how horrible war and fighting was. He liked it; he enjoyed the thrill of life-and-death combat. Horrible things happened in war, but he was one of those individuals others would call deranged for he enjoyed the fighting part of it.

“Heh… too often will I see wolves pretending to be sheep. At least you do not lie, Orodan Wainwright. Why do you enjoy violence?”

“I like the challenge. For me violence is… advancement. My push against the world, against my limits,” he answered, thinking back on when he’d finally acquired Eidolon of Violence. “I crave that struggle. It is… honest and makes me feel alive.”

“Your violence extends to more than just fighting then?” a younger orc asked and he nodded. “Intriguing. Tell me, is sorrow part of your violence too? Pain?”

Orodan’s eyes furrowed as he recalled how Pain Resistance was a part of Incipience of Infinity. How he had struggled, fought and bled. And how he had suffered loss. Adeltaj, W78, Fenton… Zaessythra.

