We make it to a clearing in the dungeon where the grass covered, rocky ground flattens out, and a small source of Demonic Energy can be sensed nearby.

It's releasing 1 or 2 units every few minutes, and the raw energy is floating high into the dungeon's sky. Some are dissolving into the open air, and other portions are floating toward the exit portal.

Still, over a kilometer away from the source, I'm confident the natural output will be enough to begin my training.

I look toward Ember and whisper under my breath.

"Body Double."

A second copy is created to look exactly like myself. The only difference is, one is slightly weaker and if killed won't affect my main body at all. Last time I did this, my main body was unconscious moments later. This time around, it does feel a bit odd looking myself in the eyes.

To make things even weirder, I can't simultaneously see what my double sees...

The copy of myself in front of me opens his status, opens his eyes wide, and looks up to me to speak with my own voice.

"It looks like the body double has a different ranked-up perk. I'm going to test it out."

Before I reply, the doubled version of myself air-steps away nearly 100 meters before glowing in a bright white light.

The double's movement speed increases drastically for a matter of seconds, then a flash of mana and a loud twang erupts from where they once were, blowing an enormous hole in the side of a nearby rocky hill.

A blue text notification pops up in my vision.

[You Have Died]

A flood of memories from the last 30 seconds fills my mind, as I feel as if I myself lived them.

The vision of opening my status, and seeing a brand new ranked perk on the double's status screen labeled [Instant Finale].

The sensation of every ounce of mana being used up in a matter of seconds, propelling the double's movement speed faster and faster until it explodes in a devastating self-destruct attack, is fascinating and unexpected...

This adds an interesting move to my arsenal but also confirms my theory that rank-up rewards are very dependent on the user's current circumstances and state of mind. The fact that my double's rank-up process occurred during a similar attack can't be a mere coincidence.

On another note, the notification will allow me to be notified and send another body double every time my current double fails in its process. At the same time, every failed attempt will fill my mind with the exact memories of what happened just like I was there doing it myself.

I smirk and look up to Ember.

"Perfect, are you ready to train?"

"Of course."

I create another double, then leave the Midnight Dagger behind before air-stepping off into the dungeon to start my Minotaur farming.

There were a few possible monster targets I saw on the way here, and luckily flying on Ember's back I've already set Dungeon Walker points all over.

I teleport to my first target and cut them down in a single slash.

A blue text box appears in front of my vision.

[Use Absorption]

MCP: 7,281

[YES][NO]

I grin, accepting the 0.01% mana control from defeating a mob below 80% of my level, and carry on. If it weren't for my new legendary perk that absorbs small amounts of all opponents' mana control, I wouldn't bother fighting anything in here that isn't a mutant.

However, if I'll have to sift through hundreds of monsters, possibly thousands to farm what I'm looking for, there's no reason not to kill and absorb everything in sight. It will be great practice for farming higher-tier mobs later.

I look down at nearly a dozen Minotaur-related quests, asking between 1-3 horns each, and get to work.

[Use Absorption]

MCP: 7,984

[YES][NO]

[Use Absorption]

MCP: 8,006

[YES][NO]

[Use Absorption]

MCP: 7,490

[YES][NO]

---

Meanwhile, back with Ember, another stream of consciousness is beginning training.

"I've only met a few Arch Demons that could wield Demonic Energy flawlessly through their cores while producing Mana-based attacks simultaneously. It's possible at your level, but will be difficult. So don't expect things to work out on the first try... or even the 10th try... or even 100th. This may be a long process. First things first, I'd like to witness the proficiency of your attack."

I sit down and take in a few units of energy from the air before showing off a few of my attacks.

The first few are just basic control from my fingertips, like I used to free myself from the underground prison, and the second style is imbuing the black dagger as well as powering up my movements and steps to access more speed while running and lunging to practice moves.

Afterward, I recall the events of each and every time I've used Demonic Energy. From training int the Abyss to defeating the Sector leader, I account for everything, not leaving a single detail out.

Ember gives a nod of approval.

"Very good. You've mastered the basic Demonic Energy techniques on your own in a short amount of time. Even with a manipulation skill, your speed and precision are impressive for a mana-born user."

I raise an eyebrow at the use of that term again.

"A mana-born user? I've heard someone say this before. What's it even mean? Are all monsters not born from mana? Are the monsters in the Abyss really that different?"

Ember replies.

"Yes, there's a very big difference. Those born from mana can only wield mana until they're proficient enough to feel and wield the energy around them with pristine focus down to the individual particles. Most mana-born users hit this breakthrough point somewhere around level 350 to 550. Once someone can wield mana, technically they're able to wield Demonic Energy too if they can perceive it. The same goes for Demonic Monsters and beings born from that realm. Not until they're proficient enough in their own domain are they possibly able to wield more than one energy source."

I nod, tightening my lips.

"Okay, so then once someone like me hits this threshold, how can they possibly learn to wield both at once? Every time I try, well- you've seen what happens."

Ember nods slowly, but I continue to speak.

"Demonic Energy is a great weapon against mana-based opponents, but my speed and power are very lacking when I can't use my mana-based buffs and gear. I'm sure mana would also be an excellent attack against Demonic Monsters too, but when wielding mana I can't even perceive Demonic Beasts."

Ember finally replies.

"Yes, this is a common problem in the beginner stages. One of the reasons Demons are chosen to protect Labyrinths is that they're the most likely creature to wield both mana and Demonic energy with the help of their cores. Other high-tier beasts are capable or manipulating Demonic Energy, but even one slip-up while practicing and the one wielding is dead. So, its very rare to see anything other than a Demon wield both at once."

The black-scaled dragon closes his eyes and glows red. His entire body shimmers in a crimson aura, then he raises a single clawed hand.

The aura around it completely changes, shifting to a dark red, then finally jet black.

I activate my Demonic Energy skill to witness many units from the source fly toward us and they all begin swirling right above the claws of the dragon.

He turns his head, letting out a pillar of flames on a nearby tree, then shooting a black ball of energy in the same direction.

They collide and both erupt into an incredible display of sparks and flames, decimating the tree, not leaving a single flame or piece of wood remaining.

My eyes stay open wide and I look back and forth at the scene I just witnessed.

Ember powers down his skills.

"By the time we finish training, I believe you'll be able to do something just like this."
