Pain. Ranthia wasn’t a stranger to pain; she had thought she’d been acquainted with pretty much every form of it that she could imagine. She had lived through being ripped apart, both quickly and with malice-induced graduality. She had endured severe headaches that felt as though her head was slowly being pierced by a white-hot knife. She had, at some point along her journey or another, presumably broken every bone that was to be found within her body. She endured the lingering wounds and afflictions stemming from every element the System possessed. About the only thing that she hadn’t suffered through was plagues like those that ravaged her body before she acquired it.

And yet, for the first time in a very long time, Ranthia found herself overwhelmed by agony. It was so overwhelming that it felt like she wasted an eternity to even realize that the pain stemmed from her head, rather than the whole of her being. She could barely think through the ongoing torment and her senses impossibly seemed to be both muted and overwhelming.

It was as though the core of her being was being sundered by blinding agony, but she mustered the ferocity of her will. She had endured far too much to be unmade by mere pain! She was supposed to be doing something—even if she struggled to recall what. She just knew there was something important happening.

And she couldn’t suffer forever.

Her eyes were screwed shut, but the visions of conflict that were afflicting her weren’t conjured by her tormented mind—she was somehow seeing!

She had no idea what in Xaoc’s name was going on, but she seized what meaning she could. Voices were too hard—there was too much sound. But her strange—impossible—sight was easier. It was only almost impossible to make sense of, and she had done the almost impossible plenty of times. It was what made her an Adventurer. Er, Ranger—whatever she was!

Ranthia was laying on the ground, face-down (which raised even more questions about how she was seeing, yes, but those could wait). She was tethered by some sort of… something to an… elf? For the barest of instants—even as the Ooze of the tether faded away—her heart surged, but no, it was the copper-haired elf. She was engaging with the dullahan, who was attacking a seemingly empty area with blasts of concentrated Inferno. The elf was fighting him, in Ranthia’s stead!

As she made more sense of things, the pain seemed to have far less reign over her. As she wrested her mind back under her control, memory and context returned to the world around her. If the world had no answers for her, Ranthia hoped the System would. She consulted the notifications that she had silenced—while keeping kill notifications suppressed.

[*ding!* Congratulations! [She who Dances with Chaos] has leveled up to level 758! +100 Strength, +100 Dexterity, +100 Vitality, +100 Speed, +8 Mana, +8 Mana Regeneration, +5 Magic Power, +5 Magic Control from your class, +1 free stat for being human, +2 Mana from your element.]

[*ding!* [Void Affinity], [Rhythmic Grace], [Void Edge], [Flowing Momentum], [Vision of the Void], [Echoes of Devastation], [Divine-Touched Identify], [Sentinel’s War Supremacy], [Submind], [Combat Awareness] have reached level 758!]

[*ding!* Your skills [Combat Awareness], [Divine-Touched Identify], and [Vision of the Void] have evolved into [Divine Eyes in the Void]!]

What?! For the barest of instants, Ranthia could have sworn the description for her new Skill contained only the word ‘See’, blurred and overlaid atop itself an indescribable number of times. Yet when she metaphorically blinked, there was a perfectly normal Skill description there.

[Divine Eyes in the Void]: Your sight has touched divinity, has been blessed with Void, and has been honed through combat to become something new. Your mystical sight can exist within a small radius of the core of your being and can be focused outward or inward. Through this sight, you may see past obstacles and illusions, map trajectories for threats, discern risk, and see that which was never meant to be seen. Increased power of sight with level. Trivially increased maximum radius with level. Additional eyes for this unseen sight may unlock with level. -18946 Mana Regen Rate.

…The System seriously just merged every sensory Skill she possessed into some sort of absurd composite Skill that gave her a new sense—in the middle of a Xaoc-forsaken battle?! Had Howawful (no, that couldn’t be right) not come to her rescue, the System might have just gotten her killed! Even with the save, her hand was severely burned—though she didn’t miss the blood that sizzled its way down the dullahan’s chest.

It wasn’t a kill, but at least she’d managed to do something while the System rewarded her with something she was unequipped to—

Her new vision lurched suddenly—more than a little disorientating, yes—and focused on an inbound threat. Ranthia hadn’t paid them much mind, but one of the two dangerously stupid elves—the [Mage]—had returned and gathered with a few other elves to jeer over Ranthia. Their words were irrelevant; what was relevant was that there was a sharpened spike of arcanite coming their way.

Seeing the future was impossible, but her new vision Skill measured the growing instability in the arcanite, its trajectory, and the positions of everyone involved. Unless something changed, the spike would pierce through the back of the idiot’s skull and explode. And even with the ablative wall of elven meat surrounding her, Ranthia wouldn’t escape unscathed.

Ranthia forced her eyes open—and immediately regretted it. Double-vision was not helping the pain that still echoed through her skull. She still forced herself to move.

Kipping to her feet left her disoriented enough that her stomach was roiling, but she still roughly shoved past the haughty idiot. Saying something would have probably been smarter, but she wasn’t sure if she could find the words in time. Her throat was raw, and her face was slick with blood—a nosebleed, she’d never had a nosebleed! …Aside from the times she’d gotten it broken or punched.

But no matter how bad of a state she was in, she was still confident in her adamantium, her capability, and her Skills. The arcanite spike reached her, trailing destabilized mana. It wanted to explode, but that was fine—her Void really didn’t give a shit. Arcanite that had been driven unstable by some Skill was the same as iron or wood. [Void Edge] erased them equally.

Ranthia’s hand was in worse shape than she had thought. She was pretty sure that the only reason the ruined hand still had a grip on the knife was because it had fused to whatever was left of her musculature, but she still managed to erase the deadly projectile.

“Pay more attention! All of my sensory Skills just merged and created a new sense, and my head is killing me, but you have no excuse!” Ranthia snarled back at the elf.

She had to close her eyes again; it was too much. Her nosebleed refused to even slow down. The pain in her head was potent enough that she wanted to just collapse back onto the ground. If she just let go, it would be so easy to black out and stop suffering.

Instead, she sent out a new image and activated [Reflections of Reality]. The elves held their collective silence until it became irrelevant. Ranthia’s almost all-encompassing headache and—more alarmingly—her nosebleed followed her into her new body, but that was… well, she wasn’t dropping dead, so it had to be ‘fine’.

A few lesser shimagu tried to get in Ranthia’s way, but she just kept her eyes shut behind her blindfold and used them to try to acclimate to the strange experience of fighting with her vision floating just within arm’s reach of her head. Why “the core of her being” seemed to be inside of the pinkish-grey goop that resided in her skull was beyond her, but at least it wasn’t her ass. She wasn’t entirely sure if she could survive knowing that the [Priest] had been right about that.

Her knife that she’d tried to kill the dullahan with was still uncomfortably hot in her hand, but the discomfort (pain?) scarcely compared to what still raged through her head. With every moment that passed, she adapted. She still wasn’t ready to open her eyes, and moving her strange Skill-induced vision too quickly was a mistake. But she had to be ready, because she’d reached the dullahan.

Ranthia burst through the Inferno he had unleashed on the Mirage of the wolf—hadn’t the Mirages been entirely absent from her new vision Skill when she first gained it?—which seemed to catch the dullahan entirely off-guard. He was forced to take her strike against one of his natural armor plates that served as vambraces before he could put a wall of Lava between them.

He said something, but it was a wasted gesture—the oversized wolf’s endless barks denied all other sounds within the confines of their engagement. Though even without the dullahan’s words, it was obvious that he was being overwhelmed. The wolf couldn’t get too close to his Lava, yet the elf was tearing through their mutual enemy’s defenses.

Was it unfair to pile on and overwhelm him? Absolutely. But Ranthia had no intention of giving any twin—or fool that’d sell out his own people to body-jackers—a fair fight. Besides, it was kind of poetic to overwhelm him after he’d tried to kill her with two twins at his side long ago.

The dullahan had been heavily splattered with his own Lava, but it seemingly wasn’t doing much more than slowing him down a little. Still, that just—oh. Through that line of thought, Ranthia finally realized that she was able to see through the Lava, at least to some extent. [Divine Eyes in the Void] was at least a bit more powerful than [Vision of the Void] had once been!

Not that it helped much. Ranthia started to stretch her adamantium bracers into thin gauntlet-adjacent designs that could protect her hands, but that process needed time. In the interim, she continued to deliver Void-empowered strikes to the dullahan’s Lava or sword.

And then her opportunity came. The elf’s crystalline weapon tore through their mutual adversary’s Lava and her chains and Ooze surged in. He staggered and tried to refocus his Lava to burn through the bindings.

Ranthia tore through the thinned Lava between them and embedded a knife deep into his shoulder. Her opponent’s mouth wrenched open as a blast of Inferno erupted from his body, but she could endure the heat.

It didn’t hurt nearly so much as her head had ever since her [Divine Eye] (no matter the Skill’s true name, it seemed to be singular at the moment) opened. But even if she could endure the pain, she was literally being cooked alive while she aggressively—and repeatedly—stabbed her opponent through his metal-clad skin. She’d already sent a few images out, but she added to their numbers, just to be safe, while she continued her onslaught.

The Ooze had already failed and the chains that bound the dullahan and his sword were white-hot and promised to fail at any moment—which meant that Ranthia needed to endure the heat. She had to inflict every bit of damage that she could before—

[Divine Eyes in the Void]’s warnings felt different from what [Combat Awareness] used to provide. Instead of a sense of danger, her sight suddenly focused downward. With it came a somewhat inexplicable awareness that a large surge of Lava was coming. She couldn’t see mana—she had no idea if that was even possible within the System—yet she could still tell the attack was coming.

Ranthia kicked backwards and activated [Reflections of Reality] once again. A vast geyser of Lava enveloped the dullahan—much like what he’d used to escape their last encounter—and Ranthia was forced to cover her head with her arms as it splashed over her. The agony of her flesh was edging out the pain in her head before she finally shifted into an intact image.

Thank Xaoc, [Submind] hadn’t tripped while her chosen image fled—she was clear.

Her adamantium was hot, but she didn’t dare to drop it. The dullahan was moving her way, more ponderous than ever. But she couldn’t even see him through that much Lava, much less reach him with a knife! And even if she could use her combat Skills with a polearm, there was no time—

The dullahan froze.

Literally.

In one moment, a thick barrier of Lava roared from the ground as though they fought atop an angry volcano. In the next, she was facing off against a tower of unstable, ice-crusted rock. The heat that had seared her skin, even from a distance, was gone—replaced by a chill deeper than the stormy weather should have permitted.

[*ding!* You have contributed to the slaying of a dullahan [Molten Destroyer of Those that Oppress] (Lava, level 846), [The Inner Flame that Denies Evil] (Lava, level 681), [Lord of All that Burns] (Inferno, level 601)!]

The highest-level ‘elite’ elf—the one the two idiots had whined to before they deployed—scowled down at the so-called elven ‘elite’ [Mage] that had just sat back and watched them fight. Like most of the elven ‘elite’, he chose to remain a blatant target in the sky—though his massive, fractal wings of almost perfectly see-through ice were kind of beautiful, admittedly.

Ranthia only spared a single glance at the elven woman to see if she was visibly abashed at being caught slacking off (she wasn’t), before refocusing on the crumbling, frozen husk in front of her. The System had already confirmed that the dullahan was dead, but she still chose to lash out with her Void-kissed knives and her ruined sandals until she smashed through the icy rock and shattered the frozen dullahan within. With the man reduced to rubble, Ranthia finally converted her adamantium to sand and let it fall—freeing her burnt and deformed skin.

She wasn’t sure if it was intentional or not, but almost the very moment she finished shifting into an intact body, the Ice [Mage] elf rose higher into the sky and made an announcement with as much gravitas as he could.

“Three of the shimagu’s twins have fallen! Those of you that are hale, come and join us to see the final two crushed! Do not waste your efforts on targets of little import!”

With that, he flew away—toward the ferocious Storm that raged over the shimagu bases. Even with how far away she was, Ranthia could still see the massive hail that was being whipped around by the high-speed winds. Each struck the shimagu fortifications like artillery, scattering wood and shattering stone. To say nothing of the devastation that the bolts of lightning wrought.

