“Do you want me to touch it?” Ren whispered.

Officer Holly's brain wanted to say no, to say that she was supposed to be protecting him; but, her head nodded instead. What am I doing? She thought and doubted her decision, then Ren slid his hand between her legs and her whole body tensed up at how good it felt.

“It's so hot down there.” Ren said and watched it with his Heat Sense. It turned bright red as he rubbed it, and Officer Holly's breath sped up quickly. “Let me take some of that heat for you.”

Officer Holly was lost to the sensations he was giving her as Ren deftly used his fingers to probe her through her clothing. She started to grind herself against his hand to help, and Ren smiled as he felt her getting close.

“I'd like an apology.” Ren said and slowed his hand movements.

“I'm sorry! I”M SORRY!” Officer Holly yelled. “God! Don't stop!”

Ren rubbed her faster than anyone had ever rubbed her before, and then she went.

“OH, GODDDDD!” Officer Holly screamed as she finished and clamped her legs together. Ohgodohgodohgod. She thought as her pants were soaked through from one of the best orgasms she had ever had. Ren didn't try to pull his hand back when he felt the dampness, and just calmly waited for Officer Holly to come back to her senses. He felt how much she had enjoyed it, and didn't want to ruin the moment by distracting her from what she was still feeling.

“Wh-what... the hell... was that?” Officer Holly managed to say. Her body was flooded with endorphins and she took several deep breaths to try and gather enough strength to get up off of Ren's lap.

“If I had to guess, that was the greatest thing you've ever felt.” Frikara said from beside her.

Officer Holly turned her head to try and look up; but, she couldn't lift her head up that far yet. Frikara felt her frustration through Ren, and she knelt in front of Officer Holly's head and held it up for her.

“Are you really trying to protect Ren by following him?” Frikara asked.

“Yes.” Officer Holly said, and blinked her eyes to try and bring Frikara into focus.

“Adventurers are here somewhere and are trying to hurt him?” Frikara asked.

“Yes.”

“Rather than hide from me, since you look so different than you do in real life, you could have just stayed around.” Ren said. “No one would have known who you were.”

“T-tried that.” Officer Holly said. “Your maids are... lie detectors.”

Ren felt her regain some of her composure.

“I couldn't stay and... keep my cover.”

“That was a mistake.” Frikara said. “We will do anything to protect Ren, and keeping you under cover to do that would have been easy if you had told us.”

“I... I see that now.” Officer Holly said, then looked at Ren. “Can I get up now?”

“Only if you give me my hand back.” Ren said, and smiled as he felt her embarrassment. “Oh, and have clean clothing to equip.”

Officer Holly nodded and opened her legs to release his hand, then equipped a nice dress that let her blend into a crowd. She stood up and sighed at the mess she had made of her assignment.

“John is going to kill me.”

“Why?” Ren asked. “You haven't failed your mission yet.”

Ren stood up and glanced at his wet hand, then looked directly at Officer Holly. He smiled a little and watched her as he very slowly brought the wet hand to his mouth and licked it. She let out a little gasp, and Ren felt how much she liked that he did that; almost as if he was accepting a reward for pleasing her. He cleaned off his fingers and Officer Holly watched him intently; and she thought it was the most erotic thing anyone had ever done for her.

“It's a good thing I'm moving tomorrow.” Ren said and smiled. “We'll need the extra room now that my entourage has just increased by one.”

“Wh-what?”

“You don't seriously think that I'm going to just let you roam around to spy on me, do you?” Ren asked, and he felt her surprise. “If you really want to protect me from people that try to contact me, then the only way to do that is by staying right beside me.”
