Ogras could suddenly move again, and he scurried after the old man with a forced expression. What option did he have? Run? Forget about it. His shadows had covered a mile around him, and this old thing had appeared out of nowhere. The location Ogras picked for his interview was intentionally remote. It was far from Interment Gate’s five settlements or the exit. The memory domain’s edge was over a day’s travel away.

“May I ask, Senior, where we’re going?” Ogras eventually asked.

“What do you think? We’re digging a grave.”

“WHAT!” Ogras exclaimed with horror. “I admit that investigating the young masters is somewhat uncouth, but it doesn’t warrant this kind of punishment. How about I write an essay of contr—”

The words were stuck in his mouth as sound and silence were inverted. There was no sign of energy fluctuations this time either, driving home just how powerful the gravedigger was. Ogras doubted such methods were within the means of Monarchs, which could only mean the gravedigger was a genuine elder of the Hollow Court.

Or could he be…

Ogras recalled Zac’s explanation of Margrave Wartorius’ abilities. The ruler of the Hollow Court was called the Scales of Earth, with abilities similarly connected to inversion. He’d inverted Life and Death, even Void and Dao, in the battle with Mox. Zac couldn’t recall the Margrave’s appearance. Could it be this slovenly old man? If not, there should still be a connection. Perhaps an aging disciple who’d failed to reach the glorious heights of his master.

The earth hummed as they walked, each step bringing them farther than Ogras could teleport through the Gray World. It took them less than a minute to reach the edge of an unfamiliar graveyard. The silent tombstones reeked of malice. A few violent auras were roused by their arrival yet shied away as if they’d been burnt when the gravedigger glanced their way.

Ogras had been surprised to see the drastically different appearance of the graves in the Hollow Court. The way down the chasm had been paved with monuments of fallen heroes. He’d expected to find the best of the best waiting in the Hollow Court itself, and it was the complete opposite. Rather than a cemetery, Interment Gate felt more like a prison.

The demon watched in desolate silence as the old man slowly dug a nine-foot-deep grave. He didn’t use any energy or skills, resulting in the process taking half an hour. Ogras gazed at the gravedigger with imploring eyes, his mouth and soul still barred from generating sounds.

Confused horror turned into immense relief and not a small amount of satisfaction when a foreign race cultivator appeared out of thin air. It was a four-armed giant covered in pearly scales. Judging by a short, desperate burst of power, he was a genuine Monarch. That wasn’t enough to save him from the gravedigger.

The giant’s energy disappeared as his form rapidly shrank. Seconds later, the captured Monarch had been reduced to a struggling straw doll with only vaguely familiar features. It was like the tailor had grown tired of sewing lifelike scales after finishing the head, opting for a crude pink wrap around the rest of its body.

The gravedigger threw the puppet into the grave without pomp, as if he were discarding spoiled food. Ogras eagerly began to fill it in after the old man held out his shovel. He followed suit, filling in the pit one scoop at a time. The little doll tried to climb out throughout, but it kept falling down since Ogras intentionally targeted it with the dirt.

The puppet was soon trapped under a layer of soil, and it directed a hateful stare at Ogras before sand covered its eyes. Thirty minutes later, the grave was filled. The doll hadn’t completely given in despite being buried alive. The ground trembled until the old man slammed a blank headstone into the ground. It acted as a seal, interring the puppet forever.

Only slivers of animosity seeped out of the soil. It had a life of its own, lunging straight for Ogras. It was intercepted before Ogras could teleport away. The anger was dragged into the headstone, becoming a thin line upon it. Ogras glanced at the neighboring stones that were covered in unreadable scripts.

So this was an in-progress gravesite where the graverealms hadn’t formed yet?

“Thank you for the experience,” Ogras said as he held out the shovel. He was happy someone else had taken it upon themselves to jump into the grave in his stead, yet Ogras didn’t want to find out if the old man had it in him to dig another one. “It’s about time I resumed my cultivation, unless Senior has something else that needs my assistance?”

The gravedigger didn’t take back his shovel, instead bringing out a parchment covered in scribbles.

“You’ve seen anything like this before?”

“So Senior is a great scholar studying the Evi’Shi Civilization! We are indeed fated. I just so happened to pass through one of their remnants during my travels,” Ogras said, immediately recognizing the unusual scripts. “I happen to have a related trinket. I’d be honored to gift it to Senior for showing me the tools of the trade.”

Ogras wasn't sure whether he should curse or thank Ventus for stuffing the cube into his hands when they parted. It may be the thing that would save his little life, but it may also be what attracted this scary old thing. Either way, it made the perfect bribe. Ogras once thought it would prove important during their descent, but it had been collecting dust in his Spatial Ring. Tavza had indicated her desire to study it more than once, but what did he care?

The gravedigger inspected the cube for a few seconds before stashing it with a satisfied grunt. Ogras's eyes gleamed. Wasn’t this the point where the old master would reward the filial youth for their selfless contribution? If the old man really was the Margrave’s disciple, then he was bound to have all kinds of good things. The gravedigger’s next words dashed those hopes.

“Keep the shovel. You will help me dig graves three times a week.”

“Certainly, it would be my honor,” Ogras said.

It was better than nothing, he supposed. If you had to be a gravedigging henchman, then working under an eccentric Autarch wasn’t half bad. Longanimity, they called it. Suffer now, reap the rewards later. Maybe this old thing even knew the Primo and the item they took from him.

“Good, let's go. There are six more today.” The gravedigger began walking away. “Perform well and I’ll show you how to properly bury those rebellious things inside your body.”
