# Chapter 1: The Shape of the Problem

The nest count was wrong.

Solenne had checked the floor map twice before they entered the chamber -- she always checked twice, that was the point of her -- and the map had shown one Stoneback Crawler colony in the far northeast corner, population estimate eight to twelve. Manageable. Routine, even. Floor 7 had been routine for three days now, good XP accumulation against enemies they outleveled by a comfortable margin, and routine was fine. Routine was the plan.

Arcane Analysis lit up the chamber in the cold blue overlay only she could see, and the overlay was full of red.

Not eight to twelve. The colony count in the northeast corner resolved into a cluster of smaller nests -- four of them, pressed together in the root-mass of the fungal wall like eggs in a clutch. Population estimate: thirty-one. The number hung in her perception with the quiet certainty of a fact she was not prepared for, and the nearest crawlers were already moving, chitinous legs clicking across the bioluminescent floor toward the party's entry point.

"It's a colony complex," she said, and her voice came out too fast, pitched at the register where information became noise. "Four nests, not one, thirty-one total, the weak point is cold and concussive but they have a pack-coordination threshold at six or more and if we let them cluster we lose the --"

"Sol." Dayo's voice, short, from the front of the formation. Not a question. A redirect.

"-- formation advantage, they're weak to cold and concussive, Rootwhip Tendrils are vibration-triggered so don't --"

"Sol. How many on the left?"

Solenne blinked. The Arcane Analysis overlay pulsed. "Seven. No, eight. Eight on the left, coming through the lower root system."

"Good." Dayo was already moving. She did not ask permission. She shifted her weight forward, dropped her center of gravity the way she did when the field geometry changed -- and for Dayo it was always a field, always readable in terms of space and angle and timing -- and said, over her shoulder, to no one in particular and to everyone: "Left side, eight. I've got the cluster. Miriam, regen before I go. Vesper, something for the armor. Nadia, buy me six seconds."

She was gone before Solenne finished the plan.

For eight seconds the party was two things at once: Solenne's strategy, precise and correct and arriving too late, and Dayo's instinct, already in motion and pulling everyone into its wake. For eight seconds Solenne stood in the space between the plan she had and the fight that was actually happening, and she could feel the gap between them like a missed step on a staircase.

Then the party found its rhythm, and the gap closed, and the fight was just a fight.

---

The Living Walls section of Floor 7 was a corridor complex built from something that was not quite stone and not quite wood. The walls grew. That was the simplest way to describe it. Dense fungal-root structures rose from the floor in tangled pillars, some as thick as a person, some thin enough to snap, all of them faintly bioluminescent in the lower quarter -- a pale green-blue light that made the space feel like the inside of something alive. The air smelled of damp earth and something sharper underneath, almost metallic, that Solenne had identified on their first day here as the ambient Mana concentration expressing through the biological medium. The floor was uneven, ridged with root structures that caught boots and channeled movement into paths the crawlers knew and the party had to learn.

Stoneback Crawlers were ugly things. Crab-spider hybrids, the size of a large dog, with armored carapaces that turned glancing blows and venomous mandibles that could punch through Tier I armor if the angle was bad. Individually, they were a solved problem at the party's level range. Collectively, above the pack-coordination threshold, they became something that required attention.

Thirty-one of them required a great deal of attention.

Dayo hit the left-side cluster at full speed. Shield Rush connected with the lead crawler and the impact sound was dense and wet -- carapace cracking, body mass redirecting, three crawlers behind the lead scattering as the knockback geometry propagated through the pack. She planted. Iron Stance activated and her boots locked into the root-ridged floor with a magnetic certainty that she hated and used anyway, because the cluster needed a fixed point and she was the one built to be a fixed point.

A crawler lunged for her left flank. She caught it on the buckler, redirected it into the wall, and did not look at it again.

Miriam's Nature's Veil was already on her -- had been on her since Dayo said "regen before I go," because Miriam's response time to party member requests was faster than the request itself. The green shimmer of regeneration settled over Dayo's armor like breath on glass. Miriam stood twelve meters back, staff grounded, her eyes moving across the fight with the focused calm of someone who was reading six bodies simultaneously and allocating resources two moves in advance. Solenne could see it in the way Miriam's gaze tracked from person to person without lingering -- the Empathic Sense doing its quiet work underneath, feeding her data that Solenne could only approximate through the Arcane Analysis overlay. Whatever Miriam was reading, it pulled her attention toward Dayo and held it there.

From the high-fungal overhang on the chamber's west side, Tomás fired. He had been up there before the fight started -- he had identified the colony extension twenty minutes ago on a scouting pass, mentioned it to Solenne in a low voice that carried exactly the information she needed and nothing she did not, and relocated to a position with sight lines on the full chamber floor. He did not announce his shots. An arrow appeared in the joint between a crawler's carapace and its forward leg, and the crawler's charge became a stumble, and then Dayo's gauntlet came down and the crawler was not a problem anymore.

He nocked again. Fired. A second crawler dropped. The rhythm of it was almost silent: the faint creak of the composite recurve, the whisper of the shaft, and then the sound of impact, precise, in the same joint on a different animal.

At the center of the colony, where the four nests converged into a mass of chitinous bodies and clicking legs, Nadia's Chaos Grenade landed.

She had thrown it with the overhead arc she used when she needed clearance over a melee and the particular wrist-snap that she would describe, if asked, as "putting a little English on it." The grenade detonated into a cascade of randomized System effects, and the System -- in one of its periodic moments of either generosity or humor -- rolled Sleep on four of the six targets in the blast radius.

Four crawlers folded mid-stride. Legs curled. Mandibles clicked once and went still. Six seconds of silence at the center of the colony, a hole in the swarm's coordination where the pack-threshold math suddenly stopped working.

"Oh, that's nice," Nadia said from her position near the chamber's east wall, already reaching for a throwing knife. "That's very nice. That's a Sleep four-of-six. We love that for us."

"Six seconds," Solenne said, and her voice was steadier now, because the Arcane Analysis had updated and the numbers made sense again and numbers she could work with. She fed the targeting data through Harmony Conductor -- enemy positions, weak points, the remaining awake crawlers' movement vectors -- and the party received it as a quality of awareness that was not quite sight, not quite sound, something underneath both.

"Vesper."

Vesper was already working. She had pre-staged the materials before the floor entry -- she always pre-staged, that was the point of her -- and her hands moved through the Artificer's Workframe with the practiced speed of someone who had done this under pressure often enough that the pressure was just another variable. Quick Craft activated. Two and a half seconds. The compound that appeared in her hand was a translucent gel in a flexible application strip: Paralysis Touch, Tier I consumable, contact-activated, formulated specifically for Stoneback Crawler nerve clusters because Vesper had read the bestiary entry for this floor three times and cross-referenced it with the biological samples Tomás had brought her from their first day.

She did not throw it. She crossed the distance to Dayo in four strides -- quick, contained, no wasted movement -- and slapped the application strip across Dayo's right gauntlet while Dayo was mid-swing. The gel absorbed into the gauntlet's striking surface. Dayo felt the cool tingle of the paralysis compound activating and adjusted her targeting without being told: the next three strikes would carry a thirty-percent paralysis chance, so she aimed for the largest remaining crawler, the one she had been trading hits with, and put everything she had into its carapace.

The crawler locked up. Mandibles frozen. Legs rigid. It fell sideways and did not move.

"Two," Dayo said. Two awake crawlers on her side. She finished them in the time it took Nadia to cross the chamber and put a knife through the last one that had been trying to flank toward Miriam.

Then the six seconds were up. The four sleepers woke. And the fight entered its second half, which was messier, louder, and cost more HP than any of them preferred, but was never actually in doubt.

---

Silence, after.

The particular silence that follows violence in a closed space: the kind where the absence of sound has a physical texture, where you can hear your own breathing and the breathing of the people near you and the faint wet settling of things that are no longer alive. The bioluminescent glow of the fungal walls continued its slow pulse, green-blue, green-blue, indifferent to what had just happened on the floor.

Thirty-one crawlers. The chamber was a mess.

Solenne leaned on her staff and breathed. The chalk notations on the upper half of the staff were smeared where she had gripped it during the fight -- a formula fragment she had spent twenty minutes writing that morning, blurred now into an illegible streak. She touched the smear absentmindedly with her thumb. It spread further. She did not notice.

The System notification arrived with the quiet authority it always had, as if it had been waiting for her to exhale first.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 7 — CHAMBER 14 CLEARED]
Enemies Defeated: 31 (Stoneback Crawlers)
XP Awarded: 2,170 (distributed)
Floor 7 Kill Progress: 94 / 96
Bonus Objective: Full Clear — 2 remaining
```

Two kills short. Solenne noted this with the part of her mind that always noted things -- the part that ran a constant, quiet tally of progress and efficiency and whether they were where they should be. Two kills from the bonus objective. The bonus was a Skill Book drop, which was genuinely valuable, which meant the efficient choice was to find two more crawlers before they moved to the rest node.

She looked at the party.

Dayo was rolling her left shoulder, testing the joint. She had taken a hit there -- Solenne had seen it through the Arcane Analysis overlay, a glancing mandible strike that Miriam's regen was already working on but that would ache for the next hour. Dayo's HP sat at sixty-three percent. She did not ask to rest.

Miriam was already moving toward Dayo with the quiet inevitability of water flowing downhill. Mending Touch activated as she placed her hand on Dayo's shoulder guard, and the warm green light of the heal settled into the dented armor and the bruised muscle underneath. She did not ask if Dayo was okay. She already knew the answer to that question in three different ways, and the asking was not what Dayo needed. The healing was what Dayo needed.

Vesper was crouched near the remains of the colony queen -- the largest crawler, the one Dayo had paralyzed and then finished. She was examining the dropped Core with the focused attention of someone evaluating material quality, turning it in her long fingers, holding it up to the bioluminescent light. The Core was the size of a walnut, dark amber, faintly warm.

Tomás descended from the fungal overhang with the quiet efficiency of someone whose body knew how to move through vertical space without asking permission. He landed, checked his quiver -- seven arrows remaining from twelve -- and began collecting the ones he had fired. He did not speak. His eyes moved across the chamber with the same quality of attention he gave everything: thorough, unhurried, already reading the next room through the doorway they had not yet entered.

And Nadia picked up the colony queen's Core from where Vesper had set it down, held it up to the light, and said: "Gertrude had a lot of kids. I respect the commitment. Fewer of them trying to eat my legs would have been better, but."

Dayo laughed. The sound was big and sudden and entirely involuntary, the way she always laughed at Nadia's bits, and it echoed off the fungal walls in a way that made the chamber feel less like a place where thirty-one things had just died.

Vesper said, "Please do not name the Core."

"Gertrude," Nadia repeated, with conviction.

"The Core has a material grade. It has a type classification. It does not need a --"

"Gertrude was a mother, Vesper. Show some respect."

Miriam's mouth twitched. She was still healing Dayo's shoulder. She did not look up.

Solenne watched this happen -- the joke, the groan, the laugh, the familiar rhythm of six people decompressing from violence in the way they had learned to decompress -- and the number sat in her mind: two kills from the bonus objective. A Skill Book. Genuinely valuable.

She looked at Dayo's HP. Sixty-three percent and climbing under Miriam's hands. She looked at Vesper, who had been standing for three hours and whose MP was at half from the Quick Craft and the pre-combat inscriptions. She looked at Nadia, who was grinning and whose grin was real, and at Tomás, who was quiet and whose quiet was the normal kind, the thinking kind, not the kind that meant something was wrong.

Two kills. They could find two more crawlers. The floor was not cleared; there were side corridors they had not entered. It would take thirty minutes, maybe forty. It was the efficient choice.

Solenne put the number away.

"Rest node," she said. "We'll pick up the corridor sweep tomorrow."

Nobody argued. Nobody asked about the bonus objective. Dayo nodded and started moving, and the party fell into formation with the practiced ease of people who had been walking in this order for months: Tomás thirty meters ahead, Dayo at the front of the main group, Miriam and Vesper in the center, Nadia on the left flank, Solenne at the rear.

Choosing their wellbeing over the bonus objective had been easier than it used to be. She noticed this about herself the way she noticed most things about herself -- from a slight distance, analytically, as if she were reading a stat change in someone else's status window. She filed it under *progress* and kept walking.

In the quiet of the formation, Dayo paused long enough to run her thumbnail across the inside of her left bracer. A small mark joined the others -- a tally, scratched into the composite surface in a neat row. Floor 7, Chamber 14. Nadia saw her do it. She said nothing. The tally marks were not something you commented on. They had become something else a long time ago, and the something else did not have a name yet.

---

The corridor to the rest node was a long, curving passage through the densest section of the Living Walls growth. Root structures closed overhead here, forming a tunnel that pulsed with the slow bioluminescence. The air was warmer. Wetter. The metallic edge of the Mana concentration was stronger, sharp enough that Solenne could feel it at the back of her throat like the taste before a storm.

Tomás moved ahead in the particular silence that was his default mode -- not the absence of sound but the active management of it, each step placed with the awareness of what the floor would do if he stepped wrong. His scout's armor made no noise. The medicine bundle on his quiver shifted slightly with his movement, a dark shape against the pale fungal light.

Solenne watched the back of his head and thought, not for the first time, that she did not have a word yet for what this group was. Six people, various states of dusty and tired and alive. They were not friends, exactly, though they were that too. They were not colleagues. They were not family, though something in the shape of them was beginning to rhyme with family in a way she could feel but not parse.

She suspected the System had a word for it. She suspected the System had always had a word for it.

Then Tomás passed a section of the north wall, and Solenne felt it.

Not through her eyes. Not through her ears. Through the Resonance Map -- the Trueweave perception that sat underneath her normal senses like a second nervous system, reading the harmonic structure of the space around her. It was a skill she had carried since Month 2 and only understood since Month 5, and it did not perceive things the way her eyes did. It perceived *wrongness*. Dissonance. The places where the chord of the environment was missing a note or carrying one that should not be there.

The north wall had a note that should not be there.

She slowed. The Resonance Map gave her no visual, no overlay, no helpful tooltip. Just a quality of awareness -- something in that wall that responded to Mana, that had depth where the wall should have been solid, that was shaped, at the very edge of her perception, like a door.

There were no doors on Floor 7 that responded to Mana. She had checked the map twice. She always checked twice.

Tomás passed the section without comment. He did not turn his head. He did not slow. But something in the precise line of his movement -- the way he angled two degrees further from the north wall than his path required -- told Solenne that he had seen it too. Or felt it. Or whatever the Clearvoiced equivalent of her Resonance Map had given him.

He did not report it. Tomás reported everything. Tomás reported the position of every trap, every material node, every structural anomaly, with the clean efficiency of someone who believed information was the margin between surviving and not.

He did not report this.

Solenne made a notation. Not on her staff -- in her head, where the chalk did not smear and the formula did not blur. A door on the north wall of the Floor 7 corridor, between Chamber 14 and the rest node, that responded to Mana and should not exist.

She did not have an explanation. She did not say anything to the party. She kept walking, and the wrongness in the wall faded behind her, and the rest node's warm light appeared ahead, and six people moved toward it in the order they had learned to move, and Solenne filed the door under the category of things she would think about when thinking about them would be useful rather than alarming.

The rest node's entrance glowed a steady amber -- the System's universal signal for safety, for recovery, for the brief permission to stop being ready. The party entered one by one. Tomás checked the interior and gave the single nod that meant *clear*. Dayo stepped through and her shoulders dropped two inches, the Iron Stance tension bleeding out of her frame. Nadia said something to Vesper that Solenne did not catch, and Vesper made a sound that was almost a laugh.

Miriam was the last one in before Solenne. She touched Solenne's wrist as she passed -- briefly, barely there, a contact that communicated nothing specific and everything general. Solenne felt the warmth of it against the particular kind of tired she carried after a fight, and then Miriam was through and Solenne was standing at the threshold, and behind her the corridor pulsed with its slow green-blue light, and somewhere in the north wall there was a door that had no business being there.

She stepped through. The rest node sealed behind her. The amber glow settled over six people in various states of dusty and alive.

Tomorrow they would sweep the remaining corridors. Tomorrow there would be two more crawlers and a Skill Book and the ordinary business of a floor they had been grinding for three days.

The door could wait.

She was not sure it would.
