He looked down again and the world seemed grander than it had a moment ago. Sure, gods could work wonders, and there was a goddess present, but all this here? All this was the work of people, belief, and power.

The singers, a harpy man, an incani woman, a human woman, and a dragonkin man, each wore immaculate white robes with long trails that hung off of the dais and trailed on to the floor. They sang at each other, but their mouths were barely open, and the power of their combined voices was far more than any physical thing.

Ezekiel walked on, pushed along by the crowd behind him or of his own volition; he wasn’t quite sure. The moment had captured him in transient grace and moved him along in a daze.

He soon found himself standing on the open white grounds outside of the main temple, past the exit of the main structure. Something profound had touched his soul, and he wasn’t sure what would happen now, or in the future. All he truly knew was that he was not the only one who had had an experience, and that everyone else who had walked past the Void Song, both of his party and not, had felt something similar.

Small groups of people here and there, upon the white stone outside of the main temple, hugged each other. Others stood poleaxed in reverence. Most moved on fast enough, having shaken themselves from momentary beauty. Some remained entranced, and yet no longer outside of their own control, like Ezekiel. Those people turned back toward the way they had come. They saw the curving body of Rozeta, curling through stone clouds, hiding behind columns, her journey and task of keeping the world running in an endless grace which touched them all.

Ezekiel watched as the stone moved. Undulated. Rozeta curled through the clouds. The clouds reformed in her passing. The moment passed.

The stone was stone. It had not moved. The clouds had not shifted. Had he seen a vision of Rozeta? Perhaps. Perhaps not.

Ezekiel blinked. He breathed. He looked around himself, and wondered.

A small, cynical part of himself informed himself that he had spoken to multiple gods, many times, Rozeta among them. And sure, he had. But this was more than that. This was faith. This was beautiful. This was how other people interacted with the gods.

Ezekiel smiled. At least on Veird, the gods answered back in tangible ways.

He looked around, and saw that some people were reading the air. Some of those people were crying in joy, or pain, or mixtures of both. Whatever they were reading, they were experiencing revelation. And that was pretty great.

Paul smiled more than Ezekiel had ever seen the man smile. He said, “You can’t get this feeling anywhere else in the world, besides places like this.”

“That was more intense than I thought it would be,” Tiffany whispered.

Julia just gazed back the way they had come, watching other people walk out of the temple, seeing their own expressions. Ezekiel bumped her shoulder with his own, smiling. She turned to him, silent. She blinked a few times, then she looked toward the four cardinal bells and the cloud bridges that connected them all in a great circle that surrounded the main temple.

She said, “Let’s do that.”

Tiffany was already walking that way. The rest of them caught up, to join the procession at the northern bell, slotting themselves into the clockwise line that circled around the whole complex.

Ezekiel went to touch the bell, as he saw so many others doing, and was awed, again.

The collective hands of millions had worn down the white rock over centuries, creating a groove, as they also pressured the bell to rotate clockwise. He smiled. No one [Mend]ed this thing, for sure. He looked up, and saw a carving of one of the four claws of Rozeta holding onto the top of the bell, as the bell spun under her grasp. It was actually held up from the interior, though; a meter gap between the bell and the dais it sat upon showed the inside of the bell, where a massive pillar rose in the center, keeping the bell off the ground.

Ezekiel touched that hand-worn groove in the stone bell, like all the other people all around him. He felt the vibrations of an echoing Void Song in that contact. It was a good feeling, for this was where Rozeta’s touch descended; a place where others could reach out and join their hand to the workings of the Goddess, and each other, even if her claws were still out of reach themselves.

… But where were the head and the tail of the Void Wall? Perhaps nowhere? They weren’t in the main temple—

Ezekiel let his thoughts of mechanicality and other such mundane needs flow away on the wind, as he released his hand from the bell, his own spinning of the wheel gone; left for others to take up in his stead. Ezekiel walked on to the first of four stone bridges, shaped like clouds. The steps to the bridge were similarly worn down by the paces of millions of people.

He touched the eastern bell in the same way, tracing his hand on the groove of those who had come before, adding his own spin to the endless procession, as he gazed up at another hand of Rozeta holding the bell in place. He pilgrimed with the crowd to the southern bell, then the western bell. The journey around the complex only took a quarter hour. Maybe slightly more. Or less. This journey was both faster and slower than walking through the main temple, and hearing the four singers under the main bell.

Ezekiel, Julia, Paul, and Tiffany, stepped off of the cloud path to the north of the temple. Much of the crowd walked away with them, for many started their paths at the northern bell. Others kept walking, for they had joined in the journey at the other bells. Those bells had been spinning long before he came to Veird, and they would keep spinning long after he was dead. There was something subtle about that beauty. Ezekiel let that feeling wash over him as he stepped away from the flow of people, to stand under the shade of a white barrier tree. His party joined him.

And then it was time to move on, apparently.

A man in a formal red robe and a woman in a formal black robe were waiting for them under the shade of a different white tree. It was the same man and woman who took Tadashi away in that sky boat. The ones with the bloodlust. That bloodlust was much diminished at the current moment, but it was still there in both of their eyes. It felt wrong for such an emotion to be present in this holy place.

Spirituality fled; normal operations returned to Ezekiel. He recognized, now, the faces and emotions of those around him. Some were still stuck in their experience; eyes wide and the weight of the world unable to touch them. Others had never felt anything, their disdain and displeasure of their waste of time evident in their creased faces and frowns.

The red man and black woman were of neither group; they were here for business.

Ezekiel put on a neutral face. He faced the new people. They faced him, and stepped closer.

Ezekiel spoke, “Hello. I never learned your names, but I assume you know mine.”

“Loremaster Xue Star Song,” said the red-clothed man, as he took a place under the shade of Ezekiel’s tree. Xue was of tanned skin and dark hair, and had a distinct air of blood and magic around him, which Ezekiel could probably just shorten to ‘Blood Magic’, but sometimes simplifications were lies, and this seemed like one of those times. The man said, “And this is my wife, Enforcer Sikali Star Song.”

Sikali was a woman of strength, and paler features, like a sun-kissed beach goer. Or. at least she would have been, if not for the sharp edges of her formal black robes. She reminded Ezekiel of a bared blade. She bowed just her head, for just a moment, then said, “Scion Phoenix. A pleasure to see you for the third time.”

Ezekiel smirked, as was appropriate for the joke Sikali had made, though Ezekiel wasn’t quite sure what it was, exactly. “A third time? Are you perhaps the people who are spying on me with those [Scry] orbs high in the air?”

Xue easily said, “I’m sure someone is. You have a [Scry] orb hovering behind you.”

Ezekiel was not going to speak of Yggdrasil. Xue got the hint.

Xue continued, “But what my good wife is referring to is an event which occurred a few nights ago, near evening at the Teleport Square of Darzallia.”

Ezekiel thought, and then it came to him. “Ah. Yes. I remember, now. We were briefly near each other, weren’t we? I didn’t recognize you. That night, it appeared like you were out on the town for some event.”

Sikali said, “We attended half of a dreadful play. We almost blew the whole thing off when we saw you walking around with such power on your shoulders and upon your wrist. We would have come over to say hello had we known you were a foreign Scion.”

Xue said, “We would certainly not have made such a mistake if the same thing were to occur today, and if you were wearing the same clothes as you are now. Those are simply marvelous dress robes. Spider silk, yes?”

“Yes. Made with the help of my daughter. She has a few decent spider forms.” This seemed like a good enough neutral way to have a conversation, so Ezekiel latched onto it, turning to his daughter, saying, “You were looking for more spider forms, though, weren’t you?”

Julia glanced from her father to Xue, and said, “I am looking for more. Would you happen to know where I can find a Nacreous Weaver?”

“They are a rare breed, but I can certainly ask around, Miss Phoenix,” Xue said, looking pleased. “If you do happen to get one, I would be interested in purchasing rolls of colored silk. It is not every Polymage that is capable of bringing out the true worth of their Familiar Forms.”

Julia said, “I would be amenable to this.”

Ezekiel spoke up, “You are correct, Loremaster Xue, but as you say, not every Polymage is as capable as all the rest. I am sure there would be some monetary compensation for my daughter’s time and expertise.” It wasn’t a question; it was a command.

Xue nodded. “But of course, Scion Phoenix. Are there other exports of Clan Phoenix that you would be interested in discussing? Clan Star Song is always open to new trade with those capable of such luxury products.”

Ezekiel considered and then decided that he wasn’t willing to go that far, but if his cover was blown, then perhaps Candlepoint could use some exports? Eh? Eh? Mmm. Maybe not. Not yet.

“Not at this time; no.”

“… We could also discuss magic,” Xue said, recovering from Ezekiel’s direct refusal. “I must confess: I was informed of your presence here and thus instructed to help you speak to the Songstresses. My Elder of Enchantment, Elder Arilitilo, wishes me to repeat that her offer to discuss magic is also open to you.”

Ah. Well. Yeah. They were here on assignment. For sure. That was why Ezekiel was willing to speak of spider silk trading, even if that would be his daughter’s choice, and not his. He didn’t expect Xue to just come out and say that he was here on assignment, though. That implied active spying, and though Ezekiel had been sure that everyone knew they were being spied on, and even though he had taken steps to ensure that the spying wouldn’t uncover anything too awful...

Ezekiel considered Xue. There were a great many nuances and hidden meanings to the man’s words and entire persona. He was dangerous. His wife was similarly dangerous, but in a much more direct manner. So far, by his estimate, they were mostly past the danger of the wife, but Xue was a deeper sort of danger that he had understood and verbally sparred with the second they started talking.

Ezekiel wanted to talk magic, though, even if it would expose his truth that much faster.

Hmm.

… He decided to forgo any more direct confrontation, for now.

Ezekiel said, “I would appreciate an introduction to the Songstresses, and perhaps, if Elder Ari is amenable to a tea shop chat, we could do that, first? In a few days, perhaps.”

Xue gave a tilt of his head, saying, “I will inform her of your wishes.”

“I still haven’t inquired after Tadashi, either, which is another thing to do before I then visit him. Would you be the person to talk to regarding either of these necessities?”

Sikali tensed a little. Her reaction flowed away from her features, but not before Ezekiel noticed, and thus Xue noticed as well. Ezekiel turned toward Sikali.

Sikali spoke, since she was under direct spotlight, “I have heard that Tadashi is not doing well under the care of branch family Diligent Scribe, but though Star Song was involved in regaining Tadashi, we are not privy to Diligent Scribe’s full inner workings. I have heard that they aren’t even letting his brother visit.”

Ezekiel frowned. That was bad news. “I promised to see the man again. I suppose I will need to contact Diligent Scribe myself.” He glanced to the Void Temple, then turned back to Xue and Sikali, saying, “How long would a meeting with the Songstresses take?”

“The first meeting is usually short; a mere set-up for what follows.” Xue said, “If you’re going after Tadashi, I could make inquiries for you, but he is under heavy surveillance. Do you know why he was captured in the first place?”

“No. I do not.” Ezekiel said, “All I know is that I saw him in a terrible state, and I want to know that he is being treated well. The man’s life as an alchemist is over, and that… That is simply awful. Is there truly no way to rid him of the Elixir? I have never dealt with such a… It is a horror that someone could actually do that to someone else.”

Sikali eyed him. “You’ve never heard of the Elixir before?”

“Of course not. It’s barbaric. We don’t do that where I’m from.”

Sikali continued to eye him. “The Punishment of Elixir is widespread. Surely, even your hidden Clan knows of such ultimate punishments?”

Ezekiel frowned. “We fight monsters. I must say that this idea that all Clans have had the same experience of this world is rather eccentric. I wasn’t even aware that you all sparred to the first sword-in-the-heart.”

Xue chuckled.

Sikali’s opinion of Ezekiel seemed to take a nosedive, but she kept her professional facade. “Fair.”

Ezekiel ignored the lost reputation, saying, “Loremaster Xue, Enforcer Sikali. Thank you for appearing before me. I will accept that introduction to the Songstresses, and then, if you could get me a way to speak to Tadashi, in person, I will also accept that. Whenever such a meeting might happen would be acceptable; today or tomorrow. I am currently staying at The Sour House in Darzallia.” He gestured to the Void Temple. “Lead the way?”

Xue bowed his head, saying, “At once, Scion.”
