A cold sweat ran down the back of Xue’s neck.

“You have been too focused on Particle Magic this last year.” Arilitilo commented, “Take care not to let yourself get clouded.”

“Thank you for your instruction, Elder Arilitilo.”

Arilitilo nodded, then she said, “I have seen enough. Good work. You may move direct observation to whichever subordinate team you desire. If you manage to make a natural connection with Ezekiel today then you must direct him my way, but don’t press too hard.” She stood up, saying, “If purchasing a full robe isn’t possible, then the appropriate amount of thread would be acceptable, but be sure to get enough thread if that is the way you do it. I can’t be going back asking for more rolls of the stuff; that’s just embarrassing, and likely to end in a price gouging.”

Xue stood with her, then bowed as Elder Arilitilo left.

Xue began preparing.

- - - -

Ezekiel led the way into a small bulk-thread store. They had been here yesterday and bought nothing, but maybe there was something to be had, after all.

He approached the counter, and asked the woman there, “Hello. I was in yesterday. We failed to have a transaction of cloth, but perhaps you have some dye for sale, instead?”

The woman bowed, before saying, “We have dyes for sale, Scion Phoenix, but I am afraid the prices for those are similarly dictated by the Clans of Songli.”

“I figured as much.” Ezekiel asked, “Can they dye spider silk?”

With perfect aplomb, the woman asked, “Is this the nature of the fabric you are all currently wearing? Whoever made them is quite an accomplished master clothier.”

All four of them were wearing bright white clothes, each woven by Ezekiel, each done in the styles he had seen walking around the city. His entire ensemble was among the nicest things that he had ever worn, but it was too white for Ezekiel. The actual nicest things he has ever worn were the clothes he had taken into Shadow’s Feast. These were a close second, though, and the price was much more palatable.

Ezekiel put a hand on the embroidered sash across his waist, touching upon the geometric designs he had copied from what he saw others wearing. “Thank you for the compliment. I made them with my daughter’s help. She is an accomplished Polymage.” He turned to Julia.

Julia nodded.

Ezekiel said, “Which is why we need some dye.”

The woman said, “Dye is slightly cheaper than whole cloth, but for spider silk, it is even more expensive, for most spider silk does not take well to dyes. I would not wish to be seen as a swindler so I can only recommend several options and you will have to try your luck with them.”

“We can take some risks if the price is right.”

“Of course.” The woman said, “A secondary option would be to seek out Star Song Spidery, to pursue the option of purchasing a Varicolored Weaver, or any of their other options, for your daughter. I am not sure how much those will run you, but you would first need permission to enter that estate. After that, from the stories I have heard, you should expect to see a price of tens of thousands of gold for a single adult weaver.” She said, “But a basic dye kit is 100 gold. This includes magenta, yellow, cyan, and black. It should color twice as much clothing as you four are currently wearing if you use the colorant in even amounts.”

“We’ll take one of those kits, and also the location of Star Song Spidery.”

Gold came in quick, and left just as fast. They could make more tomorrow.

- - - -

They detoured back to the hotel.

Ten minutes and some small talk with the proprietor, and Ezekiel was reminded that magic truly was wonderful. He didn’t think he’d ever get over that.

Seven large vats, courtesy of The Sour House, sat in the courtyard, each of them filled with a different color of water and various clothing, each of them bubbling away due to [Heat Ward]s cast at their bases. This was an imperfect solution, and they would likely not gain much color at all and this would surely warp them a little, but pastel was better than white, and so, this was fine.

The proprietor's wife came out halfway through the experiment and served Ezekiel and his people some small honey cakes and fresh tea while they waited for their clothes to be done. She even asked about what they were doing, for she was truly curious. It was not every day a Scion did laundry in their courtyard, after all.

Ezekiel responded with good cheer, telling her of dyes and spider silk.

“Oh my. Spider silk?” With an almost conspiratorial tone, she responded, “I have heard that if you [Fabricate] during the dye process, you can make the colors richer, but… I fear you will damage your artistry by dying it after the clothes have already been made.”

Ezekiel smiled. Then he got up and went to the vat of black, saying, “Let’s try it, anyway.”

The wife was right. Even through a [Cleanse], the new dyes didn’t come off of the clothes, and the colors were a fair bit deeper than expected. After a few [Fabricate]s to adjust warping due to the waters and dye, and a bit more adjustment after everything dried, they were ready to visit the Void Temple.

Tiffany wore green and pink along with a matching bag. Paul wore blue and black. Julia wore black and red. Ezekiel’s clothes were shades of magenta, while his undergarments were white. The deeper colorings of his outfit matched Odin, exactly. They had no matching color scheme, which might need to change, but they could do that some other time.

Ezekiel paid for another four nights at the hotel and left the proprietor's wife a good tip.

- - - -

Star Song Spidery was an enormous enclosure of glass and steel, wrapped with layers upon layers of [Ward]s of all kinds, located in a private city north of Eralis. There was no admittance.

The four of them decided to pursue a different way to enter other than knocking on the gate of the guarded wall. Those guards up there did not look friendly at all.

- - - -

They found a good bookseller in Darzallia where Tiffany and Paul both bought new books.

- - - -

Magenta light came and went. Ezekiel, Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, stood upon the white tiles of the Teleport Square closest to their destination. The Void Temple was a mere four blocks away. Immediately, the sounds of the Void Song were like a distant band playing on the other side of ten closed doors, and they weren’t even inside the actual song; they were still in the protected space of the Teleport Square. Once they stepped beyond this space, many magics would be disallowed, and the Void Song would get much, much louder.

Tiffany tensed beside Ezekiel for a different reason than the oncoming noise. People were watching her. She adjusted her full-veil, and her stance, and seemed to relax a little, if only by self-controlled force. Only her eyes were visible beyond the pale-green veil, and even those were behind lace. Her hands were in gloves, too. Every part of her was covered, and yet, she still felt exposed.

Guards to the side of the Teleport Square immediately noticed Ezekiel’s party. They noticed their clothes, too. And then they made a point of purposefully noticing other people, with less expensive clothes. As the guards commanded slower peasants to clear the field, Ezekiel and his people moved off of the tiles at their unimpeded leisure, walking off of the Square like they knew where they were.

The Void Song began to thrum the second they stepped off of the tiles, sounding like a band playing behind two closed doors.

The city was packed once the four of them got into the main congestion, though those with drab clothing made way for the obvious nobles. People still looked at the nobles in their presence, though, if only to turn their gazes toward the largest member of Ezekiel's party.

“Are you doing okay, Tiffany?” Ezekiel asked, not sure if he was doing okay, himself. The Void Song was rather strong. Odin was gaining some accidental eyes atop his shoulder, but as soon as Ezekiel noticed that, Odin steeled himself and controlled his body back to normal.

Tiffany said, “This is much better with the veil, Scion. Thank you for your concern.”

With the mention of ‘Scion’ the people walking near the four of them gave them that much more space. All in all, it was a nice walk. The noise was getting louder, though. People-watching helped to abate some of the distress building behind Ezekiel’s eyes. The buildings were immense and immaculate and majestic, sure, but they were just buildings. People mattered more.

The populace was large, and varied, and though most people wore browns or tans, the people themselves were much more than just that. There were incani of every color from palest blue to deepest purple; demi, also of every color; humans from white to almost pure black. Dragonkin, like jewels glinting in the sun. Even harpies, of red, or green, or tan, or blue. And now, this close to the tourist and spiritual center of the city, there were even other, odder races. Shifters, of wolf, owl, and snake varieties, known by their masks of those same beasts. Other orcols; all of whom stood much taller than all of the rest of the crowd. Most of the other orcols in the crowds wore veils similar to Tiffany’s. One man did not; he was jovially surrounded by a bunch of women as they all sat around that orcol at a table at an outdoor tea house.

There were other races, too. Ezekiel had heard of some of them, but he had never seen them before.

There were goblins. They looked like small humans except with green skin and black eyes and button noses. They worked at a restaurant on the right side of the street, waiting tables and tossing noodles and sauce behind a glass counter. They were sized to children, or maybe small adult humans.

Pixies, which he remembered from his time combating Messalina, manned a dessert shop named ‘Fairy Sparkles’, over there. They were a decimeter sized people with wings twice as long as they were tall. Fillarina Orchid was the Pixie Ezekiel knew the best. She worked for Spur doing recon, and she had even briefly guarded him, back when that Messalina mess had occurred. Likely at other times, too.

Ezekiel had no doubt that there were even planars inside this city, somewhere.

They left the tourist area behind as they stepped onto a curving street with white paving stones carved into the shapes of scales. Behind them were massive crowds, but in front of them, were less. Most people followed the curving street left or right as they walked toward other tourist destinations where they could spend money and buy whatever they wished. But some people, like Ezekiel and his party, walked across that curving street, toward trees that grew like spiritual lines in the sand, made of white bark and white flowers.

Small paths wound past those trees, and Ezekiel led the way, while the Void Song began to open the doors between itself and every living soul with the ears to hear.

They stepped onto a land of iridescent white, kilometers across, filled with so many people, and so much more.

Four large buildings surrounded a massive central one. The four outside buildings were all made of pillars that reached up into domes that peaked with spires. Each exterior structure most prominently featured a bell that was easily twenty meters across and twice that tall, and shaped like a thimble. There were four in total, one for each cardinal direction. Each bell was reachable by pilgrims, which is exactly what they did as they walked in one of two single file lines that wrapped around the entirety of the compound; one line circling clockwise, the other going counter-clockwise. They journeyed from cardinal bell to cardinal bell, walking across bridges that resembled clouds, that ensured that no pilgrim would have to touch the ground on their journey. From what Ezekiel was seeing, one could walk up to any bell and start their circular journey there.

The majority of people avoided those pilgrims and walked under the ‘cloud’ bridges to get to the central building, which was like all the rest, but four times the size and grandeur of the four exterior buildings combined. It reminded Ezekiel of Angkor Wat, or the Taj Mahal, but it was all dedicated to a single Goddess; Rozeta.

“I can hear it now,” said Julia, her mouth agape as she took in the splendor of the Void Temple.

Tiffany breathed out through pursed lips, then said, “Wow.”

Paul said, “It’s rather amazing, isn’t it.”

“I saw it from the air, but that doesn’t do it justice,” Ezekiel said.

Paul just smiled. Then he walked forward.

Ezekiel followed. They passed underneath cloud bridges and walked alongside others headed for the open temple doors. Signs hung to the sides of those massive doors, educating the reader on temple etiquette. Temple guards, wearing iridescent white, enforced some of those rules when they weren’t being followed properly. Mostly, those guards just stood to the side.

The four of them followed the crowd, moving along, listening to the Void Song. It was better here than out there in the city. Here, there was a clarity of sound that somehow made it all better. Like a radio had been out of tune and filled with static. But now, the dial had been shifted, and the music flowed. Odin nestled into Ezekiel’s neck, silent and fluffing up as the weight of faith drowned out all other sound.

For that’s what the sound was. Faith made manifest.

The crowd entered the cathedral. There were multiple ways to go, but most people went forward. Ezekiel went forward, too. The crowd slowed, but did not stop.

Ahead of them, hanging in the center of the Void Temple, was a tangle of a sinuous white body that was shaped like a white bell, twenty meters in diameter and twice as tall; the same size as the ones outside. But the ones outside were not carved, and this one was unreachable, high up above a dais where two men and two women stood facing each other, singing the Void Song, resonating with the bell above, filling the world with a thrum of power.

The crowd moved along. Ten abreast became three, then became single file as the crowd got to the front, and the line curved around the dais, always keeping a safe distance from those people holding up the safety of the entire city. Ezekiel got to the edge of the railing, and though the singers on the dais were important, he felt his gaze drawn upward.

The sinuous bell above was Rozeta’s body, carved out of stone. It would not have surprised Ezekiel if the tangled bell was an unbroken continuation of the Void Wall which encircled the entire city.

For a moment, Ezekiel saw clouds. He witnessed a pressure.

He recognized a Domain. He saw the touch of a goddess.

The Void Song was magic, but it also was so much more than that.

