“They think just because they can work through the pain that it’s not doing damage.” she continued with a sigh. “I can handle this, if you want to follow them.”

Stint swayed, his vision seeming to narrow to a tunnel as he slumped against Dust’s neck, clinging to avoid falling off. He barely even felt the next pulse of magic that hit him.

“I want to, but I can’t,” Rain said, his tired voice sounding like it was coming from a thousand leagues away. “I don’t want to abandon Vanna in case there’s a problem with this Crimson person, and I don’t want to make you deal with it either. I’m the captain. It’s my responsibility. Besides, my soul could be an issue. I don’t want to cause a panic by—”

The distant buzzing of their voices was snuffed out like a candle as the world turned black.

No more than a few minutes into his mad dash, Jamus let himself slow to a walk. Not because he was getting tired, but because his thoughts were weighing on him.

Nine years.

It had been nine years since he’d seen them last. Four years since he’d last received a letter from Bens. They’re different people, now. Will I even recognize them?

“Jamus,” Tallheart rumbled, and Jamus realized that he’d stopped.

He took a deep breath and let it out slowly, running his hands through his hair. They came away wet. Snow was still falling softly, but the wind had died down.

“Here,” Samson said, offering him his hat. “You forgot this.”

Jamus stared at the crumpled orange hat in the man’s hand, then snorted and accepted it. He didn’t put it on, clutching it in his hands instead.

“Ya all right there, Jamus?” Carten asked. The big man had his shields strapped awkwardly to his back and was playing with a stick that he’d grabbed from the side of the road.

“No,” Jamus said wearily. “I am not all right.” He resumed walking, though at a more casual pace. He thought he recognized this stretch of road. Vestvall really wasn’t far, now. Five minute’s walk would bring them to the edge of the forest, then another fifteen minutes to the city proper.

“Do you want to talk about it?” asked Samson, brushing some snow from his cloak.

“Not particularly, no,” said Jamus. “Come on.”

He walked on for a few more minutes, and the others let him continue in silence, watching the trees with casual wariness. Rain’s rank gauge had been steadily falling, showing three as of last night, but even a low-level monster could be a threat if it caught you by surprise.

Abruptly, Jamus spoke. “It’s just… I don’t know what will hurt more. Finding out that they’re dead, or finding that they don’t recognize me.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“Bens was fourteen when I left,” Jamus continued, fiddling with his hat. “He’ll recognize me, at least. Alden was eight. He…might not. And Dami…” He shook his head. “She was just a baby. I’ll be a stranger to her.”

“And yer wife?” Carten asked, tossing his stick back into the forest. “What about her?”

“Carten,” Tallheart said, a note of warning in his low voice.

Jamus snorted. “I don’t know,” he said. “Part of me wants to see her, but another part of me…” He sighed, then shoved her out of his mind. I wouldn’t give up Meloni for her, not for all the Tel in the depths. He shook his head. “We should probably go back to the company.”

“No,” Tallheart said, laying a hand on Jamus’s shoulder. “This will not become easier with time, Jamus. I am with you.”

“Thank you, Tallheart,” Jamus said, patting his hand. Tallheart stepped away after a moment, and Jamus tilted his head, watching him. “You know, I am surprised you would follow me to a human city like this.”

Tallheart snorted, smiling. “If there is danger, we will stand together, and Rain and Ameliah will not be far behind.” His smile faded, his face returning to its typical stony expression. “I do not fear for myself, but for you, Jamus. I know what it is to lose a family.”

Jamus felt tears fighting to break free from the corners of his eyes, but before he could respond, Carten interrupted.

“Oi, you two, enough with the onions. Yer gonna’ get me bawlin’, an’ nobody wants ta see tha’.”

Samson snorted. “You? Cry?”

“Big ol’ man-tears,” Carten said, grinning. “It’d be right embarrassin’. I’d have ta’ hang up me shields an’ take up knittin’.”

Jamus snorted. “Thank you, Carten. I needed that.” He paused, pretending to consider something for a moment. “I could use a sweater, actually. Do you think you could—”

“No,” Carten said flatly, then laughed and slapped Jamus on the back. “Come on. Let’s jus’ treat this like scoutin’. We’ll check it out, an’ report back. What happens, happens.”

Jamus gripped his hat tighter, then nodded and uncrumpled it before settling it firmly on his head. “Scouting, huh? I can do that.”

“Good man,” Carten said, thumping him again and almost sending his hat tumbling right back to the ground.

“Careful!” Jamus protested.

“There,” Samson said urgently, interrupting Carten’s laughter.

Jamus blinked as he looked where Samson was pointing. The trees had ended abruptly in a line of stumps, further from the city than he remembered. Vestvall was clearly visible through the lightly-falling snow, with slapdash wooden walls plugging the gaps between the outermost buildings. The city certainly looked the worse for wear, but it was still standing. In the distance, he could make out figures standing atop a few of the houses as woodsmoke rose from within the boarded-up perimeter.

Samson lowered his arm. “This is it, right? I knew Vestvall was small, but that’s barely a town.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“Stop makin’ fun o’ Jamus’s home,” Carten said, gesturing broadly. “It’s quaint. Last time I was here, there was this place that sold these tiny little pies with beer in the crust…”

Jamus managed half a smile. “The Half-Pint Bakery.“

“That was it!” Carten exclaimed.

Jamus shook himself and increased his pace. “Come on.” One in four, dead. Only one in four…

“Mig! Oi, Mig! Someone’s comin’!”

Jamus came to a stop a short distance from the barricade blocking the road and waited. Even with his perception boost, he couldn’t make out the response to the sentry’s shout of alarm. The sentry’s follow-on response was easy enough to hear, though.

“It ain’t Stint, ya dumbcob! Would I be making this much fuss if it were?”

“What?!”

A second form popped into view atop the roof on the other side of the road. “Hey! Who are you!? Halt!”

“They’re already halted, idiot! Gods, you’re shit at this, Mig. Hello down there, friends!”

The second man—Mig, apparently—pointed rudely. “Del, look! One of em’s a deer!”

“Yes, I can see that, Mig,” said the first man. “I’m not blind.”

“Ain’t never seen a deer before, Del,” Mig said.

Del laughed. “That’s what your wife is always telling me. Now shut your gob and get over here to help me with the ladder! Sorry, friends. Apart from being a terrible hunter, my partner is also a bit slow. We’ll have you in in just a moment.”

Jamus watched with his mouth slightly open as Mig picked his way across the barricade blocking the road, arguing back and forth with Del the whole way. More figures had appeared atop various buildings, and a bell was ringing loudly somewhere in the city. Carten exploded into full-on laughter, breaking the spell. Jamus closed his mouth and glanced at him before looking at Tallheart, who was frowning.

Tallheart quickly controlled his expression, his face fading back to impassivity. “I cannot say that I have ever received a reaction quite like that before.” He tilted his head. “I do not make a habit of visiting human cities, however.”

“You’re not offended, are you?” Jamus asked.

Tallheart shook his head. “No.”

“They called ya a deer,” Carten said, fighting down his laughter. “Ya gonna take that? Shit’s…what’s the word? Demeaning.”

Tallheart snorted. “Words cannot wound me.” He nodded at Mig. “More damage was done to that one.” He smiled slightly. “Never seen a deer. Amusing.”

“Right?!” Carten said, then broke down laughing again.

Jamus snorted softly, then shook his head, turning back to look up at the wall. He scanned the faces there, searching.

“Do you recognize anyone, Jamus?” Samson asked as the two peculiar sentries began lowering a long wooden ladder down from the rooftop.

“No,” Jamus said distractedly. “Not yet.”

“Right, come on up!” the slightly more professional of the sentries called down.

Jamus eyed the wooden ladder skeptically, then glanced at Carten as the armored man stomped toward it. “Wait a moment, Carten.”

“Hmm?” Carten said, stopping.

Levitation.

Jamus’s book appeared before him, pages flipping rapidly until the correct spell was shown.

Levitation

Tier 2

Rank 6 (47% progress)

By your will, bid your target to float into the sky.

Decrease weight of touched object or entity by 120%.

Effect lasts 63 seconds for 100 mana, duration increasing with Focus.

May be extended with concentration, contact, and an increasing quantity of mana.

He tapped Carten on the shoulder, activating the effect. Carten laughed as he began tumbling into the air, ineffectually swimming for the ladder. An alarmed chorus of shouts rose from those watching as they realized what was happening. Jamus had already heard the words ‘awakened’ and ‘Guilders’ being muttered by the onlookers. This display would doubtless settle any remaining questions in their minds, not that he cared one way or another.

“Depths!” Carten shouted as he floated past the top of the ladder without reaching it. His ascent stopped, his body hanging in the air unnaturally as he swam for the top of the wall. The skill didn’t say it, but it was possible for an ally affected by Levitation to control the spell’s influence over them. In all their practice, Carten had yet to figure out how to get it to send him back down, though.

“How much longer is this gonna’ last, Jamus?” The big man asked as he flailed ineffectually. “Bah, someone throw me a line.”

Tallheart snorted, then jumped. Passing Carten, he snagged him out of the air and brought the two of them to a graceful landing atop the roof with barely a thud. Tallheart walked calmly past the slack-jawed sentries, towing a floating Carten behind him like a children’s toy, then jumped down and out of sight. Jamus hauled himself up the ladder quickly. Samson followed, and then the two of them slid down another ladder to join Carten and Tallheart in the square on the other side.

A veritable crowd of people had arrived by now, forming a wary ring around the newcomers. Jamus’s eyes darted from face to face, recognizing a person here or there, though he saw no one he knew well. Come on… come on…

“Ah, pardon me,” said a man wearing a bedraggled purple hat as he stepped forward nervously. “You are…adventurers? From Fel Sadanis?”

“Some of us are,” Samson said, moving in front of the others. “I am Freelord Samson Darr. My companions and I are members of Ascension, an independent company. On behalf of Captain Rain, Custodian of the Watch, I greet you. The rest of the company will be arriving shortly. Do not be alarmed. I give you my assurance that we are only here to help.”

“A…a-sen…sion?” the man said, struggling with the unfamiliar word as excited whispers spread through the crowd. “I’ve never heard of that… How many of you are there?” His tone was wary. He glanced back at the sea of people, then back at Samson. “We don’t have much in the way of food, my lord.”

“Freelord, please. Or just Samson. Including the four of us, the company numbers fifty strong. We do not require food precisely, though we would of course be interested in trade. It has been a long road from Fel Sadanis. I haven’t had a good cup of tea in weeks.”

“Bah, tea,” Carten said. “Beer’s what I need.”

The crowd broke out into excited rustling, but it was cut off as one member shouted loudly over all the others. “What’s the deer doin’ with ya?”

Jamus was snapped out of his search, and he pivoted to glare in the direction of the speaker. I need to deal with this. “Hey!” he shouted. “Speak with respect, or we will show you none. I will not say it twice.”

“Yeah, what he said,” Carten said, grinning as he cracked his knuckles. “Or else I’ll thump ya’.”

The man who’d spoken looked at first unrepentant but quickly withered under their attention as a void in the crowd formed around him.

“Peace, please,” Samson said beseechingly, raising one hand and laying the other on Jamus’s shoulder. He squeezed lightly, and Jamus backed down, turning to Tallheart and mouthing a silent apology.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. Then, astonishingly, he stepped forward. “I doubt that any of them have met one of my kind before,” he said to Jamus, though his voice was pitched to carry. “If they cannot overcome their ignorance, I will forgive them.” His tone was icy as he stared at the man who’d spoken out, who was fervently trying to slip back into the crowd. “Within certain limits.”

“Tallheart,” Samson warned.

Tallheart snorted, shaking his head. He gestured to Jamus. “This is Jamus. Some of you know him. If you have seen his family, please come forward to speak with us.” He crossed his arms and took a step back, clearly finished with the conversation.

The crowd murmured. Even more people had arrived as they’d been talking, and the square was getting crowded. The first man Samson had been speaking to had rejoined their ranks, and everyone was still giving them a wide berth.

Jamus looked around. What happened here? Why are they so skittish?

Cries of alarm suddenly went up from the crowd, people pointing at the sky. With a soft thump, Ameliah landed beside them.

“How’s it going?” she asked, rising from her crouch.

“About as well as could be expected,” Samson said. “Rain?”

“He’s coming,” Ameliah said. “The company should be here in maybe ten minutes.” She turned to Jamus. “He told me to apologize to you. He doesn’t want to cause a panic by walking into the city with his…condition, but he wants you to know he wanted to be with you for this. Any sign of your family?”

Jamus shook his head. “Not yet. There’s something wrong here, Ameliah. Look at them. They’re scared.”

“They stink, too,” Carten said. “Phaw, bloody accolade. Rain’s been spoilin’ us. Ameliah, could ya’…” he gestured, wiggling his fingers.

