“Nice to meet you. You’re the Elemental Path that is helping out Warren, right? Veron, was it?”

“Yeah.”

“I’m Aren Holt, I run the farm over there. I think you’ve met my wife already?”

“Ivera, yeah,” Veron smiled and bit down on a piece of sausage. He didn’t taste it, chewed too little, and swallowed which elicited a short coughing fit.

“Are you alright?”

He nodded towards Aren and smiled. “Sorry. Just, that’s quite a beast they hunted down.”

“Yeah. I thought it would be smaller too. I’ll better get going, they want to buy a cart, and I think they’re ready to get some sleep as well, don’t want to keep them waiting. Good to meet you, Veron.”

“And you, Aren,” Veron said and sighed when the man had entered the inn. He looked around to make sure he didn't miss Ian hiding behind a tree or something. Then he continued his breakfast.

Hunters from Perrion.

I've got eighty five silver to my name. I think that would be enough to get me started.

Is it time already?

He tapped the table with a finger, and then finished his breakfast. A few of the hunters left with Aren, and Warren soon joined him outside.

“Familiar faces?” Veron asked.

“I've met them twice before. Cat at least.”

Veron looked at him.

Warren smiled. “I know that look on your face. I think it would be a shame to lose you as my personal procurer of things, but I don't want to keep you either. They're staying till tomorrow morning.”

“You trust them?”

“They seem like decent folk. A bit rough around the edges, but you went into the wilderness alone for the entire week, I think you'll feel right at home.”

Veron smiled. One more day in Eyra? It felt strange, but he also wondered what else he was trying to do here. Ivera could teach him things, but she was far less willing to interact with him compared to the first time he had met her. And he felt the same about her.

He appreciated Warren's lessons, but he could work on that on his own, both with his notes and in the wild.

And it hurt. Every time he saw them, it felt like a small stab of grief. So far, he had not run into Ian, and he kind of wanted to keep it that way.

More so, Veron realized that he was starting to feel restless. Learning about herbs was good, earning money was good too, but what he really wanted to do, was to work on his Path. Being in the forest was nice, and he felt like he was getting more familiar with his Wind Harmony, but all in all, it just didn’t feel like all that much of a challenge.

It wasn’t like he was keen on getting back into danger, but he had started to explore the dungeon, had fought Cayaralan and Vereltir. What he was doing here, felt almost too mundane.

I guess I did like parts of it. Not the injuries or safe hunts just to make money, but exploring the unknown, the challenge of facing something dangerous, and overcoming that with skill and magic.

And I want more of that.

Veron thought about it for a moment. Because it felt both unfamiliar, and right.

Yeah. I do want more of it. And not just because it will help me find out more about my situation and the world, but also just because I want it.

He shook his head, a bit amused about himself.

Charlotte, I think I may have figured out another piece.

Going out at night was too dangerous here, because he’d be alone. But in Anvakar, he could find a team, and while the dungeon was dangerous, it was well known and categorized, at least on the layers he could handle. He would know what he would face, at least to an extent.

Which means I’m going back to Anvakar.

But if I do that, I’m not leaving here without a talk.

Veron poked around in his food, and then set aside his fork.

“Do you mind if we skip the lesson today? There was something else I wanted to talk about.”

Warren raised his eyebrows. “That sounded more serious than your usual demeanor. Color me intrigued.”

“Yeah. Maybe we can talk somewhere more private as well.”

“Veron, what is this about?”

Veron wondered how he should start. Warren was interested in herbalism. He had enchantments in his inn, and seemed very interested in those too.

“It has to do with magic. I suppose it's a discussion on hypotheticals. There is something that I've come across a while ago, and I wanted your opinion on it.”

“Hmm, yes. Let’s talk. I'll go set up some tea.”
