Despite the dwarves now being aboveground, it seemed that they had still maintained the practice of having the most important parts of the castle be downstairs, rather than up. The upper floors were mostly guest quarters or servants’ quarters, while the king’s personal chambers, office, library, and council room were all underground.

Hallbjorn was waiting for them in his office, which had been organized almost identically to how Elise remembered it underground. He was sitting behind his desk, tapping his finger impatiently, but as soon as they entered, he leapt to his feet with a wide grin, and strode forward to greet Elise.

“You’re here!” he said, giving her a powerful hug. “It’s been a while. How have you been?”

“Good,” she said, her voice muffled as her face was half-pressed into his beard. “How about you?”

“Never been better!” he said, releasing her. “And it’s all thanks to you! Here, come follow me! I want to show you something!”

Hallbjorn rushed out of the room and down the hall like a kid on Christmas morning on his way to the tree. Elise had to speedwalk to keep up with him, and Sindri’s axes clanged against his armor as he jogged behind. Hallbjorn took them to a small circular room whose purpose Elise could not figure out until the door closed and the entire room began to rise. The magical elevator rose so high Elise wasn’t even sure if they were inside the castle anymore before it stopped and opened, revealing a larger circular room lined with windows, most of which were propped open.

Hallbjorn dragged her to the nearest window, and outside, Elise saw the city of Dokkalfheimr. The city itself was an almost perfect circle, surrounded by walls thirty feet high and manned by armored guards. Most of the buildings in the city were made of stone in the standard dwarven way, but here and there, wooden buildings could be seen. These were much cruder than the stone ones, as dwarves did not have any proper carpenters, but the periodic wood added a cozy charm to the city, standing out against the monotonous grays.

In the streets hundreds of dwarves moved around, going about their days. Some were driving wagons laden with goods, while others were walking hand-in-hand with children, enjoying a walk in the fresh morning air. She saw at least a dozen taverns, with dwarves enjoying drinks at tables on the streets or on the roofs, and a couple open markets where others sold their wares.

The edges of the city, between the buildings and the walls, had been turned into farmland, and it seemed that Elise had arrived just in time for the harvest. Hundreds of dwarves were hard at work gathering their bounty from the golden fields and packaging it for storage and sale.

For almost a full minute, she, Hallbjorn, and Sindri just stood in silence, taking in the sights and distant sounds before Hallbjorn finally spoke.

“Beautiful, isn’t it?” he said quietly.

“Yeah,” agreed Elise.

“None of this would have been possible without you,” he said. “It’s all thanks to you that we were able to escape the caverns. Without you, we would still be down here. We would have died without ever seeing the sun.”

“I–” started Elise, her voice cracking. “I’m glad I could help.”

Seeing the city which had grown out of the forest hit her harder than she expected it to. More than once during her time underground, she had wondered whether she had made the right choice by staying. The dwarves and drow were all strangers to her, and she had her own worries. If she had just left them on that first day, she wouldn’t have gotten embroiled in their conflict, and she might have been able to find the Grays sooner, before they went through everything they did.

But seeing this, it all felt worth it. If she hadn’t chosen to interfere, at best, the dwarves and drow would be stuck in their endless war, and at worst, Emilia would have manipulated them all into killing each other before finally evolving and leaving. Instead, not only were both races peacefully separated, but the dwarves had made the most of their freedom, building an entire city. The happy children, the laughter in the streets, the guards cheerful instead of silently paranoid, the tans on their once-pale skin, the bustling trade… It was all because of her. Because she had decided to stay.

She wiped a tear from her eye as Hallbjorn patted her gently on the back.

“I know you said you wanted to keep this visit secret,” he said. “But I had the chefs prepare us a small feast anyway. Why don’t we head down and we can catch up.”

“S– sounds good,” said Elise. “No mushrooms, right?”

“Ha!” said Hallbjorn. “No, no mushrooms. I’ve had enough mushrooms for a lifetime.”

As promised, there were no mushrooms at the feast. There was plenty of meat though, as well as a wide assortment of vegetables and fruits from all over the world. Hallbjorn explained that they had been importing all sorts of foods, since they had never gotten a chance to try any, and were in the process of narrowing down what their favorites were so that they could establish more long-term trade deals and perhaps even plant some of their own.

During the meal, she and Hallbjorn talked about everything they had done since they last saw each other. Elise told him about the assault on the Blood Syndicate, her time with Oberon, and most recently, her time at the University. Hallbjorn talked about the process of building up the city, and some of the difficulties they had encountered. Foreign envoys, scam artists posing as merchants, and a dangerous epidemic were just a few of them, and as he went on and on, Elise wondered if the city was really as peaceful as it seemed. But even as he talked about all sorts of unsavory characters and difficult choices, the smile never left his face, and everything had always seemed to work out in the end, so things were fine.

Their conversation lasted far longer than the meal did, and for hours after they finished eating, they just stayed in the dining room, chatting all the way until they got hungry again, and Hallbjorn called for dinner. At dinner, they were joined by some of the other councilors, like Jens the old wizard, and Magnus, who seemed to have somehow put on even more weight, and even cranky old Josef, who refused to make eye contact with her, but at least didn’t openly insult her.

By the end of this meal, the conversation had turned from the past to the future, as Hallbjorn talked about some of his plans for the city. Apparently, they were currently housing an envoy from Dvergheimr, the city where the rest of the dwarves had fled to, and they were negotiating with them to find some peaceful resolution. Obviously, the king from the direct line suddenly appearing after hundreds of years was not an ideal political situation, but so far, things were relatively peaceful. There was one problem, though.

“They still say they can’t trust our story,” said Hallbjorn with a sigh. “That they don’t have enough proof. I’m sure they know very well that our story is true, but they don’t want any threat to their power, so unless we can prove beyond a doubt that I am the king of Dokkalfheimr, we’re at a slight disadvantage in negotiations. Of course, I don’t want to be a conqueror and take over a group that has been living fine without me for centuries, but I don’t want to be subservient to them either, so it’s put us in a bit of a tricky situation.”

“Can you even prove that?” asked Elise, wondering how they would prove a direct blood tie to a man centuries dead.

“We actually could,” said Hallbjorn. “There are bloodbound artifacts that will only work for the royal line. And we know that Dvergheimr has multiple of these. But obviously, they refuse to provide them to us.”

“Do you not have any?” asked Elise. “You’re the rightful king, right?”

“We did,” said Hallbjorn. “But the ghouls—sorry, drow—took them some two hundred years ago. We have no idea what they did with them. We tried to send them an inquiry, but they never responded. Actually, it’s quite convenient that you arrived when you did. You mentioned in your letter that you planned to visit them as well at some point, right?”

“Yeah.”

“This is just a request, but while you’re there, would you mind asking about that? They stole many things from us, and we’ve written most of it off as permanent losses, but if we could get those back, it would help us greatly. And for those artifacts specifically, they can’t even use them, since they will only work for me or my family, so it wouldn’t be a big loss. I know you’re just here for vacation, but—”

“I’ll do it,” said Elise, cutting him off. “It doesn’t sound like much trouble at all, and I don’t even have to go out of my way to do it. Don’t worry about it.”

“I knew I could count on you,” said Hallbjorn with a grin. “Don’t worry, I won’t ask you to do it for free.”

“Oh, you don’t have to—”

“I insist,” he said. “But don’t worry, I’ll make sure I don’t burden you with something too extravagant.”

“Alright…” she said, raising an eyebrow. “I was going to pop down tomorrow anyway, so I’ll ask then.”

“Excellent!” he said, raising a beer-filled mug. “To your good fortune!”
