“It is a fact of magic on Veird that everything follows the Elements.” Erick said, “This was how one is able to create a spell that generically counters ‘all Blood Magic’, or which destroys all of a specific Elemental magic, or, in extreme cases, destroys enough of the magic inside of a specific spell that you have countered the entirety of that spell.”

Jane watched her father speak, then she turned to the other Archmage in attendance.

Tenebrae scowled, then said, “There are so many holes in that theorem that I don’t know where to begin, so let’s start with the most obvious. [Force Boulder]. A spell composed of Force and Stone. Counter one half of the spell and you still have the stone hurtling toward your skull.”

Erick calmly said, “Generalized theories are never the whole story, but what you asked for—”

“Your daughter is already ruined enough with your crazy ideas. It’s a good thing I demanded this nonsense, otherwise you’d ruin her even more!”

The sun had risen an hour ago, but before that happened, Erick was awake and Palodia caught him in the courtyard. She asked him about what he liked to eat, and almost right after they started talking, Jane, Teressa, and Poi, who were awake as well, joined in the conversation. Palodia was happy to talk of food. She promised to serve some ‘pizza’ and ‘fries’ after they stopped moving and a Rocky went out for resupply, but breakfast would be ready in just another hour, after she got started on it. Did they have anything in particular they wanted, today? Jane wanted fried toast and sausage, and so, after explaining what she meant by ‘fried toast’, which was just french toast but that naming convention wouldn’t mean anything to anyone on Veird, Palodia went back to the kitchen, promising that Jane would get her request.

And now, they were at breakfast. Tenebrae joined them, of course, seeming to need to force himself to come out of his tower while complaining about ‘fried toast’ all the while. Tenebrae sat down at the table, of which everyone had a nice chair this time, while Palodia served them all in the same family-style dinner as yesterday.

Spicy sausages, fluffy eggs, crisp fried toast, and a hearty breakfast tea. It wasn’t the most lavish of meals. It was not a feast. But it was perfect, and that mattered more than anything else. Palodia was a Cook, with the Class Ability, Perfect Meal. It helped her to make everything just a little bit nicer, a little bit more rounded and healthy.

Breakfast looked to be great!

And then Tenebrae opened his mouth and spoke of how he wasn’t happy that Erick was stealing secrets out of the little words that he had let loose. The older archmage used harsher language than that, and there were threats regarding souls and minds and blood, but Erick let those threats wash over him, as he tried to play nice. He even suggested that they engaged in a [Strike]-for-[Strike], as Arbor Nosier had called it. A hint for a hint.

Tenebrae instantly latched on to that idea.

He declared that Erick was already down at least two [Strike]s, even if he hadn’t perfected his [Anti-Blood Charm], or made an [Appraisal] spell. And then he demanded Erick start divulging everything, from the beginning. What was the most basic bit of information Erick had on magic. How did he approach magic? That sort of thing.

Erick calmly reminded Tenebrae that he had only picked up tiny hints from Tenebrae, not full magical essays, but then he rushed forward, and started talking. Maybe, Tenebrae would be nicer after they talked for a while. That was the idea, anyway.

But then, Erick had barely gotten past answering Tenebrae’s first question, and Tenebrae was already complaining, and in a way Erick never expected! To declare that Erick was ruining Jane’s magical aptitude? What!

Erick was now personally offended.

“I have not ruined my daughter.” Erick huffed. “I have—!” He continued, more calmly, “My methods work.”

“They work because you have uncommonly deep delusions that they will work.” Tenebrae said, “You see the same sort of savant-like ability in the criminally insane who go around making the best [Force Trap]-derivative spells in a generation, where most people are barely capable of making [Stone Trap], or anything of that nature. You also see it in those who partake of mind altering substances in order to solidify a spell they’ve been workboarding for years. Anything to get them over that final hump. Anyone with enough intent can cause all sorts of strange phenomena.

“This is, in fact, one of the ways that mages usually end up killing themselves. They desire something so strong, like the casting of a spell which obliterates a target without care for the collateral damage, and thus the mana responds, accidentally killing them in the process. It is this ‘deep intent’ that will strip away the Script’s safeguards and cause blood and soul damage larger than normal.” He added, “It’s not your fault you have undertaken this flawed methodology. People are emotional creatures, and no mage becomes a mage without some sort of deep desire to change the world, and then believing that they are capable of achieving such a thing. But it is your fault if you continue on this path! I retract my previous question. I don’t want to listen to your delusions about magic. Where you claim to start your spells is not where one should start their spells.”

Erick sat in his chair, his fluffy eggs getting cold. He waited.

Tenebrae calmed. Then he said, “I appear to be even more [Strike]s to my favor. So. I will ask this: Tell me how [Cascade Imaging] works.”

Erick considered. Then he gave a non-answer, “Invisible light.”

Tenebrae considered this. He narrowed his eyes and gazed off into the distance. After a moment, he looked to Erick. “But it’s Particle Magic.”

“[Cascade Imaging] is indeed Particle Magic. I hope that satisfies, since it was about the level of the hint you gave me for [Analyze] and [Blood Dummy]. What’s your next question?”

Tenebrae almost frowned, but he did not. Instead, he resumed eating his breakfast. Erick resumed eating, too. It was slightly cold, but that was fine.

Tenebrae did not ask his question.

After breakfast, Tenebrae retreated into his tower.

And then Jane asked for help with her magic. She wanted her father to continue whatever it was he was saying, earlier. Erick had never actually spoken that way about his spellwork before.

Erick happily obliged, almost beside himself with quiet joy that his daughter wanted to learn from him again. He set up a chalkboard in the courtyard, since there was no space in the rooms for this sort of thing and the courtyard was mostly empty, except for the occasional pair of Rockys walking through from one part of the place to another.

He barely got through an introduction to the elements, as Syllea had once informed him, before the door to Tenebrae’s tower crashed open and the old archmage strode into the courtyard. Erick and Jane watched the man rush into their little talk, whereupon he conjured a chair for himself and sat down.

Erick paused in his explanation as he looked at him—

Tenebrae gestured forward, saying, “Get on with it! Let’s hear how wrong you have it all!”

Erick had not been counting on Tenebrae showing up, but he had a plan for that potential event. He said, “This will discharge all of my debt toward you, and then go even further, putting you in debt to me.”

“Nope. Because I’m going to correct you when you’re wrong.”

“Then at least the first half.”

“Again. No. Because I’m going to correct you when you’re wrong. You will owe me even more.” He said to Jane, “You shouldn’t even take part in this correction. You’re completely inexperienced and I have no doubt that your father’s words have damaged your ability to create magic of your own.” He said to Erick, “She hasn’t even made a good [Fireball] spell and you’re talking about countering elemental spells! This is bad teaching. There is the problem of Spatial Magic learning but even worse! There is a reason that we don’t allow the teaching of Spatial Magic in normal classes; all they end up creating is [Partial Teleport], and then they eventually, somehow, cast a basic [Teleport] wrong and kill themselves!”

Erick frowned. “… You can cast [Teleport] wrong? When you’re using the spell you buy from the Script?”

“Yes! My gods you didn’t know that either—” Tenebrae said, “[Teleport] puts you where you could have been. Some people can’t even cast that spell in the direction of the ocean because they’ve never swum that far out to sea and they could never see themselves doing that. Some people couldn’t use the spell to even go three towns over! Why do you think the Wayfarer’s Guild exists! In another example, for almost anyone, [Teleport] won’t let you [Teleport] over the Firemaw unless you demand such from the spell, which from your tone, I see that you demand weird things from [Teleport] all the time, don’t you!”

“I haven’t used [Teleport] in almost a month.” Erick added, “And I never felt or heard of what you’re talking about in all my [Teleport]s before then, so I can only assume you are lying to me or being purposefully obfuscating. That spell has never steered me wrong or put me anywhere I did not expect to be put.”

Jane added, “Me either. Never heard that or felt that.”

Tenebrae almost burst out at Erick, but then he turned and regarded Jane. His tone turned questioning, “Never? You never felt a ‘sticking’ odd sensation when you try to [Teleport] somewhere you’ve never been?”

Jane said, “Maybe at the beginning? I don’t actually recall. If I did, it must have been forgettable.”

Tenebrae focused on Jane. “Tell me: how often have you tried to [Teleport] into places you have never been?”

“A few times?” Jane said, “Mostly just in directions, like: ‘1000 kilometers in that direction, toward Spur’ or in other directions, toward a destination.”

Erick said, “Me too. Same thing.”

Tenebrae frowned. “Almost everyone experiences this ‘stuttering’ of [Teleport]. It is a common, well known phenomena. What was the first spell you experienced?”

Jane laughed, then said, “Uh! Melemizargo [Teleport]ing us to the surface? Yeah. A few kilometers above, actually.”

Erick regarded Tenebrae, unsure. “Are you talking about the problems of [Teleport 1]?”

Erick had had problems with wardlights back when his [Ward] was not max level.

Tenebrae kept frowning. “I am talking about the base spell, fully leveled; [Teleport X].” He asked, “Aside from [Teleport]ing for distance, do you ever try to [Teleport] where you have never been?”

“Never,” Erick said.

“Never,” Jane echoed, with a bit more force than her father.

Erick looked to his daughter. “Really? Never?”

Tenebrae leaned back, and watched Erick and Jane through narrowed eyes.

“I was caught up on the idea of ‘Teleporting Paladin’ when I came here, but that idea was based around many campaigns where my GM back in high school ruled hard for [Teleport].” Jane said, “I respect that spell. [Teleport] on Veird is positively beautiful compared to the [Teleport] I had been expecting. [Polymorph] is awesome, too!”

“But you’re so cavalier about [Polymorph]?” Erick asked.

“[Polymorph] is not scary either, Dad. I don’t understand your problem with that spell, either.”

Before Erick could speak of missing hearts or lungs, or skulls that crushed the brain in an experimental [Polymorph], or the fact that you didn’t have a brain as a slime (how the fuck does that work?!) or any of that, even if he knew there was no actual problem because Magic—

Tenebrae asked him, “You have a problem with [Polymorph]?”

“It’s just a bit terrifying, isn’t it?”

“No, it is not,” Tenebrae said.

And Erick had enough intelligence to shut up about his unfounded fears of [Polymorph]. Fear is the mind-killer, after all, and Jane did not need to take on Erick’s fears.

Tenebrae looked back to Jane, saying, “You do have experience with a lot of magic, don’t you, Jane. Even if it was imaginary. Maybe that is the answer, here. You believe that magic is solid, but in a way that is contrary to how it is. This produces a problem when you’re trying to make magics and all you can think of is how you would have thought of it back on Earth.” He looked to Erick. “You’re open to whatever.”

Erick connected a few dots there, too.

With accusation in his voice, Erick said, “I thought Jane’s report to the Headmaster was confidential.”

Jane suddenly sat straight. “What? That was confidential!”

“And I’m an archmage in league with other archmages, including the Headmaster. What of it?” Tenebrae barreled forward, “I think the real answer here as to why you’re so bad and Erick is… decent… is because you’re pulling at deeper magic, trying to emulate what you have seen your father do, while your father came to the magic quite naturally. Still doesn’t explain why you never experienced the common problems of [Teleport]— Oh! Wait! You’re planar. Ah.” He sighed, and smiled. “That’s it. That grand transition to Veird was likely the first magic you experienced. I got it, now. It’s a common thing in some parts of the world for parents to inundate their children with specific magics, in hopes that they can rise to greatness on those magics. It works, sometimes. I never put much stock in any of that, for all the good outcomes were anecdotal and all the bad outcomes were well documented. In your first moments of magic, you were inundated with Spatial Magic.”

Jane said, “I’ve never heard about any of that, though...”

Erick lost some of his anger, as he considered what had come before.

Tenebrae shrugged. “Blame your own lack of education. Or glance at the people you lived around for the last year.” He gestured to the house behind them, where Teressa was lounging inside, reading a book, then to the side, where Poi sat in a chair, reading his own book.

Poi raised his head to look at the old archmage.

Tenebrae continued, “A nomad adventurer who likely broke herself of the mental block that hampers [Teleport] long ago, and a Mind Mage, who likely had that thought drowned out of him when he came to Spur, where everyone in that city got there either through their own Spatial Magics, or through the Wayfarer’s Guild. It’s no wonder you never heard of this. If you had been born and raised on a nothing-farm in some nothing-part-of-the-world where you never moved outside of a ten square kilometer box your entire life, you would have had a lot of trouble with [Teleport]. But surely you had trouble with some spells. So what were they?”

