Erick went with the flow, saying, “I had a lot of trouble with wardlights until I came to magic with an open, unafraid mind.” He gestured to the right, and cast a complicated structure of—

Tenebrae lifted his hand. “[Dispel]!”

The light sculpture that Erick had been trying to make, collapsed. White light broke into motes that drifted into the ambient manasphere like so much disappearing dust. Erick was almost too stunned to be mad, and then he was mad.

Tenebrae glowered. “It’s rude to cast magic in Polite Society without announcing it first.”

Erick clipped off his angry response, and said, “You’re right. It is.”

“And yes! You cannot be afraid of magic if you wish to be a mage!” Tenebrae laughed right at him. “It’s a wonder you got anywhere at all! Your methods are not applicable to everyone. Your magic is not foolproof. You are not the archmage you pretend to be! So! Continue with your basic lesson, Erick, and I will point out more problems and their roots.” Tenebrae smiled. “This is fun.”

“…” Erick gestured to his chalkboard. “So as I was saying, all magic is based on the Elements—”

“Wrong!” Tenebrae said, “Shaping is just as important as Elemental usage. For instance, Spatial Magic is not Elemental, at all! Many magics are not Elemental. [Teleport], [Mend], [Telekinesis], and more! If all you deal with is Elemental magic, then you are only learning half of the story—”

Erick interrupted, “Force is an Element. Spatial Magic is therefore based in Force.”

With a greater smile, Tenebrae said, “Force is the absence of Elemental power! Your conventions are not normal conventions, Erick! And I bet you can’t even shape— No. Wait…” He looked at Erick, and saw something there that made Erick worried. Tenebrae said, “Ha! Your problems are even more basic than that. You just never considered the shape, did you?” Tenebrae instantly recanted, “No. That’s wrong. You must have considered the shapes of your magic otherwise you would never have gotten anywhere. When you make a magic, how do you shape the magic?”

Erick found himself figuratively stripped bare.

First of all, Force was an Element, for sure. Erick had no idea what Tenebrae was smoking, but Force was definitely an Element. It was even in that book of Elements that Syllea recommended. And, also, Erick was adept at making magic. He had made Force Element spells before. Force was an Element!

But.

Shaping was important. Possibly even more important than the Elements that would occupy the shape of the desired magic.

Shape was so important, that Erick had never really considered the shapes of his magic, at all.

Of course you would need a canvas before you began painting. Of course you needed a turkey for Thanksgiving, or a car before you considered going on a road trip, or a house before you considered hosting a house party. These were just givens that Erick had never truly considered more than ‘oh yeah, this is what is necessary’. Therefore, the shapes of Erick’s magic was exactly what it needed to be.

But had Erick ever truly considered the shape before? Yes, and also no.

Erick answered, “I shape the magic in the most cost-effective way I can think of for any particular spell.”

“Boil a stew to burned residue!” Tenebrae laughed. He demanded, almost joyfully, “How do you actually shape your spells? Let us discuss [Ice Spike]. And no! Not you.” He looked to Jane. “You. You’ve heard from your father. You’ve had lessons before this, for sure. So! [Ice Spike]! Tell me where you would begin.”

Jane looked to Erick, and Erick gave a ‘whatever’ face.

Jane paused in thought, then said, “[Force Bolt] with Mana Altering for Ice, then infusing the idea with… Motionless thoughts of motion, touching and impacting the target.”

Tenebrae nodded, then said, “Basic start, muddling middle, basic ending. A failure of a spell. Perfectly normal. Not good enough for an aspiring mage.” He looked to Erick. “Now you.”

Jane sputtered.

Erick almost warned Tenebrae off from talking to his daughter like that, but that would lead to a deterioration of everything; ruin lay in that direction. He did glance at Jane, though. She glanced back at him, and calmed, putting her own professional facade back on. She handled herself just fine.

Erick turned to Tenebrae, and said, “Mana Altering for Ice and [Force Bolt], channeling the mana for both through my hands to hear them—”

“What is this nonse—!”

“You asked. Let me finish. Tear apart the whole thing, after I am done explaining. Please.”

Tenebrae scowled. “… Continue.”

“First, I decipher Elemental Ice, which is a variant element of Water, which is technically the sound for Water but slightly larger, since frozen water is larger than ice. There’re also connotations of deepness and spreading and the leeching of all heat in there, and some Particle ideas, but I need not go too far for those when it comes to [Ice Bolt], which is the kind of spell I would prefer to make; not [Ice Spike]. I like actually hitting my target, and—”

Tenebrae interrupted, “Not what I asked for, but sound reasoning and not everyone can aim properly, though you give up most chances to critical when you do this. That you have this failing is not the largest of your failings. I will allow it.”

“… And then I take the sounds of [Force Bolt] and join them with the sound of Ice, and create a cohesive whole, which I then shape into something that is sure to touch the target, and to bypass all defenses. In this way, I make an Ethereal, Inexorable [Ice Bolt], which is probably upgraded to [Glacial Bolt], or something. I haven’t actually tried that particular one yet.”

Tenebrae smiled, showing off white teeth. “You haven’t made this one? Lying now, are we?”

“Ah… Wait.” Erick just remembered, “I have made this one. But it was long ago, and…” He looked up his Status. “Ah. It’s called [Ice Spike]. I made it back when I was first starting. I would make a different one if I was doing this today. I must have barely tripped the line toward the naming conventions… Or something. I made [Glacial Crash] using this spell and then Mana Altering for fire, and that one does not have ‘unerring’. I could probably remake that one, too.”

“Let me see. Both spells.”

Erick… decided to show him.

Ice Spike, instant, long range, 22 MP

A bolt of pure ice unerringly strikes a target for 55 + WIL

Glacial Crash, instant, long range, 55 MP

A shard of pure ice strikes a target for 200 + 2x WIL

Erick watched as Tenebrae read. The man obviously wanted to tear Erick a new one, but his joyful sneer vanished, replaced by a small frown. And then Tenebrae’s smile returned.

Tenebrae said, “Over four times the original cost for what is surely a fraction of the damage of a four-times [Force Bolt], depending on your Willpower. And no ability to Slow the target; which is the purpose of Ice Altering. A failure of the spell. The second is even worse! The only impressive thing at all is that you have managed to combine the diametrically opposed Elements of Ice and Fire into this [Glacial Crash] while managing to retain the ‘pure’ designation. If I were you, I would rip these up and try again. They are a disgrace for any archmage, even if the archmage in question is you.”

“You’re right.” Erick deleted the spells immediately, saying, “I have erased them. I will be remaking [Ice Bolt] at my earliest convenience.”

Tenebrae narrowed his eyes. They flickered grey. He nodded. “And barely a shift…” He sat up. “At least you were aware enough of your own shortcomings so that you didn’t need to uproot a whole tree of spell failures.”

“Yup.” Erick said, “I only ever made the two, and that was way at the beginning. I have only been at this for a year. Please forgive me for my failures.”

“Not forgiven. Not yet. Maybe not ever.” Tenebrae said, “Especially when you talk of ‘musically combining spells’! Even the Songstresses of the Songli Highlands use some maths in their magic.”

Erick felt his heart sink. “Oh, gods. Math.”

Tenebrae laughed. “Yes! Maths! I have decided where we shall begin with your reeducation!”

… He was getting a reeducation?

Tenebrae declared, “We will work on proper spell matrices! Gridwork! This would enable a clarity of shaping and elemental designations much more than your ridiculous ‘hearing the magic’ ever could. Not everyone hears properly, and emotional magic is insanity waiting to happen. Your methods are deeply flawed, even if they have —somehow!— worked for you.” He stood and flicked his hand at Erick. “Get away from that chalkboard. I will speak of the true basic start to any spell creation! I will speak of gridwork, and you will learn.”

Erick… thought he might have heard of gridwork before, but he wasn’t quite sure. It might have been in some of those math classes at Oceanside. But! Whatever! This might as well be happening. Erick walked to the chair beside Jane and sat down.

Jane raised her hand, hoping to ask a question.

Tenebrae glowered, then warned, “If you dare to say some variation of ‘Doesn’t the Script do it all for me’, then I will end this talk now and you’re not getting dinner for a week.”

Jane kept her hand raised. She did not flinch under Tenebrae’s glower. She did, however, put on an even nicer, more congenial smile.

“… Ask your question.”

Jane asked, “Isn’t all math just a representation of the real world? Or do maths have some actual, intrinsic function upon magic? Does 2 plus 2 have a basis in this reality?”

Tenebrae paused, as though he had walked into an [Invisible Force Wall]. He asked, “What? Where would you ever get that idea? Mana is possibility, and maths have a direct effect upon the world through the act of sympathy, which is the oldest and best known way in which magic functions, as its most core. Mana is possibility. Magic is the shaping and condensation of possibility. Maths are how you turn Possibility into Reality. Maths are magic, and they’re also not. Maths are sympathy at its most core. Maths are representative, and also so much more than that. I could repeat it a few different ways, but you get the idea. I hope.” Tenebrae added, “But while 2 plus 2 does not have a basis in our reality, it does have a basis in our subjective, personal Reality, therefore it does have a use when considering the symbology we erect in order to enact sympathy with the mana in order to create magic. Do you understand? I cannot make it more basic than that.”

Jane nodded. “Sympathy. Right. Makes sense.”

“… Do you know of sympathy?” Tenebrae asked, almost dumbfounded.

Jane said, “Like-works-as-like.”

Tenebrae found his footing again, saying, “Okay. Yes. For a second there I thought I would need to talk to you as if you were a complete idio—” He rounded on Erick. “Did you know of sympathy, before now?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “I knew. Which is why I never bothered to learn the math. I got plenty of sympathy already. Just, not with the maths.”

Jane said, “I told him about that stuff years and years ago. It was part of Earth’s magic traditions.”

Tenebrae frowned; silent. Then he said, “I’ve read your reports to the Headmaster, but explain what you just said.”

Jane said, “If you have read all my reports to the Headmaster, you might have noticed that there’s so many parallels from Earth’s magic to the magic of Veird. There are even some parallels with animals like the unicorn and the ideas of elves and fae and angels and demons, too, but what I have seen on Veird is only partially similar to what has been imagined on Earth, and that is a whole different topic, somewhat. Not a fully different topic, because. Well...

“The similarities might have to do with all the magic that poured into this universe from the Sundering, that was not caught and kept by the Script. Maybe that unbound mana moved faster than light and instantly spread across the universe, catching upon the various worlds out there, and remained, somehow? There’s obviously some broken physics in there, which seems to go hand-in-hand with mana, or maybe something even stranger happened, but whatever the case, maybe some of that mana fell to Earth and we fell into a pocket of it, or something. Not too sure about that. But they do say that you cannot destroy mana, so while I suspect a lot of it fell into stars or black holes, a lot of it must have found planets like our Earth. This is what I mean when I talk about Earth’s magical traditions having parallels with Veird. But they’re, like, strange parallels.

“And then, there’s the idea that mana is also Melemizargo, therefore it is possible that Melemizargo is already on many different worlds, and he just doesn’t know it.” Jane asked Tenebrae, “He is the mana, isn’t he? That’s what I’ve heard.”

Erick and Tenebrae both listened to Jane, but while Tenebrae’s eyes turned distant and fearful, Erick was just proud.

His daughter had independently come to a lot of the same conclusions he had; Erick had just never expressed them, for those were terribly scary thoughts, as Tenebrae was currently demonstrating. Erick had hoped to never give those thoughts a voice, but there they were, suddenly, out in the open, and put out there by someone other than himself. He didn’t want his daughter out there on her own though, so—

Erick said, “I’ve heard that Melemizargo is the mana, too. I’m pretty sure that your ideas are exactly close to what might have happened, Jane, or at least I’ve had the same ones. I just… Didn’t want to voice those thoughts.”

Jane sat back in her chair, looking triumphant, as she playfully chided, “Can’t be scared of the magic, dad.”

Erick laughed. “I guess you’re right.”

Tenebrae startled. He declared, “This lesson is over.”

The older archmage rapidly walked away, visibly disturbed, and silent, back through the door at the base of his tower. The door to Tenebrae’s tower slowly closed shut, all on its own.

Erick and Jane, and Poi, watched that happen.

A moment passed.

Uh. So. That just happened.

“… Huh.” Jane said, “I did not expect that reaction from him.”

Erick stared at his daughter, and laughed, nervously. He calmed, but not really. “Giving a voice to the fearful thoughts is not always a good idea.”

“Eh.” Jane said, “Try not to worry about that stuff. Let’s just enjoy the adventure of it all.”

Erick smiled, and he just had to hug his daughter, so he leaned over and wrapped his arms around her. She laughed over his shoulder as she hugged him too, and patted him on the back.

“Love you.”

