Chapter 508

“What about murder instead?”

Liz’s flat look told Matt his not quite joke hadn't landed as well as he’d hoped. He was very much over the Cabal and their endless nipping at their heels. It felt like every time he tried to look away from something he cared about, they were there and ready to throw a wrench into it.

Most of the time their people caught them before the plans could come to fruition, but that didn’t reduce his irritation at the instances that succeeded. Nor did it help that the Cabal’s latest initiative had hit so close to home.

Their newest attack had been as simple as it was devious. They’d infiltrated the numerous aura farms in their duchy and replaced the rifts with ones they didn’t have authorization to use. One of their counter espionage people had noticed a discrepancy, revealing and unraveling the plot, but the Cabal had caught wind and gone public with the scandal halfway through, rather than let their hard work go to waste.

Ascender Titan, champion of aura, had been caught stealing from other aperologists with clear and decisive proof.

It hadn’t just been a slap in the face, it had been a full on punch. He’d been furious enough to go and slaughter a few of the bases they knew about but hadn’t attacked. It was Liz who’d talked him down by pointing out that the Cabal were probably counting on that, with another pitfall waiting for him to jump into.

While she’d raced to the Capital to deal with and mitigate the political fallout, he’d stayed behind to take care of the duchy itself. Their nobles had needed more coxing and coddling than he’d expected, with all of them professing their innocence and support.

Matt wished he could say that he believed them, but that was impossible. The Cabal had inside help; they never could have pulled off converting so many rifts without it, but that wasn’t surprising. It was a duchy after all, not a single planet that could be constantly monitored.

When he complained to Leon in a private message, the older man’s reply hadn’t been what he wanted to hear. Matt didn’t like being told that such attacks were the cost of doing business, but he couldn’t exactly prove his father-in-law wrong.

His situation wasn’t all that different from the upcoming war. Resources were scarce and those at the bottom were looking to climb their way up, while those already at the top were trying to consolidate their positions.

Matt and his changes were the metaphorical newcomers and the Cabal were the entrenched powers who were desperately trying to keep him from… existing. He knew that wasn’t exactly true, but it felt like no matter what he, Liz, and Aster did, the Cabal was there to run interference.

At the same time, he also had to face a much more uncomfortable truth.

Matt was responsible for far more than the Cabal. He was directly, or at least he felt that way, responsible for the upcoming population wars, and that knowledge weighed on him. Between aura potions removing the final hurdle in the way of immortality and reducing low Tier deaths by releasing Tier 0 skills, he was an easy target to pin blame on.

The worst part wasn’t that he disagreed with the detractors… he actually could understand their perspective. He’d run the numbers and couldn’t deny their claims, even if they were off base with some of the figures they threw around. Yes, he was responsible, but what bothered him was the undeniable fact that he didn’t think he’d change anything if he could go back and do it all again.

If he was willing to shy away from progress, he’d be no better than the Cabal trying to preserve what they had at the expense of everyone else. However, none of that stopped the voice that whispered in his ear that he’d made everything worse.

Nor did it stop the knowledge that the Cabal used the very same facts as recruiting tactics, pulling from those who’d been negatively impacted by the inventions he’d unleashed upon the Realm. The Cabal had been recruiting members heavily from their ever growing noble detractors, as well as finding succor in their lands. But in reality, they were simply exposing the already existing divide between the more flexible nobles and those who wanted to maintain what they had.

The newest generations weren’t as inclined, even among the nobles, but those people would take thousands of years before they were the ones in charge even in the best of cases.

He—

A sharp pain on the top of his head told him phoenix Liz had grown irritated at his self reflection, but he was grateful for her pulling him out of his own head. It was far too easy for him to get lost in there after he’d expanded it so much.

Matt scooped his feathery attacker into a hug before floating next to Liz by the desk instead of ruining the chair he’d been using before Tier 35. The limits of how much a Ton Light Prism let the user shift their weight down were usually an academic curiosity at best, but they become a lot more relevant after he'd woven neutronium through his entire body. To say it struggled was an understatement.

Sadly, a random office chair wasn’t up to the task without outside assistance, and at that point, it was easier for him to just float. There was less chance of him accidentally ending up on the floor, or worse, in their downstairs neighbor’s space if he knew there was nothing underneath of him.

After he’d gone through everything Liz had done, he rubbed his face. “Thank you for handling this. I couldn’t have been this objective in the negotiations.”

Liz grinned in what felt like far too much humor in contrast to his own mood. “I reminded everyone the exact same thing. I made sure everyone knew that they could kick up as much of a storm as they wanted, but once you arrived you’d take over. After that revelation, most were much more amenable to the payouts. The smart ones know they were only brought in as cover and were eager enough to get paid. We offered above the contracted penalties, and most know it's more than they’d get out of an actual court, even before they had to go through the effort of putting together a legal case. Most of the others are falling in line, not wanting to miss out.”

“I’m sure the Cabal’s people weren't dumb enough to stick their heads out and dig their feet in.” Even as he spoke, he’d already brought up the lists and looked for any discrepancies that might show which groups had been in on the plot and be dumb enough to demand more.

“A few are being greedy, but I can’t pin any of them down as conspirators. Most of the ones fighting for every scrap are the dregs of the aperology world. The teams that had one hit and are chasing ghosts. I think a lot of them see this as their second chance. It’s why they were included, I'm sure.”

Matt already suspected he knew what Liz was going to suggest, but asked her anyway. “What do you think we should do? Pay them out?”

Liz nodded once and firmly said. “That would be the easier answer.”

When she didn’t continue, he opened an eye and met her gaze. “And if that’s only the easiest answer, what’s your actual plan?”

“That is my actual plan.” He didn’t like the sound of that, but Liz didn’t make him wait for the answer. “At least partly. Ultimately, this is a blow to both the duchy from the numerous canceled contracts, and our personal reputations due to being seen as trying to double dip instead of paying our fair share. But, thanks to us catching it early, it's a small one that we shouldn’t necessarily escalate. So I say we pay off the majority who aren’t demanding more than, oh say, thirty percent extra. As for the greedy ones? I think we should remind them we aren’t to be trifled with by flipping the script. We shut down communications and let them come at us. So far there haven’t actually been charges levied at us, and while there is enough evidence to enforce the payouts up to triplicate, it won’t be fast or cheap if we dig in our heels. And given who the holdouts are, we know they don’t have the capital to see such a suit through. At that point, they’ll be left in a much worse bargaining position, as they won’t have the numerous other aperology companies in their corner.”

Matt couldn't fault her answer, it was a clean solution to a messy situation. However, he didn’t like her answer. At the same time, he didn’t have a better one. Unless he counted murdering everyone even remotely involved, but he’d stepped back for a reason.

Instead, he turned his attention to Titan’s Torch and its businesses. While the guild itself hadn’t been directly implicated, they’d caught some initial blowback as speculation ran rampant through the news channels.

Elliot… wasn’t doing a bad job. The guild hadn’t been impacted in any material way and according to the latest reports, morale remained high, with few believing the news. It wasn’t like the guild’s business ventures had taken a hit. He was almost irritated to learn they’d seen a bump in sales, but let it go without a fight.

Matt almost hated looking at those numbers at this point. Maybe a few thousand years ago Titan’s Torch might have, at least on the surface, been unprofitable, but the guild now made more than their duchy did.

If Matt hadn’t been reigning in Elliot for the last thousand years, they probably could have doubled that again, but that wasn’t what he wanted the guild to be. Not that having so much liquid capital hadn’t proven beneficial in other ways, but what it represented irked him to no end.

One of Elliot's first moves after replacing Kees had been to try and balance the budget. He hadn’t been read into Matt’s Talent so soon after being promoted, and Matt was happy to let him throw ideas around. The first few hadn’t been all that successful, but he’d managed to rework a few of their trade deals, finding some savings through his efforts.

His next few ideas had centered around funding more aperology teams to work on more personal aura types after they’d seen a series of rapid successes. The aura needed to make Qin Jiang’s Justice aura potions had caused quite the stir, but their science-based approach to the field wasn’t as useful for one-off’s as the Talented aperologist. Even for them, there were few guarantees, but for Knightly Orders, high Tier guilds, and families, such expenses were trivial in the long term benefits of controlling aura types related to their particular styles.

Eventually, they’d pulled back when it became clear the field was still as murky and uncharted as ever, but they’d shown what was possible and that was a good enough reason for Matt.

There had been a few incidents where the employers had tried to silence the Talented aperologist after the fact, but few had been willing to allow such occurrences to continue after a notable incident got a guild killed. Half of the now defunct guild had been assassinated in a week, and the rest had gone into hiding, where an uncountable amount more had been hunted down.

Matt had looked into the situation after finding out about the attacks, but like the official investigation, he hadn’t been able to identify a mastermind. Mackenzie Harrington might not be the only suspect, but she was the primary one. As no more than a few of the assassins had been caught and there hadn’t been any discernible links between the people who hired them, there hadn’t been any charges involved, but he wouldn’t put it past her.

He wouldn't even have blamed her if she hadn’t declared open season up and down the guild’s ranks.

If he wasn't butchering his enemies, his ‘allies’ weren't allowed to either. He could also admit he’d have enjoyed finding an alternative excuse to put screws to her after forgiving her for being a part of the Cabal. It was his duty to take down people who ordered wanton assassinations as an Ascender.

No, Elliot had found success where no one, not Matt and not Elliot himself, had expected. At least not to the degree they’d found it.

The logic had seemed simple and innocuous enough at the time. The guild made a lot of rifts every day. At the time, they had just over fifty aperology teams with full time projects on staff. Matt was more than happy to keep his teams flush with mana and resources. That resulted in a lot of rifts being created and destroyed. Combine that with the often weird seed items, mana aspects, and general parameters the teams could come up with, some of the rifts were weird, interesting, or had other strange or noteworthy characteristics.

The guild had even kept a running list of the weirdest rifts found, with recordings left in the break rooms for the rest of the staff to vote on. It hadn’t been long before a particularly noteworthy rift had simply been too interesting to destroy. Matt had been just as eager as everyone else to set aside a section of the moon to transplant the most unique rifts rather than destroying them.

That area still had some of his favorite rifts, such as the Tier 11 pickled octopus rift. The rift was like most of the early noteworthy ones, a result of the guild trying to crack the code on wave rifts.

It hadn’t taken them long to identify shadow mana as lending itself to puzzle and trap rifts, nor had it taken the guild’s aperologists long to start experimenting. Shadow mana was far from a sure thing, but it did tend to work. Yet for still unidentified reasons, mid-preparation food dishes was the most successful method to create wave rifts they’d discovered when used in conjunction with shadow mana. That made every attempt to create a seed item that much harder, but they’d seen some incredible results.

