Or he would be, if he wasn’t still tweaking the Image on a near daily basis. He liked the general idea, but despite telling himself he was okay with removing the modularity from the Image, he couldn’t help but feel like he was missing some obvious solution to his dilemma. One that, if he could solve, would cascade other changes until he had a perfect Image like his Concept and Intent.

That left it and him in the same spot as everyone else. He could only tinker and try new variations until he slowly morphed the idea into something he perfectly resonated with one adjustment at a time.

Maybe he needed to rework the dyson sphere's transfer conduits to match his augment’s mana channels better? He’d already done so once, but it had been early in the development. Perhaps the star the sphere surrounded needed to be changed again?

May—

Matt pushed the thoughts down after noting them for later work. Unlike most cultivators, even combat types, he had a second option to refine his Aspect. Fighting someone who already had their next Domain stage.

It wasn’t foolproof advice for anyone except Ascenders, but for those of their ilk that didn’t already know their Aspect by the time they reached Tier 35, every one found assistance fighting those who had it.

So far they’d sparred with the elites, but they were in an awkward position. Even without Aspects of their own, any Elite under the High designation, Aspect or not, still wasn’t a match for them. High elites and above were a different story. At that level, they had enough skill and combat experience that the fights were actual fights, even for the Ascenders.

That would change as they advanced through the Tier and filled their cores, but until they created their own Aspect’s, they’d be the ones fighting up.

It was why Matt wanted to spar. It wasn’t only to use his new weapon. He wanted to see if fighting through the pressure of another's Aspect could give him some inspiration.

An actual inspiration would be nice, ignoring how it’d kick him right out of the war tiers, but they all couldn't be the power couple that was Zack and Susanne.

Thinking of the woman, Matt turned to Zack and asked, “Have you gotten word from Susanne recently? Surely she should be coming out of the training camp sooner than later, given the imminent war?”

Aster glared at Matt, who only realized his mistake when Zack looked even more glum. “Nothing from her for the last century. She sounded excited about the training, but at this point, I’m half expecting her to miss the initial fighting if the war starts too soon. I know it shouldn’t bother me, given I’m already out of the war, but I know she’ll be upset if she misses this one too.”

Matt swallowed back his next words and shifted into commiseration, before refocusing the group on the possibility of sparring. In the end, the others agreed to join him, but collectively decided they wanted to visit the archives and learn about their previous dynasty, and so he tagged along with them.

It took them a few days to make their way though the top level records, but they learned both a lot and very little. The previous dynasty had the backing of at least one Great Power and practice at hiding and infiltrating the Empire.

What did become clear was that the previous dynasty’s people couldn’t be over Tier 46, or they wouldn’t be able to blend into the populace of the other Great Powers, which was a relief to all of them. Their enemies following that rule put them within theoretical reach, but there was also a faster answer. If they found a base, they didn’t necessarily need to be the ones to kill her; they were part of the Empire and had access to Tier 46’s of their own.

Matt’s plans to spar were momentarily interrupted again when news spread that Manny had left the palace and exited into chaotic space, causing the Capital to hold their collective breath. He returned only a few hours later without a declaration of war, but everyone knew the truth.

That song would eventually be sung and they needed to be ready at any moment.
