The resulting rift had nothing to do with octopus or pickling, but it was fun. It put them onto a raft they needed to defend from sea creatures while going down the river. The theming may have been a bit wonky, but the monsters were where the rift shined. Every time the delving team defended the boat from a wave of attacks, the monsters would either gain access to the mana aspect that killed the highest number of them, or grow resistant to it.

That meant what started out as fairly ordinary water based monsters became wholly unique after a few dozen assaults.

Selling copies of such interesting rifts hadn’t seemed like that big of a deal. And it hadn’t been, until it was.

It had started slow with lots of initial interest because of his and the guilds status, but very few people had been interested in vanity rifts. A few sold, but the real success had come when they’d hit on a trifecta of elements.

The rift was interesting, solved a problem, and had a drop table tied to actions performed in the rift that wouldn’t be lost by the randomization when copied.

The first rift in question managed to do so in spades. It was a Tier 7 jungle rift that had been made with a near perfect blend of water, wind, fire, and shadow mana. The rift started out easy enough, with the teams needing to ascend pyramids of bone built into the landscape. There, they needed to light the beacons, but that was where the rift became unique.

With each beacon lit the rift became harder, with the monsters increasing in strength and number of skills. After five beacons lit, the monster’s strength would cap out, but the rift lived up to its category as a wave rift and would simply create more and more monsters. Like all wave rifts, delvers wouldn't receive any Essence until they dispelled the reward distortion, but the amount of Essence they received was only limited by how many waves they could endure without skills like [Lesser Sacrifice].

Strong teams would receive so much Essence from the reward distortion their spirits would overflow; it was something Matt would have loved at that Tier. Luna wouldn't have let him blitz through Tiers delving rifts like that, but the dream was nice.

Additionally, its alternative loot table was excellent, being tied to how many monsters were slain. Kill enough and it dropped a club made out of one overly large monster fang that got stronger with consecutive attacks on the same target. Best of all, it had excellent scaling, letting the weapon last for several Tiers for most delvers before its durability started to limit its usefulness.

While the skills it dropped were randomized when copied, the original had one of its three skills as [Water Manipulation], and several copies had retained that. Even if rare, that was more than enough to attract buyers. A skill like that was always in demand, which was its third success.

It solved a problem.

They didn’t know why or how the rift landed back on that skill, despite numerous investigations by basically every aperologist in the guild and beyond, but it did statistically more often than it ever should have, which only cemented its popularity.

From there, it had only been a matter of time as the rifts accumulated and the money came back in to fuel more tests. While the guild hadn’t cracked the code of aperology, they’d gotten good at making rifts.

However, all of that paled to the final piece of the puzzle.

If anyone was asked what Titan’s Torch was good at, Matt was confident they’d answer one thing: making aura rifts. He knew that, yet like everyone else he’d overlooked the obvious implications.

While most any half decent Tier 15 formation specialist could become a half decent amateur aperologist, every additional Tier represented another chance of the rift deaspecting and failure. Having already become accustomed to people buying copies of rifts, it hadn’t taken long for the guild to start preserving their high Tier aura rifts rather than destroy them.

Aura rifts were notoriously difficult to copy, their already unstable nature seemed prone to collapse when a copy was made. That risked both the initial rift and the copy, but they’d found a simpler solution. Selling the original.

While a Tier 4 wind aura rift was commonplace, at Tier 10 and above, any aura rift of any type was an anomaly to be fought over. Yet on Titan Torch’s moon, a dozen such rifts might get created and destroyed in a week if a research team was working towards a high Tier goal.

He’d often been told how much of a waste it was, but they’d only had so much space at the time. That changed once Elliot headhunted Satou. While he still rankled a bit at how aggressively Elliot badgered Satou’s employer to get him out of his contract, Matt couldn't deny it was a brilliant move. Satou had the ability to, quite literally, grab a rift and put it in his pocket.

Taking it out was just as easy. No instability. No chances to deaspect. No downsides. There wasn't even a cost besides Satou’s time and personal effort. With that, what were once cast offs were now a reliable source of higher Tier Aura rifts so long as the buyer wasn’t too picky about the details.

For the groups that could both afford and utilize a Tier 7 or higher aura, they were more than willing to pay for a single high Tier aura rift. They’d learned the hard way that gambling on deaspecting was better left to the professionals rather than their formation specialist.

Given just how many rifts Titan Torch made they now had a laundry list of rifts of various types for prospective purchasers as the aperology teams no longer dissipated their bespoke aura rifts failures that retained their aura. Even the guild struggled to keep the rifts from deaspecting, they were simply better than the rest of the field.

Some of the simpler best sellers were even deliberately recreated but Matt had put a firm stop to that. If a recipe was reliable enough for that, it got published for free like all the others.

They were a research center, not a business. Sadly the issue of the rifts deaspecting with each additional Tier ensured they had a steady stream of potential buyers eagerly trying to get him to change his stance.

It was why Palustris now had three additional Tier 1 planets following its orbit around the system's star. Worse yet, each of those planets had five moons, and he knew they were looking to double both in the next thousand years in a vain attempt to get ahead of the problem of their ever expanding catalog.

Others had entered the market as well, but they weren't all that successful compared to Titan’s Torch, who had economies of scale, reach, and popularity. Not to mention Matt’s outlook of the rifts being an unwanted side effect of scientific discovery rather than a primary product.

He was already allocating funds to make the rifts in their primary pursuits whether that be pure research or trying to create a bespoke aura type for a client. Selling rifts that would have been dissipated as part of that process was fine but he refused to allow the guild to become a rift producing business as their primary goal.

Matt tapped his finger on the desk a little too hard, earning himself a poke from Liz who glared at the dent he’d made.

“Sorry. I’m distracted.”

“Clearly.”

Matt put on his best smile as he offered, “I’ll make it up to you.”

“Oh, will you now? How is that?”

He had her interest at least. “Could I interest you in a spar? I happen to have a new weapon I need to try out.”

Liz’s lingering irritation vanished as she tossed a phoenix over her shoulder. “You should have led with that before the busy work! That's wayyyy more exciting than dealing with the Cabal stuff. Lead on. Should we grab Aster or is she flagging herself as mid-project?”

That was an easy question to answer, and one check later, Matt opened the [Portal] to her workshop. Before he stepped inside he cast [Cracked Phantom Armor], having seen they were nearly done an experiment.

The wind buffeted him hard enough to make him sway slightly within his field of lowered gravity, and it was only a quick touch of [Wind Manipulation] that managed to keep the gusts from disturbing the rest of the building.

Matt stepped inside with Liz right on his heel, but both of them struggled to see through the horrendous conditions.

Using his spiritual sense, Matt fluctuated, “Her tracker said she was almost done. Think we came at a bad time?”

Liz shrugged back, glowing golden as she burned hotter to keep her from feeling the bitter cold that had filled the lab. “Maybe she’s being successful and we are just in time for her celebration hurricane. An ice hurricane. Is there a word for that?”

Matt could only shrug as they made their way deeper into the center of the room.

It wasn’t the short walk it should have been, but given the fact Aster had deployed her spirit space, he wasn’t all that surprised.

She’d spent the last three thousand years trying to find a stable Level 5 ice mana type, and her spirit space had been a large part of the effort in recent years.

At the center a lab started to appear, where they found Aster and Zack trying to stabilize the mana sample. Matt immediately identified how the mana type would unravel, but the duo did their best to prevent the inevitable. They threw caution to the wind, literally in this case, trying to find anything cohesive as the various mana types disintegrated into their stable component parts.

Weirdly enough, Zack had been the one to benefit from their testing, having had his second inspiration which pushed him to Tier 34 through watching mana types unravel day after day in test after test. They’d been using the arcane spiral they’d found in the Rasdale breach as a sort of periodic table when he’d figured out how to ‘twist’ mana types together, rather than solely making up the difference through his own mana pool and Talent.

Matt had helped him play around by combining that with Spontaneous Aspect Cascades to create nightmarishly unpredictable explosions, but they hadn’t put that much work into the new move. It wasn’t like they’d get the chance to use it on anything but rift monsters, and they all had easier skills to improve.

While it had been an interesting find, it hadn’t been what Aster needed for her new bloodline. She wanted ‘space ice’. Ice so cold it could freeze space itself, let alone the things that tried to inhabit it. Or something along those lines. While she hadn’t seemed to notice, he’d picked up on the fact she’d been growing vaguer and vaguer in her desires the longer she spent searching. Whatever her goal, his bond hadn’t found it yet.

When the mana sample fully disintegrated the wind died down immediately, Matt grabbed everyone's hands together to inform them about what he and Allie had found.

Zack’s immediate interest didn’t surprise any of them. Raising a shoulder the smallest fraction, he shrugged at Aster. “The war is set to start any time now, and Allie and I are going to be forced to sit on our hands. It’s not exactly pleasant. So while I will keep running tests as I get new ideas, this offers a pleasant distraction I can be active with.”

Aster rolled her eyes, hip bumping him as she moved to side hug Matt. “I’ve told you that while your help is appreciated, you aren’t required. Go have fun with this. If I'm being honest, I’ll be over there after this just to check in and see what I can learn. It will let me think things over during the war. Without Allie, we'll be schlepping around in real space most of the time, and that means lots of time in a ship. It can be like a brain teaser.”

“Then I’ll wait for you. Was there anything else, Matt?” Zack’s question was in sync with Liz splitting a clone off and stepping next to the other two with a cheeky whistle.

Withdrawing his sword from its purpose made weight reduction ring, he showed off its new coloration and weight.

The winter wonderland around them vanished as Aster retracted her spirit space, returning the room to its normal size. “A little warning next time might be nice. Damn, that thing is heavy enough I could feel it.”

Matt’s arms strained as he waggled his longsword back and forth. “Want to spar? Come on. It will be fun. We can get Allie and all go to the sparring yards where we can beat on the Capital’s elites. We haven't done that for over a year now.”

Now that they were Tier 35, they could finally attempt to form their Aspects, but none of them were confident enough yet to go ahead with it. While the army had ways to prevent a failure from being lethal, they were expensive and in high demand. As Ascenders, they were at the top of the list, but they weren’t wasteful enough to make an attempt without a firm idea for every potential part, and all of them were still unsure on at least one.

Matt still needed to find his Phrase, but he’d finalised claiming his augment as his Anchor when he reached Tier 35, no thanks to JR. He was fairly confident in his Image, but not so much that he’d be willing to try solidifying it outside of the army’s safe arms.

After a lot of deliberation and planning, he returned to one of his earliest ideas and created a dyson sphere. He liked his possible Image, but he’d made several modifications since his low Tier ideas of powering a Minkalla-like system that could change at will.

His current Image was more static. He didn’t need to empower a dozen things, he needed to empower one core thing. His augment.

If he was correct, such an Image would hopefully let him strengthen his augment in a similar fashion to his Power, and double up on the effect at the very least. If he was lucky, the buffs would stack multiplicatively, but he wasn’t counting on it. He’d be quite happy with the boost interacting at all.

