Giving her a pointed look, he said, “Adujan, why don't you go keep watch somewhere else.” She glared back at him, unrelenting. Shrugging, he turned to the woman before Adujan stopped him, moving Shana to block his way. “I said no, Rain, no fucking torture. This is not who you are and not what we fucking do. Just kill them, you don't need to hate them as well.” She quickly stabbed their prisoner in the throat, the dying woman's eyes almost looking grateful. She turned back and stared at Rain, challenging him, trying to stop herself from shivering. “Your hatred is wasted on them and will eat away at you.”

His dark glare bore into her, his anger on full display. “Fine. No torture, but if one is already screaming, no mercy either. The noise will help, draw more of them towards us. Next time, if you don't have the stomach for it, then fucking stay out of the way.” She flinched at his harsh tone, but stood her ground.

He collected his weapons and mounted up, riding off into the forest once again. Quickly, she followed, knowing he would charge in headlong, regardless if she were close behind. Rain had been enraged, and there was little mercy left in him it seemed. She worried at his words, mostly because he implied there would be other times, times where he would resort to torture.

He moved recklessly through the forest, and every second Adujan worried he was giving away their position, however after killing two more groups, slaughtering them to a man, she realized they did not need to move so carefully, their Enemy almost oblivious to what was around them, too used to relying on their sight. Even though Rain moved carelessly enough be spotted by a Sentinel, they were stealthy enough for the task at hand. Rain was clever, taking measured risks, knowing their enemies limits and working around them. She was too timid to not see that, and could learn some things from Rain.

Their battles were a hectic mess, but their teamwork grew as they continued to fight, catching each small group unaware, never more than six Defiled to a party. Their tactics evolved as the day wore on, killing several enemies from afar before charging in, each time winning without serious retaliation. He would lead the way, drawing their attacks and taking injuries, while she guarded his flank and killed with ease. She lost count of the number of times she needed to save his life, and the number of times he saved hers. After every battle, he would tend to his wounds with medicine as she kept watch, largely untouched thanks to him. When he was done, the two of them would resume their hunt, a pair of avenging shadows within the forest. There was no pleasure, no joy, only stony satisfaction, knowing each Defiled they killed would never harm another, ever again.

Rain was so difficult to understand, his calm, gentle demeanor in normal day life, yet he turned into a raging monstrosity during battle. Different from the calm Charok, or the laughing Huushal, or even the determined Sumila, Rain always seemed sinister when he fought, covered in blood, grinning as he killed or injured his opponents. She disliked this side of him, preferred the sweet man who cooed at the pups, and played silly games with the twins. To make matters worse, there was no grin today, only an intense glare, almost mad with rage, a different person all together.

Adujan knew it was because he mourned for the loss of life, that he was angered by what he had seen, and it was heartbreaking. The sheer intensity of his emotions however, made her wary of him, especially with Zabu in the midst of courting Shana. Roosequins mated for life, and by allowing their quins to mate was a tacit agreement to court one another. She wasn't a fool, knew that Rain was unaware, that it was nothing but a camaraderie they shared, but still she said nothing, clinging to a faint hope.

He had been quite gentle and sweet with her, taking care of her injuries, and watching him cuddle with Mei Lin every day had incited feelings of jealousy in her. But now, seeing how unstable he was, she wasn't even sure she wanted a romance with him. Even if she did want to marry him, Rain definitely had no romantic feelings for her, outright laughing at her attempts of seduction. At least Huushal and Fung had gone wide-eyed and simple-minded, barely able to close their jaws, as had several others she had tested her wiles upon. That had done wonders for her self-esteem. Shaking her head, she refocused on the bloody work at hand. This was no time to be dreaming of love and relationships.

They fought and hunted, leaving screaming Defiled and Garos in their wake, Rain becoming more unhinged after every battle, his rage and fury continuing to mount as he fought, his blood thirst growing by the hour. They wasted no time, moving at a frantic pace, Adujan tiring as the day wore on, yet Rain remained tenacious and untiring. She could not remember how many groups they had assaulted, only that it was more than ten. Her opponent was proving difficult, the last of his party, cleaving about him with a great saber, expertly guiding his mount. She circled the Defiled, splitting from Rain so that they could attack from both directions.

With a powerful charge, the Defiled came for her, cleaving down with his weapon. Her shield intercepted the attack, the power sending Shana sprawling to the ground as the saber bite into Yan's shoulder. A small matter, Rain had taken worse. Gritting her teeth, she twisted her shield, locking the saber in place. Scant moments later, Rain crushed the man's skull with his sword, the head bursting apart and coating her in gore. Zabu finished off the Garo, and they were once again victorious.

She grimaced as Rain approached to check her injury. “I was fucking careless. How bad is it?” The weapon had struck bone, and sliced through to the other side, her blood streaming from the injury.

He pulled aside her armor for a better look, eliciting a pained grunt from her. “It's not too bad, but our hunt is at an end unless you can heal it. Can you?”

“Fuck no. I need to calm down and concentrate to do that, Rain. It takes safety, and time for that.” Can she heal, this fucking asshole. He couldn't even do it, and he was learning to be a healer. “What are you waiting for, an invitation? Stitch me up.”

“Tch, come here.” Helping her to a log, they sat down as Rain prepared to treat her injury. He cut the straps and lifted the heavy armor off of her, tore the sleeve from her shirt, and set to stitching her wound shut, the gash large and pulsing with blood. If this was not too bad, she'd hate to see what he called bad. He probably laughed when he lost his arm, the crazy bastard. The day's events had drained her, physically and emotionally, and with nothing to drive her on, she could do nothing to stop her tears, silently crying for the poor children, praying that the Mother had better things in store for them.

Rain slathered her wound with some cream, before bandaging and placing her arm into a sling, all without saying a word. She appreciated his silence as he helped her onto Shana and led them away, moving quickly back towards the still smoking remains of the hamlet. Her tears continued to fall as she prayed for Rain, watching his face and knowing her advice had been ignored, that he would need to be carefully observed for the next while. His eyes still burned with anger as he ruminated on his hatred, but it was a waste of emotion.

You do not hate a rabid dog, you simply put it down.
