Lira had told her that her father had done something similar for the whole city of Dal’mohra and had confirmed Malika’s thought that it would make a difference. In fact, Ali was certain Malika might be underselling the value for a messed-up town like Myrin’s Keep, provided most of the candidates had good role models and guidance – regardless of her personal concerns around Vivian’s occasional use of questionable methods, she was undoubtedly a fantastic resource for any newly classed adventurer.

“Maybe we can do one more and see how it goes?” Ali suggested. It was hard to block something that Malika was so clearly passionate about on something as nebulous as a fearful memory.

“Thank you, Ali,” Malika said. “Is there anything I can do?”

“Actually, there is,” Ali answered. “I promised Thuli that I would search for the mines under Dal’mohra. Maybe when Calen gets back from his job, we can go clear some more of the jungle to get to the entrance?”

“Yes!” Mato exclaimed. “I’m tired of fighting stupid zombies.”

Ali winked at Malika and said, “Clearly he’s roaringly bored with beating up zombies. What about you?”

Folding his arms across his chest, Mato growled, “You got that right. Filthy work!”

“Of course I’m in,” Malika said meeting Ali’s smile with one of her own. “It’s good to be back.”

***

“What about here?” Ali asked, glancing at Calen as she tried to wipe the sweat from her face and neck with an already-soaked sleeve.

“I’m not sure,” he answered, “but this spot seems most likely. We already checked the other possibilities.” If he was affected by the humid jungle, he didn’t show it, studying the gigantic pile of rock and rubble as if he might stare right through it to glean insights as to what might lie beyond.

“Ok, I’ll try,” she answered. “I just need a few minutes for my domain to propagate.” They had been hunting for the entrance to the mines for several days now and she was beginning to worry that they would never find it. It didn’t help that the entire area was vastly changed by the passage of time, jungle, and the fallen rubble and rock, and she had poor memories of a place she had rarely visited anyway. The entrance was undoubtedly buried somewhere underneath this wreckage, but the ancient overgrown rubble of half a city was vast, and they had to fight through the denizens of the jungle for every meter.

On the other hand, she plowed through the jungle like a ravenous devourer, consuming all manner of trees and vegetation, and leaving in its wake a jungle reborn from the hundreds of imprint variants she acquired, now glittering with arcane and nature mana instead.

“How is it?” Malika asked.

“Much calmer,” Ali said, glancing back at the expanse of her new domain. Obviously, she didn’t have the time to replace everything, but once she had established enough trees – particularly her towering Lirasian Oaks, her domain settled over the region. In her wake, her industrious minions filled in the gaps with mushrooms, moss, and wildflowers.

It all had a second purpose, though. To penetrate the rubble and find the entrance, she needed to rely on her powerful Domain Mastery skill and its ability to affect large areas within her domain. Tunneling through the rock with Deconstruction had been far too slow.

“It’s still as sweaty as a Troll’s armpit around here,” Mato grumbled.

“I don’t remember Trolls being that sweaty,” Ali answered absently as she checked her domain mana carefully, picking at her uncomfortably sticky, damp clothing. “I met a few from Telim Gor once – they had an ice-affinity bloodline.” One advantage of planting all the new trees and expanding her domain area through the jungle was that her shrine’s mana reserve had been slowly growing. It was not an immediately useful improvement, but Ali was happy that she had picked the Living Mana advancement now that she could see how effective it was.

“Hmph!” was all Mato said.

“I think I’m ready,” Ali said, deciding that the domain mana emitted by the nearby enormous oak had grown sufficiently strong that it would support her skill, and she reached toward the rubble and rock lying beneath the dense cover of moss and plants. Her domain mana immediately responded to her will, infusing the rock and it began to bend away from her, flowing like a thick viscous treacle. She stepped toward the mountain, pushing the rock up and around to reinforce the walls and the roof of her slowly growing cave. With a thought she added her Deconstruction, wielding both skills simultaneously to dissolve tons of rock while simultaneously growing a tunnel into the heart of the broken remains of the city. She took a step forward, trying to ignore the tons of rock bearing down on her tiny tunnel causing the primitive part of her brain to clamor with alarm.

She stepped forward again, absorbing mana from the rock with her Deconstruction and redirecting it back out through her domain mastery to slowly shift the rock to the sides and open up the way forward. As she did so, she summoned a slowly growing carpet of moss at her feet.

Variant: Ivory Gold Granite added to Imprint: Stone.

She ignored the notification as she continued to bore her way through the tons of stone and rock, focused on the mana that she could see penetrating several meters deep into the walls, searching for any hints that might help direct her.

Variant: Tura Limestone added to Imprint: Stone.

She shifted uncomfortably, pouring her mana into her skills constantly, and beginning to sweat profusely.

“Is it getting hotter in here?” Ali asked.

“I think so,” Calen said from a little way back.

Ten minutes later she was certain – a scorching heat radiated from the rock in uncomfortable waves, leaving her sweltering and short of breath. It was getting hotter than standing in front of Thuli’s forge – almost like she imagined bread must feel baking in the oven. She pressed on, taking the unusual heat as a good sign – something that was notably different about this location compared to all the other attempts they had made.

Domain Mastery has reached level 22.

She ignored the various notifications of additional variants of decorative or structural stone, presumably remnants of the city’s construction, content to explore them later. If nothing else, she would have plenty of new options for artistic sculpture.

“If this doesn’t work, perhaps we should hire an Earth Mage?” Calen suggested.

“Oh, yes,” Malika answered. “Some of them have Earth Sight or perception skills that work through rock. Basir, Rezan’s disciple, can do that.”

“That’s a pretty good idea,” Ali said. Anything to avoid the uncomfortable heatwave. “Or we could find an earth affinity monster and I could just take a look myself.”

“Not sure where to find one of those,” Mato said. “But that’s a good idea.”

Suddenly, up ahead in the rock, something shifted in her mana sight. Instead of her structured domain of nature and arcane magic, something else flared and flickered, like tiny flames of red.

“I see some fire-affinity mana,” Ali said, recognizing it from long familiarity with the magic of her favorite Kobold mages. With mounting excitement, she pressed forward.

“Be careful,” Malika murmured.

Calen added, “Have a barrier ready, alright, Ali.”

“Ok, here it goes,” she said, warning her friends to be prepared, and then broke through. Rock walls gave way to a sudden intense blast of dry heated air that banished her sweat in an instant, searing her skin and burning her face. She reacted with an instant barrier, but even the ambient air burned, blistering and reddening her skin.

“Yeowch! That’s hot!” Mato hissed.

As the soothing holy magic from her attentive Acolyte settled into her body, repairing the damage, she studied the effect. “It’s the mana, not the air,” she said. While the air itself was scorching hot, most of the damage seemed to be coming directly from the ambient fire-affinity mana that was pouring out from the large open space she had connected to with her tunnel.

From the darkness beyond, a strange glow shifted, throwing shadows that flickered and danced, and suddenly a sizzle broke the silence as a bolt of flame shot toward her, crashing into the golden barrier with a loud bang and a shower of flaming blobs.

“Incoming,” Calen shouted, and from the dark cavern beyond their position came a being born of pure flame and heat.

It was the intense fiery orange-red of her Kobolds’ fireballs, but larger, flickering and shifting like a bonfire. Two intense white flames near the center gave the impression of eyes, and two protrusions of flame evoked the idea of arms, creating a vaguely humanoid squat, broad shape. It was impossible to tell if the monster had any substance to it, or if it was entirely composed of flame, but the white-hot core was dense enough to be entirely opaque.

Shard of Flame – Elemental – level 39 (Fire)

“Fire elemental!” Ali and Calen yelled simultaneously.

It launched another bolt of flame, this time crashing into Mato as he charged forward to engage it, his fur instantly igniting as he entered the intense aura of fire emanating from the monster. It swung an ‘arm’ and struck Mato with a resounding thump that sizzled as its touch burnt deep into his hide.

“Heal him,” Ali said, but her Acolytes were already casting their holy spells.

The Shard of Flame struck again, driving Mato backward. As it approached, the aura of its flame touched her domain, and an immense pain slammed into Ali’s mind, driving her to her knees in agony. Unable to see, she barely registered shouting and screaming, and the roars of her minions. Someone grabbed her roughly and she felt herself being carried. She struggled with the searing pain that raged unfettered through her mind.

“Ali! Are you ok?” She heard the shout from right beside her, and yet from so far away.

“Malika,” she gasped, not even knowing if she spoke aloud.

It was Malika carrying her as they sprinted through the tunnel and out into the jungle, pumping her healing magic into her. Her mind slowly began to adjust to the pain as she realized her minions were still in there, unleashing everything they had.

“Come back,” she managed. But only her Kobolds managed to make it out alive, her Forest Guardian succumbing somewhere deep in the tunnel, its mana reservation returning to her with a stinging snap.

“It’s a dungeon,” Calen cried in sudden realization.

Ali slowly struggled to her feet, trying to regain control of her faculties, her minions, everything – merely trying to process what was happening.

Dungeon-rage.

As her mind slowly recovered, getting used to the pain – for it was not abating in the slightest – she began to understand. It was a familiar pain; one she had experienced twice before. The first time when she had inadvertently overlapped her mana with the Ruins of Dal’mohra in the forest cavern, and once again when she tried to save Lira by merging their domains. Somehow, she instinctively knew that merging domains with a hostile dungeon would be disastrous. The Shard of Flame surged out of the tunnel, still trading blows with Mato, while Ali’s Kobolds unleashed all their energy and might at it, uncaring for the damage.

“Firebolts,” Ali commanded, trying to force her will through their rage. “Firebolts!” They were killing Mato with Fireballs in their ardor to protect her from the monster.

Reluctantly, her Kobolds obeyed, switching from Fireballs to Firebolts and the pressure on Mato eased a little.

“Ali?” Malika’s concern pierced through the haze of pain.

“Dungeon-rage,” she managed. “I’ll be ok in a minute.” Of course, she had no idea if she would really be ok – the pain showed no signs of fading.

“Still?” Calen said, raising an eyebrow as he continued to unleash his arrows.

“It’s the Elemental,” Ali said. The Shard of Flame was emitting a potent aura of fire-affinity mana, and she finally recognized what was familiar about it. It reminded her of Naia’s slimes, and how they propagated Naia’s domain wherever they went. Just like her trees, only mobile. The domain of the fire dungeon was being laid down by the elemental’s aura, extending back into the tunnel she had bored through the rock. And it was burning her domain wherever the two came into contact.

“Go,” she said, slowly standing up on her own, freeing Malika from having to hold her. “Mato needs you.” She sent out her will, forcibly bringing her minions under control. Her melee forces – three rogues and a shaman – were all literally on fire, being burned by the mere presence of the Fire Elemental. As she struggled to keep her balance, one of her rogues collapsed in a smoldering heap, filling the forest with the stench of charred meat.

She moved her Kobold Fire Mages and Acolytes back out of range of the aura and set them to some vague semblance of strategy. At her side, one of her Acolytes flared with the pillar of holy light as she triggered her devotion skill to cope with the excessive damage.

Ali quickly merged her perceptions with the nearest Acolyte, observing with its Healer’s Sight, shocked to find just how low on health her melee minions were. The Kobolds seemed to be doing a bit better than the shaman, but her Forest Guardian was long gone, presumably unable to keep up, given its vulnerability to fire. With her potent temporary boost in healing power, her Acolyte was bringing her minions back from the brink, but it was a close call.

All around her, she could feel her domain fighting with the expanding fire domain, but it was hers that was being pushed back. More than just the fire domain being more powerful – the mere presence of the Elemental set her grass on fire, destroying the plants that created her domain in the first place. And the agony in her mind was preventing her from even thinking straight.

She reached out and placed her hand on the giant oak she had planted so that she could make the tunnel and deconstructed it. As it evaporated in a giant explosion of mana motes, her domain recoiled, receding rapidly, and suddenly her mind cleared as the pain subsided.

Ok, now I can think. She breathed a sigh of relief. Malika was in the thick of it, fighting hard beside Mato, and by the frequent flickers of her magic, Ali could tell she was rapidly burning her energy to heal him and herself. Her Acolytes were healing constantly, and her melee forces were barely holding onto life.

Ali quickly threw up a couple of barriers to protect her Acolytes from the continuous barrage of Firebolts blasting in all directions from the Shard of Flame.

“It’s not dying,” Calen said through clenched teeth.

