“It isn’t?” Ali’s eyes snapped to the elemental in surprise – it was a single monster, by itself, and even though it was formidable, they were an entire group. She slipped her mind back into the Acolyte’s Healer’s Sight and studied the elemental.

“It’s at full health…” Ali could easily see Mato’s powerful strikes, Malika’s rapid ones, and the damage from her shaman when the Lightning Bolt slammed through the elemental, but then the elemental suddenly recovered its health.

“What the… it’s healing!” she yelled. “Go all out!” she commanded, eliciting a chorus of yips and chirps from her remaining Kobolds. She ignored the second rogue collapsing behind the elemental.

“How is it out-healing all of us?” Calen asked.

“I have no idea.” Ali fired several barrier shards at it, finding them only able to strike at the dense core of the monster. She anxiously tracked its health as her minions hit it. A massive strike from Mato and the health dropped noticeably. Malika’s flurry of punches hit, and it dropped a little more. Several arrows from Calen and the health dropped noticeably again. Her mages fired a volley of firebolts and…

What? The Shard of Flame was suddenly back at full health.

“Oh fuck!” she exclaimed. She was not one for careless profanity, like Morwynne, but this time she had been rather stupid. In her defense, the dungeon-rage had done a number on her concentration and focus.

“What?” Calen asked, staring at her in surprise.

“It’s a Fire Elemental. I’m shooting it with fire…” Ali explained. I need ice. Water. Lakes of water!

“Oh. Fire damage absorption?” Calen asked.

“That’s the only explanation,” Ali grimaced. She was unable to study the aptitudes of any of the Elementals she had acquired, save for the Forest Guardian. But her Guardians would heal from any nature or poison damage due to the absorption of its affinity. There was no reason to believe the Fire Elemental didn’t have a similar aptitude – and the evidence she had just observed confirmed it.

“Stop shooting fire,” she growled in draconic, telling her Kobold mages to simply stand by. It was clear they were upset about her orders, but they obeyed, nonetheless. She studied the health of the monster carefully, watching it slowly decrease as they fought, but it was no longer healing itself. It was a stressful few minutes, particularly when the fires killed her shaman, but her Acolytes were able to keep up with the intense damage – at least for Mato in the thick of the flames – and, with their combined efforts whittling it down, the chime finally sounded.

Your group has defeated Shard of Flame – Elemental – level 39 (Fire)

“Thank goodness,” Malika said, wiping soot off her face.

“Sorry, guys,” Ali said, mortified that she had missed the crucial ability in the chaos and pain and had put them all in danger.

“No problem, we got it,” Mato answered, sauntering over to join her. “Hey, what are they doing?” he asked, pointing to the two Acolytes who were standing with heads bowed over clasped hands.

“It’s a skill called Prayer,” Ali answered. She had studied her Acolytes’ abilities extensively – they were one of her most essential minions, after all. The Prayer ability was similar to Malika’s meditation, they could greatly improve their regeneration, but they could take no other actions while using the skill.

“What do Kobolds pray to?” Mato asked.

“I… don’t know,” Ali answered.

“Some ancient dragon, I think,” Calen answered.

“You guys aren’t worried about me healing the monster?” Ali was surprised at their casual attitude toward her mistake.

“It happens,” Malika shrugged.

“You figured it out, and we won,” Mato answered, as if that was the only thing that mattered.

“He’s right, Ali,” Calen said when she frowned. “We learned something. Here, take a look at this read on the dungeon, I think it confirms that we’re in the right place.”

[Explorer]Emberforge Mines – level ??Affinity: Fire, Lava.Age: Ancient.Known Creatures: Fire Elemental.Known Bosses: --Dungeon

“Another dungeon?” Malika asked.

“And it’s ancient,” Ali added. It seemed like the dungeon was almost as old as she was, but the name confirmed they had found it. Unfortunately, the mines were inhabited by a dungeon, which meant that getting Thuli his information would take a lot longer than she had anticipated.

“Won’t this help you level up and get that mana you needed?” Mato asked, grinning.

“It seems unreasonably hard,” Ali muttered, clamping her lips together as she realized how sulky she had just sounded. On the other hand, leveling up would definitely be the most effective way for her to solve her mana issues.

They all trooped back to the tunnel and Ali noticed that the rock itself was glowing. Several fissures had opened, spilling lava out of the entrance and into the jungle. Lava that was brimming with mana that emerged to mingle with the remnants of the fire aura the elemental had left, pinning it in place and expanding the domain of the hostile dungeon.

“Wait, that was a dual-affinity dungeon again?” Ali asked, finding the description Calen had shared.

“Yes, fire and lava,” he confirmed.

“I think this lava is propagating its domain, too,” Ali said, pointing it out to the others.

“Hey, this is cool,” Malika said, calling attention to the corpse of the Shard of Flame. She stood over it with an intense orange-red thing resting in the palm of her right hand, a flickering dancing flame that refused to go out. Periodically, she pulsed her mana to heal her hand against the burning of the flame.

Lesser Essence of Flame

“I think Thuli might like this,” Malika grinned.

“Incoming,” Calen shouted, snapping everyone’s attention back to the tunnel as a second Shard of Flame emerged.

I need completely different minions for this, Ali thought as she scrambled for battle. Maybe I need to divert a few rivers down here?

***

Race: KoboldActive Buffs: Azryet's Blessing, FaithClass: Acolyte of Azryet – level 23- Heal – level 17Mana: Heal your target. Range: 45.3 meters.Holy, Healing, Ranged, Wisdom- Restoration – level 15Mana: Heal your target over time. Range: 43.5 meters. Duration: 30 seconds.Holy, Healing, Buff, Ranged, Wisdom- Healing Mastery – level 12You are proficient with healing magic. All healing spells gain +64% [40 + skill + intelligence / 10] spell power. Holy, Healing, Mastery, Intelligence- Azryet's Blessing – level 13Mana: Your Wisdom, Intelligence, and Perception are increased by +60.3% [40 + skill + base intelligence / 10]. Reserve: 20%Holy, Buff, Intelligence- Healer's Sight – level 11Mana: You can see the health of creatures and people around you. You can see their wounds and injuries and understand how difficult they are to heal. Range: 39.9 meters.Holy, Healing, Perception- Prayer – level 14Focus: Seek the guidance of your patron. Mana regeneration is increased by +270% [60 + skill x 15]. Movement or using an active skill cancels your focus. Your Patron may choose to double your bonus at their discretion.Holy, Wisdom- Devotion – level 9Mana: All your healing spells gain Spell Echo, targeting up to 1 [1 + skill / 20] additional nearby targets. Your healing spells gain +18% [skill x 2] spell haste and the effects of all Healing Mastery skills are doubled. Duration: 30 seconds. Recharge: 15 minutes.Holy, Healing, Area, Intelligence- Faith – level 4Stamina: Your will is strong, and your faith is pure. Resistance is increased by +177 [skill x 7 + wisdom]. Reserve: 10%Holy, Defense, Wisdom- [Locked] - [Locked]General Skills- Identify – level 4Aptitudes- Language: Draconic- Draconic Blood (Racial): Resistance to Fire is increased by +161- Darkvision (Racial): You can see in the dark.

- Kobold Trickery (Racial): +5 to Dexterity and IntelligenceAttributes- Vitality: 45- Strength: 5- Endurance: 18- Dexterity: 14- Perception: 80 (+28) - Intelligence: 120 (+42) - Wisdom: 149 (+52) Equipment- Body: Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 20Resistance: 465Magical Damage Reduction: 41.92%+9% Spell power to Healing skills.Health: 450/450Stamina: 162/180 (18 Reserved)Mana: 1192/1490 (298 Reserved)

This was turning into an extremely annoying and frustrating job. Expensive, too. Tala darted along the rooftops, letting her stealth skills keep the curious prying eyes from finding her as she made her way to the bar. Her prospective contractors had declined to meet at the Crooked Crown and instead proposed the Pig ‘n Poke, and while she appreciated their caution, it not only meant a trip to the other side of town, but it also meant she would have to deal with the patrons that frequented the place. Hopefully, it was late enough that most of them would be too drunk or too dead to cause trouble.

Fucking Disruptor. If only that arrogant mage had done his job properly, she wouldn’t still be stuck hiring mercenaries. How could someone with his ridiculous skills and reputation fail to kill a lower-level mage mark? His body – and those of his entire team – had never been recovered, which she supposed was what he got for dying in a dungeon, but she had recognized some of his group’s gear showing up on the market a few days later.

A dead giveaway. She grinned wryly at her own pun.

This time, though, there was much more at stake than simply killing Aliandra and wiping out the dungeon. With the intel that the Adventurers Guild was running a private class advancement, and had been drawing in people from the poor and rundown slum areas in town, Jax Hawkhurst himself had gotten involved. He had been furious, calling it a declaration of war against his business interests – an escalation which had to mean Bastian Asterford was leaning hard on him. It wasn’t about the silver; it was about control. Control and leverage led to results.

Tala smiled grimly as she spied the mercenaries through an open window. You guys had better be worth my time, or I’ll be selling your gear myself.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
