The air split in the distance where Liscor’s city stood. At first, it was a small sliver of light. Then it grew wider, like someone opening a rift in the air. Rags squinted, and she saw them emerging from that light that was a feeling in her heart as much as it was a glow.
Gentle, beautiful, and terrifying at the same time. A light that laid you bare—marred by the metal.
The flashing of metal-tipped blades. The clank of armor. The sound of footfalls by the thousand. Then she saw the figures.
They wore armor in these days. Heavy armor that accentuated their already bulky forms, and their helmets were sometimes open, hugging the Antinium’s faces and allowing their antennae to wave, but many were blocky. Box-shaped or crude ovals of metal with eye-slits.
They all wore armor. Antinium Soldiers and Workers. The odd new kinds of Antinium who were more humanoid.
And the giants. Lumbering, vast Antinium covered in metal, walking on all fours, two forelimbs like arms and huge legs, kneeling behemoths. And their armor was covered in color.
Paint—each one a different style. The Antinium carried shields with their designs on it, and a line of battleaxes flanked the figure in the center.
He walked with a censer in one hand and a simple club in another. The same weapon he had always kept. The robes of a holy man about him. His bodyguard wore cloaks of blue and white and green and brown. Like the sky meeting earth.
—Little rings of glowing light rose above the Antinium’s heads nearest Pawn. Halos. He had no halo, but as he emerged from the rift, the light followed him. A spotlight of it.
“The Painted Antinium. A crusade! Fall back to the fortress!”
“Hold! Hold the line, damn you, or they’ll take us apart! [Priests]! Bless our blades!”
The [General] was shouting down the soldiers. Pawn kept advancing as the Painted Antinium, perhaps an equal thousand to the Reinhart garrison, halted on the grass. Their arrival had startled the Rhirians too; the [Heroes] hung in the air.
Uncertain. At least one of them was licking their lips, grinning, but that air of overconfidence was gone.
Pawn kept walking over the top of a hill as the [General] hesitated, held up a hand, and rode forwards on the back of a horse with a flaming mane. The horse shied away as Pawn advanced ahead of his bodyguard, and the [General] was forced to dismount and walk forwards.
They were close enough that despite the sounds of both armies in the distance, the chanting of the Human [Priests], Rags heard Pawn. The [General]’s voice was loud enough to cut through the howl of battle. Pawn’s did so without the need for volume. As if his words just mattered more.
“I am General Mazrec of House Reinhart’s Fort Coiland garrison. I greet you, Pawn of the Painted Antinium. This is a military conflict between the Empire of Rhir and a Goblin tribe. We have been formally contracted to enter this affray on the side of Rhir. I hope you will allow us our duty unimpeded.”
Pawn tilted his head as he came to a stop, his club resting casually. His censer hung, trailing smoke; his other two hands were clasped together. His voice was calm and direct.
“Today is an auspicious day, Lord General. One of celebration. I shall pray that you enjoy it in your fortress. The Goblins are under my protection. Remove your forces or everyone dies.”
The [General] didn’t react in fear as a shiver ran through his forces. His face tightened, and he stared into Pawn’s pupilless gaze. But a light did shine through the Antinium’s insectile eyes.
Mazrec’s head rose to the [Heroes]. Then swivelled to the Painted Antinium. He glanced at Pawn again.
“—The will of House Reinhart agrees. Pull back to the fortress!”
He lifted his hand, and his army began to move. Rags started to swing around, and Pawn glanced up.
“Those two.”
“Who—release the Goblins!”
The banner halted, and Rags felt herself being lowered to the ground. They almost dropped her, but did it slowly enough it didn’t hurt. They actually just slashed the bindings off her and retreated. She lay there a second, then sat up.
Whoa. Pawn nodded and stepped forwards.
“I shall send a prayer of thanks for you, [General] Mazrec.”
The man hesitated, then ducked his head and clasped a fist to his armor.
“Thank you, sir. My—father has been ill.”
“If it is willed, he will not be. Do not exit the fortress if we make war with Rhir. We shall see. In Erin’s name.”
The [General] strode past Rags to his horse and began to ride. Rags staggered upright and saw Pawn bending down to inspect Redscar. The Goblin was panting and staring at something on the ground.
“Hey. I found my arms.”
He indicated two pale, severed limbs as he kicked one and grinned at Rags. Then the smile faded as he eyed Pawn.
“What is you? Pawn?”
“Hm. Redscar? Now this is a miracle.”
The light in Pawn’s eyes grew more intense, and Rags realized she had begun to shiver. Pawn stepped towards Redscar’s shoulder.
“I shall tend to that. Momentarily.”
He seemed to remember Rhir’s [Heroes] were in the air and pivoted calmly. The Painted Antinium were moving to face the Rhirians alone, and a calculus was being made on the other side of the world.
[Soldiers] began vanishing in that same column of light, and the [Heroes] began arguing with the air. But then they checked the Goblins, who were waiting silently on one side, and the Painted Antinium on the other.
Triander spat on the ground and raised his twinblade staff threateningly. Pawn ignored him entirely. He bowed to the Goblin Chieftain and got a nod back in return. Both sides advanced as Pawn turned back to Redscar.
“I shall heal you, Redscar. If that is who you are.”
“Wha? You can do that?”
The [Blademaster] and Rags gaped at the [Priest]. Or whatever he was. Pawn smiled, but that light in his eyes didn’t waver, and it was no smiling, kindly light. In those depths, Rags thought she saw a force that could have destroyed even [Heroes]. A light that would have one of the Five Families fall back on the battlefield rather than face it.
Pawn’s answer was simple. He replied as Rianchi came stumbling up a hill with Student Rags in his arms, halting when he saw the Painted Antinium and Pawn. The [Priest] peered at him as the Painted Antinium bodyguard swung their axes down and Rianchi froze. Pawn held up a hand and replied.
“I can heal almost everything. But not enough. I am so very, very weak. My one gift is faith.”
When he said that—
None of the Goblins believed him at all.
 
——
 
Safe. At least, for a given value of it. Rags’ tribe had made it to the birthday party. And the possibly-Rags duo had survived. Including Redscar and even Bike Goblin.
That was what Tolveilouka reported to Erin. She sighed in relief. She couldn’t ‘see’ anything, of course, but she knew Pawn.
He was…well, feared sounded bad. Respected, even by powers like Rhir, was her understanding. Erin got everything through Tolveilouka, and she wiped at imaginary sweat on her brow.
“Good old Pawn. He’s always there when Liscor or anyone needs him these days. He’ll handle things. Great! Now the birthday can begin, and it sounds sort of interesting. Stick around, wouldja, Tolveilouka? But remember to stay out of sight.”
“I…shall try, Lady Solstice. Though I remind you that the Antinium and a few others are canny enough to notice me. As is that damn fire-breathing salamander.”
“Who? Oh, Teriarch. If he even shows up. Lazy, that fellow. Not even Ryoka gets him up these days. I think. Well, we can all relax. Lemme figure out what to say to Mrsha about her quest. Oh—and make sure to see if that really is Rags somehow, Tolveilouka. Maybe it’s a Skill? A Goblin who really liked the old Rags’ style?”
Erin thought out loud as she sat there, and Tolveilouka, her ‘faithful’ servant, would have interjected a few hurtful remarks as was his wont. However, even he hesitated.
“Yes…that child is the last one seeking your resurrection actively. I am sure other groups wish to aid her, Erin Solstice.”
Erin glanced up and waved a hand airily.
“What? Yeah, but they’ve stopped. Pisces was, like, the last one. And Pawn, but he hasn’t done anything risky in ages.”
“Yes. That does not mean that one has given up. He has rather admirable devotion. Almost as strong as mine.”
The Putrid One had been relaxing after all the interesting things had ceased; he didn’t care about the [Heroes] using their Skills. The five Goblins had been the only thing he even noted. But he didn’t miss Tolveilouka’s comment.
Erin did. She smiled with distant eyes that had not seen Pawn, really seen him, for ten years.
“You said he’s focused on his people. That’s all I need, Tolveilouka. He’s not crazy. He’s just added me to his religion thing, which is sort of weird—”
She chuckled and rubbed the back of her neck.
“I swear, I almost feel like I can sense his prayers some days. But that’s all.”
“Yes. Absolutely. Nothing to be concerned about at all.”
“Now you’re getting it, Tolveilouka. Give yourself a high-five.”
The Putrid One’s servant peered down at Pawn, then hid behind a boulder from his perch miles distant. He didn’t think that Antinium could see him, but Tolveilouka didn’t want to risk it. Again, in Tolveilouka’s parlance, he might have said, if he was honest, that Pawn was somewhat concerning.
Much like the [Paladin] who had come for his master. That kind of concerning.
Just a bit.
But the fighting had indeed ended, and by that empirical version of the truth, things were now ‘okay’. The two Ragses had met the older one. And Pawn. The Gnoll child and Goblin had rushed into Liscor, but they wouldn’t die there…
It was just talking.
How hard could that be?
 
——
 
First, you had to believe. Even a bit. Just enough to take what was said seriously.
Other worlds. Parallel universes. A Skill and different times. Better or worse.
It was easier because those involved were not, by and large, from Earth. They treated it like something unbelievable and strange, an oddity, a wonder, but not like people who thought they knew the rules of how it worked.
Seeing the visitors helped. Seeing Rags from ten years ago, captured perfectly as she was, or an older Mrsha, iconic in her white fur, was a kind of proof. But most of it was just how they acted.
They knew each other. It was in the adult Mrsha’s eyes whenever she saw someone she knew. It was time, emotion, memories locked away. You could deny the strangeness of it. Deny the probability, the absurdity.
But you could not deny time itself compressed into the fabric of each person who came to you from their own reality. The only way to deny that was to assume that the lives these other people had lived were fake, that they were imposters. Not real.
Brunkr tried that for half an hour until Mrsha kicked him in the groin. Then he sat there, holding his groin, shivering.
Shivering? 
The Wandering Inn was full of chaos in every single reality. Of that, Mrsha du Marquin was positive. In this particular one, with the Floodplains of Liscor filled and the Raskghar and Liscor’s dungeon being on everyone’s mind, it was the chaos of the Knights of Solstice and Elia Arcsinger meeting people from the past.
If Mrsha so chose, she could go outside and see Elia Arcsinger playing the most desperate game of denials in her life with Captain Zevara.
 
——
 
“I’m eternally grateful for your support, Adventurer Arcsinger, but I just can’t understand why we shouldn’t mention this. And where are Arcsinger’s Bows, your team? Are these the new Arcsinger’s Bows?”
The Watch Captain was suspicious. She was always suspicious, and Elia wasn’t sweating, but her face was too carefully impassive.
“I’m not at liberty to say, Watch Captain. This is a private mission for a client. Adventurer confidentiality; you must understand. I would refrain from even recording my name. You may be…fact-checked.”
“By you?”
“No, not at all. You claim to see Elia Arcsinger, when in fact, history will show I was not here. And that may be the wisest course of action to take.”
Zevara studied Elia up and down.
“When I was younger, I used to see your doll all the time on patrol. I’d know your face anywhere. I nearly bought…well, that was ten years ago. Are you telling me you’re not Elia Arcsinger?”
The [Ranger]’s eyes flickered, as if she were placing the hardest shot of her life with her bow.
“…I am Elia, of course. I just suggest there are things you don’t quite understand, Watch Captain.”
“And my telling people will endanger you? I can respect that.”
“It would endanger you, Watch Captain. I would also, potentially, keep the information close to my chest if ever we met again.”
“That sounds like you’re saying you might not remember this. Is this a Manus Shadowscale operation? Mind wipes? A Reinhart or other power?”
“I’m not at liberty to speak on the matter. I suggest the Watch prepare for more monsters from the dungeon—ah, but we do have information you need to hear. There is a Named-rank threat you must be aware of. At least one.”
The Watch Captain tilted her head back and forth, eyes narrowing.
“I can understand and appreciate this mysterious help, Adventurer Arcsinger, but why has a second white Gnoll child appeared in this scenario? Something to do with the Raskghar? All this information you’re handing us—what’s the price I have to pay? Because I will pay it, depending on the cost. But I can’t agree to something that might put me at the mercy of a Skill later.”
Elia paused and brushed her hair out of her face.
“No cost. At least, none to you I am aware of, Watch Captain.”
Zevara barked a short laugh.
“You say that, but. I can’t really believe that.”
The half-Elf pressed two fingers together, breathing out slowly through her nose as the two analyzed the other’s posture, giving nothing away.
“What if I were to frame it as—”
At that moment, Ama walked past Zevara with her arms full of healing potions. The Watch Captain stared at her and snapped.
“And the potions? Why so many from Liscor?”
Elia hesitated, and Ama, who’d heard a bit of the interplay, frowned at Elia, the other people in the inn, and then gave Zevara a beaming smile.
“We’re from the future. Healing potions run out of stock in the future. Also, I’m a [Necromancer]. You can’t arrest me because I’m also a [Knight]. And I saved your ass. Buy me a drink when you see me.”
She beamed as Zevara’s face went slack, and Elia’s developed the very professional blankness of panic. Zevara choked silently for a few seconds, and the hilarity continued.
 
——
 
