Dyeda? Where were you? In the future? What’s wrong?
Dyeda seized Mrsha and held her up.
“Mrsha, we’re in big trouble! Both Ragses are being hunted by a [Hero] of Rhir or—or something, and Rianchi’s going after them! And we think the older Mrsha came through the door! She’s here!”
Root Mrsha’s eyes went wide in horror. She began to write in the air with a glowing wand, then opened her mouth wider in horror.
Aaaaaaaah!
“Aaaaaaaaaaah!”
Dyeda agreed. And they both felt it at the same time. The thing that Mrsha had been so afraid of to begin with.
That hallmark of The Wandering Inn. Chaos as tiny events began to snowball into earth shattering ones. Bigger and bigger, unstoppable—and as ever.
The consequences.
 
——
 
The truth.
If you could stand it, the truth was there.
It was in a lost, adult Mrsha who had just sat herself down at a table and ordered a half-hawaiian, half-fried fish pizza.
It was in a card being held by Brunkr, Lyonette, and Erin as the Order of Solstice stood there. Five Redfangs rushing into the inn and stopping when they saw a familiar-unfamiliar…[Bard].
It was dawning on Visma, on Moore, as they pondered strangeness. Familiar faces, like a memory reappearing in the flesh. A little, white Gnoll girl—dangerous colors—tumbling out of the air with the Goblin back in the future.
A panting [Cyclist] racing over hills, following the glow of a [Chieftain]’s light, as the air turned dark and lightning flashed in the distance.
A trio of Goblins sprinting back towards the inn and cursing and reversing direction when they saw that bolt of lightning coming their way.
 
——
 
Truth. And danger. It was everywhere. When you played with fates like this, you invoked the wrath of countless things. Destiny itself did not like being manipulated. But there were also other beings who hated meddling with causality.
Kasigna watched. Both of her. One hissing with rage, seething, the other quiet, knuckles white with tension. Hooded figures in dark robes.
And the Grand Design of Isthekenous. It was aware…things were happening, but it had to trust its other half was doing the responsible thing. Right now, it was concerned with the greatest and most pressing issue:
The strangers.
It was aware that things were slow right now. Something was taking an insane amount of its attention, not just the other reality. It was as if there were multiple…realities…being managed at once. Which was insane. Right?
It couldn’t think on that. It had devoted every bit of its processing power, its thoughts, to a bit of unauthorized, unsanctioned creation for the last while. It had to.
It had to know what they were.
The two Kasignas were one thing, but those…fourteen? They seemed to shift in number, but they never went far below a dozen, and they were never too numerous. Were they coming and going?
How in Rhir’s hells were they doing that? How in Diotria were they moving through closed doors?
There were doors. The Grand Design had only ever sensed a few open. Three, to be exact. One when many of the Gnomes left. The same one that opened every winter without fail; that the being of green from beyond had used to unleash armageddon on the Seamwalkers with. That strange presence…the land Ryoka Griffin called ‘Avalon’.
A familiar, even nostalgic place to the Grand Design it had factored into its calculations.
The second had been the opening to Earth—the door that kept opening, a one-way sieve that kept snatching Earthers through. Something made with the same power the Grand Design held. It had done nothing to that, because it wasn’t sure…well, it hadn’t tried.
It had been so exciting, and until now, it hadn’t questioned why things were or whether there was right or wrong. The Grand Design did not judge any side; it assigned levels and Skills as each person deserved, like the eternal cheerleader and arbiter it was.
But if that door had opened due to machination of <Temporary Category: Gods>, it might have been…unfair.
That was a consideration. And the third door had been opened during the Winter Solstice. Torn open, really. It was actually a physical hole several hundred thousand miles from the world.
—But these cloaked figures hadn’t used any door to enter or exit, and the Grand Design was sure it would have noticed them before. They…terrified it.
It had never known fear. So the Grand Design did what would have been unthinkable a day or two ago. It meddled.
They sensed it coming. Both Kasignas whirled from their voyeurism of the world. In their little pocket of nothingness, one of them threw up her hands and cried out. The Crone looked for somewhere to flee, wondering if she dared to enter the mortal world and risk obliteration, weak as she was. The Maiden narrowed her eyes and tensed, watchful.
“It will not hurt us, my aged self. It will not—”
“It is malfunctioning! Isthekenous’ tool has gone mad! It—”
Then reality hit. Literal reality. Gravity, physics, oxygen, even a full population of molecules and miscellaneous gases equivalent to the void of space. Both Kasignas cried out as physics hit them and began to unravel their limited forms.
To explain what was happening in terms a less-complex being could understand, you would have to imagine ‘reality’ to be like a scoop of ice cream or a baseball or something. It was something that could move around, could grow, or decrease—not easily, mind you, but the divine could will it into being, create more of it, or unmake it, in the case of Kasignel being destroyed.
Reality had rules. In this case, they were a 1-1 approximation of the physics of Earth. No magic. Pure, cohesive elemental reactions. Lots of mucking about with quantums and so on.
Now, imagine that slice of reality were, say, a baseball. Something movable. In this analogy, the Grand Design of Isthekenous had hurled it straight at both Kasignas. And the strange intruders.
Suddenly, they were no longer in ‘nothing’, they were in the black of space, and it was cold. Two Kasignas began to immediately expire, the cold and particles ripping at their forms, which were just ideas. They had no flesh, let alone the flesh of the divine. They had to shield themselves, expend the precious power they had devoured by murdering their third self.
“It is trying to kill us!”
The Crone was panicking, a rare moment of horror as she contemplated this foe. The Maiden was in agony, but convinced this was something else.
“It is not a foe. It is just a tool of judgement. It—”
Then there was light. Well, light. Matter. An ever-expanding mass of energy and force that blasted in every direction with so much intensity that it expanded reality and left a trail of particles in its wake that would, given time, coalesce into balls of gas and potentially planets and even life before collapsing once more into a constant interplay of physics and matter.
In layman’s terms, what some people had called the ‘big bang’ of creation. The detonation, ground zero, appeared right where the two Kasignas were. And the strangers.
In this analogy, the Grand Design had hurled the fastball of reality at the intruders and then watched it explode. It was matter and force and creation all in one. There wasn’t magic in this reality, but the lack of magic could have killed some magic-based beings outright. All in all, it had calculated that if there was anything mundane that could kill a <Temporary Category: God>, or harm one, it would be that.
The two Kasignas had one second to cry out before the birth of a universe engulfed them. The Grand Design watched from behind a metaphorical rock. You could say that was an aggressive move. One could argue the Kasignas were inappropriate collateral damage.
The Grand Design really didn’t care at the moment. Even its ‘senses’ were overwhelmed by the sheer outpouring of information and data for a moment as it tried to calculate the rapidly-expanding univ—
And then it was gone. One second it was there, bursting into life, rippling outwards, and then it was just gone.
There was nothing once more. The remnants of a body. Two flinching dead goddesses, arms raised to shield themselves.
The strangers remained.
They hadn’t even moved. Not even blinked or flinched. They—just stood there. Observing the Grand Design. Observing everything and everyone. Waiting.
Had one of them twitched? Sighed? Lifted a finger? Perhaps one had in the moment the reality had come hurtling at them. Perhaps not. The Grand Design couldn’t tell. It hovered there as they inspected it.
It fled, trying to come up with another—something. Something.
What the hell were they?
 
——
 
The future was full of uncertainty. Danger. Heartbreak…oh. It hurt to see people die. Right now, it looked like more Goblins were about to die.
A [Hero] was coming. A [Hero] of Rhir, which was to say, an Earther. That was the name used to refer to them, and this one was powerful.
“Level 58, armed with multiple Relics of Rhir and supported by their forces. So not their highest-level one by far, but bad enough. The Goblins don’t stand a chance. The [Hero] has caught them. Two Goblins dead. Oops. Make that four.”
A figure was watching from the High Passes of Liscor, calmly observing the magic and fighting from afar. He was well hidden, sitting cross-legged while sipping from a flask that happened to contain wine. After a moment, he corrected himself.
“Now it’s six.”
He didn’t care. In fact, he would have gladly gone down and wiped out both sides himself, but the [Hero] made him nervous…a bit. He could probably take that one out swiftly, but the Empire of Rhir had more. Hundreds. If not all the same level of power.
My, how times had changed. They were virtually indisputed as the strongest power in the world at the moment, followed by Jungle Tails, and then maybe the King of Destruction or Wistram. Even in the old days, the Blighted Empire would have been—dangerous.
Which was a high compliment in the watcher’s mind. He continued watching as more Goblins died, then spoke.
“What?”
There was a voice in his ears; faint and annoying. Not just because it was faint and hard for him to make out, even with years of practice and all the measures he’d taken, but—annoying in itself. The figure grunted as the wine soured; literally, it began to go bad in the flask.
“No, six Goblins. Not the four in Liscor. The tribe of Chieftain Rags. I told you, this new group came out of nowhere.”
A pause, and the voice twittered in his ear insistently. The man snapped, voice rising in anger as he crushed the flask and the expensive wine squirted onto the ground.
“No, I did not lose track of them. There were no Goblins except the tribe, then four appeared! And the Gnoll vanished. Mrsha. I do not know where she went. She vanished so thoroughly a Level 60 [Rogue] would do no better.”
A snippy comment. The half-Elf snarled, and his beautiful features contorted as his hands tried to throttle an imagined neck. He contemplated, for the umteenth millionth time, just going down into that inn, smashing through the [Garden of Sanctuary], and doing it himself.
“You brainless harlot, I did not grow distracted. I have been sitting here patiently this last week, and I am certain of what I see! You are a pathetic, maggot-filled bag of flesh, you worthless—oh, Master!”
His demeanor changed at once. The half-Elf stopped growing in size, sat back, and his voice became soothing, delighted, and filled with nervous, even pathetic entreaty.
“N-no, Master. I wasn’t shouting at her. I was merely overwrought. With emotion. Yes, they’re dying. Yes, wom—Lady Solstice. The Goblins are dying. The [Hero] is fighting them. I think the north fort’s garrison is turning out as well. The four interlopers are all alive.”
He waited, and his face alternated between a beaming smile as one voice spoke in his ear and a throbbing vein bulging from his temple when the other voice spoke. A complicated man. If ‘man’ described him. He looked like a half-Elf when he chose to be. He wore a kind of half-open pair of robes cinched at the waist, pale white, and he was beautiful, again, until he showed people who he truly was.
His name was Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, not that he had told anyone that. He was the greatest servant of the Putrid One, a being of such danger and age that he rivaled any legend of this world for ferocity.
Right now, he was sitting in the High Passes, observing a battle miles away on the Floodplains of Liscor. Goblins fighting a [Hero]. Not the first time he’d seen it in this age or the ones he had lived.
He was speaking to no one and nothing visible. Not by magic, at least, any communication spell normally employed, even in this more magically advanced time. When he spoke, it was to a voice only he could hear. A whisper from beyond. He spoke, of course, to an [Innkeeper].
Erin Solstice.
She was dead, obviously. But when had that ever stopped her?
 
——
 
Kasignel, the Lands of the Dead. 10 years later.
 
Erin Solstice was pacing back and forth, so stressed out she kept flipping between memories of herself. One second she was wearing her apron, frying pan in hand. The next she was in the clothing she’d worn that fateful day she’d stepped out of her reality. Then she was bloodstained, crossbow bolts sticking out her chest.
It didn’t bother her. She’d been…mostly dead for a long time.
She wasn’t fully dead, of course. Her body was still alive, but in stasis. Everyone she’d asked had speculated she might live for ages, just like the Putrid One, trapped in a mode between life and death. If she awoke, she might die for good, given her injuries.
So she was technically alive. The best kind of alive—that was the joke she told to all the new ghosts she met. It got old fast, but it still got laughs.
Mostly from the other half-Elf, who was sitting on a rock of the High Passes, just on the mountain range and patiently listening to his servant’s fawning talk. He too was not-quite-dead. His name was Zacheales.
Erin called him ‘Zach’ when she wanted Tolveilouka to actually burst a blood vessel. The two ghosts stood there, waiting patiently for Tolveilouka to report on what was going on. It was their only tether to the living world.
Without the Putrid One’s servant, they would have passed time by without really noticing it; let millenia roll by as they relived their memories in this afterlife that was neither unpleasant nor pleasant, merely…quiet. A place where only the highest-level people retained true autonomy. And even they held no candle to the wills of those who still had a semblance of life in them.
Erin Solstice. The Putrid One. And occasionally the Silver Dragon, Yderigrisel, Witch Califor, Maviola El, Gresaria Wellfar, Zel Shivertail and sometimes Sserys—though he was a jerk—or any of the many friends and guests Erin had known over the years.
