“I saw it on Baleros. I am still you, you know. I just believe in things. Technology and belief are strong weapons. We just seldom have as much technology as our foes. Come, I have to introduce you to some members of my tribe before we discuss matters further or they may riot. It should be…nostalgic for them. Speaking of which. Redchild, did any of the Rhirian soldiers have firearms on them?”
Chieftain Rags’ ears perked up, and one of the Goblins strode out of the chaos, clearly one of the more important ones. This Goblin Redscar recognized. He grunted.
“The one with a good sword.”
A female Goblin strutted forwards with a walk uncannily like Redscar’s. When she saw him, she halted and put a hand on her sword hilt.
“None.”
“They know better than to give us samples. A pity. Do you know what firearms are, you two?”
“Yes.”
“Broadly.”
The two Ragses answered, and the Goblin Lord clicked her fingers.
“Bring a blunderbuss. Most of the technology of this time is still primitive. Only a few nations have guns of the modern age. Every other kingdom that tries to develop them is sabotaged—or brought to war. The Blighted Kingdom only uses its firearms when it is sure it can wipe out a foe.”
A Goblin tossed a broad-mouthed object, and Redchild easily jumped to catch it. Redscar leapt at the same time; they nearly collided, and then he was holding a strange object. It was half wood, half metal and looked like a crossbow if you hollowed out the center and put a tube on it.
One glance and Chieftain Rags could see the intent. Redscar offered it to Redchild, and she pulled something out of her bag of holding.
“It needs metal shot, gunpowder, then you pull this back and fire. Sometimes it goes off accidentally, so never load it or point it at a face. This isn’t blessed yet, so it won’t kill anything in armor, much less enchanted, unless you’re right up against it. The Empire of Rhir has weapons that can kill at a mile away. I want some.”
She bared her teeth before handing the ‘blunderbuss’ to Redscar. He turned it over, careful not to point it at anything but the ground, then handed it to Rianchi. The [Cyclist] nearly dropped it and handed it to Student Rags, who immediately began inspecting it.
“Better than a sword?”
Redscar gave Redchild a challenging look, and she snorted.
“Better if you can’t reach them. Better for my warriors. I use a sword.”
So saying, she drew a familiar-looking blade from her sheath. Chieftain Rags blinked.
The Redfang. It was Garen’s sword; she recognized it instantly. But the blade was pale white metal instead of steel, and it appeared—dangerous.
Redscar recoiled and drew his own blade, confused.
“That’s my sword.”
“Yes.”
The female Goblin agreed absently. She regarded Redscar and then tried to slash him. He was already dancing back. The two collided in a crash of blades and separated.
“Redscar! Stop!”
Chieftain Rags shouted, but the Goblin Lord Rags held out an indulgent arm.
“Let her. She has longed to meet her namesake all her life. Do you know who this is?”
The name was a dead giveaway. Rags hesitated.
“I want to say ‘Redscar’s daughter’, but I doubt he ever had children.”
Redscar, famously, liked other male Goblins, and the idea of him procreating just to have a child was also not very him. The Goblin Lord grinned.
“Correct. She is my third daughter.”
Bang. Student Rags had been inspecting the gun, but that revelation made her squeeze the trigger. Every Goblin ducked and a piece of the wall exploded outwards as the gun fired.
When the ringing in her ears had stopped, Chieftain Rags walked over, slapped the gun out of Student Rags’ hands, and turned.
“Good joke.”
“Chieftain Naumel and I made an alliance. One of the requirements to share rulership was to share beds.”
“And you did that?”
Student Rags’ voice cracked, and the Goblin Lord chuckled.
“I never loved him. Not in the same way I think he hoped I would. At the time, it was a choice. For the good of my tribe, I did what I thought was necessary. But we can feel affection for people. And at least enjoy some things.”
“Gross.”
One Rags said it, and the other nodded, but the gunfire and the revelation had at least stopped the duel between Redscar and Redchild. He sheathed his blade and pointed accusatorily.
“That blade’s good. How is it better than Garen’s?”
“It’s blessed. That’s like enchanting.”
Redchild tossed her blade at him, and he grunted as he weighed it in his hand. He hesitated, then handed her his blades. Chieftain Rags saw Redscar visibly hesitate, then pat Redchild on the head.
She instantly punched him in the side as hard as she could. Which made Redscar grin and relax.
The Goblin Lord moved on, and the procession resumed—though no one let Student Rags have the gun again.
“I have been hunted a long, long time. Some of it was my doing. I was desperate to revive Erin; everyone fought hard for a cure. Pisces and his team. Pawn’s crusades. Adventurers. Friends. Pawn spent the most lives by far. When I tell you I hope you will not live the days I did, I mean it, Rags. I have had four children. Three of my willing.”
Once more, Chieftain Rags felt herself shudder and did not ask more questions.
“This future is dark. Bleak.”
“Then avert it. In your time—has Hectval come?”
“Yes. Not in her world, but yes in mine.”
That glow grew brighter, desperate, until it filled the caverns.
“And is Erin alive?”
“…Yes.”
The Goblin Lord sighed, and a murmur rose in the caverns. She said nothing more, as if afraid more would burst that flicker of hope. So Chieftain Rags asked instead.
“Who was that Goblin who created the shadows? Was that a Skill? Miracle? Spell?”
A surprised chuckle.
“Oh—can’t you guess? She’s here. Somewhere. Gothica?”
Gothica? Chieftain Rags’ eyes widened. Then a figure emerged from ahead of them, and it was like she was followed by a sea of darkness that lapped forwards, a blackness so complete it was all-consuming.
The [Lady of Shadows] stood there without any makeup on or silly ‘goth’ dresses. She just wore shadows; they covered most of her face, leaving crimson eyes aglow. She was tall, a Hob, and she made Rags shiver. Chieftain Rags cleared a suddenly dry throat.
“Gothica. It’s…good to see you.”
“Yes. And you, Rags.”
It was Gothica’s voice, a bit deeper and more mature, but so…level, so calm and certain and even genuine that Rags was utterly taken aback.
This future is crazy. She regarded the Goblin Lord without a word, and Lord Rags spoke.
“Gothica is one of the few who survived from the Flooded Waters tribe. One of our most powerful. There is another blade-expert here. Leapwolf.”
Redscar whirled.
“Leapwolf? Where?”
The Goblin Lord glanced around.
“Hiding, no doubt. It is hard to meet you. Gothica, take Redscar to him.”
“I shall. Come, Redscar. I have something to say to you too.”
The Goblin extended her hands, and shadows passed over her, Redchild, and Redscar. He tried to dodge, but it swept over him—and he was gone.
I am going to be a lot nicer to Gothica when I get back.
That was Rags’ resolution. Or to bully her even harder so she levelled up. The Goblin Lord gestured.
“Before I ask what I am dying to know…and it is fitting it came from Mrsha, or at least, on her birthday…I must at least say a few things, Rags. Warnings.”
“Of course.”
They were a practical Goblin, after all. Rags respected her future self giving her a synopsis of information. It was what she’d do. The future Rags tapped her lips, then nodded.
“The Blighted Empire summons [Heroes] from Earth. They trade lives—a thousand to one—for every Earther they receive. Their method is greatly flawed in your time. In the future, they will refine it so only they receive Earthers. They must be stopped.”
“Why? Because they’ll kill the Demons? I don’t know Demons, though I’m more sympathetic to them. But I have met Silvenia. There’s things you don’t know either.”
Like the dead gods. Rags wondered how the Goblin Lord’s future would have changed from their involvement. Or the other variables of her world. Like Ryoka and Ryoko. Well, that was a card she’d keep close to the chest.
The Goblin Lord frowned.
“Silvenia will fight to the end on Rhir and kill [Heroes] by the score, but that force levels too quickly. It will be their end. The moment the Blighted Kingdom takes victory over Rhir, King Othius will turn his attention to the rest of the world. Be wary of that.”
“There’s not much I can do about the greatest world power of my time.”
Rags pointed out reasonably, and the Goblin Lord laughed. She gave Rags a grin as if she were younger.
“With Erin Solstice? Anything is possible. Just remember that of the major powers—Rhir is one. The Iron Vanguard and House of Minos both waged tremendous war against them these last few years. The fact that they stalemated that nation of [Heroes] tells you all you need to know. Another, as world powers go is Ailendamus. It and Taimaguros will sweep the entire south of Terandria by and large in time.”
“…Great. And invade Izril?”
“When the Drakes decide to end the Antinium—yes. They fail. The war costs both sides too much. Salazsar falls from within to unrest. Fissival does not perish, but enters into war with the Archmage of Izril at the time. It is no longer commensurate with the others in terms of power.”
And yet, in my world, things have already changed. How much of this is useful? Rags spoke out loud.
“I’m not certain things will occur identically. Still, good to know. Capability versus certainty.”
“Exactly. On that note, the greatest world power besides Rhir—and arguably matched with them—will be from Baleros. The Jungle Tails company emerged about a year after Erin Solstice’s death. They wiped out most of the Forgotten Wing and Howling Maelstrom companies; they control two-thirds of Baleros at this moment. They eradicated the Gazer company, the Eyes of the Jungle.”
Rags whistled.
“Any idea why?”
“They recovered the Eyes of Baleros—the relics they had sought after so long. And they finished their ritual with no one to stop them, and it succeeded, this time. They created their new ruler.”
“A new Naga?”
“No. A God.”
This time, the shorter Goblin stumbled and came to a halt, and the Goblin Lord fixed her eyes on her.
“You don’t understand what that is.”
“No. I know. H-how?”
“The Eyes of Baleros were some kind of seed. Or power source. Or…egg. When he emerges, every Lizardperson in all of Baleros will grow rapidly in power. Nagas by the millions will emerge. But whether or not he is a true ‘God’ as I and Pawn understand it is debatable. Pawn claims Erin is divine. And as far as I can tell, praying to her does not bless my spaghetti with extra meatballs.”
That was such a prosaic comment that Chieftain Rags had to laugh, and she realized that the two, Goblin Lord and [Priest], or whatever Pawn was now, probably got along but had great philosophical differences.
“Okay. Anything else?”
“A’ctelios Salash wakes up.”
“Oh come on.”
The Goblin Lord waved a claw.
“It destroys most of Chandrar. The King of Destruction is still alive, and his great enemy, the Empress of Sands, was at his throat—the continent has maybe six nations with anything remotely like an intact governance. On the plus side, it destroyed Roshal.”
“Well, that’s good.”
The Goblin Lord’s lips twisted.
“They all went to Rhir afterwards.”
Was there any news of the future that was good? Rags had to ask that, and the Goblin Lord of Dreams thought for a long time. Then she snapped her fingers.
“Well, you can wear a ring that acts as a flashlight, television, communication spell, and music player all in one. The music is very good. Also, we have soda.”
“…What?”
Goblin Lord Rags called out.
“Give the Chieftain a Saliss Spritz can. Not a random flavor like Yellats.”
Someone hurled an object, and the Goblin Lord caught it. She handed a bright yellow can with a naked Drake with a box over it on the can to Rags. The Goblin stared at the Drake. Then at the orange wedge on the side of it. She read the label a few times, then pulled a tab at the top.
There was a crack, a fizzing—she took a sip. Then another. Then a big gulp. The Goblin Lord patted Rags on the shoulder.
“You may develop an addiction to soda. Prayer helps.”
She gazed down at Rags, and the younger Goblin stared at the ‘best’ part of this new era. Then up at her scarred self leading a tribe of Goblins on faith alone, waiting for the day her [Innkeeper] came back.
The words burst from her in a rush.
“She’s alive in my time. You can bring her back here too. I think you can.”
Slowly, the Goblin Lord bent down and knelt before the Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe. Goblins prostrated themselves, but the Chieftain seized her copy by the shoulder, because that was the moment she saw something familiar in that desolate expression, hope standing alone in a world of blackness.
“I believe things will be okay. In my time and this. I do.”
Her gaze was fierce, and the Goblin Lord raised her weary head and met her past self’s eyes.
“For that vision of hope, I was prepared to fight a century. For that ray of light, we can crawl through any ordeal. Let it be done.”
The glow around her grew, and then the entire mountain range was filled with light. Goblins cried out, and Rags shielded her face, though the light was not blinding.
Faith could fill mountains. And she had just given the Goblin Lord faith. The Goblin Lord raised her head in triumph—and then hesitated. Her clenched fist lowered, and she bent, urgent.
“We shall bring her back. And this will be easy, because all Erin’s friends will attend Mrsha’s birthday today. There is more danger than a mere [Hero] for…some of us. Leave the future to us. But Rags. Do not tell Pawn about these other worlds.”
“He seems…dangerous.”
The Chieftain licked her lips, and the Goblin Lord nodded slowly.
“For Erin, he would do anything. If you think I am terrifying, changed, powerful, that is nothing to what Pawn has become. If you were to tell him Erin lives in your world or another…”
Now there was someone who might leave his reality in a heartbeat. Or do as Mrsha was attempting and take someone from their home to his. Rags nodded seriously; she was glad that this Goblin Lord seemed at least reasonable. And of course, she had no intention of leaking the truth.
“The fact of the matter is, we intended covert surveillance, but we were outmatched by all the magical technology of this world.”
“Ah, well, we can provide you with some spells and samples for your world, gladly. Even faith.”
The Goblin Lord assured Chieftain Rags, and the younger Goblin smiled.
