Visma appeared, well, completely unique. And her ring! Was that a multi-function enchantment? A scrying spell that popped up from the ring?
She needed one of those. Rags pointed, and the Goblins crept away from the inn. Only when they were heading down the hill, towards the huge city beyond, did one speak.
“This crazy.”
Rianchi was gaping around and up at the city walls. There was actually a gate facing The Wandering Inn; huge double doors of metal were open, and they could see some people beyond.
In fact…Student Rags was staring at the slanted talus wall, which did indeed roll around until it went out of sight; she could make out people on patrol on the walls.
Antinium; she definitely saw them, but she also saw emplaced ballistae and guard towers rising upwards. Serious defenses.
It was Dyeda who brought her attention lower.
“Look! That—look! Rianchi, that’s someone on a bike like yours!”
Someone came riding out of the city on a bicycle, and Rianchi’s eyes nearly popped out of his head.
“It is a bike!”
There were paths around Liscor, from the walls, and one of them seemed to circle the city. A Drake came biking out, and all the Goblins saw the bike he was on was much like Rianchi’s. They had no commentary on it, but Rianchi did.
“Looks…wait, it’s not like mine. That’s a road bike. See how the tires are thinner? It’s longer. Oh—oh! They have a tail rest for the Drake so his tail doesn’t get caught! Smart!”
There was in fact a back ‘seat’ that the Drake’s tail was lying on that would prevent him from tangling his tail in the wheel. It was small, but to Rianchi, it was so logical. He got his own bicycle at once and would have cycled down there but for Chieftain Rags snapping at him.
“Rianchi! Stay together!”
“Sorry.”
Chastened, he abandoned the idea, but Student Rags pushed back.
“Why not let him bike over? It’s natural, Chiefie. We can’t stick together all the time if we want to get intelligence.”
“Don’t call me that. I can go by myself, but Redscar goes with one of us at all times. Dyeda and Rianchi stick with us until we know what’s going on.”
They bickered as they headed down the hill towards the gates. Rianchi and Dyeda kept back, whispering to each other as Redscar strolled along.
“Hey, Dyeda, what is our job?”
“I don’t know. We’re here to, uh, find stuff? I guess the two Ragses took us because we know the most about the other worlds. Just don’t do anything stupid.”
“I can do that. What’s Redscar here for?”
They glanced at Redscar, and the Goblin [Blademaster] picked at his teeth.
“To stab anything that tries to kill the Chieftain. Or you two if you cause trouble.”
“Hah! Good one!”
Dyeda grinned at him, and he stared blandly back at her. She edged behind Rianchi, and she gave the [Blademaster] a weak grin.
Best behavior.
The problem was—and you hated to admit it—neither Rags knew what was going on. They were doing their best, but Rianchi had observed more of Chieftain Rags than most Flooded Waters Goblins, and he could tell when she was out of her depth.
This world in the future was out of everyone’s depths, to be fair. But the first real indication they were completely underwater came at the gates.
Gates.
It wasn’t the first time that either Rags or Redscar had snuck into a city before. With the blackmarket illusion spells and her Skill, even Goblins like Fightipilota had walked into big cities like Nombernaught and gotten a taste of what it was like to be a ‘real person’.
However, Dyeda and Rianchi weren’t so important, so they were super stressed when they came to the gates. They copied their leaders, who halted at the gates…and gazed around.
“Uh. Where are the guards?”
Student Rags, whom Rianchi and Dyeda were still working on a nickname for, searched around. Chief Rags—no, that wasn’t good—frowned.
“Hm.”
They stood there awkwardly as a few more people exited the city. One Human, two Gnolls, and then a Drake. The Gnolls passed by, arguing loudly.
“No, you cannot buy another ring.”
“Mine’s outdated.”
“They come out with another version every year. This is a scam, no? First it was the w-Ring, then it’s the w-Ring 5.0. Now you want—say it again.”
“…I want an s-Ring 2.0 with Orichalcum enchanting.”
“Doesn’t that sound stupid? Do you hear yourself? There’s not even real Orichalcum in the ring, is there?”
“Shut up, Mom. You don’t get it! Everyone has it. I can’t talk to them or call them without it.”
“Your old ring does it just fine. You know, when I was your age, we didn’t h…dead gods. I’m old.”
Dyeda and Rianchi stared at the mother and son as they tried to work out what had been even said there. They exchanged looks, and Rianchi whispered.
“What’s a s-ring?”
“Must be what Visma had. I want one.”
“Yes, dear.”
They giggled until they saw the two Gnolls turn and the son nudge his mother, who gave them an exasperated look. They forgot how good Gnollish hearing was. Chastened, they turned to the Ragses, hoping they wouldn’t get in trouble.
…None of the three Goblins had heard them. They were peeking around with actual concern now, such that the Drake who came strolling out of the city stopped.
“You folks waiting for someone?”
Young Rags jumped, then gave him a breezy smile. And a pair of finger-guns.
“What? Uh—no. We’re great! Having a good time visiting Liscor. My cousin and I. Just waiting on the Watch. Why? How are you?”
The Drake stared at the finger-guns. He stared at Student Rags. Then he snorted.
“Watch? Why?”
“Uh, to enter the gates?”
A longer, blanker expression, and the Drake jerked a thumb at Liscor’s entrance with a half-smile.
“Oh. You must be new. That’s inside the city. Just walk straight through the arches. No way in except for that. Enjoy your visit!”
He walked off, chuckling to himself, and Student Rags called after him.
“Thanks! It is our first visit!”
Boss Rags covered her face with one claw as the Drake walked off. She, other Rags, and Redscar glanced accusatorially at Dyeda and Rianchi, as if checking to see whether their mistake had been caught.
Rianchi was suddenly very interested in the handlebars of his bike, and Dyeda was admiring the doors to the city. They didn’t like this—Chief Rags cleared her throat.
“Obviously things have changed. Just go naturally. You first, Student Rags. Rianchi, Dyeda, catch up to us.”
“Right. Each city’s different. Redscar? How’s it look to you?”
“Big walls. Hard to take. Hundreds of thousands of people live here. I’m hungry.”
They walked through the gates, and Rianchi and Dyeda followed. The two craned their heads as they passed through the familiar gates—but then through a tunnel of stone.
The walls were so thick there was an entire corridor leading into the city! The tunnel had a second gate at the far end, and Rianchi whispered.
“Looks like trap spells here. Anyone comes in—they don’t come out. Also two gates in case of leaky water. Cool.”
She rolled her eyes; oddly defensive of the Liscor she knew despite having no real connection to it. But the words caught in her throat as they passed through the gates and saw the Liscor of the future.
It was, as they had seen from the outside, bigger horizontally by at least a factor of two. The same went for the inside. Everything in Liscor was taller.
Gone were the apartments and buildings which could only reach up to just thirty feet at most due to building codes. The new walls allowed for eighty feet-high buildings, and some were taller than even that. But the first thing the two Goblins saw were the colors.
Everything was so bright. Painted stone, bright glasswork, and multi-floor buildings with slanted, stone pagoda roofs rose upwards from a market, a profusion of delights for the eyes at the entrance of the city. Hung lanterns made out of what appeared to be silk—spider silk?—warred for space overhead with flying Ashfire Bee paper lanterns.
And there were dangling charms everywhere. Hanging from the corners of the roofs, off of handbags, from stalls, there were bits of stone, pieces of magic enchanted into jewelry—usually tied to an object with a piece of red or yellow or colored string, dancing in the breeze.
Trees lined the market street, tall and grey, with long limbs and growing fruits that turned from dark yellow or orange to a ripe blue. Blue fruit trees! There were warning signs around them that showed in pictures not to eat the fruits’ insides, and a walkway extended towards one of the huge towers that had to have at least eighteen floors!
Dyeda and Rianchi were breathless. They gazed out and smelled the city next. That wasn’t bad either; it smelled like oil—not burnt oil, but the kind you used in cooking—the fruity smell of blue fruits, and a dozen different spices or floral fragrances on the breeze.
Not a bad smell to be had in all of it. People were walking about, all wearing the same vibrant clothing as Visma, many of them talking into their rings or seemingly to the air—
To the two Goblins, it was marvellous. To both Ragses, who could see magic, it was blinding.
“The magic! There’s so much of it!”
Student Rags cried out, and the [Chieftain] rubbed her eyes. Every person they passed had some of it! The stalls nearest the entrance were covered in magic, but the biggest sources by far were the red arches overhead.
There were four crossing a bridge that led into the city over a waterway; to get into Liscor, you had to pass through it. It was a checkpoint, but the Watch wasn’t out in force. A few Antinium were leaning on spears, seeming bored, as a Gnoll addressed someone with a complaint in the background.
The five Goblins stood there, stunned for so long that the friendly Drake who had directed them inside came back to check on them. He gave them a huge wink and threw out a clawed hand.
“Welcome to the City of Charms! You really must have only heard of the last Liscor, huh?”
“Last Liscor?”
Dyeda turned with such an honestly blank expression the Drake wavered.
“Wh—you haven’t heard? They rebuilt the city entirely after the City of Graves…”
He saw her uncomprehending expression, shuddered, and touched a hanging talisman from his belt pouch.
“—Go check out Shivertail Plaza. They have all the history there. Or you can look at the excavation site. Sorry. I was there.”
With that, he stepped back across the bridge, no longer appearing as carefree as before. Dyeda eyed the other Goblins, but there was no explanation forthcoming.
It seemed you were allowed to go in or out of the city at will; the four red arches were made of smooth wood and decorated by hundreds of talismans, bigger than the rest. They moved in the air, and some chimed as people passed through.
“Wow.”
Rianchi was rolling his bike forwards before anyone could stop him. He crossed over the wooden bridge, admiring it as he passed over the rushing water below. The [Gearhead Cyclist] noticed there was a joint in the middle of the bridge; presumably, you could raise it, and indeed, there was a crank at the other end.
“Rianchi!”
Redscar strode after him and pulled Rianchi’s ear halfway across the bridge, under two arches. He snapped.
“Don’t go running off without permission.”
“Ow, ow, ow—sorry, Redscar!”
Rianchi got a full glare and realized Redscar was as tense as the two Ragses, despite how he was acting. Dyeda hurried after them, glowering at Redscar—until they all heard a sound.
One of the charms overhead was chiming repeatedly, more times than the wind would allow. Redscar let go of Rianchi at once, and his hand fell to his sword. Instantly, one of the Watch moved.
“Excuse me, sir! One second.”
An Antinium Soldier walked forwards, a bright badge on his chest. He had on armor suited for him and a helm—a badge proudly proclaimed his rank and title.
Guardsman Xorc, Liscorian Watch.
“Er, me?”
Rianchi pointed at his chest, and the Antinium waved him on.
“You, sir. You’re carrying some enchanted swords, correct? And you know how to use them. Name?”
“Uh—Redscar.”
Dyeda and Rianchi paled as Redscar panicked and answered instantly. The Antinium twitched an antennae. He glanced up at the talismans overhead and shrugged.
“Huh. Well, who am I to judge? Can I get your class and the enchantments on those blades? We’ll just keep you on record, but you’re free to enter and leave the city once I get you—hey, Sergeant Amaiss, do you have any entry wristbands?”
The Gnoll ahead of him turned and theatrically patted his pockets.
“Send someone to the Watchhouse! I’m out!”
The Antinium sighed as he pulled out what seemed like a premade form and began filling it out.
“This won’t take long, sir. Sorry about this. Where are you from?”
“Uh…the High Passes.”
“Oh? Very nice. I’ve always wanted to visit. Which city?”
Redscar eyed Dyeda and Rianchi, and they strode ahead of him, sweating bullets. A few charms tinkled as they passed through, but the Watch didn’t seem to care. Redscar was saved from himself as Student Rags skated forwards.
“Sorry, he’s with me. How can I help you, Guardsman Xorc?”
Rianchi’s stomach hurt like crazy, and he turned onto the central market street with Dyeda. His bicycle was still in his grip—in case they had to run—and Dyeda was hugging him hard. Unfortunately, this left them at the mercy of hawkers.
“Hey there, you two! Get a souvenir charm if you’re new to Liscor! Want a Lucky Earring? Guaranteed to put a bit of luck in your day!”
A Drake was hawking a bunch of differently-colored pieces of jade. He held up one in the shape of a four-leaf clover, and Dyeda hesitated, glanced at Student Rags and Redscar—Student Rags was energetically explaining things—and walked over.
“How much luck is that?”
“Oh, as much as you need. If you want a bunch of it for cards night, I have a Waisrabbit foot bound in silver, but it’s a bit kitschy to walk around with. These little charms are very fetching and have no magical interference, of course. How many talismans do you have on you?”
“Um. None?”
The Drake was clearly leading her on with that, and he beamed.
“None? You’ve got to have at least one or two! New to Liscor? Here for a charm?”
“Um, that’s right. My husband and I are looking for charms because we heard Liscor is the City of Charms.”
The Drake was beaming and nodding.
