…There were more of them, it felt like. More of them—if Erin Solstice glanced up, she could see them hovering in the air, sitting, listening in, or just letting time pass. They gravitated to her wherever she went, and she followed Tolveilouka wherever she sent him. Therefore, they were one of the few mobile bases of ghosts save for the [Pirates] in the ocean, moving across Izril and sometimes beyond.
Dead. They were all dead. Oh, yes. Erin had long ago made peace with the fact that she wasn’t likely to come back. They’d all tried…so hard.
But the trying had hurt them, and she’d been glad when they picked up on the hints for them to stop. It had cost too much, and aside from one last girl, they’d all moved on. It should have been simple enough for Tolveilouka to watch over her. But right now…
“Tell me again what they look like, Tolv. Tell me what you heard them called.”
She could half-see him. Sort of. A bored, lounging half-Elf idly peering down. He was an undead; he had a kind of connection to the lands of the dead. Not as strong as some beings, but strong enough. Thanks to the Putrid One, they could speak to him. At least, they could when Erin held the Putrid One’s hand or gripped part of him. They’d solved the need for her to do that all the time through some complicated necromantic rituals that redesignated Erin Solstice as a co-master of Tolveilouka.
Boy, he’d hated that. Right now, Erin Solstice was being kind. If a bit insistent. She hovered there, a ghost seeing through his eyes as he described the Goblins.
“Two are short, of identical height and aura. One is wearing armor made of Wyvernhide; the other merely clothing. One has a half-cut with dyed tips in the carmine flavor of red; the other is untidily shorn in what I would describe as a—”
“Yeah, yeah. I don’t care about the hair. What about their names?”
Tolveilouka fell silent, and the Putrid One spoke in a rasp.
“Tolveilouka.”
“Rags, Master. Both seem to answer to the name. And yes, these are the two young Goblins. Not Chieftain Rags.”
“Rags. How? Do people just name their Goblins Rags? There aren’t any in her tribe. I don’t think Rags had kids. Does one have a black crossbow?”
“No.”
Erin flitted back and forth, thinking.
“Then…darn, what else is recognizable? Go to the one with the sword! I don’t know any Goblins with a bicycle from the old days. Does the one with the sword have…scars?”
She paused.
“Don’t answer that. I know how it sounds. Is his name ‘Redscar’?”
“I believe I heard that shouted.”
“Impossible! He’s dead!”
“He’s soon to be dead.”
Tolveilouka sounded smug, and Erin Solstice whirled.
“You can’t let that happen! You have to save them! And figure out what’s going the heck on—and where Mrsha is! That’s an order, Tolveilouka Ve’delina Merr! No one dies! No one else dies. Not today.”
She whispered and grew transparent in grief for a moment. The other ghosts stirred, and above them, the Silver Dragon Knight spread his wings. He peered on as the curious [Innkeeper] who had wandered the lands of the dead lowered her head.
Erin Solstice had refused to rest quietly. From the moment she had awoken in the lands of the dead, she had walked, from continent to continent, asking for help in coming back.
Countless ghosts had listened to her plea and told her they were unable to help. She had travelled to dusty Chandrar, where the Rulers of Khelt held sway. They had heard her out sympathetically, but refused to do more than attempt to communicate with their descendant—if she found a cure. She had beseeched the Sage of a Hundred Thousand Secrets and received his grudging help, travelled to Baleros and had an audience with the oldest beings in the world.
—But they had refused to give her anything but kindness and chess games. Erin Solstice had met with and offended the Hundred Heroes of Terandria and their royal descendants and been barred from the continent.
At last, she had chanced upon a being not too far from her, a lonely, half-dead [Necromancer]. Erin Solstice had befriended him, and together, they had hatched a scheme. It was this:
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Merr, the greatest servant of the Putrid One, bane of his foes, master of rot, slayer of Dragons, was playing nursemaid to Erin Solstice’s friends. He had been for eight long years.
‘Only eighty to go, except in Ceria’s case.’ That was the joke Erin told, which again, only made the Putrid One himself chuckle these days. He had a mercurial sense of humor, that one. Why he helped her was only for him to say, but this gaggle of strange ghosts had become somewhat infamous as one of the few groups actively influencing the living world.
More than one group had come to Erin to settle old scores or act through her; she refused. She had only one desire: to see her friends safe. It had mostly worked for eight years. She had been too late for some. But she had found them all and gathered them here, all those who wanted to stay with her.
When they were all here, on their own time, then she’d rest. If they found a way back to Earth, then she’d give Tolveilouka one last message to send. That was…the determination of the [Innkeeper]. Now, she waited, resting her chin on her knees, not getting what was going on.
“Rags? Two Ragses? Ragsii? Keep them alive, Tolveilouka.”
“Even if I must reveal myself to the Blighted Kingdom’s get? They will not ignore one of their [Heroes] dying. I will be pursued.”
Tolveilouka’s voice was cautious, excited, and caustic all at once. It was unclear if he himself relished the thought of doing battle with his life on the line. So many of his actions had been…helping from the shadows. Killing a dangerous monster. Ensuring someone stayed alive in a battle. Unplaguing people—he’d really hated that.
Erin Solstice raised her head and met the Putrid One’s gaze. As ever, his eyes were oddly—empathetic. And so empty of affection for anything and everyone. Including his own most beloved servant. Including himself. He nodded to her unspoken plea and spoke.
“If the ones Erin Solstice values fall into danger, slay the [Hero]. Do not reveal yourself for anything short of that. If need be, I will unleash the Blade of the Walled Cities and my most powerful Revenants. Do not fail me, Tolveilouka, my beloved champion.”
“Yes—yes, Master! I shall not!”
The half-Elf grew excited, and Erin smiled wanly at the idea of so much chaos that Tolveilouka cherished. She didn’t want that—but it was today. She curled her knees inwards to her chest and sat there.
“Poor Mrsha. I know it means so much to her. But I’m fine. D’you think I should write another letter with Tolveilouka’s help, Zach?”
“Likely not. She still believes it was her mother or Ryoka who wrote the last one.”
“Mm.”
The [Innkeeper] waited. As she had done for ten years. She wasn’t really sad anymore, and she wasn’t sure if she was happy, watching how lives changed. Watching this world…move. But she was content.
 
——
 
Rags was such a funny name. Everyone told her that. She really did need a last name.
Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe was a mouthful. She could have a second name; Gnolls did it all the time, like Krshia Silverfang. But Rags Flooded or Rags Waters was just…bad. It sounded like a weird drink, like the ones in the stores in Liscor.
Everything in this world was so…odd. Futuristic, but not like she expected. She’d expected to find people flying with spells. Instead, the future was a bottle of ‘Marwshian Kombucha’ with a little shiny label on it in a refrigerator.
A magical refrigerator, and you couldn’t just print a colored label like that easily. It spoke to mass-production, putting one on every bottle, and she’d seen more sold in some of Liscor’s stores. Bright, colorful drinks or food from all over the world wrapped in that see-through film.
That said that teleportation allowed people to buy from distant markets with ease; lower-income people with access to fruits from another continent. But it wasn’t—
“Duck!”
The screaming voice made Rags, Student Rags, dive off her skates onto the ground. Just in time; something passed overhead, and she felt death cleaving an arc over her head.
No knowledge of what it was; when she raised her head, she only saw a huge groove in the earth, slicing out the grass and flowers and exposing soil. Deep. Eight feet.
Death. She shuddered—and a hand grabbed her, yanked her up.
“Run!”
Chieftain Rags snarled and raised her other hand. She fired a [Fast Fireball] off her finger, a quick ball of superheated light. It arced up, curving, and exploded; the ripple of heat and pressure on Rags’ skin made her flinch, and she went deaf a second.
Then she heard a male voice laughing and saw a [Hero] cleave downwards, a staff with blades on both ends twirling, glowing with hypnotic light. The [Fireball] had done absolutely nothing to him.
He had golden hair. A handsome face for a Human. Even his skin looked glossier than normal; his lips had a sheen to them, and she wondered, in the moments of her forcing her legs to move, using the [Apista’s Jetfire] spell to shoot away from him, whether he wore makeup.
Her rollerskates weren’t working well on the grass. Rags was waving her arms, trying to keep balance as they jerked her forwards, and around her was battle.
The [Hero].
He’d landed in a literal flash of lightning out of the skies. The air had turned dark; white lightning had descended, and he had appeared and begun to kill. They’d seen him coming, of course. That had been why Moore had teleported them away from the inn. All three Goblins had been running north when they’d realized they were approaching another…Goblin.
A Chieftain. And if they sensed her, she must have sensed them. Because a dozen Goblins had come scrambling down from the cliffs of the High Passes along the Floodplains’ northern edge. A grim fortress of stone was at the northern pass leading to Esthelm and the north. It was blaring with alarms.
The Goblins were dead. Six of them were already lying smoldering on the ground. That twinblade staff had cut them to pieces; the dismembered limbs were still smoking.
It had been quick. That was all Rags could think. She was running, now, panting for oxygen, the laughter in the air mixing with the high-pitched chanting of Goblin war-cries. The [Student] glanced over her shoulder and saw a Goblin throwing a spear at the [Hero].
A spear. It had a steel tip and barbs, but it was just a spear. The [Hero] didn’t even bother deflecting it with his spinning staff. The man pointed a finger, and there was a flash.
White lightning. The Goblin vanished in an explosion of light. Student Rags flinched, cowering back. A voice in her mind was telling her to fight. It sounded like Niers.
“[C-Call for Aid: Send Me the Stuff of Stories]!”
She pointed a finger at the [Hero] as his head swivelled. More Goblins were arriving, leaping down the rocky cliffside, taking cover behind rocks, throwing more projectiles at him. They swerved away at the last moment; a few struck the air and shattered as a purple barrier pulsed to life.
Barrier spells. He was a Named-rank adventurer in strength. Stronger. Lazily, the [Hero] pointed one hand at the Goblins and waggled four fingers.
Four lightning bolts. Falling stones, still green bodies. Dead or taking cover. Then he gazed at Rags.
“Was that a bluff? Your Skill didn’t do shit.”
…No one was answering. The [Student] lifted her hand as windows flickered around her. She saw, for the second, a grey-haired face.
“Professor?”
Then he was gone. A Gnoll blinked at her. His eyes focused, and the white-haired Gnoll rumbled one word.
Berr the Berserker said—
“[Heroes].”
The window closed. Rags searched around. Someone. There had to be someone in this day and age—
There was no Foliana. She didn’t see Altestiel. Had she missed it? Erin was dead.
“Can I have that one? As a pet? No? C’mon—fine.”
The [Hero] was speaking to someone in the air. He rested the flat of one blade on his shoulder, scowled, and shrugged. Then he switched hands—raised a gloved finger, and the tip of it sparked.
Death. The [Student] threw up her arms and screamed. She had seen people die, and she had wondered how she might meet her end. It turned out she was just like the others.
“Not yet—!”
Not yet. Please. She wasn’t ready.
The world was bright. The sun was shining. But it wasn’t brilliant, overwhelming radiance. The [Student] wasn’t dead. She lowered her arms and saw a familiar figure in front of her.
It was like looking into a mirror, but one of those funny mirrors that distorted the world. At an image of herself—taller, or so it felt, tougher. Garbed in Wyvern armor and Carn Wolf fur. A scowl on her face, a bleeding cut just over one eye. A shortsword in one hand. A ball of white lightning in the other.
Chieftain Rags caught the bolt of lightning. She pointed, and the [Hero] leaned out of the way of it as it came back. He recoiled.
“Whoa. Did you see that, command? Can I have that—shit.”
His twinblade staff spun, and Student Rags saw it lash out. One blade whirling like a rotating saw forwards—only to rebound, the other blade chopping down and once again be parried left. Two upward slashes as it twirled—both misses as Redscar pirouetted left—and then the [Hero] caught the pair of cuts from the [Blademaster]’s swing on the haft of the staff.
The force of the blow made him skid back—his staff had to spin desperately to deflect one thrust-stab from Redscar’s blade. Then he jumped and became a bolt of lightning, reappearing fifty feet away, cursing.
—All of that in a blur that Student Rags’ mind processed after the fact. Redscar pivoted back and jumped—three bolts of lightning blew the entire spot where he’d been into a smoldering crater. He slid down the hill as Chieftain Rags dragged her counterpart down.
“Fast bastard. You okay, Chieftain?”
Redscar panted. Chieftain Rags shook out her clawed hand; it was shaking.
“Hand’s numb. That lightning’s not normal. Can you take him?”
Bared teeth as Redscar glanced up.
“Sure. If he doesn’t run. Up—”
Student Rags was about to shout a warning, but the [Chieftain] pointed up, and her own bolt of lightning met an arcing charge of white lightning. It exploded overhead, and the Goblins ran, using the valleys of the Floodplains as cover.
“I think it’s his gloves. He probably needs to recharge. Watch out; that’s just one of his tricks. We have to link up with that Goblin tribe. They’re getting massacred.”
That was what Chieftain Rags said. Rags—Student Rags—was gasping for breath.
