“You wouldn’t get finer. All our products are made with stones from Esthelm or Orefell—or freshly-panned from around Celum in the case of jade. They’ve all been blessed or enchanted at a Site of Meaning—you can visit some of them if you want. Depending on the charm, they’ll lose a bit of effectiveness over time, but one visit to a [Charm Maker] or just walking into a Site of Meaning and it’ll charge right back up. Perfect for gifts or whatever you want. Luck is my best-selling item. Protection is second up there, along with health.”
He indicated the many jades. Dyeda dithered.
“Oh, I don’t know. What’s good?”
She hooked Rianchi over to him, and he realized they were blending in well as…what was the word Kevin used? Tourists. The Drake grew more eager, realizing he had potential clients on his hands.
Here was the thing. In their unfamiliarity and naïveté, Dyeda and Rianchi were excellent visitors to Liscor. They fit, well, the clueless masses who arrived in most travel cities, and Liscor was certainly one of them. Unlike both Ragses and Redscar, the two Goblins were also very genial and not as sharp or inquisitive in their questions or demeanor.
They obediently listened to the entire spiel about the different talismans, how they were made, how many you could wear until you ‘confused’ the effects, and after some whispering with Rianchi, Dyeda bought a charm of luck for herself and one of protection for him.
Hers was a little golden needle, which she really liked, and it hung diagonally from a small length of blue thread, regardless of how the weight should have bore it down. Rianchi pointed at a shield of silver, which he weighed up and down in his hand. He didn’t feel like it was grand magic and said so.
“Ah, it’s a charm, not an enchantment, sir. If you want something noticeable, I have a friend who specializes in high-grade talismans and artifacts. I can give you his address if you like?”
The Drake was wrapping the charms up in two pieces of vellum, and Dyeda smiled and dug around in her belt pouch.
“Please! And how much is this?”
She dug around in her bag of holding, and that was her first mistake, obviously.
Payment. They didn’t have any knowledge of the economic systems ten years in the future! Chieftain Rags, watching Redscar argue with the Watch, began to stride across the bridge, and Student Rags flashed the two Goblins a desperate look.
“For you? Only two gold coins and six silver, miss.”
The Drake flashed Dyeda a brilliant smile, and another [Shopkeeper] rotated her head to open her mandibles wide in horror at what must have been wholesale robbery. She—was an Antinium. Rianchi kept staring at her, open-mouthed.
Then he saw Dyeda produce three gold coins and put them on the table.
“Here.”
The [Shopkeeper] inspected the gold coins briefly, eyes lighting up for a second.
“Oh, interesting. That’s…good gold. Uh—thank you very much, miss.”
He casually slid fourteen silver coins out of a tray onto the table, and Rianchi saw Dyeda scoop them up and hand him one. Liscor’s symbol was embossed on the silver, and the coin was beautifully wrought…and thin.
It was half as thick as the coins of his time. Rianchi nudged Dyeda, and she smiled brightly.
“We still use gold coins from our city. Which is quite a ways away. Yours are so beautiful.”
“Why thank you, miss! I could exchange them for Liscorian gold if you’d like.”
“Mm. Maybe later.”
The [Shopkeeper] sighed under his breath as the two Goblins traded smiles. Their gold worked! And it seemed like their gold went further than the modern day, because more than one [Shopkeeper] on the street had noticed how they’d paid and were calling out.
They were doing it! They were real spy-people. Rianchi grinned as he tied the talisman to his bicycle handles, and Dyeda added the golden needle to a wristband of string the Drake had given her for free. They saw Study Rags and a grumpy Redscar coming their way and were waving at them and holding up their talismans as Chieftain Rags stomped at them.
The two got a smack on the arm from both Ragses instantly—mostly because they were too tall to hit on the head for the shorter Goblins.
“What are you doing? You’re supposed to be undercover!”
“We are! See? Now we fit in!”
Dyeda innocently protested as she held up the charms. She got glares from all three Goblins and folded her arms defensively.
“This isn’t hard! Rianchi and I is normal. You’re the ones who stand out.”
Rianchi nodded vigorously and edged back as the three Goblins raised the finger of poking wrath. The married couple couldn’t help but feel like they were getting all the anxiety and confusion of their leaders.
Where was Fightipilota when you needed her? She was always good at saying something that got a kick.
Instead, they received more pokes, hard ones, and the two Ragses marched them forwards, unified in their grumpiness now. They led the group forward fast, ignoring the entreaties of the nice hawkers, on a search for knowledge of what this world was.
Dyeda and Rianchi gave each other the married couple’s telepathic look. They were good Goblins. They liked their tribe and Chieftains…but right now, they were getting a bit fed up with this.
Yes, it was the future.
Yes, it was a sad world.
But weren’t they allowed to at least enjoy it a bit? Dyeda paused to inspect some beautiful flowers that had a tag on them.
From Lord Moore’s gardens!
She was about to ask what that meant when Student Rags booted her in the rear. Apparently, the answer was no.
Don’t enjoy things.
 
——
 
Ten years in the future. Where did you start with getting a lay of the land? It was hard, actually, to even ask the right questions because people assumed you hadn’t been in a coma for ten years. So even innocuous questions were loaded.
Like—
‘Who’s the current Archmage of Wistram?’ was a crazy question to ask out of the blue. Let alone how they’d gotten there.
‘What magical or technological breakthroughs have been made in ten years?’, ditto.
The key was subtlety. And asking the right people. Libraries were good. The two Ragses made for that while asking key questions to people along the way. The problem was—they put their foot in it the entire time.
“Excuse me, I just got to Liscor, you wouldn’t happen to know where I could buy a map of the cities in the north, would you?”
That was a great question for Student Rags to ask! She’d defend that one any day of the week in Time Traveller Class 101: The Dos and the Don’ts. However, the Gnoll woman who met her gaze just pointed.
“Uh—try any Portal Station? They have a map…of all the portal cities. And they sell them.”
What, did you get here on foot? Student Rags backed away, apologizing.
Chieftain Rags was next. She came to a crossroads in the street with a glowing piece of metal showing people when to walk and when not to. It wasn’t hard to figure out. Red meant stop. Green meant go. There was a third color—blue—but it didn’t seem to activate on a timer.
Chieftain Rags turned and saw an Antinium staring at one of the magical rings on his finger. He was dressed in…clothing. Clothing sized for him, but he seemed slimmer than regular Antinium she was used to. She hesitated, caught Student Rags’ eye, and then sidled over.
“Excuse me. You’re one of the Antinium, right? Do you know where I can find out about the…Painted Antinium? Or your people?”
Painted Antinium. Perfect segue into learning about Antinium. Directions to a book or even a helpful chat, quod erat demonstrandum.
The Antinium slowly looked up from a scrolling line of text he was reading and gave Rags one of the most instantly hostile looks she’d ever got from anyone, let alone a bug person.
“We’re not all Painted Antinium. I’m not.”
“Of course not! I can tell because of the…lack of paint. But you are Free Antinium, aren’t you?”
The Antinium man stared at her, then leaned forwards.
“I’m a Liscorian citizen. Thank you. Not a member of the Free Hive of the Antinium.”
She opened her mouth to ask what that meant and realized she was getting dirty looks from the crowd waiting to cross the street. The light turned, and they strode off so fast Chieftain Rags nearly threw up her claws.
Even poor Redscar tried his best. He stopped next to another man with a sword, a Human, on the street and nodded at it.
“Nice sword.”
The other man and both Ragses stared at Redscar and waited for anything else. After a moment, the man half-unsheathed the blade awkwardly and smiled.
“Uh—thanks. Just got it sharpened.”
He walked off, and Redscar walked into an alleyway and refused to look at anyone for a minute. It occurred to the two Ragses that they might have assembled the wrong team for information-gathering.
What they needed were gregarious, sociable types like Snapjaw. Or Prixall—a [Witch] was always useful. Or Rabbiteater, though he was a bit weird in Chieftain Rags’ timeline.
“We should have gotten Mrsha. People like Mrsha.”
Student Rags nodded at Chieftain Rags and snapped her fingers.
“You know who we need? Leapwolf. He’s charming. We go back, get him, and—Rianchi, I swear to Nagas, I will hurt you. Get back here!”
She turned, dashed off, and hauled Rianchi back from trying to buy an ice cream cone. He whined.
“But they’re selling it! I’ll buy you one!”
“Absolutely not. We’re here to get information. Not to waste time!”
Both Ragses were stressed. Understandably so, but it gave them a kind of tunnel vision. They were consulting a map of the city helpfully spelling out where places were when one pointed.
“Wait. Wait a second—that says ‘Raithland Manor’. That’s familiar.”
The two both knew the word for some reason, but they couldn’t place it. There was a central mansion of some kind smack dab in the city near one of the huge gardens, and there were four gardens! They scratched their heads until Dyeda spoke up innocently.
“Oh that? Maybe that for Lord Moore.”
“Lord—what?”
Student Rags whirled, and then the dots connected. She huddled with Chieftain Rags. They had to get information about that. The library? Or maybe they could ask someone on the street about it!
—The first person on the street gave them a look like they were idiots.
“Of course he was made a [Lord]. After the dungeon. He killed the Mother of Graves and liberated the…excuse me. I don’t want to talk about it.”
They got the same reaction from several Liscorians until one of the passersby informed them curtly.
“Look, I wasn’t there, but this isn’t something people like talking about. It’s public history. Go read about it in Shivertail Plaza. The entire thing’s written down there.”
“Shivertail Plaza? Thank you! Sorry!”
Now they had two destinations! The two Ragses hurried back to tell Dyeda and Rianchi that—they’d trailed behind again—only to find the two of them trying on rings!
“It’s only forty gold pieces for the latest model. And the Merchant’s Guild offers a line of credit.”
They were in a store! Both Ragses dashed inside, but too late. Dyeda judiciously counted out a huge pile of gold pieces.
“I will buy it now! We have to have the four point oh ring, right, Rianchi?”
He heaved a huge sigh as he stared at the pile of gold.
“Yes, dear.”
The sympathetic [Store Owner] counted up the gold pieces, remarking on the weight. Dyeda happily explained.
“We’re new to Liscor, and I got a big inheritance from my aunt. Why? Coins in Liscor are smaller but more beautiful.”
“Ah, it’s about the weight. All the old coins get melted down for how much gold they’ve got. Tell you what, I feel bad about charging eighty gold coins. I’ll charge you seventy, and I’ll tell you about an honest moneychanger. The Merchant’s Guild will rip you off. But don’t just spend it straight; you’re bleeding gold.”
“Oh, thank you!”
The [Store Owner] smiled and then indicated the rings.
“Let me just run through the features with you since you’re new users. They come with all the old enchantments. Anti-appraisal, utility spells, location tracking—”
Both Ragses stood there, freaking out, and Dyeda’s eyes flickered.
“Ooh, can we turn that off?”
“Absolutely. Just give me a few minutes—I’ll be with you in a second!”
The [Store Owner] called at the three other Goblins, mistaking them for new clients, and Dyeda assured her they were together. Unable to sit around, the two Ragses and Redscar walked out and spent what turned out to be thirty minutes window-browsing and getting more answers out of passersby.
A Drake [Beggar] turned out to be a goldmine of info. He was only too happy to rant about his grievances with the north and south.
“I used to be part of Liscor’s army, you know. The real army. Now it’s all General Olesm—we used to roam around the south, you know.”
“Really? What happened to Liscor’s army?”
“The Demon Wars! Those bastard Demons…the remnants of Liscor’s army either joined up with Manus or came home. And then the city didn’t honor us veterans! Only those who served over ten years in the army—I served nine, and one of them on Rhir’s soil! But I couldn’t stay in the damn army. With the Antinium. Look at all of them around you. Walking around as if they’re people.”
“Free Antinium? From the Hive, you mean?”
The beggar was getting himself worked up, but Student Rags’ question made him hesitate.
“Free? No, they’re—well, they’re just damn Antinium. Not Hiver Antinium.”
“Antinium not from a Hive? How does that work?”
“…They’re just Antinium. Not—there are Antinium veterans who get benefits, you know. It’s only four years for Liscor’s army! But for us originals—”
Okay, it wasn’t the most comprehensible, but Student Rags was going to put this all together with information from Shivertail Plaza and the library any second now. She gave Dyeda and Rianchi a full glower when they came out of the shop. She strode over where they were getting punches from Chieftain Rags and Redscar.
“What are you doing wasting gold?”
She hissed at them, and Dyeda gave her an indignant look.
“We were getting information! That nice lady talked a lot, and we have two cool rings! See?”
One touch and the ring lit up with a truly dizzying configuration of symbols. Student Rags held out a clawed hand.
“Give it to me and I’ll inspect it.”
“No, get your own!”
“I don’t have forty gold pieces lying around!”
Rags was a student! And the Flooded Waters tribe in her world used gold, so she tried to live frugally. Dyeda gave Student Rags a blank look and then dug around in her money pouch.
“Oh. Okay. How much you want? I have lots in Rianchi’s bag of holding.”
“You…what?”
