It seemed like sunlight was streaming down from a cluster of Antinium [Priests] who had put their hands together over his arm. Where the sunlight shone, flesh and bone and sinew reconnected the limb and the burnt flesh.
Miracles. Rags had known Pawn had this power back in her time. In this one, the Painted Antinium had marched out of another dimension via a Skill, forced a world power to back down, and then healed severed limbs—something even the Healer of Tenbault struggled to do.
Chieftain Rags had a feeling she had just laid her eyes on the strongest being she had met in the future so far, and it was confirmed by the future Rags bending down to whisper.
“Tell him you must speak with me. Do not let Pawn accost you. Do it now. If you are from the crazy situation I have to believe you are—you cannot let Pawn take you.”
Both Ragses gazed at her, then Student Rags casually sauntered over.
“Hey, Redscar, your arms on yet? We have to talk to Chieftain Rags. Hurry up!”
Redscar was flexing his other arm, but he caught the mood in the air and stepped over.
“Sure. We going now?”
He jerked his head over to look at the Painted Antinium; they were mostly marching back to the city, but Pawn and his bodyguard were deep in prayer. They surrounded him, armored giants kneeling as he intoned a prayer for the [General].
That spotlight from the heavens was shining down on him. Chieftain Rags saw his head turn as he raised his arms upwards; he clearly wanted a word. But the older Rags just pulled on her arm.
“I will figure this out, Pawn. You must fall back before you alarm Rhir further. We will meet for the birthday. All of us. Ask Mrsha what is going on.”
Pawn’s head nodded fractionally, and he went back to praying. The alternate Rags of the future twitched one huge eye at the four Goblins, including Rianchi, who was standing over the remains of his bicycle, close to tears. Her red eye had a pale golden iris in it, Rags realized. And black pupils.
Uncanny. Future Rags pointed and walked up the hill.
She…was no Goblin type that Rags had ever known in her memories of past Goblins, nor from meeting Anazurhe or the others. Rags suspected that this future Rags would shock even a Goblin Lord.
It was a simple hike up across the blasted terrain of the mountain, still shattered by the lightning bolts, and into a cave opening. The moment Rags reached it, she recognized the familiar quality of the caves of the Kingdom of Trolls.
“So this is where your new base is? Pretty solid. The mountain probably shields you from most scrying spells, even in the future, right? Where’s your fortress?”
Student Rags peered into the mountain, shuffling her feet as they entered the darkness. The ground was rough-hewn, and it smelled of a lot of bodies having passed by. It was dirty; bat dung was everywhere, and the bat colony itself must have fled.
Typical Goblin lair conditions. But nothing the Goblins of the past were used to living in. However, the future Rags merely replied.
“We have none. We roam the High Passes. Sometimes, if we must, we move north and south, but if we tried to build a spot, Rhir or another group would hunt us down. The Blighted Empire has not paid attention to us much—yet. After today, I fear it will be multiple [Heroes]. One, I could kill. Even two. Four or a dozen will slaughter us.”
She was so casual about it that Chieftain Rags halted, and Rianchi ran into her. He was sniffing quietly. He’d really taken his bicycle being blown to pieces hard.
“Rianchi, stop crying. I’ll buy you a new one when we get back.”
“But—but Kevin’s dead. He made this one.”
Chieftain Rags closed her eyes.
“Then…we’ll get one from the Kevin in Student Rags’ world. Okay?”
“Okay…”
Rianchi was still down, but the future Chieftain Rags turned her head. And there was another quality about her new form immediately apparent:
Her eyes were like flashlights. They lit up the cave with a lurid, red glow. She looked genuinely terrifying in the darkness, and Goblins were used to seeing each other’s glowing eyes. But this Rags seemed like a big-eyed nightmare as her shadow stretched out behind her. A…an omen of death.
Monster.
Chieftain Rags wished she hadn’t thought it, but the taller Rags just nodded at her.
“Aha. So you are from our past. I thought so.”
“You just leapt to that conclusion?”
Even for herself, Chieftain Rags was incredulous, but the future version of her merely shrugged.
“I have met [Chronomancers]. It is an inconceivable event, but what else explains seeing a copy of myself appear—and Redscar? Who would siphon my memories of that time, and for what purpose? Most of all, I have long suspected some strangeness in the world. There are endless secrets and mysteries, as I am sure you know. The secret of Goblin Kings. The mystery of great powers. The truth of Dragons and, hah, even the mystery of how Redscar survived his encounter with the [Hero]. He should have died.”
That’s right, he should have. Rags recalled Redscar not even being in pain after being delimbed. She’d put that down to adrenaline, but when this older Rags pointed it out—Student Rags lifted a hand.
“My wounds also stopped hurting, and I got stabbed through the legs. Plus, Rianchi and I were electrocuted. I thought we just got lucky, but maybe it was you? Or Pawn? You’re both…you have Pawn’s class, right? [Priest]?”
The older Rags shook her head slightly.
“Both of us have the power of miracles. We have faith classes—that is the name for them, and they have spread far and wide in the last ten years. These classes can indeed create genuine miracles, but they usually work off what we need and know. Sometimes providence Skills occur; twists of fate. But I doubt it was that. Neither Pawn nor I expected to find you. I was only told a few Goblins had been caught by the [Hero]. I assumed you were my tribe. The mysterious healing has happened before.”
“Really? To whom? When?”
“Several members of my tribe. Myself. I have been held prisoner and escaped in improbable circumstances. Once, I found a great foe dead. Murdered as I prepared to enter into battle with it. A Bogleraum no less.”
Chieftain Rags had no idea what kind of monster that was, but Student Rags suddenly shivered.
“Wait, so you’ve been having mysterious aid help you for…?”
“Eight years. Give or take. I never received an answer to what it was, and I naturally explored many theories, wild as they were. In your case, your demeanor plus the literal confirmation the Rags in Wyvern gear issued was proof enough. Whether I believe you—another matter. But the theory has been presented. And I take it you are ‘Student Rags’, who must come from a time when you became a [Student]?”
Oh, she was smart. The future [Chieftain] smiled at the look the younger Ragses traded and the respectful nod she got. Chieftain Rags coughed.
“You did save us. Thank you; we had no idea it was so dangerous for Goblins. I—I am sorry for your tribe who died to save us.”
Here was where the encounter with the future began to truly show the changes. The older Rags glanced down at her younger selves and lifted a hand and flicked it.
“Think nothing of it. Far fewer died than I might have expected. None of them were blessed or matter. Within a few days, other Goblin tribes in the High Passes will replenish our losses.”
That halted their procession through the mountain. Redscar, who’d been mostly focused on making sure his arms were properly back on, halted. He fixed the older Rags with a glower and spat.
“Molten Stone.”
By that he meant Anazurhe’s tribe, who also used ‘lesser’ Goblin tribes to shelter her own. The two younger Rags were stunned; the [Chieftain] grimaced, and the [Student] was open-mouthed in shock. Rianchi looked at them and groaned softly.
The older Rags caught the meaning in Redscar’s tone. She favored the [Blademaster] with a smile.
“Redscar. I have missed you. If you were here, you would never have allowed this. Molten Stone. Oh, yes. I took the idea from Anazurhe. She is dead. Do you know Chieftain Naumel? We didn’t meet him until later. He is dead. Greydath is dead. The Island of Goblins and Goblin Lord Izikere are dead. The Goblin Lord of Baleros, Kanadith the Herald of the Goblin King, is dead. Rabbiteater is dead. Numbtongue and Badarrow—alive. But gone to ground. The Blighted Empire hunts down all its enemies, and Goblins have become its latest target.”
The recitation of death stunned the Goblins. Redscar put a hand on his swords and grimaced.
“Why so bad?”
Slowly, the strange Goblin drew herself up. Behind her, some of her tribe had filled a wider part of the caverns. They stood there, silent, in awe of their leader. Not like the Goblins of Goblinhome, who would take the piss, joke around, obey, but be a people.
This was like Tremborag or Anazurhe—desperate Goblins following the last light in the world. The only person who could keep them safe. And Rags of the future?
She had so many scars. Hundreds. Maybe thousands. The more Rags looked, the more she realized the other Goblin’s body was all scar tissue. When the Chieftain of the future planted the staff she carried on the ground, the dark caves turned to light.
Light, enough to make everything feel warm and bright, flooded the caverns. The rough rocks and lichen seemed to smooth away, and suddenly it felt like they were in a neat, artificial corridor, not following the cramped intersections of the mountain. Even the pain and fatigue left the other Goblins’ bodies.
Rags of the future looked down upon her past selves and shook her head.
“I could say it was because Erin Solstice died. I have thought it—I have longed to say it and believe that upon her rested the hopes of a better world. But the truth is that when the [Innkeeper] died, the world kept moving. The only difference was that there was no silly inn able to influence powers. Liscor suffered in war; it faced the dungeon. But it rebuilt and became a local power. Now, it is the City of Charms.”
She waved a hand towards the entrance of the tunnels, indicating that vast city and the fortress on the Flood Plains.
“The Five Families lost a war against Terandrian nations, but they are still here, even if some have been pushed to the brink. The Blighted Kingdom won their war and now threaten the world. But these things happen. One day, a Goblin King will arise once more and set this world shaking. The Blighted Empire will fall in time. It is just that these things are not what my tribe and I are part of. We are surviving. Unimportant, hiding Goblins trying to survive till the next age.”
Her lips twisted.
“I dislike it. So I wait in my mountain, gathering my tribe and training the few warriors I can. Preparing for the day when I can step out of the shadows. Not to be a Goblin King. But to wake up and see an [Innkeeper] standing with a white flag once more. Then—I have promised my tribe—then better days shall come once more.”
She stepped forwards, and now her eyes were filled with stars. A constellation of them—and when Chieftain Rags gazed into those orbs, she was transfixed. They drew her in, and she could see that moment. Not a memory, but a smiling young woman, white flag in hand, arm raised in victory, a white Gnoll by her side, kneeling Antinium before her, and rejoicing Goblins jumping around her.
The Rags of the future blinked, and the [Chieftain] was released, but the vision was still there. She gestured at the cave’s entrance.
“You see, Pawn and I differ in how we think of her, but we both believe. He sees a goddess who will return and bring wrath and salvation to his Antinium. I have always admired the woman. His belief has turned to fervor and mania. I await her so I may dream of the future once more. For I have only this one until that day comes.”
She spread her arms wide and drew back one leg in a graceful bow. The staff floated up next to her, and when the Goblin smiled—flowers bloomed and grass split the stones. Mushrooms grew from the walls, and Goblins raced forwards to pluck the real plants, harvest glowing Sage’s Grass and wild leeks.
She was radiating the power of her faith. Her nature—her very being seemed to amplify that certainty in her eyes. The future Rags spoke.
“I greet you, my past selves. Before you stands one of the last of the Goblin powers in the world. I am the [Goblin Lord of Dreams]. Duxcepin; a Goblin subspecies who rules and inspires. Welcome to my tribe. I shall give you everything I can, for in you, I see my promised days at last.”
Student Rags gasped as the Goblin Lord revealed herself. She pointed a trembling finger.
“But—impossible! You’re not that bright! We sensed you, but you weren’t that—”
Chieftain Rags already knew the answer and voiced it aloud.
“She’s in hiding. Like Greydath. There must be ways for the Blighted Empire to sense her.”
The Goblin Lord nodded.
“Traitors. Goblins convinced to serve King Othius the Fourth. He will have the loyalty of the world if he must use any means to secure it. But he spent his best [Heroes] against the Demons; he is not unassailable. Come, though. We shall relocate until we are almost below The Wandering Inn.”
And suddenly, the Goblins were swept up by the Flooded Waters tribe of the future—no, the Tribe of Dreams. Which was a silly name, but it felt like a dream.
These grim tunnels became inviting and warm, food literally sprouted from the walls, and wounds healed in the presence of the Goblin Lord. It was no illusion; these things happened. But it was localized.
If Chieftain Rags stared ahead, she could see the dark tunnels receding and appearing behind the Goblins on the march; this truly was a dream. And it only lasted as long as the Goblin Lord did.
Small wonder other Goblin tribes bowed to her. Goblins marched as huge Fomirelins carried wooden poles over their shoulders; hanging cookpots on a mobile stand were fed with coal and ignited. Wounded Goblins were rolled forwards on wagons pulled by—of all things—lizard-like horses who snapped pieces of meat up as they were tossed to them.
That was hardly the strangest thing; Goblins were praying, clasping their hands together, and some reached up to receive gifts from the sky. Others prayed for healing, for guidance as they scavenged for food, or just…prayed.
“Dead gods. That’s like Centaurs. Cookpots on the go.”
Student Rags pointed out the Fomirelin walking, and the Goblin Lord chuckled.
