“Wh—we have to—there’s no way to kill him. He’ll reposition. Lightning ward spells and—and—you saw he has an anti-projectile barrier. It probably works on blade attacks. We’re dead.”
Be a [Strategist]. She was trying, but this wasn’t a battle she had prepared for. She was the [Strategist] with no cards; Chieftain Rags and Redscar exchanged glances.
“I don’t have any ward spells. We have to injure him.”
“He won’t let us run. I’ll cut the lightning.”
They said it like it wasn’t madness. It was. They knew it was. Student Rags had led her tribe across Izril until she’d quit. This was worse than Bethal Walchaís and those damn Rose Knights. Worse than even Elia Arcsinger.
But the [Chieftain] just pointed left, and Redscar moved right. Warriors. The [Student] stood there, shaking, and she was ashamed.
High-pitched screaming from the cliffs. More Goblins. Her two allies were going to die. The [Student] had to move; she did the only thing she could think of and climbed up the hill. When her head crested the grassy slope, she kept an object lowered, just out of sight.
“H-hey, you! Get lost or we’ll have to kill you!”
The [Hero] turned. Student Rags instantly opened the magic umbrella. Sunlight bathed her as the Umbrella of Safety shielded her.
No bolt of lightning came. Rags peeked around the edge of the umbrella, and the first arrow nearly took her head off. She flinched; the [Soldiers] unleashed three dozen arrows at her, and over six punched through her enchanted umbrella’s fabric.
“Dead g—reinforcements!”
He was summoning reinforcements! There were over forty armored men and women moving down the hill. And more were appearing in bursts of light.
That wasn’t fair! They raced forwards, silent and determined. Flesh and blood. They didn’t look like summoned beings; this [Hero] had pulled them from some garrison elsewhere in the world.
“Kill those Goblins coming out of the mountain. I want the one with two swords and the one who caught my lightning. Hey, you bitch. Come and get me!”
The [Hero] jumped and landed on the hill that the [Student] was standing on before she could move. The impact and thunder knocked her back—he kicked the umbrella, and it slammed into her.
Rags flew—hit something—bounced—and rolled down the hill. She jerked a few times, gaped up.
Ow.
Her umbrella, her precious gift, was crumpled and damaged. Student Rags looked at it and then saw Redscar. He leapt for the [Hero], both blades drawn. The Goblin actually covered the entire valley that Rags was lying in, eyes on the Human.
The champion of Rhir grinned and spun his twinblade staff overhead. Then he spoke.
“[Scythe of Carnage: Army Cleaver].”
The red blade swept around him and cut the hill Rags was lying on. It sheared through the top of the hill, and then the green blade followed. Dirt exploded into the air, and Rags saw the top of the nearest hills had just—vanished. Flat earth remained.
“Redscar!”
The [Hero] had cleaved a hundred feet around him in every direction—twice. But he was scowling; a Goblin landed five seconds later next to Rags, cursing.
He’d dodged, somehow. Used a Skill that had propelled him upwards, avoiding the scything blow. Redscar glanced at Rags, and his teeth were all visible. His eyes were wide, sweat on his skin, glistening off his warpaint.
“The future sucks. Get to Rianchi and run.”
The [Blademaster] began walking up the hill as the [Hero] raised his hand. Redscar whirled a blade up, but the [Hero] pointed at the cliffside and blasted all ten lightning bolts there.
“Stop yapping at me. They should have been out of my Skill’s radius.”
What did that mean? Rags was running in the opposite direction; she had to guess he’d hit his own soldiers with that Skill. She heard a whining sound behind her—looked over her shoulder and saw the ground split. Redscar had already dodged; he eyed the bisected hill, and both Goblins heard a curse from above.
“Stand fucking still!”
“No.”
Insane. The [Hero] wasn’t taking Redscar seriously; his tone and demeanor all suggested he was leaning on his massive level and artifact advantage. But the madder he got, the more dead they were. And they were dead—
“Chieftain!”
Someone yanked Student Rags towards them as she rounded the base of another de-topped hill, and she screamed. It was Rianchi; he was pale-faced, on his bicycle.
“Chieftain—no, Rags! We got to go! Come on!”
He tried to drag her onto the bicycle. Student Rags didn’t object, but she hollered.
“Redscar and your Rags are out there!”
“Can’t help them! We go!”
“But—”
The [Cyclist] didn’t argue; he just took off. Rags grabbed him as his bicycle shot up a hill. She hadn’t realized it; everyone had made fun of him, but Rianchi on a bicycle was possibly the fastest Goblin in the entire Flooded Waters tribe. They accelerated up the hill so fast that when they crested it, they caught nearly a dozen seconds of air.
The [Strategist]-in-training got her first complete view of the battlefield, and time slowed so she could take in the chaos around her. Behind them, Redscar was squaring off against the [Hero], who was slashing the ground with his twinblade from that hill. Outside his radius, the [Soldiers] had formed some kind of formation and were fighting Goblins on the hill.
There were a lot of Goblins now. Student Rags caught sight of Hobs and even bigger Goblins exchanging long-ranged fire with the [Soldiers] as both sides rushed towards each other. The ground had already turned into a battlefield, torn up by the [Hero]’s blades and pitted with lightning bolts. But where was…?
Rags’ [Quick Thinking] Skill didn’t stop time forever. Rianchi hit the grass, and she nearly bit her tongue as he sped down the hill and up another one. The [Cyclist] veered left, and something exploded on the ground.
“Aaah! Blast Arrows!”
“Aaaaaaah! I hate this!”
Both of them screamed at each other. Rianchi was pedalling through the valleys now as someone decided they had to die. The arrows stopped abruptly as Rianchi searched around.
“Where are we? Which way to the inn?”
“I don’t—watch out, enemies ahead!”
He tried to brake, but they had so much momentum that his wheels skidded on the grass and carried them around the bend of a hill. Student Rags raised her Wand of Light Arrows, knowing it was going to be as good as spit—and stopped.
Four [Soldiers] wearing black-and-gold armor were on the ground, three of them downed, the last one clutching the remains of a smoldering arm. A Goblin was pointing her shortsword at the one sitting with his back to a metal barricade of some kind.
Chieftain Rags. One of the other [Soldiers] was trying to pull herself upright; she had several deep cuts on her back. The ground was scorched black.
The [Chieftain] flicked her eyes up at Rianchi and Rags and then addressed the soldier.
“Which nation are you from? Who is that man? Answer me and you’ll live.”
The man in armor gave Chieftain Rags a blank, hostile stare. What little Rags could see of him from his helmet was soot-covered and Human…his armor was good. It must have saved him from a point-blank [Fireball], but Rags’ sword had still managed to cut it.
“The Blighted Empire of Rhir has sent a [Hero] of Earth to hunt your tribe, Goblin. None of you will survive this.”
He spat at her. Rags raised her brows.
“Why us? We’re just Goblins.”
That didn’t get an answer. The [Soldier] just turned his neck as another roar of lightning turned the sky temporarily black. His good hand jerked down, and he pulled something up.
“Watch—”
Chieftain Rags lunged, and her sword went through the gap in the helmet. Something thunked—then there was a roaring sound and a flash of light from behind them. A piece of the hill vanished, and Chieftain Rags cursed.
“Aspat.”
She pulled the blade free with a grimace and then reached down and prized the stiff fingers off—a hand-crossbow. It was loaded, Student Rags saw, with a bolt with a bright white tip. The [Chieftain] tore the crossbow loose, inspected it, then tossed it.
“It must automatically reload. Careful. Where’s his ammunition? They all have bags of holding.”
The [Student] caught the crossbow gingerly and felt it in her hands. Rianchi hesitated.
“Chieftain, get on. We have to—”
“Loot the bodies, Rianchi. Armor too, if you can. Then get to the inn. If Dyeda hasn’t already, get help. From this world. The bodyguards won’t last a second against that [Hero]. I’m backing up Redscar, then we’re following.”
Chieftain Rags came up with a crossbow of her own, and she began running up the hill. Student Rags eyed Rianchi, but he was already leaping from the bike. He began tossing items not ruined by the [Fireball] into his bag of holding.
“Come on—bodies too big to put in bag of holding. Hurry!”
Looting the dead as the thundering violence in the distance grew louder. Student Rags’ hands shook as she prized at the armor, then removed a helm and saw a dying woman snarling up at her, paralyzed from the spine down. Rags leapt away, and Rianchi looked down, then seized her hand.
“That enough. Go! Go!”
He was on the bicycle. Rags clambered up onto it, and he biked them away. Up a hill—only then did Rags realize there was a voice coming from the helmet. She put it to her ear.
“—Hero Triander, Hero Triander. You are to assist your forces. Casualties are mounting beyond acceptable rates. Hero Triander, do you acknowledge?”
Triander. Not a name Rags knew. She heard an impatient, familiar voice echo back.
“Command, shut the fuck up. I’m saving my energy for the Chieftain. I got one of their champions. Now I’ll kill the rest of them.”
Oh no. Rianchi pedaled up a hill and halted.
The [Hero], Triander, was standing on what remained of the hill he’d been fighting Redscar from. The entire area was a bowl-like depression, marking where Triander’s staff had carved up the ground. He was standing over a figure, who was kneeling on the ground.
Redscar. Rags didn’t understand what was wrong. The Goblin wasn’t moving. He looked like he was alive. But he’d never just give up. Was it an immobilizing Skill? Then she twisted the Ring of Sight that Niers had given her and felt sick.
He had no arms. The [Hero] turned as Redscar tried to heave himself up and kicked him down the hill. Then he jumped and became a bolt of lightning.
“You have to get him—get—”
Rianchi was already turning. The Goblin was pedaling at Redscar in a wordless cry when they saw a flash.
The [Hero] landed on them, and Rags didn’t feel herself hitting the ground. She did feel something searing hot stab through both legs.
“Got the other one. Where’s that other bugger—hey, this Goblin’s riding a bike. Do you see this, command? I’m moving.”
Rags was drawing a breath to scream when her entire body went numb and convulsed. Another impact; the [Hero] had jumped again. Then she did begin screaming.
Her legs! They were burning hot, and she was convulsing; she tried to sit up. He’d stabbed a hole in her legs, right above her knees! She could see blackened flesh, and she couldn’t move—
She could feel Rianchi next to her, twitching from the electricity running through their bodies. The air was filled with smoke. And she could still hear the [Hero]’s voice.
Laughing.
 
——
 
The laughter of that monster filled her ears. Chieftain Rags slid down the hill to Redscar and found him trying to bite the hilt of one of his swords.
Student Rags and Rianchi might be dead. She didn’t know.
“Redscar.”
A stump of blackened flesh on either shoulder greeted her as the Goblin gazed at her. He was covered in blood. He spat.
“Run.”
“No.”
One of the Rhirian soldiers’ crossbows was in her hand. Rags gazed around and saw flashes from the place where the Floodplains met the High Passes. Armored soldiers were fighting next to that figure with the colored twinblade staff. Even as she watched, he carved through a group of Goblins with a Skill.
They kept coming out of the mountain. That was where they were hiding. Rags bent down to pick up Redscar. Or his arms. Then her [Advanced Dangersense] pinged.
She looked up and tried to juke left. The arrow punched her in the shoulder anyways, spinning her. Redscar snarled as Rags pivoted. She raised her crossbow, and something knocked it out of her hand. So she pointed her finger up.
[Fast Fireball].
It shot towards one of the figures lying on their belly. Then vanished in midair.
Dispelled. Rags tried again, and the fire went out in her hand before it could even manifest.
Another arrow punched her in the knee, and she staggered, but her armor deflected the arrow. She heard a voice of surprise from above.
“Armored Goblin. Watch out—”
She jumped with [Apista’s Jetflame]. [Ogre’s Strength]. [Speed].
Rags landed amidst the two figures in armor, who rolled away. She tried to bring her sword down on—what? A helmet adorned with thorns and vines? Two light blue eyes—
Someone deflected her sword before it could shear through the helmet. Rags realized she was in the middle of a patrol. One of them had risen to his feet and blocked her blade.
She was no Redscar, but she pivoted back and slashed at his leg. He parried the blow and stabbed back; this time, she felt a lance of pain in her chest. Rags pointed at his face.
[Flashbang]—the flare of light deafened the other Humans around her. The man in front of her had a badge on his chest, she picked out. Officer. She lunged in a stab for his face and saw something as the light faded.
His eyes were closed.
He locked blades with her and spoke.
“[Disarming Parry].”
Her blade flew from her grip as he twisted it out of her hands. Rags stumbled, reached for a dagger, and one of the other armored figures raised a hand.
Something blasted her off her feet and would have sent her flying, but a second spell, a hand, grabbed her in midair. Her head snapped back, and Rags hung there, stunned.
“Captain, are you alright?”
“I’m fine. Capture these two Goblins. Make sure that one down there doesn’t immediately die. Keep well back from Rhir’s [Hero]. Inform Lord Calidus we are dangerously close to the fighting.”
Calidus? The hand pulled Rags down, and then someone was binding her with ropes that deadened her magical senses. She tried to struggle; someone put their boot on her head. She came to a conclusion as she was tasting grass and dirt.
Reinharts.
The [Soldiers] had emerged from the fortress at the far end of the Floodplains. Hundreds of them, she figured, as they hauled her back. They must have seen the [Hero] coming, but they didn’t seem keen on rushing to his aid.
