“We have some of that. Actually, I owe Dyeda—she’s Rianchi’s wife—an apology. She bought some rings already that—“
Rags paused. She had a sudden, worrying thought. She turned slowly.
“Rianchi? Where did Dyeda go when you saw the [Hero] coming after us?”
She looked around as the older Rags stiffened suddenly with remembered tension and alarm.
“Rianchi?”
 
——
 
Student Rags wasn’t part of the two older Ragses conversation. She’d been there for the first bit of it and tried to get a word in edgewise, or state her opinion, but in the way of such things, she’d kept saying the first words of things, then falling silent.
Because for once, she didn’t have an opinion strong enough to interject into the conversation. It had pushed her out, and she’d found herself in an unguarded retreat. A few paces; that was all it took to exit this battleground of feelings and experience and…authority.
She was no [Chieftain]. That was the thing. When this Rags of the Future talked about being assaulted by captors or leading her tribe through hell and back, the younger Rags could look her in the eye.
The [Student] was too ashamed to do even that. She felt like an ant, crushed by the sheer weight of this Goblin Lord’s authority. So like an ant, she scurried back, listening, but keeping her head low. Ashamed.
The thing about ants was that they liked company, and lo and behold, whom should Rags see but Rianchi. He was sitting in a corner of this temporary campground, a bunch of metal parts spread out in front of him, gloomily trying to hammer a bend in his wheel back into shape.
“Chieftain? Oh—other Rags?”
Rianchi glanced up, and his eyes went to the two Ragses’ conversation. It was still perfectly audible; the other Goblins crept around the Goblin Lord and kept their voices lowered. Even if not for that, both could have read the body language.
“Hey, Rianchi. How’s it going?”
“Is good. For very bad sucky day where I almost die. Just…trying to fix my bike. You should be talking about important things, right?”
Rianchi attempted a smile, but it slipped as he tried to get the wheel straight and failed. Rags saw his bicycle was pretty damn trashed. She was no expert, but the metal frame had scorch marks on it, several pieces of the gear-stuff were shattered, and one wheel was badly bent. Notably—whatever enchantments had been active were gone because Rianchi was bending it far too easily with his claws.
She guessed this was an ultra-light metal and without Hedault’s magic, the entire bicycle wouldn’t be able to take the weight of riding. From Rianchi’s face, he knew that too, and he was mostly trying to fix what he had because there was nothing else to do.
Rags took one shoe off and inspected her own wheels built into it, realizing the lightning had damaged them too.
“I’m not…I don’t really fit in with those two’s conversation. I’m no [Chieftain]. Damn, the lightning got my shoes good too. I suppose it’s a miracle it didn’t break my bag of holding. Your bike looks sort of wrecked. You can get it repaired though, right?”
Rianchi’s tone was flat as he produced a small pot of oil and a chip in the metal and paint vanished. He was using what repair skills he had, but was clearly unable to deal with this wholesale destruction.
“Sure. Maybe. If Hedault and Pelt help. I don’t have money.”
“Oh, but the inn does. Problem solved if you can get it to them.”
“Yep.”
Rianchi tried to fit two pieces of the blackened gear together, then tossed it moodily at a wall. Then he got up and picked them up and held them.
“Kevin made this bike. He’s dead.”
Student Rags’ throat closed abruptly. She sometimes forgot, in all the chaos and excitement of these alternate worlds, why Mrsha and Rags had come here.
“I’m so sorry. Most of it can be salvaged, right?”
Rianchi wearily rubbed at his face.
“Front wheel’s gone. The chain’s intact. Gear system…all the parts except for the largest are fine. A few of the spokes are damaged, but the magic should keep the wheels strong enough. It’s…repairable. But I can’t ride this for a long time. There are some spare parts in Goblinhome. I’ll fix it when I get back.”
His tone was flat. He was packing away each piece of the bicycle as Student Rags searched for words to say. It was like when Venaz lost the sword he’d been personally given as a gift upon making the Beriad. You could replace it. Make it better. But this mattered because of the moment.
And this was Kevin’s. She didn’t know what to say and sat there with Rianchi until they realized that they were being observed.
A lot of the future Goblin tribe, the Tribe of Dreams or whatever they were called, were watching. They were Cave Goblins, at least, in appearance, a mix of Hobs and small Goblins. The few Fomirelin were busy lugging items around, but Goblins were always, well, Goblins.
Curious. When Rianchi and Rags turned, they began to flee, but Student Rags held up a hand.
“Wait. You can look. We’re just…Goblins. Like you.”
She saw a motley gaggle of professions as the Goblins turned back. A number, Rags and Rianchi recognized. Each tribe had roles for Goblins to occupy.
Basic scavengers, cooks, haulers, fighters, all the things you could imagine. But also specialists like Goblins who could patch or even resize or, rarely, make new armor and weapons. One of the Goblins present, for instance, had soot smeared onto his cheeks in a stylistic pattern, frizzy hair smudged with grease, and a cap with glass goggles on it. He was fiddling with what Rags realized was a mangled crossbow from one of the Rhirian soldiers, deconstructing it.
But some of these Goblins had entirely new roles unique to Goblin Lord Rags’ tribe. Such as a Goblin wearing all black with eyeliner and black nails and of course black clothing.
One of Gothica’s followers? And a third simply had robes on, decently sized to the shorter Goblin’s proportions. And—Rags saw with a start—white hair? And some kind of weird amulet they held in their hand.
Most of them were young, fittingly. Older Goblins didn’t have time to waste, and it seemed like the average lifespan of Goblins in this tribe was not long based on how the Goblin Lord fought. These children might have been nearly as old as Rianchi and Rags, honestly. Half their age.
“You…ing with he…fix it?”
The Goblin with the sooty face pointed at Rags and rattled off a question in Goblin. But it stumped Student Rags, because she had never heard language like that. Not primitive; rather, he used eight words she didn’t know!
“What? Excuse me, what did you say?”
The Goblin scratched at his cap.
“You…bike broken? You is fix?”
He said it far more slowly, and she got the impression she was being spoken to like a literal baby. Rags retorted.
“Sorry, I don’t speak, uh, Goblin, that fluently. The bike’s broken. The enchantments wore off when we were hit by that [Hero]’s lightning outside.”
Rianchi nodded in confirmation and showed the little Goblin the bicycle. There was a spark of connection between the two Goblins, especially when Rianchi silently indicated a little tool the Goblin was using. The Goblin had been unscrewing a part of the crossbow. Now, he flicked the black metal tool out and produced a different head on the first multitool that Rags and Rianchi had ever seen.
He moved an odd, pointed tip just over a smooth section of metal where the crossbow was joined together and twirled it around in the air. It looked silly and pointless until Rags saw the crossbow begin to split upwards slightly.
The young [Tinkerer] or whatever he was replied to Rags.
“Yeah. Big lightning bolt filled with antimagic disenchanted the bicycle. Gearage looks destroyed, but the front wheel is good metal. You can probably re-enchant that. You want help?”
His tone was so effortlessly fluid that Rags recoiled in shock, and Rianchi’s mouth dropped. The Goblin boy glanced at them, and his eyes screwed up in humor.
“You talk like other Goblins. Can’t speak proper. Is past Flooded Waters tribe like that?”
He grinned with juvenile superiority until the Goblin holding the amulet reached out and pinched one ear.
“Stop that. This is Goblin Lord Rags of the past. A miracle we have prayed for. So it appears, and so you shall be respectful. He is Chambersoot. I am Roithe. This is Zammy and…”
She introduced the other Goblins and then released the amulet she was holding. Student Rags stared at it and got a chill down her spine.
It was a tiny image of a sign. A piece of wood, hand-carved out with that iconic writing on it.
No Killing Goblins.
“Dead gods.”
Rianchi had seen it too, and Roithe tilted her head.
“They used to say that too. All the old Goblins still talk like that. You really are from the past. Is it true? You know how to cure the Human of the Inn?”
Her eyes shone with that same desperate hope as her Goblin Lord, and Rags hesitated. She glanced over at the talking Goblins, and nodded.
“I think so. I don’t know the exact method. My…Erin…never died. This is Rianchi. I’m Rags. Student Rags. Hi.”
Nothing she could have said would be more impressive to the gaggle of young Goblins. They scooted forwards, and the black-haired Goblin spoke.
“Your Erin is alive? How?”
That had to be Zammy. The [Goth] Goblin met Rags’ eyes, jerked her chin up.
“I’m Zamathica, the Gloombringer. One of Nightlady Gothica’s warriors. You’re actually from another time?”
Her eyes were as hungry as the others, but her name—Student Rags bit her tongue hard not to laugh.
[Goths]. A [Tinkerer] in Chambersoot, a [Goth] in Zammy, and in Roithe…the [Student] made an educated guess.
“You’re an [Acolyte] of some kind, right? One of those faith classes?”
The Goblin half-nodded.
“I’m a [Faithful]. Not an [Acolyte]. That belongs to a formal religion. Like the Painted Antinium. Some of us are inducted whenever Goblin Lord Rags meets with the Prophet.”
“Who?”
“Pawn. Bishop of the Painted Antinium, Prophet of the Inn, the Immortal Sky, and Her Promised Return. The holiest being in all of Izril. Perhaps the world.”
Roithe’s eyes were wondering as she glanced back the way they’d come. She added after a moment—
“And Lord Rags is also powerful! I’m—just one of the newer Goblins. I’ve been here eight months! Longer than everyone else here. They let me join because I was the highest-level out of my tribe.”
She said that like it meant something. Student Rags just looked at Roithe’s youthful face and tried not to calculate how many Goblins perished daily if eight months was long—even for youths. She turned to Chambersoot.
“And you’re a [Tinkerer]?”
He shrugged.
“[Scrapper]. Gonna be a [Gunsmith] someday. But I can’t make ‘em yet. I just rebuild Rhir weapons. See?”
He had taken apart the crossbow with his strange multitool, and Rags held out a hand to see the disassembled crossbow stock.
“What were you doing, holding that in the air? What is it? It looks like a pencil. Are these screws? I know screwdrivers.”
Chambersoot gave Rags an arch look and showed her the tool. When Rags went to place it against the crossbow, it stuck to the metal!
“Magnetic screwdriver, dumbass. Rhir loves making their weapons harder to open up, like it works. These were really simple. They stopped putting timed explosive spells in the crossbow stocks. Must’ve blown up too many of their own soldiers.”
Suddenly, Rags had a burning desire not to hold the disassembled crossbow.
“The what? These have trap spells in them?”
“Don’t worry, I took them out. They have tons of stupid things in them. Locator spells, things to blow you up, even spells so only one person can fire them. Doesn’t work. You just have to put them in a miracle and take them apart fast.”
Or it explodes? Small wonder Goblins were as young as Chambersoot in this tribe! Rags uneasily handed the crossbow back, and Chambersoot tossed the parts in his own bag of holding.
“Why aren’t you talking with Lord Rags?”
“Oh, you know…I’m just…I’m not the Chieftain of my tribe. I can’t fight like Rags, or lead. I chose that. Someone’s gotta look out for the little guys, right?”
Rags tried to play down her feelings, and the young Goblins stared at her with that annoying perspicacity that children sometimes had, along with their ability to be incredibly insensitive. Rianchi broke the silence.
“It’s been a long day. Although it’s not even lunch. Bad stuff happened. I’m Rianchi. [Cyclist] and [Gearhead]. You want some candy?”
To Rags’ surprise, Rianchi had a bunch of candy in his pocket. Lemon-flavored candies. The young Goblins’ eyes widened, and the sweets vanished in moments. Chambersoot chewed with relish, but frowned in perplexity.
“This tastes…weird! Where’d you get it?”
“Calescent. He made it with gel-a-tin.”
“Not from a store? Everything we get is from a raid on a big storehouse or something. Or Lord Rags grows it.”
Clearly, candy wasn’t a luxury the children often had, so they savored it. That was depressingly familiar, and Student Rags actually recalled she had some treats in her pockets. She doled them out, and Roithe was just as eager to stuff some slightly-stale muffins Foliana had given Rags into her mouth as all the others.
“You get to eat this all the time?”
“Eh. Not always. I’m with Chieftain Rags, so I get special things. Like this ring.”
“Ooh! Is that a w-Ring 4.0? You have one of those?”
All the Goblins were all over Rianchi’s ring, asking to try it on or see features, though in the mountains they were ‘out of range’ of the magical networks. However, it got them all talking, and Student Rags began asking the questions she felt mattered.
“So you just…roam around like this? Fighting, surviving? Is there a plan to get Erin back? Or are you trying to help other Goblins or just survive?”
It was Zammy who spat an answer back.
“What other Goblins? All the other tribes are hiding or dead. You mean the Island of Goblins? Gone. Even the old Goblin Lords are dead. Doesn’t matter if you can dodge lightning bolts. Try dodging ten thousand homing bullets coming at you or a big bomb.”
Rags swallowed hard.
“Then how do you survive…?”
The answer was Roithe’s. She held out the little sign-amulet and spoke one word.
“Faith. Faith stops everything. Magic, spells, Skills—”
Chambersoot muttered loudly.
“And if it doesn’t, you duck real fast.”
Another pull at his ears, making him yelp. Rags eyed the Goblins and wondered how powerful Goblin Lord Rags was. She suspected Goblins were surviving as they always had: reproducing faster than they died, or enough to maintain parity.
