Mrsha stopped thinking for a second. She stood there as the little paws squeezed her tight and wondered when she had stopped being so innocent. She felt like an old monster, just like she’d said. A monster of stealing happiness.
When she peered up, her anger had faded. And it allowed her to see what she had missed.
Brunkr was shivering. He was afraid. He was terrified, suffering…and it finally occurred to her to ask why.
“You…really came here just for me? You want me to go with you into the future to be a [Knight] in this fantastic order? Me?”
She shook her head.
That’s not quite right. I just want you, Brunkr. To…live. To have the chance you never did. That’s why I came back.
“For me.”
His voice cracked. He tried to take a fry and ended up knocking half a dozen onto the floor. Mrsha the Floor Cleaner disappeared under the table—the little one. Mrsha of Dead Brunkrs didn’t move.
I have a chance. If you could, wouldn’t you do the same?
He half-nodded as he thought about it. Then he uttered a bark of a laugh and began to rise. He regarded her, flinched, and sat down.
“I’d do that. I get that. It’s like the [Knight] who has to choose between the treasure and saving the [Princess]’ life in Tales of Adventure Volume…but—me. I’d—I’d—I’d—I’d save a hero of the Gnolls. Kerash!”
I can’t go back that far in time.
“Then I’d save someone like General Garusa Weatherfur! Or—Zel Shivertail.”
Brunkr twisted in his chair. He gazed at Mrsha, and there was an intake of breath from elsewhere in the inn. Mrsha’s own eyes didn’t waver.
I came here for you, Brunkr. Leave the others to me. Believe me. I remember.
Someone gasped. Dame Ushar. Brunkr touched his chest.
“Me. Brunkr Silverfang. You want me to come. Why? Did I date Lyonette in your time? Does she…?”
He twisted to look at the younger Lyonette, and Mrsha realized the [Princess] was watching them, apron balled up in her fists. Her eyes were wide and as afraid as Brunkr’s. Mrsha jerked her eyes away from Lyonette and Brunkr. She gazed at young Mrsha instead.
She didn’t fall in love with you. But she misses you.
“How much? Does anyone miss me besides Krshia and my family? What level was I? If Regrika Blackpaw killed me, I wasn’t even Level 10 as a [Knight]. I’m still not Level 20 yet!”
That doesn’t matter. I wanted to give you a chance—
Brunkr’s paws slammed on the table, and Mrsha jumped. She twisted around and saw his eyes were wide now. He barked at her, shouting.
“To do what? Go to your world and join them? Them!? Look at them! Look at me! How could I ever—to a world where you can do that? Me?”
His voice cracked, and she realized how much of a mistake she truly had made. He was trembling now so badly the plate of fries jumped around on the table.
“I—I—I can’t do that. They killed those Raskghar like it was nothing. Someone was saying they’re fighting Named-rank threats. I couldn’t do that. I ran away from a Rock Crab the other day. You want to pull me from here to the future and—and no one remembers me, and I’m dead. I can’t. Don’t do that. I wanted to be a [Knight], but there’s no way I could be him.”
He pointed a finger at Normen.
“A Knight Order, and they say I was the first? I don’t deserve that. You know I don’t! Why did you lie? Why did you come here and have to tell me—I’m dead. Oh, tribes. I’m dead?”
He buried his head in his paws, and the little Mrsha hugged him, climbing up to hug his armored chest. Lyonette ran over and took Brunkr’s arm.
“Y-you don’t have to make him decide right away, right, Mrsha? And it’s not like we just vanish. We’re real as you are. So…right, Mrsha?”
It was happening again. Mrsha sat there and saw how pale the Gnoll was under his fur. How terrified he was—of the Knights of Solstice. Of the future, and how impossible it was for him to become one of them.
Why would anyone ever leave their home behind? She had to answer that. It was Ser Normen who stood as Mrsha wrestled with that familiar despair. The [Grandmaster] of the Order of Solstice pointed a finger at Brunkr, who flinched, and Normen spoke like metal harder than the plate armor he wore.
“You are not yet ready to join us, Brunkr Silverfang. But you can be.”
Brunkr’s head rose slightly, then he buried his face into Lyonette’s neck, hiding. He peeked up, and Mrsha stood there. When she wrote, all three of that strange family flinched. Little Doombearer, young Gnoll [Knight], Human [Princess].
Lyonette. Of the three, she had stayed back the most, which was odd for the Lyonette du Marquin that Mrsha knew.
—But perhaps not the Lyonette of this time. Mrsha had dimmer memories of her first days in Liscor, but she did recall how subdued Lyonette had been at first. How she had struggled and Pawn and Olesm, and then Zel Shivertail, had genuinely been the only people kind to her, spoke to her.
Right now, the [Princess] seemed to have found her gumption, because she faced Mrsha as Brunkr clung to her. But hesitantly.
“I…hello, Mrsha. Sweetie.”
Hello, Lyonette.
Mrsha hesitated. She almost wrote ‘mother’, but it was wrong. This wasn’t her mother. She was a mother to little Mrsha, a good one, but not…she was too young.
Not in age. But they hadn’t shared the same moments. Lyonette was feeling the same thing, clearly, but trying to smile.
“You’re…this is such a difficult conversation. And you write so well! And you have—Dame Ushar of the Thronebearers? How did that happen?”
Her voice rose in stress, and Mrsha had to imagine that this Lyonette wasn’t exactly thrilled to see the guardians of her family. She wrote a simple reply.
They came to take you back home, in my world, but they stayed around. I trust Dame Ushar. I’ve made her life hell.
Lyonette tsked gently, shocked.
“Miss Mrsha! That’s a naughty word. Now, I think you’ve been very brave, and I know you’re about an—an important task, but why don’t you sit? I can get you some more, proper food, and you don’t have to—”
Her eyes slid sideways to Brunkr, and she tightened one arm around him possessively. Her voice rose.
“You’re just a child. Honestly, you shouldn’t be here with those horrible Raskghar attacking, Dame Ushar or not.”
I know. But I had to see that bitch, Nokha, die.
“Mrsha du Marquin, that is an unacceptable word!”
The girl felt a familiar sense of trepidation at the same voice scolding her, but she held her ground easily. She wrote with a bit of that coldness in her chest.
No, it’s not. I have to do this. Please don’t treat me like your current daughter, Lyonette.
“Well, I don’t see why you have to force Brunkr to a decision so swiftly!”
I don’t have time.
Lyonette stared incredulously at the little girl and grew angry. Her cheeks redeemed, and she gestured at the wide eyed younger Mrsha and Brunkr.
“And what about us? You’re just going to take—take him away? Do you even know him? How could you? How dare you—?”
She bit back her words, realizing she was shouting at the girl, but the weary-eyed glare she received made her flinch. There was something about this Mrsha that unnerved Lyonette. The [Princess] tried again.
“Mrsha, I know you are doing what you think is right. But this is a matter for adults. I should be doing this, or Erin.”
To which Mrsha held up a card with one word on it.
No.
Lyonette wavered, and Mrsha wrote in the air since it was faster when she used her wand’s spell.
I understand you think I’m a child. And I am. But I grew up fast. I grew up the day I watched my tribe die. I grew up when the Raskghar kidnapped me. Let you? Mother, this is mere pain in my heart. I watched you go to war for me. If Nokha had come after me in my world, you would have jumped on her with a sword until you or her was dead. No. You do too much. So does Erin. I refuse to ask either of you. This is my choice. It has to be. My responsibility. My guilt if it fails.
Her eyes were so desperate, her words so…brave, so determined, and so unreasonable that it drew someone else into the argument. The [Knights] of Solstice had done a decent job of keeping everyone else out of the conversation, as had Dame Ushar.
Of course, Olesm was there, and Zevara. Did you think Olesm, a [Strategist], didn’t have a billion questions about the future? But Normen was willing to answer them, and when someone tried to push forwards to Mrsha, he put out an arm and shook his head warningly, and they desisted.
That worked on everyone—except the soft footsteps that carried a young woman across the inn. Normen turned to block her and hesitated. Dame Ushar pivoted…and halted.
The [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice, had a confused expression on her face, but her eyes were sharper than her appearance let on. She came to a halt, and Mrsha half-turned.
“Why would we let that happen in any world, Mrsha? No matter how old you get, you’re just a kid. What’s wrong with me? I thought I’d be better than letting any child go into danger. I mean, I’m not perfect, but I’m pretty sure I’m better than that. Right?”
She cast around, and no one had told her. Yet the [Magical Innkeeper], for all she was no [Witch] yet, could not miss the expressions. The way no one could meet her eyes. How even Dame Ushar gazed at her like a ghost or something else. Someone to be feared and respected.
Like they looked at Zel Shivertail. When she met Mrsha’s eyes, the girl flinched. And Erin Solstice grew confused and afraid.
 
——
 
This is what she saw.
Erin Solstice had no idea what was going on sometimes. All the political events of this world often went over her head. It felt like from the beginning, she had put her foot in obvious traps—because she had.
It was like coming to Earth and not getting the historical racism over skin tones between Humans. Or asking why this particular war mattered and getting that look from someone who felt it in the backbone of history.
That was why Erin had found the Antinium and Goblins so different. There was nothing for her to see. In the same way—she often didn’t ‘get’ people talking about Walled Cities and so on.
She wasn’t entirely as stupid as she liked to act. She got that things mattered, but in this case, she was truly ignorant as you could expect.
Here was a Mrsha. An older Mrsha, but not that much older. Two years? Tops? And she had a bunch of [Knights] in tow, she seemed like someone had created a Potion of Trauma and fed it to her every day of the week, and she wanted to take Brunkr to her world.
The absurdity of that aside, Erin tried to smile and sat down at the table.
“Mrsha. Can I call you Mrsha?”
Sure, Erin.
“Thanks, buddy.”
Mrsha’s wand paused the air, and she narrowed her eyes at the innocent smile.
No problem, pal.
“That’s great, friend.”
Glad to hear it, comrade.
“Perfect…amigo.”
Erin had to work for that last one. She saw the flicker of a smile on the other Mrsha’s face, then saw a silent laugh emerge, unwillingly, from the little face. That was good. That was what the [Innkeeper] wanted, but Erin Solstice was astounded to hear the same laugh come out of her own mouth.
Wow! Mrsha can do—banter? It was so surreal that Erin leaned forwards.
“Can I offer you a drink? Let’s all calm down, and we can talk things over, huh? Drinks are on the house! You did save us from the Raskghar! But, uh, we might need to clean the tables. There’s blood ‘n stuff on them. Gross. I should really get someone to help clean things up.”
“I can do it!”
Lyonette dashed over for a dustrag, and the other Mrsha paused. Her smile faded, and she developed that serious, calculating expression Erin didn’t like. It reminded Erin…a bit of her face. She didn’t often use a mirror when playing chess or when thinking, but she had done some YouTube videos right before she’d been taken to this world and realized she pulled a studious face like that.
Just…like that.
That was the unnerving thing. Erin saw parts of herself in Mrsha, and because they were parts of herself she had hitherto not examined, it rattled her. At the same time—
It was Mrsha! Come on! Erin spread her hands out.
“What can I getcha? Some goat’s milk? Blue fruit juice? I think we’ve got some left.”
The strange Mrsha tilted her head, and a hint of a smile appeared on her face.
Firebreath whiskey, on the rocks.
“Oh, come on. I definitely don’t let you drink that in your…time.”
Erin rolled her eyes, and the young Mrsha snorted.
Okay, fine. Goat’s milk it is. With whipped cream.
“I don’t think we have any.”
Syrup, then, one shot.
“One shot of syrup? What kind of madness is…you know what, that kinda sounds good. Let me make some of that.”
Erin bustled into the kitchen and came out with mugs of milk and syrup for everyone. She tried to hand it out as Mrsha and young Mrsha took a sip of contentment, but then it happened. She passed a cup to one of the [Knights]—Jewel?—and the [Swashbuckler] was staring so hard at her, with an open mouth, that the mug just tumbled from her grip.
“I’m so sorry! I’ll clean that up, Miss Erin!”
Jewel leapt up in dismay as the liquid splashed everywhere, and Erin raised her hands.
“Whoa, it’s fine! Sorry, I should have—‘Miss Erin’? That’s crazy. What am I, your boss?”
She glanced around, grinning, and then her grin faded. Because, at that table—the Gnoll girl wrote a shimmering word in the air.
Yes.
Older Mrsha leaned on her table, sipping with one paw, seeming—ready. As if she were up against the boss of a video game. Erin realized this wasn’t working and headed back over as Jewel and Lyonette fought over who should clean the floors. Mrsha watched with urbane amusement—another unsettling thing to see on her face.
You should hire an Antinium named Silveran. And a Gnoll called Iskhr.
“Uh. I already employ Ishkr and Drassi.”
What? Oh, right, that sounds about correct. Hire some Antinium. And Goblins.
“Hey, that’s a good idea. Why haven’t I done that?”
Erin slapped her forehead and gave Mrsha a round-eyed look of amazement.
“Wow, this is great. Are there any other things I should do like that? Some super burgers or stuff? How about…hot pockets?”
She meant it, earnestly, and it was exciting, but the Gnoll girl just narrowed her eyes and studied Erin up and down. She replied, hesitant.
Huh. You’re not actually just doing this on purpose, are you? You’re actually…you didn’t think of it. I always thought you did more of that intentionally.
“Wh—hey! Is that a compliment or an insult?”
It’s just you. The same woman who’ll take a stand against Tyrion Veltras alone forgets she’s allowed to hire Antinium.
There was a faint, nostalgic smile on Mrsha’s face, and Erin felt her skin crawl.
