Oh, so very funny. Ha-ha. Mrsha didn’t watch what came next, though she could hear Elia beginning to speak more rapidly. She didn’t smile or laugh when a month ago this would have had her on the floor, vomiting in hilarity.
Because this was funny. It really was surreal and comedic.
Until it wasn’t.
You know what wasn’t funny? Standing there with someone from the past as they asked you what you knew and weighing what to tell them. Looking them in the eyes and seeing their future. Having to realize they were going to face hell and danger and—if you wanted them to be glorious, you couldn’t warn them about everything.
But you should.
Ser Normen got it. He was sitting with Erin, giving her a run down on everything he knew about the dungeon; he’d understood the pain of this the moment he walked down the corridor in the [Palace of Fates]. But even the people who weren’t as familiar, like Durene and Jewel, were getting it.
 
——
 
At first, they smiled. They sat like giddy girls with none other than Ceria Springwalker and the Horns of Hammerad.
They were here—the Redfang Five had vanished somewhere else, but the Horns had returned—they had not pursued a kidnapped Mrsha, and thus Ceria hadn’t been dragged off by Raskghar. The future changed for the better.
“He’s alive. I knew it. He’s alive.”
Ceria was punching the air; they’d just told her Calruz was alive. Neither Jewel nor Durene knew the rest of the Horns of Hammerad or the dungeon’s tales that well, but both had heard enough to give some of the highlights out. Like candy.
“He’s a bit—crazy. But you can get him back! And make it better than our future. Just go in, hit him—careful because he’s tough, one arm or not—and get him to a [Healer] or something. There’s a bunch of Rasgkhar in the way, but I think there’s a rebellion by the Cave Goblins.”
Jewel was grinning broadly. She was splayed out in a chair, adjusting her beret, playing up her Gold-rank status for all it was worth. Because the Horns were Silver-rank right now. Durene was also buddy-buddying with Yvlon and an awed Ksmvr. The half-Troll girl winked at Ceria, whose mouth moved as she wrote this down.
A tentative sniff interrupted Jewel. Pisces.
“A rebellion by the subservient class? Classic. It makes sense, of course. The moment I realized Cave Goblins were the lesser species in this relationship, I saw the potential—it’s information well taken of course, Knight Jewel. Purely logical.”
“Oh, logical; classic Pisces.”
Durene and Jewel laughed at each other, and Pisces flushed crimson. Jewel nodded Mrsha’s way.
“I don’t have a map of the dungeon, but our Mrsha might. Just get down there—but watch out for Facestealer!”
Durene’s eager smile faded, and she sat upright more as Ceria’s brow wrinkled.
“Who?”
“Facestealer. Uh…the nastiest monster in the dungeon. He’s mobile and hunting. He—there’s a way to kill him, but it’s risky. He could take out any Gold-rank team there is. He survived multiple Named-ranks going at him in our time. We’ll give you the information before you go.”
The [Swashbuckler]’s face had clouded up, but she smiled.
“Yeah. We’ll arm you ahead of time!”
“Thank you. I mean, this is unbelievable, but if it’s true—Calruz. How’s he doing? In the f-future? You said he was messed up. How hurt is he? We could prep a healer. Maybe even try to get the Healer of Tenbault? Any good treasure down there?”
Ceria gave the two women a quick smile, and Jewel’s broad grin winked out. Durene bit her lip.
“Oh. Ooh. Isn’t he still in…?”
The silence was not missed by the Horns. Yvlon massaged one arm.
“In…what? Where?”
Durene glanced at Yvlon’s arms, and the [Wounded Warrior] hid them,embarrassed, then laid them out. The [Paladin]’s brows creased as she saw Yvlon’s armguards were oddly enlarged. As if the flesh below was swollen.
“He—he—he’s fine. He’s in Liscor’s army, actually. Which is good. He was a prisoner. For a…a while. But he’s serving his sentence out.”
Jewel cleared her throat a few times as the Horns of Hammerad gazed at her in shock. She gazed at Ceria.
“You haven’t even been to the Bl—dead gods. And Pisces—”
She regarded him and suddenly flinched. His brows snapped together in paranoia.
“I what? Did I suffer a wound? The Bloodfields? What would possess us to work there?”
Durene was no longer having a good time. She half-rose as Jewel suddenly tugged the beret off her head. The [Swashbuckler] sat there as Ceria clenched the quill until it stained her hands.
“What did Calruz do in your…he’s behind the Raskghar. How many people will he kill?”
“I—I wasn’t—listen, don’t worry about that. Or anything in the future. You’ll be…but that was…Durene?”
The [Paladin] wasn’t listening. Yvlon had jerked her head subtly to the side, and the half-Troll girl had gone over.
“I suppose you know about my arms.”
“Your arms. Ye-es.”
Yvlon’s face was pale, but she removed part of her armguards, revealing…the odor of some medical herbs and her infected flesh made Durene gag. The woman covered the wound up fast.
“I…I’m sure I retired. I know that. Just—how long did I stay in? Should I have quit earlier? Am I—happy?”
Her face was so unhappy and afraid that Durene didn’t know what to say. She gazed at Yvlon, whom she had never known that well—and who, frankly, had seemed rather intense and violent even by Durene’s standards.
Angry. The Silver Killer of Izril.
A woman with metal arms—and a metal foot—because she had hurled herself into combat until her flesh and bones broke before her spirit.
Suddenly, Durene was no longer in the mood to talk about the past. She turned to Jewel, and the two shared a glance, then desperately searched around for reinforcements. Yvlon clutched Durene’s arm.
“Please. I have to know.”
“You’ll—be fine. I—hold on. Normen? Mrsha?”
They ran, and the Horns of Hammerad leapt to their feet. Worried and confused, which meant the Knights of Solstice had to explain. But how could anyone look them in the eye and not tell them about the Creler ambush? Fight an Adult Creler?
Look at Erin. They had to tell her about Hectval. But what about the siege of Liscor? Could she stop that?
Jewel, an adventurer, peered at the team who would have to evade Facestealer, fight an Adult Creler, and charge the Village of the Dead to become the growing legends she knew. The [Swashbuckler] clutched at her stomach.
“I think I’m going to throw up.”
 
——
 
Now, you weren’t smiling. Now, you got it. That was before you thought of the sacrosanct. Stealing them. Stealing them and making your peace with what you’d do to two worlds.
Should you do it? To Mrsha, the question had been—what if I don’t?
She had to try. But she envied no one the weight of this.
Hell.
It was still in her. It had never stopped.
That true realization of what she was doing in the beach garden as they held her, all the people she had loved and lost.
That endless, eternal scream was still in her, background noise coming from the depths of her soul. Even if she saved them all—it would never be the same.
That was what Mrsha felt. She gazed at the broad-shouldered Gnoll in his steel armor, clutching his balls, and felt anger for the first time.
How dare he look like he was suffering worse than she was? She’d saved his life. Yet Brunkr was sweating, shaking his head.
“This can’t…this is too much. Me? Dead? From Regrika—? No. Why would she even attack me?”
He snapped at her, getting angry, half-rising, and she realized—no, remembered.
Right. Brunkr had a temper. He wasn’t as big as she recalled, but she’d been small, and he’d been angry when they first met. He had broad shoulders, but he wasn’t that huge. Brunkr seemed so young. He didn’t have Normen’s surety in his own body and ability to stand and fight—that Normen had had even as a [Thug].
Dead gods, Mrsha realized. He was some…silly Gnoll kid. How old was he? Eighteen? Nineteen? Lyonette’s age. A Gnoll [Warrior] running around with armor on, wanting to be a [Knight].
Having met Akrisa Silverfang, Mrsha just bet other Plains Gnolls mocked Brunkr, and he was weird. No wonder Akrisa had sent him north to help out Krshia. A sort-of-dumb Gnoll with a vision of the future he clung to.
She understood, suddenly, how this younger Lyonette had fallen in love with him. The Lyonette of back then had still been a [Princess], just with her ego smashed flat. Suddenly, she got a devoted [Knight].
All this Mrsha understood as she wrote in the air.
Calm down, Brunkr. What happened in your…history? She killed Ulrien, didn’t she?
His hair was rising on end, and he was baring his teeth at her. When she refused to react, his snarl turned uncertain, and he sat.
“I—I—she killed Captain Ulrien. Then her associate attacked the city. I remember running back to the inn, but Erin said it was over when I arrived…”
She hadn’t invited him for the ambush on the two fake adventurers. The one difference was just that Regrika hadn’t murdered Brunkr.
“Who is Regrika Blackpaw?”
Mrsha’s eyes snapped open. She gave Brunkr an odd half-smile.
You know, we never found out. Gnolls searched for her for ages. But we never…
We never avenged you. Suddenly, that felt like a crime. Mrsha lowered her head, and Brunkr whistled.
“Dead gods. Even Plain’s Eye? I wrote back home about her, and Chieftain Akrisa was furious. She said even Chieftain Xherw was looking into the matter.”
Mrsha swished her wand and drew a frowny face.
I think the same thing happened in my time. But those Plain’s Eye bastards never figured it out then. Maybe she was actually one of them.
That comment stung Brunkr, and he sat up, wagging his finger in Mrsha’s face.
“Plain’s Eye…bastards? Watch your tongue. They’re a Great Tribe of Izril. I met Chieftain Xherw once, you know. He’s amazing.”
He’s a monster. He and his entire tribe hunt Doombearers. They sacrifice them to make—they are monsters, and I’ll tell you what you need to know about them.
Mrsha glanced at her younger self, peeking at her from behind a table. Brunkr grew indignant at Mrsha’s writing.
“You’re just a child. I’ll listen to someone older, like that [Grandmaster], but you’re, what, eight? Actually, why am I talking to you, no?”
He began to rise, and Mrsha slashed in the air with her wand.
You’re speaking to me, Brunkr. I’m the one who’s responsible for this. Listen to me and believe. You understood I wasn’t a monster, a ‘Doombringer’. Believe me, Chieftain Xherw will die hated by all Gnolls and hurt our people beyond belief. I’ll tell you—no. I’ll tell someone so the future changes better.
He was shaking his head at her. Getting mad again.
“This is ridiculous. You’re making fun of me. Everyone important is talking to everyone else—and I get the little bratty Doombringer.”
Don’t call me that.
“I’ll put you in time-out. Hey, um, Ser Normen. Can I ask…?”
Brunkr got to his feet, and Mrsha grabbed his arm. To her surprise, he rotated her around and put her under one arm like a pillow. Brunkr wore a cocky grin as Dame Ushar and Normen turned to eye him.
“That works on Mrsha in any world. Heh. H—”
Mrsha exploded out from under his arm with such force he went sprawling with a cry. He saw a giant, furry monster land on him and yelped.
“What th—”
Blue flames burst from Mrsha’s paws. A blue object, an ember, appeared in her grip, and her weight suddenly doubled. The Gnoll tried to get up and found he couldn’t immediately. Mrsha stood on his chest as he cursed and flailed and then lay there, panting, looking at her.
I am NOT the child you knew. I watched you DIE, Brunkr. Take this seriously. Chieftain Xherw murdered Cetrule. He’s why Torishi Weatherfur died. HE’S PART OF WHY ERIN DIED. I CAME BACK FOR YOU, SO LISTEN TO ME.
Her wand was flicking in the air, writing the words as the girl reached down, grabbed the fur around his neck, and shook him. Shook him with all her strength, tears running from her eyes, until she saw his terrified expression.
Then she let him go and stepped off him, realizing the inn had gone quiet and everyone was gazing at her, open-mouthed. Mrsha wiped her eyes.
No one said a word until Erin spoke.
“I-I’m dead?”
She gaped at Normen, lips parted in disbelief, and then fear entered her eyes. Fear as Mrsha had never really seen it. The [Grandmaster] gazed at Erin Solstice and then offered her a crooked man’s smile. He took his helmet from his scarred head and patted her hand.
“It’s good I met you like this. Thank you, Mrsha. I can stop seeing you as more important than me. As the only person who can change things.”
He sat straighter, and Mrsha swore she could see him level. He looked down at the trembling [Innkeeper] and gave her a grin. Then a wink, which was, to him, blinking.
“Yes. You died. Don’t worry. You got better.”
Mrsha laughed at that. She laughed and heard a guffaw from Ama, a scandalized snort from Vess—Mrsha laughed so bitterly at that little joke and realized no one from this time was laughing. Then she gazed down at Brunkr, scowling.
He looked so terrified. Of her? She offered him a hand up, but he actually pushed himself back and got up himself. Mrsha gestured to the table, and he sat. She was formulating a response when someone timidly pushed something onto the table.
Mrsha turned and saw a pair of frightened brown eyes and a little girl staring up at her. Younger Mrsha had just served them a plate of cold french fries. The girl was trying to calm things down the only way she knew how. With food.
The temptation to write something and send her younger self scurrying off was immense. Mrsha almost did that until she saw how scared her younger self appeared. Deeply, truly…
I’m scaring myself? That was silly. Young-Mrsha should have been delighted, even if she didn’t quite know how to speak yet. She should be happy about—
About—
About this spectre of herself writing about the dead, seeming so miserable and hurt? Mrsha saw herself in her younger self’s eyes suddenly. She stopped. She gazed at the french fries, then took one. Chewed on it.
It wasn’t the best fry; cold and a touch greasy. She wrote in the air.
Thanks, me. Here.
She offered herself a french fry and got a nibble after a moment. The little Mrsha held out her arms, and her older self hesitated, then gently hugged the girl.
As…
As…
As she had once hugged Pisces. Hugged him as he sat in his room, weeping with rage and hurt, because that was the only thing she knew how to do. 
