He didn’t instantly echo the Redfang sentiment? Obviously, they weren’t still Redfangs. They’d quit the tribe. But you’d think he’d always reply with a slap on his chest or a grin or even just a thumbs-up!
The older Numbtongue read their consternation. He held up a claw and clarified.
“Sorry. Redfang. They’re still around. Just not—Redfang. You know?”
He made another half-hearted gesture, and he struck them all speechless again. Because this Numbtongue of the future?
He was using his words. He was eloquent. The Numbtongue of now could be a speaker, but he seldom did it, even for Erin.
This Numbtongue talked like it was natural. Plus—
He didn’t have any body-language gestures. He spoke like Erin or Lyonette. He barely intonated with his arms and hands or the rest of his actions like Goblins did.
It made him doubly strange. Surreal. But Headscratcher held up a thumbs up. He hesitated, searching for words, and scratched his head.
“The Wandering Inn. Erin.”
They all expected an immediate nod and a laugh or grin. When the Goblin hesitated—just for a second—before weakly smiling, the four Redfangs turned to stare at younger Numbtongue. The younger Goblin was poleaxed.
Who is this, and why does he wear my face?
“The Wandering Inn’s great. Erin is—amazing.”
He said that. With his words. A few of the Redfang Five poked themselves so hard they gave themselves bruises. They exchanged a look and reached an unspoken consensus.
If he doesn’t give a good reply on this next one, he’s one of them shapeshifting monsters in the High Passes and we fight.
They nodded at each other and regarded their Numbtongue. Without breaking eye-contact, the young [Bard] reached for something in his new belt pouches given to him by Erin. He held it up and spoke reverentially. Almost pleadingly.
“Esthelm?”
A flower wavered in his trembling claws. The [Bard] focused on the flower, and they waited. Older Numbtongue said nothing for a moment. Two. Then he closed his eyes.
“Always.”
It was not how they expected him to say it, but the five younger Hobs slowly nodded. They drew closer, like [Assassins] gingerly sneaking up on someone for a hug. But they didn’t hug him. Rather, Badarrow reached out, felt one arm, and leapt back. Rabbiteater gingerly felt at Numbtongue’s stomach. Shorthilt reached for a blade.
“Stop that. It’s sharp. You’ll cut your fingers off if you touch it like you normally do.”
Numbtongue snapped at him. He tried to bat Headscratcher’s hands away from his hair. The younger Numbtongue put his hand in the bag of holding and pulled out a half-full bottle of Firebreath Whiskey.
Whoa.
All of the Redfang Five stared at the bottle. The older Nubmtongue just sighed. After a second, Numbtongue uncorked the bottle and took a swig.
 
——
 
He’d forgotten how much they didn’t speak, sometimes. The five Hobgoblins reminded Numbtongue a bit of Erek, which was not the most flattering of comparisons, but it was actually fairly accurate.
So much of what they communicated was in body-language with each other. They were so in-sync they didn’t need to speak, and it was hard for the [Soulbard] because…he wasn’t.
He caught some of what they were thinking and could guess their feelings, but it hurt. Hurt in a different way than the fear of turning around.
Then Rabbiteater tried to pull Numbtongue’s pants down, probably on the assumption things had changed there too. Since they had, Numbtongue caught the belt of his pants and snapped.
“Knock it off! Use your words, will you? I know you can. You’re as bad as Mrsha was before she learned how to write!”
Rabbiteater recoiled, hands raised, and lost the tentative, teasing smile he wore. The clown was only funny when people were in the mood for it.
Rabbiteater. The average Goblin. The butt of the jokes. The…
The other four Redfangs had tensed when Numbtongue snapped. Not fully, but just reacted as one did in the presence of a foreign, unpredictable Goblin from another tribe.
As they’d treated Greydath of Blades. But these five had never met Greydath.
They had so much left to live. Cave Goblins to liberate and teach. So much—
And so little. When he gazed at them, Numbtongue’s soul ached. He wanted to just be one of them again, laughing and hugging each other and happy. But he couldn’t.
He was already there.
Plus, he no longer fit. So he put his hands in his jeans pockets and fixed Rabbiteater with a serious look.
“You’re not…this simple. I know you have greater depths. Stop acting like this. I know there’s more in you than that. Soon, you’ll be needed. Stop—demeaning yourself.”
The other Goblin’s eyes widened, and he gazed silently at the younger Numbtongue. After a second, the younger one said.
“Demeaning is—think bad about yourself. Think Goblin is stupid when not. Like Redscar saying he bad warrior.”
Oh. Rabbiteater nodded, and the [Soulbard] closed his eyes. Right. Their grasp of English wasn’t even that good. Yet the message seemed to have worked. The Redfang Five scrutinized Numbtongue.
Badarrow derisively poked Rabbiteater in the side and smirked. Him? Depths? He’s deep as a pool, not the Floodplains.
That was his thing. He liked to be cynical. But Badarrow was not prepared for the [Soulbard]’s eyes to flash.
“Someday, he will go further than Garen Redfang ever dreamed. He will be the strongest of all of you. A Hobgoblin who slays [Generals]. The most famous. The most loved.”
That last part slipped out. He didn’t mean to—and the other Redfangs missed it. They were giving Rabbiteater a look of incredulity, and he had gone cross eyed. But not a gaze of pure disbelief.
Headscratcher’s eyes searched Numbtongue up and down, and he gingerly made a fist. He tapped his chest, then held it out questioningly.
And you? Numbtongue moved his shoulders up and down, restless.
“I’m not a warrior. I’m a [Soulbard].”
A what? Numbtongue had to explain briefly. The Redfang Five were awestruck. A [Bard] who was like a [Shaman]! They wanted to see a ghost use their powers, so Numbtongue bit his lip and glanced around.
Who? Pyrite? He wasn’t demonstrative, and they hadn’t…been on good terms. Shorthilt was—
“Let me.”
Reiss reached out a hand, and Numbtongue nodded. He closed his eyes—then opened them.
They had turned black, and the white pupils made Shorthilt leap back into a wall and nearly draw his sword. Headscratcher recoiled—but Reiss just raised a hand. He said:
“Arise.”
Instead of the undead, though, every object in the room began to float upwards. Badarrow had drawn his bow, but he hesitated as he saw a bucket filled with snacks float past his head. Rabbiteater grabbed one of the roasted potatoes and then watched it float out of his palm. Young Numbtongue’s mouth had dropped open again.
Reiss let the spell go for thirty seconds, then departed Numbtongue’s body abruptly, without a farewell or waiting for the three minutes he could now exist. Like the other ghosts…
Well, the effect worked. The Goblins watched the objects fall to the ground, then clustered around Numbtongue, eyes big with respect. Shorthilt begged to see the Dragoncrystal sword, and Numbtongue let him.
“It’s sharp. A master Dwarf forged it.”
And that? Rabbiteater pointed eagerly at the guitar, and Numbtongue’s lips quirked despite himself.
“Plays songs. Buffs people. Can make stamina come back. And I can call down lightning bolts.”
Whoa. Numbtongue basked in their adulation for a moment. He felt like he’d reset the meeting’s feeling, and they were badgering him with questions.
What about me?
Badarrrow thrust a finger at himself. If Numbtongue got to be some kind of [Shaman] and Rabbiteater got to be the ‘best’, surely he got something.
It was a relief neither Headscratcher or Shorthilt had asked. But Headscratcher was uncertain about his future, and Shorthilt liked weapons. It made sense Badarrow asked. Numbtongue’s chest was tight, but he replied.
“You have a girlfriend.”
Waxworks of open-mouthed Goblin statues. Every eye turned to Badarrow, and he slashed a hand defensively.
No I don’t. He paused. Then made a gesture of entreaty.
What kind of girlfriend?
Numbtongue thought of the best way to describe Snapjaw.
“She eats a lot of food. And she has a pet Frost Wyvern. She used to be a Chieftain.”
The Redfang Five considered this, and then, brows raised, they began patting Badarrow on the shoulders in a congratulatory manner. The [Sniper] huffed and tried to not look interested. Then they asked him another obvious question. The Hobgoblins were getting excited enough to use their words, so Headscratcher jabbed a finger at Numbtongue.
“In future…the. What—where—who you fighting? No, what do you do?”
“What do I…?”
Numbtongue hesitated and saw them all nod sagely. For, if he was some Goblin on par with any [Chieftain] they’d known, a [Soulbard], and they had all achieved some level of success, then surely he was doing something important.
“Help Chieftain Rags? Play music for army? Use ghost wiseness?”
Headscratcher clarified as Numbtongue was tellingly silent. The [Soulbard] didn’t respond immediately. After a moment, he croaked.
“Guard the inn.”
Oh. Paradoxically, this worked. Headscratcher stepped back and nodded, slapping his forehead as if this were obvious. Even Badarrow gave a judicious nod.
What could be more important, especially in light of today’s events? The Hobgoblins regarded each other, then asked another obvious question, for them.
“What happened to Chieftain Rags? Where she? What about Goblin Lord?”
They were concerned about Goblin politics. They didn’t think to ask about Erin. Or the inn. For all their love of this place, they took it for granted that Erin would continue. Numbtongue’s lips twisted wryly, and he noticed a Goblin start.
The younger Numbtongue was reading him. They were alike enough that the subtle tells were still noticeable to his other self; the other Hobs had been treating him more like a Human and were too excited to notice. The [Soulbard] met his counterpart’s gaze and lied by omission.
“Right now, I think Chieftain Rags and Garen are meeting Tremborag. The Great Chieftain of Dwarfhalls Rest. It won’t last long. In the future, they’ll meet Greydath of Blades. A Goblin Lord. He had a beard, and he’s—well, he’s on no one’s side. Far later, Chieftain Rags will build a base in the High Passes.”
This was all eminently satisfying to the Redfang Five, and they began to ask what kind of Chieftain this ‘Tremborag’ was; Headscratcher and Shorthilt opined they might have heard of him, but not in a kindly way.
The younger Numbtongue was silent. The older one described Tremborag in accurate—and therefore uncharitable—terms, then cleared his throat.
“There’s a lot to talk about, actually. Right now, you should worry about the dungeon. Those Cave Goblins I captured? They’re slaves to Raskghar. You should talk to them. It’s important.”
Headscratcher’s head had come up at the word ‘slave’, which he only vaguely understood as something Garen detested. He hesitated, then glanced up at the inn.
The surviving Raskghar and Cave Goblins were under guard by some of the Watch. Numbtongue encouragingly motioned upstairs.
“Go ahead. Mrsha also knows important things. Give me a second. I want to talk to…myself. If that’s alright.”
Numbtongue? The Redfangs gazed at the [Bard], and the younger Numbtongue gulped, then made shooing motions.
“That’s…a good idea. I’ll talk. You go to the Cave Goblins. And Two Legs Mrsha.”
The other Redfangs nodded, but picked up on the sudden tension in the room. They clattered up the basement stairs, and Numbtongue found himself alone with his counterpart.
How nervous his younger self was. He awkwardly gestured to the Swamp of Softness, then a crate as a seat. The [Soulbard] elected to stand and lounge against a wall as the [Bard] sat on a crate, like a student called to attention.
“Sorry. It’s hard to explain some things about the future. Not everything goes well.”
Older Numbtongue ignored the head-tilt and Goblin language until the younger one actually spoke.
“How…not well is it? How badly?”
“Not everyone makes it. In my time, about a year from now, Garen Redfang’s dead. So are most of the Redfangs. A lot of Goblins have died. You, Rabbiteater, and Badarrow are the only Goblins left.”
He let his counterpart work out that basic statement. Numbtongue rocked back, and the older him felt bad. But only a bit. The pain of that day—he wanted to, had to share it.
But once more, the past surprised him. Numbtongue’s head bowed, and he covered his face for a second with his palms, then dragged at his eyelids and cheeks. But when his head rose, his eyes were bleak.
“Bugear died while we got here. Orangepoo, Grunter, Leftstep, all the others died for the [Florist]. How did we die?”
“Defending Erin. Fighting the Goblin Lord. Trying to protect Liscor.”
The younger [Bard]’s eyes opened wide, and he sat straighter.
“Good. Then I’ll make sure Headscratcher and Shorthilt don’t die this time.”
Even if I have to go in their place. He made it sound so simple. Older Numbtongue felt himself getting angry.
“It’s not that easy.”
“I will try.”
“You can’t protect them. You’ll be up against—worse will come. You can’t even protect the inn. It will be attacked again and again. By Adult Crelers, by Facestealer, by armies. You won’t be able to protect anyone, not even Erin. In my time, she dies.”
This time, he took vindictive pleasure in the full flinch of his younger self. The Goblin’s face crumpled, and the [Soulbard] was forced to add—
“—She comes back to life. But she dies. And you—we—were there. We were too slow. It’s the Drakes. With crossbows, on a day in the summer. We were fighting them. Gnolls, too, trying to kill Mrsha.”
He remembered that day. His voice trembled as he put a hand on the hilt of his sword.
“This sword. We were winning. Cutting them down. We raced outside, and the Drakes were just—[Soldiers]. On a stupid raiding mission against Liscor. They opened fire, and I thought I was dead. But they didn’t aim at me. It was all my fault. If I hadn’t been cocky—they were poisoned bolts. She died there on the ground, and we froze her body, and then the inn was quiet. That’s what happened. Everything that came after wasn’t enough to atone for that. Do you understand?”
He met the young [Bard]’s eyes, and the Goblin tried to hold his gaze and looked away. Pale, suddenly, like a Cave Goblin.
“I won’t do it this time. I swear.”
“It doesn’t matter. It happened to me. I have three ghosts at my side. Pyrite, Shorthilt, and the Goblin Lord, Reiss.”
If the [Bard] could grow paler, he would. He searched around, and the older Numbtongue bared his teeth.
