“I…don’t know who that is. But thanks. From the sounds of things, though, I’m a pretty bad person in the future because here you are. I mean, I guess you’ve got [Knights] running around. But Lyonette’s right. This isn’t your job, Mrsha. And taking Brunkr…”
She had thoughts about that, but mostly what to do if the [Knights] tried to press their case. Erin hadn’t believed there was a chance Brunkr would leave of his own free will. He and Lyonette were a thing! A gross thing of flirting and cutesiness, but he was good for her, and Mrsha had warmed to him.
This should not be. But also, simultaneously, this little kid shouldn’t appear so sad. Erin forced a smile.
“Here’s an idea. How about I go with you to the future? Not to stay, don’t worry, Lyonette! But I’ll talk some sense into future me, huh? Maybe give her one of these!”
She made a fist and punched the air a few times. This was assuming future her hadn’t upgraded her [Minotaur Punch] into a real [Relc Punch], of course. Actually, what was she like in—?
Erin realized that Future Mrsha’s smile had winked out. The girl took a huge breath as she pushed her mug back, and the [Innkeeper] realized she’d messed up somehow.
“Or not. It’s just an offer. Is it, like, only one person can go?”
Yes. And you…you could visit. Surely, you could. But I think it wouldn’t be a good idea. For anyone. I’m glad I met you, Erin. Just like Normen. I forgot what you were like.
Erin Solstice felt a nervous twinge in her heart. She spread her hands.
“Oh come on, how bad could I get? Seriously. I know I might have, uh—died. But I got better! Right?”
She forced a laugh and looked around. None of the visitors from the future laughed. They were gazing at her so unnervingly Erin shivered. And Mrsha? She wrote—
The future you is gone, Erin. Not dead, but on Baleros. She’s sometimes silly. She’s still sort of stupid sometimes—
“Hey.”
—but she’s just you. You after too many days like today. When she tells someone to sit down, to stop, they listen. Because future Erin can make them. She can do things. She’s amazing. Brave and powerful and more tired than me. I love her. But I miss the you of now.
The [Innkeeper] didn’t like that. She didn’t like any of it, despite the praise it was supposed to be. She shifted.
“That—future me sounds kind of like a jerk. A bit like Magnolia.”
She expected Mrsha to object and come to her defense, but the Gnolls eyes screwed up, and she nodded slowly.
Yes. That’s fair. And I think I like Magnolia Reinhart more than you do. I treated her harshly. We all did. Future you can sometimes be unkind. That’s okay.
“Wh—come on, now. Who wants someone who’s a jerk like that? You sound like I’m an Ilvriss.”
We like him too.
Erin was getting unreasonably angry. She half-rose from the table, voice rising defensively.
“So I’m some kind of powerful [Innkeeper] who gets my way come hell or high water? Who needs that?”
In reply, the girl’s response was swift as lightning.
People who will never back down. Idiots, monsters, foolish [Princes], and armies. The world needs an Erin Solstice who can breathe fire and threaten to kill someone. Because they won’t stop for anything less. You’ll see it. The Erin Solstice of the future is the best Erin I know! I wish she’d been there from the start!
The [Magical Innkeeper] flinched. She felt a strange panic rising in her chest, and Mrsha wrote slowly, eyes locked on her.
At the same time, I miss you. I miss the way you smile and the belief you have that everything will work out. I miss your mercy towards monsters and these quieter days.
She said that while sitting in an inn that had just survived a Raskghar attack. When she wrote that—Erin Solstice knew she truly was out of her depths.
“What happened to you, Mrsha? W-what happened to me?”
The Gnoll girl took a huge, painful breath.
We got older, Erin. That’s all. But that’s all. Don’t look at me like that.
She averted her eyes. The girl wrote in the air, and the inn tensed.
I should have come with a bunch of bastards, like Todi, and kidnapped Brunkr if I wanted to succeed.
The [Innkeeper]’s pulse sparked, and she was conscious of her bag of holding, where her frying pan lay. And jars of acid, but she couldn’t. Not to…her voice trembled.
“That’s not a Mrsha I ever want to see. No matter what you think I am, I don’t want that, Mrsha. I promise.”
She stood there, afraid of this little girl, afraid of herself and what she might become, until she saw that white-furred girl’s shoulders shudder. Then the brown eyes rose, and they glistened with tears. The [Fatebreaker Child] wrote.
No. I don’t want to be that either. I don’t think I could. But it would be so much easier to be a monster. But I can never forget you. I don’t think you can either.
Then the [Innkeeper] went weak at the knees at how sorrowful the girl looked. Erin stumbled forwards and had to catch the table. Then she hugged the other Mrsha hard as she could.
“I’m sorry. I’m sorry for messing up so bad.”
She said that and felt the younger girl hiccup, then stiffen. Two small arms enfolded Erin, and a head mutely shook back and forth.
It was never your fault, Erin.
Those big eyes conveyed what was in Mrsha’s heart without the need for words. They held each other for a long moment, the girl trembling with pain and happiness and grief, and the [Innkeeper] barely able to withstand the echo of the future she felt.
Then the girl finally let go and sighed.
I’ve failed.
 
——
 
She knew she had. It didn’t take a hug with Erin Solstice to know that. The moment Brunkr had begun trembling, Mrsha had known. After she let go of Erin Solstice, the [Knight] returned, with Lyonette and the little Mrsha.
The girl was clinging to one of his paws, and Lyonette had linked arms with him at the elbow, as if defying Mrsha to steal him alone. You’ll have to take us all.
It was such a beautiful little picture, foreign, and Mrsha knew it could be destroyed so quickly. Nokha almost had.
She was not Nokha. The girl wrote, with relief, and bitterness, warring in her heart, as she glanced at Erin.
I see it now. Oh, I knew I might fail. But I had to try. I will not force you, Brunkr, even if I could. I’m sorry. I did this wrong. Let me at least tell you the future I know. I only ask one thing of you.
“W-what?”
The Gnoll [Knight] leaned back as Mrsha climbed onto the table, on two legs instead of four. So it was far more wrong than if a child did it. The [Innkeeper] looked at Mrsha, silently, but she didn’t draw back. The short Gnoll held out her arms.
Let me hug you. Please.
His face grew so confused, then, and she realized he really wasn’t the smartest sword in the armory. But Lyonette nodded, and Brunkr half-rose.
Mrsha embraced him gently. She wrapped her paws around his face and buried her face into his fur. Smelling his scent and trying to remember it. To re-burn his image into her head.
Brunkr Silverfang had no idea what was going on. This terrifying girl from the future that scared him so much was just hugging him. He only realized, after a few awkward moments, when he wondered if he should pull away, that her chest was heaving.
Then he heard a sound and felt wetness on his head. The [Knight] realized Mrsha was crying. He looked up and saw her eyes were open. She was gazing at him, up and down, arms trembling as she held him as if trying to never let go.
So strong. Beyond the strength of any child. Because—how strong might you be, how fiercely would you hold on? If you were hugging a ghost.
Hugging someone you had lost.
If you had the power to turn back time and share one more moment with them—what would you do?
When Brunkr thought of that, he felt his arms grow weak, and his own eyes stung horribly. He tried not to shed any tears, for a [Knight] should not cry. Then he turned his head and saw Jewel was on the floor, tears running from her eyes, and Normen had tears running from both eye sockets.
Then Brunkr broke down and hugged the girl back. He searched for words and said some.
“Thank you. Thank you for saving me. Thank you—for remembering me.”
She only wept harder, and then he was holding on. Trying to keep her from whatever terrible future she had come from. Wondering if he could save her.
It took an age, a forever, an [Immortal Moment] that was still too short before they let go. When they did, Mrsha turned and bowed to the [Innkeeper], who bowed back. Then, the [Fatebreaker] stepped back and breathed in.
I have failed. And I may fail forever and waste every chance and cheat I was given.
She turned and met every eye in the room, from her world and this. Mrsha nodded.
I have no regrets.
The girl lifted her eyes heavenwards, towards Erin Solstice, Brunkr, her mother, and knew she would pay for this moment. She would continue until she had used up all her chances, and that debt would be collected.
So be it. She breathed in, out, and kept going.
 
——
 
He would have rather been stabbed by that bastard at the Winter Solstice.
He would have rather broken up with Octavia a hundred times.
He would have rather died.
Numbtongue, the [Sybarite Soulbard], stood in the basement of The Wandering Inn, in the place that would someday, later, just have boxes of supplies, neatly-organized by Calescent, and bright lights and a made-over, rat-free environment.
The new inn even had the ‘secret passage’ of the Antinium clearly marked so no one put boxes on top of the fake passageway.
In the past, it was dingier, emptier, and home to five bedrolls of mismatched blankets and pillows pushed together. No mattresses; the Goblins who lived here slept on hard stone and thought it was the best place they’d ever lived in.
In the future, they’d all have rooms—
No.
One of them would. And he’d fill it with pretty rocks, sheets of music he wrote when inspired, books, snacks, and tools. It would be messy except when Octavia snuck in to sort it…
Octavia.
Strange that he thought of her right now, even with all this happening. But it had just been today, and it was easier than…turning around.
The floorboards creaked; above him, he could hear voices from the rest of the people in the inn. They were all talking to the [Knights] and Mrsha. Revealing secrets of this world. But the Hobgoblin stayed below.
It wasn’t where he thought he belonged. It was where they had taken him the moment they had seen him and realized who he was. And they hadn’t—not right away. They’d circled him, staring at him, and he hadn’t said a word at first.
He couldn’t.
If he turned his head, Numbtongue would scream. He’d stab himself with a sword rather than face what this world held. What Mrsha had done to him.
Five Goblins stood behind him, just watching.
Five Hobgoblins.
Five Redfangs.
His brothers. Himself. Numbtongue could not meet their eyes. Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Badarrow, Rabbiteater.
In the flesh.
The only thing that kept him grounded were the ghosts. They stood there in front of him. Pyrite sitting on a box, Shorthilt sitting cross-legged, eyes fixed over Numbtongue’s shoulder with an expression of such longing, pride, and pain that Numbtongue trembled. And Reiss, eyes lost in desperate desire.
Don’t run, Brother.
Of course he wouldn’t really run. How could he? He would never run away. He would give anything for a moment like this. And yet, he couldn’t turn around. The paradox was so ironic. Numbtongue wished Salkis were here to give him support. To be a conversation topic…
…No. Maybe not Salkis. She might not get what family meant. But Garia would. And Octavia would—
Octavia. The [Bard] opened and closed his hand. A bitter darkness bloomed in his heart, even now. He felt like he was filled with poison.
Turn. Turn and say something to them. Turn and—
He couldn’t. So the [Bard] stood there as voices sounded above, eyes fixed on the empty pile of boxes, the untidy circle of blankets and pillows, the original Fortress of Fluff…okay, the Swamp of Softness. At the cracks in the floor that hid the Antinium secret passage, the crimson-eyed Goblin crabbing sideways—
Numbtongue saw Rabbiteater and shouted.
“Aaah!”
Rabbiteater crabbed away as Numbtongue leapt a full two feet in the air. The younger Hob seemed alarmed at the response he’d gotten. He’d snuck over to stare at Numbtongue’s face on the principle that if Numbtongue wasn’t actually gonna turn around…
Numbtongue swivelled around, and Badarrow slapped the top of Rabbiteater’s head as the other Hob grinned and spread his hands out.
Oops! Sorry.
His brothers all punched or kicked him, then stared at Numbtounge. Older Numbtongue. Younger Numbtongue was at a loss for words, mouth open. Which was too bad, because the others kept poking him to say something for them.
Old Numbtongue, Bard Numbtongue, knew how this worked. He—had been them. They were all poking Numbtongue because he had ‘the best words’ and they were as shy as him, but just pretended that it was his job. Everyone had their role.
Headscratcher was their informal warleader who had to make tough calls like Grunter. Badarrow was the grumpy one who pointed out the bad side, pulled the group back from stupid ideas—sometimes—and Shorthilt got to be that pivotal deciding vote. When he said or did something, everyone listened. Rabbiteater was the funny-Goblin who lightened the mood and eased tensions, and Numbtongue got to be the ‘smart’ one who read things and communicated.
Know your role. It wasn’t like they had to be that, but they liked doing it most of the time. They liked…being a group.
Had that changed? Had they ever stopped being the Redfang Five, as Mrsha and Lyonette had taken to calling them?
…No. Even at the end, Numbtongue had been right there with his brothers. To the finale of it all, against the Goblin Lord.
He wondered, suddenly, if they had all lived—would they have split apart like they did now? He had no words.
 
——
 
A Goblin finally broke the silence of the two Numbtongues. Of all of them, it was Shorthilt. He raised a hand, then touched his chest and drew a familiar symbol.
“Um…Redfang?”
He gazed at the [Bard], and that did provoke a reaction. The [Soulbard] did a half-hearted tracery of the gesture. Stopped. Shrugged.
“Sure. Redfang.”
Whoa. All of the Redfang Five’s mouths dropped open, and they traded a slow look.
Was this guy for real? This Numbtongue—he was Numbtongue, even if he had a beard! He was older. Way more…you know. Stylish? He had on fancy clothes, and he was fit. He had a crystal sword, a guitar, and he felt like a Chieftain in strength.
He was amazing. A Numbtongue from the future. They were agog—but then stunned.
