“Do it, Ama. How much gold do we have…?”
“We can send someone back for more. The inn has more than enough for purchases of this kind. Asgra has eight thousand gold pieces in her room. She made a fort of them.”
Ama went striding over to Vess, and Ushar returned her focus to Mrsha. The girl was peering up at Brunkr, and he was blinking. Shaking his head, glancing around. Erin and Lyonette came over, and Mrsha took a deep breath.
Background noise. All of it. Even…Erin.
Erin. A younger her. They could change the future. Talk to a younger version of Erin.
Here they were. Mrsha’s quill scratched on a card. There was nothing for her to learn here, except from Brunkr. Numbtongue was shivering. Staring at something. The shivering got worse; five Goblins were coming at a run. For their beloved inn. Ghosts whispered around him.
He had something to learn from them, perhaps. She from Brunkr.
Nothing else in this world would surprise her.
The girl’s eyes bored into the Gnoll [Knight]’s face. [Fatebreaker].
Brunkr was shaking. He asked—
“Why me? Why me?”
To which she replied:
Not just you. You’re just one of the first. We have come for everyone. Everything.
 
——
 
They were, in their way, coming as great thieves. And so at least a few of them prepared themselves as such.
The Goblins, that was.
Student Rags, Chieftain Rags, Redscar, Rianchi, and Dyeda. They were the group who entered the second world—the one of the future—and the rest of the tribe had objected. Vociferously, of course.
“Chieftain, take me! You need a protector!”
“No, me! Shineshield’s shield is broken.”
“You can’t trust just Redscar! He only cut one third of falling rock! Take at least…sixteen of us, and Somo! She big.”
“Yeah! You only have two fighters! Other Rags and Redscar! Rianchi and Dyeda is suck at fighting. Especially Rianchi—”
Both Ragses had refused to accept anyone else. Chieftain Rags had glowered at her bodyguard.
“Redscar is the only fighter we need. I need a small group who doesn’t attract attention.”
Student Rags nodded authoratatively.
“Plus, we’re not going there to fight, and your elocution will give us all away. No offense. Dyeda and Rianchi speak the best. And the number of illusion artifacts we have is limited.”
In fact, Chieftain Rags had her [Guise of Neutrality] Skill, but it worked on members of her tribe. Student Rags was not a member of the Flooded Waters tribe in her world or this, at least not in the ways the Skill counted, so they were reliant on artifacts. Frankly, it might be the better bet anyways; Student Rags had pointed out several Skills hard-countered [Guise of Neutrality] and that would be a problem if it occurred.
Dyeda and Rianchi reverentially accepted the rings which made them look like Humans, and Rianchi felt at his nose as he became a pale-skinned, somewhat pudgy and short Human man. Dyeda’s skin turned brown and grew an inch, cackling at him.
“You look so stupid!”
“Not my fault! I want a different ring, Chieftain—”
He began to protest, got a look from Redscar, and shuffled his feet. Dyeda checked her bag of holding; she’d run around the inn grabbing stuff once she knew she was going on a trip, and then they passed through the door.
Into the future.
They were coming as thieves. Thieves—of whatever they could steal, obviously, if it was useful, but of ideas more than anything else. Student Rags was of the opinion Goblins were endless thieves because they had to be; they stole to live, and what they stole most was ideas from other people. Bits of their culture. Goblins molded themselves to the environments they grew up in.
She’d written an essay on the subject for class, comparing the natural adaptation of Goblins to that of Fraerlings, who likewise were highly dependent on the environments they ended up in.
Chieftain Rags gave Student Rags one of her patented blank stares that seemed aggressive while Rianchi and Dyeda followed Resdcar through the door, using the root to climb through.
“You write essays?”
“Yeah. It’s not like regular writing; it’s very structured. Also, you get graded. It’s…fun! People complain all the time about it, but it sure beats starving.”
“Huh. And what did you get on your essay?”
Student Rags shuffled her feet and stared down at her sneakers. Chieftain Rags began grinning, and the [Student] lifted her claws defensively.
“Look, Professor Molthe graded it, and he’s notorious about—and they use a grading system so that no one ever gets an ‘A’. ‘A-’ is great, you know.”
“So you got that?”
“…I got a ‘C+’. Apparently, I should have written about Drowned Folk or Gnolls instead of Fraerlings because I couldn’t substantiate any of my research about them. And that was with me getting a pass on not citing anything on Goblin culture.”
The two Ragses grabbed the root, and the older one, Chieftain Rags, turned to the younger.
“So is it fun?”
“It’s fun to fail and not get punished in bigger ways when you don’t succeed.”
Then they stepped forwards, the invisible barrier to the door passing over their skin like a bubble of reality, pulling them back. The root was the invisible thread that formed a gap in reality, the magical needle piercing the veil. They had to step forwards and felt that infinite straining on their consciousness, the pressure as light as a feather and as intense as the laws of the universe trying to hold them back—
Then they stumbled, Student Rags catching herself on Chieftain Rags’ armored shoulder, and they were in an inn.
A familiar inn.
An older inn.
 
——
 
It was dark. Even when Student Rags lit a [Light] spell in the palm of her hand, the inn seemed shadowed. It was age, they realized. Everything was just distinctly older.
Chairs had developed a dullness to their varnish, there were scuff marks on the floors. The shutters didn’t help; it was daylight outside, probably even early morning, but it was near-complete darkness only broken by a few patches of light filtering through the shutters.
The inn felt…dead. Most of the tables had the chairs standing up on top of them, legs raised into the air so you could sweep under the tables with ease. Only a few had chairs on the ground, and it was not dusty. Even so, Student Rags’ first reaction was to shudder.
“Dead gods. This place feels—”
“The Wandering Inn. Ten years without Erin. That’s this door, right?”
Redscar had a hand on his sword hilt. He looked like a Gnoll, short, but wild-furred, dark brown, with Plain Gnoll gear that fit him to a tee. The two Ragses were both young Drakes, one red-scaled, the other blue. They all gazed about, and Chieftain Rags answered.
“Yes. Rianchi, where’s the other Mrsha? We didn’t see her…”
“Dunno. She kicked me down, asked me what was going on, then let me go. She pretty good at fighting, Chieftain.”
Rianchi rubbed his stomach at the memory. Redscar snorted.
“Little Mrsha? We’ll see.”
He was the least-affected by the inn, possibly because he had known Erin Solstice the least. Dyeda and Rianchi stood together as the two Ragses just peered around. Student Rags ran a finger along a table.
“Everything’s worn down. No one’s revarnished the chairs. Someone sweeps for dust, but that’s it. At this time of day, I’d expect the inn to have some customers. It must be mostly abandoned. I wonder…”
She concentrated, closed her eyes, and the light in the room increased. The others whirled, and the [Chieftain] exhaled.
“Ah.”
The [Garden of Sanctuary] was there. As if nothing had—no.
Even the [Garden of Sanctuary] had changed. The light spilling from it was bright, bringing life to the inn, the familiar scent of nature. But even here—Dyeda caught her breath, and her heart began to ache. Ache and ache, and she regretted coming with Rags. The [Tattooist] whispered.
“Oh. It’s overgrown.”
 
——
 
Tall grass ran up to Chieftain Rags’ waist. Grass, after all, could grow until the vaguely wheat-like stalks with seeds on the end formed, depending on the kind. This grass was indeed so tall it had reached the end of its life-cycle; yellow, wizened stalks intermingled with green, and the Goblins halted at the door to the [Garden].
It was everywhere, filling the garden. They could see the hill, but even the jungle biome looked—off. And the arid area was filled with grass too. Only a single path had been cut through the grass; trampled plant matter leading in a straight line up the hill, and then to the one with mists.
“No one’s used this place for a long time, either. I wonder why they stopped?”
Student Rags. They had to get their own names because thinking of her as ‘Student Rags’ was getting tiring for Chieftain Rags…the Goblin suddenly realized she was nervous.
“Perhaps it was too sad.”
That was her only comment. She hesitated. She didn’t need to enter this place. She knew what she’d find; Rianchi had told her. Mrsha had labeled the door.
But she had to at the same time. Slowly, oh so slowly, Rags stepped into the garden, boots crunching on the detritus underneath. It smelled different. Again—wrong. Not unpleasant, just wrong.
“Chieftain—”
Redscar tried to go ahead of her, and she blocked him.
“Nothing can harm me here, Redscar. Let me.”
Slowly, she walked forwards, glancing around. The more she walked, the more she understood the nature of this world.
Sorrow and time. Not great despair…those years had passed. The world had moved on. And without Erin Solstice, things had changed.
Grass filled every part of the garden. Pale blue, wintery grass in the cold area. Dry yellow grass in the arid biome. Even the pond had been filled with a choking tumbleweed of vines. The hill? Yellow, ordinary flowers of every kind. Rags bent to inspect them, but these were no Faerie Flowers. She raised her head and saw the jungle at the far end of the [Garden of Sanctuary] was likewise overgrown. A sprawling mess of trees and vegetation so thick even Redscar would have trouble clearing it with his sword.
“Dead gods. Why did it grow like this? Erin’s garden in our world isn’t this bad.”
Student Rags whispered to Chieftain Rags. The other Goblin replied, softly.
“Maybe it has to be kept from doing this. If the owner passes, it’s like the one with the snow. It overflows.”
Their voices were hushed, and the two gazed up at the only place not engulfed by grass; the trail of smashed vegetation led up to that hill of mists. They wavered, and Student Rags gulped.
“I don’t want to go up there, Crags.”
“What did you just call me?”
“Crags. That’s your name. Chieftain Rags. I’ll be Srags.”
Chieftain Rags didn’t bother to consider the name.
“No.”
She knew the other Rags was trying to be funny. But she couldn’t, so the Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe ascended that hill as she had once before.
Déjà vu. It was as hard as last time, somehow. As she rose higher, Chieftain Rags saw something new. She pointed it out.
“Look. There. A hive.”
A beehive made of wax. It was massive; the jungle had half-overgrown it, plants piercing the walls, but the [Student] rubbed her eyes.
“Dead gods. Did Apista do that? How long—?”
“Ten years. Is she still there? Apista? Do bees live…?”
The two regarded each other in mute understanding as they realized the bee would never allow plants to ruin her hive like that. Student Rags closed her eyes and put her hand over her heart.
“Oh. That’s sad. I don’t know if I can do this, Rags.”
“I do. Come on.”
The [Chieftain] forced herself to walk up that hill. The mists weren’t that strong, she realized. She thought she saw familiar statues in them…but when she looked, they always seemed to be out of sight. Even here—something was wrong.
There was only one thing at the top of the hill lying amidst the grass. The bier, covered in frost. But again—the two Goblins halted, because it was wrong.
“Aspat. What is this?”
The [Chieftain]’s turn to be rattled. Her head craned up, and the [Student] rubbed at her eyes. For what they found was indeed the bier, the body, lying there. But the first thing they saw was the shrine.
It was overflowing with objects. The tributes that had littered the ground they knew full well—the doll, the letters, the flowers—had been added to. Year after year, piling up until they endangered the bier itself. So someone had taken a table, at first, and then realized how many of them there were. So they’d driven deep staves of wood into the ground and created a kind of altar. A half-domed roof—and it was filled.
There was even an attempt at organization. Flowers were placed together in such profusion that they lay, forever preserved, glittering with frost, at the foot of the bier. Dolls, toys, lay against the far side. Letters had been placed in a pile so large it was taller than the bier there—but what was inside the shrine was a mystery. One both Ragses tried to figure out.
“Helmets. Swords. Even coins. Look at all this, Rags. It’s…this is more like a mausoleum. There are holes in some of these helmets. Wait—that’s blood. Green blood.”
One of them inspected the shrine as the other bent over other tokens. Her clawed hand traced over an amulet and jumped away; the magic in it shocked her. She frowned.
“This is…Khelt’s symbol. I would know it anywhere. And this one’s from Drath. It has their language on it, I think. They’re magical. This—this is treasure. Adventurer’s loot?”
“Brought back to help her, maybe. None of it’s Relic-class. Here’re shields. A…cross necklace? Wait, this is a—Rags. Look.”
The other turned, and one of them held up a necklace in a shaking hand. It wasn’t a cross attached to it. Rather…it was a tiny little icon engraved in stone. A half-open door. The [Garden of Sanctuary], both would have bet.
“A symbol of Erin?”
“There’s more. This is a—a shrine dedicated to her. These weapons. This armor. I think—I think they’re mementos, Rags. Of the dead.”
A chill ran down the [Chieftain]’s back as she saw the mentioned helmet. There was a hole near the top; the helmet was oddly sized, too, with two gaps in the top. Not the same as the gash torn into it. These were drilled holes for an…Antinium head.
Mementos of people who had died. But why here? She had a terrible feeling.
“I think—these are from those who died trying to save her. And these? These are artifacts they found. Someone found. There’s even Goblin magic in here. [Shaman] magic.”
Ten years of attempts. Ten years of failures. The edifice of all this effort, all the intensity of the passion here, so many objects, rattled both Goblins more than any other piece of architecture they had seen, save perhaps the Dragonthrone of the Dragonlord of Flames. This place spoke of people. Thousands of people who had all come here.
All to see her.
